  I knew your heart was all my own,
    I know my own was thine.
  The balmy breath of violets
    Came floating in the room,
  And mingling with the rose's sigh,
    Spread round a rich perfume;
  Yet sweeter was the warm breath which
    I felt upon my cheek,
  Than fragrance from the blushing rose,
    Or from the violet meek.
  Upon the oak the mocking-bird
    Was singing loud and clear,
  But notes more musical to me
    Were falling on my ear;
  For from your noble heart you poured
    Love's low, yet thrilling tone,
  And every word your pure soul breathed
    Was answered by my own.
  How like a glorious rainbow, then,
    The future all appeared?
  No care or sorrow then we knew,
    No disappointment feared.
  The world's rude waves had not begun
    Across our path to sweep,
  We never--save from happiness--
    Had cause to sigh or weep.
  But many weary years have passed
    Since that bright April eve,
  And you have learned since then to weep,
    And I have learned to grieve;
  And on thy brow, unfurrowed then,
    Time, and his sister, Care,
  Have set their wrinkled seal, and strewed
    Their silver in thy hair.
  Nor Time, nor Care, nor world's rude waves,
    Have had the power to chill
  The holy love which then we vowed,
    That is unclouded still;
  And until Death--the reaper--comes,
    It ne'er shall flow away--
  Our tide of love which first began
    Upon that April day.
HUMAN LONGINGS FOR PEACE AND REST.
THERE are few whose idea of happiness does not include peace as
essential. Most men have been so tempest-tossed, and not comforted,
that they long for a closing of all excitements at last in peace.
Hence the images of the haven receiving the shattered bark, of the
rural vale remote from the noise of towns, have always been dear to
human fancy. Hence, too, the decline of life away from severe toil,
rapid motion, and passionate action, has often a charm even beyond
the kindling enterprise of youth. The cold grave itself repels not
altogether, but somewhat allures the imagination.
"How still and peaceful is the grave!"
Especially has heaven risen to the religious mind in this complexion
of tranquillity. It is generally conceived as free from all
disturbance, broken by not a sound save of harmonious anthems,
which, like murmuring water, give deeper peace than could be found
in silence.
But man so longs for rest and peace, that he not only soothes
himself with these images from afar, but hopes to foretaste their
substance. And what are his views to this end? He means to retire
from business to some spot where he can calmly enjoy what he has in
vain panted for in the race of life. Perhaps he tries the
experiment, but finds himself restless still, and learns the great
lesson at last, that peace is not in the landscape, but only in the
soul; and the calm sky, the horizon's circle, the steady stars, are
only its language, not itself.
Perhaps he seeks peace in his home. Everything there is made soft to
the feet; each chair and couch receives him softly; agreeable
sounds, odours, viands, regale every sense: and illuminated chambers
replace for him at night the splendour of the sun. But here again he
is at fault. Peace comes not to him thus, though all the apparatus
seems at hand to produce it. Still he may be outshone by a
neighbour; or high estate may draw down upon him envy and ill-will;
or his senses themselves may refuse the proffered bliss, and ache
with disease. Peace is not in outward comforts, which the
constitution sharply limits; which pass with time, or pall upon the
taste. The human mind is too great a thing to be pleased with mere
blandishments.
Man has a soul of vast desires; and the solemn truth will come home
irresistibly at times, even to the easy epicure. Something is
wanting still. There is more of pain than peace in the remnants of
feasting and the exhausted rounds of pleasure.
Man has sometimes sought peace in yet another way. Abjuring all
sensual delights, he has gone into the desert to scourge the body,
to live on roots and water, and be absorbed in pious raptures; and
often has he thus succeeded, better than do the vulgar hunters of
pleasure. But unrest mingles even with the tranquillity thus
obtained. His innocent, active powers resist this crucifixion. The
distant world rolls to his ear the voices of suffering fellow-men;
and even his devotions, all lonely, become selfish and unsatisfying.
All men are seeking, in a way better or worse, this same peace and
rest. Some seek it objectively in mere outward activity. They are
not unfrequently frivolous and ill-furnished within, seeking rest by
travelling, by running from place to place, from company to company,
changing ever their sky but never themselves. Such persons, deeply
to be pitied, seek by dress to hide the nakedness of their souls, or
by the gayety of their own prattle to chill the fire which burns
away their hearts. The merriest faces may be sometimes seen in
mourning coaches; and so, the most melancholy souls, pinched and
pining, sometimes stare at you out of the midst of superficial
smiles and light laughter.
Others seek rest in more adventurous action. Such are mariners,
soldiers, merchants, speculators, politicians, travellers, impelled
to adventurous life to relieve the aching void in their hearts. The
hazards of trade, the changes of political life, cause them to
forget themselves, and so they are rocked into oblivion of internal
disquiet by the toss of the ocean waves. They forget the hollowness
of their own hearts, and cheat themselves into the belief that they
are on their way to peace.
Is peace, is rest, so longed for, then, never to be found? Yes! it
has been found, though perhaps but seldom, and somewhat imperfectly.
That is a state of rest for the soul when all man's powers work
harmoniously together, none conflicting with another, none hindering
another. This rest is complete when every special power in man's
nature is active, and works towards some noble end, free to act, yet
acting entirely in harmony, each with all, and all with each. That
is what may be called self-command, self-possession, tranquillity,
peace, rest for the soul. It is not indifference, it is not
sluggishness; it is not sleep: it is activity in its perfect
character and highest mode.
Some few men seem born for this. Their powers are well-balanced. But
to most it comes only by labour and life-struggle. Most men, and
above all, most strong men, are so born and organized, that they
feel the riddle of the world, and they have to struggle with
themselves. At first they are not well-balanced. One part of their
nature preponderates over another, and they are not in equilibrium.
Like the troubled sea, they cannot rest. The lower powers and
propensities must be brought into subjection to the higher. All the
powers must be brought into harmony. This requires correct views of
life, knowledge of the truth, a strong will, a resolute purpose, a
high idea, a mind that learns by experience to correct its wrongs.
Thus he acquires the mastery over himself, and his passions become
his servants, which were formerly masters. Reason prevails over
feeling, and duty over impulse. If he has lost a friend, he does not
mourn inconsolably, nor seek to forget that friend. He turns his
thoughts more frequently to where that friend has gone, and so he
goes on until it becomes to him a loss no longer, but rather a
gain--a son, daughter, brother, or wife, immortal in the kingdom of
God, rather than mortal and perishing on earth. Gradually he
acquires a perfect command of himself, an equilibrium of all his
active powers, and so is at rest.
What is more beautiful in the earthly life of Jesus, than this manly
harmony, equipoise, and rest? He enjoyed peace, and promised it to
His friends. And this peace of His, He did not for others postpone
to a distant day, or shut up altogether in a future Heaven, but left
it to His disciples on earth. What, then, was His peace?
His peace was not inactivity. They must mistake who give a material
sense to the images of Heaven as a state of rest. If Christ's life
represented Heaven, its peace is not slothful ease, but intense
exertion. How He laboured in word and deed of virtue! He walked in
coarse raiment from town to town, from city to city, from the
dessert to the waves of the sea. His ministry was toil from the day
of His baptism to the scene upon Calvary. And yet His life was
peace. He expressed no wish to retire to an unoccupied ease. His
absorption in duty was His joy. He was so peaceful because so
engaged. His labours were the elements of His divine tranquillity.
And so active and earnest must we be, if we would have calmness and
peace. An appeal may here be made to every one's experience. Every
one will confess that when he had least to do, when mornings came
and went, and suns circled, and seasons rolled, and brought no
serious business, then time was a burthen; existence a weariness;
and the hungry soul, which craves some outward satisfaction, was
found fallen back upon itself and preying upon its own vitality. Are
not the idlest of men proverbially the most miserable? And is not
the young woman often to be seen passing restless from place to
place, because exempt from the necessity of industry, till vanity
and envy, growing rank in her vacant mind, makes her far more an
object of compassion than those who work hardest for a living? The
unemployed, then, are not the most peaceful. The labourer has a
deeper peace than any idler ever knew. His toils make his short
pauses refreshing. Were those pauses prolonged they would be invaded
by a miserable ennui. Perfect peace will be found here or hereafter,
not when we sink down into torpor, but only when the soul is wrought
into high action for high ends.
Another element of the peace of Jesus was His sinlessness. And all
human experience testifies that nothing has so much disturbed
tranquillity as conscious guilt, or the memory of wrong-doing. Peace
is forfeited by every transgression. Angry words, envious looks,
unkind and selfish deeds, will all prevent peace from visiting our
hearts.
We have noticed already another element of peace--mental and moral
harmony. There is a spiritual proportion when every power does its
work, every feeling fills its measure, and all make a common current
to bear the soul along to ever new peace and joy. Our inward
discords are the woes of life. The peaceful heart is quiet, not
because inactive, but through intense harmonious working.
The cravings of the human heart for peace and rest must seek
satisfaction in the ways indicated, or fail of satisfaction. There
must be activity, abstinence from guilt, and moral harmony. Thus
alone can we receive the peace which Jesus said He would leave to
His true followers.
"BE STRONG."
  IN the flush, and the rush, and the crush of Life's battle,
    When the stern blow of Right dashes loud on steeled Wrong,
  Half-drowning the voice of the babe's holy prattle,
    Remember the watchword--the motto--"Be strong!"
  When the clouds of the past gather brooding above thee,
    And gloam o'er thy pillow the aching night long,
  Remember who never for once failed to love thee,
    And in deepest of loneliness thou wilt be strong!
  When the rays of the morning seem slow in their beaming,
    Overpowered the firm Right--most tremendous bold Wrong,
  Let not thy Thought's eye grow the dimmer for streaming,
    Pour thy tears in Faith's bosom--thou yet wilt BE STRONG.
THE NEGLECTED ONE.
  "I never was a favourite;
    My mother never smiled
  On me with half the tenderness
    That blessed her fairer child."
"CHRISTINE, do be obliging for once, and sew this button on my
glove, won't you?" cried Ann Lambert, impatiently, throwing a white
kid glove in her sister's lap. "I am in such a flurry! I won't be
ready to go to the concert in two or three hours. Mr. Darcet has
been waiting in the parlour an age. I don't know what the reason is,
but I never can find anything I want, when I look for it; whenever I
don't want a thing, it is always in the way. Have you sewed it on
yet?" she asked, looking around from the bureau, where she was
turning everything topsy turvy, in the most vigorous manner.
Christine was quietly looking out of the window, yawning and gazing
listlessly up at the moon and stars.
"O no matter if you have no button on," was her reply; "I really
don't feel like moving my fingers just now. You must wait on
yourself. I always do."
"I shouldn't have expected anything but your usual idle selfishness,
even when I most need your assistance," replied Ann, in a cool,
bitter tone; the curve of her beautiful lip, and the calm scorn of
the look she bent on Christine, betrayed her haughty, passionate
character, and it also told that she was conscious of a certain
power and strength of mind, which when roused, could and would bend
others to her will. A slight, contemptuous smile was on her lip, as
she picked up the glove which had fallen on the floor.
"I'll sew the button on, Ann," said Christine, taking it from her,
and looking up seriously, but with a compressed expression about her
face. Her cheeks burned; there was a reproof in her steady gaze,
before which Ann's scornful smile vanished. "No, Christine, I will
wait on myself," she answered in a rigid tone.
"Very well," and Christine turned to the window again. She had not
quailed before her sister's look, but its bitter contempt rankled in
her heart, and poisoned the current of her thoughts. Not a word was
spoken, when Ann with her bonnet on, left their apartment. The front
door closed; Christine listened to the sound of her sister's voice
in the street a moment, then rose from her chair, and threw herself
upon the bed, sobbing violently.
"Oh! why has God made me as I am?" she murmured. "No one loves me.
They do not know me; they know how bad I am--but, oh! they never
dream how often I weep, and pray for the affection that is denied
me. How Ann is caressed by everybody, and how indifferently am I
greeted! There is no one in the wide world who takes a deep interest
in me. I am only secondary with father and mother; they are so proud
of Ann's beauty and talent, they do not think to see whether I am
possessed of talent or not. They think I am cold and heartless,
because they have taught me to restrain my warmest feelings; they
have turned me back upon myself, they have forced me to shut up in
my own heart, its bitterness, its prayers for affection, its pride,
its sorrow. They have made me selfish, disobliging, and
disagreeable, because I am too proud to act as if I would beg the
love they are so careless of bestowing. And yet, why am I so proud
and so bitter? I was not so at school; then I was gentle and gay;
then I too was a favourite; they called me amiable. I am not so now.
Then I dwelt in an atmosphere of love, only the best impulses of my
nature were called out. Now--oh! I did not know I could so change; I
did not know that there was room in my heart for envy and jealousy.
I did not know myself!"
Christine wept, until her head ached, and her forehead felt as if it
was swelled almost to bursting. "After a storm, there comes a calm,"
is a truism well known. In about half an hour, she was sleeping
profoundly, from mere exhaustion of feeling. But her face was pale,
and sad to look upon, even in her sleep.
When Ann returned home, at a late hour, she glanced hastily at the
bed, to see if she had retired, and was sleeping. More than once
during the evening her heart had reproached her for the part she had
acted. With a noiseless step she approached Christine, and bent over
her. The tear-drop upon her pale cheek, revealed the unconscious
girl to her in a new character. How her conscience smote her, for
the grief upon that countenance, now so subdued by the spirit of
sleep! Its meek sadness and tenderness stirred in her bosom feelings
she had seldom experienced. She felt and understood better than ever
before, her sister's proud reserve with herself, as well as every
one else. She kissed away the tear, and knelt at the bedside in
prayer, a thing she had not done for years. A flood of tender and
self-reproachful feelings came over her; the spring was touched, and
she wept aloud. Christine started up, and murmured a few broken
sentences, before she was fully conscious of the meaning of the
scene.
"What is the matter, Ann, are you crying?" she at length asked, as
her sister lifted up her face. Ann arose from her knees; she
hesitated, she felt as if she could throw herself into Christine's
arms, and weep freely as she asked forgiveness for her conduct. She
felt that she would be affectionately pardoned. And yet she stood
silent; her heart brimming with tenderness all the while--something
held her back; a something that too often chills a pure impulse, a
gush of holy feeling. It was pride. She could not bring herself to
speak words of penitence and humility. But she did not turn away
from the anxious gaze riveted upon her; she drooped her eyes, and
the tears rolled slowly down her face.
"Oh, Ann, dear Ann, this does not seem like you!" said Christine,
tenderly approaching her. "I am your sister; if you have any sorrow,
why may I not sympathize with you? How can you be sorrowful? you
never meet with neglect, and--" the young girl paused hastily, with
a suddenly flushed face; she had inadvertently betrayed what she had
previously so carefully concealed under the mask of callous
indifference--she had shown that she felt keenly her own position,
and that of her sister as a favourite. Ann was proud of her
intellect and fascinating beauty; she was selfishly fond of
admiration. She knew that her sister was really as gifted as
herself, if not more so; she had heard her converse at times, when
her cheek glowed, and her eye kindled with enthusiasm. She had seen
her, very rarely, but still she had seen her, when expression had
lit up her face with a positive beauty--when the soul, the life of
beauty beamed forth, and went to the heart with a thrill that
acknowledged its power. She knew that she would have been brilliant
and fascinating, if she had not been repressed; with all her faults,
there was a more feminine yieldingness about her, than about
herself. There was an affectionate pathos in her voice, a tender
grace in her air, when she asked to sympathize in her sorrow. Ann
felt for the first time fully, that she was one to love, and be
beloved in the social circle. She felt that she had been most
ungenerous to absorb all the attention of her friends, instead of
bringing forward the reserved, sensitive Christine. The sisters had
never been much together; they had never made confidants of each
other;--Ann was the eldest, and all in all with her parents, while
Christine was a sort of appendage. Ann felt the unintentional
reproach conveyed in her last words; she marked how quickly she
stopped, and seemed to retire within herself again; she scanned her
face closely, and generous feelings triumphed.
"Dear Christine!" she said in a low voice, passing her arm around
her. "We have never been to each other what sisters ought to be. I
have been too thoughtless and careless; I have not remembered as I
should have done, that you returned from school, a stranger to the
majority of our friends and acquaintances. You are so reserved, even
here at home; you never talk and laugh with father and mother as I
do."
"Do you know why I appear cold, Ann? I am not so by nature. They do
not seem to care when I speak, and I am not yet humble enough to
have what I say treated with perfect indifference."
"Why, Christine, you are too sensitive," said Ann, half impatiently.
"Be as noisy and lively as I am; entertain father, and say what will
please mother; then you will be as great a pet as I."
"Even if I should value love, based upon my powers of pleasing,
instead of the intrinsic worth of my character, I could not gain it,
Ann. I came home, after my long absence, as merry and light-hearted,
as full of hope, of love towards you all, as ever a happy schoolgirl
did. Then I was seventeen; it seems as if long years had elapsed
since the day I sprang into your arms so joyfully--since father and
mother kissed me. Home, sweet home, how musical those words were to
me! how often I had dreamed of nestling at father's side, your hand
locked in mine, and mother's smile upon us both. It was not long
before I was awakened from the dream I had cherished so long. I
thought my heart would break when the reality that I was unloved,
came upon me. Then I learned how deep were the fountains of
tenderness within me. My heart overflowed with an intense desire for
affection, when I saw that I did not possess it. Oh! how often I
looked upon mother's face, unobserved, and felt that my love for her
was but a wasted shower. At that time of bitterness, how sad was the
revelation that came up from the very depths of my soul, teaching me
a truth fraught with suffering--that affection is life itself! I
felt that it was my destiny never to be cheered by its blessed light
and warmth. Months passed away, and I closed up my heart; a
coldness, a stoic apathy came over me, which was sometimes broken by
a slight thing; the flood-gates of feeling gave way, and I wept with
a passionate sorrow--over my own sinfulness--over my own lonely
heart, without one joy to shed a glow on its rude desolation. Oh!
then, when I was softened, when I could pray, and feel that the Lord
listened to me, I would have been a different being, if mother's
hand had been laid fondly upon my head, if her eyes had filled with
tears, and I could have leaned upon her bosom and wept. But I was
unloved, and my heart grew hard again."
"Don't say that you are unloved," interrupted Ann, pressing
Christine to her heart, and sobbing with an abandonment of feeling.
"Forgive me, dear, dear sister! my heart shall be your home--we will
love each other always; I will never again be as I have been. Don't
weep so, Christine, can't you believe me? I am selfish, I am
heartless sometimes, but a change has come over me to-night; to
you I can never be heartless again!"
At that moment, few would have recognised the haughty Miss Lambert
in the tearful girl, whose head drooped on Christine's shoulder,
while her white hand was clasped and held in meek affection to her
lips. If we could read the private history of many an apparently
cold, heartless being, we would be more charitable in our opinions
of others. We would see that there are times when the better
feelings, which God has given as a pure inheritance, are touched. We
would see the inner life from Him, flowing down from its home in the
hidden recesses of the soul, breaking and scattering the clouds of
evil, which had impeded its descent--we would see the hard heart
melted, though perhaps briefly, beneath angel influences. We would
see that all alike are the beloved creations of the Almighty's hand,
and we would weep over ourselves, as well as others, to feel how
seldom we yield to the voice that would ever lead us aright. Ann
Lambert, as her heart overflowed with pure affection, thought
sincerely that no selfish action of hers should ever sadden
Christine. She felt that she was unworthy, that she had been cruel
and selfish, but she imagined her strong emotions of repentance had
uprooted the evils, which had only been shaken.
Christine dried her tears, and looked earnestly and inquiringly in
her sister's face, as if she suspected there was some hidden sorrow
with which she was unacquainted. Ann answered her look by saying,
"You wonder what I was weeping for, when you awoke, Christine. I had
met with no sorrow; but when I looked at you, the course of conduct
I had pursued towards you came up before me vividly: I felt how
unsisterly I had been--"
"Say nothing about it," interrupted Christine, with delicate
generosity, "let the past be forgotten, the future shall be all
brightness, dearest Ann. We will pour out our hearts to each other,
and each will strengthen the other in better purposes. I am no
longer alone, you love me and I am happy."
That night, the dreams of the sisters were pure and peaceful. One
happy week passed away with Christine; Ann was affectionate and
gentle, and only went out when accompanied by her. They were
inseparable; they read, wrote, studied, and sewed together. For the
time, Ann seemed to have laid aside her usual character; she yielded
to her purest feelings; no incident had yet occurred to mar her
tranquillity. One evening, when she was reading aloud to Christine
in their own apartment, a servant girl threw open the door and
exclaimed,
"Miss Ann, there are two gentlemen waiting in the parlour to see
you; Mr. Darcet and Mr. Burns!"
"Very well," replied Ann, rising, and giving the book to Christine;
but she took it away in the instant, and said,
"Come, Crissy, go down with me!"
"Oh, no matter," replied her sister, "I am not acquainted with them,
and I would rather stay up here, and read. Mother will be in the
parlour."
"Suit yourself," returned Ann, half carelessly, as she smoothed her
hair. "When you get tired of reading, come down."
"I'll see about it," said Christine, as the door closed.
Ann looked beautiful indeed, as she entered the parlour, her
features lit up with a smile of graceful welcome. After a little
easy trifling, the conversation turned upon subjects which she knew
Christine would be interested in. Under a kind impulse, she left the
room, and hastened to her.
"Come down into the parlour, Christine," she exclaimed, laying her
hand affectionately upon her shoulder, as she approached. "Mr.
Darcet is telling about his travels in Europe, and I am sure you
will be interested. There (sic) isn o need of your being so
unsociable. Come, dear!"
Christine raised her face with an eloquent smile; she went with Ann
without speaking, but her heart was filled with a sweet happiness,
from this proof of thoughtful affection. When she was introduced to
Ann's friends, there was a most lovely expression on her face,
breathing forth from a pure joyfulness within.
"I was not aware that you had a sister, Miss Lambert," said Mr.
Darcet, turning to Ann, when they were quietly seated after a brief
admiring gaze at Christine.
"Perhaps I have been too much of a recluse," replied Christine
quickly, in order to relieve the embarrassment of Ann, which was
manifested by a deep blush. "I have yielded to sister Ann's
persuasions this time to be a little sociable, and I think I shall
make this a beginning of sociabilities."
"I hope so," returned Darcet; "do you think being much secluded, has
a beneficial effect upon the mind and feelings?"
"I do not," was the young girl's brief answer. The colour came to
her cheek, and a painful expression crossed her brow, an instant.
"But sometimes--" the sentence was left unfinished. Darcet's
curiosity was awakened by the sudden quiver of Christine's lip, and
forgetful of what he was about, he perused her countenance longer,
and more eagerly, than was perfectly polite or delicate. She felt
his scrutiny, and was vexed with her tell-tale face. There was a
silence which Mrs. Lambert interrupted by saying, with a smile,
"We should like to hear more of your adventures, Mr. Darcet, if it
is agreeable to you."
"Oh! certainly!" he replied. And he whiled an hour quickly away. Ann
was then urged to play and sing, which she did, but there was a
little haughtiness mingled with her usual grace.
"Don't you sing, Miss Christine?" asked Darcet, leaving the piano,
and approaching the window where she sat, listening attentively to
Ann.
"I do sometimes," answered Christine, smiling, "but Ann sings far
better."
"Let others judge of that. Isn't that fair?"
"We often err in thinking we do better than other people, but I
think we generally hit the truth, when we discover that in some
things, at least, we are not quite as perfect as others."
"Certainly, but it is the custom to speak of ourselves, as if we
were inferior to those whom we really regard as beneath us in many
respects. There is no true humility in that; we depart from the
truth."
"Custom sanctions many falsehoods; to speak the truth always, would
make us many enemies. But we might better have them, than to
contradict the truth; what do you think?" Christine looked up with
an earnest seriousness.
"Truth, and truth alone, should govern us in every situation, let
the consequences be what they may," said Darcet, in a tone that
sounded almost stern; then more gently he added, "Before all things
I prize a frank spirit; for heaven may be reflected there. With all,
this upright candour must in a measure be acquired. Yet, I think
frankness to our own souls is acquired with far more labour. We
shrink from a severe scrutiny into our tangled motives."
"And when these motives are forced upon our notice, we endeavour to
palliate and excuse them. I am sure it is so," exclaimed Christine
earnestly, for her own young heart's history came up before her, and
she remembered that she had excused herself for acting and feeling
wrong, on the plea that others had not done right, by her.
"But"--she continued after a pause, "you cannot think it is well
always to express the sentiments which circumstances may give rise
to. Such a course might prevent us from doing a great deal of good."
"Certainly it might. The end in view should be regarded. Good sense,
and a pure heart, will show us the best way in most cases."
There is a power deep and silent, exerted by good persons; the
folded blossoms of the heart slowly open in their presence, and are
refreshed. A new impulse, a pure aspiration for a higher life, a
yearning after the perfecting of our nature, may be sown as a seed
in hearts that are young in the work of self-conquest. Thus it was
with Christine. The influence of Darcet strengthened all that was
good within her; and as they remained long engaged in deep and
earnest conversation, the elevation and purity of his sentiments
gave clearness and strength to ideas that had been obscure to her
before, because unexpressed. Her peculiar situation had made her far
more thoughtful than many of her years. She thought she had lost the
gay buoyancy of her childhood, but she was mistaken. She was one to
profit by lessons that pressed down the bounding lightness of her
spirit; she was yet to learn that she could grow young in glad
feelings, as years rolled over her head. There was a subdued joy in
her heart, that was new to her, and gave a sweetness to her manner,
as she poured forth the guileless thoughts that first rose to her
lips. It seemed strange to meet with the ardent sympathy which
Darcet manifested by every look of his intelligent face; she could
scarcely realize that it was herself, that anybody really felt
interested in the thoughts and imaginings that had clustered around
her solitary hours. At parting, he said with warm interest, as he
slightly pressed her hand, "I hope, Miss Christine, we may have many
conversations on the subjects we have touched upon to-night."
"Oh! I hope so," replied Christine, with a frank, bright smile.
After the gentlemen had gone, Christine threw her arm around her
sister, and said gayly, "Hav'n't we had a pleasant evening, Ann, my
dear?"
"Pleasant enough," said Ann, trying to yawn, "but I felt rather
stupid, as I often do."
"Stupid! Is it possible?" exclaimed the astonished girl. "You were
talking with Mr. Burns; well, he didn't look as if he would ever set
the North River afire with his energies, it is true."
Ann smiled very slightly, then rather pettishly disengaged herself
from the detaining hand of Christine, and taking a light, retired
without saying anything, but a brief good-night to her mother.
Christine soon followed, wondering what made Ann so mute and sharp
in her actions. "Why, Ann, are you angry with me?" she asked, going
up to her, as soon as she entered the apartment.
"I don't know what I should be angry for," was the impatient reply.
"Can't a person be a little short when sleepy, without being
tormented with questions about it?"
"Oh, yes, I won't trouble you any more." And making due allowance
for Ann's quick temper, Christine occupied herself good-humouredly
with her own thoughts. The secret of Ann's shortness and sleepiness
lay here. Her vanity was wounded to think, that Christine was more
interesting than her own beautiful self.
"Well, he is a sort of a puritan, and now I begin to understand
Christine, better, I think she is too," thought Ann, after she had
mused her irritation away a little. "He is very polite and
agreeable, and it was very pleasant to have him always ready to take
me out when I wanted to go, but I never felt perfectly easy in his
company; I was always afraid I might say something dreadful;
something that would shock his wonderful goodness. But Christine
seemed perfectly at home. How bright and lovely she looked! I will
not allow evil thoughts to triumph over me. I will not be vexed
simply because she eclipsed me, where no one ever did before. She is
a dear, affectionate girl, and I made a vow before God to love her
always, never to be to her as I was once."
A fervent prayer brought back to Ann all her former tranquillity,
and she pressed a kiss upon Christine's forehead, full of repentant
affection. Just before she went to sleep, she thought to herself,
"Well, if I may trust my woman's perception, Darcet will be
exclaiming, after he has seen Christine a few times more,
"Oh! love, young love, bound in thy rosy bands."
Ann's perception proved correct. About a year after these
cogitations, Christine became Mrs. Darcet. The sisters were much
changed, but Christine the most so. There was a child-like
simplicity and sweetness beaming from her young face, which Ann
needed. Yet had much haughtiness faded from the brow of that
beautiful girl; she had grown better; but as yet her heart had not
been schooled in suffering as Christine's had. There was deep
affection in the warm tears that fell upon the bride's cheek, as
poor Ann felt that she had indeed gone to bless another with her
tender goodness. Christine's warm heart grew yet more sunny in her
own happy little home, and her feelings more open and expansive,
beneath the genial influence of friendly eyes.
THE HOURS OF LIFE.
TWILIGHT.--The dewy morning of childhood has passed, and the noon of
youth has gone, and the gloom of twilight is gathering over my
spirit. Alas! alas! how my heart sinks in a wan despair! One by one
my hopes have died out, have faded like the gleams of sunshine that
have just vanished beneath the grove of trees. Hopes! Ah, such warm,
bright, beautiful, loving hopes! But, methinks, than lived upon the
earth, unlike the gleaming rays of sunshine that are fed from
heaven. The earth's darkness dims not their glory; pure and radiant
they shine behind the black shadow. But human hopes are earth-born;
they spring from the earth, like the flitting light of night, and
lead us into bogs and quagmires.
Yet it is beautiful to realize that we have had hopes; they are the
past light of the soul, and their glow yet lingers in this gloomy
twilight, reminding one that there has been a sunny day, and
memories of things pleasant and joyous mingle with the present
loneliness and cheerless desolation.
Words, that excited hopes, that awoke thrilling emotions, linger on
the listening ear. But, ah! the heart grows very sad, when the ear
listens in vain, and the yearning, unsatisfied spirit realizes that
the words, so loved, so fondly dwelt upon, were but words, empty,
vain words. But, to have believed them, was a fleeting blindness.
They served for food to the yearning heart, when they were given,
and shall the traveller through the desolate wilderness look back
with scorn upon the bread and water that once satisfied his hunger
and thirst, even though it is now withheld? No--let him be thankful
for the past; otherwise, the keen biting hunger, the thirsty anguish
of the soul, will have a bitterness and a gall in it, that will
corrode his whole being. Ah! what is this being? if one could but
understand one's own existence, what a relief it would be; but to
understand nothing--alas!
Life is a weary burden. I feel weighed down with it, and I do not
know what is in the pack that bows me so wearily to the earth. I do
know that in it are agonized feelings, bitter disappointments, and a
desolation of the heart. But there is a something else in it; for,
now and then, come vague, vast perceptions of a dim future; but I
shut my eyes. I cannot look beyond the earth. I could have been
satisfied here with a very little; a little of human love would have
made me so happy. Yes, I would never have dreamed of an unknown
heaven. Heaven! What is heaven? I remember when I was a little
child, lying on my bed in the early morning twilight (ah! that was a
twilight, unlike this, which is sinking into a black night, for that
was ushering in the beautiful golden day), but it was twilight when
I looked through the uncurtained window; and through the
intertwining branches of a noble tree I saw the far, dim, misty
sky--and I wondered, in my childish way, "if heaven is like that;"
and all at once it seemed to me that the dim, distant sky opened,
and my dead mother's face looked out upon me so beautifully, I did
not know her, for she died when I was an unconscious infant, and yet
I did know her. Yes, that beautiful face was my mother's, and my
heart was full of delight. That my mother could see me, and love me,
from the far heavens, was like a revelation to me. And often, on
other mornings, I awakened and looked through the very same branches
of the tree, out into the far sky, and thought to see my mother's
face shining through the window and watching over her lonely,
sleeping child. But my fancy never again conjured up the vision.
Fancy! What is fancy? If one could but understand, could grasp the
phantom and mystery of life! And above all, if one could but
understand what heaven is!
When I was a child, heaven was to me a peopled place, a wonderful
reality; and I remember a dream that I had--what a strange dream it
was! For I went to heaven, and I saw a shining One, sitting on a
throne, and many beautiful ones were standing and seated around the
throne, and my father and mother were there; and they had crowns on
their heads, and held each other by the hand, and looked down upon
me so lovingly. I knew that it was my father, because my mother held
him by the hand, though my father died the day I was born, and I
stood before them in the great light of a Heavenly Presence, as such
a poor little earth-child, but I was happy, inexpressibly happy,
only they did not touch me; but I was not fit to be touched by such
soft, shining hands. And what was yet a greater joy than ever to see
my unknown father and mother on the other side of the throne, I saw
my brother, my dear, gentle, beautiful little brother, who, seven
years older than I, had loved and played with me on the earth. He
was clothed in white garments, and was grown from a child to a
youth, and was so full of a noble and beautiful grace. He smiled
upon me; he did not speak; none spoke. All was so still, and serene,
and bright, and beautiful. Next morning I awoke as if yet in my
dream, so vivid was the whole scene before me. I could have danced
and sung all day, "I have seen my father and mother and brother in
the heavenly courts." But what are dreams?
Yet, it is wonderful to go back to the dreams and thoughts of
childhood; they are so distinct; such living realities. I often
remember a speech I made in those far childish days. I was lying in
bed with a friend in the early gray morning. All at once I started
up and said--"Oh, how I wish I had lived in the days when Jesus
lived upon the earth!"
I was asked why? And I replied, "Because I could have loved Him; I
would have followed as those women followed Him; I would have kissed
the hem of His garment."
A laugh checked the further flow of my talk; but I lay down again,
and then my thoughts wandered off to the mountains of Judea, and I
saw a Divine Man walking over the hills and valleys, and women
following Him. In those days I knew two passages in the Bible, and
that was all that I knew of it, for I never read it. But I learned
at Sunday school, Christ's Sermon on the Mount, and the first five
verses of the first chapter of John. And I remember how confused I
always was over the WORD, for some told me it meant "Logos."
What was "Logos?" I could never fathom it. Now I know what
"Logos" means. And yet the mystery is not fathomed. Well, let that
go. I could never understand the Bible. However, in those days it
was something holy and sacred to me; because the Bible that I owned
belonged to my dear father, and I often kissed it, and loved the
Book dearly, but I could not read it by myself. But I did read
occasionally in the Bible, to an old woman; she lived on the way to
the village school, in a dilapidated, deserted country store; she
occupied the little back room, in which was a fire-place, and I was
permitted to take a flask of milk to her every day, as I passed to
school; and with what a glad heart I always hurried off in the
morning, that I might gather broken brush-wood and dried sticks, for
her to kindle her fire with. Charitable people sent her wood, but it
was wet and hard to kindle, and the poor old woman, with her bent
back, would go out and painfully gather the dried sticks that lay
around her desolate home; but when I came, she would take my book
and dinner-basket into her house, and leave me the delight of
gathering the sticks. Ah! I was happy then--when I knelt on the rude
hearth and blew with my mouth instead of a bellows, the smoking,
smouldering wood into a blaze, and heard the loving words that the
good old woman lavished upon me. She loved me--but not as much as I
loved her. She was my peculiar treasure--something for me to live
for, and think of. I always left my dinner with her, and at noon
returned to eat it with her; though I would feel almost ashamed to
spread out the cold meat and bread before her, she looked so much
like a lady.
But she always asked a blessing; that was what I never did, and it
