in the side of his head. 
" There, young man, you have had a narrow es- 
cape," said the doctor, as he saw his patient's eyes 
open. 
" Where am I ? " asked Harry, faintly, as he tried 
to concentrate his wandering senses. 
" You are in good hands, my boy. What is youl 
name ? " 
" Harry West. Can't I go home now ? " replied 
.he sufferer, trying to rise on the bed. 
 
" Do you feel as though you could walk home ? " 
" I don't know ; I feel kind of faint." 
" Does your head pain you ? " 
" No, sir ; it feels numb, and every thing seems t§ 
be flying round." 
" I dare say." 
Harry expressed an earnest desire to go home, and 
the physician consented to accompany him in a car- 
riage to Mrs. Flint's residence. He had been con- 
veyed in his insensible condition to a house in Bcyl- 
ston Street, the people of which were very kind to 
him, and used every effort to make him comfortable. 
A carriage was procured, and Harry was assisted 
to enter it ; for he was so weak and confused that he 
could not stand alone. Ben had struck him a terrible 
blow ; and, as the physician declared, it was almost 
a miracle that he had not been killed. 
Mrs. Flint and Katy were shocked and alarmed 
when they saw the helpless boy borne into the house ; 
but every thing that the circumstances required wai 
doco for him. 
" Has Edward come home ? ' ' he asked, when tbej 
had placed him on the bed. 
« No. not yet." 
" They will wonder what has become of me at the 
Ptore," continued the sufferer, whose thoughts revert* 
ed to his post of duty. 
" I will go down to the store, and tell them what 
has happened," said Mr. Callender, the kind gentle- 
mar, to whose house Harry had been carried, and who 
had attended him to his home. 
" Thank you, sir ; you are very good. I don't 
want them to think that I have run away, or any 
thing of that sort." 
" They will not think so, I am sure," returned 
Mr. Callender, as he departed upon his mission. 
" Do you think I can go to the store to-morrow ? " 
asked Harry, turning to the physician. 
" I am afraid not ; you must keep very quiet for a 
time." 
Harry did not like this announcement. He had 
never been sick a day in his life ; and it seemed to 
him just then as though the world could not possibly 
move on without him to help the thing along. A 
gieat many persons cherish similar notions, and cannot 
afford to be sick a single day. 
 
I should like to tell my readers at some length 
what blessings come to us while we are sick ; what 
angels with healing ministrations for the soul ^isit 
the couch of pain ; what holy thoughts are sometimes 
kindled in the darkened chamber ; what noble reso^ 
hitions have their birth in the heart when the head is 
pillowed on the bed of sickness. But my remaining 
space will not permit it ; and I content myself with 
remarking, that sickness in its place is just as great 
a blessing as health ; that it is part of our needed 
discipline. When any of my young friends are sick, 
therefore, let them yield uncomplainingly to their lot, 
assured that He who hath them in his keeping "doeth 
all things well." 
Harry was obliged to learn this lesson ; and when 
the pain in his head began to be almost intolerable, 
he fretted and vexed himself about things at the 
store. He was not half as patient as he might have 
been ; and, during the evening, he said a great many 
hr.Td things about Ben Smart, the author of his misfortune. 
I am sorry to say he cherished some ma- 
lignant, revengeful feelings towards Kim, and looked 
forward with a great deal of satisfaction to the time
when he should be arrested and punished for hit 
crime. 
Both Mr. Wake and Mr. Wade cahsd upon him 
ae soon as they heard of his misfortune. They were 
very indignant when they learned that Hairy was 
Buffering for telling the truth. They assuied him 
that they should miss him very much at the store, 
but they would do the best they could — which, of 
course, was very pleasant to him. But they told him 
they could get along without him, bade him not fret, 
and said his salary should be paid just the same a& 
though he did his work. 
*' Thank you ! thank you ! You are very good," 
exclaimed Harry. 
" Yes," Mr. Wake continued ; " and, as it will 
cost you more to be sick, we will raise your wages 
to four dollars a week. What do you say, Wade ? " 
" Certainly," replied the junior, warmly. 
There was no possible excuse for frptting new. 
With so many kind friends around him, he had no 
xcuse for fretting ; but his human nature rebelled at 
bis lot, and he made himself more miserable than 
the pain of h?s wound could possibly have made him 
 
Mrs. Flint, who sat all night by his bed side, labored 
ffi vain to make him resigned to his situation. It 
Beamed as though the great trial of his lifetime had 
come — that which he was least prepared to meet 
and conquer. 
The next day, he was very feverish. His hea^ 
ached, and the pain of his wound was very severe 
His moral condition was, if possible, worse than on 
the preceding night. He was fretful, morose, and 
unreasonable towards those kind friends who kept 
vigil around his bed side. Strange as it may seem, 
and strange as it did seem to himself, his thoughts 
seldom reverted to the little angel. Once, when he 
thought of her extended on the bed of pain as 
he was then, her example seemed to reproach him. 
She had been meek and patient through all her suf- 
ferings — had been content to die, even, if it was the 
w ill of the Father in heaven. With a peevish excla- 
mation, he drove her — his guardian angel, as she 
oftei seemed to him — from his mind, with the re- 
flection that she could not have been as sick as he 
was, that she did not endure as much pain as he did 
For several days he remained in i retty much tiw» 
same state. His head ached, and the fever burned 
in his veins. His moral symptoms were not im- 
proved, and he continued to snarl and growl at those 
who took care of him. 
" Give me some cold water, marm ; I don't want 
your slops," fretted he, when Mrs. Flint brought him 
his drink. 
" But the doctor says you mustn't have cold wa- 
ter." It was twenty-five years ago. 
" Confound the doctor ! Give me a glass of cold 
water, and I will " 
The door opened then, causing him to suspend the 
petulant words ; for one stood there whose good 
opinion he valued more than that of any other peTson. 
" O Harry ! I am so sorry to see you so sick ! " 
exclaimed Julia Bryant, rushing to his bed side. 
She was followed by her father and mother ; and 
Katy had admitted them unannounced to the chamber. 
" Julia ! is it you ? " replied Harry, smiling for the 
first time since the assault. 
" Yes, Harry ; I hope you are better. When I 
heard about it last night, I would not give father 
any peace till he promised to bring me to Boston." 
" Don't be so wild, Julia," interposed her mother. 
' You forget that he is very sick." 
'' Forgive me, Harry ; I was so glad and so sorry. 
I hope I didn't make your head ache," she added, in 
a very gentle tone. 
" No, Julia. It was very good of you to come 
and see me." 
Harry felt a change come over him the moment 
she entered the room. The rebellious thoughts in 
his bosom seemed to be banished by her presence ; 
and though his head ached and his flesh burned as 
much as ever, he somehow had more courage to en- 
dure them. 
After Mr. and Mrs. Bryant had asked him a few 
questions, and expressed their sympathy in proper 
terms, they departed, leaving Julia to remain with 
the invalid for a couple of hours. 
" I did not expect to see you, Julia," said Harry, 
when they had gone. 
" Didn't you think I would do as much fop you 
as you did for me ? " 
* It was rather different with you. I uSl. ur.ly a 
poor boy, and you are a rich man's child." 
" Pooh, Harry ! Our souls are all of a color. Yoxi 
can't think how had I felt when father got Mr. 
Wake's letter." 
" It's a hard case to be knocked down in that 
way, and laid up in the house for a week or two." 
" I know it ; hut we must be patient." 
"Can't be patient. I haven't any patience — not 
a bit. If I could get hold of Ben Smart, I would 
choke him. I hope they will catch him, and send 
him to the state prison for life." 
Julia looked sad. These malignant words did not 
sound like those of the Harry West she had known 
and loved. They were so bitter that they curdled the 
warm blood in her veins, and the heart of Harry 
seemed less tender than before. 
" Harry," said she, in soft tones, and so sad that 
he could not but observe the change which had come 
over her. 
" Well, Julia." 
" You don't mean what you said." 
" Don't mean it ? " 
''No, I am sure you don't. Do you remembei 
what the Bible says ? " 
" What does it say ? " asked he, deeply impressed 
by the sad and solemn tones of the little angel. 
" ' Forgive your enemies,' Harry." 
" Forgive Ben Smart, after he has almL=t killed 
me?" 
Julia took up the Bible, which lay on the table by 
the bed side, — it was the one she had given him, — 
and read scleral passages upon the topic she bad 
introduced. 
Harry was ashamed of himself. The gentle rebuke 
ehe administered touched his soul, and he thought 
how peevish and ill-natured he had been. 
" You have been badly hurt, Harry, and you are 
very sick. Now, let me ask you one question : 
Which would you rather be, Harry West, sick as 
you are, or Ben Smart, who struck the blow ? " 
" I had rather be myself," replied he, promptly 
" You ought to be glad that you are Harry West, 
Instead of Ben Smart. Sick as you are, I am sure 
you are a great deal happier than he can be, even if 
he is not punished for striking you." 
"You are right, Julia. I have been very wicked 
Here I have been grumbling and growling all the 
time for four lays. I have learned better It if 
lucky for me that I am Harry, instead of Ben. ' 
" I am sure I have been a great deal better since 
I was sick than before. When I lay on the bed, 
hardly able to move, I kept thinking all the time ; 
and my thoughts did me a great deal of good." 
Harry had learned his lesson, and Julia's presenca 
was indeed an angel's visit. For an hour longer she 
Bat by his bed, and her words were full of inspira- 
tion ; and when her father called for her, he could 
nardly repress a tear as she bade him good night. 
After she had gone Harry begged Mrs. Flint and 
Katy to forgive him for being so cross, promising to 
be patient in the future. And he kept his promise. 
The next day, Julia came again. She read to him, 
conversed with him about the scenes of the preceding 
autumn in the woods, and told him again about hei 
own illness. In the afternoon, she bade him a fina 
adieu, as she was to return that day to her home. 
The patience and resignation which he had learnt J 
gave a favorable turn to his sickness, and he began 
to improve. It was a month, however, bsfore he wag 
»ble to take his place in the store agaii . Without 
She assistance of Julia, perhaps, he had not learned 
th<; moral of sickness so well. As it was, he came 
forth from his chamber with truer and loftier motives, 
and with a more earnest desire to lead the true life. 
Ben Smart had bjen ai rested ; and, shortly after 
nis recovery, Harry was summoned as a witness a*, 
his trial. It was a plain case ; and Ben was seat 
to tfie h >use of correction for a long term 
CHAPTER XX. 
IM WHICH HARRY PASaSS THROUGH HIS SEVERE81 
TRIAL, AND ACHIEVES HIS GREATEST 1RIUMPH. 
Three years may appear to b3 a great while to the 
little pilgrim through life's vicissitudes ; but they 
e.ion pass away and are -as "a talc that is told." To 
note all the events of Harry's experience through this 
period, would require another volume ; therefore I 
can only tell the reader what he was, and what results 
he had achieved in that time. Jt was filled with triaU 
anu temptations, not all of which were overcome 
without care and privation. Often he failed, was 
often disappointed, and often was pained to see how 
feebly the Spirit warred againrt the Flesh. 
He loved money, and avaric. frequently prompted 
him to do those things which would have wrecked 
his bright hopes. That vision of the grandeui and 
influence of the ricli .v.t.i.'s posirlcu sometimes demid him, causing him to forget for a time that the sou] 
would live forever, while the body and its treasures 
would perish in the grave. As he grew older, he 
reasoned more ; his principles became more firmly 
fixed ; and the object of existence assumed a more 
definite character. He was an attentive student, and 
every year not only made him wiser, but better. I 
do not mean to say that Harry was a remarkably 
good boy, that his character was perfect, or any 
thing of the kind. He meant well, and tried to do 
well, and he did not struggle in vain against the trials 
and temptations that beset him. I dare say, those 
with whom he associated did not consider him much 
better than themselves. It is true, he did not swear, 
did not frequent the haunts of vice and dissipation, 
did not spend his Sundays in riding about the coun- 
try ; yet he had his faults, and captious people did 
nr>t fail to see them. 
He was still with Wake and Wade, though he was 
ft salesman now, on a salary of five dollars a week. 
lie still boarded with Mrs. Flint, though Edward wab 
no longer his room mate. A year had been sufficient 
to di&gust his "fast" companion with the hocely f^ro 
and homely quarters of his father's house ; and. a* 
his salary was now eight dollars a week, he vecupied 
a room in the attic of a first class hotel. 
Harry was sixteen years old, and he had three hun- 
dred dollars in the Savings Bank. He might have 
Had more, if he had not so carefully watched and 
guarded against the sin of avarice. He gave some 
very handsome sums to the various public charities, 
as well as expended them in relieving distress wher- 
ever it presented itself. It is true, it was sometimes 
very hard work to give of his earnings to relieve the 
poor ; and if he had acted in conformity with the 
nature he had inherited, he might never have known 
that it was " more blessed to give than to receive." 
As he grew older, and the worth of money was more 
apparent, he was tempted to let the poor and the 
unfortunate take care of themselves ; but the struggle 
of duty with parsimony rendered his gifts all the more 
v-orthy. 
Joe Flint had several times violated his solemn 
resolution to drink no more ardent spirits ; but Harry, 
who was his friend ai^d confidant, encouraged !im, 
when be failed, ';o try ?.gui> ; s^d It vY:;:- nev> ne»rl| 
a year since he had been on a " spiee."' 
i 
Our hero occasionally heard from Rockville; and a 
few months before the event we are about to nan ate, 
ne had spent the pleasantcst week of his life with 
Julia Bryant, amid those scenes which were so full 
of interest to both of them. As he walked through 
the woods where he had first met the M little angel," 
— she had now grown to be a tall girl, — he could 
rot but recall the events of that meeting. It was 
there that he first began to live, in the true sense of 
the word. It was there that he had been born into a 
new sphere of moral existence. 
Julia was still his friend, still his guiding star. 
Though the freedom of childish intimacy had beer 
diminished, the same heart resided in each, and each 
felt the same interest in the other. The correspond- 
ence between them had been almost wholly suspend- 
ed, perhaps by the interference of the " powers " at 
Rockville, and perhaps by the growing sense of the 
" fitness of things " in the parties. But they occa- 
Bionall) met, which amply compensated for the depri* 
\ntions which propriety demanded. 
But I must pass on to the closing event of nay 
»tory — it was Harry's severest trial, yet it resulted 
in bis most signd triumph. 
Edward Flint was always short of money. He 
lived extravagantly, and his increased salary was in- 
efficient to meet his wants. When Harry saw him 
drive a fast horse through the streets on Sundays, and 
hear" him say how often he went to the theatre, what 
balls and parties he attended, — when he observed 
how elegantly he dressed, and that he wore a gold 
chain, a costly breast pin, and several rings, — he did 
not wonder that he was " short." He lived like a 
prince, and it seemed as though eight dollars a week 
would be but a drop in the bucket in meeting hia 
expenses. 
One day, in his extremity, he applied to Harry for 
the loan of five dollars. Our hero did not like to 
encourage his extravagance ; but he was good-natured, 
&nd could not well avoid doing the favor, especially 
as Edward wanted the money to pay his board. How* 
ever, he made it the occasion for a friendly remon- 
strance, and gave the spendthrift youth some excel- 
lent advice. Edward was vexed at the lecture ; but, 
ts he obtained the loan, he did not resent the 
kir.dly act. 
Abo]it a fortnight after, Edward paid him the 
nuney. It consisted of a two dollar bill and six 
half dollars. Harry was about to make a furthet 
application of bis views of duty to his friend's case, 
when Edward impatiently interrupted him, telling 
aim that, as he had got his money, he need not preach. 
This was just before Harry went home to dinner. 
On his return, Mr. Wake called him into the pri- 
vate office ; and when they had entered, he closed and 
locked the door. Harry regarded this as rather a 
singular proceeding ; but, possessing the entire confi- 
dence of his employers, it gave him no uneasiness. 
" Harry," Mr. "Wake began, " we have been losing 
money from the store for the last year, or more. I 
have missed small sums a great many times." 
" Indeed ! " exclaimed Harry, not knowing wheth- 
er he was regarded as a confidant, or as the suspected 
person. 
" To-day I gave a friend of mine several marked 
coins, with which he purchased some goods. These 
coins have all been stolen." 
" Is it possible, sir ! " 
" Now, we have four salesmen besides yourself 
Which stole it > " 
"I can form no idea, sir," returned Hany "I 
can only speak for myself." 
" O, weil, I had no suspicion that it was you,' 
fcdded Mr. Wake, with a smile. " I am going to try 
the same experiment again ; and I want you to kecj 
four eyes on the money drawer all the rest cf the 
ifternoon." 
" I will do so, sir." 
Mr. Wake took several silver coins from his pocket, 
md scratched them in such a way that they could be 
readily identified, and then dismissed Harry, with 
the injunction to be very vigilant. 
When he came out of the office, he perceived that 
Edward and Charles Wallis were in close conversa- 
tion. 
" I say, Harry, what's in the wind ? " asked the 
former, as our hero returned to his position behind 
the counter. 
Harry evaded answering the question, md the other 
two salesmen, who were very intimate, and whose 
testes and amusements were very much alike, continued their conversation. They were evidently aware 
of something unusual had occurred, or was about
Soon after, a person appeared at the counter and 
aurchased a dozen spools of cotton, offering two half 
dollars in payment. Harry kept his eye upon the 
money drawer, but nothing was discovered, l'rorn hat he knew of Edward's mode of life, he was prepared to believe that he was the guilty person. 
The experiment was tried for three days in succestion before any result was obtained. The coins were 
always found in the drawer ; but on the fourth day, 
when they were very busy, and there was a great deal 
of money in the drawer, Harry distinctly observed 
Edward, while making change, take several coins
from the till. The act appalled him ; he forgot the 
customer to whose wants he was attending, and 
hastened to inform Mr. Wake of the discovery. 
" Where are you going, Harry ? " asked Edward, 
as he passed him. 
" Only to the office," replied he ; and his appearance and manner might have attracted the attention 
of any skilful rogue. 
" Come, Harry, don't leave your place," addet 
Edward, playfully grasping him by tho collar, on his 
returi;, 
" Don't stop to fool, Edward," answered Hairy, and
be shook him off, and took his place at the counter
again. 
He wan very absent-minded the rest of the fore- 
noon, and his frame shook with agitation, as he heard 
Mr. "Wake call Edward, shortly after. But he trem- 
bled still more when he was summoned also, for it 
was very unpleasant business. 
" Of course, you will not object to letting me see 
the contents of your pockets, Edward," said Mr. 
Wake, as Harry entered the office. 
" Certainly not, sir ; " and he turned every one of 
his pockets inside out. 
Not one of the decoy pieces was found upon him, 
or any other coins, for that matter ; he had no money. 
Mr. Wake was confused, for he fully expected to con- 
\ict the culprit on the spot. 
'I suppose I am indebted to this young man for  
tt is," continued Edward, with a sneer. " I'd bet five 
d< llais he stole the money himself, if any has been 
stolen. Why don't you search him ? " 
" Search me, sir, by all means," added Harry ; and 
he began to turn his pockets out. 
From his vest pocket he took out a little parcel 
wrapped in a shop bill. 
" What's that ? " said Edward. 
'* I don't know. I wasn't aware that there was 
any such thing in my pocket." 
" I suppose not," sneered Edward. 
" But you seem to know more about it than he 
Edward," remarked Mr. Wake, as he took the parcel. 
" I know nothing about it." 
The senior opened the wrapper, and to his surprise 
and sorrow, found it contained two of the marked 
coins. But he was not disposed hastily to condemn 
Harry. He >:ouI-l aot Relieve him capable of steal- 
ing ; besides, there was something in Edward's man- 
ner which seemed to indicate that our hero was the 
victim of a conspiracy. 
" As he has been so very generous towards me, 
Mr. Wake," interposed Edward, " I will suggest a 
moans by which you may satisfy yourself. My moth- 
er keeps Harry's money for him ; and perhaps, if you 
look it over, you will find some more marked pieces." 
"Mr. Wake, I'm innocent," protested Harry, when 
he had in some measure nwnvered from the first shock 
of the heavy blow. " I tevei stole a cent from any 
body." 
" I don't believe you ever did, Harry. But can 
you explain how this money happened to be in jcui 
pocket ? " 
" I cannot, sir. If you wish to look at my money, 
Mrj. Flint will show it to you." 
" Perhaps I had better." 
 Don't let him go with you, though," said Ed- 
ward, maliciously. 
Mr. Wake wrote an order to Mrs. Flint, requesting 
her to exhibit the money, and Harry signed it. The 
senior then hastened to Avery Street. 
" Now, Master Spy ! " sneered Edward, when he 
had gone. " So you have been watching me. I 
thought as much." 
" I only did what Mr. Wake told me to do," re- 
plied Harry, exceedingly mortified at the turn the 
investigation had taken. 
" Humph! That is the way with you psalm-sing- 
ers. Steal yourself, and lay it to me ! " 
" I did not steal. I never s*ole in my life. ' 
" Wait and see. ' 
In about half an hour Mr. Wake returned. 
' I am sorry, Harry, to find that I have been mis- 
taken in you. Is it possible that one who is out- 
wardly so correct in his habits should be a thief ? 
Put your career is finished," said he, very sternly, aa 
be enteied the office. 
" Nothing strange to the rest of us," added Ed- 
ward. " I never knew one yet who pretended to be 
so pious, that did not turn out a rascal." 
" And such a hypocrite ! " 
" Mr. Wake, I am neither a thief nor a hypocrite," 
replied Harry, with spirit. 
" I found four of the coins, — four half dollars. — 
which I marked first, at Mrs. Flint's," said the senior, 
severely. 
Harry was astounded. Those half dollars were 
part of the money paid him by Edward, and he so 
explained how they came in his possession. 
"Got them from me!" exclaimed Edward, with 
well-feigned surprise. " I never borrowed a cent of 
aim in my life ; and, of course, never pa'd him a 
acnt." 
Hairv looked at Edward, amazed at the ccol" ess 
with whirm he uttered the monstrous lie. He q jes- 
tioned him in regard to the transaction, but the young 
reprobate reiterated his declaration with so much 
force and art, that Mr. Wake was effectually de» 
ceived. 
Our hero, conscious of his innocence, howevci 
strong appearances were against him, behaved with 
considerate spirit, which so irritated Mr. Wake that 
he sent for a constable, and Harry soon found himself 
in Leverett Street Jail. Strange as it may seem to 
my young friends, he was not very miserable there. 
He was innocent, and he depended upon that special 
Providence which had before befriended him, to extricate him from the difficulty. It is true, he won- 
dered what Julia would say when she heard of his 
misfortune. She would weep and grieve ; and he 
was sad when he thought of her. But she would be 
the more rejoiced, when she learned that he was innocent. The triumph would be in proportion to the 
dial. 
On the following day he was brought up for exam- 
ination. As his name was called, the propriety of 
the court was suddenly disturbed by an exclamation 
of surprise from an elderly man, with a sun-browned 
face and monstrous whiskers. 
" Who is he ? ' almost shouted the elderly man, 
regardless of the dignity of the court. 
An officer was on the point of turning him out : but 
his earnest manner saved him. Pushing bis way for- 
ward to Mr. Wake, he questioned him in regard to 
the youthful prisoner. 
" Strange ! I thought he was dead ! " muttered 
<he elderly man, in the most intense excitement. 
The examination proceeded. Harry had a friend 
who had not been idle, as the sequel will show. 
Mr. Wake first testified to the facts we have already 
related ; and the lawyer, whom Harry's friends had 
provided, questioned him in regard to the prisoner's 
character and antecedents. Edward Flint was then 
called. He was subjected to a severe cross examina- 
tion by Harry's counsel, in which he repeatedly de« 
nied that he had ever borrowed or paid any money to 
the accused. 
Mr. Wade was the next witness. While the events 
preceding Harry's arrest were transpiring, he had 
beta absent from the city, but had returned early la 
the afternoon. He disagreed with his partner in 
relation to our hero's guilt, and immediately set 
himse.if to work to unmask the conspiracy, for such 
he was persuaded it was. 
He testified that, a short time before, Edward had 
requested him to pay him his salary two days before 
it was due, assigning as a reason the fact that he 
owed Harry Jive dollars which he wished to pay. 
He produced two of the marked half dollars, which 
he had received from Edward's landlady. 
Of course, Edward was utterly confounded ; and 
to add to his confusion, he was immediately called to 
the stand again. This time his coolness was gone ; 
he crossed himself a dozen times, and finally ac- 
knowledged, under the pressure of the skilful law- 
yer's close questioning, that Harry was innocent. 
He had paid him the money found in Mrs. Flint's 
possession, and had slipped the coins wrapped in the 
shop bills into his pocket, when he took him by the 
crllar on his return from the office. 
He had known for some time that the partners 
were on the watch for the thief. He had heard them 
talking about the matter ; but he supposed be had 
managed the case so well as to exonerate himself 
and implicate Harry, whom he hated for  being t 
good boy. 
Harry was discharged. His heart swelled with 
gratitude for the kindly interposition of Providence. 
The trial was past — the triumph bad come. 
Mr. Wake, Mr. Wade, and other friends, congrat- 
ulated him on the happy termination of the affair ; 
and while they were so engaged the elderly man 
elbowed his way through the crowd to the plaee 
where Harry stood. 
"Young man, what is your father's 'lame?" ne 
asked, in tones tremulous with emotion. 
"I have no father," replied Harry. 
" You kad a father — what was his n?me r " 
" Franklin West ; a carpenter by trads. He went 
from Redfield to Valparaiso when I was very young, 
and we never heard any thing from him. 
" My son ! " exclaimed the stranger, graspirg om 
hero by the hand, while the tears rolled do^n nil 
brown visage. 
Harry did n t know what to make of this an- 
lounceruent. 
*' Is it possible that you are my father ? " asked ha 
" I am, Harry ; but I was sure you were dead. ] 
got a letter, informing me that your mother and the 
baby had gone ; and about a year after, I met a mar 
from Rockville, who told me you had died also." 
' It was a mistake." 
They continued the conversation as they walked from 
ne court room to the store. There was a long story 
for each to tell. Mr. West confessed that, for two years 
after his arrival at Valparaiso, he had accomplished 
rery little. He drank hard, and brought on a fever, 
which had nearly carried him off. But that fever waft 
a blessing in disguise ; and since his recovery he had 
been entirely temperate. He had nothing to send to 
his family, and shame prevented him from even writ- 
ing to his wife. He received the letter which con- 
veyed the intelligence of the death of his wife and 
child, and soon after learned that his remaining little 
one was also gone. 
Carpenters were then in great demand in Valpa- 
raiso. He was soon in a condition to take contracts, 
and fortune smilod upon him. He had rendered him- 
«ielf independent, and had now returned to spend bis 
 
remaining days in his native land. He had been in 
Boston a week, and happened to stray into the Police 
Court, where he had found the son who, he supposed, 
had long ago been laid in the grave. 
Edward Flint finished his career of " fashionable 
dissipation" by being sentenced to the house of cor- 
rection. Just before he was sent over, he confessed 
to Mr. "Wade that it was he who bz? r-tolen Harry's 
money, three years before. 
The next day Harry obtained leave oi absence, for 
the purpose of accompanying his father en ^ visit to 
Redfield. He was in exuberant spirits. It seemed 
as though his cup of joy was full. He could hardly 
realize that he had a father — a kind, affectionate 
father — who shared the joy of his heart. 
They went to Redfield; but I cannot stop to tel. 
my readers how astonished Squire Walker, and Mr. 
Nason, and the paupers were, to see the spruce youn^i 
clerk come to his early home, attendee by his falhs' 
— a rich father, too. 
We can follow our hero no farther through the 
highways and byways of his life-pilgrimnge. W« 
have seen him struggle like a hero through trH. inm* 
temptation, and come off conqueror in the end. He 
has found a rich father, who crowns his lot with p' en 
ty ; hut his true wealth is in those good prii»ci r es 
which the trials, no less than the triumphs, o his 
career have planned in his soul. 
CHAPTER XXI. 
IB WHICH HAKKT IS VERY PLEASANTLY SITUATED, 
AND THE STOEY COMES TO AN END. 
Perhaps my young readers will desire to know 
something of Harry's subsequent life ; and we will 
" drop in " upon him at his pleasant residence in 
Rockville, without the formality of an introduction. 
Ten years have elapsed since we parted with him, 
after his triumphant discharge from arrest. His 
father did not live long after his return to his native 
land ; and when he was twenty-one, Harry came into 
possession of a handsome fortune. But even wealth 
could not tempt him to choose a life of idleness ; 
and he went into partnership with Mr. Wade, the 
senior retiring at the same time. The firm of Wade 
and West is quite as respectable as any in the city. 
Harry is not a slave to business ; and he spendi 
A portion of his time at his beautiful plac* in Rock 
ville ; for the cars pass through the village, woich it 
only a ride of an hour and a half from the city. 
Mr. West's house is situated on a gentle emi- 
nence not far distant from the turnpike road. It is 
built upon the very spot where the cabin of the 
charcoal burners stood, in which Harry, the fugitive, 
passed two nights The aspect of the place is en- 
tirely changed, though the very rock upon which our 
hero ate the sumptuous repast the little angel brought 
him may be seen in the centre of the beautiful gar- 
den, by the side of the house. Mr. West often seats 
himself there to think of the events of the past, and 
to treasure up the pleasant memories connected with 
the vicinity. 
The house is elegant and spacious, though there 
is nothing gaudy or gay about it. Let us walk in 
It is plainly furnished, though the articles are ricr 
and tasteful. This is the sitting room. Who is that 
beautiful lady sitting at the piano-forle ? Do you 
not recognize her, gentle reader ? Of course you do. 
[t is Mrs. West, and an old acquaintance. She is 
