the watch. But the broker entered the marshal's office, and they could
not see him put the note in his pocket.
"I am so glad I got it!" exclaimed Katy.
"I doubt whether you could have recovered it if I had not used my
influence in your favor," remarked Simon, complacently. "I went to his
office, and assured him my friend the mayor had already taken the
matter in hand. I talked pretty severely to him, and he got frightened.
After all, the best way is to use very pointed language to these
fellows."
"I thank you very much, Master Simon, and I hope I shall be able to do
something for you some time."
But Messrs. Sands & Co.'s affairs were suffering, perhaps, and Simon
hastened back to the store, and Katy ran home to cheer her mother with
the sight of the recovered relic.
CHAPTER X.
KATY, IN DISTRESS, FINDS A CHAMPION.
Now that she had recovered the precious watch Katy had nothing to
engage her attention but the business of selling candy. The success
that had attended her forenoon's exertions was gratifying beyond her
expectations, and she felt as though she had already solved the
problem; that she was not only willing but able to support her mother.
She had originated a great idea, and she was proud of it.
Just as soon, therefore, as she had told her mother all about the
recovery of the watch, she prepared another tray of candy, resolved to
sell the whole of it before she returned. Her mother tried to induce
her to stay in the house and rest herself, but her impatience to
realize the fruits of her grand idea would not permit her to remain
inactive a single hour.
"Now, mother, I shall sell all this candy before dark; so don't be
uneasy about me. I am going to make lots of money, and you shall have
everything you want in a few weeks," said Katy, as she put on her
bonnet.
"I wish you would stay at home, and rest yourself; you have done enough
for one day."
"I am not tired a bit, mother; I feel just as if I could walk a hundred
miles."
"That's because you have got a new notion in your head. I am afraid you
will be sick, and then what should we do?"
"O, I shan't get sick; I promise you I won't," replied Katy, as she
left the room.
Unfortunately for the little candy merchant it was Wednesday afternoon,
and as the schools did not keep, there were a great many boys in the
street, and many of them were very rude, naughty boys. When she passed
up the court, some of them called out to her, and asked her where she
was going with all that candy. She took no notice of them, for they
spoke very rudely, and were no friends of hers. Among them was Johnny
Grippen, whose acquaintance the reader made on the pier of South Boston
bridge. This young ruffian led half a dozen others down the court in
pursuit of her, for possibly they were not satisfied with the cavalier
manner in which Katy had treated them.
"Where are you going with all that candy?" repeated the juvenile bully,
when he overtook her in Essex Street.
"I am going to sell it," replied Katy, finding she could not escape.
"Give us a junk, will you?" said Johnny.
"I can't give it away; I am going to sell it, to get money for my
mother."
"Won't you give a feller a piece?"
"I can't now; perhaps I'll give you some another time."
Katy's heart beat violently, for she was very much alarmed, knowing
that Johnny had not followed her for nothing. As she made her firm but
conciliatory reply, she moved on, hoping they would not attempt to
annoy her. It was a vain hope, for Johnny kept close to her side, his
eyes fixed wistfully on the tempting array of sweets she carried.
"Come, don't be stingy, Katy," continued Johnny.
"I don't mean to be; but I don't think I owe you anything," replied
Katy, gathering courage in her desperate situation.
"What do you mean by that?" demanded the little ruffian, as he placed
himself in front of her, and thus prevented her further progress.
"Don't stop me; I'm in a hurry," said Katy.
"Gi' me some candy, then."
"No, I won't!" answered Katy, losing her patience.
"Won't you?"
Johnny made a dive at the tray, with the intention of securing a
portion of the candy; but Katy adroitly dodged the movement, and
turning up a narrow alley way, ran off. Johnny was not to be balked,
and followed her; and then she found she had made a bad mistake in
getting off the street, where there were no passers-by to interfere in
her favor.
"Johnny!" shouted one of the bully's companions. "Johnny, Tom Howard is
coming."
"Let him come!" replied Johnny, doggedly.
He did not half like the insinuation conveyed in the words of his
associates; for to tell him, under the circumstances, that Tommy was
coming, was as much as to say he was afraid of him. Now, as we have
said, Johnny Grippen was a "fighting character," and had a reputation
to maintain. He gloried in the name of being able to whip any boy of
his size in the neighborhood. He was always ready to fight, and had,
perhaps, given some hard knocks in his time; but he sustained his
character rather by his talent for bullying, than by any conquests he
had won. On the whole he was a miserable, contemptible little bruiser
whom no decent boy could love or respect. He talked so big about "black
eyes," "bloody noses" and "smashed heads," that few boys cared to
dispute his title to the honors he had assumed. Probably some who felt
able to contest the palm with him, did not care to dirty their fingers
upon the bullying cub.
Sensible people, whether men or boys, invariably despise the "fighting
character," be he young or old. Nine times out of ten he is both a
knave and a fool, a coward and a bully.
On the other hand, Tommy Howard was one of those hearty, whole-souled
boys, who are the real lions of the playground. He was not a "fighting
character;" and being a sensible boy, he had a hearty contempt for
Johnny Grippen. He was not afraid of him, and though he never went an
inch out of his way to avoid a fight with him, it so happened they had
never fought. He was entirely indifferent to his threats, and had no
great opinion of his courage. Johnny had "stumped" him to fight, and
even taken off his coat and dared him to come; but Tommy would laugh at
him, tell him to put on his coat or he would catch cold; and, contrary
to the general opinion among boys, no one ever thought the less of him
for the true courage he exhibited on these occasions.
Johnny did not like to be told that Tommy was coming, for it reminded
him that, as the king bully of the neighborhood, one of his subjects
was unconquered and rebellious. But Johnny had discretion--and bullies
generally have it. He did not like that cool, independent way of the
refractory vassal; it warned him to be cautious.
"What's the matter, Katy?" asked Tommy, as he came with quick pace up
the court, without deigning to cast even a glance at the ruffian who
menaced her.
"Stand by, fellers, and see fair play, and I'll lick him now," said
Johnny, in a low tone, to his companions.
"He won't let me go," replied Katy, pointing to her assailant.
"Go ahead, Katy; don't mind him."
"Won't you give me some candy?" said Johnny, stepping up before her
again.
"Go ahead, Katy," repeated Tommy, placing himself between her and the
bully. "Don't mind him, Katy."
As she advanced, Johnny pushed forward, and made another dive at the
tray, but Katy's champion caught him by the arm and pulled him away.
"You mind out!" growled the bully, doubling up his fists, and placing
himself in the most approved attitude, in front of the unwhipped vassal.
"Go ahead, Katy; clear out as fast as you can," said Tommy, who, though
his bosom swelled with indignation, still preserved his wonted
coolness; and it was evident to the excited spectators that he did not
intend to "mind out."
"Come on, if you want to fight!" shouted Johnny, brandishing his fists.
"I don't want to fight; but you are a mean, dirty blackguard, or you
wouldn't have treated a girl like that," replied Tommy, standing as
stiff as a stake before the bully.
"Say that again, and I'll black your eye for you."
"Once is enough, if you heard me; but I will tell your father about it."
"Will you? Just say that again."
Somehow, it often happens that bullies want a person to say a thing
over twice, from which we infer that they must be very deaf or very
stupid. Tommy would not repeat the offensive remark, and Johnny's
supporters began to think he was not half so anxious to fight as he
seemed, which was certainly true. I have no doubt, if they had been
alone, he would have found a convenient excuse for retiring from the
field, leaving it unsullied by a black eye or a bloody nose.
My young friends will excuse me from digressing so far as to say that,
in more than a dozen years with boys, in school and out, I have never
heard of such a thing as two boys getting up a fight and having it out
alone. There must be a crowd of bruisers and "scallewags" around, to
keep up the courage of the combatants. Therefore, those who look on are
just as bad as those who fight, for without their presence the fight
could not be carried through.
Tommy Howard had said all he had to say, and was therefore ready to
depart. He turned to do so, and walked several steps down the alley,
though he kept one eye over his shoulder to guard against accidents.
"Hit him, Johnny!" cried one of the  vagabond troops that followed in
the train of the bully.
"He darsen't fight," replied Johnny.
"Nor you, nuther," added another of the supporters.
This was too much for Johnny. It cut him to the quick, and he could not
stand it. If he did not thrash Tommy now, his reputation would be
entirely ruined.
"Darsen't I?" exclaimed he. "Come back here;" but as Tommy did not
come, he ran up behind him, and aimed a blow at the side of his head.
Katy's intrepid defender, who had perhaps read in some Fourth of July
oration that "eternal vigilance is the price of liberty," was not to be
surprised, and facing about, he warded off the blow. Johnny's imperiled
reputation rendered him desperate. He had gone too far to recede, and
he went into action with all the energy and skill of a true bruiser.
Tommy was now fully roused, and his blows, which were strictly in
self-defense, fell rapidly and heavily on the head of his assailant.
But I am not going to give my young readers the particulars of the
fight; and I would not have let Tommy engage in such a scene, were it
not to show up Johnny as he was, and finish the portrait of him which I
had outlined; to show the difference between the noble, generous,
brave, and true-hearted boy, and the little bully, whom all my young
friends have seen and despised.
In something less than two minutes, Johnny Grippen, after muttering
"foul play," backed out with bloody nose, as completely whipped, and as
thoroughly "cowed down," as though he had been fighting with a royal
Bengal tiger. His supremacy was at an end, and there was danger that
some other bold fellow might take it into his head to thrash the donkey
after the lion's skin had been stripped from his shoulders.
"If you are satisfied now, I'll go about my business," said Tommy, as
he gazed with mingled pity and contempt upon his crest-fallen assailant.
"You don't fight fair," grumbled Johnny, who could not account for his
defeat in any other way. "If you're a mind to fight fair, I'll try it
again with you some time."
"I don't fight for the fun of it. I only fight when some cowardly bully
like you comes at me, and I can't help myself. When you feel like
whipping me again, you needn't stop to let me know it beforehand. But I
will tell you this much: if you ever put your hand on Katy Redburn, or
meddle with her in any way, I promise to pound you as handsomely as I
know how, fair or foul, the very next time I meet you, if it isn't for
seven years. Just bear that in mind."
Johnny made no reply; he was not in a condition to make a reply, and
the victor in the conquest departed, leaving the bully to explain his
defeat as best he could to his admirers and supporters.
"He did not hurt you--did he?" asked Katy, as Tommy joined her at the
foot of the alley, where she had been anxiously waiting the result of
the encounter.
"Not a bit, Katy. He talks very loud, but he is a coward. I'm sorry I
had to thrash him though I think it will do him good."
"I was afraid he'd hurt you. You were very kind to save me from him,
Tommy. I shall never forget you, as long as I live, and I hope I shall
be able to do something for you one of these days."
"Oh, don't mind that, Katy. He is an ugly fellow, and I wouldn't stand
by and see him insult a girl. But I must go now. I told Johnny if he
ever meddled with you again I should give him some; if he does, just
let me know."
"I hope he won't again," replied Katy, as Tommy moved towards home.
This was Katy's first day in mercantile life; it had been full of
incidents, and she feared her path might be a thorny one. But her light
heart soon triumphed over doubts and fears, and when she reached
Washington Street, she was as enthusiastic as ever, and as ready for a
trade.
CHAPTER XI.
KATY MEETS WITH EXTRAORDINARY SUCCESS.
"Buy some candy?" said Katy to the first gentleman she met.
He did not even deign to glance at her; and five or six attempts to
sell a stick of candy were failures; but when she remembered the
success that had followed her disappointment in the morning, she did
not lose her courage. Finding that people in the street would not buy,
she entered a shop where the clerks seemed to be at leisure, though she
did not do so without thinking of the rude manner in which she had been
ejected from a store in the forenoon.
"Buy some candy?" said she to a good-natured young gentleman, who was
leaning over his counter waiting for a customer.
"How do you sell it?"
"Cent a stick; it is very nice. I sold fourteen sticks of it to the
mayor this forenoon. He said it was good."
"You don't say so? Did he give you a testimonial?"
"No; he gave me half a dollar."
The clerk laughed heartily at Katy's misapprehension of his word, and
his eye twinkled with mischief. It was plain that he was not a great
admirer of molasses candy, and that he only wanted to amuse himself at
Katy's expense.
"You know what they do with quack medicines--don't you?"
"Yes, I do; some folks are fools enough to take them," replied Katy,
smartly.
"That's a fact; but you don't understand me. Dr. Swindlehanger, round
the corner, would give the mayor a hundred dollars to say his patent
elixir is good. Now, if you could only get the mayor's name on a paper
setting forth the virtues of your candy, I dare say you could sell a
thousand sticks in a day. Why don't you ask him for such a paper?"
"I don't want any paper, except to wrap up my candy in. But you don't
want to buy any candy, I see;" and Katy moved towards some more clerks
at the other end of the store.
"Yes, I do; stop a minute. I want to buy six sticks for my children!"
"For what?"
"For my grandchildren."
"You are making fun of me," said Katy, who could see this, though the
young man was so pleasant and so funny, she could not be offended with
him. "I don't believe your mother would like it, if she should hear you
tell such a monstrous story."
The young man bit his lip. Perhaps he had a kind mother who had taught
him never to tell a lie, even in jest. He quickly recovered his humor,
however, though it was evident that Katy's rebuke had not been without
its effect.
"For how much will you sell me six sticks?" continued the clerk.
"For six cents."
"But that is the retail price; when you sell goods at wholesale you
ought not to ask so much for them."
"You shall have them for five cents then," replied Katy, struck with
the force of the suggestion.
"I can't afford to give so much as that. I am a poor man. I have to go
to the theater twice a week, and that costs me a dollar. Then a ride
Sunday afternoon costs me three dollars. So you see I don't have much
money to spend upon luxuries."
"I hope you don't go out to ride Sundays," said Katy.
"But I do."
"What does your mother say to it?"
The clerk bit his lip again. He did not like these allusions to his
mother, who perhaps lived far away in the country, and had taught him
to "remember the Sabbath day and keep it holy." Very likely his
conscience smote him, as he thought of her and her blessed teachings in
the far-off home of his childhood.
"I will give you two cents," said the clerk.
"I can't take that; it would hardly pay for the molasses, to say
nothing of firewood and labor."
"Call it three cents, then."
"No, sir; the wholesale price is five cents for six sticks."
"But I am poor."
"You wouldn't be poor if you saved up your money, and kept the Sabbath.
Your mother----"
"There, there! that's enough. I will take a dozen sticks!" exclaimed
the young man, impatiently interrupting her.
"A dozen?"
"Yes, a dozen, and there are twelve cents."
"But I only ask ten."
"No matter, give me the candy, and take the money," he replied,
fearful, it may be, that she would again allude to his mother.
Katy counted out the sticks, wrapped them up in a paper, and put the
money in her pocket. If she had stopped at the door to study the young
man's face, she might have detected a shadow of uneasiness and anxiety
upon it. He was a very good-hearted, but rather dissolute, young man,
and the allusions she had made to his mother burned like fire in his
heart, for he had neglected her counsels, and wandered from the
straight road in which she had taught him to walk. If she could have
followed him home, and into the solitude of his chamber, she could have
seen him open his desk, and write a long letter to his distant
mother--a duty he had too long neglected. We may not follow the
fortunes of this young man, but if we could, we might see how a few
words, fitly spoken, even by the lips of an innocent youth; will
sometimes produce a  powerful impression on the character; will
sometimes change the whole current of a life, and reach forward to the
last day of existence.
Katy, all unconscious of the great work she had done, congratulated
herself on this success, and wished she might find a few more such
customers. Glancing into the shop windows as she passed along, to
ascertain whether there was a good prospect for her, she soon found an
inviting field. It was a crockery ware store that she entered this
time, and there were several persons there who seemed not to be very
busy.
"Buy some candy?" said she, presenting the tray to the first person she
met.
"Go home and wash your face," was the ill-natured response.
Was it possible she had come out with a dirty face? No; she had washed
herself the last thing she had done. It is true her clothes were
shabby, there was many a patch and darn upon her dress, and its colors
had faded out like the "last rose of summer;" but then the dress was
clean.
"Buy some candy?" said she to another, with a sudden resolution not to
be disturbed by the rudeness of those she addressed.
He took a stick, and threw down a cent, without a word. One more did
her a similar favor, and she left the store well satisfied with the
visit. Pretty soon she came to a large piano-forte manufactory, where
she knew that a great many men were employed. She went up-stairs to the
counting-room, where she sold three sticks, and was about to enter the
work-room, when a sign, "No admittance except on business," confronted
her. Should she go on? Did the sign refer to her? She had business
there, but perhaps they would not be willing to admit that her business
was very urgent, and she dreaded the indignity of being turned out
again. Her mother had told her there was always a right way and a wrong
way. It certainly was not right to enter in the face of a positive
prohibition, and at last she decided to return to the office and ask
permission to visit the workshop.
"Please may I go into the workshop?" said she, addressing the man who
had purchased the candy.
"Go in? why not?" replied he, placing his pen behind his ear, and
looking at her with a smile of curiosity.
"Why, it says on the door, 'No admittance except on business.'"
"So it does. Well, I declare, you have got an amount of conscience
beyond your station. No one thinks of taking any notice of that sign.
Peddlers and apple men go in without a question."
"I thought you wouldn't let people go in."
"We don't like to have visitors there, for they sometimes do injury,
and generally take off the attention of the men from their work. But
you have got so much conscience about the matter, that you shall not
only go in, but I will go with you, and introduce you."
"Thank you, sir; I won't give you all that trouble. I can introduce
myself."
But the bookkeeper led the way to the door, and they entered a large
room in which a great many men were busily at work.
"Here is a very honest little girl," said her friend, "who has the very
best molasses candy I ever ate. If any of you have a sweet tooth, or
any children at home, I advise you to patronize her."
The bookkeeper laughed, and the workmen laughed, as they began to feel
in their pockets for loose change. It was evident that the friendly
introduction was to be of great service to her. She passed along from
one man to another, and almost every one of them bought two or three
sticks of candy, and before she had been to all of them her stock was
entirely exhausted. Katy was astonished at her good fortune, and the
men were all exceedingly good-natured. They seemed disposed to make a
pleasant thing of her visit, and to give her a substantial benefit.
"Now, my little girl," said the bookkeeper, "when you wish to visit the
workshop again, you may enter without further permission; and I am sure
the men will all be very glad to see you."
"But I want some of that candy," said one of the workmen. "My little
girl would jump to get a stick."
"Then she shall have some," replied Katy, "for I will go home and get
some more;" and she left the building and hastened home for a further
supply of the popular merchandise.
"O mother! I have sold out all my candy, and I want a lot more!"
exclaimed she, as she rushed into the room, full of excitement and
enthusiasm.
"Be calm, child; you will throw yourself into a fever," replied Mrs.
Redburn. "You must learn to take things more easily."
"O dear! I have only twenty sticks left. I wish I had a hundred, for I
am sure I could sell them."
"Perhaps it is fortunate you have no more."
"But I must make some more to-night for to-morrow."
"Don't drive round so, Katy. Be reasonable, and don't think too much of
your success."
But Katy could not stop to argue the matter, though, as she walked
along the street, she thought of what her mother had said, and tried to
calm the excitement that agitated her. It was hard work to keep from
running every step of the way; but her mother's advice must be heeded,
and to some extent she succeeded in controlling her violent impulses.
As it was, she reached the piano-forte manufactory quite out of breath,
and rushed into the workroom as though she had come on an errand of
vital importance to its occupants.
It required but a few minutes to dispose of her small stock of candy.
The workmen all hoped she would come again, and she departed highly
elated at her success.
"There, mother, I have sold all the candy. What do you think of that?"
said she, as she entered her mother's room, and threw off her bonnet
and shawl.
"You have done very well, I had no idea that you could sell more than
twenty or thirty sticks in a day."
"It's a great day's work, mother; and if I can sell half as much in a
day, I shall be satisfied. Don't you think I shall be able to support
you?"
"At this rate you can do much more; but, Katy, I tremble for you."
"Why, mother?"
"You get so excited, and run so, I am afraid it will make you sick."
"O, no, it won't, mother. I feel as strong as a horse. I am not tired
in the least."
"You don't feel so now, because you are so excited by your success."
"I shall get used to it in a little while."
"I hope so, if you mean to follow this business."
"If I mean to? Why mother, what else could I do to make so much money?
See here;" and she poured the money she had taken upon the bed-quilt
before her mother. "One dollar and thirty-six cents, mother! Only think
of it! But I won't jump so another day; I will take it easy."
"I wish you would."
"I will try very hard; but you can't think how happy I feel! Dear me! I
am wasting my time, when I have to make the candy for to-morrow."
"But, Katy, you must not do any more to-night. You will certainly be
sick."
"I must make it, mother."
"Your hands are very sore now."
"They are better; and I don't feel tired a bit."
"I will tell you what you may do, if you must make the candy to-night.
When you have got the molasses boiled, you may ask Mrs. Colvin, the
washerwoman, to come in and pull it for you; for you are not strong
enough to do it yourself."
"I should not like to ask her. She's a poor woman, and it would be just
the same as begging to ask her to give me her work."
"You don't understand me, Katy. She goes out to work whenever she can
get a chance. Her price is ten cents an hour. You can engage her for
one or two hours, and pay her for her labor. This is the only way you
can get along with this business."
"I will do that. It won't take more than an hour."
Mrs. Colvin was accordingly engaged, though at first she positively
refused to be paid for her services; but when Katy told her she should
want her for one or two hours every day, she consented to the
arrangement. Early in the evening the candy was all made, and Katy's
day's work was finished. Notwithstanding her repeated declaration that
she was not tired, the bed "felt good" to her, and she slept all the
more soundly for the hard work and the good deeds she had done.
CHAPTER XII.
KATY PAYS HER DEBTS, AND TOMMY GOES TO SEA.
Katy's second day's sales, though not so large as those of the first
day, were entirely satisfactory. The profits, after paying for the
"stock" and for the services of Mrs. Colvin, were nearly a dollar, and
her heart beat with renewed hope at this continued success. Her grand
idea hardly seemed like an experiment now, for she had proved that she
could make good candy, and that people were willing to buy the article.
She met with about the same treatment from those to whom she offered
her wares; one spoke kindly, and purchased by wholesale, and another
spoke gruffly, and would not buy even a single stick. Here she was
driven out of doors, and there she was petted, and made large sales.
So far as Katy's person and manners were concerned, she was admirably
adapted to the business she had chosen. She was rather small in stature
for one of her age, but she was very well formed, and her movements
were agile and graceful. Her face was not as pretty as it might have
been, but her expression was artless and winning. Her light brown hair
hung in curls upon her shoulders, and contributed not a little to make
up the deficiency in what the painters and sculptors would call a
finely chiseled face.
If she had been dressed in silk, and lace, and embroidery, I doubt not
people would have called her pretty, though in my opinion it does not
make much difference whether she was pretty or not; for, after all, the
best way to judge of a person's beauty is by the old standard,
"Handsome is that handsome does." But I have said thus much about
Katy's face and form in order to explain the secret of her great
success as a candy merchant. Hundreds of persons would buy a stick of
candy of a little girl with a pretty face and a graceful form, who
would not do so of one less attractive. Though she was well favored in
this respect, I believe it was her gentle, polite manners, her sweet
voice, made sweet by a loving heart, that contributed most to her
success. But above all the accidents of a good form, graceful
movements, brown ringlets, and a pleasing address, she prospered in
trade because she was in earnest, and persevered in all her efforts. A
person cannot succeed in business by being merely good looking, though
this may sometimes be of much assistance. It is patience, perseverance,
energy, and above all, integrity and uprightness, that lead to the true
success.
Encouraged by her prosperity, Katy continued to sell candy with about
the same result as had cheered her heart on the first two days. Her
profits, however, were not so great as on those two days, and did not
average above seventy-five cents a day or four dollars and a half a
week. This was doing exceedingly well, and she had every reason to be
grateful for her good fortune.
At the end of three weeks, rent day came round again, and Dr. Flynch
called for the money. To his utter astonishment, it was ready for him,
and he departed without a single ill-natured word, though this was,
perhaps, because he had a wholesome regard for the opinion of Mrs.
Gordon. Two weeks later Katy found that her savings were sufficient to
enable her to pay the month's rent for which Mrs. Gordon had given a
receipt, and also the dollar which Grace had loaned her. These debts
had pressed heavily on her mind. She knew that they were regarded as
free gifts and her pride prompted her to remove what she considered a
stain upon her character. Till they were paid, she felt like a beggar.
Taking her money one day, she paid a visit to Temple Street. Michael
opened the door and received her with a smile. Knowing she was in favor
with his mistress, he conducted her to the sitting-room, where the
portraits hung. Those roguish eyes of the lady, who somewhat resembled
her mother, were fixed on her again. She was sure that her mother did
not look like that picture then, but she was equally sure that she had,
some time or other cast just such a glance at her. The expression of
the lady found something like its  counterpart in her memory. Now, her
mother was sick and sad; she seldom smiled. But some time she must have
been a young girl, and then she must have looked like that portrait.
She felt just like asking Mrs. Gordon if that was her portrait, but she
did not dare to do such a thing. While she was attentively watching the
roguish lady's face, her kind friend entered the room, followed by
Grace.
"How do you do, Katy?" said the former, with a benevolent smile.
"Quite well, I thank you, ma'am. I hope you will excuse me for coming
again," replied she.
"I am very glad you have come."
"I was thinking of you the other day, and wishing I might see you,"
added Grace, "for the Mayor told us a very pretty story about you."
"He was very good to me; and I never shall forget him or you," answered
Katy, warmly.
"I suppose you have come to get another receipt; but I told Dr. Flynch
not to disturb you," said Mrs. Gordon.
"O, no ma'am--I didn't come for that. You were too kind to me before,
and I have come now to pay you for that month's rent."
"Indeed?"
"Yes, ma'am; we have been able to earn money enough, and I am very glad
that I can pay it," replied Katy, taking the four dollars from her
pocket. "Here it is."
"No, my child; you shall keep it. I will not take it."
Katy's cheeks flushed, for she did not feel poor and proud then. She
felt rich; that is she was proud of being able to pay all she owed, and
she did not like to be thought capable of accepting a gift--of being
the recipient of charity. But she knew the hearts of her kind friends,
and left unspoken the words of indignation that trembled on her tongue.
"Please to take the money, ma'am," said she her cheeks still red with
shame.
"No, my child; you are a good girl; I will not take your money."
"I shall feel very bad if you don't, and it will make my mother very
unhappy."
"Nay, Katy, you must not be too proud."
"I am not too proud to ask or to accept a favor, but please don't make
me feel like a beggar."
"You are a very strange child," said Mrs. Gordon.
"Indeed you are," added Grace
"I shall not feel right if you don't take this money. You know I
promised to pay you at the time you gave me the receipt."
"I did not suppose you would, that is, I did not think you would be
able to pay it. Your mother has got well, then?"
"No, ma'am; she is better, but she does not sit up any yet."
"Then how did you get this money?"
"I earned it."
"You!"
"Yes, ma'am; selling candy."
"Is it possible? The mayor told me you were a little candy merchant,
but I did not suppose you carried on such an extensive trade."
"I make a great deal of money; almost five dollars a week; and now I am
able, I hope you will let me pay you."
"If you insist upon it, I shall, though I had much rather you would
keep the money."
"Thank you, ma'am. I shall feel much better when it is paid."
Mrs. Gordon reluctantly received the four dollars. It was a very small
sum to her, though a very large one to Katy. She saw that the little
candy merchant's pride was of the right kind, and she was not disposed
to give her any unnecessary mortification, though she resolved that
neither Katy nor her mother should ever want a friend in their need.
"I owe you one dollar, also," continued Katy, advancing to the side of
Grace.
"Well, I declare!" laughed Grace. "If that isn't a good one!"
"I promised to pay you; and you know I would not take the money as a
gift," replied Katy.
"I am aware that you would not, and you are the promptest paymistress I
ever knew."
"With the dollar you lent me, I bought the molasses to make the first
lot of candy I sold. Your dollar has done a great deal of good."
"I am glad it has; but I don't want to take it."
"Won't you let me feel like myself?"
"Certainly I will," laughed Grace.
"Then let me pay my debts, and not feel just like a beggar."
"You are the queerest child I ever saw!" exclaimed Grace, as she took
the dollar. "I am going to keep this dollar for you, and perhaps some
time you will not be so proud as you are now, though I hope you will
always have all the money you want."
"I think I shall, if my trade continues to be good," replied Katy, who,
now that all her debts had been paid, felt a heavy load removed from
her heart.
"You must bring your candy up here. The mayor says it is very good. I
have a sweet tooth, and I will buy lots of it," added Grace.
"I will bring you up some to-morrow," replied Katy, moving towards the
door, and casting a last glance at the mischievous lady in the picture.
"The mayor told me to ask you to call and see him again," said Mrs.
Gordon. "He is very much interested in you."
"He is very kind;" and she bade them good-by.
Katy felt highly honored by the notice the mayor had taken of her. Like
Master Simon Sneed, she felt almost like calling him her friend the
mayor; but she resolved to call upon him on her way home. He received
her very kindly, told her what a mistake she had made in giving the
pawnbroker his note, who had never delivered it to the marshal, and
promised to buy lots of candy when she came with her tray.
When she returned home she found a message there from Tommy Howard,
requesting to see her that afternoon. She did not feel like spending
any more time in idleness, when she had so much candy to sell; but
Tommy's request was not to be neglected; and, taking her tray, she
called at his house as she passed up to the court.
Tommy had been talking for a year about going to sea, and had been for
some time on the lookout for a chance as a cabin-boy or a reefer. He
had told her his plans, how he intended to be a good sailor and work
his way up to be captain of some fine ship. She suspected, therefore,
that he had found a chance to go to sea, and wanted to tell her all
about it.
She found him at home, waiting her expected visit; but a feeling of
sadness came over her when she saw his manly face, and thought how
badly she should feel if he should go off on the ocean, and, perhaps,
be drowned in its vast depths. He had been her friend and protector.
Johnny Grippen hardly dared to look at her since the flogging he had
given him; and Katy thought, perhaps, if he went away, that she should
have no one to defend her.
"I am going to-morrow, Katy," said he, after he had given her a seat by
the window.
"To sea?" asked Katy, gloomily.
"Yes; I have got a first-rate ship, and she sails to-morrow."
"I am so sorry you are going!"
"O, never mind it, Katy; I shall be back one of these days. I wanted to
tell you if Johnny Grippen gives you any impudence, to let me know and
I'll lick him when I come back."
"I guess he won't."
"He may; if he does, you had better tell his father."
"But where are you going, Tommy?"
"To Liverpool."
Katy started. Her grandfather lived there. After a moment's thought she
conceived a plan which made her heart bound with emotion. She could
send word to her grandfather, by Tommy, that she and her mother were in
Boston, and then he would send over after them, and they could live in
his fine house, and she should be as happy as a queen. Then she and her
mother might be passengers in Tommy's ship--and wouldn't they have
great times on the passage! And as her grandfather was a merchant, and
owned ships, she might be able to do something for Tommy.
Under the seal of secrecy she related to her young sailor friend all
the particulars of her mother's history; and he wrote down the names
she gave him. Tommy promised to hunt all over Liverpool till he found
her grandfather; and to insure him a good reception, Katy wrote a short
letter to him, in which she stated the principal facts in the case.
"Now, good-by, Tommy," said she, wiping away a tear; "I shall think of
you every day, and pray for you too. I hope there won't be any storms
to sink your ship."
"We shan't mind the storms. Good-by, Katy."
She felt very badly all the rest of the day, and her sales were smaller
than usual, for her energy was diminished in proportion to the sadness
of her heart.
CHAPTER XIII.
KATY EMPLOYS AN ASSISTANT.
As winter approached, Katy realized that the demand for molasses candy
was on the increase, and she found it necessary to make a much larger
quantity. Mrs. Colvin still rendered her assistance "for a
consideration," and the supply was thus made to correspond with the
demand.
Mrs. Redburn's health which had begun to improve with the advent of
their prosperity, now enabled her to sit up nearly the whole day, and
to render much aid in the household affairs, and especially in the
manufacturing of the candy. The good fortune that had attended Katy's
efforts brought many additional comforts to their humble dwelling;
indeed, they had everything that they needed, and everything that any
poor person would have required. But the fond mother had never been
able to reconcile herself to the business which Katy followed. She
dreaded every day lest the temptations to which it constantly exposed
her might lead her astray. She loved her daughter with all her heart,
and she would rather have died in poverty and want than have had her
corrupted. She had every reason to believe that Katy was the pure and
innocent child she had always been; but she feared, as she grew older,
that some harm might befall her. She would rather bury her than see her
become a bad person, and she hoped soon to be able to resume her own
labors, and let Katy abandon her dangerous business.
Mrs. Redburn often talked with her about the perils that lay in her
path; but Katy spoke like one who was fortified by good resolutions and
a strong will. She declared that she knew what dangers were in her way,
and that she could resist all the temptations that beset her. Whatever
views the mother had, there seemed to be no opportunity to carry them
out, for by Katy's labors they were fed, clothed, and housed. She was
her mother's only support, and the candy trade, perilous as it was,
could not be given up.
Katy did not desire to abandon the business she had built up, for she
was proud of her achievement. She was resolved to be good and true, and
to her it did not seem half so perilous as to others. She had even
indulged some thoughts of enlarging her business. Why could she not
have a shop, and sell candy on a counter as well as in the street? She
mentioned this idea to her mother, who was sure the shop could not
succeed, for she was aware that her daughter's winning manners were
more than half her stock in trade, and that her large sales resulted
from carrying the candy to hundreds of people who did not want it
enough to go after it. Therefore Katy gave up the shop at once, but she
did not abandon the idea of enlarging her business, though she did not
exactly see how it could be done. One day an accident solved the
problem for her, and at that time commenced a new era in the candy
trade.
One pleasant morning in November, as she walked up the court, she met
Ann Grippen, a sister of Johnny who stopped to talk with her. The
Grippen family consisted of eleven persons. The father was a day
laborer, and as his wages were small, and he had a great many mouths to
feed, they were, of course, miserably poor. The older children showed
no ability or disposition to help their parents but spent most of their
time in strolling about the streets. Johnny was a fair specimen of the
boys, as Ann was of the girls. She might have been seen almost any day
