weaknesses, of which you are pleased to speak, lie?"
"Oh, no; you must excuse me. That would be very much out of place.
But I only stated a general fact that appertains to all of us."
Aunt Rachel looked very grave. I had laid the weight of words upon a
weakness of her character, and it had given her pain. That weakness
was a peculiarly good opinion of herself. I had made no allegation
against her; and there was none in my mind. My words simply
expressed the general truth that we all have weaknesses, and
included her in their application. But she imagined that I referred
to some particular defect or fault, and mail-proof as she was
against words, they had wounded her.
For a day or two, aunt Rachel remained more sober than was her wont.
I knew the cause, but did not attempt to remove from her mind an
impression my words had made. One day, about a week after, I said to
her:
"Aunt Rachel, I saw Mary Lane's mother this morning."
"Ah?" The old lady looked up at me enquiringly.
"I don't wonder your words hurt the poor girl," I added.
"Why? What did I say?" quickly asked aunt Rachel.
"You said that she was a jilt."
"But I was only in jest, and she knew it. I did not really mean any
thing. I'm surprised that Mary should be so foolish."
"You will not be surprised when you know all," was my answer.
"All? What all? I'm sure I wasn't in earnest. I didn't mean to hurt
the poor girl's feelings."
My aunt looked very much troubled.
"No one blames you, aunt Rachel," said I. "Mary knows you didn't
intend wounding her."
"But why should she take a little word so much to heart? It must
have had more truth in it than I supposed."
"Did you know that Mary refused an offer of marriage from Walter
Green, last week?"
"Why, no! It can't be possible! Refused Walter Green?"
"Yes."
"They've been intimate for a long time."
"I know."
"She certainly encouraged him."
"I think it more than probable."
"Is it possible, then, that she did really jilt the young man?"
exclaimed aunt Rachel.
"This has been said of her," I replied. "But, as far as I can learn,
she was really attached to him, and suffered great pain in rejecting
his offer. Wisely she regarded marriage as the most important event
of her life, and refused to make so solemn a contract with one in
whose principles she had not the fullest confidence."
"But she ought not to have encouraged Walter, if she did not intend
marrying him," said aunt Rachel, with some warmth.
"She encouraged him so long as she thought well of him. A closer
view revealed points of character hidden by distance. When she saw
these, her feelings were already deeply involved. But, like a true
woman, she turned from the proffered hand, even though, while in
doing so, her heart palpitated with pain. There is nothing false
about Mary Lane. She could no more trifle with a lover than she
could commit a crime. Think, then, how almost impossible it would be
for her to hear herself called, under existing circumstances, even
in sport, a jilt, without being hurt. Words sometimes have power to
hurt more than blows. Do you not see this now, aunt Rachel?"
"Oh, yes, yes. I see it; and I saw it before," said the old lady.
"And, in future, I will be more careful of my words. It is pretty
late in life to learn this lesson--but we are never too late to
learn. Poor Mary! It grieves me to think that I should have hurt her
so much."
Yes, words often have in them a smarting force, and we cannot be too
guarded how we use them. "Think twice before you speak once," is a
trite, but wise saying. We teach it to our children very carefully,
but are too apt to forget that it has not lost its application to
ourselves.
CHAPTER XXIV.
MAY BE SO.
"NEXT time you go out, you'll buy me a wagon, won't you, mother?"
said my little boy to me, one day.
I didn't want to say "no," and destroy his happy feelings; and I was
not prepared to say "yes;" and so I gave the evasive reply so often
used under such circumstances, "May be so," and which was meant
rather as a negative than an affirmative. The child was satisfied;
for he gave my words the meaning he wished them to have. In a little
while after, I had forgotten all about it. Not so my boy. To him the
"May be so" was "yes," and he set his heart, confidently, on
receiving the wagon the next time I should go out. This happened on
the afternoon of that very day. It was towards evening when I
returned. The moment I rung the bell at my own door, I heard his
pattering feet and gleeful voice in the entry.
"Where's my wagon?" said he, as I entered, a shade of disappointment
falling suddenly upon his excited, happy face.
"What wagon, dear?" I asked.
"My wagon. The wagon you promised to buy me."
"I didn't promise to buy a wagon, my son."
"Oh, yes you did, mother! You promised me this morning."
Tears were already in his eye, and his face wore a look of
distressing disappointment.
"I promised to buy you a wagon? I am sure I remember nothing about
it," I replied confidently. "What in the world put that into your
head?"
"Didn't I ask you?" said the child, the tears now overflowing his
cheeks.
"Yes, I believe you did ask me something about a wagon; but I didn't
promise to buy you one."
"Oh, yes you did, mother. You said may be so."
"But 'may be so' doesn't mean yes."
At this the little fellow uttered a distressing cry. His heart was
almost broken by disappointment. He had interpreted my words
according to his own wishes, and not according to their real
meaning.
Unprepared for an occurrence of this kind, I was not in the mood to
sympathise with my child fully. To be met thus, at the moment of my
return home, disturbed me.
"I didn't promise to buy you a wagon; and you must stop crying about
it," said I, seeing that he had given way to his feelings, and was
crying in a loud voice.
But he cried on. I went up stairs to lay off my things, and he
followed, still crying.
"You must hush, now," said I, more positively. "I cannot permit
this. I never promised to buy you a wagon."
"You said may be so," sobbed the child.
"May be so, and yes, are two different things. If I had said that I
would buy you a wagon, then there would have been some reason in
your disappointment; but I said no such thing."
He had paused to listen; but, as I ceased speaking, his crying was
renewed.
"You must stop this now. There is no use in it, and I will not have
it," said I, resolutely.
My boy choked down for a few moments at this, and half stifled his
grief; but o'ermastering him, it flowed on again as wildly as ever.
I felt impatient.
"Stop this moment, I say!" And I took hold of his arm firmly. My
will is strong, and when a little excited, it often leads me beyond
where I would go in moments of reflection. My boy knew this by
experience. By my manner of speaking he saw that I was in earnest,
and that, if he did not obey me, punishment would follow. So, with
what must have been a powerful effort for one so young, he stifled
the utterance of his grief. But, the storm within raged none the
less violently, and I could see his little frame quiver as he strove
to repress the rising sobs.
Turning away from me, he went and sat down on a low seat in a corner
of the room. I saw his form in the glass as I stood before it to
arrange my hair, after laying aside my bonnet; and for the first
time my feelings were touched. There was an abandonment in his whole
attitude; an air of grief about him that affected me with pity and
tenderness.
"Poor child!" I sighed. "His heart is almost broken. I ought to have
said yes or no; and then all would have been settled."
"Come," said I, after a few moments, reaching my hand towards the
child--"let us go down and look out for father. He will be home
soon."
I spoke kindly and cheerfully. But he neither moved, looked up, nor
gave the smallest sign that he heard me.
"Oh, well," said I, with some impatience in my voice--"it doesn't
matter at all. If you'd rather sit there than come down into the
parlor and look out for dear father, you can please yourself."
And turning away as I spoke, I left the chamber, and went down
stairs. Seating myself at the window, I looked forth and endeavored
to feel unconcerned and cheerful. But, this was beyond my power. I
saw nothing but the form of my grieving child, and could think of
nothing but his sorrow and disappointment.
"Nancy," said I to one of my domestics, who happened to come into
the parlor to ask me some question, "I wish you would run down to
the toy store in the next block, and buy Neddy a wagon. His heart is
almost broken about one."
The girl, always willing, when kindly spoke to, ran off to obey my
wishes, and in a little while came back with the article wanted.
"Now," said I, "go up into my room and tell Neddy that I've got
something for him. Don't mention the wagon; I want to take him by
surprise."
Nancy went bounding up the stairs, and I placed the wagon in the
centre of the room where it would meet the child's eyes on the
moment of his entrance, and then sat down to await his coming, and
enjoy his surprise and delight.
After the lapse of about a minute, I heard Nancy coming down slowly.
"Neddy's asleep," said she, looking in at the door.
"Asleep!" I felt greatly disappointed.
"Yes, ma'am. He was on the floor asleep. I took him up, and laid him
in your bed."
"Then he's over his troubles," said I, attempting to find a relief
for my feelings in this utterance. But no such relief came.
Taking the wagon in my hand, I went up to the chamber where he lay,
and bent over him. The signs of grief were still upon his innocent
face, and every now and then a faint sigh or sob gave evidence that
even sleep had not yet hushed entirely, the storm which had swept
over him.
"Neddy!" I spoke to him in a voice of tenderness, hoping that my
words might reach his ear, "Neddy, dear, I've bought you a wagon."
But his senses were locked. Taking him up, I undressed him, and
then, after kissing his lips, brow, and cheeks, laid him in his
little bed, and placed the wagon on the pillow beside him.
Even until the late hour at which I retired on that evening, were my
feelings oppressed by the incident I have described. My "May be so,"
uttered in order to avoid giving the direct answer my child wanted,
had occasioned him far more pain than a positive refusal of his
request could have done.
"I will be more careful in future," said I, as I lay thinking about
the occurrence, "how I create false hopes. My yea shall be yea, and
my nay nay. Of these cometh not evil."
In the morning when I awoke, I found Neddy in possession of his
wagon. He was running with it around the room, as happy as if a tear
had never been upon his cheek. I looked at him for many minutes
without speaking. At last, seeing that I was awake, he bounded up to
the bedside, and, kissing me, said:
"Thank you, dear mother, for buying me this wagon! You are a good
mother!"
I must own to having felt some doubts on the subject of Neddy's
compliment at the time. Since this little experience, I have been
more careful how I answer the petitions of my children; and avoid
the "May be so," "I'll see about it," and other such evasive answers
that come so readily to the lips. The good result I have experienced
in many instances.
CHAPTER XXV.
"THE POOR CHILD DIED."
MY baby, nine months old, had some fever, and seemed very unwell.
One neighbor said:
"You'd better send for the doctor."
Another suggested that it had, no doubt, eaten something that
disagreed with it, and that a little antimonial wine would enable it
to throw it off; another advised a few grains of calomel, and
another a dose of rheubarb. But I said:
"No. I'll wait a little while, and see if it won't get better."
"You should give him medicine in time. Many a person dies from not
taking medicine in time;" said a lady who expressed more than usual
concern for the well-being of my baby. She had a very sick child
herself.
"Many more die," I replied, "from taking medicine too soon. I
believe that one half of the diseases in the world are produced by
medicines, and that the other half are often made worse by their
injudicious administration."
"You'd better send for the doctor," urged the lady.
"No. I'll wait until the morning, and then, if he's no better, or
should be worse, I'll call in our physician. Children often appear
very sick one hour, and are comparatively well again in the next."
"It's a great risk," said the lady, gravely. "A very great risk. I
called in the doctor the moment my dear little Eddy began to droop
about. And it's well I did. He's near death's door as it is; and
without medical aid I would certainly have lost him before this.
He's only been sick a week, and you know yourself how low he is
reduced. Where do you think he would have been without medicine? The
disease has taken a terrible hold of him. Why, the doctor has bled
him twice; and his little chest is raw all over from a blister. He
has been cupped and leeched. We have had mustard plasters upon his
arms and the calves of his legs. I don't know how many grains of
calomel he has taken; and it has salivated him dreadfully. Oh! such
a sore mouth! Poor child! He suffers dreadfully. Besides, he has
taken some kind of powder almost every hour. They are dreadfully
nauseous; and we have to hold him, every time, and pour them down
his throat. Oh, dear! It makes my heart sick. Now, with all this,
the disease hangs on almost as bad as ever. Suppose we hadn't sent
for the doctor at first? Can't you see what would have been the
consequence? It is very wrong to put off calling in a physician upon
the first symptoms of a disease."
"Pardon me, Mrs. Lee, for saying so," was my reply, "but I cannot
help thinking that, if you had not called the doctor, your child
would have been quite well to-day."
Mrs. Lee--that was the lady's name--uttered an exclamation of
surprise and disapproval of my remark.
"But, cannot you see, yourself; that it is not the disease that has
reduced your child so low. The bleeding, blistering, cupping,
leeching, and calomel administrations, would have done all this, had
your child been perfectly well when it went into the doctor's
hands."
"But the disease would have killed him inevitably. If it requires
all this to break it, don't you see that it must have taken a most
fatal hold on the poor child's system."
"No, Mrs. Lee, I cannot see any such thing," was my reply. "The
medicine probably fixed the disease, that would, if left alone, have
retired of itself. What does the doctor say ails the child?"
"He does not seem to know. There seems to be a complication of
diseases."
"Produced by the treatment, no doubt. If there had been scarlet
fever, or small pox, or croup, active and energetic treatment would,
probably, have been required, and the doctor would have known what
he was about in administering his remedies. But, in a slight
indisposition, like that from which your child suffered, it is, in
my opinion, always better to give no medicine for a time. Drugs
thrown into the tender system of a child, will always produce
disease of some kind, more or less severe; and where slight
disorders already exist, they are apt to give them a dangerous hold
upon the body, or, uniting with them, cause a most serious, and, at
times, fatal illness."
But Mrs. Lee shook her head. She thought the doctors knew best. They
had great confidence in their family physician. He had doctored them
through many dangerous attacks, and had always brought them through
safely. As to the new-fangled notions about giving little or no
medicine, she had no confidence in them. Medicine was necessary at
times, and she always gave her children medicine at least two, or
three times a year, whether they were sick or well. Prevention, in
her eyes, was better than cure. And where there was actual sickness,
she was in favor of vigorous treatment. One good dose of medicine
would do more good than a hundred little ones; with much more to the
same effect.
On the next morning, my dear baby, who was just as sick for a few
hours as Mrs. Lee's child was at first, was as well as ever.
Not long after breakfast, I was sent for by Mrs. Lee. Her poor child
was much worse. The servant said that she was sure it was dying. I
changed my dress hurriedly, and went over to the house of my
neighbor.
Shall I describe the painful object that met my sight? It was three
days since I had seen the little sufferer; but, oh! how it had
changed in that brief time. Its face was sunken, its eyes far back
in their sockets, and its forehead marked with lines of suffering.
The whole of its breast was raw from the blister, and its mouth,
lying open, showed, with painful distinctness, the dreadful injury
wrought by the mercury thrown, with such a liberal hand, into its
delicate system. All the life seemed to have withdrawn itself from
the skin; for the vital forces, in the centre of its body, were
acting but feebly.
The doctor came in while I was there. He said but little. It was
plain that he was entirely at fault, and that he saw no hope of a
favorable issue. All his, "active treatment" had tended to break
down the child, rather than cure the disease from which it at first
suffered. There was a great deal of heat about the child's head, and
he said something about having it shaved for a blister.
"Wouldn't ice do better, doctor?" I felt constrained to suggest. He
turned upon me quickly and seemed annoyed.
"No, madam!" he replied with dignity.
I said no more, for I felt how vain my words would be. The blister,
however, was not ordered; but, in its stead, mustard plasters were
directed to be placed over the feet and legs to the knees, and a
solution of iodine, or iron, I don't now remember which, prescribed,
to be given every half hour.
I went home, some time after the doctor left, feeling sick at heart.
"They are murdering that child," I could not help saying to myself.
My own dear babe I found full of health and life; and I hugged it to
my breast with a feeling of thankfulness.
Before the day closed, Mrs. Lee's poor child died. Was it a cause of
wonder?
CHAPTER XXVI.
THE RIVAL BONNETS.
I HAVE a pleasant story to relate of a couple of fashionables of our
city, which will serve to diversify these "Confessions," and amuse
the reader. To the incidents, true in the main, I have taken the
liberty of adding some slight variations of my own.
A lady of some note in society, named Mrs. Claudine, received a very
beautiful bonnet from New York, a little in advance of others, and
being one of the rival leaders in the fashionable world, felt some
self-complacency at the thought of appearing abroad in the elegant
head-gear, and thereby getting the reputation of leading the
fashion.
Notwithstanding Mrs. Claudine's efforts to keep the matter a secret,
and thus be able to create a surprise when she appeared at church on
the next Sunday, the fact that she had received the bonnet leaked
out, and there was some excitement about it. Among those who heard
of the new bonnet, was a Mrs. Ballman, who had written to a friend
to get for her the very article obtained first by Mrs. Claudine.
From some cause or other a delay had occurred, and to her chagrin
she learned that a rival had the new fashion, and would get the
eclat that she so much coveted. The disappointment, to one whose
pleasures in life are so circumscribed as those of a real
fashionable lady, was severe indeed. She did not sleep more than a
few hours on the night after she received the mortifying
intelligence.
The year before, Mrs. Claudine had led the fashion in some article
of dress, and to see her carry off the palm in bonnets on this
occasion, when she had striven so hard to be in advance, was more
than Mrs. Bellman could endure. The result of a night's thinking on
the subject was a determination to pursue a very extraordinary
course, the nature of which will be seen. By telegraph Mrs. Bellman
communicated with her friend in New York, desiring her to send on by
the evening of the next day, which was Saturday, the bonnet she had
ordered, if four prices had to be paid as an inducement to get the
milliner to use extra exertions in getting it up. In due time,
notice came back that the bonnet would be sent on by express on
Saturday, much to the joy of Mrs. Ballman, who from the interest she
felt in carrying out her intentions, had entirely recovered from the
painful disappointment at first experienced.
Saturday brought the bonnet, and a beautiful one it was. A few
natural sighs were expended over the elegant affair, and then other
feelings came in to chase away regrets at not having been first to
secure the article.
On the day previous, Friday, Mrs. Ballman called upon a fashionable
milliner, and held with her the following conversation.
"You have heard of Mrs. Claudine's new bonnet, I presume?"
"Yes, madam," replied the milliner.
"Do you think it will take?" asked Mrs. Ballman.
"I do."
"You have not the pattern?"
"Oh, yes. I received one a week ago."
"You did!"
"Yes. But some one must introduce it. As Mrs. Claudine is about
doing this there is little doubt of its becoming the fashion, for
the style is striking as well as tasteful."
Mrs. Ballman mused for some moments. There she drew the milliner
aside, and said, in a low confidential tone.
"Do you think you could get up a bonnet a handsome as that, and in
just as good taste?"
"I know I could. In my last received London and Paris fashions are
several bonnets a handsome as the one that is about being adopted in
New York, and here also without doubt."
"I am not so sure of its being adopted here," said the lady.
"If Mrs. Claudine introduces it, as I understand she intends doing
on Sunday, it will certainly be approved and the style followed."
"I very much doubt it. But we will see. Where are the bonnets you
spoke of just now?"
The milliner brought forth a number of pattern cards and plates, and
pointed out two bonnets, either of which, in her judgment, was more
beautiful than the one Mrs. Claudine had received.
"Far handsomer," was the brief remark with which Mrs. Ballman
approved the milliner's judgment. "And now," she added, "can you get
me up one of these by Sunday?"
"I will try."
"Try won't do," said the lady, with some excitement in her manner.
"I must have the bonnet. Can you make it?"
"Yes."
"Very well. Then make it. And let it be done in your very best
manner. Why I wish to have this bonnet I need hardly explain to you.
I believed that I would have received the bonnet, about to be
adopted in New York, first. I had written to a friend to procure it;
but, by some means, Mrs. Claudine has obtained hers in advance of
me. Mine will be here to-morrow, but I don't mean to wear it. I wish
to lead."
"If you were both to appear in this bonnet, the fashion would be
decided," said the milliner.
"I know. But I have no wish to share the honor with Mrs. Claudine.
Make me the bonnet I have selected, and I will see that it puts
hers down."
"You will remember," said the milliner, "that hers has been
already adopted in New York. This will be almost sure to give it the
preference. It would be better that you did not attempt a rivalry,
than that you should be beaten."
"But I don't mean to be beaten," replied the lady. "I have taken
measures to prevent that. After Sunday you will hear no more of the
New York bonnet. Mine will go, and this, I need not tell you, will
be a feather in your cap, and dollars in your pocket; as I will
refer to you as the only one who can get it up. So do your best, and
improve the pattern we have selected, if it will bear improvement."
The milliner promised to do her "prettiest," and Mrs. Ballman
returned home in a state of considerable elation at the prospect of
carrying off the palm, and humiliating her rival at the same time.
Mrs. Claudine, though a little vain, and fond of excelling, was a
woman of kind feelings, and entirely superior to the petty
jealousies that annoyed Mrs. Ballman, and soured her towards all who
succeeded in rivalling her in matters of taste and fashion. Of what
was passing in the mind of the lady who had been so troubled at her
reception of a new style of bonnet from New York, she was entirely
ignorant. She was not even aware that Mrs. Ballman had ordered the
same article, nor that she had suffered a disappointment.
Saturday came. Mrs. Claudine was busy over some little article of
dress that was to add to her appearance on the next day, when an
Irish girl, who had formerly lived with her, entered her room.
"Ah! Kitty!" said the lady pleasantly. "How do you do?"
"I'm right well, mum, thankee," replied Kitty, with a courtesy.
"Where do you live now, Kitty?" inquired Mrs. Claudine.
"I'm living with Mrs. Ballman," said the girl.
"A very good place, I have no doubt."
"Oh, yes, mum. It is a good place. I hain't much to do, barrin'
going out with the children on good days, and seein' after them in
the house; and I get good wages."
"I'm very glad to hear it, Kitty; and hope you will not give up so
good a home."
"No, indeed, mum; and I won't do that. But Mrs. Claudine--"
Kitty's face flushed, and she stammered in her speech.
"What do you wish to say?" inquired the lady, seeing that Kitty
hesitated to speak of what was on her mind.
"Indade, mum," said Kitty, evincing much perplexity, "I hardly know
what I ought to do. But yez were good to me, mum, when I was sick
and didn't send me off to the poor house like some girls are sent;
and I never can forget yez while there's breath in me body. And now
I've come to ask yez, just as a favor to me, not to wear that new
bonnet from New York, to-morrow."
It was some moments before, the surprise occasioned by so novel and
unexpected a request left Mrs. Claudine free to make any reply.
"Why, Kitty!" she at length exclaimed, "what on earth can you mean?"
"Indade, mum, and yez mustn't ask me what I mane, only don't wear
the bonnet to church on the morrow, because--because--och, indade,
mum, dear! I can't say any more. It wouldn't be right."
Mrs. Claudine told Kitty to sit down, an invitation which the girl,
who was much agitated, accepted. The lady then remained silent and
thoughtful for some time.
"Kitty," she remarked, at length, in a serious manner, "what you
have said to me sounds very strangely. How you should know that I
intended appearing in a new bonnet to-morrow, or why you should be
so much interested in the matter is more than I can understand. As
to acting as you desire, I see no reason for that whatever."
This reply only had the effect of causing Kitty to urge her request
more strenuously. But she would give no reason for her singular
conduct. After the girl had gone away, Mrs. Claudine laid aside her
work--for she was not in a state of mind to do any thing but
think---and sat for at least an hour, musing upon the strange
incident which had occurred. All at once, it flashed upon her mind
that there must be some plot in progress to discredit or rival her
new bonnet, which Kitty had learned at Mrs. Ballman's. The more she
thought of this, the more fully did she become satisfied that it
must be so. She was aware that Mrs. Ballman had been chagrined at
her leading off in new fashions once or twice before; and the fact,
evident now, that she knew of her reception of the bonnet, and
Kitty's anxiety that she should not wear it on Sunday, led her to
the conviction that there was some plot against her. At first, she
determined to appear in her new bonnet, disregardful of Kitty's
warning. But subsequent reflection brought her to a different
conclusion.
The moment Mrs. Claudine settled it in her mind that she would not
appear in the new bonnet, she began dressing herself, hurriedly, to
go out. It was as late as five o'clock in the afternoon when she
called at the store of the milliner who had been commissioned by
Mrs. Ballman to get the rival bonnet.
"Have you the last fashions from abroad?" enquired Mrs. Claudine.
"We have," replied the milliner.
"Will you let me see them?"
"Certainly, ma'am."
And the patterns were shown. After examining them carefully, for
some time, Mrs. Claudine selected a style of bonnet that pleased her
fancy, and said--
"You must get me up this bonnet so that I can wear it to-morrow."
"Impossible, madam!" replied the milliner. "This is Saturday
evening."
"I know it is; but for money you can get one of your girls to work
all night. I don't care what you charge; but I must have the
bonnet."
The milliner still hesitated, and seemed to be confused and uneasy.
She asked Mrs. Claudine to sit down and wait for a little while, and
then retired to think upon what she had better do. The fact was,
Mrs. Claudine had pitched upon the very bonnet Mrs. Ballman had
ordered, and her earnestness about having it made in time to wear on
the next day, put it almost beyond her power to say no. If she were
to tell her that Mrs. Ballman had ordered the same bonnet, it would,
she knew, settle the matter. But, it occurred to her, that if both
the ladies were to appear at church in the same style of bonnet, the
fashion would be sure to take, and she, in consequence, get a large
run of business. This thought sent the blood bounding through the
milliner's veins, and decided her to keep her own counsel, and take
Mrs. Claudine's order.
"She's as much right to the bonnet as Mrs. Ballman," settled all
ethical questions that intruded themselves upon the milliner.
"I will have it ready for you," she said, on returning to Mrs.
Claudine.
"Very well. But mind," said the lady, "I wish it got up in the very
best style. The hurry must not take from its beauty. As for the
price, charge what you please."
The milliner promised every thing, and Mrs. Claudine went home to
think about the important events of the approaching Sabbath. On
Sunday morning both bonnets were sent home, and both the ladies
fully approved the style, effect, and all things appertaining to the
elegant affairs.
At ten o'clock, Kitty, who was a broad-faced, coarse-looking Irish
girl, came into the chamber of Mrs. Ballman, dressed up in her best,
which was not saying much for the taste and elegance of her
appearance.
"Are you all ready?" asked her mistress.
"Yes, mum."
"Very well, Kitty, here's the bonnet. Now, remember, you are to go
into the pew just in front of ours. The Armburner's are all out of
town, and there will be no one to occupy it."
Kitty received the elegant bonnet which had come on express from New
York, and placed it upon her head.
"You really look charming," said the lady.
But Kitty was not flattered by her words, and evinced so little
heart in what she was doing that Mrs Ballman said to her, in a half
threatening tone, as she left the room--
"Mind, Kitty, I shall expect to see you at church."
"Oh, yes, mum; I'll be there," replied Kitty, courtesying awkwardly,
and retiring.
Not long after Kitty had retired, Mrs. Ballman, after surveying, for
many minutes, the effect of her new bonnet, becoming more and more
pleased with it every moment, and more and more satisfied that it
would "take," left her room, and was descending the stairs for the
purpose of joining the family, who were awaiting her below. Just at
that unlucky moment, a servant, who was bringing down a vessel of
water, slipped, and a portion of the contents came dashing over the
head and shoulders of the richly attired lady, ruining her elegant
bonnet, and completely destroying the happy frame of mind in which
she was about attending public worship. No wonder that she cried
aloud from the sudden shock and distress so untoward an event
occasioned; nor that she went back weeping to her chamber, and
refused to be comforted.
Mr. Ballman and the children proceeded alone to church on that day.
On their return home they found the lady in a calmer frame of mind.
But Mr. Ballman looked grave and was unusually silent. Kitty came
home and gave up her elegant head-dress; and when her mistress told
her that she might keep it, she thanked her, but declined the
present.
"You went to church, of course," she said.
"Oh, yes, mum," replied Kitty.
"And sat in the Armburner's pew?"
"Yes, mum."
"Alone."
"Yes, mum."
"Was Mrs. Claudine there?"
"Yes, mum."
"Did she wear her new bonnet?"
"Yes, mum."
"It was exactly like this?"
"Oh, no, mum, it was exactly like the new one you had sent home this
morning."
"What!" The face of the lady flushed instantly. "Wasn't it like
this?"
"No, mum."
Mrs. Ballman sunk into a chair.
"You can retire, Kitty," she said, and the girl withdrew, leaving
her to her own feelings and reflections, which were not of the most
pleasing character.
The appearance of Kitty at church, fully explained to Mrs. Claudine
the ungenerous game that had been played against her. Her first
thought was to retaliate. But reflection brought other and better
feelings into play. Instead of exposing what had been done, she
destroyed the bonnet received from New York, and made an effort to
keep what had occurred a secret. But Kitty's appearance at church in
such an elegant affair, naturally created some talk. One surmise
after another was started, and, at last, from hints dropped by the
milliner, and admissions almost extorted from Mrs. Claudine, the
truth came out so fully, that all understood it; nor was Mrs.
Ballman long left in ignorance on this head.
As to the fashion, Mrs. Claudine's bonnet became the rage; though,
as might be supposed, Mrs. Ballman refused to adopt it.
Who will be the successful rival next season, I am unable to
predict. But it is believed that Mrs. Claudine intends giving Mrs.
Ballman an advance of two weeks, and then coming in with a different
style, and beating her in spite of the advantage.
CHAPTER XXVII.
MY WASHERWOMAN.
WE were sitting at tea one evening--Mr. Smith, my sister and her
husband, Mr. John Jones, and myself. In the midst of a pleasant
conversation, Bridget looked into the dining-room.
"What is wanted?" said I.
"Mary Green is down stairs."
"Oh! the washerwoman."
"Yes ma'am."
"Well, what does she want?"
I knew what she wanted well enough. She had come for two dollars
that I owed her. I felt annoyed. "Why?" the reader asks.
"Obligations of this kind should always be met promptly and
cheerfully."
True; and I am of those who never grudge the humble poor the reward
of their labor. But, it so happened that I had received a pretty
liberal supply of money from my husband on this very day, all of
which I had spent in shopping. Some of my purchases could not be
classed exactly under the head, "Articles of Domestic Economy," and
I was, already, in rather a repentant mood--the warmth of admiration
at the sight of sundry ornamental trifles having subsided almost as
soon as I found myself their owner. To my question, Bridget very
promptly answered,
"She's come for her money."
When a woman feels annoyed, she is rarely able to repress its
exhibition. Men are cooler, and have a quicker self control. They
make better hypocrites.
"She's very prompt," I remarked, a little fretfully, as I took out
my porte-monnaie. Now I did not possess twenty cents, and I knew it;
still, I fingered among its compartments as if in search of the
little gold dollars that were not there.
"Hav'nt you the change?" enquired Mr. Smith, at the same time
drawing forth his purse, through the meshes of which the gold and
silver coin glittered in the gas light.
"No dear," I replied, feeling instant relief.
"Help yourself;" said he, as he tossed the purse to my side of the
table. I was not long in accepting the invitation you may be sure.
"Don't think," said I, after Bridget had retired, "that I am one of
those who grudge the toiling poor the meagre wages they earn. I
presume I looked, as I spoke, a little annoyed. The fact is, to tell
the honest truth, I have not a dollar in my porte-monnaie; this with
the not very pleasant consciousness of having spent several dollars
to-day rather foolishly, fretted me when the just demand of the
washerwoman came."
"I will exonerate my wife from any suspicion of grinding the faces
of the poor." Mr. Smith spoke promptly and with some earnestness of
manner. After a slight pause, he continued,
"Some people have a singular reluctance to part with money. If
waited on for a bill, they say, almost involuntarily, 'Call
to-morrow,' even though their pockets are far from being empty.
"I once fell into this bad habit myself; but, a little incident,
which I will relate, cured me. Not many years after I had attained
my majority, a poor widow named Blake did my washing and ironing.
She was the mother of two or three little children, whose sole
dependance for food and raiment was on the labor of her hands.
"Punctually, every Thursday morning, Mrs. Blake appeared with my
clothes, 'white as the driven snow;' but, not always, as punctually,
did I pay the pittance she had earned by hard labor.
"'Mrs. Blake is down stairs,' said a servant tapping at my room
door, one morning, while I was in the act of dressing myself.
"'Oh, very well,' I replied. 'Tell her to leave my clothes. I will
get them when I come down.'
"The thought of paying the seventy-five cents, her due, crossed my
mind. But, I said to myself, 'It's but a small matter, and will do
as well when she comes again.'
"There was in this a certain reluctance to part with money. My funds
were low, and I might need what change I had during the day. And so
it proved! As I went to the office in which I was engaged, some
small article of ornament caught my eye in a shop window.
"'Beautiful!' said I, as I stood looking at it. Admiration quickly
changed into the desire for possession; and so I stepped in to ask
the price. It was just two dollars.
"'Cheap enough,' thought I. And this very cheapness was a further
temptation.
"So I turned out the contents of my pockets, counted them over, and
found the amount to be two dollars and a quarter.
"'I guess I'll take it,' said I, laying the money on the
shopkeeper's counter.
"'Better have paid Mrs. Blake.' This thought crossed my mind, an
hour afterwards, by which time, the little ornament had lost its
power of pleasing. 'So much would at least have been saved.'
"I was leaving the table, after tea, on the evening that followed,
when the waiter said to me--
"'Mrs. Blake is at the door, and wishes to see you.'
"I felt worried at hearing this; for there was no change in my
pockets, and the poor washerwoman, had, of course, come for her
money.
"'She's in a great hurry,' I muttered to myself as I descended to
the door.
"'You'll have to wait until you bring home my clothes next week,
Mrs. Blake.' I havn't any change this evening.'
"The expression of the poor woman's face, as she turned slowly away,
without speaking, rather softened my feelings.
"'I'm sorry,' said I--'but, it can't be helped now. I wish you had
said, this morning, that you wanted money. I could have paid you
then.'
"She paused, and turned partly towards me as I said this. Then she
