you a little in the practical duties of seamanship ; 
to give you something to think about, while we 
are idling around the decks. You see that bell, 
over the windlass ? " 

"Ay, ay, sir." 

" That's a very important thing on board a 
ship, for by it is regulated every thing that takes 
place, especially the watches. As we are likely 
to be out to-night, or at least a part of the night, 



 

I intend to keep a regular watch on board, just as 
they do in any well-regulated vessel. Indeed, it 
is absolutely necessary to do so. We can't all 
turn in and sleep while the vessel is on her course ; 
some of us must be on deck all the time. There- 
fore we had better have things done up in ship- 
shape order." 

"That is just what we want," said Henry — a 
sentiment which was responded to by a majority 
of the crew. 

" Very well," continued the captain, consulting 
his watch ; " it wants a few minutes of eight 
o'clock, at which time we will strike eight bells, 
and set the watch." 

" Which watch, captain ? " asked Tom Nettle, 
in rather surly tones. 

" There is a rule about this matter, my lad, as 
there is about every thing aboard ship. I shall 
follow this rule," rcplied Captain Gordon, without 
even looking at the speaker. 

" What is the rule ? " asked Henry, rather be- 
cause he wished to turn the captain's attention 



away from Tom, than because he was impatient 
to know the rule. 

'' The captain's watch, which is the second mate's 
in ships, takes the firsts and the first officer's the 
second, on the outward voyage ; on the homeward 
voyage the order is reversed. The starboard watch 
is the captain's ; therefore it is my first watch to- 
night. It will be from eight to twelve ; when the 
larboard watch will come on deck, and remain till 
four; then the starboard again till eight." 

" That isn't fair," said Edward Freeman. 

"Why not, my boy?" asked the captain, with 
a smile; for he readily perceived the objection the 
speaker was about to urge. 

" The starboard watch will be on deck eight 
hours of the night, while the other watch will be
up only four hours." 

" Just so, my lad ; but to-morrow night the 
order of the watches will be reversed. Give me 
your attention for a moment, and I will explain 
the matter. Continuing from the point where I 
left off, the starboard watch will be on duty from 



 

eight to twelve ; the larboard, from twelve to four; 
when the starboard will come on deck; but " 

"That will bring things just as they were the 
preceding night, and the starboard watch will be 
on duty eight hours, as before," interrupted Ed- 
wwhatard, thinking he had caught the captain this 
time. 

" To avoid this difficulty, the watch from four to 
eight in the afternoon is divided into two, called 
the dog-watches J' 

"That makes it all right." 

At this moment, Captain Briskett, who had 
gone forward for the purpose, struck the bell eight 
times. 

"Eight bells! All the starboard watch, ahoy!" 
shouted Captain Gordon. " All the rest of you 
had better go below and turn in ; while you sleep, 
pay attention to it, for when we call you, we 
shall want you." 

The mate and his watch all went below ; but, 
though they took to their berths, the excitement 
of the occasion was too great to permit them to 



 

sleep. There was a great deal of " skylarking '' 
done in the cabin, as well as on deck, during the 
next hour, but one by one the boys below dropped 
asleep, and those on deck were soon tired of play, 
and called upon Captain Gordon to "spin a 
yarn." He was good-natured enough to comply 
with their request. 

The watch on deck soon came to the conclu- 
sion that "sailoring" was not particularly funny at 
night, for there was a good deal of gaping, and 
not a little impatience for the eight bells that 
would relieve them for a while. At six bells there 
was a prospect of a little wind, and the yacht be- 
gan to ripple through the water. The wind in- 
creased steadily till they had quite a lively breeze. 

'' All the larboard watch, ahoy ! " shouted the 
captain down the companion-way, at eight bells. 

'' Ay, ay," replied Briskett. 

But it was no easy task to rouse the sleepers, 

and even when they were awoke, some of them 

declared they were not going on deck again that 

night. They concluded, however, after the ex- 





 

perience of the first dtiy, that it would be better 
to fall in with the discipline of the vessel. They 
found the Flyaway making good progress through 
the water, which in some measure waked them up, 
and reconciled them to their situation. In two 
hours more, she came to anchor in Gloucester 
harbor, and the watch were permitted to go below. 
A lantern was hoisted on the forestay, and all 
hands were soon asleep. 

Our limited space does not permit us to trans- 
fer the log of the Flyaway to our pages, and we 
must hasten on to more exciting events than the 
ordinary working of the vessel. The party spent 
the forenoon at Gloucester, and after dinner made 
sail for Portsmouth, arriving there at about nine 
o'clock in the evening ; or rather at the mouth of 
the river, for they anchored off Kittery Point. On 
Monday morning, the Tenean, which lay upon 
deck, was put into the water, and the club pulled 
up to the city. 

While they were absent, the wind veered round 
to the north-east, and there were some signs of a 



storm. It had been the intention of Captain Gor- 
don to run over to the Isles of Shoals in the 
afternoon, but the weather was so inauspicious that 
he declined to carry out his purpose. The club 
spent the afternoon,, therefore, rowing about the 
bay, in fishing, and in visiting the objects of in- 
terest on shore, including, of course, the Pepperell 
monument. 

Unfortunately, Tuesday proved to be no better 
day than Monday ; and in addition to the prospect 
of a storm, there was a dense fog outside the 
harbor. As Captain Gordon had been particularly 
cautioned to incur no needless risks, he positively 
refused to leave the harbor, though the boys had 
teased him from sunrise to do so. Even Henry 
and Paul were vexed at the delay. They had 
thoroughly exhausted Portsmouth, Kittery Point, 
and the Navy Yard; had visited Fort Constitution, 
Fort McClary, and the Lighthouse ; in fact, there 
was not a single point of interest left to be visited. 

All the forenoon the boys did not intermit their 
persuasions to induce the captain to proceed on 



 

the cruise; but he was as firm as a rock, and de- 
clared that, if they all went down on their knees 
before him, he would not " budge an inch." 

After dinner, Captain Gordon, probably to es- 
cape the importunities of his crew, announced his 
intention to walk up to Portsmouth, and called for 
volunteers to accompany him. Captain Briskett, 
Henry, and Edward were all that were disposed to 
go with him, and he departed, leaving the rest of 
the crew to amuse themselves in the best way 
they could. 

Hardly had they disappeared behind the hill on 
shore, before Paul noticed that Tom Nettle and 
the other mutineers on the first day out were 
gathered in a group around the heel of the bow- 
sprit. They were engaged in earnest conversation, 
but in tones so low that he could not understand 
them. Presently Tom called one of the boys who 
were fishing over the port rail, and then another, 
and another, till all on board but himself had been 
admitted to the conference. Even John Duncan 
was permitted to share the confidence of the party. 



 

Paul at once came to the conclusion that they 
were plotting mischief; but he could form no idea 
of the nature of the plot — whether it was to rob a 
hen-roost on shore, or capture the wooden fort 
that frowned upon them from the heights above. 
He was sorry to see John permitted to enter this 
conclave of mischief; but because his brother ap- 
parently acquiesced in the plan, he hoped that no 
serious roguery was intended. 

The details of the mysterious scheme seemed to 
have been all arranged, for presently the boys 
separated into groups ; but Paul heard Tom say 
the tide would begin to run out in half an hour. 
What this meant he could not possibly imagine, 
unless the boys intended to run away in the Te- 
nean, and wanted the ebb tide to help them out 
of the river. 

"John," said Paul, when the conspirators sepa- 
rated. 

" Well, what do you want, Paul ? " demanded 
John, in rather surly tones, as he joined his 
brother. 



 

" There is mischief brewing there, and I warn 
you not to engage in it." 

"Mischief?" queried John. "What do you 
mean by mischief?" 

" Don't you know what mischief means ? " 

" Rather think I do." 

" These boys are getting up some trick ; don't 
you have any thing to do with it." 

John made no reply. 

" What is the game ? " asked Paul. 

" Can't tell." 

'' Can't you, indeed?" 

"No, I can't." 

" You know we all promised to obey Captain 
Gordon." 

" I am not going to disobey him." 

" If there is any thing wrong going on, it is 
your duty to tell of it." 

" O, you can't pump me ; so it's no use to try," 
replied John, walking away, and joining the prin- 
cipal conspirators in the forecastle. 

"But what are you going to do with Paul?" 



 

were the first words that saluted his ears, as John 
joined them. 

"I don't know. What can we do with him?" 
said Tom, to whom the question of the previous 
speaker had been addressed. 

'' Of course Paul won't join us," added Frank. 

" No ; you might as well attempt to capture 
Fort Constitution as to make him join us." 

"Are you sure we can't bring him over?" 

" Don't say a word to him about it, or he will 
prevent us from going." 

"He can't do that." 

" He would find a way ; he might jump over- 
board, and swim to one of these vessels and get 
assistance." 

" But we want Paul ; and if we keep him on 
board, he will join us after a few hours." 

" You mustn't hurt him any way," interposed 
John ; " if you are going to do any thing of that 
sort, I shall let the cat out of the bag." 

"We won't hurt him," replied Tom. 

"I'll tell you what we will do. We will get 



 

him to go down into the cabin under some pre- 
tence, and then fasten him down," said Frank. 

"That will do first rate." 

" But Dick is on board too ; what shall we do 
with him?" 

" Fasten them both down below." 

Paul, from the frequent glances bestowed upon 
him by the plotters, was satisfied that he was the 
subject of their remarks ; but this did not disturb 
him, for, firm in his purpose to do right, whatever 
might happen to him in consequence, he was pre- 
pared for any event which the conspirators might 
bring to pass. He was sorry to find that mis- 
chief was brewing at all, and pained to see his 
brother- a consenting party to it. 




CHAPTER XVIII. 

PAUL IS MADE A PKISONEK. 

Before the half hour which the conspirators 
had indicated as the favorable time for carrying 
out their mysterious project had elapsed, Tom 
Nettle and Frank Thompson went below to pre- 
pare the way for the execution of their scheme. 
In the cook room, which occupied the fore part of 
the hold of the yacht, Dick was busily engaged 
in scraping potatoes. This seemed to be the fa- 
vorite occupation of the steward, for he spent a 
large share of his time between meals in this em- 
ployment ; and fried potatoes was the standard 
dish for breakfast, dinner, and supper. 

"I'm glad you come down, Tom; I want to 
use you a few moments," said Dick, as the two 
boys entered the cook room. 

"Well, what do you want, Dick?" 



" I want you to help me move the stove ; the 
pipe is loose ; and if you will just hold it while 
I slide the stove back two or three inches, it will 
make it all right. Just hold the pipe up while I 
push the stove back." 

" I have just cleaned up, Dick," replied Tom, 
who never hesitated at a white lie, and not often 
at a black one. "Paul is on deck, and in just 
the trim to do a job of that kind." 

" No matter, then; I will call him,' replied Dick; 
and the two boys presently returned to the deck. 

"Just what we wanted," said Frank. 

" Don't say a word, and Dick will call him 
down in a minute." 

But the steward seemed to forget that he in- 
tended to make a change in the position of the 
stove, for he did not call Paul, as the conspira- 
tors were anxiously waiting for him to do. The 
tide had turned, and there was no obstacle in 
their way except the presence on deck of him to 
whom they had not dared to breathe a word of 
moral treason. 



 



" Paul," said Tom, at last, when his patience 
was completely exhausted, " Dick wants to see 
you down below." 

In order to make the request seem like one 
just made, he had lain down upon the fore hatch, 
which opened into the apartment where the stew- 
ard was at work, thus seeming to be in com- 
munication with him. what 

"What does he want?" asked Paul, uncon- 
scious of the trick which was about to be played 
oflf upon him, and rather pleased than otherwise 
at the prospect of some employment to relieve the 
monotony of his situation. 

"He wants you to help him move the stove." 

"Never mind it now, Paul," interposed the 
steward from below ; " any time before I make the 
fire to get supper will do." 

" I will go now ; I have nothing else to do," 
replied Paul, as he descended the companion 
ladder. 

" Now is our time ! " exclaimed Tom. " You 
look out for the fore hatch, and I will take care 
of the companion way.'' 



 

'' Ay, ay, Tom, and be quick about it." 

At a signal from the chief conspirator, the slide 
M%s drawn and the fore hatchway covered up, 
thus making Paul and the steward prisoners below. 

"What does that mean?" said Paul. 

" I don't know ; some mischief, I suppose," re- 
plied Dick. " They are playing off a trick upon 
us." 

" We are prisoners, any how," continued Paul, 
glancing at the closed hatchway. 

" All the same to me ; don't mind them at all, 
and they will soon get sick of the fun." 

" But what are they about ? " added Paul, as 
he heard the creak of the windlass on deck. " I'm 
afraid they are up to some serious mischief." 

" Can't help it ; 'taint my fault, and I never 
meddle with what don't concern me. All I got to 
do is to cook the victuals, and take care of the 
cabin." 

Dick was utterly indifferent in regard to the 
conspirators, and went on scraping his potatoes, 
as though nothing unusual was in progress. As 



 

long as tliey had not carried off his cooking stove, 
or separated him from the ice chest, he. was per- 
fectly contented, and undoubtedly would call all 
hands to supper at the proper time, precisely as 
though every thing was proceeding in a proper 
and regular manner on board the Flyaway. Dick 
prided himself upon minding his own business; 
and if the yacht had been seized by a gang of 
West India buccaneers, his culinary operations 
would have proceeded with their accustomed order 
and promptness. 

It was not so with Paul ; for the creaking of 
the windlass, and the activity that seemed to be 
manifested on deck, had already suggested to him 
a suspicion in regard to the purpose of the crew. 
He was not long left in doubt, for the sounds 
from above soon indicated that a portion of the 
conspirators were hoisting the mainsail. But he 
found it very difficult to accept the conclusion 
that these indications forced upon him. Txie boys 
on deck were certainly getting the yacht in read- 
iness to sail ; yet it seemed scarcely credible to 




 

him that they intended to run away with her. 
A scheme so bold and wicked passed his compre- 
hension, and he was not prepared to believe that 
even Tom and Frank had the hardihood to carry 
it out. But the evidences were fast increasing ; 
he heard the voice of Tom Nettle, as he stood at 
the helm, issuing his orders with as much assurance 
as though he had been regularly placed in au- 
thority. 

Presently he heard the anchor strike against 
the hawse-hole, and the jib rattling up the stay. 
He could no longer cherish a hope that their pur- 
pose was less criminal than he had feared. He 
almost cried with sorrow and vexation when he 
considered that his brother John was one of the 
mutineers. 

" They are running away with the yacht," said 
he to his fellow-prisoner. 

" That's none of my business," replied Dick, 
with his accustomed stoicism. " All I got to say 
is, that supper will be ready at six o'clock ; be- 
cause why — that's the time Captain Gordon told 
me to have supper." 



 

" But do you mean to let them run away with 
the yacht ? " 

-"Don't see that I can help myself;" and the 
steward suspended his labors for a moment, glan- 
cing at Paul as though he had a vague suspicion 
that he might be in some degree responsible for 
his inactivity. 

" I think we have a duty to what perform," con- 
tinued Paul. 

"What can we do?" 

" We must get the vessel away from them, and 
take her back to her anchorage." 

" But we can't do that. We are prisoners here ; 
can you break through that hatchway ? " 

" Then you are willing to do something ? " 

" Certainly I am," replied Dick. " If you can 
tell me what to do, I will do it." 

Paul seated himself by the side of the steward, 
and proposed to him that, at a suitable time, they 
should make an effort to recover the yacht, and 
return her to her lawful commander. Dick con- 
sented, but he was afraid they would have no 



 

opportunity to put the plan in execution, for they 
could hardly overcome the eleven mutineers. Yet 
each pledged himself to the other to do whatever 
could be done ; but it was agreed that they should 
not attempt any thing without a reasonable pros- 
pect of success. 

There was a stiff breeze from the north-east, 
and the prisoners saw the yacht lying over upon 
her side, which gave some indication of the rate 
at which she was passing through the water. 
They knew how dense was the fog outside, and 
they had some fears that her reckless managers 
would run her upon the rocks, which was not a 
pleasant prospect to them, confined as they were 
in the cabin. 

An hour by the clock had elapsed since the 
yacht got under way, and it was evident from her 
motion that she was laboring through a heavy 
sea. Paul had begun to be uneasy, for he had 
very little confidence in the seamanship of Tom 
Nettle, who, he judged, was the new master of 
the Flyaway, and he was in momentary expecta- 



 

tion that she would strike upon a rock, and the 
cabin be filled with water. 

When the yacht first got under way there had 
been a great deal of confusion on deck. Frank 
had rebelled at the authority of Tom, and claimed 
the right to command ; but this dispute had been 
settled, and new causes of difficulty had appeared 
every momenti. But now the conspirators were 
very quiet, and Paul perceived that they had 
come to realize the full peril of their position. 
He could hear their low and earnest tones, as 
they consulted together in the standing room. 
More than once he had heard his own name men- 
tioned, but he could not hear enough of the con- 
versation to determine what they intended to do 
with him. We will leave Paul and his fellow- 
prisoner below for a time, and notice the condition 
of things on deck. 

The weather was decidedly threatening. The 

wind was increasing in violence, and there was a 

heavy sea. In short there was every indication 

of a regular north-easter. Tom Nettle had the 

 

helm, but his face no longer wore the confident 
assurance which had given him the victory over 
his rival in the contest for the command, and 
which had strengthened the doubting hearts of 
his more timid followers. His eye was restless, 
and his movements uneasy. He was not a stupid 
boy — only a reckless one ; and he could not help 
seeing that he was leading those who had trusted 
in him into hardship and perils which neither 
party had foreseen. 

The Flyaway was lying close to the wind, un- 
der jib and mainsail, and was completely enveloped 
in the dense fog that covered the ocean. Her 
bowsprit was slapping the waves, and the spray 
sweeping the entire length of the deck. Frank 
Thompson was lying out upon the bowsprit, wet 
to the skin, peering through the fog to give 
timely notice of breakers, or of any vessel which 
might lie in the path, of the yacht. The rest of 
the crew were seated in the standing room, most 
of them engaged in watching the anxious face of 
Tom Nettle, whose boasted seamanship was now 
put to the severest test. 



 

The Flyaway dashed on, and the faces of the 
rebel crew became more and more anxious every 
moment. Another hour elapsed, and the wind 
continued to freshen, and the sea to rise. Dense 
volumes of fog rolled by the vessel, and the mu- 
tineers were all wet to the skin. John Duncan 
was the only one who seemed to enjoy the scene, 
and it was evident at times that even he had 
some painful misgivings in regard to the future. 

" Hard a-lee ! hard a-lee ! " shouted Frank, sud- 
denly jumping down from the bowsprit, and mak- 
ing the most violent gestures. 

Tom, startled and confused by the frantic move- 
ments of Frank, unfortunately put the helm the 
wrong way ; and the yacht, getting the wind more 
a-beam, plunged deeper than ever into the huge 
waves. 

" The other way, you confounded fool ! " roared 
Frank, as he let go of the jib sheet. 

The bewildered helmsman obeyed this order ; 
but the movement had been so long delayed that 
