"As far as your knowledge goes, they seem to be doing their duty?"
"I make no complaint, sir."
Dr. Harrison glanced at Faith with a not pleased expression, and back
again. "Does that mean that you have none to make, or that you will
make none? I am asking, you surely must know, not officially nor
judicially; but to gain private information which it is desirable I
should have; and which I ask, and expect to receive, confidentially."
"Sir," Reuben said gravely, though with a manner perfectly respectful,
"why do you ask me? The gentlemen of Pattaquasset should know more
about their own post-office, than the poor fishers of Quapaw. There is
a clannishness among poor people, sir,--if I had heard anything, I
should not like to tell you."
The doctor got up and took his old position on the carpet rug, a very
slight air of haughty displeasure mixing with his habitual indolent
gracefulness.
"This is your knight, Miss Derrick! Apparently the proverb of 'friends'
friends' does not hold good with him. When you are a little older, sir,
you will know--if you grow correspondingly wiser--that the fishers of
Quapaw or of any other point are precisely the people to know in such a
matter what the gentlemen whom it more nearly concerns, cannot get at;
and you have yourself given the reason."
Faith looked at Reuben with a little inquiring wonder. But he made no
answer, either to her look or the doctor's words; indeed perhaps did
not see the former, for his own eyes were cast down. He stood there,
the fingers of both hands lightly interlaced, his face quiet to the
last degree of immovability. The doctor's first words, to Faith, had
brought a moment's flush to his cheeks, but it had passed with the
moment; gravity and steadiness and truth were all that remained. The
doctor recognized them all, but all as adverse or opposition forces.
"I will not detain you longer, sir!--I told you, Miss Faith," he said
sitting down and changing his tone, "that I did not know how to cut up
cake--still less how to administer it. I found this family--very
poor--over at Neanticut, on some of my excursions;--and somewhat
carelessly thought they could perform the duty of taking papers out of
a bag, as well as wiser people. There is a girl too, the daughter, who
seemed clever enough. But I have had reason to doubt my own wisdom in
the proceeding, after all."
Faith heard the door close after Reuben with the first of the doctor's
words to her. She listened to the rest with a divided interest. Her
mind had gone off to her basket of bananas, and was besides occupied
with a little lurking wonder at Reuben's impracticability. But with
nothing strongly, the feeling of weakness and lassitude was so taking
the upper hand of every other. The relaxing now began to tell of the
great tension she had borne for a day or two; the relaxing was entire,
for what the basket had begun Reuben's appearance had finished. Faith
was sure he had a letter for her, and so sat and looked at the doctor
like one whose senses were floating away in a dream--one of those
pleasant dreams that they do not wish to break.
"You are faint!" said the doctor suddenly. "Mrs. Derrick, have you any
wine in the house? I should like some here."
But Mrs. Derrick's first step (it seemed but that) was to Faith--taking
her out of the easy-chair and putting her on the couch before any one
had time to say ay or no. There she left her while she opened the
closet and got out the wine; bringing it then to Faith and setting the
doctor aside most unceremoniously. Faith had not quite reached the
fainting point, though she was near it from mere inanition. She drank
the wine, and smiled at them both like one who had a secret wine of her
own that she was taking privately.
"What will she eat, Mrs. Derrick?" said the doctor in real concern.
"Tea and toast won't do!"
"I will take something presently," Faith said with another of those
childlike satisfied looks. They made Dr. Harrison very unlike himself,
always. He stood so now.
"Doctor," said Mrs. Derrick, in her odd, free, rather blunt and yet
kindly way, "you are a very good doctor, I dare say, but you're not
much of a nurse. Now I am--and I'll find her something to eat,--you
needn't be uneasy."
He looked at her with one of the best smiles that ever came over his
face; bright, free and kindly; then turned to Faith.
"What made your knight so cross with me?" he said as he bent over her
to take her hand.
"I don't know--" said Faith. "I am sure he had some good reason."
"Reason to be cross!"--
"He didn't mean to be cross. You don't know Reuben Taylor."
The doctor was inclined to be of a different opinion, for his brows
knit as soon as he had closed her door.
"Now mother!" said Faith half raising herself,--"please let me have my
basket. I am going to try one of those queer things. That is what I
want."
"Do you know what I want?" said Mrs. Derrick as she brought up the
basket. "Just to have Dr. Harrison find Mr. Linden here some day!"
Which severe sentence was so much softened down by the weight of the
basket, that it sounded quite harmless.
Faith was too eager to get the cover off to pay present attention to
this speech. There they were again! the red and yellow strange,
beautiful, foreign-looking things which she was to eat; too handsome to
disturb. But finally a red plump banana was cut from the stem, and
Faith looked at it in her fingers, uncertain how to begin the attack.
Looking back to the little empty space where it had been, Faith became
"ware" of an end of blue ribband beneath said space. Down went the
banana and down went Faith. The loop of ribband being pulled gently
suggested that it was not able to contend with an unknown weight of
bananas; but when Faith partly held these up, the ribband yielded to
persuasion, and tugged after it into the daylight a tiny package--which
being unwrapped revealed a tiny oval case; wherein lay, last of all, a
delicate silver knife. Faith's face of overflowing delight it was good
to see.
"O mother!--how just like him!--Mother!" exclaimed Faith,--"this is to
eat those with!"
Could anything more be wanting to give bananas a flavour? They happened
moreover to hit the fancy the doctor had been so anxious to suit. Faith
liked her first one very much, and pronounced it very nearly the best
of all fruits. But being persuaded to try one, Mrs. Derrick avowed that
she could not eat it and wondered how Faith could; declaring that in
her judgment if a thing was sweet at all, it ought to be sweeter.
If Dr. Harrison could have seen the atmosphere of peace and delight his
knit brows had left behind them!
As soon as he was gone, Reuben brought up the letters. And with
sunshine all round her, Faith read them and went to sleep, which she
did with the little case that held her knife clasped in her hand. Sleep
claimed her while fever took its turn and passed away for the day.
Faith woke up towards evening, weak and weary in body, unable to make
much lively shew of the "merry heart" which "doeth good like a
medicine".
"My studies don't get on very fast at this rate, mother," she remarked
as she sat in the easy-chair at her tea, unable to hold her head up.
"This has been a hard day," her mother said sadly as she looked at her.
"Faith, I won't let Dr. Harrison pay any more such long visits! he
tires you to death."
"It wasn't that. Mother--I think I'll have one of those things out of
my basket--I wish Mr. Linden had told me what to call them."
Mrs. Derrick brought the basket and looked on intently.
"When is he coming, child?" she said.
Faith did not certainly know. Under the influence of a plantain and the
silver knife she revived a little.
"Mother--what made you wish Dr. Harrison might meet Mr. Linden here?"
"It would save him a world of trouble," said Mrs. Derrick kindly. "And
besides, child, I'm tired seeing him buzz round you, myself. Faith, Mr.
Linden would say that he ought to be told you're sick."
"I can judge for him once in a while," Faith said with a little bit of
a triumphing smile.
"Well--" said her mother,--"you'll see what he'll say. I guess he'd
rather you'd judge for him about something else."
From that time letters went and came through the Patchaug post-office.
CHAPTER XXIV.
Faith rallied somewhat from the prostration that succeeded those days
of anxiety; but then the fever again asserted its empire, and strength,
little by little but daily, lost ground rather than gained it. Though
not ever very high, the fever came back with persevering regularity; it
would not be baffled; and such always recurring assaults are trying to
flesh and blood and to spirit too, be they of what they may. Faith's
patience and happy quiet never left her; as the weeks went on it did
happen that the quiet grew more quiet, and was even a little bordering
on depression. One or two things helped this uncomfortably.
The sense of the extreme unpleasantness of such a meeting as her mother
had wished for, perhaps startled Faith to a fresh sense of what she had
to do in the premises. She resolved to be as grave and cool as it was
possible to be, in Dr. Harrison's presence. She would keep him at such
a distance as should wean him from any thoughts of her. Faith tried
faithfully to do what she had purposed. But it was very difficult to
keep at a distance a person who did not pretend to be near, or only
pretended it in a line where he could not be repulsed. He must see her
every day as her physician. He must be allowed the kindly expression of
kind feelings; he could not be forbidden to bring to his patient, as
her friend and physician, such things as he thought her strength, or
weakness, needed. These instances of thoughtfulness and care for her
were many. Birds, old wine from his father's cellar, flowers from the
greenhouse, and fruit from nobody knows where, came often; and the
manner of offering them, the quiet, unobtrusive, unexacting kindness
and attention, it was scarce possible to reject without something that
would have seemed churlishness. Faith took them as gravely as she could
without being unkind. Her illness helped her, and also hindered the
effect she wished to produce. Feeling weak and weary and unable for any
sort of exertion, it was the easier for her to be silent, abstracted,
unresponsive to anything that was said or done. And also her being so
signified the less and testified the less of her real purpose. Faith
knew it and could not help it. She could not besides be anything but
natural; and she felt kindly towards Dr. Harrison; with a grave
kindness, that yet was more earnest in its good wishes for him than any
other perhaps that existed for Dr. Harrison in the world. Faith could
not hide that, careful as she was in her manner of shewing it. And
there was one subject upon which she dared not be unresponsive or
abstracted when the doctor brought it up. He brought it up now very
often.
She did not know how it was, she was far from knowing why it was; but
the pleasant talk with which the doctor sought to amuse her, and which
was most skilfully pleasant as to the rest, was very apt to glance upon
Bible subjects; and as it touched, to brush them with the wing of
doubt--or difficulty or--uneasiness. Dr. Harrison did not see things as
she did--that was of old; but he contrived to let her see that he
doubted she did not see them right, and somehow contrived also to make
her hear his reasons. It was done with the art of a master and the
steady aim of a general who has a great field to win. Faith did not
want to hear his suggestions of doubt and cavil. She remembered Mr.
Linden's advice long ago given; repeated it to herself every day; and
sought to meet Dr. Harrison only with the sling stone of truth and let
his weapons of artificial warfare alone. Truly she "had not proved
these," and "could not go with them." But whatever effect her sling
might have upon him, which she knew not, his arrows were so cunningly
thrown that they wounded her. Not in her belief; she never failed for a
moment to be aware that they were arrows from a false quiver, that the
sword of truth would break with a blow. And yet, in her weak state of
body and consequent weak state of mind, the sight of such poisoned
arrows flying about distressed her; the mere knowledge that they did
fly and bore death with them; a knowledge which once she happily had
not. All this would have pained her if she had been well; in the
feverish depression of illness it weighed upon her like a mountain of
cloud. Faith's shield caught the darts and kept them from herself; but
in her increasing nervous weakness her hand at last grew weary; and it
seemed to Faith then as if she could see nothing but those arrows
flying through the air. But there was one human form before which, she
knew, this mental array of enemies would incontinently take flight and
disappear; she knew they would not stand the first sound of Mr.
Linden's voice; and her longing grew intense for his coming. How did
she ever keep it out of her letters! Yet it hardly got in there, for
she watched it well. Sometimes the subdued "I want to see you very
much,"--at the close of a letter, said, more than Faith knew it did;
and she could not be aware how much was told by the tone of her
writing. That had changed, though that too was guarded, so far as she
could. She could not pour out a light, free, and joyous account of all
that was going on within and about her, when she was suffering
alternately from fever and weakness, and through both from depression
and nervous fancies. Most unlike Faith! and she tried to seem her usual
self then when she came most near it, in writing to him. But it was a
nice matter to write letters for so many weeks out of a sick room and
not let Mr. Linden find out that she herself was there all the while.
His letters however were both a help and a spur; Faith talked a good
deal of things not at Pattaquasset; and through all weakness and ailing
sent her exercises prepared with utmost care, regularly as usual. It
hurt her; but Faith would not be stopped. Her sickness she knew after
all was but a light matter; and nothing could persuade her to break in
upon Mr. Linden's term of study with any more interruptions for her.
And even to Mrs. Derrick she did not tell the keen heart-longing, which
daily grew more urgent, for that term to come to an end.
Mrs. Derrick did sometimes connect the cause of her weariness with Dr.
Harrison, and was indignant in proportion. Faith looked at him with
different eyes, and her feeling was of very gentle and deep sorrow for
him. It was by the appeal to that side of her character that Dr.
Harrison gained all his advantage.
Faith's shield caught his arrows of unbelieving suggestion and threw
them off from her own heart; she could not put that shield between them
and the doctor, and that was her grief. It grieved her more than he
thought. And yet, it was with a half conscious, half instinctive
availing himself of this feeling that he aimed and managed his attacks
with such consummate tact and skill. Faith would not have entered into
controversy; she would not have taken up a gauntlet of challenge; did
he know that? His hints and questions were brought into the subject,
Faith knew not how; but the point of view in which they always
presented themselves was as troublers of his own mind--difficulties he
would willingly have solved--questions he would like to see answered.
And Faith's words, few or many, for she was sometimes drawn on, were
said in the humble yearning desire to let him know what she rejoiced in
and save him from an abyss of false fathomless depth. It was more than
she could do. Dr. Harrison's subtle difficulties and propositions had
been contrived in a school of which she knew nothing; and were far too
subtle and complicate in their false wit for Faith's true wit to
answer. Not at all for lack of wit, but for lack of skill in fencing
and of experience in the windings of duplicity. So she heard things
that grieved her and that she could not shew up to the doctor for what
she knew them to be.
"I am no better than this little knife!" she thought bitterly one day,
as she was looking at her favourite silver banana-carver;--"it can go
through soft fruit well enough, but it isn't strong enough or sharp
enough to deal with anything harder!--"
Faith did herself injustice. It takes sometimes little less than
Ithuriel's spear to make the low, insidious, unobtrusive forms of evil
stand up and shew themselves what they are--the very Devil!
"Reuben," said Faith one time when they were alone together,--"did you
ever hear any of the mischievous talk against the Bible, of people who
don't love it?"
"Yes, Miss Faith,--I never heard a great deal at a time--only little
bits now and then. And I've felt some times from a word or two what
other words the people had in their hearts."
"Don't ever let people talk it to you, Reuben, unless God makes it your
duty to hear it," she said wearily. Reuben looked at her.
"Do you think he ever makes it our duty, Miss Faith?"
"I don't know!" said Faith, a little as if the question startled her.
"But you might be where you could not help it, Reuben."
He was silent, looking rather thoughtfully into the fire.
"Miss Faith," he said, "you remember when Christian was going through
the Valley of the Shadow of Death, the fiends came and whispered to him
all sorts of dreadful things which he would not have thought of for the
world. 'But,' as Mr. Bunyan says, 'he had not the discretion either to
stop his ears, or to know from whence those blasphemies came.'" Reuben
blushed a little at his own advice-giving, but made no other apology.
There was much love and respect and delight in Faith's swift look at
him. Her words glanced. "Reuben, I am glad you are going to be a
minister!"--She added with the sorrowful look stealing over her face,
"I wish the world was full of ministers!--if they were good ones."
His face was very bright and grateful, and humble too. "Miss Faith," he
said, taking up her words, "don't you love to think of that other
definition of minister?--you know--'ye ministers of his, that do his
pleasure.'"
"In that way the world is full now," said Faith; "in all things except
men. But by and by 'the great trumpet will be blown' and 'they that
were ready to perish' shall come, from everywhere. It's good to know
that."
"It's such a beautiful thing to know, just by believing!" Reuben
said,--"don't you think so, Miss Faith? And then whatever people say or
do, and if we can't find a word to answer them, we know down in our
hearts, that the Bible is true. And so 'by faith we stand.'"
"But we ought to find words to answer them, Reuben--or else, though
we stand, they fall!"
"Yes, ma'am--sometimes," Reuben said rather hesitatingly. "Only--I've
heard Mr. Linden say that a Christian must take care of his own
standing first, and do nothing to shake that; or else he may have his
own light blown out while he's trying to light other people's. You
know, Miss Faith, the five wise virgins would not give their oil to the
others. I've heard Mr. Linden talk about it very often," Reuben added
softly, as if he wanted to screen himself from the charge of
presumption.
If Faith was bringing charges, it was against herself, for she sat very
silent and thoughtful, and weary also; for when for the fifth or sixth
time Reuben brought his eyes from the fire to her face he saw that she
had fallen asleep.
Mr. Linden's letters about this time told two or three things, among
the rest that he might soon be looked for instead of letters. Moreover
that he felt sure he was wanted--and further, that Faith's letters had
changed. These two last things were not said in words, but Faith read
them none the less surely--read thus first that her letters really
were different. Just what cause Mr. Linden assigned to himself, she
did not know, nor whether he had fixed upon any; but it was clear that
nothing but the fact that his freedom was so close at hand, kept him
from freeing himself at once and coming to Pattaquasset. And second
only to Faith did Mrs. Derrick long for his appearance.
She had heard bits of the doctor's talk from time to time, but for a
while with some doubt of their meaning,--as whether he was reporting
what other people said, or whether she had heard him correctly. But
when by degrees the goodness of her hearing attested itself, then
Mrs. Derrick's indignation began to follow suit. The doctor's object
she did not at first guess (perhaps made it, if possible, worse than it
was) but that made little difference.
On this particular afternoon, when Faith woke up she found Reuben gone
and her mother keeping watch. The fair look that always greeted Mrs.
Derrick was given her, but otherwise the face she was studying was not
satisfactory. The roundness of the cheek was much lessened, the colour
was gone, and the lines of expression were weary though she had slept.
Or rather perhaps they were too gravely drawn.
"Faith," said her mother decisively, "you want your tea. Can you eat a
broiled pigeon, if I broil it myself?"
"I can eat a piece of one, if you'll take the rest, mother," she said
with a smile at her. "I eat a whole banana just before I went to sleep."
"Well this ain't the doctor's pigeon, so I guess it will be good," said
Mrs. Derrick. "Sam Stoutenburgh brought it.--And I'm going to cook it
here, pretty child, because I want to be here myself. I suppose the
smoke won't trouble you if it goes up chimney?"
"I'd like it, smoke and all, mother," said Faith, changing the
resting-place for her head. "But you needn't slight the doctor's
birds--they were as fine birds as could be--when I could eat them."
"'Birds of a feather'"--said Mrs. Derrick laconically. And she drew out
some of the glowing and winking embers, and set thereon the tiny
gridiron with its purplish plump pigeon. "Sam's home now, Faith, and
you'd think he'd been through every degree of everything. But the first
thing he did was to go off and shoot pigeons for you."
Faith was inclined to think he had not got above one degree. She sat in
her easy-chair and watched the play cookery with amused pleased eyes.
"I should like to be in the kitchen again, mother--doing something for
you."
"You shall do something for me presently," said her mother, as the
pigeon began to send out little puffs of steam and jets of juice, which
the coals resented. "This one's fat, anyway--and there's a half dozen
more. The fun of it is, child, that Sam was afraid there weren't
enough!--he wanted to know if I was sure they'd last till
to-morrow!--so I guess he's not in a fainting away state. I told him
we'd roast beef in the house, for you to fall back upon, child," she
added with a little laugh, as she turned the pigeon. But her face was
very grave the next moment, with the sorrowful reality. "Pretty child,"
she said tenderly, "do you feel as if you could eat a muffin or a
biscuit best?"
"Mother, that pigeon is making me hungry, it smells so nice. I am sure
I can eat anything."
"Well I made muffins," said Mrs. Derrick, bustling softly about with
the little table and the tea-things. "Faith, I'm afraid to have Mr.
Linden come home and find your cheeks so thin."
"I'm not," said Faith quietly.
"My!" said her mother, "you never were afraid of anything he'd a mind
to do, child. But for all I know, he may carry you off to Europe in
the next steamer. He's up to 'most anything," said Mrs. Derrick
stooping down by the pigeon, and giving it the persuasion of a few more
coals.
Faith said languidly that she did not think there was much danger, and
Mrs. Derrick for the present concentrated her attention upon the tea
preparations. Cindy came up with a little teakettle, and Mrs. Derrick
made the tea, and then went down stairs to superintend the first baking
of the muffins, leaving the teakettle to sing Faith into a very quiet
state of mind. Then presently reappearing, with a smoking plate of
cakes in her hand, Mrs. Derrick took up the pigeon, with due
applications of butter and salt and pepper, and the tea was ready. It
was early; the sunbeams were lingering yet in the room, the air wafted
in through the window the sweet dewy breath of flowers and buds and
springing grass over the pigeon and muffins; and by Faith's plate stood
the freshest of watercresses in a little white bowl. These Reuben
brought her every day, wet from the clear stream where they grew,
shining with the drops of bright water, and generally sprinkled too
with some of the spring flowers. To-day the plate on which the bowl
stood had a perfect wreath or crown of mouse-ear,--the pale pink
blossoms saying all sorts of sweet things. The room was well off for
flowers in other respects. Dr. Harrison's hothouse foreigners looked
dainty and splendid, and Mrs. Stoutenburgh's periwinkle and crocuses
and daffodils looked springlike and fresh; while in another glass a
rich assortment of dandelions spoke a prettier message yet, from
Charles twelfth and his little compeers.
"And the mouse-ear is come!" said Faith as she applied herself to the
refreshment of salt and watercresses. "I wonder whether Reuben does
this because he loves flowers him self, or because he knows I do. I
guess it's both. How lovely they are! How my dairy must want me,
mother." Which was said with a little recollective patient sigh.
"I guess it can wait," said her mother cheerfully. "And I guess it'll
have to. You needn't think you'll be let do anything for one while,
Faith."
"I guess I shall, mother. I am sure I am stronger to-day,--and Dr.
Harrison said I had less fever. And your pigeon is good. Besides, I
must,--if I can,"--said Faith, with an anticipative glance this time.
"It's my belief, child," said her mother, "that if Dr. Harrison had
staid away altogether--or never staid here more than five minutes at a
time, you'd have been better long ago. But I think you are better--in
spite of him."
Of the two subjects Faith preferred the pigeon to Dr. Harrison, and
discussed it quite to her mother's satisfaction. But if silent, she
thought never the less. Both Reuben Taylor's words and her mother's
words quickened her to thinking, and thinking seemed of very little
use. The next day when the doctor came she was as grave and still and
unresponsive as she could be. And it had no effect on him whatever. He
was just as usual, he talked just as usual; and Faith could but be
grieved, and be silent. It did not enter her gentle imagination that
the very things which so troubled her were spoken on purpose to trouble
her. How could it? when they made their way into the conversation and
into her hearing as followers of something else, as harpies that
worried or had worried somebody else, as shapes that a cloud might take
and be a cloud again--only she could not forget that shape. It was near
now the time for Mr. Linden to come home, and Faith looked for his
coming with an hourly breath of longing. It seemed to her that his very
being there would at once break the mesh Dr. Harrison was so busy
weaving and in which she had no power to stop him.
But the doctor's opportunity for playing this game was nearing an end,
and he knew it. He did not know that Mr. Linden was coming; he did know
that Faith was getting well.
A day or two after the talk with Reuben it happened that Mrs. Derrick
was detained down stairs when the doctor came up to see Faith. The room
was full of a May warmth and sweetness from the open windows; and Faith
herself in a white dress instead of the brown wrapper, looked May-like
enough. Not so jocund and blooming certainly; she was more like a
snowdrop than a crocus. Her cheeks were pale and thin, but their colour
was fresh; and her eye had the light of returning health,--or of
returning something else!
"You are getting well!" said the doctor. "I shall lose my work--and
forgive me, my pleasure!"
"I will give you some better work to do, Dr. Harrison."
"What is that? Anything for you!--"
"It is not for me. That little lame child to whom you sent the
rose-tree, Dr. Harrison,--she is very sick. Would you go and see her?"
"Did you think I would not?" he said rather gravely.
"I want to see her very much myself," Faith went on;--"but I suppose I
could not take so long a ride yet. Could I?"
The doctor looked at her.
"I think the mother of the Gracchi must have been something such a
woman!" he said with an indescribable grave comic mien;--"and the other
Roman mother that saved Rome and lost her son! Or that lady of Sparta
who made the affectionate request to her son about coming home from
the battle on his shield! I thought the race had died out."
Faith could not help laughing. He had not been sure that she would
understand his allusions, but his watchful eye saw that she did.
"Were you educated in Pattaquasset?" he said. "Pardon me!"--
All Faith's gravity returned, and all her colour too. "No, sir," she
said, "I have never been educated. I am studying now."
"Studying!" said he gently. "You have little need to study."
"Why, sir?"
"There are minds and natures so rich by their original constitution,
that their own free growth is a fuller and better harvest than all the
schoolmasters in the world can bring out of other people."
Again Faith's cheek was dyed. "I was poor enough," she said bowing her
head for a moment. "I am poor now,--but I am studying."
In which last words lay perhaps the tiniest evidence of an intention
not to be poor always. A suspicious glance of thought shot from the
doctor's mind. But as it had happened more than once before, the
simplicity of Faith's frankness misled him, and he dismissed suspicion.
"If you want an illustration of my meaning," he went on without change
of manner, "permit me to remind you that your paragon of
character,--the Rhododendron--does no studying. My conclusion is plain!"
"The Rhododendron does all it can."
"Well--" said the doctor,--"it is impossible to trace the limits of the
influences of mignonette."
Faith looked grave. She was thinking how very powerless her influences
had been.
"Don't you see that I have made out my position?"
"No."
"What sort of studying--may I ask it?--do you favour most?" he said
with a smile.
"I like all kinds--every kind!"
"I believe that. I know you have a love for chymistry, and Shakspeare,
and natural history. But I should like to know Mignonette's favourite
atmosphere."
"The study I like best of all is the one you like least, Dr. Harrison."
"What may that be, Miss Faith?"
"The study of the Bible."
"The Bible! Surely you know that already," he said in an interested
voice.
"Did you think so?" said Faith quickly and with secret humbleness. "You
made a great mistake, Dr. Harrison. But there is nothing I take such
deep lessons in;--nor such pleasant ones."
"You mistake me too, Miss Faith. I do like it. You are strong enough
for it to-day--I wish you would give me one of those lessons you speak
of?"
"If you loved it, sir, you would not ask me. You would find them for
yourself."
"Another mistake!" said the doctor. "I might love them, and yet ask
you. Won't you give me one?"
She lifted to his a look so gentle and grave that he could not think
she was displeased, or harsh, or even unkind. But she answered him,
"No."
"Don't you feel strong enough for it?" he said with a shade of concern.
"Yes."
"You think you have given me one lesson already," he said smiling,
"which I am not attending to. I will go and see your little sick child
immediately. But I don't know the way! I wish you were well enough to
pilot me. I can't find her by the sign of the rosebush?"
"Reuben Taylor will take you there, Dr. Harrison, if you will let him.
He goes there often."
"If I will let him! Say, if he will let me! Your knight does not smile
upon me, Miss Faith."
"Why not?"
"I'm sure I'm not qualified to give evidence," said the doctor half
laughing at having the tables turned upon him. "Unless his chivalric
devotion to you is jealous of every other approach--even mine. But you
say he will guide me to the rosebush?"
"I am sure he will with great pleasure, Dr. Harrison."
"And I will go with great pleasure--for you."
He was standing before her, looking down. There was something in the
look that made Faith's colour come again. She answered seriously, "No
sir--not for me."
"Why not?"
"I can't reward you," said Faith; trembling, for she felt she was
speaking to the point. "Do it for a better reason."
"Will you shew me a better?"
She answered instantly with a bright little smile, "'Give, and it shall
be given unto you; full measure, pressed down, heaped up, and running
over, shall men give into your bosom.'"
"In another world!--" said the doctor.
"No--in this. The promise stands for it."
"It's your part of this world--not mine; and unless you shew me the
way, Miss Faith, I shall never get into it."--Then more gently, taking
her hand and kissing it, he added, "Are you tired of trying to help me?"
Faith met his keen eye, reddened, and drooped her head; for indeed she
felt weak. And her words were low and scarce steady. "I will not be
tired of praying for you, Dr Harrison."
What swift electric current along the chain of association moved the
doctor's next question. He was silent a minute before he spoke it; then
spoke in a clear even voice. "May I ask you--is it impertinent--what
first led you to this way of thinking?--Sophy says you were not always
so."
The colour deepened on Faith's cheek, he saw that, and deepened more.
"The teaching is always of heaven, sir. But it came to me through the
hands of the friend who was so long in our house--last year."
"And has that adventurer counselled you to trust no friend that isn't
of his way of thinking?" the doctor said with some haughtiness of
accent.
Faith raised her eyes and looked at him, the steady grave look that the
doctor never liked to meet from those soft eyes. It fixed his, till her
eyes fell with a sudden motion, and the doctor's followed
them--whither? To that gloved forefinger which he had often noticed was
kept covered. Faith was slowly drawing the covering off; and something
in her manner or her look kept his eyes rivetted there. Slowly,
deliberately, Faith uncovered the finger, and in full view the
brilliants sparkled; danced and leapt, as it seemed to Faith, whose
eyes saw nothing else. She did not dare look up, nor could, for a
double reason. She sat like a fair statue, looking still and only at
the diamond sign, while the blood in her cheeks that bore witness to it
seemed the only moving thing about her. That rose and deepened, from
crimson to scarlet, and from her cheeks to the rim of her hair.
She never saw the changes in her neighbour's face, nor what struggles
the paleness and the returning flush bore witness to. She never looked
up. She had revealed all; she was willing he should conceal all,--that
he could. It was but a minute or two, though Faith's measurement made
it a more indefinite time; and Dr. Harrison took her hand again,
precisely in his usual manner, remarked that it was possible he might
be obliged to go south in a day or two for a day or two, but that he
rather thought he had cured her; and so went off, with no difference of
tone that any stranger could have told, and Faith never raised her eyes
to see how he looked.
CHAPTER XXV.
Dr. Harrison sent away his curricle and walked home,--slowly, with his
hands behind him, as if the May air had made him lazy. To any one that
met him, he wore as disengaged an air as usual; his eye was as coolly
cognizant of all upon which it fell, and his brow never looked less
thoughtful. While his head never had been more busy. He kept the secret
of his pride--he had kept and would keep it, well; no one should guess
what he bore; but he bore a writhing brain and a passion that was
heaving with disappointment. To no end--except to expose himself--he
had worked at his mining operations all these months; nothing could be
more absolute than the silence of Faith's answer; nothing could be more
certain than the fixedness of her position. Against the very
impassableness of the barrier the doctor's will chafed, even while his
hope gave way. He ruthlessly called himself a fool for it too, at the
minute. But he was unused to be baffled; and no man pursues long with
such deliberate energy a purpose upon which he has set his heart,
without having all the cords of his will and his passion knit at last
into a cable of strength and tenacity. The doctor's walk grew slower,
and his eyes fell on the ground. How lovely Faith had looked--even
then, when she was putting him and herself to pain; how speakingly the
crimson hues had chased each other all over her face, and neck; how
shyly her eyelashes had kept their place on her cheek; with how
exquisite grace her still attitude had been maintained. And withal what
a piece of simplicity she was! What a contrast those superb diamonds
had made with the almost quaint unadornedness of her figure in its
white wrapper. A contrast that somehow was not inharmonious, and with
which the doctor's artistic taste confessed itself bewitched, though
Faith's only other remotest ornament was that very womanly one of her
rich brown hair. A piece of simplicity? Could she be beyond his reach?
With duty between,--yes; otherwise,--no! as all the doctor's experience
told him. And he walked leisurely past his own door, past the houses of
the village, on almost to the entrance of the woody road; then turned
and came with a brisker pace back. He still called himself a fool,
secretly; but he went into the library and wrote a letter. Which in
course of time was received and read by Mr. Linden between two of his
pieces of work.
It appeared the next day that Dr. Harrison had changed his mind, or his
plans, about going south; for he came as usual to see Faith. In every
sense as usual; to her astonishment no traces remained of the
yesterday's conversation. The ease and kindliness of his manner had
suffered no abatement, although a little touch of regretfulness, just
allowed to appear, forbade her to doubt that she had been understood.
Spite of herself, she could not help being presently again almost at
ease with him. Nevertheless Faith wished he had gone south.
She did not feel sure that Mr. Linden would be pleased with the state
of matters, as days went on, and she was sure she was not pleased
herself. There was something she did not understand. The doctor's
manner was not presuming, in a way; neither did he obtrude even his
sorrow upon her; yet he took the place of a privileged person--she felt
that--and she was obliged to see his pain in the very silence and in
the play of words or of face which she thought assumed to conceal it.
She was very sorry for him, and in the same breath thought she must
have been wrong in something, though she could not see how, or things
would never have come to such a point.
She could not guess--how could she!--that the doctor was playing a
desperate game and had thrown his last stake on the chance of a flaw in
Mr. Linden's confidence towards her or in hers towards him, or of a
flaw in the temper of either of them, or a flaw in their pride, or
affection! There are flaws in so many characters! Did but either of
them lack moral courage, or truth, or trust, or common sense, like a
great many of the rest of the world--and the doctor had gained his
ground! For Dr. Harrison had determined that Faith's religious opinions
should not stand in his way; she should think as he did, or--he would
think with her!
Of all this Faith knew nothing. She had only an intuitive sense that
something was not right; and doubt and annoyance kept her strength
back. She lost ground again. All summed itself up in a longing for Mr.
Linden to come.
Meanwhile Mr. Linden had received and read the following despatch, and
studied and taught before and after it as best he might.
Pattaquasset, April, 18--.
"MY DEAR LINDEN,
I do not know what impulse prompts me to write this letter to you--A
very strong one, probably, that makes fools of men--Yet even with my
eyes open to this, I go on.
I have unwittingly become your rival. Not in fact, indeed, but in
character. I have been so unfortunate as to love a person you are
somehow concerned in--and before I knew that you had any concern of the
kind. That is a very simple story, and only one to be smothered--not to
be brought to open air,--were it all. But the course of the months
past, which has too late brought me this knowledge of myself, has also
made me believe that--had I a fair field--were there no contrary ties
or fetters of conscience--I should not love in vain. What those ties
are I know nothing--I have not asked--but the existence of some
obligation I have been given to understand. With certain natures of
truth and duty, that is a barrier impassable. You would be safe, were I
to act out of honour.
I am a fool, I believe; but I am not yet such a fool as not to know
that there is but one man in the world to whom I could write such a
confession. Nothing better prompts it than pure selfishness, I am
aware--but with me that is strong. I have that notion of you that you
would not care to keep what you held only by priority of claim. I may
be wrong in the supposition upon which I am going--yet it is my chance
for life and I cannot yield it up. That were the lady free--in
conscience as well as in fact--she might be induced to look favourably
on me. I ought to add, that I believe such a consciousness has never
shaped itself to her mind--the innocence with which she may at first
have entered into some sort of obligation, would not lessen or alter
its truth or stringency to her pure mind. The game is in your own
hands, Linden--so is
Your unworthy friend
JULIUS HARRISON.
P.S.--One thing further I ought to add--that a somewhat delicate state
of nerves and health, over which I have been for some time watching,
would make any rash broaching of this subject very inexpedient and
unsafe. I need not enforce this hint."
CHAPTER XXVI.
The spring opened from day to day, and the apple blossoms were
bursting. Mr. Linden might soon be looked for, and one warm May
afternoon Faith went in to make his room ready. It was the first day
she had been fit for it, and she was yet so little strong that she must
take care of her movements. With slow and unable fingers she did her
pleasant work, and then very tired, sat down in her old reading
window-seat and went into a long dream-meditation. It was pleasant for
a while, in harmony with the summer air and the robins in the maple; it
got round at last into the train of the last weeks. A fruitless reverie
ended in Faith's getting very weary; and she went back to her own room
to put herself on the couch cushions and go to sleep.
Sleep held on its way after a peaceful fashion, yet not so but that
Faith's face shewed traces of her thoughts. Mrs. Derrick came softly
and watched her, and the spring air blew back the curtains and fanned
her, and brushed her hair with its perfumed wings; and one or two honey
bees buzzed in and sought honey from the doctor's flowers, and forsook
them again for the fields.
Up there at last, following Mrs. Derrick, came Mr. Linden. With few
reasons asked or told of his sudden appearance; with little said even
of Faith's illness but the mere fact, he went up to the sunlit room and
there staid. Not restingly in Faith's easy-chair, but standing by the
low fire-place, just where he could have the fullest view of her. Mrs.
Derrick came and went,--he never stirred. The sunbeams came and
went--wrapped Faith in their bright folds and lay at his feet, then
