All this was before him. But ere it could be done, he must subdue
himself,--he must become calm and pulseless, in deadly resolve; and
what prayer, what penance, might avail for this? If all that he had
already tried had so miserably failed, what hope? He resolved to quit
for a season all human society, and enter upon one of those desolate
periods of retreat from earthly converse well known in the annals of
saintship as most prolific in spiritual victories.
Accordingly, on the day after the conversation with Father Johannes,
he startled the monks by announcing to them that he was going to leave
them for several days.
"My brothers," he said, "the weight of a fearful penance is laid upon
me, which I must work out alone. I leave you to-day, and charge you not
to seek to follow my footsteps; but, as you hope to escape hell, watch
and wrestle for me and yourselves during the time I am gone. Before
many days I hope to return to you with renewed spiritual strength."
That evening, while Agnes and her uncle were sitting together in their
orange-garden, mingling their parting prayers and hymns, scenes of a
very different description surrounded the Father Francesco.
One who looks on the flowery fields and blue seas of this enchanting
region thinks that the Isles of the Blest could scarcely find on earth
a more fitting image; nor can he realize, till experience proves it to
him, that he is in the immediate vicinity of a weird and dreary region
which might represent no less the goblin horrors of the damned.
Around the foot of Vesuvius lie fair villages and villas, garlanded
with roses and flushing with grapes, whose juice gains warmth from
the breathing of its subterraneous fires, while just above them
rises a region more awful than can be created by the action of any
common causes of sterility. There, immense tracts sloping gradually
upward show a desolation so peculiar, so utterly unlike every common
solitude of Nature, that one enters upon it with the shudder we
give at that which is wholly unnatural. On all sides are gigantic
serpent convolutions of black lava, their immense folds rolled into
every conceivable contortion, as if, in their fiery agonies, they had
struggled and wreathed and knotted together, and then grown cold and
black with the imperishable signs of those terrific convulsions upon
them. Not a blade of grass, not a flower, not even the hardiest lichen,
springs up to relieve the utter deathliness of the scene. The eye
wanders from one black, shapeless mass to another, and there is ever
the same suggestion of hideous monster life, of goblin convulsions and
strange fiend-like agonies in some age gone by. One's very footsteps
have an unnatural, metallic clink, and one's garments brushing over the
rough surface are torn and fretted by its sharp, remorseless touch,
as if its very nature were so pitiless and acrid that the slightest
contact revealed it.
The sun was just setting over the beautiful Bay of Naples,--with its
enchanted islands, its jeweled city, its flowery villages, all bedecked
and bedropped with strange shiftings and flushes of prismatic light and
shade, as if they belonged to some fairy-land of perpetual festivity
and singing,--when Father Francesco stopped in his toilsome ascent up
the mountain, and seating himself on ropy ridges of black lava, looked
down on the peaceful landscape.
Above his head, behind him, rose the black cone of the mountain, over
whose top the lazy clouds of thin white smoke were floating, tinged
with the evening light; around him, the desolate convulsed waste,
so arid, so supernaturally dreary; and below, like a soft enchanted
dream, the beautiful bay, the gleaming white villas and towers, the
picturesque islands, the gliding sails, flecked and streaked and dyed
with the violet and pink and purple of the evening sky. The thin new
moon and one glittering star trembled through the rosy air.
The monk wiped from his brow the sweat that had been caused by the toil
of his hurried journey, and listened to the bells of the Ave Maria
pealing from the different churches of Naples, filling the atmosphere
with a soft tremble of solemn dropping sound, as if spirits in the
air took up and repeated over and over the angelic salutation which
a thousand earthly lips were just then uttering. Mechanically he
joined in the invocation which at that moment united the hearts of all
Christians, and as the words passed his lips, he thought, with a sad,
desolate longing, of the hour of death of which they spake.
"It must come at last," he said. "Life is but a moment. Why am I so
cowardly? why so unwilling to suffer and to struggle? Am I a warrior
of the Lord, and do I shrink from the toils of the camp, and long for
the ease of the court before I have earned it? Why do we clamor for
happiness? Why should we sinners be happy? And yet, O God, why is the
world made so lovely as it lies there, why so rejoicing, and so girt
with splendor and beauty, if we are never to enjoy it? If penance and
toil were all we were sent here for, why not make a world grim and
desolate as this around me?--then there would be nothing to seduce us.
But our path is a constant fight; Nature is made only to be resisted;
we must walk the sharp blade of the sword over the fiery chasm to
Paradise. Come, then!--no shrinking!--let me turn my back on everything
dear and beautiful, as now on this landscape!"
He rose and commenced the perpendicular ascent of the cone, stumbling
and climbing over the huge sliding blocks of broken lava, which grated
and crunched beneath his feet with a harsh metallic ring. Sometimes a
broken fragment or two would go tinkling down the rough path behind
him, and sometimes it seemed as if the whole loose black mass from
above were about to slide, like an avalanche, down upon his head;--he
almost hoped it would. Sometimes he would stop, overcome by the toil
of the ascent, and seat himself for a moment on a black fragment, and
then his eye would wander over the wide and peaceful panorama below.
He seemed to himself like a fly perched upon some little roughness of
a perpendicular wall, and felt a strange airy sense of pleasure in
being thus between earth and heaven. A sense of relief, of beauty,
and peacefulness would steal over him, as if he were indeed something
disfranchised and disembodied, a part of the harmonious and beautiful
world that lay stretched out beneath him; in a moment more he would
waken himself with a start, and resume his toilsome journey with a
sullen and dogged perseverance.
At last he gained the top of the mountain,--that weird, strange
region where the loose, hot soil, crumbling beneath his feet, was no
honest foodful mother-earth, but an acrid mass of ashes and corrosive
minerals. Arsenic, sulphur, and many a sharp and bitter salt were in
all he touched, every rift in the ground hissed with stifling steam,
while rolling clouds of dun sullen smoke, and a deep hollow booming,
like the roar of an immense furnace, told his nearness to the great
crater. He penetrated the sombre tabernacle, and stood on the very
brink of a huge basin, formed by a wall of rocks around a sunken plain,
in the midst of which rose the black cone of the subterraneous furnace,
which crackled and roared, and from time to time spit up burning stones
and cinders, or oozed out slow ropy streams of liquid fire.
The sulphurous cliffs were dyed in many a brilliant shade of brown and
orange by the admixture of various ores, but their brightness seemed
strange and unnatural, and the dizzying whirls of vapor, now enveloping
the whole scene in gloom, now lifting in this spot and now in that,
seemed to magnify the dismal pit to an indefinite size. Now and then
there would come up from the very entrails of the mountain a sort of
convulsed sob of hollow sound, and the earth would quiver beneath his
feet, and fragments from the surrounding rocks would scale off and
fall with crashing reverberations into the depth beneath; at such
moments it would seem as if the very mountain were about to crush in
and bear him down in its ruins.
Father Francesco, though blinded by the smoke and choked by the vapor,
could not be content without descending into the abyss and exploring
the very penetralia of its mysteries. Steadying his way by means of
a cord which he fastened to a firm projecting rock, he began slowly
and painfully clambering downward. The wind was sweeping across the
chasm from behind, bearing the noxious vapors away from him, or he must
inevitably have been stifled. It took him some little time, however, to
effect his descent; but at length he found himself fairly landed on the
dark floor of the gloomy enclosure.
The ropy, pitch-black undulations of lava yawned here and there in
red-hot cracks and seams, making it appear to be only a crust over some
fathomless depth of molten fire, whose moanings and boilings could be
heard below. These dark congealed billows creaked and bent as the monk
stepped upon them, and burned his feet through his coarse sandals; yet
he stumbled on. Now and then his foot would crush in, where the lava
had hardened in a thinner crust, and he would draw it suddenly back
from the lurid red-hot metal beneath. The staff on which he rested
was constantly kindling into a light blaze as it slipped into some
heated hollow, and he was fain to beat out the fire upon the cooler
surface. Still he went on half-stifled by the hot and pungent vapor,
but drawn by that painful, unnatural curiosity which possesses one in
a nightmare dream. The great cone in the centre was the point to which
he wished to attain,--the nearest point which man can gain to this
eternal mystery of fire. It was trembling with a perpetual vibration, a
hollow, pulsating undertone of sound like the surging of the sea before
a storm, and the lava that boiled over its sides rolled slowly down
with a strange creaking; it seemed the condensed, intensified essence
and expression of eternal fire, rising and still rising from some
inexhaustible fountain of burning.
Father Francesco drew as near as he could for the stifling heat and
vapor, and, resting on his staff, stood gazing intently. The lurid
light of the fire fell with an unearthly glare on his pale, sunken
features, his wild, haggard eyes, and his torn and disarranged
garments. In the awful solitude and silence of the night he felt his
heart stand still, as if indeed he had touched with his very hand the
gates of eternal woe, and felt its fiery breath upon his cheek. He
half-imagined that the seams and clefts which glowed in lurid lines
between the dark billows would gape yet wider and show the blasting
secrets of some world of fiery despair below. He fancied that he heard
behind and around the mocking laugh of fiends, and that confused clamor
of mingled shrieks and lamentations which Dante describes as filling
the dusky approaches to that forlorn realm where hope never enters.
"Ah, God," he exclaimed, "for this vain life of man! They eat, they
drink, they dance, they sing, they marry and are given in marriage,
they have castles and gardens and villas, and the very beauty of
Paradise seems over it all,--and yet how close by burns and roars the
eternal fire! Fools that we are, to clamor for indulgence and happiness
in this life, when the question is, to escape everlasting burnings! If
I tremble at this outer court of God's wrath and justice, what must be
the fires of hell? These are but earthly fires; they can but burn the
body: those are made to burn the soul; they are undying as the soul
is. What would it be to be dragged down, down, down, into an abyss of
soul-fire hotter than this for ages on ages? This might bring merciful
death in time: that will have no end."
The monk fell on his knees and breathed out piercing supplications.
Every nerve and fibre within him seemed tense with his agony of prayer.
It was not the outcry for purity and peace, not a tender longing for
forgiveness, not a filial remorse for sin, but the nervous anguish
of him who shrieks in the immediate apprehension of an unendurable
torture. It was the cry of a man upon the rack, the despairing scream
of him who feels himself sinking in a burning dwelling. Such anguish
has found an utterance in Stradella's celebrated "Pietà, Signore,"
which still tells to our ears, in its wild moans and piteous shrieks,
the religious conceptions of his day; for there is no phase of the
Italian mind that has not found expression in its music.
When the oppression of the heat and sulphurous vapor became too
dreadful to be borne, the monk retraced his way and climbed with
difficulty up the steep sides of the crater, till he gained the
summit above, where a comparatively free air revived him. All night
he wandered up and down in that dreary vicinity, now listening to
the mournful roar and crackle of the fire, and now raising his voice
in penitential psalms or the notes of that terrific "Dies Iræ" which
sums up all the intense fear and horror with which the religion of the
Middle Ages clothed the idea of the final catastrophe of humanity.
Sometimes prostrating himself with his face towards the stifling soil,
he prayed with agonized intensity till Nature would sink in a temporary
collapse, and sleep, in spite of himself, would steal over him.
So waned the gloomy hours of the night away, till the morning broke in
the east, turning all the blue wavering floor of the sea to crimson
brightness, and bringing up, with the rising breeze, the barking of
dogs, the lowing of kine, the songs of laborers and boatmen, all fresh
and breezy from the repose of the past night.
Father Francesco heard the sound of approaching footsteps climbing the
lava path, and started with a nervous trepidation. Soon he recognized
a poor peasant of the vicinity, whose child he had tended during a
dangerous illness. He bore with him a little basket of eggs, with a
melon and a fresh green salad.
"Good-morning, holy father," he said, bowing humbly. "I saw you coming
this way last night, and I could hardly sleep for thinking of you; and
my good woman, Teresina, would have it that I should come out to look
after you. I have taken the liberty to bring a little offering;--it was
the best we had."
"Thank you, my son," said the monk, looking wistfully at the fresh,
honest face of the peasant. "You have taken too much trouble for such a
sinner. I must not allow myself such indulgences."
"But your Reverence must live. Look you," said the peasant, "at least
your Reverence will take an egg. See here, how handily I can cook
one," he added, striking his stick into a little cavity of a rock,
from which, as from an escape-valve, hissed a jet of hot steam,--"see
here, I nestle the egg in this little cleft, and it will be done in a
twinkling. Our good God gives us our fire for nothing here."
There was something wholesomely kindly and cheerful in the action and
expression of the man, which broke upon the overstrained and disturbed
musings of the monk like daylight on a ghastly dream. The honest,
loving heart sees love in everything; even the fire is its fatherly
helper, and not its avenging enemy.
Father Francesco took the egg, when it was done, with a silent gesture
of thanks.
"If I might make bold to say," said the peasant, encouraged, "your
Reverence should have some care for yourself. If a man will not feed
himself, the good God will not feed him; and we poor people have too
few friends already to let such as you die. Your hands are trembling,
and you look worn out. Surely you should take something more, for the
very love of the poor."
"My son, I am bound to do a heavy penance, and to work out a great
conflict. I thank you for your undeserved kindness. Leave me now to
myself, and come no more to disturb my prayers. Go, and God bless you!"
"Well," said the peasant, putting down the basket and melon, "I shall
leave these things here, any way, and I beg your Reverence to have a
care of yourself. Teresina fretted all night for fear something might
come to you. The bambino that you cured is grown a stout little
fellow, and eats enough for two,--and it is all of you; so she cannot
forget it. She is a busy little woman, is Teresina; and when she gets
a thought in her head, it buzzes, buzzes, like a fly in a bottle, and
she will have it your Reverence is killing yourself by inches, and says
she, 'What will all the poor do when he is gone?' So your Reverence
must pardon us. We mean it all for the best."
So saying, the man turned and began sliding and slipping down the steep
ashy sides of the mountain cone with a dexterity which carried him to
the bottom in a few moments; and on he went, sending back after him a
cheerful little air, the refrain of which is still to be heard in our
days in that neighborhood. A word or two of the gay song fluttered back
on the ear of the monk,--
        "Tutta gioja, tutta festa."
So gay and airy it was in its ringing cadence that it seemed a musical
laugh springing from sunny skies, and came fluttering into the dismal
smoke and gloom of the mountaintop like a very butterfly of sound.
It struck on the sad, leaden ear of the monk much as we might fancy
the carol of a robin over a grave might seem, could the cold sleeper
below wake one moment to its perception. If it woke one regretful sigh
and drew one wandering look downward to the elysian paradise that
lay smiling at the foot of the mountain, he instantly suppressed the
feeling and set his face in its old deathly stillness.
CHAPTER XIX
CLOUDS DEEPENING
After the departure of her uncle to Florence, the life of Agnes was
troubled and harassed from a variety of causes.
First, her grandmother was sulky and moody, and though saying nothing
directly on the topic nearest her heart, yet intimating by every
look and action that she considered Agnes as a most ungrateful and
contumacious child. Then there was a constant internal perplexity,--a
constant wearying course of self-interrogation and self-distrust, the
pain of a sensitive spirit which doubts at every moment whether it may
not be falling into sin. The absence of her kind uncle at this time
took from her the strongest support on which she had leaned in her
perplexities. Cheerful, airy, and elastic in his temperament, always
full of fresh-springing and beautiful thoughts, as an Italian dell is
of flowers, the charming old man seemed, while he stayed with Agnes, to
be the door of a new and fairer world, where she could walk in air and
sunshine, and find utterance for a thousand thoughts and feelings which
at all other times lay in cold repression in her heart. His counsels
were always so wholesome, his sympathies so quick, his devotion so
fervent and cheerful, that while with him Agnes felt the burden of her
life insensibly lifted and carried for her as by some angel guide.
Now they had all come back upon her, heavier a thousand-fold than
ever they had been before. Never did she so much need counsel and
guidance,--never had she so much within herself to be solved and made
plain to her own comprehension; yet she thought with a strange shiver
of her next visit to her confessor. That austere man, so chilling, so
awful, so far above all conception of human weaknesses, how should she
dare to lay before him all the secrets of her breast, especially when
she must confess to having disobeyed his most stringent commands? She
had had another interview with this forbidden son of perdition, but
how it was she knew not. How could such things have happened? Instead
of shutting her eyes and turning her head and saying prayers, she had
listened to a passionate declaration of love, and his last word had
called her his wife. Her heart thrilled every time she thought of it;
and somehow she could not feel sure that it was exactly a thrill of
penitence. It was all like a strange dream to her; and sometimes she
looked at her little brown hands and wondered if he really had kissed
them,--he, the splendid strange vision of a man, the prince from
fairy-land! Agnes had never read romances, it is true, but she had been
brought up on the legends of the saints, and there never was a marvel
possible to human conception that had not been told there. Princes
had come from China and Barbary and Abyssinia and every other strange
out-of-the-way place, to kneel at the feet of fair, obdurate saints who
would not even turn the head to look at them; but she had acted, she
was conscious, after a much more mortal fashion, and so made herself
work for confession and penance. Yet certainly she had not meant to do
so; the interview came on her so suddenly, so unexpectedly; and somehow
he would speak, and he would not go when she asked him to; and she
remembered how he looked when he stood right before her in the door-way
and told her she should hear him,--how the color flushed up in his
cheeks, what a fire there was in his great dark eyes; he looked as if
he were going to do something desperate then; it made her hold her
breath even now to think of it.
"These princes and nobles," she thought, "are so used to command, it
is no wonder they make us feel as if they must have their will. I have
heard grandmother call them wolves and vultures, that are ready to
tear us poor folk to pieces; but I am sure he seems gentle. I'm sure
it isn't wicked or cruel for him to want to make me his wife; and he
couldn't know, of course, why it wasn't right he should; and it really
is beautiful of him to love me so. Oh, if I were only a princess, and
he loved me that way, how glad I should be to give up everything and go
to him alone! And then we would pray together; and I really think that
would be much better than praying all alone. He said men had so much
more to tempt them. Ah, that is true! How can little moles that grub in
the ground know of the dangers of eagles that fly to the very sun? Holy
Mother, look mercifully upon him and save his soul!"
Such were the thoughts of Agnes the day when she was preparing for
her confession; and all the way to church she found them floating and
dissolving and reappearing in new forms in her mind, like the silvery
smoke-clouds which were constantly veering and sailing over Vesuvius.
Only one thing was firm and never changing, and that was the purpose to
reveal everything to her spiritual director. When she kneeled at the
confessional with closed eyes, and began her whispered acknowledgments,
she tried to feel as if she were speaking in the ear of God
alone,--that God whose spirit she was taught to believe, for the time
being, was present in His minister before whom her inmost heart was to
be unveiled.
He who sat within had just returned from his lonely retreat with his
mind and nerves in a state of unnatural tension,--a sort of ecstatic
clearness and calmness, which he mistook for victory and peace. During
those lonely days when he had wandered afar from human converse, and
was surrounded only by objects of desolation and gloom, he had passed
through as many phases of strange, unnatural experience as there were
flitting smoke-wreaths eddying about him.
There are depths in man's nature and his possibilities which no plummet
has ever sounded,--the wild, lonely joys of fanatical excitement, the
perfectly ravenous appetite for self-torture, which seems able, in
time, to reverse the whole human system, and make a heaven of hell.
How else can we understand the facts related both in Hindoo and in
Christian story, of those men and women who have found such strange
raptures in slow tortures, prolonged from year to year, till pain
became a habit of body and mind? It is said that after the tortures of
the rack, the reaction of the overstrained nerves produces a sense of
the most exquisite relief and repose; and so when mind and body are
harrowed, harassed to the very outer verge of endurance, come wild
throbbings and transports, and strange celestial clairvoyance, which
the mystic hails as the descent of the New Jerusalem into his soul.
It had seemed to Father Francesco, when he came down from the mountain,
that he had left his body behind him,--that he had left earth and
earthly things; his very feet touching the ground seemed to tread not
on rough, resisting soil, but on an elastic cloud. He saw a strange
excess of beauty in every flower, in every leaf, in the wavering blue
of the sea, in the red grottoed rocks that overhung the shore, with
their purple, green, orange, and yellow hangings of flower-and-leaf
tapestry. The songs of the fishermen on the beach, the peasant-girls
cutting flowery fodder for the cattle, all seemed to him to have an
unnatural charm. As one looking through a prism sees a fine bordering
of rainbow on every object, so he beheld a glorified world. His
former self seemed to him something forever past and gone. He looked
at himself as at another person, who had sinned and suffered, and
was now resting in beatified repose; and he fondly thought all this
was firm reality, and believed that he was now proof against all
earthly impressions, able to hear and to judge with the dispassionate
calmness of a disembodied spirit. He did not know that this high-strung
calmness, this fine clearness, were only the most intense forms of
nervous sensibility, and as vividly susceptible to every mortal
impression as is the vitalized chemical plate to the least action of
the sun's rays.
When Agnes began her confession, her voice seemed to him to pass
through every nerve; it seemed as if he could feel her presence
thrilling through the very wood of the confessional. He was astonished
and dismayed at his own emotion. But when she began to speak of
the interview with the cavalier, he trembled from head to foot
with uncontrollable passion. Nature long repressed came back in a
tempestuous reaction. He crossed himself again and again, he tried to
pray, and blessed those protecting shadows which concealed his emotion
from the unconscious one by his side. But he set his teeth in deadly
resolve, and his voice, as he questioned her, came forth cutting and
cold as ice crystals.
"Why did you listen to a word?"
"My father, it was so sudden. He wakened me from sleep. I answered him
before I thought."
"You should not have been sleeping. It was a sinful indolence."
"Yes, my father."
"See now to what it led. The enemy of your soul, ever watching, seized
this moment to tempt you."
"Yes, my father."
"Examine your soul well," said Father Francesco, in a tone of austere
severity that made Agnes tremble. "Did you not find a secret pleasure
in his words?"
"My father, I fear I did," said she, with a trembling voice.
"I knew it! I knew it!" the priest muttered to himself, while the great
drops started on his forehead, in the intensity of the conflict he
repressed. Agnes thought the solemn pause that followed was caused by
the horror that had been inspired by her own sinfulness.
"You did not, then, heartily and truly wish him to go from you?"
pursued the cold, severe voice.
"Yes, my father, I did. I wished him to go with all my soul."
"Yet you say you found pleasure in his being near you," said Father
Francesco, conscious how every string of his own being, even in this
awful hour, was vibrating with a sort of desperate, miserable joy in
being once more near to her.
"Ah," sighed Agnes, "that is true, my father,--woe is me! Please tell
me how I could have helped it. I was pleased before I knew it."
"And you have been thinking of what he said to you with pleasure
since?" pursued the confessor, with an intense severity of manner,
deepening as he spoke.
"I have thought of it," faltered Agnes.
"Beware how you trifle with the holy sacrament! Answer frankly. You
have thought of it with pleasure. Confess it."
"I do not understand myself exactly," said Agnes. "I have thought of it
partly with pleasure and partly with pain."
"Would you like to go with him and be his wife, as he said?"
"If it were right, father,--not otherwise."
"Oh, foolish child! oh, blinded soul! to think of right in connection
with an infidel and heretic! Do you not see that all this is an
artifice of Satan? He can transform himself into an angel of light.
Do you suppose this heretic would be brought back to the Church by a
foolish girl? Do you suppose it is your prayers he wants? Why does he
not seek the prayers of the Church,--of holy men who have power with
God? He would bait his hook with this pretense that he may catch your
soul. Do you believe me?"
"I am bound to believe you, my father."
"But you do not. Your heart is going after this wicked man."
"Oh, my father, I do not wish it should. I never wish or expect to see
him more. I only pray for him that his soul may not be lost."
"He has gone, then?"
"Yes, my father. And he went with my uncle, a most holy monk, who has
undertaken the work of his salvation. He listens to my uncle, who has
hopes of restoring him to the Church."
"That is well. And now, my daughter, listen to me. You must root out
of your thought every trace and remembrance of these words of sinful
earthly love which he hath spoken. Such love would burn your soul to
all eternity with fire that never could be quenched. If you can tear
away all roots and traces of this from your heart, if by fasting and
prayer and penance you can become worthy to be a bride of your divine
Lord, then your prayers will gain power, and you may prevail to secure
his eternal salvation. But listen to me, daughter,--listen and tremble!
If ever you should yield to his love and turn back from this heavenly
marriage to follow him, you will accomplish his damnation and your own;
to all eternity he will curse you, while the fire rages and consumes
him,--he will curse the hour that he first saw you."
These words were spoken with an intense vehemence which seemed almost
supernatural. Agnes shivered and trembled; a vague feeling of guilt
overwhelmed and disheartened her; she seemed to herself the most lost
and abandoned of human beings.
"My father, I shall think no penance too severe that may restore my
soul from this sin. I have already made a vow to the blessed Mother
that I will walk on foot to the Holy City, praying in every shrine and
holy place; and I humbly ask your approval."
This announcement brought to the mind of the monk a sense of relief and
deliverance. He felt already, in the terrible storm of agitation which
this confession had aroused within him, that nature was not dead, and
that he was infinitely farther from the victory of passionless calm
than he had supposed. He was still a man,--torn with human passions,
with a love which he must never express, and a jealousy which burned
and writhed at every word which he had wrung from its unconscious
object. Conscience had begun to whisper in his ear that there would
be no safety to him in continuing this spiritual dictatorship to one
whose every word unmanned him,--that it was laying himself open to a
ceaseless temptation, which in some blinded, dreary hour of evil might
hurry him into acts of horrible sacrilege; and he was once more feeling
that wild, stormy revolt of his inner nature that so distressed him
before he left the convent.
This proposition of Agnes's struck him as a compromise. It would
take her from him only for a season, she would go under his care
and direction, and he would gradually recover his calmness and
self-possession in her absence. Her pilgrimage to the holy places would
be a most proper and fit preparation for the solemn marriage-rite
which should forever sunder her from all human ties, and make her
inaccessible to all solicitations of human love. Therefore, after an
interval of silence, he answered,--
"Daughter, your plan is approved. Such pilgrimages have ever been held
meritorious works in the Church, and there is a special blessing upon
them."
"My father," said Agnes, "it has always been in my heart from my
childhood to be the bride of the Lord; but my grandmother, who brought
me up, and to whom I owe the obedience of a daughter, utterly forbids
me; she will not hear a word of it. No longer ago than last Monday she
told me I might as well put a knife into her heart as speak of this."
"And you, daughter, do you put the feelings of any earthly friend
before the love of your Lord and Creator who laid down His life for
you? Hear what He saith: 'He that loveth father or mother more than me
is not worthy of me.'"
"But my poor old grandmother has no one but me in the world, and she
has never slept a night without me; she is getting old, and she has
worked for me all her good days;--it would be very hard for her to lose
me."
"Ah, false, deceitful heart! Has, then, thy Lord not labored for thee?
Has He not borne thee through all the years of thy life? And wilt thou
put the love of any mortal before His?"
"Yes," replied Agnes, with a sort of hardy sweetness, "but my Lord does
not need me as grandmother does; He is in glory, and will never be old
or feeble; I cannot work for Him and tend Him as I shall her. I cannot
see my way clear at present; but when she is gone, or if the saints
move her to consent, I shall then belong to God alone."
"Daughter, there is some truth in your words; and if your Lord
accepts you, He will dispose her heart. Will she go with you on this
pilgrimage?"
"I have prayed that she might, father,--that her soul may be quickened;
for I fear me, dear old grandmamma has found her love for me a
snare,--she has thought too much of my interests and too little of her
own soul, poor grandmamma!"
"Well, child, I shall enjoin this pilgrimage on her as a penance."
"I have grievously offended her lately," said Agnes, "in rejecting
an offer of marriage with a man on whom she had set her heart, and
therefore she does not listen to me as she is wont to do."
"You have done right in refusing, my daughter. I will speak to her of
this, and show her how great is the sin of opposing a holy vocation
in a soul whom the Lord calls to Himself, and enjoin her to make
reparation by uniting with you in this holy work."
Agnes departed from the confessional without even looking upon the face
of her director, who sat within listening to the rustle of her dress as
she rose,--listening to the soft fall of her departing footsteps, and
praying that grace might be given him not to look after her: and he did
not, though he felt as if his life were going with her.
Agnes tripped round the aisle to a little side-chapel where a light
was always kept burning by her before a picture of Saint Agnes, and,
kneeling there, waited till her grandmother should be through with her
confession.
"Ah, sweet Saint Agnes," she said, "pity me! I am a poor ignorant
young girl, and have been led into grievous sin; but I did not mean
to do wrong,--I have been trying to do right; pray for me, that I may
overcome as you did. Pray our dear Lord to send you with us on this
pilgrimage, and save us from all wicked and brutal men who would do us
harm. As the Lord delivered you in sorest straits, keeping soul and
body pure as a lily, ah, pray Him to keep me! I love you dearly,--watch
over me and guide me."
In those days of the Church, such addresses to the glorified saints
had become common among all Christians. They were not regarded as
worship, any more than a similar outpouring of confidence to a beloved
and revered friend yet in the body. Among the hymns of Savonarola is
one addressed to Saint Mary Magdalen, whom he regarded with an especial
veneration. The great truth, that God is not the God of the dead, but
of the living, that all live to Him, was in those ages with the truly
religious a part of spiritual consciousness. The saints of the Church
Triumphant, having become one with Christ as He is one with the Father,
were regarded as invested with a portion of his divinity, and as the
ministering agency through which his mediatorial government on earth
was conducted; and it was thought to be in the power of the sympathetic
heart to attract them by the outflow of its affections, so that their
presence often overshadowed the walks of daily life with a cloud of
healing and protecting sweetness.
If the enthusiasm of devotion in regard to these invisible friends
became extravagant and took the language due to God alone, it was no
more than the fervid Italian nature was always doing with regard to
visible objects of affection. Love with an Italian always tends to
become worship, and some of the language of the poets addressed to
earthly loves rises into intensities of expression due only to the One,
Sovereign, Eternal Beauty. One sees even in the writings of Cicero
that this passionate adoring kind of love is not confined to modern
times. When he loses the daughter in whom his heart is garnered up, he
finds no comfort except in building a temple to her memory,--a blind
outreaching towards the saint-worship of modern times.
Agnes rose from her devotions, and went with downcast eyes, her lips
still repeating prayers, to the font of holy water, which was in a dim
shadowy corner, where a painted window cast a gold and violet twilight.
Suddenly there was a rustle of garments in the dimness, and a jeweled
hand essayed to pass holy water to her on the tip of its finger. This
mark of Christian fraternity, common in those times, Agnes almost
mechanically accepted, touching her slender finger to the one extended,
and making the sign of the cross, while she raised her eyes to see who
stood there. Gradually the haze cleared from her mind, and she awoke to
the consciousness that it was the cavalier! He moved to come towards
her, with a bright smile on his face; but suddenly she became pale as
one who has seen a spectre, and, pushing from her with both hands, she
said faintly, "Go, go!" and turned and sped up the aisle silently as a
sunbeam, joining her grandmother, who was coming from the confessional
with a gloomy and sullen brow.
Old Elsie had been enjoined to unite with her grandchild in this
scheme of a pilgrimage, and received the direction with as much
internal contumacy as would a thriving church-member of Wall Street
a proposition to attend a protracted meeting in the height of the
business season. Not but that pilgrimages were holy and gracious
works,--she was too good a Christian not to admit that,--but why must
holy and gracious works be thrust on her in particular? There were
saints enough who liked such things; and people could get to heaven
without,--if not with a very abundant entrance, still in a modest
way,--and Elsie's ambition for position and treasure in the spiritual
world was of a very moderate cast.
"Well, now, I hope you are satisfied," she said to Agnes, as she
pulled her along with no very gentle hand; "you've got me sent off on
a pilgrimage,--and my old bones must be rattling up and down all the
hills between here and Rome,--and who's to see to the oranges?--they'll
all be stolen, every one."
"Grandmother"--began Agnes in a pleading voice.
"Oh, you hush up! I know what you're going to say. 'The good Lord will
take care of them.' I wish He may. He has his hands full, with all the
people that go cawing and psalm-singing like so many crows, and leave
all their affairs to Him!"
Agnes walked along disconsolate, with her eyes full of tears, which
coursed one another down her pale cheeks.
"There's Antonio," pursued Elsie, "would perhaps look after things
a little. He is a good fellow, and only yesterday was asking if he
couldn't do something for us. It's you he does it for,--but little you
care who loves you, or what they do for you!"
At this moment they met old Jocunda, whom we have before introduced
to the reader as portress of the Convent. She had on her arm a large
square basket, which she was storing for its practical uses.
"Well, well, Saint Agnes be praised, I have found you at last," she
said. "I was wanting to speak about some of your blood-oranges for
conserving. An order has come down from our dear gracious lady, the
Queen, to prepare a lot for her own blessed eating, and you may be sure
I would get none of anybody but you. But what's this, my little heart,
my little lamb?--crying?--tears in those sweet eyes? What's the matter
now?"
"Matter enough for me!" said Elsie. "It's a weary world we live in. A
body can't turn any way and not meet with trouble. If a body brings
up a girl one way, why, every fellow is after her, and one has no
peace; and if a body brings her up another way, she gets her head in
the clouds, and there's no good of her in this world. Now look at
that girl,--doesn't everybody say it's time she were married?--but
no marrying for her! Nothing will do but we must off to Rome on a
pilgrimage,--and what's the good of that, I want to know? If it's
praying that's to be done, the dear saints know she's at it from
morning till night,--and lately she's up and down three or four times a
night with some prayer or other."
"Well, well," said Jocunda, "who started this idea?"
"Oh, Father Francesco and she got it up between them, and nothing will
do but I must go, too."
"Well, now, after all, my dear," said Jocunda, "do you know, I made a
pilgrimage once, and it isn't so bad. One gets a good deal by it, first
and last. Everybody drops something into your hand as you go, and one
gets treated as if one were somebody a little above the common; and
then in Rome one has a princess or a duchess or some noble lady who
washes one's feet, and gives one a good supper, and perhaps a new suit
of clothes, and all that,--and ten to one there comes a pretty little
sum of money to boot, if one plays one's cards well. A pilgrimage isn't
bad, after all; one sees a world of fine things, and something new
every day."
"But who is to look after our garden and dress our trees?"
"Ah, now, there's Antonio, and old Meta his mother," said Jocunda,
with a knowing wink at Agnes. "I fancy there are friends there that
would lend a hand to keep things together against the little one comes
home. If one is going to be married, a pilgrimage brings good luck in
the family. All the saints take it kindly that one comes so far to see
them, and are more ready to do a good turn for one when one needs it.
The blessed saints are like other folks, they like to be treated with
proper attention."
This view of pilgrimages from the material standpoint had more effect
on the mind of Elsie than the most elaborate appeals of Father
Francesco. She began to acquiesce, though with a reluctant air.
Jocunda, seeing her words had made some impression, pursued her
advantage on the spiritual ground.
"To be sure," she added, "I don't know how it is with you; but I know
that I have, one way and another, rolled up quite an account of sins
in my life. When I was tramping up and down with my old man through the
country,--now in this castle and then in that camp, and now and then
in at the sacking of a city or village, or something of the kind,--the
saints forgive us!--it does seem as if one got into things that were
not of the best sort, in such times. It's true, it's been wiped out
over and over by the priest; but then a pilgrimage is a good thing to
make all sure, in case one's good works should fall short of one's sins
at last. I can tell you, a pilgrimage is a good round weight to throw
into the scale; and when it comes to heaven and hell, you know, my
dear, why, one cannot be too careful."
"Well, that may be true enough," said Elsie, "though as to my sins, I
have tried to keep them regularly squared up and balanced as I went
along. I have always been regular at confession, and never failed a jot
or tittle in what the holy father told me. But there may be something
in what you say; one can't be too sure; and so I'll e'en school my old
bones into taking this tramp."
That evening, as Agnes was sitting in the garden at sunset, her
grandmother bustling in and out, talking, groaning, and hurrying in
her preparations for the anticipated undertaking, suddenly there was a
rustling in the branches overhead, and a bouquet of rosebuds fell at
her feet. Agnes picked it up, and saw a scrip of paper coiled among the
flowers. In a moment, remembering the apparition of the cavalier in the
church in the morning, she doubted not from whom it came. So dreadful
had been the effect of the scene at the confessional, that the thought
of the near presence of her lover brought only terror. She turned pale;
her hands shook. She shut her eyes, and prayed that she might not be
left to read the paper; and then, summoning all her resolution, she
threw the bouquet with force over the wall. It dropped down, down, down
the gloomy, shadowy abyss, and was lost in the damp caverns below.
The cavalier stood without the wall, waiting for some responsive
signal in reply to his missive. It had never occurred to him that Agnes
would not even read it, and he stood confounded when he saw it thrown
back with such apparent rudeness. He remembered her pale, terrified
look on seeing him in the morning. It was not indifference or dislike,
but mortal fear, that had been shown in that pale face.
"These wretches are practicing on her," he said, in wrath, "filling her
head with frightful images, and torturing her sensitive conscience till
she sees sin in the most natural and innocent feelings."
He had learned from Father Antonio the intention of Agnes to go on a
pilgrimage, and he longed to see and talk with her, that he might offer
