examination ? Not love of, or admiration for the intrinsic 
excellence of the man whose name she bore ; not fear lest 
his modesty should lessen his merits in the eyes of others ; 
but a selfish dread that his acute interlocutor, discerning in 
him nothing likely to attract or win the affection of a woman 
such as he knew her to be, might guess her true reason for 
marrying Mr. Hammond. The timorous progeny of one 
guilty secret can only be numbered by the minutes during 
which it is borne in the bosom. Like the fabled Lacedae 
monian boy, Sarah carried the gnawing horror with a forti 
tude that looked like cheerfulness. Habit cannot lighten 
the weight of a clinging curse ; but strength and hardness 
come in time, if the burdened one is not early crushed by 
his load. 
The sisters spent most of the day in Lucy's room ; the 
latter stretched upon the lounge, as she declared, " completely used up." Mrs. Hunt came around early in the 
forenoon, and into her sympathizing ears the spoiled child 
poured the story of her woes and wrongs ; Sarah sitting by 
 
with a swelling, rebellions heart. With indecorous contempt 
for one of the most binding laws of the married state in 
violable secrecy as to the faults of the other party to the 
momentous compact mother and daughter compared notes 
upon their husbands, and criticised the class generally as the 
most wrong-headed, perverse, and dictatorial of all the 
necessary evils of society. 
Mrs. Benson, the elder, and her pleasure-loving daughter- 
in-law had differed seriously several months before the death 
of the former. Philip, while espousing his wife's cause to 
the rest of his family, had, in private, taken her to task for 
what he considered objectionable in her conduct ; her heads 
of oifence being mainly extravagant love of gay company, 
and the gallant attentions of gentleman-visitors ; neglect of 
dress and all efforts to please, when there was no company 
by ; and a decided indisposition to share in the household 
duties, which his mother's increasing feebleness made 
onerous to her. 
- " Ah, mother !" sighed the interesting complainant, raising 
herself to shake up her pillow, then sinking again upon it. 
"If girls only realized what is before them when they 
marry, few would be brave enough to change their condition. When I picture to myself what I was at home a 
petted darling never allowed to inconvenience myself 
when it could possibly be avoided ; courted in society ; free 
as air and light-hearted as a child ; and then think of all 
that I have endured from the unkindness of strangers, and 
the well the want of sympathy in him for whom I had 
given up my dear old home and friends I ask myself why 
I did not remain single !" 
The prudent matchmaker shook her head. " Marriage is 
a lottery, they say, my dear ; but I am very sure that single 
life is a blank. You had no fortune, and in the event of 
your father's death would have been almost destitute. I am 
 
sorry that your father did not insist upon Mr. Benson's 
giving you your own establishment at once. I hope, now 
the old lady is out of the way, you will have things more 
according to your notions." 
"Don't you believe that! As if there were not two 
sisters-in-law, living but four miles off, and driving over 
every other day to see how pa is. That mtcins, to see 
whether Lucy is letting things go to wreck and ruin. I 
understand their spiteful ways ! Philip shuts his ears when 
I talk about them ; but I am determined that I will not bear 
much more meddling !" 
Decidedly, Lucy Benson married was a woeful declension 
from the seraphic spinster depicted in our earlier chapters ; 
but, as in time past, so in time present and to come, the 
sparkling sugar, whose integrity and sweetness appeared 
indestructible, while it was kept dry and cool, if dampened, 
undergoes an acetous fermentation, and the delicate sweet 
meat, exposed to the air at a high temperature, becomes 
speedily a frothing mass, evolving pungent gases. The 
pretty doll who anticipates, in the connubial state, one long 
fete of adoration received, and benign condescension 
dispensed, is as certain to awake from this dream as from 
any other, and upon the temper in which she sustains the 
disenchantment, depends a vast proportion of her future 
welfare and peace. 
Lucy's behavior to her babe was a mixture of childish 
fondling and neglect. Fortunately, the little "Hunt s" 
special attendant was an elderly woman, long established as 
"Maumer" in the Benson family, and her devotion to her 
charge prevented any present evil effects from his mother's 
incompetence or carelessness. Philip's pride in, and lovo 
for his boy were extreme. When he came in that evening, 
Sarah chanced to be in the nursery adjoining her chamber, 
watching and inciting the two babies to, a. game of romps. 
 
She held one on each knee, the nurses standing by in 
amused gratification. 
" That is surely my little man's voice !" said Philip, as he 
and Lewis came up the stairs. 
" Let me see !" and Mr. Hammond peeped into the play 
room. " Walk in !" he continued, throwing the door wide 
open. " Isn't there a pair of them ?" 
" And a nurse worthy of the twain !" replied Philip. He 
stooped to the invitation of the lifted arms, fluttering, as if 
the owner would fly to his embrace. " What do you say 
of him, aunty ? Is he not a passable boy ?" 
" More than passable ! he is a noble-looking fellow. He 
resembles you, I think," said Sarah, quietly. 
" Do you hear that, Hammond ? Your wife pronounces 
me c more than passable a noble-looking fellow ! So much 
for an adroit hint. Is she given to flattery ?" 
" Not she !" returned Lewis, laughing. " She never said 
as much as that for my looks in all her life. I have one con 
solation, however ; the less she says the more she means !" 
He went into the dressing-room, and Philip, still holding the 
child, seated himself by Sarah. 
" How odd, yet how familiar it seems, to be with you 
once more, my good sister ! What a succession of mis 
chances has made us virtual strangers for many months 
past ! I had almost despaired of ever holding friendly con 
verse with you again. I wonder if your recollections 
of our visit to Aunt Sarah are as vivid as mine. Do 
you remember that last sad, yet dear day on the Deal 
Beach?" . 
Baby Belle was standing in her mother's lap, her soft, 
warm arms about her neck ; and around the frail, sinking 
human heart invisible arms, as warm and close, were up 
holding and strengthening it in the moment of mortal 
weakness. 
 
" Very distinctly. Many changes have come to us both 
since then." 
" To me very many ! I have grown older in heart than 
in years." Then, evidently fearing that she might other 
wise interpret his meaning, he subjoined : " We have had a 
heavy bereavement in our household, you know. Your 
changes have all been happy ones. The enthusiastic, rest 
less girl has ripened into the more sedate, yet more blessed 
wife and mother." 
Press your sweet mouth to the convulsed lips, Baby 
Belle ! veil with your silky curls the tell-tale features, 
whose agitation would bewilder, if not betray ! Philip was 
stroking the head of his boy, and did not see the uneasiness 
of his companion. 
" Have you heard of Uncle Nathan's death ?" she asked, 
clearing her throat. 
He looked surprised at the inquiry. " Yes ! Aunt Sarah 
wrote immediately to my father." 
" Ah ! I had forgotten that they were brothers. My 
memory is treacherous. Excuse me ! I am wanted in the 
dining-room !" 
Lewis met her just outside the door, and stopped her to 
bestow the evening kiss he had not cared to offer in Philip's 
presence. 
" Why, you are as rosy as a peony !" he said, jestingly. 
" Has Benson been paying you compliments, in return for 
yours to him ? I must look after you two, if you carry on 
at this rate." 
With a look he had reason subsequently to recall, but 
which only pleased him at the time, she raised his hand to 
her lips a look of humility, gratitude, and appeal, such as 
one might cast upon a slighted benefactor and vanished. 
A merry family party gathered around the Hammond's 
generous table, that afternoon. All the Hunts were there 
 
from the father down to Jeannie, who was fast shooting up 
into a tall girl, somewhat pert in manner, but lovable despite 
this, at times, unpleasant foible. 
" Sister Lucy," she said, after an interval of silence, 
" Ellen West said, at school, to-day, that you were a great 
belle when you were a young lady ; were you ?" 
" You must not ask me, Jeannie !" The old smile of 
conscious beauty stole into Lucy's cheeks. 
" Was she, sister?" Jeannie referred the case to Sarah. 
" Yes, my dear, she was very beautiful," replied the latter, 
simply. 
" She isn't now not so very handsome, I mean no hand 
somer /than you are, sister !" 
" Jeannie ! you forget yourself!" interposed Mrs. Hunt. 
" Why, mamma, I did not intend to be rude ! Only I 
thought that belles were always the prettiest ladies that 
could be found anywhere." 
" By no means !" corrected Lewis, willing to help his 
wife's pet out of a scrape. " There are many descriptions 
of belles, Jeannie : handsome, rich, fast, and intellectual." 
" And as papa was not rich, I suppose you were either 
fast or intellectual, sister Lucy !" persisted the child. 
" I thought her pretty fast when I tried to catch her," 
said Philip. " Mrs. Hunt, Mrs. Hammond, Mrs. Benson, 
have you ladies decided in the course of to-day's congress 
what watering-place is to be made the fashion by our 
clique next month?" 
Mrs. Hunt replied that they inclined to Newport ; principally on account of Lucy and the children, who would all 
be benefited by the bathing. 
Lucy was sure that she should tire of Saratoga or the 
Catskills in a week, whereas she adored the ocean. 
" What says Madame Discretion ?" said Lewis, merrily, 
to his wife. 
" Except that it would break up the family party, I had 
rather stay at home as long as it is prudent to keep the 
baby in town ; then, if you could go with us, spend a month 
at some mountain farm-house or sea-side cottage," she 
answered. 
"Hear! hear !" commanded Philip. " Behold a modern 
wedded dame who prefers seclusion with her liege lord to 
gayety without him! The age of miracles is returning !" 
" Is the case, then, so anomalous ?" retorted Sarah, the red 
spot in her cheek alone testifying to her embarrassment. 
" Are your Southern matrons all public characters ?" 
" I can answer that !" said Lucy. " They are slaves ! 
housekeeping machines nothing better !" 
" How many more weak places are there in this crust of 
family chit-chat, I should like to be informed !" thought the 
annoyed and uninitiated Hammond. " Here goes for the 
spot where there is no danger of anybody's breaking in I" 
He spoke aloud. " A tempting proposal was made to me 
this morning. It is considered advisable for one of our firm 
to go abroad for a couple of months, perhaps longer, to 
divide his time among the principal manufacturing districts 
of England, Scotland, and France. Expenses paid by the 
firm, and the term of absence indefinitely prolonged, if the 
travelher wishes it. Mr. Marlow is tired of crossing the 
ocean, and presses me to accept the mission." 
" What did you tell him ?" 
It was Sarah who spoke in a startled voice that drew 
general notice to her alarmed face. Her concern was a delicious tribute to her husband's self-love, if he possessed 
such a quality. At least he loved Tier well enough to be 
pleased at her manifest reluctance to have him leave her. 
" I told him that I must ask my wife," said he in a meek 
tone, belied by the humorous twinkle in his eye, and loving 
half-smile about his mouth. " See what it is to be one under 
 
authority, Benson ! A man dare not conclude an ordinary 
business transaction without the approval of the powers 
that be." 
When Sarah accompanied her sister to her chamber that 
night, the passee belle put a direct question. 
" Tell me, Sarah, are you as much in love with Mr. Hammond as you seem to be, or is it all put on for the benefit of 
outsiders ?" 
" I am not apt to do any thing for the sake of mere show ; 
nor do I care for the opinion of outsiders, as you call 
them," rejoined Sarah, amazed at the cool audacity of the 
inquiry, and disposed to resent Lucy's confident expectation 
that she would avow the cheat, if such there were, in her 
deportment. 
" You used to be shockingly independent, I know. What 
a ridiculously honest little puss you were ! How you de 
spised all our pretty arts and necessary affectations ! How 
you hated our economical mother's second-best furniture and 
dinners ! I don't believe Victoria West has ever forgiven 
you for the way in which you used to take to pieces what 
you styled our surface talk and surface life ! I thought, 
however, that you had discovered by this time, that one 
cannot live in the world without deceiving herself or other 
people ; I prefer making fools to being one. Heigh-ho ! this 
life is a very unsatisfactory business at the best. What a 
heavenly collar that is of yours ! One thing I do wish, and 
that is that my husband were half as fond of me, or as 
good to me, as Lewis is to you !" 
CHAPTER XIV. 
LEWIS HAMMOND had thrown the whole weight of his in 
fluence in the family conclave, into the Newport scale ; and 
to this popular resort Sarah went, in July, in company with 
the Bensons, her mother and Jeannie, who was made one of 
the party at Lewis's request and expense. The generous 
fellow acted in conformity with conscience and judgment in 
this temporary exile of his treasures ; and, consistent in his 
purpose of rendering it a pleasure excursion to his wife, he 
made very light of his prospects of lonely widowerhood, representing, instead, the benefit she and the babe would draw 
from the sea-breezes, and his enhanced enjoyment of his 
weekly visits, because they were so far apart. He went with 
them to the shore, at their general flitting, and spent two 
days ; saw for himself that those whose comfort was nearest 
his heart were properly accommodated ; privately feed 
chambermaid and waiter, with hints of future emolument 
to accrue to them from special regard to the wants of 
Mrs. Hammond and her infant, and returned to town with 
the unenviable consciousness of having left at least three- 
fourths of himself behind him. 
A brisk rush of business beguiled him of the aching, hol 
low void for a few hours after he got back. Not even Baby 
Belle's accents could be heard amid that roar and whir. But 
at luncheon-time, while waiting for his order to be filled at a 
restaurant, the dreary, solitary void overtook him a fit of 
unmistakable home-sickness, that yet caused him to recoil at 
 
the idea of entering the deserted house up-town, when evening should oblige him to seek a lodging. How were Sarah 
and baby getting along without him ? He was afraid that 
Lucy was not, in all respects, as congenial a companion as 
he could have wished his wife to have, and that Mrs. Hunt's 
undisguised worldliness, her fooh sh love of fashion and dis 
play, would often annoy arid mortify her sensible and right- 
judging daughter. Benson was capital company, though 
a gentleman every inch of him ! and very friendly to Sarah. 
But for her reserved manners he would act the part of a 
real brother to her ; in any case, he would be kind, and see 
that she wanted for nothing. 
Then shot into his head by some unseen and unaccount 
able machinery there darted across his mind a fragment of 
a conversation he had overheard, at entering his parlor, the 
day before the Bensons left. Philip and Lucy were standing 
before a miniature painting of Sarah and her child, completed 
and brought home a short time previous. Although seemingly intent upon the picture, their conversation must have 
strayed far from the starting-point, for the first sentence that 
reached the unintentional listener was a tart, scornful speech 
from Lucy, that could by no stretch of the imagination be 
made to apply to her sister. 
" If you admire her so much, why did you not marry her 
when you had the opportunity ? She was willing enough !" 
" Take care you do not make me regret that I did not do 
so !" was Philip's stern rejoinder as he turned from her. 
The change of position showed him that Lewis was present, and for a second his inimitable self-possession wavered. 
Recovering himself, he reverted to the picture, and called 
upon his host to decide some disputed point in its artistic execution which he and Lucy were discussing. 
" Poor fellow! he has learned that all is not gold that glitters !" mused Lewis to the newspaper he was pretending to 
 
read. " Lucy had a high reputation for amiability before 
she was Mrs. Benson. There is no touchstone like the wed 
ding-ring to bring out one's true qualities." 
He sat with his back to the entrance of the saloon, and 
the table directly behind him was now taken possession of 
by three or four new arrivals all gentlemen, and apparently 
on familiar terms with one another. They called for a bountiful lunch, including wine, and plunged into a lively, rather 
noisy talk. Lewis closed his ears, and applied himself in 
earnest to his paper. He started presently at a word he 
could have declared was his name. Restraining the impulse 
to look around and see who of the group was known to him, 
he yet could not help trying to determine this point by 
their voices. One, a thin falsetto, he fancied belonged to 
George Bond, who was no more of a favorite with him than 
was his better half with Sarah. Lewis regarded him as a 
conceited rattle-pate, whose sole talent lay in the art of 
making money whose glory was his purse. " Why should 
he be talking about me here ? Nonsense ; I was mistaken !" 
and another page of the newspaper was turned. 
" When I leave my wife at Newport, or anywhere else, 
in the particular and brotherly care of one of her former 
flames, publish me as a crazy fool !" said the wiry voice 
again, almost in the reader's ear. 
" He doesn't know old stories as well as you do, perhaps," 
remarked some one. 
" I should think not ! When my wife pulls the wool over 
my eyes in that style, horsewhip me around town, and I 
won't cry Quarter ! Sister's husband or not, I'll be 
hanged if I would have him in my house for two weeks, and 
he is such a good-looking dog, too !" 
He stopped, as if his neighbor had jogged him, as Lewis 
looked over his shoulder in the direction of the gossip. A 
dead and awkward silence ensued, ended at last by the 
 
pertinent observation that the " waiter was a long time 
bringing their lunch." 
In a maze of angry doubt and incredulity as to the evidence of his senses and suspicions, Lewis finished his meal, 
and stalked out past the subdued and now voracious quartette, favoring them with a searching look as he went by, 
which they sustained with great meekness. All the after 
noon a heavy load lay upon his heart an indefinable dread 
he dared not analyze ; a forboding he would not face, yet 
could not dismiss. 
" You are blue, Lewis !" said Mr. Marlow, kindly, as they 
started up town together. " This is the worst of having a 
wife and children ; you miss them so terribly when they are 
away. But you will get used to it. Make up your mind at 
the eleventh hour to cross the water, and stay abroad three 
months. You will be surprised to find how easy your mind 
will become after a couple of weeks." 
a I am satisfied, sir, without making personal trial of the 
matter, that men become inured to misery, which seemed 
in the beginning to be insupportable." 
Mr. Marlow laughed, and they separated. 
Lewis sighed as he looked up at the blinds of his house, 
shut fast and grim, and still more deeply as he admitted 
himself to the front hall, that echoed dismally the sound of 
the closing door. His next movement was to walk into the 
parlor, throw open -a shutter, and let in the evening light 
upon the portraits of the dear absent ones. There he stood, 
scanning their faces eyes and soul full of love and long 
ing until the mellow glow passed away and left them in 
darkness. 
The comfortless evening repast was over, and he betook 
himself to the library, Sarah's favorite room, as it was also 
his. Her low easy-chair stood in its usual place opposite 
his at the centre-table, but her work-basket was missing ; 
 
likewise the book, with its silver marker, that he was woDt 
to see lying side by side with some volume he had selected 
for his own reading. But one lay there now, and there was 
an odd choking in his throat as he read the title on the 
back. He had expressed a wish for it in Sarah's hearing 
some days before, and her delicate forethought had left it 
here as a solace and keepsake, one that should, while reminding him of her, yet charm away sad feelings in her 
absence. Even in the exterior of the gift, she had been're 
gardful of his taste. The binding was solid and rich ; no 
gaudy coloring or tawdry gilt ; the thick smooth paper and 
clear type were a luxury to touch and sight. Lewis was 
no sentimentalist, in the ordinary acceptation of the term, yet 
he kissed the name his wife had traced upon the fly-leaf ere 
he sat down to employ the evening as she by her gift tacitly 
requested him to do. But it was a useless attempt. The 
book was not in fault, and he -should have read it intently, 
if only because she had bestowed it ; still, the hand that 
held it sank lower and lower, until it rested upon his knee, 
and the reader was the thinker instead. 
The most prosaic of human beings have their seasons of 
reverie pleasing or mournful, which are, unknown often 
to themselves, the poetry of their lives. Such was the 
drama Lewis Hammond was now rehearsing in his retro 
spective dreams. 
The wan and weary mother, whom he remembered as 
always clothed in widow's weeds, and toiling in painful 
drudgery to maintain herself and her only boy ; who had 
smiled and wept, rendered thanksgivings and uttered prayers 
for strength, alternately, as she heard Mr. Marlow's proposal to protect and help the lad through the world that had 
borne so hardly upon her ; who had strained him to her 
bosom, and shed fast, hot tears of speechless anguish at 
their parting a farewell that was never to be forgotten in 
 
any meeting on this side of eternity ; this was the vision, 
hers the palladium of love, that had nerved him for the close 
wrestle with fortune, guarded him amid the burning plough 
shares of temptation, carried him unscathed past the hundred mouths of hell, that gape upon the innocent and un 
wary in all large cities. Cold and unsusceptible as he was 
deemed in society, he kept unpolluted in his breast a fresh 
living stream of genuine romantic feeling, such as we are 
apt to think went out of fashion aye, and out of being 
with the belted knights of yore; wealth he had vowed 
never to squander, never reveal, until he should pour it, 
without one thought of self-reserve, upon his wife! He 
never hinted this to a living creature before the moment 
came for revealing it to the object of his choice. He was a 
"predestined old bachelor !", an "infidel to love and the 
sex," said and believed the gay and frivolous, and he let 
them talk. His ideal woman, his mother's representative 
and successor the beauty and crown of his existence was 
too sacred for the gaze and comment of indifferent worldlings. For her he labored and studied and lived ; confident 
in a fatalistic belief that, at the right moment, the dream 
would become a reality the phantasm leave her cloudy 
height for his arms. 
Love so beautiful and intense as this, like snow in its 
purity, like fire in its fervor, cannot be won to full and eloquent utterance but by answering love a sentiment identical in kind, if not equal in degree ; and Sarah Hammond's 
estimate of her husband's affection was, in consequence of 
this want in herself, cruelly unjust in its coldness and poverty. His patience with her transient fits of gloom or way 
wardness in the early months of their married life; his 
noble forgetfulness of her faults, and grateful acknowledg 
ment of her most trifling effort to please him ; his unceasing 
care ; his lavish bounty all these she attributed too much 
 
to natural amiability and conscientious views of duty ; too 
little to his warm regard for her personally. In this persuasion she had copied his conduct in externals so far as she 
could; and applauding observers adjudged the mock gem 
to be a fair and equitable equivalent for the rare pearl she 
had received. 
Lest this digression, into which I have been inadvertently 
betrayed, should mislead any with the idea that I have 
some design of dignifying into a hero this respectable, but 
very commonplace personage, return we to him as he hears 
eleven o'clock rung out by the monitor on the mantel, and 
says to himself, " Baby Belle has been asleep these three 
hours, and mamma, caring nothing for beaux and ball-room, 
is preparing to follow her." 
Beaux and ball-room ! Pshaw ! why should the nonsensical talk of that jacknapes, George Bond, come to his mind 
just then ? The whole tenor of the remarks that succeeded 
the name he imagined was his disproved that imagination. 
But icho had left his wife at Newport in the care of a 
"good-looking" brother-in-law? io7io had been domesticated 
in the family of the deluded husband for a fortnight ? 
Pshaw again ! What concern had he with their scandalous, doubtless slanderous tattle ? 
" Why did you not marry her when you had the oppor 
tunity ? She was willing enough !" 
Could Lucy have spoken thus of her sister ? Sarah was 
barely acquainted with Philip Benson when Lucy wedded 
him, having met him but once prior to the wedding-day at 
the house of her aunt in the country, from which place his 
own letter, penned by her father's sick-bed, recalled her. 
How far from his thoughts then was the rapid train of 
consequences that followed upon this preliminary act of 
their intercourse ! 
Did that scoundrel Bond say " Hammond ?" It was not 
 
a common name, and came quite distinctly to his ears in the 
high, unpleasant key he so disliked. A flush of honest 
shame arose to his forehead at this uncontrollable straying 
of his ideas to a topic so disagreeable, and so often rejected 
by his mind. 
" As if even had I been the person insulted by his pity 
I would believe one syllable he said of a woman as far above 
him in virtue and intellect, in every thing good and lovable, 
as the heavens are above the earth ! I would despise my 
self as much as I do him, if I could lend my ear for an in 
stant to so degrading a whisper ! I wish I had faced him 
and demanded the whole tale; yet no! that would have 
been rash and absurd. Better as it is ! By to-morrow, I 
shall laugh at my ridiculous fancies !" 
" Scratch ! scratch ! scratch !" The house was so still in 
the approaching midnight that the slight noise caused him 
a shock and quiver in the excited state of his nerves. The 
interruption was something between a scrape and a rap, 
three times repeated, and proceeding, apparently, from the 
bookcase at his right. "What could it be ? He had never 
seen or heard of a mouse on the premises, nor did the sound 
much resemble the nibbling of that animal. Ashamed of 
the momentary thrill he had experienced, he remained still 
and collected, awaiting its repetition. 
" Scratch ! scratch ! rap !" It was in the bookcase in 
the lower part where were drawers shut in by solid doors. 
These he had never explored, but knew that his wife kept 
pamphlets and papers in them. He opened the outer doors 
cautiously, and listened again, until assured by the scratch 
ing that his search was in the right direction. There 
were three drawers, two deep, the third and upper shal 
low. This he drew out and examined. It contained writing-paper and envelopes, all in good order. Nor was there 
any sign of the intruder amongst the loose music and peri- 
 
odicals in the second. The lower one was locked no 
doubt accidentally, for he had never seen Sarah lock up 
any thing except jewels and money. Their servants were 
honest, and she had no cause to fear investigation on his part. 
Feeling, rather than arguing thus, he removed the drawer 
above, leaving exposed the locked one, and thrust his hand 
down into it. It encountered the polished surface of a 
small box or case, which he was in the act of drawing 
through the aperture left by the second drawer, when some 
thing dark and swift ran over his hand and up his sleeve. 
With a violent start, he dashed the casket to the floor, and 
another energetic fling of his arm dislodged the mouse. His 
first care was to pursue and kill it ; his next to examine into 
the damage it had indirectly produced. The box ebony, 
lined with sandal-wood had fallen with such force as to 
loosen the spring, and lay on its side wide open ; its treasures strewed over the carpet. They were neither numerous, nor in themselves valuable. A bouquet of dried flowers, 
enveloped in silver paper, lay nearest Lewis's hand, as he 
knelt to pick up the scattered articles. The paper was tied 
about the stalks of the flowers with black ribbon, and to this 
was attached a card : " Will Miss Sarah accept this trifling 
token of regard from one who is her stanch friend, and 
hopes, in time, to have a nearer claim upon her esteem ?" 
The hand was familiar to the reader as Philip Benson s. 
Why should Sarah preserve this, while the many floral to 
kens of his love which she had received were flung away 
when withered like worthless weeds ? The pang of jeal 
ousy was new sharp as the death-wrench to the heart 
strings, cruel as the grave ! The card was without date, or 
he would have read, with a different apprehension of its 
meaning, the harmless clause "An'd hopes in time to have 
a nearer claim upon her esteem.  There was a time, then, 
when, as Lucy had taunted her husband, he might have 
 
married her sister ! when Sarah loved him, and had reason 
to think herself beloved in return ! What was this sable 
badge but the insignia of a bereaved heart, that mourned 
still in secret the faithlessness of her early love, or the adverse fate that had sundered him from her, and given him 
to another ? 
Crushing the frail, dead stems in his hand, he threw them 
back into the box, and took up a bit of dark gray wood, 
rough on one side smoothed on the other into a rude tab 
let. " Philip Benson, Deal Beach, July 27th, 1856. Pensez 
d mof " But ten days before he met her at the wharf in 
New York to take her to her sick father ! but three months 
before she plighted her troth to him, promised to wed him, 
while in spirit she was still weeping tears of blood over the 
inconstant ! for he did not forget that Philip's engagement 
to Lucy preceded his own to Sarah by eight or nine weeks. 
There were other relics in the box ; a half-worn glove, 
retaining the shape of the manly hand it had inclosed 
which, he learned afterwards, Philip had left in his chamber 
at the farm-house when he departed to seek gayer scenes ; 
a white shell, upon whose rosy lining were scratched with 
the point of a knife the ominous initials, " P. B.," and be 
neath them " S. B. H.," a faded rose-bud, and several printed 
slips, cut from the columns of newspapers. He unfolded 
but two of these. 
One was an extract from Tennyson's "Maud" the invitation to the garden. Breathlessly, by reason of the terrible 
stricture tightening around his heart, Lewis ran his eyes 
over the charming whimsical morceau. They rested upon 
and reviewed the last verse : 
" She is coming my own, my sweet I 
Were it ever so airy a tread, 
My heart would hear her and beat ; 
Were it earth in an earthy bed, 
 
"My dust would hear her and beat; 
Had I laid for a century dead, 
"Would start and tremble under her feet, 
And blossom in purple and red." 
He did not discriminate now between printed and writ 
ten verses. These were love stanzas sent by another 
man to his wife, received and cherished by her, hidden 
away with a care that, in itself, bordered on criminality, for 
was not its object the deception of the injured husband ? 
The most passionate autograph love-letter could hardly have 
stabbed him more keenly. 
The other was Mrs. Browning's exquisite " Portrait." 
And here the reader can have an explanation the tortured 
man could not obtain. With the acumen for which Cupid's 
votaries are proverbial, Philip Benson, then at the " summer 
heat" degree of his flame for the Saratoga belle, had recognized in this poem the most correct and beautiful description 
of his lady-love. Curiosity to see if the resemblance were 
apparent to other eyes, and a desire for sympathy tempted 
him to forward it to Sarah. She must perceive the likeness 
to her divine sister, and surmise the sentiment that had in 
duced him to send it. A little alteration in the opening 
stanza was requisite to make it a " perfect fit." Thus it 
was when the change was made : 
I will paint her aa I see her : 
times have the lilies blown 
Since she looked upon the sun." 
The poetess, guiltless of any intention to cater for the 
wants of grown-up lovers, had written " Ten" in the space 
made blank by Philip's gallantry and real ignorance of his 
charmer's age. For the rest, the "lily-clear face," the " fore 
head fair and saintly," the " trail of golden hair," the blue 
eyes, " like meek prayers before a shrine," the voice that 
 
" Murmurs lowly 
As a silver stream may run, 
Which yet feels you feel the sun," 
were, we may safely assert, quite as much like poor Sarah, 
when he sent the poem, as they were now like the portrait 
he would if put upon his oath sketch of his unidealized 
Lucy. 
It was not unnatural then, in Lewis Hammond, to over 
look in his present state, these glaring discrepancies in the 
picture as applied by him. With a blanched and rigid coun 
tenance he put all the things back into the box, shut it, and 
restored it to its place. Then he knelt on the floor and hid 
his face in his wife's chair ; and there struggled out into the 
still air of the desecrated home-temple, made sacred by his 
love and her abiding, deep sobs from the strong man's 
stricken heart a grief as much more fearful than that of 
widowhood, as the desertion and dishonor of the loved one 
are worse than death. 
 
CHAPTER XV. 
IT was the "grand*hop" night at the head-quarters of 
Newport fashion. Sarah, characteristically indifferent to 
gayeties "made to order," had determined not to appear 
below. The air of her room was fresh and pure, and a book, 
yet unread, lay under the lamp upon her table. Her sister 
and mother had withdrawn to dress, when Jeannie's curly 
head peeped in at Mrs. Hammond's door. Her features 
wore a most woe-begone expression. 
" What has gone wrong, Jeannie ?" inquired Sarah. 
" Why, mamma says that I will be in her way if I go into 
the ball-room ; and it will be so stupid to stay out the whole 
evening, while all the other girls can see the dancing and 
dresses, and hear the music. And sister Lucy says that chil 
dren are bores in company." 
" A sad state of things, certainly ! Perhaps I may per 
suade mother to let you go." 
"Yes ; but if she does, she will sit close against the wall with 
a lot of other fat old ladies, and they will talk over my head, 
and squeeze me almost to death, besides rumpling my dress ; 
and I so want to wear my tucked pink grenadine, sister !" 
" And you would like to have me go down with you ; is 
that it?" 
Jeannie's eyes beamed delightedly. "Oh, if you only 
would !" 
Sarah looked down into the eager face and saw, in anticipation, her own little Belle imploring some boon, as impor- 
 
tant to her, as easy to be granted by another as this, and 
consented with a kiss. 
" Run away and bring your finery here ! Mother is too 
busy to attend to you. Mary can dress you." 
The order was obeyed with lightning speed ; and Sarah, 
still beholding in the excited child the foreshadowing of her 
darling's girlhood, superintended the toilet, while she made 
herself ready. 
" What shall I wear, Jeannie ?" "she asked, carelessly, 
holding open the door of her wardrobe. 
" Oh, that lovely fawn-colored silk, please ! the one with 
the black lace flounces ! It is the prettiest color I ever saw; 
and I heard Mrs. Greyling tell another lady the night you 
wore it, when brother Lewis was here, you know, that it 
was one of the richest dresses in the room, modest as it 
looked, and that the flounces must have cost a penny !" 
" Probably more !" 
Sarah proceeded to array herself in the fortunate robe 
that had won the praises of the fashionably distinguished 
Mrs. Greyling. Her abundant dark hair was lighted by two 
coral sprigs, which formed the heads of her hair-pins, and, 
handkerchief and gloves in hand, she was taking a last survey of Jeannie's more brilliant costume, when there came a 
knock at the door. 
"Mr, Benson !" said Mary, unclosing it. 
" May I come in ?" he asked. 
The tidy Mary had removed all trace of the recent tiring 
operations from the apartment, which was a compound of 
parlor and dressing-room, a necessary adjunct to the small 
chamber and smalher nursery, leading out of it, at the side 
and rear. 
"You may!" replied Sarah. "Here is an aspirant for 
ball-room honors, who awaits your approval." 
Mademoiselle, que vous e"tes charmante ! I am penetrated with profound admiration!" exclaimed the teasing 
brother-in-law, raising his hands in true melodramatic style. 
Jeannie laughed and blushed until her cheeks matched 
the grenadine. 
" Mrs. Hunt told me that you had changed your mind, 
and intended to grace the festive scene with your presence, * 
continued Philip, addressing Sarah. " She and Lucy are 
there, and the dancing has begun. I came to escort you 
and our fair debutante here that is, unless some one else 
has oifered his services and been accepted." 
" That is not likely, since Mr. Hammond left us in your 
care. Do not your fourfold duties oppress you ?" 
"Not in the least. If all my charges were as chary of 
their calls upon me as you are, my time would hang heavily 
upon my hands. No one would imagine, from your reluctance to be waited upon, that you had been spoiled at home. 
If Mr. Hammond were here now, he would tell you to draw 
that shawl" 
" It is an opera cloak !" interrupted Jeannie. 
