and uncle Obed was more terrible than any punishment he could receive
for his misdeeds.
"I am glad to see you have some honesty left in your composition. You
acknowledge the deception, and we will let the farce end here. You have
become a thief and a midnight incendiary. I have been weak and
indulgent towards you. My eyes are opened, and I shall pursue a
different course."
Mr. Grant's lip trembled with emotion as he spoke. Mr. Presby and uncle
Obed suddenly became very serious, and it was plain to the culprit that
the farce had really ended.
"Richard, I knew you were wild, and even dissolute, but I did not think
you would steal," added Mr. Grant, with deep feeling.
"It was only for fun, father," pleaded Richard.
"Do you practise the trade of the incendiary for fun?" asked his
father, sternly.
"That was only because Mr. Batterman flogged me. He had no business to
do that."
"And so you would burn his barn?"
"I didn't burn it."
"It would have burned to the ground, if Mr. Presby and Ben had not put
the fire out. I have let my friend expose you in his own way, because
the trouble he has taken reveals to me your true character. You are
worse than your dissolute companions. Richard, you have become a
villain!"
Mr. Grant rose from his chair and walked away to hide the tears which
this sad revelation of his son's character drew from his eyes.
"He is not so bad as he might be," interposed Mr. Presby. "Remember
that he saved the animals in the barn."
"The record is black even with this redeeming line," said Mr. Grant. "I
would rather follow my son to his grave than have him become such a
wretch as you are, Richard. Shall I let you take the consequences of
your crime?"
"What consequences, father?" asked Richard, with a degree of humility
he had never before exhibited.
"Are you a simpleton? Don't you know the penalty of your crime?"
"We didn't burn the barn."
"In the eye of the law you are just as guilty as though the barn had
burned to the ground. If convicted, you would be sent to the state
prison. I have made up my mind what to do with you," said Mr. Grant, as
he walked out of the room, for his emotions would no longer permit him
to remain.
"You have got into a bad scrape, Dick," added uncle Obed, as he shook
his head, and followed his brother, leaving the culprit alone with Mr.
Presby.
"He will not let them send me to the state prison?" said Richard,
fearful that his father might have abandoned all hope of redeeming him
from the error of his ways.
"You have been a very bad boy," replied Mr. Presby.
"I am very sorry for it, and I mean to do better."
"I hope you will, my dear boy. Your father has suffered terribly since
I returned, and poor Bertha has done nothing but weep for the last two
hours. You are ruining yourself and wounding the hearts of your friends
more than words can describe."
"I will try to do better."
"Your father will not trust you again."
"What is he going to do?"
"He will inform you himself," replied Mr. Presby, as he withdrew from
the room.
Richard was alone with his own thoughts and fears. He felt as though
his career had reached its close, though he could not imagine what
terrible thing his father intended to do. He was really sorry for what
he had done, whether his sorrow was caused by a genuine feeling that he
had done wrong, or by the fear of punishment.
His mind was in a confused state; the past with its sorrows, and the
future with its terrors, whirled through his brain. He wanted time for
reflection, and leaving the house, he walked down to the pier to
deliberate upon the situation.
Ben was there, and Richard began to question him, for Mr. Presby had
intimated that the boatman was with him the night before. From him he
learned all the facts in regard to their movements. It appeared that
the old gentleman had heard Richard when he opened the window, and had
watched him closely, fully satisfied, however, that he was asleep.
When Mr. Presby, from the roof of the conservatory, had noted the
direction he took, he had closed the window, and called the boatman to
assist him. They had followed him in the large sail boat, and landed
near the point where Sandy was taken on board the Greyhound. By this
time, Ben's original idea that Richard was wide awake was adopted by
Mr. Presby. By the exercise of great skill and caution, they had kept
near the boys, and had put out the fire almost as soon as it was
kindled.
While they were still on the ground, Mr. Batterman, who had been
awakened by the bright light of the burning hay, made his appearance.
He found the two old men in the very act of putting out the fire. Mr.
Presby smothered the flames by throwing his great-coat upon it.
"Now, Mr. Richard," continued the boatman, "Mr. Presby saved you. He
was acquainted with Batterman, and has a mortgage on his farm. The
farmer suspected who had attempted to burn his building; he laid it to
you at once, and told us all about the scrape when you stole the
melons. You don't know how mad he was, Mr. Richard. But Mr. Presby made
it all right with him, and he promised not to prosecute. Mr. Richard,
you had better not walk in your sleep any more."
Richard did not like this last remark, and he walked down the pier. The
state prison was only a bugbear then; but his father meant to do
something. He was about to get into his skiff to visit the Greyhound
when Ben hailed him.
"My orders are, not to let you have any of the boats," said he.
The new order of things had begun, and he returned to the house. His
father was in the sitting room when he entered.
"Richard," said Mr. Grant, "to-morrow you will leave home for some
months. I have decided to place you in a boarding school, where you
will be under the eye of one who is competent to manage you."
This was the great matter which a little fire had kindled.
CHAPTER IX.
RICHARD GOES TO THE TUNBROOK MILITARY INSTITUTE.
Richard had several times before been threatened with a residence at a
boarding school. Most of his education had been obtained at home, under
the superintendence of tutors, and special teachers in various
branches. He had been under little or no restraint; and the consequence
was, that his mental discipline had been very imperfect, and his stock
of knowledge was small, considering the opportunities he had enjoyed.
His father had long been conscious of his deficiencies, and proposed to
send him to a boarding school, for the benefit of its discipline; but
Richard was so averse to the idea, that his father had from time to
time postponed his departure. When Mr. Grant saw his son associating
with bad boys he again proposed to send him, and had actually sought
out a suitable place for him; but his own financial trials and troubles
had prevented him from executing his purpose.
If Richard's education had failed to develop his intellect in an
adequate degree, it had built up a sound and vigorous constitution.
Riding on horseback, sailing and rowing, had been pastimes for which he
had sacrificed intellectual culture. But there was still time to remedy
this deficiency, for the youth was hardly sixteen.
The establishment which Mr. Grant had selected for the future residence
of his son was the Tunbrook Military Institute, under the
superintendence of Colonel Brockridge. This place had been chosen, not
because it was a military institution, but because its principal was a
thorough disciplinarian. He had the reputation of being a just and fair
man, and was very popular with boys of strong constitution and decisive
temperaments. No "milk-and-water" boys were ever sent to him; or, if
they were, they soon left the Institute, or became vigorous and decided
in their habits.
Colonel Brockridge had been in the army, though his title was won in
the militia. He was a thorough teacher, and was conscientious and
faithful in the discharge of his duties to those who were intrusted to
his care. He was a "positive man," and no fear of what the father or
mother would say or do ever induced him to alter his plans, or change
his purposes.
Though the Institute was conducted on military principles, it was not
peculiarly the school of the soldier. The principal believed in
discipline; this was his hobby; and he believed that he could best
secure system and order by adopting military routine. His success
justified his theory. He had more applicants than he had places.
Richard knew all about the Tunbrook Military Institute. He had
carefully read its circular, and its rules and regulations. They did
not suit him. He was not a devotee of discipline, in its application to
himself. He was very impatient of restraint, as the reader has already
seen, and he did not like the idea of being sent to this Institute.
When his father had given him his final sentence, he retired to his
chamber. The shame which attended the discovery of his guilt still
rested heavily upon him, and he was in a more humble and tractable mood
than usual. Under ordinary circumstances he would have rebelled against
the decision of his father. He would have frightened his sister by
threatening to run away to sea. It is true, this thought occurred to
him on the present occasion; but Ben had told him enough about the life
of a sailor to convince him that he should not improve his condition by
such a course.
There seemed to be no alternative but passive obedience. He did not
want to go, but he felt that his father must certainly conquer if he
attempted to resist. He had always had his own way to a very great
extent. He had always been a conqueror himself--at least he felt so,
and he could not endure the thought of being compelled to yield
implicit obedience to any person.
At this time Richard's thoughts took a peculiar turn. The shame he
endured, the reproaches that had been heaped upon him, caused him to
feel that there was something wanting in his character. The path in
which he had been travelling, for the first time in his life seemed to
lead to destruction. When he considered that he had been detected in
the act of stealing, and of setting fire to a barn, and in practising a
gross and wicked deception, he felt that his road was down hill; that
he should become a dissolute and worthless man.
He was sitting on the stool of repentance. From a prudential penitence
he had arrived at a genuine one. Something must be done. There was
something to be conquered. There was a harder battle before him than
any he had yet fought. He was master of the boats, of the horses, of
the servants, and even of his companions at Whitestone; but there was
one whom he had never conquered--one that held him in leading-strings,
and was pulling him down to ruin and destruction.
He must conquer himself.
Richard had had such thoughts as these before, but they had never
seemed so substantial as now. He felt the necessity of reforming his
life and character--of conquering himself, his greatest enemy. As he
looked upon his dissolute course, upon the events of the preceding
night, and its fellow a week before, he was disgusted with himself, and
wondered how he could so easily embrace his besetting sin.
While he was engaged in these reflections, his sister Bertha entered
his chamber. She had heard of the sentence, and she had come to comfort
him. Her eyes were still red with weeping, for she had almost lost hope
of the reform of her brother.
"I have been trying to see you for the last two hours," said she, as
she sat down by his side.
"Don't cry any more, Berty," said he, with unwonted tenderness.
"I will try not to do so, Richard. Father says you are going away
to-morrow."
"Yes, Berty, I suppose I am," replied he, with an appearance of
resignation.
"I shall miss you very much."
"It will be a good miss--won't it?"
"Why, Richard! You don't think so--do you?"
"Well, I have been a kind of nuisance to you."
"No, Richard; don't say that."
"I have been in all sorts of scrapes."
"I would a great deal rather have you stay at home, and--and----"
"And be a good boy," added Richard.
"That's what I mean, Richard."
"Berty, I think I have sowed all my wild oats now."
"I hope so."
"I suppose I have been a very bad boy," said he, with a kind of
deprecating smile, as though he did not believe more than one half he
said.
"It was all those bad boys you went with; if it hadn't been for them,
you would have done very well. That Sandy Brimblecom hasn't done you
any good."
"I hope I haven't done him any hurt, Berty. I won't be mean, when I get
into trouble. I don't think Sandy is any worse than I am. I don't know
but that he is a little better. I suppose he and I must part company
now."
"It will be all for the best."
"Berty, I am off to-morrow. I have given you a great deal of trouble. I
mean to do better. I am going to turn over a new leaf."
"O, I hope so, Richard!"
"I mean so, this time."
"I am so glad!"
"Don't you think father will let me stay at home, if I do well?"
"Perhaps he will."
"I don't like the idea of being put into a strait jacket, and tied to a
bell rope."
"It would be hard for you."
"I can't stand it, any how. I have made up my mind to be a saint. I
intend to keep out of all scrapes, and behave with perfect propriety
all the time, night and day."
"I hope you are not jesting, Richard," said Bertha, who did not like
the facetious language with which he clothed his resolutions.
"I'm in earnest. I mean every word I say. I solemnly promise you that I
will be a pattern of propriety; but I don't like the Tunbrook Military
Institute. I don't like the idea of being tied down to Colonel
Brockridge's little finger; of being drummed and fifed here and there;
and of reciting a Latin lesson at six o'clock in the morning, after an
hour's drill on the parade ground. Berty, to tell you the truth, I
don't believe I shall be able to keep my good resolutions, if I am to
be tied to a bell rope, or have to move by the tap of a drum."
"I hope you will."
"If I could stay at home, and have my pony and my boat, I should do
first rate."
Whatever the experienced reader may think of Richard's sincerity, he
was uttering an honest opinion. He sincerely feared that his courage
would not be equal to the work of submitting to the discipline of
Tunbrook, and conquering himself, at one and the same time. Tunbrook
and Colonel Brockridge seemed to be formidable obstacles in the path of
reform.
"You would soon get used to the discipline of the Institute," suggested
Bertha.
"I might get used to it as the old man's horse got used to living upon
shavings--when he died. If I go, I shall try to submit; but I don't
want to go."
"I don't see how it can be avoided. Father is determined that you shall
go."
"You can save me from this strait jacket, if you will, Berty."
"What can I do, Richard?"
"Mr. Presby will do any thing you ask him to do. You can tell him that
you think it would injure me to be sent to Tunbrook. Then he can talk
with father about it; and father will do any thing that Mr. Presby
wishes."
Bertha promised to speak to Mr. Presby about the matter, and she did so
at once; but instead of Bertha convincing him that it would injure
Richard to be sent to the Military School, he convinced her that it
would be the best thing in the world for him.
"I am afraid I spoiled my own children by over indulgence, and I cannot
counsel your father to do the same thing," said the old gentleman, with
deep feeling.
Bertha returned to her brother with his answer. Richard was not angry,
as she feared he would be, and this was a very hopeful sign. But he
went over his argument against strait jackets, bell ropes, and drums
and fifes, once more, and then proposed that he should be put on
probation for one or two months; and if he did any thing wrong, he
would submit without a murmur.
Bertha went to Mr. Presby again, and was so far successful that the old
gentleman agreed to speak with Mr. Grant in the evening. He kept his
promise, but the father carried a stronger argument than the friend of
the family. Richard was doomed to go to the Military Institute, and the
fact was patent to him before he retired. He felt as though he wanted
to submit, but the unconquered enemy that had so often led him astray
was rebellious.
He did not sleep well that night. He was excited by the prospect before
him. His good resolutions seemed to be very shaky, and he found himself
running away from them. When he heard the clock strike twelve, he
actually jumped out of bed, under a sudden impulse, fully resolved to
run away and go to sea. He thought he would take the Greyhound, and
make his way down to the city and ship the next day. He put on a
portion of his clothes, under the influence of this impulse.
"This would be becoming a saint with a vengeance!" said he to himself,
as he threw off his clothes, and got into bed again. "I told Bertha I
would try to submit, and I will."
This was the first decided advantage which Richard had gained over his
great enemy; but the battle was a mere skirmish with the outposts of
the potent foe. It was a victory, however, and it strengthened him. It
improved the morale of his fighting element.
He had resisted temptation, and angels ministered unto him. While they
ministered, peace came, and he fell asleep.
At an early hour in the morning he was called by his father. With the
assistance of Bertha he packed his trunk and prepared himself for the
journey. He was sad, but submissive. At nine o'clock, having bid adieu
to all his friends, and taken a sorrowful survey of Woodville, he and
his father were driven down to the railroad station.
Before night they reached Tunbrook, and Richard was introduced to the
terrible Colonel Brockridge. He was a little man of fifty, with great
bushy red whiskers, whose whole face seemed to be eclipsed by the
wonderful sharpness of his eyes. He shook hands with Richard, spoke to
him very kindly, and hoped they should be good friends. The new recruit
was shown to his quarters, as his room was called, and Mr. Grant took
his leave.
Richard felt that he was alone with the future.
CHAPTER X.
RICHARD LEARNS THE MEANING OF RIGHT ABOUT FACE.
The apartment to which Richard was shown was called "Barrack B." There
were ten rooms of this kind, known by the first ten letters of the
alphabet, omitting J. Each barrack contained twenty narrow iron
bedsteads, and no two boys were allowed to occupy the same bed. At the
head of each barrack, there was an alcove large enough to contain the
bed of the assistant teacher, who had charge of the pupils in the room.
This apartment of the instructor was screened from the view of the boys
by a curtain, so that he could see without being seen, when he desired
to do so.
There was a small closet in the wall between every two beds, for the
use of the boys, and Richard was directed to transfer the contents of
his trunk to this receptacle, by Mr. Gault, the assistant teacher in
charge of Barrack B. Richard opened the trunk, and then sat down upon
the bed to wait until the instructor should retire, for he did not care
to exhibit his wardrobe to a stranger.
"Proceed, if you please," said Mr. Gault.
"I think I will do this business by myself," replied Richard.
"According to a rule of the Institute, the wardrobe of each pupil must
be inspected," said the teacher.
"Inspected?" asked the recruit. "What for?"
"To see that no improper articles are brought in."
"I would rather not," added Richard.
"The rule is imperative," said Mr. Gault, decidedly.
The strait jacket had already begun to oppress the male heir of
Woodville, and he was disposed to resent the indignity, as he deemed
it; but almost the last words of Bertha had been an injunction to
observe the rules of the school, however distasteful they might be.
Reluctantly, and with the feeling that he was sacrificing his
independence, Richard transferred his clothing to the closet assigned
to him. Mr. Gault carefully watched the proceeding, and confiscated
several articles which were declared to be contraband, among which were
some cakes and other sweetmeats, prepared by Bertha, and several
yellow-covered novels he had purchased in Whitestone.
"Can't I have those things?" asked Richard.
"No, sir; no boy belonging to the Institute is allowed to eat cake on
the premises."
"Why not?"
"We do not explain to boys the reason for every thing we do," replied
Mr. Gault, rather curtly.
"I don't think you have any right to take my property away from me."
"I don't ask your opinion, and it is of no value whatever."
"You needn't be so crusty about it," said Richard, who was wholly
unused to this style of remark.
"We tolerate no impudence here. If you use an expression of that kind
again, you will be put under arrest, and spend the night in the guard
house."
Richard's blood was beginning to boil, and he was tempted to pitch into
the insolent instructor who dared to use language of that kind to the
only son of the proprietor of Woodville. But he did not want to get
into trouble the first day; besides, the words "arrest" and "guard
house" had a very ominous sound to him.
"Can't I have my books? They are not cake," asked Richard.
"No, sir; you cannot. Such trash as that is not fit for boys to read.
Your property will be kept safely for you, and when you leave the
school, you can have it again."
"The cake will not be very good then."
"You can do any thing you please with it, except eat it. You can sell
it, or give it away."
"You can do what you like with it."
"Very well. Have you any money about you?"
"I have."
"You will hand it to me, and a receipt for the amount will be forwarded
to your father."
"Do you mean to rob me?" demanded Richard, his face flushing at this
new indignity.
"I refer you to the regulations of the Institute. We provide every
thing the boys require, and they have no more use for money than they
have for wings."
"I won't give up my money."
"Very well, sir. I will refer the matter to Colonel Brockridge, and you
may settle it with him. Follow me, if you please," said Mr. Gault,
after Richard had locked the trunk containing the contraband articles.
The new scholar followed the teacher to the office of the principal on
the first floor. He was very uneasy and nervous, and almost wished he
had given up his money. But he felt that the tutor was carrying things
altogether too far. It was subjecting him to a needless indignity.
"This young man refuses to give up his money," said Mr. Gault to the
colonel, who was writing at his desk.
Without waiting to ascertain the result of the interview, the assistant
departed, leaving the obdurate youth alone with the owner of those
terribly sharp eyes.
"Have you read our regulations, Grant?" said Colonel Brockridge,
turning round and looking the recruit full in the face.
But there was a pleasant smile upon his face, and his words were
gentle, and even respectful.
"Yes, sir," replied Richard.
"Then you are aware that pupils are not allowed to have money--are you
not?"
"Yes, sir."
"Boys are tempted to purchase various articles which injure them, such
as cakes and candy, and improper books. Therefore we think it is better
that they should not be provided with money. Is this a satisfactory
explanation?"
"I don't know but it is, sir," replied Richard, doubtfully.
"It satisfies me, at any rate. How much money have you?"
"About five dollars."
"Now, Grant, if you will hand it to me, I will give you a receipt for
it, or send it to your father. I will keep it, subject to your order,
if you desire it."
"I don't like the rule, sir."
"I think it is an excellent rule. But you waste my time. Your decision,
Grant."
"I should like to think of the matter, sir."
"Your decision at once," said the colonel; and Richard saw the sharp
eyes grow a shade sharper, and heard the deep voice grow a shade
sterner.
The recruit winced under the necessity thus laid upon him. The
principal could not be trifled with, and he must either submit, or take
the consequences, which were so indefinite to him that they seemed
sufficiently terrible.
"I will give up the money," said he, with a struggle, as he handed his
wallet to the colonel.
"I am glad to find you are a discreet and sensible youth," added the
colonel, as he wrote the receipt, and handed it, with the wallet, from
which he had taken the money, back to the owner. "If you wish to use
money for any proper purpose, you can draw on me, and your paper shall
be honored to the extent of the funds in my hands."
"I don't think I am likely to want money here," answered Richard,
gloomily.
"Every needed article will be furnished. Now, Grant, I am afraid you
have come here with an intention to resist our wholesome regulations.
If so, you must learn the meaning of "right about, face"--in its moral
application, I mean. Your father has told me all about you, and given
me explicit instructions to make a man of you. I understand your case
perfectly. If you are disposed to observe the rules of the Institute,
we shall treat you like a gentleman. The future is before you, young
man, and you must choose for yourself."
"I intend to obey the rules, sir," said Richard, rather crest-fallen
after what had happened.
"I am very glad to hear you say so. In a few days you will be provided
with the uniform worn by the pupils of the Institute. Here is a time
card for the fall term. Look it over carefully, for you will be
required to conform to it very strictly. To-morrow morning you will
take your place with the boys, and go through with the programme just
as though you had been here all your lifetime. We make no allowances
for beginners; they will have seasonable warning, and they must be on
the ground promptly at the moment. There will be a dress parade in a
few moments, and you can go out and witness it, if you choose," said
Colonel Brockridge, as he handed Richard the card. "After supper, Mr.
Gault will introduce you to the boys of your barrack."
Richard took the card, and left the room. As he passed out of the
building he descried the boys at play on the lawn. They were all
dressed in a uniform of gray cloth, though some wore a loose blouse,
and some, in the heat of play, had thrown off their jackets. The new
scholar walked over to the flagstaff, where the stars and stripes were
flying, and seated himself on a bench. The boys seemed to be having a
good time, in spite of the strictness of the discipline. As he listened
to the tremendous noise they made, and saw the rough-and-tumble games
in which they were engaged, he became convinced that the Institute was
not of the Blember style, and he began to have some hope that he should
survive the shock.
While he was waiting for the dress parade, he examined the time card
given him by the principal. To him it had a decidedly strait-jacket
odor, and he read it with a feeling of repugnance, not to say disgust.
It was as follows:--
    "TUNBROOK MILITARY INSTITUTE.
    FALL TERM.
    From Sept. 1 to Dec. 1.
     6     A. M.  Reveille.
     6.30    "    Study.
     7.30    "    Breakfast.
     8       "    Squad Drill.
     9       "    Study and Recitation.
    11       "    Battalion Drill.
     1     P. M.  Dinner.
     1.30    "    Recreation.
     3       "    Study and Recitation.
     5       "    Recreation.
     6       "    Dress Parade.
     6.30    "    Supper.
     7       "    Off Time.
     9       "    Retire.
    The 'Off Time' belongs to the student; but deficient lessons must
    be made up during these hours.
    Camp duty will be performed by all students for one week, in each
    term, except the winter term.
                             J. BROCKRIDGE,
                                   Principal."
Richard thought the time card was rather formidable, but he came to the
conclusion that he could stand it, if the rest of the boys could.
While he was musing upon the present and the future, the rattling drum
sounded, and the boys instantly suspended their play. In a moment the
whole crowd had disappeared within the buildings that flanked the lawn;
but presently the rattle of several drums was heard, and one company
after another marched upon the parade ground, and formed the line.
Every boy was dressed in full uniform now, the blouses and other
non-conforming garments having been thrown aside, and every one wore
white gloves.
Richard found that the teachers were not the officers of the companies,
or the battalion, as he had expected. Several of the instructors were
present, but they appeared to take no part in the proceedings. Every
thing was managed by the boys, apparently without any assistance from
the teachers. The captains, lieutenants, sergeants, and corporals were
all in appropriate uniform, with their rank designated as in the United
States army. The swords and muskets were genuine weapons, though not so
large and heavy as those used by older soldiers. The students varied in
age from fourteen to eighteen.
The various evolutions of the dress parade were regularly performed.
The adjutant announced to the major that the parade was formed; the
band, consisting of eight pieces, marched up and down the line; the
first sergeants reported "all present or accounted for," and the
company officers marched up to the commander of the battalion. The boys
were as rigid as statues when the order, "Parade--rest," was given. The
companies marched back to the armories, broke ranks, and were
dismissed.
Richard was delighted with this exhibition, and the Tunbrook Military
Institute went up many degrees in his estimation. He followed the boys
into the supper room, where, without much ceremony, he made the
acquaintance of several captains and lieutenants. He received a hearty
welcome from his new associates, and began to feel very much at home.
The supper was not exactly what he had been accustomed to at Woodville,
but it was plain wholesome food; and when he saw officers and privates,
from the major down to the drummers, partake of it with hearty relish,
he was not disposed to grumble.
After supper, the boys scattered in every direction. Some went out
doors, some to the barracks, some to the school rooms. It was
"off-time," and without much assistance from Mr. Gault, who attempted
to introduce him, he made the acquaintance of half the students in the
Institute. At nine o'clock the sound of the drum rolled through the
halls, and the boys all retired.
CHAPTER XI.
RICHARD GOES THROUGH THE DRILL, AND HAS A SET-TO IN THE GROVE.
Richard slept very well, and was attending to the business of sleeping
with great pertinacity, when the reveille sounded at six o'clock in the
morning. He did not feel much like getting up, and though the other
boys in Barrack B instantly jumped out of bed, he did not heed the
summons. It went against his grain to get up at the sound of a drum, or
of a bell; not that he cared to lie in bed any longer, but the
principle of the thing was utterly objectionable.
"Come, Grant," said the boy who occupied one of the beds next to him,
in a kind and friendly tone, "it's time to turn out."
"I suppose it is," yawned Richard, "but I'm not quite ready to get up
yet."
"Better get up at once. They call the roll to half past six. You are in
our company, you know."
"Suppose I don't get up--what then?"
"It will be all the worse for you."
"What will they do?"
"I don't know; but fellows don't like to be late at roll-call."
Richard concluded to get up, for he preferred to see a punishment
inflicted upon some one besides himself before he got into trouble.
Bailey--for this was the name of the boy next to him--told him what to
do, and where to go, till they made their appearance at the armory of
Company D, to which the recruit had been assigned. They were then sent
to the school room for an hour's study. Richard was examined to
ascertain his attainments, and placed in a class, and he was told to
prepare himself for the lessons of the day. There was no great hardship
in this, and as Richard's talents were of a high order, he had no
difficulty in performing the work assigned to him.
The breakfast call scattered the boys again, and they were soon
reassembled in the dining room. When they were seated, profound silence
reigned throughout the apartment. The principal, all the assistant
teachers, and every one else belonging to the establishment, were
present. The chaplain then read a short passage from the Scriptures,
which was followed by a prayer, the whole service occupying not more
than three or four minutes.
The breakfast consisted of coffee, beefsteak, potatoes, with cold bread
and butter. The new comer was perfectly satisfied with this fare, and
taking it as a sample of his living, he did not believe he should
starve.
"What next, Nevers?" asked Richard of the boy who sat next to him, and
who wore the designation of an orderly sergeant.
"Squad drill, my boy. We shall give you some now," replied Nevers. "We
begin to find out what a fellow is made of on drill."
There was a little spare time before the drill came on, and the new
student improved it by inquiring particularly into the nature of his
duties. Bailey was patient and communicative, and he obtained from him
all the information he wanted.
Again the drum rattled, and the boys made their way to the several
armories. The doors and windows were thrown open, and the drill
commenced. It was conducted by Mr. Gault, who was assisted by various
officers of the company.
"Nevers," said the assistant, "you may take Grant and instruct him in
the positions."
Richard glanced at the orderly sergeant to whom this command had been
given, and the look of satisfaction which Nevers put on did not please
him.
"This way, if you please, Grant," said the young orderly sergeant, as
he led the way to one corner of the armory.
"What are you going to do?" demanded the recruit.
"Give you the positions."
"Are you my teacher?"
"I am ordered to give you the positions," replied Nevers, chuckling
with a delight which the new comer could not understand.
"You want to find out what I am made of--don't you?" said Richard,
remembering what the other had said to him at breakfast.
"I always obey orders."
"Well, I think I should rather be instructed by the regular teachers."
"Very well; I will report to Mr. Gault."
"You needn't trouble yourself. If this is the custom, go ahead. I am
ready."
"Stand as I do, if you please--heels on the same line, feet turned out
equally, knees straight."
Richard observed all these instructions, and being a very tractable
scholar, he was soon master of the positions.
"Eyes--right!" continued Nevers, explaining the meaning of the order.
"Front."
There were three other boys, who had not yet been supplied with
uniforms, having come to the Institute a few days before. These also
were placed in Nevers's care, and he began to drill them in the
facings.
"Attention--squad," said the drill master, explaining what he meant,
and going through with the next movement. "Right--face."
Richard did not come to time, and the sergeant repeated his
instructions, and gave the order again; but it was done no better than
the first time.
"Move quicker, Grant. How long will it take you to turn on your left
heel? Now, try again. Right--face!"
The young gentleman from Woodville did not like the style of the drill
master's remarks. Though he had been scrupulously polite in all he had
said, up to the point of Richard's failure to obey the order with
promptness, there was something in his tone and manner that was very
offensive to him. Nevers seemed to feel that he was armed with
authority, and he intended to make the new comer feel it; but Richard
took his own time, and after they had tried half a dozen times, he
could not "right face" till after the others had completed the
movement.
"How long will it take you to turn on your heel, Grant?" said Nevers,
sharply, when his patience had been sorely tried.
"Till you speak a little more civilly," replied Richard, quietly.
"Perhaps not till you have found out what I am made of."
Nevers bit his lip at this reply. Perhaps he was conscious that he
ought not to have used the remark, or he might have reported the
contumacy of the recruit to the assistant in charge of the room.
"We will try again," continued Nevers. "Right--face."
The result was no better than before; for Richard was so offended at
the manner of the instructor that he determined not to obey.
"Well, Grant, you won't get round till the first day of January. You
are a perfect dough-head," said Nevers, the last remark being in a low
tone, though it was distinctly heard by the subject of it.
"All right," muttered Richard. "If you have found out what my head is
made of, I will show you, by and by, what my fist is made of."
"Ready when you are," replied Nevers, dropping his voice so that the
assistant teacher could not hear him. "Now, about--face;" and he
explained the movement, and went through with it himself.
Richard, having made up his mind what to do when the occasion offered,
did not deem it necessary to carry his resistance any farther at
present. Besides, he was very desirous of learning the drill, that he
might join the company. His "about face," therefore, was
unexceptionable.
"Very well, Grant," said the drill master, in a satirical tone, and
with a patronizing air.
"Your praise and your censure are all the same to me. Spare me both, if
you please," replied Richard, with a dignity becoming the male heir of
Woodville.
"No impudence, you puppy!" growled Nevers, his cheek flushed with
anger. "If Gault wasn't here, I'd boot you."
"I will make an opportunity for you when he is not present. Do your
duty like a decent fellow, if you can," answered Richard.
"Squad, forward--march," said Nevers, as he explained how the command
was to be executed.
As Richard and his companions in the squad were very tractable
scholars, they soon mastered all the mysteries of the step in common
time, and were then instructed in the principles of the "double quick."
They were then reviewed several times in what they had learned: after
which muskets were placed in their hands, and they were taught to
"shoulder arms," "support arms," and "present arms."
The hour devoted to drill was finished, and in spite of the overbearing
manner of the instructor, Richard was pleased with the exercise, and
even began to entertain visions of military glory.
The two hours devoted to study and recitations passed off without any
thing to distinguish them. Richard had learned his lessons, and every
thing went off to his satisfaction. The next item on the time card was
the battalion drill. The recruits were placed in the ranks, and for an
hour and a half they were exercised in the school of the battalion;
part of the time by Colonel Brockridge, and part of the time by the
young gentleman who had been elected by the company officers to the
command of the battalion--Major Morgan. If Richard was pleased with the
squad and company drill, he was delighted with that of the battalion.
After dinner came the hour of recreation. During this time the boys
were allowed to go any where upon the estate, which contained about a
hundred acres of land. Some of them made up games on the parade ground,
and others went over to the grove, a short distance from the Institute
buildings. Richard and Bailey, who had become good friends in the short
time they had been acquainted, took a walk over the estate. They found
the students engaged in every amusement which the genius of a boy could
devise, from base ball and cricket down to mud dams and water wheels.
In the grove they found Nevers, whom Richard was very anxious to meet.
The orderly sergeant was a year older than Richard, and somewhat
heavier.
"There is the fellow I've been looking for," said Richard to his
companion.
"Who--Nevers?"
"Yes, that's his name."
"Do you know him?"
"He drilled our squad this morning, and took the trouble to insult me
several times."
