live my life alone, and being friends with both wrong neither. This is
my decision; in it I believe, by it I will abide, and if it be a just
one God will not let me fail."
"I submit, Sylvia; I can still hope and wait."
So humbly he said it, so heartily he meant it, she felt that his love
was as indomitable as Warwick's will, and the wish that it were right
and possible to accept and reward it woke with all its old intensity. It
was not possible; and though her heart grew heavier within her, Sylvia
answered steadily--
"No, Geoffrey, do not hope, do not wait; forgive me and forget me. Go
abroad as you proposed; travel far and stay long away. Change your life,
and learn to see in me only the friend I once was and still desire to
be."
"I will go, will stay till you recall me, but while you live your life
alone I shall still hope and wait."
This invincible fidelity, so patient, so persistent, impressed the
listener like a prophecy, disturbed her conviction, arrested the words
upon her lips and softened them.
"It is not for one so unstable as myself to say, 'I shall never change.'
I do not say it, though I heartily believe it, but will leave all to
time. Surely I may do this; may let separation gently, gradually
convince you or alter me; and as the one return which I can make for all
you have given me, let this tie between us remain unbroken for a little
longer. Take this poor consolation with you; it is the best that I can
offer now. Mine is the knowledge that however I may thwart your life in
this world, there is a beautiful eternity in which you will forget me
and be happy."
She gave him comfort, but he robbed her of her own as he drew her to
him, answering with a glance brighter than any smile--
"Love is immortal, dear, and even in the 'beautiful eternity' I shall
still hope and wait."
      
How soon it was all over! the return to separate homes, the disclosures,
and the storms; the preparations for the solitary voyage, the last
charges and farewells.
Mark would not, and Prue could not, go to see the traveller off; the
former being too angry to lend his countenance to what he termed a
barbarous banishment, the latter, being half blind with crying, stayed
to nurse Jessie, whose soft heart was nearly broken at what seemed to
her the most direful affliction under heaven.
But Sylvia and her father followed Moor till his foot left the soil, and
still lingered on the wharf to watch the steamer out of port. An
uncongenial place in which to part; carriages rolled up and down, a
clamor of voices filled the air, the little steamtug snorted with
impatience, and the waves flowed seaward with the ebbing of the tide.
But father and daughter saw only one object, heard only one sound,
Moor's face as it looked down upon them from the deck, Moor's voice as
he sent cheery messages to those left behind. Mr. Yule was endeavoring
to reply as cheerily, and Sylvia was gazing with eyes that saw very
dimly through their tears, when both were aware of an instantaneous
change in the countenance they watched. Something beyond themselves
seemed to arrest Moor's eye; a moment he stood intent and motionless,
then flushed to the forehead with the dark glow Sylvia remembered well,
waved his hand to them and vanished down the cabin stairs.
"Papa, what did he see?"
There was no need of any answer; Adam Warwick came striding through the
crowd, saw them, paused with both hands out, and a questioning glance as
if uncertain of his greeting. With one impulse the hands were taken;
Sylvia could not speak, her father could, and did approvingly--
"Welcome, Warwick; you are come to say good by to Geoffrey?"
"Rather to you, sir; he needs none, I go with him."
"With him!" echoed both hearers.
"Ay, that I will. Did you think I would let him go away alone feeling
bereaved of wife, and home, and friend?"
"We should have known you better. But, Warwick, he will shun you; he hid
himself just now as you approached; he has tried to forgive, but he
cannot so soon forget."
"All the more need of my helping him to do both. He cannot shun me long
with no hiding-place to fly to but the sea, and I will so gently
constrain him by the old-time love we bore each other, that he must
relent and take me back into his heart again."
"Oh, Adam! go with him, stay with him, and bring him safely back to me
when time has helped us all."
"I shall do it, God willing."
Unmindful of all else Warwick bent and took her to him as he gave the
promise, seemed to put his whole heart into a single kiss and left her
trembling with the stress of his farewell. She saw him cleave his way
through the throng, leap the space left by the gangway just withdrawn,
and vanish in search of that lost friend. Then she turned her face to
her father's shoulder, conscious of nothing but the fact that Warwick
had come and gone.
A cannon boomed, the crowd cheered, the last cable was flung off, and
the steamer glided from her moorings with the surge of water and the
waft of wind like some sea-monster eager to be out upon the ocean free
again.
"Look up, Sylvia; she will soon pass from sight."
"Are they there?"
"No."
"Then I do not care to see. Look for me, father, and tell me when they
come."
"They will not come, dear; both have said good by, and we have seen the
last of them for many a long day."
"They will come! Adam will bring Geoffrey to show me they are friends
again. I know it; you shall see it. Lift me to that block and watch the
deck with me that we may see them the instant they appear."
Up she sprung, eyes clear now, nerves steady, faith strong. Leaning
forward so utterly forgetful of herself, she would have fallen into the
green water tumbling there below, had not her father held her fast. How
slowly the minutes seemed to pass, how rapidly the steamer seemed to
glide away, how heavily the sense of loss weighed on her heart as wave
after wave rolled between her and her heart's desire.
"Come down, Sylvia, it is giving yourself useless pain to watch and
wait. Come home, my child, and let us comfort one another."
She did not hear him, for as he spoke the steamer swung slowly round to
launch itself into the open bay, and with a cry that drew many eyes upon
the young figure with its face of pale expectancy, Sylvia saw her hope
fulfilled.
"I knew they would come! See, father, see! Geoffrey is smiling as he
waves his handkerchief, and Adam's hand is on his shoulder. Answer them!
oh, answer them! I can only look."
The old man did answer them enthusiastically, and Sylvia stretched her
arms across the widening space as if to bring them back again. Side by
side the friends stood now; Moor's eye upon his wife, while from his
hand the little flag of peace streamed in the wind. But Warwick's glance
was turned upon his friend, and Warwick's hand already seemed to claim
the charge he had accepted.
Standing thus they passed from sight, never to come sailing home
together as the woman on the shore was praying God to let her see them
come.
CHAPTER XIX.
SIX MONTHS.
The ensuing half year seemed fuller of duties and events than any Sylvia
had ever known. At first she found it very hard to live her life alone;
for inward solitude oppressed her, and external trials were not wanting.
Only to the few who had a right to know, had the whole trouble been
confided. They were discreet from family pride, if from no tenderer
feeling; but the curious world outside of that small circle was full of
shrewd surmises, of keen eyes for discovering domestic breaches, and
shrill tongues for proclaiming them. Warwick escaped suspicion, being so
little known, so seldom seen; but for the usual nine days matrons and
venerable maids wagged their caps, lifted their hands, and sighed as
they sipped their dish of scandal and of tea--
"Poor young man! I always said how it would be, she was so peculiar. My
dear creature, haven't you heard that Mrs. Moor isn't happy with her
husband, and that he has gone abroad quite broken-hearted?"
Sylvia felt this deeply, but received it as her just punishment, and
bore herself so meekly that public opinion soon turned a somersault, and
the murmur changed to--
"Poor young thing! what could she expect? My dear, I have it from the
best authority, that Mr. Moor has made her miserable for a year, and now
left her broken-hearted." After that, the gossips took up some newer
tragedy, and left Mrs. Moor to mend her heart as best she could, a favor
very gratefully received.
As Hester Prynne seemed to see some trace of her own sin in every bosom,
by the glare of the Scarlet Letter burning on her own; so Sylvia, living
in the shadow of a household grief, found herself detecting various
phases of her own experience in others. She had joined that sad
sisterhood called disappointed women; a larger class than many deem it
to be, though there are few of us who have not seen members of it.
Unhappy wives; mistaken or forsaken lovers; meek souls, who make life a
long penance for the sins of others; gifted creatures kindled into
fitful brilliancy by some inward fire that consumes but cannot warm.
These are the women who fly to convents, write bitter books, sing songs
full of heartbreak, act splendidly the passion they have lost or never
won. Who smile, and try to lead brave uncomplaining lives, but whose
tragic eyes betray them, whose voices, however sweet or gay, contain an
undertone of hopelessness, whose faces sometimes startle one with an
expression which haunts the observer long after it is gone.
Undoubtedly Sylvia would have joined the melancholy chorus, and fallen
to lamenting that ever she was born, had she not possessed a purpose
that took her out of herself and proved her salvation. Faith's words
took root and blossomed. Intent on making her life a blessing, not a
reproach to her father, she lived for him entirely. He had taken her
back to him, as if the burden of her unhappy past should be upon his
shoulders, the expiation of her faults come from him alone. Sylvia
understood this now, and nestled to him so gladly, so confidingly, he
seemed to have found again the daughter he had lost and be almost
content to have her all his own.
How many roofs cover families or friends who live years together, yet
never truly know each other; who love, and long and try to meet, yet
fail to do so till some unexpected emotion or event performs the work.
In the weeks that followed the departure of the friends, Sylvia
discovered this and learned to know her father. No one was so much to
her as he; no one so fully entered into her thoughts and feelings; for
sympathy drew them tenderly together, and sorrow made them equals. As
man and woman they talked, as father and daughter they loved; and the
beautiful relation became their truest solace and support.
Miss Yule both rejoiced at and rebelled against this; was generous, yet
mortally jealous; made no complaint, but grieved in private, and one
fine day amazed her sister by announcing, that, being of no farther use
at home, she had decided to be married. Both Mr. Yule and Sylvia had
desired this event, but hardly dared to expect it in spite of sundry
propitious signs and circumstances.
A certain worthy widower had haunted the house of late, evidently on
matrimonial thoughts intent. A solid gentleman, both physically and
financially speaking; possessed of an ill-kept house, bad servants, and
nine neglected children. This prospect, however alarming to others, had
great charms for Prue; nor was the Reverend Gamaliel Bliss repugnant to
her, being a rubicund, bland personage, much given to fine linen, long
dinners, and short sermons. His third spouse had been suddenly
translated, and though the years of mourning had not yet expired, things
went so hardly with Gamaliel, that he could no longer delay casting his
pastoral eyes over the flock which had already given three lambs to his
fold, in search of a fourth. None appeared whose meek graces were
sufficiently attractive, or whose dowries were sufficiently large.
Meantime the nine olive-branches grew wild, the servants revelled, the
ministerial digestion suffered, the sacred shirts went buttonless, and
their wearer was wellnigh distraught. At this crisis he saw Prudence,
and fell into a way of seating himself before the well-endowed spinster,
with a large cambric pocket-handkerchief upon his knee, a frequent tear
meandering down his florid countenance, and volcanic sighs agitating his
capacious waistcoat as he poured his woes into her ear. Prue had been
deeply touched by these moist appeals, and was not much surprised when
the reverend gentleman went ponderously down upon his knee before her in
the good old-fashioned style which frequent use had endeared to him,
murmuring with an appropriate quotation and a subterranean sob--
"Miss Yule, 'a good wife is a crown to her husband;' be such an one to
me, unworthy as I am, and a mother to my bereaved babes, who suffer for
a tender woman's care."
She merely upset her sewing-table with an appropriate start, but
speedily recovered, and with a maidenly blush murmured in return--
"Dear me, how very unexpected! pray speak to papa,--oh, rise, I beg."
"Call me Gamaliel, and I obey!" gasped the stout lover, divided between
rapture and doubts of his ability to perform the feat alone.
"Gamaliel," sighed Prue, surrendering her hand.
"My Prudence, blessed among women!" responded the blissful Bliss. And
having saluted the fair member, allowed it to help him rise; when, after
a few decorous endearments, he departed to papa, and the bride elect
rushed up to Sylvia with the incoherent announcement--
"My dearest child, I have accepted him! It was such a surprise, though
so touchingly done. I was positively mortified; Maria had swept the room
so ill, his knees were white with lint, and I'm a very happy woman,
bless you, love!"
"Sit down, and tell me all about it," cried her sister. "Don't try to
sew, but cry if you like, and let me pet you, for indeed I am rejoiced."
But Prue preferred to rock violently, and boggle down a seam as the best
quietus for her fluttered nerves, while she told her romance, received
congratulations, and settled a few objections made by Sylvia, who tried
to play the prudent matron.
"I am afraid he is too old for you, my dear."
"Just the age; a man should always be ten years older than his wife. A
woman of thirty-five is in the prime of life, and if she hasn't arrived
at years of discretion then, she never will. Shall I wear pearl-colored
silk and a white bonnet, or just a very handsome travelling dress?"
"Whichever you like. But, Prue, isn't he rather stout, I won't say
corpulent?"
"Sylvia, how can you! Because papa is a shadow, you call a fine, manly
person like Gam--Mr. Bliss, corpulent. I always said I would not marry
an invalid, (Macgregor died of apoplexy last week, I heard, at a small
dinner party; fell forward with his head upon the cheese, and expired
without a groan,) and where can you find a more robust and healthy man
than Mr. Bliss? Not a gray hair, and gout his only complaint. So
aristocratic. You know I've loads of fine old flannel, just the thing
for him."
Sylvia commanded her countenance with difficulty, and went on with her
maternal inquiries.
"He is a personable man, and an excellent one, I believe, yet I should
rather dread the responsibility of nine small children, if I were you."
"They are my chief inducement to the match. Just think of the state
those dears must be in, with only a young governess, and half a dozen
giddy maids to see to them. I long to be among them, and named an early
day, because measles and scarlatina are coming round again, and only
Fanny, and the twins, Gus and Gam, have had either. I know all their
names and ages, dispositions, and characters, and love them like a
mother already. He perfectly adores them, and that is very charming in a
learned man like Mr. Bliss."
"If that is your feeling it will all go well I have no doubt. But,
Prue,--I don't wish to be unkind, dear,--do you quite like the idea of
being the fourth Mrs. Bliss?"
"Bless me, I never thought of that! Poor man, it only shows how much he
must need consolation, and proves how good a husband he must have been.
No, Sylvia, I don't care a particle. I never knew those estimable
ladies, and the memory of them shall not keep me from making Gamaliel
happy if I can. What he goes through now is almost beyond belief. My
child, just think!--the coachman drinks; the cook has tea-parties
whenever she likes, and supports her brother's family out of her
perquisites, as she calls her bare-faced thefts; the house maids romp
with the indoor man, and have endless followers; three old maids set
their caps at him, and that hussy, (I must use a strong expression,)
that hussy of a governess makes love to him before the children. It is
my duty to marry him; I shall do it, and put an end to this fearful
state of things."
Sylvia asked but one more question--
"Now, seriously, do you love him very much? Will he make you as happy as
my dear old girl should be?"
Prue dropped her work, and hiding her face on Sylvia's shoulder,
answered with a plaintive sniff or two, and much real feeling--
"Yes, my dear, I do. I tried to love him, and I did not fail. I shall be
happy, for I shall be busy. I am not needed here any more, and so I am
glad to go away into a home of my own, feeling sure that you can fill my
place; and Maria knows my ways too well to let things go amiss. Now,
kiss me, and smooth my collar, for papa may call me down."
The sisters embraced and cried a little, as women usually find it
necessary to do at such interesting times; then fell to planning the
wedding outfit, and deciding between the "light silk and white bonnet,"
or the "handsome travelling suit."
Miss Yule made a great sacrifice to the proprieties by relinquishing her
desire for a stately wedding, and much to Sylvia's surprise and relief,
insisted that, as the family was then situated, it was best to have no
stir or parade, but to be married quietly at church and slip
unostentatiously out of the old life into the new. Her will was law, and
as the elderly bridegroom felt that there was no time to spare, and the
measles continued to go about seeking whom they might devour, Prue did
not keep him waiting long. "Three weeks is very little time, and nothing
will be properly done, for one must have everything new when one is
married of course, and mantua-makers are but mortal women (exorbitant in
their charges this season, I assure you), so be patient, Gamaliel, and
spend the time in teaching my little ones to love me before I come."
"My dearest creature, I will." And well did the enamored gentleman
perform his promise.
Prue kept hers so punctually that she was married with the bastings in
her wedding gown and two dozen pocket-handkerchiefs still unhemmed;
facts which disturbed her even during the ceremony. A quiet time
throughout; and after a sober feast, a tearful farewell, Mrs. Gamaliel
Bliss departed, leaving a great void behind and carrying joy to the
heart of her spouse, comfort to the souls of the excited nine,
destruction to the "High Life Below Stairs," and order, peace, and
plenty to the realm over which she was to know a long and prosperous
reign.
Hardly had the excitement of this event subsided when another occurred
to keep Sylvia from melancholy and bring an added satisfaction to her
lonely days. Across the sea there came to her a little book, bearing her
name upon its title-page. Quaintly printed, and bound in some foreign
style, plain and unassuming without, but very rich within, for there she
found Warwick's Essays, and between each of these one of the poems from
Moor's Diary. Far away there in Switzerland they had devised this
pleasure for her, and done honor to the woman whom they both loved, by
dedicating to her the first fruits of their lives. "Alpen Rosen" was its
title, and none could have better suited it in Sylvia's eyes, for to her
Warwick was the Alps and Moor the roses. Each had helped the other;
Warwick's rugged prose gathered grace from Moor's poetry, and Moor's
smoothly flowing lines acquired power from Warwick's prose. Each had
given her his best, and very proud was Sylvia of the little book, over
which she pored day after day, living on and in it, eagerly collecting
all praises, resenting all censures, and thinking it the one perfect
volume in the world.
Others felt and acknowledged its worth as well, for though fashionable
libraries were not besieged by inquiries for it, and no short-lived
enthusiasm welcomed it, a place was found for it on many study tables,
where real work was done. Innocent girls sang the songs and loved the
poet, while thoughtful women, looking deeper, honored the man. Young men
received the Essays as brave protests against the evils of the times,
and old men felt their faith in honor and honesty revive. The wise saw
great promise in it, and the most critical could not deny its beauty and
its power.
Early in autumn arrived a fresh delight; and Jessie's little daughter
became peacemaker as well as idol. Mark forgave his enemies, and swore
eternal friendship with all mankind the first day of his baby's life;
and when his sister brought it to him he took both in his arms, making
atonement for many hasty words and hard thoughts by the broken whisper--
"I have two little Sylvias now."
This wonderful being absorbed both households, from grandpapa to the
deposed sovereign Tilly, whom Sylvia called her own, and kept much with
her; while Prue threatened to cause a rise in the price of stationery by
the daily and copious letters full of warning and advice which she sent,
feeling herself a mother in Israel among her tribe of nine, now safely
carried through the Red Sea of scarlatina. Happy faces made perpetual
sunshine round the little Sylvia, but to none was she so dear a boon as
to her young god-mother. Jessie became a trifle jealous of "old Sylvia,"
as she now called herself, for she almost lived in baby's nursery;
hurrying over in time to assist at its morning ablutions, hovering about
its crib when it slept, daily discovering beauties invisible even to its
mother's eyes, and working early and late on dainty garments, rich in
the embroidery which she now thanked Prue for teaching her against her
will. The touch of the baby hands seemed to heal her sore heart; the
sound of the baby voice, even when most unmusical, had a soothing effect
upon her nerves; the tender cares its helplessness demanded absorbed her
thoughts, and kept her happy in a new world whose delights she had never
known till now.
From this time a restful expression replaced the patient hopelessness
her face had worn before, and in the lullabys she sang the listeners
caught echoes of the cheerful voice they had never thought to hear
again. Gay she was not, but serene. Quiet was all she asked; and
shunning society seemed happiest to sit at home with baby and its gentle
mother, with Mark, now painting as if inspired, or with her father, who
relinquished business and devoted himself to her. A pleasant pause
seemed to have come after troublous days; a tranquil hush in which she
sat waiting for what time should bring her. But as she waited the woman
seemed to bloom more beautifully than the girl had done. Light and color
revisited her countenance clearer and deeper than of old; fine lines
ennobled features faulty in themselves; and the indescribable refinement
of a deep inward life made itself manifest in look, speech, and gesture,
giving promise of a gracious womanhood.
Mr. Yule augured well from this repose, and believed the dawning
loveliness to be a herald of returning love. He was thinking hopeful
thoughts one day as he sat writing to Moor, whose faithful correspondent
he had become, when Sylvia came in with one of the few notes she sent
her husband while away.
"Just in time. God bless me, child! what is it?"
Well might he exclaim, for in his daughter's face he saw an expression
which caused his hope to suddenly become a glad belief. Her lips smiled,
though in her eyes there lay a shadow which he could not comprehend, and
her answer did not enlighten him as she put her arm about his neck and
laid her slip of paper in his hand.
"Enclose my note, and send the letter; then, father, we will talk."
CHAPTER XX.
COME.
In a small Italian town not far from Rome, a traveller stood listening
to an account of a battle lately fought near by, in which the town had
suffered much, yet been forever honored in the eyes of its inhabitants,
by having been the headquarters of the Hero of Italy. An inquiry of the
traveller's concerning a countryman of whom he was in search, created a
sensation at the little inn, and elicited the story of the battle, one
incident of which was still the all-absorbing topic with the excited
villagers. This was the incident which one of the group related with the
dramatic effects of a language composed almost as much of gesture as of
words, and an audience as picturesque as could well be conceived.
While the fight was raging on the distant plain, a troop of marauding
Croats dashed into the town, whose defenders, although outnumbered,
contested every inch of ground, while slowly driven back toward the
convent, the despoiling of which was the object of the attack. This
convent was both hospital and refuge, for there were gathered women and
children, the sick, the wounded, and the old. To secure the safety of
these rather than of the sacred relics, the Italians were bent on
holding the town till the reinforcement for which they had sent could
come up. It was a question of time, and every moment brought nearer the
destruction of the helpless garrison, trembling behind the convent
walls. A brutal massacre was in store for them if no help came; and
remembering this the red-shirted Garibaldians fought as if they well
deserved their sobriquet of "Scarlet Demons."
Help did come, not from below, but from above. Suddenly a cannon
thundered royally, and down the narrow street rushed a deathful
defiance, carrying disorder and dismay to the assailants, joy and wonder
to the nearly exhausted defenders. Wonder, for well they knew the gun
had stood silent and unmanned since the retreat of the enemy two days
before, and this unexpected answer to their prayers seemed Heaven-sent.
Those below looked up as they fought, those above looked down as they
feared, and midway between all saw that a single man held the gun. A
stalwart figure, bareheaded, stern faced, sinewy armed, fitfully seen
through clouds of smoke and flashes of fire, working with a silent
energy that seemed almost superhuman to the eyes of the superstitious
souls, who believed they saw and heard the convent's patron saint
proclaiming their salvation with a mighty voice.
This belief inspired the Italians, caused a panic among the Croats, and
saved the town. A few rounds turned the scale, the pursued became the
pursuers, and when the reinforcement arrived there was little for it to
do but join in the rejoicing and salute the brave cannoneer, who proved
to be no saint, but a stranger come to watch the battle, and thus
opportunely lend his aid.
Enthusiastic were the demonstrations; vivas, blessings, tears,
handkissing, and invocation of all the saints in the calendar, till it
was discovered that the unknown gentleman had a bullet in his breast
and was in need of instant help. Whereupon the women, clustering about
him like bees, bore him away to the wounded ward, where the inmates rose
up in their beds to welcome him, and the clamorous crowd were with
difficulty persuaded to relinquish him to the priest, the surgeon, and
the rest he needed. Nor was this all; the crowning glory of the event to
the villagers was the coming of the Chief at nightfall, and the scene
about the stranger's bed. Here the narrator glowed with pride, the women
in the group began to sob, and the men took off their caps, with black
eyes glittering through their tears.
"Excellenza, he who had fought for us like a tempest, an angel of doom,
lay there beside my cousin Beppo, who was past help and is now in holy
Paradise--Speranza was washing the smoke and powder from him, the wound
was easy--death of my soul! may he who gave it die unconfessed! See you,
I am there, I watch him, the friend of Excellenza, the great still man
who smiled but said no word to us. Then comes the Chief,--silenzio, till
I finish!--he comes, they have told him, he stays at the bed, he looks
down, the fine eye shines, he takes the hand, he says low--'I thank
you,'--he lays his cloak,--the gray cloak we know and love so well--over
the wounded breast, and so goes on. We cry out, but what does the
friend? Behold! he lifts himself, he lays the cloak upon my Beppo, he
says in that so broken way of his--'Comrade, the honor is for you who
gave your life for him, I give but a single hour.' Beppo saw, heard,
comprehended; thanked him with a glance, and rose up to die crying,
'Viva Italia! Viva Garibaldi!'"
[Illustration]
The cry was caught up by all the listeners in a whirlwind of
enthusiastic loyalty, and the stranger joined in it, thrilled with an
equal love and honor for the Patriot Soldier, whose name upon Italian
lips means liberty.
"Where is he now, this friend of mine, so nearly lost, so happily
found?"
A dozen hands pointed to the convent, a dozen brown faces lighted up,
and a dozen eager voices poured out directions, messages, and
benedictions in a breath. Ordering his carriage to follow presently, the
traveller rapidly climbed the steep road, guided by signs he could not
well mistake. The convent gate stood open, and he paused for no
permission to enter, for looking through it, down the green vista of an
orchard path, he saw his friend and sprang to meet him.
"Adam!"
"Geoffrey!"
"Truant that you are, to desert me for ten days, and only let me find
you when you have no need of me."
"I always need you, but am not always needed. I went away because the
old restlessness came upon me in that dead city Rome. You were happy
there, but I scented war, followed and found it by instinct, and have
had enough of it. Look at my hands."
He laughed as he showed them, still bruised and blackened with the hard
usage they had received; nothing else but a paler shade of color from
loss of blood, showed that he had passed through any suffering or
danger.
"Brave hands, I honor them for all their grime. Tell me about it, Adam;
show me the wound; describe the scene, I want to hear it in calm
English."
But Warwick was slow to do so being the hero of the tale, and very brief
was the reply Moor got.
"I came to watch, but found work ready for me. It is not clear to me
even now what I did, nor how I did it. One of my Berserker rages
possessed me I fancy; my nerves and muscles seemed made of steel and
gutta percha; the smell of powder intoxicated, and the sense of power
was grand. The fire, the smoke, the din were all delicious, and I felt
like a giant, as I wielded that great weapon, dealing many deaths with a
single pair of hands."
"The savage in you got the mastery just then; I've seen it, and have
often wondered how you managed to control it so well. Now it has had a
holiday and made a hero of you."
"The savage is better out than in, and any man may be a hero if he will.
What have you been doing since I left you poring over pictures in a
mouldy palace?"
"You think to slip away from the subject, do you? and after facing death
at a cannon's breach expect me to be satisfied with an ordinary
greeting? I won't have it; I insist upon asking as many questions as I
like, hearing about the wound and seeing if it is doing well. Where is
it?"
Warwick showed it, a little purple spot above his heart. Moor's face
grew anxious as he looked, but cleared again as he examined it, for the
ball had gone upward and the wholesome flesh was already healing fast.
"Too near, Adam, but thank God it was no nearer. A little lower and I
might have looked for you in vain."
"This heart of mine is a tough organ, bullet-proof, I dare say, though I
wear no breastplate."
"But this!" Involuntarily Moor's eye asked the question his lips did not
utter as he touched a worn and faded case hanging on the broad breast
before him. Silently Warwick opened it, showing not Sylvia's face but
that of an old woman, rudely drawn in sepia; the brown tints bringing
out the marked features as no softer hue could have done, and giving to
each line a depth of expression that made the serious countenance
singularly lifelike and attractive.
Now Moor saw where Warwick got both keen eyes and tender mouth, as well
as all the gentler traits that softened his strong character; and felt
that no other woman ever had or ever would hold so dear a place as the
old mother whose likeness he had drawn and hung where other men wear
images of mistress or of wife. With a glance as full of penitence as the
other had been of disquiet, Moor laid back the little case, drew bandage
and blouse over both wound and picture, and linked his arm in Warwick's
as he asked--
"Who shot you?"
"How can I tell? I knew nothing of it till that flock of women fell to
kissing these dirty hands of mine; then I was conscious of a stinging
pain in my shoulder, and a warm stream trickling down my side. I looked
to see what was amiss, whereat the good souls set up a shriek, took
possession of me, and for half an hour wept and wailed over me in a
frenzy of emotion and good-will that kept me merry in spite of the
surgeon's probes and the priest's prayers. The appellations showered
upon me would have startled even your ears, accustomed to soft words.
Were you ever called 'core of my heart,' 'sun of my soul,' or 'cup of
gold'?"
"Cannonading suits your spirits excellently; I remember your telling me
that you had tried and liked it. But there is to be no more of it, I
have other plans for you. Before I mention them tell me of the interview
with Garibaldi."
"That now is a thing to ask one about; a thing to talk of and take
pride in all one's days. I was half asleep and thought myself dreaming
till he spoke. A right noble face, Geoffrey--full of thought and power;
the look of one born to command others because master of himself. A
square strong frame; no decorations, no parade; dressed like his men,
yet as much the chief as if he wore a dozen orders on his scarlet
shirt."
"Where is the cloak? I want to see and touch it; surely you kept it as a
relic?"
"Not I. Having seen the man, what do I care for the garment that covered
him. I keep the hand shake, the 'Grazia, grazia,' for my share. Poor
Beppo lies buried in the hero's cloak."
"I grudge it to him, every inch of it, for not having seen the man I
do desire the garment. Who but you would have done it?"
Warwick smiled, knowing that his friend was well pleased with him for
all his murmuring. They walked in silence till Moor abruptly asked--
"When can you travel, Adam?"
"I was coming back to you to-morrow."
"Are you sure it is safe?"
"Quite sure; ten days is enough to waste upon a scratch like this."
"Come now, I cannot wait till to-morrow."
"Very good. Can you stop till I get my hat?"
"You don't ask me why I am in such haste."
Moor's tone caused Warwick to pause and look at him. Joy, impatience,
anxiety, contended with each other in his countenance; and as if unable
to tell the cause himself, he put a little paper into the other's hand.
Only three words were contained in it, but they caused Warwick's face
to kindle with all the joy betrayed in that of his friend, none of the
impatience nor anxiety.
"What can I say to show you my content? The months have seemed very long
to you, but now comes the reward. The blessed little letter! so like
herself; the slender slip, the delicate handwriting, the three happy
words,--'Geoffrey, come home.'"
Moor did not speak, but still looked up anxiously, inquiringly; and
Warwick answered with a glance he could not doubt.
"Have no fears for me. I share the joy as heartily as I shared the
sorrow; neither can separate us any more."
"Thank heaven for that! But, Adam, may I accept this good gift and be
sure I am not robbing you again? You never speak of the past, how is it
with you now?"
"Quite well and happy; the pain is gone, the peace remains. I would not
have it otherwise. Six months have cured the selfishness of love, and
left the satisfaction which nothing can change or take away."
"But Sylvia, what of her, Adam?"
"Henceforth, Sylvia and Ottila are only fair illustrations of the two
extremes of love. I am glad to have known both; each has helped me, and
each will be remembered while I live. But having gained the experience I
can relinquish the unconscious bestowers of it, if it is not best to
keep them. Believe that I do this without regret, and freely enjoy the
happiness that comes to you."
"I will, but not as I once should; for though I feel that you need
neither sympathy nor pity, still, I seem to take so much and leave you
nothing."
"You leave me myself, better and humbler than before. In the fierce half
hour I lived not long ago, I think a great and needful change was
wrought in me. All lives are full of such, coming when least looked for,
working out the end through unexpected means. The restless, domineering
devil that haunted me was cast out then; and during the quiet time that
followed a new spirit entered in and took possession."
"What is it, Adam?"
"I cannot tell, yet I welcome it. This peaceful mood may not last
perhaps, but it brings me that rare moment--pity that it is so rare, and
but a moment--when we seem to see temptation at our feet; when we are
conscious of a willingness to leave all in God's hand, ready for
whatever He may send; feeling that whether it be suffering or joy we
shall see the Giver in the gift, and when He calls can answer cheerfully
'Lord here am I.'"
It was a rare moment, and in it Moor for the first time clearly saw
the desire and design of his friend's life; saw it because it was
accomplished, and for the instant Adam Warwick was what he aspired to
be. A goodly man, whose stalwart body seemed a fit home for a strong
soul, wise with the wisdom of a deep experience, genial with the virtues
of an upright life, devout with that humble yet valiant piety which
comes through hard-won victories over "the world, the flesh, and the
devil." Despite the hope that warmed his heart, Moor felt poor beside
him, as a new reverence warmed the old affection. His face showed it
though he did not speak, and Warwick laid an arm about his shoulders as
he had often done of late when they were alone, drawing him gently on
again, as he said, with a touch of playfulness to set both at ease--
"Tell me your plans, 'my cup of gold,' and let me lend a hand toward
filling you brimful of happiness. You are going home?"
"At once; you also."
"Is it best?"
"Yes; you came for me, I stay for you, and Sylvia waits for both."
"She says nothing of me in this short, sweet note of hers;" and Warwick
smoothed it carefully in his large hand, eyeing it as if he wished there
were some little word for him.
"True, but in the few letters she has written there always comes a
message to you, though you never write a line; nor would you go to her
now had she sent for you alone; she knew that, and sends for me, sure
that you will follow."
"Being a woman she cannot quite forgive me for loving her too well to
make her miserable. Dear soul, she will never know how much it cost me,
but I knew that my only safety lay in flight. Tell her so a long while
hence."
"You shall do it yourself, for you are coming home with me."
"What to do there?"
"All you ever did; walk up and down the face of the earth, waxing in
power and virtue, and coming often to us when we get fairly back into
our former ways, for you are still the house friend."
"I was wondering, as I walked here, what my next summons would be, when
lo, you came. Go on, I'll follow you; one could hardly have a better
guide."
"You are sure you are able, Adam?"
"Shall I uproot a tree or fling you over the wall to convince you, you
motherly body? I am nearly whole again, and a breath of sea air will
complete the cure. Let me cover my head, say farewell to the good
Sisters, and I shall be glad to slip away without further
demonstrations from the volcanoes below there."
Laying one hand on the low wall, Warwick vaulted over with a backward
glance at Moor, who followed to the gateway, there to wait till the
adieux were over. Very brief they were, and presently Warwick
reappeared, evidently touched yet ill-pleased at something, for he both
smiled and frowned as he paused on the threshold as if loth to go. A
little white goat came skipping from the orchard, and seeing the
stranger took refuge at Warwick's knee. The act of the creature seemed
to suggest a thought to the man. Pulling off the gay handkerchief some
grateful woman had knotted round his neck, he fastened it about the
goat's, having secured something in one end, then rose as if content.
"What are you doing?" called Moor, wondering at this arrangement.
"Widening the narrow entrance into heaven set apart for rich men unless
they leave their substance behind, as I am trying to do. The kind
creatures cannot refuse it now; so trot away to your mistress, little
Nanna, and tell no tales as you go."
As the goat went tapping up the steps a stir within announced the
dreaded demonstration. Warwick did not seem to hear it; he stood looking
far across the trampled plain and ruined town toward the mountains
shining white against the deep Italian sky. A rapt, far-reaching look,
as if he saw beyond the purple wall, and seeing forgot the present in
some vision of the future.
"Come, Adam! I am waiting."
His eye came back, the lost look passed, and cheerily he answered--
"I am ready."
A fortnight later in that dark hour before the dawn, with a murky sky
above them, a hungry sea below them, the two stood together the last to
leave a sinking ship.
"Room for one more, choose quick!" shouted a hoarse voice from the boat
tossing underneath, freighted to the water's edge with trembling lives.
"Go, Geoffrey, Sylvia is waiting."
"Not without you, Adam."
"But you are exhausted; I can bear a rough hour better than yourself,
and morning will bring help."
"It may not. Go, I am the lesser loss."
"What folly! I will force you to it; steady there, he is coming."
"Push off, I am not coming."
In times like that, few pause for pity or persuasion; the instinct of
self-preservation rules supreme, and each is for himself, except those
in whom love of another is stronger than love of life. Even while the
friends generously contended the boat was swept away, and they were left
alone in the deserted ship, swiftly making its last voyage downward.
Spent with a day of intense excitement, and sick with hope deferred,
Moor leaned on Warwick, feeling that it was adding bitterness to death
to die in sight of shore. But Warwick never knew despair; passive
submission was not in his power while anything remained to do or dare,
and even then he did not cease to hope. It was certain death to linger
there; other boats less heavily laden had put off before, and might
drift across their track; wreckers waiting on the shore might hear and
help; at least it were better to die bravely and not "strike sail to a
