"Archy has explained how it happened. Do you think I will let one of my
niggers strike my son such a blow as that? Off with your shirt!"
"I didn't want to strike him at all. I didn't want to take off the
gloves, sir. He made me do it."
"Did he make you give him a black eye?" roared the planter. "Do you
expect me to believe such a story as this?"
"Didn't you make me strike?" continued Dandy, turning to his young
master.
"I didn't ask you to get mad, and fly at me like a madman," replied
Archy, coldly, as he placed his handkerchief upon the injured eye.
"I didn't mean to strike him so hard, master. Forgive me this time, and
I never will strike him again."
"I wanted you to strike, but not to get mad," added Archy.
"Forgive me this time, master," pleaded Dandy.
"Forgive you, you villain! I'll forgive you. I'll teach you to strike my
son! Tear off his shirt, Tom!"
Long Tom was a slave. He had groaned and bled beneath the lash himself;
but the trifling favors he had received had debauched his soul, and he
was a willing servant, ready, for a smile from his master, to perform
with barbarous fidelity the diabolical duties of his office. Seizing
Dandy by the arm, he pulled off his shirt, and led him to the tree.
The last ray of hope had expired in the soul of Dandy. His blood
rebelled at the thought of being whipped. He was not stirred by the
emotions which disturb a free child with a whipping in prospect. He
cringed not at the pain, he rebelled not at proper and wholesome
punishment. This whipping was the scourging of the slave; it was the
emblem of his servitude. The blows were the stripes which the master
inflicts upon his bondman. His soul was free, while his body was in
chains; and it was his soul rather than his body that was to be
scourged.
The thought was madness. His blood boiled with indignation, with horror,
and with loathing. The tide of despair surged in upon his spirit, and
overwhelmed him. He resolved not to be whipped, and, when Long Tom
turned away to adjust the strap, he sprang like an antelope through the
group of spectators, and ran with all the speed he could command towards
the river.
Perhaps it was a mistake on the part of Dandy, but it was the noblest
impulse of his nature which prompted him to resist the unjust sentence
that had been passed upon him. He ran, and desperation gave him the
wings of the wind; but he had miscalculated his chances, if he had
considered them at all, for the swift horse of the planter was tied to
a stake near the dead oak. He had been riding over the estate when Archy
returned from Green Point with the story of the blows which had been
inflicted upon him.
Colonel Raybone leaped upon his horse the instant he realized the
purpose of the culprit, and, before Dandy had accomplished half the
distance to the river, the planter overtook him. He rode the horse
directly upon him, and if the intelligent beast had not been kinder than
his rider, the story of poor Dandy might have ended here. As it was, he
was simply thrown down, and before he could rise and recover himself the
planter had dismounted and seized him by the arm.
So deeply had the prejudices of his condition been implanted in his
mind, that the thought of bestowing blows upon the sacred person of his
master did not occur to him. If he had dared to fight, as he had the
strength and the energy to fight, he might still have escaped. Colonel
Raybone was an awful presence to him, and he yielded up his purpose
without a struggle to carry it out.
The planter swore at him with a fury which chilled his blood, and
struck him several smart blows with his riding-whip as the foretaste of
what he was still to undergo.
"Now, back to the tree," said Colonel Raybone, as he mounted his horse
again.
Dandy had given up all hope now, and he marched to the whipping-post, as
the condemned criminal walks to the scaffold. He had advanced but a
short distance before he met the other spectators to his doom, and Long
Tom seized him by the wrist, and held him with an iron gripe till they
reached the dead oak.
"Tie him up quick, Tom," said Colonel Raybone. "It has been more work to
flog this young cub than a dozen full-grown niggers."
Long Tom fastened the straps around Dandy's wrists, and passed them
through a band around the tree, about ten feet from the ground. He then
pulled the victim up till his toes scarcely touched the earth.
"Now, lay them on well," said the planter, vindictively.
"How many, Massa Raybone?" asked Tom, as he unrolled the long lash of
his whip.
"Lay on till I say stop."
Dandy's flesh quivered, but his spirit shrunk more than his body from
the contamination of the slave-master's scourge. The lash fell across
his back--his back, as white as that of any who read this page. The
blood gushed from the wound which the cruel lash inflicted, but not a
word or a groan escaped from the pallid lips of the sufferer. A dozen
blows fell, and though the flesh was terribly mangled, the laceration of
the soul was deeper and more severe.
"Stop!" said Colonel Raybone.
Long Tom promptly obeyed the mandate. He evidently had no feeling about
the brutal job, and there was no sign of joy or sorrow in his
countenance from first to last. If he felt at all, his experience had
effectually schooled him in the difficult art of concealing his
emotions.
"Take him down," added the planter, who, as he gazed upon the torn and
excoriated flesh of the victim, seemed to feel that the atonement had
washed away the offence.
During the punishment Master Archy had betrayed no small degree of
emotion, and before the driver had struck the sixth blow he had asked
his father, in a whisper, to stay the hand of the negro. He had several
times repeated the request; but Colonel Raybone was inflexible till the
crime had, in his opinion, been fully expiated.
Long Tom unloosed the straps, and the body of the culprit dropped to the
ground, as though the vital spark had for ever fled from its desecrated
tabernacle.
"De boy hab fainted, Massa Raybone," said the driver.
"I see he has," replied the planter, with some evidence of emotion in
his tones, as he bent over the prostrate form of the boy, to ascertain
if more was not done than had been intended.
He felt the pulse of Dandy, and satisfied himself that he was not dead.
We must do him the justice to say that he was sorry for what had
happened--sorry as a kind parent is when compelled to punish a dear
child. He did not believe that he had done wrong, even accepting as true
the statement of the culprit; for the safety of the master and his
family made it necessary for him to regard the striking even of a blow
justifiable under other circumstances as a great enormity. It was the
system, more than the man, that was at fault.
Dandy was not dead, and Colonel Raybone ordered two of the house
servants, who were present, to do every thing that his condition
required. He and Archy then walked towards the house, gloomy and sad,
both of them.
CHAPTER VI.
A VISION OF THE PROMISED LAND.
Dandy, lacerated and bleeding, but still insensible, was conveyed to his
chamber in the mansion house, by some of the servants. His physician was
an old slave, skilled in the treatment of cases of this kind. When the
patient recovered from the swoon into which he had fallen, his back was
carefully washed, and the usual remedies were applied. Though suffering
terribly from the effects of his wounds, he did not permit a sigh nor a
groan to escape him.
The mangled flesh could be healed, but there was no balm at Redlawn that
could restore his mangled spirit. Dandy felt that he had been crushed to
earth. Slavery, which had before been endurable with patience and
submission, was now intolerable. He had been scourged with the lash. He
had realized what it was to be a slave in the most bitter and terrible
sense.
"I will watch and wait," said he to himself, when the old slave had left
him alone with his reflections, "but no longer with patience and
submission. I will cease to be a slave, or I will die a freeman with the
herons and the alligators in the swamp."
The day wore slowly away, but it was filled up with earnest and
energetic reflections,--in a word, with plans and suggestions of plans
for escaping from the bondage whose fetters now galled him to the quick.
And before the sun set upon the day of his greatest humiliation, he had
matured a scheme by which he hoped and expected to win the priceless
boon of freedom. It was a daring scheme, and its success must depend
wholly upon the skill and energy with which its details were managed.
When one resolves to do a thing, it is already half done; and Dandy,
stretched upon his couch of pain, was inspired by the hope and comfort
which his plan afforded him. It might be weeks or months before the
favorable opportunity for executing his purpose should arrive; but the
time would come, sooner or later.
"I will watch and wait," said he, while a smile of hope illuminated his
pale face.
WATCH AND WAIT had now a new significance, more vital than
before; and he kept repeating the words, for they were an epitome of the
whole duty of the future.
While he was pondering his great purpose, he was surprised to receive a
visit from Master Archy. The imperious young gentleman displayed a
languid smile upon his face as he entered the chamber. It was intended
as a token of conciliation. If his pride had permitted him to speak to
the suffering bondman, he would have said, "Dandy, you see this smile
upon my face. It is the olive-branch of peace. I freely forgive you for
what you have done; and you see, by my coming, that I feel an interest
in you. Not every young master would bestow a visit of sympathy upon his
slave, after he had been whipped; so you see how condescending I am. We
will be friends, as we were before. It is true you have been whipped;
but you deserved it, and I am willing to forgive you. It may have been
my fault, but as you are a nigger, and in my power, it don't make much
difference."
This was what Master Archy's looks said, and the sufferer read them as
well as though the words had been written upon his face. After Dandy
came to his senses, his first thought was, that he would be revenged
upon Archy for his mean and cowardly conduct; but the great scheme he
had matured drove this purpose from his mind. Success required that he
should conceal his feelings, or he might lose the confidence of his
master, and thus be deprived of the opportunity for which he intended to
watch and wait.
"How do you feel, Dandy?" asked Archy, in tones of sympathy, as he
placed himself by the bedside of his body-servant.
"Not very well, Master Archy," replied Dandy.
"My father carried it farther than I intended, Dandy. I tried to stop
him before."
"Thank you, Master Archy," answered the patient, meekly.
"Though it was more than I meant you should have, I hope you will
remember it a long time," added Archy.
"I shall, master."
"My eye is not in very good condition," said he, wiping the injured
organ with his handkerchief. "It was a hard blow you gave me."
Dandy wished he would leave him, and he did not care to argue the matter
with him, even if he had been privileged to do so.
"It won't do to let your servant go too far," said Archy.
"I am very sorry it happened," replied Dandy.
"Well, I hope the lesson will last you as long as you live."
"It will, Master Archy."
The young tyrant, when he had fully satisfied himself that his minion
was in a tractable state, took his leave, much to the satisfaction of
the sufferer. The old negro who acted as his physician paid him another
visit in the evening, and assured him that he would be well in a few
days. He left him with the injunction to go to sleep, and forget all
about it.
Dandy could not go to sleep, could not forget all about it. The wound in
his soul was more painful than those upon his back, and hour after hour
passed away, but his eyes were still set wide open. His great resolution
filled the future with sublime visions, which he panted to realize. His
path lay through trial and danger, was environed by death on every side;
but paradise was at the end of it, and he was willing to encounter every
hardship, and brave every danger, to win the glorious prize, or content
to die if his struggles should be in vain.
He was determined to leave Redlawn at the first favorable opportunity;
and while he pictured a glowing future beyond the chilly damps of the
swamp, and out of the reach of the rifle-ball and the bloodhound, there
were still some ties which bound him to the home of his childhood.
Home! No, it was only a mockery of that heaven upon earth! It had been
the scene of his tribulation--that which riveted the bonds upon his
limbs. But it was home so far as it was the abiding place of his
friends,--not those who scourged him, whose caprices had tormented him;
not his young master, not his old master. That delightful poetry which
paints a loving slave clinging fondly to the master that scourges him
had never glowed in his imagination. Whatever of regard he had before
cherished towards his master had been driven from his heart by the
thongs of the slave whip.
He had friends at Redlawn,--the gentle, meek, and patient Lily,--the
wild, rollicking, mirthful Cyd. They were his friends, indeed, and the
thought of leaving them at all was sad; the thought of leaving them in
bondage, to be sold and scourged, was intolerable. While he was thinking
of them he heard a slight rap at the door.
"May I come in?"
It was Lily, and the permission was promptly given. The clock in the
great hall below had struck eleven, and the family had but just retired.
She had been waiting all this time to pay a visit of sympathy to the
sufferer.
"How do you do, Dandy?" asked she, as she sat down in a chair at the
head of the bed.
"I'm better, Lily."
"I'm very glad. I wanted to come and see you very much, but I was afraid
to do so. It was terrible, Dandy! To think that you should be whipped! I
should as soon have thought of being whipped myself."
"It is terrible, Lily."
"What did you do, Dandy? It must have been some awful thing."
The sufferer briefly related the particulars of the event at Green
Point, which had procured him the whipping. Lily expressed her horror at
the meanness of Master Archy, and poured out her sympathy in unmeasured
fulness upon her friend.
"But I shall not be here long, Lily," added Dandy, in a whisper.
"Why, what do you mean?" asked she, amazed at the idea of resistance in
any form.
"Will you keep my secret, Lily?"
"You know that I will, Dandy."
"I mean to run away."
"Run away!" gasped Lily.
"I will not stay here another month if I can help it."
"But where will you go?"
"I know where to go, and how to go; and, live or die, I shall make the
attempt."
"And you will be free?"
"I will, or I will die. I will not be a slave!" said he, in an energetic
whisper.
"How grand it would be! I wish I could be free," sighed Lily. "I don't
know what will become of me one of these days."
"None of us can know."
"If I were a man I should not fear so much. Master was offered two
thousand dollars for me a year ago."
"He will not sell you."
"Whether he does or not, I shall be miserable as long as I live. I often
wish I was dead."
"Poor Lily!" sighed Dandy.
"Can't I go with you," asked she, bending over him, and whispering the
words into his ear.
"You, Lily! I shall go to the swamps first. I may have to live with the
alligators for months, perhaps for years."
"I am not afraid of them. If you will let me, I will go with you," added
she, eagerly.
"I shall have to meet hardships and dangers,--more than you could bear."
"I'll bear every thing, Dandy. I will help you; I will die with you."
"Poor girl!"
"I would bear any thing. I would rather live with the alligators than
with Miss Edith. You don't know how much I have to bear, Dandy."
"The same that I have to bear from Master Archy. If I thought you could
stand it, Lily, I should be glad to take you with me."
"I can stand it," replied she, with enthusiasm.
"You shall go, Lily."
"Heaven bless you, Dandy!"
"And I'm going to take Cyd with me, too, if he will go; but he don't
know any thing about it yet."
"When shall we start?"
"I don't know; not till master goes a hunting again. I will tell you all
about it in a few days."
Lily was content to leave every thing with Dandy, in whom she had more
confidence than in any other person, for he was her only real friend.
With her soul full of new emotions, she left the chamber of the sick
boy just as the clock struck twelve.
Dandy's great purpose now assumed a new significance; and as Lily was to
share in the toils, privations, and dangers of the enterprise, a new
responsibility was imposed upon him.
It was two hours more before his exciting thoughts would permit him to
sleep. His wounds had ceased to smart, and he had even forgotten his
flogging in the glorious vision to which it had introduced him. And when
he slept it was but to dream of the swamp and its perils, and of the
promised land which his fancy pictured beyond it.
CHAPTER VII.
THE ISABEL IS PREPARED FOR A CRUISE.
At the end of a week the lacerated flesh of poor Dandy was so far healed
that he again discharged all the duties of his position near the person
of his young master. The flesh was healed, but the spirit still smarted
under the effects of the whipping. "Watch and wait," was his motto; and
though he possessed his soul in patience, he kept his eyes and his ears
wide open, ready to seize upon the desired opportunity to carry out his
great resolution.
The season most favorable for shooting had arrived, and Dandy was in
expectation that Colonel Raybone would order the preparations to be made
for his annual excursion, either to the rivers above, or the lakes
below, in search of game. Upon this event was based his hope of making
his escape.
The smiling month of May was ushered in with its pleasant days, and
about a fortnight after his whipping Dandy had the satisfaction of
hearing the subject broached. The excursion was a matter of considerable
importance, for the planter was generally absent two or three weeks,
during which time he and his party lived on board of the large
sail-boat. As there were no guests at Redlawn, the people wondered who
were to be the colonel's companions.
"We will leave on Wednesday," said the planter to his son.
"Are you going alone, father?"
"Certainly not; you may go with me for one, and you may take Dandy with
you. Jake and Cyd shall go to do the heavy work."
"Who else? There is room enough in the cabin for four."
"There is no one else to go. So we shall have the more room ourselves,"
replied the planter, as he walked away.
Master Archy announced to Dandy and Cyd that they were to attend the
party, and both expressed their satisfaction at the privilege accorded
to them. They were directed to put the Isabel, which was the name of
the boat, in good order for the trip. She had to be thoroughly washed
and dried that she might be in readiness to receive her stores on the
following day, which was Tuesday, and they hastened off to perform their
task.
The Isabel was about twenty-five feet long. She was very broad on the
beam, and drew but very little water for a boat of her size. She was
provided with a centre board, and worked admirably on the wind. She had
been built expressly for the shallow waters of the lower lakes.
She was schooner-rigged, and could carry a heavy press of sail, which
the light winds of these inland lakes rendered necessary. The cabin was
twelve feet long, and nine feet wide at the broadest part, and contained
four berths. The "trunk," which was elevated about fifteen inches above
the deck, afforded a height of about five feet beneath. The berths,
which extended beneath the main deck, answered for beds by night, and
sofas by day.
The standing room, or open space abaft the cabin, was eight feet long,
with cushioned seats on three sides. Forward of the cabin there was a
"stow-hold," four feet long, in which the fuel and furnaces used for
cooking were kept. Under the cabin table, and under the berths and seats
in the standing room, were a plenty of lockers for the reception of
provisions and other articles required on board.
We are thus particular in describing the Isabel, because Dandy and his
friends were destined to make their home on board of her for some time.
They might have found many a worse dwelling place on shore, for the boat
had ample accommodations for them. The cabin was elegantly fitted and
furnished, and there was every thing on board which could be needed to
make them comfortable.
While Dandy and Cyd were cleaning the Isabel, the former boldly
announced his purpose to run away, and invited his friend to make one of
the party.
"Golly! Dis chile go for sure!" roared Cyd, displaying his wealth of
ivories, and dropping his scrubbing brush with amazement at the
magnificence of the idea.
"Hush, Cyd! You will tell every one on the place."
"No, sar! I won't tell no one ob it. Dat's de truf, Dandy."
"Be careful then, and don't speak so loud."
"But where you gwine?" demanded Cyd.
"I'm going into the swamp, and shall stay there till master thinks we
are all dead. Then I'm going to run down to the sea, and get on board of
some vessel that will carry us to the free states."
This prospect was rather too much for the simple comprehension of the
unlettered negro boy, and he only rolled the whites of his eyes in mute
astonishment.
"I've studied it all out, Cyd, and I know where to go, and how to get
there."
"Yes, Dandy, you knows ebery ting, and I'll foller you to de end ob de
world--dat's de truf," added Cyd.
"And Lily will go with us."
"Lily?"
"Yes; now keep your mouth shut, and don't look any different from what
you always do."
"Golly--yes; when you gwine to go, Dandy?"
"To-morrow night. Every thing will be put on board, ready for the
colonel to start early the next morning. Just as soon as all the people
in the house have gone to bed, we will meet here, and go on board."
"Den I shall be a free nigger?"
"Yes, if we get off, and the plan works well. But you must be very
careful."
"You kin trust dis chile, Dandy. You knows you kin."
"I do, or I should not have made you my companion."
Dandy instructed his sable friend very minutely in the duties he was to
discharge in connection with the enterprise. He had every confidence in
Cyd's discretion, and knew that he would rather die than betray him.
The Isabel was carefully cleaned, and left to dry in the bright sunshine
of a clear day. The next morning, the steward of the plantation laid out
the stores which were to go on board; and as their storage was a nice
matter, Dandy was charged with this duty. He was assisted by Archy's
boat crew, who conveyed the articles on board; and before sunset the
boat was ready for her cruise. Every locker was filled with meat,
vegetables, crackers, wines, liquors, fruits, cakes, cordials--with
every thing which could contribute to the comfort or luxury of the
excursionists. There were two barrels of water in the standing room, and
the choice fowling pieces of the planter and his son were in the cabin,
with a supply of ammunition sufficient to destroy half the game of the
parish.
To the supplies laid out by the steward, Dandy contrived to add a dozen
hams, nicely sewed up in canvas bags, and several kegs of crackers,
which he took from the store room. These articles were stowed in the
forward cuddy, and concealed beneath the fuel and furnaces, so that the
planter, when he inspected the boat, might not discover them. Some other
articles were placed in a convenient position on shore, that they might
be taken on board in the night.
At sunset, Colonel Raybone went off to the Isabel, and carefully
examined every part of her, to satisfy himself that there had been no
omissions in her outfit.
"You have done very well, Dandy," said the planter, when he had
completed his inspection. "How many hams have you put on board?"
"Six, sir," replied Dandy.
"We may be absent five or six weeks; you may put in six more," added
Colonel Raybone.
"Yes, sir."
He also ordered an additional supply of smoked beef and tongues, which,
of course, the caterer was glad to convey on board. When these stores
had been added to the stock, he was satisfied, and ordered Dandy and Cyd
to be on board by six in the morning.
The superintendent of these operations then locked up the cabin, and
went on shore. Though he was burning with excitement, he managed to
demean himself with his ordinary coolness, and Cyd looked as immovable
as a statue.
At the usual hour they retired to their several rooms, but not to sleep.
Dandy, as the conductor of the enterprise, was weighed down with the
responsibilities of his position. Though he had done every thing he
could to insure the success of the venture, he was still burdened with a
feverish anxiety lest something had been omitted, and with the dread
that something might happen to interfere with the plan.
There were many things which might intervene to thwart his purpose. If
the night should prove to be calm, there would be scarcely a hope of
success; for the Isabel was so large that the two boys could not row her
far enough, before daylight, to place them out of the reach of pursuit.
There was quite a fresh breeze when he went to his room; but he trembled
with fear lest it should subside before he could take advantage of it.
While Miss Edith was at dinner that day, he had found an opportunity to
whisper his purpose into the ear of Lily, and to give her such
instructions as the occasion required. He had no doubt that his
companions would meet him on the pier at the appointed time.
Fortunately for the success of the plan, the family retired at an
earlier hour than usual, and Dandy waited with impatience till the
stillness of the house assured him it was safe to leave his chamber. He
then tied up a portion of his clothing, and crept softly down stairs.
His heart beat with most tremendous pulsations. The opportunity for
which he had been watching and waiting had come, and issues more
terrible than those of life and death hung upon the success of the
enterprise. If he failed, if he was captured, he might expect the
auction block, for Colonel Raybone always sold a servant that attempted
to run away.
The destiny of poor Lily was also in his keeping, and for her to be sold
was to be consigned to a fate worse than death to a pure-minded girl--a
fate which both of them were old enough to understand.
"God be with me!" ejaculated Dandy, half a dozen times before he left
his chamber.
It was all the prayer he ever uttered, but it was an earnest and sincere
one.
"God be with me," repeated he, in a whisper, as he closed the front door
of the house behind him, and with stealthy step crept down to the pier.
Cyd was already there, for he did not sleep in the great house, and had
not to wait the movements of the family. He trembled with excitement as
Dandy joined him, for he knew the fate of the runaway if he was caught.
They immediately brought the articles which had been concealed down to
the steps, and put them in the bateau, which was used as a tender for
the Isabel.
"What's dis for?" asked Cyd, as he deposited two pots of paint in the
boat.
"Don't ask questions," whispered Dandy, earnestly. "Not another word, or
I'll leave you. Now, put these things on board, and mind you don't make
a particle of noise."
Cyd obeyed the order to the letter, and paddled off to the sail-boat.
Every thing was now in readiness for their departure, but Lily had not
yet made her appearance. Cyd returned to the shore, and they waited half
an hour, but the lady's-maid did not come.
There was a stiff breeze blowing, and Dandy was impatient at the loss of
a single moment of precious time. He walked up to the house, fearful
lest something had happened to prevent her from keeping her appointment.
There was a light in Miss Edith's chamber, which explained her
non-appearance; but he could not think of going without her.
When his patience was nearly exhausted, the light was extinguished. Lily
soon made her appearance on the lawn, and they hastened down to the
pier.
CHAPTER VIII.
THE DEPARTURE OF THE YOUNG FUGITIVES.
"Dear me!" exclaimed Lily, when Dandy joined her on the lawn; "I am
frightened out of my senses."
"There is nothing to fear yet, Lily," said her conductor, as he took her
by the hand to restore her confidence. "The wind is quite fresh, and
long before we are missed we shall be out of the reach of pursuit."
"I am frightened, and I can't help it."
"You will feel better when you get on board of the boat. You shall have
a nice cabin, and you can lie down and go to sleep just as you would in
your own chamber."
"I don't think I shall sleep much to-night. I was afraid I should not be
able to join you, for Miss Edith had the headache, and made me stay with
her till she could go to sleep."
"We are all right now, Lily. Every thing is as favorable as it can be.
We have nothing to fear as long as the wind blows."
Lily had very little practical knowledge of boating, and she did not
comprehend the allusions of Dandy; but she trusted him with all her
soul, and when he said there was no danger, her fluttering heart was
calmed down. Before they reached the pier she had entirely recovered her
self-possession, though she could not help being deeply impressed by the
important step she was taking.
Cyd was seated on the landing steps, whistling the air of a negro
melody, as cool as though he was about to engage in a lawful enterprise.
He had been tremendously agitated at the announcement of the idea, and
when he decided to form one of the party; but he was one of that class
to whom exciting events soon become an old story. He already regarded
his freedom as achieved, and he had even made himself familiar with his
new social condition.
Dandy handed Lily into the bateau which was to serve as the Isabel's
tender, and then seated himself in the bow.
"Come, bear a hand, Cyd," said the leader, in a low but sharp tone.
"What am I to bear a hand to?" demanded Cyd.
"Jump in quick, and paddle off to the Isabel."
"Golly! Is dis chile got to row de boat? Says I, 'Cyd,' says I, 'you's a
free nigger, and you got nuffin to do but----'"
"Take your paddle quick, or I will leave you here!" interposed Dandy.
Cyd obeyed this time. His ideas of freedom were, no doubt, derived from
his master and the other white people at Redlawn, who had nothing to do
but amuse themselves and order the negroes round the place. They were
very crude ideas, and he was yet to learn that freedom did not mean
idleness. He paddled the bateau off to the sail-boat, and Lily was put
on board.
"Now, haul the Edith alongside," said the skipper, as he proceeded to
unloose the sails.
"De Edif!" exclaimed Cyd. "Wha--wha--what you gwine to do wid de Edif?"
"Haul her alongside!" replied Dandy, sharply. "If you spend the night in
talking, we shall not get off till morning."
"Hossifus!" ejaculated Cyd, whose vocabulary being rather limited, he
was under the necessity of coining a word occasionally, when he felt the
need of a strong expression. "Dis nigger tink he was free, but it's Do
dis, and Do dat. Hossifus; dis chile tink he's only got a new
massa--dat's all, for sartin."
"If you don't want to go, Cyd, you needn't. I will put you on shore, and
go without you."
"Gossifus! Dis chile like to know what you gwine to do widout Cyd."
"I shall do very well without him. Shall I put you on shore, or not?"
"Possifus! No, Dandy; I'se gwine wid you, any how."
"Then you must mind me!" added the skipper, earnestly.
"I done do dat."
"Haul the Edith alongside, then."
"Sartin, Dandy. I'se gwine to haul de Edif alongside, but dis chile like
to know what for?"
"Mind me, or I'll put you on shore!" cried Dandy, angrily.
"Mossifus! I'se gwine, Dandy," said Cyd as he stepped into the tender,
and paddled off to the Edith, which was moored a short distance above.
Presently he returned, and the painter of the race boat was made fast to
a cleat on the quarter of the Isabel. Cyd was much mystified by the
operation, for he could not see why they should take the Edith with
them. He was very anxious to argue the point with Dandy, who, it seemed
to him, had never before in his life been so sharp and ill-natured. But
the skipper was too much excited by the tremendous issues of the hour to
be in a mood for argument.
By this time Dandy had cast loose the sails, and together they manned
the halyards, and hoisted the mainsail. It was large, and the fresh
breeze caused it to flap and beat with a fearful noise, which added not
a little to the excitement of the skipper.
"Stand by the moorings, Cyd, and have your jib halyards ready!" said
Dandy, as he took his place at the tiller.
"Hossifus! I'm dar, Massa Dandy."
"You needn't 'massa' me, Cyd. Stop!"
"Which'll I do, Massa Dandy, stand by de moorings, or stop?" demanded
Cyd, whose ivories were now distinctly visible in the gloom of the
night.
"Neither; jump into the bateau, and bring the wherry alongside," replied
Dandy.
"Gossifus! What you gwine to do wid de wherry?"
"Mind me, or go on shore!" said the skipper, sternly.
"I'se gwine. Golly! dat makes two boats apiece all round, for sartin."
"Go, quick!"
"I'se gone; 'pears like I'se only swapped off Massa Archy for Massa
Dandy."
But Cyd obeyed the order, and brought the wherry to the side of the
Isabel, to which she was secured, like the other boats. The bewildered
boy was not in the habit of doing his own thinking, and his faculties
were not, therefore, very fully developed, and an explanation would have
relieved him of a world of doubts and conjectures.
"Now, have your jib halyards ready, and stand by the moorings," said
Dandy.
"Yes, sar!" replied Cyd, putting a wicked emphasis on the complimentary
part of the answer.
"Let go the moorings!" shouted Dandy, as he hauled in the main sheet.
"All gone, Massa Dandy," replied Cyd, as the heavy rope by which the
boat was secured splashed into the water.
"Hoist the jib!" added the skipper, in the same loud tones, that he
might be heard above the noise of the flapping sail.
"Up she goes," responded Cyd, joyously.
The Isabel, released from her moorings, caught the breeze, and the
voyage of the young fugitives was commenced. She leaped like a
race-horse before the fresh breeze.
"We done gone!" exclaimed Cyd, as he walked aft, when he had secured the
jib sheet.
"We are off!" replied Dandy, as he cast an anxious glance in the
direction of the planter's great house, to assure himself that none of
its inmates witnessed their departure.
The night was very dark, and there were indications of a storm. It
required all the skill of the bold leader of the expedition to steer the
boat in the thick gloom of the night. The navigation was difficult and
dangerous. The bayou was filled with snags and stumps, and to strike one
of them was to dash the boat in pieces, and wreck all the hopes which
hung upon the success of the enterprise. But Dandy was thoroughly
acquainted with all the difficulties in his course, and was so familiar
with the waters of the bayou, that he was as much at home upon them by
night as by day.
"Hoist the foresail, Cyd," said the skipper.
"Mossifus! Dis chile tinks de boat's gwine fas enough," answered Cyd,
"but I'se gwine to do jus what you say, Massa Dandy."
"Do it then."
Cyd did do it then; but it was evident to the commander of the Isabel
that the "crew" of his vessel was in a lamentable state of
insubordination. All his orders were questioned, and the boat was liable
to go to the bottom in an emergency, because his commands were not
promptly obeyed. He was not a little astonished at Cyd's conduct, for in
the boat of Master Archy he was in the habit of obeying all orders like
a machine, never presuming to ask a question, or suggest a doubt.
The foresail was set, and the Isabel dashed on with increased speed.
There was no more "working ship" to be done, and Cyd again took his
place on the cushioned seats in the standing-room, a luxury, by the way,
in which he had never before attempted to indulge himself; but when it
is considered that he had just emerged from slavery to freedom, his want
of respect for the dignity of the "quarter deck" will be fully excused.
"Go forward, Cyd, and keep a sharp lookout ahead," said Dandy, as soon
as the "crew" was comfortably seated on the cushion.
"Gossifus! I suppose I'se a nigger still," said he. "Dis chile tinks
he's jes as good's any body now."
"You are, Cyd."
"Den I mus squat on de hard deck, and you sets on de cushions."
"Take one of the cushions with you, if you wish to; but go forward and
keep a sharp lookout."
"I'se gwine."
"Go, then."
"Dis nigger don't zackly like dis kind ob freedom," growled Cyd, as he
moved forward.
The wind was about south-west, which was fair for the course the Isabel
was then steering, and in three quarters of an hour she made Green
Point. Dandy could not but recall the events which had occurred there
three weeks before, for they had stimulated him to the daring enterprise
in which he was now engaged. It was there he had resolved to watch and
wait in patience and submission for a less perilous opportunity to
effect his escape than that which he had now embraced. The spot was full
of interest, for his great resolution had been born there; but the
moment was big with the destiny of the whole party, and he could not
stop to indulge in sentimental reflections.
"Stand by the jib sheet, Cyd!" said he, as the Isabel swept past the
point.
"Yes, sar--all ready!" replied Cyd, who had so many times assisted in
working the boat, that he was perfectly familiar with the routine of a
foremast hand's duty.
"Hard--lee!" cried Dandy, as he put the helm down, and brought the
Isabel up on the other tack.
Cyd tended the jib sheet without further instruction, and then took his
place again on the forecastle to look out for danger ahead. The course
for the next five miles was up the large bayou, of which the Crosscut
was a tributary. It was lined on both sides with large trees, which
sheltered the water, to some extent, from the force of the wind, and her
progress was less rapid than before. The navigation was less obstructed,
and Cyd was called aft to enjoy the luxury of the cushioned seats.
Lily, who had now become reconciled to her situation, also joined the
skipper in the standing room. The hurry and excitement of the departure
had passed off, and the load of anxiety was removed from the mind of
Dandy.
It was midnight, dark and gloomy; but the young fugitives felt that they
were passing from the gloom of slavery into the light of freedom. The
first difficulties of the enterprise had been overcome, and though there
were months of peril and hardship before them, it seemed as though the
glorious sun of the new existence had already risen.
CHAPTER IX.
THE FUGITIVES REACH LAKE CHICOT.
The Isabel moved steadily through the waters of the wide bayou, bearing
her precious freight farther and farther from the plantation. With every
mile she advanced, the hopes of the fugitives grew stronger. Though
Dandy alone knew the route by which they were to reach the land of
freedom, they were conscious that any white man whom they might meet
would arrest them as runaways. Before they could pass out of the limits
of the state, they must go in sight of many plantations, where they were
liable to be seen, and even near two or three villages.
In spite of the perils which the future had in store for them, the party
were quite cheerful. Even Lily, gentle and timid as she was, soon became
accustomed to the novel situation in which she was placed, and ceased
to dread the pursuing footsteps of the slave-hunters.
"Do you think we shall escape, Dandy?" asked she, as she seated herself
by the side of her friend.
"I expect we shall," replied he, unwilling to kindle too strong a hope
in the mind of the girl. "If we manage well, we have a good chance."
"I hope we shall, for master would certainly sell us all if we should be
caught."
"Dat ud be wus as staying wid Massa Kun'l," added Cyd. "But I s'pect we
won't be caught, Massa Dandy."
"Why do you call me master, Cyd?"
"Dis chile tink you cutting it rader fat."
"What do you mean by that?"
"You'se tell me do dis, and, Cyd, do dat,--jes as dough dis nigger no
account at all."
"I am in command of the boat; and it was my duty to get her under way.
When I told you to do any thing, you began to ask questions."
"Dis nigger's free now," replied Cyd, with becoming dignity.
"Not yet, Cyd. We may be caught at any moment."
