"He has thrown up his gun. The others are yelling to him to come back.
What does that mean?"
"He is a deserter; he wants to get away from them. There he comes."
"Yes, and there comes the rest of them--the whole rebel army--more than a
million of them," said Fred Pemberton. "It's time for us to be going."
"See! They are firing at him. Forward!" added Tom, leading the way.
The party rushed forward, for a short distance; but the dozen rebels had
been reënforced, and it was madness to rush into the very teeth of danger.
Tom ordered his men to halt and fire at will. The deserter, probably
finding that he was between two fires, turned aside from the direct course
he was pursuing, and sought shelter in the woods. The sergeant then
directed his men to retire, for whether the retreat of the runaway rebel
was covered or not, it was no longer safe to remain.
Fortunately the Confederates were more in doubt than the Unionists; and
perhaps expecting to fall upon a larger body of the latter, they abandoned
the pursuit, and returned to their posts. Nothing was seen of the deserter
for some time, and Tom concluded that he had lost his way in the woods, or
had missed the direction taken by the Federal scouts.
"He was a plucky fellow, any how," said one of the men, "to attempt to run
away in the very face of his companions."
"Well, he timed it well, for he started just when their guns were all
empty," added another.
"I'm not sorry he missed us," continued Hapgood. "I don't like a desarter,
no how. It goes right agin my grain."
"But he was running from the wrong to the right side," replied Tom.
"I don't keer if he was. Them colors on t'other side were his'n. He chose
'em for himself, and it's mean to run away from 'em. If a man's go'n to be
a rebel, let him be one, and stick to it."
"You don't know any thing about it, uncle. Thousands of men have been
forced into the rebel army, and I don't blame them for getting out of it
the best way they can. I should do so."
"That may be. Tom; that may be," added the veteran, taking off his cap and
rubbing his bald head, as though a new idea had penetrated it. "I didn't
think of that."
"He's a brave man, whoever he is, and whatever he is."
"He must want to get away from 'em pretty bad, or he wouldn't have run
that risk. I shouldn't wonder if they hit him."
"Perhaps he is wounded, and gone into the woods there to die," suggested
Tom.
"Halloo!" shouted some one in the rear of them.
"There's your man," said Hapgood.
"Halloo!" cried the same voice.
"Halloo, yourself!" shouted Hapgood in reply to the hail.
The party halted, and after waiting a few moments, the rebel deserter came
in sight. He was apparently a man of fifty; and no mendicant of St. Giles,
who followed begging as a profession, could have given himself a more
wretched and squalid appearance, if he had devoted a lifetime to the study
of making himself look miserable. He wore a long black and gray beard,
uncut and unkempt, and snarled, tangled, and knotted into the most
fantastic forms. His gray uniform, plentifully bedaubed with Virginia mud,
was torn in a hundred places, and hung in tatters upon his emaciated
frame. On his head was an old felt hat, in a terribly dilapidated
condition. He wore one boot and one shoe, which he had probably taken from
the common sewer of Richmond, or some other southern city; they were
ripped to such an extent that the "uppers" went flipperty-flap as he
walked, and had the general appearance of the open mouth of the mythic
dragon, with five bare toes in each to represent teeth.
As he approached, the unthinking soldiers of the party indulged in screams
of laughter at the uncouth appearance of the whilom rebel; and certainly
the character in tableau or farce need not have spoken, to convulse any
audience that ever assembled in Christendom. Rip Van Winkle, with the
devastations and dilapidations of five-and-twenty years hanging about him,
did not present a more forlorn appearance than did this representative of
the Confederate army.
"What are you laughing at?" demanded the deserter, not at all delighted
with this reception.
"I say, old fellow, how long since you escaped from the rag-bag?" jeered
one of the men.
"What's the price of boots in Richmond now?" asked another.
"Who's your barber?"
"Silence, men!" interposed Tom, sternly, for he could not permit his boys
to make fun of the wretchedness of any human being.
"We'll sell you out for paper stock," said Ben Lethbridge, who had just
returned from three months' service in the Rip-Raps for desertion.
"Shut up, Ben!" added Tom.
"Dry up, all of you!" said Corporal Snyder.
"Who and what are you?" asked Tom, of the deserter.
"I'm a Union man!" replied the stranger with emphasis; "and I didn't
expect to be treated in this way after all I've suffered."
"They thought you were a rebel. You wear the colors of the rebel army,"
answered the sergeant, willing to explain the rudeness of his men.
"Well, I suppose I do look rather the worse for the wear," added the
grayback, glancing down at the tattered uniform he wore. "I joined the
rebel army, after I had tried every way in the world to get out of this
infernal country; but I never fired a gun at a Union man. Seems to me,
sergeant, I've seen you before somewhere. What's your name? Where did you
come from?"
"Pinchbrook, Massachusetts; and most of us hail from the same place."
"Creation!" exclaimed the deserter. "You don't say so!"
"Your voice sounds familiar to me," added Tom; and for some reason his
chest was heaving violently beneath his suddenly accelerated respiration.
As he spoke, he walked towards the dilapidated rebel, who had not ventured
to come within twenty feet of the party.
"Did you say Pinchbrook?" demanded the stranger, who began to display a
great deal of emotion.
"Pinchbrook, sir," added Tom; and so intensely was he excited, that the
words were gasped from his lips.
"What's your name?"
"Thomas Somers," replied the sergeant.
"Tom!" screamed the deserter, rushing forward.
"Father!" cried Tom, as he grasped the hand of the phantom Confederate.
The soldiers of the party were transfixed with astonishment at this
unexpected scene, and they stood like statues gazing at the meeting of
father and son, till the final development of their relationship, when the
muscles of their faces relaxed, and the expression of wonder gave place to
joyous sympathy.
"Captain Somers, of Pinchbrook!" shouted old Hapgood; and the men joined
with him in a roar of intense satisfaction, that made the woods ring.
CHAPTER XXVIII.
ON THE PENINSULA.
The scene between Captain Somers and his son was very affecting and very
exciting; and if the soldiers had all been uncles and first cousins of the
parties, they could not have manifested more interest on the joyous
occasion. The father wept, and the son wept; for each, amid the terrible
experience of these troublous times, had hardly expected to meet the
other.
For several minutes they held each other by the hand, laughing and weeping
alternately, and neither being able to express the intense emotions which
agitated him. The men shouted and laughed in full sympathy with the
reunited sire and son.
"I'm glad to see you, Tom," said Captain Somers, as he wiped away the
tears that were sliding down upon his grizzly beard. "I haven't cried
before for thirty years; I'm ashamed of it, Tom, but I can't help it."
"I didn't expect to find you here, father, and clothed in the rebel
uniform; but I'm glad to see you in any uniform," replied the soldier boy.
"So you're in the army, Tom," continued the father, gazing with
satisfaction at the neat appearance of the sergeant.
"Yes, sir; I enlisted within a fortnight after we heard that the traitors
had bombarded Fort Sumter."
"I see you've got three stripes on your arm."
"Yes, Cap'n Somers," said Hapgood; "Tom was made a sergeant for gallant
conduct on the river in December; and he deserved his promotion too."
"I'm glad to see you with that uniform on your back, Tom; and glad to hear
that you have behaved well."
"I was in the battle of Bull Run, father, and was taken prisoner, but I
got away."
"Well, Tom, we'll hear about that bimeby," said the old man, stopping and
looking nervously into the face of his son. "I want to ask a great many
questions, Tom, but I hardly dare to do it. You know I haven't heard a
word from home since I left, and it's almost a year now."
"You needn't be afraid, father; the folks are all well. I have got a heap
of letters at the camp, and you shall read them all as soon as we get
there."
"Is your mother well, Tom?"
"First rate."
"And John?"
"Yes, sir; but he's gone into the navy. He was bound to be in the fight
any how."
"John's a chip of the old block. He wanted to snuff the salt water afore
he was a week old. John's a good sailor, and he ought to have a good lay
wherever he goes," added the father.
Captain Somers and Tom sat upon the ground for half an hour, until the
fugitive from the rebel army was in some degree rested after the hard run
he had had through the woods. The soldiers gathered around them, as much
interested as though they had been members of the Somers family. Tom's
father had a multitude of questions to ask about Pinchbrook and its
people, all of which were answered to his satisfaction.
The sergeant thought it was time for the party to move on, and his father
declared that he was able to walk any distance which would bring him
nearer to the home of his wife and children. The order was given, and the
little band resumed its march.
"How have you been all this time, father?" asked Tom, as he walked along
by the side of Captain Somers.
"I've been pretty fairly most of the time. I'm tough and hardy, or I
should have been dead afore this time. We've been half starved and half
frozen in the camp; but I managed to live through it, hoping and expecting
to get away from those rascally rebels."
"Where have you been all the time?" asked Tom. "Have you been in the rebel
army long?"
"About four months; but I may as well begin at the beginning, and tell you
the whole story," added the captain. "I got to Norfolk all right, and was
there when the news came up that the rebels had taken Sumter. Every body
was mad, and I was as mad as the rest of them, though not exactly in the
same way. I let on a little with my tongue, and came pretty near being
tarred and feathered, and I think I should have been, if your uncle Wyman
hadn't interfered."
"Did he settle with you, father?"
"After a while he did. He had some fifteen thousand dollars in New York,
which had just been sent over from England, and as he was secesh, he was
terribly afeard the Lincoln government would confiscate it; so he settled
with me, and gave me a power of attorney to draw his money, pay myself,
and take care of what was over. I've got the papers safe in my waistbands
now."
"Good! Glory, hallelujah!" shouted Tom. "We can pay off old Pemberton now,
for it goes against my grain to owe a dollar to a traitor. But if uncle
Wyman is a rebel, and I suppose he is, I hope the government will
confiscate what's over after you have paid yourself."
"Well, I don't know. We will see about that bimeby. He used me fair, and I
don't wish him any harm; but I hate his principles. Well, just then, Tom,
when I had got my accounts squared, the rascals took my vessel, and sunk
it in the channel to keep the Union fleet out. My pipe was out then, and I
couldn't do any thing more. I hung round the city of Norfolk till I saw
there was no chance to get out in that direction; and then I left. I was
up near Bull Run--the rebels call it Manassas--when the battle was fought;
but our folks got licked so badly, that it was no use to try to get
through there.
"I tried half a dozen times to crawl through, and had nearly starved to
death in the woods; but some rebel cavalry pickets spied me out, called me
a traitor, and sent me back. My money was all gone by this time, and I
went over to Norfolk again. Your uncle Wyman told me I had better keep
quiet where I was, for just as sure as his name was Somers, the North
would all fall to pieces in less than six months. He expected the rebel
army would be in New York afore long, and I should be a great deal better
off where I was. He tried to get a pass to send me through the rebel
lines, but he couldn't do it.
"Things went on in this way till your uncle Wyman went to Charleston on
business, and I haven't seen him from that day to this. The rebels tried
to make me go into their navy, but I wouldn't do it, of course; but when I
couldn't do any other way, I went into the army, hoping I should be sent
to the front, and find a chance to get away. I've been watching ever
since, but I never happened to get within twenty miles of the Union
pickets before. But here I am, and I'm perfectly satisfied with the past,
though I've suffered a good deal in one way and another."
By the time Captain Somers had finished his narrative, the party arrived
at the camp. Tom was reprimanded very gently for detaching himself from
the main body of the regiment; but when he reported the events of his
excursion, as he had safely returned with his command, nothing more was
said about his adventure.
At the camp the Union refugee was provided with comfortable clothing; his
hair and beard were trimmed down to decent proportions, and he was
otherwise purged of the barbarisms of the rebel camp. But even then he did
not look like the stout, hearty, healthy Captain Somers who sailed from
Boston in the Gazelle nearly a year before. He was haggard and emaciated
from anxiety and semi-starvation.
Captain Somers was warmly welcomed by the members of Company K, who came
from Pinchbrook; and when his physical wants had been satisfied, he was
sent to General Hooker, to communicate to him such intelligence as he
possessed in regard to the position and numbers of the rebel army. He
remained at the camp but two days, at the end of which time he was sent to
Washington, and from there hastened to his home in Pinchbrook. A letter
from Tom, announcing the joyful intelligence of his return, had preceded
him.
In ten days after parting with his father, the sergeant received a full
and glowing account of the reception of Captain Somers, who became quite a
lion in Pinchbrook for the time being. He received his money as he passed
through New York, though not without the aid of a government order which
he had procured in Washington, and only the amount that was actually due
to him, for uncle Wyman's funds were then in process of being confiscated.
The only drawback upon his father's happiness was the absence of John, who
had been drafted into a vessel bound to the South. He had not seen him for
a year, and another year would probably elapse before he could expect to
realize this pleasure. But the captain's patriotism had been intensified a
hundred fold by his bitter experience in Virginia; and while his twin sons
were gallantly serving their country in the army and the navy, he was
willing to sacrifice the yearnings of his paternal heart, and he hoped and
prayed that they might do their duty faithfully.
Tom's regiment remained on the Potomac but a short time after the event we
have related. Sharper and sterner experience was before these tried
soldiers, and the first indications of active service were greeted with
joyous enthusiasm. Suddenly the camp was broken up, and the order to march
given. The men wondered and speculated upon their destination, and though
the prophets of the regiments gave them certain information in regard to
the direction they were to take, most of them were incredulous. One
declared they were going to Richmond by the way of Fredericksburg;
another, by the way of Manassas; and a third was positive, from hints he
had seen in the newspapers, that they were going down the valley of the
Shenandoah, to take the capital of Rebeldom on the flank and rear.
While the prophets and wise men were speculating, the regiment marched on;
and to the astonishment of all, and to the utter confusion of the seers,
they were embarked in a transport--the steamer Napoleon--bound no one knew
where. One regiment and half of another belonging to the brigade were
huddled on board of this one steamer. Every foot of standing room was
occupied, and, of course, the boys were not very comfortably quartered;
but, as Tom expressed it, there was music ahead, and the brave hearts on
board were ready to stand any thing if they could only get a fight out of
the rebels. The mortification of their defeat at Bull Run still hung
heavily on their spirits, and they were panting for an opportunity to
retaliate upon the foe, and win the laurels they had lost upon that
disastrous field.
The prophets, though their failure to foretell the coming event had cast
them into disgrace, were still ready to volunteer an opinion. They
declared that the transports were bound to North Carolina, to follow up
Burnside's successes; but most of the men were content to wait till the
future should develop itself.
The troops were eager for active duty, and if they could get into the
field and strike a heavy blow at the rebellion, they did not care where it
was. They had unbounded confidence in the young general who was to
organize victory for them, and they were willing to obey orders, and leave
every thing to him.
It "thundered all around" them. Roanoke, Pea Ridge, Newbern, Winchester,
Donelson, were a succession of Union victories, which inspired them with
zeal and courage to endure all hardships, and face any peril which might
be in their path.
The transport descended the Potomac, and came to anchor in the bay, where
they lay one day; the steamer then continued on her course, and landed her
troops in Cheseman's Creek, an indentation of the peninsula between the
York and James Rivers. After lying in camp a few days, they marched again,
and Tom learned that the regiment was before Yorktown, which had been
strongly fortified by the rebels to resist the advance of the Union army.
CHAPTER XXIX.
THE BATTLE OF WILLIAMSBURG.
What the army of the Potomac achieved and suffered before Yorktown, we
must leave for the historian. Our soldier boy was only one hero among
thousands who toiled in the soft mud of the early spring, who watched and
waited for the tremendous events which have now passed into history, and
whose actors will be honored and remembered by future generations.
Tom Somers bore his full share of the trials and hardships of that
eventful period; and when McClellan's scientific engineering had driven
the rebels from their strong works without a struggle to retain them, he
moved forward with the gallant army. "On to Richmond!" again sounded along
the lines, and the soldiers toiled through mud and mire, hoping and
expecting to strike the final blow that would crush out the rebellion.
Yorktown was evacuated. The rebels were fleeing from their frowning
batteries, and the order came for Hooker's division to join in the
pursuit. At noon the brigade--now under command of General Grover
commenced its forward movement.
"Rather rough," said Hapgood, as the regiment struggled on through the
mire. "Rather soft, I think," replied Tom, laughing.
"I hope we haven't got to march far through this mud," added Ben
Lethbridge.
"That will depend upon how soon we come up with the rebels. If it rests
with Hooker, I tell you he will get a fight out of the rebs, if such a
thing is possible."
After the regiment had marched five or six miles, the order came to halt;
and the intelligence passed along the column that the cavalry had come up
with the enemy, and were waiting the arrival of an infantry force to
assist in the attack.
"Good!" shouted Tom. "We shall have a battle before night."
"Perhaps not," added Hapgood. "It takes the cat a good while to catch the
mouse, even after she smells the critter."
"Why don't we march? What are we stopping here for?" said Tom,
impatiently.
"They say Smith's division has got in ahead of us. Keep cool, Tom; never
be in a hurry for a battle. Some of us that stand here now won't be alive
in twenty-four hours from now; for I don't believe the rebs are going to
let us have it all our own way," said the veteran.
"Nor I," added Fred Pemberton. "I shall be killed in this fight."
"How do you know, Fred?" demanded Hapgood, sternly.
"Of course I don't know, but I feel it in my bones that I shall fall in
the first battle."
"Your bones ain't no guide at all. I know something about this business,
and I've seen croakers afore to-day. Don't talk about being killed, or
even hit. Be ready to die, do your duty like a soldier, and leave all the
rest to your Maker," said the veteran, solemnly.
"I don't have any such feeling as that. I know I shan't be killed,"
laughed Ben. "The bullet hasn't been cast yet that will stop my wind."
"Perhaps it has, my boy. It may be in some rebel soldier's cartridge box
over yonder, even now. I tell you, boys, you don't know any thing about
it. Just afore we went in at Cerry Gordy, a feller by my side said the
same thing you did, Ben; and he was the first man that went down. I tried
to pick him up, and do something for him, but he was stone dead. I tell
you, Ben, you don't know any thing about it. Leave it all to the
Almighty."
"Pooh, uncle!" sneered Ben, trying to laugh down the solemn words of the
old man. "Don't you think we'd better have a prayer meetin' before we go
in?"
"I think we should fight the better for it, for he who trusts in God don't
fear death."
But it was evident that the words of Hapgood, especially the incident of
Cerro Gordo, had made a deep impression upon the mind of the thoughtless
young man. Though the division did not move for three hours, he was very
silent and sober. He seemed to feel that he had been tempting Providence
by his bold speech, and even expressed his regret to Tom for what he had
said.
It was dark when the order to march was given. The night was exceedingly
gloomy, and the rain poured down upon the devoted army, as it moved
forward to do its great work. Hour after hour, in the deep darkness and
the pouring rain, the men struggled through the mire, expecting every
moment to be hurled upon the rebel battalions, or to meet the impetuous
onset of the foe.
Between ten and eleven, when the men were nearly worn out by the
exhausting labors of the march, they were ordered to halt in the road, and
bivouac for the rest of the night. What a time and what a place for
repose! They could only wrap themselves up in their wet blankets, and
stretch themselves upon the ground, soaked with water, and with the rain
still pouring down upon them. But they slept, and enjoyed their rest, for
Nature was imperative in her demands.
At daylight the march was resumed; for the intrepid Hooker, ever faithful
to the trust confided to him, was wholly in earnest. At half-past five the
column was halted in the woods. The rebel works before Williamsburg were
in sight, and General Hooker rode to the front to examine the position of
the enemy.
In front of the rebel batteries, and on each side of the roads, the trees
had been felled, in order to give the guns in the field works full play
upon an approaching force.
"Hurrah!" shouted some of the boys on the right of the column. "Our
brigade is to commence the attack."
"How do you know?" growled Hapgood, who did not think a soldier ought to
know any thing about the plan of the battle.
"We are ordered to move," replied Tom. "I suppose that's all they know
about it."
The prophets on the right were correct this time, for the regiment was
soon sent to the right of the road, and ordered to deploy as skirmishers.
A battery was thrown forward in front of the felled timber; but before a
gun could be fired, two officers and two privates were seen to fall before
the unerring aim of the rebel sharpshooters, occupying the rifle pits
which dotted the cleared land in front of the forts.
"That's a hot place," said Ben Lethbridge.
"We shall all see hot work before the sun goes down to-night," replied
Tom. "But let us stand up to it like men."
"That's the talk, Tom!" exclaimed Hapgood.
"Have you got those socks on, my boy?"
"I have, uncle; and I have the letter and the photograph in my pocket."
"Good, Tom! After this day's work is over, you can write the lady a
letter, and tell her that her socks have been in a battle."
"And that I didn't run away in them."
The roar of the guns in Fort Magruder interrupted the conversation. The
gunners of the battery in front of them had been driven from their pieces;
but it was almost instantly manned by volunteers, and a destructive fire
poured into the works. Other batteries were brought up, and the fort was
soon silenced. The roar of battle sounded all along the line; the thunder
of cannon and the crash of musketry reverberated through the woods and
over the plain, assuring the impatient troops that they were engaged in no
trivial affair; that they were fighting a great battle, of which thousands
yet unborn would read upon the pages of history.
Our regiment closed up its lines, and the gallant colonel gave the order
to move forward in the direction of the field works. On, on, steadily and
firmly marched the men of Massachusetts, through ditch and swamp, through
mud and mire, loading, firing, and charging, as the enemy presented
opportunity. The hot work of the day had commenced; for, from every bush,
tree, and covert, which could conceal a man, the rebels poured a deadly
fire into the ranks of the advancing Federals.
Tom stood as firm as a rock. The doubts and fears which beset him in his
first battle had no existence on this day. So thoroughly had he schooled
his mind to the fearful ordeal of carnage, that he felt quite at home. He
was cool and determined, and continually encouraged those around him by
his cheering words as well as by his example.
"Ben is down!" exclaimed Hapgood.
"Poor fellow!" replied Tom, without taking his eye off the foe in front.
"There goes Bob Dornton!" added Hapgood.
"Stand up to it, my men!" said Tom, firmly, for he had no time then to
think of the fallen.
"Forward!" shouted the impetuous colonel, who, if he had never been
popular with the men before, was rapidly establishing himself in their
good graces by his unflinching heroism. "Forward! double quick! march!"
And on dashed the gallant regiment, mounting the enemy's lofty works, and
driving the foe before them like sheep, at the point of the bayonet. This
was the first experience of this exciting description which Tom had seen,
and he entered into the spirit of it with a hearty zeal.
"Halt!" was the order, as a regiment filed out in front of them, with a
flag of truce flying on its front. "Steady--don't fire," repeated several
officers along the line.
"What regiment are you?" shouted a person, as the flag came within
speaking distance.
"What are you?" demanded an officer of the storming party.
"We're the Alabama eighth!"
"We are the Massachusetts --th," replied our men.
"Then you are the villains we want!" returned the rebel, plentifully
interlarding the sentence with oaths.
The flag of truce dropped, and the dastardly foe poured in a volley of
musketry, before which a dozen of our brave boys fell, either killed or
wounded.
"Fire!" yelled the colonel; and the order was obeyed with a will. "Charge
bayonets! Forward--double quick--march!"
The men, burning with indignation at the treachery of the rebel horde,
sprang forward to wreak their righteous vengeance upon the cowardly
traitors. So impetuous was the charge, that the rebel regiment broke, and
sought safety in flight.
"Down with them!" hoarsely screamed Tom, as the line swayed forward, and
pursued the panic-stricken foe into the woods on the left. The even line
was broken, and the boys scattered to do their work to the best advantage.
Tom's legs seemed to be in excellent condition, notwithstanding the
toilsome marches of the last twenty-four hours; and he dashed forward into
the woods followed by only a dozen choice spirits, whose enthusiasm was
equal to his own. A squad of flying rebels in front of them was the object
of their present anxiety, and they soon distanced their companions.
The rebels, seeing by how small a force they were pursued, rallied and
formed line again.
"Give it to them!" cried Tom, as he led his little force upon the rebels.
"Hold on, Tom!" said Hapgood; "we have gone far enough. There's a rebel
regiment forming behind us."
"Can't help it," said Tom, as he rushed forward, with the veteran by his
side. "Give it to them!"
Tom and his men threw themselves upon the rebel squad, and a sharp fight
ensued, in which the parties fought with bayonets, clubbed muskets, and
even with the death grip upon each other's throats. The traitors could not
stand it, and fled again.
The sergeant glanced behind him, and saw the rebel regiment formed ready
to charge upon his own. He was cut off from his friends, with the enemy on
his front and rear. Three of his men had fallen in the sharp encounter
with the rebels, and most of them were wounded or bruised, and all of them
out of breath. To add to the peril of the situation, the squad they had
been pursuing were rallying and being reënforced by their fugitive
companions.
"Bad, Tom, bad," said Hapgood, who was puffing and blowing like a
porpoise, as he ominously shook his head.
"Follow me!" said Tom, confidently, as he led the way in a direction at
right angles with the advance of the party.
Our regiment had reformed again, and soon gave that in front of them
enough to do. The rebels in their rear caused the sergeant's squad no
little annoyance; but they continued on their course, loading and firing
as they retreated.
CHAPTER XXX.
MORE OF THE BATTLE.
While Tom and his little command were working their way back to the Union
lines, followed up by the disorganized band of rebels, a series of most
unearthly yells swept over the field, for they had emerged from the woods.
It was the rallying cry of the Confederate regiment which had formed in
their rear. They were charging upon the Massachusetts --th; but they might
as well have charged upon the Rock of Gibraltar, for presently Tom was
delighted to see them retiring before the tremendous onslaught of his
friends.
"Hurrah!" shouted he, forgetting the foe in his rear, and pressing forward
to that on his front, at the same time changing his course so as to
approach the right wing of the rebel regiment.
"Don't be rash, Tom," said the old soldier, who never permitted the
sergeant to leave his side.
"Follow me, boys!" roared Tom, breathless with excitement, as he started
off on the double quick towards the breaking lines of the enemy.
"Here we are!" replied the gallant fellows behind him, pushing forward
with a zeal equal to that of their leader, from whom they derived their
inspiration. "Go in, sergeant, and we'll stand by you."
But the bold soldier boy had discretion as well as gallantry; and he saw
that if he threw his little force upon the rebel line, the whole party
would be instantly annihilated. A covert of bushes fortunately lay on the
right flank of the retreating regiment, and Tom ordered his men to conceal
themselves behind it, until a favorable moment should arrive to take their
places in the lines.
The men were glad enough to obtain a breathing spell; but, at such a
tremendous moment as that, idleness would have been treason, for such a
glorious opportunity to strike a heavy blow had not before occurred.
"Load up, and fire at will," said Tom, as he charged his musket. "Don't
throw your lead away either."
"We are a dead shot here if we are any where," added Hapgood, as he and
the rest of the party hastily loaded their muskets.
Pop went Tom's piece first, and over went the rebel at the extreme right
of the rebel regiment. There was no such thing as missing the mark, for
they were on the flank of the Confederate line, which the united efforts
of the officers could hardly preserve. The men in the covert fired when
they were ready; and as they carefully observed the injunction of Tom not
to waste their lead, every shot told upon the rebels.
The Confederate officers glanced nervously at the clump of bushes, which
glowed with flashes of fire as the sergeant's little command poured in
their volleys; but they were too closely pressed by the Federals in front
to attempt to dislodge them. The rebel privates were not long in
ascertaining what was so clear to their officers--that they were flanked,
and were being shot down like sheep, from a quarter where they could not
defend themselves. They had been slowly and doggedly retiring before the
advancing Federals, disputing every inch of ground; but when they realized
that the bolts of death were dropping among them from another direction,
they could no longer endure that awful suspense which takes possession of
the minds of men when they are suspended, as it were, between life and
death.
Tom saw them waver, and he knew what it meant. The rebel line was just
abreast of him, and he had seen at least a score of men fall before the
deadly fire of his party.
"Give it to them, boys! They shake!" shouted Tom, as he delivered his fire
again. "Pour in as fast as you can, but don't waste your powder."
The men redoubled their exertions, and the rapidity of their fire was
sensibly increased. The effect was soon perceptible in the rebel ranks;
for the right of the line, probably supposing a company, if not a whole
regiment, of sharp-shooters was concealed in the covert, suddenly broke
and fled with the utmost precipitation, in spite of the gallant efforts of
their officers to rally them.
The Federal regiment instantly took advantage of this partial panic, and
charged furiously upon the rebel line. A desperate hand-to-hand encounter
ensued, during which Tom and his companions emerged from their
concealment, and ran along the rear of the victorious line. They soon
satisfied themselves of what they had before believed--that the regiment
was their own; and they lost no time in finding the company to which they
belonged. They joined in the pursuit, which soon ended in the utter rout
of the rebel force.
The position of the enemy's lines did not permit them to follow the
advantage to any great extent, and the order was soon given to fall back.
At this juncture the regiment, which had been constantly engaged for
several hours, was relieved; and not too early in the day, for the men
were completely exhausted by the furious onslaughts they had made.
"Who were those men in the bushes on the flank of the rebel regiment?"
demanded the colonel, as he reined up his jaded horse in front of Company
K.
"Sergeant Somers and others," replied Captain Benson.
"Somers again!" exclaimed the colonel.
"Yes, sir. They pursued the regiment into the woods--the one that showed
the flag of truce--till they were separated from the rest of us."
"Forward, Sergeant Somers," added the colonel.
Tom modestly stepped forward, and he would have blushed if his face had
not been so reddened by his previous exertions as to leave no room for a
deepening of its tint.
"You did a big thing, Sergeant Somers. You broke that rebel line by your
steady fire. Sergeant Somers, I thank you and the men you commanded for
your good service."
Tom bowed, and the regiment cheered. It was the proudest moment of his
life to be thanked on the field, while the guns were roaring and the
musketry rattling, for the good service he had rendered. It would form an
excellent paragraph for his letter to Lilian Ashford, especially as he had
more than once, in the perils of that exciting hour, thought of the socks
he wore, and of the letter and the photograph which nestled in his breast
pocket, and upon which his quick throbbing heart was beating the notes of
glory and victory.
"We gave you up for lost," said Captain Benson, as Tom returned to the
line.
"We are safe, thank God!" replied Tom, "though three of our number fell in
the woods, or on the field where we were chased by the rebels."
"Sergeant Somers saved us," added uncle Hapgood. "If he hadn't been as
cool as cowcumber, and as stiff as the mainmast of a frigate, we should
have been taken, every one of us."
"Bravo, Tom!" said the captain.
"The men stood by me like heroes, or it would have been all up with the
whole of us. They are good fellows, and they deserve as much credit as I
do."
The battle continued to rage with increasing fury, till the roar, and the
crash, and the sweep of armed legions beggared description. Regiments and
brigades advanced and fell back with the varying fortunes of the day, but
as yet there was nothing to indicate the final result.
When the men of our regiment had recovered their breath, an order came for
them to proceed to the left. On their arrival at the position assigned to
them, they were immediately led to the front, where the batteries which
had been pouring a hot fire into the enemy were in imminent danger of
being surrounded. Indeed, the swoop of the rebel infantry upon the guns
had already been made, and the cannoneers had been driven from their
stations. With the colonel on the right, and the adjutant in command on
the left, the regiment charged upon the foe, as it had twice before
charged on that eventful day, with an enthusiasm bordering upon fury.
The rebels had even spiked one of the guns, and they maintained their
position with an obstinacy which promised the annihilation of one or the
other of the contending forces. A desperate strife ensued, in which the
least perceptible advantage was gained by the Federals. But if they could
do no more, they held the enemy in check, till the gunners could charge
their pieces with grape and canister, which they poured into the rebels
with the most deadly effect.
"Hurrah!" shouted Tom, as the rebels quaked before the withering storm of
shot belched forth by the guns of the battery. "They shake! Give it to
them!"
"Steady, my men! steady," said Captain Benson. "The ammunition of the
battery is expended," he added, as the cannon ceased their work of
destruction. "We must hold these pieces, and every man must do his duty."
"Ay, ay, sir!" replied Tom, vigorously, and the cry was repeated through
the company.
As soon as the guns were thus rendered useless, the enemy swept down upon
the supports again, intent upon capturing the pieces. They advanced with
that terrific yell which is enough of itself to frighten a nervous man,
and with an impetuosity which nothing human could resist. Our regiment
recoiled under the shock; but it was forced back by the sheer stress of
numbers.
"Rally men! Rally, my brave fellows!" shouted the adjutant, in command of
the left wing.
"Stand stiff! Roll them back!" roared the colonel.
"Steady, men!" added Captain Benson.
"Now, give it to them!" screamed Tom, as he plunged his bayonet into the
vitals of the rebel in front of him, and pushed forward into the very
midst of the foe.
The sergeant seemed suddenly to be endowed with the strength of a giant,
and he held his own till Hapgood sprang to his assistance. The rest of the
line, inspired by this daring conduct, rushed forward, and fell upon the
foe with a fury that could not be resisted.
"Bravo! Bravo, Tom!" shouted the captain. "Go in, boys!" roared the
lieutenant.
And the boys "went in," and forced back the rebel line, and held the guns
until another battery with a supply of ammunition arrived upon the ground
to relieve them. The enemy was again repulsed, and the guns were saved by
the unflinching heroism of our gallant Massachusetts regiment--another
paragraph for the letter to Lilian Ashford.
CHAPTER XXXI.
GLORY AND VICTORY.
The battle now raged more fiercely than ever, and hotter and hotter became
the fire on every side. The shouts of the enemy indicated the arrival of
reënforcements. "Johnston!" "Long-street!" resounded over the field, and
roused the rebels to renewed activity. More certainly was the increase of
the enemy's force determined by the gradual falling back of the brigade at
the left of the road; but the men fought with desperate courage, and
yielded not a foot of ground without enriching it with their best blood.
There were no signs of reënforcements for over exhausted troops, though a
whole corps was within hearing of the booming guns that were slaughtering
our outnumbered and exhausted brigades. On the field the aspect began to
be dark and unpromising, and Tom prayed with all his soul that he might be
spared the pain of beholding another defeat, another rout.
Our regiment was ordered to the support of the yielding brigade on the
left. The woods were full of rebels, and the issue of the conflict in this
part of the field was almost hopeless. The enemy seemed to be inspired by
the slight advantage they had gained, and their yells were fiercer and
more diabolical than ever, as they gathered themselves up for a desperate
onslaught.
The Federal brigade was overmatched, and the result seemed to waver upon a
balance; then the equilibrium was slightly disturbed, and the Union force
fell back a little, but only a little, and doggedly resisted the advance
of the foe. It needed but little to restore the equilibrium, and our
regiment, after struggling through the mud with all attainable speed,
arrived upon the spot when the prospect was so gloomy for the loyal cause.
The men were almost exhausted by the tremendous strain which had all day
long been imposed upon their nervous systems, and by the physical exertion
required of them. But the battle was going against the North, and they
were ready again to make a desperate effort to redeem the field.
"One more of your Massachusetts charges, colonel," said General Hooker, as
the weary soldiers moved up to the endangered position.
"You shall have it, general. My men are always ready, though they are
nearly used up."
"Hancock and Kearney are close by, and if we can hold out a few minutes
longer, all will be well with us."
"We'll drive them back, general!" shouted the colonel.
"Go in, then!" added the gallant Hooker, waving his sword to encourage the
soldiers. "Forward! You have no time to lose!"
The fiery colonel briefly stated to the regiment the nature of the work
before them, admonished the men to do as they had done all day, and
Massachusetts would be proud of them. A ringing cheer was the reply to the
stirring words of the colonel, and the orders were given for the advance.
On went the brave fellows like a wall of iron, and precipitated themselves
upon the rebels, buoyant with hope as they followed up their temporary
advantage. The point of attack was all in their favor, and their
exhilarating shouts as they sprang upon the foe kindled up the expiring
enthusiasm of the yielding brigade to whose assistance they had come. The
shock was terrible--more fearful and destructive than any which our boys
had before experienced.
"Steady, my men!" shouted Captain Benson.
"Give it to them!" roared Tom, maddened to desperation by the awful strife
around him, and by seeing so many of our men fall by his side.
"Stand up to it!" shouted the excited colonel. "They run!"
At this moment an inequality of the ground beneath the men of Company K
placed them in a bad position, and the rebels in front of them, taking
advantage of the circumstance, pressed forward, and actually broke through
the line, trampling some of our soldiers beneath their feet, and
