and daring, and never hesitated to do anything which the nerve or muscle
of a boy of fourteen could achieve. His feats of strength and daring,
often performed from mere bravado, won the admiration of the
thoughtless, and Noddy was regarded as a "character" by people who only
wanted to be amused.
Noddy had reached an age when the future became an interesting problem
to those who had labored to improve his manners and his morals. Mr.
Grant had suggested to Bertha the propriety of having him bound as an
apprentice to some steady mechanic; and, at the time of our story, she
and her father were in search of such a person. The subject of this kind
solicitude did not relish the idea of learning a trade, though he had
not positively rebelled at the disposition which it was proposed to make
of him.
He had always lived near the river; and during his residence at
Woodville he had been employed, so far as he could be employed at all,
about the boats. He was a kind of assistant to the boatman, though there
was no need of such an official on the premises. For his own good,
rather than for the labor he performed, he was required to do certain
work about the boat-house, and in the boats when they were in use.
We could recite a great many scrapes, of which Noddy had been the hero,
during the two years of his stay at Woodville; but such a recital would
hardly be profitable to our readers, especially as the young man's
subsequent career was not devoid of stirring incidents.
Noddy drew a bucket of water at the pier, and carried it into the
boat-house. Ben, satisfied now that the work was actually in progress,
left the pier, and walked up to the house to receive his morning
instructions. He was hardly out of sight before Miss Fanny Grant
presented herself at the door.
Miss Fanny was now a nice young lady of twelve. She was as different
from her sister Bertha as she could be. She was proud, and rather
wayward. Like some other young ladies we have somewhere read about, she
was very fond of having her own way, even when her own way had been
proved to be uncomfortable and dangerous. But when we mention Miss
Fanny's faults, we do not wish to be understood that she had no virtues.
If she did wrong very often, she did right in the main, and had made a
great deal of progress in learning to do wisely and well, and, what was
just as good, in doing it after she had learned it.
Fanny Grant walked up to the boat-house with a very decided step, and it
soon appeared that she was not there by chance or accident; which leads
us sorrowfully to remark, that in her wrongdoing she often found a ready
companion and supporter in Noddy Newman. She was rather inclined to be a
romp; and though she was not given to "playing with the boys," the
absence of any suitable playmate sometimes led her to invite the
half-reformed vagabond of Woodville to assist in her sport.
"You are a pretty fellow, Noddy Newman!" said she, her pouting lips
giving an added emphasis to her reproachful remark. "Why didn't you come
down to the Point, as you said you would?"
"Because I couldn't, Miss Fanny," growled Noddy. "I had to wash out this
confounded boat-house, or be reported to Miss Bertha."
"Couldn't you do that after you got back?"
"Ben said I must do it before nine o'clock. I wanted to go down to the
Point, as I agreed, but you see I couldn't."
"I waited for you till I got tired out," pouted Fanny; but she neglected
to add that five minutes on ordinary occasions were the full limit of
her patience.
"Hang the old boat-house! I told Ben I wished it was burned up."
"So do I; but come along, Noddy. We will go now."
"I can't go till I've washed out the boat-house."
"Yes, you can."
"But if Ben comes down and finds the place hasn't been washed out, he
will tell Miss Bertha."
"Let him tell her--who cares?"
"She will talk to me for an hour."
"Let her talk--talking won't kill you."
"I don't like to be talked to in that way by Miss Bertha."
"Fiddle-de-dee! You can tell her I wanted you," said Fanny, her eyes
snapping with earnestness.
"Shall I tell her what you wanted me for?" asked Noddy, with a cunning
look.
"Of course you needn't tell her that. But come along, or I shall go
without you."
"No--you wouldn't do that, Miss Fanny. You couldn't."
"Well, won't you come?"
"Not now."
"I can't wait."
"I will go just as soon as I have done washing the boat-house."
"Plague on the boat-house!" snapped Fanny. "I wish it was burned up.
What a nice fire it would make!--wouldn't it, Noddy?"
The bright eyes of the wayward miss sparkled with delight as she thought
of the blazing building; and while her more wayward companion described
the miseries which he daily endured in his regular work, she hardly
listened to him. She seemed to be plotting mischief; but if she was, she
did not make Noddy her confidant this time.
"Come, Noddy," said she, after a few moments' reflection, "I will
promise to make it all right with Bertha."
Noddy dropped the broom with which he had begun to sweep up some chips
and shavings Ben had made in repairing a boat-hook.
"If you will get me out of the scrape, I will go now," said he.
"I will; you may depend upon me."
"Then I will go."
"Where is Ben, now?"
"He has gone up to the house."
"Then you run down to the Point, and bring the boat up to the pier. I am
tired, and don't want to walk down there again."
Noddy was entirely willing, and bounded off like a deer, for he had
fully made up his mind to disobey orders, and his impulsive nature did
not permit him to consider the consequences. He was absent but a few
moments, and presently appeared rowing a small boat up the river. At the
pier he turned the boat, and backed her up to the landing steps.
"All ready, Miss Fanny!" shouted the young boatman, for his companion in
mischief was not in sight.
Still she did not appear; and Noddy was about to go in search of her,
when she came out of the boat-house, and ran down to the steps. Her face
was flushed, and she seemed to be very much agitated. Noddy was afraid,
from her looks, that something had happened to spoil the anticipated
sport of the morning; but she stepped into the boat, and told him, in
hurried tones, to push off.
"What's the matter, Miss Fanny?" he asked, not a little startled by her
appearance.
"Nothing, Noddy; pull away just as fast as ever you can."
"Are we caught?" said he, as he followed Fanny's direction.
"No; caught! no. Why don't you row faster, Noddy? You don't pull worth a
cent."
"I am pulling as hard as I can," replied he, unable to keep pace with
her impatience.
"I wouldn't be seen here now for anything!" exclaimed Fanny, earnestly,
as she glanced back at the boat-house, with a look so uneasy that it
almost unmanned her resolute companion.
Noddy pulled with all his might, and the light boat darted over the
waves with a speed which ought to have satisfied his nervous passenger.
As they reached the point of Van Alstine's Island, a dense smoke was
seen to rise from the boat-house on the pier; and a few moments later,
the whole building was wrapped in flames.
CHAPTER II.
THE CIRCUS AT WHITESTONE.
"Do you see that?" exclaimed Noddy, as he stopped rowing, and gazed at
the flames which leaped madly up from the devoted building.
"I see it," replied Fanny, with even more agitation than was manifested
by her companion.
"I don't understand it," added Noddy.
"The boat-house is on fire, and will burn up in a few minutes more. I
think it is plain enough;" and Fanny struggled to be calm and
indifferent.
"We must go back and see to it."
"We shall do nothing of the kind. Pull away as hard as ever you can, or
we shall not get to Whitestone in season."
"I don't care about going to Whitestone now; I want to know what all
that means."
"Can't you see what it means? The boat-house is on fire."
"Well, how did it catch afire? That's what bothers me."
"You needn't bother yourself about it. My father owns the boat-house,
and it isn't worth much."
"All that may be; but I want to know how it got afire."
"We shall find out soon enough when we return."
"But I want to know now."
"You can't know now; so pull away."
"I shall have the credit of setting that fire," added Noddy, not a
little disturbed by the anticipation.
"No, you won't."
"Yes, I shall. I told Ben I wished the boat-house would catch afire and
burn up. Of course he will lay it to me."
"No matter if he does; Ben isn't everybody."
"Well, he is 'most everybody, so far as Miss Bertha is concerned; and
I'd rather tumbled overboard in December than have that fire happen just
now."
"You were not there when the fire broke out," said Fanny, with a strong
effort to satisfy her boatman.
"That's the very reason why they will lay it to me. They will say I set
the boat-house afire, and then ran away on purpose."
"I can say you were with me when the fire broke out, and that I know you
didn't do it," replied Fanny.
"That will do; but I would give all my old shoes to know how the fire
took, myself."
"No matter how it took."
"Yes, it is matter, Miss Fanny. I want to know. There wasn't any fire in
the building when I left it."
"Perhaps somebody stopped there in a boat, and set it on fire."
"Perhaps they did; but I know very well they didn't," answered Noddy,
positively. "There hasn't been any boat near the pier since we left it."
"Perhaps Ben left his pipe among those shavings."
"Ben never did that. He would cut his head off sooner than do such a
thing. He is as scared of fire as he is of the Flying Dutchman."
"Don't say anything more about it. Now row over to Whitestone as quick
as you can," added Fanny, petulantly.
"I'm not going over to Whitestone, after what has happened. I shouldn't
have a bit of fun if I went."
"Very well, Noddy; then you may get out of the scrape as you can," said
the young lady, angrily.
"What scrape?"
"Why, they will accuse you of setting the boat-house afire; and you told
Ben you wished it was burned down."
"But I didn't set it afire."
"Who did, then?"
"That's just what I want to find out. That's what worries me; for I
can't see how it happened, unless it took fire from that bucket of water
I left on the floor."
Fanny was too much disturbed by the conduct of her boatman, or by some
other circumstance, to laugh at Noddy's joke; and the brilliant sally
was permitted to waste itself without an appreciative smile. She sat
looking at the angry flames as they devoured the building, while her
companion vainly attempted to hit upon a satisfactory explanation of the
cause of the fire. Noddy was perplexed; he was absolutely worried, not
so much by the probable consequences to himself of the unfortunate
event, as by the cravings of his own curiosity. He did not see how it
happened; and if a potent juggler had performed a wonderful feat in his
presence, he could not have been more exercised in mind to know how it
was done.
Noddy was neither a logician nor a philosopher; and therefore he was
utterly unable to account for the origin of the fire. In vain he wasted
his intellectual powers in speculations; in vain he tried to remember
some exciting cause to which the calamity could be traced. Meanwhile,
Miss Fanny was deliberating quite as diligently over another question;
for she apparently regarded the destruction of the boat-house as a small
affair, and did not concern herself to know how it had been caused. But
she was very anxious to reach Whitestone before ten o'clock, and her
rebellious boatman had intimated his intention not to carry out his part
of the agreement.
"What are you thinking about, Noddy?" asked she, when both had
maintained silence for the full space of three minutes, which was a
longer period than either of them had ever before kept still while
awake.
"I was thinking of that fire," replied Noddy, removing his gaze from the
burning building, and fixing it upon her.
"Are you going to Whitestone, or not?" continued she, impatiently.
"No; I don't want to go to Whitestone, while all of them down there are
talking about me, and saying I set the boat-house afire."
"They will believe you did it, too."
"But I didn't, Miss Fanny. You know I didn't."
"How should I know it?"
"Because I was with you; besides, you came out of the boat-house after I
did."
"If you will row me over to Whitestone, I will say so; and I will tell
them I know you didn't do it."
Noddy considered the matter for a moment, and, perhaps concluding that
it was safer for him to keep on the right side of Miss Fanny, he
signified his acceptance of the terms by taking up his oars, and pulling
towards Whitestone. But he was not satisfied; he was as uneasy as a fish
out of water; and nothing but the tyranny of the wayward young lady in
the boat would have induced him to flee from the trouble which was
brewing at Woodville. He had quite lost sight of the purpose which had
induced him to disobey Bertha's orders.
Our young adventurers had not left Woodville without an object. There
was a circus at Whitestone--a travelling company which had advertised to
give three grand performances on that day. Miss Fanny wanted to go; but,
either because her father was otherwise occupied, or because he did not
approve of circuses, he had declined to go with her. Bertha did not
want to go, and also had an engagement.
Fanny had set her heart upon going; and she happened to be too wilful,
just at that period, to submit to the disappointment to which her
father's convenience or his principles doomed her. Bertha had gone to
the city at an early hour in the morning to spend the day with a friend,
and Fanny decided that she would go to the circus, in spite of all
obstacles, and in the face of her father's implied prohibition. When she
had proceeded far enough to rebel, in her own heart, against the will of
her father, the rest of the deed was easily accomplished.
Noddy had never been to a circus; and when Fanny told him what it
was,--how men rode standing up on their horses; how they turned
somersets, and played all sorts of antics on the tight rope and the
slack rope; and, above all, what funny things the clowns said and
did,--he was quite ready to do almost anything to procure so rare a
pleasure as witnessing such a performance must afford him. It did not
require any persuasion to induce him to assist Fanny in her
disobedience. The only obstacle which had presented itself was his
morning work in the boat-house, which Bertha's departure for the city
had prevented him from doing at an earlier hour.
To prevent Ben from suspecting that they were on the water, in case they
should happen to be missed, he had borrowed a boat and placed it at the
Point, where they could embark without being seen, if Ben or any of the
servants happened to be near the pier. The boatman, who made it his
business to see that Noddy did his work on time in the morning, did not
neglect his duty on this occasion; and when Noddy started to meet Fanny
at the appointed place, he had been called back, as described in the
first chapter.
As he pulled towards Whitestone, he watched the flames that rose from
the boat-house; and he had, for the time, lost all his enthusiasm about
the circus. He could think only of the doubtful position in which his
impulsive words to the boatman placed him. Above all things,--and all
his doubts and fears culminated in this point,--what would Miss Bertha
say? He did not care what others said, except so far as their words went
to convince his mistress of his guilt. What would she do to him?
But, after all had been said and done, he was not guilty. He had not set
the boat-house on fire, and he did not even know who had done the
malicious act. Noddy regarded this as a very happy thought; and while
the reflection had a place in his mind, he pulled the oars with
redoubled vigor. Yet it was in vain for him to rely upon the voice of an
approving conscience for peace in that hour of trouble. If he had not,
at that moment, been engaged in an act of disobedience, he might have
been easy. He had been strictly forbidden by Mr. Grant, and by Bertha,
ever to take Fanny out in a boat without permission; and Miss Fanny had
been as strictly forbidden to go with him, or with any of the servants,
without the express consent, each time, of her father or of Bertha.
It is very hard, while doing wrong in one thing, to enjoy an approving
conscience in another thing; and Noddy found it so in the present
instance. We do not mean to say that Noddy's conscience was of any great
account to him, or that the inward monitor caused his present
uneasiness. He had a conscience, but his vagabond life had demoralized
it in the first place, and it had not been sufficiently developed,
during his stay at Woodville, to abate very sensibly his anticipated
pleasure at the circus. His uneasiness was entirely selfish. He had got
into a scrape, whose probable consequences worried him more than his
conscience.
By the time the runaways reached Whitestone, the boat-house was all
burned up, and nothing but the curling smoke from the ruins visibly
reminded the transgressors of the event which had disturbed them.
Securing the boat in a proper place, Noddy conducted the young lady to
the large tent in which the circus company performed, and which was more
than a mile from the river. Fanny gave him the money, and Noddy
purchased two tickets, which admitted them to the interior of the tent.
If Noddy had been entirely at ease about the affair on the other side of
the river, no doubt he would have enjoyed the performance very much; but
in the midst of the "grand entree of all the horses and riders of the
troupe," the sorrowing face of Bertha Grant thrust itself between him
and the horsemen, to obscure his vision and diminish the cheap glories
of the gorgeous scene. When "the most daring rider in the world" danced
about, like a top, on the bare back of his "fiery, untamed steed," Noddy
was enthusiastic, and would have given a York shilling for the
privilege of trying to do it himself.
The "ground and lofty tumbling," with the exception of the spangled
tunics of the performers, hardly came up to his expectations; and he was
entirely satisfied that he could beat the best man among them at such
games. As the performance proceeded, he warmed up enough to forget the
fire, and ceased to dread the rebuke of Bertha; but when all was
over,--when the clown had made his last wry face, and the great American
acrobat had achieved his last gyration, Bertha and the fire came back to
him with increased power. Moody and sullen, he walked down to the river
with Fanny, who, under ordinary circumstances, would have been too proud
to walk through the streets of Whitestone with him. If he had been
alone, it is quite probable that he would have taken to the woods, so
much did he dread to return to Woodville.
He pushed off the boat, and for some time he pulled in silence, for Miss
Fanny now appeared to have her own peculiar trials. Her conscience
seemed to have found a voice, and she did not speak till the boat had
reached the lower end of Van Alstine's Island.
"The fire is all out now," said she.
"Yes; but I would give a thousand dollars to know how it caught," added
Noddy.
"I know," continued Fanny, looking down into the bottom of the boat.
"Who did it?" demanded Noddy, eagerly.
"I did it myself," answered Fanny, looking up into his face to note the
effect of the astonishing confession.
CHAPTER III.
A MORAL QUESTION.
Noddy dropped his oars, and, with open mouth and staring eyes, gazed
fixedly in silence at his gentle companion, who had so far outstripped
him in making mischief as to set fire to a building. It was too much for
him, and he found it impossible to comprehend the depravity of Miss
Fanny. He would not have dared to do such a thing himself, and it was
impossible to believe that she had done so tremendous a deed.
"I don't believe it," said he; and the words burst from him with
explosive force, as soon as he could find a tongue to express himself.
"I did," replied Fanny, gazing at him with a kind of blank look, which
would have assured a more expert reader of the human face than Noddy
Newman that she had come to a realizing sense of the magnitude of the
mischief she had done.
"No, you didn't, Miss Fanny!" exclaimed her incredulous friend. "I know
you didn't do that; you couldn't do it."
"But I did; I wouldn't say I did if I didn't."
"Well, that beats me all to pieces!" added Noddy, bending forward in his
seat, and looking sharply into her face, in search of any indications
that she was making fun of him, or was engaged in perpetrating a joke.
Certainly there was no indication of a want of seriousness on the part
of the wayward young lady; on the contrary, she looked exceedingly
troubled. Noddy could not say a word, and he was busily occupied in
trying to get through his head the stupendous fact that Miss Fanny had
become an incendiary; that she was wicked enough to set fire to her
father's building. It required a good deal of labor and study on the
part of so poor a scholar as Noddy to comprehend the idea. He had always
looked upon Fanny as Bertha's sister. His devoted benefactress was an
angel in his estimation, and it was as impossible for her to do anything
wrong as it was for water to run up hill.
If Bertha was absolutely perfect,--as he measured human virtue,--it was
impossible that her sister should be very far below her standard. He
knew that she was a little wild and wayward, but it was beyond his
comprehension that she should do anything that was really "naughty."
Fanny's confession, when he realized that it was true, gave him a shock
from which he did not soon recover. One of his oars had slipped
overboard without his notice, and the other might have gone after it, if
his companion had not reminded him where he was, and what he ought to
do. Paddling the boat around with one oar, he recovered the other; but
he had no clear idea of the purpose for which such implements were
intended, and he permitted the boat to drift with the tide, while he
gave himself up to the consideration of the difficult and trying
question which the conduct of Fanny imposed upon him.
Noddy was not selfish; and if the generous vein of his nature had been
well balanced and fortified by the corresponding virtues, his character
would have soared to the region of the noble and grand in human nature.
But the generous in character is hardly worthy of respect, though it may
challenge the admiration of the thoughtless, unless it rests upon the
sure foundation of moral principle. Noddy forgot his own trials in
sympathizing with the unpleasant situation of his associate in
wrongdoing, and his present thought was how he should get her out of the
scrape. He was honestly willing to sacrifice himself for her sake. While
he was faithfully considering the question, in the dim light of his own
moral sense, Miss Fanny suddenly burst into tears, and cried with a
violence and an unction which were a severe trial to his nerves.
"Don't cry, Fanny," said he; "I'll get you out of the scrape."
"I don't want to get out of it," sobbed she.
Now, this was the most paradoxical reply which the little maiden could
possibly have made, and Noddy was perplexed almost beyond the hope of
redemption. What in the world was she crying about, if she did not wish
to get out of the scrape? What could make her cry if it was not the fear
of consequences--of punishment, and of the mean opinion which her
friends would have of her, when they found out that she was wicked
enough to set a building on fire? Noddy asked no questions, for he could
not frame one which would cover so intricate a matter.
"I am perfectly willing to be punished for what I have done," added
Fanny, to whose troubled heart speech was the only vent.
"What are you crying for?" asked the bewildered Noddy.
"Because--because I did it," replied she; and her choked utterance
hardly permitted her to speak the words.
"Well, Miss Fanny, you are altogether ahead of my time; and I don't know
what you mean. If you cry about it now, what did you do it for?"
"Because I was wicked and naughty. If I had thought only a moment, I
shouldn't have done it. I am so sorry I did it! I would give the world
if I hadn't."
"What will they do to you?" asked Noddy, whose fear of consequences had
not yet given place to a higher view of the matter.
"I don't care what they do; I deserve the worst they can do. How shall I
look Bertha and my father in the face when I see them?"
"O, hold your head right up, and look as bold as a lion--as bold as two
lions, if the worst comes."
"Don't talk so, Noddy. You make me feel worse than I did."
"What in the world ails you, Miss Fanny?" demanded Noddy, grown
desperate by the perplexities of the situation.
"I am so sorry I did such a wicked thing! I shall go to Bertha and my
father, and tell them all about it, as soon as they come home," added
Fanny, as she wiped away her tears, and appeared to be much comforted by
the good resolution which was certainly the best one the circumstances
admitted.
"Are you going to do that?" exclaimed Noddy, astonished at the
declaration.
"I am."
"And get me into a scrape too! They won't let me off as easy as they do
you. I shall be sent off to learn to be a tinker, or a blacksmith."
"You didn't set the boat-house on fire, Noddy. It wasn't any of your
doings," said Fanny, somewhat disturbed by this new complication.
"You wouldn't have done it, if it hadn't been for me. I told you what I
said to Ben--that I wished the boat-house was burned up; and that's what
put it into your head."
"Well, you didn't do it."
"I know that; but I shall have to bear all the blame of it."
Noddy's moral perceptions were strong enough to enable him to see that
he was not without fault in the matter; and he was opposed to Fanny's
making the intended confession of her guilt.
"I will keep you out of trouble, Noddy," said she, kindly.
"You can't do it; when you own up, you will sink me to the bottom of the
river. Besides, you are a fool to do any such thing, Miss Fanny. What do
you want to say a word about it for? Ben will think some fellow landed
from the river, and set the boat-house on fire."
"I must do it, Noddy," protested she. "I shall not have a moment's peace
till I confess. I shall not dare to look father and Bertha in the face
if I don't."
"You won't if you do. How are they going to know anything about it, if
you don't tell them?"
"Well, they will lay it to you if I don't."
"No matter if they do; I didn't do it, and I can say so truly, and they
will believe me."
"But how shall I feel all the time? I shall know who did it, if nobody
else does. I shall feel mean and guilty."
"You won't feel half so bad as you will when they look at you, and know
all the time that you are guilty. If you are going to own up, I shall
keep out of the way. You won't see me at Woodville again in a hurry."
"What do you mean, Noddy?" asked Fanny, startled by the strong words of
her companion.
"That's just what I mean. If you own up, they will say that I made you
do it; and I had enough sight rather bear the blame of setting the
boat-house afire, than be told that I made you do it. I can dirty my own
hands, but I don't like the idea of dirtying yours."
"You don't mean to leave Woodville, Noddy?" asked Fanny, in a
reproachful tone.
"If you own up, I shall not go back. I've been thinking of going ever
since they talked of making a tinker of me; so it will only be going a
few days sooner. I want to go to sea, and I don't want to be a tinker."
Fanny gazed into the water by the side of the boat, thinking of what her
companion had said. She really did not think she ought to "own up," on
the terms which Noddy mentioned.
"If you are sorry, and want to repent, you can do all that; and I will
give you my solemn promise to be as good as you are, Miss Fanny," said
Noddy, satisfied that he had made an impression upon the mind of his
wavering companion.
His advice seemed to be sensible. She was sorry she had done wrong; she
could repent in sorrow and silence, and never do wrong again. Her father
and her sister would despise her if they knew she had done such a wicked
and unladylike thing as to set the boat-house on fire. She could save
all this pain and mortification, and repent just the same. Besides, she
could not take upon herself the responsibility of driving Noddy away
from Woodville, for that would cause Bertha a great deal of pain and
uneasiness.
Fanny had not yet learned to do right though the heavens fall.
"Well, I won't say anything about it, Noddy," said she, yielding to what
seemed to her the force of circumstances.
"That's right, Fanny. Now, you leave the whole thing to me, and I will
manage it so as to keep you out of trouble; and you can repent and be
sorry just as much as you please," replied Noddy, as he began to row
again. "There is nothing to be afraid of. Ben will never know that we
have been on the river."
"But I know it myself," said the conscience-stricken maiden.
"Of course you do; what of that?"
"If I didn't know it myself, I should feel well enough."
"You are a funny girl."
"Don't you ever feel that you have done wrong, Noddy?"
"I suppose I do; but I don't make any such fuss about it as you do."
"You were not brought up by a kind father and a loving sister, who would
give anything rather than have you do wrong," said Fanny, beginning to
cry again.
"There! don't cry any more; if you do, you will 'let the cat out of the
bag.' I am going to land you here at the Glen. You can take a walk
there, and go home about one o'clock. Then you can tell the folks you
have been walking in the Glen; and it will be the truth."
"It will be just as much a lie as though I hadn't been there. It will be
one half the truth told to hide the other half."
This was rather beyond Noddy's moral philosophy, and he did not worry
himself to argue the point. He pulled up to the landing place at the
Glen, where he had so often conveyed Bertha, and near the spot where he
had met with the accident which had placed him under her kindly care.
Fanny, with a heavy heart and a doubting mind, stepped on shore, and
walked up into the grove. She was burdened with grief for the wrong she
had done, and for half an hour she wandered about the beautiful spot,
trying to compose herself enough to appear before the people at the
house. When it was too late, she wished she had not consented to Noddy's
plan; but the fear of working a great wrong in driving him from the good
influences to which he was subjected at Woodville, by doing right, and
confessing her error, was rather comforting, though it did not meet the
wants of her case.
In season for dinner, she entered the house with her hand full of wild
flowers, which grew only in the Glen. In the hall she met Mrs. Green,
the housekeeper, who looked at her flushed face, and then at the flowers
in her hand.
"We have been wondering where you were, all the forenoon," said Mrs.
Green. "I see you have been to the Glen by the flowers you have in your
hand. Did you know the boat-house was burned up?"
"I saw the smoke of it," replied Fanny.
"It is the strangest thing that ever happened. No one can tell how it
took fire."
Fanny made no reply, and the housekeeper hastened away to attend to her
duties. The poor girl was suffering all the tortures of remorse which a
wrong act can awaken, and she went up to her room with the feeling that
she did not wish to see another soul for a month.
Half an hour later, Noddy Newman presented himself at the great house,
laden with swamp pinks, whose fragrance filled the air, and seemed to
explain where he had been all the forenoon. With no little flourish, he
requested Mrs. Green to put them in the vases for Bertha's room; for his
young mistress was very fond of the sweet blossoms. He appeared to be
entirely satisfied with himself; and, with a branch of the pink in his
hand, he left the house, and walked towards the servants' quarters,
where, at his dinner, he met Ben, the boatman.
CHAPTER IV.
NODDY'S CONFESSION.
The old boatman never did any thing as other people did it; and though
Noddy had put on the best face he could assume to meet the shock of the
accusation which he was confident would be brought against him, Ben said
not a word about the boat-house. He did not seem to be aware that it had
been burned. He ate his dinner in his usual cheerful frame of mind, and
talked of swamp pinks, suggested by the branch which the young reprobate
had brought into the servants' hall.
Noddy was more perplexed than he had been before that day. Why didn't
the old man "pitch into him," and accuse him of kindling the fire? Why
didn't he get angry, as he did sometimes, and call him a young vagabond,
and threaten to horsewhip him? Ben talked of the pinks, of the weather,
the crops, and the latest news; but he did not say a word about the
destruction of the boat-house, or Noddy's absence during the forenoon.
After dinner, Noddy followed the old man down to the pier by the river
in a state of anxiety which hardly permitted him to keep up the cheerful
expression he had assumed, and which he usually wore. They reached the
smouldering ruins of the building, but Ben took no notice of it, and did
not allude to the great event which had occurred. Noddy was inclined to
doubt whether the boat-house had been burned at all; and he would have
rejected the fact, if the charred remains of the house had not been
there to attest it.
Ben hobbled down to the pier, and stepped on board the Greyhound, which
he had hauled up to the shore to enable him to make some repairs on the
mainsail. Noddy followed him; but he grew more desperate at every step
he advanced, for the old man still most provokingly refused to say a
single word about the fire.
"Gracious!" exclaimed Noddy, suddenly starting back in the utmost
astonishment; for he had come to the conclusion, that if Ben would not
speak about the fire, he must.
The old boatman was still vicious, and refused even to notice his
well-managed exclamation. Noddy thought it was very obstinate of Ben not
to say something, and offer him a chance, in the natural way, to prove
his innocence.
"Why, Ben, the boat-house is burned up!" shouted Noddy, determined that
the old man should have no excuse for not speaking about the fire.
Ben did not even raise his eyes from the work on which he was engaged.
He was adjusting the palm on his hand, and in a moment began to sew as
though nothing had happened, and no one was present but himself. Noddy
was fully satisfied now that the boatman was carrying out the details of
some plot of his own.
"Ben!" roared Noddy, at the top of his lungs, and still standing near
the ruins.
"What do you want, Noddy?" demanded Ben, as good-naturedly as though
everything had worked well during the day.
"The boat-house is burned up!" screamed Noddy, apparently as much
excited as though he had just discovered the fact.
Ben made no reply, which was another evidence that he was engaged in
working out some deep-laid plot, perhaps to convict him of the crime,
by some trick. Noddy was determined not to be convicted if he could
possibly help it.
"Ben!" shouted he again.
"Well, Noddy, what is it?"
"Did you know the boat-house was burned up?"
There was no answer; and Noddy ran down to the place where the sail-boat
was hauled up. He tried to look excited and indignant, and perhaps he
succeeded; though, as the old man preserved his equanimity, he had no
means of knowing what impression he had produced.
"Did you know the boat-house was burned up?" repeated Noddy, opening his
eyes as though he had made a discovery of the utmost importance.
"I did," replied Ben, as indifferently as though it had been a matter of
no consequence whatever.
"Why didn't you tell me about it?" demanded Noddy, with becoming
indignation.
"Because I decided that I wouldn't say a word about it to any person,"
answered Ben.
"How did it happen?"
"I haven't anything to say about it; so you mustn't ask me any
questions."
"Don't you know how it caught afire?" persisted Noddy.
"I've nothing to say on that subject."
Noddy was vexed and disheartened; but he felt that it would not be
prudent to deny the charge of setting it on fire before he was accused,
for that would certainly convict him. The old man was playing a deep
game, and that annoyed him still more.
"So you won't say anything about it, Ben?" added he, seating himself on
the pier.
"Not a word, Noddy."
"Well, I wouldn't if I were you," continued Noddy, lightly.
Ben took no notice of this sinister remark, thus exhibiting a presence
of mind which completely balked his assailant.
"I understand it all, Ben; and I don't blame you for not wanting to say
anything about it. I suppose you will own up when Mr. Grant comes home
to-night."
"Don't be saucy, Noddy," said the old man, mildly.
"So you smoked your pipe among the shavings, and set the boat-house
afire--did you, Ben? Well, I am sorry for you, you are generally so
careful; but I don't believe they will discharge you for it."
Ben was as calm and unruffled as a summer sea. Noddy knew that, under
ordinary circumstances, the boatman would have come down upon him like a
northeast gale, if he had dared to use such insulting language to him.
He tried him on every tack, but not a word could he obtain which
betrayed the opinion of the veteran, in regard to the origin of the
fire. It was useless to resort to any more arts, and he gave up the
point in despair. All the afternoon he wandered about the estate, and
could think of nothing but the unhappy event of the morning. Fanny did
not show herself, and he had no opportunity for further consultation.
About six o'clock Bertha returned with her father; and after tea they
walked down to the river. Fanny complained of a headache, and did not go
with them. It is more than probable that she was really afflicted, as
she said; for she had certainly suffered enough to make her head ache.
Of course the first thing that attracted the attention of Mr. Grant and
his daughter was the pile of charred timbers that indicated the place
where the boat-house had once stood.
"How did that happen?" asked Mr. Grant of Ben, who was on the pier.
"I don't know how it happened," replied the boatman, who had found his
tongue now, and proceeded to give his employer all the particulars of
the destruction of the building, concluding with Noddy's energetic
exclamation that he wished the boat-house was burned up.
"But did Noddy set the building on fire?" asked Bertha, greatly pained
to hear this charge against her pupil.
"I don't know, Miss Bertha. I went up to the house to get my morning
instructions, as I always do, and left Noddy at work washing up the
boat-house. I found you had gone to the city, and I went right out of
the house, and was coming down here. I got in sight of the pier, and saw
Miss Fanny come out of the boat-house."
"Fanny?"
"Yes; I am sure it was her. I didn't mind where she went, for I happened
to think the mainsail of the Greyhound wanted a little mending, and I
went over to my room after some needles. While I was in my chamber, one
of the gardeners rushed up to tell me the boat-house was afire. I came
down, but 'twasn't no use; the building was most gone when I got here."
"Did you leave anything in the building in the shape of matches, or
anything else?" asked Mr. Grant.
"No, sir; I never do that," replied the old man, with a blush.
"I know you are very careful, Ben. Then I suppose it was set on fire."
"I suppose it was, sir."
"Who do you suppose set it afire, Ben?" said Bertha, anxiously.
"Bless you, miss, I don't know."
"Do you think it was Noddy?"
"No, Miss Bertha, I don't think it was."
"Who could it have been?"
"That's more than I know. Here comes Noddy, and he can speak for
himself."
Noddy had come forward for this purpose when he saw Mr. Grant and Bertha
on the pier, and he had heard the last part of the conversation. He was
not a little astonished to hear Ben declare his belief that he was not
guilty, for he had been fully satisfied that he should have all the
credit of the naughty transaction.
"Do you know how the fire caught, Noddy?" said Mr. Grant.
"I reckon it caught from a bucket of water I left there," replied Noddy,
who did not know what to say till he had felt his way a little.
"No trifling, Noddy!" added Mr. Grant, though he could hardly keep from
laughing at the ridiculous answer.
"How should I know, sir, when Ben don't know? I tried to make him tell
me how it caught, and he wouldn't say a word about it."
"I thought it was best for me to keep still," said Ben.
"This is very strange," continued Mr. Grant. "Who was the last person
you saw in the boat-house, Ben?"
"Miss Fanny, sir. I saw her come out of it only a few moments before the
fire broke out."
Noddy was appalled at this answer, for it indicated that Fanny was
already suspected of the deed.
"Of course Fanny would not do such a thing as set the boat-house on
fire," said Bertha.
"Of course she wouldn't," added Noddy.
"What made you say you did not think Noddy set the fire, Ben?" asked Mr.
Grant.
"Because I think he had gone off somewhere before the fire, and that
Miss Fanny was in the building after he was. Noddy was sculling off
before he had done his work, and I called him back. That's when he
wished the boat-house was burned down."
"It is pretty evident that the fire was set by Noddy or Fanny," said Mr.
