the smell of liquor on your breaths. I noted the fact 
well." 
John alone, might have braved his stepmother out, in 
positive denial ; but, the tell-tale face and manner of 
Edwin, turned his father's attention to him ; and a few 
sternly put queries brought out a clear confession of the 
truth. 
" There is only one safe thing to be done," said Mrs. 
Guy, to her husband, when they were alone. " Edwin 
must be saved from the ruin into which John will cer 
tainly drag him, if they are left together. Edwin is 
weak and easily influenced. Since John came home, I 
see a change for the worse going on daily." 
" I shall send him away to school," was the positive 
answer of Mr. Guy. " He must not remain at home 
for a single week longer.'' 
And he did not. Just as Mrs. Guy had planned, the 
event came out. Edwin was sent away from home, 
and kept as liberally supplied with pocket money by his 
step-mother, as John had been. Unhappily for the fu 
ture of the boy's life, the effect was just what Mrs. Guy 
designed that it should be. Temptations spread them 
selves all along his unguarded path, and his feet were 
ever wandering;. 
CHAPTER XXVII. 
NOTWITHSTANDING the threatening 
attitude assumed by Mrs. Guy not 
withstanding the marshalling of her for 
ces it was no part of her plan to risk 
a serious battle, if that desperate issue 
could be avoided. By a resolute bear 
ing she made strategy the more success 
ful. The fact, that Mr. Guy believed 
her when she said that she would leave 
his house rather than permit his children to exercise a 
dominant influence, caused him the more readily to 
fall in with her wily plans for removing them to a dis 
tance. 
For awhile John held himself coldly aloof from his 
stepmother ; but she, after Edwin's departure for school, 
gradually broke down the wall of angry reserve which 
he had thrown up between them, and assumed a degree 
of interest in the boy that, with a little indulgence in 
spending money, laid his mind open to almost any influ 
ence she might choose to exercise. 
" This idle life, for one of your age, is dreadful, 
Jonn," she said to him, as they were alone, one morn 
ing, speaking in a tone of interest. 
" Oh, well, father's rich ! " he answered, tossing his 
 
head in an independent, don't care sort of way 
" there's no use in my doing anything. A gentleman's 
life for me." 
" For shame, John ! Anything but a drone or an 
idler. Adam goes to the counting-room every day." t 
" Adam ! Pish ! " And John curled his lip. " He'd 
eat dirt for a dollar, and then bury the money after it 
was earned." 
"Adam loves money too well, I know," said Mrs. 
Guy ; " but he's willing to earn it." 
" Don't quote him to me," returned John, with some 
impatience, " the mean, stingy fellow ! Let him earn 
his money and keep it, if he will ; but don't hold him 
up as my exemplar." 
" I'll tell you what I've been thinking, John," said 
his stepmother, changing her tone, and speaking in a 
way meant to inspire him with the thought in her mind. 
" You'd like to see the world, I know. Every young 
man does. Your father's firm is loading a vessel for 
the Pacific. Now, why not go in her as supercargo ? " 
John started up, and stood, all interest for a moment 
or two ; then clapping his hands together, he replied, 
while a warm flush came into his face 
" I'd like that ! But " And his countenance 
changed a little. 
"What?" 
" Father would say no." 
" I'm not so sure of that, John. But, would you 
really like the place ? " 
" Of supercargo ? " 
"Yes." 
 
"Grandly! I've always had a wish logo to sea." 
There was an eagerness in John's manner that showed 
how strongly the idea was taking hold of him. 
'' I do not believe that your father, on reflection, will 
object," said Mrs. Guy. 
" Will you ask him about it ? " 
" Yes. And I think you'd better leave the matter 
entirely in my hands. And, first, let me caution you 
not to say anything on the subject to Adam. He has 
considerable influence with your father, and would be 
sure to oppose, if only for the sake of opposition." 
" Oh, I understand that ! He'd thwart me out of 
sheer malignancy." 
Mrs. Guy did not throw in a mollifying word. It 
was no part of her mission in the family to harmonize 
or conciliate. 
" I will manage him," she said, in the tone of one 
who felt her power ; " only, as I suggested, keep your 
own counsel. You shall go as supercargo in the Ariel 
if you desire it." 
" I do desire it above all things," replied John, " and 
if you will get father's consent, I'll remember you as 
long as I live." 
" There is one thing I would suggest, as your father 
will have to be managed a little in the beginning," said 
Mrs. Guy, lowering her voice in a confidential way, 
and speaking with an unusual familiarity, " and that is, 
an assumption of indifference on your part. This in 
difference, may have to take the form of opposition be 
fore all is settled ; but, I will give you the right hint at 
the right time. You understand?" 
" Perfectly." 
u It wont strike him favorably on the first blush ; 
but I'll engage to bring him over to our way of think 
ing. It will be a splendid chance to see the world and 
improve yourself, and when he understands this there 
will be no more trouble." 
Mrs. Guy lost no time, for the Ariel was already 
taking in cargo, and would be ready for sea in less than 
two weeks. 
" This idle life that John is leading, troubles me con 
tinually," said Mrs. Guy, thus opening the subject, on 
the next occasion of being alone with her husband. 
" It will be his destruction, I fear." 
A shade of anxiety passed over Mr. Guy's face, but 
he did not respond. 
" Is there nothing that we can do with him ? " 
Mr. Guy shook his head. 
" He'll be ruined if left to his own will hopelessly 
ruined." 
The voice of Mrs. Guy was full of concern. Still ? 
her husband made no answer. 
" How would it do to send him out as supercargo in 
one of your vessels ? " 
" It wouldn't do at all," was Mr. Guy's quick answer. 
" I'm not so sure of that," said his wife, who had 
expected just this answer. " If he could be induced to 
go, it might be his salvation." 
" Do you suppose we'd trust a boy like him with the 
disposal of a cargo ? What does he know of business ? " 
" Of course," answered Mrs. Guy, not in the least 
disconcerted, " you would send him with an experienced 
 
captain, who would be the real man. The end is to 
save the boy ; to get him away from the temptations 
that now beset him on every hand. As to his control 
of the cargo, that is another thing. He might sail 
under the idea of full powers, while the captain had 
orders to supersede him on the ship's arrival out. Don't 
you see, how safely this might be done ? My only fear 
is, that John may not consent." 
" He will not ; on that you may rest assured," said 
Mr. Guy. 
" If he were to consent what then ? How does 
the thing strike you, on reflection ? " 
" Anything to get him away from the dangers of this 
city." 
" So I think. Turn it over in your thought, Mr. 
Guy. How in regard to the captain of the Ariel ? 
Is he a discreet man ? " 
" He is a good captain," was replied. 
" Does he need a supercargo ? " 
" No. The ship will be consigned to a house in 
Valparaiso." 
" So much the better. John's position as supercargo 
would give no control whatever, and might be so ar 
ranged with the captain as not to embarrass him in any 
respect. Take the captain fully into your counsels, and 
let him manage John in his own way after he gets him 
to sea." 
" You talk as if the whole matter was settled," said 
Mr. Guy, not able to repress a tone of impatience. 
" And why not, if right to be done ? " was coolly 
answered. " You can make all fair with the captain, 
 
of course. That part is easily arranged. The serious 
difficulty in the way is to get John's consent." 
" A thing not to be hoped for, in my belief. John is 
too fond of ease and self-indulgence, to risk the possible 
hardships and privations of a trip around the Horn." 
" It will require some management." This, Mrs. 
Guy admitted. " But, if you can arrange with the 
captain to let John go as nominal supercargo in the 
Ariel, I will undertake to bring him over to our wishes." 
" I may safely promise my part of the work, then ; 
for I have no faith in the accomplishment of what you 
propose." 
" But, Mr. Guy," said his wife, with increasing ear 
nestness of manner, " don't you think it would be of 
great use to John ? " 
" Perhaps it might be ; but, there's no telling." 
" It would remove him from temptation." 
" Yes." 
" And bring him under rigid discipline." 
"I don't know about that. 'A supercargo is not a 
sailor, ngr even subordinate to command like a ship's 
officer." 
" Oh, as to that, you and the captain could under 
stand each other. The object in sending him to sea 
must not be forgotten. ' I think, maybe, it will be just 
as well for you to hint the matter to John yourself, and 
see how his pulse beats. Perhaps he may be carried 
away with the idea as a novelty, and so all run smoothly. 
But, don't urge the matter, if he object, or seems to 
consider it of any importance. He will be sure to say 
something to me about it." 
 
" And go dead against the whole thing, should you 
favor it in the least. I know him.'' 
" He's not apt to yield in favor of my plans, as I'm 
aware," said Mrs. Guy. " But, where there's a will, 
there's a way, and I'll undertake to manage him." 
The more Mr. Guy thought over his wife's suo-o-es- 
J o &&> 
tion, the more in favor of sending John to sea did he 
become. As he dwelt on the subject, a hope for the 
boy kindled in his mind a hope that love of business 
and gain might be stimulated. A small adventure of 
his own might be entrusted to him, with direction to 
invest the proceeds in merchandise for the return voy 
age. This view was dwelt on, until it looked so prom 
ising that Mr. Guy believed in its power to save his 
son. If by any means, a love of gain could be stimu 
lated, he felt sure that all would be well. He had an 
undying faith in money. It was, in his thought the 
only conservative power. No concern about Adam's 
future haunted his mind ; for the boy's love of money 
was, in his regard, a sure protector. 
John played off and on with his father, according to 
the programme of his stepmother, and affected to yield, 
finally, with a great deal of reluctance, and only after 
securing sundry privileges and advantages, which, in 
the beginning, Mr. Guy never thought of conceding. 
There was an unusual lightness in the heart-beat of 
Mrs. Guy, on the day John departed in the Ariel. 
She had an evil faith in the result of his voyage. If 
he ever came home at all, which might not be, she 
believed that he would come home so much worse in 
morals and habits, that no hope for his manhood would 
 
remain ; and so, he would cease to stand in any formi 
dable manner between her and her ambitions. At any 
rate, he was out of her way for a year ; and she took 
all beyond that time on trust. 
CHAPTER XXVIII. 
N the day after John's departure, Mrs. 
Guy received the following letter, 
without signature. It came from 
some person in the school where Ly- 
dia had been placed : 
" MADAM : I feel it my duty to 
say that your daughter Lydia is re 
ceiving the attentions of a young man 
in this neighborhood, who cannot possibly be acceptable 
to her family. To my certain knowledge, they hold 
clandestine interviews at night, she stealing from her 
room at a late hour, to join him. My concern for her 
welfare, prompts me to send you this information." 
Twice did Mrs. Guy read this communication, with 
out exhibiting a sign of disturbance. Then, taking a 
match, she lighted the gas, and holding the letter in the 
flame until it was consumed, flung the charred flakes 
from the window. 
The letter was anonymous, and behind this fact Mrs. 
Guy shielded herself. That it gave her the exact truth, 
she did not question for an instant ; and yet, speaking 
in her external thought, she said, as the fire devoured 
the paper. 
" The mean accusation of some jealous girl, afraid 
to sign her name." 
Yet, she was sure in her heart it was not so ; sure in 
her heart that Lydia was in peril, and should instantly 
be brought home. A week passed, and then came 
another letter, written by the same person, but without 
signature. 
"Fearing," she said the writer was a woman 
" that a communication sent to you several days ago, 
may have failed in reaching its destination, I address 
you again on the subject of your daughter, now at 
school in this place. Do you know that she is receiv 
ing the attentions of a young man residing here, and 
that she is in the habit of meeting him at night, clan 
destinely ? The young man is well enough in his way, 
but not the one that you could accept as Lydia's hus 
band. Pray look to the matter before it is too late ! I 
have now, twice, given you warning, and so washed 
my hands clear of the whole matter." 
" Anonymous ! " And Mrs. Guy shook her head. 
Alighted match the gas in aflame and then a 
little handful of black ashes were flung from the window. 
" It wont do, my jealous young lady." A cold smile 
played over the lips of Mrs. Guy, as she sat down, and 
took up a book that she had been reading. 
With an eager interest, that absorbed nearly every 
thought, did Mrs. Guy wait the issue which she believed 
to be at hand. If Lydia should contract a clandestine 
marriage with a young man having neither social posi- 
 
tion nor wealth, the anger of her father would know no 
bounds. He would disown and disinherit her without 
remorse ; and so, she would be oat of her stepmother's 
way. To make this separation permanent, would be an 
easy task to so clear-seeing and unscrupulous a woman 
as Mrs. Guy. She had not very long to wait. One 
forenoon, less than two weeks from the receipt of her 
last anonymous letter, Mrs. Guy heard the street door 
open, with a rattle of her husband's key in the lock, 
followed by his heavy tread, quicker than usual. He 
called her, as lie came up stairs, and she answered from 
her chamber, where she happened to be. 
The forewarned heart of Mrs. Guy guessed truly the 
meaning of this unusual appearance of her husband. 
His face was pale and agitated, as he entered. An in 
stant, he glanced around the room, and seeing that his 
wife was alone, shut and locked the door. Then draw 
ing a letter from his pocket, he thrust it into Mrs. Guy's 
hand, saying, in a desperate kind of way 
" Read that ! " 
As he stalked about the room, like an animal smart 
ing with pain, his wife in her unruffled way, unfolded 
the letter, and read 
' To ADAM GUY, ESQ. 
" DEAR SIR : The thing's done, now, and there's 
no helping of it. I married your daughter last night, 
and she's my wife forever. I love her as my life, and 
all for herself alone. I hope you will not be angry sir. 
I couldn't help loving her. We were afraid you 
wouldn't consent, and as we couldn't live without one 
another, we took the risk of getting married, being sure 
that when you saw how we loved one another, and 
couldn't live apart, you would forgive us. Dear Lydia 
wants me to write first. She will write to-morrow. 
" Affectionately, your dutiful son, 
" JAMES BRADY." 
" Well, that's a nice business, upon my word ! " ejac 
ulated Mrs. Guy, showing considerable feeling. " Is 
the man a fool, and the girl mad ? " 
" Confusion ! Curse him ! " Mr. Guy threw the 
words out with a raging force, his eyes in a flame, and 
white spots of foam on his lips. " Had you any suspi 
cion of this, madam ? " He glared upon her like a de 
vouring beast. 
" I? " She drew her form to its utmost height, with 
o ' 
an air of supreme astonishment. " I, sir ? What do 
you mean by such a question ? " 
" Had you no suspicion of this ? I speak plainly, 
don't I ? " 
Mrs. Guy stepped back a pace or two from the half 
madman who confronted her, yet without removing her 
eyes from his distorted countenance. 
" The words are plain enough," she said, in a steady 
voice, the coldness of which gave a chill to the hot 
blood of her husband. " But, I am yet in doubt as to 
their full meaning. Perhaps, in this excitement, you 
have forgotten who I am." 
Mr. Guy was never strong enough for this woman, 
when she set herself against him. In all the contests 
which had occurred, she manifested such a resolute 
 
spirit, and showed such a consciousness of possessing 
any amount of reserved force, that he shrunk from a 
desperate trial of strength. And so it was now, for he 
did not again repeat his accusing interrogation, but 
worked down his excitement, by pacing the floor rap 
idly. Stopping, at length, and confronting Mrs. Guy, 
who had resumed the seat from which she had risen, he 
said, with bitter emphasis 
" I disown her from this hour ! I cast her off utter 
ly ! She shall be to me as one dead ! As for the man, 
I will spurn him as a dog, should he ever cross my 
path." 
" She is still your child,'' said Mrs. Guy. 
" Silence ! " The fire flashed out in a sudden gleam. 
" Don't cross me here, madam, or there'll be trouble 
between us ! She is my child no longer. A beggar's 
wife, let her live and die a beggar, for all I care." 
" It's, a hard thing to bear. What could have pos 
sessed the girl ? " Mrs. Guy dropped in these senten 
ces skillfully. 
" The devil possessed her," said Mr. Guy, brutally. 
Mrs. Guy covered her face with her hands, and ac 
tually expressed a few tears." 
." None of that with me, madam ! It wont do. The 
girl has made her bed, and she'll have to lie in it, even 
to the end. 
" She is so young," suggested Mrs. Guy. 
" There ! there ! None of that, I say ! " Mr. Guy 
spoke with angry impatience. 
Enough for appearances had been advanced by this 
designing and cruel woman ; and so, she said no more, 
but let her husband's indignation have free course. 
 
It soon became apparent to Mrs. Guy that this act 
of Lydia's had touched her father very deeply. If he 
had felt regard for one of his children more than for 
O 
another, Lydia might be called the favorite ; and she 
was not to be cast off utterly without pain. She no 
ticed an unusually drooping forward of his head, as if 
a weight were resting on his shoulders ; and a severe 
abstraction of manner, from which, if he was disturbed, 
he came out with an unchecked impatience. 
Two days after the letter from Lydia's husband was 
received, one came from Lydia herself. The post-mark, 
and hand-writing in the direction, indicating its source, 
Mr. Guy, without breaking the seal, enclosed it in an 
envelop, and sent it back, unaccompanied by a word. 
Two weeks had passed. Mrs. Guy sat in the midst 
of her own children, three in number, with her thought 
dwelling in their future, \vhich she resolved to make 
sunny and pi'osperous, no matter what other skies were 
darkened, or what other rights sacrificed, when the 
door was flung open, and Lydia came hastily towards 
her, across the room. 
" Oh, mother ! " fell eagerly from her lips. 
But Mrs. Guy lifted her hands in a repulsive attitude, 
and partly turning away, said icily 
" Don't come near me ! " 
" Oh, mother ! " repeated Lydia, in a choking voice, 
stopping midway of the room. 
" Don't say mother to me. I am not your mother ! " 
Lydia had never seen, in the face of her step-mother, 
such malignancy and hate as now smote upon her. All 
disguise was thrown off ; as she felt, so she looked a 
 
cruel and unrelenting enemy. " You have dug an im 
passable gulf between us, and it will lie there forever. 
Go from this house ! You h'ave neither part nor lot in 
it. It is your home no longer. A wicked, disobedi 
ent child, must take the punishment that is her due." 
A few moments Lydia stood in a kind of maze. 
Then a wild look of despair swept into her face, as if 
suddenly conscious of a new and fearful condition, from 
which escape was hopeless. 
" Go ! " The right hand of her stepmother waved, 
in imperious enforcement of the command. 
" I must see my father," said Lydia, rallying herself, 
and speaking with some firmness of tone. 
" Oh, very well ! " replied the stepmother, mocking 
ly. " See him, if you will. Call in the evening, when 
he is at home." 
" I will wait until then," said Lydia. 
" Excuse me, no ! You cannot wait until then. My 
word is law here ; and I say that you cannot remain 
for even one hour under this roof. So, take your de 
parture ! M 
Literally staggering back, in a sudden weakness, from 
the wolfish eye of her stepmother, Lydia went from the 
apartment. Mrs. Guy followed, to see that she left the 
house, and literally pursued her to the very street door. 
The poor misguided child had come alone, to the 
city, in order to get reconciled, if possible, to her fath 
er and stepmother. What of her marriage ? Was 
there any hope in it ? Any basis of character or mor 
al quality in the young man to whom she had given in 
trust the well-being of her life ? Not much basis, we 
 
regret to say. He was, however, rather weak than 
wrong ; and under right external influences, would have 
made a man of ordinary standing good enough in 
his way, but of no force in society. His education was 
defective, and he lacked both the ambition, and mental 
activity, which lead to self-improvement. The easiest 
way for a young man to get along in the world, who 
has not the ability to advance himself, is to marry a rich 
wife. At least, such is a current opinion. Young 
Brady chose this method, and finding in Lydia Guy a 
fair subject for conquest, set himself to the task of win 
ning her favor. He understood some of the arts to be 
used, and was successful, Lydia fell into the snare laid 
for her feet, and forgetful of prudence and duty, cast 
the fatal die that changed, in an instant, her whole re 
lation to society. Alas, poor child ! Not for herself 
had she been wooed and won ; but for the money which 
her sordid and mean-spirited suitor believed would ac 
company her hand. She had come alone, as we have 
said, in order to effect a reconciliation. The distance 
from the town in which she had been going to school 
was over two hundred miles, and it had taken all the 
money that remained in her possession, to pay the ex 
pense of getting home. Lydia had expected anger, 
harsh words, and stern rebuke ; but was not prepared 
for an absolute expulsion from her father's house. No 
wonder that she staggered away from the door with un 
steady feet ; nor that people turned and looked after 
her, strangely. Where was she to go ? It was over 
two years since she left home for school, and in that 
time, girlish friendships in the city had died out. 
 
Moreover, the selfish isolation in which her father had 
chose to live, had so circumscribed their friends and 
neighborly relations, that Lydia was little more, at this 
time, than an unknown one, in the place of her nativity. 
Where then, was she to go ? Alas, for the poor 
child ! there was not, in all that great city, a single 
door at which she might enter, in confidence of a wel 
come such as she needed under the circumstances. 
There were some families, where, at mention of her 
name, she would have been received with formal po 
liteness ; but, she shrunk from an exposure of herself, 
and so, exhausted with long travel, and faint from heart- 
sickness, went wandering from street to street, in the 
long afternoon of a warm June day, until the burden 
of weariness was so great, that it seemed to her she 
must fall by the way. Many times, she more than 
half resolved to seek her father at his counting-room | 
but a dread of exposing herself there, held her back. 
Four long hours of wandering in the street, and then, 
almost blind with headache, and scarcely able to stand 
from exhaustion, Lydia came a second time, to her 
father's door. It was now in the fast deepening twi 
light, and the day's warmth had given place to the eve 
ning's colder atmosphere, in which she shivered as if 
ague-stricken. Timidly she rung the bell timidly, 
in sad consciousness that her right to enter was now a 
questioned right. She did not know the servant who 
opened the door. 
" Is my father in ? " she asked, making a movement 
to enter. But, quickly pressing the door against her, 
the servant said, almost roughly, 
 
" You can't get in, Miss. Your father will not see 
you. So, don't come here again." And then shut the 
door in her face. 
At this moment Adam came up the steps. 
" Oh, Adam ! " exclaimed the wretched creature, 
reaching her hands eagerly towards her brother. But 
he retreated from her as from a thing polluted and 
scorned. 
" Don't touch me ! " he said, roughly ; and then hur 
rying past her, entered and closed the door. 
" I must go in ! I must see father ! " murmured 
Lydia, rallying herself in desperation ; and springing to 
the bell, she rang it vigorously. But no one came. 
Again she rang, but the door remained shut. Faint, 
O O' ' 
and frightened at her alarming ppsition thus homeless 
and the night falling Lydia stood for several minutes, 
leaning against the iron railing. Then, with slow, hesi 
tating steps; halting and faltering,; faint, and dim- 
sighted from pain and weakness, she moved aimlessly 
away, losing herself in dusky streets, down on which the 
darkness was rapidly falling. 
CHAPTER XXIX. 
IS we sow in life, so reap we in the 
surely coining harvest times good 
fruit if the seed be good ; evil fruit if 
the seed be evil. The law works with 
unfailing certainty. 
True as this proved in the case of 
Adam Guy, it was also true in the 
case of Dr. Hofland. As the one 
c ^o sowed tares in his field, and found 
tares in midsummer and approaching autumn ; so the 
other, having scattered wheat in his well prepared fields, 
gathered, in reaping time, full-eared sheaves of golden 
grain. 
That one sharp experience in life proved quite effec 
tual. Never again did the Doctor permit taste, ambi 
tion to make a good appearance, or a covetous desire 
for things beyond his ability to purchase, tempt him 
from the path of safety. Debt, after being once freed 
from its shackles, became an unknown element in his 
life ; and warned by the memories of the past, he forced 
upon himself a well considered rule of expenditure, 
which always left him at the year's end a little better 
off than at its beginning. Thus, he remained free from 
anxieties and humiliating embarrassments, and so kept 
 
his mind above the depressing influences of care, that 
he could enter with full vigor into the spirit of his pro 
fession, and keep pace with its higher developments. 
Some years before the period at which we have now 
arrived, the Doctor moved a second time from the hum 
ble home in which he had twice started in the world. 
In going up, on this occasion, the step was taken in all 
assurance that it was safe and right. His practice was 
largely on the increase, and he had a sum of money in 
bank considerably above the amount needed for extra 
furnishing. From his fall he arose again, wiser and wa 
rier. The discipline of a temporary misfortune, with its 
sharp humiliations and self-revealings, made him a tru 
er, stronger and clearer seeing man. Out of the valley 
he came, and stopped not in ascending, until he stood 
far above the place from which he had fallen. 
And sweet, also, had been to Lena, the uses of adver 
sity. She had arisen, likewise, into a purer spiritual 
atmosphere, and now saw with clearer vision. And 
thus, ascending, she had drawn nearer to her husband. 
As his mind grew more and more in love with nobler 
things as he grew wiser in the knowledge of those 
sublime truths which lead men up to an interior ac 
knowledgement of God as the source of all life, she 
found increased pleasure in communing with his 
thoughts ; and in the light of them, saw ravishing forms 
of spiritual beauty unrevealed to her own unaided vi 
sion. More and more were they growing into a oneness 
of life. He, the wise-seeing ; and she, the wisdom- 
loving. Two minds were blending into one, in a sweet 
foretaste of eternal unity. Pleasant and instructive 
 
would it be to dwell with them for a brief season ; to 
look into their daily lives, and breathe in the tranquil 
atmosphere with which they were surrounded. But 
events bear us onward. 
The Doctor was coming home from a visit in the 
neighborhood, just after dark, when, in passing a young 
woman, he noticed something in her face and manner 
that excited his interest. Her movements were slow 
and uncertain ; and the look of exhaustion and almost 
despair that he saw on her countenance, as the light of 
a gas lamp revealed it to him for a moment, left on his 
feelings a most painful impression. The face was that 
of a child rather than of a woman. 
" So young ! " He sighed to himself, as he moved 
on, the thought of sin and shame crossing his mind, and 
sendino- to his heart a shade of sadness. 
There was more than his usual tenderness in the man 
ner of Doctor Hofland, as his lips touched the pure lips 
of his daughter Lena, on entering his home a few min 
utes afterwards. 
" Must you go out again to-night, father ? " said 
Lena, drawing her arm within his, after they had risen 
from the tea table, and holding him half playfully and 
half earnestly back from the hall into which he was 
about passing. 
" Yes, dear ; there are two or three patients who must 
be seen," answered the Doctor. 
" Don't stay long," urged Lena. " It seems as if 
we never could have you in the evening." 
" I'll be home in an hour." 
" And that will be past nine o'clock," said Lena, 
with a shade of disappointment in her tones. 
 
" We can make a long evening after that, if we will," 
was smilingly answered. 
" I'm not so sure of that," returned Lena. " Ten to 
one, the office will be full of patients when you get 
back ; or there'll be a call on the slate." 
" In which case, dear, let us not only be thankful 
that the blessing of health is ours ; but that, in God's 
providence, I have power to help the sick and suffer- 
ing." 
" I'm very selfish, I know," answered Lena, as she 
relaxed the firm hold with which she had grasped her 
father's arm ; " but it is such a pleasure to have you at 
home in the evening." 
" And such a pleasure to stay," replied her father. 
" Duty first, however." And taking his hat he went 
out. Doctor Hofland had only gone a short distance, 
when he noticed the same young person who had at 
tracted his attention not long before. She was standing 
at one of the street corners, and seemed either awaiting 
some one, or to be in a state of indecision. As he pass 
ed, he drew near and made an effort to look into her 
face, but she started, with a timid air, and turning, walk 
ed slowly down an unfrequented street. The Doctor 
stood still and looked after her, feeling so much inclined 
to follow that he nearly yielded to the impulse. But, 
moving on his way again, he said, in his thought, 
'' Poor child ! There is something wrong." 
Scarcely satisfied with himself for letting an oppor 
tunity to help or save an unfortunate one, which Prov 
idence had placed in his way, pass unimproved, the Doc 
tor walked onward, conscious of an unusual pressure on 
 
his feelings. Two visits were made, and he then cross 
ed to a part of the city somewhat remote from that por 
tion in which he lived. It was later than anticipated, 
when he returned to his own neighborhood, and he was 
O ' 
walking with a quicker step than usual. Suddenly he 
stood still. A cry had fallen on his ears ; a cry of ter 
ror and the voice was a woman's. He looked in all 
directions, but could not determine from whence it came. 
Then it was repeated, and nearer, coming from an ad 
joining street, to which he hastened. At the corner, 
he met the same young w r oman who had twice before 
attracted his attention. She was running in a wild way. 
Seeing the Doctor, she fled to his side and caught hold 
of him, crying out, 
" Oh, sir ! Protect me, for heaven's sake ! " 
Two men followed quickly, pausing for a moment, as 
if to lay hold of her. But, on a closer view of Doctor 
Hofland, they moved away without speaking, crossed 
the street, and stood still on the other side. 
The Doctor felt the girFs hand shaking on his arm, 
as they clung to him with a tight grip ; and she pressed 
against him in a wav that he understood to be from sudden
prostration of strength. 
" Who are you ? " he asked, in a kind voice. 
" Do you know Mr. Guy ? Adam Guy ? " The 
choking voice that put the question trembled so that it 
was scarcely articulate. 
The truth or, at least a part of the truth flashed 
over the Doctor's mind in an instant. This was Lydia's 
child ! He saw, in the dim light, her mother's old look 
