his movement might lead to suspicion, sank back into his  
 
 
seat, saying, uneasily, " I only wish it were true. People say such strange things. But it's only idle talk, idle 
talk. They know better." 
" You'd be very grateful, I have no doubt, to any body 
that would show you where all these treasures are that 
people talk about, wouldn't you, hey?" 
"Ye —  yes," answered Peter Mahson, who did not 
know quite how to understand his companion, whose 
tone seemed to have a hidden meaning which made him 
uneasy. 
" And will you give me leave to search the house, if I 
will promise to give you half the gold I find ? " 
"But you wouldn't find any," answered the miser, 
hastily. 
" Then there would be no harm done. Suppose now 
I should remove the flooring, just here for instance, don't 
you. think I might possibly find something underneath 
that would repay me for my search? " 
Unconsciously the speaker had hit upon one of Peter's 
places of deposit. Directly under where he was seated 
there was a box of gold coins. Accordingly this remark, which seemed to indicate to Peter some knowledge 
of his hi ng-place, filled him with fearful apprehensions. 
" No, no," said he, vehemently ; '.' go away, there isn't 
any there. If that is all you have got to say, go away 
and leave me to my rest. I ought to be in bed as it is 
getting late." 
" I have something more to say, Peter Manson," returned his companion. "If I had not, I should not 
have sought you to-night. What I have to say is of - 
great importance to you as you will find. Will you hear 
it?" 
 
 
" Go on,'' muttered Peter, his attention arrested, in 
spite of Ms fears, by the stranger's peculiar tone. 
" First, then, let me tell you a story. It may be real, 
it may be only fancy. I won't say anything about that. 
By the way, Peter, were you ever in 15ie West Indies?" 
This question produced a singular effect upon Peter, 
considering its apparently unimportant character. He 
started, turned as pale as his ghastly complexion per- 
mitted, fixed an anxious glance upon the stranger, who 
looked as if nothing particulai' had happened, and said 
hastily, " No, I was never there. What made you ask?'' 
" Nothing particular," said the other, carelessly ; " if 
you were never there, no matter. Only it is there that 
what I am going to tell you happened. But to my story. 
'' Some twenty years ago there lived in the city of Havana an American gentleman, no matter about his 
name, who had established himself in business in the city. 
He had married before he went there, and had a daughter about sixteen years of age. Well, his busifiess 
flourished. Good luck seemed to attend him in all his 
ventures, and he seemed likely to accumulate enough to 
retire upon before many years." 
Peter started, and as the story progressed seemed 
to be internally agitated. A keen glance satisfied his 
visitor of this ; without appearing to notice it, however, 
he went on, — 
"But things don't always turn out as well as we ex- 
pect. Just when things looked brightest there came a 
sudden blow, for which the merchant was unprepared. 
On going to his counting-room one morning, he discover- 
ed that his bookkeeper had disappeared, and what was 
 
 
worse, had carried off with him the sum of twenty thousand dollars — a large sum, was it not ? " 
'' What is all this to me ? " demanded Peter, with sudden fierceness. 
"I will tell you by and by,'' said the stranger, coolly. 
" I will take the liberty to put a little more wood into 
the stove, and then go on with my story.'' 
" I —  I'U put some in," said Peter. 
He took a small stick about half as large round as his 
wrist, and opening tjje stove-door, put it "in 
'' That'll do to begin with," said the stranger, following it, to Peter's dismay, with half a dozen larger ones.. 
" Now we'll be comfortable." 
While Peter's uneasiness became every moment more 
marked, his visitor continued, — 
''This sad defalcation was the more unfortunate 
because, on that very day notes to a heavy amount be- 
came due. Of course the mercliant was unable to pay 
them. Do you know what was the result? " 
" How should I know?" asked Peter, testily, avoiding 
the gaze of the stranger, and fixing his eyes uneasily 
upon the fire. 
" Of course you couldn't know, I was foolish to think 
such a thing," 
" Then what made you think it ? " said Peter, in a pet- 
ulant tone. "I don't care to hear your story. What 
has if got to do with me?" 
" Don't be in too much of a hurry, and perhaps you 
will  learn quite as soon as you care to. The same re- 
sult followed, which always does follow when a business 
man cannot meet his engagements. He failed." 
Peter stirred uneasily, but said nothing. 
'' His character for integrity was such that there were 
many who would have lent him a helping hand, and 
carried him safely through his troubles ; but he was over- 
whelmed by the blow, and sank under it. Refusing all 
 
 
offers of assistance, he took to his bed, and some six 
months after died." 
"And what became of his daughter?" asked Peter, 
showing a little curiosity for the first time. 
" Ha ! you seem to be getting interested," exclaimed 
the other, fixing his keen eyes upon Peter, who seemed 
conlhsed. " His daughter was beautiful, and had already 
won the heart of a young American, who had little 
money but a handsome figure and good business habits." 
" Did she marry this young Codman ? " 
" Who told you his name was Codman ? " asked Peter's 
visitor, watching him keenly. 
"I —  I thought you did," stammered the miser, dis- 
concerted. 
" You are mistaken. I have mentioned no name." 
" Then I— I must have misunderstood you." 
" I dare say," said the other, ironically. " However, 
we won't dispute that point. Well, this young Codman, 
— for singularly enough you hit upon the right name, 
not knowing anything of the circumstances of course, — 
this young Codman married Isabel." 
"Isabel I" repeated the old man. "Her name was 
Here he paused in sudden confusion, feeling that he 
was betraying himself by his incautious correction. 
" Yes, Peter," said the other, with a shrewd smile, 
" you are right. Her name was not Isabel, but Eleanor. 
I acknowledge that I was wrong ; but it seems to me 
that, for one who is entirely a stranger to the events I 
have been describing, you show a wonderful shrewdness 
in detecting my mistakes." 
Peter maintained a conftised silence, and wriggled 
 
 
abont uneasily, as if the stranger's fixed and watcbM 
gaze disturbed him. 
" Humph ! well they say that some people have the 
gift of second sight, and others can see through mill- 
stones, and various other wonderftil things." 
"What has all this to do with me?" asked Peter, 
crossly, for he felt it necessary to make some demonstration. ",It's getting late, and I want to go to bed. Go 
away, and — and come again to-morrow, if you want to." 
"A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush, Peter, 
which means that I am sure of you now, and perhaps 
you wouldn't let me in if I should call to-morrow. If 
yon are sleepy I have no objection to your going to bed. 
I can talk to you as well as if you. were sitting up' I 
will stay here and keep the fire going." 
Peter looked at the small pile of wood with a groan, 
and muttered something about "its being awful extravagant to keep such a fire." 
"I believe," said the stranger, " I have not yet told 
you the name of the defaulting clerk." 
Peter said nothing. 
'' It was Thornton, but his first name was Peter, the 
same as yours. Singular, isn't it, Peter?" 
" I suppose there are a good many Peters in the 
world," muttered the old man. 
" Very likely ; though I hope most of them are better 
than this Peter Thornton. He got off without being taken, 
with the twenty thousand dollars in his possession. He 
was fond of money, and many thought this explained the 
defalcation. However, there were not wanting others 
who assigned a different motive. It was said that he had 
 
 
been smitten by the youthful charms of his employer's 
daughter Eleanor, who did not favor his suit." 
Peter shifted unea,sily in his chair. 
" No one could blame her. In fact it was perfectly 
preposterous for him to think of mating with her. Did 
you speak?" 
; "No! "snarled Peter. 
" I thought you said something. I repeat, that she had 
plenty of reasons for rejecting him. She was just sixteen, 
and beautiful as she was young, and had no lack of admirers ready to devote themselves to her. As for Peter 
Thornton, ha ! ha hand- 
some, from all I have heard of him. In the first place, 
he was forty or more." 
" Thkty-eight," muttered Peter, below his breath. 
"And tds features were irregular, besides being marked 
with the small-pox, which he had had in early life. He 
had a long, hooked nose like a bird's beak, an enormous 
mouth, little sharp gray eyes like a ferret's, and his hair 
was already mingled with gray. On the whole, he hadn't 
much beauty to boast of. Did you say anything? " 
"No!" snarled Peter, sourly. He was sitting with 
his elbows on his knees, and his face resting on his 
hands. 
" Beg pardon, I thought you spoke. To add to Peter's 
charms of person, his disposition was not the sweetest 
that ever was. He had a harsh and crabbed manner, 
which would have led to his discharge if he had not had 
one saving trait. I will say, to his credit, that he was a 
capital book-keeper. Of his honesty his employer thought 
he was well assured, and probably if nothing had occurred of a character to wound Peter's pride, he might have 
 
 
continued faithful to his trust. One day, however, Peter 
took an opportunity, when he had been calling at the 
house of his employer on business connected with the 
counting-room, to declare his love to the young lady, 
whom he found alone in the drawing-room. You can 
imagine how much she was amused — why don't you 
laugh, Peter? You look as glum as if it were you that 
had met with this disappointment. The young lady told 
him plainly, as soon as she got over her astonishment, 
that she could give him no encouragement whatever. 
Perhaps there might have been in her tone something of 
the aversion which it was natural for her to feel at such 
a proposition from one so much beneath her. If they 
had married, it would have been a second case of Beauty 
and the Beast. Beg pardon, Peter, I believe you said 
something." 
" No ! " snarled Peter, fiercely. " Have yoii got nearly 
through? Your stor}  is nothing to me - -nothing, I say. 
I want to go to bed. You have kept me up too late 
already." 
"I can't help that, Peter. It took me too long to get 
in for me to resign readily the pleasure of your society. 
I say, Peter, what a jolly good fellow you are, — quite 
a lively companion, — only it strikes me you might be 
a little more civil to your company. It isn't exactly 
polite to keep telling one how anxious you are for' him 
to go. 
'' As I was saying, when you interrupted me, Eleanor 
told Peter \rery decidedly that she could not for an instant entertain his suit. He endeavored to change her 
determination, being an ardent, impulsive lover, and 
probably in her impatience she said something which 
irritated her lover, who went off in a rage. After a 
while, however, he was foolish enough to open the subject again. Of course she was extremely annoyed at his 
persistence, and seeing no other way of escaping the persecution, she felt it necessary to acquaint her father with 
what had transpired. The merchant was naturally indignant at his book-keeper's presumption, and calling him 
aside one morning, threatened to discharge him from his 
employment unless he should forthwith desist. This 
was, of course, a great blow to Peter's pride. He had the 
good sense to say nothing, however, but none the less 
determined within himself to be revenged upon those who 
had scorned his advances, as soon as an opportunity 
offered. I don't know as I blame him. Perhaps I should 
have done the same under similar circumstances." 
There was a trace of agitation upon the pale and 
wrinkled countenance of the miser. 
" This it was," continued the stranger, "taken in con- 
nection with Peter's natural cupidity, that led to the 
defalcation I have mentioned. So far as the merchant 
was concerned his revenge was completely successful, for 
he was the means of his ruin and premature death. And 
now, Peter," he added, suddenly changing his tone, 
" can you tell me what induced you to change your name 
from Thornton to Manson ? " 
"Me ! " exclaimed the miser, starting to his feet in 
consternation, and glaring wildly at the speaker. 
" Yes' said the stranger, composedly ; " I repeat the 
question, why did you change your name to Manson?" 
"What — do— you —  mean?" the old man faltered 
slowly. 
" I mean just what I say, and I see you understand 
me well enough." 
" You can't prove it," said Peter, with an uneasy glance 
at his imperturbable companion. 
" Can't I ? Perhaps not. I should say the mysterious 
knowledge you seem to possess of the main incidents in 
my story would prove something." 
" That isn't evidence in a court of law," said Peter, 
regaining a degree of confidence. 
" Perhaps not ; but I say, Peter, don't you recognize 
me?" 
The old man scanned his features eagerly, and a sudden 
look of remembrance satisfied the latter that he was not 
forgotten. 
"I see you do remember me," he said; "I thought 
you hadn't forgotten John Randall. At any rate he 
hasn't forgotten you, though twenty years have passed, 
and I was then but a young man, I used to see you too 
often about the streets of Havana not to remember that 
hooked nose, those gray eyes, and (excuse my plainness 
of speech) that large mouth. Yes, Peter, your features 
are impressed upon my memory too indelibly to be effaced." 
Peter Manson remembered his companion as one who 
had had the reputation of being a " wild " young man. 
He had been placed at school by his father without any 
profitable result. On his father's death he squandered, 
in dissipation, the property which came to him, and had 
since devoted himself to the sea. 
"Having settled this little matter of your identity," 
continued Eandall, " I am ready to finish my story. I 
told you that Eleanor married the young man whose 
name you remembered so well. He was poor, dependent 
upon his salary as a clerk, and thanks to you his wife 
had nothing to hope from her father. They were obliged 
to live in a very humble way. At length, thinking he 
could do better here, he removed to Boston, where his 
early life had been spent.'' 
" To Boston ! " muttered Peter. 
'' The removal took place some six years since. They 
had three children when they first came here, but two 
died, leaving only the second, a boy, named Charlie. I 
should think he might be fourteen years of age. And 
now, would you like to know if the husband is still living ? " 
" Is he? " asked Peter, looking up. 
" No. He died about a year since, of a fever." 
" And— and Eleanor ? What of her ? " 
" For six months past she has been a tenant of yours." 
" A tenant of mine ! " exclaimed the miser. 
" It is even so. She occupies a second-story room in 
the tenement-house in Street." 
 
 
'' And I have met her face to face ? " 
'' I dare say you have. Your tenants are pretty sure 
to have that pleasure once a month. But doesn't it 
seem strange that Eleanor Gray, the beautiful daughter 
of your Havana employer, should after these twenty years 
turn up in Boston the tenant of her father's book-keeper ? " 
'' Ha ! ha ! " chuckled the miser, hoarsel}", " she isn't so 
much better off than if she had married old Peter." 
"As to being better off," said Randall, "I presume 
she is better off, though she can't call a hundred dollars 
her own, than if she were installed mistress of your establishment. Faugh ! Poorly as she is obliged to live, 
it is luxury, compared with your establishment.'' 
He glanced about him. with a look of disgust. 
'' If you don't like it," said Peter, querulously, " there 
is no use of your staying. It is past my bedtime." 
" I shall leave you in a few minutes, Peter, but I want 
to give you something to think of first. Don't you see 
that your property is in danger of slipping from your 
hands?" 
" My property in danger ! " exclaimed Peter, wildly ; 
" what do you mean ; where is the danger? " Then, his 
voice sinking to its usual whine, — " not that I have any 
of any consequence, I am poor — very poor." 
" Only from what I see I could easily believe it, but I 
happen to know better." 
"Indeed, lam " 
" No more twaddle about poverty," said Randall, decidedly, " it won't go down. I am not so easily deceived as you may imagine. I know perfectly well that 
you are worth at the very least, thirty thousand dollars." 
"Thirty thousand dollars ! " exclaimed the miser, raising both hands in astonishment. 
" Yes, Peter, and I don't know but I may say forty 
thousand. Why, it can't be otherwise, with your habits. 
Twenty years ago you made off with twenty thousand, 
which has been accumulating ever since. Your personal 
expenses haven't made very large inroads upon your income, judging from your scarecrow appearance. So 
much the worse for you. You might have got some good 
from it. Now it must go to others." 
" To others !" exclaimed Peter, turning pale. 
" Certainly. You don't think the law gives you what- 
ever you've a mind to steal, do you ? Of course there is 
no doubt that to your tenants, Eleanor and Charlie Cod- 
man, belongs this property which you wrongfully hold." 
" They sha'n't have it. They never shall have it," said 
Peter Manson, hastily. 
" Well, perhaps the law may have something Jto say 
about that." 
"My gold I" groaned the miser. "If I lose that I 
lose everything. It will be my death. Good Mr. Randall, have pity upon me. I am sure you won't say any- 
thing that " 
" Will bring you to state's prison," said Randall,coolly. 
" They — Eleanor and her son — need never know it." 
"Unless I tell them." 
" But you won't." 
" That depends upon circumstances. How much will 
you give me to keep the thing secret? '' 
" What will I givQ you ? " 
"Precisel3  That is what I have been so long in 
coming at. You see, Peter, that the secret is worth 
 
 
something. Either I reveal it to the parties interested, 
in which case I wouldn't give that," snapping his finger, 
" for your chance of retaining the property, or I keep 
silence if you make it worth my while!'' 
i " Pity me," said the miser, abjectly, sinking on his 
knees before Randall ; '' pity me, and spare my gold." . 
" Pity you ! " said Randall, contemptuously. " Why 
. didn't you pity your employer? You must make up your 
mind to pay me my price." 
" I am very poor," whined Peter, in his customary 
phrase, " and I can't pay much. ' 
" O yes, Peter," said the other, sarcastically, " I am 
well aware that you are poor, — wretchedly poor, — and 
I won't be too hard upon you." 
'' Thank you — thank you," said Peter, catching at this 
promise ; " I will give you something — a little " 
" How much? " asked Randall, with some curiosity. 
" Ten dollars ! " said the miser, with the air of a man ' 
who named a large sum. 
"Ten dollars!" returned Randall, with a laugh of 
derision. " Ten dollars to secure the peaceable posses- 
sion of thirty thousand ! Old man, you must be mad, or 
you must think that I am." 
" I — I did not mean to offend," said the old man, 
humbly. "K I double the sum will it satisfy you? I — I 
will try to raise it, though it will be hard — very hard." 
" This is mere trifling, Peter Manson," said his visitor, 
decidedly. "Twenty dollars! Why I wouldn't have 
come across the street to get it. No, j ou will have to 
elevate your ideas considerably." 
" How much do you demand ? " said the miser, groaning internally, and fixing his eyes anxiously upon Randall. 
 
 
" You must not make a fusg when I name the amount." 
" Name it," said Peter, in a choking voice. 
" One thousand dollars will purchase my silence, and 
not a dollar less." 
Peter sprang from his seat in consternation. 
, "One thousand dollars! Surely you are not in 
earnest." 
"But I am, though. This is not a subject -I care to 
jest upon." 
" One thousand dollars ! It will take all I have, and 
leave me a beggar." 
" If it should, Peter," said his visitor, composedly, 
" I will procure you admission to the poor-house, where, 
if I am not much mistaken, you will be better off than 
in this tumble-down old shanty." 
" Has the man no mercy?" groaned Peter, wringing 
his hands. 
 " None at all." 
" Then," exclaimed the miser, in a sudden fit of desperation, " I won't pay you a cent — not a single cent." 
" That is your final determination, is it?" 
" Ye —  yes," muttered Peter, but less firmly. 
" Very well. I will tell you the result. I shall at 
once go to Eleanor, and inform her of the good fortune 
which awaits her. No fear but sh will pay me a thou- 
sand dollars for the intelligence." 
" She has no money." 
" I will furnish her with money for the lawyers — she 
can repay me out of your hoards." 
Peter groaned. 
" Ay, groan away, Peter. You'll have c|iuse enough 
to groan, by and by. There is one thing you don't seem 
 
to consider, that the law will do something more than 
take away your property. I will come to see you in 
jail." 
He rose to leave the room, but Peter called him back 
hastily. " We may come to terms yet," he said. 
" Then you accede to my terms."" 
" I will give you five hundred." 
" Good-night, Peter. I wish you happy dreams." 
" St-stay ! " exclaimed Peter, terrified. " I will give 
eight hundred." 
" I am in something of a hurry," said Randall. " I 
believe I will call on Eleanor. I don't think we can 
make any arrangement." 
'' Hold ! perhaps I will do as you say." 
" Ah ! now you are beginning to be reasonable," said 
Randall, resuming his seat. 
"What security can you give me for your silence?" 
" I'll tell you what I'll do, Peter. You remember I 
told you Eleanor had a son, a boy of fourteen." 
"Yes." 
" His mother is quite devoted to him. Indeed, he 
contributes to her support by selling papers, and by va- 
rious little jobs. Now, as long 'as Eleanor lives here 
you are in danger.'' 
" Yes." 
" And if a blow is levelled at her it must be through 
her boy." 
" I see." 
'' Then I'll tell you of a scheme I have arranged. You 
must first know that I am mate of a vessel now in port, 
which is bound for San Francisco. We are to sail in a 
few days." 
 
"Well?" 
" We happen to be in want of a boy to fill up our reg- 
ular number. Suppose I kidnap Eleanor's boy. Don't 
you see, that as he is her chief support, she will soon be 
in difficulties ? and this, with her uncertainty about her 
boy's fate, may rid you of your greatest peril, and the 
only one of the two who could identify you." 
" Excellent, excellent 1 " chuckled Peter, rubbing his 
hands ; " she shall yet be sorry that she rejected old 
Peter." 
"Ami to understand that you accede to my proposal, then?" 
Not without many groans Peter agreed to deliver the 
sum mentioned between them, on condition that the boy 
was secured. 
It was striking ten when Randall lefb the house. His 
face beamed with exultation. 
" I have done a good night's work," he said. " By 
working on the fears of the old curmudgeon I have made 
sure of a thousand dollars. He will be lucky if this is 
the last money I get out of him. He little thinks that I, 
too, have a revenge to wreak. He is not the only one 
that has been scomfully rejected by Eleanor Codman. 
Now to bed, and to-morrow shall see my work com- 
menced." 
The tenement-honse owned by Peter Manson was a 
three-story wooden building, very much in need of 
paint. It was scarcely likely to be pointed out by any 
one as one of the architectural ornaments of the city. 
Years before it had fallen into Peter's hands at a small 
price, and he had every year since realized from it in 
the way of rent a sum equal to one half the purchase- 
money. No one who has lived in a city can help knowing how much more proportionally the poor are compelled to pay for their scanty and insufficient accommo- 
dations than the rich, or those in moderate circumstances. No class of property is made to pay a larger percentage than the wretched tenement-houses which seem 
adapted to furnish as little accommodation as possible 
to those who are compelled to occupy them. 
The tenement-house . in which Charlie and his mother 
lived was no better than the average. It was the home 
of a large number of persons of various occupations. 
Seamstresses, mechanics, washer-women, and many oth- 
ers found a home under this one roof. 
Mrs. Codman occupied a room on the third floor. As 
we enter the room it is easy to see what a charm can be 
thrown around even the humblest place by the presence 
 
of refinement and good taste. 'A
the room, indeed, were of the cheapest description. 
Probably the furniture did not exceed in cost that of the 
room opposite. Yet there was a considerable difference 
in the appearance of Mrs. Codman's room and that of 
Sally Price, who, if she had ever possessed an organ of 
neatness, had lost it years ago. 
The old-fashioned windows were- washed as clean as 
water could make them, so as to admit all the sunshine 
which could find its way over the tall roof on the opposite side of the street. They were hung with plain chintz 
curtains, separated in the middle and looped on either 
side. The floor was quite clean as far as it. could be 
seen. In the centre was spread a floor-cloth some eight 
feet square, which relieved its bareness. There was a 
small round table near the window, and a small square 
work-table of no very costly material, in another part 
of the room. On this was placed a rose-bush in a flower-pot. It had been given to Charlie by an old gentle- 
man who had taken a fancy to him. In another quarter 
was a home-made lounge, the work of Charlie's hands. 
It had originally been a wooden box, given him by a 
shopkeeper near by. This box had been covered with 
calico stuffed with cotton, so that it made quite a comfortable seat. It was used besides as a wood-box, its 
legitimate province, but when the cover was closed it 
was nevertheless a very respectable article of furniture. 
There were besides a few plain wooden chairs, and a 
small rocking-chair for Mrs. Codman. Opening out of 
the main room was a small bedroom, occupied by the 
mother, while Charlie had a bed made up for him at 
night in the common sitting-room. 
 
 
A few books. — a very few — were piled upon the little table. They were chiefly school-books, — an arithmetic, a geography and an atlas, over which Charlie would 
generally spend a portion of every evening, and occasionally s boy's book, lent him by his friend Edwin 
Bangs, who, together with his brother's, had quite a 
large juvenile library. 
Mrs. Codman is sitting by the window industriously 
engaged in needle-work, and intent on accomplishing a 
certain amount before nightfall. She was past thirty- 
five, yet, in spite of the trials which have left their impress on her brow, she would readily be taken .for five 
years younger; She has drawn her chair to the window 
to make the most of the rapidly fading daylight. As 
with swift fingers she plies the glistening needle, and 
the sun touches her cheek with a beaming glow, we can 
see that not only has she been beautiful, but is still so. 
A hasty step is heard on the stairs, there is a stamp- 
ing at the door, and in rushes a bright, handsome boy, 
with rosy cheeks and dark hair. 
The mother's face lights up with a bright smile as she 
turns to her son, the only one she has left to love. 
" You're a little later than usual, Charlie, are you 
not?" 
" A little, mother. You see I didn't get a job till 
late, and then two came together." 
"What were they?" 
" A gentleman wanted me to take his carpet-bag from 
the Maine depot, and I had to carry it away up to Rut- 
land Street." 
"Did he go with you?" 
" No ; he had to go to his counting-room in State 
Street.'' 
" Was he willing to trust you? Some boys might have 
made off with the carpet-bag, and he would have never 
seen it again." 
" He thought of that, but be said — and I think he's a 
real gentleman — that he knew I was honest by my ap- 
pearance, and he was willing to trust me." 
" Quite complimentary, Charlie. How much did he 
pay you for your trouble ? '' 
"Half a dollar." 
" Then you have done a good deal better than I have. 
I have been working all day, and shall not realize more 
than twenty-five cents for my labor." 
" I wish you didn't have to work at all, mother." 
" Thank you, Charlie ; but I dare say I am happier 
for having something to do. I wish I could get better 
pay for my work. But you haven't told me what the 
other errand was. You said you had two." 
"Yes," said Charlie, " I had just got back from Eutland Street, and had bought two or three evening papers 
which I was going to try to sell, when a man came up to 
me, and after looking at me for a minute or two, asked 
me if I would take a little walk with him. He said he 
" as a stranger in Boston, and didn't know his way about 
much. He asked me if I had lived here long, and what 
my name was. He told me he would pay me if I would 
go around with him, and point out some of the public 
buildings. He told me he would pay me at the rate of 
twenty-five cents an hour for my time. I told him I had 
one or two papers to dispose of. 
 
 
" ' Never mind about them said he, ' I will take them 
off your hands.' 
" ' But they are alike,' said I. 
" ' Never mind,' he answered ; so he paid me the full 
price for two Journals and two Transcripts, and off we 
went." 
" What sort of a person was he? " 
" He was a stout man, over forty, and looked to me 
like a sailor. I shouldn't wonder if he was an officer of 
some ship." 
" Did you like his looks ? " 
" Why," said Charlie; hesitatingly, '> not exactly ; not 
so much as I did of the other gentleman. There was 
something about his eye which I didn't like. Still he 
acted up to his agreement, and paid me all he promised." 
" How fong were you together? " 
" About an hour and a half. We walked round the 
Common and the Public Garden, went into the State 
House and the Public Library. However, he didn't seem 
to care much about them. He seemed to take more 
interest in me, some how, and asked mfi a good many 
questions ; whether I had any parents living, and how 
long I had lived in the city. When I told him you were 
born in Havana, he said he used to live there himself." 
" Indeed ! " said Mrs. Codman. 
" He also told me that he might like to have me go 
round with him again, and told me to call to-morrow at 
the Quincy House, where he is stopping. But, mother, 
isn't it most time for supper? Here, just let me set the 
table, if you are busy." 
" Very well, Charlie ; I shall be gl%d to have you do 
so, as I am in a hurry to finish my sewing. 
 
In the evening Charlie read to his mother while she 
sewed. Neither of them suspected that it was the 
last evening they  would spend together for several 
months. 
 
Lting at one of the wharves was a ship of moderate 
size, evidently fast getting ready for sea. The cargo 
had all been stowed away, and, notwithstanding the 
confusion, it was easy even for a landsman to see that 
the ship was about ready for departure. 
The ship was the Bouncing Betsey, commanded by 
Captain Nathaniel Brace. As to the peculiar name of 
the vessel, I can give no information whether or not 
there was a real bouncing Betsey after whom it was 
named. The probability ho\7ever is, that it was a purely ideal name, the sound and alliterative character of 
which had commended it to the one upon whom rested 
the selection of a name. 
A few words now about Captain Brace, with whom we 
shall become better acquainted by and by. 
He was a short, stout, broad-shouldered man. He 
was no fresh-water captain, but from the age of thirteen 
had been tossing about on the ocean. It is my privilege 
to know many sea captains who do honor to their call- 
ing, high toned, gentlemanly, and intelligeixt meu ; not 
learned in books, but possessing a wide range of general 
information. I am sorry to say that Captain Brace was 
not a man of this class.' He had little education beyond 
 
 
what was required by his profession, and was utterly 
lacking in refinement and courtesy. He was not an 
amiable man, but rough, stormy, exacting, and dictatorial. The crew under his command he looked upon as 
so many machines, whose duty it was to obey him with 
scrupulous exactness, whatever might be the nature of 
his requisitions. When he got into, one of his fits of 
passion, he would stamp and rave, kicking and striking 
this way and that with the most reckless disregard of 
human lives and human feelings. In fact, he was one 
of those pests of the merchant service, an unfeeling tyrant, who did all in his power to degrade the profession 
which he had adopted, and add to the hardships which 
lie in the path of the sailor. 
The employers of Captain Brace were far from being 
aware of the extent to which he carried the severity of 
his discipline ; brutality, indeed, would be the more ap- 
propriate word. They supposed him to be a strict commander  who liked to preserve a proper subordination in 
those under his command, and this they were disposed 
to commend rather than to complain of, more especially 
as the captain was master of his profession, and had usually made quick and profitable voyages. This, as may 
be supposed, was enough to cover a great many defects 
in the eyes of those wtose pecuniary interest he subserved, even if the captain had not been shrewd enough 
to conceal his more disagreeable traits when on shore, 
under an affectation of bluff frankness. 
There was a time when there were many captains in 
the service no better than the one we have just sketched, 
but both in the naval and merchant service there has 
 
 
nndoabtedly been a great improvement within a few 
years. 
Without dwelling further on the personal characteristics of Captain Brace, with whom we shall have abundant opportunity to become acquainted, since we purpose going to sea with him on his approaching voyage, 
we introduce him pacing the deck of his vessel with a 
i&ort black pipe in his mouth, on the very morning he 
intends to sail. 
" Where is Mr. Randall? has he come on board? " he 
inquired, turning to the second mate. 
''No, sir; I havie not seen him this morning," was 
the reply. 
" When he comes on board tell him I wish to see him 
immediately." 
