" Then I shall reach Whitehall just in time for the 
train. But, Lawry, I see that you must have another 
pilot on board." 
" I think I can get along, sir." 
" You will wear yourself out. You have run a 
portion of the last two nights, and this arrangement 
will make the third." 
" I can sleep just as well at Port Rock as at White- 
hall. To-morrow will be Saturday, and my engage- 
ments for Monday and Tuesday are at the upper end 
of the lake, so that I shall have no more night work 
at present. I can stand it well enough." 
"I'm afraid it will be too much for you ; but if 
you have to engage an extra pilot, you must raise 
your price to sixty dollars a day." 
" I think we shall need another engineer at the 
same time. Ethan has just as hard a time of it as 
I do." 
 
" You had better raise your price ; people will not 
object." 
" I was thinking, sir, that Ben would make a good 
pilot. He is a good wheel-man, and it wouldn't 
take him long to learn the courses on the lake." 
Mr. Sherwood shook his head, 
" Would you be willing to trust him with the 
boat ? turn in and go to sleep yourself, while he is 
at the helm ? " asked he. 
" I think I would, after he had learned the navi- 
gation." 
" He is your brother, Lawry, and I don't like to 
say anything to wound you ; but I feel that your 
brother is not a reliable person. You must be very 
prudent. Even a trifling accident, resulting from 
mismanagement, might ruin your business ; for people 
will not expose their lives needlessly. If Ben will 
run the ferry the rest of the year, keep sober, and 
behave well in every respect, you might make a pilot 
of him, or even captain, another season." 
Doubtless this was good advice, and the little cap- 
tain had so much confidence in his friend and bene- 
factor, that he could not help adopting it. Mr. 
 
Sherwood went into the cabin again, without any 
conversation with the subject of his severe but just 
comments. Lawry was on the point of leaving the 
hurricane deck, where he had talked with his adviser, 
when he noticed that the boat was headed toM'ards 
the shore, and in a moment more would be aground 
in the shoal water off Barber's Point. He rushed 
into the wheel-house, and found that Ben had aban- 
doned the helm. Grasping the wheel, the pilot 
brought her up to her course, and then turned to 
his brother. 
" What do you mean, Ben, by leaving the wheel ? " 
demanded Lawry, filled with indignation at his 
brother's treachery. 
" Don't talk to me," growled Ben. 
" The boat would have been aground in a minute 
more." 
" I wish she was." 
" What's the matter, Ben ? " 
" I thought you were my brother; but you are not." 
" I'm sorry to hear you talk so ; and I didn't think 
you would do so mean a thing as to run the boat 
ashore." 
 
" I'll do anything now. I heard what Sherwood 
said to you, and what you said to him. I didn't 
think you would let any man talk about your brother 
as he did. Do you suppose I would let any man talk 
like that about my brother ? I'll bet I wouldn't ! 
I'd knock him over before the words were out of his 
mouth." 
" Why, what did he say, Ben ? " 
" What did he say ! Didn't you hear what he 
said ? Didn't he tell you I was a drunken fellow, 
and couldn't be trusted ? " 
" Well, he certainly did," replied Lawry, moodily. 
" And you heard him ! And you didn't say a 
word ! " said Ben, furiously. 
" What could I say ? I wish it wasn't true." 
" Do you ? " 
Ben looked his brother in the face, while his lips 
curled into a sneer of contempt. 
" What could I say when Mr. Sherwood spoke 
only what I know is true ? " 
" Then you think I'm a drunken fellow, and can't 
be trusted?" demanded Ben, with an injured look. 
" Don't you drink too much sometimes ? " 
" No, I don't ! I drink what I want ; but no one 
ever saw me the worse for liquor. Who says I can't 
be trusted ? " 
" When I gave you the wheel, at your own request, 
you left it, and the boat would have been ashore in 
another minute. Does that look as though you could 
be trusted ? " added Lawry, his indignation rekindled, 
as he thought of the peril to which his beautiful craft 
had been so maliciously exposed. 
" That was because you wouldn't trust me. I was 
mad." 
" One who would expose the lives of twenty or 
thirty persons when he got mad ought not to be 
trusted." 
" Lawry, you are no longer my brother. You and 
your mother, and Sherwood here, have been trying to 
put me down, and make a nobody of me. You can't 
do it. I'm your enemy now. You have made me 
mad, and you must take the consequences. I'll burn 
or smash this boat the first chance I get ! As for 
Sherwood, I'll teach him to talk about me ! " 
The angry young man rushed out of the wheel- 
house. If Mr. Sherwood had heard his insane threats. 
 
he would probably have insisted that he should be 
immediately put on shore ; but Lawry did not think 
his brother capable of the madness of malice his 
speech indicated ; he was in a passion, and when 
he cooled off he would be reasonable again. 
Ben sat down on the forecastle where the pilot 
could see him, and nursed his wrath till the Wood- 
ville arrived at Burlington. He was in deep thought 
all the time, and did not heed the singing or other 
amusements of the party on board, who were enjoy- 
ing themselves to the utmost. Apparently with no 
perception of his own faults and short-comings, he 
regarded himself as a deeply injured young man. 
His mother and his brother had turned against him, 
and M'ere persecuting him to the best of their ability. 
He had come on board to gain his purpose by con- 
ciliation ; he had failed, and, in his own view, there 
was nothing left for him but revenge. 
The boat touched at Burlington, and to the great 
relief of Lawry, his brother followed Mr. Sherwood 
on shore. At three o'clock the Woodville returned 
from Port Kent with the happy excursionists. While 
the steamer lay at the wharf, waiting for Mr. Sher- 
wood, many persons, moved by curiosity to inspect 
the beautiful craft, came aboard ; and whenever she 
stopped, she had plenty of visitors of this description. 
Among them Lawry saw his brother, accompanied 
by two men, who, from the remarks they made, were 
evidently familiar with the machinery and appoint- 
ments of steamers. 
Mr. Sherwood presently appeared attended by a 
bank messenger with the precious coin he had pur- 
chased at 2.44, the telegraphic quotation from New 
York for that day. 
" Where shall I put this gold. Captain Lawry ? " 
asked Mr. Sherwood. 
" I don't know, sir ; I'm really afraid of it," re- 
plied the captain, nervously. " Can't you carry it 
in your pockets ? " 
" It weighs about thirty-seven pounds," laughed 
Mr. Sherwood. " I will lock it up in my state-room. 
I shall sleep on board to-night, and it will be safe 
enough after we leave the wharf, for no one but you 
and me knows there is any specie on board." 
The man of gold went aft with the coin, which 
was contained in two bags. 
 
"I suppose I can go home with you — can't I, 
La wry ? " asked Ben, as the little captain started 
for the wheel-house. 
 Lawry could not refuse this request, though his. 
brother was evidently a little excited by the liquor 
he had drank. He hoped Ben had not heard any
thing about the treasure on board ; for he feared that 
revenge, if not dishonesty, might prompt him to com- 
mit a crime. 
The visitors were warned ashore, and the Wood- 
ville departed for Port Rock, where she arrived at 
about six o'clock. The excursion party went on 
shore, after the usual compliments to the steamer 
and her commander. 
" Now, Lawry, I must go up to the house for my 
valise ; but I will return in an hour," said Mr. Sher- 
wood, whose carriage was waiting for him at the 
head of the wharf. 
" But the gold, sir ? " whispered Lawry, anxiously. 
" You or Ethan may watch the state-room till I 
return, if you please ; but there is no danger here. 
You must turn in at once, Lawry, so as not to lose 
your sleep." 
" I shall be gone four or five days, this time, and 
I must go home after some clean clothes." 
" Very well ; I will get Ethan to keep his eye on 
the state-room," replied Mr. Sherwood ; and Lawry 
ran up to the cottage. 
Ethan, who had ordered the fires to be banked 
in the furnaces, and was letting off the superfluous 
steam, consented to watch the room containing the 
gold. Rounds, the deck hand, and the first fireman 
turned in, that they might be ready for duty at mid- 
night, when the boat would start for Whitehall. 
 
CHAPTER XIX. 
CAPTUKED AND KECAPTUEED. 
Unfortunately for Ben Wilford, he had heard 
Mr. Sherwood inform Lawry of his intentions in 
regard to the purchase and transportation of the 
gold. Before the Woodville reached Burlington, 
the dissolute young man had resolved to obtain the 
money if possible, prompted partly by revenge, and 
partly by the desire to possess so large a sum, with 
which he could revel in luxury in some distant part 
of the country. It must be confessed that this re- 
solve to commit a crime was not simply an impulse, 
for the young man who leads a life of indolence and 
dissipation is never at any great distance from crime. 
Ben had been schooling himself for years for the very 
deed he now determined to do. 
With more energy and decision, Ben was, in other 
respects, the counterpart of his father. His moral 
perceptions were weak, and the dissolute life he led 
had not contributed to strengthen them. He was the 
antipode of Lawry, who had been more willing to 
listen to the teachings of his mother. 
Ben had resolved to commit a crime, but he had 
not the skill or the courage to do it alone. When he 
went on shore at Burlington, he met two of his former 
boon companions, with whom he had often tippled, 
gambled, and caroused. One of them had been a 
fireman, and the other a deck hand, on board a 
steamer with Ben, and he knew them thoroughly. 
By gradual approaches he sounded them, to ascer- 
tain their willingness to join him in the robbery. 
The gold converted into currency would give them 
seven or eight thousand dollars apiece, and the temp- 
tation was sufficiently strong to remove all prudential 
obstacles. 
While the Woodville was absent on her trip to 
Port Kent, the details of the robbery had been set- 
tled. The confederates sat on the corner of the 
wharf and arranged their plans, which were mainly 
suggested by the one who had been a fireman. The 
scheme was to be executed while the boat lay at Port 
 
Rock, and the two men whom Lawry had seen with 
his brother were his associates in the intended crime. 
Ben had concealed them in the fore-hold of the 
steamer. While the excursion party were going on 
shore at the gangway abaft the wheels, and all hands 
had gone aft to witness their departure, Ben had 
called them from their hiding-place, and sent them 
on the wharf, where he soon joined them. From a 
point near the head of the pier, where they were 
not observed, they waited till Mr. Sherwood and 
Lawry had gone, and all was quiet on board of the 
steamer. 
" Now is our time," said Ben, nervously ; for he 
was not familiar enough with crime to be unmoved 
by the desperate situation in which he had placed 
himself. 
" Is the coast clear ? " asked the firemen. 
" Yes," replied Ben, whose teeth actually chattered 
with apprehension. 
" Who is there on board now ? " 
" No one but the engineer and the fireman, except 
two boys," answered Ben. " They were all going to 
turn in as soon as they got to the wharf." 
 
" The firemen are both men, but I reckon they 
won't fight ; all the rest are boys," 
" One fireman and two boys have turned in by 
this time," added Ben. 
" Then there is no one up but the engineer and 
one fireman ? " 
" No." 
" Where is the gold, Ben ? " 
" In the starboard saloon state-room." 
" All right ; have your pistols ready, but don't 
use them, for it will be bad for us if we have to 
kill any one." 
The party walked down to the Woodville. All 
was still on board of her, except the sound of 
escaping steam. Ethan stood sentry at the door of 
the state-room containing the gold, and the man on 
watch in the fiire-room was busy reading a newspaper. 
It was not sunset yet, but the crew of the Woodville 
had been worked so hard for three days, that those 
off duty could sleep without an opiate. 
" Put on that hatch," said the fireman, who became 
the leading spirit of the party, as he pointed to the 
companion-way of the fore-bold, where the hands 
slept. 
 
Ben obeyed the order without making any noise, 
and then the party went aft, where Ethan was 
keeping guard over the treasure. 
" Good evening, Ethan," said Ben, with more 
suavity than he was in the habit of using, 
" Good evening," replied the engineer. 
" Haven't turned in yet ? " continued Ben. 
" No." 
" Going to start at midnight, I hear." 
" Yes." 
" Some friends of mine wanted to look over the 
boat ; I suppose I can show them through." 
" I don't know ; Captain La wry can tell you," 
answered Ethan, who did not like Ben, and was not 
favorably impressed by the appearance of the other 
men. 
Ben walked aft into the saloon, followed by his 
companions. Ethan was sitting in a chair by the 
side of the state-room door. The fireman passed 
round behind, and suddenly fell upon him, throwing 
him on the floor, and pinioning his arms to his back. 
" What are you about ? " cried Ethan, struggling 
to release himself. " Help ! help ! " 
" Stop his mouth ! " said Ben, fearfully. 
Vainly poor Ethan endeavored to shake off his 
assailants ; his arms were tied together hehind him, 
and a handkerchief stuffed into his mouth. In this 
condition he was lashed to a stanchion, so that he 
could move neither hand nor foot. 
The commotion of this outrage attracted the atten- 
tion of Mrs. Light and the two waiter-girls, who were 
employed in the lower cabin. The fireman exhibited 
a pistol to them, drove them below again, and threat- 
ened to shoot them if they made any noise. A 
similar demonstration quieted the fireman, and com- 
pelled him to return to the fire-room. 
" The job is done," said Baker, the leader of the 
enterprise. 
" But we haven't got the money," added Flint, 
the deck hand. 
" We don't want that yet. It is safe where it is. 
Now both of you to your stations," continued Baker ; 
and he went down into the fire-room. 
Ben's station was in the wheel-house, Flint's at the 
fasts, and Baker's at the engine, as it appeared from 
their subsequent movements ; and it was evident, from 
 
the operations in progress, that the villains intended 
to make their escape in the steamer. Baker stopped 
the hissing steam which was going to waste, and 
compelled the fireman to renew the fires. 
" Be lively ! " shouted Ben, from the wheel-house, 
as he discovered Lawry on the shore, hastening back 
to the steamer with his bundle of clothes. 
" All ready ! " replied Baker, finding there was 
steam enough to start the boat. 
Flint had already cast ofi" the fasts, without waiting 
for orders, and was standing on the forecastle, as 
impatient to be off as a man can be who is engaged 
in the commission of a crime. 
Ben rang the bell to back her ; the wheels turned, 
but as the stern line had been cast ofi", her bow was 
not carried out from the wharf. By this time Lawry 
had discovered that the Woodville was in motion. 
He was astonished and alarmed, though he was far 
from surmising that his boat had been captured by 
robbers. Running with all his speed, he reached the 
head of the vharf just as the boat had backed far 
enough to permit Ben to see him, and for him 
to see that Ben was at the wheel. Then he 
realized that his brother was engaged in another 
conspiracy. 
Notwithstanding his extensive knowledge of 
" steamboating " in general, Ben Wilford was a 
very unskilful pilot. If he had understood the man- 
agement of a boat half as well as Lawry, the nefa- 
rious scheme might have been successful. He saw 
his brother ; he did not wish to have him come on 
board, for Lawry might be so obstinate as to induce 
one of his dissolute companions to fire at him. He 
rang the bell to stop her, and then to go ahead, at 
the same time putting the helm hard a-port. 
The Woodville went forward, and as she met the 
helm her bow came round, and she was headed out 
into the middle of the lake. As she went ahead, 
her stern swept in a circle within a few feet of the 
wharf, just as Lawry, breathless with haste and alarm, 
reached the end of the pier. The little captain knew 
nothing of the state of things on board, except that 
his brother Ben was at the wheel, which, however, 
was a sufficient explanation to him. The Woodville 
was going, and he could not let her depart without 
him. Dropping his bundle, he leaped to the plank- 
 
shear, grasping the rail with both hands. Jumping 
over the bulwark, he stood on the guard from which 
opened the windows of the saloon. 
Neither of the three conspirators were in a sit- 
uation to see this movement on the part of Lawry. 
Ben was too much occupied in steering — for he was 
not a little fearful of getting aground in some shoal 
water between the ferry and the wharf — to notice 
anything ; but as soon as he had obtained his course, 
he looked for his brother on the pier. He was not 
there ; but Ben did not suspect that he was on 
board the Woodville. Baker, who knew just enough 
about an engine to stop and start it, was working 
the valves with the bar ; and he could think of 
nothing else. Doubtless he was conscious by this 
time that he had " taken a big job," in assuming 
the control of the engine. 
Lawry was bewildered by the situation. When 
his feet struck the deck, his first impulse was to 
rush up to the wheel-house, and confront the diffi- 
culty as the case might require. He started to carry 
out his purpose, when he happened to look through 
one of the saloon windows, and discovered Ethan, 
 
with the handkerchief in his mouth, tied to the 
stanchion. Deeply as he sympathized with his friend 
in his unpleasant position, he was still cheered by 
the sight, for it assured him that the engineer had 
been faithful to his duties, and was not a party to 
the conspiracy. 
The little captain went round and entered the 
saloon by the door, without being seen by either 
of the conspirators. He removed the gag from 
Ethan's mouth, and proceeded to unfasten the cords 
with which he was bound. 
" What does all this mean, Ethan ? " demanded 
Lawry, in excited tones, and almost crying with 
vexation. 
" Hush ! Do they know you are here ? " asked 
the engineer. 
" I think not ; I don't know." 
" Keep still, then. They are after the gold." 
" Who are they ? " 
" Ben and two other fellows. I don't know 
them." 
" We'll stop this thing very quick," said Lawry, 
in hurried tones. 
 
" They are armed with pistols, and threatened to 
shoot all hands. Be careful, Lawry, or you will 
get a bullet through your head." 
" What shall we do ? " demanded the young pilot, 
who had no desire to be shot. 
Ethan was an accomplished strategist ; he had 
fought the Indians both with his wits and his weap- 
ons, and he promptly undertook the management 
of the affair. He led the way to the lower cabin, 
where the terrified women had been driven by 
the ruffians. Mrs. Light declared she was fright- 
ened out of her senses, and she " never did hear 
of such goings on." 
" If any of those men ask for me, tell them I 
got loose, jumped overboard, and swam ashore," 
said Ethan. 
" Law sake ! " exclaimed the cook. 
" Don't tell them I am here, at any rate." 
" I won't. Massy sake ! What on airth are we 
comin' to ? " 
" Don't be alarmed ; we will take care of these 
villains before we have done with them," added 
Ethan. 
 
 
" Hush ! There's some one coming," said one of 
the girls ; and the heavy tread of a man was heard 
on the deck above them. 
Ethan and Lawry had only time to crawl into 
one of the berths, where Mrs. Light covered them 
with bed-clothes, before Flint came down into the 
cabin. 
" See here ; we haven't been to supper, and we 
want some," said the ruffian, as he descended the 
steps. 
" What are you goin' to do with us ? " demanded 
Mrs. Light. 
" Don't be scart ; we won't hurt you," replied 
Flint. 
" But where you goin' ? " 
" Up to Whitehall. When we get there, you can 
go where you please. Now, get us some supper ; 
the best there is on board — beefsteak and coffee." 
" Well, I suppose I can get you some supper ; 
but I don't like such carryin's on," replied Mrs. 
Light. 
Flint left the cabin, after he had given his order. 
On his way forward he looked into the saloon, and 
 
discovered that their prisoner was missing. Search 
was immediately instituted ; but Mrs. Light, as in- 
structed by Ethan, declared that he had got loose, 
and swam ashore ; she had seen him through the 
stern lights. The rascals finally accepted this ex- 
planation, after searching on deck for him. 
Mrs. Light went to the kitchen to get supper for 
the rogues, while the girls set the table. The cook 
presently returned to the cabin, and told Ethan 
where each of the robbers was stationed ; but being 
unarmed, there seemed to be no way of making an 
attack upon them where the ruffians could not rally 
to the support of each other. 
" We must settle this business down here, Lawry," 
said Ethan, when they had come out of their hiding- 
places. 
" They will have to come to supper one at a 
time," added the little captain. 
" Exactly so ; and this will be the safest place 
to do the job. We want a rope," added the en- 
gineer, with a business-like air. 
" I'll fetch you a rope," said Mrs. Light. 
" Do ; bring me the small heave-line, on the 
guard by the saloon doors." 
The cook went on deck, and after a visit to the 
kitchen, returned to the cabin with the line indi- 
cated under her apron. In about half an hour sup- 
per was ready for the villains, and one of the girls 
informed Baker, who was still on duty in the engine- 
room, that it was waiting for them. The engineer 
called Flint, and told him, as the boat was out in 
the middle of the lake, the engine would need noth- 
ing done to it, and directed him to stand at the 
door, so that the fireman below should not attempt 
to defeat their plans. He then went to the cabin 
for his supper. 
Ethan and Lawry had concealed themselves be- 
hind the curtains of a tier of berths, directly in the 
rear of the chair where Baker was to sit at the 
table. In his hand Ethan held the heave-line, at 
one end of which Lawry had made a hangman's 
noose. Mrs. Light and the girls had been instructed 
to rattle the chairs, make as much noise as they 
could, and otherwise engage the attention of the 
robber, as soon as he sat down to the table. 
Baker came down the stairs, and one of the girls 
began to rattle the chairs, Mrs. Light to move a 
 
pile of plates, and the other girl to arrange the 
dishes on the table. 
" Will you have some coffee ? " demanded Mrs. 
Light, without giving him time to notice anything 
in the cabin. 
" Of course I will," growled Baker. 
" Shall I give you some beefsteak ? " asked one- 
of the girls. 
." I'll help myself." 
" If you want some fried eggs I'll get some for 
you," added the cook, rattling the dishes again. 
Baker was not permitted to say whether he would 
have any fried eggs or not, for at that moment 
Ethan crept from his concealment, whatever noise 
lie made being drowned by the clatter of the dishes 
and the rattling of the chairs. Stealing up behind 
Baker, who was intent only on beefsteak and coffee, 
he slipped the hangman's noose over his head, and 
hauled it tight. The robber attempted to spring to 
his feet, but Ethan hauled him over backwards on the 
floor. At the same time Lawry tlirew the end of 
the line over a deck beam, extended across the sky- 
light, and began to " haul in the slack." 
 
The villain attempted to cry out ; but the sound 
only gurgled in his throat. He grasped the rope 
with both hands ; but the choking already received 
had taken away his strength, and he was unable to 
taake any successful resistance. While Lawry kept 
the rope so taut that Baker could not move, Ethan 
tied his hands behind him, though the man's strug- 
gles were fierce, and the engineer was obliged to 
Use a rolling-pin, supplied by Mrs. Light, before 
the conquest was complete. The rufEan was se- 
curely bound and gagged ; but the cook and the 
girls had nearly fainted while the struggle was go- 
ing on. 
Baker, thus gagged and bound, was rolled into 
one of the lower berths. He had been nearly 
choked to death by the rope, and several hard 
knocks he had received on the head had rendered 
him partially insensible, so that he was not in con- 
dition to make any further resistance. Ethan had 
taken possession of his pistol, and, as a matter of 
precaution, threatened to blow out his brains if he 
made any noise. , 
" Massy sake ! " groaned Mrs. Light, when the 
 
work was accomplished. " I never did see ! You've 
taken my breath all away ! " 
" Don't make a noise," said Ethan. 
" I couldn't have struck that man as you did,'! 
added Lawry. 
" If you had been through what I have, out west, 
it would come easier to you," replied the engineer, 
glancing at the berth where the prisoner had been 
concealed by the curtains. " We must go through 
the whole of it once more." 
One of the girls was then sent to call Flint, and 
directed to assure him that such was the order of 
Baker, who had gone to the wheel-house for a mo- 
ment, and would immediately return to the engine- 
room. The deck hand was too much in a hurry for 
his supper to question the order, and went directly 
to the cabin. The noise made by Mrs. Light and 
the girls prevented him from hearing the heavy 
breathings of Baker, and he was an easier victim 
than his companion in crime had been. He was 
choked, gagged, bound, and his pistol taken from 
him. By this time these two ruffians, if they could 
think at all, could not help believing that the way 
of the transgressor is hard. 
 
From regard to the feelings of Lawry, Ethan de- 
cided that Ben should not be subjected to this harsh 
treatment. He was still in the wheel-house, not sus- 
pecting that his nefarious scheme had been wholly 
defeated. 
The work was accomplished, and the pilot and 
engineer went on deck. Ethan repaired to his post 
and stopped the engine. Ben half a dozen times 
demanded, through the speaking-tube, what the mat- 
ter was ; but receiving no answer, he came down 
himself to ascertain the cause of the sudden stoppage 
of the boat. 
 
CHAPTER XX. 
THE LITTLE CAPTAIN AND HIS MOTTO. 
As Ben Wilford, fearful tliat some accident to the 
machinery would defeat his criminal enterprise, en- 
tered the engine-room on one side, Laivry left it at 
the other. As the little captain went forward, he 
heard a noise in the forecastle, and saw that the 
companion-way was closed and fastened. Releasing 
the firemen and deck hands confined there, he di- 
rected them to follow him to the Mheel-house, where 
he explained to them what had happened. 
" What are you stopping for ? " demanded Ben 
Wilford, before he discovered that Baker was not 
present. 
" I think it is about time to go back, now," 
replied Ethan, holding one of the pistols in his 
hand. 
" How came you here, Ethan ? " exclaimed Ben, 
starting back with astonishment when he saw who 
was in charge of the engine. 
" I run this machine, and this is the right place for 
me," replied Ethan, coolly. 
" Where's Baker ? " 
"He's safe; if you mean the man you left in 
charge of the engine." 
Ben was bewildered by the present aspect of af- 
fairs. It was clear that there had been a miscarriage 
somewhere ; but he was unable to tell how or where 
the scheme had failed. Before he could decide what 
step to take next. Captain Lawry rang the bell to go 
ahead. 
" Who rang the bell ? " asked Ben. , 
" Captain Lawry." 
" Is he on board ? " 
" He is," replied Ethan, as he started the engine. 
" Ben Wilford, you have got about to the end of your 
rope." 
"What do you mean?" 
" You have done a job which will send you to Sing 
Sing for the next ten years." 
"No, I haven't," said Ben, backing out of the 
engine-room. 
 
" Stop where you are," interposed Ethan, peremp- 
torily, as he raised his pistol. 
" Two can play at that game," added Ben. 
" Two can ; but two won't. Drop your hands, or 
I'll fire ! " 
Ben obeyed ; he had felt that the game was up 
the moment he saw Ethan at his post, and he had 
not the courage to draw his pistol upon one who had 
shot two Indians in one day. 
" Sit down there," continued Ethan, pointing to 
the bench in the engine-room, and the culprit took 
his seat with fear and trembling. 
" What shall I do ? " groaned the wretched young 
man, as he thought of the consequence of his crime. 
"Jump overboard and drown yourself. That would 
save your friends a great deal of trouble," replied 
Ethan. " Give up your pistol ! " 
Ben gave it up, and began to plead with Ethan to 
let him escape, declaring that it would kill his moth- 
er, and Lawry never would get over it, if he was 
sent to the penitentiary. Though the engineer dread- 
ed the day when his friend would be compelled to 
testify in court against his own brother, he would 
not yield to the culprit's entreaties, and did not 
intend that he should escape the penalty of his 
crime. 
When the Woodville reached her wharf, having 
been absent but little more than an hour, Mr. Sher- 
wood and the ladies were on the wharf. While Ethan 
was working the engine with the bar, Ben slipped 
out of the room. The engineer saw him, and gave 
the alarm ; but he could not leave his post at that 
moment. As soon as the boat was moored, search 
was made; but Ben could not be found. He cer- 
tainly was not on board. 
Mr. Sherwood was astonished when he was told 
what had occurred. He sent his coachman after the 
sheriff at once, and directed that the search for Ben 
Wilford should be renewed. The state-room was 
found locked, as he had left it, and the gold undis- 
turbed. Mrs. Light and the girls, the firemen and 
the deck hands, had their own stories to tell, to all 
of which Mr. Sherwood listened very patiently. 
" You have done well, Lawry," said he. " You 
have saved my gold." 
