for one who has not spent days and weeks on the broad expanse of waters,
can form only an inadequate idea of the companionship which those in one
ship feel for those in another, even while they are miles apart. Though
the crew of the Young America had been shut out from society only about
three days, they had already begun to realize this craving for
association--this desire to see other people and be conscious of their
existence.
After the severe gale through which they had just passed, this sentiment
was stronger than it would have been under other circumstances. The
ocean had been lashed into unwonted fury by the mad winds. A fierce gale
had been raging for full twenty-four hours, and the tempest was
suggestive of what the sailor dreads most--shipwreck, with its long
train of disaster--suffering, privation, and death. It was hardly
possible that such a terrible storm had swept the sea without carrying
down some vessels with precious freights of human life.
The Young America had safely ridden out the gale, for all that human art
could do to make her safe and strong had been done without regard to
expense. No niggardly owners had built her of poor and insufficient
material, or sent her to sea weakly manned and with incompetent
officers. The ship was heavily manned; eighteen or twenty men would have
been deemed a sufficient crew to work her; and though her force
consisted of boys, they would average more than two thirds of the muscle
and skill of able-bodied seamen.
There were other ships abroad on the vast ocean, which could not compare
with her in strength and appointments, and which had not one third of
her working power on board. No ship can absolutely defy the elements,
and there is no such thing as absolute safety in a voyage across the
ocean; but there is far less peril than people who have had no
experience generally suppose. The Cunard steamers have been running more
than a quarter of a century, with the loss of only one ship, and no
lives in that one--a triumphant result achieved by strong ships, with
competent men to manage them. Poorly built ships, short manned, with
officers unfit for their positions, constitute the harvest of
destruction on the ocean.
Mr. Lowington believed that the students of the Academy Ship would be as
safe on board the Young America as they would on shore. He had taken a
great deal of pains to demonstrate his theory to parents, and though he
often failed, he often succeeded. The Young America had just passed
through one of the severest gales of the year, and in cruising for the
next three years, she would hardly encounter a more terrific storm. She
had safely weathered it; the boys had behaved splendidly, and not one of
them had been lost, or even injured, by the trying exposure. The
principal's theory was thus far vindicated.
The starboard watch piped to breakfast, when the sail was discovered,
too far off to make her out. The boys all manifested a deep interest in
the distant wanderer on the tempestuous sea, mingled with a desire to
know how the stranger had weathered the gale. Many of them went up the
shrouds into the tops, and the spy-glasses were in great demand.
"Do you make her out, Captain Gordon?" asked Mr. Fluxion, as he came up
from his breakfast, and discovered the commander watching the stranger
through the glass.
"Yes, sir; I can just make her out now. Her foremast and mainmast have
gone by the board, and she has the ensign, union down, hoisted at her
mizzen," replied the captain, with no little excitement in his manner.
"Indeed!" exclaimed the teacher of mathematics, as he took the glass.
"You are right, Captain Gordon, and you had better keep her away."
"Shall I speak to Mr. Lowington first, sir?" asked the captain.
"I think there is no need of it in the present instance. There can be
no doubt what he will do when a ship is in distress."
"Mr. Kendall, keep her away two points," said the captain to the officer
of the deck. "What is the ship's course now?"
"East-south-east, sir," replied the second lieutenant, who had the deck.
"Make it south-east."
"South-east, sir," repeated Kendall. "Quartermaster keep her away two
points," he added to the petty officer conning the wheel.
"Two points, sir," said Bennington, the quartermaster
"Make the course south-east."
"South-east, sir."
After all these repetitions it was not likely that any mistake would
occur; and the discipline of the ship required every officer and seaman
who received a material order, especially in regard to the helm or the
course, to repeat it, and thus make sure that it was not misunderstood.
It was Sunday; and no study was required, or work performed, except the
necessary ship's duty. Morning prayers had been said, as usual, and
there was to be divine service in the steerage, forenoon and afternoon,
for all who could possibly attend; and this rule excepted none but the
watch on deck. By this system, the quarter watch on duty in the
forenoon, attended in the afternoon; those who were absent at morning
prayers were always present at the evening devotions; and blow high or
blow low, the brief matin and vesper service were never omitted, for
young men in the midst of the sublimity and the terrors of the ocean
could least afford to be without the daily thought of God, "who plants
his footsteps in the sea, and rides upon the storm."
Every man and boy in the ship was watching the speck on the watery
waste, which the glass had revealed to be a dismasted, and perhaps
sinking ship. The incident created an intense interest, and was
calculated to bring out the finer feelings of the students. They were
full of sympathy for her people, and the cultivation of noble and
unselfish sentiments, which the occasion had already called forth, and
was likely to call forth in a still greater degree, was worth the voyage
over the ocean; for there are impressions to be awakened by such a scene
which can be garnered in no other field.
CHAPTER XVI.
THE WRECK OF THE SYLVIA.
The people in the dismasted ship had discovered the Young America, as it
appeared from the efforts they were using to attract her attention. The
booming of a gun was occasionally heard from her, but she was yet too
far off to be distinctly seen.
On the forecastle of the Academy Ship were two brass guns,
four-pounders, intended solely for use in making signals. They had never
been fired, even on the Fourth of July, for Mr. Lowington would not
encourage their use among the boys. On the present occasion he ordered
Peaks, the boatswain, to fire twice, to assure the ship in distress that
her signals were heard.
The top-gallant sails were set, and the speed of the ship increased as
much as possible; but the heavy sea was not favorable to rapid progress
through the water. At four bells, when all hands but the second part of
the port watch were piped to attend divine service in the steerage, the
Young America was about four miles distant from the dismasted vessel.
She was rolling and pitching heavily, and not making more than two or
three knots an hour.
Notwithstanding the impatience of the crew, and their desire to be on
deck, where they could see the wreck, the service on that Sunday
forenoon was especially impressive. Mr. Agneau prayed earnestly for
those who were suffering by the perils of the sea, and that those who
should draw near unto them in the hour of their danger, might be filled
with the love of God and of man, which would inspire them to be faithful
to the duties of the occasion.
When the service was ended the students went on deck again. The wreck
could now be distinctly seen. It was a ship of five or six hundred tons,
rolling helplessly in the trough of the sea. She was apparently
water-logged, if not just ready to go down. As the Young America
approached her, her people were seen to be laboring at the pumps, and to
be baling her out with buckets. It was evident from the appearance of
the wreck, that it had been kept afloat only by the severest exertion on
the part of the crew.
"Mr. Peaks, you will see that the boats are in order for use," said Mr.
Lowington. "We shall lower the barge and the gig."
"The barge and the gig, sir," replied the boatswain.
"Captain Gordon," continued the principal, "two of your best officers
must be detailed for the boats."
"I will send Mr. Kendall in the barge, sir."
"Very well; he is entirely reliable. Whom will you send in the gig?"
"I am sorry Shuffles is not an officer now, for he was one of the best
we had for such service," added the captain.
"Shuffles is out of the question," replied Mr. Lowington.
"Mr. Haven, then, in the gig."
"The sea is very heavy, and the boats must be handled with skill and
prudence."
"The crews have been practised in heavy seas, though in nothing like
this."
The barge and the gig--called so by courtesy--were the two largest boats
belonging to the ship, and pulled eight oars each. They were light and
strong, and had been built with especial reference to the use for which
they were intended. They were life-boats, and before the ship sailed,
they had been rigged with life-lines and floats. If they were upset in a
heavy sea, the crews could save themselves by clinging to the rope,
buoyed up by the floats.
The Young America stood up towards the wreck, intending to pass under
her stern as near as it was prudent to lay, the head of the dismasted
ship being to the north-west.
"Boatswain, pipe all hands to muster," said the captain, prompted by Mr.
Lowington, as the ship approached the wreck.
"All hands on deck, ahoy!" shouted the boatswain, piping the call.
The first lieutenant took the trumpet from the officer of the deck, and
the crew, all of whom were on deck when the call was sounded, sprang to
their muster stations.
"All hands, take in courses," said the executive officer; and those who
were stationed at the tacks and sheets, clew-garnets and buntlines,
prepared to do their duty when the boatswain piped the call.
"Man the fore and main clew-garnets and buntlines!" shouted the first
lieutenant. "Stand by tacks and sheets!"
The fore and main sail, being the lowest square sails, are called the
courses. There is no corresponding sail on the mizzenmast. The ropes by
which the lower corners of these sails are hauled up for furling are the
clew-garnets--the same that are designated clewlines on the topsails.
The tacks and sheets are the ropes by which the courses are hauled down,
and kept in place, the tack being on the windward side, and the sheet on
the leeward.
"All ready, sir," reported the lieutenants forward.
"Haul taut! Let go tacks and sheets! Haul up!"
These orders being promptly obeyed, the courses were hauled up, and the
ship was under topsails and top-gallant sails, jib, flying-jib, and
spanker.
"Ship, ahoy!" shouted the first lieutenant through his trumpet, as the
Young America rolled slowly along under the stern of the wreck.
"Ship, ahoy!" replied a voice from the deck of the wreck. "We are in a
sinking condition! Will you take us off?"
"Ay, ay!" cried Haven, with right good will.
"You will heave to the ship, Mr. Haven," said the captain, when she had
passed a short distance beyond the wreck.
"Man the jib and flying-jib halyards and down-hauls," said the first
lieutenant.
"All ready forward, sir," replied the second lieutenant, on the
forecastle.
"Stand by the maintop bowline! Cast off! Man the main braces!"
"Let go the jib and flying-jib halyards! Haul down!" And the jibs were
taken in.
"Slack off the lee braces! Haul on the weather braces!"
The main-topsail and top-gallant were thus thrown aback, and the Young
America was hove to, in order to enable her people to perform their
humane mission.
"Stand by to lower the barge and gig!" continued Haven.
"Mr. Haven, you will board the wreck in the gig," said Captain Gordon.
"Yes, sir," replied he, touching his cap, and handing the trumpet to the
second lieutenant.
"Mr. Kendall, you will take charge of the barge," added the captain.
"The barge, sir," answered Kendall, passing the trumpet to Goodwin, the
third lieutenant, who, during the absence of his superiors, was to
discharge the duty of the executive officer.
The boats were cleared away, and every preparation made for lowering
them into the water. This was a difficult and dangerous manoeuvre in the
heavy sea which was running at the time. The professors' barge, which
was secured at the davits on the weather side of the ship, was to be
lowered with her crew on board, and they took their places on the
thwarts, with their hands to the oars in readiness for action. The
principal had requested Mr. Fluxion to go in the barge and Mr. Peaks in
the gig, not to command the boats, but to give the officers such
suggestions as the emergency of the occasion might require.
"All ready, sir," reported Ward, the coxswain of the barge, when the
oarsmen were in their places.
"Stand by the after tackle, Ward," said Haven. "Bowman, attend to the
fore tackle."
At a favorable moment, when a great wave was sinking down by the ship's
side, the order was given to lower away, and in an instant the barge
struck the water. Ward cast off the after tackle, and the bowman did the
same with the forward tackle. At the moment the order to lower was
given, as the wave sank down, the ship rolled to windward, and the boat
struck the water some eight feet from the vessel's side.
"Up oars!" said the coxswain, with energy.
"Lively, Ward," added the first lieutenant.
"Let fall!" continued the coxswain, as a billow lifted the boat, so that
those on board could see the ship's deck. "Give way together!"
The barge, tossed like a feather on the high seas, gathered headway, and
moved off towards the wreck.
The lowering of the barge had been so successful that the same method
was adopted with the gig; but as she was under the lee of the ship,
there was less difficulty in getting her off. She pulled round the
ship's bow, and having made less stern way in starting both boats came
up under the counter of the wreck at about the same time. When the barge
and gig reached the ship, a line was thrown to each of them over the
quarter, which the bowman caught, and made fast to the ring.
"Where is the captain of the ship?" demanded Mr. Haven.
"Here," shouted that officer.
"How many have you aboard?"
"Eighteen!"
"You must slide down on a rope over the stern; we can't go alongside,"
continued the first lieutenant.
"Ay, ay, sir!" responded the captain of the ship. "I have two women and
two children on board."
"You must lower them in slings," added Haven, prompted by Mr. Fluxion.
The people on board the wreck went to work, and one of the women was
lowered into each boat at the same time. A long loop was made in the end
of the rope, and the woman sat down in the bight of it, holding on to
the line with her hands. At a moment when the sea favored the movement,
the boats were hauled up close to the ship's stern, the passenger caught
by two of the crew, and hauled on board. A boy and a girl were let down
in the same manner. The captain, mates, and seamen came down the rope
hand over hand.
Each boat now had nine passengers, who were stowed in the stern sheets
and on the bottom. The ropes from the ship were cast off, and the
oarsmen were ordered to give way. The barge and the gig rose and fell,
now leaping up on the huge billows, and then plunging down deep into the
trough of the sea; but they had been well trimmed, and though the comb
of the sea occasionally broke into them, drenching the boys with spray,
the return to the Young America was safely effected.
"How happens it that you are all boys?" asked the captain of the wrecked
ship, who was in Paul Kendall's boat.
"That's the Academy Ship," replied the second lieutenant.
"The what?" exclaimed the captain.
"It is the Young America. She is a school ship."
"O, ay!"
There was no disposition to talk much in the boats. The officers and
crews were fully employed in keeping the barge and gig right side up in
the tremendous sea, and though all hands were filled with curiosity to
know the particulars of the wreck, all questions were wisely deferred
until they were on the deck of the ship.
When the gig came up under the counter of the Young America, a line was
thrown down to the bowman who made it fast to the ring. The passengers
were then taken aboard in slings rigged on the spanker-boom, which was
swung over the lee quarter for the purpose. Part of the boat's crew were
taken on board in the same way, and then the gig was hoisted up to the
davits with the rest in her.
Before the barge was allowed to come up under the counter, the officer
of the deck wore ship, so as to bring the port quarter, on which the
boat was to be suspended, on the lee side. Her passengers were taken on
deck as those from the gig had been, and she was hoisted up.
"Mr. Kendall, I congratulate you upon the success of your labors," said
Mr. Lowington, when the second lieutenant reached the deck. "You have
handled your boat exceedingly well, and you deserve a great deal of
credit."
"That's a fact, sir," added Boatswain Peaks, touching his cap. "I hardly
spoke a word to him, and I've seen many a boat worse handled in a sea."
Paul blushed at the praise bestowed upon him, but he was proud and happy
to have done his duty faithfully on this important occasion. The same
commendation was given to the first lieutenant, after the barge had been
hauled up to the davits, and the order given for the ship to fill away
again.
The women and children were conducted to the professors' cabin as soon
as they came on board, and the seamen were taken into the steerage. All
of them were exhausted by the anxiety and the hardships they had
endured, and as soon as their safety was insured, they sank almost
helpless under the pressure of their physical weakness.
"This is a school ship, I'm told," said Captain Greely, the master of
the shipwrecked vessel, who had also been invited to the main cabin.
"Yes, sir; we call it the Academy Ship, and we have eighty-seven young
gentlemen on board," replied Mr. Lowington.
"They are smart boys, sir. I never saw boats better handled than those
which brought us off from the ship," added Captain Greely, warmly.
"Your voyage has come to an unfortunate conclusion," said Mr. Lowington.
"Yes, sir; I have lost my ship, but I thank God my wife and children are
safe," answered the weather-beaten seaman, as he glanced at one of the
women while the great tears flowed down his sun-browned cheeks.
"Poor children!" sighed Mr. Agneau, as he patted the little girl on the
head; and his own eyes were dim with the tears he shed for others' woes.
Captain Greely told his story very briefly. His ship was the Sylvia,
thirty days out of Liverpool, bound to New York. She had encountered a
heavy gale a week before, in which she had badly sprung her mainmast.
Finding it impossible to lay her to under the foresail, they had been
compelled to set the main-topsail, reefed; but even this was too much
for the weak mast, and it had gone by the board, carrying the second
mate and five men with it. The Sylvia was old, and the captain
acknowledged that she was hardly sea-worthy. She became unmanageable,
and the foremast had been cut away to ease off the strain upon her. Her
seams opened, and she was making more water than could be controlled
with the pumps. For eighteen hours, all hands, even including the two
women, had labored incessantly at the pumps and the buckets, to keep the
ship afloat. They were utterly worn out when they discovered the Young
America, were on the point of abandoning their efforts in despair, and
taking to the boats, in which most of them would probably have perished.
After the boats started from the Young America, Mr. Lowington had
ordered the cooks to prepare a meal for the people from the wreck; and
as soon as they came on board, coffee and tea, beefsteaks, fried
potatoes, and hot biscuit were in readiness for them. Tables were spread
in the main cabin and in the steerage, and the exhausted guests,
providentially sent to this bountiful board, were cordially invited to
partake. They had eaten nothing but hard bread since the gale came on,
and they were in condition to appreciate the substantial fare set before
them.
By the forethought of Captain Greely, the clothing of the women and
children had been thrown into one of the boats. The bundle was opened,
and its contents dried at the galley fire. The doctor and the chaplain
gave up their state room to the captain, his wife and children, while
Mr. Lowington extended a similar courtesy to the other woman, who was
Mrs. Greely's sister. Mr. Fluxion was the first to offer his berth to
the mate of the Sylvia, which was reluctantly accepted; and all the
professors were zealous to sacrifice their own comfort to the wants of
the wrecked visitors.
In the steerage, every boy, without an exception, wanted to give up his
berth to one of the seamen from the Sylvia; but the privilege was
claimed by the adult forward officers, the cooks, and stewards. The
principal was finally obliged to decide between them: and for obvious
reasons, he directed that the guests should occupy the quarters of the
men, rather than of the boys. The people from the Sylvia needed rest and
nourishment more than anything else. They were warmed, and fed, and
dried, and then permitted to sleep off the fatigues of their severe
exertion.
At three o'clock, though they had slept but an hour or two, most of the
shipwrecked people appeared at divine service, for this was a privilege
which they had long been denied, and it would be strange, at such a
time, if the hearts of those who had been saved from the angry flood
were not overflowing with gratitude to God for his mercy to them. Mr.
Agneau, whose sensitive nature had been keenly touched by the events of
the day, made a proper use of the occasion, delivering a very effective
address to the students and to the shipwrecked voyagers, who formed his
little congregation.
The next morning the wind came up fresh and warm from the southward,
knocking down the heavy sea, and giving a delightful day to those on
board the ship. The passengers appeared on deck, and were greatly
interested in the Young America and her juvenile crew. Captain Greely's
son and daughter were little lions, of the first class, among the boys.
All hands vied with each other in their efforts to do something for the
guests of the ship, and it really seemed as though the era of good
feeling had dawned upon them. Even Shuffles and Pelham forgot, for a
time, the interests of the Chain League, and joined with others in
petting the children of the wreck, and in laboring for the happiness of
the involuntary guests.
On this day, observations for latitude and longitude were obtained, and
at noon the ship was found to be in latitude 42째, 37', 5" N.; longitude
64째, 39', 52" W. The position of the ship was marked on the chart by the
masters, in council assembled, and the calculations made for the course.
Bowditch's Navigator, an indispensable work to the seaman, was consulted
frequently both for the rules and the nautical tables it contains. The
course, after allowing for the variation of the compass, was found to
be north-east by east, which, agreeing with the calculations of Mr.
Fluxion, was given out to the quartermaster conning the wheel.
The wind continued to blow fresh from the south and south-west during
the rest of the day and the succeeding night; and the log-slate showed
ten and eleven knots until midnight, when the wind hauled round to the
westward, and soon came strong from that quarter. At noon on Tuesday,
April 5, the Young America had made two hundred and forty-four miles
during the preceding twenty-four hours, which was the best run she had
had during the voyage.
On the afternoon of this day, a ship, bound to the westward, was seen,
and Captain Greely expressed a desire to be put on board of her, with
his family, as he did not wish to return to the point from which he had
just come. The Young America bore down upon the sail, and spoke her at
sundown. Her captain was willing to take the shipwrecked voyagers on
board his ship, which was bound to New York, and they were transferred
in the barge and gig. Captain Greely and his party were very grateful
for the attentions they had received; and the little boy and girl almost
rebelled at the idea of leaving their new and partial friends.
As the two ships were filling away, after the transfer of the
passengers, the seamen of the New York ship, having learned what the
Young America was, gave three cheers, and dipped her ensign in
compliment to her. All the young tars were immediately ordered into the
rigging by Captain Gordon, and "three times three" were most lustily
given. The American flag at her peak was lowered three times, in reply
to the salute of the stranger. As the Academy Ship stood off on her
course, the two children of Captain Greely were seen, on the poop-deck
of the other vessel, waving their handkerchiefs; and they continued to
do so as long as they could be seen.
The departure of the guests had a saddening effect upon the crew of the
Young America, as they missed the children and the ladies very much;
for, during their presence on board, the ship had assumed quite a
domestic aspect, and all the idlers on deck found pleasing companions in
the little boy and girl.
The limits of this volume do not permit a full detail of the entire
voyage across the ocean. Enough has been given to show the discipline of
the ship, and the daily life of the boys on board of her. For the next
ten days the weather was generally favorable, and she laid her course
all the time. Some days she made two hundred miles, and others less than
one hundred.
On the sixteenth day from her departure, she was in latitude 51째, 4',
28" N.; longitude 31째, 10', 2" W.; course, E. by N. In going from Cape
Race, the southern point of Newfoundland, to Cape Clear, the southern
point of Ireland, the Young America did not lay a straight course, as it
would appear when drawn on a map or chart. La Rochelle, on the western
coast of France, and Cape Race are nearly on the same parallel of
latitude, and the former is exactly east of the latter. But the parallel
on which both points lie would not be the shortest line between them. A
great circle, extending entirely around the earth in the broadest part,
going through both, would not coincide with the parallel, but would run
to the north of it a considerable distance at a point half way between
the two places, the separation diminishing each way till the great
circle crosses the parallel at Cape Race and La Rochelle. The shortest
course between the two points, therefore, would be the arc of the great
circle lying between them. A skilful navigator would find and follow
this track. This is called great circle sailing.
The Young America followed a great circle from Cape Race to Cape Clear.
Off the former point, her course was two points north of east; off the
latter, it was half a point south of east. On her twentieth day out she
sailed due east.
After the excitement of the wreck and the departure of the passengers,
Shuffles and his confederates resumed their operations in the Chain
League, assisted somewhat by a case of discipline which occurred at this
time. When the ship was sixteen days out the Chain consisted of
thirty-one links, in the cabalistic language of the conspirators, and
Shuffles was in favor of striking the blow.
CHAPTER XVII.
PEAS AND BEANS.
The business of the Chain had been managed with extreme caution by the
conspirators, and more than one third of the crew had been initiated
without the knowledge of the principal and professors, or of the
officers and seamen who were not members. Pelham and Shuffles ordered
the affairs of the League, and no "link" was allowed to approach an
outsider for the purpose of inducing him to join without the consent of
one of these worthies.
As the scheme progressed, various modifications had been made in the
plan to adapt it to circumstances, the principal of which was the choice
of two "shackles," who should be deemed the officers of the League until
a regular election had taken place. By this invention, Shuffles and
Pelham had been enabled to compromise their differences, for they
assumed the newly-created offices, and labored as equals in the bad
cause. Each endeavored to make as many new "links" as possible, for
already the conspirators consisted of two factions, one of which favored
the election of Shuffles, and the other that of Pelham, to the
captaincy. Each, in a measure, controlled his own recruits, and was
reasonably sure of their votes when the election should be ordered.
These young gentlemen were not only plotting to take the ship, but to
"take in" each other. While both worked for the League as a whole, each
worked for himself as an individual. Shuffles was much more thorough
than his rival in the making of his converts. He told them the whole
story, and taught them to look full in the face the extreme peril of the
undertaking. He did not conceal anything from them. On the other hand,
Pelham merely represented the project as a means of redressing the
grievances of the officers and crew; of having their money restored to
them, and abolishing certain portions of the regulations which pressed
hard upon those who were disposed to be unruly.
Though the number of "links" in the "Chain" has been mentioned, it was
not known to either of the rivals. Each knew his own peculiar followers,
but he did not know how many the other could muster. Though there were
signs and passwords by which the members could know each other, there
were no means by which any one could precisely sum up the whole number
of "links." Shuffles could count thirteen including his rival, while
Pelham could number nineteen without his coequal in authority. The
former believed the list to consist of about twenty four, while the
latter estimated it above thirty. With them it was a struggle for an
office, as well as to redress their fancied wrongs, and they mutually
deceived each other in order to obtain the advantage.
"How many do you suppose we can muster now?" asked Shuffles, on the
evening of the eighteenth day out, as they met in the waist, when both
were off duty.
"About twenty," replied Pelham.
"There are more than that."
"Perhaps there are."
"But it is time to stretch the Chain," added Shuffles, in a whisper.
"Not yet."
"If we are ever going to do anything, we must begin soon. We have so
many members now that the danger of exposure increases every day."
"We can't do anything here. Besides, I am not in favor of having the
time or the manner of accomplishing the work talked about among the
members. I believe in one-man power in an affair of this sort. There
should be one head, who should plan and command; all the rest should
obey. If every step in the thing must be discussed and agreed upon, we
shall never do anything. One fellow will want it done in one way, and
another in some other way."
"I think you are more than half right," replied Shuffles, who was
confident that he should be the person chosen to arrange the plans and
issue the commands.
"I know I am wholly right," added Pelham, who was equally confident that
he should enjoy the undivided sway of the League. "If you are chosen
captain I will cheerfully obey your orders. I go a step farther: whoever
is elected captain should appoint his own officers."
"I will agree to that also," replied the complaisant Shuffles.
"Very well, then; the understanding is, that when one of us is elected
captain, he shall appoint his own officers, and do all the planning and
all the commanding," answered Pelham.
"Exactly so; we are now in about longitude thirty-one, and Cork Harbor
is in longitude eight, according to Bowditch, for I was looking the
matter up in the steerage to-day. We have to make about twenty-three
degrees more. A degree of longitude, in latitude fifty-one, is
thirty-seven and three quarters miles, which would make it eight hundred
and sixty-eight miles more to run in order to reach Queenstown. You see
I am posted," said Shuffles.
"I see you are. By the way, had you noticed that Queenstown is not in
the Navigator, or on the older maps?" added Pelham.
"Yes; the place was called the Cove of Cork until 1849, when, in honor
of her majesty's visit to the town, the name was changed to Queenstown."
"All right," said Pelham.
It need not be supposed that the distance to Queenstown and the change
in the name of that place had anything to do with the League. The fact
was, that Mr. Fluxion had passed near the conspirators, and had paused a
moment in the waist to glance up at the fore-top-gallant sail, which was
not in good trim; and the conversation had been changed to suit the
occasion. In talking of the affairs of the "Chain," it was required that
one of the party should look forward, and the other aft, if there were
two of them; and that the third, if there were three, should stand back
to the nearest rail. It was further required that the conversation
should not take place in a situation where it would be possible for any
one to overhear them. The lee side of the waist,--the midshipman of the
watch always being on the weather side,--the top-gallant forecastle, and
the tops were the favorite resorts of the conspirators. If any one
approached, the parties in conversation were instantly to change the
topic, as Shuffles had done.
"I think it is about time for the election to take place," continued
Shuffles, when Mr. Fluxion had gone aft.
"Whenever you are ready, I am," replied Pelham.
"I am ready now."
"So am I."
"Very well; it shall come off to-morrow, say."
"To-morrow it is, then."
"But how shall it be conducted?" asked Shuffles.
"That will not be an easy matter. I think, however we can hit upon some
plan for having it fairly done."
"Of course the matter lies between you and me," added Shuffles.
"To be sure."
"I suppose both of us are ready to abide the issue, whatever it may be,"
said Shuffles, who was not a little fearful that his powerful rival
would refuse to acknowledge him when he was chosen, as he confidently
expected to be.
"I pledge you my word and honor, that I will obey you in all things if
you are fairly elected captain," replied Pelham, who was equally sure of
being chosen himself.
"Fairly? Who is to decide whether it is fairly done or not?" demanded
Shuffles, unwilling to leave a loop-hole through which his companion
could crawl out of the bargain.
"When we have agreed upon the means of electing the captain, the choice
shall be final."
"Good! You and I shall have no difficulty!" exclaimed Shuffles, rather
astonished to find his rival so easily managed, as he regarded it.
"We will make it a little more binding, if you choose," suggested
Pelham, who, the reader has already been assured by the figures given,
was completely outwitting the author and inventor of the Chain League.
"With all my heart!"
"We will toggle each other on this special question if you like."
"The stronger we make the bond the better," said Shuffles. "Repeat after
me."
"Not here, Shuffles. There is a steamer on our weather bow. Let's go up
into the mizzentop, and have a look at her with a night glass."
Mr. Haven, the first lieutenant, who was in charge of the deck,
permitted them to go aloft with the glass, for the officers were
empowered to grant small favors. On reaching the top, they glanced at
the steamer, and then resumed the conversation which had been suspended
on deck, it being too dark for the officers below to see what they were
doing.
"Now go ahead," said Pelham.
"Repeat after me."
"All right."
"I promise, without any reservation, to acknowledge Shuffles as captain,
if he is chosen, and faithfully to obey his orders, on penalty of
falling overboard accidentally."
Pelham repeated these words, and then "toggled" his rival in the same
manner.
"Now we understand each other perfectly, and there will be no chance of
dragging the anchor," said Shuffles, satisfied that his sway would be
undisputed. "Let me say, in addition to this, that if I should happen to
be chosen, I shall make you my first officer, Pelham."
"And I will make you my first officer, if I should happen to be chosen,"
replied the obliging Pelham. "Of course I don't expect to be chosen; you
have had the swing of this affair, and you will have all the advantage."
"No, I think not; you are an officer now, and you have more influence
than I have," added the modest Shuffles.
If both had been laboring for the organization of the League on the same
terms, Shuffles would certainly have the better chance of an election;
but Pelham had been taking in members on false pretences, merely
representing to those whom he approached that the League was an
association having for its object the redress of their grievances. To
only a few had he mentioned the fact that a regular mutiny was
contemplated; that the ship was to be taken out of the hands of the
principal, and an independent cruise commenced. He was afraid the whole
truth would be more than some of them could bear; and perhaps he had so
little faith in the extreme measures to be carried out by the League,
that he was unwilling even to mention them.
Those who serve the evil one can neither trust each other nor trust
their master.
The only real confidence in each other which can exist among men or boys
must be based on moral and religious principle.
The man who pays his debts, or who performs his obligations to his
fellow-men, for his reputation's sake, rather than from devotion to pure
principle, will fail of his duty when he can conceal his infidelity, or
when his reputation will not suffer from his acts.
A man or a boy without principle is not to be trusted out of the line of
his own interest.
While Shuffles and Pelham were pledging themselves to a kind of romantic
fidelity, they were plotting each against the other, each being
satisfied that he had the advantage of the other.
"Now, I'm afraid the election will give us some trouble," continued
Shuffles. "It will not be an easy matter to conduct it fairly--not that
any fellow means to cheat, but it must be conducted with so much secrecy
that we can't superintend the ballot properly."
"I know there is all that difficulty, but I have thought of a method
which I believe will give us a fair election," replied Pelham.
"Have you? So have I."
"Well, what is your plan? If it is better than mine, I am willing to
adopt it."
"I was thinking, as you and I are the only candidates that each of us
might be represented by one side of the ship. You shall be port, and I
will be starboard Then every link in the Chain shall hand his vote, on
which shall be written the single word port or starboard either to you
or me; and if there are more port than starboard, you will be captain;
if more starboard than port, I shall be captain! How does that idea
strike you?"
"Pretty well; but the fellows have all got to write their votes, and
others will want to know what it means. It will set outsiders to
thinking, and I don't believe the plan is quite safe."
"Well, what is your method?" asked Shuffles, who was willing to
acknowledge the force of his rival's objections.
"Perhaps my plan is as open to objection as yours," answered Pelham;
"but it will require no writing. Each of us shall get a handful of beans
and a handful of peas. We can easily obtain them when the store rooms
are opened. You shall be beans, and I will be peas."
"How are you, Peas?" said Shuffles, laughing at the idea.
"How are you, Beans?" added Pelham.
"Go on with your soup."
"We will give to every fellow belonging to the Chain one pea and one
bean."
"I understand the plan now; but where are the fellows to deposit their
vegetable ballots?"
"We can have a receiver; appoint some good fellow for the purpose--say,
Greenway, the captain of the forecastle; or Tom Ellis, the third
master."
"Tom Ellis! Does he belong?"
"Of course he does," laughed Pelham, who realized that he had been a
little too fast in betraying the strength of his faction.
"I wouldn't appoint an officer."
"Well, you mention some fellow," said the politic Pelham.
"Say Wilton."
"Mention another."
"Lynch."
"No; try again."
"Grossbeck."
"Very well; I will agree to him."
"But he might make some mistake."
"If he does, it will be in your favor, I suppose; for you nominated him,
and, of course, he will give you the benefit of any doubt," replied
Pelham.
"I want a fellow who will do it fairly. I don't wish to get in by any
mistake," said Shuffles, magnanimously.
"Neither do I? and I don't think there will be any mistakes."
"There is a chance for a great many. The fellows may get mixed between
beans and peas. When they come to vote, there will be some who don't
know beans," laughed Shuffles.
"Well, if they don't, they will know peas, which will do just as well,"
replied Pelham.
"It would not be pleasant for me to have them know peas, when they ought
to know beans."
"We will give them P.P. as a clew to the whole thing."
"P.P.? That means P's, I suppose."
"It means that, and more. P. for Pelham, and P. for peas. If they get
one right, they can't very well get the other wrong."
"That's true," answered Shuffles, silenced, rather than convinced, by
the tactics of his fellow-conspirator.
It was settled that he who knew peas must certainly "know beans."
"When shall the fellows vote?" asked Shuffles.
"After dinner to-morrow afternoon. Every fellow will be off duty an hour
in the first or second dog watch," replied Pelham, who seemed to have an
answer ready for every question. "The polls shall be kept open till
eight o'clock. The peas and beans shall be distributed before eight
bells in the forenoon watch, so that every fellow will be ready to
vote."
"Where will Grossbeck stand when he receives the ballots?"
"He won't stand anywhere in particular. We will see him together, and
give him his instructions. I think it will be better for him to walk
about the ship, and let the fellows hand him the votes on the sly, which
he must put in his pocket. He shall count them in the presence of both
of us."
"Suppose he should lose some of them?" suggested Shuffles.
"If he does, he is as likely to lose peas as beans."
"I don't want to be chosen in any such manner as by the loss of the
