smile broadened and grew to such an extent 
that Gypsy’s indignation got the better of her 
politeness. 
“ I should like to know what you ’re laughing 
at, if you please ! I don’t see anything so very 
funny ! ” 
“ Oh, nothing, nothing. I beg your pardon ; 
only to think that you expected ten dollars ! 
but nothing is the matter at all.” 
“ Then you won’t give me any more than two 
dollars and a half! ” said Gypsy, faintly, her 
ripe red lips quivering with disappointment. 
“ Two dollars and a half would never pay 
the debt. Poor Tom, poor Tom ! ” 
Just then a customer opened the door; a step 
strangely familiar sounded on the floor behind 
her ; a heavy hand was laid upon her shoulder. 
Gypsy started, turned, and screamed. 
It was her father. 
hot crimson blood rushed all over her 
face, down her neck, out to the tips of her 
fingers. If he had caught her stealing, she could 
not have looked more guilty. In a minute she 
remembered herself, and tried to laugh as if 
nothing unusual were going on. 
“ Why, father ! Where on earth did you 
drop down from?” 
“ I am just on my way home from Burling- 
ton, and had a little business here. I did not 
expect to find you. What brought you over? 
and what are you buying there?” 
“ I came over to get mother some worsteds ; 
that is — yes, I ’ve been buying her some 
worsteds for her camp-chair.” 
“ But these are not worsteds.” 
Gypsy looked the other way and stood still, 
and the jeweller seemed to think that it was 
very funny. 
“What were you doing, Gypsy? buying 
some jewelry? Does your mother know about 
it? ” 
Gypsy picked up the trinkets and never said 
a word. What should she say? Her father 
began to look displeased. 
“Gypsy,” said he, gravely, “what does all 
this mean?” 
Gypsy, bewildered, frightened, hardly know- 
ing what she said, broke out: — 
“ No, sir, I wasn’t buying, I was selling, — 
just some little things that belong to me, and 
mother always lets me do what I want with my 
things, and the man wouldn’t give me but two 
dollars and a half, and that won’t half pay 
it, and — I mean, I don’t want Tom to go 
to prison, and — oh, dear, let ’s go home 
now.” 
“ Put those things back into your purse,” 
said her father, sternly. Gypsy obeyed in 
silence, and in silence they went out of the 
store and left the jeweller smiling still. 
Mr. Breynton took the road to the depot, 
walking in great strides that Gypsy could 
scarcely keep up with. For a few moments he 
said nothing to her, and his silence frightened 
her more than anything he could have said. 
“Gypsy!” he began at last — and Gypsy 
trembled all over — “ Gypsy, I don’t understand 
this thing, and I want you to explain it, the 
whole of it.” 
Gypsy knew that she must obey, and it 
seemed to her as if her breath stopped coming. 
What would Tom say? Oh, what would he? 
She spoke her thought for answer, and it was 
the best answer that she could have made : — 
“ Oh, father, I don’t know what Tom will 
say to me I He wouldn’t have had you know 
for the world, not for the world, and mother 
 
was too sick to tell, and so I had to do it all 
alone, and — ” 
“ Do what all alone?” interrupted her father, 
severely; “what is this about Tom? What 
has he done?” 
“He borrowed a little money, — I don’t be- 
lieve it was very much, but he borrowed it,” 
said Gypsy, faintly, “ and he couldn’t pay, and 
I was afraid he would have to go to prison, and 
so I thought I ’d sell my heart and things, — it 
was a real old heart, and jammed up where 
Winnie bit it and I stamped on it when we were 
little, you know,” she added, her eyes twinkling 
in spite of her fright and grief. 
“ So Tom has run in debt, and been to you 
to pay it ! ” 
Mr. Breynton’s eyes flashed, and there was a 
terrible sound in his voice. Gypsy did not 
dare to say a word. 
“ I should like to know how long this has 
been going on ! ” 
“ Oh, not long, sir, not very long, and Tom 
was so sorry, and I know he didn’t mean to. 
and I neverr cared a bit for the heart, you know, 
and the ring was all black lying out in that 
funny little chink under the fence.” 
There was a silence. Mr. Breynton strode 
rapidly on, and Gypsy had to run to keep up 
with him. 
“ I should like to know,” he said suddenly, 
“what you meant by saying that Tom wouldn’t 
have me know for the world, but would have 
told his mother if she had been fit to hear such 
a disgraceful story.” 
“Why, you know, Tom thinks you — you 
don’t take things just like mother,” said honest 
Gypsy, afraid that she was going to be disrespectful, 
but not knowing any other way than 
to tell the truth. “ Sometimes you are very 
much displeased, you know, and you talk to 
him a good deal and he gets angry, — and of 
course that’s very wrong in him; but then he 
seems to get along better with mother; and 
he said he knew he had no business to have 
borrowed, but he didn’t dare to have you 
know, and you see, sir, I wasn’t to say a 
word about it, and I don’t know what he 
will do.” 
Mr. Breynton made no answer, but strode on 
faster than ever, his face flushing and paling 
and working strangely. Gypsy wondered what 
he was thinking; whatever it was, she never 
knew, nor any one else, perhaps. 
” I do hope you won’t scold him very hard,” 
she ventured at last, in a very faint voice. 
“ He didn’t mean to, oh, I know he didn’t 
mean to.” 
“ Do you think you have been doing right 
to start off in this way without the knowledge 
of either your mother or father, selling jewelry 
in the stores to help him when he doesn’t deserve 
to be helped? That money was really 
stolen from me, as much as it will be stolen 
from his class-mate if it is not paid. He knew 
I hadn’t it for him to spend,” said Mr. Breyn- 
ton, taking no notice of what she said. 
“ I ’m sure I don’t know,” said poor Gypsy. 
I was so troubled and bothered, and I wanted 
to tell mother. I tried to do right, any way ” 
She raised her great brown eyes just then, 
and nobody looking into them could doubt 
it. Her father did not, and he spoke more 
gently. 
“ Well, well, my child, I hope so. Tom 
makes us all a great deal of trouble. I don’t 
understand it. I ’m sure I have taken care 
enough of that boy.” 
Gypsy might have said a thing or two to that, 
if she had not been his daughter ; but she did 
something that was much better. She began to 
plead again — and Gypsy made a very pretty 
pleader — for Tom. 
“You know, father, he will never do it again 
as long as he lives, never, and he is so dread- 
fully sorry and ashamed and all, and if he gets 
angry, and goes and acts worse after it, why, I 
should cry so, father ! ” 
Her father drew her hand up into his, his 
nervous face pale and puzzled and grave. 
“ He has done wrong, Gypsy, and I must tell 
him so. But I will be gentle with him, and I 
will pay the debt this time, though I never shall 
again. Now, my child, I hope you will conceal 
nothing of this sort from me after this.” 
“ I didn’t suppose you would be so nice,” 
said Gypsy, drawing a very long breath ; “ if 
I had supposed you ’d be so nice, I should 
have wanted to tell and have it over, right 
straight off.” 
Towards the end of the term, Tom came out 
with a new idea. He wanted to go into the 
army. His letters home were filled with it, 
and the more his father opposed it, the more 
Tom insisted. The boy was too young, said 
Mr. Breynton, and said rightly; it would be 
the ruin of him, body and soul ; the Government
neither required nor needed such sacrifices 
yet; if the war lasted till he was twenty, he 
might go ; not a month before. 
But so many of the fellows were going, rea- 
soned Tom; everybody was talking about it, 
since that last defeat at the West; two of his 
own class-mates had left within a fortnight ; he 
felt so mean to stay at home. Sometimes his 
letters would come embellished with flags and 
shields and various national devices of Ids own 
painting; sometimes he copied for Gypsy cer- 
tain stirring patriotic songs which were popular 
in college, and privately instructed her to sing 
them to her father every night when he came 
home from the store. Once in a while he 
undertook a very particular appeal to his mother, 
but received for answer only a gentle, “ I am 
sorry, my son, but I agree with your father 
perfectly about this thing. We do not think it 
best for you to go till you are older and stronger. 
Then if you are needed, we would not keep you 
back a moment. Try to be a good boy, mean- 
time, and wait patiently.’- 
Finally Tom had to content himself with sly 
hints and innuendoes, and with the most remarkable 
patriotic orations, covering sixteen pages 
of note-paper, in which the Star-Spangled 
Banner and the American Eagle figured largely. 
These sublime abstractions were evidently intended
as a severe and dignified way of stinging 
the family conscience. In a confidential note 
to Gypsy, he said once what he had not said 
to any one else. “ You see, Gypsy, I ’m sick of 
college through and through. I haven’t taken 
the stand, nor behaved the way I meant to, and 
I wish I were out of it once for all.” 
So the winter passed, and the spring vacation 
came, and Tom with it. The army question 
had rather subsided, and they thought he had 
forgotten it. But once or twice, when the sub- 
ject was mentioned, GypvSy, looking up sud- 
denly, caught an expression in his eye which 
made her doubt and think. 
Somebody made up a party one bright day to 
visit Belden’s Falls, and Tom and Gypsy were of 
it. The Rowes were there, and the Guests, the 
Holmans, Miss Cardrew, and Mr. Guernsey, — 
nearly all the teachers and scholars of the High 
School, and many of Tom’s old friends. The 
day was charming, and the company was charm- 
ing, and the Falls were so interesting, Delia 
said. The ride was a long one, and led through 
sunny valleys where the early birds were singing, 
up rocky hills where the carriages jolted 
and the girls screamed, through patches of 
forest cooled by the snow that still lay in the 
hollows and under the shadow of the walls. 
They drove into the woods that surrounded 
the Falls, tied their horses, and voted to walk 
the rest of the way through the cool, damp 
shadow and the perfume of the pines. Not 
that they thought very much about perfume or 
shadow. Tom and Francis were telling college 
stories, and after the fashion of a party of very 
young people, they were fast getting into a 
“ gale,” when they turned a sudden corner and 
stopped. 
A flash of light, a roar, a dizziness, — and 
there it all was. A sheer fall of foam broken 
and tossed about by huge black, jagged rocks ; 
the stealthy under-current showing through in 
green, swift lines ; showers of spray falling in 
feathers, breaking in bubbles, flashing into 
silver, touched into gold ; and, spanning the 
roar and brightness and bewilderment, a tiny 
rainbow, quivering, like a thing imprisoned. 
Above, the terrible rushing on of the black 
current to its fall, through gorges and caverns. 
through sunlight and shade, — a thing untamed 
and untamable. Beyond, the tree-tops tossing, 
and a sky with silver clouds, 
“Oh, I never! Isn’t it sweet pretty? He 
he, ha I ” said Delia Guest. 
“ Elegant ! splendid ! Why, how 
handsome it is ! ” from Sarah. 
Gypsy had thrown off her hat, — she was 
sure she could not have told why, — and stood 
with it hanging by one string from her dropped 
hands, her face upturned, her eyes as still as 
a statue’s. 
“ Look at Gypsy Breynton ! ” said somebody, 
presently. “Why don’t you talk, for pity’s 
sake? ” 
“ Oh ! ” said Gypsy, with a jump ; “ yes, — I 
forgot. What was it you wanted? ” 
They looked to their hearts’ content, and 
looked again, and went away and came back 
and looked again ; they crawled round into the 
cave, and threw stones into the boiling vortex, 
and tried to measure the sides of the gorge with 
a fish-line, and crouched where they could feel 
the spray on their faces, and explored the 
wooded banks, and crossed the tiny foot-bridge 
that hung, old and trembling, over a chasm 
where the black water lay two or three hundred 
feet down. 
“ I feel so sorry for it,” said Gypsy, as she 
stood looking down, leaning rather recklessly 
on the frail railing. 
“ Sorry for it ! ” called Sarah, from a safe 
place on the bank, — she said that the bridge 
made her nervous. 
“ Why, it looks so like a great creature leap- 
ing along to be killed,” said Gypsy, under her
breath. Sarah stared, and wanted to know if 
she read that in a fairy story. 
“ Oh, look at Tom Breynton ! ” called one of 
the Holmans, suddenly. He had crawled to the 
very edge of the chasm, past some trees and a 
bush or two, and was sitting on a sharp, pro- 
jecting rock, both feet hanging down, and his 
hands in his pockets. Of course everybody 
exclaimed, and the girls screamed, which was, 
probably, exactly what Tom wanted. 
“Tom, I don’t like to look at you very 
much,” said Gypsy, quietly ; she had not any 
of that way which so many sisters have, of 
worrying Tom if she thought that he was doing a 
dangerous thing. She knew that he was old 
enough and sensible enough to take care of 
himself; and, further, that boys don’t like to be 
interfered with by their younger sisters “ before 
folks ; ” and, also, that boys will do things that 
girls cannot do, and dangerous things, and be 
hurt or not, as the chance may be, and that 
there is no more use in trying to stop them than 
there would be in putting down a little pine 
branch into that great writhing current, to dam 
it up. So she said what she had to say, and 
then let him alone. 
“Look the other way, then,’’ said Tom, 
coolly, leaning far over, with both hands in his 
pockets ; it did have an ugly look, — as if a 
breath would blow him off. 
Gypsy made him no answer, but she pressed 
forward instinctively to watch him, leaned 
heavily upon the railing, and it cracked with a 
loud, sharp noise. 
Tom heard it and sprang. Gypsy was on the 
shore at a bound, safe enough, and the bridge, 
too. Tom, with his hands encumbered, slipped 
and fell. 
There was a cry, — the vacant rock, — and 
horrible silence. 
Into it a groan broke, and Gypsy, leaning 
over with rigid face where all the rest had 
fallen back to make room for her, saw that the 
rock shelved and jutted eight feet down, into a 
narrow ledge. Tom, swinging by the bush 
with one free hand, had fallen here and lay 
helpless, one ankle sprained by a cruel twist in 
a crevice. 
Mr. Guernsey was gone already for a rope, and 
they drew him up and drove him slowly home, 
and — well, I am inclined to think that Tom 
said his prayers that night. 
The sprain proved to be a severe one ; the 
doctor ordered him to the sofa, and to the sofa 
he had to go. The result was that he lost 
several weeks of the beginning of the term. 
This was time and soil for Gypsy’s sowing, 
and she made the most of it. 
It was vacation, so that she had most of her 
time to herself, and she delivered it over entire 
to Tom. Perched on a high, round stool without 
a back, with her feet on the rounds and her 
head on one side like a canary, she sat by his 
sofa hour after hour, and read to him, and sang 
to him, and talked to him, and played chess 
with him. She ran on errands for him, she 
made him lemonade and whips and jellies, she 
saved up every scrap of news that she could 
gather for him, she ran all over town to borrow 
novels for him, — she became, in fact, for 
patience, and gentleness, and persistent care, 
such a model of a little sister as astonished Tom 
beyond measure. Not that she never made 
any blunders. She would scarcely have been 
Gypsy if she had not tipped over his lemonade, 
shut up flies into his books, joggled cold water 
down his neck, and lost the pins out of his 
bandages. Nor was it by any means as easy 
to be a model little sister as might be supposed. 
In spite of her love for Tom, play was play, 
and to sit up on a round stool and read Cooper’s 
novels aloud, when the sun was shining, and 
Sarah Rowe was paddling about in the orchard 
swamp alone, was hard enougli sometimes. 
Moreover, a sick boy is very much like a caged 
panther, and Tom, to tell the truth, was once 
in a while — a little — cross. He voted it a 
bore, this lying on sofas, at least twenty times 
a day, and in by no means the most cheerful 
of tones ; he was sure that his bandage was too 
tight one minute, and confident that it was too 
loose the next; he pronounced the lemonade 
too sour, and the whips not as good as they 
were yesterday ; he wished that Gypsy would 
not read so fast. No, that was too slow, now; 
it sounded like Dr. Prouty preaching a two 
hours’ Fast-Day sermon. Now, why need she 
keep coughing and wriggling about? and what 
was the use of making up such unearthly faces 
over the long words? 
“ Then, you see, I get mad sometimes,” 
Gypsy told Peace, “ and I fire up and say 
something horrid, and then I ’m just as sorry, 
and I go right at him and squeeze him and kiss 
him, and he says he didn’t mean to, and that 
I ’m too good to a fellow, and I say I didn’t 
mean to, and I squeeze him again, and we ’re 
both of us sorry, and after that I go down town 
and get him a pint of peanuts, and you ought 
to see us eat them ! ” 
So the weeks passed, and what Tom thought 
of Gypsy at the end of them, he managed 
partly to tell her one Sunday night when they 
were alone together. 
“ I say. Gyp.” 
“Well?” 
“ Look here.” 
“ I 'm looking as hard as I can ; it ’s pitch 
total ! I can’t see a thing but two boots (they 
want blacking dreadfully) — not in the place 
where boots ought to be — all skewed up on 
top of the parlour sofa.” 
“ Gypsy, I was undertaking to talk sense.” 
“You were? Well, I never! Do let me call 
in father and mother, — they would be so taken 
by surprise.” 
“Yes, ma’am, I was. I was going to say that 
you have been a good girl since I ’ve been shut 
up here.” 
“ Oh ! ” said Gypsy, with a change of tone. 
“A good girl,” repeated Tom, “and what 
with your jellies and novels and bandages, 
you ’ve treated me better than I deserve. I 
vote you a first rate fellow. Give us a kiss, will 
you?” 
Gypsy gave him the kiss, and thought 
about it. 
“ What would you give to see me in a blue 
uniform, with a musket on my shoulder, or a 
sword, perhaps, and a red sash, taking a rebel 
fort and getting into the newspapers, and doing 
up glory, and Hail Columbia, and all the rest 
of it, — be a little proud of your good-for- 
nothing brother, maybe?” 
“ Yes,” said Gypsy, with flashing eyes, “ of 
course I should. But you 're not a good-for- 
nothing, and soldiers are so apt to get killed, 
you know. Besides, mother won’t let you, and 
I had rather be proud of you at college, a great 
deal. I expect you will do splendidly this term, 
don’t you ? ” she added confidentially. 
“ Hum,” said Tom, in a queer tone, and 
broke out whistling. Gypsy could not see his 
face in the dark. 
“You know Yankee Doodle isn't — exactly 
— Sunday, Tom dear,” she ventured at last. 
“ No, nor John Brown’s Body, nor Dixie, 
cither, Tom Breynton ! Old Hundred? Yes, 
that will do. I wonder if it would be wicked 
for me to whistle alto ? ” 
Whenever Gypsy proposed to whistle, Tom’s 
musical tendencies came to an untimely end, 
and this occasion proved no exception. 
A DAY or two before Tom went back to 
college, the children were all sitting 
together one morning in Mrs. Breynton’s room, 
when their father came in from the post office 
with an open letter in his hand. 
“ Oh, I guess that 's a letter from my coal- 
man,” remarked Winnie, with the nonchalance 
of a business man of untold epistolary experi- 
ence. “ I ordered two tons and a pint tipped 
into my cellar, only Mrs. Winnie she said it 
wasn’t enough to keep the children warm, and 
then I tell you we got mad, and I just told her 
she wasn’t anything but a woman, and she kept 
still after that, sir ! ” 
“From Uncle George? ” asked Gypsy, look- 
ing up from her work. “ Oh, what did Joy 
do about those satin slippers, and what did he 
give her on her birthday?” — but then she 
stopped. She had seen, and every one else had 
seen by this time, the dark sternness of her 
father’s face. 
“ Thomas, I should like to have you read 
that.” 
Tom took the letter, read it, dropped it, grew 
very pale. 
It fell on the floor by Gypsy’s chair. She 
saw that it was a printed circular, so she picked 
it up and read : — 
David Breynton, Esq., Sir, — The bill 
of Mr. Thomas Breynton for the last collegiate 
term has not been paid. This notice is given 
in obedience to a law of the college, which 
provides that, “ If any student shall fail to pay, 
within two weeks after the close of any vaca- 
tion, his bills of the preceding term, it shall be 
the duty of the treasurer to give immediate 
notice thereof to the bondsman of such stu- 
dent, unless the latter shall have deposited with 
the treasurer a certificate from his bondsman 
or guardian that the means of payment have 
not been furnished him, or shall have presented 
to the treasurer a satisfactory reason for the 
delay.” 
Your obedient servant, 
Tr. 
“Well,” said Mr. Rreynton, “what have 
you to say for yourself? ” 
Tom had not a word to say for himself He 
sat with his eyes upon the ground, his face still 
very pale. 
“ I should like to know why your tuition was 
not paid,” insisted his father. Tom tried to 
whistle, failed miserably, put his hands in his 
pockets, and walked over to the window. 
“ Meant to pay it this term,” he said sulkily. 
“ My money got played out some way or other, 
I ’m sure I haven’t the fraction of an idea how, 
and I meant to start fresh when I went back, 
and pay it. I don’t know how I was to know 
that the old fellow must come and tell you.” 
“ So first you were guilty of a meanness both 
to your instructors and to me, and then you 
resorted to a deception to hide it.” 
“ There wasn’t any deception about it ! ” 
broke out Tom, angrily. “ I meant to pay it 
up honest, I say, and I didn’t tell you, because 
it was of no use to anybody that I see, and 
then I knew you would make such a — ” 
“Tom!” interrupted his mother’s sorrowful 
voice, and Tom stopped. When he had stopped, 
he saw Gypsy’s eyes, and his face flushed. 
“ You may come into the library, Thomas, 
and we will talk this over,” said his father, ex- 
citedly. They went out and shut the door. 
Winnie, who in the excitement had put his 
coal-basket on his head and forgotten to take it 
off, looked after them with his mouth open, and 
Gypsy and her mother looked at each other and 
never said a word. 
Tom was shut up with his father until dinner- 
time, and a violent headache, brought on by the 
excitement of the morning, kept Mrs. Breynton
in her room all day. Gypsy wandered 
mournfully about the house, shut herself upstairs 
and tried to cry a little, tried to play 
with Winnie, tried to make Tom talk, and, failing 
in all, went at last to Peace Maythorne. 
There, in the quiet room, in sight of the quiet 
eyes, the tears came, and comfort too. 
Yet, after all, there were very many boys 
much worse than Tom. He was thoughtless 
rather than vicious, — too much intent on being 
as well-dressed as anybody, on heading sub- 
scriptions, and patronising first-class clubs, 
and “treating” generously; over-desirous to 
be set down as “a good fellow; ” more anxious 
to be popular than to be a good scholar, like 
many another open-hearted, open-handed, merry 
boy; moreover, a little afraid to say No. Yet, 
as I said, by no means vicious. Faithful to his 
promise to Gypsy, he had left off all manner of 
sipping and pledging in brandies and wines, — 
had met question, laugh, and sneer, and met 
them like a man ; of his incipient gambling he 
had soon wearied ; his sense of honour was his 
'stronghold, and that was crossed by it sadly. 
As for the smoking, — though I am not including 
that very disagreeable habit among the 
viccs — angry as he had been about it, he had 
been cornered by his father’s command ; the 
discomfort of doing a thing, as he said, upon 
the sly,” was rather more than the cigars were 
worth. 
Extravagance and laziness were what ailed 
him now, — two rather treacherous covipagnons 
dc voyage for a college boy. Judging from the 
record of these two terms, what would they 
have done for him when the four years were 
over? Gypsy used to wonder sometimes, her 
bright cheeks paling as she asked herself the 
question. 
Perhaps she need not have been as much 
afraid as she was of having Tom with Francis 
Rowe. He did not seem to fancy Francis as 
much as he had done six months ago. From 
certain mysterious hints that he dropped once 
or twice, and from the expression of his face, 
Gypsy inferred that that young gentleman’s 
recent career at the Halls of Learning had been 
such as to disgust even thoughtless Tom. 
One day, when Tom had been back at college 
a little over a week, Gypsy came slowly home 
from Peace Maythorne’s with troubled eyes. 
This sultry spring weather was doing Peace no 
good. She had grown very weak and almost 
sleepless with continued pain. 
“ She looks like a ghost this morning,” said 
Gypsy, coming into her mother’s room, — so 
thin, and pale, and patient, and sweet, it almost 
made me cry to look at her. I don’t see why 
those old doctors can’t do something for her.” 
“ They do all they can,” said Mrs. Breynton. 
“ These diseases in the spine are very hard to 
manage. But it does seem as if Peace had a 
great deal of suffering, poor child ! ” 
“ It has made an angel of her, anyway,” said 
Gypsy, emphatically. “ I told Tom the other 
day, she made me feel like a little mean cater- 
pillar crawling round in the mud beside her. 
I ’m going to write to him again to-day. He 
always wants to know how Peace is. Hilloa, 
Winnie ! — a letter ? ” 
“ From Tom ! ” 
“ Yes, for you.” 
Mrs. Breynton took it, stopping a moment to 
look at the envelope.' 
“ How blurred the post-marks do get! This 
doesn’t look any more like New Haven than it 
does like Joppa, does it, Gypsy?” 
“ No, and just look at the stamp, skewed 
clear over there in the left-hand corner. How 
funny ! ” 
” Tom is always very particular about his 
stamp, and all the getting up of his letters. 
He must have been in a great hurry,” said his 
mother, breaking the seal. Evidently he was 
in a hurry, for the letter was undated. She 
read, with Gypsy looking over her shoulder. 
My dearest Mother, — I don’t know 
what you will think of me, and it is rough work 
telling you, but I ’ve done it, — I ’ve enlisted. 
I left New Haven day before yesterday, and 
enlisted as a private here at Washington this 
morning, in the regiment, and expect to 
be sent to the front to-morrow. 
I couldn’t stand it any longer. So many of 
the fellows were off, and I wasn’t doing any- 
thing at college, and I was ashamed of myself. 
and I knew you were all ashamed of me. I can 
shoulder a musket and obey orders, and perhaps
— who knows? — take some prisoners, and 
get noticed by the General. At any rate, I can 
die at my post, if there is any necessity, and 
that is better than nothing, and I shouldn’t 
bother you any more. 
There ! I had no business to say that, mother. 
I don’t expect to be killed, either. I expect to 
have a jolly time, and I think serving your 
country is a great deal better than flunking in 
Homer. 
The only thing about it is, I am afraid you 
will feel so, and Gypsy. I didn’t much like 
doing it after you had said No, but I must do 
it on the sly or not go at all, and I set my heart 
on going, before the end of last term. 
I won’t drink, mother, nor learn to swear, nor 
any of the rest of it. I promise you I will be 
a better fellow than I was in college, and be 
double the use in the world, and you shall be 
proud of me some day. Tell Gypsy so and tell 
her not to cry, and to think the best she can of 
me. She is a jewel, and I don’t like disappointing 
her, nor you either. I do hope it won’t 
make you worse. I don’t know what father 
will say ; couldn’t make up my mind to write 
to him. I thought he wouldn’t mind it quite 
so much if you told him. Please give him my 
love if he will take it, and tell him you will all 
see the day when you will think that I have 
done the best way. Give Winnie a kiss for me, 
and tell him my gun is taller than he is. Will 
write again as soon as I get to camp, and tell 
you how to direct. 
I do want to hear soon, and find out whether 
you can forgive 
Your Son, 
Tom. 
P. S. I am very well, — never better in my 
life, — and should be very happy if I only knew 
what you were going to say about it. I suppose 
you will think I have done wrong; well, any- 
way, it can’t be helped now. 
T. B. 
girls, with hands clasped and cheeks 
laid softly together ; the one with her 
bloodless lips and pale gold hair and shrunken 
hands ; the other round and rosy and brown, 
with her dark eyes snapping, and that canary 
poise to her head, and the morning sunlight 
over both, — it made a very pretty picture. 
But neither of them was thinking anything 
about that, — which was the charm of it. 
“ Peace, you are so white this morning, — do 
turn your face out of that sunbeam; it makes 
you look worse.” 
Peace smiled, and moved her head. 
“ Why, it doesn’t do the least good ! The 
sun always goes wherever you do. Peace May- 
thorne, I should like — well, I think I should 
