The first lieutenant of the Chatauqua had regarded his enterprise with a
want of faith, to say the least; and when the young commander of the
expedition came forward to report its entire success, there was
something like pride and exultation in his manner, mingling not
ungracefully with the manifestations of his natural modesty. He had done
"a big thing;" he felt that he had done "a big thing;" and it would have
been a ridiculous affectation for him to pretend, by word or manner,
that he had not done "a big thing."
"I congratulate you upon your success, Mr. Somers," replied Mr.
Hackleford, warmly. "I was sceptical, I confess; but no man in the fleet
is happier than I am at your good fortune."
"Thank you, sir," said Somers, blushing more deeply than before, and
almost wishing that the first lieutenant had done the "big thing"
instead of himself, because he was so kind and generous in his
commendation.
"You have managed the affair with skill and energy. For my own part, I
did not believe you would even get into the bay, let alone capturing the
vessel. I am astonished at your success, but none the less delighted
because I am surprised."
"Thank you, sir," was all Somers could say in reply to this praise so
magnanimously bestowed.
"Captain Cascabel will see you, in his cabin, and we will hear your
verbal report there."
Mr. Garboard had already gone on board the prize, hauled her off from
the ship, where she was chafing her sides, and moored her a cable's
length distant. Somers went below, where he was as warmly and generously
greeted by the captain as he had been by the first lieutenant. He
related the story of his night's adventures to them with all necessary
minuteness. His auditors could not help laughing when he told them what
he had done with his old friends, the first lieutenant and the commander
of the rebel craft. He had acted on his theory of Pillgrim's intended
movements, and thus kept himself above suspicion.
"How does Mr. Pillgrim appear?" asked the captain.
"I haven't seen him, sir; I was very careful not to let him see me. Mr.
Swayne, the first lieutenant of the Ben Lomond, after I had disposed of
Langdon, managed him for me."
"It's a very amusing as well as a very exciting affair. But we must see
these officers. Where are they?"
"Under guard in the state-rooms of the prize, sir."
"Bring them on board, if you please, Mr. Somers. Get your breakfast
first."
Somers went to the ward-room, where he breakfasted with the officers off
duty. He was cordially congratulated upon his success, though perhaps
some of the mess regarded him as rather exclusive in permitting none of
them to share his laurels.
After breakfast the first cutter was cleared away, and Somers pulled to
the prize in her. The Ben Lomond was temporarily in charge of the second
lieutenant of the Chatauqua, who had secured the prisoners, and put
everything in order on board. Somers went at once to the ward-room,
where the two most important prisoners were confined. There were now at
each door a couple of marines with loaded muskets, but no communication
had been had with the solitary occupant of either.
Pillgrim had several times attempted to obtain some information in
regard to what was going on, but he was still in darkness. Even the
bull's eye in his room could not have enlightened him, for it was on the
starboard side of the steamer, while the Chatauqua lay on the port
side.
Somers ordered the marines to open the door of Langdon's room first, and
the late first lieutenant of the Tallapoosa came forth.
"Lieutenant Wynkoop, I believe," said Somers, facetiously.
Langdon looked at him with astonishment.
"Have you any more old sherry that has made two voyages to India?"
"This is hardly magnanimous, Mr. Somers," said Langdon, coldly.
"Perhaps not; but when officers stoop to such tricks as those you have
practised, there can be no great harm in mentioning them."
"Mr. Somers, I find myself somewhat bewildered."
"I dare say," laughed Somers. "Very likely your friend Pillgrim, or
Coles, is in the same situation."
"Is he on board?"
"He is."
"I have not seen him since he left Philadelphia in the Chatauqua."
"I have."
"You were in the Chatauqua with him?"
"For a short time."
"I had a letter from him, dated at Richmond, saying that he had changed
his plans."
"Changed them--did he?" said Somers, who had changed them for him.
"Perhaps you will inform me how you happened to be on board this
vessel."
"I don't object; it makes little difference what I say now. After
obtaining the command of the Tallapoosa for Pillgrim, I went to
Wilmington, where I was to take command of the Coosa."
"You mean the Ben Nevis."
"I do."
"I thought you were to call her the Louisiana."
"We did not always give you correct information," added Langdon, with a
sickly smile.
"Go on."
"While at Wilmington I got a letter from Pillgrim, then in Richmond,
informing me that the Ben Nevis had been captured, and that I was
appointed first lieutenant of the Tallapoosa, if I chose to take the
place. I did choose to take it, hoping soon to be in command of one of
the California steamers. I went to Mobile at once, and attended to the
fitting out of the ship. Pillgrim wrote me that he should be on board by
the 22d, and I had steam up to run out the moment he arrived."
"How happened you to tell your officers that Pillgrim was coming down in
a Yankee man-of-war?" asked Somers.
"That was his original plan. Though he wrote me from Richmond, I did not
know but that he intended to return to the Chatauqua. He gave me no
particulars; did not tell me that his plans had failed, only that he
had changed them. When he wrote that he should be on board by the 22d, I
knew he was coming down by land, and I corrected my statement. Now, Mr.
Somers, will you tell me how you happen to be here?"
"Marine, bring out the other prisoner," said Somers, who had been
instructed by Captain Cascabel to confer with the conspirators, if he
could obtain any information from them.
The discomfited, crestfallen commander of the Tallapoosa was brought
from his room by a marine. He saw Somers, and started back with
astonishment. He was pale and haggard, as though he had been spending
his time in drinking bad whiskey, and in other debauchery. He had upon
his face a fortnight's growth of black beard, and looked more like
"Coles" than when Somers had last met him. His captor concluded that his
misfortunes on board the Chatauqua had depressed his spirits, in spite
of the cool look he had before carried, and that he had given way to
dissipation. He certainly appeared like a person who had just come out
of a hard "spree."
In the Ben Lomond there was a door opening from the ward-room into the
captain's cabin. The vessel had evidently been built for a swift
passenger steamer. The ward-room was a portion of the main cabin, from
which the steerage and engineers' rooms had been parted off; while the
captain's cabin was the original "ladies' saloon." Langdon had been
conducted by the marines through this door to the captain's cabin, where
the conversation with him had taken place. Pillgrim was in the same
manner introduced to this apartment.
"Mr. Somers!" exclaimed the traitor.
"Yes, sir. In the letter you sent me from Old Point Comfort,--and I am
greatly obliged to you for the information contained in that
letter,--you expressed a hope that you should meet me on board of the
Ben Lomond. Your wish has been realized," replied Somers, taking the
original letter, with other papers, from his pocket.
Pillgrim trembled in every fibre of his frame. It was not thus he had
hoped to meet his enemy.
"'If you capture the Ben Lomond, it will make you a lieutenant. Do it,
by all means,'" continued Somers, reading the last paragraph of the
letter. "This was your advice. I have done it."
Pillgrim made no reply. His pale, haggard face, darkened by his
half-grown beard, was contorted by emotion, and his bloodshot eyes had
lost their fire.
"You don't seem to enjoy the situation so much as your letter intimated
that you would."
"Mr. Somers, I am your prisoner," said he, with a desperate struggle.
"You are; you will not have the pleasure of hanging me at the
yard-arm."
"I am bewildered--overcome."
"So was Langdon."
"I see why you did not join your ship before," said Langdon, with a
sneer, as he glanced contemptuously at his principal. "You have been
dissipating."
This remark brought forth an angry retort from Pillgrim, and for a few
moments each traitor reproached and vilified the other, much to the
amusement of the marines, and to the disgust of Somers, who was
compelled to interfere. Langdon's severest charge against his late
captain was, that he had betrayed their schemes by writing letters, and
in other stupid ways. Pillgrim denied it.
"Mr. Somers has just thanked you for the information contained in your
letter," sneered Langdon. "He has good reason to do so."
"I gave him no information that could be of any service to him."
"You gave him the name of the vessel," retorted Langdon.
"But I did not tell him where she was."
"You gave me that information, Mr. Langdon," said Somers, quietly.
"I?"
Somers exhibited the letter in cipher.
"You could not read that without the key," protested the writer of the
note.
"The first word I made out was 'Langdon:' the next, 'Ben Lomond.' I am
indebted to both of you. The moral of the whole affair is, that treason
cannot prosper. I am indebted to both of you for the information which
enabled me to capture the steamer. Gentlemen, it becomes my duty to
conduct you on board of the Chatauqua."
"No, Mr. Somers!" groaned Pillgrim, "spare me that."
"I must obey my orders."
The traitor objected strongly to being taken into the presence of the
officers of the ship in which he had so recently served. He protested
that he had but a few days to live, and begged to be saved from this
humiliation. But Somers, though he was not without pity for the degraded
and disgraced wretch, had no alternative but to obey the orders of
Captain Cascabel.
Langdon accepted his misfortunes with more resignation. He was quite
cheerful, and volunteered to tell all he knew, though he was very bitter
against Pillgrim, who, he declared, had ruined all their hopes by his
dissipation, his silly pretensions, and his reckless exposure of their
plans.
Somers was now satisfied that Pillgrim had been intoxicated when he came
over the side of the Ben Lomond the night before, which accounted for
his violent conduct, and which was one of the accidents which assisted
in the easy capture of the vessel.
Both the prisoners were examined on board the Chatauqua; and, with the
explanations of Somers, their operations were clearly comprehended. They
were placed in confinement, to await the final decision in regard to
them. In the forenoon Somers was sent to make his report to the admiral.
He was warmly received, judiciously commended, and courteously
dismissed. The young officer's respect and admiration for the "Brave Old
Salt" were not diminished by his second interview.
In the afternoon the Ben Lomond, in charge of an acting ensign, was sent
to Pensacola, where she was to remain until further orders. It was
surmised that the admiral, not wishing to spare any of the best officers
of the fleet, when on the eve of a mighty event, had decided to let the
prize remain in port with her prisoners until a more favorable season.
Be this as it may, the Old Salamander kept everybody busy for the next
ten days, when, the monitors having arrived, and all the ships intended
for the attack being in complete readiness, the order was given for the
battle, which now stands without a parallel in the annals of naval
warfare.
CHAPTER XXV.
THE BATTLE OF MOBILE BAY.
In order to appreciate the importance of the tremendous action in Mobile
Bay, it is necessary to consider that Mobile and Wilmington were the
only available ports of the rebels east of the Mississippi. The
resources of the Confederacy were exhausted by three years of wasting
war, and it was dependent upon foreign supplies for the means of
continuing the strife. The earnest attention of the government at
Washington, therefore, was directed to the shutting up of these ports.
To form a correct idea of the obstacles to the closing of Mobile Bay,
which had been intrusted to Admiral Farragut, it should be remembered
that its entrance was guarded by two strongly-built and heavily-armed
forts; that the only available channel for large vessels, but three
fourths of a mile in width, ran under the guns of Fort Morgan, the
stronger of the two forts; that this channel was filled with sunken
torpedoes, which, experience had demonstrated, were fatal to any vessels
subjected to the explosion; and that the rebels had a fleet of gunboats
and iron-clads, which could operate with every advantage against an
advancing fleet.
"Brave Old Salt" had estimated all these obstacles, and believing that
"success was a duty," he had resolved to overcome them. All the
expedients which the ingenuity of a thorough seaman could devise were
adopted to strengthen and protect the ships. The plan of the battle was
entirely original, and displayed the genius of its author. The admiral
modestly declares that he only obeyed the orders of the navy department,
and disclaims the credit so lavishly awarded to him by his admiring
fellow-citizens; but the government did not tell him how to do it--and
in that consisted the doing of it--did not order him to "lash ships" and
take his elevated position in the main rigging; did not bid him "butt"
the rebel rams with his wooden prows; and for all these things does the
whole world sound his praise.
At half past five in the morning the Chatauqua, with the Androscoggin
lashed to her port side, took her position in the line of battle. The
Brooklyn was to lead the van, with the "Old Hartford," the flag-ship,
next in the line, though the doughty old admiral had but tardily acceded
to the request of his officers in taking this place. The position of the
Chatauqua was in the centre of the line of battle.
At the signal from the admiral, the fleet moved on. Every officer was
full of zeal and enthusiasm, though it was certain that some of them
would never behold the light of another day; that more or less of the
gallant vessels must soon be overwhelmed by the hidden engines of
destruction which had been planted in the channel. Somers regarded it as
the great day of his existence. He had read his Testament and said his
prayers that morning as though it were the last day he had to live, for
the most fearful and deadly strife of the whole war was anticipated. A
man is never so fully prepared to live well and do his duty faithfully
as when he is ready to die.
While the young officer thought even more tenderly than usual of the
loved ones in his far-off home, and of that other loved one who was
never forgotten when home was remembered, he felt that his country was
theirs, and that every blow struck for the nation was struck for them.
To die for his country was to die for them--for his own home; and he
asked no higher duty than to sacrifice his life, if such was the will of
God. "Thy will be done," he repeated many times, though life was full of
hopes and joys to him.
The fleet moved on, and the roar of the great guns in the monitors soon
announced that the action had commenced. The chase guns of the Chatauqua
opened first, and the ship trembled beneath the concussion.
"The Tecumseh has gone down," passed from mouth to mouth, as a
tremendous explosion saluted the ears of the seamen.
The monitor had struck upon a torpedo, and in a moment had disappeared
beneath the tide, carrying down with her nearly all her gallant crew.
But this incident, appalling as it was even to the battle-scarred
veterans on the decks of the fleet, was hardly heeded in the terrible
determination of purpose which animated every heart. The Brooklyn paused
to dodge some supposed torpedo buoys, and "Brave Old Salt" dashed ahead
in the Hartford to his proper place in the van of the battle.
The ships in pairs came up abreast of the fort; and according to the
orders of the admiral, the broadside and other guns opened upon the
works, not with solid shot, in futile attempts to batter down their
dense walls, but with grape, which drove the gunners of the fort from
their stations.
Never were guns fired more rapidly; and the roar was tremendous, shaking
all earth beneath, and enveloping the scene in dense volumes of smoke,
above which, as it occasionally rolled away, might be seen the admiral,
lashed to the main rigging of the Hartford. A glimpse at him never
failed to call forth the most unbounded enthusiasm, among officers and
seamen.
With comparatively little injury the fleet passed the fort, and standing
to the north-west to clear the Middle Ground, was out of the reach of
its guns. Terrible stories of the torpedoes had been told by deserters
and refugees, but the admiral's hopes had been realized; they had been
so long in the water that they had become "innocuous."
But a new and greater danger menaced the fleet. The rebel iron-clad
Tennessee started out from under the guns of Fort Morgan. She was a
formidable adversary; and though the monitors were depended upon to
"neutralize" or destroy her, they moved so slowly and steered so badly,
that the brunt of the battle was borne by the wooden ships.
"Run her down," was the order from the admiral, which the signal officer
interpreted on the quarter deck of the Chatauqua.
Captain Cascabel instantly ordered full head of steam to be put on, and
the ship, gathering headway, dashed down upon the Tennessee, striking
her at right angles, near the after part of the casemate. The shock of
the concussion was terrible. The men were thrown from their feet, and
the ship groaned in bitterness of spirit at the hard usage to which she
was subjected. Her stem was crushed in to the plank ends, and the water
began to pour into the forward store-rooms. Expecting such an event, the
carpenter and his gang were at the threatened point, and prevented any
disaster from the collision.
The effect upon the iron-clad was hardly perceptible, giving her a
heavy list, but apparently inflicting no damage upon her. The Chatauqua
swung round as she struck. Captain Cascabel, who had leaped into the
mizzen rigging, gave his orders, which were promptly executed by Mr.
Hackleford. Solid shot and shell were poured into the ram with a fury
which would have been fatal to a less strongly built craft. As it was,
one of her port shutters was struck and shattered, the rest of the shot
bounding off like peas from an oak floor.
"Hah, you bloody villains of Yankees!" shouted the rebels, at their
ports.
"How are you, Johnny Reb?" replied a fore-top man, as he hurled a
spittoon in at the port.
Another old salt dashed in a holy-stone, and then the marines opened
fire upon them with their muskets.
"Ram her again!" shouted the admiral from the main rigging of the
Hartford, as the flag-ship dashed at the game.
The Chatauqua swept round, and succeeded in striking the Tennessee
again, but with no better result than before. At the same time she
poured in shot and shell from every available gun.
At this moment one of the ships struck the Hartford, by accident, in the
dense smoke, and knocked two of her ports into one. It was believed that
the flag-ship would go down, for her planking was stove in within two
feet of the water-line.
"Save the admiral! save the admiral!" shouted the men; and there was
not one of them who would not have died by fire or water to rescue their
beloved leader.
Somers sprang upon the rail, to observe the catastrophe, and to be in
readiness to save the admiral if an opportunity occurred. While he stood
there, a shot hit the rail diagonally, a splinter struck him in the
side, and he dropped helpless into the water.
"Mr. Somers is wounded and fallen overboard!" shouted the captain of the
pivot gun amidships.
The words were hardly out of his mouth, before another man dropped into
the water from one of the ports. It was Tom Longstone. He found his
young friend, and bearing him up with his strong arm, both were rescued
from their perilous position.
"She shows the white flag! She surrenders!" was the cry, as the
boatswain and Somers reached the deck.
The young officer was borne to the ward-room at the moment of victory,
while the cheers of the brave tars were ringing through the fleet.
The Tennessee and the Selma had surrendered, the Gaines had been driven
ashore, and the Morgan was for the present safe under the guns of the
fort. The victory was complete and decisive.
Somers was severely, if not dangerously, injured. He was borne tenderly
to his state-room by his brother officers, as the cheers for the great
victory were sounding through the fleet. There had been seven men killed
and thirty-five wounded on board the Chatauqua. The surgeon was in the
cockpit, busily engaged in attending to the wounds of the poor fellows,
and could not immediately examine the young officer, who, it was
evident, required no surgical operation.
The ship, though considerably cut up by the shots from the fort and from
the rebel steamers, was still in condition for active service. The fleet
anchored in the bay, out of the reach of the guns of Fort Morgan.
Officers were busy in making the necessary surveys, and the men were
occupied in repairing damages and restoring order about the decks and
rigging.
"How do you feel, Mr. Somers?" asked Mr. Hackleford, entering the
sufferer's room, as soon as he could leave the deck.
"I do not suffer much pain, sir; but I am afraid I am badly damaged in
the hull," replied Somers, with a languid smile.
He was very pale, and lay very still. He was numb from the effects of
the shock given him by the splinter, and some of the functions of his
frame seemed to be suspended. The first lieutenant was alarmed, and sent
a second messenger for the surgeon, who presently made his appearance,
having disposed of the severest cases in the cockpit.
"What do you think of him, doctor?" asked Mr. Hackleford.
"I fear he is badly injured," replied Dr. De Plesion, shaking his head.
"Dangerously?" whispered the first lieutenant.
The surgeon shook his head.
"Speak out, doctor," said the patient, faintly. "I am not afraid to die
for my country. Please tell me the truth."
"I cannot tell yet, Mr. Somers. Three of the ribs are fractured, but if
he is not injured internally, he will do very well," added the surgeon,
to Mr. Hackleford.
"I have but little pain," said the patient.
"You will have more, Mr. Somers, by night," continued Dr. De Plesion. "I
do not discover any internal injury."
"I hope there is none," said the first lieutenant. "You are too good an
officer to be spared, Mr. Somers,--I mean for even a brief period, of
course."
The report of the surgeon was anxiously awaited by the captain and all
the ward-room officers, for the third lieutenant had been a universal
favorite, and his capture of the Ben Lomond, and his gallant conduct
during the action with the forts and the Tennessee, had not diminished
his popularity. Of all who waited the doctor's decision, none took the
matter so much to heart as the boatswain, who had saved him from
drowning while he was helpless in the water. Mr. Hackleford noticed him
at his duty, still wet to the skin, and kindly gave him permission to
visit his young friend.
"I shall not go by the board, Tom," said Somers. "You and I may yet make
another cruise together."
"Thank God! I hope so," exclaimed the boatswain, encouraged by these
cheerful words.
"Tom, I owe my life to you."
"O, never mind that, my darling! What would I have done if you had
slipped your wind?"
"You would have done your duty, as you always do, my good fellow."
"I dare say I should, Mr. Somers, but I can only thank God that you are
alive now," replied the boatswain, as the tears flowed down his bronzed
cheek, and he turned to leave the room.
CHAPTER XXVI.
IN THE HOSPITAL.
Under the arrangement made by Admiral Farragut with the commander of
Fort Morgan, the wounded of both sides were sent in the Metacomet to
Pensacola. Somers was of the number, and he was borne from his berth in
the Chatauqua to the steamer, though the removal caused him great pain.
The numbness of his side was beginning to pass away, and the parts to
become very sensitive.
"Mr. Somers, I am sorry to see you in this condition," said "Brave Old
Salt," who was present with a kind word for the suffering heroes of the
battle. "You behaved nobly during the fight, as I am told you always
do."
"Thank you, sir. You are very kind," moaned Somers, in his pain and
weakness.
"I have not forgotten you, my brave fellow," continued the admiral. "The
capture of the Ben Lomond was a matter of more consequence than you can
appreciate, perhaps; and your faith and skill in doing this work entitle
you to the gratitude of your country."
"I am happy in having merited your approbation."
"You have behaved gallantly in the action; and, I repeat, you shall be
remembered. What can I do for you, Mr. Somers?"
"Nothing more for me, admiral. You have done more for me now than I
deserve. Mr. Longstone, the boatswain of the Chatauqua, who saved my
life--"
"I know all about him, Mr. Somers. He was your right-hand man in the
capture of the Ben Lomond."
"He was, sir."
"He shall not be forgotten."
"I have already been rewarded more than I deserve--"
"No, you haven't. Mr. Pillgrim promised you a lieutenant's commission,
if you brought out his steamer. I ratify that promise. As to the
boatswain, it is a pity he is not an educated man; but he shall be cared
for."
"Thank you, sir."
But Somers was too faint to talk any longer, and the admiral passed to
other of the noble fellows who had been wounded on that eventful day.
The sufferer's cot was placed on the ward-room floor, for the
state-rooms and berths were already full. In one of them lay Admiral
Buchanan, who had commanded the rebel fleet. He had been wounded in the
leg in the battle, and he had lost the battle itself, which, to a proud,
brave spirit, was worse than losing a leg.
Somers was now suffering the most intense pain, which he bore like a
hero. Tom Longstone bent tenderly over him, his eyes filled with tears,
and uttered his adieus. With a hand as gentle as a woman's, he pillowed
his head on the couch, and smoothed back his hair from his eyes. He
would gladly have gone with his wounded friend, to lave his fevered brow
and speak words of comfort and encouragement to him; but neither of them
thought of such a thing, for the admiral's fleet was in the enemy's
waters, and every man was needed at his post.
The Metacomet, having received her precious freight of mangled heroes,
cast off her moorings, and, passing the fort, turned her prow to the
eastward. On her arrival at Pensacola, the sufferers were transferred to
the hospital, where they received every attention which willing hands
and generous hearts could bestow.
Fort Morgan surrendered to the combined forces of the army and navy
before the end of the month, and Mobile Bay was in undisputed possession
of the government. The work undertaken by the brave admiral had been
fully completed. Mobile was now a cipher, so far as the Confederacy was
concerned, though a great bluster was made of defending it to the last.
Somers had been three weeks in the hospital, and doubtless owed his life
to the skill of the surgeon and the attentions of the nurses. He had
been injured internally, as Dr. De Plesion feared; but he had begun to
improve, though he was still unable to sit up. He had endured the
severest pain, and the doctor had not concealed from him his fears of a
fatal result, because the patience and firmness, but especially the
religious faith, of the sufferer warranted him in doing so.
Day after day and night after night Somers struggled with his condition,
in faith, patience, and resignation. He felt that he was ready to leave
the world, full of joys and hopes as it was, for the purer hopes and
brighter joys of the eternal world beyond the grave. He thought of his
mother, and wished that she might be with him to smooth his dying
pillow, if he must die; but it was not the will of God, and he did not
murmur. He thought of Kate Portington. He would like to see her once
more before he passed away, but this was a vain wish; and from her and
the loved ones at home he turned to the glorious realities of the
immortal life--fitting theme for one who was trembling between life and
death.
In the midst of his pain and earthly loneliness he was happy. He could
not but recall the scene of Phil Kennedy's death-bed; of the agony of
remorse which shook him, as he looked back upon his past life; of the
terrors with which his stricken conscience invested the grave. Then the
sufferer, in the deepest depths of his heart, thanked God that he had
been enabled to be true to himself and to duty. He was happy in the
past, happy in the hope of the future. There was much to regret and to
repent of; but as he did regret and repent, he felt that he was
forgiven.
He was happy; and the joy of that hour, when an approving conscience
triumphs over bodily pain, and decks the waiting tomb with flowers, was
worth the struggle with the legions of temptations which all must
encounter.
We are best fitted to live when best prepared to die. Somers waited with
hope and resignation for the angel of death, but he came not. The very
calmness with which he regarded the open tomb, assisted in closing its
portals to him. At the end of two weeks the doctor spoke more of life
than of death; at the end of three he spoke not at all of the grim
messenger--grim he was, even when he wore the chaplet of flowers with
which Faith and Hope ever crown him.
Somers was out of danger. The internal inflammation passed away, and the
patient began to mend. He thought of life now, of meeting the loved ones
who, afar off, had sadly spoken farewells to him when he departed from
their presence, with all the fearful perils of storm and battle hanging
over him.
On the day after the news of the surrender of Fort Morgan arrived, the
Chatauqua dropped her anchor off Pensacola. A boat immediately put off
from her, containing Boatswain Longstone, who landed, and hastened to
the hospital with all possible speed. Probably there had hardly been an
hour since the Metacomet left Mobile Bay with the wounded, in which Tom
had not thought of Somers. The old man was as eager and impatient as a
child, and could hardly submit to the formalities necessary to procure
admission to the hospital.
"My darling!" exclaimed the veteran, as he crept up to the bed of his
young friend.
He walked lightly, and spoke softly and tenderly, for he knew how sick
Somers had been.
"Ah, Tom, I am glad to see you," replied the patient, as he extended his
thin hand, which the boatswain eagerly seized, though he handled it as
tenderly as a bashful youth does the hand of the maiden he loves. "It
does my eyes good to look upon you, Tom."
"Jack, I've been dying to see you. They told me you were in a bad way,
and might slip your cable any moment."
"I have not expected to live, until a week ago."
"God bless you, Jack! I was never so happy in my life;" and the
boatswain actually wept,--great, strong, weather-stained veteran as he
was, who had breasted the storms of four and thirty years on the ocean.
"I know how you feel, Tom."
"So you may, Jack,--I beg pardon, Mr.--"
"Call me Jack, now," interposed Somers, with a faint smile; "it sounds
like old times. You have been the making of me, Tom, and we won't stand
on ceremony, as long as we are not on board the ship."
The boatswain still held the attenuated hand of his sick friend, and
they talked of the past and of the present; of the battle, and of the
subsequent events in the bay. But Tom Longstone seemed to be thinking
all the time of something else.
"What have you got on, Tom?" asked Somers, as he noticed a "foul anchor"
on his shoulder, and a band of gold lace on his sleeve.
"What have I got on? Why, I always wear my colors, of course," replied
Tom, with a smile of the deepest satisfaction.
"But those are not the colors of a boatswain in the United States Navy."
"That's a fact, Jack. I'm not a boatswain, just now."
"Indeed!"
"I'm an acting ensign."
"Is it possible?" exclaimed Somers, not less pleased than the veteran.
"It's a fact, my darling; but before we spin any more yarns, here's a
document for you. Shall I open it?" continued Tom, as he took from his
breast pocket a huge official envelope, whose appearance was entirely
familiar to Somers.
"If you please."
It was directed to "Lieutenant John Somers;" and the superscription
sufficiently indicated the nature of its contents.
"God bless the admiral!" said Somers.
"God bless the admiral!" repeated Tom, glancing reverently upward as he
spoke.
The commission was dated before the news of the battle in Mobile Bay
could have reached Washington. It followed the reception of the
despatches concerning the capture of the Ben Lomond; and Tom Longstone
had been made an acting ensign, though he still retained his warrant as
a boatswain, for his conduct in the same affair.
"I congratulate you, Tom, on this promotion," said Somers.
"Thank you, Jack; and I congratulate you as Lieutenant Somers. You are a
'regular,' but I'm only an 'acting,'" replied the veteran. "When the
war's over, I shall be a boatswain again."
"I am more rejoiced for you than for myself, Tom."
"Just like you, Jack. If I made you, I'm sure you made me. I got my
rating as boatswain's mate in the Rosalie through you, and then I was
made a boatswain for what I did with you. Now I'm an ensign by your
doings. I suppose you think I'm not up to it, Jack."
"Yes, I do. I know you are. There's nothing about a ship that you don't
know as well as the admiral himself, except--"
"Except," laughed Tom, as Somers paused, "except what?"
"Navigation."
"I know something about that, Jack--I do, upon my honor."
"I do not doubt it."
"When I first went into the navy, I was a regular sea dandy. I used big
words, as long as the coach-whip; but I soon found a man must not talk
above his station. When I was a young man, I wasn't a bad scholar. I
went to the academy, and learned surveying; I meant to be a surveyor;
but I got a hitch, and went to sea."
"A hitch?"
"Well, I never mention it now. Squire Kent's daughter didn't treat me as
handsomely as she did another young fellow, and I drank more liquor than
was good for me. I got run down; and when I had payed out all the
respectability I had, I went to sea. That cured me of drinking; in fact,
I became a temperance man before the grog rations were stopped in the
navy. As I said, I was pretty well educated, and talked as well as the
officers on the quarter deck. But my shipmates laughed at me, and I soon
dropped down into using sea slang."
"I have noticed that your speech has been wonderfully improved since you
were made a boatswain."
"I've been trying to cure my bad habits. I've been lying round loose in
the navy for thirty years before the war began. I tried to be honest and
true, but the war has set me right up. I haven't told you the best of
the news yet, Jack."
"What more?"
"You are appointed to the Ben Lomond as prize master, and I'm going with
you as second officer. The admiral says you shall take the prize home,
if she has to wait two months for you. She is yours, and you shall have
the command of her."
"He is very kind; but I do not think I shall be able to take command at
present."
"We are to go as soon as the doctor will let you be carried on board of
her. Jack, the Ben Lomond is going into the navy; and if I mistake not,
she will be in command of Lieutenant Somers."
"That would be the height of my ambition. Indeed, I never aspired to
anything so great as the command of a fine steamer."
"You'll have her; the admiral is your friend. If you do, I shall be in
the ward-room. Splinter my timber-heads! Only think of that! Tom
Longstone a ward-room officer!"
"You deserve it, Tom."
In the course of the week, other officers of the Chatauqua visited the
patient, and at the end of that period the doctor permitted Somers to be
conveyed on board the Ben Lomond.
CHAPTER XXVII.
MISS PORTINGTON NOT AT HOME.
Pillgrim and Langdon had been in close confinement at Pensacola since
their capture. They were now placed on board of the Ben Lomond to be
sent north. An apartment was specially fitted up for their use in the
steerage, for they were regarded as dangerous men, to whom bolts, bars,
and other obstacles, were but trifling impediments. A sufficient number
of marines to guard them were detailed for duty on the passage, and the
steamer sailed for Boston, where the prize was to be adjusted.
Somers was now improving very rapidly, and before he left the hospital,
had sat up a small portion of each day. The pleasant intelligence
brought to him by Tom Longstone had not retarded his recovery; on the
contrary, the bright hopes of the future which it suggested, rather
stimulated his feeble frame, and assisted in his restoration to health.
The steamer had fine weather on the passage, with the exception of a
gale of thirty hours' duration. She put into Hampton Roads, and landed
her prisoners at Fortress Monroe, in accordance with the orders of her
commander, and then proceeded to Boston. The Ben Lomond behaved
remarkably well in the heavy weather she experienced, proving herself to
be a strongly-built and substantial vessel. Somers sent his despatches
to Washington from Fortress Monroe.
When the Ben Lomond sailed into Boston Harbor, Somers was able to go on
deck, for with each day of the voyage his health had continued to
improve. The steamer was duly handed over to the naval authorities, and
the young lieutenant was granted a furlough of sixty days.
"Our cruise is up," said Tom Longstone, when the business had been
completed.
"For the present, we have nothing to do; but I hope we shall soon
receive our orders," replied Somers. "Now, Tom, you will go down to
Pinchbrook with me, and spend a couple of months."
"Thank you, Jack; I hardly think I should know how to behave in a house
on shore, it is so long since I have been in one."
"You will soon learn."
They went to Pinchbrook, and Tom received a welcome almost as cordial as
that extended to Somers. The veteran was soon made entirely at home by
his young friend's father, and such a "spinning of yarns" for thirty
days had never been known before. Tom told a story of the Cumberland;
then Captain Somers had a West India yarn; and gran'ther Greene was
indulgently permitted to relate his experience in the "last war," though
it was observed that the old man, whose memory was much impaired, always
told the same story.
Never did a happier trio gather around a kitchen fire than that which
sat around the cook-stove at Pinchbrook on those autumn mornings. Very
likely Mrs. Somers thought the "men folks" were in the way at times;
but, she was too much interested in the stories told, and too good
natured to raise an objection, especially when John joined the party.
In the mean time, Somers was rapidly regaining his health and strength.
As may be supposed, he was a lion in Pinchbrook, and was invited to
every party and every merry-making in the place. Captain Barney was with
him a great deal, and was as fond of him as though he had been his own
son. Of course the young ladies of Pinchbrook regarded the lieutenant as
a great man; and if it had not been known in town that he was "paying
attention" to a commodore's daughter, he might have been absolutely
persecuted by the fair ones of his native village.
In strict observance of his promise, Somers had written several letters
to Kate Portington, but had received no answer. These epistles, with the
exception of an occasional playful remark, were confined to the details
of his naval operations. The events of his career were faithfully
recorded, and they were in no sense such productions as many silly young
men would have written under similar circumstances. No answer to any of
them had been received.
Since his arrival at Pinchbrook, Somers had written two letters; but at
the end of the first month of his furlough, he had not heard a word from
Kate. He was troubled, and no doubt thought Kate was very cold and
cruel. He knew that Pillgrim had not seen her, and therefore could not
have prejudiced her against him. It was possible that his letters had
not reached their destination; Kate might be away from home; and he was
not willing to believe that anything had occurred to make her less
friendly to him than formerly.
Somers, as we have so often had occasion to represent him, was always in
favor of "facing the music." If there was anything the matter, he wanted
to know it. If the lady wished to discontinue the acquaintance, he
wanted to know that; and when he could no longer content himself in
Pinchbrook, with the question unsettled, he started for Newport. On his
arrival he proceeded at once to the residence of Commodore Portington.
With a firm hand he rang the bell--in surprising contrast with his first
visit, for now he was firm and decided.
The servant informed him that Miss Portington was at home, and he sent
up his card. Somers sat nervously waiting the issue. Presently the
servant returned and handed him a card, on which was written, "Miss
Portington is not at home to Mr. John Somers."
He was confounded by this cool reply. Though her present conduct was in
accordance with the unanswered letters, he had not expected to be thus
rudely repelled. If she had any objection to him, why didn't she tell
him so? He had done his duty to his country, and kept his promises to
her. It was the severest blow he had ever received.
He read the card, rose from his chair, and left the house, as dignified
