Her mother thought that Margaret had given up the idea of leaving the
house. It was only an invalid’s fancy, she thought. But Margaret had a
purpose in view, and only deferred carrying it out till her weakness had
somewhat abated. On the third day, though still far from strong, she
determined to leave the house. Knowing that her mother would never
consent, she devised a stratagem to get her out of the way.
“Is there an orange in the house?” she asked, immediately after
breakfast.
“No, Margaret.”
“I am sorry; I think I could relish one.”
“I can get one at the store.”
“But that is a good ways off. Isn’t it, mother?”
“Only quarter of a mile.”
“It is too far for you to go.”
“Too far? I go there several times a week, Margaret.”
“Then if it will not be too much trouble, I should really like to have
you go.”
“I will go immediately. Isn’t there anything else you would like?”
“Nothing, mother.”
“God forgive me for deceiving her!” thought Margaret. “But I cannot do
otherwise. He knows that.”
Scarcely was her mother out of the house than Margaret hastily rose from
the bed, and with trembling fingers arrayed herself in the garments
which had been so long laid aside. They had been carefully washed and
mended by her mother, so that they looked comparatively respectable. She
threw them on very hastily, fearing that her mother would return and
detect her. She saw half a dollar on the mantel. This also she took,
knowing that she should need money, and left the house.
When her mother returned with the orange she found, to her dismay, that
her daughter had disappeared. On the table there was a scrap of paper,
with these words traced hurriedly upon it:—
    “Forgive the artifice I have employed, dear mother. I knew you
    would not let me go, and I must. There is something of great
    importance that I must attend to without delay. When that is over,
    I may come back to you.
                                                            “MARGARET.
    “P. S. I took a half dollar from the mantel, as I may need it.”
                            CHAPTER XXXIII.
                          THE GOOD SAMARITAN.
Surprised and terrified at her daughter’s disappearance, the old lady
went to the door and, shading her eyes, looked anxiously up the road,
but with her failing eyesight she was unable to catch sight of the
fugitive.
“The child must be crazy,” she said to herself. “She’ll catch her death
of cold, going out so soon after the fever. I must go after her and
bring her back.”
Putting on her hood once more, the old lady went out, and took the road
towards the city. But she did not find her daughter. Returning with a
heavy heart and a sense of deep perplexity she sat down to her knitting,
first carefully putting away the orange, which she thought Margaret
might like to eat if, as she hoped, she should discover her weakness and
return home at night.
But Margaret did not come that night, nor yet again the next.
When she left her mother’s house she hurried forward at a greater speed
than her strength admitted, so great was her anxiety to elude pursuit.
She had not gone half a mile when she found her strength failing her.
Quite exhausted, she staggered to a flat stone by the side of the road,
and sat down.
“Mother was right,” she said to herself; “I am not strong enough for
this journey; but I must get on somehow now that I have started.”
At this moment her eye rested on the half dollar which she had taken,
and which she still held in her hand.
“Perhaps this will procure me a ride,” she thought. “What matter if I am
penniless afterwards. I only care to live long enough to be revenged.”
She looked back on the road she had travelled, hoping to see some wagon
which might serve her purpose.
A little distance off was a covered market wagon, advancing at a good
round pace. The driver was a stout, pleasant-looking man, and Margaret,
hurriedly scanning his features, judged that she might venture to accost
him.
She accordingly rose from the stone on which she had been sitting, and
made a gesture for him to stop.
Somewhat surprised, he called out: “Hold up, Dick! Now, ma’am, what can
I do for you?”
“Would you be willing to take a passenger to New York?”
“Yes, ma’am, just as lieves as not.”
“I am quite willing to pay you. Will that be enough?” asked Margaret,
offering the half dollar.
“Yes, ma’am; enough, and fifty cents too much. Your company will be pay
enough. But, hold on a minute; I’ll jump out and help you in.”
“Thank you; I have been sick, and am not so strong as usual, otherwise I
would not trouble you.”
“No trouble at all. You look as if you’d been sick,—kinder peaked, just
as my Sarah Jane looked after she’d had the fever. Ain’t it rather
imprudent for you to be out?”
“Perhaps it is; but I have something to do which cannot be delayed.”
The driver seemed disposed to be social and communicative.
“I’d orter be pretty well used to this road; I’ve come on it twice a
week for the last fifteen years.”
“Have you?” said Margaret, listlessly.
“Yes, marketing. That’s my business. I’ve got a regular run of
customers, you see, and they’ve got used to me, and know I’ll never
bring anything but what’s good. There’s Judge Harcouth now; may be you
to know the judge?”
“No.”
“His wife won’t never buy no sausages except what I bring. Well, mine
are pretty good, if I do say it. I get old Marm Brown to make ‘em, and
she’d orter know how, for she’s been in the business for forty years. Do
you like sausages?”
“I don’t know,” said Margaret, who had not heard a word that was said.
“Don’t know,” repeated the driver, staring at her in surprise.
“Excuse me; I didn’t hear what you said.”
“I asked if you liked sausages. Some folks have a prejudice agin ‘em.”
“Yes, pretty well.”
“I like to have company,” continued the driver; “like to have somebody
to talk to. Talkin’s natural to the family. My mother had a pretty long
tongue, and used to use it most all the time, so that none of the rest
of us could get in a word edgeways.”
Apparently, the mother’s gift had descended to the son, for he kept up a
constant stream of talk, which was fortunate for Margaret, for he
expected little in the way of response, and so was less likely to notice
her abstraction.
“Last week I brought my oldest boy, Hamlet, with me. Queer name, isn’t?”
“No.”
“Why, ‘taint very common,” said the driver, a little surprised at this
negative.
“That is what I mean,” said Margaret, hurriedly.
“I s’pose you wonder what made me give him such a name, but the fact is
my own name is pretty common. You may have heard of John Smith?”
“I think I have heard the name,” said Margaret, absently.
Her grave manner was thought to conceal something jocose by Mr. Smith,
who laughed heartily, ejaculating “Good, by jingo!” somewhat to
Margaret’s surprise.
“That’s why,” he resumed, “I thought I’d give my children at least one
name that wasn’t common, so I concluded to ask the schoolmaster for
some. He told me I’d find what I wanted in Shakespeare, so I bought a
copy second hand, and the very fust name I come across was Hamlet. So I
gave that name to my oldest boy. My second boy’s name is Othello—the
boys call him Old Fellow; pretty good joke, isn’t it? I didn’t know till
afterwards that it was the name of a nigger, or I shouldn’t have taken
it. However, it sounds pretty well; think so?”
“Yes.”
“Then I’ve got two girls, I call them Desdemony and Parsley, and the
baby we haven’t decided about, but I reckon we shall call him Falstaff.
Falstaff was a good-natured old fellow as fur as I’ve read about him.
But I don’t know as you’re interested about these matters.”
“Oh, yes,” said Margaret, looking straight before her in the direction
of the city, whose spires were now discernible.
“Got any children of your own, ma’am?”
“No.”
“I calculate you’re married?”
“Yes—no,” said Margaret, agitated, for the question opened her wound
afresh.
“Queer customer, I calc’late,” thought Mr. Smith. “Don’t seem to know
whether she’s married or not. May be she’s been divorced.”
“Excuse me,” said Margaret, feeling it necessary to say something. “I
believe I am not strong enough to talk much.”
“Oh well, I’ll do all the talkin’,” said the driver, good-naturedly.
“You don’t look very rugged, that’s a fact. Ever tried Dr. Bangs’s
Bitters?”
“No.”
“Well, my wife thinks a sight of ‘em; says they go right to the weak
spot. Better buy some when you get a good chance.”
So Mr. Smith ran on, satisfied with an occasional response from
Margaret, till they reached the paved streets where the noise was too
great to admit of being easily heard.
“Where do you want to get out?” shouted Mr. Smith. “I’ll pull up
whenever you say so.”
When they reached the central part of the city, Margaret gave the
signal, and Mr. Smith assisted her out.
“You had better let me pay you,” she said.
“No, no, you’re perfectly welcome. I like company. It sort of shortens
the way. Just hail me again whenever you’re going my way, and I’ll give
you a lift and welcome.”
“Thank you; you are very kind.”
Margaret mechanically took the first street that led into Broadway. She
felt more at home in a crowd, and scarcely knowing where she was going,
walked slowly along the sidewalk, jostled on this side and on that, but
apparently without heeding it.
At length her attention was attracted.
On the opposite side of the street a couple were walking slowly,
chatting in a lively way as they walked. The lady was gayly dressed, and
was evidently pleased with the attentions of her companion. He is an old
acquaintance, Jacob Wynne, the scrivener, but no more resembling his
former self than a butterfly the chrysalis from which it emerged. Lewis
Rand had paid him the thousand dollars agreed upon, and he had
patronized the tailor extensively in consequence. He was now fashionably
attired, and had the air of one on whom fortune smiles.
It was only by chance that Margaret’s attention was drawn to him.
When she recognized him, all at once her heart sank within her. In her
enfeebled state the shock was too great. She sank upon a step half
fainting.
It was the step of a fashionable store, and she was directly in the way
of those entering.
“Come, be off,” said a clerk, rudely; “we can’t have any vagabonds
here.”
Margaret’s look of weakness and helpless misery, as she tried to rise,
attracted the attention of a young girl who was passing. It was Helen
Ford, just returning from rehearsal at the theatre.
“Are you sick?” she asked, in a tone of sympathy.
“I am afraid I am,” said Margaret, faintly.
“Where is your home? Let me lead you to it.”
“My home!” repeated Margaret. “I have none.”
“No home!” said Helen, in a tone of compassion. “Then where do you
expect to sleep to-night?”
“Heaven only knows.”
“If you will come with me, I will take care of you to-night,” said
Helen. “You are too sick to be out.”
“Will you, indeed, be so kind?” said Margaret, gratefully.
“I shall be glad to help you. Now lean on my arm. Don’t be afraid; I am
strong.”
Margaret rose, and with tottering step accompanied Helen to the
boarding-house. She led her up stairs to Martha Grey’s apartment.
Quickly communicating to Martha where and under what circumstances she
had found her, she asked the seamstress if she would be willing to allow
her to remain with her. Martha readily entered into Helen’s charitable
views, and together they strove to make their unexpected visitor
comfortable.
Helen little suspected that the woman whom in her compassion she had
succored, had it in her power to restore to her father the estate of
which he had been defrauded. Sometimes even in this world the good
Samaritan receives his reward.
                             CHAPTER XXXIV.
                         JACOB SEALS HIS FATE.
“How do you feel this morning?” asked Helen, as she entered Martha’s
room.
Her question was addressed to Margaret, who, wan and pale, was seated at
a table eating some toast, which the compassionate seamstress in her
kindness had prepared for her.
“I am much better,” said Margaret, though her appearance did not bear
out the assertion.
“It will take some time yet for you to recover fully; you need rest and
freedom from care.”
“Freedom from care!” repeated Margaret, smiling bitterly. “Yes, that is
what I need, but where shall I find it?”
“With us,” answered Martha, gently.
“What!” exclaimed Margaret, fixing her eyes upon the seamstress in
surprise, “would you be burdened with me?”
“We shall not consider it a burden,” said Helen, “and I am sure we ought
to welcome an opportunity to be of service to any one of our
fellow-creatures.”
“Yet,” said Margaret, suffering her eyes to wander about the room, with
its plain and scanty furniture, “you cannot be rich—even one person
must——”
“No, we are far from rich,” said Helen, divining what she would have
said, “but neither are we very poor. I am paid quite a large salary for
singing, and—and you must not think of the expense.”
“But I am a stranger to you,” said Margaret; “why are you so kind to
me?”
“Because you are in trouble.”
“Perhaps I may make an ungrateful return. Suppose I should take the
opportunity to rob you?”
Helen laughed merrily.
“We are not afraid,” she said; “besides, I think you would be puzzled to
find anything worth taking.”
Margaret smiled faintly.
“I see you are not suspicious; I envy you that. There was a time when I
was as trustful, and as firm a believer in human goodness as you are.
But that time has passed, never to return.”
“I am afraid,” said Martha, “that your experience has not been an
agreeable one.”
“I have seen trouble,” said Margaret, briefly.
“There may be better times in store; I shall know soon.”
“Let us hope there will be,” said Martha, cheerfully.
“Amen!” said Margaret.
“I must go to rehearsal now,” said Helen. “When I return, I will call
in.”
“What is her name?” questioned Margaret, abruptly, as the door closed
upon Helen.
“Helen.”
“I mean the last name.”
“Her father goes by the name of Ford, but Helen has told me within a day
or two that his real name is Rand.”
“Rand!” repeated Margaret, starting in surprise.
“Yes.”
She remembered that this was the name which had been so many times
repeated on the paper which her husband had employed in trying his pen.
“Do you know anything of the name!” asked Martha, observing that her
companion seemed struck by it.
“I have heard of a man by the name—a rich man.”
“Probably Helen’s grandfather.”
“How comes it, then, that she is living here.”
“Some family estrangement. Her grandfather supposed until nearly the
last moment of his life that his son was dead. It was too late to alter
his will, and so Helen and her father are left penniless.”
“And who inherited the property then?” demanded Margaret, eagerly.
“A cousin of Mr. Ford’s—I mean of Mr. Rand’s.”
“And I know by what means he acquired it,” thought Margaret. “It may be
that—but I must see Jacob first.”
From this moment Margaret became restless. She felt that she could not
be at peace till the issue was decided. She determined once more to
appeal to Jacob, and ascertain beyond a doubt whether the statement
which he had made respecting their marriage was really true, or only
fabricated to vex her. This question must first be decided, and then—why
then she would be guided by circumstances.
She rose from her seat, and threw her shawl over her shoulders.
“Where are you going?” asked Martha, pausing in her work.
“I must go. I have something to do which cannot be delayed.”
“But are you able to go out?” questioned the seamstress.
“Perhaps not; but it would do me more harm to remain here, feeling that
I ought to be elsewhere, that things might go wrong without me, than the
exposure and exertion of going out.”
“You will come back here when you have accomplished what you desire?”
“I think so—I cannot tell—I will not promise,” returned Margaret, with
an air of indecision; “but at any rate, whether I come or not, I thank
you heartily for all your kindness to me, and for all that you have
offered to do for me. I am not so used to kindness that I can afford to
think little of it.”
“I am afraid it will be too much for her,” thought Martha, as Margaret
left the room with an unsteady step. “There is plainly some mysterious
sorrow which is preying upon her mind. If I could find out what it is, I
would try to comfort her.”
Margaret, on reaching the street got into an omnibus which set her down
at the corner of the street on which Jacob Wynne lived.
We will precede her.
The scrivener is seated at a small table. Before him are several small
piles of gold which he is counting out from a larger one before him. It
is the money which Lewis Rand paid him for his complicity in the
iniquitous scheme, the success of which has robbed Helen and her father
of a princely inheritance.
Jacob’s eyes sparkled as they rested on the glittering coins before him,
and in his heart, as in that of his employer on the day of his uncle’s
death, there springs up the exulting thought: “And all this is mine.”
But while he is thus engaged, there is a footfall on the stairs, the
step of one ascending slowly and with effort, but Jacob is too much
absorbed in his pleasing employment to heed or hear it.
A moment afterwards, and through the half-open door a woman’s face is
seen peering. Margaret’s face is thin and pale, the result of her recent
exhausting illness, and there is a look of weariness besides, induced by
the too great exertion of walking in her weakened state; but her eyes
are painfully bright, and her expression pale, thin, and weary as she
is, is one of stern determination.
“Seven hundred!” said Jacob, as he completed the seventh pile, and
commenced another, unconscious of the eyes that were fixed upon him.
Margaret paused a moment on the threshold. She saw before her a man who,
low and mean and ignoble as he was, had won her heart in the days of her
youthful freshness, and now in spite of the resentment which she felt at
his unworthy treatment, she could not look upon him without a
pang,—without a longing to become to him once more what she had been.
“Jacob!” she uttered in an uncertain voice.
Jacob Wynne turned round with a guilty start as though he had been
detected in some knavery, and half unconsciously drew his sleeve over
the pile of gold, as if to screen it from observation. When he saw who
it was that had so startled him, a frown gathered upon his face, and he
said, impatiently,—
“You here, Margaret?”
“You seem glad to see me after my long absence!” she said. “By your
leave I will take a seat, as I am somewhat tired.”
He looked uneasily at her, not feeling altogether certain of her purpose
in calling, and muttered, half to himself, “I wish you had waited till
next week.”
“Why should you wish that?” she asked, catching his words.
“Because I shall then be gone,” he said, coldly.
“Gone! Where?”
“Never mind! Why should you want to know?” he demanded, sulkily.
“Why, indeed?” echoed she, fixing her eyes upon his face; “what should
your motives be to me, who have only devoted ten years of my life to
your service? What should you be to me, Jacob Wynne?”
“Well,” he said. “I will no longer require such a sacrifice at your
hands. Ten years are quite enough to satisfy me. Henceforth you shall be
at perfect liberty to devote yourself to whom you will. I will promise
not to interfere.”
Margaret pressed her hand upon her heart as if to still its tumultuous
throbbing, at this cruel taunt from one whom she had so much loved, and
for whom, despite the discovery she had made of his baseness and
unworthiness, she could not altogether stifle the old affection.
“You say this because you are irritated, Jacob,” she returned. “You do
not, you cannot mean it. Tell me so. Tell me that you have been only
trying me all this time, and though it has made me very, very wretched,
although it has thrown me into a fever and rendered me as weak as you
now see me, I will forget it all, and will once more devote myself to
you with the same loving devotion as in the old times when we were
young, and—and happier than we are now, Jacob.”
In her earnestness she rose, and going towards the copyist, placed her
hand upon his arm.
“One often says in anger what he does not mean,” she continued, rapidly.
“I know that well. I have done so myself; and it is so with you, Jacob,
is it not? I knew it must be so when you spoke such cruel words to me at
the island so many weeks ago, and yet, Jacob, and yet it hurt me,” she
placed her hand upon her heart; “it hurt me here, when you said such
words even in jest. I was not strong enough to bear them, and they made
me sick. That very night I was attacked with a fever, and from that day
to this I have been stretched upon a sick-bed. Look at my face. See how
thin and pale it is. I ought not to be out to-day, and only succeeded by
an artifice in eluding the vigilance of my mother, who has been my
faithful nurse.”
“Why, then, did you come?” asked Jacob, coldly.
“Because I could not bear the intolerable weight of suspense. Those
words kept ringing in my ears, and I could not cease from anxiety until
I could see you and have them explained.”
Margaret looked imploringly in the face of the scrivener, as she
finished her appeal. She had spoken more confidently than she felt.
There was little in the sullen, cruel face before her to give her
encouragement. She felt that she had staked all her happiness upon a
single throw,—that the answer which he gave her then and there would
determine once and forever her future happiness or misery, and it might
be his.
Jacob regarded the anxious face before him with the triumph that a low
mind always feels when it has by any means gained an ascendency over a
stronger one. The nature of Margaret was superior to his, and he knew
it. It was the uneasy feeling of inferiority produced by this
circumstance, that led to a mean jealousy on his part which found its
gratification in any humiliation to which it was in his power to subject
her.
“I do not understand,” he said, deliberately, “why my words should stand
in need of explanation. I endeavored to make them sufficiently
intelligible.”
“You do not remember what you said, Jacob. I am sure that you cannot, or
you would not speak thus,” she said, earnestly.
“Perhaps your memory is better,” said the scrivener, sneeringly.
“Possibly you will do me the favor to repeat it.”
“Repeat it!”
“Yes, I said so,” triumphing as he spoke over her evident distress;
“come, I am listening.”
He drew his chair round so as to face Margaret, and fixed his eyes
cruelly upon her. Margaret was a creature of impulse. Hers was no calm,
equable temperament. Her features could express trustful, confiding
affection, or the intensity of scorn and hatred. She had come to make a
last appeal to Jacob Wynne. He did not deserve it, but it is hard for a
woman to resolve to injure a man who has been to her an object of
affection. Jacob had often treated her with harshness. This she could
bear, but the revelation of his perfidy, which she had heard from his
own lips at Staten Island, came upon her with the force of a sudden
blow, which at once prostrated her. This was an insult which she could
not forgive, if his words were indeed true. In the hope, slight as it
was, that it might prove to have been merely an outburst of Jacob’s
irritability, she had determined upon this interview that her doubts
might be set at rest. Had Jacob known the purpose which was in her
heart, and the precise character of the motive which had brought her to
him, he would have been more cautious in exasperating a woman who had
his ruin in her power. This, however, he did not know. He underrated
Margaret’s strength of mind; he regarded her as one whom he might
ill-treat with impunity, who might annoy him, to be sure, but was
incapable of doing him any serious injury; whom he could shake off at
any time, as he had resolved to do now.
When Margaret saw the triumphant smile upon his face, she felt that her
worst fears were likely to be realized. Still she resolved not to forego
her purpose. Dropping the pleading tone which she had hitherto employed,
she said, with an outward calmness which surprised Jacob, and which she
only assumed by a determined effort,—
“Be it so. Since you desire it, I will force myself to repeat those
words. You remember, Jacob, the occasion of my presenting myself before
you. Without my knowledge you had invited a young woman to accompany you
to Staten Island.”
“And did you think I was responsible to you? Would you have had me ask
your gracious permission?” asked Jacob, with a sneer.
“You can tell best,” said Margaret, steadily, “whether this excursion
was made accidentally or purposely, without my knowledge; if the latter,
it betrayed a consciousness on your part that I had a right to object.”
“But I told you——”
“Wait,” said Margaret, commandingly, “I will come to that by and by. I
learned your plan, it matters not in what manner, and followed you; I
marked your devoted attentions to your companion, and it deepened in me
the sense of wrong and neglect which I had noticed for a long time. You
believed me safe at home all this time.”
“I wish to heaven you had been,” muttered Jacob.
Unheeding the interruption, Margaret continued,—
“You will not be surprised that this should have excited some uneasiness
on my part. I followed you constantly, watching for an opportunity to
speak to you alone. At length you left your companion for a brief
period, and then I found the opportunity I had been seeking. I ventured
to expostulate with you on conduct which I considered inconsistent with
your duty as a husband. Then it was, Jacob, that in your anger, you told
me that I, who had lived with you for ten years as your wife, and had
never for a moment forfeited or doubted my full claim to the title, that
I was mistaken; that at the altar an infamous deception had been
practised upon me, and the office of the clergyman was usurped by one of
your own unprincipled associates, who had no legal right to perform the
marriage ceremony. Have I represented all this correctly?”
“You have a most accurate memory,” said Jacob. “I have no exceptions to
take to your account, except on the score of its length, and the use of
certain adjectives.”
“Then I am to understand that this was no fabrication on your part,
Jacob Wynne, but the plain truth?”
“Most unquestionably.”
“You further gave me to understand,” continued Margaret, in the same
strangely calm tone, “and to-day you have repeated the intimation, that
my company is unwelcome; in short, that you are weary of my society, and
wish to be rid of me.”
“You would have made a capital judge, madam,” said Jacob; “you are
admirable at summing up. You express my meaning better than I could do
it myself. I congratulate you the possession of such a talent. It will
save me further trouble. Have you anything more to say?”
Jacob expected that Margaret would burst into a passion of tears and
reproaches, as she had done before, and he was already gloating over her
distress in anticipation. Already with cowardly malignity, he was
coining in his brain some new and clever taunts with which he might add
to her distress, and touch her to the quick. It was, therefore, with
some degree of disappointment as well as surprise, that he was able to
detect no change in her calm expression.
“Very well,” she said, “I wished this matter understood between us.”
Then, seeming to notice for the first time the gold upon the table, she
added, indicating it with her finger, “Your affairs appear to be in a
more flourishing condition than when I saw you last.”
“Eh! What?” said Jacob, changing color and looking embarrassed.
“You are richer than you were,” said Margaret, in the same tone. “It
must have been an important service which has been so liberally
rewarded.”
“What do you mean?” demanded Jacob, with the apprehension of guilt,
regarding her uneasily.
“Mean!” repeated Margaret, as if surprised at the question, “what should
I mean? I merely expressed my surprise at your having so large a sum by
you. I should judge,” she continued, carelessly, “that there might be a
thousand dollars there.”
Jacob’s agitation increased with every word that Margaret uttered.
Conscious that he had committed a crime which made him liable to severe
legal penalties, the significant words of the woman he had wronged
excited in his mind a fear that, in some manner unknown to him, she had
become cognizant of it.
So does “Conscience make cowards of us all.”
How much more so in the case of the scrivener, who was cowardly at the
best.
“I must insist upon knowing what you mean by these insinuations,” he
said, with ill-concealed anxiety.
“Insinuations, Jacob Wynne! What have I insinuated?”
“Why, then, do you speak in this manner?” said he, hesitatingly; “this
money—belongs to a friend.”
“Indeed!” said Margaret, looking at him steadily; “and I suppose you
merely offered to count it over for him.”
“Well, and if I did,” said the scrivener, plucking up a little courage;
“have you any objections to offer?”
“I! What objection could I possibly have? You know I have no longer a
right to object to anything which you may see fit to do. By the way, you
spoke of removing. When do you go?”
This cool self-possession and absence of emotion on Margaret’s part
puzzled Jacob, and alarmed him more than threats of vengeance would have
done. He found it impossible to understand her.
“I don’t know,” he said, evasively, “I can’t tell. Why do you ask?”
“Because,” she answered, with a meaning look, “I may wish to call upon
you again. There is nothing strange in my desiring occasionally to call
upon an old acquaintance; is there, Jacob?”
He muttered something which was inaudible.
“But I fear I am taking up too much of your time. You know I have no
further claim upon you. Farewell, Jacob, I shall not lose sight of you.”
“Stay,” said Jacob, who had been considerably alarmed, and who was still
apprehensive that she might know more than he desired, “have you any
money?”
“Yes,” said Margaret, “I have this.”
She displayed the half dollar, or rather what remained of it, after
discharging her fare in the omnibus.
“That is very little. Take this.”
He took a gold piece from the pile that lay on the table, and handed it
to her. “Come, let us part friends.”
“You forget, Jacob, that this gold is not yours. It belongs to a
friend.”
“Never mind,” he muttered, “I can replace it.”
“No,” said she, decidedly, “I will not take it. I have no claim upon
you.”
She rose and passed out of the room, Jacob looking after her with an air
of mingled doubt, apprehension, and perplexity.
“I wish I knew,” he said to himself, “whether she has discovered
anything. But it can’t be possible. She appears strangely enough.
Perhaps her mind is unhinged by what I have told her. But I never could
have got on with her weighing me down. We must not meet again if it can
be avoided.”
Jacob resolved to remove on the very next day to the more comfortable
room, which he considered suited to the improvement in his
circumstances.
                             CHAPTER XXXV.
                           THE DENUNCIATION.
If Margaret had been calm in her interview with Jacob Wynne, it was an
unnatural calmness. Beneath the surface there were eddies of passionate
emotion which must, sooner or later, force their way to the light.
A sudden revulsion of feeling swept over her when, relieved from the
restraint which she had put upon herself in Jacob’s presence, she found
herself standing alone on the sidewalk beneath. Her strength, which had
been only kept up thus far by excitement, now gave way utterly, and she
leaned, faint and exhausted, against the side of the building. Even that
proved an insufficient support. Her limbs tottered, and she fell upon
the pavement.
When consciousness returned, she found herself surrounded by a crowd of
persons, most of whom had been attracted by curiosity, and only one or
two of whom proved of real service.
“Are you feeling better?” inquired a motherly-looking woman, gazing
compassionately at the wan and wasted features of Margaret.
“Where am I?” asked Margaret, looking half bewildered at the questioner.
“You have fainted on the sidewalk. I am afraid you are not strong.”
“No. I have been sick. But I remember now. I should like to see a
lawyer.”
Even in her weakness and physical prostration, she had not lost sight of
what must henceforth be her object—revenge upon him whose perfidy and
utter heartlessness she had now so fully proved.
“You mean a doctor,” said the woman, a little surprised.
“No,” repeated Margaret, with a touch of impatience in her voice. “I
want a lawyer.”
At this moment, a man in a white hat and with a very bland expression
upon his features, which, however, could not boast a remarkable degree
of beauty, elbowed his way vigorously through the crowd. With a graceful
inclination, Mr. Sharp, whom the reader will already have recognized
from the description given, proclaimed that he was an humble attorney at
her service.
“If you are a lawyer, I wish to consult you, but not before so many
people,” said Margaret, glancing at the curious faces of the bystanders.
“I will procure a carriage, madam,” said Mr. Sharp, with his usual
affability, “and we will proceed at once to my office, where we shall
run no risk of being disturbed.”
This course was accordingly taken, somewhat to the disappointment of
certain good people, who were burning for a solution of the mystery
which they were convinced existed somewhere.
In a few minutes Margaret was installed in Mr. Sharp’s office, and that
gentleman, with professional zeal and a lively hope that the lady before
him might prove a more profitable client than the state of her attire
seemed to promise, waited patiently for his visitor to announce her
business.
Margaret seemed to be lost in reflection, as if her mind were not wholly
made up about some matter. Fearing that she might not broach the subject
at all, and that he might thus lose the chance of the client which fate
seemed to have thrown in his way just as he had lost Lewis Rand, Mr.
Sharp thought it best to give her a gentle hint.
“As a lawyer, madam, I shall be glad to exert myself in your behalf to
the best of my professional ability. Will you have the kindness, as soon
as your strength is sufficiently restored, to state your case?”
Margaret aroused from her stupor. “Can you tell me,” she asked,
abruptly, “what punishment the law provides for forgery?”
The lawyer was taken by surprise. He wondered if his visitor had
committed, or perchance was contemplating such a crime, and wished to
learn how great a risk it involved.
“Forgery did I understand you to say, madam?” he inquired, partly with a
view to gain time.
“Yes.”
“Imprisonment for a term of years.”
“You are sure it is not punished with death,” she asked, eagerly.
“Not in this country. There was a time when it was so punished in
England.”
“How long is the usual term of imprisonment?”
“That depends, in some measure, upon the discretion of the court, which
is regulated by attendant circumstances. Possibly,” said the lawyer,
hazarding a conjecture, as Margaret remained silent, “you have a friend,
a relation perhaps (pardon me if I am wrong), who has been
unfortunate,”—a delicate way of hinting at crime,—“and in whose behalf
you have now come to consult me?”
“A friend!” repeated Margaret, with a bitter smile.
“I thought it possible,” said Mr. Sharp, mistaking her tone for one of
assent. “Well, madam, you must not allow yourself to be too much cast
down. I can easily conceive that your anxiety is aroused in your
friend’s behalf, but if one has ingenuity there are always methods of
evading the law, and if you will confide the case to me, I hope to
succeed in clearing your friend.”
“That is just what I do not wish.”
“Pardon me,” said the lawyer, in surprise. “I do not think I understand
you.”
“You do not. In the first place, it is not a friend in whose welfare I
am interested.”
“A relation?” suggested Mr. Sharp, still in the dark.
“He is nothing to me,—nothing, do you hear?” exclaimed Margaret, with
fierce emphasis. “At least, not now. What he has been it is needless for
you to know, or me to remember. Enough, that I have reason to hate him,
that I wish to be revenged upon him, and that I ask you to lend me your
assistance.”
“Explain the case, madam, if you please. I will give you my best
attention.”
“I have sworn to be revenged upon him, and I will,” said Margaret,
hoarsely, rather to herself than to the lawyer. “There shall be no
flinching now.”
She pressed her hand upon her breast, as if to still forcibly suppress
any remonstrance that might find a place there.
“This man,” she continued, in a hurried tone, “has committed forgery. As
yet, it is undiscovered. I wish him brought to justice.”
“What has he forged?”
“A will.”
“A will!” repeated Mr. Sharp, pricking up his ears with sudden interest.
“May I ask how you became acquainted with the fact?”
“I witnessed the deed.”
“Was the party aware of your presence?”
“Far from it. He supposed the knowledge confined to himself and one
other, who instigated him to the act, and rewarded him for it. He
supposed me asleep, but I saw and heard the whole from a place of
concealment.”
“This man is, I suppose, a copyist,—a professional writer?”
“Yes.”
“And the one who employed him,—do you know his name?” asked the lawyer,
with hardly concealed eagerness.
“It is Rand.”
“Rand!” echoed Mr. Sharp, triumphantly. “I suspected so.”
“Then you knew of this?” queried Margaret, surprised in her turn.
“No, but I am not surprised to hear it. I know Lewis Rand. He has been a
client of mine.”
“You will not thwart my plans?” said Margaret, apprehensively.
“On the contrary, what you have told me gives an additional inducement
to further them, since I have purposes of my own which will be served
thereby. Have you any corroborative evidence? Your testimony,
unsupported, might not be deemed sufficient.”
“I have this,” said Margaret, displaying the fragment of paper which she
had secured on her return from Staten Island, and which, as the reader
will remember, contained the name, Rand, several times repeated in
Jacob’s handwriting, as well as detached sentences of the will itself.
The handwriting was a close imitation of the original will.
“Ah!” said the lawyer, rubbing his hands; “that is very satisfactory.
With this and your testimony, the chain of proof will be complete.
Nothing stronger could be desired.”
“Then you think we shall succeed.”
“I have no doubt of it.”
“Whatever is to be done must be done quickly,” said Margaret, with a
certain feverish haste; for, now that her mind was made up, her restless
spirit craved immediate action. “This man—the copyist—is about to remove
from his old lodgings, and, if there is any delay, he will escape.
Besides, if he is apprehended at once, he will be found in possession of
the price of his guilt.”
“That will doubtless weigh against him. If you will furnish me with his
address, I will take measures to have him immediately arrested.”
The address was given and noted down. The lawyer still held the pen
suspended over the paper. “His name,—you have not mentioned that.”
Margaret hesitated. There was a brief internal conflict between her old
love and her present desire of revenge. The latter prevailed.
“His name,” she said, in a voice which was scarcely audible, “is Jacob
Wynne.”
“Jacob Wynne! Good!”
Mr. Sharp noted down the name in a business-like way, utterly
unconscious of the struggle in the mind of his client, before she could
resolve to utter it. When, however, it was pronounced, and she felt that
