lies in a long narrow valley, full of' vineyards and fruit-trees 
and gardens, with gray olive groves on the slope of the hills. 
The city is at the south end of the valley ; and near it, in 
those days, there was a grove of oaks belonging to one of the 
Canaanitish inhabitants. Under those oaks Abraham pitched 
his tent and built an altar. In the same way that every 
Bedouin sheikh at the present time chooses the freedom and 
independence of his own tent and the open country, rather 
than being shut up within the walls of a city." 
" You speak as if Abraham was just a wild Arab, unde 
Sam," said Priscilla. 
" What else was he, I should like to know ? except that the 
word 'wild' must be left out But he lived in every respect 
just like an Arab chief. The difference was in his religious 
character. And he was more stationary at Hebron than an 
Arab sheikh is apt to be anywhere. You must think of him 
as a wealthy chieftain, at the head of a large following of servants and dependants, whose tents were scattered over the 
tableland above the valley of Hebron ; while his immense 
herds and flocks wandered over all the hill-sides, cropping the 
sweet wild thyme that grows there, and were pastured no 
doubt where the vineyards of Hebron now fill every side 
hill. In those days Hebron was but a new city ; very lately 
built by one Arba, the father of the Anakim, and called after 
him, Ejijath-arba— that is, the city of Arba. Three thousand 
eight hundred years ago, it was a city ; one of the very oldest 
in the world." 
" Who were the Anakims ?" 
" A family of men so huge in size and so mighty in strength 
that they might be called giants. Prissy. They probably took 
care by matching only with their mates, to keep up thw 
character ; for four hundred and sixty years later they were 
the Anakims still, and living in Hebron. They were of the 
tribes of the Amorites who in Abraham's day held all the 
mountain country of that region, from the shores of the Dead 
Sea or what was at first the plain of Jordan there, to Hebron. 
It may be that the city was only called the city of Arba 
because that famous man lived there ; for it seems to have 
belonged to Mamre the Amorite, and even to have gone by 
his name." 
" You said Mamre was a Canaanite, sir." 
" Ay. The Amorites, liph, were the mountain people of 
the children of Canaan ; they were always in the mountains. 
Sometimes the name may mean a particular tribe ; but in 
general it implies simply the mountaineers of the people ; 
they were strong and warlike tribes, and never made the 
choice Lot made, of warm and luxurious low countries. 
Abraham entered into a friendly league with three brothers of 
them, Aner, Eshcol, and Mamre ; and I suppose he was himself wealthy and powerful enough to make his friendship 
worth having. At any rate, he dwelt peacefully under the 
oaks of Mamre. The valley of Hebron is full of water ; the 
grapes are the best in all Syria ; the pasturage must be plenty 
and good even now, for I saw plenty of fat and delicate mutton exposed there for sale ; and it is a region of fruits. Olives 
and figs come next after the grapes ; and plums, apples, and 
quinces, and pears, apricots, and pomegranates, all thrive. 
The Arabs are not great grain cultivators. Prissy ; you see 
that Abraham would do very welL" 
" Is the oak grove there now, uncle Sam ?"
" Alas, no, my dear ; the oak groves are all gone from 
those parts of the country ; though the roots are still found 
so thick in the soil along the route from Jerusalem to Hebron 
that the peasants dig them up and use them for fuel. No, 
the grove is not there ; but one oak tree is ; and they call 
it Abraham's oak ; but his tent was never under it. It cannot be much mcfre than a thousand years old. But it is a 
grand old tree ! its branches give a shadow of ninety feet in 
diameter. It stands some distance up the valley; with nice 
clean grass underneath and a well of water near ; so it is a 
eat place for pic-nics. I have taken breakfast under it 
myself. But I am confident Abraham never did." 
" Isn't that very large, uncle Sam ?" 
" There are oaks much larger in Lebanon. Nevertheless, 
forty-five feet of shade on each side of the trunk is a pretty 
handsome ground-floor for any tree temple. In the time of 
the Jewish historian Josephus, who wrote at the beginning 
of our era, this tree was not in the acorn yet ; and another 
tree was shown and honoured as Abraham's oak. That stood 
in a different place, some two miles from Hebron, on the 
undulating tableland which stretches off from the top of the 
valley, and which is in corn-fields now. There are still to be 
seen two low walls of enormous stones, which are said to 
partly enclose the space where the tree stood ; and they are 
called Ramd-el-Khalil — ' The Friend's House.' Under that 
tree Arabs and Jews and Christians used to hold a fair every 
summer, and honour the tree by hanging their different pictures and images on it The emperor Constantine destroyed 
these tokens of tree worship, but he did not touch the tree ; 
and its trunk was yet to be seen two hundred years ago, 
according to report. Now it is gone ; and all that is left to 
mark the place, besides those old walls, is a beautiful well of 
sweet clear water in the corner. The weU is ten feet across, 
 
bnilt of smoothly fitted stones. That is all that is left. Out 
of the joints of the stones there are the prettiest dainty 
little ferns growing." 
" Did you drink of the water, uncle Sam ? " 
"Indeed I did." 
" And now the other oak is said to be Abraham's oaki " 
" Yes. But this is certain — it is the very last oak of Abraham's oak grove; the last one of the oaks of Mamre. So 
that makes it interesting, if nothing else. 
" In the one place or the other, or under some oak near
them, Abraham's tent had been pitched for some time ; when 
one day a hurried messenger came to it with bad tidings. 
There was trouble in the vale of Sodom. A large war party 
had swept down upon the Jordan plain ; there had been a 
fight; and the invading forces had got the better, and had 
carried off everything in Sodom and Gomorrah that was 
worth carrying off and then swept on up the Jordan valley. 
And among the goods and prisoners thus carried away, 
were Lot, Abraham's brother's son, and all his family and 
possessions. Of course, Abraham desired to know who these 
invaders were, and where they came from. 
" They came from afar off. Do you remember where Elam 
was ? Look and see, at the east of the mouth of the Tigris ; 
the same district called Chuzistan from its Cushite conquerors. 
Chedorlaomer, one of its Cushite kings, had made himself 
very powerful ; so powerful that his neighbours, the king of 
Shinar, and the king of Ellasar, which is supposed to have been 
another part of Babylonia, with Tidal, king of various roving 
fierce tribes who had no settled home, were all reduced to act 
under his orders. Thirteen years before this time, it seems 
that Chedorlaomer, who must have been a famous conqueror, 
had made an expedition as far as the valley of the Jordan, and. 
had made the five kings of that region his servants, so that 
they were obliged to pay him yearly tribute. He must have 
been a powerful prince who in those days could travel two 
thousand miles from home to make new conquests, and could 
keep them too. Twelve years the five kings of the plain of 
Jordan served Chedorlaomer ; and in the thirteenth year they 
rebelled. And now, with his confederate or subject neighbours, Chedorlaomer came sweeping down again from the upper Euphrates ; by the same way that Abraham and Lot had 
travelled, but not peacefully as they came. As he poured 
his troops down through Bashan he smote the Eephaims ; 
then overthrew the Zuzims in Gilead; lower down, still 
passing over the rich high table lands, he overcame the Emims 
in the country afterwards the mountains of Moab, and the 
Horites still farther south ; and so rounded the southern end 
of the Dead Sea there, and conquering the Amalekites, who 
were also one of the original nations of the country — not 
Canaanites— and occupied the Arabian deserts with their 
flocks and herds, came up on the west of the Dead Sea to 
Hazeion-tamar. That means Hhe pruning of the palm.' 
About midway the shore of the lake, there is a little plain 
half a mile square, shut in by the rugged rocky lulls of 
Engedi A sweet fountain bursts from the rock high up on 
the western side, four hundred feet up, and comes down 
shaking its spray over the green bushes and plants that 
grow by its side — acacias and mimosas and lotus— down to 
the little plain, and runs straight across to the lake. Chedorlaomer came so far, by the same route that the wild people 
of the Moab country take now when they want to make a 
raid after plunder into the south of Palestine. They come 
round the south end of the Dead Sea and up to this spot, 
and from there go off into the country wherever they are 
most tempted. The Amorites that dwelt there were first 
overthrown by Chedorlaomer's victorious bands ; and then 
the kings of the plain gathered together to meet him.'' 
" Why did he not come down upon the plain at once, if the 
five kings were what he'Vanted? " said liph. 
"For want of a convenient pass for his army, it may be; 
or perhaps he had a mind to leave no enemy in his rear. 
At any rate, he made the circuit of the country, as far south 
as Moimt Seir and the wilderness of Paran, and so up by the 
passes and roads used now to the hills of Engedi" 
" Where is Mount Seir ? " 
"From the mountains of Moab, continuing on in a straight 
 
line to the Bed Sea. On the west side of it, here, Prissy, 
is a very deep dry valley, the continuation of the Jordan 
valley below the Dead Sea and the heights which girdle it 
round at the south end. Up this pass, el-Fikrehj which you 
see here running up from it, Chedorlaomer very likely 
mounted with his bands and threw them upon the Amale- 
Idtes ; and so on through the Amorites of Engedi And at 
that beautiful little plain I told you of, he would be close 
upon the vale of Siddim, which is now the Salt Sea. There 
the five kings gathered together to oppose him. But 
Chedorlaomer, having overcome six nations, was not going 
to be stopped by five kings. It seems the vale of Siddim 
was full of bitumen pits, or wells ; I have described them to 
you ; and you know that ground honeycombed by any sort 
of excavations is not very favourable to the movements of 
large bodies of men, especially when they are in too much 
hurry to pick their steps. The five kings were worsted and 
fied, and, fleeing, got entangled in the bitumen wells ; it was 
a complete rout Some were slain, the rest escaped to the 
mountains. The cities were left undefended ; and the Victorious army gathered up all the spoil it could carry, com 
and fruits and goods and captives, and swept away up the 
Jordan valley. And among the goods and captives carried 
off were Lot and his family and all that he had. This was 
the story the messenger brought to Abraham ; or so much 
of it as he happened to know. 
'And now you see Abraham in a new character; not as 
a peaceful Bedouin owner of flocks and herds, but as a fiery 
Arab, ready to do and dare anything, against any odds, when 
honour or friendship or the safety of his tribe required it. 
When he heard that his brother was taken captive, he armed 
his trained servants, three hundred and eighteen men ; and 
with his friends the Amorite mountaineers, Aner, Eshcol, 
and Mamre, pursued after Chedorlaomer's retreating army. 
Perhaps, though the Bible does not say so, the three Amorite 
brothers led followers of their own to the field ; but altogether they were a very small band to attack the Babylonian 
and Elamite invaders. The invaders were, however, laden 
with spoil, and most likely careless with the pride of victory ; 
yet Abraham could not overtake them until they had got as 
far as Dan." 
" He had to lose some time in getting ready,' said Dan. 
" Very little indeed. An Arab warrior is soon equipped 
at all times ; and no trains of guns or lines of baggage wag- 
gons were needed for that march. His horse, his sword, and 
his spear ; that was pretty much all each man wanted. . His 
food, if he stopped to eat, he could get on the way, or he 
could carry a handful of parched com with him. Up the 
wide road of the green Jordan valley the little band pursued 
after the Elamite king ; round the Sea of Cinneroth by the 
low western shore, and up almost to Mount Hermon. There 
you see was the old limit of the tribe of Dan. There Abraham overtook the retiring army. Then, ' dividing himself 
against them ' — attacking in two or more parties, from different sides, and by night, he and his servants surprised and 
confounded the plunder-laden troops. It is a way of making fight still usual in that country, and the more likely to 
be successful because of the common carelessness about 
keeping proper military watch. But doubtless Abraham's 
trust was in the same mighty arm that helped Gideon 
long ages after ; and doubtless that same arm fought for 
him. The invaders fled in confusion; Abraham pursued 
them to the little village of Hobah, hard by Damascus, 
routed and slew them, and brought back in triumph all the 
goods and all the captives, with Lot and everything that 
belonged to him. The victory was so thorough, that it seems 
there was no force left to interfere with him any more ; 
and through the Jordan valley he came peacefully home 
again." 
" Abraham must have been a great man in the country 
after that," said Dan. 
"No doubt of it. He was met as a conqueror. In a 
valley called afterwards the ' Valley of the Kings,' the king of 
Sodom went forth to meet him on his return ; and the king 
of Salem, that is probably Jerusalem, also met him there 
with royal refreshments; and in his quality of 'priest of 
 
the most high God,' blessed Abraham and gave thanks to 
the Lord." 
" Who was Melchisedek ? " liph asked. 
" No one knows. He was some very great and good per- 
sonjvge, greater than Abraham in his priestly character ; for 
Abraham gave him a tribute of the tenth part of the spoil, 
as due to the minister of God ; and received his blessing. 
We .do not know ; except that he was a wonderful fore- 
shadowing of our Lord Jesus Christ; his beginning and 
ending unknown and untraceable, king of righteousness and 
prince of peace, and not only a king, but a priest too on his 
throne. Abraham received his blessing ; but from the king 
of Sodom he would receive none. Yet it was no favour, but 
only a common custom, that goods recaptured should belong 
to the captor." 
" He was very uppish about it," said Liph. 
"He was extremely dignified about it," said my grand- 
mother. 
" So I think," said uncle Sam. " His inheritance, he knew, 
was of God ; he knew that he was of a race which had no- 
thing in common with the Canaanitish idolaters of the land ; 
and he kept himself carefully but civilly aloof. No Canaanite should say, 'I have made Abraham rick' Only 
his Amorite friends he was willing should have the rewards 
due to them. That was their affair." 
''It seem strange, uncle Sam, that Abraham should have 
been so bold here, and so fearful in Egypt." 
"Ay, Prissy! In one place his faith was good; in the 
other it faltered. We are all of us apt to be bolder with 
lance in hand, where we can do something, than in situations where we have only to sit still and trust." 
" But after this little dash was over and Abraham had got 
home, and everything had returned to its usual quiet, it 
seems that a feeling of despondency or weariness came over 
him. It is very apt to be so. He had been now some years 
in the land which was promised to be the inheritance of his 
descendants, and yet he had not one child. He was wealthy 
and honoured and respected, but he was alone ; and in the 
land where he lived he was a stranger. It was not the 
home of his fathers ; how was it to be the home of his children ? Perhaps his faith did not waver, but he was growing 
a little sick with hope deferred, or tempted to think he had 
misunderstood or mistaken something in the Lord's word. 
And so, then, one night, 'the Lord came to Abraham in a 
vision, saying, Fear not, Abraham : I am thy shield, and thy 
exceeding great reward Abraham spoke out immediately 
his heart longing—' Lord God, what wilt thou give me, seeing I go childless ? " 
''I should think he might have been satisfied, uncle 
Sam." 
" We are not to think he was unsatisfied," said my grand- 
mother; ''but Abraham was just like a child in his faith ; 
simple, unfearing, loving, trusting ; and like a child he spoke 
the thought of his heart. You must remember it had been 
told him, that in him all families of the earth should be 
blessed. That promise pointed to the coming Deliverer ; 
but how should it be fulfilled if he had no line of children 
to whom the promise and the inheritance should belong) 
His only heir, that appeared, was his chief servant and 
steward of his house; now that Lot had lost himself among 
the people of Sodom. For after all that had happened, Lot, 
it seems, had gone straight back to his possessions in that 
bad city. 
" Then the Lord told Abraham that his steward should 
not be his heir, but a child of his own. And He brought 
him forth, out of the tent, under the brilliant sky of the 
Eastern night, and bade him look up, and see if he could 
number the stars that were sparkling and blazing in the 
blue overhead ; and He said unto him, ' So shall thy seed 
be.'" 
"And he be Hevedit." 
"Fully. He believed in the Lord, that He could do impossible things as well as easy things. That is faith, Tiny. 
To believe, when we cannot see. That is the one thing God 
wants of His children ; if they will give Him that, they will 
give Him everythiilg else ; and so it was counted to Abraham for righteousness. And the Lord repeated the assurance—' I am the Lord that brought thee out of Ur of the 
Chaldees, to give thee this land to inherit it.' Then Abraham, not in doubt, but with a natural human longing to 
have something besides the promise, asked for a sign. 
Whereby shall I know that I shall inherit it ?" 
" But, uncle Sam, was all this in vision ? " 
" And what is vision ?" said L.
"Vision is seeing. 'God who at sundry times and in 
divers manners spake in time past unto the fathers,' before 
there was the full written revelation — did it sometimes by a 
dream, sometimes by an inspired messenger, and sometimes 
by a vision. And in a vision He showed things to the eyes 
of the mind, which the eyes of the body could not see; 
sometimes when the eyes of the body were sealed up in 
sleep. So the prophets in very old times used to be called 
SeerSf because they had seen what they told. Some had 
visions of angels. Some had visions of the glory of the 
Lord. This of Abraham's was another. I do not know. 
Tiny, whether the whole story of this chapter happened in 
a vision; but I should think not. However, it comes to 
the same thing. Abraham asked for a sign. And then the 
Lord made a covenant with Abraham. 
" He bade him take a heifer, a she-goat and a ram, a turtle- 
dove and a young pigeon, and sacrifice them. Abraham did 
it, dividing the animals in two and laying the parts over 
against each other. He waited for the sign then ; waited, 
keeping the birds of prey from the pieces, until the sun was 
going down. I think all this was done the next day in clear 
daylight, and not in vision. ' And when the sun was going 
down, a deep sleep fell upon Abraham,' and now the vision 
came. The Lord spoke to him and told him more distinctly 
what should be the fortunes of his children. They should 
be strangers in another land, and oppressed for a long time, 
and until four hundred years should be passed ; then their 
oppressors should be judged, and the people brought out 
with great substance, and brought to the land of Canaan. 
Abraham bimadf would see nothing of all this, but end his 
days in peace and blessing ; and in the fourth generation, 
when the wickedness of the Amorites would have reached 
its height, his children should come and take their possession. And having told him this, then God gave Abraham 
His sign. The sun went down ; and it grew dark ; and in 
the darkness there came the appearance of a smoking furnace and of a lamp of jGbre, that passed between the divided 
portions of the sacrifice." 
" But what did that mean ? " 
" This, Tiny. The old custom of making a covenant, was 
to seal it by having both the contracting parties pass between the divided pieces of the sacrifice offered on the occasion. Here it was done. The smoking furnace was the 
figure of the oppressed Israelites, who were brought ' out of 
the iron furnace' of Egypt, as the Bible says  and the lamp 
of fire was the Lord's own sign." 
"But the Israelites could not be one of the contracting 
parties," said liph. 
" Nor can any sinful human creature, when the Lord enters 
into covenant with us. All we can do is to accept the grace 
and take the conditions the Lord gives. But you will remember this was the sign of the covenant vouchsafed to 
Abraham ; it was put in a visible shape, in God's condescending mercy to His servant. And that day ' the Lord made a 
covenant with Abraham, saying. Unto thy seed have I given 
this land, from the river of Egypt unto the great river, the 
river Euphrates.' And the Hebrew word covenant comes 
from a root which means to cut — the word itself is a cutting
in reference to this sealing rite." 
" I shall never forget that now," said I. 
"And you must not forget one thing more. That 'to 
Abraham and his seed were the promises made. He saith 
not. And to seeds, as of many ; but as of one. And to thy 
seed, which is Christ.' The real promise of inheritance and 
blessing and glory, was made to that great One of Abraham's 
line and to those who belong to Him. 'If ye be Christ's, 
then are ye Abraham's seed, and heirs according to the promise.' Not otherwise." 
 
" Heirs of what, sir ? " Liph asked. 
" Of the favour of God, Of a promised inheritance where 
He alone will be King over us, and we shall be delivered 
from all our enemies, and from the bondage of sin and 
death ; and we shall serve Him without fear. ' An inheritance incorruptible, undefiled, and that fadeth not away.'
That is the real promise. You must remember that, all the 
time." 
Sept. 16.— THE WILDERNESS OF PARAN. 
The 15th of September was exceedingly sultry ; and in the 
afternoon, as we could go to church but once in the day, we 
agreed to take our Bibles and repair to our beloved rock-top ; 
perhaps there would be a breath of air stirring. Not much 
could be felt, after all ; but it was pleasanter at any time 
under the trees than it was in the house. The forest was 
very still on Sunday. Insect life indeed was busy and bird 
life ; yet that did not really break the silence ; and no other 
sound was there to break it. Other days a woodchopper's 
axe might now and then be heard ; or the voice of the teamster in the distance ; little else in truth ; but Sundays, the 
rest of nature was absolute and profound. 
" We are in a wilderness," said unde Sam. " I have always 
been of opinion that a wilderness is a pleasant place." 
"Is this a wilderness ? " said Priscilla. 
" Yes. What is meant by a wilderness, in Bible langusge 
at least, is simply ' land not sown,' as one of the prophets 
speaks it Land not cultivated, but left to nature." 
"And with nobody living in it," said Priscilla. 
" That is not a condition. There can be no settled inhabitants of a wildemess ; because if settled they would more or 
less cultivate the ground ; but roving inhabitants there may 
be, and there are In the wilderness south of Palestine, for 
instance ; the wilderness between it and Egypt, and stretching down into the peninsula of Sinai — there are thousands 
of Bedouin rovers, feeding their flocks and their camels by 
the way ; but no cultivation that really changes the face of 
the land. They do sow and reap thin patches of com here 
and there as they can. Eight thousand Bedouins are estimated in that region now; when the powerful Amalekite 
 
nation dwelt there, the population must have been much 
greater ; and doubtless they cultivated the soil to some 
greater extent, and so had more grass and trees." 
" But I thought a desert was all sand and nothing else." 
"That is what we generally mean by a desert, when we 
think of Africa and Asia. But a wilderness is a different 
thing ; or a desert, as the Bible often mentions the word. 
In that wilderness of Paran there is but a proportion of sand; 
a great deal of it is rock; and every here and there one 
comes to a green spot, where a small supply of water 
nourishes a strip of grass or a tuft of palm-trees. All the 
land wants is water ; and if the winter rains and torrents 
were carefully made use of. for purposes of irrigation, the 
desert might even now literally rejoice and blossom as the 
rose. The first we hear of the wilderness, in the Bible, is in 
the story of Hagar." 
" I do not understand that story, uncle Sam," said L.
" It is so unlike our European customs, I do not wonder
Tiny. Yet it is all perfectly natural, and right too, according 
to the customs of the patriarchal days ; or even those of the 
Bedouin Arabs now, though not quite so much. It was not 
thought wrong for a man to have more wives than one ; and 
is not among them ; but one is always the head wife, the 
mistress of the family, the chief of the household ; and the 
others are under her. And also to have children was considered a very great blessing, and to be without them a 
great misfortune. So it was only doing as other people did, 
when Sarah seeing that she had no children proposed to 
Abraham to take another wife in one of her slaves; for 
if her slave had children, according to usage they would 
be reckoned as Sarah's own. 'And Abraham hearkened 
to the voice of Sarah' — very likely he thought it was the 
Lord's will he should ; and she gave him Hagar, an Egyptian 
slave of hers, to be his wife." 
" But was Hagar Sarah's slave, not Abraham's ? " liph 
asked. 
"Sarah's entirely, until she gave her to Abraham. The 
hondwomQji of the wife belonged solely to her, and were at 
her disposal, whether they were hers by gift or by purchase 
or by dower. This Egyptian slave was probably the gift of 
Pharaoh to Sarah, at the time when he was loading Abraham 
with his marks of favour. Now Sarah gave her to her husband to be his wife." 
"And made trouble for herself," said my grandmother. 
" Ay, and for Abraham too ; who hated confusion in the 
household, I judge, if ever a man did. However, the Lord 
gave Hagar the blessing of being a mother ; and when she 
had the promise of it, very naturally she assumed a position 
which was not her right. She despised her former mistress, 
and would not take orders from her meekly, but carried her 
pretty black head high. Then Sarah was both jealous and 
provoked; and appealed to her husband to know if he 
was going to allow her to be insulted. Sarah was a good 
deal of a princess, I fancy, in her temper, as well as her 
name." 
" But I think Abraham ought not to have let her have 
her way," said Priscilla. " It was cruel to Hagar, I think." 
" My dear, Abraham could know nothing about the matter, 
except what his wife told him ; the women did not quarrel 
in his presence ; and you cannot wonder that he cared more 
for Sarah's comfort, whom he loved and had lived with all 
his life, than for the Egyptian woman. It was a little 
cruel to Hagar ; but then Abraham did not know that Sarah 
would use her power so harshly. At any rate, he gave it all 
back to her ; 'do as it pleaseth thee,' he said : ' thy maid is 
in thy hand.' After saying that, he could not interfere, even 
if he had known interference was needed. Sarah ' afflicted 
her,' the Hebrew has it ; punished her well for her impertinence and presumption, I suppose ; and Hagar, after her 
brief taste of liberty and pride, could not bear it. She ran 
away." 
" And so would I," said Priscilla. 
" It is a poor way to get rid of trouble, too," said my uncle ; 
" when one runs away from duty. Hagar's way led her into 
the wilderness— that wilderness I was speaking of. She 
had set out with the idea of getting home to her own country, no doubt ; and that rocky barren desert must have been 
a weary place for a delicate woman's feet to travel Poor 
thing ! she was found by a fountain of water in the wilderness—by a fountain in the way to Shur— where her strength 
and spirits had very likely failed her. I can see the young 
creature in that desolate solitude, down on the ground by 
the well's mouth, with maybe the shade of some scrubby 
palm-trees over her head ; and no other shelter in earth or 
heaven that she knew of." 
"Where is Shur?" 
" Not known certainly. It was a place just without the 
eastern border of Egypt — the last Arabian town on the limit 
of the desert, probably ; but Hagar had not got so far. She 
was only in the great highway of travel between Palestine 
and that point ; on the way." 
" And who was it found her, uncle Sam ? " 
" Who was it ? " repeated my uncla " Who is it, whose eyes 
are in every place — whose eyes are upon the ways of man, 
and He seeth all his goings — and who ' hath not despised nor 
abhorred the auction of the aMcted, neither hath He hid 
His face from him ? ' " 
"But sir," said Dan, "it says, 'the angel of the Lord 
found her.' " 
" See how that angel spoke to her, a little further on. It 
was the same angel thai called to Abraham when he was 
going to sacrifice Isaac, and said, ' Thou hast not withheld 
thy SOD, thine only son, from mk' The same that spoke to 
Jacob and said, ' I have seen all that Laban doeth unto thee.' 
The same augel of the Lord who appeared to Moses in a 
flame of fire out of the midst of a bush, and said, 'I am the 
God of thy father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, 
and the God of Jacob.' Angel means messenger ; and this 
was that precious messenger who has declared to us all the 
will of God ; who is elsewhere called the ' Word.' " 
" Was it JesuSf uncle Sam ? " 
" Tiny, the Bible says that the Father no man hath seen 
or can see; 'the only-begotten Son, which is in the bosom 
ai the Pather, He hath declared Him.' This was He of whom 
Jacob said, 'God, before whom my fathers Abraham and 
Isaac did walk, the God which fed me all my life long unto 
this day, the Angd which redeemed me from all evil " 
" Was it Jesus ? '' I said again. " Did He stand there by 
Hagar at the fountain, and did she see Him ? " 
" Was it unlike him. Tiny ? It was the same One who, 
some two thousand years later, let the blind and the lame 
come to Him, touched the lepers and healed the sick ; 'the 
same yesterday, to-day, and for ever ! ' Was it unlike Him 
to stand beside the poor runaway slave in the wilderness, 
and hear her cry ? " 
"But,— He doesn't do so now," I said. 
" Yes, He does ; the only difference is, that we cannot see 
Him. He stands by His people when they are in trouble ; 
He brings them comfort, and gives them deliverance, and 
speaks to them in their hearts. It is the ' angel of His presence' that saves them now, and in all their auction He is 
afflicted. Nothing is true of Him then that is not true of 
Him now ; nor true of Him now that was not true of Him 
then." 
" Sir," said liph, " do you think Hagar was one of His 
people?" 
" She was the wife of Abraham, and she was to be the 
mother of his first child ; and God took care of everything 
that belonged to Abraham. But He passes by nothing ; He 
forgets nobody, and nobody's trouble ; He ied to put sin 
and sorrow away ; and men's perverseness is the only reason 
why it is not put away. The ' Messenger of the covenant,' 
He comes to every heart that will let Him in ; and the 
' Messenger of the covenant ' is the same angel who spoke to 
Moses in Mount Sinai, and the same angel who  found Hagar 
by a fountain of water in the wilderness.' " 
"  And he said, Hagar, Sarai's maid, whence comest thou ? 
and whither wilt thou go ? '" 
" That sounds like Jesus," I said. 
" She, weary and wondering, said, ' I flee from the face of 
my mistress SaraL' And then she was told to go back and 
be patient ; 'and the angel of the Lord said unto her, I will 
 
multiply thy seed exceedingly, that it shall not be nnmbered 
for multitude.' You see what voice speaks there." 
" But her children were not to be the Jews ? " said liph. 
"No. The people descended from Ishmael, her son, are 
the great Arabian nation, a people almost as wonderful as 
their cousins the Jews. Their character was foretold to 
Hagar. ' Thou shalt bear a son, and shalt call his name Ishmael ; because the Lord hath heard thy affliction. And he 
will be a wild man ; his hand will be against every man, and 
every man's hand against him ; and he shall dwell in the 
presence of all his brethren.' It is the character they have 
borne, without change, through all the generations of the 
three thousand seven hundred years since then. They are 
like no other nation in that. They are a great multitude 
of many various tribes spread over the country from Egypt 
and the Mediterranean coast to the river Tigris and beyond, 
and westward through Egypt to the northern regions of 
Africa. And everywhere they are wild men; their hand 
against every man, and every man's hand against them ; 
but no hand able to put them down or put them out of 
their possessions. Still they dwell in the presence of. all 
their brethren ; their language and manners and habits and 
abodes remaining the same as they were three thousand 
years ago, in all essentials." 
" Why is every man's hand against them, sir ? " 
"Well, their hand is against every man; that is one 
reason." 
"What is that for?" 
"It is their way of enriching themselves. They are not 
great agriculturists; they are not mercantile; although 
something of commerce is carried on by them in a scattering 
way, and some harvests are gathered. Trades, mechanical 
trades, they abhor. The Bedouins will not even permit any 
handicraftsmen to remain in their tribes ; they will not admit them to their society nor allow intermarriages with 
them. Craftsmen are well respected in other parts of the 
East— in Syria and in Egypt— but the Bedouin reckons himself too noble for such low occupatioas. Of course, as he is 
' When we came oat of oar tents one morning, we saw all over 
a wide plain the carling smoke of the Bedoain fires." 
fond of money, he must get it in some other way ; and his 
way ia to take it from foreigners and strangers passing 
through his country : unless, you must remember, they are 
strangers who throw themselves upon his protection or ask 
his hospitality ; in which case he will protect them from all 
harm at the risk of his life." 
" Then they are a curious sort of robbers," said Dan. 
Very curious." 
" Do they kill as well as rob ? " asked liph. 
" Not unless resistance is made and blood is drawn. Then 
comes in blood revenge. No; their robbery is quiet and 
systematic oftentimes ; a regular black maiL For instance
I remember once, crossing with a caravan from Orfa to the 
Tigris to reach Mosul, in the northern part of Mesopotamia, 
when we came out of our tents one morning we saw all over 
a wide plain the curling smoke of the Bedouin fires, scattered 
here and there, rising up into the still air. Of course, pretty 
as it was, we knew what would be the next thing ; and in an 
hour or two, a couple of horsemen were scouring over the 
plain to meet us. The caravan was halted and surveyed by 
them, and then we were all marched off to one of the stations 
and ordered to encamp. The leader came to our tents. He 
was received with the greatest possible respect and with rich 
presents, which were intended to put him in a good humour ; 
but they did not seem to be of much use. His men over- 
hauled everything ; made a list of the goods ; read it to 
their chief, who was much too noble to know anything about 
reading and writing ; and then a certain tribute was fixed 
for all the things. So much for every camel load, so much 
for every donkey, so much for the men of the caravan. It 
was a heavy tribute, but we had to pay it, after beating down 
the demand a little." 
" Buther hard to tax the animals that belonged to the men, 
and then the men themselves," said Liph. 
" Buther. But this was an orderly tribute, to a settled 
tribe taking toll of all who passed through their country. 
The plundering parties do not show as much forbearance. 
They lay hold of whatever suits them, especially gold and 
 
silver and jewels and rich stuffs. These they can send into 
the cities and sell, and so supply themselves with the things 
they want" 
" Then they do not want them themselves ?" 
"They are too poor to use them. Besides, an Arab, 
especially a pure Bedouin, lives very simply, and glories in 
it. His food is plain and poor ; and his house is the black 
goat's hair tent of the desert, with the desert air flowing all 
through it. But that is their glory. I knew of a high-bom 
Bedouin lady who would not sleep under a white tent. Her 
husband was acting as guide to a party of English travellers 
— guide and guard ; and she had gone along to look after 
him. He was a noble specimen of an Arab, but a good deal 
ruled by his wife ; and he was obliged to confess one day 
that she objected to sleep under the white tent which had 
been furnished him. She declared it made her feel like the 
mean dwellers in cities ; and out she went from her white 
curtains, and lay under the stars. The party had not a real 
black Arab tent with them, except the one used for the cooking place ; that, however, was given to the lady, and under 
that, with its black sides rolled up, she said she could breathe 
freely and feel like a Bedouin." 
"They settle sometimes in towns and villages; do they 
lose their old character and ways, then ? " my grandmother 
asked. 
" As little as possible. They will be Arabs, whatever else 
they be. They keep themselves carefully from the contagion 
of the other people of the country ; do not marry with them, 
nor adopt their dress or customs ; pride themselves in their 
pure Bedouin name and blood ; and try to live in houses as 
they would live in tents. In Egypt and Syria there are 
settlements of them as old as hundreds of years, where yet 
this is true. They think it beneath them to read or write ; 
and in general, change nothing that they can help from what 
their forefathers did. Still, the true Bedouin is no settler, 
and looks down upon those that ara'' 
" What presents did you give that Arab chief that robbed 
the caravan, uncle Sam ) " 
" It was not I, Prissy. I believe a fine Cashmere shawl 
was one thing ; and an amber mouth-piece for a pipe, and 
some jewellery. The head men, the sheikhs of the tribes, 
sometimes are rich and live luxuriously ; that is, by comparison ; they like a show of splendour, and know it is a help to 
power, and pleases the pride of the tribe. That is policy. 
The sheikhs ordinarily kill a sheep every day, and feast all
comers, and exercise the most unbounded hospitality. But 
the common Bedouin does not see meat often. He lives 
upon wheat bread and truffles, when, they can be got, with a 
very few other vegetables ; onions and garlic and leeks are 
almost all that he likes ; and curds and sour milk and butter 
' are the rest of his fare. He is well off when he has these, 
for there is many a time, and for months together, when he 
can get nothing but bread. But no matter how poor, every 
Arab is a freeman, and well bom, and reckons himself his 
chiefs and everybody else's equal. And with his long spear 
in his hand, and his swift camel or full-blooded mare, he is 
a wild man. And he looks the character ! " 
" I should think everybody's hand would be against them," 
said Priscilla, "if they are such robbers." 
" But yet nobody has been able to put them down. Still, 
they dwell in the presence of all their brethren, as it was 
foretold Hagar ; free and wild and warlike. Each tribe has 
its own territory ; and anybody that would pass through it 
must secure their protection or submit to their exactions." 
" How many tribes are there of them ? " my grandmother 
asked. " It was promised that Ishmael should be ' multiplied exceedingly.' " 
"It is supposed his descendants are more at the present day than the descendants of Isaac. I do not know at 
how many millions they are reckoned ; but I know there are 
one hundred and twenty millions of people who speak the 
Arabic language. As for the tribes, the original twelve have 
been divided and subdivided until now there are near sixty. 
Some Arabs, you must remember, in the south of Arabia, 
