As for Gypsy, she lived, as the Gypsies will 
live in summer-time, in a sweet, lazy excite 
ment of walks and drives, of concerts and sere 
nades, of moonlight nights and novels and 
dreaming, with few distinct thoughts beyond. 
One warm week towards the end of une, 
there was talk of a grand meeting of the Ever 
green Sisters, which should be celebrated as the 
last for this term. 
It would be, as Lou said, " too warm to eat 
so much in July, and then there were examina 
tions to make ready for. Besides, the mosqui 
toes came in if you lighted a lamp." 
Extensive preparations were made. Jo 
Courtis bought a freezer and made ice-cream 
in the cellar, explaining to Mrs. Holt that the 
girls needed a little refreshment after study, 
hours such abominable weather to have to 
apply one 's mind ! 
Cake, candies, fruits, and pastry were ordered 
from Boston, and came as a private express- 
bundle to Mary Blunt. 
Dolly was bribed to make a basketful of her 
inimitable wafers ; for the material of which, at 
Gypsy 's suggestion, Mrs. Holt was fairly paid. 
" To eat with the ice-cream, you know," ex 
plained Josephine, " and I will send you down 
a saucerful if I don't forget it." This put 
Mrs. Holt into very good humour, and she 
neglected to tell Mrs. McMunn that the girls 
"would eat themselves sick and we should all 
have the cholery," as she had intended. 
The trunk-closet was turned into a manu 
factory of whips and lemonade. 
Finally, Jack Delancey was to send home 
for wines. Her father a wealthy distiller 
would supply her with whatever she wanted in 
that line. 
" Wine ! " exclaimed Gypsy. " Oh, don 't! 
I don't think it 's right. Mother wouldn't want 
me to have anything to do with it, if you have 
such things. Come, girls, we don't want to 
turn it into a regular boy 's class-supper, that 
way please don't ! " 
But to turn it into a boy 's class-supper was 
precisely what the girls did want, and Jacque 
line sent for the wine. " If Mrs. McMunn 
finds it out," said Gypsy, " the Evergreen 
Sisters will be bounced up pretty fast." Gypsy 
felt uncomfortable about it. When she sat 
down for her night 's talk with her mother by 
the window, she left out all about the Ever 
green Sisters. I think she knew that she ought 
to stay away from the supper. But she did 
not stay awa^. 
The night which they had chosen, was sultry 
and clouded. The teachers went to bed early. 
Even Miss Ayre had not the energy to climb 
upstairs and find out what was going on, when 
she heard the noise of preparation in the third 
story after study-hours. 
Maude Clargt; wanted to sleep with Gypsy 
that night, and, strange to say, Jane objected 
She did not feel very well, or something, in 
deed she had no definite reason, but preferred 
to stay in her own room. Jane was usually 
the most accommodating girl in school. 
" Why, it isn't a bit like you," said Gypsy, 
rather crossly. " I 'm sure you might oblige us 
when Maude wants to come so much." 
" But why is she so anxious to come this 
particular night?" asked Jane, quietly. 
" Because I am," snapped Maude, " and 
that 's reason enough." 
Jane yielded the point with reluctance, and 
went down to Miss Holly. 
The Evergreen Sisters met promptly in tht 
trunk-closet, and for a while the supper passed 
off with great success. Mellow ice-cream, 
daintily shaped cream-cakes, pure white ladies 
cakes, jelly-rolls that would melt in one 's 
mouth, bananas from which the soft skin 
was bursting, strawberries wrapped in cool 
green leaves, rainbows of the " latest, candies 
in pretty painted boxes, and nobody there to 
say that they were poison, Dolly 's delicate 
wafers, and rich, yellow whips beaten to solid 
froth, it was not a bill of fare to be despised. 
But by and by Jacqueline brought on her 
wine. Gypsy did not like it, and she would 
not have touched it if she had, but there were 
enough who did. 
They drank quite enough, too. 
I am not proposing to state that these young 
ladies got drunk, but it is a simple fact that 
they became very noisy. Jo Courtis and 
Jacqueline thought it was " fun ; " the well-bred 
girls, who had not exactly thought what it was 
that they were doing, began to look displeased, 
and fell silent one by one. Presently Jo took 
a little bunch of cigarettes from her pocket, 
and, lighting one with an ease which showed 
that it was not the first time, offered them, in 
her rough, hospitable way, to the rest. 
Gypsy could stand it no longer. The dis 
gusting scene had quite opened her eyes to 
the wrong that she had done in coming to the 
supper. She had not, to be sure, expected 
anything like this, but she should have guarded 
against it. What would her mother say? Oh, 
what would she? 
She stood up with hot cheeks, " Girls, this 
is shameful, and I 'm sorry I ever came, and 
I 'm going right away ! " and walked straight 
to the door. Somebody on the other sick 
opened it for her. 
" There ! We are bounced up ! " said Gypsy, 
in a tone of calm despair. And in walked Mrs. 
McMunn. 
Mrs. McMunn was utterly confounded. I 
believe it was five minutes by the clock before 
she found breath to say a word. That her 
young ladies that any young ladies should 
smoke cigarettes and drink champagne, was to 
the poor woman a revelation so stupendous 
that it stunned every idea of which she was 
the possessor. 
When at last she found words, they were but 
two, but they were terrib e. 
" Young LADIES ! " 
" Ma 'am? " said Josephine, faintly. 
" You may go to your rooms. We will dis 
cuss this conduct at another time ! " 
They went to their rooms with hanging 
heads. The Principal saw them all out and 
shut the door. There is a tradition at the 
Golden Crescent that she and Mrs. Holt stayed 
up and finished the ice-cream, but you must 
refer to Miss Delancey for its authenticity. 
That " other time " was deferred by an event 
for which both teacher and scholars were 
equally unprepared, and which threw the of 
fence of the supper so much into the shade 
that none of the girls were ever punished as 
they deserved. I will pause to say here, how 
ever, lest there should not be another chance, 
that when the day of reckoning came, penitent 
Gypsy, without attempting to excuse herself or 
to shift the blame upon the other girls, gave 
her teacher to understand that she had had 
only the part of a spectator in the disgraceful 
scene upon which Mrs. McMunn had broken 
in ; and that the Principal pardoned her with 
some good advice, which Gypsy sorrowfully 
remembered. 
Maude Clare and Gypsy went directly to bed 
that night, and Gypsy directly to sleep. Owing 
to her excitement and weariness and supper, 
she slept heavily, disturbed only by broken 
dreams. 
When she had been asleep some time she 
learned afterward that it was about eleven 
o'clock she wakened from a dream that 
robbers were at the window, looked about her, 
and started up. 
Maude Clare was not in the bed. She was 
not in the room. 
Gypsy sprang to the window. There was a 
piazza roof running along the story below, and 
a wooden trellis for vines, nailed to the house, 
connected the window and the roof. Down the 
piazza pillars another trellis extended to the 
ground. A fearless person, if not too heavy, 
might climb down with safety. 
The moon was struggling through a mass of 
clouds, and in the faint light Gypsy saw among 
the garden trees the flutter of a woman 's dress. 
Bewildered and trembling, all in a whirl of 
vague fear, Gypsy stood fixed upon the spot, 
with her eyes on the fluttering dress, when a 
hand touched her arm. She started with a cry 
of relief. Here was Maude, after all. How 
foolish she had been ! 
But it was not Maude. Jane Bruce stood 
there, her face as white as her nightdress. 
" I was afraid of it, I was afraid of it ! Oh, 
Gypsy, that 's Maude Clare ! " 
Gypsy turned cold, and hot, and cold again. 
"Jane, what shall we do? What shall we 
" Go after her," said Jane, promptly. " If 
we can get her back quietly, it will save Maude 
and the school so much disgrace; if not, we 
must call Mrs. McMunn. Here ! put on your 
dress and slippers. Give me my wrapper from 
the closet, and shawl. Come now, quick ! 
Down the back stairs ! Oh, don't make a 
noise ! " 
Gypsy obeyed like a child, and they glided 
out, with breath held in, into the garden. It 
was sweet with the perfume of yellow June 
lilies, and the clovers were heavy with dew. It 
was very dark among the trees. The flutter 
ing dress had disappeared. A figure two 
figures were stealing up the street. 
" Run ! " said Jane. She and Gypsy began 
to run. 
" This way ! Along by the hedge ! Don't 
fet them see till we have caught up with 
them." 
" Jane," panted Gypsy, as they ran along, 
" how did you know? " Jane answered, be 
tween her breaths, 
" I knew that Maude was not to be trusted. 
I didn't like the looks of it of her wanting 
to sleep in your room. I saw her talking with 
him down town a long time to-night. She has 
been to ride with him in the evening twice this 
term." 
" You knew it, and never told not even 
me!" 
"I 'm not a tell-tale," said Jane, "but I 
mean to stop this Poor Maude, poor Maude ! 
I am afraid it is worse than that." 
That it was " worse than that " they found 
when, coming out at last into the open road in 
the now clear moonlight, they faced Maude 
Clare and young Sizer, standing by a horse 
and chaise. 
Maude Clare saw them and screamed. Mr. 
Sizer expressed his sentiments in an oath. 
" Maude," said Jane, stepping up with quiet 
authority, " come back. Come back with 
us." 
" She shan't do any such thing ! " said the 
collegian emphatically, taking Maude 's gloved 
hand upon his arm. 
" Maude, Maude, don't let him touch you ! " 
cried Gypsy vehemently, springing forward. 
" Come back with me. Oh, what are you 
doing, Maude Clare?" 
" I am going to be married," said Maude 
Clare, trying to put on her haughtiest look. 
" Mr. Sizer 's father disapproves of the match ; 
but when it is all over, he will relent, and then 
we are going home to mother 's to make it all 
right with hen (Probably this plan would 
have been accurately carried out; the young 
fellow being simply weak and sentimental, like 
herself.) Mr. Sizer comes of a very good 
family, and I know she won't object after a 
while. I should like to know what business it 
is of yours, either, Gypsy Breynton, and I 'll 
thank you to " But silly Maude 's hauteur 
broke into a sob, as Gypsy clung to her, 
pleading. 
" See here," interrupted Maude 's companion. 
" It seems to me this is my business, and I say 
she shall go. Come, Maude, it isn't safe to 
stand here. Jump in quick ! " 
Jane, comprehending matters at the first 
glance, had seen that their hope of influencing 
Maude Clare was not worth an instant 's delay, 
and had stolen swiftly back to the house for 
help. Gypsy was left alone to plead with her. 
" Come, Maude, don't disgrace and make a 
fool of yourself don t! Mr. Sizer, won't you 
just step into your chaise and take yourself 
off no, I want Maude 's hand on my arm. 
Come, Maude, come ! " 
Maude cried and hesitated, went a little way 
with her, lingered, stopped. 
"Oh, Maude!" It seemed to Gypsy as if 
Jane would never be back ; as if hours passed 
while Maude stood there sobbing. 
" Maude, Maude ! " called the voice from 
the chaise. Maude turned her head 
" Maude Maude Clare ! Maude Clare ! " 
" Oh, let me go, let me go ! " cried Maude, 
and tore herself from Gypsy 's arms to find 
herself in the stouter ones of Mrs. McMunn. 
Jane had roused the Principal, and the Prin 
cipal had roused Chaplain Goss, and the three 
stood there together. 
Mr. Sizer, his horse and chaise, disappeared 
somewhat faster than they had come, and 
Maude Clare was carried back to the Golden 
Crescent in hysterics. 
IS MAUDE CLARE SMITH 
was publicly expelled from the 
Golden Crescent. 
Her father came, a stern, indignant man, and 
took her home. " His daughter would go 
back to her mother 's nursery," he said, " and 
there she would stay till she gave evidence of 
having outgrown her childhood." 
Unhappy Maude packed her trunks, and 
bade the girls good-by, and clung to Gypsy 
sobbing. " Her heart was broken, she was 
Mire her heart was broken, and she should 
never see a happy hour again, never! They 
had taken her away from Ben poor fellow ! 
she knew his heart would break too, and she 
should find in the papers some morning that he 
had drowned himself, or hung himself with a 
horrid rope O-o-o-oh ! and now they were 
taking her away from Gypsy, the only friend 
she had who ever cared anything about her, 
and Gypsy didn't have half the sympathy with 
her that she expected; and oh, to think of 
never seeing Ben again ! The Shadow of her 
Lifetime was darkening down, and there was 
nobody left to understand or appreciate. She 
wished she were dead, she did ! dead and 
buried up in a coffin, with her weary heart at 
rest ! She thought she shouldn't live very 
long, either; and if Gypsy heard of her in 
consumption, she needn't be surprised." 
Gypsy kissed her and cried a little, and when 
the carriage had fairly rolled away with her, 
went away alone upstairs, and cried a little 
more. But she was surprised to find that she 
did not feel as badly as she had expected to, 
and that when Jane came in and kissed away 
her tears she was quite ready to be comforted. 
The fact was, that Gypsy 's respect for Maude 
Clare, which Maude herself had been slowly 
undermining bit by bit the last few months, was 
now gone " at one fell swoop," and love with 
out respect is like a house without foundation. 
She felt sorry for Maude with a compassionate, 
superior sense of pity. Beautiful Queen Marie 
had lost her Fidelio ; the sweet allegiance was 
broken ; the pretty dream was gone. So she 
wiped her eyes, hoped Maude would not have 
consumption, and learned her Virgil lesson as 
if nothing had happened. 
i will state, for the benefit of the compas 
sionate, that Maude Clare did not have con 
sumption, and I am really afraid that she has 
not had even the consistency to break her 
heart. For I read last week in the newspapers 
an account of a fashionable marriage at St. 
Paul s: "Miss Maude Clare, daughter of John 
Smith, Esq., of Boston, to Colonel Jones," 
I think, aide on a great General 's staff. 
Truth compels me to say, also, that Mr. 
Benjamin Sizer has as yet neither drowned 
himself nor hung himself with a horrid rope. 
When last heard from, he was cheerfully, and 
to all appearance resignedly, engaged in the 
yacht-racing business, in which he was betting 
away his father 's fortune as fast as he con 
veniently could. Owing to the fact that his 
latest-launched boat rejoices in the name of 
The Fair Sarah Popkins (reported to be that 
of a daughter of the Snapberry Town Overseer), 
I am driven to infer that not even the 
ghost of the memory of Mrs. Colonel Maude 
Clare Jones disturbs his peaceful dreams. 
June days became July days, and it was 
warm weather at the Golden Crescent, very 
warm. Lessons flagged ; spirits drooped ; girls 
who feasted on cream-cakes and lemonade at 
eleven o'clock at night, cried with headache all 
the next day ; walks were few, and frolic less ; 
the world gave itself up to gasping at open 
windows, and sighing for rain. 
One morning Phoebe Hand did not come to 
recitation. She did not feel exactly well, Miss 
Ayre said. The next day she felt no better. 
Night came, and somebody went for the 
doctor. Morning came, and the girls clus 
tered in groups, talking about her. At noon, 
a slow, low whisper went round from one t 
another. 
" They say hush ! " 
" He is afraid so hush ! There are somi 
cases down town; don't speak of it." 
" Awful ! Why hush ! don't you know? w 
It was curious how everybody hushed her 
own lips in speaking the word, as if she could 
not become used to or bear the sound of it. It 
^ame in time to Gypsy. 
"What!" 
" Yes. Varioloid." 
Jacqueline Delancey took the first train for 
home. The other girls kept away from " The 
Parsonage," kept away from the lower floor; 
faces were pale, and the house was still. 
" Her friends send for her friends," said 
Jane. Mrs. McMunn, bewildered and fright 
ened, acted on the suggestion, and the tele 
graph carried the news. Poor Phoebe had 
neither father nor mother to be moved to 
tender anxiousness by it. The crippled orphan 
was the charge of an uncle, who, to tell the 
truth, kept her at the Golden Crescent because 
he did not know what else to do with her. He 
wrote that he was sorry to hear of his niece 's 
illness, and would come on, if there were any 
occasion; it was really impossible for him to 
break certain business engagements which 
bound him for this week; he felt sure that 
there was no danger of " anything happening " 
to Phoebe, who had a strong constitution ; but 
if there were any danger, he wished to be in 
formed at once, and was Mrs. McMunn 's very 
truly Eliphalet Hand. 
Miss Ayre moved upstairs with Mademoi 
selle. " She should be glad," she said, " to be 
of any assistance, and wished to do her duty, 
but felt that justice to the rest of the girls 
required that she should not expose herself 
rashly." Mrs. McMunn did the best that she 
could for Phoebe, but she was busy and fright 
ened. They searched the town for a nurse 
who could not come till next week. 
Upon this, Jane Bruce put on slippers and a 
soft dress, and went into the sick-room. Before 
she went, she kissed Gypsy and said good- 
by. 
" Oh dear, how can she go? " cried the girls, 
in frightened groups ; " she will have it, and 
we shall all have it and die." 
But Gypsy held up her head, with bright 
eyes, and only said : " I wish I were Jane 
Bruce; yes, I do. I call her a hero." 
The very next morning the doctor said that 
it was only typhus fever. But I believe no 
body thought that gentle Jane, who came out 
laughing and crying together to bring the news, 
was any the less a hero for that. 
Phoebe was very sick. Gypsy went in sev 
eral times to see her, but she was asleep or 
delirious. 
" She doesn't want to get well," said Jane 
one day, sadly ; " and if we can't make her 
want to, I 'm afraid she won t." 
" Doesn't want to get well ! " 
Happy Gypsy, to whom life was as sweet as 
love, and the future as bright as a dream, 
opened her great eyes wide. 
" No ; she isn't afraid to die, she thinks she 
should be happier in heaven, poor thing ! I 'm 
afraid Phcebe hasn't had a pleasant time in this 
world." 
Gypsy, making pretence to study through 
the long days (nobody made anything but pre- 
tence to study, just now), thought about this. 
Poor Phoebe ! Why didn't people make her 
have a pleasant time? Well, why? She 
why she, Gypsy Breynton, it had not been her 
business, had it? Whose, then? If anybody 's, 
why not hers? If Jane 's, why not hers? 
What was that about " Whatsoever thy hand 
findeth"? She could not remember the rest; 
but the words were in her mind, and they 
turned themselves about. 
Phoebe was worse. The girls in their groups 
grew grave; stepped about the house on tip 
toe; spoke in whispers. Miss Ayre, looking 
a little ashamed of herself, came down into 
the sick-room and went to work. The uncle 
was sent for. The doctor came twice, three 
times, four times a day. 
One afternoon Jane came out crying, and Gypsy 
tried some time to find out what was the matter. 
" Poor thing, poor thing ! " said Jane, at last. 
" She says she has been here a year and a half, 
and nobody has been sorry for her, nobody 
but me." 
Gypsy flushed to her forehead, and drew hd 
breath in fast. She did not answer Jane, but 
walked away and sat down alone. She felt as
if she were sitting alone in the world, and One 
with finger pointed at her asked a question: 
" Why was nobody sorry for her? Why ? " 
That night the sleepers at the Golden Cres 
cent were awakened by a sudden cry. Lights 
flickered past the windows, and quick steps 
sounded on the stairs, and presently silence fell 
again, and sleep. 
But in the morning the girls, with awestruck 
faces, heard that one lay dead in the house. 
Mr. Eliphalet Hand came by the early ex 
press, and with decorous, grave face wished 
that he had been sent for sooner. Jane was 
busy with flowers, and tried, she said, " to have 
things look as if the poor child 's mother were 
there to attend to them." 
Gypsy, still feeling as if that Finger pointed 
at her and her only, in all the world, went in 
by herself to look at Phoebe 's quiet face. 
The uncle, with craoe upon his hat, took 
away what was left of her, to his expensive lot 
in Laurel Hill, and went back to those business 
engagements which her death had so incon 
siderately broken in upon. 
The girls, as is the way with girls, now that 
Phoebe was dead, were convinced that they had 
always been very fond of her, and cried for her 
profusely. 
Jane mourned her as a valued friend, and 
Gypsy thought of her as an accusing angel. 
" If she had only got well, Jane ! I would 
have been sorry for her ! " 
" But isn't it a great deal better to be glad 
for her now, dear?" said Jane, looking off at 
the serene summer sky. 
IS AYRE has the typhus fever. 
People wonder a little, and 
wish that the weather would 
cool. The days grow hotter; the nights are 
sultrier ; Lou Armstrong complains of a 
headache. One morning Lou has the typhus 
fever. The doctor looks grave, but is not 
surprised ; it is an old trick of the typhus 
"Not contagious, ma 'am, not contagious; 
but an epidemic, without doubt. Let the 
young ladies keep as much as possible out of 
doors, and I would not advise their running in. 
and out of the sick-room unless they can be of 
some use." There is little need of any such 
advice, did the excellent doctor but know it 
" The young ladies " are, if possible, more 
frightened than at the varioloid rumour, and 
the closest friendships will be severely tried if 
there is much more of this. 
But Lou is not very sick, and Miss Ayre is 
better, and the fickle disease has about made 
up its mind to take a quiet departure, but 
pounces on one most unsuspecting little victim, 
by way of farewell. 
Gypsy, worn with the excitement of the 
term, and the heat, and the little shock that 
Phoebe 's death had given, wakes up one morn 
ing feeling very weak, and thinks that she will 
not go into Shakespeare. 
After dinner, Jane finds her with aching 
head, and cheeks on fire; and at night Mrs. 
McMunn thinks that the doctor had better just 
step in and look at her. 
The doctor steps in to look at her, and 
Gypsy is too sleepy to ask him what he thinks. 
She sees him pour out some medicine and go 
away, and by and by she tells Jane that she 
does not need anything; she wishes that she 
would go down and sleep with Miss Holly, and 
get a good night 's rest. But Jane does not go. 
Gypsy feels too weak to argue the matter, 
and the long night sets in. It is a very long 
night. The lamp is left lighted, and she sees 
the shadows flicker on the wall ; sees Jane ly 
ing quietly at her side, wondering a little if she 
wakes her every time she turns over, tries to 
lie still, but turns and turns again. She sees 
strange shapes gliding slowly over the ceiling, 
walking beside and around the bed, and cries 
out sometimes when they touch her. She calls 
she is afraid that she calls very often for 
water, and drinks fast, and drains the glass. 
She wonders what thr,.: it is, and if the night 
will ever be gone, and if she shall have an 
excuse from composition, and who kindled 
that fire in her head that crackles so. What 
did they want of a fire in such warm weather? 
And how did they ever put in the kindling- 
wood? By and by, she sees the lamp burn 
pale and blue, and thinks that it must be morn 
ing, and wonders if the rising-bell has rung, 
and wonders what they sent the doctor in 
before she was dressed. 
After that, she does not wonder any more. 
The hot sun rises and rides on; sinks, rises, 
sinks again, like the great brass pendulum of a 
clock how many times she does not know 
but she neither wonders, nor thinks, nor cares. 
The doctor is there, and Mademoiselle is 
there, and Mrs. McMunn is there. Mrs. Mc- 
Munn has an inconvenient way of turning into 
a Baldwin apple whenever she passes in front 
of the window, and Gypsy is uncomfortable 
because she cannot twist the stem off. 
It occurs to her once, when she is drinking 
her medicine, that it may not be a stem, after 
all, but a waterfall. Mademoiselle cries in the 
corner, and sometimes she kisses Gypsy softly. 
Jane is always there. Jane opens the windows, 
Jane brings her medicine, Jane fixes the ice 
upon her forehead. At sunset and at sunrise 
Jane 's face moves about in a cloud of pallid 
gold, like a face in an old picture. Gypsy 
watches it idly, and idly thinks of Peace May 
thorne, and wonders what makes the two look 
so much alike; and if Peace, away in heaven, 
knows anything about the Golden Crescent, 
and how hot the sun is here, and how long the 
nights. 
They have sent for her mother, though that 
she does not know. But the letter missed, and 
the telegram was delayed ; it is many days be 
fore she comes, and still Jane moves about the 
room in the cloud of pallid gold. 
One night the doctor stands with his back to 
the bed, talking with Mrs. McMunn. Gypsy 
has a dim idea that they think she is asleep, 
and dimly she seems to hear him say, 
" The case disappoints me. The chances of 
recovery are ve-ry small." 
But she does not think much about it, nor 
care. Presently Jane comes in crying, and she 
wonders what is the matter with her. Perhaps 
she has the headache, too. 
The great brass pendulum has swung up and 
swung down once after that, over the crescent 
of green maples, and then the door is opened 
as nobody has opened the door since Gypsy 
has lain there, and some one lies down softly 
by her on the pillow, and lips touch her fore 
head as no lips have touched her all the sum 
mer long. 
" Ye-es," Gypsy says sleepily; "that is 
nice. My head ached so last night, I cc^ldn't 
talk with you. I ve been a little a horrid 
little villain all this" the thought wanders 
away, and the lips kiss down the words with 
their rare touch, and all the world seems to 
grow cool and green and still. 
After a time, it may be longer or shorter, a 
thought comes to Gypsy; it is sharp and clear; 
it strikes her as if steel struck her, and she cries 
out with it. 
" Oh, mother, mother, mother ! I don't 
want to die ! I don't want to die ! " 
Her mother 's arms just gather her in and 
hold her, and nobody says a word. 
It was Mademoiselle over in her corner, who 
sobbed aloud. Mademoiselle hovers about the 
bed in these days, with red eyes and gentle 
touch ; begs leave to change the ice and bring 
fresh water; sends Jane and the worn mother 
away to rest; insists on taking the night- 
watch and running for the doctor. Poor 
Mademoiselle carries her rosary in her hand, 
and tells over Aves and Paternosters between 
the drops of medicine, wetting the beads with 
tears. 
But by and by the brass pendulum ceases to 
swing over the maple, and the world goes out 
NE morning it moves again a 
little, slowly, faintly ; the 
leaves of the Crescent shine 
out beyond the window ; Jane 's face, and 
every face, glides about again in pallid gold. 
So Gypsy cries for very weakness and thank 
fulness and joy, and cries herself to sleep. 
They do not let her talk for many days, but 
one morning, feeling very br.ght and strong 
after her beef tea, she wakes from a bit of a 
nap, and finds Mademoiselle sitting alone by 
her bed. Mademoiselle is correcting exercise?, 
with her rosary twined about her wrist 
Gypsy watches her for a while in thoughtful 
silence, and suddenly raises herself a little on 
her elbow, and speaks, 
" Mademoiselle ! " 
" Oh ! Why, Miss Gypsy ! You mustn't 
talk, my dear." 
"Yes, I must talk, Mademoiselle. My fate 
cries out against this deaf and dumb treatment, 
and makes each petty artery in this body as 
hardy as the Nemean lion 's nerves ! " (Shake 
speare.) " So, if you please, I want you to 
listen to me, and answer me a question." 
" Very well, my dear ; if la bonne mere will 
not " 
" Oh, la bonne mre won't say a word. 
Now, Mademoiselle, I want to know what ever 
made you take a fancy to such a hor-rid little 
thing, and come in and take care of me this 
way while I ve been sick." 
Mademoiselle drops the exercises, and her 
eyelids quiver a little, 
" N importe, n importe, my dear I like you, 
C est assez, n est-ce pas? " 
" I suppose it will have to be assez, if you 
haven't any better reason." 
" Mais ! I have one reason," said Made 
moiselle, in a low tone. " Helas ! Pauvre moi ! 
pauvre moi ! " 
Gypsy watched the French teacher in com 
passionate wonder. What was she " poor " 
for? Did she need anybody to be sorry for 
her, too? " I wonder," she said softly. 
" I go to tell you," said Mademoiselle, 
squeezing her handkerchief into her eyes, " I 
go to tell you in a minute. II fait mal aux 
yeux, this writing. Voila! You care to hear 
then about poor Mademoiselle, you? I think 
nobody care to hear about Mademoiselle." 
