violence, to crush me with hard words and savage demonstrations, which
prudent cunning restrained him from using. "Do you know where the girl
is?"
"I do," I replied, promptly. "I trust my reply is sufficiently direct
and unequivocal."
"It is; and you will oblige me by informing me, as directly and
unequivocally, where she is," said he, rising from his chair.
"I am sorry to disoblige you, Mr. Tom Thornton; but I must respectfully
decline to give you any information on that point," I answered, firmly.
"Am I to understand that you refuse to tell me where she is?" demanded
he, turning up the cuff of one of his coat-sleeves.
"That was the idea I intended to convey," I replied, imitating his
example by rolling up one of my coat-sleeves.
"You won't tell me."
"No, sir."
"You know where she is?"
"I do."
"And won't tell?"
"I will not."
He turned up the other coat-sleeve, and I did the same.
"I'll tell you what it is, youngster, we have played this farce long
enough," Tom proceeded, in a rage. "I want you to understand that I am
not to be trifled with. You may make a fool of the old man, but you
can't make a fool of me."
"Perhaps nature has already done that kindly act for you," I put in, as
he paused to take a long breath with which to whet his wrath.
I know, now, that it was wrong for me to make these saucy and irritating
replies; but I could not well help it then. Tom Thornton was a villain,
by his own confession. My uncle had declared that he had stained his
soul with crime for his son's sake. Whichever was the greater villain,
it was clear that the son was the more obdurate, graceless, and
unrepentant of the two. I had no patience with him. I had no respect for
him, and I certainly had no fear of him. Even policy would not permit me
to treat him with a consideration I did not feel.
"For your insults we will settle by and by; at present my business
relates to this girl," said he, smarting under my charge.
"Well, Mr. Tom Thornton, so far as Miss Loraine is concerned, your
business with me is finished," I replied.
"Not yet; before I have done you will be glad to tell me where the girl
is."
"I will tell you nothing in regard to her."
"I command you to tell me where she is."
"You may command, if you choose."
"And I will be obeyed," said he, furiously.
"You will see whether you are or not."
"Who are you, young man, that have the impudence to enter the house of a
lady, and entice away her daughter?" foamed he.
"I am Ernest Thornton. I did not enter the house after you rode off with
the lady; I did not entice the girl away, and she is not the lady's
daughter."
"Silence! Don't you contradict me. You ran away with the girl!"
I whistled a popular air, simply to prove that I was not intimidated,
and that Tom was not getting along very rapidly.
"Once more, and for the last time," roared Tom, foaming with passion,
"will you tell me where the girl is, or will you take the
consequences?"
"If it's all the same to you, I'll take the consequences," I answered.
"Very well; you will take them, or you will tell me the whole truth,"
said he, savagely, as he rushed to the door.
There was a key in the lock, which I seldom or never used. He took it
out, left the room, and locked the door behind him. He was evidently so
much in earnest that he did not intend I should escape the fiery furnace
he was preparing for me. I could not but laugh at his folly in thinking
to confine a live boy of sixteen in the chamber of a cottage. I
concluded that he had gone for a stick, a club, or some other weapon,
with which to reduce me to subjection.
Though I felt able with the base-ball bat to defend myself from the
assaults of Tom, I did not court the conflict. There was room for an
accident which might deprive me of the power to serve Kate in the hour
of her extremity; and I was disposed to keep her on the safe side, if I
did not keep there myself. I heard the heavy footsteps of Tom Thornton,
as he descended the stairs, and walked through the hall. I concluded
that he would see my uncle before he returned. I slipped off my shoes,
and put one in each side pocket of my sack. Fearing that my bat might be
removed during my absence, I thrust it up the chimney, at the fireplace,
resting one end on a jamb, where I could easily reach it.
Carefully opening the window, I stepped down upon the roof of the
library, and thence to the top of the bay window, to the position I had
before occupied. My uncle was in the library, but Tom was not with him,
and I concluded that he had gone out of the cottage for the weapon he
wanted. I felt safe enough, however; for, by lying down on the top of
the bay window, close to the wall of the building, I could not be seen
by any one who did not come close to the place where I was concealed.
I bent over and looked into the library window a second time. By the
side of the grate, at the end of the room, a small iron safe had been
built into the brick-work of the chimney, in which my uncle kept his
papers and other valuables. In the occasional visits I had made to the
library, after I was conscious of the mystery which shrouded my
affairs, I had gazed wistfully at the iron door of this safe, and
longed to possess the secrets which it contained. I believed that there
were papers in that strong box which could tell me where my mother was,
or give me some clew to her place of imprisonment. Perhaps the whole
history of my father's family was contained within its iron sides.
Perhaps the story of my wrongs could be traced from the documents there.
If not, why was I so carefully excluded from the library?
I felt a deep and thrilling interest when I glanced into the room, and
saw uncle Amos seated before the open door of this safe.
CHAPTER VIII.
IN WHICH ERNEST VISITS HIS UNCLE'S LIBRARY.
WHILE Tom Thornton was looking for a battery with which to reduce my
fortress, my uncle appeared to be searching for some paper in his safe.
I concluded that Tom's unexpected arrival had suggested some business to
be done with him. I was in a fever of anxiety to hear what passed
between them.
Uncle Amos handled the papers, folding and unfolding them, giving each a
hasty glance, and then restoring it to the safe. One document in
particular attracted my attention, on which my uncle gazed much longer
than on any other, and then laid it down, apart from the others, on the
bottom of the safe. While I was watching his motions with breathless
interest, I heard the front door slammed violently. My uncle was
startled. He hastily closed the door of the safe, locked it, and put
the key under the cushion of his arm-chair. Taking the lamp in his hand,
he hastened out of the room.
"Thomas!" I heard him call, after he had passed into his chamber.
In a moment he returned to the library, followed by Tom, who had in his
hand a heavy stick taken from the wood-pile.
"What are you going to do?" demanded my uncle, as he glanced at the club
in Tom's hand.
"I am going to make that boy tell me where the girl is," replied Tom.
"With that stick?"
"Yes, with this stick."
"You will never find the girl in that way," said my uncle, shaking his
head. "Throw your stick away."
"But the rascal insulted me with almost every word he spoke," growled
Tom.
"I told you to handle him gently. You can't drive him."
"But he must tell me where the girl is."
"He will not, of course. If he thinks the girl has been abused, he is
just foolish enough to take her part, and would be pounded to a jelly
before he would tell you a word about her. If you are careful you can
find out where the girl is. Probably he carried her off in the boat. You
say it must have been nearly dark when he left Cannondale. He could not
have gone far with her. Either she is at Mr. Hale's in Parkville, or she
is concealed somewhere in this vicinity."
Uncle Amos appeared to gasp with the mighty effort this long speech had
cost him.
"The young rascal shall tell me where she is, or I will break his head.
I will teach him that he can't trifle with me, if he can with you,"
replied Tom, in snappish tones.
"You will defeat your own purposes. Where is Ernest now?"
"In his room; and I locked him in," answered Tom, with a kind of
chuckle, indicating that he thought he had done a big thing.
"Locked him in!" exclaimed my uncle. "How long do you suppose he will
stay there?"
"Till I choose to let him out," said Tom, who still appeared to be very
well satisfied with himself.
"I think not. There are two windows in the room, and when he gets ready
to leave he will do so. You seem to think the boy is a fool. Very likely
he has taken the alarm by this time, and has gone off to look out for
the girl, if he has hidden her in this vicinity."
"Do you suppose he has gone?" asked Tom; and his tones indicated his
perplexity.
"I don't know; but you can't do anything till daylight, and I want to
talk with you about our affairs."
"Confound your affairs!" ejaculated Tom, petulantly. "I can't stop
to-night to talk about them. I came after the girl, and I must have her
too."
"Thomas, I can no longer endure this wasting anxiety," continued my
uncle, solemnly. "This boy haunts me by day and by night. I seldom sleep
an hour at a time. For your sake I am suffering all this; but you are
cold, distant, and harsh to me."
"What do you wish me to do, governor?" demanded the reckless son. "I
send you all the money you want."
"It is not money, but a clear conscience, that I need," groaned the
wretched old man. "I would rather live in abject poverty than purchase
plenty at such a fearful price."
"Don't be foolish, governor."
"I live in constant fear of the boy, especially since he questioned me,
months ago, about his parents and his property."
"Of course you told him he had no property."
"I did."
"Then it's all right. In the course of a week we will send him to New
Orleans. When he has gone you can change your residence, and he will
lose the track of you."
"Perhaps he will not be willing to go to New Orleans; he certainly will
not under such treatment as you bestow upon him. Thomas, my brother's
will--"
My uncle paused and looked at his son, as though in doubt whether to
finish the sentence he had begun.
"Well, what of the will?" demanded Tom, evincing more interest than he
had before exhibited. "Of course you destroyed that years ago?"
"No, Thomas, I dared not do such a thing," replied my uncle, in a hoarse
whisper.
"You did not!" exclaimed Tom. "Where is it? Let me have it!"
"No, Thomas, I dare not even yet destroy it," groaned the old man.
"This is madness!"
"Perhaps it is. I wished to talk with you about it. It is no longer safe
for me to keep it in the house."
"Why don't you burn it, then?"
"I dare not."
By this time I was so dizzy holding my head down, that I was obliged to
raise it. I was so giddy and confused that I came very near rolling off
the top of the bay window; and in my efforts to save myself, I made a
noise, which disturbed the conference. Tom and my uncle were alarmed. I
heard them rush out of the room. Without waiting to ascertain their
intentions, I put on my shoes, and climbed down from the bay window to
the ground.
I had hardly accomplished my descent before Tom and my uncle appeared at
the window of my chamber. They had rightly attributed the noise to me,
and hastened to my room to learn what had happened.
"He has escaped," said Tom, as he drew in his head, after satisfying
himself that I was not on the roof.
I went round to the front of the house to ascertain what they would do
next. There was a horse and chaise in the road, with which Tom had come,
the animal fastened to a post. He neighed as I approached him. I found
that he was shivering in the cool night air, after the severe sweat he
had had in coming. I took a robe from the chaise and covered him, for I
liked a horse almost as well as a boat. When I had finished this kindly
act, Tom came out of the house with a lantern in his hand. He was
followed by my uncle, and they went down to the landing, where my skiff
lay.
"He hasn't gone off in the boat," said my uncle.
"And he shall not," added Tom, as he walked off and disappeared behind
the house.
I was alarmed lest he should go off to the Splash and find Kate there;
but presently he returned with an axe in his hand. Giving the lantern
to his father, he proceeded to smash the skiff with the axe, his object
being to prevent my going on board the Splash. I regarded it as a puny
effort on his part, and was relieved to find they did not intend to
visit her themselves. As soon as I was satisfied in regard to his
purpose, I crept carefully up to the horse, unfastened him, and jumped
into the chaise. The animal was full of spirit, and anxious to go.
"Have you found the girl?" I shouted to Tom, as I drove within a few
feet of where he stood.
He sprang for the horse's head as soon as he discovered my intention;
but I gave him the rein, and he went off like a rocket. I turned towards
Parkville, and after going half a mile, I reined up to ascertain whether
I was pursued or not. I could hear nothing; so I turned into a by-road,
leading to a grove. I had taken this step only to procure a diversion of
Tom's plans, if he had any, and I fastened the horse to a tree. Covering
him up with the robe again, I walked back to the highway. In less than
ten minutes, I heard the well-known rattle of my uncle's buggy. I
stepped behind a bush till it should pass. As it went by, I heard my
uncle's voice, as well as Tom's. My diversion had worked well, for both
had gone in pursuit of me, and I was delighted with the result.
As fast as my legs would carry me, I hastened back to the cottage. A
light was burning in the library. I was almost choking with anxiety, for
I had a purpose to accomplish. I climbed up to the bay window, pulled
the sash down, and leaped into my uncle's "sanctum sanctorum." With
trembling hand I raised the cushion of the arm-chair. I could hardly
repress a shout of joy, as I saw the key, just where my uncle had put
it. Eagerly I seized it and opened the safe door. I grasped the huge
document that lay on the bottom of the safe, and opened it. I read,--
"'In the name of God, amen! I, Ezra Thornton, being feeble in body, but
of sound and disposing mind--"
"It is my father's will!" I exclaimed, without pausing to read any more.
My heart was in my mouth. I glanced at other papers; but I did not
understand them, and it seemed to me then that the will was all I
wanted. I thrust that into my pocket, and was about to close the safe
door when my eye rested upon a thick pile of bank bills. I wanted money.
Would it be stealing to take some of these bills? No! All that my uncle
had was mine, according to his own statement. There were thousands of
dollars in the pile. I could not think or reason in the excitement of
the moment. I took about one fourth of the bills, thrust them into my
pocket, closed the door of the safe, locked it, and put the key under
the cushion in the chair.
I got out of the window, and placed the sash as I had found it. When I
reached the ground, the cold sweat stood on my brow, so violent were my
emotions. I entered the front door of the cottage, passing old Jerry on
the way, and went to my chamber, the key being on the outside, where Tom
had left it. I prayed that God would forgive me if I had done wrong, for
I could not determine whether I had or not.
As the will and the money would not be safe in my pocket, I wrapped them
up in a piece of newspaper, and concealed them in the closet. By this
time it was daylight. I sat for half an hour in a chair, thinking what I
should do. At sunrise Tom and his father returned. I suppose old Jerry
told them he had seen me, for both came up stairs immediately.
"Now, you young villain!" yelled Tom, as he rushed towards me, beside
himself with passion.
I retreated towards the chimney, and pulled out my bat.
"What are you going to do with that?" demanded he.
"I am going to defend myself," I replied, as firmly as I could; but I
was terribly agitated.
"We'll see if you are;" and he sprang towards me.
"Gently, Thomas; don't be rash," interposed my uncle.
"Keep your distance, or I'll smash your head!" I added, making a few
vigorous passes with the bat.
He was prudent enough to heed this warning, and left the room, but only
to return with the club he had selected before.
CHAPTER IX.
IN WHICH ERNEST, AFTER A SUCCESSFUL RETREAT, FALLS INTO A TRAP.
TOM THORNTON was the maddest man I ever saw when he returned to my
chamber armed with the club. His father had followed him down stairs,
evidently for the purpose of pacifying him; and when they returned he
was still trying to dissuade him from any act of violence.
"Don't be rash, Thomas," pleaded my uncle, as they were coming up the
stairs.
"Don't talk to me, governor. I will bring the young cub to his senses!"
roared Tom, violently.
"Control your temper, and listen to reason. You will ruin yourself and
me by your rashness."
"I'll take care of that," replied Tom, as he rushed into the room.
Uncle Amos caught him by the shoulder when he reached the door and
attempted to detain him; but Tom was in such a fury that nothing could
check him. He shook off his father, and advanced towards me, apparently
with the intention of making an end of me. I raised the heavy bat, and
looked him steadfastly in the eye. I was the cooler of the two, and the
experience I had had in a hand-to-hand fight with Mr. Parasyte gave me
both courage and skill for such a conflict.
He came upon me with reckless vehemence, aiming a blow at my head; but I
struck at and hit his club with such force that it was knocked out of
his hands, and flew over into one corner of the room. Quick to take
advantage of this favorable circumstance, I ran to the spot, and put my
foot on the stick, in order to hold the weapon I had captured.
Tom rushed forward to recover his club at any hazard, but I laid about
me, right and left, with all my might, so that the bat whizzed through
the air. To have come within the circle of the flying bat would have
insured him a broken head, and he paused a moment. My uncle stepped
forward, and taking him by the shoulder, drew him back from such
dangerous proximity to my weapon.
"One of you will certainly be killed!" gasped my uncle. "Stop, Ernest!"
"I am ready to stop when he is," I replied, panting with my exertions.
"What have you done with my horse, you villain?" roared Tom.
"I'll tell you when you have cooled off," I answered. "I want you to
understand now that I am not to be trifled with."
"I'll bring you to your senses, yet," said Tom, with an awful scowl, as
he turned and rushed out of the room again, followed by my uncle.
It was plain that he had gone after another weapon, and perhaps this
time he would bring something more dangerous than a stick from the
wood-pile. Fighting was not at all to my taste, and I was not quite
willing to risk my prowess against such an insane assailant. I realized
that he would just as lief kill me as not, and I might not again be as
fortunate as I had been during the first onslaught. Discretion was
certainly the better part of valor in such an encounter, for there were
no laurels to be won in the battle; and I determined to make my escape
before the return of my savage foe. I did not mean to come back, for my
mission was in the great world until I had developed the mystery of my
own wrongs.
I approached the closet, after I had opened the window, for the purpose
of obtaining the will and the money I had concealed there. I was on the
point of opening the closet, when I heard a step on the stairs, and then
my uncle appeared at the door.
"Ernest, if you have any regard for me, or any gratitude for what I have
done for you, don't incense him any more," said he, in pleading tones.
"What shall I do?--let him kill me?" I replied.
"What have you done with the horse and chaise?"
"They are in Welch's Lane."
"Don't resist Thomas any more."
"I shall resist him to the death, if he don't let me alone," I answered,
firmly. "I didn't begin it."
"Yes, you did, Ernest. You carried the girl off, and he is acting for
her mother."
"The girl has been abused. If she hadn't been, she wouldn't have jumped
overboard."
"There! Thomas is coming!" exclaimed he, greatly alarmed at the prospect
of a renewal of hostilities. "Tell him where the girl is, for my sake,
if not for your own."
"I will not," I replied, as I heard Tom's step on the stairs.
The window was open, and while there was yet time, I leaped out upon the
roof of the library, with the bat still in my hand. Throwing the weapon
down, I stepped on the bay window, and from that dropped to the ground.
Picking up the bat, I retreated to the grove which bordered the lake
beyond the house. I had left the valuables in the closet, and was
therefore not prepared to take my final departure.
I had advanced but a few steps before Tom and his father appeared at the
window. My furious foe staid there only long enough to obtain a sight of
me. A moment afterwards he rushed out at the front door, and started in
pursuit of me. I doubted just then whether I had gained any advantage by
transferring the battle-ground to the open air, for Tom's legs were
longer than mine, though probably he had not practised running so much
as I had. Taking the path near the bank of the lake, I ran with all my
speed, till I came to the brook which flowed round the hill in the rear
of the cottage and discharged itself into the lake. For some distance
above the outlet the stream was from ten to fifteen feet wide. There was
a rude foot-bridge, consisting of a single wide plank, across it, for my
uncle's domain extended a short distance beyond it.
I crossed this bridge. Tom was only a few rods behind me, and a
brilliant strategic idea flashed into my mind as I stepped upon the
plank. As it is considered good policy for a retreating army to destroy
the bridges behind it, I adopted the suggestion, and as soon as I had
reached the other side of the brook, I lifted the end of the plank, and
pulled it over after me. Tom rushed up to the other side just as I had
completed the job. The stream was a good ten feet wide, and its banks
were rather soft and slippery.
From the movements he made, I thought, at first, that he intended to
leap over the brook; and I placed myself in such a position as to insure
his falling into the water, if he attempted such a piece of gymnastics.
Tom wore nice clothes, and he did not run the risk of soiling them by a
possible accident. He paused on the brink of the stream, and feared to
cross the Rubicon.
"How are you, Tom Thornton?" I exclaimed, after he had looked about him
for the means of bettering his situation, and of continuing the chase.
The exertions he had made to catch me had evidently cooled him off in
some measure. He was out of breath, and was apparently becoming
"demoralized." He looked at me, and scowled most unamiably.
"Follow the brook up to the road, and you can get across there," I
added, as he again looked about him for the means of overcoming his
difficulty.
"None of your impudence, you puppy!" replied he; but his invective was
tame compared with what it had been.
"If I am a puppy, Tom Thornton, perhaps you would like my bark to cross
the brook with," I answered.
"The time to settle up all this business will soon come," said he,
shaking his head.
"Mr. Tom Thornton, if you think you can scare me with any bugbears, you
are mistaken. I know you better than you think I do."
"What do you know?" demanded he, surprised out of his malignity by my
remark.
"What I know I keep to myself. When you go back to Mrs. Loraine, I wish
you would tell her from me that it won't sound well when it is told she
kept that poor girl shut up in her room for a week or ten days, with the
blinds nailed so that she could not open them, just because she took
long stitches, or trod on a flower. If I were in your place I shouldn't
like to marry a woman like that."
Tom looked uneasy, and played with his watch chain. I thought he wanted
to say something conciliatory; that he desired to extend to me the olive
branch of peace, the better to get me into his power. I was quite
willing to listen to any overtures of this kind, for I wanted to return
to the cottage, obtain the will and the money, and then bid a final
adieu to Parkville until I had solved the problem of my existence. I was
fearfully anxious lest my uncle should discover the loss of the
valuable document I had taken, and it should be found where I had
concealed it.
"Ernest, you are getting yourself into trouble," said Tom, after a
while, in milder tones than he had yet used.
"For which, no doubt, you are very sorry," I added.
"I'm sure I don't want to quarrel with you."
"You have been very mild and gentle to me."
"Well, I was mad, Ernest," said he, with something like a smile. "If you
will tell me where my horse is, we will call it all square."
"I told uncle Amos where he is. I left him down in Welch's Lane."
"Where is that?"
"Your father knows where it is. His horse is harnessed, and he will
drive you down there," I replied, hoping they would adopt my plan, and
thus enable me to enter my chamber and reclaim the valuables I had left
there.
"Very well; I will do so. I will help you put the plank across the brook
before I go," he replied.
"No, I thank you. I can put it across myself when I get ready to do so,"
I answered, cautiously.
"What are you afraid of?"
"I'm not afraid of anything; but I'm not going to put my head in the
wildcat's mouth."
"I won't touch you."
"I don't intend you shall. Go and get your horse, and I will take care
of myself."
"Well, I will."
He turned, and walked up the path towards the cottage. Of course I had
no faith in his word, and I determined to keep at a respectful distance
from him. When he had disappeared in the grove beyond the brook, I
raised the plank on one end, and then dropped it across the stream,
restoring the bridge to its original position. I crossed the brook, and
walked towards the house. When I came in sight of it, the buggy was
leaving the yard. I concluded Tom and his father had really adopted my
suggestion, and were going to Welch's Lane for the horse and chaise. But
I was too wary to advance without reconnoitring the ground.
"Your breakfast is all ready, Ernest," said old Betsey, the housekeeper,
as I approached the back door.
"Where are my uncle and the gentleman?" I asked.
"They told me they were going down to Parkville, and I need not wait
breakfast for them."
I went into the dining-room and sat down at the table, as much for the
purpose of getting something for Kate as to eat myself. I was scarcely
seated, when I was thrown over backwards, chair and all, and found
myself lying on the floor, held down by Tom Thornton.
CHAPTER X.
IN WHICH ERNEST STRIKES A HEAVY BLOW FOR LIBERTY.
"DEAR me! Good gracious! Why!" screamed Betsey, when Tom Thornton threw
me upon the floor. "I thought you'd gone off with Mr. Thornton. What in
the world are you going to do? Let the poor boy alone!"
Betsey did not think I was having fair play, and old and stiff as she
was, she rushed up to Tom, apparently with the intention of interfering.
"Out of the way, old woman!" growled Tom. "Go and get me a rope."
"A rope! I won't get you any rope! And if you don't let the poor boy
alone, I'll go out and call the neighbors," replied Betsey, bustling
about the room as though she intended to do some desperate thing.
For my own part, I felt that it would be useless for me to resist. Tom
was strong, and I was wholly in his power--taken by surprise, and at a
disadvantage which I could not overcome. I lay still, therefore, and
thus saved some hard knocks.
"What are you going to do with the poor boy? He shan't be treated so!"
persisted Betsey, who had not talked so much before for ten years.
"Be still, old woman! He's a bad boy. He stole my horse, and ran away
with a little girl. I shall not hurt him if he behaves himself," replied
Tom, who appeared to be afraid she would call in some person to take my
part.
"You act like a brute. You treat him worse than an ox," continued
Betsey.
"Now get up, sir," said Tom to me, still retaining his hold upon my coat
collar.
He helped me to my feet. Being vanquished, I had nothing to say, and I
uttered no complaint. When I rose, he tied my hands behind me with his
handkerchief. I submitted because it would have been folly for me to
resist; but I intended to watch my opportunity, and submit no longer
than necessity compelled me to do so. My brutal conqueror took me by
the collar, led me into the hall, and thence into the cellar. In one
corner there was a kind of closet partitioned off with brick walls,
which had been built for a milk-room; but as my uncle kept but one cow,
it was seldom used. There was no window in it, and a more damp, dark,
and disagreeable dungeon it would be difficult for a boy of sixteen to
imagine. It had a heavy wooden door, and altogether the place looked as
hopeless as it was gloomy.
Tom led me up to the door and thrust me in, with my hands still tied
behind me. The only ray of hope I could obtain was derived from the fact
that there was no lock on the door.
"Now, Mr. Ernest Thornton, it is my turn," said Tom, as he partially
closed the door of my cell, and gazed in upon me. "You are a smart boy,
but you have rather overdone it this time. I told you in the beginning
that I was not to be trifled with. You begin to believe what I said by
this time. Have you anything to say before I close the door?"
"No," I replied.
"A couple of days in this place will bring you to your senses," added
Tom, malignantly.
I made no reply. I did not feel like talking. I was busy thinking how I
should recover the ground I had lost. I saw that the cellar wall was not
laid in mortar, except two or three feet at the top and above the
ground. I had already made up my mind that this wall would begin to come
down as soon as I was left alone.
While I was looking at the situation, old Betsey--whom I had never
suspected of having the least interest in me--tottered down the cellar
stairs, and protested that I should not be confined in such a place. Tom
told her it was her employer's orders, and drove her out of the cellar.
I was satisfied that the old housekeeper was not a party to the deceit
by which I had been lured into the trap. My uncle told her that he and
Tom were going to Parkville after the horse, as Betsey explained to me
afterwards, bidding her call me to breakfast, that I might not be late
to school. This was Tom's plan to insnare me, and during this time he
was in the cellar, preparing the dungeon for my reception. My uncle and
old Jerry had gone in the buggy after Tom's horse and chaise.
"Ernest, I am willing to make terms with you now," said Tom, after he
had got rid of Betsey. "I came over here after that girl. You say you
know where she is. If you will tell me where I can find her, I will not
shut you up. Will you do it?"
"No!" I answered, as decidedly as I could speak the word.
"Think well of it. If I can't find her with your help, I shall find her
without it."
"Perhaps you will."
"The Hale boy was with you. I shall have him arrested at once by the
sheriff."
"Bob Hale don't know where the girl is. If he did, he wouldn't tell.
When you arrest him, he can tell a good story about Mrs. Loraine's
motherly care of Kate."
Tom bit his lips; he had no more idea of arresting Bob than he had of
arresting me.
"Once more, before I shut you up, will you tell me where the girl is, or
not?"
"I will not! I will rot in this hole before I will tell a word about the
girl."
He slammed the door upon me, and I was in utter darkness. I heard him
putting props against the door, and pounding them down so as to make it
secure. Then all was still outside, and I concluded that he had gone up
stairs. I had a faint hope that old Betsey would come down and release
me; but I immediately went to work upon the handkerchief which confined
my hands.
My captor had crossed my wrists and tied them together in this position.
I twisted and wrenched till I stretched the linen of the handkerchief,
and strained the knot enough to permit me to pull my hands through my
bonds, and free them. The darkness was gloomy and oppressive, even after
I had been only half an hour in the dungeon. I felt that, for Kate's
sake, as well as my own, I must get out. For the present she was safe,
for Tom had destroyed the skiff, so that he could not go out to the
Splash; but the poor girl would suffer agonies of terror if I did not go
to her in the course of the day.
I was almost furious when I thought of my situation; of Kate in the
cuddy of the boat, and of the will and money in the closet. I was afraid
my uncle would discover his loss before I could escape. I could hardly
keep from weeping with vexation as I thought of my misfortune. But it
was not my style to groan long over my mishaps, when there was a chance,
however desperate, of retrieving them. I was determined either to break
my way out of my prison, or convince my jailer it was not strong enough
to hold me.
I felt of the stones that formed the wall, and pulled out as many of the
small ones as were loose enough to permit their removal. I then used my
strength on a dozen of the larger ones, till I found one which could be
taken out. How I wished then for an iron bar! With such an implement I
felt that I could soon let in the daylight. But I had no bar, and after
removing one stone about the size of my head, I was utterly unable to
start another around it.
I was perplexed. I felt in my pockets for something to help me. I don't
know but I had a faint hope of finding an iron bar; but certainly there
was none there, or anything else with which I could operate on the
obdurate stone wall. In my perplexity, I "fished my pockets" thoroughly.
In the usual assortment a boy carries with him, I had a quantity of
matches. I was not a smoker, but I always found it convenient to have a
match when I happened to be out after dark in the Splash, to light my
cabin lantern.
These matches were suggestive, for the door of my prison was made of
wood, and fire would consume and destroy it. There were several shelves
across the end of my dungeon, one of which I pulled down, and with my
knife proceeded to whittle off the shavings for a fire. While I was thus
engaged, I heard a vehicle drive up to the door. It was immediately
followed by another, and I concluded that my uncle had returned. I had
made a large pile of shavings. I then went to work on the lower part of
the door, cutting into it, and roughening the boards, so that the fire
could be readily communicated to it.
Having completed my preparations, I lighted a match, and set fire to the
shavings. They were rather damp, and it was some time before I could get
up a free fire. I moved the combustibles against the door; but the wood
was saturated with moisture, and I was almost suffocated by the smoke,
while the door appeared to be only charred by the heat of the fire.
While I was busily engaged in this effort, the props were removed, and
the door thrown open. My uncle rushed forward and stamped out the fire I
had kindled.
"What are you doing, Ernest?" gasped my uncle.
"Working my way out of this hole," I replied.
"There, Thomas, you can see what the boy is," groaned my uncle. "But he
shall not be kept in such a place as this."
"Very well, governor," said Tom, who had followed his father. "Put him
into his chamber."
My captor came forward, and taking me by the collar, led me out of my
dungeon. He had a club in his hand, and assured me if I made any
resistance, he would hit me on the head with it. Deeming it prudent to
be submissive, I permitted him to conduct me to my chamber. The blinds
were closed, and I saw that the room had been prepared for my reception.
It afterwards came to my knowledge that my uncle positively refused to
permit me to be confined in the cellar; and they had nailed up the
windows and the blinds before they removed me to my new prison. I was
locked in, after old Betsey had placed on the table food enough for my
breakfast and dinner.
My uncle was human. After all the wrongs he and his graceless son had
inflicted on me, he was not willing that I should be injured. I had
always thought he hated me, but compared with Tom, his feelings were
tender and fatherly. The first thing I did when I was left alone was to
assure myself that the valuables in the closet were safe. They were just
where I had left them, for my uncle had been too busy to open his strong
box.
I ate my breakfast, and then dressed myself in my best clothes, ready
for my final departure, for a window-sash and a pair of blinds could not
keep me. I marvelled that my jailers expected to confine me in my
chamber; but I concluded that they were on the watch below ready to
check any movement I might make. I examined the windows, and found they
were nailed down on the outside. My fowling-piece, fishing-rods, and
other articles which could be used as offensive weapons, were removed
from the room.
It was necessary that I should strike and run within the same moment. I
wanted a battering-ram, with which to smash the window and the blind.
With the bed-key, which was in the closet, I took down the bedstead as
quietly as I could. Reserving one side piece for use, I placed the rest
against the door, so that it could not be opened. I then put the will
and the money into my pocket, and filled a napkin with food for Kate. A
few quick and vigorous blows with the side piece of the bedstead reduced
the window and the blinds to a wreck, and I leaped out upon the roof of
the library, just as I heard my persecutors at the door of the chamber.
CHAPTER XI.
IN WHICH ERNEST MAKES GOOD HIS RETREAT FROM THE COTTAGE.
WITHOUT remorse, I glanced behind me at the wreck I had made of the
window. I did not regard myself as responsible for any damage I had
caused in breaking away from my persecutors. Not only Tom, but my uncle,
was engaged in a conspiracy against me, in which they had been concerned
from my early childhood. Indeed, I had already come to the conclusion
that the cottage and grounds had been purchased with money which
rightfully belonged to me.
Judging from the conversations to which I had listened, detached and
indefinite as they were, I was satisfied that my uncle and his son
intended to cheat me out of my birthright, and out of the inheritance my
father had left for me. But this was nothing compared with the
statement of my uncle that my mother was insane, and the fact that I was
not permitted to know even where she was. I began to doubt whether she
was insane, or had ever been. It was possible that my uncle, to obtain
his brother's property, had confined her in a lunatic asylum on a mere
pretence. My blood boiled with indignation as I thought of these things,
and I did not wonder that my uncle could not sleep nights, that he was a
misanthrope, and hated the sound of his own and of other people's
voices.
With such provocation I could have justified myself in smashing all the
windows in the cottage, or even in burning the house to the ground. I
thanked God that I had escaped, when I stood upon the roof; and without
the loss of a moment, I made my way to the ground. I caught one glance
of Tom's face as he came to the window before my descent. But he was
active and resolute, and almost as soon as I reached the ground, he had
descended the stairs, and passed out upon the lawn in front of the
house.
There was nothing more at the cottage for me, and now all I wanted was
to get on board of the Splash. My skiff was destroyed, and my pursuer
would not permit me to build a raft. I could have swum off to her; but
the water might injure, if not ruin, the priceless document in my
pocket. Tom was at my heels, and all I could do was to run.
"Stop!" shouted Tom.
I ran all the faster when the sound of his voice assured me how near he
was.
"Stop! If you don't stop, I'll shoot you!" cried he.
I glanced over my shoulder, and saw that he had my fowling-piece in his
hand; at least there was no other gun about the place. But I was not
much alarmed by the threat, for the gun had not been used for months,
and I did not believe it was in condition to go off. The wretch expected
to frighten me by this demonstration; but if he had had a twenty-four
pounder, loaded with grape, it would not have stopped me till the shot
struck me.
Tom slackened his pace and raised the gun to his shoulder, threatening
again to shoot me if I did not stop. The trick only gave me the
advantage, for I gained several rods while he was making the feint with
the gun. I reached the foot-bridge over the brook, and, profiting by my
former experience, I adopted the same course again. I had just time to
drag the plank over the stream when my pursuer reached the opposite
bank. I felt that I was safe now; and, out of breath with my exertions,
I did not hurry myself.
"Will you stop, or shall I send a bullet after you?" shouted Tom; and I
could easily imagine the chagrin with which he again found his progress
checked.
I made no reply, but continued on my way down the path. I did not lose
any time, for it was possible that he might, in his desperation, wade
across the stream, and follow up the pursuit. Some distance behind him,
I saw my uncle hastening to the spot with what speed he could command. I
was satisfied with myself. I had fought a hard battle with my enemy, but
I had won the victory.
A little way beyond the brook I came to the fence that divided my
uncle's estate from that of his nearest neighbor. I leaped over, and
continued my walk till I came to the house of Mr. Van Wort. He was a
farmer, and had two grown-up sons, one of whom kept a small flat-boat
for fishing and gunning purposes. I saw the owner of the boat hoeing in
