might go. There would be no nation left."
"But how could you help it?" I asked.
"I don't know whether we could help it," he said; "but we
would try."
"You do not mean, that it would come to fighting?"
"I do not think they would be such fools. I hope we are
supposing a very unlikely thing, Miss Randolph."
I hoped so. But that impression of Southern character troubled
me yet. Fighting! I looked at the peaceful hills, feeling as
if indeed "all the foundations of the earth" would be "out of
course."
"What would you do in case it came to fighting?" said my
neighbour. The words startled me out of my meditations.
"I could not do anything."
"I beg your pardon. Your favour  your countenance, would do
much; on one side or the other. You would fight  in effect 
as surely as I should."
I looked up. "Not against you," I said; for I could not bear
to be misunderstood.
There was a strange sparkle in Mr. Thorold's eye; but those
flashes of light came and went so like flashes, that I could
not always tell what they meant. The tone of his voice however
I knew expressed pleasure.
"How comes that?" he said. "You are Southern?"
"Do I look it?" I asked.
"Pardon me  yes."
"How, Mr. Thorold?"
"You must excuse me. I cannot tell you. But you are South?"
"Yes," I said. "At least all my friends are Southern. I was
born there."
"You have one Northern friend," said Mr. Thorold, as we rose
up to go on. He said it with meaning. I looked up and smiled.
There was a smile in his eyes, mixed with something more. I
think our compact of friendship was made and settled then and
at once.
He stretched out his hand as if for a further ratification. I
put mine in it, while he went on, "How comes it then that you
take such a view of such a question?"
There had sprung up a new tone in our intercourse, of more
familiarity, and more intimate trust. It gave infinite content
to me; and I went on to answer, telling him about my Northern
life. Drawn on, from question to question, I detailed at
length my Southern experience also, and put my new friend in
possession not only of my opinions, but of the training under
which they had been formed. My hand, I remember, remained in
his while I talked, as if he had been my brother; till he
suddenly put it down and plunged into the bushes for a bunch
of wild roses. A party of walkers came round an angle a moment
after; and, waking up to a consciousness of our surroundings,
we found, or I did, that we were just at the end of the rocky
walk, where we must mount up and take to the plain.
The evening was falling very fair over plain and hill when we
got to the upper level. Mr. Thorold proposed that I should go
and see the camp, which I liked very much to do. So he took me
all through it, and showed and explained all sorts of things
about the tents and the way of life they lived in them. He
said he should like it very much, if he only had more room;
but three or four in one little tent nine feet by nine, gave
hardly, as he said, "a chance to a fellow." The tents and the
camp alleys were full of cadets, loitering about, or talking,
or busy with their accoutrements; here and there I saw an
officer. Captain Percival bowed, Captain Lascelles spoke. I
looked for Preston, but I could see him nowhere. Then Mr.
Thorold brought me into his own tent, introduced one or two
cadets who were loitering there and who immediately took
themselves away; and made me sit down on what he called a
"locker." The tent curtains were rolled tight up, as far as
they would go, and so were the curtains of every other tent;
most beautiful order prevailed everywhere and over every
trifling detail.
"Well," said Mr. Thorold, sitting down opposite me on a
candle-box  "how do you think you would like camp life?"
"The tents are too close together," I said.
He laughed, with a good deal of amusement.
"That will do!" he said. "You begin by knocking the camp to
pieces."
"But it is beautiful," I went on.
"And not comfortable. Well, it is pretty comfortable," he
said.
"How do you do when it storms very hard  at night?"
"Sleep."
"Don't you ever get wet?"
"That makes no difference."
"Sleep in the wet!" said I. And he laughed again at me. It was
not banter. The whole look and air of the man testified to a
thorough soldierly, manly contempt of little things  of all
things that might come in the way of order and his duty. An
intrinsic independence and withal control of circumstances, in
so far as the mind can control them. I read the power to do
it. But I wondered to myself if he never got homesick in that
little tent and full camp. It would not do to touch the
question.
"Do you know Preston Gary?" I asked. "He is a cadet."
"I know him."
I thought the tone of the words, careless as they were,
signified little value for the knowledge.
"I have not seen him anywhere," I remarked.
"Do you want to see him? He has seen you."
"No, he cannot," I said, "or he would have come to speak to
me."
"He would if he could," replied Mr. Thorold,  "no doubt; but
the liberty is wanting. He is on guard. We crossed his path as
we came into the camp."
"On guard!" I said. "Is he? Why, he was on guard only a day or
two ago. Does it come so often?"
"It comes pretty often in Gary's case," said my companion.
"Does it?" I said. "He does not like it."
"No," said Mr. Thorold merrily. "It is not a favourite
amusement in most cases."
"Then why does he have so much of it?"
"Gary is not fond of discipline."
I guessed this might be true. I knew enough of Preston for
that. But it startled me.
"Does he not obey the regulations?" I asked presently, in a
lowered tone.
Mr. Thorold smiled. "He is a friend of yours, Miss Randolph?"
"Yes," I said. "He is my mother's nephew."
"Then he is your cousin?" said my companion. Another of those
penetrative glances fell on me. They were peculiar; they
flashed upon me, or through me, as keen and clear as the flash
of a sabre in the sun; and out of eyes in which a sunlight of
merriment or benignity was even then glowing. Both glowed upon
me just at this moment, so I did not mind the keen
investigation. Indeed I never minded it. I learned to know it
as one of Mr. Thorold's peculiarities. Now, Dr. Sandford had a
good eye for reading people, but it never flashed, unless
under strong excitement. Mr. Thorold's were dancing and
flashing and sparkling with fifty things by turns; their fund
of amusement and power of observation were the first things
that struck me, and they attracted me too.
"Then he is your cousin?"
"Of course, he is my cousin."
I thought Mr. Thorold seemed a little bit grave and silent for
a moment; then he rose up, with that benign look of his eyes
glowing all over me, and told me there was the drum for
parade. "Only the first drum," he added; so I need not be in a
hurry. Would I go home before parade?
I thought I would. If Preston was pacing up and down the side
of the camp ground, I thought I did not want to see him nor to
have him see me; as he was there for what I called disgrace.
Moreover I had a secret presentiment of a breezy discussion
with him the next time there was a chance.
And I was not disappointed. The next day, in the afternoon he
came to see us. Mrs. Sandford and I were sitting on the
piazza, where the heat of an excessively sultry day was now
relieved a little by a slender breeze coming out of the north-
west. It was very hot still. Preston sat down and made
conversation in an abstracted way for a little while.
"We did not see you at the hop the other night, Mr. Gary,"
Mrs. Sandford remarked.
"No. Were you there?" said Preston.
"Everybody was there  except you."
"And Daisy? Were you there, Daisy?"
"Certainly," Mrs. Sandford responded. "Everybody else could
have been better missed."
"I did not know you went there," said Preston, in something so
like a growl that Mrs. Sandford lifted her eyes to look at
him.
"I do not wonder you are jealous," she said composedly.
"Jealous!" said Preston, with growl the second.
"You had more reason than you knew."
Preston grumbled something about the hops being "stupid
places." I kept carefully still.
"Daisy, did you go?"
I looked up, and said yes.
"Whom did you dance with?"
"With everybody," said Mrs. Sandford. "That is, so far as the
length of the evening made it possible. Blue and grey, and all
colours."
"I don't want you to dance with everybody," said Preston, in a
more undertone growl.
"There is no way to prevent it," said Mrs. Sandford, "but to
be there and ask her yourself."
I did not thank Mrs. Sandford, privately for this suggestion;
which Preston immediately followed up by enquiring "if we were
going to the hop to-night?"
"Certainly," Mrs. Sandford said.
"It's too confounded hot!"
"Not for us who are accustomed to the climate," Mrs. Sandford
said, with spirit.
"It's a bore altogether," muttered Preston. "Daisy, are you
going to-night?"
"I suppose so."
"Well, if you must go, you may as well dance with me as with
anybody. So tell anybody else that you are engaged. I will
take care of you."
"Don't you wish to dance with anybody except me?"
"I do not," said Preston slowly. "As I said, it is too hot. I
consider the whole thing a bore."
"You shall not be bored for me," I said. "I refuse to dance
with you. I hope I shall not see you there at all."
"Daisy!"
"Well?"
"Come down and take a little walk with me."
"You said, it is too hot."
"But you will dance?"
"You will not dance."
"I want to speak to you, Daisy."
"You may speak," I said. I did not want to hear him, for there
were no indications of anything agreeable in Preston's manner.
"Daisy!" he said,  "I do not know you."
"You used to know her," said Mrs. Sandford; "that is all."
"Will you come and walk with me?" said Preston, almost
angrily.
"I do not think it would be pleasant," I said.
"You were walking yesterday afternoon."
"Yes!"
"Come and walk up and down the piazza, anyhow. You can do
that."
I could, and did not refuse. He chose the sunny western side,
because no one was there. However, the sun's rays were
obscured under a thick haze and had been all day.
"Whom were you with?" Preston enquired, as soon as we were out
of earshot.
"Do you mean yesterday?"
"Of course I mean yesterday! I saw you cross in to the camp.
With whom were you going there?"
"Why did you not come to speak to me?" I said.
"I was on duty. I could not."
"I did not see you anywhere."
"I was on guard. You crossed my path not ten feet off."
"Then you must know whom I was with, Preston," I said, looking
at him.
"You don't know  that is the thing. It was that fellow
Thorold."
"How came you to be on guard again so soon? You were on guard
just a day or two before."
"That is all right enough. It is about military things, that
you do not understand. It is all right enough, except these
confounded Yankees. And Thorold is another."
"Who is one?" I said, laughing. "You say he is another."
"Blunt is one."
"I like Major Blunt."
"Daisy," said Preston, stopping short, "you ought to be with
your mother. There is nobody to take care of you here. How
came you to know that Thorold?"
"He was introduced to me. What is the matter with him?"
"You ought not to be going about with him. He is a regular
Yankee, I tell you."
"What does that mean?" I said. "You speak it as if you meant
something very objectionable.
"I do. They are a cowardly set of tailors. They have no idea
what a gentleman means, not one of them, unless they have
caught the idea from a Southerner. I don't want you to have
anything to do with them, Daisy. You must not dance with them,
and you must not be seen with this Thorold. Promise me you
will not."
"Dr. Sandford is another," I said.
"I can't help Dr. Sandford. He is your guardian. You must not
go again with Thorold!"
"Did you ever know him cowardly?" I asked.
I was sure that Preston coloured; whether with any feeling
beside anger I could not make out; but the anger was certain.
"What do you know about it?" he asked.
"What do you?" I rejoined. But Preston changed more and more.
"Daisy, promise me you will not have anything to do with these
fellows. You are too good to dance with them. There are plenty
of Southern people here now, and lots of Southern cadets."
"Mr. Caxton is one," I said. "I don't like him."
"He is of an excellent Georgia family," said Preston.
"I cannot help that. He is neither gentlemanly in his habits,
nor true in his speech."
Preston hereupon broke out into an untempered abuse of
Northern things in general and Northern cadets in particular,
mingled with a repetition of his demands upon me. At length I
turned from him.
"This is very tiresome, Preston," I said; "and this side of
the house is very warm. Of course I must dance with whoever
asks me."
"Well, I have asked you for this evening," he said, following
me.
"You are not to go," I said. "I shall not dance with you
once," and I took my former place by Mrs. Sandford. Preston
fumed; declared I was just like a piece of marble; and went
away. I did not feel quite so impassive as he said I looked.
"What are you going to wear to-night, Daisy?" Mrs. Sandford
asked presently.
"I don't know, ma'am."
"But you must know soon, my dear. Have you agreed to give your
cousin half the evening?"
"No, ma'am  I could not  I am engaged for every dance, and
more."
"More!" said Mrs. Sandford.
"Yes ma'am  for the next time."
"Preston has reason!" she said, laughing. "But I think, Daisy,
Grant will be the most jealous of all. Do him good. What will
become of his sciences and his microscope now?"
"Why, I shall be just as ready for them," I said.
Mrs. Sandford shook her head. "You will find the hops will
take more than that," she said. "But now, Daisy, think what
you will wear; for we must go soon and get ready."
I did not want to think about it. I expected, of course, to
put on the same dress I had worn the last time. But Mrs.
Sandford objected very strongly.
"You must not wear the same thing twice running," she said;
"not if you can help it."
I could not imagine why not.
"It is quite nice enough," I urged. "It is scarcely the least
mussed in the world."
"People will think you have not another, my dear."
"What matter would that be?" I said, wholly puzzled.
"Now, my dear Daisy!" said Mrs. Sandford, half laughing, 
"you are the veriest Daisy in the world, and do not understand
the world that you grow in. No matter; just oblige me, and put
on something else to-night. What have you got?"
I had other dresses like the rejected one. I had another
still, white like them, but of different make and quality. I
hardly knew what it was, for I had never worn it; to please
Mrs. Sandford I took it out now. She was pleased. It was, like
the rest, out of the store my mother had sent me; a soft India
muslin, of beautiful texture, made and trimmed as my mother
and a Parisian artist could manage between them. But no
Parisian artist could know better than my mother how a thing
should be.
"That will do!" said Mrs. Sandford approvingly. "Dear me, what
lace! What lace you Southern ladies do wear, to be sure! A
blue sash, now, Daisy?"
"No ma'am, I think not."
"Rose? It must be blue or rose."
But I thought differently, and kept it white.
"No colour?" said Mrs. Sandford. "None at all? Then just let
me put this little bit of green in your hair."
As I stood before the glass and she tried various positions
for some geranium leaves, I felt that would not do either. Any
dressing of my head would commonise the whole thing. I watched
her fingers and the geranium leaves going from one side of my
head to the other, watched how every touch changed the tone of
my costume, and felt that I could not suffer it; and then it
suddenly occurred to me that I, who a little while before had
not cared about my dress for the evening, now did care, and
that determinedly. I knew I would wear no geranium leaves, not
even to please Mrs. Sandford. And for the first time a
question stole into my mind, what was I, Daisy, doing? But
then I said to myself, that the dress without this head
adorning was perfect in its elegance; it suited me; and it was
not wrong to like beauty nor to dislike things in bad taste.
Perhaps I was too handsomely dressed, but I could not change
that now. Another time I would go back to my embroidered
muslins, and stay there.
"I like it better without anything, Mrs. Sandford," I said,
removing her green decorations and turning away from the
glass. Mrs. Sandford sighed, but said "it would do without
them," and away we went.
I can see it all again; I can almost feel the omnibus roll
with me over the plain, that still sultry night. All those
nights were sultry. Then as we came near the Academic
Building, I could see the lights in the upper windows; here
and there an officer sitting in a window-sill, and the figures
of cadets passing back and forth. Then we mounted to the hall
above, filled with cadets in a little crowd, and words of
recognition came, and Preston, meeting us almost before we got
out of the dressing room.
"Daisy, you dance with me?"
"I am engaged, Preston, for the first dance."
"Already! The second, then, and all the others?"
"I am engaged,"  I repeated, and left him, for Mr. Thorold
was at my side.
I forgot Preston the next minute. It was easy to forget him,
for all the first half of the evening I was honestly happy in
dancing. In talking too, whenever Thorold was my partner;
other people's talk was very tiresome. They went over the
platitudes of the day; or they started subjects of interest
that were not interesting to me. Bits of gossip  discussions
of fashionable amusements with which I could have nothing to
do; frivolous badinage, which was of all things most
distasteful to me. Yet, amid it all, I believe, there was a
subtle incense of admiration which by degrees and insensibly
found its way to my senses. But I had two dances with Thorold,
and at those times I was myself and enjoyed unalloyed
pleasure. And so I thought did he.
I saw Preston, when now and then I caught a glimpse of him,
looking excessively glum. Midway in the evening it happened
that I was standing beside him for a few moments, waiting for
my next partner.
"You are dancing with nobody but that man whom I hate!" he
grumbled. "Who is it now?"
"Captain Vaux."
"Will you dance with me after that?"
"I cannot, Preston. I must dance with Major Banks."
"You seem to like it pretty well," he growled.
"No wonder," said Mrs. Sandford. "You were quite right about
the geranium leaves, Daisy; you do not want them. You do not
want anything, my dear," she whispered.
At this instant a fresh party entered the room, just as my
partner came up to claim me.
"There are some handsome girls," said the captain. "Two of
them, really!"
"People from Cozzens's," said Mrs. Sandford, "who think the
cadets keep New York hours."
It was Faustina St. Clair and Mary Lansing, with their friends
and guardians, I don't know whom. And as I moved to take my
place in the dance, I was presently confronted by my school
adversary and the partner she had immediately found. The
greeting was very slight and cool on her side.
"Excessively handsome," whispered the captain. "A friend of
yours?"
"A schoolfellow," I said.
"Must be a pleasant thing, I declare, to have such handsome
schoolfellows," said the captain. "Beauty is a great thing,
isn't it? I wonder sometimes how the ladies can make up their
minds to take up with such great rough ugly fellows as we are,
for a set. How do you think it is?"
I thought it was wonderful too, when they were like him. But I
said nothing.
"Dress too," said the captain. "Now look at our dress!
Straight and square and stiff; and no variety in it. While our
eyes are delighted, on the other side, with soft draperies and
fine colours, and combinations of grace and elegance, that are
fit to put a man in Elysium!"
"Did you notice the colour of the haze in the west, this
evening at sunset?" I asked.
"Haze? No, really. I didn't know there was any haze, really,
except in my head. I get hazy amidst these combinations.
Seriously, Miss Randolph, what do you think of a soldier's
life?"
"It depends on who the soldier is," I said.
"Cool, really!" said the captain. "Cool! Ha! ha! "
And he laughed, till I wondered what I could have said to
amuse him so much.
"Then you have learned to individualise soldiers already?" was
his next question, put with a look which seemed to me
inquisitive and impertinent. I did not know how to answer it,
and left it unanswered;  and the captain and I had the rest
of our dance out in silence. Meanwhile, I could not help
watching Faustina.  She was so very handsome, with a marked,
dashing sort of beauty that I saw was prodigiously admired.
She took no notice of me, and barely touched the tips of my
fingers with her glove as we passed in the dance.
As he was leading me back to Mrs. Sandford, the captain
stooped his head to mine. "Forgive me?"  he whispered. "So
much gentleness cannot bear revenge. I am only a soldier."
"Forgive you what, sir?" I asked. And he drew up his head
again, half laughed, muttered that I was worse than grape or
round shot, and handed me over to my guardian.
"My dear Daisy," said Mrs. Sandford, "if you were not so sweet
as you are, you would be a queen. There, now! do not lift up
your grey eyes at me like that, or I shall make you a
reverence the first thing I do, and fancy that I am one of
your dames d'honneur. Who is next? Major Banks? Take care,
Daisy, or you'll do some mischief."
I had not time to think about her words; the dances went
forward, and I took my part in them with great pleasure until
the tattoo summons broke us up. Indeed my pleasure lasted
until we got home to the hotel, and I heard Mrs. Sandford
saying, in an aside to her husband, amid some rejoicing over
me,  "I was dreadfully afraid she wouldn't go." The words, or
something in them, gave me a check. However, I had too many
exciting things to think of to take it up just then; and my
brain was in a whirl of pleasure till I went to sleep.
CHAPTER XVII.
OBEYING ORDERS.
As I roomed with Mrs. Sandford, of course I had very scant
opportunities of being by myself. In the delightful early
mornings I was accustomed to take my book, therefore, and go
down where I had gone the first morning, to the rocks by the
river's side. Nobody came by that way at so early an hour; I
had been seen by nobody except that one time, when Thorold and
his companion passed me; and I felt quite safe. It was
pleasanter down there than can be told. However sultry the air
on the heights above, so near the water there was always a
savour of freshness; or else I fancied it, in the hearing of
the soft liquid murmur of the little wavelets against the
shore. But sometimes it was so still I could hear nothing of
that; then birds and insects, or the faint notes of a bugle
call, were the only things to break the absolute hush; and the
light was my refreshment, on river and tree and rock and hill;
one day sharp and clear, another day fairyland- like and
dreamy through golden mist.
It was a good retiring place in any case, so early in the day.
I could read and pray there better than in a room, I thought.
The next morning after my second dancing party, I was there as
usual. It was a sultry July morning, the yellow light in the
haze on the hills threatening a very hot day. I was very
happy, as usual; but somehow my thoughts went roaming off into
the yellow haze as if the landscape had been my life, and I
were trying to pick out points of light here and there, and
sporting on the gay surface. I danced my dances over again in
the flow of the river; heard soft words of kindness or
admiration in the song of the birds; wandered away in mazes of
speculative fancy among the thickets of tree stems and under-
brush. The sweet wonderful note of a wood thrush, somewhere
far out of sight, assured me, what everything conspired to
assure me, that I was certainly in fairyland, not on the
common earth. But I could not somehow get on with my Bible.
Again and again I began to read; then a bird or a bough or a
ripple would catch my attention, and straightway I was off on
a flight of fancy or memory, dancing over again my dances with
Mr. Thorold, dwelling upon the impression of his figure and
dress, and the fascination of his brilliant, changing hazel
eyes; or recalling Captain Vaux's or somebody else's insipid
words and looks, or Faustina St. Clair's manner of ill will;
or on the other hand giving a passing thought to the question,
how I should dress the next hop night. After a long wandering
I would come back and begin at my Bible again, but only for a
little; my fancy could not be held to it; and a few scarcely
read verses and a few half-uttered petitions were all I had
accomplished before the clangour of the hotel gong sounding
down even to me, warned me that my time was gone. And the note
of the wood-thrush as I slowly mounted the path, struck
reproachfully and rebukingly upon the ear of my conscience.
How had this come about? I mused as I went up the hill. What
was the matter? What had bewitched me? No pleasure in my
Bible; no time for prayer; and only the motion of feet moving
to music, only the flutter of lace and muslin, and the
flashing of hazel eyes, filling my brain? What was wrong? Nay,
something! And why had Mrs. Sandford "feared" I would not go
to the hops? Were they not places for Christians to go to?
What earthly harm? Only pleasure. But what if pleasure that
marred better pleasure  that interrupted duty? And why was I
ruminating on styles and colours, and proposing to put on
another dress that should be more becoming the next time? and
thinking that it would be well it should be a contrast to
Faustina St. Clair? What! entering the lists with her, on her
own field? No, no; I could not think it. But what then? And
what was this little flutter at my heart about gentlemen's
words and looks of homage and liking? What could it be to me,
that such people as Captain Vaux or Captain Lascelles liked
me? Captain Lascelles, who when he was not dancing or flirting
was pleased to curl himself up on one of the window seats like
a monkey, and take a grinning survey of what went on. Was I
flattered by such admiration as his?  or any admiration? I
liked to have Mr. Thorold like me; yes, I was not wrong to be
pleased with that; besides, that was liking; not empty
compliments. But for my lace and my India muslin and my
"Southern elegance"  I knew Colonel Walrus meant me when he
talked about that,  was I thinking of admiration for such
things as these, and thinking so much, that my Bible reading
had lost its charm? What was in fault? Not the hops? They were
too pleasant. It could not be the hops.
I mounted the hill slowly and in a great maze, getting more
and more troubled. I entering the lists with Faustina St.
Clair, going in her ways? I knew these were her ways. I had
heard scraps enough of conversation among the girls about
these things, which I then did not understand. And another
word came therewith into my mind, powerful once before and
powerful now to disentangle the false from the true. "The
world knoweth us not." Did it not know me, last night? Would
it not, if I went there again? But the hops were so pleasant!
It almost excites a smile in me now to think how pleasant they
were. I was only sixteen. I had seen no dancing parties other
than the little school assemblages at Mme. Ricard's; and I was
fond of the amusement even there. Here, it seemed to me then
as if all prettiness and pleasantness that could come together
in such a gathering, met, in the dancing room of the cadets. I
think not very differently now, as to that point. The pretty
accompaniments of uniform; the simple style and hours; the
hearty enjoyment of the occasion; were all a little unlike
what is found at other places. And to me, and to increase my
difficulty, came a crowning pleasure; I met Thorold there. To
have a good dance and talk with him was worth certainly all
the rest. Must I give it up?
I could not bear to think so, but the difficulty helped to
prick my conscience. There had been only two fops, and I was
so enthralled already. How would it be if I had been to a
dozen? and where might it end? And the word stands,  "the
world knoweth us not."
It must not know me, Daisy Randolph, as in any sort belonging
to it or mixed up with it; and therefore  Daisy Randolph must
go to the hop no more. I felt the certainty of the decision
growing over me, even while I was appalled by it. I staved off
consideration all that day.
In the afternoon Mr. Thorold came and took me to see the
laboratory, and explained for me a number of curious things. I
should have had great enjoyment, if Preston had not taken it
into his head, unasked, to go along; being unluckily with me
when Thorold came. He was a thorough marplot; saying nothing
of consequence himself, and only keeping a grim watch  I
could take it as nothing else  of everything we said and did.
Consequently, Mr. Thorold's lecture was very proper and grave,
instead of being full of fun and amusement as well as
instruction. I took Preston to task about it when we got home.
"You hinder pleasure when you go in that mood," I told him.
"What mood?"
"You know. You never are pleasant when Mr. Thorold is present
or when he is mentioned."
"He is a cowardly Yankee!" was Preston's rejoinder.
"Cowardly, Gary?"  said somebody near; and I saw a cadet whom
I did not know, who came from behind us and passed by on the
piazza. He did not look at us, and stayed not for any more
words; but turning to Preston, I was surprised to see his face
violently flushed.
"Who was that?"
"No matter  impertinence!" he muttered.
"But what is the matter? and what did he mean?"
"He is one of Thorold's set," said Preston; "and I tell you,
Daisy, you shall not have anything to do with them. Aunt
Felicia would never allow it. She would not look at them
herself. You shall not have anything more to do with them."
How could I, if I was going no more to the hops? How could I
see Thorold, or anybody? The thought struck to my heart, and I
made no answer. Company, however, kept me from considering the
matter all the evening.
But the next day, early, I was in my usual place; near the
river side, among the rocks, with my Bible; and I resolved to
settle the question there as it ought to be settled. I was
resolved; but to do what I had resolved, was difficult. For I
wanted to go to the hop that evening very much. Visions of it
floated before me; snatches of music and gleams of light;
figures moving in harmony; words, and looks; and  my own
white little person. All these made a kind of quaint mosaic
with flashes of light on the river, and broad warm bands of
sunshine on the hills, and the foliage of trees and bushes,
and the grey lichened rocks at my foot. It was confusing; but
I turned over the leaves of my Bible to see if I could find
some undoubted direction as to what I ought to do, or perhaps
rather some clear permission for what I wished to do. I could
not remember that the Bible said anything about dancing, pro
or con; dancing, I thought, could not be wrong; but this
confusion in my mind was not right. I fluttered over my leaves
a good while with no help; than I thought I might as well take
a chapter somewhere and study it through. The whole chapter,
it was the third of Colossians, did not seem to me to go
favourably for my pleasure; but the seventeenth verse brought
me to a point,  "Whatsoever ye do in word or deed, do all in
the name of the Lord Jesus."
There was no loophole here for excuses or getting off,
"Whatsoever ye do." Did I wish it otherwise? No, I did not. I
was content with the terms of service; but now about dancing,
or rather the dancing party? "In the name of the Lord Jesus."
Could I go there in that name? as the servant of my Master,
busy about His work, or taking pleasure that He had given me
to take? That was the question. And all my visions of gay
words and gay scenes, all the flutter of pleased vanity and
the hope of it, rose up and answered me. By that thought of
the pretty dress I would wear, I knew I should not wear it "in
the name of the Lord Jesus;" for my thought was of honour to
myself, not to Him. By the fear which darted into my head,
that Mr. Thorold might dance with Faustina if I were not
there, I knew I should not go "in the name of the Lord," if I
went; but to gratify my own selfish pride and emulation. By
the confusion which had reigned in my brain these two days, by
the tastelessness of my Bible, by the unaptness for prayer, I
knew, I knew, I could not go in the name of my Lord, for it
would be to unfit myself for his work.
The matter was settled in one way; but the pain of it took
longer to come to an end. It is sorrowful to me to remember
now how hard it was to get over. My vanity I was heartily
ashamed of, and bade that show its head no more; my emulation
of Faustina St. Clair gave me some horror; but the pleasure, 
the real honest pleasure, of the scene and the music and the
excitement and the dancing and the seeing people,  all that,
I did not let go forever without a hard time of sorrow and
some tears. It was not a struggle, for I gave that up at once;
only I had to fight pain.  It was one of the hardest things I
ever did in my life. And the worst of all and the, most
incurable was, I should miss seeing Mr. Thorold. One or two
more walks, possibly, I might have with him; but those long,
short, evenings of seeing and talking and dancing!
Mrs. Sandford argued, coaxed, and rallied me; and then said,
if I would not go, she should not; and she did not. That
evening we spent at home together, and alone; for everybody
else had drifted over to the hop. I suppose Mrs. Sandford
found it dull; for the next hop night she changed her mind and
left me. I had rather a sorrowful evening. Dr. Sandford had
not come back from the mountains; indeed I did not wish for
him; and Thorold had not been near us for several days. My
fairyland was getting disenchanted a little bit. But I was
quite sure I had done right.
The next morning I had hardly been three minutes on my rock by
the river, when Mr. Thorold came round the turn of the walk
and took a seat beside me.
"How do you do?" said he, stretching out his hand. I put mine
in it.
"What has become of my friend, this seven years?"
"I am here " I said.
"I see you. But why have I not seen you, all this while?"
"I supposed you had been busy," I answered.
"Busy! Of course I have, or I should have been here asking
questions. I was not too busy to dance with you; and I was
promised  how many dances? Where have you been?"
"I have been at home."
"Why?"
Would Mr. Thorold understand me? Mrs. Sandford did not. My own
mother never did. I hesitated, and he repeated his question,
and those hazel eyes were sparkling all sorts of queries
around me.
"I have given up going to the hops," I said.
"Given up? Do you mean, you don't mean, that you are never
coming any more?"
"I am not coming any more."
"Don't you sometimes change your decisions?"
"I suppose I do," I answered; "but not this one."
"I am in a great puzzle," he said. "And very sorry. Aren't you
going to be so good as to give me some clue to this mystery?
Did you find the hops so dull?"
And he looked very serious indeed.
"O no! " I said. "I liked them very much  I enjoyed them
very much. I am sorry to stay away."
"Then you will not stay away very long."
"Yes  I shall."
"Why?"  he asked again, with a little sort of imperative
curiosity which was somehow very pleasant to me.
"I do not think it is right for me to go," I said. Then,
seeing grave astonishment and great mystification in his face,
I added, "I am a Christian, Mr. Thorold."
"A Christian!" he cried, with flashes of light and shadow
crossing his brow. "Is that it?"
"That is it," I assented.
"But, my dear Miss Randolph  you know we are friends?"
"Yes," I said, smiling, and glad that he had not forgotten it.
