waiting for the horses, Mr. St. John rose up out of the 
vines. 
" I suppose you are going to discover another smile or 
dimple in the face of your beautiful nature," he said, with 
an irritating curl of the lip. " You have a rare interpre- 
ter in your attendant." 
"He certainly is," I returned, roused to warmth; u a 
worshipper whom not the slightest touch of grace es- 
capes." 
" Whether it be in a pretty woman or a pretty land- 
scape, a well-shaped hand, or an harmoniously colored 
tulip." 
His comparisons vexed me as much as his tone. " At 
least he is your cousin," I said, pointedly, turning my eyes 
full upon him. 
" I am at a loss to know whether that is intended as a 
compliment for him or myself." 
"It was not meant for a compliment at all, merely a 
reminder." 
"That I should take a few lessons of my charming 
cousin? become a regular Jemmy Jessamy, flatter and 
flirt, carry fans and perfumed handkerchiefs ? " 
 
" I fancy lie possesses some virtues not quite above your 
comprehension." 
"Indeed, I thought I enumerated the prominent traits." 
"You are determined to see nothing that is good ; to 
pervert and ridicule what others admire." 
"I have been aware for some time of the direction your 
approval has taken, and that you would hardly admit calm 
reason to make a statement." 
" Make as many statements as you like," I said, angrily, 
my face in a blaze at his imputation. 
"At least, Miss Adriance, you will allow that the ac- 
quaintance of a lifetime is better worth judging from than 
that of a few weeks. Not that I expect to have the 
slightest influence over you. I am aware that one hour in 
Mr. Channing's fascinating society _would eradicate any 
other impression." 
" Women are more easily impressed by gentleness and 
generosity," I said, turning coldly aside. 
" Women are impressed by any idle, conceited cox- 
comb, who chooses to appeal to their vanity, pay them, 
homage, and dangle after them continually. Tell them 
the truth, and they will hate you it is like them the 
world over. A little glitter and show is all they ask." 
"Your experience in women must have been rather 
unfortunate," I said, in a sweet, irritating tone, that I knew 
would exasperate him. 
He flushed and frowned, and some lightning rays of 
passion shot out of his eyes. His lips quivered, but made 
no sound, for just then the horses were led around, headed 
by Aylmer, who had been superintending some changes 
in the equipment of mine. 
I ran down the steps in triumph, flinging back a dis- 
dainful smile. 
"Don't you envy us, Stuart?" Aylmer asked, gayly. 
 
" Nature is in holiday apparel ; her heavens are blue, 
touched with floating drifts of silver; her earth an en- 
chanter's realm, and the air is rosemary and thyme." 
Mr. St. John vouchsafed no reply. We mounted, and 
rode quickly down the long avenue. Presently Aylmer 
said, 
" So Memnon has gone back to his voiceless marble ! 
What have you been doing, enchantress?" 
"Nothing to make him so rude." 
" How majestically sullen he was ! Do you know I half 
suspect he did envy me?" 
" Not on my account," I said, shortly. 
" I am not so sure of that. He cannot be so widely 
different from all created beings. I half expected to hear 
him order you to your room, and dismiss me on the spot. 
Every morning when I rise I look on my dressing-table to 
find a paper duly attested, wherein he disowns all relation- 
ship to one Aylmer Channing, late his loving cousin, and 
requests that he shall be no more troubled with such de- 
lectable society." 
" Not quite so bad as that ; " and I laughed. I liked 
this ridiculous exaggeration much better than sentiment, 
and therefore used every effort to keep him gay. 
I confess he does have a singular effect upon me. Every 
one admires him; and I can see that Mrs. Lawrence puta 
us in each other's way continually. Mr. St. John does 
this also. It piques me to be given to him in this posi- 
tive manner, as if I had no other resource. Mr. St. John 
seems to shun me. We might as well be at the antipodes 
for any real interest or pleasure we are to each other. He 
is hard, icy, and impenetrable. 
I believe I am coming to a serious part of my life. The 
open sea seems to divide ; and, looking down one stream, 
I see a clear, sunny, rippling tide, whose music lulls one 
 
to a restful calm. No promise of storms or tempest, no 
matter how distant. The other is full of frowning rocks, 
disturbed and unquiet shores, where it would require all 
one's strength and wisdom to guide the helm, to shun 
the dangerous ledges, and keep the bark in a safe channel. 
I wonder why it is, but I have a misgiving that this 
sweetness would pall upon me at length grow utterly 
wearisome. And yet it is what most women like. It is 
in my path, and I have only to reach out my hand and 
accept; for Mr. Channing has shown his love in many 
ways, and has evinced such a tender consideration for 
my happiness. He has youth, rare personal endowments, 
wealth, and a certain winsomeness that attracts friends on 
every side. Few would fail of being perfectly happy with 
him. Why does it nut satisfy me? 
Ah, why ? Heart, what have you done ? Why this 
wandering in gloomy places for a glance from perverse 
eyes that freeze me with their coldness? Why sip this 
draught of bitter rue while the goblet of life's sweetest 
wine stands untasted? Weak and unwomanly as it may 
be, I can confess here to myself, with no other eyes to 
witness my humiliation, that I do care for one to whom I 
am as nothing. 
He has attracted me strongly from the very sense of 
invincible power that is generous only as a conqueror ; 
and if he had striven to subdue, I think I must have 
yielded eventually, even if I had resisted at first. Once 
or twice he has carried me along the current of his im- 
petuous desires, and I have learned how sweet it was to 
yield to so superior a force. But does he care? He has 
been unjust, impatient, cruel; and that a man can never 
be to the woman he loves. Ah, dream too sweet for me ; 
the thought tortures my very being! 
 
I can never decide with any certainty upon Mr. St. 
John. A short time ago he threw me constantly in Ayl- 
mer Channing's society, never accompanied us anywhere, 
pleaded urgent business, letters to write, or persons to see ; 
and now lie lias changed inexplicably. I have a con- 
sciousness that he follows me everywhere. I catch a 
glimpse of fierce, restless eyes when I least expect ; and 
now and then he confronts rne in a manner so peculiar that 
it startles me. 
Mrs. Lawrence has had the house full of company, 
though I believe he first proposed inviting some guests. 
We have had outdoor amusements; and within, music, 
charades, tableaux, and the like. It has been quite a gala 
time ; and Aylmer lias proved a strong attraction. Mrs. 
Lawrence admires him exceedingly. 
I think he remarked this curious surveillance, for one 
morning, as we were rambling in the grounds, he spq.ke of 
it. I laughed at first. 
"He means to frighten away any possible lover by 
those portentous looks, and keep you here in his castle 
until you consent to become humble Esther to his mag- 
nificence." 
"A remarkably distant event," I replied, rather curtly. 
"I should hope so. I cannot imagine a woman loving 
him. His haughty pride, imperious will, and cold, dis- 
dainful nature, his lack of tenderness, and his utter ina- 
bility to enjoy the highest and keenest happiness, would 
repel any true woman." 
"Are you quite just?" I ventured to say, under a pas- 
sionate heart throb. 
"Just? Haven't you used your own eyes? Ah, Miss 
Adiiance, you cannot lead me very far astray in regard to 
yourself. He is barbarous to you sometimes, and you 
suffer from it as any high-toned, sensitive nature would. 
 
I know him so well that his sharp-pointed shafts never 
wound me. I forgive for relation's sake." 
Was it really his dainty, generous philosophy ? I did 
not want to misjudge one so amiable, and yet I wondered 
how deeply he could be wounded. His bright, exuberant 
nature seemed akin to a summer day with its great waves 
of sunshine, singing birds, and wafts of fragrance. How 
would it be in winter in trouble or sorrow ? 
" Of all things wonderful ! My amiable cousin coming 
to meet us I He has certainly developed a phase of jeal- 
ousy ; " and Aylmer gave a light, rippling laugh. 
I turned suddenly in a half incredulous mood. Mr. St. 
John had caught the sound. O, that bitter gesture of 
contempt, as if he could have struck some one to the 
earth ; those scornful eyes dilated and sparkling ! What 
unseen fire fed them jealousy or hate ? 
Aylmer opened the conversation in a most courteous 
manner. I debated how I could escape from them both, 
for I knew this covert peace would prove of short dura- 
tion. But when I would have left them, Mr. St. John 
Baid, pointedly, 
"Pardon my intrusion, Miss Adriance, and remain. I 
am the unlucky third." 
" My dear cousin, allow me to appease your tender con- 
science. Our ramble was most unimportant, and you were 
no interruption whatever." 
I fancy he did not like the tone, for Aylmer gave it a 
peculiar sound, and his reply was sharp. He must have 
been strangely out of humor. I was really glad when a 
turn in the walk brought us in sight of the house. 
Most of the guests had left us, and he showed a dis- 
position to retire into his former impassibility, but Aylmer 
was really tormenting with his light ridicule. St. John's 
ready wit seemed to have deserted him, for, though he 
 
was bitter, his adversary gained all the triumphs. It was 
excessively wicked ; but I really enjoyed seeing him 
vanquished. What was in those deep, mysterious eyes ? 
Great waves of something, that kept coming and going 
with phosphorescent light, showing depths and heights, 
but giving no clew to the translation thereof. 
Quite late in the evening I remember I was lingering 
over the piano, when Aylmer asked him a question about 
some musical composer. He had been making a pretence 
of reading, but did not progress very rapidly, if one 
might judge from the slowness with which the leaves 
were turned. He sat now quite unconscious, his face 
compressed with some strange, strong purpose. 
" Stuart, are you in love ? " and Aylmer's dainty lips 
gave out their musical ripple. 
He started up nervously, and shot a rapid glance 
around. 
"What foolish trifles amuse you," he said, haughtily. 
" I have asked one question half a dozen times at least. 
I know of nothing else that can render a man so oblivi- 
ous do you, Miss Adriance ? " 
"I am not experienced in such matters," I returned, 
confusedly. 
" You are, at least. A man who has a new love every 
month, must be a competent judge ! " and St. John glanced 
at him scathingly. 
" What says your poet ? " replied the other. 
' ' "Tis better to have loved and lost, 
Than never to have loved at all ; ' 
and then it^doesn't affect one so powerfully as to take 
away one's senses." 
" Some people never would suffer in that respect." 
" Stuart, you have been in a most unamiable mood all 
SYDNIE ADRIANCE, OK 
day. Something must certainly be weighing upon your 
mind." 
"What weak, womanish nonsense!" "St. John declared, 
loftily. "Since love and its accessories suit you so ad- 
mirably, keep to your own sphere. You will find suffi- 
cient attraction in it." 
The look, as he strode out of the room, was for me. 
Scorn, anger, and derisive pity, quite as if he despised me. 
My heart was under my feet in a moment, and I know I 
repaid him glance for glance. 
"The tiger lias been caught in the toils. Bravo, Miss 
Adriance ! " Aylmer said, gayly; but I turned away, 
humiliated and pained to my inmost soul. 
 
CHAPTER XII. 
" Ere such a heart regains its peaceful state, 
How often must it love, how often hate; 
How often hope, despair, resent, regret, 
Conceal, disdain do all things but forget." 
POPE. 
MR. ST. JOHN subsided again into his lofty reserve. He 
began to -treat me with a studied indifference, as if I was 
altogether beneath any friendly concern. And yet it was 
singular how attentive he was in any point of duty. Much 
as he and Ayhner bickered, he never for an instant forgot 
his position as host, or made his guest feel that he was an 
unwelcome visitor. 
I wished that Aylmer had not been quite so ready to 
tease. Mrs. Lawrence looked upon the warfare between 
them as a matter of mere amusement, and oftener hastened 
to the rescue of her cousin than that of her brother, though 
their bitterest encounters had generally occurred in my 
presence. But one morning, at the breakfast table, when 
he appeared unusually distraught, Aylmer said, gayly, 
" Cousin Isabelle, I made a discovery a few evenings 
ago." 
" What was it, pray ? " and she smiled. 
" That Stuart is in love. He has grown most melancholy 
of late." 
" Like other diseases, I suppose, the older one is, the 
more severe the malady. You are not past hope," and she 
glanced at him with a glimmer of amusement. 
" As if there was nothing to a man's life but this insane 
 
 
folly !" he retorted, in a sharp, bitter tone. " I believe the 
world runs mad on the subject. When you find me com- 
mitting such a stupendous blunder it will be time to laugh ; 
at present I have no such intentions." 
There was an awkward silence for a moment, but Mrs- 
Lawrence covered it with her usual ready tact. 
I sat still, chilled in some inexplicable way. I knew she 
had never considered him a marrying man, or likely to be 
attracted by any woman. O, what wild, fatal dreams I 
had been indulging in! dashed to a pitiless ruin at a 
word. How was I to recover, to retrieve my pride, to cast 
off this influence that had begun to envelop me so closely? 
I rose slowly, every pulse filled with keenest anguish. As 
I passed him, he turned his cold eyes full upon me. Not a 
ray of light or tenderness I must find my way alone out 
of this labyrinth, endure my tortures without a moan. 
Well, I would conquer. No one should ever penetrate 
the depths of my soul for this secret. I would uproot it to 
the uttermost fibre. More than all, I would make myself 
happy. I plunged into a brilliant mood, and for the re- 
mainder of the day was extravagantly gay, but this did not 
escape his bitter comments. They touched me to the very 
soul, an I as lie sauntered majestically away, tears of pas- 
sionate pain sprang to my eyes. 
" My darling, what has my barbarous cousin been snying 
to you?" and the soft, sweet voice fell on my strained and' 
tortured nerves like fragrant balm, softer and sweeter than 
ever before. "Sydnie, I must say it now I love you 
with the tenderest affection of a man's heart. Day after 
day I have lingered in the hope of finding some moment 
when you would listen. You must have fancied " 
My breath came in gasps. 
"Hush!" I said. "Your pity has been stirred your 
sympathy aroused " 
 
"But I loved from the first moment that I saw you. 
Nay, I shall take no refusal, my darling. I will wait, but I 
feel that you must be mine at last. In my love you shall 
be shielded from the slightest cloud or shadow ; not a harsh 
word or a frown shall ever invade the sacred precincts of 
our affection. I have longed to say this so often, so often ! 
I have dared to dream, to hope. Must it go for nothing? 
I have treasured looks and tones, and believed that you of 
all others could not be insincere; could not betray with so 
dear a smile." 
I felt the rain of kisses on hair and brow, and experienced 
a thrill of delight at the thought of being so precious to 
one fond heart ; and like a flash all my wants and desires 
were unveiled to my own soul. I seemed to look at my- 
self in this extremity with sad, powerless eyes and nerve- 
less hands. Why not drift with the current? Would the 
salvation be worth the struggle? 
Once in a hundred times perhaps a woman might attain 
to Pisgah heights through the influence of a soul strung 
enough to master hers and take it into guidance. This 
could never be my happy lot. I had missi-d the destiny 
that might have moulded me into the completeness I knew 
J was capable of attaining. So what matter? 
I knew there was one side of my nature that Aylmer 
Channing's grace, and beauty, and tender winsomeucss 
could never touch. In some moods I should be forever 
alone. I could neMor rise to any great heights ; but was 
that absolutely necessary for a woman ? This continual 
straining alter unknown good produced dissatisfaction, im- 
patience, weariness. Why not enjoy the bright portion of 
life, and let these puzzling speculations become food for 
essayists and reformers? I did like him; might it not 
reach the heaven of love at last? 
" Be patient with me," I said at length. " I cannot 
answer you now." 
" My darling, if you rcould only find rest in my heart. 
Every pulse of it beats for you alone. I will wait ; but I 
must hope. Do not forbid that." 
The lustrous eyes, suffused with tenderest passion, won 
me against myself. The smooth flowery stream was des- 
tined to be mine. 
I slept but little that night, so engrossed was I with the 
events that seemed to press upon me with their momen- 
tous importance. If I could only shift the responsibility, 
if I dared ask counsel of one in whom I had a curious, 
absolute faith, in spite of our utter lack of agreement. 
That was quite impossible, however. 
After all, how quietly the greatest difficulties settle them- 
selves ! Before noon of the next day Aylmer had made 
Mrs. Lawrence his confidant, and she came to congratu- 
late me. 
" I am not actually engaged," I said. 
She was persistently sweet and persuasive. Aylmer's 
graces lost nothing at her hands, and his love was set forth 
with an eloquence of which I had hardly deemed her capa- 
ble. She made it appear the very thing I had desired, the 
great good and blessing of my future life. Listening to 
her, my scruples grew weaker, my wearied brain and heart 
lapsed into peace, thankful for a resting-place at last; and 
when I found how deeply Aylmer's heart was engrossed, I 
had not the courage to array an army of paltry objections. 
A strange, sweet atmosphere surrounded me for a day 
or two, then the tempest broke forth. I was alone in the 
library when Mr. St. John entered, his face pale, but his 
eyes glittering with half-suppressed passion. 
I glanced up from my book with the presentiment of 
a crisis. 
"May I command your attention fora few moments?" 
he asked, rather loftily. 
 
"Command/" The word stnng me. My lip curled with 
resentment as I replied, coldly, "I await your pleasure." 
"Am I to understand that Mr. Channing is authorized 
by you to ask my consent to an engagement between you 
and himself? " 
" lie is," I said, haughtily; and I felt my eyes kindling. 
" If not too impertinent a question, I should like to know 
how long he has been your favorite lover ? " 
There was a little sneer in this that roused me, but T 
kept my temper. 
" We have been engaged a few days, if that is what you 
mean," I said ; and then I glanced out of the window, with 
an indifferent air. 
" I preferred hearing this from you, that I might know 
in what light to consider it." 
" Had you any doubt ? " I asked, scornfully. 
" I did not know how far an undue susceptibility and a 
large share of vanity might lead a young man who makes 
fascination a study." 
" You had no right to question it. It is like your usual 
generosity." 
He made an angry gesture, and frowned in a sharp, im- 
perious manner. 
"And this absurd child's play was with your consent?" 
"If you mean by that," I returned, burning with indig- 
nation, " that children only can understand and appreciate 
the best gifts of life, love, and tenderness, I hope we shall 
never attain to your cold, narrow, selfish ideal." 
"Children! Love! Miss Adriance, it takes a man's 
heart to receive the impression of this indelible tenderness 
and ardent affection, akin to the infinite ; and it requires 
the purely developed soul of a woman to appreciate and 
return such love." 
" Indeed. Have you been studying the subject? " 
 
"I am aware that with many, a man is simply a fashion- 
able butterfly, who dances elegantly, has his mind well 
stored with small talk, vapid us his own brain, and makes 
his body a walking advertisement of the latest fashions. 
I cannot comprehend the purpose of such men's lives, unless 
it be to flatter foolish women and flirt." 
" Your knowledge of the world is varied as well as ex- 
tensive." 
" Of late I have seen some interesting subjects for 
study." 
"I hope they have repaid your profound attention." 
There was a pause, in which we both took breath. 
Every moment I seemed to hate him more bitterly, and 
yet how magnificent he looked, his arms folded upon his 
broad chest, his brow white with passion, and his e'yes 
fairly blazing. How he could temper and control himself! 
He fairly extorted my admiration. 
"Am I to believe you sufficiently infatuated to think 
Aylmer honestly desires this engagement?" 
" Call it infatuation, or any name you choose, it cannot 
make the' love less a fact." 
"His love a fact ! I gave you credit for better sense ! " 
O, the withering contempt in the tone ! It roused me 
to white heat. 
"Because I am not misanthropic enough to doubt, be- 
cause I know the reality of this feeling in hearts still 
human, and accept the offering, you taunt me with a lack 
of sense. "What have you to say against his love ? What 
can you say ? " 
" What can I say? One important truth. He has flirted 
from heart to heart, loved dozens with the same passionate 
admiration that he offers you, bowed at every shrine that 
came in his way. In six months he will weary of you." 
"It is false!" I said, passionately. "You are unjust, 
 
suspicions, and prejudiced. Because your cousin is not 
cast in your narrow mould, you are resolved to see no 
virtue in him. All we ask of you is a simple assent." 
" Suppose I refuse for the present?" 
" We can wait. I Lave no fear, although you are so 
doubtful." 
"Very well," he said, coolly. "The matter may remain 
in abeyance for some time. Perhaps your eyes will grow 
clearer." 
I sprang up, roused in every pulse. Did he dare to dis- 
play his fancied power over me in that fashion ? 
" I ought to be flattered by this solicitude, seeing what ex- 
cellent reasons you can give for your unmanly vigilance." 
"Miss Adriance, be calm, I beg of you. Just now you 
have been caught by a little glitter and show, and you have 
not had sufficient experience to distinguish between the 
false and the true. In three months you will weary of the 
bond yourself. You really do not know what love is." 
The cool contempt stung me. His piercing eyes were 
turned full upon me, and I felt mine shrink from the glance. 
Could he read my heart, see how I had wavered .between 
love and pride and resentment? Even now I felt myself 
in his power, and longed to free my soul from the unworthy 
bondage for it icas unworthy. What did he care whether 
I was happy or miserable ? He would not so much as raise 
his finger to add to my comfort; but instead, torture me 
by cruel words and unjust suspicions. I tried to steady 
my voice, which I hardly dared trust, and said, with cold 
calmness, 
"Very well, we will wait." 
A strange expression flitted over his face. It seemed to 
me that he was almost disappointed at my resolve. 
I took up my book again, and presently he left the room. 
Not too soon, indeed, for my eyes were full of bitter, pas- 
 
sionnte tears. The life I wanted to mnke so happy and 
complete, so worthy of true existence, stretched out before 
me a miserable failure. Not the conclusion that I most 
desired ; and yet I must take it up and make it my sole 
earthly good. 
When I recovered my self-possession, I went to Mrs. 
Lawrence's room to learn the meaning of Mr. St. John's 
resolve. I found her flushed and nervous also. 
"My dear Sydnie," she began, with a forced smile, "this 
has been a rather awkward and unfortunate explanation. 
Aylmer feels dreadfully about it. The truth is, Stuart in- 
dulges in some strange notions about his right of guardian- 
ship; and when he takes a freak in his head he is queer 
and unreasonable. As if a girl of nineteen did not know 
her own mind ! I am absolutely vexed. And his objec- 
tions to Aylmer are so trifling so unjust. He never was 
a great favorite with my brother." 
" Well," I said, haughtily, " we can wait. Time will 
prove who is right." 
" Aylmer has been quite gay, to be sure," she went on, 
rather deprecatingly ; " and young men with his attractions 
can hardly help flirting a little. I have no doubt about his 
regard for you, and he will convince Stuart of its truth. 
This is carrying animosity too far." 
" He expresses some solicitude for me, also," I returned, 
scornfully. 
"My dear, don't let this distress you;" and there was 
a tenderness in her tone that sounded like real affection. 
"Above all things, do not distrust Aylmer. You possess 
so many charms that you appeal to both sense and soul. 
I have been talking with him, and he certainly is a most 
enraptured lover, quite up to your ideal," and she smiled. 
"I shall not doubt him, unless he gives me just cause," 
I answered, gravely, with a consciousness that he was not 
 
exactly my ideal, and a certain forlorn sense of being 
astray in the path where it was of the highest impor- 
tance to be right. 
" Stuart was brought up in such an odd, hermit fashion, 
that he hardly understands the real world. His opinions 
of love and marriage are crude and unreasonable ; indeed, 
he hasn't much faith in any one's regard. He can be very 
good and generous, but the softer graces of life never seem 
to cling to him. We agree very well, because we go our 
separate ways, and never seek to convert the other to any 
particular opinion. But in this matter I found him un- 
usually perverse. He has not a particle of sympathy 
with lovers. I wish he had married like any ordinary 
mortal." 
" You do not think he will ? " 
I uttered this with a kind of breathless pang, and waited 
for her answer, as though it might be of momentous im- 
port. 
" O, no, my dear. He is looking for impossibilities in a 
woman. He will never find the right union of strength 
and pliancy, self-dependence and tender, yielding grace, 
wisdom, intelligence, beauty, in short, perfection. Then 
he thinks all women more or less mercenary, and actuated 
by selfish motives. As if it was not proper to do the best 
one could with one's life ! Men always consider this 
point." 
" But men do often love disinterestedly," I said, slowly. 
"And if we made ourselves better companions for them, 
were not so continually filled with trifles and excitements, 
and convinced them that we were capable of reaching a 
high point of excellence " 
" I thought you had outgrown this foolish romance ; " 
and she laughed lightly. " You will generally find that 
these studious, speculative men worship a high ideal in 
 
their brain, and end by marrying some silly doll who has 
hardly the taste to dress well. I am glad you have chosen 
so wisely; for I used to have a little fear about you. I 
know you cannot fail of being happy with so charming and 
genial a nature." 
" I still think that I do not desire to trifle away my whole 
life. Holidays are well enough, but one docs not want 
them forever. We are censured for being vapid and super- 
ficial, and accomplishing no real good in the world." 
" Men must ridicule something, and sneer a little, or they 
would hardly be men. But they all like laces better than 
Latin in a lady's boudoir, and enjoy flounces more than 
philosophy. It is best to leave these grave matters to 
clergymen and essayists. The world must have something 
to talk about." 
She always treated serious endeavors in this light, in- 
different fashion. In one sense her life had been a perfect 
success : she had hosts of warm friends, a splendid posi- 
tion, was admired, and could have won lovers by the score 
had she so chosen. Men of intellect and genius always 
paid her marked attention I had noticed that. She 
could converse well and gracefully, but hers was not a high 
order of mind. And then I thought of Laura's triumphs. 
Was there any veal discrimination in the world ? 
She was summoned to the drawing-room by the advent 
of some visitors. Passing me, she kissed my forehead, 
and begged me not to be unhappy. 
" Stuart will soon be aware of his folly and unreasona- 
bleness." 
That did not comfort me. I was in a state of dissatis- 
faction and tumult. My anger against Mr. St. John seemed 
to be dying out. What if he should be right? 
O, what was I doing ? Since I had allowed myself to 
drift into this engagement, pride, at least, demanded that 
 
I should be true. I said decisively that I would learn to 
love; my heart should yield its sweet meed to the one 
who deserved the treasure. 
Mr. St. John insisted that there should be no announce- 
ment of the engagement before autumn, and that we should 
both consider ourselves perfectly free. I acquiesced with 
a haughty silence ; Ayliner was very indignant, and Mrs. 
Lawrence annoyed. 
I believe I did enjoy Aylmer's devotion for the next 
few days. He claimed his right of possessorship with a 
certain hesitancy that I did not like as well as a more 
masterful resolution. Is there an instinctive desire in most 
women to have the power taken out of their hands, to 
plejise themselves by chafing against a chain that in their 
inmost hearts they acknowledge to be a precious bond ? 
I had no sense of this : I was free, too free. Generosity 
and principle mtist sway me henceforth. 
Two months ago I had met Aylmer Channing, little 
dreaming then how intimately he was to be concerned in 
my destiny. We parted tenderly fondly; and when he 
was gone I felt lost and solitary in the extreme. 
I had heard from my friend Anne : her short tour ended, 
they had returned and taken possession of their new home, 
and everything was most pleasant. Mr. Otis had decided 
to assume the charge of Walter's education, which was 
exceedingly generous. Mamma would be relieved of much 
care : the old home ties were evidently the strongest. I 
fancied she was making an effort to be happy playing 
with shadows; but I could no longer blame. 
We went back to the old routine, and began to make 
plans for the summer. I was not anxious for Newport, 
and, as there was no husband to win, Mrs. Lawrence pro- 
posed short journeys to several points of interest, which 
appeared very pleasant to me. I began to experience a 
 
strange craving for excitement. Sulphur Springs, Old 
Point Comfort, and Cape May were laid down in our 
route. 
In September Philip was to be married. I cannot con- 
ceive of a lovelier picture than Ellen in her radiant con- 
tentment. I was forced to confess that there was something 
I lacked, and it gave me a pang of anguish. Would I ever 
learn my lesson ? 
Mr. St. John treated me to a sort of satirical patronage. 
I had been wild indeed to fancy his regnrd anything be- 
yond the considerate care he believed he owed me. And 
yet there had been moments of madness when flushing 
cheek and kindling eye stirred every pulse of my being: 
some words that I could never forget; had they any 
meaning? Cold as marble he seemed now, superbly in- 
different to any pain or joy that I could give. 
There was one day on which these remembrances thronged 
about me with a peculiar force. Just one year before I 
had come to Laurelwood. Mr. St. John went away in the 
morning ; Mrs. Lawrence was busy selecting her dresses, 
and pointing out alterations to be made; and I, having 
nothing to do, roamed through the shady walks and lin- 
gered by the sparkling fountains. A soft, droning mur- 
mur filled the air, and steeped one in delicious languor. 
How heavenly beautiful the place was ! I recalled so dis- 
tinctly my first sensations, and the pleasure they had af- 
forded Mr. St. John. We had not harmonized, and he 
would be glad to have me go, doubtless. But how could 
I leave this Paradise? Ah, he would never guess the 
pang. 
I felt ashamed of myself for the weakness. It had been 
my misfortune to meet a man whom, if fate had been 
kinder, I could have loved with my whole soul. I told 
my heart the truth this day. But a gulf divided us. In 
 
the Babel-like confusion that had intervened, our languages 
had changed, and \ve were never to understand one another 
again. The tower that might have gone skyward with 
sweetest hopes and anticipations, lay a mass of ruins at my 
feet. From the fragments I must construct a new temple, 
alas ! of the earth, earthy. The dim aspirations that had 
whispered to my soul of its better portion were to be 
hushed thrust out as phantoms of the past. A long, 
wearisome march lay before me : if I could brighten it 
with love, well; if not, then Heaven help me! 
I clasped my hands in a cry of supplication longing 
to do, yet vexed and hindered by all about me. This was 
the record of a year. 
All along my future life, at intervals, there would rise a 
white stone, a monument for a lost hope. The glad joy 
of the old days stood apart. I was walking lonesomely 
along between doubt and fear, the solemn music of the 
deep sea rolling between, the shores widening. 
 
CHAPTER XIH. 
" The eyes will not see when the heart wishes them to be blind. Desire con- 
ceals truth as darkness does the earth." SENECA. 
WE had a very pleasant summer. The Grahams were 
at the Springs, their usual resort. It was so different from 
Newport. A quaint, old-fashioned courtesy was noticeable 
in most of the gentlemen, the majority of them middle- 
aged and heads of families ; in the younger ones a certain 
chivalrous spirit, not formalized to the rigorous require- 
ments of fashion. 
Then the jaunting around strange places interested me: 
dreamy sails on the beautiful bay, winding around low, 
velvety shores, or sand barrens that sparkled in the sum- 
mer sunlight; foliage, rich and deep, vivid in color, and 
varied by a thousand blooms; and the broad ocean, that 
one never wearies of; the same, and yet ever changing. 
At Cape May we found quite a host of notabilities. I 
was more than ever struck with Mrs. Lawrence's tact and 
power to please. She reminds me of old tales of those 
wonderful French queens of society, who ruled with a 
