strange that her father did not come home before he went on board; but
perhaps he had learned something more about the race, and was in haste
to inform Levi of it. She was only afraid that the trip would be
abandoned. Her mother came to the entry, told her to "wrap up warm," be
careful not to take cold, and then kissed her with an affectionate
adieu. Mat Mogmore led the way down to the boat, and assisted her to a
seat in the stern-sheets.
The night was clear; but it was quite dark, and the darkness on the
water is deeper, and more dense, to a person unaccustomed to the sea,
than on the land. Bessie was not afraid; but after the boat had gone a
few rods from the shore, she had no idea where she was, for the gloom
of night breeds confusion in the mind on the sea.
Bessie did not recognize Mat's companion in the boat; but she supposed
he was one of the crew of the yacht. He did not speak, and she had no
reason to suspect that anything was wrong. Mat Mogmore was well known
to her, and had been long before the yacht was built. He was one of
Levi's hands, and his presence, if she had had any suspicions, would
have been enough to satisfy her.
"How dark it is!" said Bessie to Mat, who pulled the after oar.
"Not very dark, miss," replied Mat. "The stars are out, and we don't
call it very dark when we can see them."
"But I cannot see anything, or tell where I am. I can see the lights in
the town, but I can't make out anything else."
"Because you are not used to it. Can't you see the yacht right ahead of
us?"
"I can see the outline of a vessel, but I couldn't tell whether it was
The Starry Flag or a fishing vessel."
"It's the yacht."
Bessie looked around her, and tried to distinguish the headlands, which
looked like masses of darkness resting beneath the star-lit sky.
"Now you can see the yacht," said Mat, as the boat approached a vessel
which was not unlike the yacht.
"Yes, I see her plain enough now," answered Bessie, taking it for
granted.
"It's a very pleasant night to sail," added Mat, as the boat ran up
alongside the vessel.
"Beautiful!" exclaimed Bessie, as she looked up to the stars.
The boat was brought up to the gangway; the man at the bow oar stepped
out and assisted her on board. Mat Mogmore did not follow her, but
pushed off the boat, and pulled away into the darkness. It still wanted
more than half an hour of the time appointed for the sailing of the
yacht. Mat pulled a short distance from the vessel, and then lay upon
his oars. He waited there fifteen minutes, either to kill the time or
to arrange his plans, and then ran up alongside the yacht.
He had put Bessie on board of the Caribbee!
He was actually in the employ of Dock Vincent.
Mat stepped on the deck of The Starry Flag, whose foresail and mainsail
had been hoisted, and her anchor hove short. The lamps in the cabin and
state-rooms were lighted, and the steward was as busy as a bee, and
delighted at the thought of once more having the beautiful young lady
on board; for it was a joy to serve her, her smile was so sweet, her
voice so pleasant, and her heart so full of kindness.
"Where are you, Mat?" demanded Levi, as the treacherous seaman came on
board.
"My mother has just had a fit, and they say she will not live till
morning," replied Mat, in the most disconsolate of tones. "I shouldn't
have come on board at all if Mr. Watson hadn't sent me with a message
to you."
"What was the message?" asked Levi, tenderly, for he was full of pity
for Mat.
"He told me to tell you that he and Miss Bessie would meet you in
Portland on your arrival. Her mother made such a fuss about her going
off in the night without her aunt, that her father decided to take the
cars, for he heard in Gloucester that an excursion train would come
along about twelve o'clock."
"Very well," said Levi. "I will go on shore with you and see about it.
I hope your mother will get better."
"I hope so. Mr. Watson started right off in the buggy with Bessie."
"Has he gone?"
"Yes, he went right off. He was in a hurry, for he has to drive to
Beverly to catch the train. You won't see him if you go on shore."
"Then I think I will not go; but I will not keep you a moment," added
Levi.
"If you want another hand in my place, I can get Tom Sampson."
"We can get along very well without any more help," replied Levi, as
Mat pushed off.
Levi was vexed that Mrs. Watson's timidity had deprived him of Bessie's
company; but it was like her, and on their trip to the eastward, he had
been obliged to be in port every night to please her. However, he would
receive his passengers on board at Portland the next morning; and, in a
few minutes more, the yacht tripped her anchor, and sailed out of the
bay.
CHAPTER XIX.
THE CARIBBEE.
Bessie Watson stood upon the deck of the Caribbee, and in the darkness
of the night she did not at first discover that the vessel was not The
Starry Flag. She wondered that Levi, with his accustomed devotion, did
not spring to receive her when she came on board; that the steward did
not present his smiling face; and that her ever-anxious father failed
to assure himself that she did not fall overboard in passing from the
boat to the vessel. She was an only daughter, and when she appeared it
was customary to "turn out the guard" and pay all the honors.
To say that Bessie Watson was a pretty girl, is saying very little. She
was a good girl--and this is saying something more, and something
better. Nothing but a true heart and excellent common sense saved her
from being spoiled by the indulgence of her father and mother. Another
devotee was added to those who adored her; but she refused to be
spoiled even by Levi's flattery, if such it could be called; for the
young skipper was as sincere in his admiration of her as of the yacht
he commanded. Bessie did not pout or flout when neither Levi nor her
father appeared to receive her.
The man who had been in the boat with Mat Mogmore was Captain Gauley,
the stranger. After handing Bessie on board, he led the way, in
silence, towards the cabin. There were no lights on deck, and she could
see no difference between the two vessels, even when she had descended
the steps into the cabin; for no light appeared there. The darkness had
been chosen to help the illusion, and Bessie had to feel her way. She
came to the table in the middle of the cabin, and knowing that there
were lockers forming seats below the berths, she groped her way to the
side of the apartment, and seated herself.
"All hands are busy forward in getting under way," said her conductor,
from the steps.
"Where is the steward?" asked Bessie.
"He has been so hurried putting away his stores that he has not been in
the cabin."
"Are you a new hand?" asked Bessie, who did not recognize the voice of
the man.
"I am; I am only going this trip."
"Send the steward, if you please, to light the lamps," added Bessie,
who was reasonable enough to understand that the yacht was going to sea
on short notice, and she did not demand any unnecessary attention under
the circumstances.
"I will send him right down if I can find him."
Captain Gauley went on deck; and Bessie heard a great rattling of
ropes, a swaying of booms, and hasty footsteps above her. She could not
see a thing; but she waited in the gloom for the steward to come and
light the lamps. The noise on deck indicated that all hands were busy,
as the man had said; and even yet she suspected nothing.
Mat Mogmore did not go on shore to see his sick mother. He heard the
order of Captain Fairfield to man the windlass and stand by the head
sails; then he pulled for the Caribbee, to which his boat belonged.
Everything had worked to his entire satisfaction. Levi had been as
credulous as he desired him to be, and The Starry Flag was standing out
of the bay on her way to Portland.
"How is it?" asked Captain Gauley, in a low tone, as Mat came on deck.
"All right; the yacht is under way," replied Mat.
"We must get off at once, then."
"Don't be in a hurry; wait till the Flag has made a couple of miles, so
that Levi won't notice the movements of this vessel. Where is the
girl?"
"In the cabin. It is pitch dark there, and she has not found out where
she is yet," answered Gauley, with a suppressed chuckle, as though the
plan was not only a success, but a capital joke.
The foresail and the mainsail of the Caribbee were hoisted, and her
crew were busy in getting up the anchor. By the time the preparations
were completed, the yacht had disappeared in the darkness and the
distance. The jib was hoisted, and the vessel stood out of the bay in a
direction nearly opposite to that taken by the yacht.
Bessie began to be impatient. The yacht was under way, and still the
steward did not come; still her father, who had nothing to do with
working the vessel, did not make his appearance. Had they forgotten
that she was on board? If they had, it would be the most remarkable
thing that ever occurred. She could not understand it. She knew, as the
vessel was now sailing, that Levi must be at the helm, just at the head
of the stairs, and she decided to go up and speak to him. She could see
the stars through the opening of the companion-way, and she had no
difficulty in finding her way out of the cabin.
"Levi?" said she, as she stepped upon deck.
"He is not here," replied Captain Gauley, who was at the helm.
"Where is he?" asked Bessie; and, without knowing that anything was
wrong, things began to look a little strange to her, or rather to feel
so, for she could not see anything.
"I really don't know where he is, just now," replied the helmsman. "But
he cannot be far off."
"The steward has not lighted the cabin yet," added she.
"The captain told the steward not to do so."
"Did he--why?"
"I think you cannot be accustomed to sailing near the land at night,"
added Captain Gauley.
"I really am not."
"The light would blind the helmsman's eyes so that he could not see the
shore. As soon as we are clear of the Selvages we shall light up."
Bessie was satisfied with this explanation. On board of a Sound steamer
she had observed that the windows in the forward part of the saloon
were covered with thick canvas at night, so that the glare of the light
near the boat should not deepen the gloom beyond it, and thus prevent
the pilot from seeing the land, or other vessels in the distance. But
she was not satisfied with her situation otherwise. The vessel did not
feel like the yacht, and Levi and her father did not appear.
While she stood watching the helmsman, and trying to comprehend the
inexplicable position of affairs, she saw a light in the cabin. She
looked down, and perceived a woman in the act of lighting a lamp.
"Don't light that lamp!" shouted the man at the helm. "It blinds my
eyes so that I can't see to steer."
The woman extinguished the match she was applying to the lamp, and
darkness reigned in the cabin again. Who was the woman? She asked the
helmsman.
"Your father thought you ought to have a female waiter, and he has
obtained one," replied Captain Gauley; but she did not notice the
chuckle with which he spoke.
Bessie knew that her father would not have provided a woman without
consulting her, and she determined to inquire into the situation. She
went down the cabin steps again, guided by faith, rather than sight,
and felt her way to the locker where she had before been seated.
"Who is it?" asked the woman, from her place at the forward part of the
cabin.
"It is I," replied Bessie. "Did my father employ you as stewardess of
the yacht?"
"I guess not," replied the woman. "I'm not anybody's stewardess, I can
tell you!"
"Who are you then?" asked Bessie, now really alarmed.
"Well, I'm Mrs. Vincent, of course. This is my husband's vessel, and I
never expect to be a servant to anybody," answered the woman, rather
indignant at being thought a stewardess, even in the dark. "Now, who
are you?"
"I am Miss Watson," replied Bessie, her heart sinking within her, so
that she could hardly utter the words.
"Miss Watson! Bless me! What, Mr. Watson's daughter?"
"Yes."
"Well, that is strange, sure enough!"
"Is Captain Dock Vincent your husband?" asked Bessie, almost choked
with terror.
"Certainly he is."
"And this vessel is not The Starry Flag?"
"Why, no; it's the Caribbee. How on earth came you here?"
"I supposed it was the yacht--my father's yacht," gasped the poor girl,
overwhelmed when she realized that she had fallen into a snare set by
her former enemy.
"That's too bad; but I didn't know nothing at all about it. Waldock"--she
called her husband by his full given name--"Waldock is up to some awful
trick."
It was a consolation to know that the woman was not a party to her
husband's wicked scheme. Bessie explained how she had been entrapped;
but Mrs. Vincent declared that she did not even know the vessel was to
sail that night. She had retired with her two children at nine o'clock,
and got up when she felt the motion of the vessel under way.
"Where is she going?" asked Bessie, wiping away the tears that dimmed
her eyes.
"We are all going to Australia."
"Where is your husband?" demanded Bessie, with a shudder.
"I'm sure I don't know. He went off to New York; but of course we are
not going to Australia without him."
While they were talking, Mat Mogmore came into the cabin, and lighted a
lamp.
"Mat, what does all this mean?" said Mrs. Vincent, sharply.
"We have carried the thing out just as Captain Vincent told us to do,"
replied Mat.
"What did he tell you to do?"
"He left us to get Miss Watson on board. We haven't had a chance to do
so before, though we have been watching three or four days for one."
"Why did you wish to get me on board?" inquired Bessie, trembling in
every fibre of her frame.
"O, you needn't be frightened, Miss Watson. You are not to be hurt, and
you are to be treated as well as if you were on board of the yacht.
Three years ago your father and Levi sent Captain Vincent to the state
prison. He didn't forget it, and he is going to carry out the plan he
began upon then."
"Am I to be carried to Australia?" asked Bessie.
"That depends on your father. If he pays the money Captain Vincent
asks, we shall send you back. Your father and Levi served the captain a
mean trick, and he always said he would get even with them; and I think
he will now."
"But how came you in this vessel, Mat?" asked Bessie.
"I went into the yacht for the sole purpose of doing the little job I
finished up to-night," answered Mat, with a sneaking smile.
"O, what a wretch!" exclaimed Bessie.
"A wretch? Well, perhaps I am; but it pays better than going before the
mast in the yacht. Captain Vincent has your father this time where he
can hold him," added Mat. "Levi has gone off to Portland to sail in the
race, and he can't do anything for you this time. If you have a mind to
write to your father, and tell him to come down with the rocks, I will
see that he gets the letter within a week or so. He must put down about
a hundred thousand dollars this time."
"Poor girl!" ejaculated Mrs. Vincent. "I pity you; but my husband is an
awful man, and I can't do anything about it."
"We haven't anything against her," said Mat. "She is to have a
state-room by herself, and live like a lady. That's the captain's
orders. The matter rests there, and it isn't any use to say anything
more about it."
Mat went on deck, leaving Bessie to weep over her unhappy fate, with no
one but Mrs. Vincent to comfort her.
CHAPTER XX.
DOCK VINCENT'S LETTER.
Mr. Watson drove to Gloucester; but at this hour in the evening he had
some difficulty in finding the telegraphic operator, and it was fully
ten o'clock before he returned to his house in Rockport, ready to go on
board of the yacht.
"Why, I thought you had gone!" exclaimed Mrs. Watson, when her husband
presented himself.
"No; I was detained in Gloucester. Where is Bessie."
"Bessie has gone on board of the yacht. Mat Mogmore came for her, and
said you had gone off in the steward's boat."
"There is some mistake about it," replied Mr. Watson; but he had no
idea of the stupendous mistake which had been made.
He went out to the pier; but, having no boat, he hastened over to the
Point to obtain a skiff, though he could not see why a boat from The
Starry Flag was not waiting for him. All was still on the Point; but he
found a dory, in which he pulled off to the place where the yacht
usually lay when in port. He could not find her. It was evident that
she had sailed; and it was more certain than before that a great
mistake had been made. He returned to the Point. Mr. Gayles was there.
He had come down to assure himself that the Caribbee had not stolen a
march upon him. He could not see her in the gloom of the night. He
recognized Mr. Watson, as he landed from the dory.
"Did you see the Caribbee?" asked the constable.
"No; did you see the yacht?" demanded the anxious father.
"I did not."
Mr. Watson stated the circumstances; but the officer could neither
assist nor enlighten him.
The Starry Flag was miles away to the north-north-east, and the
Caribbee was miles away to the south-south-east.
Levi had gone, Bessie had gone, the Caribbee had gone. Mr. Watson
wanted to know why Levi had gone without him; but there was no one to
tell him. He did not suspect that Bessie had not gone with him. Mr.
Gayles wanted to know why the Caribbee had sailed without Dock Vincent;
but there was no one to tell him. Standing on the Point, both were
vexed and perplexed; but neither could help himself, and neither could
solve the mystery. Both went home.
Mrs. Watson was alarmed when her husband told her that the yacht had
gone without him. It was a fact--as Mat Mogmore had stated--that an
excursion train left Boston at eleven o'clock for Portland. Many of the
people of Rockport had gone to the city to hear a great singer, and
were to return in this train. Levi knew of it, or he might have doubted
Mat's story. Mr. Watson was a man of action. He ordered his fastest
horse to be brought to the door; and he drove, at a furious pace, to
Ipswich, which was a little nearer than Beverly, and the train would
arrive there half an hour later. At five o'clock in the morning he was
in Portland. He chartered a large sail-boat, and stood down the harbor.
 At seven o'clock he discovered The Starry Flag, off Cape Elizabeth.
Mr. Watson was angry because Levi had left him behind; angry because
Levi had taken Bessie and not taken him. Though an unpleasant word had
never before passed between them, the father--whose ideas of propriety
were very clearly defined--determined that some emphatic words should
be used on the present occasion. He paid his boatman, when the yacht
had been hailed, and in due time was transferred to her.
"Where is Bessie?" asked Levi, before her father had time to utter a
single sharp word.
The emphatic words were never spoken.
"Where is she?" repeated Mr. Watson. "Isn't she on board of the
yacht?"
"No, sir," replied Levi, now alarmed, as her father was.
"Not here?"
"Certainly not. Didn't she come by railroad with you?"
"No; I haven't seen her since I started for Gloucester last night."
Levi almost sank upon the deck, and Mr. Watson's strength was all taken
from him by the discovery that some mishap had befallen his daughter.
Levi explained when he had breath enough to do so. Mr. Watson also
explained, and each was in possession of all the information the other
had; but their wisdom was foolishness, since it fell far short of the
requirements of the moment.
"The Caribbee sailed last night, Levi," said Mr. Watson, who, however,
did not regard the fact as of much importance, or as having any
especial connection with the absence of Bessie.
"Sailed!" exclaimed Levi. "Then Bessie has sailed in her."
"I can hardly believe it," added Mr. Watson.
"It is another plan to extort money from you."
Levi persisted in his belief. Putting this and that together, he could
almost demonstrate that Mat Mogmore was in the employ of Dock Vincent;
indeed, Dock had told him that Mat intended to sail for Australia with
him. Mr. Watson decided to return immediately to Rockport, and the
yacht lay to off the railroad wharf long enough to land him. He took
the morning train for Boston, and reached home at two o'clock.
The Starry Flag did not sail in the race that day. As soon as her owner
had been landed, she was headed for Cape Ann again, and arrived before
night. Levi was bewildered and confounded by the shock of the blow
which had fallen upon him and the Watson family. He could do nothing,
and in his inactivity he chafed like a caged lion. Mr. Watson had gone
to Boston soon after his arrival, taking Mr. Gayles with him. He did
not return till the next day. He had chartered a swift steamer, and the
constable, with other officers, had gone in pursuit of the Caribbee.
In the morning mail, on the second day after the disappearance of
Bessie, came a letter to her father. Levi was present when it was
opened, and it contained a full confirmation of his theory that Bessie
had been carried off in the Caribbee, and was now going half round the
world to Australia. The letter was written by Dock Vincent, and dated
ten days before its receipt. The villain assured the distracted parents
that Bessie should be kindly cared for by Mrs. Vincent, and should be
restored to her friends as soon as possible after her father had paid
over to Mr. Fairfield the sum of seventy thousand dollars.
Mr. Watson dropped the letter on the floor, and breathed a deep sigh.
He would have given double the sum for the return of Bessie; but his
conscience would not permit him to reward villany like that of Dock
Vincent.
"Levi, your uncle is concerned in this affair," said Mr. Watson,
turning to the young skipper with a sad look.
"I suppose he is. I will go and see him at once."
"I will go with you."
They went.
"Mr. Fairfield, where is Dock Vincent?" asked the suffering father,
when he and Levi had been admitted to the kitchen.
"I don't know no more'n nothin' in the world," whined the miser. "I
hain't seen nothin' on him."
"You don't know!" repeated Mr. Watson, sternly.
"No more'n nothin' in the world," answered the old man, who realized
that the first instalment of trouble on account of Dock's little plan
was about to come upon him.
"Yes, you do know where he is. Read that letter;" and the merchant
handed him the epistle he had received from Dock.
Mr. Fairfield took the letter, put on his glasses, and studied out its
contents.
"I don't know nothin' about it," pleaded the old man, as he looked over
his spectacles at the stern parent.
"Don't tell me that! I'm not to be trifled with. I want my daughter,
and you are a party to this conspiracy. If you don't speak I'll wring
an answer out of you by force," said Mr. Watson, his patience
exhausted, and his indignation so aroused that he could not control it.
"I tell you I don't know nothin' at all about it. I hain't seen your
darter, nor Cap'n Vincent nuther," whimpered the miser.
"No evasion! Answer me at once," thundered the enraged merchant, goaded
to desperation by the anguish his injury called forth. "Your name is
mentioned in this letter. You are to receive the money, and share it
with the scoundrel who intends to filch it from me. Vincent did not go
in the vessel. Where is he?"
"I don't know nothin' at all about it," answered Mr. Fairfield,
wriggling like a worm in his chair.
"Yes, you do. You are to send the money to him. Where is he?" demanded
Mr. Watson, as he seized the old man by the throat, and dragged him out
of his chair.
"Lem me be!" sputtered the miser, trying to free himself from the grasp
of the wrathful father.
"Speak, old man! Where is he? Speak, or I will tear the answer from
you."
"Be calm, Mr. Watson," interposed Levi, gently.
"For massy's sake! You don't mean to kill him--do you?" exclaimed Mrs.
Fairfield, alarmed for the safety of her husband. "Don't hurt him! He's
a poor old man, and don't know no better."
Mr. Watson, conscious that he had gone too far in his violent
indignation, released his grasp upon the miser, and he sank back into
his chair more frightened than hurt.
"If I knew anything consarnin' this business, I'd tell you all about
it," added the old man, when he had regained his breath.
"Uncle Nathan, this money is to be paid over to you, and you must know
something about it," said Levi, decidedly.
"O, yes; you hate me, and you want to persecute me," replied the old
man, bitterly, as he glanced spitefully at his nephew. "There, now, you
broke my glasses," continued the miser, as he picked them up from the
hearth, on which they had fallen. "I gin a dollar for them glasses; I'm
a poor man, and 'tain't right I should lose 'em."
"Will you tell me where Vincent is, or shall I send a constable to
arrest you for conspiracy?" demanded Mr. Watson.
"I don't know nothin' at all where he is," replied the miser, alarmed
by this threat.
"You were to receive this money."
"That may be. Cap'n Vincent did tell me if you paid any money to me for
him to keep it till he come for't. He didn't tell me nothin' at all he
was go'n' to do, nor where he was goin' to. I hain't no idee in the
world where he is."
This was all that either Mr. Watson or Levi could get out of the old
man. It was really all he knew; and the visitors, disappointed and
disheartened, retired from the miser's presence, though not till the
merchant had declared that he did not intend to pay one penny to Dock
to restore his daughter. The old man groaned when they had gone; but it
was because he was to lose his reward, and probably the money he had
loaned. It was a bitter hour to him.
Mr. Watson and Levi conferred together as they walked home. From that
time no one passed in or out of the miser's house without being
observed. Levi watched that day; but at nine o'clock in the evening,
Mr. C. Augustus Ebénier took his place, to serve for the night.
CHAPTER XXI.
THE CARIBBEE SAILS FOR AUSTRALIA.
If Mrs. Dock Vincent had not been a person of higher moral purposes
than her husband, sad indeed would have been the lot of the two
children that slept in the captain's state-room on board of the
Caribbee. As is often the case, she knew less of her husband's moral
obliquity than the world at large, though even she knew enough to
believe that he was not what he should be. People did not tell her of
Dock's wicked deeds, and he complained bitterly to her of the hard
treatment which the world bestowed upon him. That good men frowned at
him and spurned him he unjustly attributed to their hypocrisy and
self-esteem, rather than to his own evil deeds and evil intentions.
Dock had spent a term in the state prison, and his character was
damaged, if not ruined. Men would not trust him, and the reprobate
chafed under the public censure. To his wife and his friends he made
himself appear like a deeply injured person, like a martyr--in what
good cause he could not say. He was going to Australia to begin life
anew, to carve out his fortune in a strange land, where he was not
known. Mrs. Vincent was willing to leave her native land, and make a
new home in a distant country for this purpose, for the motive seemed
to be a laudable one.
She had no knowledge, guilty or innocent, of the abduction of Bessie,
until after the Caribbee had sailed; but she felt herself powerless to
undo the mischief. If her husband had been on board, she would not have
dared to oppose him, he was so violent and savage when she interfered
with his plans. She could at least protect the poor girl from insult
and injury, and she determined to do this at all hazards. It was
evident to her that the Caribbee would not proceed immediately to her
destination without her owner and captain. It was probably the
intention of Captain Gauley to put into some port before she started on
her long voyage, when Dock would join her.
Mrs. Vincent pitied Bessie Watson, and almost hated her husband when
she realized of what infamy he was capable. She comforted the poor girl
as well as she was able, and promised to be her friend under all
circumstances. She conducted her to an unoccupied state-room, which had
doubtless been reserved for her use, and spent half the night with her;
for Bessie trembled at the thought of being alone on board of the
vessel of her great enemy.
Bessie was truly grateful to Mrs. Vincent, who, though rough and rude
in her manners, was kind at heart; and her presence was a great
comfort. The poor girl, torn thus suddenly from her friends, wept long
and bitterly at her sad fate; but at last she fell asleep, committing
herself to the care of the heavenly Father, and relying upon him for
the succor which he alone could give. No one disturbed her; and Mrs.
Vincent watched over her, as a child, till she was fast asleep.
When she awoke, late in the morning, she heard the voices of children
in the cabin, and it was hard to realize that she was the victim of
Dock Vincent's villany. She was kindly greeted by Mrs. Vincent, and
the children stared at her as though she had come up from the depths of
the ocean. She soon made friends with the boy of eight and the girl of
ten, who were included in the family of her persecutor. After breakfast
she went on deck with them, and learned that the vessel was off Cape
Cod. Captain Gauley was very civil to her; but she did not allude to
the events of the previous evening. He was a bad man, and she could
hardly help shuddering in his presence.
All day long she played with the children, and short as she made the
hours to them, they were very long to her. She was so gentle, and kind,
and unselfish, even in her woe, that the little ones loved her, and
would hardly leave her for a moment. She was certainly comforted by
their presence, and her endeavors to assure them lightened the moments
of the long day. The kindness of Mrs. Vincent did much to assure her;
she was satisfied that nothing worse than a long separation from her
parents was likely to happen to her. Feeling that it was useless to
repine at her condition, or to weep over what she could not avoid, she
resolved to make the best of it. There was no real hardship in her
situation, and the circumstances were certainly more agreeable than
when she had before been an involuntary passenger in Dock's vessel. The
absence of the villain himself was perhaps her greatest consolation;
but the presence of Mrs. Vincent and the children was a real comfort.
In the evening Bessie and Dock's wife talked the matter over again in
her state-room. Mrs. Vincent roundly and unequivocally condemned the
conduct of her husband. She had discovered that the Caribbee was now
headed to the west, and it was plain to her that she was not yet on her
way to Australia. Dock had told her he was going to New York, and it
was possible that he intended to join them there. She told Bessie that
she might be able to leave the vessel when she reached her destined
port. The poor girl became more reconciled to her situation only
because it was no worse, rather than because it was not bad enough. She
slept well that night.
The next day she played with the children, read to them, and dressed
the girl's doll in the latest fashion. In the evening, after Bessie had
retired, the Caribbee ran by Sandy Hook, and made a harbor near Amboy,
where she came to anchor. She was moored a mile from the shore, and no
other vessel was near her. Captain Gauley had carried out the plans of
Dock to the letter. He had been a steamboat pilot in these waters, and
was quite familiar with the navigation. Dock had made his acquaintance
while he was acting as mate of a boat, and the mate and the pilot were
congenial spirits.
When Bessie went on deck with the children in the morning, Captain
Gauley told her, if she wished to write to her father, her letter
should be forwarded, as he was going on shore during the forenoon. She
was glad to assure her parents of her safety, and she wrote a long
letter, describing her capture and her situation on board of the
Caribbee. She stated the facts as they were. Dock's agent was writing
at the same time in the cabin; and when she was about to fold her
sheet, he wished to see it. He read it through, tore off the heading,
"Near New York," and the date, and then suggested that she had better
ask her father to pay the money required for her release.
"My father must do as he thinks best about that," replied Bessie,
decidedly.
"You don't understand your situation, I see," added the captain. "It is
impossible for you to escape from the vessel, and if your father does
not pay the money, you will go to Australia with us."
"My father will do what is best," repeated Bessie.
"Very well," added Captain Gauley, sourly. "If your father is not wiser
than you are, you may spend the rest of your days in Australia."
Bessie made no reply, but folded and directed her letter. It was plain
now that Dock was to levy his contribution on Mr. Watson before he came
on board. This out-of-the-way place had been selected, where no one
would be likely to hear of her, for the vessel to remain until Dock
could obtain his money. Captain Gauley went off in a boat, with one
man, leaving the schooner in charge of Mat Mogmore. He did not return
till night; but Bessie, though she considered various plans to escape
from the vessel, was satisfied that nothing could be done, for Mat
watched her all the time. Her only hope was, that she might induce one
of the sailors to assist her by promising him a large sum of money; but
her vigilant guardian would not permit her to speak to any man on
board. If one of the seamen came aft, he was ordered forward; and
Bessie's hope faded away.
The Caribbee remained for ten days in the vicinity of Sandy Hook,
changing her anchorage several times. Every day, either Mat Mogmore or
Captain Gauley went on shore, evidently expecting to see Dock, or to
hear from him. Bessie watched in vain for an opportunity to make a
friend of one of the sailors, or to hail a passing boat; but so
carefully was she guarded, that all hope in this direction was cut off.
She began to wish that her father would pay the money, for this seemed
to be her only chance of escape. Dock's non-appearance indicated that
his little plan was not working as well as he had expected, and Mrs.
Vincent and Bessie saw that Captain Gauley and Mat were becoming very
anxious.
On the tenth day after the arrival of the Caribbee, Mat Mogmore, who
had been on shore, returned with a letter, directed, in a strange hand,
to Captain Gauley. He opened it in the cabin. It contained but a few
lines, which he read and then hastened upon deck, leaving the letter on
the table. The rattling of ropes and the flapping of sails were
immediately heard; and it was plain to Bessie that the vessel was
getting under way.
"I wonder what is to be done now," said Mrs. Vincent, coming out of her
state-room.
"I don't know. Captain Gauley read the letter which lies on the table,
and then hurried on deck," replied Bessie.
"A letter!" exclaimed Mrs. Vincent, who was continually on the lookout
for news; for she was hardly less a prisoner than Bessie.
She took it from the table, and without hesitation opened it.
"It is from my husband," said she, glancing at the signature. "Things
are going wrong with me, and you will sail for Australia without me,"
she read, "the moment you get this letter. Keep things as before, and
do not let any one leave the vessel. If you don't do this, my only
chance is lost. Be careful, for they are after you. I shall get the
money, and go to Australia by steamer from England, and shall probably
be there before you."
"Then we are actually starting for Australia!" exclaimed Bessie, with a
deep sigh.
"I suppose so."
Bessie went into her state-room and wept bitterly, as all hope deserted
her. She cried, and she prayed, and then endeavored to reconcile
herself anew to her situation. The sails were hoisted, and the Caribbee
was standing out to sea.
Captain Gauley was at the helm, and Mat Mogmore was at his side,
talking with him about the prospect.
"If he wrote a letter at all, he ought to have told us all about it,"
said Mat, disappointed at the meagreness of the news from Dock.
"He says things are going against him."
"And he says they are after us; but he don't say who, nor what," added
Mat. "I would like to know what has gone wrong, and who is after us."
"Do you see that schooner on the weather bow?" said Captain Gauley,
pointing to a trim-looking craft. "She has an eye on us, and we must
give her a wide berth. She came about just now, and is running across
our fore-foot."
"That's the yacht, as true as I live!" exclaimed Mat, when he
discovered her.
"What yacht?"
"The Starry Flag!"
She had been standing off and on between Sandy Hook and Coney Island
for twenty-four hours, on the lookout for the Caribbee.
CHAPTER XXII.
THE TRAVELLER WHO LOST HIS WAY.
The steward of the yacht watched the house of Mr. Fairfield all night;
but no one entered or left it. Levi took his turn the next day again;
and, when he proposed to employ a fresh hand for the second night,
Augustus insisted upon serving, himself. He had slept enough during the
day, and he wanted the satisfaction of capturing Dock, if he presented
himself.
This time he was in luck, as he declared, for about one o'clock at
night, when the town was as still as though it contained not a single
living inhabitant, the villain came to obtain his money, probably not
doubting that by this time it had been paid to his agent.
The steward had stationed himself in such a position that no one could
approach the house unseen by him. Just after the clock on one of the
churches had struck one, he heard footsteps on the road, and presently
a man stopped in front of the miser's house. Contrary to the usual
custom of rogues and villains, he went up to the front door, and
knocked vigorously. The heart of the watcher leaped with expectation,
and he crept like a cat on the grass till he had obtained a position
behind a lilac bush, near the front door. The first summons of the
unseasonable visitor did not procure a response from within, and the
man knocked again.
Though the vigilant sentinel did not recognize his cowardly enemy, he
had no doubt it was he. The form was about the height of Dock, but
appeared to be better dressed than when he had seen the ruffian. Who
else should go to the house of the miser at that unseemly hour?
"Who's there?" called Mr. Fairfield, with his impatient whine, as he
threw open one of the windows of his chamber.
"I've got lost, and I want some one to show me the way to Gloucester,"
replied the visitor, in a tone so different from the voice of Dock that
Augustus did not recognize it, and began to fear that the villain was
not within his reach, as he had confidently believed.
"Got lost--have you? Well, take the right hand road out by the
school-'us," added the miser, not so sourly as most people would have
spoken when roused from their sleep to direct a night traveller.
"There are two or three roads there, and I can't afford to go much out
of my way. Come out and show me, and I'll pay you for your trouble."
This was quite enough for the miser, and he promised to come. The
caller stepped out into the road, and Augustus crouched down under the
lilac bushes to escape observation. In a few moments Mr. Fairfield
appeared, muffled up in a ragged overcoat.
"Well, Squire Fairfield, what's the news?" demanded the visitor, when
the old man joined him.
If the steward had any doubts before, he had none now. It was Dock
Vincent beyond a peradventure, and his voice sounded as natural as on
former occasions. It was plain that the bewildered traveller was a myth
for the benefit of Mrs. Fairfield, who, being "women folks," and not
understanding business, was not permitted to share the heavy secrets of
her husband, especially on the present momentous occasion.
"There ain't nothin' at all for news," replied the old man, as he
glanced at the house, as if to assure himself that his wife was not
watching him.
"No news?" exclaimed Dock. "Hasn't Watson come done with the money
yet?"
"No; nor that ain't the wust on't, nuther. I don't believe he will."
"O, yes, he will!" replied Dock, confidently. "I've got things fixed
this time so that he can't help planking down the money. He'll be glad
to pay it, I can tell you."
"What have you done with the gal, cap'n?"
"We've got her; and Watson never'll see her again unless he pays the
money--that's so."
"But he won't pay it; and I ain't go'n' to git my share on't at all,"
whined the miser.
"Yes, you will; don't be alarmed, Squire Fairfield."
"They've sent a steamer off arter the vessel."
"Have they, though?"
"Yes, they have; and Gayles has gone in her."
"All right; the steamer'll cost some money, and won't do any good.
She'll come back without the girl. My vessel isn't a great ways from
New York, and when I say the word she'll start, whether I go in her or
not. I tell you, Mr. Watson will be glad to pay the money before many
days. He don't understand the matter yet. I'll come again in two or
three days; and I reckon you'll have the money next time I come."
"Where are you stoppin' now?" asked Mr. Fairfield.
"Nowhere in these parts; but I'll be here in two or three days."
"But Watson won't pay that money, no more'n nothin' in the world."
"Yes, he will. He can't help doing it, if he wants his daughter again.
