blarneying beggar; I suppose it's wrong, but I do, though it is
harder."
"Because it takes a gentleman to do it," added the other member of the
domestic admiration society.
"Thank you, I'm afraid I don't deserve that pretty compliment. But I was
going to say that while I was dawdling about abroad, I saw a good many
talented young fellows making all sorts of sacrifices, and enduring real
hardships, that they might realize their dreams. Splendid fellows, some
of them, working like heroes, poor and friendless, but so full of
courage, patience, and ambition, that I was ashamed of myself, and
longed to give them a right good lift. Those are people whom it's a
satisfaction to help, for if they've got genius, it's an honor to be
allowed to serve them, and not let it be lost or delayed for want of
fuel to keep the pot boiling; if they haven't, it's a pleasure to
comfort the poor souls, and keep them from despair when they find it
out."
"Yes, indeed; and there's another class who can't ask, and who suffer in
silence. I know something of it, for I belonged to it before you made a
princess of me, as the king does the beggar-maid in the old story.
Ambitious girls have a hard time, Laurie, and often have to see youth,
health, and precious opportunities go by, just for want of a little help
at the right minute. People have been very kind to me; and whenever I
see girls struggling along, as we used to do, I want to put out my hand
and help them, as I was helped."
"And so you shall, like an angel as you are!" cried Laurie, resolving,
with a glow of philanthropic zeal, to found and endow an institution for
the express benefit of young women with artistic tendencies. "Rich
people have no right to sit down and enjoy themselves, or let their
money accumulate for others to waste. It's not half so sensible to leave
legacies when one dies as it is to use the money wisely while alive, and
enjoy making one's fellow-creatures happy with it. We'll have a good
time ourselves, and add an extra relish to our own pleasure by giving
other people a generous taste. Will you be a little Dorcas, going about
emptying a big basket of comforts, and filling it up with good deeds?"
"With all my heart, if you will be a brave St. Martin, stopping, as you
ride gallantly through the world, to share your cloak with the beggar."
"It's a bargain, and we shall get the best of it!"
So the young pair shook hands upon it, and then paced happily on again,
feeling that their pleasant home was more home-like because they hoped
to brighten other homes, believing that their own feet would walk more
uprightly along the flowery path before them, if they smoothed rough
ways for other feet, and feeling that their hearts were more closely
knit together by a love which could tenderly remember those less blest
than they.
                       [Illustration: Tail-piece]
                                  XLV.
                            DAISY AND DEMI.
I cannot feel that I have done my duty as humble historian of the March
family, without devoting at least one chapter to the two most precious
and important members of it. Daisy and Demi had now arrived at years of
discretion; for in this fast age babies of three or four assert their
rights, and get them, too, which is more than many of their elders do.
If there ever were a pair of twins in danger of being utterly spoilt by
adoration, it was these prattling Brookes. Of course they were the most
remarkable children ever born, as will be shown when I mention that they
walked at eight months, talked fluently at twelve months, and at two
years they took their places at table, and behaved with a propriety
which charmed all beholders. At three, Daisy demanded a "needler," and
actually made a bag with four stitches in it; she likewise set up
housekeeping in the sideboard, and managed a microscopic cooking-stove
with a skill that brought tears of pride to Hannah's eyes, while Demi
learned his letters with his grandfather, who invented a new mode of
teaching the alphabet by forming the letters with his arms and legs,
thus uniting gymnastics for head and heels. The boy early developed a
mechanical genius which delighted his father and distracted his mother,
for he tried to imitate every machine he saw, and kept the nursery in a
chaotic condition, with his "sewin-sheen,"--a mysterious structure of
string, chairs, clothes-pins, and spools, for wheels to go "wound and
wound;" also a basket hung over the back of a big chair, in which he
vainly tried to hoist his too confiding sister, who, with feminine
devotion, allowed her little head to be bumped till rescued, when the
young inventor indignantly remarked, "Why, marmar, dat's my lellywaiter,
and me's trying to pull her up."
Though utterly unlike in character, the twins got on remarkably well
together, and seldom quarrelled more than thrice a day. Of course, Demi
tyrannized over Daisy, and gallantly defended her from every other
aggressor; while Daisy made a galley-slave of herself, and adored her
brother as the one perfect being in the world. A rosy, chubby, sunshiny
little soul was Daisy, who found her way to everybody's heart, and
nestled there. One of the captivating children, who seem made to be
kissed and cuddled, adorned and adored like little goddesses, and
produced for general approval on all festive occasions. Her small
virtues were so sweet that she would have been quite angelic if a few
small naughtinesses had not kept her delightfully human. It was all fair
weather in her world, and every morning she scrambled up to the window
in her little night-gown to look out, and say, no matter whether it
rained or shone, "Oh, pitty day, oh, pitty day!" Every one was a friend,
and she offered kisses to a stranger so confidingly that the most
inveterate bachelor relented, and baby-lovers became faithful
worshippers.
                   [Illustration: Me loves evvybody]
"Me loves evvybody," she once said, opening her arms, with her spoon in
one hand, and her mug in the other, as if eager to embrace and nourish
the whole world.
As she grew, her mother began to feel that the Dovecote would be blest
by the presence of an inmate as serene and loving as that which had
helped to make the old house home, and to pray that she might be spared
a loss like that which had lately taught them how long they had
entertained an angel unawares. Her grandfather often called her "Beth,"
and her grandmother watched over her with untiring devotion, as if
trying to atone for some past mistake, which no eye but her own could
see.
Demi, like a true Yankee, was of an inquiring turn, wanting to know
everything, and often getting much disturbed because he could not get
satisfactory answers to his perpetual "What for?"
He also possessed a philosophic bent, to the great delight of his
grandfather, who used to hold Socratic conversations with him, in which
the precocious pupil occasionally posed his teacher, to the undisguised
satisfaction of the womenfolk.
             [Illustration: What makes my legs go, dranpa?]
"What makes my legs go, dranpa?" asked the young philosopher, surveying
those active portions of his frame with a meditative air, while resting
after a go-to-bed frolic one night.
"It's your little mind, Demi," replied the sage, stroking the yellow
head respectfully.
"What is a little mine?"
"It is something which makes your body move, as the spring made the
wheels go in my watch when I showed it to you."
"Open me; I want to see it go wound."
"I can't do that any more than you could open the watch. God winds you
up, and you go till He stops you."
"Does I?" and Demi's brown eyes grew big and bright as he took in the
new thought. "Is I wounded up like the watch?"
"Yes; but I can't show you how; for it is done when we don't see."
Demi felt of his back, as if expecting to find it like that of the
watch, and then gravely remarked,--
"I dess Dod does it when I's asleep."
A careful explanation followed, to which he listened so attentively that
his anxious grandmother said,--
"My dear, do you think it wise to talk about such things to that baby?
He's getting great bumps over his eyes, and learning to ask the most
unanswerable questions."
"If he is old enough to ask the questions he is old enough to receive
true answers. I am not putting the thoughts into his head, but helping
him unfold those already there. These children are wiser than we are,
and I have no doubt the boy understands every word I have said to him.
Now, Demi, tell me where you keep your mind?"
If the boy had replied like Alcibiades, "By the gods, Socrates, I cannot
tell," his grandfather would not have been surprised; but when, after
standing a moment on one leg, like a meditative young stork, he
answered, in a tone of calm conviction, "In my little belly," the old
gentleman could only join in grandma's laugh, and dismiss the class in
metaphysics.
There might have been cause for maternal anxiety, if Demi had not given
convincing proofs that he was a true boy, as well as a budding
philosopher; for, often, after a discussion which caused Hannah to
prophesy, with ominous nods, "That child ain't long for this world," he
would turn about and set her fears at rest by some of the pranks with
which dear, dirty, naughty little rascals distract and delight their
parents' souls.
Meg made many moral rules, and tried to keep them; but what mother was
ever proof against the winning wiles, the ingenious evasions, or the
tranquil audacity of the miniature men and women who so early show
themselves accomplished Artful Dodgers?
"No more raisins, Demi, they'll make you sick," says mamma to the young
person who offers his services in the kitchen with unfailing regularity
on plum-pudding day.
"Me likes to be sick."
"I don't want to have you, so run away and help Daisy make patty-cakes."
He reluctantly departs, but his wrongs weigh upon his spirit; and, by
and by, when an opportunity comes to redress them, he outwits mamma by a
shrewd bargain.
"Now you have been good children, and I'll play anything you like," says
Meg, as she leads her assistant cooks upstairs, when the pudding is
safely bouncing in the pot.
"Truly, marmar?" asks Demi, with a brilliant idea in his well-powdered
head.
"Yes, truly; anything you say," replies the short-sighted parent,
preparing herself to sing "The Three Little Kittens" half a dozen times
over, or to take her family to "Buy a penny bun," regardless of wind or
limb. But Demi corners her by the cool reply,--
"Then we'll go and eat up all the raisins."
Aunt Dodo was chief playmate and confidante of both children, and the
trio turned the little house topsy-turvy. Aunt Amy was as yet only a
name to them, Aunt Beth soon faded into a pleasantly vague memory, but
Aunt Dodo was a living reality, and they made the most of her, for which
compliment she was deeply grateful. But when Mr. Bhaer came, Jo
neglected her playfellows, and dismay and desolation fell upon their
little souls. Daisy, who was fond of going about peddling kisses, lost
her best customer and became bankrupt; Demi, with infantile penetration,
soon discovered that Dodo liked to play with "the bear-man" better than
she did with him; but, though hurt, he concealed his anguish, for he
hadn't the heart to insult a rival who kept a mine of chocolate-drops in
his waistcoat-pocket, and a watch that could be taken out of its case
and freely shaken by ardent admirers.
Some persons might have considered these pleasing liberties as bribes;
but Demi didn't see it in that light, and continued to patronize the
"bear-man" with pensive affability, while Daisy bestowed her small
affections upon him at the third call, and considered his shoulder her
throne, his arm her refuge, his gifts treasures of surpassing worth.
Gentlemen are sometimes seized with sudden fits of admiration for the
young relatives of ladies whom they honor with their regard; but this
counterfeit philoprogenitiveness sits uneasily upon them, and does not
deceive anybody a particle. Mr. Bhaer's devotion was sincere, however
likewise effective,--for honesty is the best policy in love as in law;
he was one of the men who are at home with children, and looked
particularly well when little faces made a pleasant contrast with his
manly one. His business, whatever it was, detained him from day to day,
but evening seldom failed to bring him out to see--well, he always asked
for Mr. March, so I suppose he was the attraction. The excellent papa
labored under the delusion that he was, and revelled in long discussions
with the kindred spirit, till a chance remark of his more observing
grandson suddenly enlightened him.
Mr. Bhaer came in one evening to pause on the threshold of the study,
astonished by the spectacle that met his eye. Prone upon the floor lay
Mr. March, with his respectable legs in the air, and beside him,
likewise prone, was Demi, trying to imitate the attitude with his own
short, scarlet-stockinged legs, both grovellers so seriously absorbed
that they were unconscious of spectators, till Mr. Bhaer laughed his
sonorous laugh, and Jo cried out, with a scandalized face,--
"Father, father, here's the Professor!"
Down went the black legs and up came the gray head, as the preceptor
said, with undisturbed dignity,--
"Good evening, Mr. Bhaer. Excuse me for a moment; we are just finishing
our lesson. Now, Demi, make the letter and tell its name."
"I knows him!" and, after a few convulsive efforts, the red legs took
the shape of a pair of compasses, and the intelligent pupil triumphantly
shouted, "It's a We, dranpa, it's a We!"
                   [Illustration: Dranpa, it's a We]
"He's a born Weller," laughed Jo, as her parent gathered himself up, and
her nephew tried to stand on his head, as the only mode of expressing
his satisfaction that school was over.
"What have you been at to-day, bübchen?" asked Mr. Bhaer, picking up the
gymnast.
"Me went to see little Mary."
"And what did you there?"
"I kissed her," began Demi, with artless frankness.
"Prut! thou beginnest early. What did the little Mary say to that?"
asked Mr. Bhaer, continuing to confess the young sinner, who stood upon
his knee, exploring the waistcoat-pocket.
"Oh, she liked it, and she kissed me, and I liked it. Don't little
boys like little girls?" added Demi, with his mouth full, and an air of
bland satisfaction.
"You precocious chick! Who put that into your head?" said Jo, enjoying
the innocent revelations as much as the Professor.
"'Tisn't in mine head; it's in mine mouf," answered literal Demi,
putting out his tongue, with a chocolate-drop on it, thinking she
alluded to confectionery, not ideas.
"Thou shouldst save some for the little friend: sweets to the sweet,
mannling;" and Mr. Bhaer offered Jo some, with a look that made her
wonder if chocolate was not the nectar drunk by the gods. Demi also saw
the smile, was impressed by it, and artlessly inquired,--
"Do great boys like great girls, too, 'Fessor?"
Like young Washington, Mr. Bhaer "couldn't tell a lie;" so he gave the
somewhat vague reply that he believed they did sometimes, in a tone that
made Mr. March put down his clothes-brush, glance at Jo's retiring face,
and then sink into his chair, looking as if the "precocious chick" had
put an idea into his head that was both sweet and sour.
Why Dodo, when she caught him in the china-closet half an hour
afterward, nearly squeezed the breath out of his little body with a
tender embrace, instead of shaking him for being there, and why she
followed up this novel performance by the unexpected gift of a big slice
of bread and jelly, remained one of the problems over which Demi puzzled
his small wits, and was forced to leave unsolved forever.
                       [Illustration: Tail-piece]
       [Illustration: Mr. Bhaer and Jo were enjoying promenades]
                                 XLVI.
                          UNDER THE UMBRELLA.
While Laurie and Amy were taking conjugal strolls over velvet carpets,
as they set their house in order, and planned a blissful future, Mr.
Bhaer and Jo were enjoying promenades of a different sort, along muddy
roads and sodden fields.
"I always do take a walk toward evening, and I don't know why I should
give it up, just because I often happen to meet the Professor on his way
out," said Jo to herself, after two or three encounters; for, though
there were two paths to Meg's, whichever one she took she was sure to
meet him, either going or returning. He was always walking rapidly, and
never seemed to see her till quite close, when he would look as if his
short-sighted eyes had failed to recognize the approaching lady till
that moment. Then, if she was going to Meg's, he always had something
for the babies; if her face was turned homeward, he had merely strolled
down to see the river, and was just about returning, unless they were
tired of his frequent calls.
Under the circumstances, what could Jo do but greet him civilly, and
invite him in? If she was tired of his visits, she concealed her
weariness with perfect skill, and took care that there should be coffee
for supper, "as Friedrich--I mean Mr. Bhaer--doesn't like tea."
By the second week, every one knew perfectly well what was going on, yet
every one tried to look as if they were stone-blind to the changes in
Jo's face. They never asked why she sang about her work, did up her hair
three times a day, and got so blooming with her evening exercise; and no
one seemed to have the slightest suspicion that Professor Bhaer, while
talking philosophy with the father, was giving the daughter lessons in
love.
Jo couldn't even lose her heart in a decorous manner, but sternly tried
to quench her feelings; and, failing to do so, led a somewhat agitated
life. She was mortally afraid of being laughed at for surrendering,
after her many and vehement declarations of independence. Laurie was her
especial dread; but, thanks to the new manager, he behaved with
praiseworthy propriety, never called Mr. Bhaer "a capital old fellow" in
public, never alluded, in the remotest manner, to Jo's improved
appearance, or expressed the least surprise at seeing the Professor's
hat on the Marches' hall-table nearly every evening. But he exulted in
private and longed for the time to come when he could give Jo a piece of
plate, with a bear and a ragged staff on it as an appropriate
coat-of-arms.
For a fortnight, the Professor came and went with lover-like regularity;
then he stayed away for three whole days, and made no sign,--a
proceeding which caused everybody to look sober, and Jo to become
pensive, at first, and then--alas for romance!--very cross.
"Disgusted, I dare say, and gone home as suddenly as he came. It's
nothing to me, of course; but I should think he would have come and
bid us good-by, like a gentleman," she said to herself, with a
despairing look at the gate, as she put on her things for the customary
walk, one dull afternoon.
"You'd better take the little umbrella, dear; it looks like rain," said
her mother, observing that she had on her new bonnet, but not alluding
to the fact.
"Yes, Marmee; do you want anything in town? I've got to run in and get
some paper," returned Jo, pulling out the bow under her chin before the
glass as an excuse for not looking at her mother.
"Yes; I want some twilled silesia, a paper of number nine needles, and
two yards of narrow lavender ribbon. Have you got your thick boots on,
and something warm under your cloak?"
"I believe so," answered Jo absently.
"If you happen to meet Mr. Bhaer, bring him home to tea. I quite long to
see the dear man," added Mrs. March.
Jo heard that, but made no answer, except to kiss her mother, and walk
rapidly away, thinking with a glow of gratitude, in spite of her
heartache,--
"How good she is to me! What do girls do who haven't any mothers to
help them through their troubles?"
The dry-goods stores were not down among the counting-houses, banks, and
wholesale warerooms, where gentlemen most do congregate; but Jo found
herself in that part of the city before she did a single errand,
loitering along as if waiting for some one, examining engineering
instruments in one window and samples of wool in another with most
unfeminine interest; tumbling over barrels, being half-smothered by
descending bales, and hustled unceremoniously by busy men who looked as
if they wondered "how the deuce she got there." A drop of rain on her
cheek recalled her thoughts from baffled hopes to ruined ribbons; for
the drops continued to fall, and, being a woman as well as a lover, she
felt that, though it was too late to save her heart, she might her
bonnet. Now she remembered the little umbrella, which she had forgotten
to take in her hurry to be off; but regret was unavailing, and nothing
could be done but borrow one or submit to a drenching. She looked up at
the lowering sky, down at the crimson bow already flecked with black,
forward along the muddy street, then one long, lingering look behind, at
a certain grimy warehouse, with "Hoffmann, Swartz, & Co." over the door,
and said to herself, with a sternly reproachful air,--
"It serves me right! What business had I to put on all my best things
and come philandering down here, hoping to see the Professor? Jo, I'm
ashamed of you! No, you shall not go there to borrow an umbrella, or
find out where he is, from his friends. You shall trudge away, and do
your errands in the rain; and if you catch your death and ruin your
bonnet, it's no more than you deserve. Now then!"
With that she rushed across the street so impetuously that she narrowly
escaped annihilation from a passing truck, and precipitated herself into
the arms of a stately old gentleman, who said, "I beg pardon, ma'am,"
and looked mortally offended. Somewhat daunted, Jo righted herself,
spread her handkerchief over the devoted ribbons, and, putting
temptation behind her, hurried on, with increasing dampness about the
ankles, and much clashing of umbrellas overhead. The fact that a
somewhat dilapidated blue one remained stationary above the unprotected
bonnet, attracted her attention; and, looking up, she saw Mr. Bhaer
looking down.
              [Illustration: Looking up she saw Mr. Bhaer]
"I feel to know the strong-minded lady who goes so bravely under many
horse-noses, and so fast through much mud. What do you down here, my
friend?"
"I'm shopping."
Mr. Bhaer smiled, as he glanced from the pickle-factory on one side, to
the wholesale hide and leather concern on the other; but he only said
politely,--
"You haf no umbrella. May I go also, and take for you the bundles?"
"Yes, thank you."
Jo's cheeks were as red as her ribbon, and she wondered what he thought
of her; but she didn't care, for in a minute she found herself walking
away arm-in-arm with her Professor, feeling as if the sun had suddenly
burst out with uncommon brilliancy, that the world was all right again,
and that one thoroughly happy woman was paddling through the wet that
day.
"We thought you had gone," said Jo hastily, for she knew he was looking
at her. Her bonnet wasn't big enough to hide her face, and she feared he
might think the joy it betrayed unmaidenly.
"Did you believe that I should go with no farewell to those who haf been
so heavenly kind to me?" he asked so reproachfully that she felt as if
she had insulted him by the suggestion, and answered heartily,--
"No, I didn't; I knew you were busy about your own affairs, but we
rather missed you,--father and mother especially."
"And you?"
"I'm always glad to see you, sir."
In her anxiety to keep her voice quite calm, Jo made it rather cool, and
the frosty little monosyllable at the end seemed to chill the Professor,
for his smile vanished, as he said gravely,--
"I thank you, and come one time more before I go."
"You are going, then?"
"I haf no longer any business here; it is done."
"Successfully, I hope?" said Jo, for the bitterness of disappointment
was in that short reply of his.
"I ought to think so, for I haf a way opened to me by which I can make
my bread and gif my Jünglings much help."
"Tell me, please! I like to know all about the--the boys," said Jo
eagerly.
"That is so kind, I gladly tell you. My friends find for me a place in
a college, where I teach as at home, and earn enough to make the way
smooth for Franz and Emil. For this I should be grateful, should I not?"
"Indeed you should. How splendid it will be to have you doing what you
like, and be able to see you often, and the boys!" cried Jo, clinging to
the lads as an excuse for the satisfaction she could not help betraying.
"Ah! but we shall not meet often, I fear; this place is at the West."
"So far away!" and Jo left her skirts to their fate, as if it didn't
matter now what became of her clothes or herself.
Mr. Bhaer could read several languages, but he had not learned to read
women yet. He flattered himself that he knew Jo pretty well, and was,
therefore, much amazed by the contradictions of voice, face, and manner,
which she showed him in rapid succession that day, for she was in half a
dozen different moods in the course of half an hour. When she met him
she looked surprised, though it was impossible to help suspecting that
she had come for that express purpose. When he offered her his arm, she
took it with a look that filled him with delight; but when he asked if
she missed him, she gave such a chilly, formal reply that despair fell
upon him. On learning his good fortune she almost clapped her hands: was
the joy all for the boys? Then, on hearing his destination, she said,
"So far away!" in a tone of despair that lifted him on to a pinnacle of
hope; but the next minute she tumbled him down again by observing, like
one entirely absorbed in the matter,--
"Here's the place for my errands; will you come in? It won't take long."
Jo rather prided herself upon her shopping capabilities, and
particularly wished to impress her escort with the neatness and despatch
with which she would accomplish the business. But, owing to the flutter
she was in, everything went amiss; she upset the tray of needles, forgot
the silesia was to be "twilled" till it was cut off, gave the wrong
change, and covered herself with confusion by asking for lavender ribbon
at the calico counter. Mr. Bhaer stood by, watching her blush and
blunder; and, as he watched, his own bewilderment seemed to subside,
for he was beginning to see that on some occasions women, like dreams,
go by contraries.
When they came out, he put the parcel under his arm with a more cheerful
aspect, and splashed through the puddles as if he rather enjoyed it, on
the whole.
"Should we not do a little what you call shopping for the babies, and
haf a farewell feast to-night if I go for my last call at your so
pleasant home?" he asked, stopping before a window full of fruit and
flowers.
"What will we buy?" said Jo, ignoring the latter part of his speech, and
sniffing the mingled odors with an affectation of delight as they went
in.
"May they haf oranges and figs?" asked Mr. Bhaer, with a paternal air.
"They eat them when they can get them."
"Do you care for nuts?"
"Like a squirrel."
"Hamburg grapes; yes, we shall surely drink to the Fatherland in those?"
Jo frowned upon that piece of extravagance, and asked why he didn't buy
a frail of dates, a cask of raisins, and a bag of almonds, and done with
it? Whereat Mr. Bhaer confiscated her purse, produced his own, and
finished the marketing by buying several pounds of grapes, a pot of rosy
daisies, and a pretty jar of honey, to be regarded in the light of a
demijohn. Then, distorting his pockets with the knobby bundles, and
giving her the flowers to hold, he put up the old umbrella, and they
travelled on again.
"Miss Marsch, I haf a great favor to ask of you," began the Professor,
after a moist promenade of half a block.
"Yes, sir;" and Jo's heart began to beat so hard she was afraid he would
hear it.
"I am bold to say it in spite of the rain, because so short a time
remains to me."
"Yes, sir;" and Jo nearly crushed the small flower-pot with the sudden
squeeze she gave it.
"I wish to get a little dress for my Tina, and I am too stupid to go
alone. Will you kindly gif me a word of taste and help?"
"Yes, sir;" and Jo felt as calm and cool, all of a sudden, as if she had
stepped into a refrigerator.
"Perhaps also a shawl for Tina's mother, she is so poor and sick, and
the husband is such a care. Yes, yes, a thick, warm shawl would be a
friendly thing to take the little mother."
"I'll do it with pleasure, Mr. Bhaer. I'm going very fast and he's
getting dearer every minute," added Jo to herself; then, with a mental
shake, she entered into the business with an energy which was pleasant
to behold.
Mr. Bhaer left it all to her, so she chose a pretty gown for Tina, and
then ordered out the shawls. The clerk, being a married man,
condescended to take an interest in the couple, who appeared to be
shopping for their family.
"Your lady may prefer this; it's a superior article, a most desirable
color, quite chaste and genteel," he said, shaking out a comfortable
gray shawl, and throwing it over Jo's shoulders.
             [Illustration: Does this suit you, Mr. Bhaer?]
"Does this suit you, Mr. Bhaer?" she asked, turning her back to him,
and feeling deeply grateful for the chance of hiding her face.
"Excellently well; we will haf it," answered the Professor, smiling to
himself as he paid for it, while Jo continued to rummage the counters
like a confirmed bargain-hunter.
"Now shall we go home?" he asked, as if the words were very pleasant to
him.
"Yes; it's late, and I'm so tired." Jo's voice was more pathetic than
she knew; for now the sun seemed to have gone in as suddenly as it came
out, the world grew muddy and miserable again, and for the first time
she discovered that her feet were cold, her head ached, and that her
heart was colder than the former, fuller of pain than the latter. Mr.
Bhaer was going away; he only cared for her as a friend; it was all a
mistake, and the sooner it was over the better. With this idea in her
head, she hailed an approaching omnibus with such a hasty gesture that
the daisies flew out of the pot and were badly damaged.
"This is not our omniboos," said the Professor, waving the loaded
vehicle away, and stopping to pick up the poor little flowers.
"I beg your pardon, I didn't see the name distinctly. Never mind, I can
walk. I'm used to plodding in the mud," returned Jo, winking hard,
because she would have died rather than openly wipe her eyes.
Mr. Bhaer saw the drops on her cheeks, though she turned her head away;
the sight seemed to touch him very much, for, suddenly stooping down, he
asked in a tone that meant a great deal,--
"Heart's dearest, why do you cry?"
Now, if Jo had not been new to this sort of thing she would have said
she wasn't crying, had a cold in her head, or told any other feminine
fib proper to the occasion; instead of which that undignified creature
answered, with an irrepressible sob,--
"Because you are going away."
"Ach, mein Gott, that is so good!" cried Mr. Bhaer, managing to clasp
his hands in spite of the umbrella and the bundles. "Jo, I haf nothing
but much love to gif you; I came to see if you could care for it, and I
waited to be sure that I was something more than a friend. Am I? Can
you make a little place in your heart for old Fritz?" he added, all in
one breath.
"Oh, yes!" said Jo; and he was quite satisfied, for she folded both
hands over his arm, and looked up at him with an expression that plainly
showed how happy she would be to walk through life beside him, even
though she had no better shelter than the old umbrella, if he carried
it.
It was certainly proposing under difficulties, for, even if he had
desired to do so, Mr. Bhaer could not go down upon his knees, on account
of the mud; neither could he offer Jo his hand, except figuratively, for
both were full; much less could he indulge in tender demonstrations in
the open street, though he was near it: so the only way in which he
could express his rapture was to look at her, with an expression which
glorified his face to such a degree that there actually seemed to be
little rainbows in the drops that sparkled on his beard. If he had not
loved Jo very much, I don't think he could have done it then, for she
looked far from lovely, with her skirts in a deplorable state, her
rubber boots splashed to the ankle, and her bonnet a ruin. Fortunately,
Mr. Bhaer considered her the most beautiful woman living, and she found
him more "Jove-like" than ever, though his hat-brim was quite limp with
the little rills trickling thence upon his shoulders (for he held the
umbrella all over Jo), and every finger of his gloves needed mending.
Passers-by probably thought them a pair of harmless lunatics, for they
entirely forgot to hail a 'bus, and strolled leisurely along, oblivious
of deepening dusk and fog. Little they cared what anybody thought, for
they were enjoying the happy hour that seldom comes but once in any
life, the magical moment which bestows youth on the old, beauty on the
plain, wealth on the poor, and gives human hearts a foretaste of heaven.
The Professor looked as if he had conquered a kingdom, and the world had
nothing more to offer him in the way of bliss; while Jo trudged beside
him, feeling as if her place had always been there, and wondering how
she ever could have chosen any other lot. Of course, she was the first
to speak--intelligibly, I mean, for the emotional remarks which followed
her impetuous "Oh, yes!" were not of a coherent or reportable
character.
"Friedrich, why didn't you--"
"Ah, heaven, she gifs me the name that no one speaks since Minna died!"
cried the Professor, pausing in a puddle to regard her with grateful
delight.
"I always call you so to myself--I forgot; but I won't, unless you like
it."
"Like it? it is more sweet to me than I can tell. Say 'thou,' also, and
I shall say your language is almost as beautiful as mine."
"Isn't 'thou' a little sentimental?" asked Jo, privately thinking it a
lovely monosyllable.
"Sentimental? Yes. Thank Gott, we Germans believe in sentiment, and keep
ourselves young mit it. Your English 'you' is so cold, say 'thou,'
heart's dearest, it means so much to me," pleaded Mr. Bhaer, more like a
romantic student than a grave professor.
"Well, then, why didn't thou tell me all this sooner?" asked Jo
bashfully.
"Now I shall haf to show thee all my heart, and I so gladly will,
because thou must take care of it hereafter. See, then, my Jo,--ah, the
dear, funny little name!--I had a wish to tell something the day I said
good-by, in New York; but I thought the handsome friend was betrothed to
thee, and so I spoke not. Wouldst thou have said 'Yes,' then, if I had
spoken?"
"I don't know; I'm afraid not, for I didn't have any heart just then."
"Prut! that I do not believe. It was asleep till the fairy prince came
through the wood, and waked it up. Ah, well, 'Die erste Liebe ist die
beste;' but that I should not expect."
"Yes, the first love is the best; so be contented, for I never had
another. Teddy was only a boy, and soon got over his little fancy," said
Jo, anxious to correct the Professor's mistake.
"Good! then I shall rest happy, and be sure that thou givest me all. I
haf waited so long, I am grown selfish, as thou wilt find, Professorin."
"I like that," cried Jo, delighted with her new name. "Now tell me what
brought you, at last, just when I most wanted you?"
"This;" and Mr. Bhaer took a little worn paper out of his
waistcoat-pocket.
Jo unfolded it, and looked much abashed, for it was one of her own
contributions to a paper that paid for poetry, which accounted for her
sending it an occasional attempt.
"How could that bring you?" she asked, wondering what he meant.
"I found it by chance; I knew it by the names and the initials, and in
it there was one little verse that seemed to call me. Read and find him;
I will see that you go not in the wet."
Jo obeyed, and hastily skimmed through the lines which she had
christened--
                        "IN THE GARRET.
        "Four little chests all in a row,
           Dim with dust, and worn by time,
         All fashioned and filled, long ago,
           By children now in their prime.
         Four little keys hung side by side,
           With faded ribbons, brave and gay
         When fastened there, with childish pride,
           Long ago, on a rainy day.
         Four little names, one on each lid,
           Carved out by a boyish hand,
         And underneath there lieth hid
           Histories of the happy band
         Once playing here, and pausing oft
           To hear the sweet refrain,
         That came and went on the roof aloft,
           In the falling summer rain.
        "'Meg' on the first lid, smooth and fair.
           I look in with loving eyes,
         For folded here, with well-known care,
           A goodly gathering lies,
         The record of a peaceful life,--
           Gifts to gentle child and girl,
         A bridal gown, lines to a wife,
           A tiny shoe, a baby curl.
         No toys in this first chest remain,
           For all are carried away,
         In their old age, to join again
           In another small Meg's play.
         Ah, happy mother! well I know
           You hear, like a sweet refrain,
         Lullabies ever soft and low
           In the falling summer rain.
        "'Jo' on the next lid, scratched and worn,
           And within a motley store
         Of headless dolls, of school-books torn,
           Birds and beasts that speak no more;
         Spoils brought home from the fairy ground
           Only trod by youthful feet,
         Dreams of a future never found,
           Memories of a past still sweet;
         Half-writ poems, stories wild,
           April letters, warm and cold,
         Diaries of a wilful child,
           Hints of a woman early old;
         A woman in a lonely home,
           Hearing, like a sad refrain,--
         'Be worthy love, and love will come,'
           In the falling summer rain.
        "My Beth! the dust is always swept
           From the lid that bears your name,
         As if by loving eyes that wept,
           By careful hands that often came.
         Death canonized for us one saint,
           Ever less human than divine,
         And still we lay, with tender plaint,
           Relics in this household shrine.--
         The silver bell, so seldom rung,
           The little cap which last she wore,
         The fair, dead Catherine that hung
           By angels borne above her door;
         The songs she sang, without lament,
           In her prison-house of pain,
         Forever are they sweetly blent
           With the falling summer rain.
        "Upon the last lid's polished field--
           Legend now both fair and true--
         A gallant knight bears on his shield,
           'Amy,' in letters gold and blue.
         Within lie snoods that bound her hair,
           Slippers that have danced their last,
         Faded flowers laid by with care,
           Fans whose airy toils are past;
         Gay valentines, all ardent flames,
           Trifles that have borne their part
         In girlish hopes and fears and shames,--
           The record of a maiden heart
         Now learning fairer, truer spells,
           Hearing, like a blithe refrain,
         The silver sound of bridal bells
           In the falling summer rain.
        "Four little chests all in a row,
           Dim with dust, and worn by time,
         Four women, taught by weal and woe
           To love and labor in their prime.
         Four sisters, parted for an hour,
           None lost, one only gone before,
         Made by love's immortal power,
           Nearest and dearest evermore.
         Oh, when these hidden stores of ours
           Lie open to the Father's sight,
         May they be rich in golden hours,
           Deeds that show fairer for the light,
         Lives whose brave music long shall ring,
           Like a spirit-stirring strain,
         Souls that shall gladly soar and sing
           In the long sunshine after rain.
                                                             "J. M."
"It's very bad poetry, but I felt it when I wrote it, one day when I was
very lonely, and had a good cry on a rag-bag. I never thought it would
go where it could tell tales," said Jo, tearing up the verses the
Professor had treasured so long.
"Let it go, it has done its duty, and I will haf a fresh one when I read
all the brown book in which she keeps her little secrets," said Mr.
Bhaer, with a smile, as he watched the fragments fly away on the wind.
"Yes," he added earnestly, "I read that, and I think to myself, 'She has
a sorrow, she is lonely, she would find comfort in true love. I haf a
heart full, full for her; shall I not go and say, 'If this is not too
poor a thing to gif for what I shall hope to receive, take it in Gott's
