It is said that Washington was utterly devoid of humor, and that he
was not known to have made more than one joke in his lifetime. When
Governor Trumbull, of Connecticut, suggested that the standing army of
the United States should be limited to four thousand men, Washington
moved that no enemy should invade the country with a larger force than
four thousand. While it must be acknowledged that Grant is not a joker,
he is not without the element of humor in his composition. Some of his
punishments are ludicrous and amusing, though they are always judicious
and effective.
During the campaign in Missouri, while Grant was marching after
Jeff. Thompson, his advance consisted of a body of Indiana cavalry,
commanded by one Lieutenant Wickfield, a man of expedients, especially
when suggested by an empty stomach. At noon this force arrived at a
farm-house, which looked sufficiently thrifty to assure the campaigners
that its larder would supply wherewith to correct the vacuum which
prudent nature loathes. Wickfield, with two of his inferior officers,
dismounted and entered the dwelling.
Though the great country for which Grant was fighting had yet hardly
heard his name, he was sufficiently well known in this locality to
wield a powerful influence. Wickfield realized that the potent name of
the brigadier would be enough to induce the people to bring forward the
best the house afforded, and he had the impudence to declare that he
was Brigadier General Grant. The name was indeed a tower of strength,
and the best that the larder contained was set before the hungry
guests. They ate not merely all they wanted, but all they could, and
asked how much was to be paid for their entertainment. The farmer's
folks seemed to think it was a sufficient honor to have fed a live
brigadier, and they declined payment. The officers went on their way,
rejoicing in the plenty that filled their stomachs.
The main body of the army halted a few miles from this house, to rest
for a time; Grant rode forward, and came to the house in which the
officers of his advance had been so sumptuously regaled. He was not
so ethereal as to be above the necessity of eating; and, indulging in
a course of reasoning similar to that of Wickfield, he rode up to the
front gate of the house, and asked the occupants if they could prepare
him a dinner.
"No," responded the mistress of the house, in tones gruff and
unamiable; "General Grant and his staff have just been here and eaten
up everything in the house, except one pumpkin pie."
"Humph," said Grant, in his stoical manner, without exhibiting any
surprise at the singular intelligence. "What is your name?"
"Selvidge," answered the woman.
"Will you keep that pie till I send an officer for it?" added Grant,
throwing a half dollar to her.
"Yes, I will," she replied, picking up the money; and Grant rode off,
doubtless thinking that he did not realize any benefit from the dinner
which the brigadier and his staff had eaten, for he was probably
willing to believe that the impostor had not taken his name in vain.
That evening, when the force had gone into camp for the night, the
several regiments were ordered to appear on parade at half past six
o'clock, with particular instructions that every man should be present.
The order was a very unusual one, for dress parades on the march were
not required, and a decided sensation was created in the army. Some
thought the enemy were upon them, and various explanations of the
strange order were suggested, though none of them were correct. At the
appointed time the parade was formed, ten columns deep, and nearly
a quarter of a mile in length. The ordinary ceremonial of the dress
parade was punctiliously performed, and then the assistant adjutant
general read the following luminous order:--
                                      "HEADQUARTERS, ARMY IN THE FIELD.
    "Special Order, No. 112.
    "Lieutenant Wickfield, of the ---- Indiana Cavalry, having on this
    day eaten everything in Mrs. Selvidge's house, except one pumpkin
    pie, Lieutenant Wickfield is hereby ordered to return with an
    escort of one hundred cavalry, and eat that pie also.
                                                     U.S. GRANT,
                                       Brigadier General Commanding."
As no one, or any body of men, ever presumed to disobey an order of
General Grant, at seven o'clock Lieutenant Wickfield, with his escort
of one hundred men, filed out of the camp, amid the derisive cheers of
the entire army. The escort unite in their testimony that he consumed
the whole of the pie, and, so far as they were able to judge, are
willing to affirm that he enjoyed the treat, especially as sufficient
time had elapsed since his dinner to enable him to do so with impunity.
Grant's commission as a brigadier general reached him August 7, though
it was antedated May 17. In harmony with his antecedents thus far,
which placed him neither first nor last, he was the seventeenth on
a list of thirty-four original appointments in the grade to which
he was assigned. Though Mr. Washburn had been forward in procuring
his appointment, Grant was unanimously recommended by the Illinois
delegation in Congress--not one of whom he knew personally before the
commencement of the outbreak, and not one of whom had the slightest
idea of the magnificent grant they were making for the nation.
At the time of General Grant's appointment, the Western Department,
which included all the region between the Mississippi and the Rocky
Mountains, with the State of Illinois and such parts of Western
Kentucky and Tennessee as might be in possession of the national arms,
was under command of General Fremont. For his own convenience, the
chief of this department divided his territory into sub-districts;
and on the 1st of September Grant was ordered to the command of the
South-east Missouri District, including Western Kentucky and Tennessee.
On the 4th of the month he established his headquarters at Cairo.
General Grant was now in a position to make himself felt, and he began
to gaze out upon the broad field of Southern aggression before him. He
was on the actual dividing line between loyalty and rebellion, prepared
to defend the one and invade the other. Governor Magoffin, of Kentucky,
had made his sensational reply to the call for troops, that his state
would furnish none for the "wicked" purpose of subduing her sister
Southern States, and had issued his proclamation of neutrality, which
meant nothing but rebellion, as proved by the subsequent conduct of the
man. There could be no neutral state between the fiery South and the
indignant North.
Cairo was a point of the utmost importance to the loyal cause, as
a depot of supplies, as a gunboat rendezvous, and as a strategetic
position. The Mobile and Ohio Railroad extended through the western
part of Tennessee to the northern line of that state, where it diverged
into three branches, terminating respectively at Hickman, Columbus,
and Paducah, connecting these places with all the principal cities of
the South, each of which might form a base of operation for offensive
movements on the part of the rebels.
Neutrality in Kentucky meant rebellion. It was proclaimed in the
interests of the South, but it was not, and could not be, respected
by either party. It was first violated by the rebels, who failed to
sound the notes of indignation when Bishop General Polk marched his
army into the state and seized upon Hickman and Columbus. General Grant
had studied his maps faithfully, and fully comprehended the situation,
not only in its present but in its future significance. Polk was in
full march upon Paducah, the possession of which would give the rebels
the control of the navigation of the Ohio and the entrance of the
Tennessee, at the mouth of which the town is located.
Grant was wide awake, and a few days after he had established his
headquarters at Cairo he completed his hasty preparations for the
capture of Paducah, and started late in the evening with two regiments
and a light battery, with two gunboats--the naval force of his district
having also been placed under his direction. Arriving at his objective
point the next morning, he landed his force, and took possession of the
town, the rebels under Tilghman hastily evacuating the place while the
national troops were landing.
Paducah was a strong secession town. Recruiting officers from the rebel
army were enlisting its citizens to fight against the Union even when
Grant landed. The prompt movement was a necessity, and Grant made it
without the order of his superior officer, though he notified Fremont
of the purposes of the enemy, and asked his permission to check them;
but he started before this permission reached him. He also announced
his purpose to the legislature of Kentucky, then in session at
Frankfort, but neither did he wait for their permission. A few hours of
delay would have defeated the objects of the expedition. He was prompt,
and thus saved the West from the mortification and disaster of having
the Ohio closed.
The inhabitants of Paducah were in full sympathy with the Rebellion.
They believed in the neutrality of Kentucky, even while they harbored
and assisted in recruiting a rebel force in their midst. Grant issued a
proclamation, in which he informed them that he came not as an enemy,
but as their fellow-citizen, to respect and enforce the rights of all
loyal citizens. He declared that he had nothing to do with opinions,
and should deal only with armed rebellion, its aiders and abettors. He
could not help mingling a little of his quaint humor with the solid
declarations of the document; adding, that whenever it was manifest
the people of Paducah were able to defend themselves, maintain the
authority of the government, and protect the rights of loyal citizens,
he should withdraw the forces under his command. It was not their style
to defend themselves from rebels, or to maintain the authority of the
government, so that the necessity of withdrawing the force was not
realized.
Grant remained in the town only till noon. Having garrisoned the
position, he returned to Cairo, where Fremont's permission to capture
Paducah, if he felt strong enough, awaited him. He had already felt
his strength, however, and Bishop Polk had been effectually checkmated.
Grant immediately took possession of Smithland, at the mouth of the
Cumberland River; and though he was not in position to order a forward
movement himself, he seems to have been preparing the way for the
triumphal march of the Union armies, which ended only when the hordes
of treason laid down their arms at the feet of him who now opened the
gates of their wide domain.
It was of the highest importance that these places should be held,
and Grant placed General Charles F. Smith in command of the position,
with a brigade of the most reliable troops. This man was his beau
idéal of a soldier, and the regular army officers regarded him as
one of its most able and accomplished veterans. It is said that he
had incurred the displeasure of General Scott, who neither forgave
nor forgot; otherwise he might have been assigned to the position
taken by McClellan. He was a stern and unyielding disciplinarian, with
little or none of the tact which had characterized Grant's treatment
of this difficult problem, and his severity soon embroiled him with
the volunteers. Politicians and newspapers cried him down, and his
sins were blazoned at the War Department. He was in imminent peril of
being sent in disgrace into the shade before he had fought a single
battle. But Grant understood him, and saved him; and "Paducah Smith" at
Fort Donelson, leading the fiercest charge, bareheaded and inspired,
justified himself and his steadfast friend. Grumblers and slanderers
were shamed and silenced.
Grant's wonderfully correct estimate of men has proved to be one of the
secrets of his success; and here, in the first year of the Rebellion,
and before he had been a week in command of this district, he began to
demonstrate in this direction not only his fidelity to a friend, but
his firmness in the good cause.
CHAPTER XI.
    Wherein Captain Galligasken describes the Battle of Belmont, and
    further illustrates the military Qualities of the illustrious
    Soldier, as exhibited in that fierce Fight.
With such a man as Smith at Paducah, placed there, and kept there, by
General Grant, the outlets of those great rivers, the Tennessee and
the Cumberland, which led down into the very heart of the Rebellion,
were safe. We looked to Grant--we, within the narrow sphere he then
occupied--for another movement, for some brilliant and well-conceived
operation, which would gladden the hearts and strengthen the arms of
the men of the loyal cause; but we looked in vain, for he was not the
commander of a department, and was held back by General Fremont. But
Grant was busy, and not a moment of his precious time was lost, however
it may have been turned aside from its highest usefulness. The hardy
and enthusiastic volunteers from the North-west were poured in upon him
until he had about twenty thousand. He employed himself in perfecting
their organization and improving their discipline.
Columbus, which had been fortified and held by Polk and Pillow, was
every day increasing its strength and importance. It had closed the
Mississippi, and every point in Grant's district was continually
menaced by it. He desired to "wipe it out," and applied to Fremont for
permission to do so, declaring that, with a little addition to his
present force, he would take the place. His application was not even
noticed, and the rebels were permitted to strengthen their works, and
afford all the aid they could to the turbulent hosts in Missouri.
In the mean time the rebel General Price had captured Lexington, but
abandoned his prize at the approach of Fremont, and retreated to the
south-western part of the state, where he remained, confronted by a
small force of national troops, gathering strength for another hostile
movement towards the north. Polk, who was in command of Columbus,
occasionally sent troops over the river to Belmont, on the opposite
bank, from which they marched to re-enforce Price. The safety of the
Union army before him required that this channel of communication
should be closed, or at least that the enemy in Missouri should be
prevented for a time from receiving further assistance.
General Grant was therefore ordered to make a movement which should
threaten Columbus, and thus compel Polk to retain his force.
Accordingly, he sent Colonel Oglesby towards the point he was to
menace, and also directed General Smith at Paducah to march towards
Columbus, and demonstrate in the rear of that place. The point to
be gained was simply to prevent reënforcements from being sent over
the river, for Grant was prohibited from making an attack upon the
threatened point.
Belmont was partially fortified. It was a camp for rebel troops, from
which they could conveniently be sent to coöperate with Price or Jeff.
Thompson, and a depot of supplies gathered up in Missouri and Arkansas,
where they could be readily sent over to Columbus. On the evening of
November 6, Grant started down the river with a fleet of steamers,
under the convoy of two gunboats, to demonstrate on a larger scale
against the enemy's stronghold. He had with him a force of thirty-one
hundred men, comprising five regiments of infantry, two squadrons of
cavalry, and a section of artillery. The movement was not intended
as an attack, even upon Belmont, at the beginning. His troops were
exceedingly raw, some of them having received their arms only two days
before.
The fleet continued down the river about ten miles, and Grant made a
feint of landing on the Kentucky side, remaining at the shore till the
next morning, to give color to the idea that, with Smith, he intended
to attack Columbus. But during the night he ascertained that Polk was
crossing large bodies of troops to Belmont, with the evident intention
of pursuing Oglesby. Then the intrepid general decided to "clean out"
the camp at Belmont. This was literally what he intended to do, and as
every man's success ought to be measured by his intentions, it is very
important that this fact should be fully comprehended. It is absurd to
suppose that a military man of Grant's experience proposed to take and
hold the place. He had every reason to believe the enemy had double
his force, and he knew that they were well provided with steamers and
gunboats, and could send over reënforcements rapidly; and he was also
aware that Belmont was covered by the guns of Columbus. Against this
odds, and under these circumstances, he could not for a moment have
entertained the idea of securing a permanent advantage. He contemplated
only a bold dash, which was sufficient to accomplish the object of the
expedition.
The little army was landed at Hunter's Point, three miles above the
rebel works, and just out of the range of the Columbus batteries. The
line was formed, and, with Grant in the advance with the skirmishers,
moved forward. It soon encountered the enemy, and drove them before
it. The action waxed warmer and warmer as the lines of national troops
advanced, and the contest became very severe. Grant still kept in
front, animating the soldiers by his heroic example, in utter contempt
of anything like danger. His horse was killed under him, and he was
in peril from first to last; but his gallant behavior stimulated the
civilian colonels under him, and they stood up squarely to the work
before them. Thus led, the raw soldiers from Illinois behaved like
veterans, and fought with the utmost desperation. The contest continued
for four hours, at the end of which time the Union troops had driven
the rebels foot by foot to their works; and then, charging through
the abatis which surrounded the fortifications, forced the beaten foe
to the river. Several hundred prisoners and all the rebel guns were
captured, and the camp broken up.
Grant had reached his objective point, and his success was thorough and
complete. He had accomplished all he proposed, and it only remained
for him to retire from the field, which was of course as much a part
of his original intention as was the attack. As the hour of prosperity
is often the most dangerous, so was the moment of victory the most
perilous to these gallant troops. Their success seemed to intoxicate
them, and instead of pursuing their advantage upon the rebel force,
sheltering themselves beneath the bluff of the river, they went about
plundering the deserted camp. Their colonels, no better disciplined,
indulged their vanity in making Union speeches.
General Grant discovered that the enemy was sending steamer loads
of troops across the river, to a point above the camp, to intercept
his retreat; and he was anxious to get back to his transports before
they arrived. He attempted to form his lines again, but the men were
too much disorganized to heed orders. The general then directed his
staff-officers to set fire to the camp, in order to check the plunder.
The smoke attracted the attention of the rebels at Columbus, who opened
fire upon the Unionists. Shot and shell brought them to a sense of
their duty; the line was formed, and they marched towards the steamers,
three miles distant.
The defeated rebels, under the bank of the river, having been
reënforced by the arrival of three regiments from Columbus, marched
to a point which enabled them to intercept the victorious army. An
officer, on discovering the fact, dashed furiously up to the cool
commander, and in a highly-excited tone cried, "We are surrounded!"
"Well, if that is so, we must cut our way out, as we cut our way in,"
replied Grant, apparently unmoved even by this tremendous circumstance.
His troops were brave men, but such a disaster as being surrounded
suggested to their inexperience only the alternative of surrender, and,
under many commanders, such a result must have been inevitable. What
paralyzes the soldier often produces the same effect upon the leader;
but Grant was not "demoralized." No apparent reverses could exhaust his
unconquerable pluck; he never despaired, and worked up a situation out
of which another could make nothing but defeat, until he brought forth
victory.
"We have whipped them once, and I think we can do it again," added
Grant, in the midst of the confusion which the unpleasant prospect
caused.
The troops discovered that Grant had no idea of surrendering, and
they gathered themselves up for a fresh onslaught. The confusion was
overcome, and the little army charged the enemy, who fought less
vigorously than earlier in the day, and were again forced behind the
bank of the river. But, as fresh troops were continually arriving from
Columbus, there was no time to be wasted, and Grant pressed on for
his transports. There was no unseemly haste, certainly nothing like a
rout, or even a defeat. Everything was done in as orderly a manner as
possible with undisciplined troops.
  [Illustration: GRANT'S ESCAPE.--Page 123.]
Grant superintended the execution of his own orders in the embarkation
of his force; and, when most of them were on board of the steamers, he
sent out a party to pick up the wounded. In the morning he had posted
a reserve in a suitable place for the protection of the fleet, and
as soon as the main body were secure on the decks of the transports,
Grant, attended by a single member of his staff, rode out to withdraw
this force. This guard, ignorant of the requirement of good discipline,
had withdrawn themselves, and the general found himself uncovered in
the presence of the advancing foe. Riding up on a hillock, he found
himself confronting the whole rebel force, now again increased by
fresh additions from the other side of the river. It was a time for an
ordinary man to put spurs to his steed; but Grant had an utter contempt
for danger. He stood still for a moment to examine the situation,
during which he was a shining mark for rebel sharp-shooters. He wore
a private's overcoat, the day being damp and chilly; and to this
circumstance alone can his miraculous escape be attributed.
He was looking for the party he had sent out in search of the wounded,
and realized that they had been cut off by the foe. Turning his horse,
he rode slowly back to the landing, so as not to excite the attention
of his uncomfortable neighbors, who were pouring a galling fire into
the transports. The steamers suffered so much from this destructive
hail of bullets, that they had cast off their fasts, and pushed away
from the bank, leaving the general behind in the midst of the foe.
Seeing how the thing was going, Grant put spurs to his horse, forcing
the steed on his haunches down the bank, just as one of the steamers
was swinging off from the shore. A plank was thrown out for him, up
which he trotted his horse, in the midst of a storm of rebel bullets.
The field being clear of national troops, the gunboats opened a fierce
fire upon the rebel ranks, now within fifty or sixty yards of the
shore, mowing them down with grape and canister in the most fearful
slaughter. The fire of the rebels was fortunately too high to inflict
any serious injury on the troops in the transports, and by five in the
afternoon they were out of range.
The next day Grant met, under a flag of truce, an old classmate from
West Point, then serving on General Polk's staff. He related his
personal experience at Belmont, stating that he had encountered the
rebel line when alone. The rebel officer expressed his surprise.
"Was that you?" exclaimed he. "We saw you. General Polk pointed you out
as a Yankee, and called upon the men to test their aim upon you; but
they were too busy in trying their skill upon the transports to heed
the suggestion."
I point with admiration to the conduct of General Grant during
that entire day. As an example of coolness and courage, he stands
unsurpassed, and even unrivalled. It was thrilling to behold him,
in the midst of the trials and discouragements of that hard-fought
field, the life and the soul of the whole affair. He was the only
trained soldier on the field, for even General McClernand, who was
daring enough to have had three horses shot under him, had no actual
experience of battle. His men, and especially his officers, were
undisciplined, and the whole affair rested upon his shoulders. But the
brave fellows followed his example, and the victory was made sure.
The material results of the battle were one hundred and seventy-five
prisoners, two guns carried off and four spiked on the field, and the
total destruction of the enemy's camp.
Of the force engaged, Grant had thirty-one hundred and fourteen men,
according to his official report. General Polk declared that, at the
beginning of the battle, Pillow had five regiments, a battery, and a
squadron of cavalry; and that five more regiments were sent across the
river during the fight. The rebel force, therefore, must have been
double that of the Unionists; and probably the disparity was still
greater.
My friend Mr. Pollard, with his usual cheerful assumption, called the
battle of Belmont a Confederate victory! Or, stating it a little more
mildly, a defeat in the beginning changed in the end to an overwhelming
victory! Did this amiable rebel ever hear of an army defeated by
an "overwhelming victory," carrying off their captured guns and
prisoners, embarking leisurely in their steamers, and retiring while
the victors were being mowed down in swaths? Grant lost four hundred
and eighty-five men in killed, wounded, and missing; while Mr. Pollard
demolishes his own "overwhelming victory" by acknowledging a rebel
loss of six hundred and forty-two, which was probably below the actual
number.
The moral results of the battle, which cannot be estimated in captured
guns and prisoners, were even more satisfactory. Belmont, as settling a
question of prestige, was the Bunker Hill of the Western soldiers. It
gave them confidence in themselves, and prepared the way for Donelson
and Shiloh. It prevented the forces of Jeff Thompson and Price from
being augmented.
The unmilitary conduct of some of the colonels, gallantly as they
fought, exposed them to merited rebuke. It is said that Grant himself
expected to be deprived of his command for fighting this battle, and
for not effecting his retreat more promptly, having been delayed, as
I have shown, by the want of proper support from these commanders of
regiments, who did not control, or attempt to control, the excesses
of the men. One of them, fearful that the same fate was in store for
him, waited upon Grant to ascertain the prospect. He obtained no
satisfaction, for the general thought the lesson ought to work in his
mind.
"Colonel ---- is afraid I will report his bad conduct," said Grant to
one of his friends, when the repentant and anxious officer had departed.
"Why don't you do it?" demanded the other. "He and the other colonels
are to blame for their disobedience, which had nearly involved you in a
disaster."
"These officers had never been under fire," replied the magnanimous
hero. "They did not understand how serious an affair it was, and they
will never forget the lesson they learned. I can judge from their
conduct in the action that they are made of the right stuff. It is
better that I should lose my position, if it must be, than that the
country should lose the services of five such gallant officers when
good men are scarce."
Grant did not lose his command; and the future justified the belief of
Grant, for three of the five colonels won an enviable distinction in
subsequent battles.
That was Grant! It was the imperilled nation, and not his own glory,
for which he was fighting.
CHAPTER XII.
    Wherein Captain Galligasken rehearses the persistent Efforts of
    the illustrious Soldier to obtain Permission to attack Fort Henry,
    and follows him to the Capture of that important Position.
General Grant gained no immediate credit for his brilliant action at
Belmont. The objects of the movement were not understood, and as the
victorious army did not retain the position it had won, the general
public regarded it as a defeat. The balance of injury was against the
rebels, and in favor of the national arms. Grant gained all, and more
than all, he intended. He had no occasion to be forgiven for Belmont.
It was his first battle in the Rebellion, and the first of the unbroken
line of victories he achieved which gladdened the heart of the nation
from time to time.
Grant was always generous, even to magnanimity. His report of the
battle bestows the warmest praise upon those who deserved it. There
was none of that petty, sixpenny jealousy in his composition which
belittled some other able generals, and which in a few instances
seriously interfered with the progress of the Union arms. He had no
occasion to decry others in order to magnify himself. He was willing
to let his fame take care of itself. He did everything for the
cause, nothing at all for himself. He was too magnanimous to mention
the indiscretions of the officers who, through lack of experience,
imperilled the day, for they were errors of the head, and not of the
heart.
A few days after the battle of Belmont, Fremont was superseded by
Halleck. The change did not injure the immediate prospects of Grant,
though for two months the general was employed only in organizing and
drilling troops, some of which were for service in his own district,
and some were intended for other parts of the department, and he
was permitted to make no forward movement. For the old name the new
commander substituted the District of Cairo, and changed its limits so
as to include the portion of Kentucky west of the Cumberland River.
During this period of comparative inaction, flags of truce frequently
passed between Cairo and Columbus, and interviews between the generals
in command of the posts took place. General Polk seems to have been
a very hospitable gentleman, and at the close of each conference
invariably brought out his wine to treat his guests. It was not unusual
to propose a toast, and on one occasion the bishop general offered one
which he declared all could drink. The glasses were filled,--Grant's
with water, of course,--and Polk gave, "To General Washington--" He
paused there, and the company raised their glasses to their lips, and
were in the act of honoring the great name, when the proposer of the
sentiment added--"the first rebel."
"That was scarcely fair, general," interposed Grant, who had nearly
finished his glass; "but I will be even with you some other time."
It would have been called a Yankee trick if it had been perpetrated
by any other than a chivalrous Southern soldier. Two weeks later,
another flag was sent down the river, and Grant accompanied it. When
the business of the interview was completed, Polk attended to the
rites of hospitality as usual. Grant turned the conversation into
the favorite channel of rebel politicians by introducing the subject
of state rights. The Southern officers were suffered to express
themselves fully on their pet theme, without any serious attempt to
controvert their positions. As he rose to take his departure, Grant
proposed, a sentiment in which he said all could agree--"Equal rights
to all--" He duplicated the pause which Polk had made on the previous
occasion, until the party had partially emptied their glasses, when he
added--"white and black."
"Now, general, I think I am even with you," continued Grant, in his
quiet, unimpressible manner; and the reverend general was obliged to
own that he had been flanked in his own manoeuvre.
Columbus was the western extreme of the rebel line of defence, which at
that time included nearly the whole length of the Potomac River in the
East. The enemy had built Fort Henry on the Tennessee River, and Fort
Donelson on the Cumberland, and occupied Bowling Green, near the centre
of the State of Kentucky. The line which included these points was the
boundary which actually separated the territories in possession of the
combatants. It was the strategic line of the rebels, on which they had
placed their defences, concentrated their armies, and gathered their
supplies, both for aggressive movements to the North, and to prevent a
Union force from penetrating to the South. Bowling Green, on a branch
of the Green River, was at the junction of the two lines of railroad
from Memphis and from Nashville. Fort Henry and Fort Donelson were near
the Memphis road, protecting it from Union raiders, and supplied by it
with men and provisions, as well as by the two rivers.
The Gibraltar of the West, as Columbus was called by the rebels,
mounted one hundred and forty guns, was abundantly supplied with men
and material, and its railway connections afforded every facility for
reënforcing it in case of necessity. It closed the Mississippi against
the Union steamers and gunboats.
Fort Henry, the first connecting link in the rebel line of defence,
was a strongly-built fortification on the right bank of the Tennessee,
mounting seventeen guns, and provided with accommodations for fifteen
thousand men.
Fort Donelson, on the left bank of the Cumberland, was a more elaborate
work, mounting forty guns, and with quarters for twenty thousand
troops. These two forts effectually closed the rivers on which they
were located, and were only twelve miles apart, so that they could
coöperate with each other in cases of emergency. A strong rebel army
at Bowling Green completed the defence, and an advance by land was as
impracticable as by water. The problem which the Western military
commanders were called upon to solve was, how to break through this
line.
The question seems to have worried Grant to no inconsiderable degree,
and he studied the matter attentively during the winter. In January,
by order of General Halleck, he sent out a heavy force under General
Smith, in the direction of Columbus, to aid a movement on the part of
General Thomas in another part of the state, and to examine the ground.
No fighting was done, and the soldiers suffered severely from cold;
but the object of the expedition was gained, for Thomas defeated the
rebels at Mill Springs, where the result would have been different if
reënforcements had been sent from this quarter to the enemy.
During the winter, the gunboat navy of the West was largely augmented
and improved, under the admirable supervision of Commodore Foote.
Ordinary river steamers were shorn of their top works, and their hulls
converted into iron-clad batteries, which promised to render efficient
service in operations on the navigable streams of the West. The brave
old salt was ably seconded by Halleck and by Grant, both in building
and in manning his fleet.
General Smith, on his return from the reconnoissance in force, reported
to Grant that the capture of Fort Henry was feasible. The general of
the district was ready at an early day to solve the problem of breaking
the rebel line of defence. He had kept his eye and his thought on this
operation; and while the movement was demanded by McClellan, then
general-in-chief, Halleck appears hardly to have turned his attention
in that direction; certainly he had taken no active measure to carry
out the purpose.
I am not willing to say that Grant at this time had devised a plan for
extended operations towards the South, but I am confident that he was
studying his maps and measuring the comparative resources of the two
armies long before his superiors had any definite ideas on the subject.
I firmly believe that to him belongs the conception of that grand
military movement which he so gloriously carried forward in person.
On the return of Smith from his expedition, Grant forwarded his report
to General Halleck, and a day later, by permission, visited the
headquarters of the commander of the department at St. Louis, in order
to obtain permission to attack Fort Henry. Halleck was one of the high
and mighty men, and his refusal was abrupt and sharp. Grant was no
orator. He proffered his request in the fewest words that would express
it; and he did not attempt to sustain his views by an argument. He was
wounded in his feelings by the curtness of his superior, and returned
to Cairo with the unpleasant impression that his commander regarded him
as a tyro, capable of perpetrating the grossest military blunder.
But Grant had Fort Henry on the brain, and, in spite of his repulse, he
could not be satisfied to leave with his superior the responsibility
of neglecting to improve what he regarded as a golden opportunity. In
the latter part of January he telegraphed to Halleck that, with his
permission, he would take and hold Fort Henry, establish and hold a
large camp there. A day later he followed up his application with a
letter, demonstrating the practicability of the proposed enterprise,
and showing the advantage to be gained by a prompt advance. His
application was warmly seconded by Flag-officer Foote; and this time
the desired permission was obtained. Grant was happy then; he had
overcome the coldness of Halleck, and it only remained for him to
justify his predictions.
Grant was on the most intimate terms of friendship with Foote, and
these two gallant and devoted men worked harmoniously together
to achieve a success. There was no bickering between them about
precedence, for both of them sought only to serve the cause in which
they had embarked. Halleck's detailed instructions arrived on the 1st
of February, and, in view of the experience of others, it is almost
a miracle that there was not a delay of a month, or at least of a
week. Grant was a prompt man, and in spite of all the precedents made
and provided for the occasion, he actually started from Cairo on the
day after his orders reached him. His force, embarked in transports,
consisted of seventeen thousand men, and Commodore Foote's squadron
was composed of seven gunboats, only four of which, however, were
iron-clads.
On the 4th of February the expedition arrived at the scene of
operations. Grant had given McClernand the advance, and this officer
landed his troops about eight miles below the fort. But the commanding
general did not quite comprehend the situation, and he was not the man
to work in the dark when light could be obtained. Going on board of
one of the gunboats, he directed its captain to steam up the river,
and under the guns of the fort, in order to draw its fire and test its
weight of metal. The rebels fired upon the daring intruder, and a
shot went through the steamer. The purpose of the general was gained,
and he returned to his forces below, reembarked them, and again landed
them just out of the reach of cannon shot, the range of which he had
practically demonstrated.
The enemy were fully alive to the peril which menaced them, and made
every preparation for a desperate resistance. Additional troops were
ordered up by the railroads, and reserves from Fort Donelson stationed
where they could be available. The Tennessee had overflowed its
banks, and the country for miles around was inundated. Fort Henry was
completely surrounded by water, and the movements of both armies were
made with difficulty. But Grant, no more dismayed by flood than by
fire, gave orders to post his troops so as to intercept any departures
or arrivals of the enemy.
Before the investment of the fort, intelligence of the anticipated
arrival of a large rebel force compelled Grant to hasten the attack,
and at eleven o'clock, on the 6th of February, the army marched towards
the rear of the fort, and the gunboats steamed up the river to engage
the batteries. The intrepid old sea-dog opened fire upon the works, and
in an hour and a half knocked them all to pieces, silencing every gun.
General Tilghman surrendered to Commodore Foote without conditions; but
only the commander, his staff, and sixty men were captured, the main
body of the rebel army having been sent to Fort Donelson.
The floods of water and the miry condition of the roads prevented
the army from reaching the rear of the fort in season to be of any
service. The cavalry was sent in pursuit of the fleeing rebels, but
they had gone too far to be overtaken. General Tilghman, it appeared,
did not share the confidence of his superiors in the invulnerableness
of his works, and early in the morning he had posted his entire
garrison, with the exception of a force sufficient to work his guns,
at some outworks two miles distant, and out of the reach of the shot
and shell from the gunboats, where they could be hastened to a place of
safety. Before the result of the battle with the gunboats was known,
these forces were sent away, and no different action on the part of the
Union general could have captured them.
The victory was a decided one, though the army was prevented from
sharing in the glory of capturing the fort. The result filled the
government of the Confederacy with dismay. One of its strong gates
had been battered down, and the Tennessee was open to the navigation
of those pestilent gunboats, which had already become the terror of
Rebeldom. Prompt to assure the leaders of the Confederacy of the
disaster which had overtaken them, Flag-officer Foote sent three of
his "pets" up the river, which proceeded as far as Florence, Alabama,
destroying the railroad bridge twenty-five miles above Fort Henry,
capturing large quantities of stores, and burning many steamers and
other boats.
The effect of this success was promptly realized in the sudden
evacuation of Bowling Green; and thus two of the rebel strongholds
were struck down by the same blow. But the full advantage of this
capture was not to be realized until the Union army was ready to move
in force towards the south. The victory was an easy one, very much to
the astonishment of the naval and the military officers in command.
Certainly the position was of importance enough for the Confederacy to
have staked more upon it than it did.
Grant's idea was triumphant, and he received the reward of his
persistent application to capture the fort, and ample compensation for
his harsh rebuff, in the consciousness that he had initiated one of the
grandest movements of the war--grand in its ultimate results, which his
far-seeing eye had already discovered, rather than in the present glory
of its accomplishment.
CHAPTER XIII.
    Wherein Captain Galligasken states the Results of the Victory at
    Fort Henry, and attends the illustrious Soldier in the Investment
    of Fort Donelson.
The capture of Fort Henry was as inspiring to the national troops as it
was discouraging to the rebels. General Grant telegraphed to Halleck
that he had taken Fort Henry, and he announced his intention to serve
Fort Donelson in the same way. Not a word had been said before about
the strong work on the Cumberland, and Grant had no instructions from
his superior on this point. Halleck made no reply to his despatch,
though he notified General Buell of the expected attack.
The idea of capturing Donelson was Grant's from its inception to
its culmination in the surrender. He had no definite information in
regard to the fort, but he formed his plan, not only to attack but
to capture it. It seems to have been written down in his mind from
the commencement that there was to be no failure. The flood and the
continued heavy rains delayed the movement, and the troops were obliged
to fight with the waters to save their scanty supplies.
General Halleck used every exertion to supply Grant with troops and
material, but he did not order the movement, or even express any hopes
or opinions in regard to it. He simply suffered it to proceed, yielding
all the assistance required of him; but it would have been curious
to know what he would have said if the enterprise had proved to be a
failure. Halleck sent minute orders in regard to the disposition of
Fort Henry, instructing Grant to hold it, intimating that he would send
picks and shovels to strengthen the work, and directed that the guns
should be changed so as to meet an attack from the land; but he does
not mention Donelson. He repeats his instructions very carefully on the
10th of the month, again kindly offers to send the picks and shovels,
and assures the rising hero that large reënforcements would soon join
him; but he is thoroughly non-committal on the subject of Fort Donelson.
For my own part, I am thankful that he was so; for I am convinced that
any man with a genius for war inferior to that of the illustrious
soldier would have been a marplot if he had meddled with the matter.
Grant was willing to take the responsibility; and doubtless the
singular silence of his superior suggested to him his fate in case of
failure.
Grant did not wait for any of the additional force promised; and
while the solemn autocrat in St. Louis was prating about picks and
shovels, and matters which a volunteer who had seen service for a week
understood as well as he, the bold brigadier in command hurried up
Commodore Foote, who was waiting for the gunboats he had sent up the
river. He was impatient to be on the move, and chafed like a leashed
tiger at the delay; for the news kept coming in that the rebels were
continually strengthening Donelson.
On the 11th the commodore started with his fleet for the Cumberland,
