remember, I thought I had liberty."
"I shall not forget," I answered. "I understand, that respect
for me failed before respect for my mother."
"But! -" he began.
"Be quiet, Charles," my mother interrupted him. "Pull us to
shore; and let fits of perverseness alone till they go off.
That is my counsel to you."
And the remainder of our little voyage was finished in
profound silence. I knew mamma was terribly vexed, but at the
same time I was secretly overjoyed; for I saw that she yielded
to me, and I knew that I should have no more trouble with Mr.
De Saussure.
I did not. He lingered about for a few days longer, in moody
style, and then went away and I saw him no more. During those
days I had nothing to do with him. But my mother had almost as
little to do with me. She was greatly offended; and also, I
saw, very much surprised. The woman Daisy could not be quite
the ductile thing the child Daisy had been. I took refuge with
papa whenever I could.
"What is all this about De Saussure and Marshall?" he asked
one day.
"They have both gone home."
"I know they have; but what sent them home?"
"Mamma has been trying to make them go, this long while, you
know, papa. She wanted them to go and join Beauregard."
"And will they? Is that what they are gone for?"
"I do not know if they will, papa. I suppose Mr. De Saussure
will."
"And not Marshall?"
"I do not know about him."
"What did you do, Daisy?"
"Papa - you know I do not like the war."
"How about liking the gentlemen?"
"I am glad they are gone."
"Well, so am I," papa answered; "but what had you to do with
sending them home?"
"Nothing, papa, - only that I unfortunately did not want them
to stay."
"And you could not offer them any reward for going?"
"Papa, a man who would do such a thing for reward, would not
be a man."
"I think so too, Daisy. Your mother somehow takes a different
view."
"She cares only for the soldier, papa; not for the man."
Papa was silent and thoughtful.
There were no other intimate friends about us in Geneva; and
our life became, I must confess, less varied and pleasant
after the young men had gone. At first I felt only the relief;
then the dulness began to creep in. Papa led the life of an
invalid, or of one who had been an invalid; not an active life
in any way; I thought, not active enough for his good. Some
hours I got of reading with him; reading to him, and talking
of what we read; they did my father good, and me too; but they
were few, and often cut short. As soon as mamma joined us, our
books had to be laid aside. They bored her, she said, or
hindered her own reading; and she and papa played draughts and
chess and piquet. Mamma was not in a bored state at other
times; for she was busy with letters and plans and
arrangements, always in a leisurely way, but yet busy. It was
a sort of business with which I had no sympathy, and which
therefore left me out. The cause of the South was not my
cause; and the discussion of toilettes, fashions, costumes and
society matters, was entirely out of my line. In all these,
mamma found her element. Ransom was no resource to anybody;
and of course not to me, with whom, now as ever, he had little
in common. Mamma held me aloof, ever since Mr. De Saussure's
departure; and I only knew indirectly, as it were, that she
was planning a social campaign for me and meditating over
adornments and advantages which should help to make it
triumphant. Life in this way was not altogether enjoyable. The
only conversation which could be said to be general among us,
was on the subject of home affairs in America. That rung in my
ears every day.
"Glorious news, sir!" cried Ransom one day as he came in to
dinner. "Glorious news! The first real news we have had in a
long time."
"What is it?" said my father; and "What, Ransom?" my mother
asked, with a kindling eye. My heart sank. Those know who
remember those times, how one's heart used to sink when news
came.
"What is it, Ransom?"
"Why, a large body of them, the Yankees, got across the
Potomac the night of the 20th; got in a nest of our
sharpshooters and were well riddled; then, when they couldn't
stand it any longer, they fell back to the river and tried to
get across again to the other side, where they came from; and
they had no means of getting across, nothing but a couple of
old scows; so they went into the water to get away from the
fire, and quantities of them were drowned, and those that were
not drowned were shot. Lost a great many, and their commanding
officer killed. That's the way. They'll have enough of it in
time. The war'll be over in a few weeks or months more. De
Saussure will not have time to raise his regiment. I don't
think, mamma, it's any use for me to go home, it'll be over so
soon."
"Where was this?" inquired my father.
"Some place - Ball's Bluff, I believe. It was a grand affair."
"How many did they lose?" my mother said.
"Oh, I don't know - some thousands. We lost nothing to speak
of. But the thing is, they will lose heart. They will never
stand this sort of thing. They have no officers, you know, and
they can have no soldiers. They will be obliged to give up."
Words were in my heart, but my lips knew better than to speak
them. Had they no officers? Had Christian no soldiers under
him? My head was ready to believe it; my heart refused. Yet I
thought too I had seen at the North the stuff that soldiers
are made of.
"If I were you," said my mother, "I would not let it all be
over before I had a part in it."
"The war is not ended yet, Felicia," my father remarked; "and
it will take more than a few hard knocks to make them give
up."
"They have had nothing but hard knocks, sir, since it began,"
Ransom cried.
"Your father always takes a medium view of everything," my
mother said. "If it depended on him, I believe there would be
no war."
"I should have one other vote for peace," papa said, looking
at me.
"It is well Daisy was not born a boy!" Ransom said.
"I hope you will not make me wish you had been born a girl,"
my father replied. "Strength is no more noble when it ceases
to be gentle."
"Must not every woman wish for peace?" I said. It was an
unhappy attempt at a diversion, and if I had not been in a
hurry I should not have made it.
"No," my mother answered, not sharply, but with cold
distinctness. "Before the South should submit to the dictation
or reproof of Northern boors and fanatics, I would take a
musket myself and die in the trenches."
"It is an ugly place to die in, my dear," answered my father.
"See Daisy shiver!" Ransom exclaimed; and he burst into a
laugh, "Mamma, Daisy's blood has grown thin at the North. She
is not a true Southern woman. There is no fire in you, Daisy."
Not at that moment, for I was sick and cold, as he said. I
could not get accustomed to these things, with all the
practice I had.
"No fire in her?" said papa, calmly. "There is ammunition
enough, Ransom. I don't want to see the fire, for my part. I
am glad there is one of us that keeps cool. My darling, you
look pale - what is it for?"
"Fire that burns with a blue flame," said mamma.
"Blue?" - said papa, with a look at me which somehow set us all
to laughing.
"The carmine is coming in again," said mamma. "I profess I do
not understand you, Daisy."
I was afraid she began to suspect me.
It was very true that mamma did not understand me; and it was
the unhappiness of my life. I tried hard to narrow the
distance between us, by every opportunity that the days or the
hours gave; and a certain accord was after a time established
anew in our relations with each other. Mamma again took to
adorning and playing with me; again studied my toilettes and
superintended my dressing; made me as exquisite as herself in
all outward paraphernalia. I let her alone; in this at least I
could gratify her; and no occasion of gratifying her was to be
lost. Papa was pleased too, though I think it made less
difference to him what I was dressed in; yet he observed me,
and smiled in a way to show his pleasure whenever a new device
of mamma's produced a new effect. She sought society for
herself and me now. We removed from Geneva and went to
Florence. I was thankful it was not to Paris. Every foot of
Italy had great charms for me; and I dreamed over Florence,
with a delighted fancy that never grew tired or tame. That my
evenings were spent in what I did not care for, could not
spoil my days. Our walks and drives, which papa and I often
now took alone, were delicious beyond expression. I forgot the
whirl of the night before and of the evening to come, and I
was the child Daisy again, I think, in very much. At night
mamma had me.
There was a lull at this time in the news from home. Both
parties in America were gathering up their strength; and in
the mean time the only affairs we heard of were inconclusive
skirmishes, sometimes turning out for the advantage of one
side, sometimes of the other; but not to signal advantage for
anybody. I hoped, with such a lull, that things might subside
into a state susceptible of composition. I might have
reasoned, if I looked at home, upon the unlikelihood of any
such thing. No news of advantages lost or gained had any
effect upon my mother and brother but to make them more keen
in the cause and more relentless in pursuit of their end. The
hearing of a trifling success was like a taste of blood to the
lion; the loss of Beaufort and its forts was turned into an
occasion of triumph because "the great naval expedition" had
accomplished no greater things. They laughed at McClellan's
review of troops; and counted up the gains his adversaries
were to realise from the co-operation of foreign well-wishers.
And then the taking of Mason and Slidell put them into a fume
of indignation and scorn. My father shared, though more
gently, in all this. I was alone. Could I tell them that my
heart was with the Northern army; and how it went out after
every gleam of one particular sabre?
My mother drew me into society by degrees. I hardly knew where
the line was passed, between quiet conversaziones and
brilliant and courtly assemblies. It was passed when I was
unwitting of it, or when I felt unable to help it. My mother
had been so much alienated by my behaviour toward Marshall and
De Saussure, that I thought it needful to please her by every
means in my power, short of downright violation of conscience.
"Children, obey your parents in the Lord," - I did not forget;
I thought I was doing the very thing. For it was not to please
myself, that I let my mother make me look as she chose and let
her take me - where she would. My heart was too sore to be
ambitious and too sober to feel the flutterings of vanity. I
knew the effect of her doings was often what satisfied her;
but the nearest approach to a thrill of vanity in myself was,
I think, the wish that Christian could see me. And as he could
not, I seemed to wear an armour of proof against other eyes. I
did not care for them.
Nevertheless, I began to be sensible that they cared for me. I
obeyed my mother at first because she signified her will very
absolutely, and allowed me to see that any refusal on my part
would make a breach between us. I left myself in her hands, to
dress and adorn and lead about as she liked; I could not help
it without an effort that would have parted us. And besides, I
believe I accepted these engrossments of society as a sedative
to keep me from thinking. They took a great deal of tine and
occupied my attention while they lasted.
By degrees there came a change. As I said, I was admired. At
first I cared little for any eyes but those which could not
see me; but that did not last. I began to like to be admired.
Soon after that, it dimly dawned upon me, that some of those
whom I saw now every day, might come to admire me too much. I
had learnt a lesson. There were several gentlemen, whose
society I liked very well, who gave us, I began to perceive, a
great deal of it. I saw them at night; I saw them by day; they
met us in our walks; they even joined us in our rides. One was
a German; a very cultivated and agreeable talker, well-bred,
and in high position at Florence. Another was a delightful
Italian; poor I think. A third was a young English nobleman;
rich, but nothing more that I could discover. The German
talked to me; the Italian sang with me; the Englishman
followed me, and was most at home in our house of them all. I
had been taking the good of all this, in a nice society way,
enjoying the music and the talk and the information I got from
the two first, and I am afraid enjoying too the flowers and
the attentions of the third, as well as of still others whom I
have not mentioned. I was floating down a stream and I had not
thought about it, only enjoyed in a careless way; till a
little thing startled me.
"We do not have so much time for our walks as we used, Daisy,"
papa said one day when he came into the drawing-room and found
me with my habit on. "Where are you going now?"
"To ride, papa, with Lord Montjoy."
"My Daisy is not a daisy any longer," said papa, folding me in
his arms. "She has grown into a white camellia. Going to ride
with Lord Montjoy! -"
I cannot say what in these last words of papa gave me a whole
revelation.
"I think you are mistaken, papa," I said. "I am Daisy yet."
"I was mistaken," said papa smiling, but rather shadowedly, I
thought; - "I should have said a rose camellia. Here is Lord
Montjoy, my dear. Go."
I am sure Lord Montjoy had little satisfaction in that ride;
at least I am sure I had little. I was longing for time to
think, and frightened besides. But when the ride was over,
mamma wanted me; the evening claimed me for a grand reception;
the morning held me in sleep; we had company at luncheon; I
was engaged with another riding party in the afternoon, and
another assembly expected me at night. I could not rest or
think, as I wanted to think, till night and morning had again
two or three times tossed me about as a society ball. I think
one's mind gets to be something like a ball too, when one
lives such a life; all one's better thoughts rolled up, like a
hybernating hedgehog, and put away as not wanted for use. I
had no opportunity to unroll mine for several days.
But I could not bear this state of things long; and at last I
excused myself from a party one morning and went to walk with
papa; and then that hedgehog of thoughts began to stir and
unfold and come to life. Still I wanted quiet. We had been
going through a picture gallery, where I did not see the
pictures; then, as often before, I persuaded papa to walk on
further and take post where we could look at our leisure on
the beautiful Dome. This was an unceasing pleasure to me. Papa
was not so fond of it; he came for my sake, as he often was
accustomed to do. To-day, instead of soothing, its majestic
beauty roused all there was to rouse within me. I suppose we
were a long time silent, but I do not know.
"Daisy, you are very quiet," papa said at length.
"Yes papa," I said, rousing myself. "I was thinking."
"That is an old disease of yours, my pet. I wish I could enjoy
that great Dome as much as you do."
"Papa, it is so perfect!"
"The Grecian temples suit me better, Daisy."
"Not me, papa."
"Why do they not? What can equal their grace and symmetry?"
"It is cold beauty, papa; there is nothing to lift the
thoughts up; and I don't believe those who built them had any
high thoughts - spiritual thoughts, I mean, papa."
"And you think the builder of the Dome of Florence had?"
"Yes, sir - I think so."
"The one means no more to me than the other, Daisy."
"Papa," I said, "don't you remember, when you sent me word I
must stay two years longer in school without seeing you and
mamma, you sent me a promise too? - by Aunt Gary."
"I remember very well, Daisy. Are you going to claim the
promise?"
"Papa, may I?"
"Certainly."
"But, papa, -does the promise stand good, like Herod's promise
to that dancing woman? is it to be whatever I ask?"
"I believe I said so, Daisy. By the way, why do you not like
dancing?"
"I suppose I should like it, papa, if I let myself do it."
"Why not let yourself do it? You do not want to make yourself
singular, Daisy."
"No more than I must, papa. But about your promise."
"Yes. Well?"
"It stands good, papa? if it is 'to the half of your
kingdom.' "
"That was a rash promise of Herod, Daisy."
"Yes, papa; but I am not a dancing girl."
Papa laughed, and looked at me, and laughed again, and seemed
a good deal amused.
"What put that argument into your mouth?" he said. "And what
is the reason that it is an argument? You are very absurd,
Daisy! You are very absurd not to dance; so your mother says;
and I am absurd too, by that reasoning; for I like you better
than if you did. Well, not being a dancing girl, what is your
petition? I reckon it will stand good, even to the half of my
kingdom. Though indeed I do not know how much of a kingdom
will remain to me, by the time matters are composed at home.
There will be no crops grown at the South this year."
"It would not cost more to go to Palestine, would it, papa,
than to live as we are doing now?"
"Palestine!" he exclaimed. "Your mother would never go to
Palestine, Daisy."
"But you and I might, papa, - for a few months. You know mamma
wants to go to Paris, to be there with Aunt Gary, who is
coming."
"She wants you there too, Daisy, I much suspect; not to speak
of me."
"What better time can we ever have, papa?"
"I do not know. I am afraid your mother would say any other
would be better."
"Papa, I cannot tell you how glad I should be to go now."
"Why, Daisy?" said papa, looking at me. "To my certain
knowledge, there are several people who will be desolate if
you quit Florence at this time - several besides your mother."
"Papa, - that is the very reason why I should like to go -
before it becomes serious."
Papa became serious immediately. He lifted my face to look at
it, flushed as I suppose it was; and kissed me, with a smile
which did not in the least belie the seriousness.
"If we go to Paris, Daisy? - we should leave your enemies
behind."
"No papa - two of them are going to Paris when we go."
"That is serious," said my father. "After all, why not,
Daisy?"
"Oh, papa, let us get away while it is time!" I said. "Mamma
was so displeased with me because of Mr. De Saussure and Mr.
Marshall; and she will be again - perhaps."
"Why, Daisy," said papa, lifting my face again for scrutiny, -
"how do you know? Are you cased in proof armour? are you sure?
Do you know what you are talking of, Daisy?"
"Yes, - I know, papa."
"I see you do. Whenever your eyes are deep and calm like that,
you are always in your right mind and know it. That is, you
are thoroughly yourself; and so far as my limited acquaintance
with you goes, there is no other mind that has the power of
turning you. Yes, Daisy; we will go to Palestine, you and I."
I kissed his hand, in the extremity of my joy.
"But this is not a proper season for travelling in Syria, my
pet. I am afraid it is not. The winter rains make the roads
bad."
"Oh, yes, papa. - We will be quiet when it rains, and travel
on the good days. And then we shall be in time to see the
spring flowers."
"How do you know anything about that, Daisy?"
"Papa, I remember when I was a child, at Melbourne, Mr.
Dinwiddie told me some of these things; and I have never
forgotten."
"Have you wanted to go to Palestine ever since you were ten
years old?"
"Oh, no, papa; only of late. When your promise came, then I
thought very soon what I would ask you. And now is such a good
time."
"There will be different opinions about that," said my father.
"However, we will go, Daisy. To the half of my kingdom. Your
mother has the other half. But allow me to ask you just in
passing, what do you think of our young English friend?"
"He has no head, papa."
Papa looked amused.
"Signor Piacevoli - what do you think of him?"
"He is very nice and kind and full of good things; but he has
no principles, papa; no settled principles."
"He has a head," said papa.
"Yes, sir; out of order."
"How do you estimate Mr. Leypoldt, then? - his head is in
order, and a good deal in it."
"Only the truth left out, papa."
"The truth?" said my father. "He is fuller of truth, of all
sorts, than any one else I know, Daisy."
"Truth of all sorts, papa, but not the truth. He understands
the world, and almost everything in it; but not who made it
nor what it was made for; and he knows men; but not their
work, or place, or destiny in the universe. He knows what they
are; he has no idea what they ought to be, or what they may
be."
"He is not a religious man, certainly. Do you carry your
principles so far, Daisy, that you mean you would not let
anybody approach you who is not of your way of thinking?"
A pang shot through my heart, with the instant sense of the
answer I ought to give. I might have evaded the question; but
I would not. Yet I could not immediately speak. I was going to
put a bond upon myself; and the words would not come.
"Do you mean that, Daisy?" papa repeated. "Seriously. Is it
your rule of supposed duty, that a man must be a Christian
after your sort, to obtain your favour?"
"Papa," I said struggling, - "one cannot control one's
liking."
"No," said papa, laughing; "that is very true. Then if you
liked somebody who was not that sort of a Christian, Daisy,
you would not refuse to marry him?"
"Papa," I said with difficulty, - "I think I ought."
The words struck upon my own heart, I cannot tell how heavily.
But they were forced from me. When the question came, it had
to be answered. I suppose the matter had really been in my
mind before, vaguely, and I had refused to look at it, while
yet I could not help seeing its proportions and bearing; so
that when papa asked me I knew what I must say. But the spoken
words stunned me, for all that.
"I suppose," said papa, not lightly, "you will think so till
you are tried; and then you will take a woman's privilege of
changing your mind. But if the trial is to come in that shape,
Daisy, it is very far off. There are no men of your way of
thinking, my pet."
He kissed me as he said it; and I could not for a moment
speak.
"But we will go to Palestine, papa?"
"Yes, we will go to Palestine. That is fixed. You and I will
take a holiday, and for a while give up all thoughts of
marrying and giving in marriage."
CHAPTER XIV.
FLIGHT
I am coming to the holiday of my life; a time that seems, as I
look back to it, like a chequered mosaic of pleasure pieces
laid in bright colours, all in harmony, and making out a
pattern of beauty. It is odd I should speak so; for I have
known other holidays, when fewer clouds were in my sky and
fewer life-shadows stretching along the landscape.
Nevertheless, this is how it looks to me in the retrospect;
and to write of it, is like setting the pins of that mosaic
work over again. Not one of them is lost in my memory.
Truly I have known other holidays; yet never one that took me
out of so much harassment and perplexity. And I could not get
rid of all my burdens, even in Palestine; but somehow I got
rid of all my anxious trouble about them. I had left behind so
much, that I accepted even thankfully all that remained. I was
free from mamma's schemes for me, and cleared from the pursuit
of those who seconded her schemes; they could not follow me in
the Holy Land. No more angry discussions of affairs at home,
and words of enmity and fierce displeasure toward the part of
the nation that held my heart. No more canvassing of war news;
not much hearing of them, even; a clean escape from the
demands of society and leisure for a time to look into my
heart and see what condition it was in. And to my great
astonishment I had found the love of admiration and the
ambition of womanly vanity beginning to stir again; in me, who
knew better things, and who really did not value these; in me,
who had so much to make me sober and keep down thoughts of
folly. I found that I had a certain satisfaction when entering
a room, to know that the sight of me gave pleasure; yes, more;
I liked to feel that the sight of no one else gave so much
pleasure. I could hardly understand, when I came to look at
it, how so small a satisfaction could have taken possession of
my mind; I was very much ashamed; but the fact remained. When
we set sail for Palestine I got clear, at least for the time,
from all this. I hoped for ever. - And it was exceedingly
sweet to find myself alone with papa.
How mamma ever consented to the plan, I do not know. Because
papa had settled it and given his word, perhaps; for in those
cases I know she never interfered; necessity made her yield.
She would not go with us; she went to Paris, where Aunt Gary
was come for the winter. Ransom went home to join the army;
and papa and I took our holiday. I ought not to have been so
happy, with so many causes of anxiety on my mind; Ransom in
the war on one side, and Christian already engaged on the
opposite side; both in danger, not to speak of other friends
whom I knew; and my own and Mr. Thorold's future so very dark
to look forward to. But I was happy. I believe, the very
enormous pressure of things to trouble me, helped me to throw
off the weight. In fact, it was too heavy for me to bear. I
had trusted and given up myself to God; it was not a mock
trust or submission; I laid off my cares, or in the expressive
Bible words, "rolled them" upon him. And then I went light.
Even my self-spoken sentence, the declaration that I ought not
to marry a person who was not a Christian, did not crush me as
I thought it would. Somebody has said very truly, "There is a
healing power in truth." It is correct in more ways than one.
And especially in truth towards God, in whole-hearted devotion
to him, or as the Bible says again, in "wholly following the
Lord," there is strength and healing; "quietness and assurance
for ever." I was no nearer despair now than I had been before.
And I was more ready for my holiday.
My holiday began on board the steamer, among the novel
varieties of character and costume by which I found myself
surrounded. I was certainly getting far away from the American
war, far from Parisian saloons; I could not even regret the
Dome of Florence. And I shall never forget the minute when I
first looked upon the coast of Jaffa. I had been in the cabin
and papa called me; and with the sight, a full, delicious
sensation of pleasure entered my heart, and never left it, I
think, while I stayed in the land. The picture is all before
me. The little white town, shining in the western sun on its
hill, with its foot in the water; the surf breaking on the
rocks; and the long line of high land in the distance, which I
knew was the hill country of Palestine. I was glad, with a
fulness of gladness. Even the terrors of landing through the
surf could not dash my pleasure, though the water was not
quiet enough to make it safe, and I did not see how we were
possibly to get through. I thought we would, and we did; and
then out of the confusion on the quay we found our way to a
nice little hotel. Few things I suppose are nice in Jaffa; but
this really seemed clean, and I am sure it was pleasant. The
Oriental style of the house - the courtyard, and alcove rooms,
stone floors and cushioned divans, - were delightful to me.
And so was our first dinner there; papa and I alone, tired and
hungry, and eating with the Mediterranean full in sight, and
the sun going down "ayont the sea." I established a truce with
sorrowful thoughts that evening, and slept the night through
in peace. The next morning papa found me standing at the
window of one of our rooms that looked inward from the sea.
"Well, Daisy," said he, putting his hands on my shoulders - "I
have got my Daisy of ten years old back again. What is it
now?"
"Oh, papa," I exclaimed, "look at the housetops! I have read
of housetops all my life; and now here they are!"
"They have been here all the time, Daisy."
"But - it is so impossible to realise without seeing it, papa.
It was on such a housetop that Peter was when he had his
vision. You can see, it is the pleasantest part of the house,
papa. I should like to sleep on the housetop, as they do in
summer; with only the stars over me. How nice!"
"What was Peter's vision, besides the stars?"
"Papa! Not the stars; his vision was at noonday. I have just
been reading about it. How delicious the Bible will be here!"
"It is always delicious to you, I think," papa said; I fancied
rather sadly. "It is a taste you were born with. Sit down and
read me about that vision."
But it was papa that sat down, and I stood by the window, and
we read together those chapters of the Acts; and papa grew
very much interested, and we had an excellent talk all
breakfast time. The strange dishes at breakfast helped the
interest too; the boiled rice and meat, and the fish and the
pomegranates. I seemed to have my living in Bible times as
well as places. The Mediterranean lay sparkling before us; as
it was before Peter no doubt when he went up to that housetop
to pray. The house is gone; but it is the same sea yet.
"I shall always look upon Jaffa with respect," said papa, at
last; "since here it was that the gates of religion were
publicly set open for all the world, and the key taken out of
the hands of the Jews. It is a little place too, to have
anything of so much interest belonging to it."
"That is not all, papa," I said. "Solomon had the cedar for
the Temple, and for all his great buildings, floated down
here."
"Solomon!" said papa.
"Don't you remember, sir, his great works, and the timber he
had to get from Lebanon?"
"Did it come this way?"
"The only way it could come, papa; and then it had to go by
land up to Jerusalem - the same way that we are going; thirty-
three miles."
"Where did you learn so much about it?"
"That isn't much, papa; all that is in Murray; but now may I
read you about Solomon's floats of timber, while you are
finishing that pomegranate?"
"Read away," said papa. "Pomegranates are not ripe now, are
they?"
"They keep, papa."
Papa laughed at me, and I read to him as much as I liked; and
he was almost as much engaged as I was.
"We'll go out and look at this famous harbour for lumber," he
said. "It is not good for much else, Daisy; I thought
yesterday we should certainly make shipwreck on that reef. Is
it possible there is no better along the coast."
"It is not what we would call a harbour at all, papa. Nothing
but little boats can get through that narrow opening in the
reef; and I suppose, Solomon's cedar timber got through."
"The ships of old time were not much more than our boats, many
of them," said my father. "How delightfully you realise
everything, Daisy!"
"Well, papa, - don't you?"
"Not the past, child. I realise you by my side."
"Papa, if you think about it a little, you will realise Joppa
too."
"I have not your imagination, Daisy. About Solomon's temple, -
there is nothing of it left now, I suppose?"
"Oh, no, papa!"
"It might, Daisy. Thebes is vastly older."
"But, papa, - don't you remember, there was not one stone of
all those buildings to be left upon another stone. Nothing is
left - only some of the foundation wall that supported the
floor, or the platform, of the Temple."
"Well, we shall see, when we go to Jerusalem," my father said.
In the meantime we went out and took a great walk about the
environs of Joppa. Through the miles of gardens; the grand
orange groves, and pomegranate, lemon, fig, apricot and palm
orchards. The oranges and lemons getting their great harvests
ready; cultivation going on beneath the trees; the water-
wheels working; the curious hedges of prickly pear, four and
six feet high, reminding us all the while, if nothing else
did, that we were in a very strange land. What endless delight
it was! The weather had just cleared the day before; and to-
day, the fifteenth of January, the sun shone still and fair
and warm. I saw that papa was getting good with every step,
and growing interested with every hour. We went down to the
beach, and strolled along as far as the tanneries; every wave
that broke at my side seeming to sing in my ears the reminder
that it broke on the shores of Palestine. Papa wished the
oranges were ripe; I wished for nothing.
Then we entered the city again, and examined the bazars;
lingering first a good while to watch the motley, picturesque,
strange and wild crowd without the city gate. It was my first
taste of Oriental life; papa knew it before, but he relished
it all afresh in my enjoyment of it. Of course we were taken
to see Simon's house and the house where Tabitha died.
"Do you realise anything here, Daisy?" papa asked, as we stood
on the flat roof of the first of these two.
"Yes, papa."
"Pray, what? St. Peter never saw this building, my dear."
"No, papa, I don't think it. But he saw the Mediterranean -
just so, - and he had the same sky over him, and the same
shores before him."
"The same sky, Daisy? What is the sky?"
"Yes papa, I know; but there is a difference. This Syrian sky
is not like the sky over Florence nor like the sky over
Melbourne. And this is what Peter saw."
"You are a delicious travelling companion, Daisy," said papa.
"Your mother is good, but you are better. Well, take me with
you now in your journey into the past."
We sat down there on the roof of the so-called house of Simon,
papa and I; he gave the guide a bonus to keep him contented;
and we read together chapters in the Old Testament and
chapters in the New. It was drinking water from wells of
delight. Bible words never seemed so real, nor so full. And
then when I thought that I was going on to Jerusalem - to
Jericho - to Mount Tabor, and the Sea of Galilee, and Lebanon,
- that Joppa was only the beginning, - I could hardly contain
my joy. I could only give thanks for it all the time. True, I
did remember, as I looked over that bright sea of the Levant,
I did remember that far away there was a region of conflict
where the interests nearest to me were involved; a strife
going on, in which the best blood in the world, the dearest in
my account, might be shed or shedding. I remembered it all.
But the burden of that care was too heavy for me to carry; I
was fain to lay it down where so many a load has been laid
before now; and it was easier for me to do it in Syria than
anywhere else; God's own land, where His people had had so
many tokens to trust Him. Where Peter's doubts of conscience
were resolved by a vision, where the poor worker of kindness
was raised from the sleep of death, it was not there the place
for me to doubt whether the Lord looked upon my trouble, or
whether he cared about it, or whether he could manage it. I
laid care and doubt to sleep; and while I was in the Lord's
land I walked with the Lord's presence always before me. There
is no want to them that fear him.
We were detained at Joppa three days by a most pouring rain,
which kept us fast prisoners in doors. The time was however
not lost. We had despaired of making arrangements at Joppa for
our journey, any further than such as would take us to
Jerusalem. Joppa is no place for such arrangements. But while
we waited there in the rain, a party of English people arrived
who came to take the steamer for home. They had just ended
their travels in the Holy Land; and while waiting for the
steamer, one of them who was an invalid sought the shelter of
our hotel. We came to know each other. And the end was, we
secured their travelling equipment. Tents, servants and all,
were made over to papa, with mutual pleasure at the
arrangement. So when the sun shone out on the fourth day, we
were ready to start in great comfort. I had a dear little
Syrian pony, which carried me nicely through my whole journey;
papa had another that served him well. The tents and tent
fittings were in the English style of perfection; cook and
interpreter and other servants knew their business, and we had
no reason to complain of them from the beginning to the end of
our tour. Moreover, in those days of waiting at Joppa, and
intercourse with the ladies of the party, I got from them some
useful hints and details which were of great service to me
afterwards. I had always wished to go through Palestine living
in our own tents; papa had been a little uncertain how he
would do. Now it was settled. I had my maid, of course; but
she was the greatest trouble I had, all the way.
The morning of our setting out from Joppa is never to be
forgotten. It was clear and balmy. For miles we rode through
the orange gardens, getting ready fast for their superb
harvest, which would be ripe a month later. Then through a
pleasant open country; - cornfields and meadows interspersed
with trees in patches. It was easy riding, and I liked my
pony, and my heart was full of exhilaration.
"Well?" said papa, as my eye met his one time in the course of
its wanderings.
"Papa, it is the plain of Sharon!"
"You speak as if it were a place where you had played, when
you were a child."
"Papa, in some measure it is like that; so often I have read
about the old things that were done here."
Papa smiled at me? and asked what? But I could not tell him
while we were going at a canter.
