"He's a rich man's son."
"But he'll be a poor man himself. He will have to earn his living by
hard work."
"I don't see how that can be. Didn't his father leave plenty of money?"
"No," said Mrs. Oakley, determined not to be entrapped into any such
acknowledgment; "and if he had, John is no better off for it. You seem
to forget that all the money is left to me."
"That's a fact," said Mr. Huxter. "I didn't think of that. Shan't you
leave any of it to John?"
"That depends upon his behavior," said Mrs. Oakley. "I make no
promises. The property is all mine, and I shall leave it to no one who
treats me with disrespect. You see, therefore, that you need feel on no
ceremony with him."
Mr. Huxter did see it. He was a selfish man, who had a great respect
for the possessors of wealth merely on the score of their wealth, and
he began to look upon John Oakley with quite different eyes now that he
had been informed of his true position.
"You're carrying things with rather a high hand, Jane," he said.
"I mean to be treated with respect."
"So John is saucy, is he?"
"He is proud-spirited, and thinks himself justified in looking down
upon me, because I was once his father's house-keeper," said Mrs.
Oakley, in a tone of bitterness; "but I have vowed to subdue his proud
spirit, and you will see that I shall do it."
"I have no doubt you will, Jane. But there is one thing you haven't
mentioned."
"What is that?"
"How much am I to receive for John Oakley's board?"
"I will give you six dollars a week, and you know that this is
considerably more than any other boarder would pay you."
"Six dollars a week!" said Mr. Huxter, slowly. "Yes, I suppose that
would pay for what he would eat and drink, but I expected you would do
something more for me than just to find me a boarder."
"You will make a pretty good profit out of that, Ephraim."
"You might do a little more than that for me, Jane."
"I will tell you what I will do. Besides paying you regularly for his
board, I will allow you his labor, and that will be worth considerable."
"What can he do?"
"He can do what other boys do. You can take him into your shop, and set
him to pegging shoes. It won't hurt him a bit, though it may trouble
his pride a little."
"But will he be willing to go into the shop? He was expecting to go to
college."
"I don't think much of you if you can't compel him to do it."
Mr. Huxter reflected a moment. John's work would be worth at least five
dollars a week, and this, added to the six he would receive from his
sister, would certainly pay munificently for John's board.
"Well, that is a consideration. We'll call it a bargain," he admitted.
"Very well; I think you'll find your account in it," said Mrs. Oakley,
in a tone of satisfaction.
"Couldn't you pay me a quarter's board in advance?"
To this Mrs. Oakley assented with some hesitation.
After matters had thus been satisfactorily arranged, Mr. Huxter said:--
"I think, Jane, I will just take a little walk outside, and smoke a
pipe. I always do after supper. By the way, when would you like to have
young Oakley go?"
"To-morrow."
"To-morrow!" repeated Mr. Huxter, in some disappointment, for he had
confidently hoped to avail himself of his sister's hospitality for a
week at least. "Seems to me, Jane, you're in something of a hurry."
"I am. There is a good reason for it, which I am not at liberty to
mention," said Mrs. Oakley.
"Not even to me?"
"Not even to you."
"Well, I dare say it is all right, but I am tired after my journey,
and it don't give me much time to rest," said Mr. Huxter, with
disappointment.
"Let it be day after to-morrow, then. I don't want to be inhospitable,"
said Mrs. Oakley.
Mr. Huxter thought this concession better than nothing, and, going out
on the door-step, smoked his pipe in rather a cheerful frame of mind.
"It'll be a pretty good speculation," he reflected; "but I mistrust
I'll have some trouble with young Oakley. But I guess I can manage him.
He'll find me pretty ugly if he goes to oppose me."
Mr. Huxter was partly right. He was capable of being "pretty ugly" when
he thought it safe to be so,--that is, to those who were weaker than
himself, and in his power. He fawned upon those who had money or power,
and was in the habit of tyrannizing over those who had neither. On the
whole, I hardly think John is to be congratulated upon his prospects.
CHAPTER XI.
JOHN CONSULTS A LAWYER.
Mrs. Oakley felt very well pleased with the arrangement she had made
about John. Her brother lived nearly one hundred miles distant. She
would have liked John even further off; but this would remove him from
the ability to interfere with her plans. She felt, too, that she would
be more comfortable with him out of the house. Until the will was found
and destroyed she would not feel safe, and she did not venture to
search thoroughly till John was out of the way.
But there was one important question: Would John consent to go? On this
point Mrs. Oakley felt doubtful. She knew that it would be a grievous
disappointment to him to leave his class at the academy, and all his
young friends in the village, not to speak of his natural regret at
leaving the house where he had been born, and which had always been his
home. Under the circumstances, therefore, she felt that it would be
best to use a little stratagem.
Meanwhile John had been thinking earnestly of his position and his
duty. He felt that he needed advice, and he determined to call upon
Squire Selwyn, who, as I have already said, was his father's legal
adviser and intimate friend. His son Sam, also, was John's best friend,
and thus the families had a double bond of union.
The day succeeding Mr. Huxter's arrival was Wednesday. On that day
the afternoon session at the academy was over an hour earlier than
usual, the only exercise being declamation, or, on alternate weeks, the
reading of compositions. John thought this would be the most favorable
opportunity he would have for consulting Mr. Selwyn.
Squire Selwyn's office was a small, neat one-story building situated
on the main street, not far from the academy building. It was painted
white, with green blinds, and had been built expressly for a law office.
Sam and John walked home from school together as usual. When they came
to the office John said:--
"I'm going in to see your father, Sam; so I'll bid you good-afternoon."
"Got some law business for the governor?"
"Maybe."
"Then you better consult me," said Sam. "I swept out the office for a
week once when the office-boy was off on vacation, and you can't think
what a lot of law I picked up in that time."
"I dare say," said John, smiling. "I don't doubt your qualifications,
but I think I'll consult your father this time."
"All right," said Sam, more seriously. "I'm glad you're going to. The
fact is, Mrs. Oakley is doing her best to circumvent you, and you must
do your best, or she'll succeed."
"I'm afraid she will at any rate," said John.
"I wish you could find that will."
"So do I."
"Do you believe in dreams, John?" asked Sam, lowering his voice.
"What makes you ask that?"
"Because I dreamed last night that I found the will. It seemed to me
that it was very dark, and I came upon Mrs. Oakley and Ben, each with a
lantern in their hand, searching about on the ground for it. I followed
them softly, and all at once spied a white paper. Mrs. Oakley saw it at
the same time, and reached out for it, but I was too quick, and carried
it off in triumph."
"Is that all?"
"Not quite. When she and Ben saw that I had got it they dropped their
lanterns and ran after me, or rather Ben threw his at my head. It was
an awful whack. Just then I woke up, and found that I had struck my
head against the bedpost."
"Well," said John, laughing, "how do you interpret that dream?"
"In this way. I think that the will is going to be found some day, and
that I shall be the one to find it."
"I certainly hope you will. It would make a great change in my
circumstances."
"What'll you give me if I find it, John?"
"A gold watch," said John.
"Well, that's worth working for."
"You seem to be in earnest about it."
"There's many a true word spoken in jest. The time may come when I
shall remind you of your promise."
"I hope it will. You will find that I keep my promises."
"All right. Well, there's the squire looking out the window, so I'll
leave you. Good luck!"
John entered the office.
"Good-afternoon, John," said Squire Selwyn. "How are things going on at
home?"
"We are all well," said John.
"I'm glad to hear it. Won't you sit down?"
The lawyer was a man of middle height. He had a pleasant face and
manner, but his eye was keen and penetrating, and seemed to be reading
the person upon whom it rested. He was deservedly popular, for it was
always his endeavor to conciliate rather than to foment quarrels, and
he more than once succeeded in dissuading a client from a lawsuit
which would have put a considerable sum of money into his own pocket.
He was a safe legal adviser, and an honest lawyer. He was glad to see
John, for he had always been attracted towards him, not only because of
his friendship for the father, but because of John's truthfulness and
straightforwardness.
Seeing that John hesitated, he said, by way of encouragement:--
"If there is anything I can do for you, don't hesitate to ask it. Your
father was my friend, and I hope to be regarded by his son in the same
light."
"It is because of that that I have called upon you, Squire Selwyn,"
said John. "You know, of course," he added, after a little hesitation,
"how my father left his property?"
"I know how he appears to have left it," said the lawyer,
significantly.
"I would like to ask you a question, Squire Selwyn," said John; "but of
course you will not answer it unless you think proper."
"Very properly put. Ask your question, and I will decide as to its
fitness."
"It is this: Do you know whether my father made any later will than the
one which was found?"
"I have no hesitation in answering your question. He did."
"How long since was it made?"
"Only three months before he died."
"I suppose that it disposed of the property differently?"
"It disposed of it as the law would have done if no will had been made.
Your stepmother was to have her thirds; the rest of the property would
have gone to you. The matter might have been left to the law but for
the existence of the former will, which was in Mrs. Oakley's charge,
and which she said that she had mislaid."
"Who would have been my guardian under the last will, Squire Selwyn?"
"Your father asked me to assume that office, and I consented
cheerfully, not only from my friendship for him, but because I have a
very good opinion of you," said Squire Selwyn.
"Thank you, sir," said John, earnestly.
"Let me add, my young friend," said the lawyer, kindly, "that I hope
you will come to me as freely for advice as if I really filled this
office."
"I will, sir," said John. "I am so situated that I need a friend to
advise me who is older and wiser than myself."
"Apply to me freely at all times," said the lawyer, pleased with John's
modest demeanor.
"There is one thing I want to tell you," said John; "I think my
father's last will is still in existence."
"What grounds have you for such a belief?" asked Squire Selwyn,
regarding him closely.
"I will tell you, sir," said John.
He then related the particulars of his last interview with his father,
and the great effort which the sick man made to communicate something
to him.
Squire Selwyn listened attentively.
"Will you repeat the words which you could distinguish?" he said.
"I distinctly heard father say, 'my will,' and I thought I heard him
say also 'drawer.'"
"I am glad you told me this," said the lawyer, thoughtfully. "Did he
attempt to say more?"
"There was no chance. Mrs. Oakley entered the chamber, and ordered me
out. She said I was disturbing father."
"Do you think she heard the words which your father uttered?"
"I know she could not, for it was only by placing my ear close to his
mouth that I could distinguish the little I did."
"How did your father seem affected by the interruption?"
"He seemed disappointed."
"Didn't you have any further chance to speak with your father?"
"No; Mrs. Oakley would never admit me again."
The lawyer sat for a moment plunged in thought. At length he said:--
"Have you ever chanced, since your father's death, to see your
stepmother searching the papers he left behind?"
"Yes, sir."
"Tell me when."
John related the circumstances.
"Did she give any explanation?"
"She said she was looking for a receipt."
"Didn't she seem disturbed at your seeing her thus engaged?"
"She seemed angry, and accused me of prying into her actions."
"What opinion did you form of her object at that time?" asked the
lawyer.
"I thought she was looking for the will," said John, frankly.
"Are your relations with your stepmother pleasant?" asked Squire Selwyn.
"I am sorry to say they are not," said John. "If they had been, I
would not have troubled myself about the will. But I can see that Mrs.
Oakley is determined to persecute me, and make my life unhappy, and
that she is determined not to carry out any of my father's plans about
my education. She has already taken away my horse, and sold it. She
intended to give it to Ben, but he had an unlucky adventure with it one
afternoon."
"I heard of that," said the lawyer, smiling. "He got thrown, didn't he?"
"Yes, sir. That cured him of wanting to ride, and so the horse was
sold."
"It was a present to you from your father, was it not?"
"Yes, sir. Ben received at the same time a gold watch, which he still
has."
"That seems hardly fair. One question more: Have you any knowledge of
any secret drawer in your father's desk, or in any article which he
used to own?"
"No, sir."
"I suppose not. If there had been one, he would hardly have disclosed
its whereabouts to a boy. Well, my young friend," said the lawyer,
rising, as if to terminate the interview, "I am glad to have received
this call from you. I regard your information as important. It
strengthens the conviction which I before entertained, that your
father's last will is in existence somewhere. Out of regard to your
interests, as well as to carry out his last wishes, I sincerely hope
that it may be found. But I need not tell you that in the present
position of affairs the greatest caution is absolutely necessary. I am
not prepared to advise you at present, but shall take your case under
my most serious consideration."
John took his cap and books, and Squire Selwyn accompanied him to the
door of the office. As they stood on the threshold, an open wagon drove
by. Both looked up simultaneously, and an expression of vexation swept
over the lawyer's face as he recognized Mrs. Oakley and her brother.
Mrs. Oakley's eye lighted up as it rested upon John.
"He is getting dangerous," she thought. "It is well I am going to be
rid of him."
CHAPTER XII.
AN UNEXPECTED JOURNEY.
John could not help wondering what inference Mrs. Oakley would draw
from seeing him in consultation with the lawyer. He anticipated that it
would arouse her suspicions, and lead to his being treated with greater
coldness and harshness than ever. It was with considerable surprise,
therefore, that on presenting himself at the supper-table he received
a very pleasant greeting from his stepmother. She made no allusion to
having met him, but, in her conversation with her brother, asked two or
three questions of John, in an easy way, as if the relations between
them were perfectly cordial. Ben glanced at his mother once or twice in
surprise, for she had not seen fit to take him into her confidence, and
he did not understand what this sudden cordiality meant. John, who had
usually been excluded from any share in the conversation, was not only
surprised, but pleased, and hoped that the change would be permanent.
His resentment was not lasting, and he was prepared to respond to his
stepmother's advances. Mr. Huxter's conduct puzzled him a little. That
gentleman seemed disposed to be quite affable and social.
"I hope, Mr. Oakley, you and Benjamin will some time favor me with a
visit at my humble home. I cannot promise you as good accommodations as
you have at home, but I shall be very glad to see you--very."
"Thank you, sir," said John.
Ben, who was not remarkable for politeness, did not deign a word in
reply to his uncle's invitation.
In spite of Mr. Huxter's not very prepossessing exterior John began
to think him quite a pleasant man, and felt obliged to him for his
invitation, though he felt no particular desire to accept it.
After supper was over, Mr. Huxter turned to John:--
"I am going out on the door-step to smoke my pipe. I suppose you don't
smoke?"
"No, sir," said John.
"I was going to ask you to join me; but of course you don't smoke. It
isn't good for boys. Do you smoke, Ben?"
"I don't smoke a pipe," said Ben, glancing with some disgust at the
clay pipe, the bowl of which his uncle was filling.
"I suppose you, being a young gentleman, smoke cigars. They are more
aristocratic. But I'm a poor man, and I can't afford them. Well, if
you'll get your cigar, we'll have a social smoke together."
"I've got an engagement," said Ben, not very graciously, and, putting
on his hat, he stalked off.
"He's an impudent puppy," said Mr. Huxter to himself. "I wish I had the
training of him for a little while. But I must put up with his insults,
or lose all hope of help from my sister."
"Come home early, Benjamin," said his mother.
"Oh, you needn't sit up for me. You go to bed so precious early it
doesn't give me any evening at all."
Mrs. Oakley followed him with her eyes a little uneasily. While Mr.
Oakley was alive Ben kept pretty straight, for he stood somewhat in
awe of his stepfather; but since his death he had shown a disposition
to have his own way, and his mother's wishes weighed very little with
him. She could not help feeling that the boy in whom her dearest hopes
centred, and for whom she was willing even to wrong another, manifested
very little gratitude for her devotion to him. John, whom she charged
with lack of respect, treated her at all times much more respectfully
than her own son. But Mrs. Oakley was prejudiced, and would not see
this. She shut her eyes alike to John's merits and Ben's faults, and
the latter took his own way, spending the evening in the bar-room and
billiard saloon, and learning much that he ought not to have learned.
About half-past nine in the evening, when John was studying his lesson
in "Xenophon's Anabasis," he heard a low knock at the door. Supposing
it to be one of the servants, he said, carelessly, "Come in!"
Looking up, as the door opened, he was not a little surprised at the
entrance of his stepmother. With the instincts of a young gentleman, he
rose hastily, and, drawing a chair, said:--
"Won't you sit down, Mrs. Oakley?"
"Thank you, John," said his stepmother; "I will sit down a moment. You
are studying, I suppose."
"Yes, I was preparing my Greek lesson for to-morrow."
John tried not to look surprised, but he wondered very much what should
have led to a call from Mrs. Oakley, especially at so late an hour.
"You are getting on well in your studies, I have no doubt."
"Thank you. So my teacher says."
"I am glad to hear it. I am afraid it will be an interruption for you
to be absent from school a few days."
"Yes, it would be an interruption; but if you wish it, I could try to
make it up afterwards."
"I came to ask a favor of that kind."
"Does she want me to work on the farm?" thought John, puzzled.
But he was not long kept in doubt.
"My brother, who is now stopping here, leaves for home to-morrow
morning," proceeded Mrs. Oakley. "There's a little business I want
attended to, which makes it desirable that some one should go back with
him. I might send Ben, but I don't think he would answer the purpose.
So I have thought of you."
"Does Mr. Huxter go to-morrow morning?" asked John.
"He has just decided to do so. That, I am aware, gives you but short
notice," said Mrs. Oakley.
"Shall I need to be away long?"
"A few days at least. Have you a carpet-bag?"
"A small one."
"That will answer. You can put in a couple of shirts, some collars,
stockings, and handkerchiefs."
"How shall I know what to do?"
"My brother will give you all the needful information. And now,
good-night. We shall breakfast at six, in order to be in time for the
stage."
"Very well, I will be ready."
Mrs. Oakley left the room, and went downstairs, leaving John
considerably puzzled by what had happened. He was sorry to be kept from
school for a few days even, for he was at the head of his class both in
Greek and Latin, and would lose his standing temporarily at least. But
it was characteristic of him to be obliging, even at the cost of some
self-sacrifice, and therefore he had made no opposition to the wishes
of his stepmother, though it did occur to him that, as Ben neither
attended school nor did anything else except amuse himself, he might
have executed his mother's commission. However, John knew enough of
Ben's disobliging disposition to suspect that he had been applied to
and refused, especially as he could see that he had no great affection
for his uncle. Of course he could have no suspicion of the trap which
Mrs. Oakley had artfully laid for him, and that the few days' absence
were intended by her to extend to months and possibly years.
"If I am going early to-morrow morning," thought John, "I may as well
stop studying and pack my carpet-bag. I wish I had asked Mrs. Oakley
where her brother lives."
John closed his "Anabasis," and found his carpet-bag. Into it he put
whatever he thought would be needed in a week's absence. He did not
suppose he should be away longer than that.
"If it were not so late," he thought, "I would run over and tell Sam
that I am to be away for a few days. He will be surprised when he don't
see me at school."
But it was too late, for the village clock just then struck ten, and as
he must be up early, John felt that the best thing he could do was to
go to bed and get a good night's sleep, to prepare him for the fatigues
of the succeeding day.
After a sound and refreshing night's sleep, John went downstairs the
next morning, with his carpet-bag in his hand. The table was spread for
breakfast, and Mr. Huxter and Mrs. Oakley had already taken their seats.
"Good-morning, John," said Mrs. Oakley; "you are just in time. Are you
all ready to go?"
"Yes," said John.
"Then sit down to breakfast, for the stage will be here very soon."
"So I am to have the pleasure of your company, Mr. Oakley?" said Mr.
Huxter. "I did not anticipate that I should so soon receive a visit
from you when I invited you yesterday to my humble home."
"In what town do you live, Mr. Huxter?" asked John.
"Well, folks call it Hardscrabble," said Mr. Huxter, with a laugh.
"Is it far away?"
"We'll get there to-night if nothing happens," said Mr. Huxter.
John did not know whether to conclude that Hardscrabble was, or was
not, the real name of the town, but did not like to press the inquiry.
He never remembered to have heard of a town bearing that name. However,
he would know by evening at any rate. He could not help feeling some
curiosity as to Mr. Huxter's home; but neither that gentleman's
appearance nor description of it led him to form a very high idea of
its sumptuousness.
The breakfast was a substantial one, and Mr. Huxter did justice to it.
Indeed, he was seldom wanting in a good appetite, especially when the
repast was an inviting one.
"I suppose I shan't see Ben before I go?" said he, leaning back in his
chair, and picking his teeth with a fork.
"I am afraid not," said Mrs. Oakley. "Ben got home rather late last
night, and I suppose the poor boy is tired this morning. I think I had
better not disturb him."
"Don't disturb him on my account," said his uncle, who did not seem
much disappointed by Ben's absence. "He'd better have his sleep out.
But, sister Jane, if I were you I wouldn't let him stay out so late in
the evening."
"You must remember, Ephraim, he's a young gentleman now. It won't do to
keep him in leading-strings, just as if he were a boy."
"I'd keep him in check if he were my boy," thought Mr. Huxter; but he
saw that it would not be best to say so.
"Well, Jane, of course you know best," he said. "When are you coming to
make us a visit?"
"Not very soon, I am afraid. I can't leave the farm very well. There
are too many things which need attending to."
"There's the stage," said John, suddenly.
The rumbling of the wheels was faintly heard up the road. All rose from
the table, and prepared to go. Mrs. Oakley brought out a covered basket
and handed it to her brother.
"I've put some sandwiches in this basket," she said. "You'll be hungry
by and by, and it will save you the expense of stopping at a hotel for
dinner."
"Very good!" said Mr. Huxter, with satisfaction. "That's what I meant
to speak about, but I forgot it. I begrudge paying for dinner at a
tavern. They always charge you about double what it's worth. Come, Mr.
Oakley, are you ready?"
"All ready, sir."
The rumbling of the stage was now distinctly heard. They opened the
front door, and made signals for it to stop. The lumbering vehicle
was brought to in front of the gate, and the driver jumped from his
elevated perch, and opened the door for the passengers to enter.
"I think I'll take a seat outside, if it makes no difference to you,
Mr. Huxter," said John.
"Just as you like," was the reply.
So, while Mr. Huxter got inside, John took a seat beside the driver.
"Where are you going, John?" asked the driver, who knew everybody in
the village, and was on intimate terms with all.
"I'm going away with the gentleman who has just got inside," said John.
"Where does he live?"
"I don't know the name of the place," said our hero, suspecting that
Hardscrabble was only a local appellation.
"Be gone long?"
"Not more than a week."
Meanwhile, Mrs. Oakley watched the receding stage with satisfaction.
When it was out of sight, she entered the house.
"Now," said she, "I'll look for the will without John Oakley to spy
upon me."
CHAPTER XIII.
JOHN OAKLEY'S NEW HOME.
Although John would prefer to have remained at home, in order that his
studies might be uninterrupted, he nevertheless could not help deriving
enjoyment from the ride on the stage-coach. It was a beautiful morning.
The sun was gilding with its beams the fields and brooks, and a
beautiful breeze rustled in and out among the leaves of the trees that
for some distance lined the road. John, from his elevated perch, had an
excellent view of the scenes through which they passed. As they rode by
the house of Squire Selwyn, lie hoped to catch sight of his friend Sam;
but Sam was nowhere to be seen.
"Sam is lazy this morning," thought John, disappointed.
But there he did Sam injustice. He had risen early, and with hook and
line had gone to the pond to fish. From a distance he caught a glimpse
of the stage rumbling along the village street, but it was too far
off for him to distinguish the outside passengers. He would have been
surprised had he known that among them was his friend John.
Ere long they were beyond the limits of the township. Occasionally the
stage stopped to take in a fresh passenger, or to discharge a portion
of its living freight. At intervals of a few miles they came to some
village tavern, with a broad swinging sign, where the driver would
pause to water his horses, or, at longer intervals, to exchange them
for a fresh supply. Once or twice John descended to stretch his legs,
stiff with long sitting. More than once he observed Mr. Huxter enter
the tavern, and come out with his nose a little redder than usual.
"I went in to get a glass of bitters," he explained to John, whom he
encountered at the door on one of these occasions. "I'll get you some
if you want it."
"Thank you," said John. "I don't care for any."
"Well, you're young and strong, and don't need them. When you get to my
age, you'll need a little something to stimulate you."
John, who rightly conjectured that the glass of "bitters" was only
another name for New England rum, could not help thinking that Mr.
Huxter would have been quite as well off without it; but this thought
he of course kept to himself.
"The old gentleman is rather fond of 'wetting his whistle,' isn't he?"
said the driver, familiarly.
"So it seems," said John, briefly.
He did not care to discuss the conduct of his stepmother's brother
with any one, and therefore confined himself to this remark. At twelve
o'clock they had travelled forty miles.
"The stage will stop half an hour for dinner," said the driver, as he
drew up in front of an old-fashioned country tavern.
"This is as far as I go," said the driver to John. "Do you stop here?"
"No, we go further on."
"I suppose you'll be comin' back this way in a few days?"
"I expect so. By the way, if you see Sam Selwyn to-night, just tell him
that I was one of your passengers this morning."
"All right."
"John Oakley!" said Mr. Huxter, from below.
"Here, sir," said John.
"Just get down, and bring that basket with you. We'll go under the
trees and have a bite."
John followed directions, and the two sat down together, with the
basket between them.
"Travelling is hungry work," said Mr. Huxter. "Let's see what my sister
has put up for us."
The basket, being uncovered, proved to be full of sandwiches, with a
few doughnuts on top. They were all excellent of their kind; for Mrs.
Oakley, whatever might be said of her in other respects, was a good
house-keeper, and took care that whatever food was prepared in the
house should be good.
"Now, Oakley," said Mr. Huxter, "we needn't have any ceremony here.
Just make yourself at home and pitch in."
It may be observed that Mr. Huxter was gradually beginning to treat
John with greater familiarity. When first introduced, he had addressed
him as "Mr. Oakley." Next it was "John Oakley." Now it was "Oakley,"
without any prefix. John, who had no inordinate sense of his own
dignity, was not much disturbed by this, but continued to treat Mr.
Huxter with the same outward respect as at first.
Mr. Huxter followed his own recommendations strictly. He did "pitch
in," and with such vigor that he consumed two-thirds of the contents of
the basket, while John, whose appetite had also been stimulated by the
long ride, was eating the remaining third.
"Well, there aint much left, that's a fact," he said, surveying the
empty basket. "The ride's given you a pretty good appetite, Oakley."
"Pretty good," said John, smiling at the unexpected inference drawn
from the empty basket.
"That's lucky, for we shan't get anything more till we get home," said
Mr. Huxter.
"When will that be?" inquired John.
"Somewhere about seven. It's a long pull; but I guess we can stand it,"
said Mr. Huxter.
"I think I can," said John.
"The old lady won't be expecting us," said Mr. Huxter. "I told her I
might, maybe, be gone a fortnight."
"She'll be glad to see you so soon," said John, who did not think of
anything else to say.
"Umph!" said Mr. Huxter, in a tone which might be interpreted as
conveying a little doubt on this point. "I feel a little dry," he said,
rising and stretching himself. "I think I'll go into the house, and see
if I can find a little water."
When Mr. Huxter reappeared, John inferred from his appearance that,
if he had been drinking water, it had been largely mingled with a
different beverage. He satisfied his own thirst at the pump, where he
drank a deep and refreshing draught of clear cold water, purer and
better than any liquid which the art of man has devised.
So the afternoon passed. Twice more Mr. Huxter got out of the stage,
and entered a wayside tavern, on the same mysterious errand. Each time
he reappeared with his nose redder, and his eyes more inflamed. The
liquor which he had drunk made him quarrelsome, and so disagreeable to
his fellow-passengers. Finally one of them called to the driver in an
authoritative voice to stop, and insisted that Mr. Huxter should travel
outside for the remainder of the way. With some difficulty he was
induced to make the change, and from that time John had the pleasure of
his society.
"Who are you?" asked Mr. Huxter, fixing his eyes upon John with a
vacant stare.
"I am John Oakley," said our hero.
"Oh, yes, I know. You're the son of old Oakley that my sister Jane
married."
It was painful to John to hear his father spoken of as old Oakley, but
he understood Mr. Huxter's situation, and felt that it would be idle to
resent anything said under such circumstances.
"Old Oakley left all his property to Jane," continued Mr. Huxter, with
a drunken laugh. "Oh, she's a deep one, is Jane! She knows how her
bread is buttered."
John turned away in disgust, and tried not to heed what was said.
"But she's hard on her poor brother," whined Mr. Huxter. "She ought to
have come down with something handsome."
His mutterings became incoherent, and John ceased to notice them. At
length, about seven o'clock, the stage drove into a small village, of
not particularly attractive appearance.
"Well," said the driver, turning to John, "you're most home."
"Am I?" asked John.
"Of course you are. Aint you travelling with him?" indicating Mr.
Huxter by a gesture.
"Yes; I've come with him on a little business."
"Then you're not going to stay?"
"Oh, no!"
"Lucky for you!"
John didn't inquire why the driver thought it lucky for him. He thought
he understood without any explanation.
"Do you go any further?" he asked of the driver.
"To the next town."
"What is the name of this place?"
"Some folks call it Hardscrabble; but the real name is Jackson."
"Where does Mr. Huxter live?"
"Up the road apiece. I go right by the gate. I'll stop and leave you
there."
A little less than a mile further the driver reined up his horses.
"Here you are," he said. "Now look sharp, for I'm behind time."
With some difficulty Mr. Huxter, who had now become quite drowsy,
was made to understand that he had reached home. With still greater
difficulty, he was assisted in safety to the ground, and the stage
drove on.
John now for the first time looked about him to see what sort of a
place he had reached. He distinguished a two-story house, old-fashioned
in appearance, standing a few rods back from the road. It was sadly in
need of a fresh coat of paint, as was also the fence which surrounded
it. A little distance from the house, at one side, was a small building
of one story, liberally supplied with windows, which John afterwards
learned to be a shoe-shop. It was Mr. Huxter's place of business,
when he saw fit to work, which was by no means regularly. An old
cart, a wood-pile, and some barrels littered up the front yard. A
field alongside was overgrown with weeds, and everything indicated
shiftlessness and neglect.
John had no difficulty in opening the front gate, for it hung upon one
hinge, and was never shut. He supported Mr. Huxter to the door and
knocked, for there was no bell. The summons was answered by a girl of
ten, in a dirty calico dress and dishevelled hair.
"Mother," she screamed, shrilly, as she saw who it was, "here's father
come home, and there's somebody with him!"
At this intimation, a woman came from a back room to the door. She
looked thin and careworn, as if the life which she led was not a very
happy one.
"Mrs. Huxter, I suppose?" asked John.
"Yes," said she.
"Your husband does not feel quite well," said John, expressing in as
delicate a manner as possible the fact that something was out of order
with Mr. Huxter.
"Who said I wasn't well?" exclaimed Mr. Huxter, in a rough voice.
"Never was better in my life. I say, Polly, can't you get us something
to eat? I'm most starved."
Mrs. Huxter looked inquiringly at John, whose presence with her husband
she did not understand.
"I believe I am to stop here for a day or two," said John, responding
to her look. "My name is John Oakley. I am the stepson of Mr. Huxter's
sister."
"Oh, yes, I know," said Mrs. Huxter. "I am afraid we can't accommodate
you very well, Mr. Oakley, but we'll do our best."
"What's good enough for us is good enough for him," said Mr. Huxter,
fiercely. "He's as poor as we are. Sister Jane's got all the money.
She's a deep one, is sister Jane."
"I hope you won't be offended at what he says, Mr. Oakley," said Mrs.
Huxter, in an apologetic tone. "He don't mean what he says."
"Shut up, Mrs. Huxter!" said her husband, who was disposed to be
quarrelsome. "Don't make a fool of yourself, but get supper as soon as
you can."
"We haven't got any meat in the house," said Mrs. Huxter, timidly. "You
know you only left me a little money."
"Here's some money," said Mr. Huxter, fumbling in his pocket, and
producing a five-dollar bill.
Mrs. Huxter took the bill, surprised at its large amount, for she
seldom got more than one dollar at a time. Forthwith the girl of ten
was sent for some steak at the butcher's, and in a reasonable time
supper was declared to be ready. Meanwhile Mr. Huxter had been to the
pump, and by the free use of cold water, applied externally, succeeded
in getting the better of his intoxication, and was prepared to do full
justice to the meal provided.
By the time supper was over, it was half-past eight. John felt fatigued
with his long journey, and asked permission to retire. He was shown to
an attic chamber, furnished only with a cot bed and a broken chair.
But, rude as were the accommodations, John slept soundly, little
dreaming the unwelcome news that awaited him on the morrow.
CHAPTER XIV.
MR. HUXTER AT HOME.
When John awoke the next morning he found it difficult at first to
understand where he was; but recollection soon came to his aid, and he
remembered that he was Mr. Huxter's guest. He rose from the cot-bed,
and, going to the window, looked out. The prospect was not a very
pleasant one. Just across the street was a pasture, with here and there
a gnarled and stunted tree. The immediate neighborhood of Mr. Huxter's
house has already been described.
"I don't wonder they call it Hardscrabble," thought John. "I shouldn't
like to live here."
At this moment Mr. Huxter's head was thrust in through the open door.
"Come, Oakley," said he, "it's time to get up. We don't want any lazy
folks here."
"I was tired with my ride yesterday, and overslept myself," said John.
"Well, dress as quick as you can," said Mr. Huxter, turning to descend
the stairs.
"I don't see any washbowl," said John, hesitating.
"You can come downstairs and wash, like the rest of us," said Mr.
Huxter. "You needn't expect us to lug up water for you."
John did not reply to this rude speech; but he could not avoid being
struck by the change in the manner of his host. Mr. Huxter had, when
first introduced, treated him with elaborate politeness. Now he treated
him with downright rudeness, and as if he possessed some authority over
