"We couldn't get any decent seats. When did you buy yours, Mr. Rushton?"
"This morning."
Mrs. Clifton, who was thoroughly selfish, hinted that probably Rose
wouldn't care about going, and that she should be glad to buy the
ticket, and accompany Rufus and Miss Manning; but this hint failed to be
taken, and she was forced unwillingly to stay at home.
To tell the truth, Miss Manning was scarcely less pleased than Rose at
the idea of going. Until recently she had been a poor seamstress,
earning scarcely enough to subsist upon, much less to pay for
amusements. Sometimes in the early evening she had passed the portals of
places of amusement, and wished that she were able to break the tedious
monotony of her daily life by entering; but it was quite out of the
question, and with a sigh she would pass on. Now she was very
differently situated, and her life was much pleasanter.
"Can I wear my new dress, Martha?" asked Rose.
"Yes, Rosy. It was fortunate that I got it finished to-day."
"And will you wear yours, too, Martha?"
"Yes, I think so," she said. "Rufus has bought us nice seats, and we
must look as well as we can."
When both were dressed, they surveyed themselves with satisfaction. Miss
Manning was not above the weakness, if it is a weakness, of liking to
appear well dressed, though she was not as demonstrative as Rose, who
danced about the room in high enjoyment.
When they were quite ready, Rufus came into the room. He had a pair of
kid gloves in his hand, which he twirled about in rather an embarrassed
way.
"I can't get the confounded things on, Miss Manning," he said. "I've
been trying for some time, but it's no go. The fact is, I never owned a
pair of kid gloves before. I'd enough sight rather go without any, but I
suppose, if I am going to sit in a fashionable seat, I must try to look
fashionable."
Miss Manning soon explained to Rufus how the gloves should go on. This
time the success was better, and he was soon neatly gloved.
"They are pretty gloves, Rufus," she said.
"I don't like the feeling of them," said Rufus; "they feel strange."
"That is because you are not used to them. You'll like them better
soon."
"I wonder what some of my old street friends would say to see me now,"
said Rufus, smiling. "They'd think I was a tip-top swell."
Though the gloves did not feel comfortable, Rufus looked at his hands
with satisfaction. Step by step he was getting into the ways of
civilized life, and he was very anxious to leave as far behind him as
possible his street experiences.
Soon after dinner they left the house, and, proceeding to Broadway,
walked up as far as Union Square. Then they turned down Fourteenth
Street, and a few minutes brought them to the Academy of Music.
The entrance and vestibule were brilliantly lighted. On the steps and in
front were a number of speculators, who were eagerly offering their
tickets to those who appeared unprovided.
Rufus pushed his way through, with Martha and Rose at his side. His
tickets were taken at the gate, but the portion indicating the number
of their reserved seats was torn off, and given back to them. On showing
them to the usher, they were conducted to their seats, which were in the
sixth row from the stage, and fronting it.
"We'll have a good view here, Miss Manning," he said.
Soon the curtain rose, and the performance commenced. To those who have
not seen the Japanese in their peculiar performance, it is enough to say
that they show marvellous skill and agility in their feats, some of
which are so difficult as to seem almost impossible.
All three enjoyed the performance. Miss Manning, though so much older,
was almost as much unaccustomed as little Rose herself to such scenes,
and took a fresh interest in it, which those who go often cannot feel.
Every now and then, little Rose, unable to restrain her enthusiasm,
exhibited her delight openly.
I should like, for the benefit of my younger readers, to give a detailed
account of some portions of the performance which seemed most wonderful;
but my memory is at fault, and I can only speak in general terms.
It was a little after ten when the curtain finally fell.
"Is that all?" asked Rose, half in disappointment.
"That's all, Rosy. Are you sleepy?"
"Not a bit," said Rose, vivaciously; "I should like to stay here an hour
longer. Wasn't it perfectly beautiful, Rufie?"
"Yes; it was very good," said Rufus; "I don't know but I like it almost
as well as the Old Bowery."
Though he had risen in the social scale, he had not quite lost his
relish for the style of plays for which the Old Bowery, the favorite
theatre with the street boys, is celebrated. But that he had a suspicion
that it was not exactly a fashionable place of amusement, he would like
to have taken Rose and Miss Manning there this evening. He would hardly
have liked to mention it at the table afterwards, however.
The audience rose from their seats, and Rufus with them. Slowly they
moved towards the door, and at last made their way to the entrance. Had
Rufus known who was waiting there, he might have felt a little nervous.
But he did not know, and it devolves upon us to explain.
Three days before, Mr. Martin, who had been sentenced to the
penitentiary for three months, on account of his attempt at picking
pockets, which we have already chronicled, was released. To say the
least, he left the prison no better than he had entered it. Better in
one sense he was, for he had been forced for three months to abstain
from drink, and this he felt to be a great hardship. But it had a
favorable influence upon his health, and his skin was clearer, and his
nose not quite so ruddy as when he was arrested. But so far as good
intentions went, he had not formed any during his exile from society,
and now that he was released he was just as averse to living by honest
industry as before.
However, his resources were still limited. Money had never been very
plentiful with him, and just at present he was not encumbered with any.
It did not occur to him that the shortest way to obtain some was to go
to work; or, if it did, the suggestion did not strike him favorably. It
did occur to him, however, that there were charitable persons in the
metropolis who might be induced to help him, and he resolved to act upon
this suggestion. Accordingly, he haunted the neighborhood of the Academy
of Music, until the stream of people began to pour out from it, and then
he felt that the time had come for him to carry out his plans.
He went up to a gentleman who was coming out with a young lady leaning
on his arm.
"Will you listen to me a minute, sir?" he said, in a whining tone. "I
haven't eaten anything since yesterday, and I have no money to pay for a
night's lodging."
"Why don't you go to work?" said the gentleman.
"I can't get anything to do, sir. I've been trying for something all
day."
The fact was that Mr. Martin had been lounging about a low bar-room all
day.
"Here, take this, and clear the way."
The gentleman, more to get rid of him than anything else, dropped five
cents into his hand, and passed on.
"He might have given a quarter," grumbled Martin; "it wouldn't have hurt
him."
He looked up, intending to make a similar application to the next
person, when he uttered an exclamation of surprise and exultation. Close
before him he saw Rufus and his little sister, accompanied by Miss
Manning.
CHAPTER XI.
MR. MARTIN'S WILD-GOOSE CHASE.
Probably nothing could have given Martin greater pleasure than this
unexpected meeting with his step-children. He did not reflect that the
pleasure might not be mutual, but determined to make himself known
without delay. Hurrying forward, he placed one hand on the shoulder of
Rufus, saying, "Glad to see you, Rufus; what have you been up to lately?
Here's Rose too, I expect she's glad to see me."
At the first sound of his voice poor Rose began to tremble. Clinging
closer to her brother, she said, "Don't let him take me, Rufie."
"He shan't touch you, Rose," said Rufus, manfully.
"You don't seem very glad to see me," said Martin, smiling maliciously.
"That's where you're right," said Rufus, bluntly. "We are not glad to
see you. I suppose that don't surprise you much. Come along, Rose."
He tried to leave Martin, but Martin did not choose to be left. He
shuffled along by the side of our hero, considerably to the disgust of
the latter, who was afraid he might fall in with some acquaintance whose
attention would be drawn to the not very respectable-looking object who
had accosted him, and learn the relationship that existed between them.
"You seem to be in a hurry," sneered Martin.
"I am in a hurry," said Rufus. "It's late for Rose to be out."
"That's what I was thinking," said Martin. "Considerin' that I'm her
natural protector, it's my duty to interfere."
"A pretty sort of protector you are!" retorted Rufus, scornfully.
"You're an undootiful boy," said Martin, "to speak so to your father."
"Who do you mean?"
"Aint I your father?"
"No, you are not. If you were, I'd be ashamed of you. Mr. Martin, we
haven't anything to do with each other. You can go your way, and I'll
go mine. I shan't interfere with you, and I shan't allow you to
interfere with me."
"Ho, ho!" said Martin, "when was you twenty-one, I'd like to know?"
"It doesn't make any difference when. Good-night."
"You don't get rid of me so easy," said Martin. "I'll follow you home."
By this time they had reached the corner of Broadway and Union Square.
Rufus was placed in an awkward position. He had no authority to order
Martin away. He might follow them home, and ascertain where they lived,
and probably would do so. Rufus felt that this would never do. Were
their home known to Mr. Martin, he would have it in his power to lie in
wait for Rose, and kidnap her as he had done once before. He would never
feel easy about his little sister under these circumstances. Yet what
could he do? If he should quicken his pace, Martin would do the same.
"What do you want to follow us for?" he asked. "What good is it going to
do you?"
"Don't you trouble yourself about that," said Martin, exulting in our
hero's evident perplexity. "Considerin' that you two are my children, I
may want to come and see you some time."
Here Rose began to cry. She had always been very much afraid of Martin,
and feared now that she might fall into his hands.
"Don't cry, Rose," said Rufus, soothingly. "He shan't do you any harm."
"Maybe he won't if you treat him well," said Martin. "Look here, Rufus.
I'm hard up--dead broke. Haven't you a dollar to spare?"
"Are you going to follow us?"
"Maybe I won't if you'll give me the dollar."
"I can't trust you," said Rufus, suspiciously. "I'll tell you what," he
added, after a little thought; "go up to Madison Park, and sit down on
one of the seats, and I'll come up in half an hour, or three quarters at
most, and give you the dollar."
"Do you think I'm so green?" sneered Martin. "I might stop there all
night without seein' you. All you want is a chance to get away without
my knowin' where."
"No," said Rufus; "I'll do what I promise. But you must go up there now,
and not follow us."
"That don't go down," said Martin. "You don't ketch a weasel asleep."
"Well," said Rufus, coolly, "you can do just as you please. If you
accept my offer, you shall have a dollar inside of an hour. If you
don't, you won't get a penny."
Still Martin was not persuaded. He felt sure that Rufus meant to mislead
him, and, being unreliable himself, he put no confidence in the promise
made by our hero. He prepared to follow him home, as the knowledge of
where Rose lived would probably enable him to extort more than a dollar
from the fear and anxiety of Rufus. So he repeated:--
"That don't go down! You aint quite smart enough to take me in. I'm
goin' to follow you, and find out where you live."
"Better give him the dollar now, Rufus," suggested Miss Manning, who
felt nearly as anxious as Rose.
"No," said Rufus, decidedly; "I shan't gain anything by it. As soon as
he got the money, he'd follow us all the same."
"What will you do?" asked Miss Manning, anxiously.
"You'll see," said Rufus, composedly.
He had been busily thinking, and a plan had suggested itself to his
mind, which he thought offered probably the best way out of the
difficulty. He reflected that probably Mr. Martin, judging from his
appearance, was penniless, or nearly so. He therefore decided to jump on
board a horse-car, and thus elude him.
When they reached the corner of University Place, a car was seen
approaching.
Rufus hailed it.
"Are we going to ride?" asked Rose.
"Yes, Rose; and now, whatever I do, I want you to keep perfectly still
and say nothing. Will you promise?"
"Yes, Rufie."
Rufus exacted this promise, as Rose might unconsciously, by some
unguarded exclamation, betray the very knowledge which he was anxious to
conceal.
Martin fathomed the purpose of our hero, and determined not be balked.
He had five cents which had just been given him out of charity at the
door of the Academy, and, though the fare on the horse-cars was one cent
more, he thought he might make it do. Accordingly he got into the car
after Rufus.
"I couldn't bear to leave such agreeable company," he said, with a leer.
"Horse-cars are free, I believe."
"I believe they are," said Rufus.
"I wonder how much money he's got," thought our hero. "I guess I can
drain him after a while."
The conductor came along, and Rufus paid for Miss Manning and Rose, as
well as himself. Martin was hanging on a strap near by.
"Your fare," said the conductor.
Martin plunged his hand into his pocket, and drew out five cents. He
plunged his hand in again, and appeared to be hunting about for the
extra penny.
"I declare," said he, "I believe I've lost the other cent. Won't five
cents do?"
"Couldn't let you ride under six cents," said the conductor. "It's
against the rules."
"I can't see where it is," said Martin, hunting again.
"I'll pay the other penny," said a gentleman sitting near.
"Thank you, sir," said Martin. "Very much obliged to you. I'm a poor
man; but it's on account of some undutiful children that I've spent all
my money on, and now they begrudge their poor father a few pennies."
He looked at Rufus; but our hero did not see fit to apply the remark to
himself, nor, considering that he used to help support Martin, did he
feel any particular remorse.
If Martin had been a more respectable-looking object, if his nose had
been a trifle less red, and his whole appearance less suggestive of
intemperate habits, the remark he had let fall might have stirred some
of his listeners to compassion. But no one, to look at him, would wonder
much at a want of filial affection towards such a father. So, though he
looked round to notice the effect, hoping that he might elicit some
sympathy which should take a pecuniary form, he perceived that his
appeal had fallen upon stony ground. Nobody seemed particularly
impressed, and the hope of a contribution from some compassionate
listener faded out.
Rufus was a witness of this scene, and of course it enabled him to
fathom Martin's resources. He congratulated himself that they were so
speedily exhausted. He did not get out when the car reached Waverley
Place, for obvious reasons, but kept on till they came to Bleecker
Street. Rose was about to express surprise, but a look from Rufus
checked her.
At Bleecker Street he signalled to the conductor to stop. The latter
obeyed the signal, and our hero got out, followed not only by Rose and
Miss Manning, but, as might have been expected, also by Martin.
"You don't get rid of me so easy," said the latter, triumphantly.
"Don't I?" asked Rufus, coolly. "Are you going to follow me still?"
Martin answered in the affirmative, with an oath.
"Then," said Rufus, coolly, "I'll give you all the following you want to
do."
A car bound in the opposite direction was approaching. Rufus hailed it,
and it came to a stop.
Martin, who had not been anticipating this move, stopped a moment,
staring, crestfallen, at Rufus; but, recovering himself quickly, jumped
on the platform, resolved to try his luck.
Rufus paid his fare. Martin didn't volunteer to pay his, but looked
steadily before him, hoping that he might escape the conductor's
observation. But the latter was too sharp for that.
"Fare?" he said.
"All right," said Martin, plunging his hand into his pocket. Of course
he drew out nothing, as he anticipated.
"I declare," he said; "I believe I haven't any money with me."
"Then get off."
"Couldn't you let me off this time?" asked Martin, insinuatingly; "I'm a
poor man."
"So am I," said the conductor, bluntly. "You must get off."
"Isn't there any gentleman that'll lend a poor man six cents?" asked
Martin, looking round.
But nobody seemed disposed to volunteer assistance, and Martin was
compelled reluctantly to jump off.
But he didn't give up yet. The car didn't go so fast but that he could
keep up with it by running. It chafed him that Rufus should get the
better of him, and he ran along on the sidewalk, keeping the car
continually in sight.
"He's running," said Miss Manning, looking out. "What a determined man
he is! I'm afraid he'll find us out."
"I'm not afraid," said Rufus. "He'll get tired of running by the time we
get to Central Park."
"Shall you ride as far as that?"
"If necessary."
For about a mile Martin held out, but by this time he became exhausted,
and dropped behind. The distance between him and the car gradually
increased, but still Rufus rode on for half a mile further. By this time
Martin was no longer in sight.
"We'll cross over to Sixth Avenue," he said, "so that Martin may not see
us on our return."
This suggestion was adopted, luckily, for Martin had posted himself at a
favorable place, and was scanning attentively every returning car. But
he waited and watched in vain till long after the objects of his pursuit
were safe at home and in bed.
CHAPTER XII.
MARTIN'S LUCK TURNS.
Martin continued to watch for an hour or two, sitting in a door-way. At
length he was forced to conclude that Rufus had given him the slip, and
this tended by no means to sweeten his temper. In fact, his position was
not altogether a pleasant one. It was now past midnight, and, having no
money, he saw no other way than to spend the night in the street.
Besides he was hungry, and that was a complaint which was likely to get
worse instead of better. As for Rufus, Martin had never before seen him
so well dressed, and it seemed clear that he was prospering.
"He's an ungrateful young rascal," muttered Martin,--"livin' in ease and
comfort, while I am left to starve in the street!"
It would have been rather hard to tell what Rufus had to be grateful
for, unless for the privilege which he had enjoyed for some time of
helping support his step-father; but Martin persuaded himself that he
was ungrateful and undutiful, and grew indignant over his fancied
wrongs, as he lay back in discomfort on the stone step which he had
selected as his resting-place.
The night passed slowly away, and when the morning light came Martin got
up very stiff and sore, and more hungry than ever, and began to wonder
where he was likely to get any breakfast. Begging seemed to him, on the
whole, the easiest way of getting along; but it was too early for that.
After a while, however, the street began to be peopled, and he walked up
to a gentleman who was approaching, and, assuming a look which he
thought indicative of wretchedness, whined out, "Would you be willing to
help a poor man, sir?"
The gentleman stopped.
"So you are poor?" he said.
"Yes," said Martin, "I have been very unfortunate."
"Why don't you work?"
"I can't find any work to do," answered Martin.
"Haven't you got any friends to help you?"
"They've all turned against me," said Martin. "Even my own children have
turned me out of the house to shift for myself."
"How old are your children?" asked the other.
Martin hesitated, for this question was a little embarrassing.
"One of them is sixteen," he said.
"A son?"
"Yes."
"Did you support him, or did he support you?" was the natural inquiry.
"I supported him," said Martin; "but he's an undootiful, ungrateful
scamp, and--"
"Then it appears that he has relieved you from taking care of him, and
you have only yourself to provide for. It appears to me that you ought
to get along better than before."
"If I could get any work."
"What sort of work do you want to do?"
"If I had a few dollars I could set up in some light business."
"You will have to apply elsewhere for the money, my friend," said the
gentleman. "To be frank with you, your appearance doesn't speak in your
favor;" and he walked on.
"That's the way the rich and prosperous treat the poor," soliloquized
Martin, feeling that the whole world was in a conspiracy against him.
Those who undertake to live without work are very apt to arrive at such
conclusions.
Martin concluded, on the whole, that he wouldn't refer to being turned
out of his house next time, as it might lead to embarrassing questions.
He approached another gentleman, and began with the same appeal for
assistance.
"What's the matter? Can't you work?" was the reply.
"I've had a severe fit of sickness," said Martin, forcing a cough; "and
I'm very feeble. I haint had anything to eat for twenty-four hours, and
I've got a wife and five little children dependent on me."
"If that don't bring something," thought Martin, "nothing will."
"Where do you live?"
"No. 578 Twenty-Fourth Street," answered Martin, glibly.
Now the individual addressed was a gentleman of leisure, of a
philanthropic turn of mind, and one who frequently visited the poor at
their homes. Martin's story seemed pitiful, and he concluded to inquire
into it.
"I'm sorry for you," he said. "I'll go round with you and see your
family, and see what can be done for them."
This was just what Martin did not want. As the family he spoke of was
entirely imaginary, it would only result in exposure and disappointment.
Yet he knew not how to refuse.
"I'm much obliged to you, sir," he said. "I'm afraid it would be too
much trouble."
"No, I've nothing pressing for an hour. I always like to relieve the
unfortunate."
"What shall I do?" thought Martin, as he walked by the side of the
benevolent stranger. At length an idea struck him.
"It isn't everybody that would be willing to risk going with me," he
said.
"Why not?"
"They'd be afraid to come."
"Why? What danger is there?"
"My third child is 'most dead with the small-pox," answered Martin, with
a very dejected look.
"Good heavens! and I might have carried the infection home to my
children," exclaimed the stranger, in excitement.
"Then you won't go with me?" asked Martin.
"Here," said the gentleman, producing fifty cents, "here's a little
money. Take it, and I hope it'll do you good."
"I reckon it will," thought Martin, as he took the money. "It'll buy me
some breakfast and a couple of cigars. That's a pretty good idea, havin'
a child sick with the small-pox. I'll know what to do next time anybody
wants to go home with me."
As soon as Martin found himself in funds he took measures to satisfy his
appetite. He really had not eaten anything since the middle of the day
previous, and felt that he could do justice to a substantial breakfast.
He walked along until he came to a restaurant where the prices seemed to
be reasonable, and went in. Seating himself at one of the tables, he
gave his order, and presently a plate of meat and cup of coffee were
placed before him. To these he devoted himself with such vigor that they
were soon despatched. Still Martin's appetite was not satisfied. Much as
he wanted a cigar, the claims of hunger were imperative, and he ordered
breakfast to the extent of his resources.
Opposite him at the table sat a man of middle age, with bushy whiskers,
and a scar on his left cheek. He wore a loose sack coat, and a velvet
vest. His thick, bunchy fingers displayed two large, showy rings, set
with stones, probably imitation. He finished his breakfast before
Martin, but still retained his seat, and watched him rather attentively.
Martin was too busily engaged to notice the scrutiny to which he was
subjected. After sitting a while the stranger drew out a cigar, and,
lighting it, began to smoke.
This drew Martin's attention. As the flavor of the cigar, which was a
very good one, reached his nostrils, he began to feel a regret that he
had not reserved a part of his funds for the purchase of a cigar. His
opposite neighbor observed his look, and, for a reason which will
appear, saw fit to gratify Martin's desire.
"I don't like to smoke alone," he said, drawing another cigar from his
pocket. "Won't you have a cigar?"
"Thank you," said Martin, eagerly accepting it. "You're very kind."
"Don't mention it. So you like to smoke. Light it by mine."
"Yes," said Martin; "I like smoking; but I'm a poor man, and I can't
afford to smoke as often as I want to."
"Been unfortunate?" said the stranger, suggestively.
"Yes," said Martin, "luck's been ag'inst me. I couldn't get work to do,
and my family turned ag'inst me because I was poor. I've got two
children living on the fat of the land, but one of 'em refused me a
dollar last night, and left me to sleep in the streets."
"That's bad," said the other.
"He's an undootiful son," said Martin.
"Better luck by and by," said the stranger. "Luck'll turn, it's likely."
"I wish it would turn pretty quick," said Martin. "I've spent my last
cent for breakfast, and I don't know where I'm to get my dinner."
"The world owes every man a living," remarked the stranger,
sententiously.
"So it does," said Martin. "I don't see what's the use of bein' born at
all, if you're goin' to starve afterwards."
"Very true. Now I'll tell you what my principle is."
"What is it?" asked Martin, who was becoming interested in his
companion.
"If the world owes me a living, and isn't disposed to pay up promptly, I
think it's perfectly right for me to collect the debt any way I can."
"So do I," said Martin, though he didn't exactly see the other's drift.
"For instance, if I was starving, and my next neighbor was a baker, and
had plenty of bread, the law of self-preservation justifies me in taking
a loaf."
"Without payin' for it?"
"Yes; if I haven't got any money to pay. I'm entitled to my share of
food, and if others keep it from me, I have a right to help myself,
haven't I?"
"That's so," said Martin; "only it's dangerous."
"Of course there is a risk about it; but then there's a risk in
starvin', isn't there?"
"I should think there was," said Martin.
"I thought we should agree pretty well. Now tell me what you propose to
do. Perhaps I can assist you."
"I don't know what to do," said Martin. "I can't get work. What do you
do?"
"I'm in business," said the stranger, evasively.
"Couldn't you give me a chance,--that is, if it aint hard work? I aint
so strong as I was once, and I aint fit for hard work."
"Well, perhaps I may be able to do something for you," said the
stranger. "If you'll walk with me a little way, we'll smoke another
cigar, and talk it over. What do you say?"
Of course Martin accepted the proposal with alacrity. He did not want to
go back to his work as a carpenter, having lost all relish for honest
industry. He would rather beg, or do anything else for a living. He had
a very indefinite idea of the nature of the proposal which was coming,
but, whatever it might be, he was not likely to be shocked at it.
"Here, give me your check," said the stranger.
He paid, therefore, for Martin's breakfast as well as his own, leaving
that gentleman's fifty cents intact. Martin was not used to such
attention, and appreciated it. For the first time he began to think that
his luck had really turned.
The two went out into the street together, and were soon engaged in
earnest conversation.
CHAPTER XIII.
MARTIN MAKES A BUSINESS ENGAGEMENT.
Martin was agreeably surprised at the attention paid him by his new
friend. There are some who have no difficulty in making friends at first
sight, but this had not often happened to him. In fact, there was very
little that was attractive or prepossessing about him, and though he
could not be expected to be fully aware of that, he had given up
expecting much on the score of friendship. Yet here was a stranger, who,
to Martin's undiscriminating eyes, appeared quite the gentleman, who had
given him a cigar, paid his dinner-bill, and treated him with a degree
of attention to which he was unaccustomed. Martin felt that he was in
luck, and if there was anything to be made out of his new friend he was
determined to make it.
They turned down a side street, perhaps because the stranger's course
led that way, perhaps because he was not proud of his new acquaintance.
"So you've had poor luck," he remarked, by way of starting the
conversation.
"Yes," grumbled Martin, "you may say that. Things have all been ag'inst
me. It's a pretty hard rub for a poor man to get a livin' here."
"Just so," said the other. "What's your business?"
"I'm a carpenter."
"And you can't find work?"
"No," said Martin. "Besides," he added, after a pause, "my health aint
very good. Hard work don't agree with me."
He might have said that hard drinking did not agree with him, and this
would have been rather nearer the truth. But he was afraid his new
friend would offer to find him employment as a carpenter, and for this
he was not very anxious. There had been a time when he was content to
work early and late, for good wages, but he had of late years led such a
shiftless and vagabond life, that honest industry had no more attraction
for him, and he preferred to get his living by hook or crook, in fact
in any way he could, rather than take the most direct path to a good
living by working hard for it.
"What is your name?"
"James Martin. What's yours?"
"Mine," said the stranger, pausing, and fixing his eyes thoughtfully
upon Martin; "well, you may call me Smith."
"That aint a very uncommon name," said Martin, thinking he had
perpetrated a good joke.
"Just so," said the stranger, composedly. "I've been told so often."
"Well, Mr. Smith, do you think you could help me to some light business
that wouldn't be too hard on my health?"
"Perhaps I might," said the other. "What do you think you would like?"
"Why," said Martin, "if I only had a little capital, I could set up a
small cigar store, or maybe a drinkin' saloon."
"That would be light and genteel, no doubt," said Smith, "but confining.
You'd have to be in the store early and late."
"I might have a boy to stay there when I wanted to go out," suggested
Martin.
"So you might," said the other. "There doesn't seem any objection, if
you can only raise the capital."
This was rather a powerful objection, however, especially as Mr. Smith
offered no encouragement about supplying the capital himself. Martin saw
this, and he added, "I only mentioned this. I aint any objection to
anything else that's light and easy. Do you think of anything I could
do?"
"I may be able to throw something in your way," said Mr. Smith. "But,
first, I must ask you a question. Can you keep a secret?"
"Yes," said Martin, "just as many as you like."
"Because the business which I have to propose is of rather a
confidential character, and a great deal depends on its being kept
secret."
"All right; I'm your man then."
"When I saw you in the restaurant," said Smith, "it struck me that you
might answer our purpose. You look as if you could be trusted."
"So I can be," said Martin, pleased with the compliment. "I'll never say
a word about the matter. What is it?"
"You shall learn presently,--that is, if my partner thinks we had better
engage you."
"Where is your place of business?"
"We will go there. Let us jump into this horse-car."
They had reached Eighth Avenue, and entered a car bound downwards. When
the conductor came along, Smith said, "I pay for two," indicating
Martin. This was fortunate; for Martin's purse was at a low ebb, his
entire stock of money being limited to fifty cents.
They rode some fifteen minutes, at the end of which Smith signalled to
the conductor to stop.
"We get out here," he said to Martin.
Martin jumped out after him, and they turned westward down one of the
streets leading to the North River.
"Is it much farther?" asked Martin.
"Not much."
"It's rather an out-of-the-way place for business, isn't it?" remarked
Martin, observing that the street was lined with dwelling-houses on
either side.
"For most kinds of business it is," said his new acquaintance; "but it
suits us. We like a quiet, out-of-the-way place."
"Are you in the wholesale business?" asked Martin, whose curiosity began
to be considerably excited.
"Something of that sort," answered the stranger. "Ah, here we are!"
The house before which he stopped was a brick dwelling-house, of three
stories. The blinds were closed, and it might have been readily supposed
that no one lived there. Certainly nothing could have looked less like a
place of business, so far as outward appearance went, and Martin, whose
perceptions were not very acute, saw this, and was puzzled. Still his
companion spoke so quietly and composedly, and seemed to understand
himself so well, that he did not make any remark.
Instead of pulling the bell, Mr. Smith drew a latch-key from his pocket,
and admitted himself.
"Come in, Mr. Martin," he said.
Martin stepped into the entry, and the door was closed.
Before him was a narrow staircase, with a faded stair-carpet upon it. A
door was partly open into a room on the right, but still there was
nothing visible that looked like business.
"Follow me," said Smith, leading the way up stairs.
Martin followed, his curiosity, if anything, greater than before.
They went into a front room on the second floor.
"Excuse me a moment," said Smith.
Martin was left alone, but in two minutes Smith returned with a tall,
powerful-looking man, whose height was such that he narrowly escaped
being a giant.
"Mr. Martin," said Smith, "this is my partner, Mr. Hayes."
"Proud to make your acquaintance, I am sure, Mr. Hayes," said Martin,
affably. "I met your partner this mornin' in an eatin'-house, and he
said you might have a job for me. My health aint very good, but I could
do light work well enough."
"Did you tell Mr. Martin," said the giant, in a hoarse voice that
sounded as if he had a cold of several years' standing, "that our
business is of a confidential nature?"
"Yes," said Martin, "I understand that. I can keep a secret."
"It is absolutely necessary that you should," said Hayes. "You say you
can, but how can I be sure of it?"
"I'll give you my word," said Martin.
The giant looked down upon Martin, and ejaculated, "Humph!" in a manner
which might be interpreted to convey some doubt as to the value of
Martin's word. However, even if Martin had been aware of this, he was
not sensitive, and would not have taken offence.
"Are you willing to take your oath that you will never reveal, under any
circumstances, anything connected with our business?"
"Yes," said Martin, eagerly, his curiosity being greater than ever.
There was a Bible on the table. Hayes cast his eyes in that direction,
but first said something in a low voice to Smith. The latter drew a
small brass key from his pocket, and opened a cupboard, or small closet
in the wall, from which, considerably to Martin's alarm, he drew out a
revolver and a knife. These he laid on the table beside the book.
"What's that for?" asked Martin, with an uneasy glance at the weapons.
"I'll tell you what it's for, my friend," said the giant. "It's to show
you what your fate will be if you ever reveal any of our secrets.
Perhaps you don't want to take the risk of knowing what they are. If you
don't, you can say so, and go."
But Martin did not want to go, and he did want to learn the secrets more
than ever.
"I'm ready," he said. "I'll take the oath."
"Very well, you understand now what it means. Put your hand on the book,
and repeat after me: 'I solemnly swear, on the penalty of death by
pistol or knife, never to reveal any secret I may have imparted to me in
this room.'"
Martin repeated this formula, not without a certain shrinking, not to
say creeping, of the flesh.
"Now that you have taken the oath," said Smith, "we will tell you our
secret."
"Yes," said Martin, eagerly.
"The fact is," said Smith, in a low voice, "we are counterfeiters."
"You don't say so!" ejaculated Martin.
"Yes, there's a light, genteel business for you. There are all ways of
making a living, and that isn't the worst."
"Does it pay pretty well?" asked Martin, getting interested.
"Yes, it's a money-making business," said Smith, with a laugh; "but
there's a little prejudice against it, and so we have a very quiet place
of business."
"Yes, I see," said Martin.
"You see the world owes us a living," continued Smith, "as you remarked
this morning, and if it doesn't come in one way, it must in another."
"Isn't it dangerous?" asked Martin.
"Not if it's carefully managed."
"What do you want me to do?"
"Supply money to our agents chiefly. It won't do to have too many come
to the house, for it might excite suspicion. You will come every
morning, receive money and directions from one of us, and then do as you
are bid."
"How much will you give me?"
"What do you say to a hundred dollars a month?"
"In good money," said Martin, his eyes sparkling with pleasure.
"No, of course not. In money of our manufacture."
Martin's countenance fell.
"First thing I know I'll be nabbed," he said.
"Not if you are careful. We'll give you instructions. Do you accept our
terms?"
"Yes," said Martin, unhesitatingly.
"Of course you take a risk. No gain without risk, you know. But if you
are unlucky, remember your oath, and don't betray us. If you do, you're
a dead man within twenty-four hours from the time you leave the prison.
There are twenty men bound by a solemn oath to revenge treachery by
death. If you betray our secret, nothing can save you. Do you
understand?"
"Yes," said Martin, whose mind was suitably impressed with the absolute
necessity of silence. The representations of his new friends might or
might not be true, but, at all events, he believed them to be in
earnest, and their point was gained.
"When do you want me to begin?" he asked.
"To-day; but first it will be necessary for you to be more decently
dressed."
"These are all the clothes I have," returned Martin. "I've been
unfortunate, and I haven't had any money to buy good clothes with."
"Have we any clothes in the house that will fit this man?" asked Smith
of his confederate.
"I will go and see."
The giant soon returned with a suit of clothing, not very fine or very
fashionable, but elegant compared with that which Martin now wore.
"I guess these will fit you," he said. "Try them on."
Martin made the change with alacrity, and when it had been effected,
surveyed himself in a mirror with considerable complacency. His
temporary abstinence from liquor while at the Island had improved his
appearance, and the new suit gave him quite a respectable appearance. He
had no objection to appearing respectable, provided it were at other
people's expense. On the whole, he was in excellent spirits, and felt
that at length his luck had turned, and he was on the high road to
prosperity.
CHAPTER XIV.
HOW RUFUS SUCCEEDED IN BUSINESS.
Very little has been said of Rufus in his business relations. When he
