companion hitched violently towards the middle of the seat, so as to
make sure that she had her full share of the space. She cast a savage
glance at me, as though she thought I had invaded her privileges; but I
endeavored to follow the example of my predecessor in the seat, and be
too dignified to be annoyed.
"Goodness knows! I am glad that hog has gone!" ejaculated the old lady,
with no little venom in her tones, and loud enough to have been heard
by Mr. Collingsby, if his dignity had not closed his ears to such an
unfeminine expression.
I did not deem it prudent to take any notice of her; and, across the
aisle, I read the headings in large type in Mr. Collingsby's newspaper,
for I had none of my own to help me in preserving my dignity, or rather
in cultivating it.
"Some folks don't know much," added the old lady, spitefully.
I was perfectly willing to grant the truth of this proposition, even
without knowing whether it was intended to apply to Mr. Collingsby or
to me; though I was compelled to believe it was all in the family, and
made no difference. It was undeniable that "some folks didn't know
much;" but I was forced to deduce the corollary that the old lady was
one of the unfortunates included in the proposition.
"I say, some folks don't know much," repeated the old lady, forcibly.
"That Mr. Collingsby needn't put on airs, and pretend he don't know me.
I know'd him the moment that conductor-man spoke his name. He ain't no
better'n I am. My son's his pardner in business."
I couldn't help looking at her then. Her lips wore pursed up, and she
was the very impersonation of offended dignity. Her remark rather
startled me, and if it was true, I wished to make her acquaintance.
"Perhaps he didn't recognize you," I ventured to suggest.
"Perhaps he didn't; but none are so blind as them that won't see. Yes,
that man is my son's pardner in business; and my son is every bit and
grain as good as he is, though I say it, who ought not to say it. My
name's Whippleton, and my son's name is Charles Whippleton. I s'pose
you've heard of the firm of Collingsby and Whippleton--hain't you?"
"I never did," I replied.
Mr. Collingsby read his newspaper, and did not appear to hear a word
that was said; but I fancied his dignity was subjected to a severe
trial.
"Where have you been all your life, if you never heard of Collingsby
and Whippleton, the biggest lumber firm in Chicago?" added the old
lady.
"I never was in Chicago," I replied.
"O, you never was! Well, it's a sight to see! You hain't seen much of
the world if you never was in Chicago. Well, you are like a chicken
that ain't hatched; all your troubles are to come. There's a great many
mean folks in the world; you'll find that out soon enough. For my part,
if there's anything in this world that I hate, it's mean folks,"
continued Mrs. Whippleton, glancing maliciously across the aisle at Mr.
Collingsby. "That man's meaner'n gravel-stone chowder."
The old lady dropped her voice a little, as though she meant to be
confidential on this point. I was rather sorry to have the character of
my presumed uncle damaged in this manner, but I was not sufficiently
acquainted with him to attempt a defence.
"It was meaner'n dirt for him to set down side of me, and not even say
how d'ye do! I hate mean folks. I ain't mean myself. There ain't a mean
bone in my body--no, there ain't, if I do say it, that oughtn't to say
it."
"Probably the gentleman did not recognize you," I suggested again.
"He didn't want to re-cog-nize me," she persisted, throwing a bitter
emphasis on the middle of the word. "He didn't even look at me."
I wanted to ask her some questions about the Collingsby family; but I
did not like to do so while one of its members was so near me, for I
fancied that, deeply as he was absorbed in the newspaper, he heard
every word that was said by the garrulous old lady, who appeared to
have been talking more for his benefit than mine in some of her
remarks. But the appearance of the conductor at the forward end of the
car, taking up the tickets, changed the current of her thoughts, and
she commenced a violent demonstration upon her bag, her pocket, and her
bundles, in search of her ticket.
Most of the passengers produced their tickets, conscious, perhaps, how
nervous it makes the "gentlemanly conductor" when compelled to wait for
excited men or women to search through all their pockets, and all their
portable effects, for the evidence that they had paid their fare. I
noticed that Mr. Collingsby continued to gaze unmoved at the columns of
his newspaper, and when the conductor reached him, he slowly drew off
his kid glove, and deliberately took from his pocket-book the ticket,
which his dignity did not permit him to have ready before.
"Tickets, if you please," said the conductor, as he politely bowed to
Mr. Collingsby, and turned to the less important people in the car.
I gave up mine, and received a check; but Mrs. Whippleton was still
ransacking her bags and parcels.
"As I live and breathe, I've lost my ticket, or else somebody's stole
it!" exclaimed the old lady, glancing again towards Mr. Collingsby, who
must have been, in her estimation, the root of all evil and all
mischief.
"Did you buy one?" asked the conductor.
"Sartin I did," protested Mrs. Whippleton; "and it took nigh on to
every cent of money I had. I hain't got enough left to buy my dinner."
"Look round and find it," added the official.
"Look round! I've looked into everything I have. You hustled all my
things over, and I reckon it's your fault, more'n 'tis mine."
"Look again, and I will come back," added the conductor, as he passed
on his way.
"You hain't seen nothin' of my ticket--have you?" said Mrs. Whippleton,
as she commenced another onslaught upon her pockets and bundles.
"I have not."
But I did the best I could to assist her in the search. I got out of my
seat, and looked upon the floor in the vicinity. Neither of us was
successful in finding the lost pasteboard, for which the handsome sum
of twelve dollars had been expended. I really pitied the old lady, for
she did not appear to be in good circumstances herself, judging by the
quality of her clothing and her baggage. What seemed to make it worse
to me was the fact that she had spent all her money.
"I don't see what's become on't!" said she, in despair.
"Are you sure you bought one?" I asked, rather for the want of anything
else to say than because this was the most pertinent question.
"Why, do you think I'd lie about it?"
"Certainly not," I protested, alarmed at this violent deduction from my
remark.
"If I didn't buy a ticket, where's my money gone to?"
"You may have lost it before you got into the car."
"No, I didn't. I had it, I know, after I sot down here. You don't think
I'd try to cheat--do you?"
"Why, no! I didn't think of such a thing."
"Well, madam, have you found your ticket?" asked the conductor,
returning from the rear of the car.
"Hain't seen hide nor hair on't."
"Just get out of the seat and shake yourself. If you had a ticket at
all, it is here somewhere," added the gentlemanly official.
"Do you think I didn't have no ticket?" demanded Mrs. Whippleton,
pursing up her lips to express her wounded feelings.
"I don't know; jump up, and we will see."
I left my seat, and with a labored effort the old lady followed my
example. The conductor searched on the floor, and in the chair,
overhauled the bundles, and turned up the back of the seat, but with no
better success than had attended our previous efforts.
"Sartin 'tain't there," said the old lady, as she worked herself into
her seat again.
"No, it is not. Are you sure you had a ticket?"
"Do you think I'd lie about it?"
"Perhaps you lost it before you got into the car."
"No, I didn't. I had it while I sot here. I reckon you lost it when you
stirred up my things. If you hadn't teched 'em, it would have been all
right."
"Well, madam, I want your ticket or your fare."
"But I hain't got no ticket."
"Then give me twelve dollars."
"Twelve dollars!" ejaculated the old lady. "Do you think I'm made of
money?"
"I don't know that I care what you are made of, if you pay your fare."
"But I've spent all my money. I hain't got twelve dollars. Besides, I
don't want to pay twice."
"If you find your ticket, I will give you back your money."
"I tell you I hain't got twelve dollars. You can't hatch wooden eggs."
"Then you must leave the car, madam."
"Leave the car! And not go back to Chicago?"
"I must have your ticket or your fare before we stop next time," said
the conductor, passing on.
CHAPTER IV.
IN WHICH PHIL IS CHIVALROUS, BUT HAS HIS EYES OPENED.
I thought that the conductor was rather hard on the old lady, though I
was willing to allow that his duty admitted of no compromise.
"Did you ever hear the like on't?" exclaimed the old lady. "Put me out
of the car! He's a mean man, and I hate mean folks wus'n pizen."
"I suppose he has his duty to perform," I mildly suggested.
"'Tain't his duty to put a lone and onprotected woman out of the car;
and he wouldn't do it if my son Charles was here."
I concluded that if her son Charles were there, he would pay her fare,
like a dutiful son as he was. Presently the whistle on the locomotive
sounded, and we heard the scraping of the brakes, as the train prepared
to stop. The conductor promptly appeared, and again demanded her fare
or a ticket. The old lady seemed to be greatly troubled, and I expected
to have the whole seat to myself from this station.
"Suthin must be done!" said the old lady.
"That's so; give me your ticket or the twelve dollars," replied the
official.
"I can't do one nor t'other. I hain't got the money, and my ticket's
gone."
"Very well, madam. Then you must leave the train."
"But I don't know a soul here. Won't you trust me till we get to
Chicago?"
"I don't know you, and we do not give credit for fares."
"Mr. Collingsby, over there, knows me. My son's his pardner in
business."
"Very well, madam; if that is the case, there will be no trouble about
it," added the polite official, as he turned to the dignified
gentleman, and stated the case.
Mr. Collingsby glanced at the old lady, and shook his head, with a
deprecatory smile.
"I have not the pleasure of the lady's acquaintance," said he, after a
hasty glance at her face, as he turned his attention to his newspaper
again.
"She says her son is your partner in business," suggested the
conductor.
"That may be; but I don't know the lady. I am not aware that I ever saw
her," answered the head of the firm, without raising his eyes from his
paper.
"What is your name, madam?" demanded the conductor.
"Don't he know my name? Don't he know the name of his own pardner?"
"I asked your name, madam."
"My name's Whippleton--Mrs. Whippleton; and my son's his pardner."
"She says her name is Whippleton, and that her son is your partner,"
said the conductor, again appealing to the dignified head of the firm.
"I don't dispute it, sir," replied Mr. Collingsby, coldly. "My
partner's name is Whippleton, but I don't know that lady. As I said, I
am not aware that I ever saw her before."
"Shall I trust her for her fare?"
"Do as you please. As I don't know her, I cannot vouch for her,"
replied Mr. Collingsby, in a tone which implied that, if the conductor
knew what he was about, he would not disturb him any further on the
disagreeable subject.
"Mr. Collingsby does not know you, madam."
"That's what I call mean!" ejaculated Mrs. Whippleton, bitterly. "I
don't believe he'd know his own father if the old man didn't wear a
fashionable hat."
"He doesn't dispute what you say; but he doesn't know you. I must have
your fare, madam."
"I keep telling you, I hain't got no money."
"Then you must get out here."
"You don't mean so!"
"Yes, I do. Shall I help you out with your baggage?"
"But I'll pay you when I get to Chicago."
"That won't do. In a word, madam, I don't believe you lost your
ticket."
"Goodness! Do you think I'd lie about it?"
"I'm sorry to say I do think so. If I mistake not, you have tried this
game on before."
"What imperance!"
"Come, madam, be in a hurry!" persisted the conductor, reaching forward
and taking the old lady's largest bundle from the rack.
"I should like to speak to you a moment, Mr. Conductor," I interposed,
unable any longer to contain my indignation.
"What do you want?"
I rose, and requested him to go with me to the rear of the car.
"Speak quick, young man. Do you know this woman?" demanded the bustling
official.
"No; but I will be responsible for her fare," I replied, with as much
dignity as Mr. Collingsby could have assumed. "If she don't pay you
when we get to Chicago, I will."
"Will you, indeed! That is very kind of you; but we don't do business
in that way," laughed the conductor, with a glance which indicated how
much he pitied my greenness. "She has money enough, and she didn't buy
any ticket. It is only a trick to get rid of paying her fare."
"I will be responsible for the fare."
"Pay it now, then," added the conductor, shrugging his shoulders.
I do not know what it was that prompted me to this chivalrous action in
favor of a very disagreeable old lady; but I felt like a Christian who
was fighting the battle of his enemy. I took out my porte-monnaie, and
from the fifty-three dollars I had left of the sum I had taken to pay
my expenses, I gave the conductor twelve. He handed me a check for the
old lady, jumped out, and started the train. He treated me as though he
thought I was a fool; and I was myself inclined to believe he was more
than half right.
Several passengers had left the car at this station, and when I
returned to my seat, I found that Mr. Collingsby had changed his place
for one where he had a whole chair to himself, at some distance from
the old lady. I had no doubt he was glad to escape from the vicinity of
the troublesome passenger; but he still read his newspaper, as though
nothing had for a moment ruffled the current of his thoughts.
"I knew he wouldn't dare to put me out of the car!" said Mrs.
Whippleton, as I resumed my seat at her side. "Don't talk to me! He
didn't dare to perpetuate such an outrage."
"We are all right now," I replied.
"Yes, we are. Put me out! I should like to seen him done it! I should!
I reckon my son Charles would have taught him what it was to perpetuate
such an outrage on his mother. As for that Mr. Collingsby, he's a mean
man! Only to think that he didn't know me!"
"Have you ever met him?"
"Have I? Yes, I have. I have been in the counting-room when he was
there, and he looked right at me! And now he don't know me! No matter;
that conductor didn't dare to put me out of the car! He would have lost
his place if he had."
I handed her the check which the gentlemanly official had given me.
"What's that?"
"Your check."
"He's gettin' very perlite. How came he to give you this?"
"Because I paid your fare," I replied, in a low tone; for I did not
care to expose my innocence to the people around me.
"You did?"
"Yes; he would certainly have put you out of the car if I had not."
"I don't believe a word on't."
"I do, Mrs. Whippleton. He says you have done the same thing before."
"He's a fearful liar. I'll tell my son Charles all about it, and, if he
has any influence, that man shall smart for it."
"I don't think the conductor is to blame. He only did his duty."
"Then you think I'm to blame," said she, putting on her dignity.
"If you lost your ticket--"
"Do you think I didn't lose it?" she interposed, quick to catch even an
implied imputation.
"Of course I think you did lose it. But the conductor cannot pass every
one who says he has lost his ticket."
"Well, I don't care. It was a mean trick, and I'll tell Charles all
about it."
"I wouldn't say anything to him about it. It will only worry him; and
the conductor isn't to blame."
"Do you think it is right to put a lone woman out of the car because
she lost her ticket?"
"The conductor didn't know you."
"Yes, he did know me. I rid over this road only a week ago, when I went
down to St. Louis to see my nephew."
It was useless to argue the point with her. Perhaps, if she had made no
fuss when she got into the car, the conductor might have entertained a
different opinion of her. I wanted to obtain some information of her in
regard to the Collingsby family; and I am willing to offer this as the
reason for my chivalrous conduct.
"You know Mr. Collingsby, if he does not know you," I said, in order to
introduce the subject.
"He's my son's pardner in business."
"Are you personally acquainted with him?"
"Well, I can't say I am much acquainted with him. His folks and ourn
don't visit much, for, you see, the Collingsbys are rich and smart."
"He has a brother, I have heard."
"Yes; his brother Joseph is in Europe, with his wife and his sister."
"His sister?" I queried, deeply interested in this branch of the topic.
"Her name's Louise. She merried a good-for-nothin' feller in St. Louis,
and left him; so she's a grass widder now."
"Did you ever see her?"
"I never did; but law sake, I've hearn my son Charles tell all about
'em. He knows 'em, root and branch; and they are all on 'em jest about
as proud as Lucifer, and as consayted as a pullet over her fust egg.
They're rich, and that's all that can be said on 'em. My son Charles
does all the business of the firm, and if it wan't for him they'd all
gone to ruin long ago."
"But this Mr. Collingsby has a father?"
"Yes; and he's jest like all the rest on 'em. They are all proud and
consayted, and they come naterally enough by it, for the old man thinks
the ground ain't good enough for him to tread on."
"But he is not in business now?"
"Ain't he, though? Yes, he is. He's the sleepin' pardner of the house
of Collingsby and Whippleton. He put some money into it; but my son
Charles finds all the brains."
Of course I could not help having a very high estimate of her son
Charles; but I was not quite prepared to believe that my grandfather
and my uncles were so deficient in everything but pride as she
represented. Mrs. Whippleton continued to enlighten me in regard to the
character and antecedents of the Collingsbys until the train stopped
for dinner. I got out, and took a lunch, after the old lady had refused
my invitation to do so. Reflecting that she had no money, I carried her
a cup of tea and some sandwiches, which she did not refuse. The tea was
hot and strong, and in refined and elegant phrase, she informed me that
it "went to the right spot." I returned the cup and saucer as the bell
rang, and resumed my place at her side.
"You are a real nice young man, and I'm only sorry I didn't take you
into the seat with me when you fust got in," said she, apparently
overcome by my chivalrous devotion to her comfort.
"Thank you, madam," I replied. "I remembered that you said you had not
money enough even to buy a dinner, and I always like to do as I'd be
done by."
"But I ain't so poor as you think for. I will pay you for my fare and
for my tea," she continued; and, to my astonishment, she took from the
folds of her dress a roll of bills, which had been carefully pinned in.
"I thought you had no money!" I exclaimed, amazed at the sight I saw.
"I didn't want to rob you. I hate mean folks, and I ain't afeered on
'em," she added, as she handed me the twelve dollars I had paid on her
account.
"But you may find your ticket," I suggested.
"I don't expect to find it," she replied, with abundant resignation.
"If you do, I will get the money for it."
"I shall not find it. To tell the truth, I didn't have no ticket," she
answered, in a low tone, and with a vile chuckling, which indicated
that she was not to blame, even if her clever trick had failed.
I took the twelve dollars, and considered myself the luckiest person in
the world. I did not blame Mr. Collingsby for not recognizing her, even
if he did know her, and I begrudged the quarter I had expended upon her
in tea and sandwiches.
CHAPTER V.
IN WHICH PHIL TAKES A ROOM AT MRS. WHIPPLETON'S BOARDING-HOUSE.
It was quite a shock to me to find that one whom I had supposed to be
honest was guilty of a deliberate attempt to defraud the railroad
company out of the sum of twelve dollars; who had resorted to gross
lies and mean deception to carry her point. Upon my honor and
conscience, I would rather have lost the twelve dollars I had advanced
than had the old woman turn out to be a swindler. She might be fussy,
she might be disagreeable, she might be a dozen things that are
uncomfortable and unpleasant, if she had only meant to be true and
honest, and I could have respected her.
I was amazed; first, that she could be guilty of such a vile trick; and
second, that she had had the hardihood to acknowledge it, even to a boy
like me. My respect for the knowledge and penetration of the gentlemanly
conductor rose about ten degrees, and I was tempted to say to myself
that I would never again interfere in behalf of another "lone woman,"
especially if she was the mother of one as smart as her son Charles.
"You needn't tell that nasty conductor what I say," said Mrs.
Whippleton, as if conscious that she had been imprudent in revealing so
much to me.
"I don't think he needs to be told. It appears now that he understood
the case perfectly," I replied, disgusted with my seat-mate. "He said
you did not have any ticket, and that it was all a trick to evade
paying your fare."
"He didn't know that. He may say just the same thing six times, and be
mistaken five on 'em."
"Didn't you intend to pay your fare?"
"Perhaps I should, if they hadn't pussicuted me so in the beginning."
"But you didn't buy a ticket."
"No, I didn't. You are a green boy. What difference does it make to
this railroad company whether I paid my fare or not? They've got money
enough."
"But they wouldn't make much if people didn't pay."
"It don't make no difference if one don't pay now and then. You hain't
seen much of the world yet, my boy. When you have lived to be as old as
I am, you'll know more."
"I hope I shall not live so long as to be proud of being dishonest," I
replied, with considerable spirit.
"Dishonest? What do you mean by that? Do you pretend to say I'm
dishonest?"
"Well, madam, we needn't quarrel about words; but, if I had tried to
cheat the railroad company out of twelve dollars, or twelve cents, I
should call it being dishonest."
"You are a silly boy."
"I hope I always shall be silly, then. I should think God had forsaken
me, if I could deliberately try to wrong any one."
"You haven't seen the world. I have worked hard in my time. It took me
a good while to earn twelve dollars; and when I see a chance to save
twelve dollars, I generally always does so."
"You don't steal twelve dollars--do you--when you get a chance?"
"Steal! I hope not. I never did such a thing in my life. No, I'm an
honest woman; everybody that knows me will say that. If that nasty
conductor had used me well, I should have paid my fare; but it won't
make no difference to the company whether I did or not. Why shouldn't
Mr. Collingsby pay his fare as well as me?"
"He did; I saw him give up his ticket."
"You are a green boy. His ticket! It was a free pass. His father is a
great railroad man, and the whole family ride for nothing whenever they
please. It is just as right that I should go free as he; and I can tell
you, if I can get over the road for nothing, it is my duty to do so--a
duty I owe to myself and to my son Charles. You must live and learn,
young man; and when you can go over the road for nothing, don't waste
twelve dollars."
I did not like the old lady's philosophy, though I have since learned
that there are a great many people in the world who think it is no sin
to cheat a railroad corporation out of a few dollars, more or less. I
once heard a man, who pretended to be a gentleman, boasting that he
evaded paying his fare in the train because the conductor did not call
for it. I hold him to be a swindler, just as much as though he had been
called upon for his ticket. When he got into the car, he virtually
bargained with the railroad company to convey him a certain distance
for a certain price. No matter if the conductor did not formally demand
payment; it was his duty to pay, and he was just as much a swindler and
a thief, as though he had stolen or cheated some individual out of the
money.
I feel better now, after venting my righteous indignation on this
subject. I have a good deal more respect for the thief who steals your
money, or the gentlemanly swindler who plunders you of it by the polite
tricks of his art, than for these pretentious knaves who lie without
uttering a word, and steal without lifting a finger.
Mrs. Whippleton continued, for an hour, to assure me that I was
extraordinarily green, imparting a lesson on worldly wisdom, which, I
am happy to say, at the age of twenty-eight, has been utterly wasted
upon me.
"You haven't seen much of the world, and you don't know what's what
yet; but I like you, young man. You have behaved very well to a lone
woman, and you shan't lose nothing by it," she continued.
"I am entirely satisfied," I replied.
"I didn't mean you should lose anything by me. I might have cheated you
out of twelve dollars just as easy as nothing."
I was certainly very much obliged to her for her kind consideration in
this respect; and I was forced to acknowledge the truth of her
proposition. Though I despised her, I could not help seeing that she
had been just towards me.
"I am very much obliged to you for not doing it," I replied.
"No; I never cheat nobody; and I hate mean folks. It would have been
mean in me to let you lose twelve dollars after what you did for me. If
it hadn't been for you I should have been put out of the car."
"But you had money to pay your fare."
"I wouldn't pay that nasty conductor after I had told him I had no
money. One has to be persistent."
"I think you have been consistent all the way through."
"Thank'ee. After what you did, and the tea you fetched, I felt an
interest in you; and it ain't many folks I do feel an interest in."
Of course not! Not many people would have done anything for her to
induce her to feel an interest in them.
"I reckon you don't belong in Chicago," she continued.
"I do not. I never was there."
"Well, it's a wicked place."
Any place must be wicked from her stand-point.
"I suppose it is no worse than any city of its size."
"I don't know's it is. I suppose you have friends there."
"No."
"Well, where you goin' to stop, then?"
"I don't know yet. I shall go to some hotel, I suppose."
"Hotels are awful dear."
"I think I can stand it for a week or so at a cheap hotel. I don't mean
to go to the Tremont House."
"Don't waste your money in that way, you silly boy. It will cost you a
dollar and a half a day to live at any hotel."
"What shall I do?" I asked, willing to profit by the old lady's
knowledge, while I abhorred her principles.
"I keep boarders myself; and I only charge 'em four dollars a week. I
don't take none for a week or two; but I'll take you, after what's
happened, at the same price. You can save six or seven dollars in this
way."
"I thank you, Mrs. Whippleton. I'm very much obliged to you, and will
go to your house."
I was really relieved by this friendly offer, for I did not like to go
to a hotel among total strangers. Whatever Mrs. Whippleton was morally
could not affect me as a boarder for a brief period, while the saving
of expense was a great item to me. When the train arrived at Chicago,
the old lady gathered up her bundles, with my assistance, and we walked
to her house, which was at a considerable distance from the station.
The dwelling was a large, plain house. I found that it was furnished in
a very cheap style. The landlady called a servant girl, who conducted
me to a small room over the entry, in which there was a narrow bed. It
did not compare favorably with my quarters at Mrs. Greenough's, but I
thought I could stand it for a week. When I went down stairs, I was
invited to tea with the old lady. I came to the conclusion that the
boarders in the house paid full price for all they had, for the butter
was very strong, and the dishes were not particularly clean.
Before we had finished our supper, Mr. Charles Whippleton was
announced. He came into the room where the old lady was sipping her
tea, and after casting a sharp look at me, he threw himself into a
large rocking-chair, which was evidently kept for the especial use of
his mother. He was well dressed, and after I had heard so much about
the man, I scrutinized his features quite closely. I was not favorably
impressed, for there was an expression of sharpness and cunning in his
face which did not suit me. Mrs. Whippleton did not take the trouble to
introduce me.
"Got home, mother?" said he, without wasting any of his breath in
affectionate terms.
"I have, thank fortin; but I didn't expect to get home."
"Why, what's the matter now?" demanded the dutiful son, whose question
implied that something was always the matter.
Mrs. Whippleton informed him what was the matter now, including a
detailed account of her grievances. To my surprise, the affectionate
son informed her that she was an old fool, glancing at me, as though,
after a day's experience with his maternal parent, I ought to be able
to confirm his rash statement in the fullest manner.
I prudently held my peace.
"I may be an old fool, but I know when I am insulted."
"I would rather given fifty dollars than had you appeal to Mr.
Collingsby."
"He's a mean man."
"Perhaps he is; but I must keep on the right side of him."
"You can keep on the right side of him, Charles; but don't ask me to do
so, for I hate mean folks. If I should meet that man in the street
to-night, I wouldn't speak to him."
"He wouldn't cry if you didn't," sneered Mr. Charles.
"I don't know as I should ever have got home, if this young man had not
took care on me."
Mr. Whippleton glanced at me again, as though he thought I was as big a
fool as his maternal parent.
"Well, let all that go," continued the dutiful son. "Did you see Rufus
in St. Louis?"
"I did see him; and only to think on't, after I had taken all that
trouble and spent all that money, he wouldn't come," replied the old
lady, indignantly.
"I hope you are satisfied now," added Mr. Charles, with much disgust.
"Well, I had my visit, any how."
"What's the reason Rufus won't come?"
"His folks don't want him to leave home. They say he isn't very
well--just as though I couldn't take care on him!"
"Very well; you've kept me out of a clerk for three weeks for his sake,
and that is all it amounts to."
Mr. Charles departed in disgust; and Mrs. Whippleton explained that she
had been to St. Louis to induce her nephew's son, a young man of
eighteen, to take the place of entry clerk in the counting-room of the
firm. That was just such a place as I wanted; and, while the garrulous
landlady was detailing the particulars, I considered whether I should
apply for it.
CHAPTER VI.
IN WHICH PHIL IS ENGAGED AS ENTRY CLERK FOR COLLINGSBY AND WHIPPLETON.
I intended to be a clerk, but I had not thought of such a thing as
applying for a situation in Chicago. I did not like the idea of being
separated from my father; but, when I learned that there was a vacancy
in the counting-room of Messrs. Collingsby and Whippleton, I was
tempted to obtain it if I could. I did not expect or desire to make a
violent assault upon my grandfather, but to reach him by easy and
gradual approaches. A situation in the house of which he was the silent
partner I thought would help me amazingly. It seemed to me that I could
not plan anything better to accomplish my purpose.
I could get acquainted with my uncle and my grandfather. I hoped that I
might even be able to do something to win their regard and favor.
Certainly the first step towards such a result was to place myself in a
position where I could see them occasionally. I did not like the looks
of Mr. Whippleton, and I was afraid he had imbibed the worldly wisdom
of his mother. But this feeling was not to weigh against the immense
advantages I might derive from meeting the Collingsbys. The more I
thought of the matter, the more I was inclined to apply for the place.
I believed that I was fully competent to keep a set of books by double
entry, and certainly I was fit for an entry clerk.
"What kind of a place is it that you wished your nephew to fill, Mrs.
Whippleton?" I asked, after Mr. Charles had gone.
"Well, I don't know much about it, but Charles called it an entry
clerk. I suppose he has to do his work out in the entry because the
counting-room isn't big enough, or because he ain't smart enough to
come into the presence of such mighty men as that Mr. Collingsby."
"How much do they pay him?"
"I don't know exactly; but not more'n four or five dollars a week--just
enough for him to starve on. You see, I heard that my nephew's son
wanted a place, and couldn't get one in St. Louis. I thought, this
would be a good chance for him. I wanted to make 'em a visit, for they
owed me some money I lent 'em. I told Charles he must take Rufus, and I
put him off till I was able to go to St. Louis. The spring business was
comin' on, and he couldn't wait; so I hurried off. I got the money my
nephew owed me; but they wouldn't let the boy come to Chicago, though I
told 'em I went down purpose arter him. Charles fretted a good deal
because I made him wait; but Charles minds his mother, if he is sassy
sometimes. He knows I've got some money that I can't take with me when
I leave this world for a better one."
I thought it was rather impudent for her to talk about a better world,
when she was doing all she could to make this a mean one; and I doubted
whether, unless she mended her ways, the other would be a better one to
her.
"I have two merried daughters that need what little I've got more than
Charles does; and he owes me now for what I let him have to set up in
business. He owes all he has in this world to me," continued the old
lady, complacently.
"He wants an entry clerk immediately?" I suggested.
"Yes; Charles has had to do all the work himself, for, you see, he
keeps the books of the firm. Well, he does all the business, for that
matter. He's all there is of the firm, except the money the Collingsbys
put in. Howsomever, I suppose it's just as well that Rufus didn't come,
for ef he had, I should had to board him for three dollars a week; and
he's a growin' boy, and eats more'n a man."
"Do you think I could get this place?"
"You! My stars! I don't know!" exclaimed the old lady. "Can you write?"
"Yes."
"Good at figgers?"
"Pretty good, I think."
"They want somebody that's smart. Charles was afraid Rufus wouldn't do,
but I desisted on having on him; and Charles knows I'm smart enough to
make a will now if I take a notion."
"I didn't think of looking for a place in Chicago," I added; "but this
looks like a good chance."
"Why didn't you say so before Charles went off? If you want the place,
you shall have it. I say so, and I know what I'm saying; and Charles
has been afraid all along that I might make a will."
"I should like to go on trial; but I don't know that I can stay in
Chicago a great while."
"They want somebody right off, and somebody that's smart."
"I think I could suit them. I can keep books; and besides, I have
worked at carpentering for two years, and I know something about
lumber. Where is your son now? Is he in the house?"
"Sakes, no!" exclaimed the old lady, beginning to be excited. "He don't
board here; 'tain't smart enough for him; but I'll go with you and see
him."
"Thank you, Mrs. Whippleton."
"I'm pretty tired; but I'm allus willin' to do what I can for a
feller-cretur. I went clear down to St. Louis to help my nephew's son;
and I'll do as much for you as I would for him."
"I won't trouble you to go with me. If you will tell me where he is, I
will go alone."
"That won't do. I must lay down the law to Charles; and if he dares to
do any different from what I tell him, he won't touch any more of my
money--that's all."
I did not exactly like the idea of having Mr. Charles placed under
compulsion to take me, whether he liked me or not; and I decided, if he
objected to the arrangement, to take myself out of his way. We walked
to the residence of Mr. Charles, which was a genteel house in a good
section of the city. He had a parlor and bed-room, and seemed to live
in good style. Before she said anything about me, Mrs. Whippleton took
her son into the entry, where, I suppose, she "laid down the law" to
him."
"My mother says you want a place as entry clerk," said Mr. Charles,
when they returned to the parlor, where I was seated.
"Yes, sir," I replied, with becoming deference.
"When can you go to work?"
"At once, sir."
"To-morrow morning?"
"Yes, sir."
He then questioned me in regard to my knowledge of book-keeping and
arithmetic, and wanted to know if I understood board measure, and could
read lumber marks. I told him I had been a carpenter, and knew all
about lumber. I could keep a set of books by double entry, and thought
I was competent to perform all sorts of mercantile calculations. But he
was too shrewd and suspicious to take me on my own recommendation. He
gave me a sheet of paper, pen, and ink, and told me to write my name.
"Farringford!" exclaimed he, as he read what I wrote.
"Yes, sir; that is my name."
"Do you belong to the Farringfords of St. Louis?"
"Yes; but I was brought up on the upper Missouri."
"Well, your name is nothing in your favor; however, that isn't your
fault," he added, magnanimously; but fortunately he said no more on
that subject. "Now, what is the interest on two thousand dollars for
six months at eight per cent?"
"Eighty dollars," I replied, as soon as he had the question out of his
mouth, for my father had practised me thoroughly in all the short
methods of computing interest.
He gave me half a dozen other problems; but, as he selected only those
which he could solve in his own mind, I was very prompt in my replies.
He then wrote out an example in averaging accounts, and as it was not a
difficult one, and involved only round numbers, I did it very readily.
"But the most important thing with us," added Mr. Whippleton, "is
simple addition. I don't like to wait half an hour for a clerk to run
up a column of figures."
He then wrote about twenty sums of money, each having five or six
figures, and told me to add them. My father had always assured me that
simple addition tried the young accountant more than anything else, and
he had insisted that I should practise it until I could run up a column
as rapidly as my eye could take in the figures. I had used this
exercise for months, until I flattered myself I could give the sum of a
column as quick as any practised book-keeper. At the same time, he had
taught me his own method, that of taking two figures at once, and
adding their sum to the result already obtained. It was just as easy
for one quick at figures to add thirteen, sixteen, eighteen, or
nineteen, as it was to add three, six, eight, or nine. Thus, if the
figures in the column were 6, 5, 4, 7, 9, 3, 8, 2, 9, 1, my father
added them in couples, for it required no effort of the mind to add six
and five, four and seven, nine and three, eight and two, or nine and
one; and the mental process was eleven, twenty-two, thirty-four,
forty-four, fifty-four.
I had practised this system until I could carry it along as rapidly as
I could by adding a single figure at a time. Mr. Whippleton made his
figures in duplicate when he wrote them, and added one himself to prove
that I was right or wrong. Before he was half done, I had my result.
"You are wrong," said he, decidedly, when he had finished. "I would
rather have you use twice as much time, and have the result right, than
do it quick, and have it wrong. Accuracy first, and speed next."
That was just what my father had always told me, and I was rather
mortified at the failure. I went over the columns again, with the same
result.
"I get it so again, sir," I replied, when I had added the columns in an
