Mr. Meredith was on the ice awhile, but presently 
he left Ada to some of her boyish gallants, and re- 
joined the party standing on the bridge, telling Miss 
Jessie that it was a great oversight in not bringing 
her skates, and that he had half a mind to borrow a 
pair. 

" Not to-day," she returned, smilingly. " But what 
a lovely skater your little niece is ! ' 

" She is up in all the accomplishments," he re- 
turned, dryly. Then he patted Kathie's rosy cheek 
and commiserated her a little. 

" She is going to try to-morrow morning," Uncle 




Eobert exclaimed. " I must invest in two pairs of 
skates to-night, though I don't know as I shall be 
able to stand up on them. Skating is wellnigh a 
lost art with me." 

" And I 'll bring Miss Jessie," said Mr. Meredith. 
" We will have a nice quiet time to ourselves before 
the crowd begins." 

That evening they all went to a concert. The 
Meredith family carriage took them and brought 
them back, and Ada fancied that she made quite an 
impression. 

But the morning Ada knew nothing about. They 
had a very comical time, though it must be confessed 
that Kathie did very well and distinguished herself 
by not more than half a dozen tumbles. Uncle 
Eobert was rather awkward, but Miss Jessie skated 
beautifully, and they all enjoyed it very much. 

A few days afterward Kathie went to tea at Ada's. 
The play in the nursery with the children was very 
delightful indeed, and Kathie told them some laugh- 
able little stories. They coaxed her into taking sup- 
per with them, and had Ada's beautiful china set. 
Kathie poured the tea, which they all thought a great 
treat. 



 

" How very childish you are ! " Ada said, with dig- 
nity. " Why, I gave up playing with them long ago. 
They never expect it of me." 

" They 're so sweet that I can't help loving them/' 
returned Kathie, deprecatingly. 

" And a great bore ! " 

Kathie was silent. There were some subjects on 
while she and Ada did not agree. 

" Is Miss Darrell going home when your uncle 
does ? " Ada asked, presently. 

"Yes." She almost said, "And Mr. Meredith is 
goin with them," but checked herself from some 

O o ' 

inward impulse. 

" I suppose she is engaged to your uncle." 

" Engaged ! " Kathie repeated, in completest sur- 
prise. 

" Yes, engaged ! "What a little innocent you are, 
Kathie Alston ! Why, I should have guessed it a 
long time ago if I had seen them together. And 
then his bringing her to the city, - - lovers always do 
such things, you know. Besides, I think he is very 
devoted." 

Kathie was struck dumb momentarily. Only it 
really did seem to her that of the two Mr. Meredith 





had shown the most devotion. He had been very 
solicitous for Miss Jessie's comfort, wrapping her 
well from the cold, and afraid she would fatigue her- 
self skating too long, while Uncle Eobert treated her 
like a friend or sister. Her brain seemed to be in a 
great maze of confusion. 

" Then you don't like it ? " said Ada, who had been 
watching the thoughtful face. 

" Why, I like Miss Jessie very much ; and if it 
were true, yes, I think it would be real nice." 

" "Well, it is true ; no one could have a doubt 
about it," returned Ada, in a very positive manner ; 
" mamma was speaking of it - 

"Why, how did she know?" interrupted Kathie, 
with fresh amaze. 

" Uncle Edward has mentioned Miss Darrell sev- 
eral times, and you know we all went to the concert. 
She is very pretty and pleasant, but mamma thinks 
it would be a rather unfortunate thing for you all." 

Ada had been present at a trifling conversation 
between her parents on the subject, and she was 
makinor the most of her knowledge. 


"Why, she would be our aunt, you know," said 
Kathie, with pleasant frankness. 



 

" But she would come to live at Cedarwood, and 
be mistress." 

" There 's plenty of room, I am sure." 

" Oh, what a goose you are, Kathie ! She might not 
want your mother nor your Aunt Euth there, and 
she might not like to have her husband spend so 
much money on you all. You know you wouldn't 
have any real claim then, neither would it be your 
house." 

" I don't believe Miss Jessie would feel so at all," 
said Kathie, indignantly. 

" But your mother would have a good deal of deli- 
cacy about it, and I should think it would be real 
hard to be poor again. Then, you know, he could 
n't leave his fortune to you, and he would be very 
likely to have children of his own." 

Poor Kathie ! Her vision of pleasant years 
gloomed over, though she couldn't believe marry- 
ing Miss Jessie would make such a difference. 

" It is too bad, Kathie," Ada went on, sympathiz- 
ingly ; " I should not even like Uncle Edward to 
marry, for he gives me so many pretty things, and 
takes me out, and when I am a young lady it will be 
so nice to have him, for he is a good deal younger 





than papa, and handsomer too ; so I should feel 
awfully cross. 

" I don't feel cross," said Kathie ; but her lip 
quivered and the tears almost came in her eyes. 
" We should try to be happy ; and we do love Miss 
Jessie very much. I don't believe it would be 
quite so bad." 

" If you had an income of your own ; but to be 
dependent upon your uncle for every penny, and 
to feel that his wife considered you a burden - 

" We will not talk any more about it," said Kathie, 
suddenly, for her heart was almost breaking. 

Ada had felt a little sore over General Mackenzie's 
preference, and she rather enjoyed the idea of being 
even with Kathie, as she would have termed it ; and 
she said to herself that it was all true, she had 
advanced no opinions but those she had heard her 
mother utter. Whether it was kind or necessary she 
never considered, for she was not much used to 
studying the happiness of other people. 

Then they went down to the piano, and Ada 
played while they both sang. At first Kathie 
thought she could not steady her voice ; but the 
effort took her mind from the mountain of appre- 
hension that loomed up before her. 



 

The two girls sang very- beautifully together. 
Kathie had a fine, clear soprano voice, while Ada's 
was a very rich alto, every one said, for a child. 
Mrs. Meredith was exceedingly proud of her daugh- 
ter, and liked to have her admired, while Ada was 
nowise loath td be brought forward. 

Two or three friends dropped in presently and were 
much entertained. Kathie hoped that Mr. Edward 
Meredith would make his appearance, but he did not. 
What would both girls have said if they had known 
that he was spending the evening with Miss Jessie, 
at her uncle's, and being " most devoted " ? 

On the whole, Kathie was rather glad to go home. 
They sent her in the carriage with the nursery-maid, 
a very nice, pleasant girl, who thought Kathie the 
sweetest being that she had ever seen. Uncle Eobert 
had been passing most of the evening with Aunt 
Ruth, who had begun to rally a little, and he was 
finishing by a talk with Mrs. Markham. 

" Well, Pussy," he exclaimed, kissing her fondly, 
" did you have a nice time ? " 

, 
could she ever bear to give him up to another, even 
if that other was Miss Jessie ? 





" It was very pleasant," she answered, in a quiet 
tone, and then she sat on his knee until he was ready 
to go. 

" Only two days more," he said at the hall door. 
" I shall be very sorry not to take you with me, little 
one, yet I am glad to have you stay with Aunt Euth. 
I feel quite sure that she will get well. To-morrow 
you must go out and buy some Christmas with me." 

She went up to kiss Aunt Euth good night. 

" My darling," the invalid said, " Uncle Eobert has 
told me of your resolve to stay. It is so kind and 
generous in you, but I do not feel quite as if I could 
allow such a sacrifice." 

" It really will not be hard for me, Aunt Euth," she 
answered, sweetly. " And if I were home I should be 
thinking of you and how lonesome you were, and it 
would make the Christmas less merry. You have 
done so many kind things for all of us children, 
especially me, that I ought to make some return." 

" But this is a great deal, Kathie. And I think I 
would rather have you go home for a week or two, 
even if you came back. It may be two months before 
I can venture to travel." 

" I believe I would rather stay right along," Kathie 


answered, quietly. " I ought to do this, Aunt Kuth, 
and I ought to be learning to endure some of the 
trials of life," and she hesitated a little. " Uncle 
Kobert said he was glad that I had resolved to stay. 
And then mamnia thinks of coming as soon as she 
can be spared." 

" You are a clear little girl, and I hope God will 
reward you by a happy future." 

But while Kathie was saying her prayers the 
slow tears would fill her eyes in spite of her efforts at 
calmness. Somehow there was a lonely foreboding 
that she could not quite overcome. What if all their 
lives should be changed presently as Ada had sug- 
gested ? And then her heart filled with thankfulness 


at the prospect of Aunt Ruth's recovery. 

They had a pleasant time buying Christmas gifts, 
but Kathie was much graver than usual. Uncle 
Eobert attributed it to a lingering disappointment at 
not being able to return home as she had wished, and 
was not surprised at it. He was very tender and con- 
siderate, and it seemed more than once as if she must 
tell him what was on her mind. 

" It would be selfish not to care for his happiness 
as well," she thought to herself, and was silent. 





The parting came hard, after all, though Uncle 
Eobert was merry to the last moment. Mr. Meredith 
ran in too, to say good by. 

"I 'll appropriate your share of the Christmas- 
tree," he announced, gayly. " If I should make my- 
self sick eating dainties, it will be in a good cause, 
you know." 

Then he kissed her and did what was very odd, 
she thought, - - linked Miss Jessie's hand in his arm 
and marched her out of the waiting-room to the 
car. She was talking and smiling, and looked bright 
and happy as a queen. 

Dr. Markliam lifted Kathie in his buggy and 
tucked the wolf robe around her, for he had brought 
her down to see the travellers off. Studying her a 
moment, he said, in a tone of great tenderness, 
" That 's a brave little face. My child, you are learn- 
ing some of the best lessons of life." 

Kathie's chin quivered, and a tear dropped on the robe. 

" When you are a woman and have severer trials, 
as nearly all men and women do, you will look back 
at this and be thankful for the strength and courage 
gained now. I am so glad for your aunt's sake." 

With that commendation Kathie was content. 



 



CHAPTEE XI. 

KATHIE'S CHRISTMAS. 

IT seemed to Ivathie that she had never known 
anything so quiet as the two days that followed. On 
Saturday there was no music, as Mrs. Gifford had 
gone away on a visit, and on Sunday it snowed. 
She sat in Aunt Euth's room sewing or reading, and 
not saying much, for the invalid was not sufficiently 
strong for conversations of any length. Kathie made 
an admirable attendant in a sick-room on account of 
her rare gift of tender silence. Now and then she 
glanced up with a smile, she moved a pillow or 
brought a drink, and made no confusion. She never 


stumbled against any article of furniture, or dropped 
anything she took in her hand. Part of this ease 
came by nature, but much of it from her habit of 
studying the comfort of others. She tried to think, 
and though that is not always easy to do, it brings 
an exceeding great reward. 

Aunt Euth could not sit up at all now, though all 




her symptoms were favorable, except that her appe- 
tite was so very slender. Indeed, this had been a 
difficulty all along, and added to the anxieties of the 
case. Kathie could do better with her than the 
nurse, and this was one reason why Dr. Markham 
had not wished to spare her, even for a few days, at 
this crisis. 

Kathie felt really glad that it was not necessary 
to make an effort at conversation. She had much to 
think of during these days. Visions of home that 
were most tempting floated in upon her, and a long- 
ing for mamma that made her heart ache ; for giving 
up the visit had not been an easy thing. 

The entire change, too, made it appear more lone- 
some. No Uncle Eobert dropping in for a pleasant 
call, and no events of any kind to break the monot- 
ony. Even Dr. Markham seemed unusually busy, 
and she scarcely saw him. The weather was not 
very fine, for on Monday it snowed again. 

But Christmas morning dawned beautifully ; Kathie 
heard the bells ringing in the clear air, and her heart 
went up in praise and thanksgiving. Unconsciously 
she said to herself part of a hymn that she had 
learned the year before and almost forgotten : 



 

" "Wake me, that I the twelvemonth long 

May bear the song 

About with me in the world's throng ; 
That treasured joys of Christmas-tide 
May with mine hour of gloom abide ; 

The Christmas carol ring 
Deep in my heart, when I would sing ; 

Each of the twelve good days 
Its earnest yield of duteous love and praise, 
Insuring happy months and hallowing common ways." 

And then a stray glimpse of that time swept over 
her brain, the little kitchen with its rag-carpet, 
and three stockings hanging just below the mantel. 
How gay they had all been, laughing and talking 
and wishing merry Christrnases, the voices growing 
louder and louder until mamma had to check them. 
And how many lovely things had happened all 
through the year ! Yes, she must be glad and thank- 
ful, and bear about with her the many treasured joys 
that God had given. Had she really been repining 
in thought for the last few days ? Well, she would 
remember the happy home faces, but not long for 
anything that she missed. It would all come back 
in good time. 

The brightest and sweetest face in the world bent 





over and kissed Aunt Euth's pale lips, and the tender 
voice murmured its fond greeting. 

" My dear child, how happy you look ! " was Aunt 
Euth's surprised exclamation. 

" I am happy/' was the joyous reply. 

" I have been thinking of you ever since I woke, 
and, Kathie, it seemed so hard to keep you 
here when you might be enjoying so much more 
pleasure. If it wasn't the first Christmas at Cedar- 
wood - - and there may never be another that could 
have been so happy." Aunt Euth's eyes filled with 
tears. 

There was a great throb in Kathie's heart, and she 
tried to steady the quiver in her voice. 

" Dear Aunt Euth," she said, " it is all right and 
best as it is. Why shouldn't I give up a little 
pleasure for you ? If I were ill you would do it 
willingly. Dr. Markham approves of my staying, 
and so did Uncle Eobert, and now you shall see 
how merry I am going to be. First I shall bathe 
your face and hands, and then see about your break- 
fast. It is a glorious day ! Look at the sun." 

Aunt Euth was soon made ready. Kathie ran 
down to the kitchen and begged the nurse to let her 



 

toast some bread. Her mother had a fashion of 
making very delightful milk toast, and Kathie did 
this to a charm. Then there was a rare bit out of 
the tenderloin steak to broil. 

" I did everything myself," she exclaimed, laugh- 
ingly. " Cook is going to give me a recommendation 
when I want a new place ! ' : 

" The odor is quite tempting," was Aunt Euth's 
reply. 

"And you must eat it all." 

They had quite a gay time over the breakfast, and 
for a wonder Aunt Euth's appetite appeared im- 
proved. 

" I believe I really do feel better," she exclaimed, 
much encouraged. 

" Good tidings," said Kathie, " and it will be a 
great joy to me ! " 

" Now you must run down to the dining-room 
yourself, for there goes the bell." 

" I think I 'll take the Afghan with me " ; and 
Kathie brought it out of the closet. " It is not quite 
finished, but I can do that afterward; and to-day 
seems the time for gifts." 

She had spent all her leisure time upon it, and it 





was very pretty indeed. Crocheted in stripes, the 
alternate ones being black, embroidered with bright 
flowers. A little of the work still remained to be 
clone, for Kathie had met with so many interruptions 
during the past fortnight. She wrapped herself in it, 
laughing gayly, and stole softly down. 

Dr. Markham was just coming out of his office. 
" Who is this ? ' he exclaimed, catching her in his 
arms, for she was enveloped head and ears. 

" Santa Glaus," she made answer, in a rather 
smothered tone of voice. 

" What has he sent me, you little rogue of a mes- 
senger ? Three good kisses, three good wishes * 

"'And a slice of ginger' done up in this," she 
answered, with which the Afghan fell at his feet. 

" This is the ginger, then, I suppose ? " and he 
kissed her rosy cheek. " But, seriously, Miss Kathie, 
all this gay - Why, it 's a carriage-blanket ! and I 
doubt if it came down the chimney, it looks so fresh 
and beautiful." 

Mrs. Markham ventured out of the breakfast-room. 
She had been in^the secret, and enjoyed the surprised 
look of the doctor very much. 

" I think these little fingers had something to do 
with it," she said, clasping Kathie's hand. 



 

" My dear child, - - for me ? Why, you are the 
dearest little Santa Glaus I ever saw ! I don't know 
what to say to you. I have half a mind to steal you 
from your kith and kin and take you to the moon, 
wrapped in this blanket." 

" Let her have a little breakfast first, for I don't 
believe they have muffins and chocolate in the 
moon," interposed Mrs. Markham. 

" I must tell you that you have an invitation to a 
Christmas-tree to-night at my nephew's. I wish 
there was a branch of it round here just now " ; 
and the doctor's eyes twinkled. 

Kathie turned her plate over after she was seated. 
A small, square, red Eussia-leather box lay under- 
neath. There was a tiny, golden ornamented scroll, 
containing her own name, set in the top. 

" A miniature I " she exclaimed. 

" Open it " ; and the doctor smiled. 

There was a card on which was written, " To my 
darling Kathie. E. C." 

" Uncle Eobert. Oh ! ?: And then for a moment 
Kathie could do nothing but look. The loveliest 
watch imaginable, the case richly engraved, and 
bits of enamelled leaves that seemed set with 

 





diamonds, while attached was a very handsome 
chain. 

"You knew about this," Kathie said, glancing up 
at the doctor, with a bright smile. 

"Yes, it was left in my charge." 

Kathie's face was one glow of delight, good to 
behold. She could hardly eat her breakfast, so full 
of pleasure was every nerve and every breath. 

" I must go up stairs with you," the doctor said, 
" or I am afraid you will set Miss Conover wild ; and 
I can't have my patient tampered with." 

So they went together, Kathie hopping up two 
steps at a time ; but the doctor held her hand 
tightly, and would not let her get much in advance. 

" Your business comes afterward, being of less 
importance," he began, gravely nodding his head to 
Kathie, as he helped himself to a chair and greeted 
his patient cordially. 

" Why, here is quite a pulse instead of the mere 
thread I 've had to hunt for the last fourteen days," 
he said, in surprise. " Have you been getting up an 
excitement ? " 

" I really do feel better," Aunt Euth returned. " I 
ate quite a breakfast." 





" Oh, you 'll be frisking about with the best of them 
next year this time, hanging up your stocking and all 
that nonsense ! I dare say we shall have you dan- 
cing a jig." 

Kathie laughed at this, it seemed so very amus- 



ing. 



" Yes, there is a decided improvement. I think 
you are well enough to hear about my Christ- 



mas ! 



He told the most comical story imaginable, in 
which Kathie scarcely recognized herself, but his 
hearer enjoyed it immensely. 

Here there was an interruption. Mrs. Havens, 
Kathie's old friend, who had been away on a visit 
and but just returned, sent to know if Kathie would 
not like to go to church with her. The children were 
to sing some beautiful carols. 

Kathie looked undecided, and raised her eyes to 
Aunt Euth. 

" Of course you will," said the doctor. " You 
want a sniff of fresh air, and by that time your 
auntie will desire a quiet rest. Go and keep Christ- 
mas - - I need not add with a happy heart, for you 
always have that." 





Then lie gave a few directions to Miss Conover 
and left them together. Kathie displayed her beau- 
tiful gift. 

" 'T is just what I have been wishing for, Aunt 
Euth, but Uncle Eobert was always doing so many 
kind things that it seemed ungrateful to ask for any 
other gift. my little darling, you 're just good 
enough to kiss for dear Uncle Eobert's sake." 

" It is very lovely, and I am so glad to see you 
enjoy it thoroughly." 

" And, Aunt Euth, you think - - you feel sure that 
Uncle Eobert will always love us ? " 

She knelt down by the bed and buried her face 
close to Aunt Euth's cheek. It seemed treason to 
doubt any one so kind. Somehow she wished Ada 
had not mentioned the surmise. 

" My darling, yes. God has sent us one of the 
dearest and kindest of friends. While he lives, we 
shall not lack for tender care." 

Yes, it was selfish and wicked to grudge him any 
happiness, and if he wanted to marry Miss Jessie 
they would all rejoice over it. Not another troubled 
thought could she admit. He would always love 
them, and that was sufficient. With that Kathie's 



 

burden fell away, and it was just as if she entered 
