was commanding in stature; his features were symmetrical; his bearing
high-bred. His conversation was sensible, but never brilliant or
animated. In his own household he was calmly despotic; in his county,
respected and unpopular--one of whom nobody dared speak ill, yet whom
nobody had reason to love. There was a single person who believed
herself to be an exception to this rule. This was his sister Mabel. Some
said she worshipped him in default of any other object upon which she
could expend the wealth of her young, ardent heart; others, that
his strong will enforced her homage. The fact of her devotion was
undeniable, and upon his appreciation of this Aunt Rachel built her
expectations of a favorable hearing when she volunteered to prepare the
way for Mr. Chilton’s formal application for the hand of her nephew’s
ward. Between herself and Winston there existed little real liking and
less affinity. She was useful to him, and his tolerance of her society
was courteous, but she understood perfectly that he secretly despised
many of her views and actions, as, indeed, he did those of most women.
Her present mission was undertaken for the love she bore Mabel and her
sister. It was not kind to send the girl to tell her own story. It
was neither kind nor fair to subject their guest to the ordeal of
an unheralded disclosure of his sentiments and aspirations, with the
puissant lord of Ridgeley as sole auditor.
“Fred would never get over the first impression of your brother’s
chilling reserve,” said the self-appointed envoy to Mabel, when she
insisted that her affianced would plead his cause more eloquently than
a third person could. “For, you, must confess, my love, that Winston,
although in most respects a model to other young men, is unapproachable
by strangers.”
As she said “your accounts and so forth,” she looked at the table from
which Mr. Aylett had arisen to set a chair for her. There was a pile of
account-books at the side against the wall, but they were shut, and over
heaped by pamphlets and newspapers; while before the owner’s seat lay
an open portfolio, an unfinished letter within it. Winston wiped his pen
with deliberation, closed the portfolio, snapped to the spring-top of
his inkstand, and finally wheeled his office chair away from the desk to
face his visitor.
“Is it upon business that you wish to speak to me?”
He always disdained circumlocution, prided himself upon the directness
and simplicity of his address. This acted now as a dissuasive to the
sentimental address Mrs. Sutton had meditated as a means of winning
the flinty walls behind which his social affections and sympathies were
supposed to be intrenched. Had her mission been in behalf of any other
cause, she would have drawn off her forces upon some pretext, and
effected an ignominious retreat. Nerved by the thought of Mabel’s
bashfulness and solicitude, and Frederic’s strangerhood, she stood to
her guns.
Winston heard her story, from the not very coherent preamble, to the
warm and unqualified endorsement of Frederic Chilton’s credentials, and
her moved mention of the mutual attachment of the youthful pair, and
never changed his attitude, or manifested any inclination to stay
the narration by question or comment. When she ceased speaking, his
physiognomy denoted no emotion whatever. Yet, Mabel was his nearest
living relative. She had been bequeathed to his care, when only ten
years old, by the will of their dying father, and grown up under his eye
as his child, rather than a sister. And he was hearing, for the first
time, of her desire to quit the home they had shared together from her
birth, for the protection and companionship of another. Mrs. Sutton
thought herself pretty well versed in “Winston’s ways,” but she had
expected to detect a shade of softness in the cold, never-bright eyes
and anticipated another rejoinder than the sentence that stands at the
head of this chapter.
“And so you know nothing of this gentleman beyond what he has told you
of his character and antecedents?” he said--the slender white fingers,
his aunt fancied, looked cruel even in their idleness, lightly linked
together while his elbows rested upon the arms of his chair.
“My dear Winston! what a question! Haven’t I told you that he is my
husband’s namesake and godson! I was at his fathers house a score of
times, at least, in dear Frederic’s life-time. It was a charming place,
and I never saw a more lovely family. I recollect this boy perfectly,
as was very natural, seeing that his name was such a compliment to my
husband. He was a fine, manly little fellow, and the eldest son. The
christening-feast was postponed, for some reason I do not now remember,
until he was two years old. It was a very fine affair. The company was
composed of the very elite of that part of Maryland, and the Bishop
himself baptized the two babies--Frederic, and a younger sister. I know
all about him, you see, instead of nothing!”
“What was the date of this festival?” asked Winston’s unwavering voice.
“Let me see! We had been married seven years that fall. It must have
been in the winter of 18--.”
“Twenty-three years ago!” said Winston, yet more quietly. “Doubtless,
your intimacy with this estimable and distinguished family continued up
to the time of your husband’s death?”
“It did.”
“And afterward?”
Mrs. Button’s color waned, And her voice sank, as the inquisition
proceeded. “Dear Frederic’s” death was not the subject she would have
chosen of her free will to discuss with this man of steel and ice.
“I never visited them again. I could not--”
If she hoped to retain a semblance of composure, she must shift her
ground.
“I returned to my father’s house, which was, as you know, more remote
from the borders of Maryland--”
“You kept up a correspondence, perhaps?” Winston interposed, overlooking
her agitation as irrelevant to the matter under investigation.
“No! For many months I wrote no letters at all, and Mr. Chilton was
never a punctual correspondent. The best of friends are apt to be
dilatory in such respects, as they advance in life.”
“I gather, then, from what you have ADMITTED”--there was no actual
stress upon the word, but it stood obnoxiously apart from the remainder
of the sentence, to Mrs. Sutton’s auriculars--“from what you have
admitted, that for twenty years you have lost sight of this gentleman
and his relatives, and that you might never have remembered the
circumstance of their existence, had he not introduced himself to you at
the Springs this summer.”
“You are mistaken, there!” corrected the widow, eagerly. “Rosa Tazewell
introduced him to Mabel at the first ‘hop’ she--Mabel--attended there.
He is very unassuming. He would never have forced himself upon my
notice. I was struck by his appearance and resemblance to his father,
and inquired of Mabel who he was. The recognition followed as a matter
of course.”
“He was an acquaintance of Miss Tazewell--did you say?”
“Yes--she knew him very well when she was visiting in Philadelphia last
winter.”
“And proffered the introduction to Mabel?” the faintest imaginable
glimmer of sarcastic amusement in his eyes, but none in his accent.
“He requested it, I believe.”
“That is more probable. Excuse my frankness, aunt, when I say that it
would have been more in consonance with the laws controlling the conduct
of really thoroughbred people, had your paragon--I use the term in no
offensive sense--applied to me, instead of to you, for permission to pay
his addresses to my ward. I am willing to ascribe this blunder, however,
to ignorance of the code of polite society, and not to intentional
disrespect, since you represent the gentleman as amiable and
well-meaning. I am, furthermore, willing to examine his certificates
of character and means, with a view to determining what are his
recommendations to my sister’s preference, over and above ball-room
graces and the fact that he is Mr. Sutton’s namesake, and whether
it will be safe and advisable to grant my consent to their marriage.
Whatever is for Mabel’s real welfare shall be done, while I cannot
but wish that her choice had fallen upon some one nearer home The
prosecution of inquiries as to the reputation of one whose residence is
so distant, is a difficult and delicate task.”
“If you will only talk to him for ten minutes he will remove your
scruples,--satisfy you that all is as it should be,” asserted Mrs.
Sutton, more confidently to him than herself.
“I trust it will be as you say--but credulity is not my besetting sin.
I am ready to see the gentleman at any hour you and he may see fit to
appoint.”
“I will send MR. CHILTON to you at once, then.” Mrs. Sutton collected
the scattering remnants of hope and resolution, that she might deal a
parting shot.
“Winston is an AWFUL trial to my temper, although he never loses his
own,” she was wont to soliloquize, in the lack of a confidante to whom
she could expatiate upon his eccentricities and general untowardness.
His marked avoidance of Frederic’s name in this conference savored
to her of insulting meaning. She had rather he had coupled it with
opprobious epithets whenever he referred to him, than spoken of him as
“this” or “that gentleman.” If he took this high and chilly tone, with
Mabel’s wooer, there was no telling what might be the result of the
affair.
“Don’t mind him if he is stiff and uncompromising for a while,” she
enjoined upon Frederic, in apprising him of the seignior’s readiness to
grant him audience, “It is only his way, and he is Mabel’s brother.”
“I will bear the latter hint in mind,” rejoined the young man, with the
gay, affectionate smile he often bestowed upon her. “I don’t believe he
can awe me into resignation of my purpose, or provoke me into dislike of
the rest of the family.”
Mabel was in her aunt’s room, plying her with queries, hard to be
evaded, touching the tenor and consequences of her recent negotiations,
when a servant brought a message from her brother. She was wanted in the
study. The girl turned very white, as she prepared to obey, without an
idea of delay or of refusal.
“O Auntie! what if he should order me to give Frederic up!” she
ejaculated, pausing at the door, in an agony of trepidation. “I never
disobeyed him in my life.”
“He will not do that, dear, never fear! He can find no pretext for
such summary proceedings. And should he oppose your wishes, be firm of
purpose, and do not forsake your affianced husband,” advised the old
lady, solemnly. “There is a duty which takes precedence, in the sight
of Heaven and man, of that you owe your brother. Remember this, and take
courage.”
Mabel’s roses returned in profusion, when, upon entering the arbiter’s
dread presence, she saw Frederic Chilton, standing on the opposite side
of the table from that at which sat her brother at his ease, his white
fingers still idly interlaced, his pale patrician face emotionless as
that of the bust of Apollo upon the top of the bookcase behind him. It
was Frederic who led her to a chair, when she stopped, trembling midway
in the apartment, and his touch upon her arm inspirited her to raise her
regards to Winston’s countenance at the sound of his voice.
“I have sent for you, Mabel, that I may repeat in you hearing the reply
I have returned to Mr. Chilton’s application for my sanction to your
engagement--I should say, perhaps, to your reciprocal attachment. The
betrothal of a minor without the consent, positive or implied, of her
parent or guardian is, as I have just explained to Mr. Chilton, but
an empty name in this State. I have promised, then, not to oppose
your marriage, provided the inquiries I shall institute concerning Mr.
Chilton’s previous life, his character, and his ability to maintain you
in comfort, are answered satisfactorily. He will understand and excuse
my pertinacity upon this point when he reflects upon the value of the
stake involved in this transaction.”
In all their intercourse, Frederic had no more gracious notice
from Mabel’s brother than this semi-apology, delivered with stately
condescension, and a courtly bow in his direction.
It sounded very grand to Mabel, whose fears of opposition or severity
from her Mentor had shaken courage and nerves into pitiable distress.
Frederic could desire nothing more affable than Winston’s smile; no more
abundant encouragement than was afforded by his voluntary pledge. Had
not the thought savored of disloyalty to her lover, she would have
confessed herself disappointed that his reply did not effervesce with
gratitude, that his deportment was distant, his tone constrained.
“I appreciate the last-named consideration, Mr. Aylett, I believe,
thoroughly, as you do. I have already told you that I invite, not
shirk, the investigation you propose. I now repeat my offer of whatever
facility is at my command for carrying this on. No honorable man could
do less. Unless I mistake, you wish now to see your sister alone.”
He bent his head slightly, and without other and especial salutation to
his betrothed, withdrew.
Odd, white dints came and went in Winston’s nostrils--the one and
unerring facial sign of displeasure he ever exhibited, if we except a
certain hardening of eye and contour that chiselled his lineaments into
a yet closer resemblance to marble.
“He is very sensitive and proud, I know,” faltered Mabel, hastily
marking these, and understanding what they portended.
“You need not like him the less on that account, always provided that
the supports of his pride are legitimate and substantial,” answered her
brother, carelessly transferring to his tablets several names from a
sheet of paper upon the table--the addresses of persons to whom Frederic
had referred him for confirmation of his statements regarding his social
and professional standing.
“I hope, for your sake, Mabel,” he pursueds pocketing the memoranda,
“that this affair may be speedily and agreeably adjusted; while I cannot
deny that I deprecate the unseemly haste with which Mrs. Sutton and
her ally have urged it on, in my absence. Had they intended to court
suspicion, they could not have done it more effectually. You could not
have had a more injudicious chaperone to the Springs.”
“Indeed, brother, she was not to blame,” began the generous girl,
forgetting her embarrassment in zealous defence of the aunt she loved.
“It was not she who presented me to Mr. Chilton, and she has never
attempted to bias my decision in any manner.”
“I have heard the history in detail.” Had his breeding been less fine,
he would have yawned in her face. “I know that you are indebted for Mr.
Chilton’s acquaintanceship to Miss Tazewell’s generosity. But in strict
justice, Mrs. Sutton should be held responsible for whatever unhappiness
may arise from the intimacy. You were left by myself in her charge.”
“I do not believe it will end unhappily,” Mabel was moved to reply,
with spirit that became her better than the shyness she had heretofore
displayed, or the submissive demeanor usual with her in tête-à-têtes
with her guardian.
He smiled in calm superiority.
“I have expressed my hope to that effect. Of expectations it will be
time enough to speak when I am better informed upon divers points. I
am not one to take much for granted, am less sanguine than my romantic
aunt, or even than my more practical sister. Assuming, however, that
all is as you would have it, your wish would be, I suppose, for an early
marriage?”
“There has been little said about that,” responded Mabel,
reddening--then rallying to add smilingly--“such an arrangement would
have involved the taking for granted a good many things--your consent
among them.”
Winston passed over the addenda.
“But that little, especially when uttered by Mr. Chilton, trenched upon
the inexpediency of long engagements--did it not?”
Mabel was mute, her eyes downcast.
“I agree with him there, at any rate. You are nineteen years of age; he
twenty-five. Your property is unincumbered, and can be transferred
to your keeping at very short notice. Mr. Chilton represents that his
income from his patrimonial estate, eked out by professional gains, is
sufficient to warrant him in marrying forthwith. I shall see that no
time is lost in making the inquiries upon which depends the progress of
the negotiation. Business calls me North in a week or ten days. I shall
stop a day in Philadelphia, and settle your affair.”
The frightfully business-like manner of disposing of her happiness
appalled the listener into silence. The loss of Frederic; the
destruction of her love-dream; the weary years of lonely wretchedness
that would follow the bereavement, were to him only unimportant
incidentals to her “affair;” weighed in the scale of his impartial
judgment no more than would unconsidered dust. For the first time in the
life to which he had been the guiding-star, she ventured to wonder if
the unswerving rectitude that had elevated him above the level of other
men, in her esteem and affection, were so glorious a thing after all; if
a tempering, not of human frailty, but of charity for the shortcomings,
sympathy for the needs, of ordinary mortals, would not subdue the
effulgence of his talents and virtues into mild lustre, more tolerable
to the optics of fallible beholders.
Unsuspicious, with all his astuteness, of her sacrilegious doubts,
Winston proceeded:
“In the event of your marriage, you would desire, no doubt, that Mrs.
Sutton should take up her abode with you? You would find her useful in
many ways, and she would get on amicably with her husband’s godson.”
“I do not think she expects to go with me,” answered Mabel, staggered by
his coolly confident air. “I certainly have never entertained the
idea. I imagined that she would remain with you, while you needed her
services.”
“That will not be long. I shall be married on the 10th of October.”
“Married! brother!” starting up in amazement. “You are not in earnest!”
“I should not jest upon such a theme,” replied Winston, in grave rebuke.
“My plans are definitely laid. It is not my purpose to keep them secret
a day longer. I meant to communicate them to yourself and Mrs. Sutton
this afternoon, but yours claimed precedence.”
Mabel sat down again, totally confounded, and struggling hard with
her tears. The thought of her brother’s marriage was not in itself
disagreeable. She had often lamented his insensibility to the
attractions of such women as she fancied would add to his happiness, and
grace the high place to which his wife would be exalted. She never
liked to hear him called invulnerable; repelled the hypothesis of
his incurable bachelorhood as derogatory to his heart and head. This
unlooked-for intelligence, had it reached her in a different way, would
have delighted as much as it astonished her. The fear lest her consent
to wed Frederic and leave Ridgeley might be the occasion of discomfort
and sadness to her forsaken brother had shadowed all her visions of
future bliss. She ought to have hailed with unmixed satisfaction the
certainty that he would not miss her sisterly ministrations, or feel the
need of her companionship in that of one nearer and dearer than was
his child-ward. She had striven not to resent even in her own mind, his
cavalier treatment of her lover; had hearkened respectfully and without
demur to his unsympathizing calculations of what was possible and what
feasible in the project of her union with the man of her choice. For how
could he know anything of the palpitations, the anxieties, the raptures
of love, when he was a stranger to the touch of a kindred emotion? He
meant well; he had her welfare in view; unfortunate as was his style of
discussing the means for insuring this--for he loved her dearly, dearly!
She must never question this, although he had dealt the comfortable
persuasion a cruel blow; wounded her in a vital part by withholding
from her the circumstance of his attachment and betrothal until the near
approach of the wedding day rendered continued secrecy inexpedient. No
softening memory of his affianced had inclined him to listen with kindly
warmth to her timid avowals, or Frederic’s manly protestations of their
mutual attachment. He recognized no analogy in the two cases; stood
aloof from them in the flush of his successful love, as if he had never
known the pregnant meaning of the word. Smarting under the sense of
injury to pride and affection, her language, when she could trust her
voice, was a protest that, in Winston’s judgment, ill beseemed her age
and station.
“Why did you not tell me of this earlier, brother? It was unjust and
unkind to keep me in the dark until now.”
“You forget yourself, Mabel. I am not under obligation to account to you
for my actions.”
He said it composedly, as if stating a truth wholly disconnected with
feeling on his part or on hers.
“I have given you the information to which you refer, in season for you
to make ample preparation for my wife’s reception. And, mark me, she
must see no sulkiness, no airs of strangeness or intolerance, because
I have managed a matter that concerns me chiefly, as seemed to me best.
Say the same to Mrs. Sutton, if you please; also that I will submit to
no dictation, and ask no advice.”
Mabel’s anger seldom outlived its utterance. The hot sparkle in her
eye was quenched by moisture, as she laid her hand caressingly upon her
brother’s.
“Winston! you cannot suppose that we could be wanting in cordiality to
any one whom you love, much less to your wife. Let her come when she
may, she will be heartily welcomed by us both. But this has
fallen suddenly upon me, and I am a little out of sorts to-day, I
believe--excited and nervous--and, O, my darling! my oldest and best of
friends! I hope your love will bring to you the happiness you deserve.”
The tears had their course, at last, bathing the hand she bowed to kiss.
The simple ardor of the outbreak would have affected many men to a show
of responsive weakness. Even Winston Aylett’s physiognomy was more human
and less statuesque, as he patted her head, and bade her be composed.
“If you persist in enacting Niobe, I shall believe that you are
chagrined at the prospect of having the sister you have repeatedly
besought me to give you,” he said, playfully--for him. “You have
not asked me her name, and where she lives. What has become of your
curiosity? I never knew it to be quiescent before.”
“I thought you would tell me whatever it was best for me to know,”
 replied Mabel, drying her eyes.
If she had said that she was too well-trained to assail him with
interrogatories he had not invited, it would have been nearer the mark.
“There is nothing relating to her which I desire to conceal,” he
rejoined, with some stiffness, “or she would never have become my
promised wife. She is a Miss Dorrance, the daughter of a widow residing
in the vicinity of Boston, Massachusetts. I met her first at Trenton
Falls, where a happy accident brought me into association with her
party. I travelled with them to the Lakes and among the White Mountains,
and, while in Boston, visited her daily. We were betrothed a week ago,
and having, as I have observed, an aversion to protracted engagements,
I prevailed upon her to appoint the tenth of next mouth as our marriage
day. There you have the story in brief. I have not Mrs. Sutton’s talents
as a raconteur, nor her disposition to turn hearts inside out for the
edification of her auditors.”
“Does she--Miss Dorrance--look like anybody I know?” asked Mabel,
hesitating to declare herself dissatisfied with the skeleton love-tale,
yet uncertain how to learn more.
“A roundabout way of asking if she is passable in appearance,” Winston
said, with his smile of conscious superiority. “Judge for yourself!”
 taking from his pocket a miniature.
“How beautiful! What a very handsome woman?” the sister exclaimed at
sight of the pictured face.
“You are correct. She is, moreover, a thorough lady, and
highly-educated. Ridgeley will have a queenly mistress. The likeness is
considered faithful, but it does not do her justice.”
He took it from Mabel, and they scanned it together; she resting
against his shoulder. She felt his chest heave twice; heard him swallow
spasmodically in the suppression of some mighty emotion, and the
palpable effort drew her very near to him. She never doubted from that
moment, what she had more cause in after days to believe, that he loved
the woman he had won with a fervor of passion that seemed foreign to his
temperament as the evidence of it was to his conduct.
The September sun was near the horizon, and between the bowed shutters
one slender, gilded arrow shot athwart the portrait, producing a
marvellous and sinister change in its expression. The large, limpid eyes
became shallow and cunning; the smile lurking about the mouth was the
more treacherous and deadly for its sweetness; while the burnished coils
of hair brushed away from the temples had the opaline tints and sinuous
roll of a serpent.
Mabel shrank back before the horror of the absurd imagination.
Winston raised the picture to his lips.
“My peerless one!”
CHAPTER III. -- UNWHOLESOME VAPORS.
“DORRANCE!” repeated Frederic, after his betrothed, when she rehearsed
to him in their moonlight promenade upon the piazza the leading
incidents of her brother’s wooing. “She lives near Boston, you say, and
her mother is a widow?”
“Yes. What have you ever heard about her?”
“Nothing whatever. I was startled by the name--but very foolishly! I
once knew a family of Dorrances--New Yorkers--but the father, a retired
naval officer, was alive, and all the daughters were married. The
youngest of them would be, by this time, much older than you judge the
original of the miniature to be.”
“She is not more than twenty-two, at the most,” Mabel was sure.
Frederic’s hurried articulation and abstracted manner excited her
curiosity, and unrestrained by Winston’s curb, it was not “quiescent.”
 The thought was spoken so soon as it was formed.
“There was something unpleasant in your intercourse with them, then? or
something objectionable in the people themselves? Could they have been
relatives of this widow and her daughter? The name is not a common one
to my ears.”
“Nor to mine; yet we have no proof to sustain your supposition. I should
be very sorry--”
He stopped.
Mabel studied his perturbed countenance with augmented uneasiness.
“Was not the family respectable?”
“Perfectly, my shrewd little catechist!” seeming to shake off an
uncomfortable incubus, as he laughed down at her serious face. “They
vaunted themselves upon the antiquity of their line, and were more
liberal in allusions to departed grandeur than was quite well-bred. When
I knew them they were not wealthy, or in what they would have called
‘society.’ Indeed, the mother kept a private boarding-house near
the law-school I attended. There were several sons--very decent,
enterprising fellows. But one lived at home, and a daughter, the wife of
a lieutenant in the navy, whom I never saw. I boarded with them for six
months, or thereabout.”
“You never saw the daughter! How was that?”
“I must have expressed myself awkwardly if I conveyed any such idea. I
did not meet the seafaring husband who was off upon a long cruise.
The wife I met constantly--knew very well. You need not look at me so
intently, love, as if you feared that some dark mystery lurked behind
this matter-of-fact recital. If I do not tell you every event of my
former life, it is not because it was vile. I could not sustain
the light of your innocent eyes if I had ever been guilty of aught
dishonorable or criminal. But even the follies and mistakes of a young
man’s early career are not fit themes for your ears. And I was no wiser,
no more wary, than other youths of the same age; was apt to believe that
fair which was only specious, and that I might play, uninjured, with
edged tools. Nor had I seen you then, my treasure--my snow-drop of
purity! Mabel! do you know how solemn a thing it is to be loved and
trusted by a man, as I love and confide in you? It terrifies me when I
think of the absoluteness of my dependence upon your fidelity--of how
rich I am in having you--how poor, wretched, and miserable I should be
without you. I shall not draw a free breath until you are mine beyond
the chance of recall.”
“Nobody else wants me!” breathed Mabel in his ear, nestling within
the arm that enfolded and held her tightly in the corner of the
piazza shaded by the creeper. “The danger of losing me is not imminent
to-night, at all events,” she resumed, presently, with a touch of the
sportiveness that lent her manner an airy charm in lighter talk than
that which had engrossed her for the past hour.
The evening was warm and still to sultriness, and the moonlight,
filtered into pensive pallor through a low-lying haze, yet sufficed to
show how confidingly Imogene leaned upon her attendant in sauntering
down the long main alley of the garden. Rosa was at the piano in the
parlor, singing to the enamored Alfred. Mrs. Sutton had withdrawn to
her own room to ruminate upon the astounding disclosure of her nephew’s
engagement, while Winston bent over his study-table busy with the
interrupted letter his aunt had seen in his portfolio.
“There is no one here who has the leisure or the disposition to contest
your rights, you perceive,” said Mabel, running through a laughing
summary of their companions’ occupations.
“Betrothals are epidemic in this household and neighborhood,” Winston
was writing. “There are no fewer than three pairs of turtles cooing down
stairs as I pen this to you, my bird of paradise. The case that next to
mine--to ours--commands my interest is that of my sister. I came home to
learn that the little Mabel I used to hold on my knee had entered into
an engagement--conditional upon my sanction--with that traditional
tricky personage, a Philadelphia lawyer--Mr. Frederic Chilton, at the
door of whose manifold perfections, as set forth by my loquacious aunt,
you may lay the blame of this delayed epistle. I know nothing of this
aspirant to the dignity of brotherhood with myself, saving the facts
that he is tolerably good looking, claims to be the scion of an old
Maryland family, and that self-conceit is apparently his predominant
quality.”
“What is that?” asked Frederic, halting before the windows, of the
drawing-room, as a wild, sorrowful strain, like the wail of a breaking
heart, arose upon the waveless air.
Rosa was a vocalist of note in her circle, and she had never rendered
anything with more effect than she did the song to which even the
preoccupied strollers among the garden borders stayed their steps to
listen. Through the open casement Mabel and her lover could see the face
of the musician, slightly uplifted toward the moonlight; her eyes, dark
and dreamy, as under the cloud of many years of weary waiting and final
hopelessness. Her articulation was always pure, but the passionate
emphasis of every word constrained the breathless attention of her
audience to the close of the simple lay:
    “Thy name was once the magic spell
       By which my thoughts were bound;
     And burning dreams of light and love
       Were wakened by the sound.
     My heart beat quick when stranger-tongues,
       With idle praise or blame,
     Awoke its deepest thrill of joy
       To tremble at thy name.
    “Long years, long years have passed away,
       And altered is thy brow;
     And we who met so fondly once
       Must meet as strangers now.
     The friends of yore come ‘round me still,
       But talk no more of thee,
     ‘Twere idle e’en to wish it now,
       For what art thou to me?”
    “Yet still thy name--thy blessed name!
       My lonely bosom fills,
     Like an echo that hath lost itself
       Among the distant hills,
     That still, with melancholy note,
       Keeps faintly lingering on,
     When the joyous sound that woke it first
       Is gone--forever gone!”
“A neat conceit that last verse, and the music is a fair imitation of a
dying bugle-echo!” said Winston Aylett to himself, resuming the writing
he had suspended for a minute. “That girl should take to the stage. If
one did not know better, her eyes and singing together would delude him
into the idea that she had a heart. Honest Alfred evidently believes
that she has, and that the patient labor of love will win it for
himself. Bah!”
Frederic and Mabel retired noiselessly from their post of observation,
as “honest Alfred” made a motion to take in his the hand lying prone and
passive upon the finger-board. They exchanged a smile, significant and
tender, in withdrawing.
“We understand the signs of the times,” whispered Frederic, at the upper
turn of their promenade. “Heaven bless all true lovers under the sun!”
“Don’t!” said Rosa, vehemently, snatching away her hand from her
suitor’s hold. “Leave me alone! If you touch me again I shall scream!
I think you were made up without nerves, either in the heart or in the
brain--if you have any!”
Before the aghast Alfred rallied from the recoil occasioned by her
gesture and words, her feet were pattering over the oaken hall and
staircase in rapid retreat to her chamber.
“You are really happy, then?” queried Mabel. “Quite content?”
“Did I not tell you awhile ago that I was not satisfied?” returned
Chilton. “Two months since I should, in anticipation of this hour, have
declared that it would be fraught with unalloyed rapture. I was
happier yesterday than I am to-day. It is not merely that we must part
to-morrow, or that your brother’s precautionary measures and disapproval
of what has passed between us have acted like a shower-bath to the
fervor of my newly born hopes. I am willing that my life should be
subjected to the utmost rigor of his researches, and another month, at
farthest, will reunite us. Nor do I believe in presentiments. I am more
inclined to attribute the uneasiness that has hovered over me all the
day to physical causes. We will call it a mild splenetic case, induced
by the sultry weather, and the very slow on coming of the storm presaged
by your dewless roses.”
He laughed naturally and pleasantly. Having confessed to what he
regarded as a ridiculous succumbing of his buoyant spirit to atmospheric
influences, he shook off the nightmare as if it had never sat upon him.
Mabel was grave still.
“There is something weirdly oppressive in the night,” she said, in a
low, awed tone. “But the burden you describe has weighed me down since
morning. While Rosa was singing, I felt suddenly removed from you by a
horrid gulf. What if all this should be the preparation to us for some
impending danger?”
“Sweet! these are unwholesome vapors of the imagination. Nothing can be
a disaster that leaves us to one another,” was the text of Frederic’s
fond soothing; and by the time Mrs. Sutton descended from her chamber of
meditation, to remind Imogene that the seeds of ague and fever lurked in
the river-fogs, the couple from the piazza came into the lighted parlor,
all smiles and animation, wondering, jocosely, what had become of the
recent occupants of the apartment.
Neither reappeared until breakfast-time next morning. Rosa was like
freshly-poured champagne, in sweet and sparkle. Alfred, rueful and limp,
as if the dripping clouds that verified Mabel’s prediction had
soaked him all night. He was dry and comfortable--to carry out the
figure--within twenty minutes after his beloved fluttered, like a tame
canary, into the chair next his own--in five more, was more truly her
slave, living in, and upon her smiles--adoring her very caprices as he
had never admired another woman’s virtues--than he had been prior to the
brief, but tempestuous scene over night. She was the life of the
party assembled in the dining-room. Imogene had caught cold, walking
bareheaded in the evening air, and Tom condoled with her upon her
influenza and sore-throat too sincerely to do justice to the rest of
his friends and his breakfast. Mr. Aylett was never talkative, and his
unvarying, soulless politeness to all produced the conserving effect
upon chill and low spirits that the atmosphere of a refrigerator does
upon whatever is placed within it. Mrs. Sutton’s motherly heart was
yearning pityingly over the lovers who were soon to be sundered, while
Mabel’s essay at cheerful equanimity imposed upon nobody’s credulity.
Frederic comported himself like a man--the more courageously because
the host’s cold eye was upon him, and he surmised that sighs and
sentimentality would meet very scant indulgence in that quarter.
Moreover, he was not so unreasonable as to descry insupportable
hardships in this parting. By agreement with Mr. Aylett and his sister,
he was, if all went prosperously, to revisit Ridgeley at the end of six
weeks, when his design was to entreat his betrothed to name the wedding
day. The prospect might well support him under the present trial. He
bore Rosa’s badinage gallantly, tossing back sprightly and telling
rejoinders that called forth the smiling applause of the auditors, and
commanded her respectful recognition of him as a foeman worthy of her
steel.
“Nine o’clock,” said Winston, at length, consulting his watch, and
pushing back his chair. “The carriage will be at the door in fifteen
minutes, Mr. Chilton. The road is heavy this morning, and the stage
passes the village at ten.”
“I shall be ready,” responded Frederic. “I am sorry your carriage and
coachman must be exposed to the rain.”
“That is nothing. They are used to it. I never alter my plan of travel
on account of the weather, how ever severe the storm. This warm rain can
hurt nobody.”
“It is pouring hard,” remarked Mrs. Button, solicitously. “And that
stage is wretchedly uncomfortable in the best weather. I wish you
could be persuaded to stay with us until it clears off, Mr. Chilton,
and”--making a bold push--“I am sure my nephew concurs in my desire.”
“Mr. Chilton should require no verbal assurance of my hospitable
feelings toward him and my other guests,” said Mr. Aylett,
frigidly--smooth as ice-cream. “If I forbear to press him to prolong his
stay, it is in reflection of the golden law laid down for the direction
of hosts--‘Welcome the coming, speed the parting guest.’”
“You are both very kind, but I must go,” Frederic replied, concisely
and civilly, following Mabel into the parlor, whither the other visitors
were fabled to have repaired. As he had guessed, his betrothed was the
only person there; the quartette having dispersed with kindly tact, for
which he gave them due credit.
“Don’t think hardly of me, dear,” he began, seating himself beside her
on the sofa.
“Allow me to offer you a few of the finest cigars I have enjoyed for
many years,” said Mr. Aylett, entering in season to check Frederic’s
movement to encircle Mabel’s drooping form with his arm. “You smoke, I
believe? You may have an opportunity of indulging in this solace in
an empty stage. At least, there is little probability that you will be
denied the luxury by the presence of lady passengers. I procured those
in Havana, last winter. In case you should like them well enough to
order some for yourself, I will give you the address of the merchant
from whom I purchased them.”
He wrote a line upon a card, as he might sign a beggar’s petition--with
a supercilious parade of benevolence--and passed it to the other, who
accepted it with a phrase of acknowledgment neither hearty nor grateful.
Then the master of the house paced the floor with a slow, regular step,
his hands behind him; his countenance placidly ruminative, his
thoughts apparently engaged with anything rather than the pain upon the
corner-sofa, whose leave-taking he had mercilessly marred. Frederic dumb
and furious; Mabel equally dumb and amazed to alarm, knowing as she
did that her brother’s actions were never purposeless, sat still, their
hands clasped stealthily amid the folds of Mabel’s dress; their eyes
saying the dear and passionate things forbidden to their tongues.
Neither would feign indifference, or attempt a lame dialogue upon other
topics than those that filled their minds. Mr. Aylett was not one to pay
outward heed to hints when he chose to ignore them. He kept up his walk
until the carriage was driven around to the front door, informed the
parting guest that it awaited his commands, likewise that he would
need all the time that remained to him if he hoped to catch the
stage; without leaving the room, called to a servant to bring down Mr.
Chilton’s baggage, and did not lose sight of his sister’s lover until
the last farewell was said, and Frederic bestowed inside the vehicle.
There was nothing offensively officious or malicious in all this.
Having declared as an incontrovertible dogma, that a ward could form no
engagement without the formal sanction of her legal guardian, he saw fit
to put the seal upon the decision at this, their adieu, in a manner they
were not likely to forget. An hour’s harangue would not have imbued them
with the sense of his authority, his determination to exercise it, and
their impotency to resist it, as did this practical lesson.
Mrs. Sutton could scarcely restrain her tearful remonstrances against
what was, to her perception, an act of arbitrary and wanton cruelty, and
other spectators had their views upon the subject.
“Very inconsiderate in Aylett! I wonder how he would like the same game
to be played upon himself!” commented Alfred, aside, to his Dulcinea.
Her lip curled in disdainful amusement.
“As if he had ever done an inconsiderate thing since he put off long
clothes! There is method in all this, if we were clever enough to fathom
it.”
Within herself, she determined that she would solve the enigma before
she was a week older.
Frederic cast one hasty, eager look at the portico, as the carriage
turned out of the yard. Mabel stood in the foreground, her figure framed
by the climbing roses drooping over the front steps. She was very pale,
and, forgetful for the moment of the observation of the bystanders,
leaned slightly forward, her eyes strained upon the carriage-window--one
hand laid upon her heart, the other resting against the pillar nearest
her, as for support. She waved her handkerchief, in response to his
smile and lifted hat, and simultaneously with this interchange of adieux
her brother took her by the arm.
“You are getting wet there, Mabel! Come into the house! It is well I
have come back to look after you!”
CHAPTER IV. -- “FOUNDED UPON A ROCK.”
If Mrs. Sutton had raised horrified eyes and despairing hands upon
learning the date of her nephew’s proposed marriage, it was because
she miscalculated his executive abilities, and the energy she had never
until now seen fairly put forth. Within three days after his return, the
homestead was alive with masons, carpenters, painters, and upholsterers,
engaged by the prompt bridegroom on his passage through Richmond; and so
explicit were his orders as to the minutest detail of the work appointed
to each, that he could safely leave the scene of action at the time
appointed for the flying trip northward, to which he had referred in his
dialogue with Mabel on the afternoon of his arrival.
The party of visitors had emigrated to other regions, a couple of days
after Frederic Chilton’s departure, with the exception of Rosa Tazewell,
who accepted Mabel’s invitation to prolong her sojourn, the more
willingly since she “flattered herself she could be of use in the
general upheaving of the ancient foundations, and establishment of
the new. If there was one thing she enjoyed above another, it was a
tremendous bustle--a lively revolution.”
She made her boast of personal utility good by installing herself
forthwith as Mrs. Sutton’s aid-de-camp, and rendering herself so far
indispensable in the work of reconstruction that Mr. Aylett deigned to
ask her not to desert her post in his absence.
