child had made long hunting and trapping tramps with old Matt Rockwood.
I had stood before angry Indians, as well as thieving and drunken ones.
I had shot deer, bears, and wolves, as well as smaller game, with my
rifle.
Old Matt had always taught me that there was nothing in the world to be
afraid of but one's own self--a philosophy which was very pretty in
theory, but not always capable of being reduced to practice. But I
certainly was not afraid of an Indian, or of any number of them. From
my rough old guardian I had acquired a certain contempt for them; but I
had never passed through an Indian war or an Indian massacre. I had
heard of the savage Blackfeet, and other tribes, who were not to be
contemned, but I had never seen any of them.
I hastily completed the stringing of my fish, thinking all the time how
I should conduct the expedition in which I was to engage. Indeed, I
could think of nothing else; for, although I had often been away on
similar excursions, it was always in company with my guardian, while on
the present occasion I was to manage for myself. I forgot that I was
hungry, and only lived in the brilliant schemes for recovering the
horses, capturing the camp, and even wiping out the Indians themselves.
I was bent on desperate deeds, and intended to convince old Matt that I
was worthy of the confidence he reposed in me.
"You have been lucky to-day, Phil Farringford," said a voice near me,
as I rose from the bottom of the boat to step on shore.
It was Mr. Mellowtone, an old neighbor of ours, who had squatted on an
island in the river. He was a good friend of mine, and I regarded him
with the utmost love and respect. He had taught me to read and write,
and furnished me books, which had been both a comfort and a blessing to
me.
"I have done first rate to-day," I replied. "Won't you take some of
these?"
"Thank you, Phil Farringford. I will take two or three of them, if you
have any to spare."
"Take as many as you can use, Mr. Mellowtone," I continued, removing
from the twig some of the handsomest of the fish.
"Enough, Phil Farringford. I am not a swine, to eat more than six
pounds of trout in a day," said he, with a smile.
I strung them upon a willow twig, and handed them to him, as he stood
in his barge--a very aristocratic craft, which he had brought with him
from the regions of civilization.
"I must be in a hurry now, Mr. Mellowtone. Won't you come up to the
Castle with me? The Indians stole both of our horses this afternoon,
and I am going out after them."
"That's unfortunate," he replied, running his barge upon the bank. "I
will walk up to the Castle with you, and you shall tell me about it."
Securing his boat to the stake, he followed me up the bank of the
river; and on the way to the house I told him what had happened just as
I returned from my fishing trip. We entered the log house, where old
Matt had kindled a huge fire to cook our evening meal.
"Good evening, Mr. Rockwood," said my friend, as politely as though he
had been speaking to the President of the United States.
"Your sarvant, Mr. Mellowtone," replied Matt, who always labored to be
as courteous as his visitor, though not always with the same success.
"You have been unfortunate, I learn from Phil Farringford."
"Yes; them pesky redskins is gittin' troublesome, and I'm afraid we
shall hev to wipe out some on 'em."
"We must not allow them to steal," added Mr. Mellowtone, decidedly.
"No; Phil is goin' out arter 'em. They stole my jug of fire-water, and
they'll be as drunk as owls afore long."
"If neither he nor you object, I will go out with him."
"I hain't no kind o' objection. I should be much obleeged to you if you
help git back them hosses."
"I shall be glad to have you go with me, Mr. Mellowtone," I replied, as
I put the pan of fish on the fire.
We were all of the same mind.
CHAPTER II.
IN WHICH PHIL FINDS THE CAMP OF THE INDIANS.
I was certainly very glad to have Mr. Mellowtone go with me on the
expedition after the Indians; but I did not exactly like to share the
glory of the great deeds I expected to do even with him, though he was
one of my best friends. However, I consoled myself with the reflection
that his pleasant company would in part compensate me for the share of
the glory he would appropriate.
While the fish were on the fire, I set the table in the best style that
the contents of our meagre China closet would permit, for our
distinguished visitor seldom honored us by taking a meal at the Castle,
and I was anxious to make the best possible appearance. Measured by the
standard of civilized life, the result was not a success; but for the
backwoods it was. Our table ware was mostly of tin, dented and marred
at that; but we had one crockery plate, and I devoted that to the use
of our honored guest.
If the table ware was not elegant, the fish were infinitely better than
are ever set before the pampered sons of civilization. They had been
swimming in their native element a couple of hours before, and were a
species of trout, weighing from a pound and a half to two pounds
apiece. Mr. Mellowtone declared that they were delicious; and he
justified his praise by his trencher practice. For bread we had cold
johnny cake, for we were out of flour, as no trading steamer had passed
since the ice in the river broke up. We lived well at the Castle, for
besides the game and fish supplied by the woods and the rivers, we had
bacon, pork, potatoes, and vegetables from the farm.
"Now, Phil, you must be keerful," said old Matt, as we were eating our
supper. "Injuns is wicked, and Injuns is cunnin'."
"I will try to be careful," I replied. "I suppose, if we follow Little
Fish Creek, we shall find the Indians before morning."
"Yes, you will. Go through the forest, and cross the brook. Follow the
path till you come to the creek, and you'll be all right. The varmints
hain't got no feed for their hosses, and they won't go fur to-night."
The old man gave us directions how to proceed until we finished the
meal; and after I had put things in order about the house, I slung my
rifle over my shoulder. Mr. Mellowtone had no weapon, and declared that
he needed none. Just at dark we left the Castle, and, crossing the
field, entered the forest. There was a well-beaten path, so that we
were in no danger of losing our way. We crossed the bridge over the
brook which bounded the farm on the north-west; we continued our course
through the forest till we reached Little Fish Creek, at the point
where it flows into Big Fish Creek. All the names of streams and of
localities in the vicinity had been given by Matt Rockwood. The brook
we had crossed was called Kit's Brook, because, three miles from its
junction with the Big Fish, lived on its banks one Kit Cruncher, an old
hunter and trapper, who, until the arrival of Mr. Mellowtone, five
years before, had been Matt's only neighbor.
We followed the Little Fish for an hour without discovering any signs
of the Indians or the horses. We were within a mile, across the
country, of Kit Cruncher's cabin, and we concluded that the thieves
would not deem it prudent to halt near so formidable a person as the
old hunter had proved himself to be.
"Are you sure we are on the right track, Phil Farringford?" asked my
companion.
"We are on the right road to the Indian village," I replied.
"Is it certain that the thieves came from there?"
"They must have come from there, for I don't know of any other Indians
within forty miles of the Castle."
"They may be wandering Dakotahs, who do not stay long in one place."
"But there were only two of them, and Dakotahs go in bigger crowds than
that. Matt says they took this path, and I saw them strike into the
woods myself."
"Doubtless we are right, then. We might go over to Kit Cruncher's, and
inquire if he has seen anything of the thieves," suggested Mr.
Mellowtone.
"I am sure he has not seen them; if he had, he would have stopped them.
And the Indians know him well enough to keep out of his way. He is hard
on Indians when they don't behave themselves."
"Very well, Phil Farringford. You are the leader of this expedition,
and I will obey your orders."
"I hope you won't, sir; at least, I don't mean to give you any orders,"
I replied, abashed at the humility of one whom I regarded as the
greatest and best man in the world.
We walked in silence for another hour, for my companion always did more
thinking than talking. I led the way, and kept both of my eyes and both
of my ears wide open, expecting every moment to come upon the camp of
the savages. While we were thus cautiously tramping through the forest,
I heard the neighing of a horse behind us.
"Hark!" I whispered to Mr. Mellowtone. "We have passed them."
"How can that be?"
"They struck off from the river, and went into the woods to sleep. That
was old Firefly's voice, I know. I shouldn't wonder if he heard us."
"If he did, perhaps the Indians heard us also."
"If they have that jug of whiskey with them, they are too drunk to hear
anything by this time."
"We must look for the place where they left the path."
"It is rather dark to look for anything tonight," I replied, as I led
the way back.
We proceeded with great care, though we made noise enough to apprise
Firefly of the approach of friends. He was a knowing old horse, and had
faithfully served his master for ten years, but was still a very useful
animal. I fancied that he despised Indians quite as much as old Matt
himself, and that he was utterly disgusted with his present situation
and future prospects. Doubtless he was very uneasy, and displeased at
being away from his rude but comfortable stable. The grass had just
begun to start a little in the wet soil, and as our stock of hay was
getting low, I had picketed them with long ropes where they could feed.
In this situation they had become an easy prey to the Indians.
I hoped old Firefly would speak again, and I ventured upon a low
whistle, to inform him of my presence, but he did not respond. The
other horse was a good beast, and worked intelligently by Firefly's
side at the plough and the wagon: but he was an ignoramus compared with
his mate, and I expected nothing of him.
"They can't be far from here," said I, as I halted and whistled again a
little louder than before.
"We must examine the ground, and see if there are any horse tracks,"
replied Mr. Mellowtone, as he lighted a match to enable us to see the
path.
"No tracks here," I added. "They all lead the other way."
"Then they turned in farther down."
We resumed our walk, but in a few minutes we examined the ground again.
"Here they are," said my companion. "They turned in between this place
and that where we stopped last. Whistle again, Phil Farringford."
"We are farther from them now than when I heard the voice of old
Firefly," I replied, after I had whistled in vain several times.
"But we are on the track of the horses. There can be no doubt of that,"
answered Mr. Mellowtone. "We can follow their trail till we find where
they left the path."
"I hope you have a good supply of matches."
"I have about a dozen more."
We examined the path in several places, and at last found that the
Indians had left it to follow a small brook which flowed into the
Little Fish. I whistled at intervals, but received no response from
Firefly. The stream which was our guide did not lead us far from the
creek.
"I smell smoke," said Mr. Mellowtone, after we had proceeded a
considerable distance. "We are not far from them."
"I don't see the light of any fire."
"Probably it has burned down by this time, for the Indians must be
asleep."
I whistled, and this time a very decided answer came back from Firefly.
"We are close by them," said I; and involuntarily we slackened our
pace.
"I am afraid the noise that horse makes will awaken the Indians."
"They are beastly drunk, without a doubt, and no ordinary sounds will
rouse them," I replied. "If they had known what they were about, they
would not have built a fire. They are not more than two miles from Kit
Cruncher's cabin."
In silence, then, and very cautiously, we crept towards the bivouac of
the Indians. In a few moments I saw the four horses, fastened to the
trees: but between us and them lay the extended forms of the two
Indians. They reposed on the ground, one on each side of the
smouldering embers of a fire they had kindled earlier in the evening.
The faint light enabled me to see the whiskey jug, lying on the ground
near them. The cork was out, and it was evidently empty. The thieves
snored so that the earth seemed to shake under them, and I was
satisfied that they were as drunk as human beings could be and live.
We made a circuit around the sleeping Indians, and reached the place
where the horses were fastened. Firefly neighed and danced in his
delight at seeing me, and even his more stolid mate was disposed to
make a demonstration of joy; for both animals had been in the habit of
spending their nights in a comfortable stable. The horses of the
Indians were as they had ridden them, wearing their bridles, and the
folded blankets, which served us saddles, strapped upon their backs.
"We needn't spend much time thinking about it," said I, after I had
patted Firefly on the neck to assure him I was still his friend. "They
have nothing but halters on their necks, though we have only to mount
them, and they will go home without any guiding."
"The Indian horses have saddles and bridles on," answered Mr.
Mellowtone. "I think we had better do as the redskins did--ride their
horses, and lead the others."
"Shall we take their horses?" I asked, rather startled by the
proposition.
"Certainly; we must teach them a lesson which they will remember. We
are in the world as instructors of those who are less wise than we, and
it is our duty to impart wisdom to those who need it."
"They will come down after them, when they are sober."
"They will do that if you take only your own animals. They will fight
just as hard to recover the property they stole as to obtain what is
justly their own."
Without stopping to debate the matter any further, we mounted the
Indians' horses.
CHAPTER III.
IN WHICH PHIL TAKES GOOD CARE OF THE HORSES.
I took old Firefly's halter in my hand, while Mr. Mellowtone had that
of our other horse. We were ready to start; but the problem of reaching
the river path without disturbing the Indians did not seem so easy of
solution as at first. We intended to make a circuit around the drunken
thieves; but I found the underbrush was so thick that a passage with
the horses was impossible. There was seldom any undergrowth in the
forest, but this place appeared to have been chosen by the redskins for
the purpose of presenting to us the very difficulty we now encountered.
They knew that they must be pursued, if at all, from the direction of
the Castle, and they had built their fire in the space between the
brook and the dense undergrowth, so that the horses could not be taken
back without passing over them. I had visited the place before, and, as
I recalled its peculiarities to my mind, the difficulty of the
situation increased. The ground was low and swampy, and though I had
easily passed through it on foot, the horses could not go through
without brushing off their riders. The brook had its rise in the low
ground. We could cross it, but the bushes were just as thick on the
other side.
We tried in vain to find a passage for the horses; and it occurred to
me then that the Indians had possibly come to a halt here because they
could go no farther in this direction. I did not like to ride over the
drunken thieves, though this seemed to be our only means of passing
them. They were asleep, and snoring like the heavy muttering of an
earthquake, and we could not tell exactly how drunk they were. It was
possible that they were still able to use their rifles and knives,
though, if they had drank the entire contents of the whiskey jug, which
probably was not less than a quart, we had little to fear from them.
Some Indians, however, could drink a pint, and still be able to use a
rifle, while others would be overcome with half that quantity.
"We can't get out in this way," said Mr. Mellowtone, after we had
vainly sought a passage around the Indians.
"I will take a look at the drunken redskins," I replied, dismounting,
and fastening my two horses to a sapling.
I walked cautiously to the spot where the Indians lay. I threw a few
dry sticks on the fire, so as to obtain some light from the blaze. I
found that the thieves lay on a knoll between the brook and the swamp.
There was not space enough on either side for two horses to pass
abreast without stepping over or on their sleeping forms; but there was
no other way for us to get out of the trap. The horses might pass
singly, and I decided at once what to do.
"I think we will ride the Indian horses, and let the others follow,"
said I, returning to my companion.
"But they may take it into their heads not to follow."
"Firefly will go as straight to his stable as he can," I replied,
loosing him, and securing the halter around his neck. "The other one
will follow him."
Mr. Mellowtone released his led animal, and I mounted my steed. The
latter was an ugly beast, as he must have been from the force of
association. I urged him towards the Indians, and Firefly closely
followed me. The horse I rode was not disposed to pass the fire and the
sleeping forms; but I pounded his naked ribs till he changed his mind,
and stepped over the legs of his drunken master. Firefly snorted, and
sprang over the obstruction.
"Hoo!" shouted the savage, over whose legs I had passed, springing to
his feet.
But he was too drunk to stand up, and pitched over upon the body of his
companion. As the path was now clear for an instant, Mr. Mellowtone
urged his horse forward, and joined me. Our other horse, which I had
always called Cracker, though Matt never recognized the name, followed
without making any sensation whatever. The fall of the one Indian upon
the other had awakened the latter, and by the light of the blazing
sticks I saw them clutch each other. Probably the second, in his tipsy
stupor, supposed the first was an enemy, having designs upon his life.
They rolled over together, and in the struggle the legs of one of them
were thrown upon the fire.
Such an unearthly yell I had never heard. He was not so drunk that fire
would not burn him, and the pain made him howl like a wounded buffalo.
They rolled and struggled, and the firebrands were scattered in every
direction. In a moment they sprang to their feet, but only to fall
again upon the burning brands which were strown over the ground. They
did not appear to see us, though we had halted quite near them, curious
to see the result of the struggle.
As they fell upon the earth, the brands burned them, and they leaped to
their feet again; but they no longer grappled with each other. It was
now only getting up and falling down, and this continued until they had
stumbled out of the circuit where the brands had been strown. Exhausted
by the violence of their exertions, or bewildered by the fumes of the
liquor, they lay still, and we started on our return to the Castle. If
the Indians saw us at all, they were unable to follow us; and their
experience seemed to point the moral that, when one steals horses, he
must not steal whiskey at the same time.
"They had a warm time of it," said my companion, as we jogged along
very slowly through the forest, for the horses we rode could not be
persuaded to go faster than a walk.
"I am glad they wasted their strength upon each other, instead of us."
"What a condition for a human being to be in!" added Mr. Mellowtone,
with an expression of disgust.
"I don't see why Indians take to whiskey so readily. It is a curse to
all the redskins I ever knew."
"It is a curse to any man, red or white."
"I never saw a white man drunk."
"Your experience has been very limited, Phil Farringford."
"That's very true. I never saw much of the world, but I hope to see
more of it one of these days. What do you suppose these Indians will do
when they become sober?" I asked.
"No doubt they will try to get back their horses. They came down for
more, and they go back with fewer, unless they can recover them. If
they behave themselves we will let them have their own horses. We don't
want them."
"They are nothing but skin and bones."
"Very likely they are good horses, but they have been starved and
overridden."
"Old Matt won't care about filling them out, for we haven't more than
grain enough to carry us through. I suppose we shall see these redskins
again by to-morrow."
"Perhaps not; they may go to their village first, and return with more
men."
"Well, we won't borrow any trouble about them. When they come we will
take care of them. We shall be obliged to watch our horses after this;
for I would rather shoot old Firefly than have him abused by those
redskins."
"They are not worthy to possess so noble an animal as the horse. But,
after all, the white man is more to blame for their present degraded
condition than they are themselves. Out of the reach of the vices of
civilization there are still noble red men."
"I never saw any of them," I added, rather incredulously.
We continued on our way through the solemn forest, and by the side of
the rolling river. Old Firefly and Cracker were ahead of us, but we
could hear the tramp of their feet, and were satisfied that they were
on the right track. When we reached the Castle, we found them patiently
waiting at the stable for our arrival. I opened the door for them, and
they returned to their quarters with a satisfaction which they could
not express. As our stock of hay was nearly expended, we had room
enough in the barn for the two Indian horses. I fed all the animals
alike, for it was not the fault of the strangers that they kept bad
company.
Old Matt had gone to bed when we went into the house, but he wanted to
know all about our adventures; and, when I had told him the story, I
was pleased to hear him say that I had done well. Late as it was, Mr.
Mellowtone insisted upon returning to his home on the island, two miles
above the Castle; but he promised to come down early the next day, for
we expected trouble with our Indian neighbors. I went down to the river
with him, and watched his barge till it disappeared in the gloom of the
night. I was beginning to be sleepy, but I dared not go to bed, fearful
that the Indians would come before morning, and steal the horses. I had
concluded to sleep in the barn, if at all, with my rifle at my side, so
as to be sure that no accident happened while I was in the house.
I did sleep in the barn, and with my rifle at my side; but I was not
disturbed by the visit of any redskins, and the horses were all right
in the morning. I fed them alike again, and watered them at the brook.
Before we had finished our late breakfast in the Castle, Mr. Mellowtone
arrived.
"Have you seen any more Indians, Phil Farringford?" he asked.
"No, sir; but we expect to see the two who stole the horses very soon."
"I brought my rifle with me this time," he added. "I saw Kit Cruncher
this morning. He says there is a band of Indians in the woods north of
him."
"How many?" I asked.
"He saw ten together, all of them mounted, and thinks they came down to
find feed for their horses. I told him what had happened here
yesterday, and he says there will be trouble before the day is over."
"Does he think so?" asked old Matt, rather anxiously.
"He does; and I came prepared to assist you, if need be."
"Thank'e, Mr. Mellowtone. Time was when I didn't want no help agin any
ten of these yere redskins; but the rheumatiz has spiled me, and my arm
shakes so I can't shoot much now," added old Matt, mournfully.
"Kit said he would come here immediately."
"Kit is a good neighbor, and is allus on hand when he's wanted, and
there's any Injuns to shoot."
At that moment the door was darkened by the appearance of Kit Cruncher,
who bowed his head, and entered without ceremony.
CHAPTER IV.
IN WHICH PHIL LOSES AN OLD AND VALUED FRIEND.
Kit Cruncher was about six feet and a half high, and it was necessary
that he should bow his head when he entered even the humble log cabin
of Matt Rockwood. He wore a cap made of skins, so tall that it seemed
to add another foot to his height. It was ornamented with the long,
bushy tail of a fox, which dangled on one side like the tassels from
the cap of a hussar. His beard, gray and massive, was more than a foot
long, and gave him a patriarchal aspect. His pants were stuffed in the
legs of his long boots, and he wore a kind of hunting frock, which
reached nearly to his knees. He was lean and lank, but, annealed in the
hardships of backwoods life, he was wiry and sinewy. He was about fifty
years old, though his gray hair and beard alone appeared to betray his
age. He was from the south; a fine specimen of the real Kentucky
hunter--"half horse and half alligator."
There was a kind of stern dignity in his countenance that always awed
me, though I knew that Kit had a kind heart, and was only terrible to
those who injured him or his friends. He lived by hunting and trapping,
and always had a large supply of peltries to dispose of whenever a
trading steamer came up the Missouri.
"How's yer bones, Matt?" said he, dropping the butt of his long rifle
upon the earthen floor of our cabin.
"Poorly, Kit, poorly," replied Matt. "I'm about did for in this world.
I can shoot no more, and couldn't hit the moon at ten paces."
"That's bad; 'cause 'pears like some shootin' must be did. There's a
squad o' redskins up above me, and I cal'late they mean mischief, if
they begin by stealin' your hosses. We'll git out into natur'," said
Kit, as he left the house, followed by the rest of the party.
He evidently expected a visit from the savages very soon. I took down
my little rifle from the brackets, and also, at Matt's request, carried
out his long weapon, with the accoutrements. We were all rigged for the
war path, and, for my own part, I was never so much excited in my life.
I wondered how Kit could keep so cool. He was deeply skilled in Indian
craft, and when he thought there was danger, others might be excused
for adopting his opinion. Old Matt seated himself on a box near the
barn door, and the rest of us gathered around him.
"Them Injuns has had a hard winter on't," said Kit. "They won't git
their gov'ment money and traps for a month yit, and they are half
starved. They've lost half their hosses, and all these things makes 'em
ugly. But I didn't think o' nothin' till I heered they stole your
hosses, and you hed theirs."
"I never hed much trouble with 'em," added old Matt. "They've stole my
hosses afore, but I allus got 'em back, as I did this time."
"When an Injun's hungry, he's ugly."
The two patriarchs discussed the situation at length, while I listened
in reverent humility to their words. Mr. Mellowtone smoked his pipe in
silence. I think his pipe was in his mouth at least two thirds of the
time, and was a very great comfort to him. We were all watching the
path which led across the field into the forest, for this was the only
approach to the Castle by the land side. Matt's farm--as he called
it--was situated between two deep creeks, the Fish on the west and the
Bear on the east. Half a mile from the cabin, in the midst of the
forest, was a lake, through which flowed Bear Creek. Half way between
this sheet of water and the Little Fish ran Kit's Brook, on the bank of
which was a path leading to the hunter's cabin. The great thoroughfare
to the north was by the Fish, and this was the only practicable way for
mounted men, and was the road by which the Indians came down to the
Missouri to exchange their peltries for powder and whiskey.
While we were all watching the spot where the path entered the forest,
a couple of redskins emerged from its shades, and hurried towards the
Castle. As they approached we all raised our rifles. Even old Matt rose
from his seat, and prepared to use his weapon. But the savages made the
signs of peace; and Kit, to whom we all looked for inspiration and
direction, permitted them to approach. I immediately identified them as
the two who had stolen our horses, and whom I had seen rolling among
the burning brands the night before. Their greasy garments showed the
marks of fire, and the leggings of one of them were nearly burned off.
"Those are the redskins who stole our horses," said I to Kit Cruncher.
"Jest so," replied Kit, as the savages halted before us.
They were very much excited, and looked decidedly ugly. Their eyes were
bloodshot after the debauch of the preceding night, and their eyeballs
seemed to be marked by the fiery nature of the liquor they had drank.
"Ugh!" growled one of them, shaking his head.
"Well, old Blower, what do you want?" demanded Kit, straightening up
his tall, gaunt form.
"Want um hosses," snarled the Indian, shaking his head violently, as
though he was so ugly he could not contain himself.
"D'ye want to steal some hosses?" added Kit, sternly.
"Ugh! White man steal hosses! Lose um two hosses," howled the
spokesman, pointing to the barn.
We understood what be meant. He evidently thought it quite right for
him to steal our horses, but very wicked for us to reciprocate in the
same manner.
"Well, they sarved you jest as you sarved them. You stole Matt's
bosses, his folks stole yours. That's fair play," added Kit.
"No steal hosses!" growled the Indian. "Give back hosses."
"They kin hev their own hosses. I don't want 'em," interposed Matt.
"They ain't fit for scarecrows."
"Bring 'em out, Phil," said Kit. "They shall hev their own. We won't
wrong an Injun, no how."
I led out the bony racks which the Indians had ridden, and delivered
them to their owners.
"Now you kin leave," added Kit.
"Want more hosses," said the Indian who spoke this pigeon English, and
which the other appeared not to be able to do, and only grunted and
howled his anger and indignation.
"You won't git no more hosses here."
"Want corn, want meat, want whiskey."
"Not a corn, not a meat, not a whiskey," replied Kit, decidedly. "Ef
you'd come as a hungry man, we mought hev fed you."
"Big Injun come, burn house, kill white man--no give hoss and whiskey."
"Big Injun mought git shot, ef he don't behave hisself."
"Ugh!"
"You kin leave," repeated Kit, significantly, as he raised his rifle.
"No go," howled the Indian, though he retreated a few paces, and
plainly did not like Kit's cool and stiff manner. "White man pappoose
steal um hosses, and burn Injun."
The speaker stooped down, drew aside his tattered leggin, and pointed
to a huge blister on his leg, made by the fire into which he had rolled
in his drunken frenzy. Then he pointed to me, and as he did so, his
bloodshot eyes lighted up with rage and malice. I understood him to
charge me with the infliction of the injury upon his leg. Since both of
the thieves were so very drunk when we were at their camp, I did not at
first see how they had been made aware of my presence. They did not
seem to see me, and I concluded that they had identified me in the
morning by the smallness of my track in the soft soil. They could not
have known what transpired in their fury, but probably reasoned that,
as I had been there, and taken the horses, I had burned their legs
also.
"I did not do it," I protested, hardly able to restrain a laugh, as I
recalled the ludicrous scene of the night, before at the camp fire.
I explained how the Indian had burned himself.
"Pay Injun damage," added the injured thief.
"Nary red. You stole whiskey, got drunk, and rolled into your own camp
fire," answered Kit. "You kin leave."
The tall hunter raised his rifle again, and the two Indians, mounting
their bony steeds, rode off, yelling in the fury of their rage and
disappointment. They had intended to obtain something more than their
horses. Indeed, the Indians never visited the Castle without begging or
demanding something, always whiskey, and often corn and meat.
"There's more on 'em up there somewhere," said Kit, as the thieves rode
off.
"Do you think they will return?" asked Mr. Mellowtone.
"I'm afeered they will. Them Injuns is ugly, and I reckon they mean to
make trouble. They don't ask for bread and meat; they demand 'em. They
spoke for t'others more'n for theirselves. 'Tain't wuth while to
quarrel with 'em ef you kin help it. I allus give 'em sunthin' to eat,
when they are hungry, ef they ask for't; but I don't let 'em git the
upper hands on me. 'Twon't do."
"If you think they mean to attack us, don't you think we had better
prepare to defend ourselves?" suggested Mr. Mellowtone.
"I'm allus ready, and I am now," replied Kit.
"So am I," added old Matt, as he examined the lock of his weapon.
"But we might do something to make a better defence," said Mr.
Mellowtone. "There are ten or a dozen Indians, you think, while we are
but four."
"What kin we do except shoot 'em when they come?" replied old Matt.
"There is a bridge over the brook in the woods yonder," continued Mr.
Mellowtone, pausing to permit Kit to take up the suggestion, if he
chose.
"Yes, there is; and it cost me a deal of hard work to make it," said
Matt. "It wan't an easy matter to get a hoss over afore it was put up."
"Precisely so, and it won't be an easy matter now. Therefore I think we
had better take up the bridge, and make the brook our line of defence."
Kit approved the plan, and we hastened to execute it. The brook ran at
the bottom of a deep gully as it approached its mouth, and for half a
mile it was impossible to take a horse over, except on the bridge. We
removed the logs with which it was covered, but allowed the
string-pieces to remain. Kit thought we could do better if we prevented
the Indians from coming over on their horses.
By the time we had finished our work, old Matt had hobbled over the
ground, dragging his rifle after him. Just as he approached we heard
the yell of the savages on the other side of the stream, and a band of
ten dashed up to the position. Kit told us to got behind the trees, to
guard against any accident. The Indians drew up their horses when they
discovered that the bridge had been dismantled. I heard the crack of a
rifle.
Old Matt uttered a deep groan, and dropped to the ground, shot through
the heart.
In his weak condition he had not been able to reach the shelter of a
tree in season to save himself. We knew now what the savages meant.
CHAPTER V.
IN WHICH PHIL FOLLOWS KIT CRUNCHER.
Old Matt Rockwood, my friend and protector, the friend and protector of
my childhood, was dead.
Ten years before, he had taken me to his home and his heart, and since
that time had done for me all that his limited means would permit. He
had been a father to me, and the bullet that sped through his heart
lacerated mine.
All that I could remember of existence was associated with the Castle
and its vicinity, though I was not born there. I knew nothing of my
parents, and nothing of the circumstances under which I had come into
the world. Ten years before, while upon a hunt, Matt Rockwood had
wrapped himself up in his blanket, and slept on the bank of the
Missouri, about a dozen miles below the Castle. It was in the spring,
and the water was very high, for the melting snows in the mountains had
swelled the mighty stream to its fullest volume.
A bright light awoke the hunter in the evening, and he discovered a
steamer on fire in the river, only a short distance below. Launching
his bateau, in which he had come down the stream, he paddled with all
his might to the scene of disaster. The pilot had run the steamer
ashore; but before those on board could escape,--for the fire was in
the forward part of the boat,--the swift current carried her off again,
and she descended the stream at a rapid rate. Matt paddled after her;
but, half a mile below the point where the steamer had run ashore, he
heard the wail of a child, very near him.
The light from the burning boat enabled him to see the child. It was
floating on a door, which had evidently been put into the water to
support its helpless burden. Matt, who often told me the story,
believed that the child's father, or some other person, had intended to
ferry the little one on shore in this manner, when the steamer had been
run aground. Probably the starting of the boat had defeated his plan,
or possibly the person who was trying to save the child had lost his
hold on the door. There was no one near the little raft. Matt took the
young voyager on the great river from its perilous situation. It was
benumbed with cold, and he wrapped it in his blanket, and laid it in
the bottom of the boat.
Hardly had he accomplished this humane task before the boilers of the
burning steamer exploded, and she was instantly a wreck on the swift
tide. Matt paddled his bateau as swiftly as possible, but he was unable
to overtake the mass of rushing fire. He shouted occasionally, in order
to attract the attention of any sufferer; but no one responded to his
call. Though he searched diligently, he was unable to find another
survivor of the terrible calamity.
The little child thus saved from the fire and the water was myself.
Matt took his charge to the shore, made a fire, warmed it, and fed it
with buffalo meat and soaked cracker. Wrapping the little stranger in
his blanket, he pressed him to his bosom, and both slept till morning.
The next day, with the child in his bateau, he renewed the search for
any survivors of the calamity. He could find none; but months
afterwards he read in an old newspaper he had obtained from a trading
steamer, that another boat had passed down the river and picked up a
few persons; but neither the names of the lost nor of the saved were
given.
Loading his bateau with as much buffalo meat as it would carry, Matt
started for the Castle with his new charge; but the current of the
swollen river was so swift that it was night before he arrived. At this
point in his story, I used to ask my kind protector whether he tried to
find out anything more about me. He always answered that he was unable
to obtain any information; but, after I was old enough to understand
the matter better, he confessed that he did not wish to discover the
friends of the child. After he had taken care of it for a few months,
he became so attached to it that he was only afraid of losing the
little waif.
I was only two years old when I was thus cast upon the protection of
the old squatter. He watched over me and cared for me with all the
tenderness of a mother, and I became a stout and healthy child. The
plain food and the wholesome air of the wilderness gave vigor to my
limbs. The old man took care of me like a woman when I had the maladies
incident to childhood, and I passed safely through the whole catalogue
of them.
The steamer which had been burned was the Farringford, and Matt had
read the name on her paddle-box. He gave it to me as a surname, to
which he prefixed Philip as a Christian name, simply because it suited
his fancy. With such a charge on his hands Matt was unable to make any
hunting expeditions for several years; but he had already begun to turn
his attention to farming. His only neighbor at that time was Kit
Cruncher, with whom he exchanged corn and pork for game and buffalo
meat. Matt was disposed to indulge more in the comforts of civilization
than the hunters and trappers generally do. He sold wood to the
steamers that passed, and thus obtained money enough to purchase
clothing, groceries, and other supplies.
When I was about seven years old Matt began to take me with him when he
went hunting and fishing, and I soon learned to be of some service to
him. I acquired all the arts of the backwoodsman, and soon became quite
skilful. I worked in the field, and tramped a dozen miles a day with
him. I was tough and sinewy, and knew not the meaning of luxury. My
clothes were made by old Matt, until I was able with his help to
manufacture them myself.
It was a fortunate thing for me that Mr. Mellowtone established himself
in the vicinity of the Castle, for he took an interest in me, and
taught me to read and write. He was a singular man; but I shall have
more to say of him by and by. Until he came, I spoke the rude patois of
Kit and Matt; but Mr. Mellowtone taught me a new language, and insisted
that I should speak it.
Matt had been a pioneer in Indiana, but had afterwards engaged in trade
and failed. His ill success had driven him into the far west to resume
his pioneer habits. Even then he had passed the meridian of life; but
he cleared up a farm, and had been prosperous in his undertakings. The
sale of wood and the produce of the field to the steamers brought in
considerable money, and he had supplied himself with all needed farm
implements, so that we were able to work to advantage. We had a
grist-mill, turned by horse power, which enabled us to convert our corn
into meal. We raised pigs, and always had an abundant supply of pork
and bacon.
I was about thirteen years old when my story opens. I was contented
with my lot, though I was occasionally troubled to ascertain who my
parents were. Matt had no doubt they were both dead, since no inquiries
had ever been made for the lost child. Some day I expected to visit the
regions of civilization, and see the great world. Only twice in my life
had I seen any white women, at least within my memory. They were on the
deck of a steamer, lying at our wood-yard near the mouth of Fish Creek.
I had a reasonable curiosity, which I hoped to gratify when I was
older. For the present, I was willing to cleave to old Matt, as he had
to me.
But now the old man lay upon the ground, silent and motionless. The
crack of the rifle which had sent the ball to his heart was still
ringing in my ears. It was almost instantly followed by another, and I
saw a burly savage drop from his horse, and roll over into the brook.
Kit Cruncher had fired, and was loading his rifle for a second shot. It
was fortunate that we had removed the logs from the bridge, for the
Indians were kept at bay by the deep gully in which the brook flowed.
When the big Indian fell, his comrades set up a fierce howl, for he
seemed to be the leader of the band. Mr. Mellowtone fired next; but his
aim was less certain than that of the hunter. For my own part, heedless
of the howling savages, I stood behind the tree gazing at the prostrate
form of old Matt. I wept bitterly, and should have thrown myself upon
his body if Kit had not sternly commanded me not to move.
The savages were not long in discovering that all the advantage was on
our side, and, with a ringing whoop, they turned their horses and
retreated a short distance.
