that she should speak further,--
'She should speak, or some one for her. One word would suffice.'
That one word has been spoken.
PART II.
CHAPTER I.
LADY BYRON AS I KNEW HER.
An editorial in 'The London Times' of Sept. 18 says:--
 'The perplexing feature in this "True Story" is, that it is impossible
 to distinguish what part in it is the editress's, and what Lady
 Byron's own. We are given the impression made on Mrs. Stowe's mind
 by Lady Byron's statements; but it would have been more satisfactory
 if the statement itself had been reproduced as bare as possible, and
 been left to make its own impression on the public.'
In reply to this, I will say, that in my article I gave a brief
synopsis of the subject-matter of Lady Byron's communications;
and I think it must be quite evident to the world that the main
fact on which the story turns was one which could not possibly be
misunderstood, and the remembrance of which no lapse of time could ever
weaken.
Lady Byron's communications were made to me in language clear, precise,
terrible; and many of her phrases and sentences I could repeat at this
day, word for word. But if I had reproduced them at first, as 'The
Times' suggests, word for word, the public horror and incredulity would
have been doubled. It was necessary that the brutality of the story
should, in some degree, be veiled and softened.
The publication, by Lord Lindsay, of Lady Anne Barnard's communication,
makes it now possible to tell fully, and in Lady Byron's own words,
certain incidents that yet remain untold. To me, who know the whole
history, the revelations in Lady Anne's account, and the story related
by Lady Byron, are like fragments of a dissected map: they fit
together, piece by piece, and form one connected whole.
In confirmation of the general facts of this interview, I have the
testimony of a sister who accompanied me on this visit, and to whom,
immediately after it, I recounted the story.
Her testimony on the subject is as follows:--
 'MY DEAR SISTER,--I have a perfect recollection of going
 with you to visit Lady Byron at the time spoken of in your published
 article. We arrived at her house in the morning; and, after lunch,
 Lady Byron and yourself spent the whole time till evening alone
 together.
 'After we retired to our apartment that night, you related to me
 the story given in your published account, though with many more
 particulars than you have yet thought fit to give to the public.
 'You stated to me that Lady Byron was strongly impressed with the idea
 that it might be her duty to publish a statement during her lifetime,
 and also the reasons which induced her to think so. You appeared at
 that time quite disposed to think that justice required this step, and
 asked my opinion. We passed most of the night in conversation on the
 subject,--a conversation often resumed, from time to time, during
 several weeks in which you were considering what opinion to give.
 'I was strongly of opinion that justice required the publication of
 the truth, but felt exceedingly averse to its being done by Lady Byron
 herself during her own lifetime, when she personally would be subject
 to the comments and misconceptions of motives which would certainly
 follow such a communication.
  'Your sister,
  'M. F. PERKINS.'
I am now about to complete the account of my conversation with Lady
Byron; but as the credibility of a history depends greatly on the
character of its narrator, and as especial pains have been taken
to destroy the belief in this story by representing it to be the
wanderings of a broken-down mind in a state of dotage and mental
hallucination, I shall preface the narrative with some account of
Lady Byron as she was during the time of our mutual acquaintance and
friendship.
This account may, perhaps, be deemed superfluous in England, where so
many knew her; but in America, where, from Maine to California, her
character has been discussed and traduced, it is of importance to give
interested thousands an opportunity of learning what kind of a woman
Lady Byron was.
Her character as given by Lord Byron in his Journal, after her first
refusal of him, is this:--
 'She is a very superior woman, and very little spoiled; which is
 strange in an heiress, a girl of twenty, a peeress that is to be in
 her own right, an only child, and a savante, who has always had her
 own way. She is a poetess, a mathematician, a metaphysician; yet,
 withal, very kind, generous, and gentle, with very little pretension.
 Any other head would be turned with half her acquisitions and a tenth
 of her advantages.'
Such was Lady Byron at twenty. I formed her acquaintance in the year
1853, during my first visit in England. I met her at a lunch-party in
the house of one of her friends.
The party had many notables; but, among them all, my attention was
fixed principally on Lady Byron. She was at this time sixty-one years
of age, but still had, to a remarkable degree, that personal attraction
which is commonly considered to belong only to youth and beauty.
Her form was slight, giving an impression of fragility; her motions
were both graceful and decided; her eyes bright, and full of interest
and quick observation. Her silvery-white hair seemed to lend a grace
to the transparent purity of her complexion, and her small hands
had a pearly whiteness. I recollect she wore a plain widow's cap of
a transparent material; and was dressed in some delicate shade of
lavender, which harmonised well with her complexion.
When I was introduced to her, I felt in a moment the words of her
husband:--
  'There was awe in the homage that she drew;
  Her spirit seemed as seated on a throne.'
Calm, self-poised, and thoughtful, she seemed to me rather to resemble
an interested spectator of the world's affairs, than an actor involved
in its trials; yet the sweetness of her smile, and a certain very
delicate sense of humour in her remarks, made the way of acquaintance
easy.
Her first remarks were a little playful; but in a few moments we were
speaking on what every one in those days was talking to me about,--the
slavery question in America.
It need not be remarked, that, when any one subject especially occupies
the public mind, those known to be interested in it are compelled to
listen to many weary platitudes. Lady Byron's remarks, however, caught
my ear and arrested my attention by their peculiar incisive quality,
their originality, and the evidence they gave that she was as well
informed on all our matters as the best American statesman could be.
I had no wearisome course to go over with her as to the difference
between the General Government and State Governments, nor explanations
of the United States Constitution; for she had the whole before her
mind with a perfect clearness. Her morality upon the slavery question,
too, impressed me as something far higher and deeper than the common
sentimentalism of the day. Many of her words surprised me greatly, and
gave me new material for thought.
I found I was in company with a commanding mind, and hastened to
gain instruction from her on another point where my interest had
been aroused. I had recently been much excited by Kingsley's novels,
'Alton Locke' and 'Yeast,' on the position of religious thought in
England. From these works I had gathered, that under the apparent
placid uniformity of the Established Church of England, and of 'good
society' as founded on it, there was moving a secret current of
speculative enquiry, doubt, and dissent; but I had met, as yet, with
no person among my various acquaintances in England who seemed either
aware of this fact, or able to guide my mind respecting it. The moment
I mentioned the subject to Lady Byron, I received an answer which
showed me that the whole ground was familiar to her, and that she was
capable of giving me full information. She had studied with careful
thoughtfulness all the social and religious tendencies of England
during her generation. One of her remarks has often since occurred to
me. Speaking of the Oxford movement, she said the time had come when
the English Church could no longer remain as it was. It must either
restore the past, or create a future. The Oxford movement attempted
the former; and of the future she was beginning to speak, when our
conversation was interrupted by the presentation of other parties.
Subsequently, in reply to a note from her on some benevolent business,
I alluded to that conversation, and expressed a wish that she would
finish giving me her views of the religious state of England. A portion
of the letter that she wrote me in reply I insert, as being very
characteristic in many respects:--
 'Various causes have been assigned for the decaying state of the
 English Church; which seems the more strange, because the clergy have
 improved, morally and intellectually, in the last twenty years. Then
 why should their influence be diminished? I think it is owing to the
 diffusion of a spirit of free enquiry.
 'Doubts have arisen in the minds of many who are unhappily bound by
 subscription not to doubt; and, in consequence, they are habitually
 pretending either to believe or to disbelieve. The state of Denmark
 cannot but be rotten, when to seem is the first object of the
 witnesses of truth.
 'They may lead better lives, and bring forward abler arguments; but
 their efforts are paralysed by that unsoundness. I see the High
 Churchman professing to believe in the existence of a church, when the
 most palpable facts must show him that no such church exists; the
 "Low" Churchman professing to believe in exceptional interpositions
 which his philosophy secretly questions; the "Broad" Churchman
 professing as absolute an attachment to the Established Church as the
 narrowest could feel, while he is preaching such principles as will at
 last pull it down.
 'I ask you, my friend, whether there would not be more faith, as
 well as earnestness, if all would speak out. There would be more
 unanimity too, because they would all agree in a certain basis. Would
 not a wider love supersede the creed-bound charity of sects?
 'I am aware that I have touched on a point of difference between
 us, and I will not regret it; for I think the differences of mind
 are analogous to those differences of nature, which, in the most
 comprehensive survey, are the very elements of harmony.
 'I am not at all prone to put forth my own opinions; but the tone in
 which you have written to me claims an unusual degree of openness
 on my part. I look upon creeds of all kinds as chains,--far worse
 chains than those you would break,--as the causes of much hypocrisy
 and infidelity. I hold it to be a sin to make a child say, "I
 believe." Lead it to utter that belief spontaneously. I also consider
 the institution of an exclusive priesthood, though having been of
 service in some respects, as retarding the progress of Christianity at
 present. I desire to see a lay ministry.
 'I will not give you more of my heterodoxy at present: perhaps I need
 your pardon, connected as you are with the Church, for having said so
 much.
 'There are causes of decay known to be at work in my frame, which lead
 me to believe I may not have time to grow wiser; and I must therefore
 leave it to others to correct the conclusions I have now formed from
 my life's experience. I should feel happy to discuss them personally
 with you; for it would be soul to soul. In that confidence I am
 yours most truly,
 'A. I. NOEL BYRON.'
It is not necessary to prove to the reader that this letter is not in
the style of a broken-down old woman subject to mental hallucinations.
It shows Lady Byron's habits of clear, searching analysis, her
thoughtfulness, and, above all, that peculiar reverence for truth and
sincerity which was a leading characteristic of her moral nature.[30]
It also shows her views of the probable shortness of her stay on earth,
derived from the opinion of physicians about her disease, which was a
gradual ossification of the lungs. It has been asserted that pulmonary
diseases, while they slowly and surely sap the physical life, often
appear to give added vigour to the play of the moral and intellectual
powers.
[Footnote 30: The reader is here referred to Lady Byron's other
letters, in Part III.; which also show the peculiarly active and
philosophical character of her mind, and the class of subjects on which
it habitually dwelt.]
I parted from Lady Byron, feeling richer in that I had found one more
pearl of great price on the shore of life.
Three years after this, I visited England to obtain a copyright for the
issue of my novel of 'Dred.'
The hope of once more seeing Lady Byron was one of the brightest
anticipations held out to me in this journey. I found London quite
deserted; but, hearing that Lady Byron was still in town, I sent to
her, saying in my note, that, in case she was not well enough to call,
I would visit her. Her reply I give:--
 'MY DEAR FRIEND,--I will be indebted to you for our
 meeting, as I am barely able to leave my room. It is not a time for
 small personalities, if they could ever exist with you; and, dressed
 or undressed, I shall hope to see you after two o'clock.
  'Yours very truly,
  'A. I. NOEL BYRON.'
I found Lady Byron in her sick-room,--that place which she made so
different from the chamber of ordinary invalids. Her sick-room seemed
only a telegraphic station whence her vivid mind was flashing out all
over the world.
By her bedside stood a table covered with books, pamphlets, and files
of letters, all arranged with exquisite order, and each expressing some
of her varied interests. From that sick-bed she still directed, with
systematic care, her various works of benevolence, and watched with
intelligent attention the course of science, literature, and religion;
and the versatility and activity of her mind, the flow of brilliant
and penetrating thought on all the topics of the day, gave to the
conversations of her retired room a peculiar charm. You forgot that
she was an invalid; for she rarely had a word of her own personalities,
and the charm of her conversation carried you invariably from herself
to the subjects of which she was thinking. All the new books, the
literature of the hour, were lighted up by her keen, searching, yet
always kindly criticism; and it was charming to get her fresh, genuine,
clear-cut modes of expression, so different from the world-worn phrases
of what is called good society. Her opinions were always perfectly
clear and positive, and given with the freedom of one who has long
stood in a position to judge the world and its ways from her own
standpoint. But it was not merely in general literature and science
that her heart lay; it was following always with eager interest the
progress of humanity over the whole world.
This was the period of the great battle for liberty in Kansas. The
English papers were daily filled with the thrilling particulars of that
desperate struggle, and Lady Byron entered with heart and soul into it.
Her first letter to me, at this time, is on this subject. It was while
'Dred' was going through the press.
 'CAMBRIDGE TERRACE, Aug. 15.
 'MY DEAR MRS. STOWE,--Messrs. Chambers liked the proposal to
 publish the Kansas Letters. The more the public know of these matters,
 the better prepared they will be for your book. The moment for its
 publication seems well chosen. There is always in England a floating
 fund of sympathy for what is above the everyday sordid cares of life;
 and these better feelings, so nobly invested for the last two years in
 Florence Nightingale's career, are just set free. To what will they
 next be attached? If you can lay hold of them, they may bring about
 a deeper abolition than any legislative one,--the abolition of the
 heart-heresy that man's worth comes, not from God, but from man.
 'I have been obliged to give up exertion again, but hope soon to be
 able to call and make the acquaintance of your daughters. In case you
 wish to consult H. Martineau's pamphlets, I send more copies. Do not
 think of answering: I have occupied too much of your time in reading.
  'Yours affectionately,
  'A. I. NOEL BYRON.'
As soon as a copy of 'Dred' was through the press, I sent it to
her, saying that I had been reproved by some excellent people for
representing too faithfully the profane language of some of the wicked
characters. To this she sent the following reply:--
 'Your book, dear Mrs. Stowe, is of the little leaven kind, and must
 prove a great moral force; perhaps not manifestly so much as secretly.
 And yet I can hardly conceive so much power without immediate and
 sensible effects: only there will be a strong disposition to resist
 on the part of all hollow-hearted professors of religion, whose
 heathenisms you so unsparingly expose. They have a class feeling like
 others.
 'To the young, and to those who do not reflect much on what is offered
 to their belief, you will do great good by showing how spiritual food
 is often adulterated. The bread from heaven is in the same case as
 bakers' bread.
 'If there is truth in what I heard Lord Byron say, that works of
 fiction live only by the amount of truth which they contain, your
 story is sure of a long life. Of the few critiques I have seen, the
 best is in "The Examiner." I find an obtuseness as to the spirit and
 aim of the book, as if you had designed to make the best novel of the
 season, or to keep up the reputation of one. You are reproached, as
 Walter Scott was, with too much scriptural quotation; not, that I
 have heard, with phrases of an opposite character.
 'The effects of such reading till a late hour one evening appeared to
 influence me very singularly in a dream. The most horrible spectres
 presented themselves, and I woke in an agony of fear; but a faith
 still stronger arose, and I became courageous from trust in God, and
 felt calm. Did you do this? It is very insignificant among the many
 things you certainly will do unknown to yourself. I know more than
 ever before how to value communion with you. I have sent Robertson's
 Sermons for you; and, with kind regards to your family, am
  'Yours affectionately,
  'A. I. NOEL BYRON.
I was struck in this note with the mention of Lord Byron, and, the next
time I saw her, alluded to it, and remarked upon the peculiar qualities
of his mind as shown in some of his more serious conversations with Dr.
Kennedy.
She seemed pleased to continue the subject, and went on to say many
things of his singular character and genius, more penetrating and more
appreciative than is often met with among critics.
I told her that I had been from childhood powerfully influenced by
him; and began to tell her how much, as a child, I had been affected
by the news of his death,--giving up all my plays, and going off to
a lonely hillside, where I spent the afternoon thinking of him. She
interrupted me before I had quite finished, with a quick, impulsive
movement. 'I know all that,' she said: 'I heard it all from Mrs. ----;
and it was one of the things that made me wish to know you. I think
you could understand him.' We talked for some time of him then; she,
with her pale face slightly flushed, speaking, as any other great
man's widow might, only of what was purest and best in his works, and
what were his undeniable virtues and good traits, especially in early
life. She told me many pleasant little speeches made by him to herself;
and, though there was running through all this a shade of melancholy,
one could never have conjectured that there were under all any deeper
recollections than the circumstances of an ordinary separation might
bring.
Not many days after, with the unselfishness which was so marked a
trait with her, she chose a day when she could be out of her room,
and invited our family party, consisting of my husband, sister, and
children, to lunch with her.
What showed itself especially in this interview was her tenderness
for all young people. She had often enquired after mine; asked about
their characters, habits, and tastes; and on this occasion she found an
opportunity to talk with each one separately, and to make them all feel
at ease, so that they were able to talk with her. She seemed interested
to point out to them what they should see and study in London; and
the charm of her conversation left on their minds an impression that
subsequent years have never effaced. I record this incident, because it
shows how little Lady Byron assumed the privileges or had the character
of an invalid absorbed in herself, and likely to brood over her own
woes and wrongs.
Here was a family of strangers stranded in a dull season in London, and
there was no manner of obligation upon her to exert herself to show
them attention. Her state of health would have been an all-sufficient
reason why she should not do it; and her doing it was simply a specimen
of that unselfish care for others, even down to the least detail, of
which her life was full.
A little while after, at her request, I went, with my husband and son,
to pass an evening at her house.
There were a few persons present whom she thought I should be
interested to know,--a Miss Goldsmid, daughter of Baron Goldsmid, and
Lord Ockham, her grandson, eldest son and heir of the Earl of Lovelace,
to whom she introduced my son.
I had heard much of the eccentricities of this young nobleman, and
was exceedingly struck with his personal appearance. His bodily frame
was of the order of the Farnese Hercules,--a wonderful development of
physical and muscular strength. His hands were those of a blacksmith.
He was broadly and squarely made, with a finely-shaped head, and dark
eyes of surpassing brilliancy. I have seldom seen a more interesting
combination than his whole appearance presented.
When all were engaged in talking, Lady Byron came and sat down by
me, and glancing across to Lord Ockham and my son, who were talking
together, she looked at me, and smiled. I immediately expressed my
admiration of his fine eyes and the intellectual expression of his
countenance, and my wonder at the uncommon muscular development of his
frame.
She said that that of itself would account for many of Ockham's
eccentricities. He had a body that required a more vigorous animal life
than his station gave scope for, and this had often led him to seek
it in what the world calls low society; that he had been to sea as a
sailor, and was now working as a mechanic on the iron work of 'The
Great Eastern.' He had laid aside his title, and went in daily with the
other workmen, requesting them to call him simply Ockham.
I said that there was something to my mind very fine about this, even
though it might show some want of proper balance.
She said he had noble traits, and that she felt assured he would
yet accomplish something worthy of himself. 'The great difficulty
with our nobility is apt to be, that they do not understand the
working-classes, so as to feel for them properly; and Ockham is now
going through an experience which may yet fit him to do great good when
he comes to the peerage. I am trying to influence him to do good among
the workmen, and to interest himself in schools for their children. I
think,' she added, 'I have great influence over Ockham,--the greater,
perhaps, that I never make any claim to authority.'
This conversation is very characteristic of Lady Byron as showing her
benevolent analysis of character, and the peculiar hopefulness she
always had in regard to the future of every one brought in connection
with her. Her moral hopefulness was something very singular; and in
this respect she was so different from the rest of the world, that it
would be difficult to make her understood. Her tolerance of wrong-doing
would have seemed to many quite latitudinarian, and impressed them
as if she had lost all just horror of what was morally wrong in
transgression; but it seemed her fixed habit to see faults only as
diseases and immaturities, and to expect them to fall away with time.
She saw the germs of good in what others regarded as only evil. She
expected valuable results to come from what the world looked on only
as eccentricities;[31] and she incessantly devoted herself to the task
of guarding those whom the world condemned, and guiding them to those
higher results of which she often thought that even their faults were
prophetic.
[Footnote 31: See her character of Dr. King, Part III.]
Before I quit this sketch of Lady Byron as I knew her, I will give one
more of her letters. My return from that visit in Europe was met by the
sudden death of the son mentioned in the foregoing account. At the time
of this sorrow, Lady Byron was too unwell to write to me. The letter
given alludes to this event, and speaks also of two coloured persons
of remarkable talent, in whose career in England she had taken a deep
interest. One of them is the 'friend' she speaks of.
  'LONDON, Feb. 6, 1859.
 'DEAR MRS. STOWE,--I seem to feel our friend as a bridge,
 over which our broken outward communication can be renewed without
 effort. Why broken? The words I would have uttered at one time were
 like drops of blood from my heart. Now I sympathise with the calmness
 you have gained, and can speak of your loss as I do of my own. Loss
 and restoration are more and more linked in my mind, but "to the
 present live." As long as they are in God's world they are in
 ours. I ask no other consolation.
 'Mrs. W----'s recovery has astonished me, and her husband's prospects
 give me great satisfaction. They have achieved a benefit to their
 coloured people. She had a mission which her burning soul has worked
 out, almost in defiance of death. But who is "called" without being
 "crucified," man or woman? I know of none.
 'I fear that H. Martineau was too sanguine in her persuasion that the
 slave power had received a serious check from the ruin of so many of
 your Mammon-worshippers. With the return of commercial facilities,
 that article of commerce will again find purchasers enough to raise
 its value. Not that way is the iniquity to be overthrown. A deeper
 moral earthquake is needed.[32] We English had ours in India; and
 though the cases are far from being alike, yet a consciousness of what
 we ought to have been and ought to be toward the natives could not
 have been awakened by less than the reddened waters of the Ganges. So
 I fear you will have to look on a day of judgment worse than has been
 painted.
 [Footnote 32: Alluding to the financial crisis in the United States in
 1857.]
 'As to all the frauds and impositions which have been disclosed by
 the failures, what a want of the sense of personal responsibility
 they show. It seems to be thought that "association" will "cover a
 multitude of sins;" as if "and Co." could enter heaven. A firm may be
 described as a partnership for lowering the standard of morals. Even
 ecclesiastical bodies are not free from the "and Co.;" very different
 from "the goodly fellowship of the apostles."
 'The better class of young gentlemen in England are seized with
 a mediæval mania, to which Ruskin has contributed much. The
 chief reason for regretting it is that taste is made to supersede
 benevolence. The money that would save thousands from perishing or
 suffering must be applied to raise the Gothic edifice where their last
 prayer may be uttered. Charity may be dead, while Art has glorified
 her. This is worse than Catholicism, which cultivates heart and eye
 together. The first cathedral was Truth, at the beginning of the
 fourth century, just as Christianity was exchanging a heavenly for an
 earthly crown. True religion may have to cast away the symbol for the
 spirit before "the kingdom" can come.
 'While I am speculating to little purpose, perhaps you are
 doing--what? Might not a biography from your pen bring forth again
 some great, half-obscured soul to act on the world? Even Sir Philip
 Sidney ought to be superseded by a still nobler type.
 'This must go immediately, to be in time for the bearer, of whose
 meeting with you I shall think as the friend of both. May it be happy!
  'Your affectionate
  A. I. N. B.'
One letter more from Lady Byron I give,--the last I received from her:--
  LONDON, May 3, 1859.
 'DEAR FRIEND,--I have found, particularly as to yourself,
 that, if I did not answer from the first impulse, all had evaporated.
 Your letter came by 'The Niagara' which brought Fanny Kemble to learn
 the loss of her best friend, the Miss F---- whom you saw at my house.
 'Her death, after an illness in which she was to the last a minister
 of good to others, is a soul-loss to me also; and your remarks are
 most appropriate to my feelings. I have been taught, however, to
 accept survivorship; even to feel it, in some cases, Heaven's best
 blessing.
 'I have an intense interest in your new novel.[33] More power in
 these few numbers than in any of your former writings, relating, at
 least, to my own mind. It would amuse you to hear my grand-daughter
 and myself attempting to foresee the future of the love-story; being,
 for the moment, quite persuaded that James is at sea, and the minister
 about to ruin himself. We think that Mary will labour to be in love
 with the self-devoted man, under her mother's influence, and from that
 hyper-conscientiousness so common with good girls; but we don't wish
 her to succeed. Then what is to become of her older lover? Time will
 show.
 [Footnote 33: 'The Minister's Wooing.']
 'The lady you desired to introduce to me will be welcomed as of you.
 She has been misled with respect to my having any house in Yorkshire
 (New Leeds). I am in London now to be of a little use to A----; not
 ostensibly, for I can neither go out, nor give parties: but I am the
 confidential friend to whom she likes to bring her social gatherings,
 as she can see something of the world with others. Age and infirmity
 seem to be overlooked in what she calls the harmony between us,--not
 perfect agreement of opinion (which I should regret, with almost fifty
 years of difference), but the spirit-union: can you say what it is?
 'I am interrupted by a note from Mrs. K----. She says that she cannot
 write of our lost friend yet, though she is less sad than she will
 be. Mrs. F---- may like to hear of her arrival, should you be in
 communication with our friend. She is the type of youth in age.
 'I often converse with Miss S----, a judicious friend of the W----s,
 about what is likely to await them. She would not succeed here as well
 as where she was a novelty. The character of our climate this year has
 been injurious to the respiratory organs; but I hope still to serve
 them.
 'I have just missed Dale Owen, with whom I wished to have conversed on
 spiritualism.[34] Harris is lecturing here on religion. I do not hear
 him praised.
 [Footnote 34: See her letter on spiritualistic phenomena, Part III.]
 'People are looking for helps to believe, everywhere but in life,--in
 music, in architecture, in antiquity, in ceremony; and upon all
 these is written, "Thou shalt not believe." At least, if this be
 faith, happier the unbeliever. I am willing to see through that
 materialism; but, if I am to rest there, I would rend the veil.
        *       *       *       *       *
  'June 1.
 'The day of the packet's sailing. I shall hope to be visited by you
 here. The best flowers sent me have been placed in your little vases,
 giving life to the remembrance of you, though not, like them, to pass
 away.
  'Ever yours,
  'A. I. NOEL BYRON.'
Shortly after, I was in England again, and had one more opportunity of
resuming our personal intercourse. The first time that I called on Lady
Byron, I saw her in one of those periods of utter physical exhaustion
to which she was subject on account of the constant pressure of cares
beyond her strength. All who knew her will testify, that, in a state of
health which would lead most persons to become helpless absorbents of
service from others, she was assuming burdens, and making outlays of
her vital powers in acts of love and service, with a generosity that
often reduced her to utter exhaustion. But none who knew or loved her
ever misinterpreted the coldness of those seasons of exhaustion. We
knew that it was not the spirit that was chilled, but only the frail
mortal tabernacle. When I called on her at this time, she could not see
me at first; and when, at last, she came, it was evident that she was
in a state of utter prostration. Her hands were like ice; her face was
deadly pale; and she conversed with a restraint and difficulty which
showed what exertion it was for her to keep up at all. I left as soon
as possible, with an appointment for another interview. That interview
was my last on earth with her, and is still beautiful in memory. It was
a long, still summer afternoon, spent alone with her in a garden, where
we walked together. She was enjoying one of those bright intervals
of freedom from pain and languor, in which her spirits always rose
so buoyant and youthful; and her eye brightened, and her step became
elastic.
One last little incident is cherished as most expressive of her. When
it became time for me to leave, she took me in her carriage to the
station. As we were almost there, I missed my gloves, and said, 'I must
have left them; but there is not time to go back.'
With one of those quick, impulsive motions which were so natural to her
in doing a kindness, she drew off her own and said, 'Take mine if they
will serve you.'
I hesitated a moment; and then the thought, that I might never see
her again, came over me, and I said, 'Oh, yes! thanks.' That was the
last earthly word of love between us. But, thank God, those who love
worthily never meet for the last time: there is always a future.
CHAPTER II.
LADY BYRON'S STORY AS TOLD TO ME.
I now come to the particulars of that most painful interview which has
been the cause of all this controversy. My sister and myself were going
from London to Eversley to visit the Rev. C. Kingsley. On our way, we
stopped, by Lady Byron's invitation, to lunch with her at her summer
residence on Ham Common, near Richmond; and it was then arranged, that
on our return, we should make her a short visit, as she said she had a
subject of importance on which she wished to converse with me alone.
On our return from Eversley, we arrived at her house in the morning.
It appeared to be one of Lady Byron's well days. She was up and
dressed, and moved about her house with her usual air of quiet
simplicity; as full of little acts of consideration for all about her
as if they were the habitual invalids, and she the well person.
There were with her two ladies of her most intimate friends, by whom
she seemed to be regarded with a sort of worship. When she left the
room for a moment, they looked after her with a singular expression of
respect and affection, and expressed freely their admiration of her
character, and their fears that her unselfishness might be leading her
to over-exertion.
After lunch, I retired with Lady Byron; and my sister remained with
her friends. I should here remark, that the chief subject of the
conversation which ensued was not entirely new to me. In the interval
between my first and second visits to England, a lady who for many
years had enjoyed Lady Byron's friendship and confidence, had, with her
consent, stated the case generally to me, giving some of the incidents:
so that I was in a manner prepared for what followed.
Those who accuse Lady Byron of being a person fond of talking upon this
subject, and apt to make unconsidered confidences, can have known very
little of her, of her reserve, and of the apparent difficulty she had
in speaking on subjects nearest her heart.
Her habitual calmness and composure of manner, her collected dignity
on all occasions, are often mentioned by her husband, sometimes with
bitterness, sometimes with admiration. He says, 'Though I accuse Lady
Byron of an excess of self-respect, I must in candour admit that, if
ever a person had excuse for an extraordinary portion of it, she has;
as, in all her thoughts, words, and deeds, she is the most decorous
woman that ever existed, and must appear, what few I fancy could, a
perfectly refined gentlewoman, even to her femme de chambre.
This calmness and dignity were never more manifested than in this
interview. In recalling the conversation at this distance of time, I
cannot remember all the language used. Some particular words and forms
of expression I do remember, and those I give; and in other cases I
give my recollection of the substance of what was said.
There was something awful to me in the intensity of repressed emotion
which she showed as she proceeded. The great fact upon which all turned
was stated in words that were unmistakable:--
'He was guilty of incest with his sister!'
She here became so deathly pale, that I feared she would faint; and
hastened to say, 'My dear friend, I have heard that.' She asked
quickly, 'From whom? and I answered, 'From Mrs. ----;' when she
replied, 'Oh, yes!' as if recollecting herself.
I then asked her some questions; in reply to which she said, 'I will
tell you.'
She then spoke of her first acquaintance with Lord Byron; from which I
gathered that she, an only child, brought up in retirement, and living
much within herself, had been, as deep natures often were, intensely
stirred by his poetry; and had felt a deep interest in him personally,
as one that had the germs of all that is glorious and noble.
When she was introduced to him, and perceived his admiration of
herself, and at last received his offer, although deeply moved, she
doubted her own power to be to him all that a wife should be. She
declined his offer, therefore, but desired to retain his friendship.
After this, as she said, a correspondence ensued, mostly on moral and
literary subjects; and, by this correspondence, her interest in him was
constantly increased.
At last, she said, he sent her a very beautiful letter, offering
himself again. 'I thought,' she added, 'that it was sincere, and that I
might now show him all I felt. I wrote just what was in my heart.
'Afterwards,' she said, 'I found in one of his journals this notice of
my letter: "A letter from Bell,--never rains but it pours."'
There was through her habitual calm a shade of womanly indignation as
she spoke these words; but it was gone in a moment. I said, 'And did he
not love you, then?' She answered, 'No, my dear: he did not love me.'
'Why, then, did he wish to marry you?' She laid her hand on mine, and
said in a low voice, 'You will see.'
She then told me, that, shortly after the declared engagement, he came
to her father's house to visit her as an accepted suitor. The visit was
to her full of disappointment. His appearance was so strange, moody,
and unaccountable, and his treatment of her so peculiar, that she came
to the conclusion that he did not love her, and sought an opportunity
to converse with him alone.
She told him that she saw from his manner that their engagement did not
give him pleasure; that she should never blame him if he wished to
dissolve it; that his nature was exceptional; and if, on a nearer view
of the situation, he shrank from it, she would release him, and remain
no less than ever his friend.
Upon this, she said, he fainted entirely away.
She stopped a moment, and then, as if speaking with great effort,
added, 'Then I was sure he must love me.'
'And did he not?' said I. 'What other cause could have led to this
emotion?'
She looked at me very sadly, and said, 'Fear of detection.'
'What!' said I, 'did that cause then exist?'
'Yes,' she said, 'it did.' And she explained that she now attributed
Lord Byron's great agitation to fear, that, in some way, suspicion of
the crime had been aroused in her mind, and that on this account she
was seeking to break the engagement. She said, that, from that moment,
her sympathies were aroused for him, to soothe the remorse and anguish
which seemed preying on his mind, and which she then regarded as the
sensibility of an unusually exacting moral nature, which judged itself
by higher standards, and condemned itself unsparingly for what most
young men of his times regarded as venial faults. She had every hope
for his future, and all the enthusiasm of belief that so many men and
women of those times and ours have had in his intrinsic nobleness. She
said the gloom, however, seemed to be even deeper when he came to the
marriage; but she looked at it as the suffering of a peculiar being,
to whom she was called to minister. I said to her, that, even in the
days of my childhood, I had heard of something very painful that had
passed as they were in the carriage, immediately after marriage. She
then said that it was so; that almost his first words, when they were
alone, were, that she might once have saved him; that, if she had
accepted him when he first offered, she might have made him anything
she pleased; but that, as it was, she would find she had married a
devil.
The conversation, as recorded in Lady Anne Barnard's Diary, seems only
a continuation of the foregoing, and just what might have followed upon
it.
I then asked how she became certain of the true cause.
She said, that, from the outset of their married life, his conduct
towards her was strange and unaccountable, even during the first
weeks after the wedding, while they were visiting her friends, and
outwardly on good terms. He seemed resolved to shake and combat both
her religious principles and her views of the family state. He tried
to undermine her faith in Christianity as a rule of life by argument
and by ridicule. He set before her the Continental idea of the liberty
of marriage; it being a simple partnership of friendship and property,
the parties to which were allowed by one another to pursue their own
separate individual tastes. He told her, that, as he could not be
expected to confine himself to her, neither should he expect or wish
that she should confine herself to him; that she was young and pretty,
and could have her lovers, and he should never object; and that she
must allow him the same freedom.
She said that she did not comprehend to what this was tending till
after they came to London, and his sister came to stay with them.
At what precise time the idea of an improper connection between her
husband and his sister was first forced upon her, she did not say;
but she told me how it was done. She said that one night, in her
presence, he treated his sister with a liberty which both shocked and
astonished her. Seeing her amazement and alarm, he came up to her, and
said, in a sneering tone, 'I suppose you perceive you are not wanted
here. Go to your own room, and leave us alone. We can amuse ourselves
better without you.'
She said, 'I went to my room, trembling. I fell down on my knees, and
prayed to my heavenly Father to have mercy on them. I thought, "What
shall I do?"'
I remember, after this, a pause in the conversation, during which she
seemed struggling with thoughts and emotions; and, for my part, I was
unable to utter a word, or ask a question.
She did not tell me what followed immediately upon this, nor how soon
after she spoke on the subject with either of the parties. She first
began to speak of conversations afterwards held with Lord Byron, in
which he boldly avowed the connection as having existed in time past,
