her knees, with her face in the patch counter- 
pane. 
When Catty was asleep that night. Sip went 
out and got down upon the floor in the kitchen. 
She got down, with her hands around her 
knees, in the wan lightness that fell about the 
picture behind the china-closet door. The driv- 
ing dream seemed to fill the room. The factory- 
girl on the kitchen floor felt herself swept into it. 
Her lips worked and she talked to it. 
" I could ha' borne it if it had been me," 
she said. Did the pictured women, with their 
arms up, nod as they drove wailing by .' Sip 
could have sworn to it. 
" We could have borne, if it had been we," they 
said. 
" What 's the sense of it V asked Sip, in her 
rough way, half aloud. She had such a foolish 
way about that picture, often talking to it by the 
hour, upon the kitchen floor. 
But the women only waved their arms and 
nodded solemnly. That which they could not 
know nor consider nor understand was in the 
question. They drifted over it with the help- 
lessness of hopeless human pain. 
"You 're good for nothing," said Sip, and 
turned the jjicture to the wall. 
She stumbled over something in doing this, 
and stooped to see what it was. It was an 
abused old book that Catty had taken once 
from the Mission Sunday School, and had never 
returned, — a foohsh thing, with rough prints. 
Catty had thrown it under the table in ten min- 
utes. It opened in Sip's hands now, by chance, 
at a coarse plate of the Crucifixion. 
Sip threw it down, but picked it up again, lost 
the place, and hunted for it ; bent over it for a 
few minutes with a puzzled face. 
Somehow the driving dream and the restless 
dreamer hushed away before the little woodcut. 
In some way the girl herself felt quieted by the 
common thing. For some reason — the old, the 
unexplained, the inexplicable reason — the Cross 
with the Man upon it put finger on the bitter lips 
of Sip's trouble. She could not ask a Man upon 
a Cross, " What was the sense of it .' " So she 
only said, " O my poor Catty ! my poor, poor 
Catty ! " and softly shut the foolish little book 
and went to bed. 
Beethoven did not stay with his face to the 
wall, however. Sip took a world of curious com- 
fort out of that picture ; quite perplexed Perley 
who had only thought in sending it to do a 
pleasant thing, who had at that time never 
guessed — how should she.' — that a line en- 
graving after Lemude could make a "forget- 
ting " in the life of a factory-girl. 
" Sometimes now, when Catty is so bad," said 
Sip one day, " there 's music comes out of that 
picture all about the room. Sometimes in the 
night I hear 'em play. Sometimes when I sit 
and wait for her, they sit and play. Sometimes 
when the floor 's all sloppy and I have to wash up 
after work, I hear 'em playing over all the dirt. 
It sounds so clean ! " said Sip. 
" Is Catty still so troublesome.? " asked Parley. 
Sip's face dropped. 
" Off and on a little worse, I think. The 
blinder she grows the harder it is to please 
her and to keep her still. I come home all beat 
out ; and she 's gone. Or, I try so hard to make 
her happy after supper, and along by nine o'clock 
she 's off. She 's dreadful restless since she left 
off workin', and gets about the street a'most as 
easy, for aught I see, as ever. She 's so used to 
the turns and all ; and everybody knows her, and 
turns out for her. I 've heard of blind folks that 
was like her ; she wasn't stupid, Catty wasn't, 
if she 'd been like other folks. There 's nights I 
sit and look for her to be run over and brought 
in. There 's nights she gets at liquor. There 's 
nights I follow her round and round, and follow 
her home, and make as if I sat there and she 'd 
just come in. That 's the worst, you see. 
What was that you said ? No ; I 'll not have 
Catty sent anywhere away from me. There 's no 
kind folks in any good asylum that would make it 
comfortable for Catty away from me. You need 
n't think," — Sip set her tough little lips together 
— "you needn't think that you nor anybody 
could separate me and Catty. She 's never to 
blame, Catty isn't. I know that. I can work. 
T 'll make her comfortable. It 's only God in 
heaven that will separate me and Catty." 
It was about this time that Miss Kelso at- 
tempted, in view of Sip's increasing care, a long- 
cherished plan of experiment in taking the girl 
out of the mills. 
" It is not a girl to spend life in weaving 
cotton," said the young lady to Stephen Garrick. 
" That would be such exorbitant waste." 
" There 's waste enough at those looms," said 
Mr. Garrick, pointing to his mills, " to enrich a 
Commonwealth perceptibly. We live fast down 
there among the engines. It is hot-house 
growth. There's the difference between a man 
brought up at machinery and a man brought 
up at a hoe, for instance, that there is between 
forced fruit and frozen fruit. Few countries 
understand what possibilities they possess in 
their factory population. We are a fever in the 
national blood that it will not pay to neglect ; 
there 's kill or cure in us." 
" What 's the use .' " said Sip, with sullen, 
unresponsive eyes. " You 'll have all your bother 
for nothing. Miss Kelso. If I get away from my 
loom, I shall come back to my loom. Look at 
the factory-folks in England ! From father to 
child, from children to children's children, — a 
whole race of 'em at their looms. It 's in the 
blood." 
"Try it," urged Perley. "Try it for Catty's 
sake, at least. There are so many ways in which 
it would be better for Catty." 
"I should like it," said Sip, slowly, "to get 
Catty among some other folks than mill-folks. 
It seems as if I could have done it once ; but 
it 's too late now." 
Now Sip was barely twenty-one. She said 
this with the unconscious assurance of fifty. 
" I 'd try anything for Catty ; and almost 
anything for you ; and almost anything to get 
out of the mills ; but I 'm afraid it 's too late." 
But Perley was persistent in her fancy, and 
between them they managed to " try it " 
faithfully. 
Sip went out as somebody's cook, and burned 
all the soup and made sour bread. She drew 
about a baby's carriage for a day and a half, and 
left because the baby cried and she was afraid 
that she should shake it. She undertook to be a 
hotel table-girl, and was saucy to the house- 
keeper before night. She took a specimen of 
her sewing to a dressmaker, and was told that 
the establishment did not find itself in need of 
another seamstress. She stood behind a dry- 
goods counter, but it worried her to measure off 
calico for the old ladies. Finally, Perley put her 
at the printer's trade, and Sip had a headache 
and got inky for a fortnight. 
Then she walked back to her overseer, and 
" asked in " for the next morning. 
" I told you it was no use," she said, shaking 
her head at Miss Kelso, half whimsically, half 
sadly too. " It 's too late. What am I fit for ?
Nothing. What do I know .' Nothing. I can 
weave ; that 's all. I 'm used to that. I 'm used 
to the noise and the running about. I 'm used to 
the dirt and the roughness. I can't sit still on 
a high stool all day. I don't know how to spell, 
if I do. They 're too fussy for me in the ,shops. 
I hate babies. It's too late. I'm spoiled. I 
knew I should come back. My father and mother 
came back before me. It 's in the blood." 
Parley would have liked even then, had it 
seemed practicable, to educate the girl ; but Sip 
shook her dogged head. 
" It 's too late for that, too. Once I would 
have liked that. There 's things I think I could 
ha' done." Sip's sullen eyes wandered slowly 
to the plunging dream and the solitary dreamer 
behind the china-closet door, and, resting there, 
flashed suddenly. " There 's things I seem to 
think I might ha' done with that ; but I 've lost 
'em now. Nor that ain't the worst. I 've lost the 
caring for 'em, — that's the thing I've lost. If I 
was to sit still and study at a grammar, I should 
scream. I must go back to the noise and the 
dirt. Catty and me must stay there. Some- 
times I seem to think that I might have been a 
little different someways ; if maybe I 'd been 
helped or shown. There was an evening school 
to one place where I worked. I was running four 
looms twelve hours and a half a day. You 're so 
dull about the head, you see, when you get home 
from work ; and you ache so ; and you don't feel 
that interest in an education that you might." 
" Sometimes," added Sip, with a working of 
the face, " it comes over me as if I was like a — 
a patchwork bed-quilt. I 'd like to have been 
made out of one piece of cloth. It seems as if 
your kind of folks got made iirst, and we down 
here was put together out of what was left. 
" Sometimes, though," continued the girl, " I 
wonder how there came to be so much of me as 
there is. I don't set up for much, but I wonder 
why I wasn't worse. I believe you would your- 
self, if you knew." 
" Knew what ? " 
"Knew what ! " echoed the factory-girl. " Knew 
that as you know no more of than you know of 
hell ! Haven't I told you that you cant know ? 
You can't understand. If I was to tell you, you 
couldn't understand. It ain't so much the 
bringing up I got, as the smooch of it. That 's 
the wonder of it. You may be ever so clean, 
but you don't feel clean if you 're born in the 
black. Why, look here ; there was my mother, 
into the mills off and on between her babies. 
There 's me, from the time I run alone, run- 
ning alone. She comes home at night. I 'm 
off about the street all day. I learned to swear 
when I learned to talk. Before I 'd learned to 
talk I 'd seen sights that you 've never seen yet in 
all your fine life long. That 's the crock of it. 
And the wonder. And the talk in the mills — 
for a little girl to hear ! Only eight years old 
— such a little girl — and all sorts of women 
working round beside you. If ever I 'd like to 
call curses down on anybody, it 's on a woman 
that I used to know for the way she talked to 
little girls ! Why did nobody stop it .'' Why, the 
boss was as bad himself, every whit and grain. 
The gentlemen who employed that boss were 
professors of religion, all of them. 
" But I 've tried to be good ! " broke off Sip, 
with a little sudden tremor of her bitter lip. " I 
know I 'm rough, but I 've tried to be a good 
girl ! ' 
CHAPTER X. 
ECONOMICAL. 
'' THERE is something very pleasant about 
the town of Five Falls early on a summer 
morning. 
There was something very pleasant .about the 
town of Five Falls on one summer morning when 
Bub Mell got up at five o'clock to catch a rat. 
To pluck a Five Falls morning in the bud, one 
should be up and in it before the bells, — like 
Bub. Until the bells are awake, there is a still- 
ness and a cleanliness about the place that are 
noticeable ; about the dew-laid dusty streets 
and damp sidewalks bare of busy feet ; about 
the massive muteness of the mills ; about the 
very tenements on East Street, washed and made 
shining by the quiet little summer shower that 
fell perhaps last night, like old sins washed out 
by tears ; about the smooth, round cheek of the 
sky before the chimneys begin to breathe upon it ; 
about the little cascades at play like babies upon 
the bosom of the upper stream ; about the arches 
of the stone bridge, great veins, one thinks, for the 
pulsing dam ; about the slopes of buttercups and 
clover which kneel to the water's edge with a 
reverent look, as if they knelt for baptism ; about 
some groups of pines that stretch their arms out 
like people gone wearily to sleep. The pines, the 
clover slopes, the dam, the streets and houses, the 
very sky, everything, in fact, in Five Falls, except 
those babies of cascades, wears, upon a summer 
morning, that air of having gone or of having 
been wearily to sleep, — an air of having been 
upon its feet eleven hours and a half yesterday, 
and of expecting to be upon its feet eleven hours 
and a half to-day. 
Bub has been awake for some fifteen minutes — 
he sleeps upon a mat, like a puppy, behind the 
door, — before he shakes himself a little in his 
rags (the ceremony of a toilet is one of Bub's lost 
arts ; he can, indeed, remember faintly having been 
forcibly induced to take certain jerks at the street 
pump on mild mornings, at some indefinite past 
period of juvenile slavery, till his mother was 
nicely laid up out of the way in the bedroom, and 
he " got so old he give it up "), and trots down the 
wretched stairs, and out with the other puppies 
into the clean stillness of the early time. 
The sick woman is troublesome this morning ; 
there is a great deal of coughing and confusion 
going on ; and the husband up since midnight. 
Bub finds it annoying to be broken of his sleep ; 
suffers from some chronic sensitiveness on the 
dangers of being at hand to be despatched for the 
doctor ; and finds in the rat at once an inspiration 
and a relief.
There is indeed peculiar inspiration in the case 
of that rat. Bub chuckles over his shoulder at 
himself as he trots out into the peaceful time ; 
there is a large three-cornered jagged rag among 
Bub's rags ; the rat bit it yesterday ; it hangs down 
from his little trousers behind and wags as he 
trots. He put the rat into a hogshead to pay for 
it; and shut it down with that piece of board 
fence with which he provided himself last week 
(from Mr. Hayle's garden) for such emergencies. 
There is a richness about going to sleep over- 
night with the game for your morning's hunt in 
a hogshead, which is not generally appreciated 
by gentlemea of the chase. There is a kind of 
security of happiness, a lingering on the lips of 
a sure delight, a consciousness of duty done and 
pleasure in waiting, which have quite an individual
flavor. 
None the other coves know about that rat. 
You bet. Not much. Hi-igh. 
Bub's right shoulder chuckles at his left shoul- 
der, and his left shoulder chuckles at his right 
shoulder, and the jagged rag behind wags with 
delight. Won't he jab him now ! Hi-igh, there. 
Hi-igh ! See him ! He thinks he 's a goin' to 
cut 'n' run, does he .' He must be green. 
Away goes Mr. Hayle's board fence into the 
bean patch, and down goes Bub into the hogs- 
head. There 's a contest for you ! All Bub's poor 
little puzzling soul is in his eyes. All his old 
young face — the only old young thing in the 
dawning time — is filled and fired. Won't he 
have that rat .' Five hundred cascades might 
play upon the pure bosom of the river, and all 
the buttercups in Five Falls kneel for baptism, 
— but he 'll have that rat. 
The smooth, round cheek of the sky seems to 
stoop to the very hogshead, and lay itself ten- 
derly down to cover the child and the vermin 
from the sight of the restful time. 
Presently it begins to be very doubtful who 
shall cut 'n' run. And by and by it begins to be 
more than doubtful who must be green. 
At one fell swoop of anguish, Bub finds his 
dirty little finger bitten to the bone, and himself 
alone in the hogshead. 
Bub sits down in the bottom of the hogshead 
and grits his teeth. He doesn't cry, you un- 
derstand. Not he. Used to cry when he got 
bit. And holler. But got so old he give it up. 
Lor. Ain't he glad none the other coves knows 
now. You bet. Hi-igh. 
All the foreheads of the buttercups and clovers 
seem dripping with sacred water, when Bub lifts 
his little aged yellow face with the dirt and 
blood and tobacco upon it, over — just over — 
the edge of the hogshead to see what became of 
the rat. The cheek of the sky blushes a sadder 
red for shame. The sleepy pine-trees stretch their 
arms out solemnly towards the little fellow. The 
cascades are at play with each other's hands and 
feet. The great pulse of the dam, as sad as life, 
as inexorable as death, as mysterious as both, 
beats confused meanings into the quiet time. 
" Lor," says Bub in the hogshead, looking out, 
half pausing for the instant with his gashed finger 
at his sly mouth, — " Lor, it 's goin' to be a boozier 
of a day. I 'll bet." 
But the bells have waked, with a cross cry, and 
Five Falls starts, to stand for eleven hours and a 
half upon its feet. The peaceful time has slipped 
and gone. The pine-trees rub their eyes and 
sigh. The pulse of the dam throbs feverishly 
fast. The sun dries the baptismal drops from the 
heads of the buttercups and clovers. The dew- 
laid streets fill and throng ; the people have dirty 
clothes and hurried faces ; the dust flies about ; 
the East Street tenements darken to the sight in 
the creeping heat, like the habit of old sins 
returned to darken a sad and sorry life ; you see 
that there are villanous stairs and no drains ; 
you hear coughing and confusion from the 
woman's bedchamber overhead. You see, too, 
that the spotless cheek of the sky is blackened 
now by the chimneys all about, and how still and 
patiently it lies to take the breath of the toil- 
worn town. 
Only those tiny cascades play — eternal children — 
upon a mother's bosom ; as if the heart 
of a little child, just for being the heart of a little 
child, must somehow, somewhere, play forever in 
the smile of an undying morning. 
By means of stopping to have his finger bound, 
and of a search in the bean-patch for the rat, and 
of another search in the cellar for the rat, and of 
the delay occasioned by a vindictive kick or two 
at the hogshead, and by forgetting his breakfast 
and remembering it, and going back for it to find 
that it is all eaten, if indeed there has ever been 
any, which the confusion in the sick-room ren- 
ders a probable theory, Bub is late this morning. 
Nynee was cross about the finger, too ; pulled 
the thread and hurt him ; wanted her own break- 
fast probably. Bub's little old face wears an extra 
shade of age and evil as he trots away to work, 
and he swears roundly by the way ; swears loud 
enough to be heard across the street, for Mr. 
Garrick, on his way to the station, turns his head 
to look after the child. Bub shies away ; has 
been a little skittish about Mr. Garrick, since they 
tried to put him to school and his father swore 
him off for ten years old. It is generally 
understood now in Hayle and Kelso that the firm 
occasionally pull in different ways ; Mr. Mell knows 
where to trace any unusual disturbance of his 
family government which is calculated to arrest 
a child's steady stride to ruined manhood ; every- 
body knows ; Mr. Garrick is unpopular accordingly. 
He has his friends among his work-people, 
chiefly of the kind that do not easily come to 
the surface. The young watchman at the Old 
Stone is one of them, you may be sure. But he 
is not a popular master so far. 
Bub, with his sly eyes, and tobacco-yellowed 
skin, and his pipe in his mouth, and the blood 
and dirt upon his clothes, and the little rag be- 
hind, and his old, old smile, trots away to the 
mills, whose open door has, to Mr. Garrick's 
fancy, an air of gaping after the child. 
" As a prison-door will do in the end," muses 
Mr. Garrick. 
He takes a note-book from his pocket, jotting 
something in it ; about the child, perhaps. He 
has been making an estimate this week of the 
suffering and profligate children in his mills. 
There is scarcely a vice on the statute-book 
which he has not found in existence among the 
little children in those mills. 
The leaf of the note-book turns, in closing, to 
recent entries, which run like this : — 
" Said the chaplain of an English prison, after 
showing the cost of ninety-eight juvenile crim- 
inals to the State, in six years, to have amounted, 
in various ways, to £ 6,063 ( 30;3 1 S) ' they have 
cost a sum of money which would have kept them 
at a boarding-school the whole time! 
" Said the Honorable, the late Clerk of the Police 
of Fall River, Mass., in answer to an inquiry as 
to the number of children in that town peculiarly 
exposed to a life of crime :....'! should say, 
after consulting the docket of our Police Court, 
and inquiring as to the subsequent expenses, that 
the cost of such juvenile offenders as ultimately 
reach the State Prison would average two hun- 
dred and fifty dollars. We have had some who 
have cost much more than this ; one as much as 
five hundred dollars.' " 
Mr. Garrick glances over them with his pecu- 
liar smile, just as Bub and the little wagging rag 
disappear in the yawn of the mill-door. 
There is another noticeable entry, by the way, 
in Mr. Garrick's note-book. It lies against Httlc 
Dib Docket's name : — 
" In H the Chief of the Pohce estimates the 
number of openly abandoned women at not less 
than seventy-five, besides an equal number of a 
less notorious and degraded class. ' They are,' 
said he, 'brought before the Police Court again 
and again. Most of them are under twenty years 
of age. They come from the country and the 
manufacturing towns. They are the children of 
drunken and vicious parents.' " 
Bub dips into the mouth of the door and crawls 
up the stairs on " all fours,'' so much, so very 
much like a little puppy ! He is a little afraid 
of his overseer, being so late. At the top of the 
stairs he loiters and looks down. In the blue 
distance beyond the windows, the cascades are 
just to be seen at their eternal play. 
The machinery is making a great noise this 
morning. The girls are trying to sing, but the 
engines have got hold of the song, and crunch 
it well. Bub, on the threshold of the spooling- 
room, stops with a queer little chuckle like a sigh. 
He wishes he needn't go in. It looks kinder 
jolly out. Lor ! don't it .' Would a'most go to 
school fur the sake uv gettin' out. But guesses 
he must be too old. 
Won't that boss jaw this mornin' ? He'll bet. 
Hi-igh ! 
The strain from down stairs struggles and faints 
as Bub goes in to work ; as if the engines had a 
mouthful of it, and were ready for more. 
The "boss" does. "jaw" this morning. Bub 
expects it, deserves it, bears it, hangs his head 
and holds his tongue, glad, on the whole, that it is 
no worse. A cuff or a kick would not surprise 
him. The overseer is a passionate man, of a race 
of passionate men ; an overseer by birthright ; 
comes from a family of them, modernized, in a 
measure, to be sure. He can remember when his 
father, being an overlooker in a Rhode Island mill, 
carried to work a leathern strap, with tacks 
inserted, for the flagellation of children. This man 
himself can tell you of children whom he has run, 
in some parts of the country, at night work, when 
the little creatures dropped asleep upon their 
feet, and he was obliged to throw water over 
them to keep them awake and at worL 
The girls down stairs are singing something 
this morning about a " Happy Day." Bub, dimly 
hearing, dimly wonders what ; having never had 
but one green boy at the Mission, does not know ; 
thinks it has a pretty sound, wishes the wheels 
would let it alone, hopes the boss is out of the way 
now, wishes he had a chew, finds himself out of 
tobacco, and recovers sufficiently from the 
mortification of the "jawing" to lift his little, wrinkled 
face — it seems as if it never before had borne 
such wrinkles - to see what he can do about it. 
Another little wrinkled face, old, yellow, sly, 
and sad, works close beside him. It has mouth 
and pockets full of quids. 
" Give us a chaw," says Bub. 
" Not much," says the little face, with a wink. 
" Seems as if I should choke ! " says Bub. " I 
must have a chaw. Bill." 
" You don't do none of my chawin'," says Bill, 
" less 'n five cents down." 
" Fact is," says Bub, ruefully, " I 'm out o' cash 
just now. Never you mind, though." 
Bub minds, however. He goes to work again 
with one eye on Bill. Bill's pocket is torn down. 
He must be green. You could a'most get a quid 
out and he 'd never know it. Bub watches his 
chance. He must have tobacco at any chance. 
The child lives upon it, like an old toper on his 
dram. Every inch of his little body craves it. 
He is in a dry, feverish heat. He thinks he shall 
burn up, if he does not get it. To work till 
nooning without it is not' to be thought of. He 
meant to have sold that rat to a chap he knew, 
and to have been supplied. 
Think a cove of his size can work all day 
without it ? You — bet — not — 
There is a spring and a cry. Bub has pounced 
upon Bill's torn pocket. Bill has backed, and 
dragged him. The wagging rag on Bub's little 
trousers has caught in a belt. 
All over the spooling-room there is a spring 
and a cry. 
All up the stairs there seems to be a spring 
and a cry. They come from the song about the 
Happy, Happy Day. The engines close teefh on 
the song_and the child together. 
They stop the machinery ; they run to and 
fro ; they huddle together ; they pick up 
something here, and wipe up something there, and 
cover up something yonder, closely ; they look 
at one another with white faces ; they sit down 
sickly ; they ask what is to do next. 
There is nothing to do. Bub has saved the 
State his two hundred and fifty dollars, and has 
Bill's quid of tobacco in his mangled hand. 
There is nothing to do. Life, like everything 
else, was quite too young for Bub. He has got 
so old, he has given it up. 
There is nothing to do but to carry the news 
now ; nobody likes to carry the news to the sick 
woman ; nobody offers ; the overseer, half wish- 
ing that there had been an oath or two less in 
the "jawing," volunteers to help about the — the 
— pieces, if they 'll find somebody to go on ahead. 
That's all he objects to ; goin' on ahead. 
Mr. Hayle the senior, who has been summoned 
from the counting-room, takes his hat to go in 
search of some one ; would go himself, but the 
fact is, he has never seen the woman, nor the 
father to know him by name, and feels a delicacy 
about obtruding his services. He mentions the 
matter to his son, but Maverick succinctly 
refuses ; remembers just now, for the first time 
since it happened, some long-past allusion of 
Miss Kelso's to a drain, and concludes that his 
personal sympathy can hardly be the most 
desirable to offer to Mr. Mell. 
Just without the mill-yard, bent upon some 
early errand of her own, the two gentlemen 
chance upon Perley. 
"Ask her" says the younger man, in a low 
voice ; " she would do to break ill news to the 
mother of the Maccabees." 
They pause to tell her what has happened ; 
their shocked faces speak faster than their slow 
words ; she understands quite what is needed of 
her ; has turned the corner to East Street, while 
their unfinished explanation hangs upon their 
decorous lips. 
The young man stands for a moment looking 
after her swift, strong, helpful figure, as it 
vanishes from view, with a sense of puzzled loss 
upon his handsome face, but shrugs his shoulders, 
and back in the counting-room shrugs them 
again. 
Perley is none too soon at the First Tenement 
and No. 6. 
The overlooker and his covered burden, and 
the little crowd that trails whispering after it, 
are just in sight, as she climbs the villanous 
stairs. 
The overlooker, and the covered burden, and 
the whispering crowd, are none too late at the 
First Tenement and No. 6. 
Mr. Mell comes out from the sick-room on 
tiptoe ; the children crouch and hide their faces 
behind the door ; the doctor, who has been, has 
gone, and the coughing and confusion are quite 
over. 
Mr. Mell stands still in the middle of the 
kitchen, with his hand at his ear. Whether he 
is listening to a thing which Perley says, — a 
gentle, awful thing, said in a gentle, awful voice, 
— or whether he is listening to certain sounds of 
feet upon the stairs, it were difficult to say. 
He stands still in the middle of the kitchen, 
with his hand behind his ear. 
The feet upon the stairs have climbed the 
stairs, have passed the stairs, have pass.ed the 
door, have paused. 
The overlooker, with his hat in his hand, has 
laid the covered burden softly down upon the 
mat behind the door, where the little burden, 
like a little puppy, slept last night. 
Mr. Mell sits down then in the nearest chair. 
He points at the open bedroom door. He seems 
to be weak from watching, and the hand with 
which he points trembles badly. 
" Do you see .' " he says. " Look there. See, 
don't ye ? I 'm glad ye didn't come ten minute 
sooner. It would ha' ben such a fretful thing for 
her. She would ha' greeted sair, I 'm feared. 
Keep the laddie well covered, will ye ? I wald 
na' like so much as her dead een to seem to see 
it. It would ha' ben sae fretful for her ; I wald 
na' likit to see her greetin' ower the laddie. I 
wald na likit yon ; keep him covered, will ye ? " 
It is very touching to hear the man mourn 
in the old long-disused Scotch words of his 
youth, and very touching to hear what a cry 
there is in the words themselves. 
But it is not heart-breaking, like the thing 
which he says in broad English, next. It is after 
the overlooker has gone, and the covered burden 
is laid decently upon a bed, and Perley has been 
busied in and out of the bedroom, and the chil- 
dren have been washed a little, and the " fust 
gell," crying bitterly over a cup of coffee which 
she is trying to make, has been comforted, and a 
cleanly silence has fallen upon the two rooms, 
and upon the two beds with their mute occupants. 
It is after he has sat stupidly still with his face 
in his hands. It is just as Perley, seeing nothing 
more that she can do for him, is softly shutting 
the door to go and find flowers for little Bub. 
Look a here. Say ! What damages do you 
think the mills 'II give me ? T 'd ought to have 
damages on the loss of the boy's wages. He was 
earniii reglar, and growin too. 
At the foot of the stairs Perley finds a girl 
with large eyes, and soiled blue ribbons on her 
hair, sitting and sobbing in her mill-dress, 
rubbing the dust about her pretty face. 
" I wouldn't sit here, Nynee," suggests Perley 
gently ; " go up and help your sister, and do not 
cry." 
" It seems as if everything fretful happened to 
me," sobs Nynee, pettishly. " The mills was bad 
enough. Then it was mother, and then it was 
somebody comin' in to tell me about Bub, and 
now it 's both of 'em. I wish I 'd tied up Bub's 
finger pleasant this morning. It 'll be fretfuller 
than ever to home now. I wish I was dead like 
them two ; yes, I do. I had other things that 
bothered me besides. I didn't want no more ! " 
" What other things .'' " asks Perley, very gently 
sitting down on the stairs, and very wisely taking 
no heed just now of the little miserable, selfish 
sobs. 
" O, different things. Things about some- 
body that I — like, and somebody that I don't 
like, and some folks that like some folks better 
than me. I was bothered to death before ! " cries 
Nynee. 
"Some time," says Perley, "you shall tell me all 
about them. Run up to your sister, npw." 
Nynee runs up, and Perley, in going foV Bub's 
flowers, thinks that she would rather gain the 
hearing of that little love-story, sitting on the 
dirty stairs, than to get the girl to church with 
her for a year to come. 
CHAPTER XI. 
GOING INTO SOCIETY. 
" DELIGHTED, Perley, I am sure, and shall 
 be sure to come. Nothing could give 
us greater pleasure than a day with you in your 
lovely. Quixotic, queer venture of a home. Mam- 
ma begs me, with her love and acceptance, to 
assure you that she appreciates," etc., etc. 
" As for my friends, the Van Doozles of New 
York, you know, (it is Kenna Van Doozle who is 
engaged to Mr. Blodgett,) they are charmed. It 
was just like you to remember them in your 
kind," etc. 
" And actually to see for ourselves one of your 
dear, benevolent, democratic, strong-minded
