there," he said, pointing with his whip to a brown house in the
distance, "that woman is dying of a cancer, that slowly eats away her
life in lingering agony, and all her dependence is the work of a sickly,
consumptive daughter, and yet she is more than resigned to her lot, she
is so cheerful, so thankful, so hopeful, there is such a blessed calm
peace, and rest, and sweetness in that house, that I love to go there.
The influence of that woman is felt all through the village--she
preaches to some purpose."
"Because she knows what she believes," I said.
"It was the same with your father, Harry. Now my boy," he added, turning
to me with the old controversial twinkle in his eye, and speaking in a
confidential tone--"The fact is, I never agreed with your father
doctrinally, there were weak spots in his system all along, and I always
told him so. I could trip him and floor him in an argument, and have
done it a hundred times," he said, giving a touch to his horse.
I thought to myself that it was well enough that my father wasn't there
to hear that statement, otherwise there would have been an immediate
tilting match, and the whole ground to be gone over.
"Yes," he said; "it wasn't mainly in your father's theology that his
strength lay--it was the Christ in him--the great warm heart--his
crystal purity and simplicity--his unworldly earnestness and honesty. He
was a godly man and a manly man both, and he sowed seed all over this
State that came up good men and good women. Yes, there are hundreds and
hundreds in this State to-day that are good men and good women, mainly
because he lived. That's what I call success in life, Harry, when a
man carries himself so that he turns into seed-corn and makes a harvest
of good people. You may upset a man's reasonings, and his theology may
go to the dogs, but a brave Christian life you can't upset, it will
tell. Now, Harry, are you going to try for that?"
"God helping me, I will," I said.
"You see, as to the theologies," he added, "I think it has been well
said that the Christian world just now is like a ship that's tacking, it
has lost the wind on one side and not quite got it on the other. The
growth of society, the development of new physical laws, and this modern
scientific rush of the human mind is going to modify the man-made
theologies and creeds; some of them will drop away just as the blossom
does when the fruit forms, but Christ's religion will be just the same
as ever--his words will not pass away."
"But then," I said "there are a whole labyrinth of perplexing questions
about this Bible. What is inspiration? What ground does it cover? How
much of all these books is inspired? What is their history? How came we
by them? What evidence have we that the record gives us Christ's words
uncorrupted?"
"If you had been brought up in Justin Martyr's time or the days of the
primitive Christians you would have been put to study all these things
first and foremost in your education, but we modern Christians, teach
young men everything else except what we profess to think the most
important; and so you come out of college ignorant, just where knowledge
is most vital."
"Well, that is past praying for now," said I.
"Yes; but even now there is a way out--just as going through a bog you
plant your foot hard on what land there is, and then take your
bearings--so you must do here. The way to get rid of doubts in religion,
is to go to work with all our might and practice what we don't
doubt, and that you can do whatever your calling or profession."
"I shall certainly try," said I.
"For example," said my uncle, "There's the Sermon on the Mount. Nobody
has any doubt about that, there it lies--plain enough, and enough of
it--not a bit of what's called theology in it. Not a word of
information to settle the mooted questions men wrangle over, but with a
direct answer to just the questions any thoughtful man must want to have
answered when he looks at life. Is there a Father in the heavens? Will
he help us if we ask? May the troubles of life be our discipline? Is
there a better life beyond? And how are we to get that? There is
Christ's philosophy of life in that sermon, and Christ's mode of dealing
with actual existing society; and he who undertakes in good faith to
square his heart and life by it will have his hands full. The world has
been traveling eighteen hundred years and not come fully into the light
of its meaning. There has never been a Christian state or a Christian
nation, according to that. That document is in modern society just like
a lump of soda in a tumbler of vinegar, it keeps up a constant
commotion, and will do so till every particle of life is adjusted on its
principles. The man who works out Christ's teachings into a palpable
life-form, preaches Christianity, no matter what his trade or calling.
He may be a coal heaver or he may be a merchant, or a lawyer, or an
editor--he preaches all the same. Men always know it when they meet a
bit of Christ's sermons walking out bodily in good deeds; they're not
like worldly wisdom, and have a smack of something a good deal higher
than common sense, but when people see it they say, "Yes--that's the
true thing." Now one of our Presidents, General Harrison, found out on a
certain day that through a flaw in the title deeds he was owner to half
the city of Cincinnati. What does he do? Why, simply he says to himself,
'These people have paid their money in good faith, and I'll do by them
as I'd be done by,' and he goes to a lawyer and has fresh deeds drawn
out for the whole of 'em, and lived and died a poor, honest man. That
action was a preaching of Christ's doctrine as I take it, and if you'll
do as much whenever you get a chance, its no matter what calling you
take for a pulpit. So now tell me what are you thinking of setting
yourself about?"
"I intend to devote myself to literature," said I. "I always had a
facility for writing, while I never felt the call or impulse toward
public speaking; and I think the field of current literature opens a
wide scope. I have had already some success in having articles accepted
and well spoken of, and have now some promising offers. I have an
opportunity to travel in Europe as correspondent of two papers, and I
shall study to improve myself. In time I may become an editor, and then
perhaps at last proprietor of a paper. So runs my scheme of life, and I
hope I shall be true to myself and my religion in it. I shall certainly
try to. Current literature--the literature of newspapers and magazines,
is certainly a power."
"A very great power, Harry," said my uncle; "and getting to be in our
day a tremendous power, a power far outgoing that of the pulpit, and
that of books. This constant daily self-asserting literature of
newspapers and periodicals is acting on us tremendously for good or for
ill. It has access to us at all hours and gets itself heard as a
preacher cannot, and gets itself read as scarcely any book does. It
ought to be entered into as solemnly as the pulpit, for it is using a
great power. Yet just now it is power without responsibility. It is in
the hands of men who come under no pledge, pass no examination, give no
vouchers, though they hold a power more than that of all other
professions or books united. One cannot be a doctor, or a lawyer, or a
minister, unless some body of his fellows looks into his fitness to
serve society in these ways; but one may be turned loose to talk in
every family twice a day, on every subject, sacred and profane, and say
anything he chooses without even the safeguard of a personal
responsibility. He shall speak from behind a screen and not be known.
Now you know old Dante says that the souls in the other world were
divided into three classes, those who were for God and those who were
for the Devil, and those who were for neither, but for themselves. It
seems to me that there's a vast many of these latter at work in our
press--smart literary adventurers, who don't care a copper what they
write up or what they write down, wholly indifferent which side of a
question they sustain, so they do it smartly, and ready to sell their
wit, their genius and their rhetoric to the highest bidder. Now, Harry,
I'd rather see you a poor, threadbare, hard-worked, country minister
than the smartest and brightest fellow that ever kept his talents on
sale in Vanity Fair."
"Well," said I, "isn't it just here that your principle of living out a
Gospel should come? Must there not be writers for the press who believe
in the Sermon on the Mount, and who are pledged to get its principles
into life-forms as fast as they can?"
"Yea, verily," said my uncle; "but do you mean to keep faithful to that?
You have, say, a good knack at English; you can write stories, and
poems, and essays; you have a turn for humor; and now comes the Devil to
you and says, Show me up the weak points of those reformers; raise a
laugh at those temperance men,--those religionists, who, like all us
poor human trash, are running religion, and morals, and progress into
the ground.' You can succeed; you can carry your world with you. You
see, if Virtue came straight down from Heaven with her white wings and
glistening robes, and always conducted herself just like an angel, our
trial in life wouldn't be so great as it is. But she doesn't. Human
virtue is more apt to appear like a bewildered, unprotected female,
encumbered with all sorts of irregular bandboxes, dusty, disheveled, out
of fashion, and elbowing her way with ungainly haste and ungraceful
postures. You know there are stories of powerful fairies who have
appeared in this way among men, to try their hearts; and those who
protect them when they are feeble and dishonored, they reward when they
are glorious. Now, your smart, flippant, second-rate wits never have the
grace to honor Truth when she loses her way, and gets bewildered and
dusty, and they drive a flourishing business in laughing down the
world's poor efforts to grow better."
"I think," said I, "that we Americans have one brilliant example of a
man who had keen humor, and used it on the Christian side. The animus of
the "Biglow Papers" is the spirit of the Sermon on the Mount translated
into the language of Yankee life, and defended with wit and drollery."
"You say truth, Harry, and it was no small thing to do it; for the
Anti-Slavery cause then was just in that chaotic state in which every
strange bird and beast, every shaggy, irregular, unkempt reformer, male
and female, were flocking to it, and there was capital scope for
caricature and ridicule; and all the fastidious, and conservative, and
soft-handed, and even-stepping people were measureless in their contempt
for this shocking rabble. Lowell stood between them and the world, and
fought the battle with weapons that the world could understand. There
was a Gospel truth in
      'John P. Robinson, he,'
and it did what no sermon could; this is the more remarkable because he
used for the purpose a harlequin faculty, that has so often been read
out of meeting and excommunicated that the world had come to look at it
as ex-officio of the Devil. Whittier and Longfellow made valiant music
of the solemn sort, but Lowell evangelized wit."
"The fortunate man," said I, "to have used a great opportunity!"
"Harry, the only way to be a real man, is to have a cause you care for
more than yourself. That made your father--that made your New England
Fathers--that raises literature above some child's play, and makes it
manly--but if you would do it you must count on one thing--that the
devil will tempt you in the outset with the bread question as he did the
Lord.
      "Command that these stones be made bread;"
is the first onset--you'll want money, and money will be offered for
what you ought not to write. There's the sensational novel, the blood
and murder and adultery story, of which modern literature is full--you
can produce it--do it perhaps as well as anybody--it will sell. Will
you be barkeeper to the public, and when the public call for hot brandy
sling give it to them, and help them make brutes of themselves? Will you
help to vulgarize and demoralize literature if it will pay?"
"No;" said I, "not if I know myself."
"Then you've got to begin life with some motive higher than to make
money, or get a living, and you'll have sometimes to choose between
poisonous nonsense that brings pay, and honest truth that nobody wants."
"And I must tell the Devil that there is a higher life than the
bread-life?" said I.
"Yes; get above that, to begin with. Remember the story of General
Marion, who invited some British officers to dine with him and gave them
nothing but roasted potatoes. They went away and said it was in vain to
try to conquer a people when their officers would live on such fare
rather than give up the cause. Do you know, Harry, what is my greatest
hope for this State? It's this: Two or three years ago there was urgent
need to carry this State in an election, and there was no end of hard
money sent up to buy votes among our poor farmers: but they couldn't be
bought. They had learned, 'Man shall not live by bread alone,' to some
purpose. The State went all straight for liberty. What I ask of any man
who wants to do a life-work is ability to be happy on a little."
"Well," said I, "I have been brought up to that. I have no expensive
habits. I neither drink nor smoke. I am used to thinking definitely as
to figures, and I am willing to work hard, and begin at the bottom of
the ladder, but I mean to keep my conscience and my religion, and lend a
helping hand to the good cause wherever I can."
"Well, now, my boy, there're only two aids that you need for this--one
is God, and the other is a true, good woman. God you will have, but the
woman--she must be found."
I felt the touch on a sore spot, and so answered, purposely
misunderstanding his meaning. "Yes, I have not to go far for her--my
mother."
"Oh yes, my boy--thank God for her; but Harry, you can't take her away
from this place; her roots have spread here; they are matted and twined
with the very soil; they run under every homestead and embrace every
grave. She is so interwoven with this village that she could not take
root elsewhere, beside that, Harry, look at the clock of life--count the
years, sixty-five, sixty-six, sixty-seven, and the clock never stops!
Her hair is all white now, and that snow will melt by and by, and she
will be gone upward. God grant I may go first, Harry."
"And I, too," said I, fervently. "I could not live without her."
"You must find one like her, Harry. It is not good for man to be alone;
we all need the motherly, and we must find it in a wife. Do you know
what I think the prettiest story of courtship I ever read? Its the
account of Jacob's marriage with Rebecca, away back in the simple old
times. You remember the ending of it,--'And Isaac brought her into her
mother Sarah's tent, and took Rebecca and she became his wife, and Isaac
was comforted for his mother's death.' There's the philosophy of it," he
added; "it's the mother living again in the wife. The motherly instinct
is in the hearts of all true women, and sooner or later the true wife
becomes a mother to her husband; she guides him, cares for him, teaches
him, and catechises him all in the nicest way possible. Why I'm sure I
never should know how to get along a day without Polly to teach me the
requirings and forbiddens of the commandments; to lecture me for going
out without my muffler, and see that I put on my flannels in the right
time; to insist that I shall take something for my cough, and raise a
rebellion to my going out when there's a north-easter. So much for the
body, and as for the soul-life, I believe it is woman who holds faith in
the world--it is woman behind the wall, casting oil on the fire that
burns brighter and brighter, while the Devil pours on water; and you'll
never get Christianity out of the earth while there's a woman in it. I'd
rather have my wife's and your mother's opinion on the meaning of a text
of Scripture than all the doctors of divinity, and their faith is an
anchor that always holds. Some jackanapes or other I read once, said
every woman wanted a master, and was as forlorn without a husband as a
masterless dog. Its a great, deal truer that every man wants a mother;
men are more forlorn than masterless dogs, a great deal, when no woman
cares for them. Look at the homes single women make for themselves; how
neat, how cosy, how bright with the oil of gladness, and then look at
old bachelor dens! The fact is, women are born comfort-makers, and can
get along by themselves a great deal better than we can."
"Well," said I, "I don't think I shall ever marry. Of course if I could
find a woman like my mother, it would be another thing. But times are
altered--the women of this day are all for flash and ambition, and
money. There are no more such as you used to find in the old days."
"Oh, nonsense, Harry; don't come to me with that sort of talk. Bad sort
for a young man--very. What I want to see in a young fellow is a
resolution to have a good wife and a home of his own as quick as he can
find it. The Roman Catholics weren't so far out of the way when they
said marriage was a sacrament. It is the greatest sacrament of life, and
that old church does yeoman service to humanity in the stand she takes
for Christian marriage. I should call that the most prosperous state
when all the young men and women were well mated and helping one another
according to God's ordinances. You may be sure, Harry, that you can
never be a whole man without a wife."
"Well," I said; "there's time enough for that by and by; if I'm
predestinated I suppose it'll come along when I have my fortune made."
"Don't wait to be rich, Harry. Find a faithful, heroic friend that will
strike hands with you, poor, and begin to build up your nest
together,--that's the way your father and mother did, and who enjoyed
more? That's the way your Aunt Polly and I did, and a good time we have
had of it. There has always been the handful of meal in the barrel and
the little oil in the cruse, and if the way we have always lived is
poverty, all I have to say is, poverty is a pretty nice thing."
"But," said I, bitterly, "you talk of golden ages. There are no such
women now as you found, the women now are mere effeminate dolls of
fashion--all they want is ease and show, and luxury, and they care
nothing who gives it--one man is as good as another if he is only rich."
"Tut, tut, boy! Don't you read your Bible? Away back in Solomon's time,
it's written, 'Who can find a virtuous woman? Her price is above
rubies.' Are rubies found without looking for them, and do diamonds lie
about the street? Now, just attend to my words--brave men make noble
women, and noble women make brave men. Be a true man first, and some day
a true woman will be given you. Yes, a woman whose opinion of you will
hold you up if all the world were against you, and whose 'Well done!'
will be a better thing to come home to, than the senseless shouting of
the world who scream for this thing to-day and that to-morrow."
By this time the horse had turned up the lane, and my mother stood
smiling in the door. I marked the soft white hair that shone like a
moonlight glory round her head, and prayed inwardly that the heavens
would spare her yet a little longer.
CHAPTER X
COUSIN CAROLINE.
"You must go and see your cousin Caroline," said my mother, the first
evening after I got home; "you've no idea how pretty she's grown."
"She's what I call a pattern girl," said my uncle Jacob, "a girl that
can make the most of life."
"She is a model housekeeper and manager," said Aunt Polly.
Now if Aunt Polly called a girl a model house-keeper, it was the same
for her that it would be for a man to receive a doctorate from a
college; in fact it would be a good deal more, as Aunt Polly was one who
always measured her words, and never said anything pro forma, or
without having narrowly examined the premises.
Elderly people who live in happy matrimony are in a gentle way disposed
to be match-makers. If they have sense, as my elders did, they do not
show this disposition in any very pronounced way. They never advise a
young man directly to try his fortune with "So and so," knowing that
that would, in nine cases out of ten, be the direct way to defeat their
purpose. So my mother's gentle suggestion, and my uncle Jacob's praise,
and Aunt Polly's endorsement, were simply in the line of the most
natural remarks.
Cousin Caroline was the daughter of Uncle Jacob's brother, the only
daughter in the family. Her father was one of those men most useful and
necessary in society, composed of virtues and properties wholly
masculine. He was strong, energetic, shrewd, acridly conscientious, and
with an intensity of self-will and love of domination. This rugged rock,
all granite, had won a tender woman to nestle and flower in some
crevice of his heart and she had clothed him with a garland of sons and
one flower of a daughter. Within a year or two her death had left this
daughter the mistress of her father's family. I remembered Caroline of
old, as my school companion; the leading scholar, in every study, always
good natured, steady, and clear-headed, ready to help me when I faltered
in a translation, or the solution of an algebraic problem. In those days
I never thought of her as pretty. There were the outlines and rudiments,
which might bloom into beauty, but thin, pale, colorless, and deficient
in roundness and grace.
I had seen very little of Caroline through my college life; we had
exchanged occasionally a cousinly letter, but in my last vacation she
was away upon a visit. I was not, therefore, prepared for the vision
which bloomed out upon me from the singer's seat, when I looked up on
Sunday and saw her, standing in a shaft of sunlight that lit up her
whole form with a kind of glory. I rubbed my eyes with astonishment, as
I saw there a very beautiful woman, and beautiful in quite an uncommon
style, one which promised a more lasting continuance of personal
attraction than is usual with our New England girls. I own, that a head
and bust of the Venus de Milo type; a figure at once graceful, yet ample
in its proportions; a rich, glowing bloom, speaking of health and
vigor,--gave a new radiance to eyes that I had always admired, in days
when I never had thought of even raising the question of Caroline's
beauty. These charms were set off, too, by a native talent for
dress,--that sort of instinctive gift that some women have of arranging
their toilet so as exactly to suit their own peculiar style. There was
nothing fussy, or furbelowed, or gaudy, as one often sees in the dress
of a country beauty, but a grand and severe simplicity, which in her
case was the very perfection of art.
My Uncle Ebenezer Simmons lived at a distance of nearly two miles from
our house, but that evening, after tea, I announced to my mother that I
was going to take a walk over to see cousin Caroline. I perceived that
the movement was extremely popular and satisfactory in the eyes of all
the domestic circle.
Whose thoughts do not travel in this direction, I wonder, in a small
country neighborhood? Here comes Harry Henderson home from college, with
his laurels on his brow, and here is the handsomest girl in the
neighborhood, a pattern of all the virtues. What is there to be done,
except that they should straightway fall in love with each other, and
taking hold of hands walk up the Hill Difficulty together? I presume
that no good gossip in our native village saw any other arrangement of
our destiny as possible or probable.
I may just as well tell my readers first as last, that we did not fall
in love with each other, though we were the very best friends possible,
and I spent nearly half my time at my uncle's house, besetting her at
all hours, and having the best possible time in her society; but our
relations were as frankly and clearly those of brother and sister as if
we had been children of one mother.
For a beautiful woman, Caroline had the least of what one may call
legitimate coquetry, of any person I ever saw. There are some women, and
women of a high class too, who seem to take a natural and innocent
pleasure in the power which their sex enables them to exercise over men,
and who instinctively do a thousand things to captivate and charm one of
the opposite sex, even when they would greatly regret winning his whole
heart. If well principled and instructed they try to keep themselves
under control, but they still do a thousand ensnaring things, for no
other reason, that I can see, than that it is their nature, and they
cannot help it. If they have less principle this faculty becomes then
available power, by which they can take possession of all that a man
has, and use it to carry their own plans and purposes.
Of this power, whatever it may be, Caroline had nothing; nay, more, she
despised it, and received the admiration and attentions which her
beauty drew from the opposite sex, with a coldness, in some instances
amounting to incivility.
With me she had been from the first so frankly, cheerfully and
undisguisedly affectionate and kind, and with such a straightforward air
of comradeship and a literal ignoring of everything sentimental, that
the very ground of anything like love-making did not seem to exist
between us. The last evening before I was to leave for my voyage to
Europe, I spent with her, and she gave me a curiously-wrought
traveling-case, in which there was a pocket for any imaginable thing
that a bachelor might be supposed to want on his travels.
"I wish I could go with you," she said to me, with an energy quite out
of her usual line.
"I am sure I wish you could," said I; and what with the natural softness
of heart that a young man feels, when he is plunging off from the safe
ground of home into the world and partly from the unwonted glow of
feeling that came over Caroline's face, as she spoke, I felt quite a
rush of emotion, and said, as I kissed her hand, "Why didn't we think of
this before, Caroline?"
"Oh, nonsense, Henry; don't you be sentimental, of all things," she
replied briskly, withdrawing her hand. "Of course, I didn't mean
anything more than that I wished I was a young fellow like you, free to
take my staff and bundle, and make my way in the great world. Why
couldn't I be?"
"You," said I, "Caroline, you, with your beauty and your talents,--I
think you might be satisfied with a woman's lot in life."
"A woman's lot! and what is that, pray? to sit with folded hands and see
life drifting by--to be a mere nullity, and endure to have my good
friends pat me on the back, and think I am a bright and shining light of
contentment in woman's sphere?"
"But," said I, "you know, Caroline, that there is always a possibility
in woman's destiny, especially a woman so beautiful as you are."
"You mean marriage. Well, perhaps if I could do as you can, go all over
the world, examine and search for the one I want, and find him, the case
would be somewhat equal; but my chances are only among those who propose
to me. Now, I have read in the Arabian Nights of princesses so beautiful
that men came in regiments, to seek the honor of their hand; but such
things don't occur in our times in New England villages. My list for
selection must be confined to such of the eligible men in this
neighborhood as are in want of wives; men who want wives as they do
cooking-stoves, and make up their minds that I may suit them. By the by,
I have been informed already of one who has had me under consideration,
and concluded not to take me. Silas Boardman, I understand, has made
up his mind, and informed his sisters of the fact, that I am altogether
too dressy in my taste for his limited means, and besides that I am too
free and independent; so that door is closed to me, you'll observe.
Silas won't have me!"
"The conceited puppy!" said I.
"Well, isn't that the common understanding among men--that all the
marriageable girls in their neighborhood are on exhibition for their
convenience? If the very first idea of marriage with any one of them
were not so intensely disagreeable to me, I would almost be willing to
let some of them ask me, just to hear what I could tell them. Now you
know, Harry, I put you out of the case, because you are my cousin, and
I no more think of you in that way than if you were my brother, but,
frankly, I never yet saw the man that I could by any stretch of
imagination conceive of my wanting, or being willing to marry; I know no
man that it wouldn't be an untold honor to me to be doomed to marry. I
would rather scrub floors on my knees for a living."
"But you do see happy marriages."
"Oh, yes, dear souls, of course I do, and am glad of it, and wonder and
admire; yes, I see some happy marriages. There's Uncle Jacob and his
wife, kind old souls, two dear old pigeons of the sanctuary!--how
charmingly they get along! and your father and mother--they seemed one
soul; it really was encouraging to see that people could live so."
"But you musn't be too ideal, Caroline; you musn't demand too much of a
man."
"Demand? I don't demand anything of any man, I only want to be let
alone. I don't want to wait for a husband to make me a position, I want
to make one for myself; I don't want to take a husband's money, I want
my own. You have individual ideas of life, you want to work them out; so
have I: you are expected and encouraged to work them out independently,
while I am forbidden. Now, what would you say if somebody told you to
sit down quietly in the domestic circle and read to your mother, and
keep the wood split and piled, and the hearth swept, and diffuse a sweet
perfume of domestic goodness, like the violet amid its leaves, till by
and by some woman should come and give you a fortune and position, and
develop your affections,--how would you like that? Now the case with me
is just here, I am, if you choose to say it, so ideal and peculiar in my
views that there is no reasonable prospect that I shall ever marry, but
I want a position, a house and home of my own, and a sphere of
independent action, and everybody thinks this absurd and nobody helps
me. As long as mother was alive, there was some consolation in feeling
that I was everything to her. Poor soul! she had a hard life, and I was
her greatest pride and comfort, but now she is gone, there is nothing I
do for my father that a good, smart housekeeper could not be hired to
do; but you see that would cost money, and the money that I thus save is
invested without consulting me: it goes to buy more rocky land, when we
have already more than we know what to do with. I sacrifice all my
tastes, I stunt my growth mentally and intellectually to this daily
tread-mill of house and dairy, and yet I have not a cent that I can call
my own, I am a servant working for board and clothes, and because I am a
daughter I am expected to do it cheerfully; my only escape from this
position is to take a similar one in the family of some man to whom, in
addition to the superintendence of his household, I shall owe the
personal duties of a wife, and that way out you may know I shall never
take. So you are sure to find me ten or twenty years hence a fixture in
this neighborhood, spoken of familiarly as 'old Miss Caroline Simmons,'
a cross-pious old maid, held up as a warning to contumacious young
beauties how they neglect their first gracious offer. 'Caroline was a
handsome gal in her time,' they'll say, 'but she was too perticklar, and
now her day is over and she's left an old maid. She held her head too
high and said "No" a little too often; ye see, gals better take their
fust chances.'"
"After all, cousin," I said, "though we men are all unworthy sinners,
yet sometimes you women do yield to much persuasion, and take some one
out of pity."
"I can't do that; in fact I have tried to do it, and can't. This
desperate dullness, and restraint, and utter paralysis of progress that
lies like a nightmare on one, is a dreadful temptation; when a man
offers you a fortune, which will give you ease, leisure, and power to
follow all your tastes and a certain independent stand, such as
unmarried women cannot take, it is a great temptation."
"But you resisted it!"
"Well, I was sorely tried; there were things I wanted desperately--a
splendid house in Boston, pictures, carriages, servants,--oh, I did want
them; I wanted the éclat, too, of a rich marriage, but I couldn't; the
man was too good a man to be trifled with; if he would only have been a
good uncle or grandpa I would have loved him dearly, and been ever so
devoted, kept his house beautifully, waited on him like a dutiful
daughter, read to him, sung to him, nursed him, been the best friend in
the world to him, but his wife I could not be; the very idea of it
made the worthy creature perfectly repulsive and hateful to me."
"Did you ever try to tell your father how you feel?"
"Of what earthly use? There are people in this world who don't
understand each other's vernacular. Papa and I could no more discuss any
question of the inner life together than if he spoke Chickasaw and I
spoke French. Papa has a respect for my practical efficiency and
business talent, and in a certain range of ideas we get on well
together. He thinks I have made a great mistake, and that there is a
crack in my head somewhere, but he says nothing; his idea is that I have
let slip the only chance of my life, but still, as I am a great
convenience at home, he is reconciled. I suppose all my friends mourn in
secret places over me, and I should have been applauded and commended on
all hands if I had done it; but, after all, wouldn't it be a great deal
more honest, more womanly, more like a reasonable creature, for me to do
just what you are doing, fit myself to make my own way, and make an
independence for myself? Really it isn't honest to take a position where
you know you can't give the main thing asked for, and keep out somebody
perhaps who can. My friend has made himself happy with a woman who
perfectly adores him, and ought to be much obliged to me that I didn't
take him at his word; good, silly soul that he was."
"But, after all, the Prince may come--the fated knight--Caroline."
"And deliver the distressed damsel?" she said, laughing. "Well, when he
comes I'll show him my 'swan's nest among the reeds.' Soberly, the fact
is, cousin," she said, "you men don't know us women. In the first place
they say that there are more of us born than there are of you: and that
doesn't happen merely to give you a good number to choose from, and
enable every widower to find a supernumerary; it is because it was meant
that some women should lead a life different from the domestic one. The
womanly nature can be of use otherwhere besides in marriage, in our
world. To be sure, for the largest class of women there is nothing like
marriage, and I suppose the usages of society are made for the majority,
and exceptional people mustn't grumble if they don't find things
comfortable; but I am persuaded that there is a work and a way for those
who cannot marry."
"Well, there's Uncle Jacob has just been preaching to me that no man
can be developed fully without a wife," said I.
"Uncle Jacob has matrimony on the brain! it's lucky he isn't a despotic
Czar or, I believe, he'd marry all the men and women, wille nille. I
grant that the rare, real marriage, that occurs one time in a hundred,
is the true ideal state for man and woman, but it doesn't follow that
all and everything that brings man and woman together in marriage is
blessed, and I take my stand on St. Paul's doctrine that there are both
men and women called to some higher state; now, it seems to me that the
number of these increases with the advancement of society. Marriage
requires so close an intimacy that there must be perfect agreement and
sympathy; the lower down in the scale of being one is, the fewer
distinctive points there are of difference or agreement. It is easier
for John and Patrick, and Bridget and Katy, to find comfortable sympathy
and agreement than it is for those far up in the scale of life where
education has developed a thousand individual tastes and peculiarities.
We read in history of the Rape of the Sabines, and how the women thus
carried off at hap-hazard took so kindly to their husbands that they
wouldn't be taken back again. Such things are only possible in the
barbarous stages of society, when characters are very rudimentary and
simple. If a similar experiment were made on women of the cultivated
classes in our times I fancy some of the men would be killed; I know
one would,"--she said with an energetic grasp of her little fist and a
flash out of her eyes.
"But the ideal marriage is the thing to be sought," said I.
"For you, who are born with the right to seek, it is the thing to be
sought," she said; "for me, who am born to wait till I am sought by
exactly the right one, the chances are so infinitesimal that they ought
not to be considered; I may have a fortune left me, and die a
millionaire; there is no actual impossibility in that thing's
happening--it is a thing that has happened to people who expected it as
little as I do--but it would be the height of absurdity to base any
calculation upon it and yet all the arrangements that are made about me
and for me, are made on the presumption that I am to marry. I went to
Uncle Jacob and tried to get him to take me through a course of medical
study, to fit me for a professional life, and it was impossible to get
him to take any serious view of it, or to believe what I said; he seemed
really to think I was plotting to upset the Bible and the Constitution,
in planning for an independent life."
"After all, Caroline, you must pardon me if I say that it does not seem
possible that a woman like you will be allowed--that is you know--you
will--well--find somebody--that is, you will be less exacting by and
by."
"Exacting! why do you use that word, when I don't exact anything? I am
not so very ideal in my tastes, I am only individual; I must have in
myself a certain feeling towards this possible individual, and I don't
find it. In one case certainly I asked myself why I didn't? The man was
all he should be, I didn't object to him in the slightest degree as a
man; but looked on respecting the marriage relation, he was simply
intolerable. It must be that I have no vocation to marry, and yet I want
what any live woman wants; I want something of my own; I want a
life-work worth doing; I want a home of my own; I want money that I can
use as I please, that I can give and withhold, and dispose of as
absolutely mine, and not another's; and the world seems all arranged
so as to hinder my getting it. If a man wants to get an education there
are colleges with rich foundations, where endowments have been heaped
up, and scholarships founded, to enable him to prepare for life at
reasonable expense. There are no such for women, and their schools, such
as they are, infinitely poorer than those given to men, involve double
the expense. If you ask a professional man to teach you privately, he
laughs at you, compliments you, and sends you away with the feeling that
he considers you a silly, cracked-brain girl, or perhaps an
unsuccessful angler in matrimonial waters; he seems to think that there
is no use teaching you, because you will throw down all, and run for the
first man that beckons to you. That sort of presumption is insufferable
to me."
"Oh, well, Carrie, you know those old Doctors, they get a certain
jog-trot way of arranging human life; and then men that are happily
married are in such bliss, and such women-worshipers that they cannot
make up their mind that anybody they care about should not enter their
paradise."
"I do not despise their paradise," said Caroline; "I think everybody
most happy that can enter it. I am thankful to see that they can. I am
delighted and astonished every day at beholding the bliss and
satisfaction with which really nice, pretty girls take up with the men
they do, and I think it all very delightful; but it's rather hard on me
that, since I can't have that, I mustn't have anything else."
"After all, Caroline, is not your dissatisfaction with the laws of
nature?"
"Not exactly; I won't quarrel with the will that made me a woman, not in
my deepest heart. Neither being a woman do I want to be unwomanly. I
would not, if I could, do as Georges Sand did, put on men's clothes and
live a man's life. Anything of that sort in a woman is very repulsive
and disgusting to me. At the same time, I do think that the customs and
laws of society might be modified so as to give to women who do not
choose to marry, independent position and means of securing home and
fortune. Marriage never ought to be entered on as a means of support. It
seems to me that our sex are enough weighted by nature, and that
therefore all the laws and institutions of society ought to act in just
the contrary direction, and tend to hold us up--to widen our way, to
encourage our efforts, because we are the weaker party, and need it
most. The world is now arranged for the strong, and I think it ought to
be re-arranged for the weak."
I paused, and pondered all that she had been saying.
"My mother--" I began.
"Now, please don't quote your mother to me. I know what she would say.
If two angels were sent down from Heaven, the one to govern an empire,
and the other to sweep the streets, they would not wish to change with
each other; it is perhaps true.
"But then, you see, that is only possible because they are angels. Your
mother has got up somewhere into that region, but I am down in the low
lands, and must do the best I can on my plane. I can conceive of those
moral heights where one thing is just as agreeable as another, but I
have not yet reached them. Besides, you know Jacob wrestled with his
angel, and was commended for it; and I think we ought to satisfy
ourselves by good, strong effort that our lot is of God. If we really
cannot help ourselves, we may be resigned to it as His will."
"Caroline," I said, "if you might have exactly what you want, what would
it have been?"
"In the first place, then, exactly the same education with my brothers.
I hear of colleges now, somewhere far out west, where a brother and
sister may go through the same course together; that would have suited
me. I am impatient of half-education. I am by nature very thorough and
exact. I want to be sure of doing whatever I undertake as well as it can
be done. I don't want to be flattered and petted for pretty ignorance. I
don't want to be tolerated in any half way, slovenly work of any kind
because I am a woman. When I have a thorough general education, I then
want to make professional studies. I have a great aptitude for medicine.
I have a natural turn for the care of sick, and am now sent for far and
near as one of the best advisers and watchers in case of sickness. In
that profession I don't doubt I might do great good, be very happy, have
a cheerful home of own, and a pleasant life-work; but I don't want to
enter it half taught. I want to be able to do as good work as any
man's; to be held to the same account, and receive only what I can
fairly win."
"But, Caroline, a man's life includes so much drudgery."
"And does not mine? Do you suppose that the care of all the house and
dairy, the oversight of all my father's home affairs, is no drudgery?
Much of it is done with my own hands, because no other work than mine
can content me. But when you and I went to school together, it was just
so: you know I worked out my own problems and made my own
investigations. Now all that is laid aside; at least, all my efforts are
so hap-hazard and painfully incomplete, that it is discouraging to me."
"But would not your father consent?"
"My father is a man wedded to the past, and set against every change in
ideas. I have tried to get his consent to let me go and study, and
prepare myself to do something worth doing, but he is perfectly
immovable. He says I know more now than half the women, and a great deal
too much for my good, and that he cannot spare me. At twenty-one he
makes no further claim on any of my brothers; their minority comes to an
end at a certain period--mine, never."
We were walking in the moonlight up and down under the trees by the
house. Caroline suddenly stopped.
"Cousin," she said, "if you succeed; if you get to be what I hope you
will--high in the world, a prosperous editor--speak for the dumb, for us
whose lives burn themselves out into white ashes in silence and
repression."
"I will," I said.
"You will write to me; I shall rejoice to hear of the world through
you--and I shall rejoice in your success," she added.
"Caroline," I said, "do you give up entirely wrestling with the angel?"
"No; if I did, I should not keep up. I have hope from year to year that
something may happen to bring things to my wishes; that I may obtain a
hearing with papa; that his sense of justice may be aroused; that I may
get Uncle Jacob to do something besides recite verses and compliment
me; that your mother may speak for me."
"You have never told your heart to my mother?"
"No; I am very reticent, and these adoring wives have but one recipe for
all our troubles."
"I think, Caroline, that her's is a wide, free nature, that takes views
above the ordinary level of things, and that she would understand and
might work for you. Tell her what you have been telling me."
"You may, if you please. I will talk with her afterward perhaps she will
do something for me."
CHAPTER XI.
WHY DON'T YOU TAKE HER?
