been paid before ; and he knew more about Wash- 
ington than I did, and desired to know more than I 
could tell him of the financial question among us. 
So we came to national politics, and then to Euro- 
pean affairs. " It appears that Garibaldi will not go 
to Rome this year," remarks my scissors-grinder, 
who is very red in his sympathies. " The Emperor 
forbids ! Well, patience ! And that blessed Pope, 
what does he want, that Pope ? He will be king 
and priest both, he will wear two pairs of shoes at 
once ! " I must confess that no other of my door- 
step acquaintance had so clear an idea as this one of 
the difference between things here and at home. To 
the minds of most we seemed divided here as there 
 
into rich and poor, — aignori, peraone eivili, and 
povera gente, — and their thoughts about us did not 
go beyond a speculation as to our individual willing- 
ness or ability to pay for organ-grinding. But this 
Lombard was worthy of his adopted country, and I
forgive him the frank expression of a doubt that one 
day occurred to him, when offered a glass of Italian 
wine. He held it daintily between him and the sun 
for a smiling moment, and then said, as if our wine 
must needs be as ungenuine as our Italian, — was 
perhaps some expression from the surrounding cur- 
rant-bushes, harsh as that from the Northern tongues 
which could never give his language the true life 
and tonic charm, — " But I suppose this wine is not 
made of grapes, signor ? " Yet he was a very cour- 
teous old man, elaborate in greeting and leave-taking, 
and with a quicker sense than usual. It was ac- 
counted delicacy in him, that, when he had bidden 
us a final adieu, he should never come near us again, 
though the date of his departure was postponed some 
weeks, and we heard him tinkling down the street, 
and stopping at the neighbors' houses. He was a 
keen-faced, thoughtftil-looking man ; and he wore a 
blouse of blue cotton, from the pocket of which 
always dangled the leaves of some wild salad culled 
from our wasteful vacant lots or prodigal waysides. 
Altogether different in character was that Triest- 
jne, who came one evening to be helped home at the 
close of a very disastrous career in Mexico. He 
was a person of innumerable bows, and fluttered 
his bright-colored compliments about, till it appeared 
that never before had such amiable people been 
asked charity by such a worthy and generous suf- 
ferer. In Trieste he had been a journalist, and it 
was evident enough from his speech that he was of 
a good education. He was vain of his Italian accent, 
which was peculiarly good for his heterogeneously 
peopled native city ; and he made a show of that 
marvelous facility of the Tiiestines in languages, by 
taking me down French books, Spanish books, Ger- 
man books, and reading from them all with the prop- 
erest accent. Yet with this boyish pride and self- 
satisfaction there was mixed a tone of bitter and 
worldly cynicism, a belief in fortune as the sole 
providence. As nearly as I could make out, he 
was a Johnson man in American politics ; upon the 
Mexican question he was independent, disdaining 
French and Mexicans alike. He was with the for- 
mer from the first, and had continued in the service 
of Maximilian after their withdrawal, till the execu- 
tion of that prince made Mexico no place for adven- 
turous merit. He was now going back to his native 
country, an ungratefiil land enough, which had ill 
treated him long ago, but to which he nevertheless 
returned in a perfect gayety of temper. What a 
light-hearted rogue he was, — with such merry eyes, 
and such a pleasant smile shaping his neatly trimmed 
beard and mustache ! After he had supped, and he 
stood with us at the door taking leave, something 
happened to be said of Itahan songs, whereupon this 
bhthe exile, whom the compassion of strangers was 
enabling to go home after many years of unprofitable 
toil and danger to a country that had loved him not, 
fell to caroling a Venetian barcarole, and went 
sweetly away in its cadence. I bore Mm company 
as far as the gate of another Italian-speaking signor, 
and was there bidden adieu with great efiiision, so 
that I forgot till he had left me to charge him not to 
be in fear of the house-dog, which barked but did 
not bite. In calling this after him, I had the mis- 
fortune to blunder in my verb. A man of another 
nation — perhaps another man of his own nation — 
would have cared rather for what I said than how I 
said it ; but he, as if too zealous for the honor of his 
beautiftil language to endure a hurt to it even in that 
moment of grief, hfting his hat, and bowing for the 
last time, responded with a " Morde, non morsica, 
signore ! " and passed in under the pines, and next 
day to Italy. 
There is a little old Genoese lady comes to sell us 
pins, needles, thread, tape, and the like roha, whom 
I regard as leading quite an ideal life in some re- 
spects. Her traffic is limited to a certain number of 
families who speak more or less Italian ; and her 
days, so far as they are concerned, must be passed 
in an atmosphere of sympathy and kindliness. The 
truth is, we Northern and New World folk cannot 
help but cast a little romance about whoever comes 
to us fi-om Italy, whether we have actually known 
the beauty and charm of that land or not. Then 
this old lady is in herself a very gentle and lovable 
kind of person with a tender mother-fece, which is 
also the face of a child. A smile plays always upon 
her wrinkled visage, and her quick and restless eyes 
are full of friendliness. There is never much stufiF 
in her basket, however, and it is something of a mys- 
tery how she manages to live from it. None but an 
ItaHan could, I am sure ; and her experience must 
test the ftill virtue of the national genius for cheap 
salads and much-extenuated soup-meat. I do not 
know whether it is native in her, or whether it is a 
grace acquired from long dealing with those kindly- 
hearted customers of hers in Charlesbridge, but she 
is of a most munificent spirit, and returns every 
smallest benefit with some present from her basket. 
She makes me ashamed of things I have written 
about the sordidness of her' race, but I shall vainly 
seek to atone for them by open-handedness to her. 
She will give favor for favor; she will not even 
count the money she receives ; our bargaining is a 
contest of the courtliest civilities, ending in many 
an " Adieu ! " "To meet again ! " " Remain well ! " 
and " Finally ! " not surpassed if rivaled in any 
Italian street. In her ineffectual way, she brings 
us news of her different customers, breaking up their 
stout Saxon names into tinkling polysyllables which 
suggest them only to the practiced sense, and is per- 
fectly patient and contented if we mistake one for 
another. She loves them all, but she pities them as 
living in a terrible climate ; and doubtless in her 
heart she purposes one day to go back to Italy, there 
to die. In the mean time she is very cheerful ; she, 
too, has had her troubles, — what troubles I do not 
remember, but those that come by sickness and by 
 
death, and that really seem no sorrows nntil they 
come to us, — yet she never complains. It is hard 
to make a living, and the house-rent alone is six dol- 
lars a month ; but still one lives, and does not fare 
so ill either. As it does not seem to be in her to 
dislike any one, it must be out of a harmless guile, 
felt to be comforting to servant-ridden householders, 
that she always speaks of " those Irish," her neigh- 
bors, with a bated breath, a shaken head, a hand 
lifted to the cheek, and an averted coimtenance. 
Swarthiest of the organ-grinding tribe is he who 
peers up at my window out of infinitesimal black 
eyes, perceives me, louts low, and for form's sake 
grinds me out a tune before he begins to talk. As 
we parley together, say it is eleven o'clock in the 
forenoon, and a sober tranquillity reigns upon the 
dust and nodding weeds of Benicia Street. At that 
hour the organ-grinder and I are the only persons 
of our sex in the whole suburban population ; all 
other husbands and fathers having eaten their break- 
fasts at seven o'clock, and stood up in the early 
horse-cars to Boston, whence they will return, with 
aching backs and quivering calves, haJf-pendant by 
leathern straps from the roofs of the same luxurious 
conveyances, in the evening. The Italian might go 
and grind his organ upon the front stoop of any one 
of a hundred French-roof houses around, and there 
would be no arm within strong enough to thrust him 
thence ; but he is a gentleman in his way, and, as 
he prettily explains, he never stops to play except 
where the window smiles on him : a frowning lattice 
he will pass in silence, I behold in him a disap- 
pointed man, — a man broken in health, and of a 
liver baked by long sojourn in a tropical clime. In 
large and dim outline, made all the dimmer by his 
dialect, he sketches me the story of his life ; how in 
his youth he ran away from the Milanese for love 
of a girl in France, who, dying, left him with so 
little purpose in the world that, after wqrking at his 
trade of plasterer for some years in Lyons, he lis- 
tened to a certain gentleman going out upon govern- 
ment service to a French colony in South America. 
This gentleman wanted a man-servant, and he said 
to my organ-grinder, " Go with me and I make your 
fortune." So he, who cared not whither he went, 
went, and found himself in the tropics. It was a 
hard life he led there ; and of the wages that had 
seemed so great in France, he paid nearly half to 
his laundress alone, being forced to be neat in his 
master's house. The service was not so irksome 
in-doors, but it was the hunting beasts in the forest 
all day that broke his patience at last. 
" Beasts in the forest ? " I ask, forgetftil of the 
familiar sense of bestie, and figuring cougars at least 
by the word. 
" Yes, those little beasts for the naturalists, — flies, 
bugs, beetles, — Heaven knows what." 
" But this brought you money ? " 
" It brought my master money, but me aches and 
pains as many as you will, and at last the fever. 
When that was burnt out, I made up my mind to 
ask for more pay, and, not getting it, to quit that 
service. I think the signor would have given it, — 
but the signora ! So I left, empty as I came, and 
was cook on a vessel to New York." 
This was the black and white of the man's story. 
I lose the color and atmosphere which his manner as 
well as his words bestowed upon it. He told it in a 
cheerful, impersonal kind of way as the romance of 
a poor devil which had interested him, and might 
possibly amuse me, leaving out no touch of character 
in his portrait of the fat, selfish master, — yielding 
enough, however, but for his grasping wife, who, 
with all her avarice and greed, he yet confessed to 
be very handsome. By the wave of a hand he 
housed them in a tropic residence, dim, cool, close 
shut, kept by servants in white linen moving with 
mute slippered feet over stone floors ; and by another 
gesture he indicated the fierce thorny growths of the 
forest in which he hunted those vivid insects, — the 
luxuriant savannas, the gigantic ferns and palms, 
the hush and shining desolation, the presence of the 
invisible fever and death. There was a touch, too, 
of inexpressible sadness in his half-ignorant mention 
of the exiles at Cayenne, who were forbidden the 
wide ocean of escape about them by those swift gun- 
boats keeping their coasts and swooping down upon 
every craft that left the shore. He himself had seen 
one such capture, and he made me see it, and the 
mortal despair of the ftigitives, standing upright in 
their boat with the idle 'oars in their unconscious 
hands, while the corvette swept toward them. 
For all his misfortunes, he was not cast down. 
He had that lightness of temper which seems proper 
to most northern Italians, whereas those from the 
south are usually dark-mooded, sad-faced men. 
Nothing surpasses for unstudied misanthropy of 
expression the visages of diiferent Neapolitan harpers 
who have visited us ; but they have some right to 
their dejected countenances as being of a yet half- 
civilized stock, and as real artists and men of genius. 
Nearly all wandering violinists, as well as harpers, 
are of their race, and they are of every age, from 
that of mere children to men in their prime. They 
are very rarely old, as many of the organ-grinders 
are ; they are not so handsome as the Italians of the 
north, though they have invariably fine eyes. They 
arrive in twos and threes ; the violinist briefly tunes 
his fiddle, and the hai-per unslings his instrument, 
and, with faces of profound gloomj they go through 
their repertory, — pieces from the great composers, 
airs from the opera, not unmingled with such eflForts 
of Anglo-Saxon genius as Champagne Charley and 
Captain Jenks of the Horse Marines, which, like the 
language of Shakespeare and Milton, hold us and 
our English cousins in tender bonds of mutual affec- 
tion. Beyond the fact that they come " dal Basili- 
cat'," or " dal Principat'," one gets very little out 
of these Neapolitans, though I dare say they aie 
not so surly at heart as they look. Money does not 
brighten them to the eye, but yet it touches them, 
and they are good in playing or leaving off to him 
that pays. Long time two of them stood between 
the gateway firs on a pleasant summer's afternoon, 
 
and twanged and scraped their harmonious strings, 
till all the idle boys of the neighborhood gathered 
about them, listening with a grave and still delight. 
It was a most serious company : the Neapolitans, 
with their cloudy brows, rapt in their music ; and the 
Yankee children, with their impassive faces, warily 
guarding against the faintest expression of enjoy- 
ment ; and when at last the minstrels played a brisk 
measure, and the music began to work in the blood 
of the boys, and one of them shuffling his reluctant 
feet upon the gravel, broke into a sudden and resist- 
less dance, the spectacle became too sad for contemplation. The boy danced only from the hips 
down  no expression of his face gave the levity 
sanction, nor did any of his comrades : they beheld 
him with a silent fascination, but none was infected 
by the solemn indecorum ; and when the legs and 
music ceased their play together, no comment was 
made, and the dancer turned unheated away. A 
chance passer asked for what he called the Geary- 
baldeye Hymn, but the Neapolitans apparently did 
not know what this was. 
My doorstep acquaintance were not all of one race ; 
now and then an alien to the common Italian tribe 
appeared, — an Irish soldier, on his way to Salem, 
and willing to show me more of his mutilation than 
I cared to buy the sight of for twenty-five cents ; 
and more rarely yet an American, also formerly of 
the army, but with something besides his wretched- 
ness to sell. On the hottest day of last summer such 
a one rang the bell, and was discovered on the thresh- 
old wiping with his poor sole hand the sweat that 
stood upon his forehead. There was still enough of 
the independent citizen in his maimed and emaciated 
person to inspire him with deliberation and a show 
of that indiflference with which we Americans like to 
encounter each other ; but his voice was rather faint 
when he asked if I supposed we wanted any starch 
to-day. 
" Yes, certainly," answered what heart there was 
within, taking note willftdly, but I hope not wantonly, 
what an absurdly limp figure he was for a peddler of 
starch, — " certainly from you, brave fellow ; " and 
the package being taken from his basket, the man 
turned to go away, so very wearily, that a cheap phi- 
lanthropy protested : " For. shame ! ask him to sit 
down in-doors and drink a glass of water." 
" No," answered the poor fellow, when this indig- 
nant voice had been obeyed, and he had been taken 
at a disadvantage, and as it were surprised into the 
confession, " my family hadn't any breakfast this 
morning, and I've got to hurry back to them." 
" Haven't you had any breakfast ? " 
" Well, I wa'n't rightly hungry when I left the 
house." 
" Here, now," popped in the virtue before named, 
" is an opportunity to discharge the debt we all owe 
to the brave fellows who gave us back our coimtrv- 
Make it beer." 
So it was made bee.r and bread and cold meat, 
and, after a little pressing, the honest soul consented 
to the refreshment. He sat down in a cool doorway, 
 
and began to eat and to tell of the fight before 
Vicksburg. And if you have never seen a one- 
armed soldier making a meal, I can assure you the 
sight is a pathetic one, and is rendered none the 
cheerfiiller by his memories of the fights that muti- 
lated him. This man had no very susceptible audi- 
ence, but before he was carried off the field, shot 
through the body, and in the arm and foot, he had 
sold every package of starch in his basket. I am 
ashamed to say this now, for I suspect that a man 
with one arm, who indulged himself in going about 
under that broiling sun of July, peddling starch, was 
very probably an impostor. He computed a good 
day's profits of seventy-five cents, and when asked 
if that was not very little for the support of a sick 
wife and three children, he answered with a quaint 
effort at impressiveness, and with a trick, as I im- 
agined, from the manner of the regimental chaplain, 
"You've done your duty, my friend, and more'n 
your duty. If every one did their duty like that, we 
should get along." So he took leave, and shambled 
out into the furnace-heat, the sun beating upon his 
pale face, and his linen coat hugging him close, but 
with his basket lighter, and I hope his heart also. 
At any rate, this was the sentiment which cheap phi- 
lanthropy offered in self-gratulation, as he passed out 
of sight : " There ! you are quits with those maimed 
soldiers at last, and you have a country which you 
have paid for with cold victuals as they with blood." 
We have been a good deal visited by one dis- 
banded volunteer, not to the naked eye maimed, nor 
apparently suffering from any lingering illness, yel 
who bears, as he tells me, a secret disabling wound 
in his side from a spent shell, and who is certainly a 
prey to the most acate form of shifrlessness. I do 
not recall with exactness the date of our acquaint- 
ance, but it was one of those pleasant August after- 
noons when a dinner eaten in peace fills the di- 
gester with a millennial tenderness for the race too 
rarely felt in the nineteenth century. At such a 
moment it is a more natural action to loosen than to 
tighten the purse-strings, and when a very neatly 
dressed young man presented himself at the gate, 
and, in a note of indescribable plaintiveness, asked 
if I had any little job for him to do that he might 
pay for a night's lodging, I looked about the small 
domain with a vague longing to find some part of it 
in disrepair, and experienced a moment's absurd 
relief when he hinted that he would be willing to 
accept fifty cents in pledge of ftiture service. Yet 
this was not the right principle : some work, real or 
apparent, must be done for the money, and the 
veteran was told that he might weed the strawberry 
bed, though, as matters then stood, it was clean 
enough for a strawberry bed that never bore any- 
thing. The veteran was neatly dressed, as I have 
said : his coat, which was good, was buttoned to the 
throat for reasons that shall be sacred against curios- 
ity, and he had on a perfectly clean paper collar ; he 
was a handsome young fellow, with regular features, 
and a solicitously kept imperial and mustache ; his 
hair, when he lifted his hat, appeared elegantly oiled 
 
and brushed. I did not hope &om this figure that 
the work done would be worth the money paid, and, 
as nearly as I can compute, the weeds he took from 
that bed cost me a cent apiece, to say nothing df a 
cup of tea given him in grace at the end of his 
labors. 
My acquaintance was, as the reader will be glad 
to learn, a native American, though it is to be re- 
gretted, for the sake of facts which his case went far 
to establish, that he was not a New-Englander by 
birth. The most that could be claimed was, that he 
pame to Boston from Delaware when very yoimg, 
and that there on that brine-washed granite he had 
grown as perfect a flower of helplessness and indo- 
lence, as fine a fiTiit of maturing civilization, as ever 
expanded or ripened in Latin lands. He hved, not 
only a protest in flesh and blood against the tendency 
of democracy to exclude mere beauty from our sys- 
tem, but a refiitation of those Old World observers, 
who deny to our vulgar and bustling communities 
the refining and elevating grace of Repose. There 
was something veiy curious and original in his 
character, from which the sentiment of shame was 
absent, but which was not lacking in the fine in- 
stincts of personal cleanliness, of dress, of style. 
There was nothing of the rowdy in him ; he was 
gentle as an Italian noble in his manners: what 
other traits they may have had in common, I do not 
know ; perhaps an amiable habit of illusion. He 
was always going to bring me his discharge papers, 
but he never did, though he came often and had 
many a pleasant night's sleep at my cost. If some- 
times he did a little work, he spent great part of the 
time contracted to me in the kitchen, where it was 
understood, quite upon his own agency, that his 
wages included board. At other times, he called for 
money too late in the evening to work it out that 
day, and it has happened that a new second girl, 
deceived by his genteel appearance in the uncertain 
light, has shown him into the parlor, where I have 
found' him to his and my own great amusement, as 
the gentleman who wanted to see me. Nothing else 
seemed to raise his ordinarily dejected spirits so much. 
We all know how pleasant it is to laugh at people be- 
hind their backs ; but this veteran afforded me at a 
very low rate the luxury of a fellow-being whom one 
might laugh at to his face as much as one liked. 
Yet with all his shamelessness, his pensiveness, his 
elegance, I felt that somehow our national triumph 
was not complete in him, — that there were yet more 
finished forms of self-abasement in the Old World, 
till one day I looked out of the window and saw at a 
little distance my veteran digging a cellar for an 
Irishman. I own that the spectacle gave me a shock 
of pleasure, and that I ran down to have a nearer 
view of what human eyes have seldom, if ever, be- 
held, — an American, pure blood, handhng the pick, 
the shovel, and the wheelbarrow, while an Irishman 
directed his labors. Upon inspection, it appeared 
that none of the trees grew with their roots in the 
air, in recognition of this great reversal of the 
natural law ; all the French-roof houses stood, right 
 
side up. The phenomenon may become more com- 
mon in ftitxire, unless the American race accom- 
plishes its destiny of dying out before the more pop- 
nlatory foreigner, but as yet it graced the veteran 
with an exquisite and signal distinction. He, how- 
ever, seemed to feel unpleasantly the anomaly of his 
case, and opened the conversation by saying that he 
should not work at that job to-morrow, it hurt his 
side ; and went on to complain of the inhumanity of 
Americans to Americans. "Why," said he, "they'd 
rather give out their jobs to a nigger than to one of 
their own kind. I was beatin' carpets for a gentle- 
man on the Avenue, and the first thing I know he 
give most of 'em to a nigger. I beat seven of 'em 
in one day, and got two dollars ; and the nigger beat 
'em by the piece, and he got a dollar an' a half 
apiece. My luck ! " 
Here the Irishman glanced at his hireling, and the 
rueftd veteran hastened to pile up another wheel- 
barrow with earth. If ever we come to reverse 
positions generally with our Irish brethren, there is 
no doubt but they will get more work out of us than 
we do from them at present. 
It was shortly after this that the veteran offered to 
do second girl's work in my house if I would take 
him. The place was not vacant ; and as the sum- 
mer was now drawing to a close, and I feared to be 
left with him on my hands for the winter, it seemed 
well to speak to him upon the subject of economy. 
The next time he called, I had not about me the 
exact sum for a night's lodging, — fifty cents, namely, 
— and asked him if he thought a dollar would do. 
He smiled sadly, as if he did not like jesting upon 
such a very serious subject, but said he allowed to 
work it out, and took it. 
" Now, I hope you won't think I am interfering 
with your affairs," said his benefactor, " but I really 
think you are a very poor financier. According to 
your own account, you have been going on from 
year to year for a long time, trusting to luck for a 
night's lodging. Sometimes I suppose you have to 
sleep out-of-doors." 
" No, never ! " answered the veteran, with some- 
thing like scorn. "I never sleep out-doors. I 
wouldn't do it." 
" Well, at any rate, some one has to pay for your 
lodging. Don't you think you'd come cheaper to 
yom- friends, if, instead of going to a hotel every 
night, you'd take a room somewhere, and pay for it 
by the month ? " 
" I've thought of that. If I could get a good bed, 
I'd try it awhile anyhow. You see the hotels have 
raised. I used to get a lodgin' and a nice breakfast 
for a half a dollar, but now it is as much as you can 
do to get a lodgin' for the money, and it's just as 
dear in the Port as it is in the city. I've tried hotels 
pretty much everywhere, and one's about as bad as 
another." 
If he had been a travelled Englishman writing a 
book, he could not have spoken of hotels with greater 
disdain. 
" You see, the trouble with me is, I ain't got any 
 
relations around here. Now," he added, with the 
life and eagerness of an inspiration, " if I had a 
mother and sister livin' down at the Port, say, I 
wouldn't go hunting about for these mean little jobs 
everywheres. I'd just lay round home, and wait till 
something come up big. What I want is a home." 
At the instigation of a malignant spirit I asked 
the homeless orphan, " Why don't you get married, 
then?" 
He gave me another smile, sadder, fainter, sweeter 
than before, and said : " When would you like to see 
me again, so I could work out this dollar ? " 
A sudden and unreasonable disgust for the charac- 
ter which had given me so much entertainment suc- 
ceeded to my past delight. I felt, moreover, that I 
had bought the right to use some frankness with the 
veteran, and I said to him : " Do you know now, I 
shouldn't care if I never saw you again ? " 
I can only conjecture that he took the confidence 
in good part, for he did not appear again after that. 
 
Walking for walking's sake I do not like. The 
diversion appears to me one of the most factitious 
of modern enjoyments; and I cannot help looking 
upon those who pace their five miles in the teeth of 
a north wind, and profess to come home all the live- 
lier and better for it, as guilty of a venial hypocrisy. 
It is in nature that after such an exercise the bones 
should ache and the flesh tremble ; and I suspect 
that these harmless pretenders are all the while pay- 
ing a secret penalty for their bravado. With a 
pleasant end in view, or with cheerful companion- 
ship, walking is far from being the worst thing in 
life ; though doubtless a truly candid person must 
confess that he would rather ride under the same 
circumstances. Yet it is certain that some sort of 
recreation is necessary after a day spent within doors ; 
and one is really obliged nowadays to take a little 
walk instead of medicine ; for one's doctor is sure to 
have a mania on the subject, and there is no more 
getting pills or powders out of him for a slight indi- 
gestion than if they had all been shot away at the 
rebels during the war. For this reason I sometimes 
go upon a pedestrian tour, which is of no great ex- 
tent in itself, and which I moreover modify by keep- 
ing always within sound of the horse-car bells, or 
easy reach of some steam-car station. 
I fear that I should find these rambles dull, but 
that their utter lack of interest amuses me. I will 
be honest with the reader, though, and any Master 
Pliable is free to forsake me at this point; for I 
cannot promise to be really livelier than my walk. 
There is a Slough of Despond in fiill view, and not 
a Delectable Mountain to be seen, unless you choose 
so to call the high lands about Waltham, which we 
shall behold dark blue against the western sky pres- 
ently. As I sally forth upon Benicia Street, the 
whole suburb of Charlesbridge stretches about me, 
— a vast space upon which I can embroider any 
fiincy I like as I saunter along. I have no associa- 
tions with it, or memories of it, and, at some seasons, 
I might wander for days in the most frequented parts 
of it, and meet hardly any one I know. It is not, 
however, to these parts that I commonly turn, but 
northward, up a street upon which a flight of French- 
roof houses suddenly settled a year or two since, with 
families in them, and many outward signs of per- 
manence, though their precipitate arrival might cast 
some doubt upon this. I have to admire their uni- 
form neatness and prettiness, and I look at their 
dormer-windows with the envy of one to whose 
weak sentimentality dormer-windows long appeared 
the supreme architectural happiness. But, for all 
my admiration of the houses, I find a variety that is 
pleasanter in the landscape, when I reach, beyond 
them, a little bridge which appears to span a small 
stream. It unites banks hned with a growth of trees 
and briers nodding their heads above the neighboring 
levels, and suggesting a quiet water-course ; though 
in fact it is the Fitchburg Railroad that purls be- 
tween them, with rippling freight and passenger 
trains and ever-gurgling locomotives. The banks 
take the earhest green of spring upon their south- 
ward slope, and on a Sunday morning of May, when 
the bells are lamenting the Sabbaths of the past, I 
find their sunny tranquillity sufficient to give me a 
slight heart-ache for I know not what. If I descend 
them and follow the railroad westward half a mile, I 
come to vast brick-yards, which are not in them- 
selves exciting to the imagination, and which yet, 
from an irresistible association of ideas, remind me 
of Egypt, and are forever newly forsaken of those 
who made bricks without straw ; so that I have no 
trouble in erecting temples and dynastic tombs out 
of the kilns ; while the mills for grinding the clay 
serve me very well for those sad-voiced gakias or 
wheel-pumps which the Howadji Curtis heard wail- 
ing at their work of drawing water from the Nile. 
A little farther on I come to the boarding-house 
built at the railroad side for the French Canadians 
who have by this time succeeded the Hebrews in 
the toil of the brick-yards, and who, as they loiter in 
windy-voiced, good-humored groups about the doors 
of their lodgings, insist upon bringing before me the 
town of St. Michel at the mouth of the great Mont 
Cenis tunnel, where so many peasant folk like them 
are always amiably quarreling before the cdbarett 
when the diligence comes and goes. Somewhere, 
there must be a gendarme with a cocked hat and a 
sword on, standing with folded arms to represent the 
Empire and Peace among that rural population ; if I 
looked in-doors, I am sure I should see the neatest 
of landladies and landladies' daughters and nieces in 
high black silk caps, bearing hither and thither 
smoking bowls of bouillon and cafe-au-lait. Well, it 
takes as little to make one happy as miserable, thank 
Heaven ! and I derive a cheerfiilness from this scene 
which quite atones to me for the fleeting desolation 
suflPered from the sunny verdure on the railroad 
bank. With repaired spirits I take my way up 
through the brick-yards towards the Irish settlement 
on the north, passing under the long sheds that shel- 
ter the kilns. The ashes he cold about the mouths 
of most, and the bricks are burnt to the proper com- 
plexion ; in others these are freshly arranged over 
flues in which the fire has not been kindled ; but in 
whatever state I see them, I am reminded of brick- 
kilns of boyhood. They were then such palaces of 
enchantment as any architect should now vainly at- 
tempt to rival with bricks upon the most desirable 
comer lot of the Back Bay, and were the homes of 
men truly to be envied : men privileged to stay up all 
night ; to sleep, as it were, out of doors ; to hear the 
wild geese as they flew over in the darkness ; to be 
waking in time to shoot the early ducks that visited 
the neighboring ponds ; to roast com upon the ends 
of sticks ; to tell and to Hsten to stories that never 
ended, save in some sudden impulse to rise and dance 
a happy hoe-down in the ruddy light of the kiln-fires. 
If by day they were seen to have the redness of 
 
eyes of men that looked upon the whiskey when it 
was yellow and gave its color in the flask ; if now 
and then the fragments of a broken bottle strewed 
the scene of their vigils, and a head broken to match 
appeared among those good comrades, the boyish 
imagination was not shocked by these things, but 
accepted them merely as the symbols of a free virile 
life. Some such life no doubt is still to be found in 
the Dublin to which I am come by the time my re- 
pertory of associations with brick-kilns is exhausted ; 
but, oddly enough, I no longer care to encounter it. 
It is perhaps in a pious recognition of our mortality 
that Dublin is built around the Irish grave-yard. 
Most of its windows look out upon the sepulchral 
monuments and the pretty constant arrival of the 
funeral trains with their long lines of carriages 
bringing to the celebration of the sad ultimate rites 
those gay companies of Irish mourners. I suppose 
that the spectacle of such obsequies is not at all de- 
pressing to the inhabitants of Dublin ; but that, on 
the contrary, it must beget in them a feeling which, 
if not resignation to death, is, at least, a sort of sub- 
acute cheerfulness in his presence. None but a 
Dubliner, however, would have been greatly ani- 
mated by a scene which I witnessed during a stroll 
through this cemetery one afternoon of early spring. 
The fact that a marble slab or shaft more or less 
sculptured, and inscribed with words more or less 
helpless, is the utmost that we can give to one whom 
once we could caress with every tenderness of speech 
and touch ; and that after all, the memorial we raise 
 
IS rather to our own grief, and is a decency, a mere 
conventionality, — this is a dreadful fact on which 
the heart breaks itself with such a pang, that it al- 
ways seems a desolation never recognized, an anguish 
never felt before. Whilst I stood revolving this 
thought in my mind, and reading the Irish names 
upon the stones and the black head-boards, — the 
latter adorned with pictures of angels, once gilt, but 
now weather-worn down to the yellow paint, — a 
wail of intolerable pathos iilled the air : " O my 
darling, O my darling ! O — O — ! " with sobs 
