in the foreground of that magnificent landscape, they found them far
from unpleasing. Some such pair is in the foreground of every famous
American landscape; and when I think of the amount of public love-making
in the season of pleasure-travel, from Mount Desert to the Yosemite,
and from the parks of Colorado to the Keys of Florida, I feel that our
continent is but a larger Arcady, that the middle of the nineteenth
century is the golden age, and that we want very little of being a
nation of shepherds and shepherdesses.
Our friends returned by the shore of the Canadian rapids, having
traversed the island by a path through the heart of the woods, and now
drew slowly near the Falls again. All parts of the prodigious pageant
have an eternal novelty, and they beheld the ever-varying effect of that
constant sublimity with the sense of discoverers, or rather of people
whose great fortune it is to see the marvel in its beginning, and new
from the creating hand. The morning hour lent its sunny charm to this
illusion, while in the cavernous precipices of the shores, dark with
evergreens, a mystery as of primeval night seemed to linger. There was
a wild fluttering of their nerves, a rapture with an under-consciousness
of pain, the exaltation of peril and escape, when they came to the three
little isles that extend from Goat Island, one beyond another far out
into the furious channel. Three pretty suspension-bridges connect them
now with the larger island, and under each of these flounders a huge
rapid, and hurls itself away to mingle with the ruin of the fall. The
Three Sisters are mere fragments of wilderness, clumps of vine-tangled
woods, planted upon masses of rock; but they are part of the fascination
of Niagara which no one resists; nor could Isabel have been persuaded
from exploring them. It wants no courage to do this, but merely
submission to the local sorcery, and the adventurer has no other reward
than the consciousness of having been where but a few years before no
human being had perhaps set foot. She crossed from bridge to bridge
with a quaking heart, and at last stood upon the outermost isle, whence,
through the screen of vines and boughs, she gave fearful glances at
the heaving and tossing flood beyond, from every wave of which at every
instant she rescued herself with a desperate struggle. The exertion told
heavily upon her strength unawares, and she suddenly made Basil another
revelation of character. Without the slightest warning she sank down
at the root of a tree, and said, with serious composure, that she could
never go back on those bridges; they were not safe. He stared at her
cowering form in blank amaze, and put his hands in his pockets. Then
it occurred to his dull masculine sense that it must be a joke; and he
said, “Well, I’ll have you taken off in a boat.”
“O do, Basil, do, have me taken off in a boat!” implored Isabel. “You
see yourself the bridges are not safe. Do get a boat.”
“Or a balloon,” he suggested, humoring the pleasantry.
Isabel burst into tears; and now he went on his knees at her side, and
took her hands in his. “Isabel! Isabel! Are you crazy?” he cried, as if
he meant to go mad himself. She moaned and shuddered in reply; he said,
to mend matters, that it was a jest, about the boat; and he was driven
to despair when Isabel repeated, “I never can go back by the bridges,
never.”
“But what do you propose to do?”
“I don’t know, I don’t know!”
He would try sarcasm. “Do you intend to set up a hermitage here, and
have your meals sent out from the hotel? It’s a charming spot, and
visited pretty constantly; but it’s small, even for a hermitage.”
Isabel moaned again with her hands still on her eyes, and wondered that
he was not ashamed to make fun of her.
He would try kindness. “Perhaps, darling, you’ll let me carry you
ashore.”
“No, that will bring double the weight on the bridge at once.”
“Couldn’t you shut your eyes, and let me lead you?”
“Why, it isn’t the sight of the rapids,” she said, looking up fiercely.
“The bridges are not safe. I’m not a child, Basil. O, what shall we do?”
“I don’t know,” said Basil, gloomily. “It’s an exigency for which I
wasn’t prepared.” Then he silently gave himself to the Evil One, for
having probably overwrought Isabel’s nerves by repeating that poem about
Avery, and by the ensuing talk about Niagara, which she had seemed to
enjoy so much. He asked her if that was it; and she answered, “O no,
it’s nothing but the bridges.” He proved to her that the bridges, upon
all known principles, were perfectly safe, and that they could not give
way. She shook her head, but made no answer, and he lost his patience.
“Isabel,” he cried, “I’m ashamed of you!”
“Don’t say anything you’ll be sorry for afterwards, Basil,” she replied,
with the forbearance of those who have reason and justice on their side.
The rapids beat and shouted round their little prison-isle, each billow
leaping as if possessed by a separate demon. The absurd horror of the
situation overwhelmed him. He dared not attempt to carry her ashore, for
she might spring from his grasp into the flood. He could not leave her
to call for help; and what if nobody came till she lost her mind
from terror? Or, what if somebody should come and find them in that
ridiculous affliction?
Somebody was coming!
“Isabel!” he shouted in her ear, “here come those people we saw in the
parlor last night.”
Isabel dashed her veil over her face, clutched Basil’s with her icy
hand, rose, drew her arm convulsively through his, and walked ashore
without a word.
In a sheltered nook they sat down, and she quickly “repaired her
drooping head and tricked her beams” again. He could see her tearfully
smiling through her veil. “My dear,” he said, “I don’t ask an
explanation of your fright, for I don’t suppose you could give it. But
should you mind telling me why those people were so sovereign against
it?”
“Why, dearest! Don’t you understand? That Mrs. Richard--whoever she
is--is so much like me.”
She looked at him as if she had made the most satisfying statement, and
he thought he had better not ask further then, but wait in hope that the
meaning would come to him. They walked on in silence till they came to
the Biddle Stairs, at the head of which is a notice that persons have
been killed by pieces of rock from the precipice overhanging the shore
below, and warning people that they descend at their peril. Isabel
declined to visit the Cave of the Winds, to which these stairs lead, but
was willing to risk the ascent of Terrapin Tower. “Thanks; no,” said her
husband. “You might find it unsafe to come back the way you went up.
We can’t count certainly upon the appearance of the lady who is so much
like you; and I’ve no fancy for spending my life on Terrapin Tower.” So
he found her a seat, and went alone to the top of the audacious little
structure standing on the verge of the cataract, between the smooth
curve of the Horse-Shoe and the sculptured front of the Central Fall,
with the stormy sea of the Rapids behind, and the river, dim seen
through the mists, crawling away between its lofty bluffs before. He
knew again the awful delight with which so long ago he had watched
the changes in the beauty of the Canadian Fall as it hung a mass of
translucent green from the brink, and a pearly white seemed to crawl up
from the abyss, and penetrate all its substance to the very crest, and
then suddenly vanished from it, and perpetually renewed the same effect.
The mystery of the rising vapors veiled the gulf into which the cataract
swooped; the sun shone, and a rainbow dreamed upon them.
Near the foot of the tower, some loose rocks extend quite to the verge,
and here Basil saw an elderly gentleman skipping from one slippery stone
to another, and looking down from time to time into the abyss, who, when
he had amused himself long enough in this way, clambered up on the plank
bridge. Basil, who had descended by this time, made bold to say that
he thought the diversion an odd one and rather dangerous. The gentleman
took this in good part, and owned it might seem so, but added that a
distinguished phrenologist had examined his head, and told him he had
equilibrium so large that he could go anywhere.
“On your bridal tour, I presume,” he continued, as they approached the
bench where Basil had left Isabel. She had now the company of a plain,
middle-aged woman, whose attire hesitatingly expressed some inward
festivity, and had a certain reluctant fashionableness. “Well, this is
my third bridal tour to Niagara, and my wife’s been here once before on
the same business. We see a good many changes. I used to stand on Table
Rock with the others. Now that’s all gone. Well, old lady, shall we move
on?” he asked; and this bridal pair passed up the path, attended, haply,
by the guardian spirits of those who gave the place so many sad yet
pleasing associations.
At dinner, Mr. Richard’s party sat at the table next Basil’s, and they
were all now talking cheerfully over the emptiness of the spacious
dining-hall.
“Well, Kitty,” the married lady was saying, “you can tell the girls what
you please about the gayeties of Niagara, when you get home. They’ll
believe anything sooner than the truth.”
“O yes, indeed,” said Kitty, “I’ve got a good deal of it made up
already. I’ll describe a grand hop at the hotel, with fashionable people
from all parts of the country, and the gentlemen I danced with the most.
I’m going to have had quite a flirtation with the gentleman of the long
blond mustache, whom we met on the bridge this morning and he’s got to
do duty in accounting for my missing glove. It’ll never do to tell the
girls I dropped it from the top of Terrapin Tower. Then you know, Fanny,
I really can say something about dining with aristocratic Southerners,
waited upon by their black servants.”
This referred to the sad-faced patrician whom Basil and Isabel had noted
in the cars from Buffalo as a Southerner probably coming North for the
first time since the war. He had an air at once fierce and sad, and a
half-barbaric, homicidal gentility of manner fascinating enough in its
way. He sat with his wife at a table farther down the room, and their
child was served in part by a little tan-colored nurse-maid. The fact
did not quite answer to the young lady’s description of it, and get
it certainly afforded her a ground-work. Basil fancied a sort of
bewilderment in the Southerner, and explained it upon the theory that he
used to come every year to Niagara before the war, and was now puzzled
to find it so changed.
“Yes,” he said, “I can’t account for him except as the ghost of Southern
travel, and I can’t help feeling a little sorry for him. I suppose that
almost any evil commends itself by its ruin; the wrecks of slavery are
fast growing a fungus crop of sentiment, and they may yet outflourish
the remains of the feudal system in the kind of poetry they produce. The
impoverished slave-holder is a pathetic figure, in spite of all justice
and reason, the beaten rebel does move us to compassion, and it is of
no use to think of Andersonville in his presence. This gentleman, and
others like him, used to be the lords of our summer resorts. They spent
the money they did not earn like princes; they held their heads high;
they trampled upon the Abolitionist in his lair; they received the
homage of the doughface in his home. They came up here from their
rice-swamps and cotton-fields, and bullied the whole busy civilization
of the North. Everybody who had merchandise or principles to sell
truckled to them, and travel amongst us was a triumphal progress. Now
they’re moneyless and subjugated (as they call it), there’s none so poor
to do them reverence, and it’s left for me, an Abolitionist from the
cradle, to sigh over their fate. After all, they had noble traits, and
it was no great wonder they got, to despise us, seeing what most of
us were. It seems to me I should like to know our friend. I can’t help
feeling towards him as towards a fallen prince, heaven help my craven
spirit! I wonder how our colored waiter feels towards him. I dare say he
admires him immensely.”
There were not above a dozen other people in the room, and Basil
contrasted the scene with that which the same place formerly presented.
“In the old time,” he said, “every table was full, and we dined to the
music of a brass band. I can’t say I liked the band, but I miss it.
I wonder if our Southern friend misses it? They gave us a very small
allowance of brass band when we arrived, Isabel. Upon my word, I wonder
what’s come over the place,” he said, as the Southern party, rising from
the table, walked out of the dining-room, attended by many treacherous
echoes in spite of an ostentatious clatter of dishes that the waiters
made.
After dinner they drove on the Canada shore up past the Clifton House,
towards the Burning Spring, which is not the least wonder of Niagara.
As each bubble breaks upon the troubled surface, and yields its flash
of infernal flame and its whiff of sulphurous stench, it seems hardly
strange that the Neutral Nation should have revered the cataract as
a demon; and another subtle spell (not to be broken even by the
business-like composure of the man who shows off the hell-broth) is
added to those successive sorceries by which Niagara gradually changes
from a thing of beauty to a thing of terror. By all odds, too, the
most tremendous view of the Falls is afforded by the point on the drive
whence you look down upon the Horse-Shoe, and behold its three massive
walls of sea rounding and sweeping into the gulf together, the color
gone, and the smooth brink showing black and ridgy.
Would they not go to the battle-field of Lundy’s Lane? asked the
driver at a certain point on their return; but Isabel did not care for
battle-fields, and Basil preferred to keep intact the reminiscence of
his former visit. “They have a sort of tower of observation built on the
battle-ground,” he said, as they drove on down by the river, “and it was
in charge of an old Canadian militia-man, who had helped his countrymen
to be beaten in the fight. This hero gave me a simple and unintelligible
account of the battle, asking me first if I had ever heard of General
Scott, and adding without flinching that here he got his earliest
laurels. He seemed to go just so long to every listener, and nothing
could stop him short, so I fell into a revery until he came to an end.
It was hard to remember, that sweet summer morning, when the sun shone,
and the birds sang, and the music of a piano and a girl’s voice rose
from a bowery cottage near, that all the pure air had once been tainted
with battle-smoke, that the peaceful fields had been planted with
cannon, instead of potatoes and corn, and that where the cows came
down the farmer’s lane, with tinkling bells, the shock of armed men had
befallen. The blue and tranquil Ontario gleamed far away, and far away
rolled the beautiful land, with farm-houses, fields, and woods, and at
the foot of the tower lay the pretty village. The battle of the past
seemed only a vagary of mine; yet how could I doubt the warrior at my
elbow?--grieved though I was to find that a habit of strong drink
had the better of his utterance that morning. My driver explained
afterwards, that persons visiting the field were commonly so much
pleased with the captain’s eloquence, that they kept the noble old
soldier in a brandy-and-water rapture throughout the season, thereby
greatly refreshing his memory, and making the battle bloodier and
bloodier as the season advanced and the number of visitors increased.
There my dear,” he suddenly broke off, as they came in sight of a
slender stream of water that escaped from the brow of a cliff on the
American side below the Falls, and spun itself into a gauze of silvery
mist, “that’s the Bridal Veil; and I suppose you think the stream, which
is making such a fine display, yonder, is some idle brooklet, ending a
long course of error and worthlessness by that spectacular plunge.
It’s nothing of the kind; it’s an honest hydraulic canal, of the most
straightforward character, a poor but respectable mill-race which has
devoted itself strictly to business, and has turned mill-wheels instead
of fooling round water-lilies. It can afford that ultimate finery. What
you behold in the Bridal Veil, my love, is the apotheosis of industry.”
“What I can’t help thinking of,” said Isabel, who had not paid the
smallest attention to the Bridal Veil, or anything about it, “is the
awfulness of stepping off these places in the night-time.” She referred
to the road which, next the precipice, is unguarded by any sort of
parapet. In Europe a strong wall would secure it, but we manage things
differently on our continent, and carriages go running over the brink
from time to time.
“If your thoughts have that direction,” answered her husband, “we had
better go back to the hotel, and leave the Whirlpool for to-morrow
morning. It’s late for it to-day, at any rate.” He had treated Isabel
since the adventure on the Three Sisters with a superiority which he
felt himself to be very odious, but which he could not disuse.
“I’m not afraid,” she sighed, “but in the words of the retreating
soldier, I--I’m awfully demoralized;” and added, “You know we must
reserve some of the vital forces for shopping this evening.”
Part of their business also was to buy the tickets for their return to
Boston by way of Montreal and Quebec, and it was part of their pleasure
to get these of the heartiest imaginable ticket-agent. He was a colonel
or at least a major, and he made a polite feint of calling Basil by some
military title. He commended the trip they were about to make as the
most magnificent and beautiful on the whole continent, and he commended
them for intending to make it. He said that was Mrs. General Bowdur of
Philadelphia who just went out; did they know her? Somehow, the titles
affected Basil as of older date than the late war, and as belonging to
the militia period; and he imagined for the agent the romance of a
life spent at a watering-place, in contact with rich money-spending,
pleasure-taking people, who formed his whole jovial world. The Colonel,
who included them in this world, and thereby brevetted them rich and
fashionable, could not secure a state-room for them on the boat,--a
perfectly splendid Lake steamer, which would take them down the rapids
of the St. Lawrence, and on to Montreal without change,--but he would
give them a letter to the captain, who was a very particular friend of
his, and would be happy to show them as his friends every attention; and
so he wrote a note ascribing peculiar merits to Basil, and in spite of
all reason making him feel for the moment that he was privileged by a
document which was no doubt part of every such transaction. He spoke in
a loud cheerful voice; he laughed jollily at no apparent joke; he bowed
very low and said, “GOOD-evening!” at parting, and they went away as if
he had blessed them.
The rest of the evening they spent in wandering through the village,
charmed with its bizarre mixture of quaintness and commonplaceness; in
hanging about the shop-windows with their monotonous variety of feather
fans,--each with a violently red or yellow bird painfully sacrificed in
its centre,--moccasins, bead-wrought work-bags, tobacco-pouches, bows
and arrows, and whatever else the savage art of the neighboring squaws
can invent; in sauntering through these gay booths, pricing many things,
and in hanging long and undecidedly over cases full of feldspar crosses,
quartz bracelets and necklaces, and every manner of vase, inoperative
pitcher, and other vessel that can be fashioned out of the geological
formations at Niagara, tormented meantime by the heat of the gas-lights
and the persistence of the mosquitoes. There were very few people
besides themselves in the shops, and Isabel’s purchases were not lavish.
Her husband had made up his mind to get her some little keepsake; and
when he had taken her to the hotel he ran back to one of the shops, and
hastily bought her a feather fan,--a magnificent thing of deep magenta
dye shading into blue, with a whole yellow-bird transfixed in the
centre. When he triumphantly displayed it in their room, “Who’s that
for, Basil?” demanded his wife; “the cook?” But seeing his ghastly
look at this, she fell upon his neck, crying, “O you poor old tasteless
darling! You’ve got it for me!” and seemed about to die of laughter.
“Didn’t you start and throw up your hands,” he stammered, “when you came
to that case of fans?”
“Yes,--in horror! Did you think I liked the cruel things, with
their dead birds and their hideous colors? O Basil, dearest! You are
incorrigible. Can’t you learn that magenta is the vilest of all the hues
that the perverseness of man has invented in defiance of nature? Now, my
love, just promise me one thing,” she said pathetically. “We’re going
to do a little shopping in Montreal, you know; and perhaps you’ll be
wanting to surprise me with something there. Don’t do it. Or if you
must, do tell me all about it beforehand, and what the color of it’s to
be; and I can say whether to get it or not, and then there’ll be some
taste about it, and I shall be truly surprised and pleased.”
She turned to put the fan into her trunk, and he murmured something
about exchanging it. “No,” she said, “we’ll keep it as a--a--monument.”
 And she deposed him, with another peal of laughter, from the proud
height to which he had climbed in pity of her nervous fears of the day.
So completely were their places changed, that he doubted if it were not
he who had made that scene on the Third Sister; and when Isabel said,
“O, why won’t men use their reasoning faculties?” he could not for
himself have claimed any, and he could not urge the truth: that he had
bought the fan more for its barbaric brightness than for its beauty.
She would not let him get angry, and he could say nothing against the
half-ironical petting with which she soothed his mortification.
But all troubles passed with the night, and the next morning they
spent a charming hour about Prospect Point, and in sauntering over Goat
Island, somewhat daintily tasting the flavors of the place on whose
wonders they had so hungrily and indiscriminately feasted at first. They
had already the feeling of veteran visitors, and they loftily marveled
at the greed with which newer-comers plunged at the sensations. They
could not conceive why people should want to descend the inclined
railway to the foot of the American Fall; they smiled at the idea of
going up Terrapin Tower; they derided the vulgar daring of those who
went out upon the Three Weird Sisters; for some whom they saw about to
go down the Biddle Stairs to the Cave of the Winds, they had no words to
express their contempt.
Then they made their excursion to the Whirlpool, mistakenly going down
on the American side, for it is much better seen from the other, though
seen from any point it is the most impressive feature of the whole
prodigious spectacle of Niagara.
Here within the compass of a mile, those inland seas of the North,
Superior, Huron, Michigan, Erie, and the multitude of smaller lakes,
all pour their floods, where they swirl in dreadful vortices, with
resistless under-currents boiling beneath the surface of that mighty
eddy. Abruptly from this scene of secret power, so different from the
thunderous splendors of the cataract itself, rise lofty cliffs on every
side, to a height of two hundred feet, clothed from the water’s edge
almost to their create with dark cedars. Noiselessly, so far as your
senses perceive, the lakes steal out of the whirlpool, then, drunk
and wild, with brawling rapids roar away to Ontario through the narrow
channel of the river. Awful as the scene is, you stand so far above it
that you do not know the half of its terribleness; for those waters that
look so smooth are great ridges and rings, forced, by the impulse of the
currents, twelve feet higher in the centre than at the margin. Nothing
can live there, and with what is caught in its hold, the maelstrom plays
for days, and whirls and tosses round and round in its toils, with a
sad, maniacal patience. The guides tell ghastly stories, which even
their telling does not wholly rob of ghastliness, about the bodies of
drowned men carried into the whirlpool and made to enact upon its dizzy
surges a travesty of life, apparently floating there at their pleasure,
diving and frolicking amid the waves, or frantically struggling to
escape from the death that has long since befallen them.
On the American side, not far below the railway suspension bridge, is an
elevator more than a hundred and eighty feet high, which is meant to
let people down to the shore below, and to give a view of the rapids
on their own level. From the cliff opposite, it looks a terribly frail
structure of pine sticks, but is doubtless stronger than it looks; and
at any rate, as it has never yet fallen to pieces, it may be pronounced
perfectly safe.
In the waiting-room at the top, Basil and Isabel found Mr. Richard and
his ladies again, who got into the movable chamber with them, and they
all silently descended together. It was not a time for talk of any kind,
either when they were slowly and not quite smoothly dropping through the
lugubrious upper part of the structure, where it was darkened by a rough
weatherboarding, or lower down, where the unobstructed light showed the
grim tearful face of the cliff, bedrabbled with oozy springs, and the
audacious slightness of the elevator.
An abiding distrust of the machinery overhead mingled in Isabel’s heart
with a doubt of the value of the scene below, and she could not look
forward to escape from her present perils by the conveyance which had
brought her into them, with any satisfaction. She wanly smiled, and
shrank closer to Basil; while the other matron made nothing of seizing
her husband violently by the arm and imploring him to stop it whenever
they experienced a rougher jolt than usual.
At the bottom of the cliff they were helped out of their prison by a
humid young Englishman, with much clay on him, whose face was red and
bathed in perspiration, for it was very hot down there in his little
inclosure of baking pine boards, and it was not much cooler out on the
rocks upon which the party issued, descending and descending by repeated
and desultory flights of steps, till at last they stood upon a huge
fragment of stone right abreast of the rapids. Yet it was a magnificent
sight, and for a moment none of them were sorry to have come. The surges
did not look like the gigantic ripples on a river’s course as they were,
but like a procession of ocean billows; they arose far aloft in vast
bulks of clear green, and broke heavily into foam at the crest. Great
blocks and shapeless fragments of rock strewed the margin of the awful
torrent; gloomy walls of dark stone rose naked from these, bearded
here and there with cedar, and everywhere frowning with shaggy brows of
evergreen. The place is inexpressibly lonely and dreadful, and one feels
like an alien presence there, or as if he had intruded upon some mood
or haunt of Nature in which she had a right to be forever alone. The
slight, impudent structure of the elevator rises through the solitude,
like a thing that merits ruin, yet it is better than something more
elaborate, for it looks temporary, and since there must be an elevator,
it is well to have it of the most transitory aspect. Some such quality
of rude impermanence consoles you for the presence of most improvements
by which you enjoy Niagara; the suspension bridges for their part being
saved from offensiveness by their beauty and unreality.
Ascending, none of the party spoke; Isabel and the other matron blanched
in each other’s faces; their husbands maintained a stolid resignation.
When they stepped out of their trap into the waiting room at the top,
“What I like about these little adventures,” said Mr. Richard to Basil,
abruptly, “is getting safely out of them. Good-morning, sir.” He bowed
slightly to Isabel, who returned his politeness, and exchanged faint
nods, or glances, with the ladies. They got into their separate
carriages, and at that safe distance made each other more decided
obeisances.
“Well,” observed Basil, “I suppose we’re introduced now. We shall be
meeting them from time to time throughout our journey. You know how the
same faces and the same trunks used to keep turning up in our travels on
the other side. Once meet people in travelling, and you can’t get rid of
them.”
“Yes,” said Isabel, as if continuing his train of thought, “I’m glad
we’re going to-day.”
“O dearest!”
“Truly. When we first arrived I felt only the loveliness of the place.
It seemed more familiar, too, then; but ever since, it’s been growing
stranger and dreadfuller. Somehow it’s begun to pervade me and possess
me in a very uncomfortable way; I’m tossed upon rapids, and flung from
cataract brinks, and dizzied in whirlpools; I’m no longer yours, Basil;
I’m most unhappily married to Niagara. Fly with me, save me from my
awful lord!”
She lightly burlesqued the woes of a prima donna, with clasped hands and
uplifted eyes.
“That’ll do very well,” Basil commented, “and it implies a reality that
can’t be quite definitely spoken. We come to Niagara in the patronizing
spirit in which we approach everything nowadays, and for a few hours we
have it our own way, and pay our little tributes of admiration with
as much complacency as we feel in acknowledging the existence of the
Supreme Being. But after a while we are aware of some potent influence
undermining our self-satisfaction; we begin to conjecture that the great
cataract does not exist by virtue of our approval, and to feel that
it will not cease when we go away. The second day makes us its abject
slaves, and on the third we want to fly from it in terror. I believe
some people stay for weeks, however, and hordes of them have written
odes to Niagara.”
“I can’t understand it, at all,” said Isabel. “I don’t wonder now that
the town should be so empty this season, but that it should ever be
full. I wish we’d gone after our first look at the Falls from the
suspension bridge. How beautiful that was! I rejoice in everything that
I haven’t done. I’m so glad I haven’t been in the Cave of the Winds; I’m
so happy that Table Rock fell twenty years ago! Basil, I couldn’t stand
another rainbow today. I’m sorry we went out on the Three Weird Sisters.
O, I shall dream about it! and the rush, and the whirl, and the dampness
in one’s face, and the everlasting chirr-r-r-r of everything!”
She dipped suddenly upon his shoulder for a moment’s oblivion, and then
rose radiant with a question: “Why in the world, if Niagara is really
what it seems to us now, do so many bridal parties come here?”
“Perhaps they’re the only people who’ve the strength to bear up against
it, and are not easily dispersed and subjected by it.”
“But we’re dispersed and subjected.”
“Ah, my dear, we married a little late. Who knows how it would be if you
were nineteen instead of twenty-seven, and I twenty-five and not turned
of thirty?”
“Basil, you’re very cruel.”
“No, no. But don’t you see how it is? We’ve known too much of life to
desire any gloomy background for our happiness. We’re quite contented
to have things gay and bright about us. Once we couldn’t have made
the circle dark enough. Well, my dear, that’s the effect of age. We’re
superannuated.”
“I used to think I was before we were married,” answered Isabel simply;
“but now,” she added triumphantly, “I’m rescued from all that. I shall
never be old again, dearest; never, as long as you love me!”
They were about to enter the village, and he could not make any open
acknowledgment of her tenderness; but her silken mantle (or whatever)
slipped from her shoulder, and he embracingly replaced it, flattering
himself that he had delicately seized this chance of an unavowed
caress and not allowing (O such is the blindness of our sex!) that the
opportunity had been yet more subtly afforded him, with the art which
women never disuse in this world, and which I hope they will not forget
in the next.
They had an early dinner, and looked their last upon the nuptial gayety
of the otherwise forlorn hotel. Three brides sat down with them in
travelling-dress; two occupied the parlor as they passed out; half a
dozen happy pairs arrived (to the music of the band) in the omnibus
that was to carry our friends back to the station; they caught sight of
several about the shop windows, as that drove through the streets. Thus
the place perpetually renews itself in the glow of love as long as the
summer lasts. The moon which is elsewhere so often of wormwood, or of
the ordinary green cheese at the best, is of lucent honey there from
the first of June to the last of October; and this is a great charm in
Niagara. I think with tenderness of all the lives that have opened so
fairly there; the hopes that have reigned in the glad young hearts;
the measureless tide of joy that ebbs and flows with the arriving and
departing trains. Elsewhere there are carking cares of business and of
fashion, there are age, and sorrow, and heartbreak: but here only youth,
faith, rapture. I kiss my hand to Niagara for that reason, and would I
were a poet for a quarter of an hour.
Isabel departed in almost a forgiving mood towards the weak sisterhood
of evident brides, and both our friends felt a lurking fondness for
Niagara at the last moment. I do not know how much of their content
was due to the fact that they had suffered no sort of wrong there, from
those who are apt to prey upon travellers. In the hotel a placard warned
them to have nothing to do with the miscreant hackmen on the streets,
but always to order their carriage at the office; on the street the
hackmen whispered to them not to trust the exorbitant drivers in league
with the landlords; yet their actual experience was great reasonableness
and facile contentment with the sum agreed upon.
This may have been because the hackmen so far outnumbered the visitors,
that the latter could dictate terms; but they chose to believe it a
triumph of civilization; and I will never be the cynic to sneer at their
faith. Only at the station was the virtue of the Niagarans put in doubt,
by the hotel porter who professed to find Basil’s trunk enfeebled by
travel, and advised a strap for it, which a friend of his would sell
for a dollar and a half. Yet even he may have been a benevolent nature
unjustly suspected.
VII. DOWN THE ST. LAWRENCE.
They were to take the Canadian steamer at Charlotte, the port of
Rochester, and they rattled uneventfully down from Niagara by rail. At
the broad, low-banked river-mouth the steamer lay beside the railroad
station; and while Isabel disposed of herself on board, Basil looked to
the transfer of the baggage, novelly comforted in the business by the
respectfulness of the young Canadian who took charge of the trunks for
the boat. He was slow, and his system was not good,--he did not
give checks for the pieces, but marked them with the name of their
destination; and there was that indefinable something in his manner
which hinted his hope that you would remember the porter; but he was
so civil that he did not snub the meekest and most vexatious of the
passengers, and Basil mutely blessed his servile soul. Few white
Americans, he said to himself, would behave so decently in his place;
and he could not conceive of the American steamboat clerk who would use
the politeness towards a waiting crowd that the Canadian purser showed
when they all wedged themselves in about his window to receive their
stateroom keys. He was somewhat awkward, like the porter, but he was
patient, and he did not lose his temper even when some of the crowd,
finding he would not bully them, made bold to bully him. He was three
times as long in serving them as an American would have been, but their
time was of no value there, and he served them well. Basil made a point
of speaking him fair, when his turn came, and the purser did not trample
on him for a base truckler, as an American jack-in-office would have
done.
Our tourists felt at home directly on this steamer, which was very
comfortable, and in every way sufficient for its purpose, with a visible
captain, who answered two or three questions very pleasantly, and bore
himself towards his passengers in some sort like a host.
In the saloon Isabel had found among the passengers her
semi-acquaintances of the hotel parlor and the Rapids-elevator, and had
glanced tentatively towards them. Whereupon the matron of the party
had made advances that ended in their all sitting down together and
wondering when the boat would start, and what time they would get to
Montreal next evening, with other matters that strangers going upon
the same journey may properly marvel over in company. The introduction
having thus accomplished itself, they exchanged addresses, and it
appeared that Richard was Colonel Ellison, of Milwaukee, and that Fanny
was his wife. Miss Kitty Ellison was of Western New York, not far from
Erie. There was a diversion presently towards the different state-rooms;
but the new acquaintances sat vis-a-vis at the table, and after supper
the ladies drew their chairs together on the promenade deck, and enjoyed
the fresh evening breeze. The sun set magnificent upon the low western
shore which they had now left an hour away, and a broad stripe of color
stretched behind the steamer. A few thin, luminous clouds darkened
momently along the horizon, and then mixed with the land. The stars came
out in a clear sky, and a light wind softly buffeted the cheeks, and
breathed life into nerves that the day’s heat had wasted. It scarcely
wrinkled the tranquil expanse of the lake, on which loomed, far or near,
a full-sailed schooner, and presently melted into the twilight, and left
the steamer solitary upon the waters. The company was small, and not
remarkable enough in any way to take the thoughts of any one off his own
comfort. A deep sense of the coziness of the situation possessed them
all which was if possible intensified by the spectacle of the captain,
seated on the upper deck, and smoking a cigar that flashed and fainted
like a stationary fire-fly in the gathering dusk. How very distant,
in this mood, were the most recent events! Niagara seemed a fable of
antiquity; the ride from Rochester a myth of the Middle Ages. In this
cool, happy world of quiet lake, of starry skies, of air that the soul
itself seemed to breathe, there was such consciousness of repose as if
one were steeped in rest and soaked through and through with calm.
The points of likeness between Isabel and Mrs. Ellison shortly made them
mutually uninteresting, and, leaving her husband to the others, Isabel
frankly sought the companionship of Miss Kitty, in whom she found a
charm of manner which puzzled at first, but which she presently fancied
must be perfect trust of others mingling with a peculiar self-reliance.
“Can’t you see, Basil, what a very flattering way it is?” she asked of
her husband, when, after parting with their friends for the night, she
tried to explain the character to him. “Of course no art could equal
such a natural gift; for that kind of belief in your good-nature and
sympathy makes you feel worthy of it, don’t you know; and so you can’t
help being good-natured and sympathetic. This Miss Ellison, why, I can
tell you, I shouldn’t be ashamed of her anywhere.” By anywhere Isabel
meant Boston, and she went on to praise the young lady’s intelligence
and refinement, with those expressions of surprise at the existence of
civilization in a westerner which westerners find it so hard to receive
graciously. Happily, Miss Ellison had not to hear them. “The reason she
happened to come with only two dresses is, she lives so near Niagara
that she could come for one day, and go back the next. The colonel’s her
cousin, and he and his wife go East every year, and they asked her
this time to see Niagara with them. She told me all over again what
we eavesdropped so shamefully in the hotel parlor;--and I don’t know
whether she was better pleased with the prospect of what’s before her,
or with the notion of making the journey in this original way. She
didn’t force her confidence upon me, any more than she tried to withhold
it. We got to talking in the most natural manner; and she seemed to tell
these things about herself because they amused her and she liked me. I
had been saying how my trunk got left behind once on the French side of
Mont Cenis, and I had to wear aunt’s things at Turin till it could be
sent for.”
“Well, I don’t see but Miss Ellison could describe you to her friends
very much as you’ve described her to me,” said Basil. “How did these
mutual confidences begin? Whose trustfulness first flattered the
other’s? What else did you tell about yourself?”
“I said we were on our wedding journey,” guiltily admitted Isabel.
“O, you did!”
“Why, dearest! I wanted to know, for once, you see, whether we seemed
honeymoon-struck.”
“And do we?”
“No,” came the answer, somewhat ruefully. “Perhaps, Basil,” she added,
“we’ve been a little too successful in disguising our bridal character.
Do you know,” she continued, looking him anxiously in the face, “this
Miss Ellison took me at first for--your sister!”
Basil broke forth in outrageous laughter. “One more such victory,” he
said, “and we are undone;” and he laughed again, immoderately. “How sad
is the fruition of human wishes! There’s nothing, after all, like a
good thorough failure for making people happy.”
Isabel did not listen to him. Safe in a dim corner of the deserted
saloon, she seized him in a vindictive embrace; then, as if it had been
he who suggested the idea of such a loathsome relation, hissed out the
hated words, “Your sister!” and released him with a disdainful repulse.
A little after daybreak the steamer stopped at the Canadian city of
Kingston, a handsome place, substantial to the water’s edge, and giving
a sense of English solidity by the stone of which it is largely built.
There was an accession of many passengers here, and they and the people
on the wharf were as little like Americans as possible. They were
English or Irish or Scotch, with the healthful bloom of the Old World
still upon their faces, or if Canadians they looked not less hearty;
so that one must wonder if the line between the Dominion and the United
States did not also sharply separate good digestion and dyspepsia. These
provincials had not our regularity of features, nor the best of them our
careworn sensibility of expression; but neither had they our complexions
of adobe; and even Isabel was forced to allow that the men were, on the
whole, better dressed than the same number of average Americans would
have been in a city of that size and remoteness. The stevedores who were
putting the freight aboard were men of leisure; they joked in a kindly
way with the orange-women and the old women picking up chips on the
pier; and our land of hurry seemed beyond the ocean rather than beyond
the lake.
Kingston has romantic memories of being Fort Frontenac two hundred years
ago; of Count Frontenac’s splendid advent among the Indians; of the
brave La Salle, who turned its wooden walls to stone; of wars with the
savages and then with the New York colonists, whom the French and their
allies harried from this point; of the destruction of La Salle’s fort
in the Old French War; and of final surrender a few years later to the
English. It is as picturesque as it is historical. All about the
city, the shores are beautifully wooded, and there are many lovely
islands,--the first indeed of those Thousand Islands with which the head
of the St. Lawrence is filled, and among which the steamer was presently
threading her way. They are still as charming and still almost as wild
as when, in 1673, Frontenac’s flotilla of canoes passed through their
labyrinth and issued upon the lake. Save for a light-house upon one
of them, there is almost nothing to show that the foot of man has ever
pressed the thin grass clinging to their rocky surfaces, and keeping
its green in the eternal shadow of their pines and cedars. In the warm
morning light they gathered or dispersed before the advancing vessel,
which some of them almost touched with the plumage of their evergreens;
and where none of them were large, some were so small that it would
not have been too bold to figure them as a vaster race of water-birds
assembling and separating in her course. It is curiously affecting to
find them so unclaimed yet from the solitude of the vanished wilderness,
and scarcely touched even by tradition. But for the interest left them
by the French, these tiny islands have scarcely any associations, and
must be enjoyed for their beauty alone. There is indeed about them a
faint light of legend concerning the Canadian rebellion of 1837, for
several patriots are said to have taken refuge amidst their lovely
multitude; but this episode of modern history is difficult for the
imagination to manage, and somehow one does not take sentimentally even
to that daughter of a lurking patriot, who long baffled her father’s
pursuers by rowing him from one island to another, and supplying him
with food by night.
Either the reluctance is from the natural desire that so recent a
heroine should be founded on fact, or it is mere perverseness. Perhaps
I ought to say; in justice to her, that it was one of her own sex who
refused to be interested in her, and forbade Basil to care for her. When
he had read of her exploit from the guide-book, Isabel asked him if he
had noticed that handsome girl in the blue and white striped Garibaldi
and Swiss hat, who had come aboard at Kingston. She pointed her out,
and courageously made him admire her beauty, which was of the most
bewitching Canadian type. The young girl was redeemed by her New World
birth from the English heaviness; a more delicate bloom lighted her
cheeks; a softer grace dwelt in her movement; yet she was round and
full, and she was in the perfect flower of youth. She was not so
ethereal in her loveliness as an American girl, but she was not so
nervous and had none of the painful fragility of the latter. Her
expression was just a little vacant, it must be owned; but so far as she
went she was faultless. She looked like the most tractable of daughters,
