" Something aunt. Candy sent me to buy." 
" Why didn't she send a cart to fetch it ? " 
said the boy, taking the bundle out of Matilda's hand. " Where have you been after 
this ? " 
" To Mr. Chester's." 
" Why didn't you tell Chester to send it 
home? He sends mamma's things. He'd 
have sent it." 
 
" I couldn't, Norton. Aunt Candy told me 
to bring it myself." 
" What sort of a person is she? your aunt, 
who keeps you so close ? She ain't much 
count, is she ? " 
" O hush, Norton ! " said Matilda. " Don't ; 
somebody will hear you." 
"Do you like her?" 
" I do not like to talk about her, Nor 
ton." 
" Is she good to you ? " 
" Don't ask me, Norton, please. Now we 
are almost there ; please let me have the 
bundle. I don't want you to come to the 
house." 
Matilda looked so earnest, Norton gave her 
bundle up without another word and stood 
looking after her till she had got into the 
house. Then he turned and went straight to 
his mother and told her the whole story ; all 
he knew and all he didn't know. 
The end of which was, that the next day 
Mrs. Laval called to see Mrs. Candy. 
 
Now this was particularly what Mrs. Candy 
had wished to bring about, and did not know 
how. She went to the parlour with secret 
exultation, and an anxious care to make the 
visit worth all it could be. No doubt Mrs. 
Laval had become convinced by what she had 
seen and heard, that Mrs. Candy and her 
daughter were not just like everybody else, 
and concluded them to be fit persons for her 
acquaintance. But yet the two confronted 
each other on unequal ground. Mrs. Candy 
was handsomely dressed, no doubt ; from her 
cap to her shoe, everything had cost money 
enough ; " why can't I throw it on like that ? " 
was her uneasy mental reflection the minute 
after she was seated. She felt as if it clung 
about her like armour ; while her visiter's silks 
and laces fell about her as carelessly as a 
butterfly's wings ; as if they were part of herself indeed. And her speech, when she spoke, 
it had the same easy grace or the carelessness 
of power ; was it that ? thought Mrs. Candy. 
She had come to ask a favour, Mrs. Laval 
said. Mrs. Candy had a little niece, whom 
her boy Norton had become very fond of. Mrs. 
Laval had come to beg for the possession of 
this little niece as long at least as a good long 
visit might be made to extend. 
" Three or four days, for instance ? " said 
Mrs. Candy. 
" O no ! that would be nothing. Three or 
four weeks." 
She is very much at her ease ! thought Mrs. 
Candy. Shall I let her have her will? 
Mrs. Candy was in a quandary. She did 
not like to refuse; she coveted Mrs. Laval's 
notice ; and this visit of Matilda's might be 
the means, perhaps, of securing it. Then also 
she and her daughter had in contemplation a 
journey to Philadelphia and a visit there for 
their own part ; and it had been a question 
what they should do with Matilda. To take 
her along would make necessary a good deal 
of fitting up, as a preliminary ; Matilda's 
wardrobe being in no readiness for such a 
journey. Truth to tell, it was not very 
 
proper for a visit to Mrs. Laval either ; but 
Mrs. Candy reflected that it would cost much 
less on the whole to leave her than to take 
her, and be really very much a saving of 
trouble. Any loss of discipline, she remembered, could be quickly made up ; and the 
conclusion of the whole was that she accepted 
Mrs. Laval's invitation, with no more than a 
few minutes of hesitation during which all 
these thoughts passed through her mind. 
" Thank you," said that lady. " May I 
have her to-morrow ? " 
" To-morrow. Hm " said Mrs. Candy. 
" I am afraid not to-morrow. I should wish 
to make a little preparation before the child 
goes to make such a visit. She has been 
nowhere but at home this summer." 
" Let me beg that you will not wait for any 
such matter," said Mrs. Laval. " Send her to 
me just as she is. I have particular reasons 
for liking her to come to me immediately. If 
she needs anything, trust me to supply it. 
Shall she come to-morrow ? " 
 
You do take a good deal for granted 
very easily! thought Mrs. Candy. Then 
aloud, 
" I should like to fit her up a little first 
The child has not been away from home, and 
in mourning " 
" Won't you trust me to see that she does 
not want for anything? I assure you, I will 
not neglect my charge." 
" You are very kind " said Mrs. Candy ; 
while she thought in her heart, You are very 
presuming ! 
"Then you will indulge me?" said Mrs. 
Laval graciously. 
" If it must be so " said Mrs. Candy, 
doubtful. 
"Thank you!" said her visiter. "My 
errand is my excuse for troubling you this 
morning and so early ! " 
Mrs. Candy felt a twinge. She had not 
thought it was early; she had not thought 
about it. 
" Your place is looking beautiful," she said 
 
as her visiter rose. " It is the prettiest place 
in Shadywalk." 
. " O I am not in Shadywalk," said Mrs. 
Laval. " I am on the Millbrook. Yes, it is 
pretty ; but it is terribly hard to get servants. 
They won't come from New York, and there 
are none here." 
" Not many good ones," Mrs. Candy as 
sented. 
" None that will do for me. I am in de 
spair. I have engaged a Swiss family at last. 
I expect them to arrive very soon." 
" From New York ? " 
" In New York. They are coming to me 
from Vevay. Father, mother, and two 
daughters ; and I believe a boy too. They 
will know nothing, except farmwork, when 
they come ; but they do make excellent servants, and so trustworthy." 
" Will you want so many ? " 
" I will find use for them. To-morrow then. 
Thank you. Good morning." 
Mrs. Candy stood, looking after her visiter. 
She was so elegantly dressed, and her veil 
was of such rich lace. She must want a 
goodly number of women in her household, 
Mrs. Candy allowed to herself, if she often 
indulged in dresses of fine muslin ruffled like 
that. And Mrs. Candy sighed. One must 
have money for those things, she reflected ; 
and not a good deal of money, but a great 
deal. A good deal would not do. Mrs. Candy 
sighed again and went in, thinking that Matilda's not going this journey with her would 
save her quite a pretty penny. Matilda as yet 
knew nothing of what had been in her aunt's 
mind, respecting Philadelphia or Mrs. Laval 
either. It had all the force of a surprise when 
Mrs. Candy called her and told her to pack up 
her clothes for leaving home. 
" All my clothes, aunt Erminia ? " 
" You will want them all. Issa and I are 
going on a journey that will take us a little 
while and I am going to leave you in 
somebody's care here ; so put out whatever 
you will want for a couple of weeks." 
 
Matilda wanted to ask with whom she was 
to be left? but that would come in time! It 
would be somebody not her aunt, at any rate ; 
and she went to her room and began laying 
oat her clothes with fingers that trembled 
with delight. Presently Mrs. Candy came in. 
She sat down and surveyed Matilda's preparations. On one chair there was a neat 
little pile of underclothes ; on two others were 
similar neat little piles of frocks ; some things 
beside were spread over the bed. 
" Those are all the dresses you have got, 
eh ? " she said. 
" That's all, aunt Candy. Here are my 
calicoes for every day ; and those are the rest; 
my blue spot, and my black gingham and my 
white. They are all clean." 
" Yes," said Mrs. Candy. "Well I guess 
you don't want to take these calicoes ; they 
are pretty well worn, and you haven't any 
work to do now-a-days. The others won't 
be too nice to wear, till I come home." 
" Every day ? " asked Matilda. 
 
" Yes, every day. There are not quite 
enough; but you must be careful and not soil 
them, and so make them do. There is not 
time to make any now, or I would get you 
one or two. I meant to do it." 
" When are you going, aunt Candy ? " 
" You are going to-morrow. So make haste, 
and pack up everything you want, Matilda. 
I do not know whether you can do with those 
three frocks?" 
" O yes, I will keep them clean," said the 
child, in her joy. 
" Well I believe you can," said Mrs. Candy. 
" Now make haste, Matilda." 
It was such glad work. Matilda made 
haste in her eagerness, and then pulled out 
things and packed them over again because 
it was not well d"one the first time. Where 
was she going, she wondered ? Mr. Richmond was away from home still, or she should 
have heard more about it. Meanwhile her 
clothes went into the little trunk her aunt had 
made over to her; and her Bible was packed 
 
in a secure corner ; her best boots were 
wrapped up and put in ; and her brush and 
comb. Then Matilda remembered she would 
want these yet, and took them out again. 
She hesitated over her book of French verbs 
and her arithmetic, but finally stuck them into 
the trunk. It was not near full when all was 
done ; but Matilda's heart had not a bit of 
spare room in it. 
CHAPTER IX. 
THE next day rose very bright and fair. 
Matilda had been sadly afraid it would 
rain ; but no such matter ; the sun looked and 
smiled over the world as if slyly wishing her 
joy on her good prospects. Matilda took it 
so, and got ready for breakfast with a heart 
leaping with delight. She had got no more 
news yet as to where she was going; but 
after breakfast Mrs. Candy made her dress 
herself in the gingham and put on her best 
boots, which made the little trunk all the 
emptier; and the trunk itself was locked. 
Things were in this state, and Matilda mending lace in her aunt's room ; when Mrs. Candy's maid of all work put her head in. 
" The carriage has come, mum," she said. 
" What carriage ? " said Mrs. Candy. 
 
" Meself doesn't know, then. The bi says 
he's come fur to get the chilt." 
" What boy ? " said Mrs. Candy in growing 
astonishment. 
" Sure, an' I haven't been here long enough 
fur to know all the bi's of the village. He's 
the bi that come wid the carriage, anyhow, 
an' it's the chilt he's wanting. An' it's the 
iligantest carriage you ever see in your life ; 
and two iligant grey horses, an' a driver." 
Mother and daughter looked at each other. 
The lace had fallen from Matilda's hands to 
the ground. 
" Did he give no name ? " 
" It's just what he didn't, then. Only he 
jumped down and axed was the chilt ready. 
I tould him sure I didn't know, and he said 
would I go see. An' what'll I say to him, 
thin ? for he's waitin'." 
" I'll speak to him myself," said Mrs. Candy. " Go on with your work, Matilda." 
But in a few minutes she came back and 
bade the trembling child put up her lace and 
put on her hat, and go. I am afraid the 
leave-taking was a short affair; for two minutes had hardly passed when Matilda stood 
in the hall and Norton caught her by both 
hands. 
" Norton ! " she cried. 
" Yes, I've come for you. Come, Matilda, 
your trunk's in." 
"Where are we going?" Matilda asked, 
as she let herself be led and placed in the 
carriage, which was a low basket phaeton. 
" Where are we going ! " echoed Norton. 
" Where is it likely we are going, with you 
and your trunk? Where did you mean to 
go to-day, Pink ? " 
" I don't know. I didn't know anything 
about it. O Norton, are we going to your 
house!" 
" If Tom knows the road," said Norton 
coolly ; " and I rather think the ponies do if 
he don't. Why Pink ! do you mean to tell me 
you didn't know you were coming to us ? " 
" I didn't know a word about it." 
" Nor how mamma went to ask for you ? " 
Aunt Candy didn't tell me." 
" Did she tell you you were going any 
where ? " 
" Yes. She made me pack up my clothes, 
but that's all." 
" Didn't you ask her ? " 
Matilda shook her head. " I never do ask 
aunt Candy anything." 
" Why ? " said Norton curiously. 
" I don't like to and she don't like to 
have me." 
" She must be a nice woman to live with," 
said Norton. " You'll miss her badly, I 
should say. Aren't you sorry, Pink ? " he 
asked suddenly, taking Matilda's chin in his 
hand to watch the answer she would give. 
The answer, all smiling and blushing, contented Norton ; and the next instant the grey 
ponies swept in at the iron gate and brought 
them before the house door. 
Matilda jumped out of the carriage with a 
feeling of being in an impossible dream. 
 
But her boot felt the rough grave of the 
roadway ; the sun was shining still and warm 
on the lawn and the trees ; the mid-country, 
rich-coloured with hues of autumn, lay glit 
tering in light; the blue hills were over 
against her sleeping in haze ; the grey ponies 
were trotting off round the sweep, and had 
left her and Norton standing before the 
house. It was all real and not 'a dream ; 
and she turned to Norton who was watching 
her, with another smile, so warm and glad 
that the boy's face grew bright to see it. 
And then there was Mrs. Laval, coming out 
on the verandah. 
" My dear child ! " she exclaimed, folding 
Matilda in her arms. " My dear child ! I 
have had hard work to get you ; but here 
you are." 
" Mamma, she did not know she was coming," said Norton, " till I came for her." 
"Not know it?" said Mrs. Laval, holding 
her back to look at her. " Why child, you 
have grown thin ! " 
 
" It's the hot weather, aunt Candy says." 
" And pale ! " said Mrs. Laval. " Yes, you 
have ; pale and thin. Have you been ill ? " 
" No, ma'am," said Matilda ; but her eyes 
were watering now in very gladness and 
tenderness. 
Not ill ? " said the lady. "And yet you 
are changed, I do not know how; it isn't 
all thinness, or paleness. What is the mat 
ter with you, dear ? " 
"Nothing only I am so glad," Matilda 
managed to say, as Mrs. Laval's arms again 
came round her. The eyes of mother and 
son met expressively. 
" I don't like to see people cry for gladness," 
whispered the lady. " That is being entirely 
too glad. Let us go and see where you are 
to live while you are with me. Norton, send 
York up with her box." 
Matilda shook herself mentally, and went 
up stairs with Mrs. Laval. Such easy, soft- 
going stairs ! and then the wide light corridor 
with its great end window; and then Mrs. 
 
Laval went into a room which Matilda 
guessed was her own, and through that 
passed to another, smaller, but large enough 
still, where she paused. 
"You shall be here," she said ; " close by 
me ; so that you cannot feel lonely." 
" O I could not feel lonely," cried Matilda. 
" I have a room by myself at home." 
" But not far away from other people, I 
suppose. Your sister is near you, is she 
not?" 
" O Maria is gone, long ago." 
" Gone ? what entirely ? Not out of the 
village ? " 
" She is in Poughkeepsie. I have not seen 
her in a great many weeks." 
" Was that her own wish ? " 
" O no, ma'am ; she was very sorry to go." 
" Well, you must have been very sorry too. 
Now, dear, here are drawers for you ; and 
see, here is a closet for hanging up things; 
and here is your washing closet with hot and 
cold water; the hot is the right hand one of 
 
these two faucets. And I hope you will be 
happy here, darling." 
She spoke very kindly ; so kindly that Ma 
tilda did not know how to answer. I suppose 
her face answered for her; for Mrs. Laval, 
instead of presently leading the way down 
stairs again, sat down in a chair by one of 
the windows and drew Matilda into her arras. 
She took off her hat, and smoothed away the 
hair from her forehead, and looked in her 
face, with eyes that were curiously wistful 
and noteful of her. And Matilda's eyes, 
wondering, went over the mid-country to the 
blue mountains, as she thought what a new 
friend God had given her. 
" Are you well, dear ? " said the lady's voice 
in her ear softly. 
" Quite well, ma'am." 
" What has changed you so since last 
June ? " 
" I didn't know that I was changed," Ma 
tilda said, wondering again. 
" Are you happy, my love?" 
 
The question was put very softly, and yet 
Matilda started and looked into Mrs. Laval's 
eyes to see what her thought was. 
" Yes," said the lady smiling ; " I asked 
you if you were quite happy. How is 
it?" 
Matilda's eyes went back to the blue moun 
tains. How much ought she to tell ? 
" I think I suppose I ought to be 
happy," she said at last. 
" I think you always try to do what you 
think you ought to do ; isn't that so ? " 
" I try " said Matilda in a low voice. 
" How happens it then, dear, that you do 
not succeed in being happy ? " 
" I don't know," said Matilda. " I sup 
pose I should, if I were quite good." 
" If you were quite good. Have you so 
many things to make you happy ? " 
" I think I have." 
" Tell them to me," said Mrs. Laval, pressing her cheek against Matilda's hair in caressing fashion ; " it is pleasant to talk of one's 
 
pleasant things, and I should like to hear of 
yours. What are they, love ? " 
What did the lady mean ? Matilda hesitated, but Mrs. Laval was quietly waiting for 
her to speak. She had her arms wrapped 
round Matilda and her face rested against her 
hair, and so she was waiting. It was plain 
that Matilda must speak. Still she waited, 
uncertain how to frame her words, uncertain 
how they would be understood ; till at last 
the consciousness that she had waited a good 
while drove her to speak suddenly. 
" Why ma'am," she said, " the first thing is, 
that I belong to the Lord Jesus Christ." 
The lady paused now in her turn, and her 
voice when she spoke was somewhat husky. 
" What is the next thing, dear ? " 
" Then, I know that God is my Father." 
" Go on," said the lady, as Matilda was 
silent. 
Well that is it," said Matilda. " I be 
long to the Lord Jesus ; and I love him, and 
I know he loves me ; and he takes care of me, 
 
and will take care of me; and whatever I 
want I ask him for, and he hears me." 
" And does he give you whatever you ask 
for ? " said the lady in a tone again changed. 
" If he don't, he will give me something 
better," was the answer. 
Maybe Mrs. Laval might have taken up the 
words from some lips. But the child on her 
lap spoke them so quietly, her face was in such 
a sweet rest of assurance, and one little hand 
rose and fell on the window-sill with such an 
unconscious glad endorsement of what she 
said, that the lady was mute. 
" And this makes you happy ? " she said at 
length. 
" Sometimes it does," answered Matilda. 
" I think it ought always." 
" But my dear little creature, is there nothing else in all the world to make you feel 
happy?" 
Matilda's words were not ready. 
" I don't know," she said. " Sometimes 
I think there isn't They're all away." 
 
The last sentence was given with an un 
conscious forlornness of intonation which 
went to her friend's heart. She clasped Matilda close at that, and covered her with kisses. 
" You won't feel so here ? " she said. 
But the child's answer was in pantomime. 
For she had clung to Mrs. Laval as the lady 
had clasped her ; and Matilda's head nestling 
in her neck and softly returning a kiss or two, 
gave assurance enough. 
" All away ? " said Mrs. Laval. " Well, I 
think that too sometimes. You and I ought 
to belong to each other." 
And then presently, as if she were shaking 
off all these serious reflections, she bade Ma 
tilda arrange her things comfortably in closet 
and drawers ; and then when she liked, come 
down to her. So she went out, and the man 
with the little trunk came in and set it in a 
corner. 
Matilda felt in dreamland. It was only like 
dreamland, to take out her things, which a 
few hours ago she had packed in the dismal 
precincts of her aunt's house, and place them 
in such delightful circumstances as her new 
quarters afforded. The drawers of her dressing-table were a marvel of beauty, being of a 
pale sea-green colour with rosebuds painted 
in the corners. Her little bedstead was of the 
same colour and likewise adorned ; and so the 
chairs, and a small stand which held a glass 
of flowers. The floor Was covered with a 
pretty white mat, and light muslin curtains 
lined with rose, hung before the windows. 
The spread on her bed was a snow white 
Marseilles quilt, Matilda knew that ; and the 
washing closet was sumptuous in luxury, with 
its ample towels and its pretty cake of sweet 
fragrant soap. Every one of these things 
Matilda took note of, as she was obeying Mrs. 
Laval's advice, to put her things in some 
order before she came downstairs. And she 
was thinking also, what ' opportunities ' she 
could possibly have here? There would be 
nothing to try her patience or her temper; 
 
nothing disagreeable, in fact, except the 
thought of going away again. How could 
she ever bear that f And then it occurred to 
Matilda that certainly she had opportunity 
and occasion to give thanks ; and she knelt 
down and did it very heartily ; concluding as 
she rose up that she would leave the question 
of going away till it came nearer the time. 
She went with a light heart downstairs 
then ; how odd it was to be at home in that 
house, going up arid down with her hat off! 
She passed through one or two rooms, and 
found Mrs. Laval at last in a group of visiters, 
busy talking to half a dozen at once. Matilda 
stole out again, wondering at the different 
Mrs. Laval downstairs from the one who had 
sat with her in her little room half an hour 
ago. On the verandah she met Norton. He 
greeted her eagerly, and drew her round the 
house to a shady angle where they sat down 
on two of the verandah chairs. 
" Now what shall we do this afternoon ? " 
said Norton. " What would you like ? " 
 
" I like everything. O I like everything ! " 
said Matilda. 
" Yes, but this is nothing," said Norton. 
" Shall we go take a long drive ? " 
" If Mrs. Laval goes I should like it 
very much." 
" Tf she don't go, we will," said Norton. 
" The roads are in good order ; and the ponies 
want exercise. I don't believe mamma will 
go ; for she is expecting a whole ship-load of 
servants, and Francis will have to go to the 
station for them." 
" Then he will want the horses, won't 
he?" 
" Not the ponies. He will get somebody's 
great farm wagon, to bring up all their goods 
and things. You and I will go driving, 
Pink." 
" Will you drive ? " asked Matilda. 
Certainly." 
Matilda thought more than ever that she 
was in fairyland. She sat musing over her 
contentment, when Norton broke in again. 
 
" You are very fond of that aunt of yours, 
aren't you ? " 
It was a point blank question. Matilda 
waited, and then softly said " no." 
" Not ? " said Norton. " That's funny. 
Hasn't she done everything in the world to 
make you love her ? " 
" Please, Norton," said Matilda, " I would 
rather not talk about her." 
" Why not, Pink ? " said Norton, shewing 
his white teeth. 
I don't enjoy it." 
Don't you ? " said Norton. That's fun 
ny again. I should think you would." 
" Why ? " said Matilda curiously. 
" There's so much to say, that's one thing. 
And then she's so good to you." 
" Who told you she was so good to me ? " 
" I can see it in your face." 
Matilda sat silent, wondering what he meant. 
" You can always tell," said Norton. 
" People can't hide things. I can see, she has 
been doing no end of kindnesses to you all 
 
summer long. That has made you so fond 
of her." 
Matilda was puzzled and sat silent, not 
knowing what it was best to say ; and Norton 
watching her stealthily saw a wistful little 
face, tender and pure, and doubtful, that just 
provoked caresses. He dropped what was in 
his hands and fairly took possession of Matilda, kissing the pale cheeks, as if she were 
his own particular plaything. It was unlike 
most boys, but Norton Laval was independent and manly above most boys. Matilda 
was astonished. 
" Drive ? to be sure we will drive," said 
Norton as he let her go. " We will drive all 
over creation." 
The visiters went away just at this juncture, 
and the children were called in to dinner. 
And after dinner Norton made some of his 
words good. Mrs. Laval was not going out; 
she gave leave to Norton to do what he 
pleased, and he took Matilda to drive in the 
basket phaeton. 
 
" Norton " she said as they were just 
setting forth. 
Well ? " 
" If you would just as lieve, I wish you 
wouldn't, please, go past aunt Candy's." 
"Not go past?" said Norton. "Why, 
Pink ? " 
" If you would just as lieve, I would rather 
not." 
Norton nodded, and they took another way. 
But now this was better than fairyland. 
Fairyland never knew such a drive, surely. 
The afternoon was just right, as Norton had 
said ; there was no dust, and not too much 
sun ; the roads were in fine order ; arid they 
bowled along as if the ponies had had nothing 
to do in a great while. Now it was hardly 
within the memory of Matilda to have seen 
the country around Shadywalk as she saw it 
this afternoon. Every house had the charm 
of a picture; every tree by the roadside 
seemed to be planted for her pleasure. The 
meadows and fields of stubble and patches of 
ploughed land, were like pieces ot a new 
world to the long housed child. Norton told 
her to whom these fields belonged, which 
increased the effect, and gave bits of family 
history, as he knew it, connected with the 
names. These meadows belonged to such a 
gentleman ; his acres counted so many ; were 
good for so much ; taken capital care of. 
Here were the fields and woods of such a 
one's farm ; he kept cows and sent milk to 
New York. That house among the trees was 
the homestead of one of the old county families ; the place was beautiful ; Matilda would 
see it some day with Mrs. Laval ; that little 
cottage by the gate was only a lodge. Matilda desired to know what a lodge was ; and 
upon the explanation, and upon many more 
details correlative and co-related, went into 
musings of her own. But the sky was so 
fair and blue ; the earth was so rich and 
sunny ; the touches of sear or yellow leaves 
here and there on a branch gave such emphasis to the deep hues still lingering on the 
 
vegetation, the phaeton wheels rolled so 
smoothly ; that Matilda's musings did not 
know very well what course to keep. 
" Well what are you thinking of?" said 
Norton after a silence of some time. 
" I was thinking of Lilac lane, just then." 
" Lilac lane ! Do you want to see it ? " 
" Very much, Norton," said Matilda gleefully ; " but not this afternoon. I haven't 
been there in a great, great while." 
" I should not think you would want to be 
ever there again. I can't see why." 
" But then, what would become of the poor 
people ? " 
" They do not depend upon you," said 
Norton. " It is not your look-out." 
" But I suppose," Matilda said slowly, 
"I suppose, everybody depends upon somebody." 
" Well ? " said Norton laughing. 
" You needn't laugh, though, Norton ; be 
cause, if everybody depends upon somebody, 
then) everybody has somebody depending 
upon him, I suppose." 
 
" Who depends upon you ? " 
" I don't know," said Matilda. " I wish I 
did." 
" Not Mrs. Old-thing there, at any rate. 
And how can anybody tell, Pink ? " 
" I don't know " said Matilda ; " and so 
it seems to me the best way would be to 
act as if everybody depended on you ; and 
then you would be sure and make no mistake." 
" You would be making mistakes the whole 
time," said Norton. " It would be all one 
grand mistake." 
" Ah, but it cannot be a mistake, Norton," 
She stopped suddenly. 
" What cannot be a mistake ? " 
" It cannot be a mistake, to do anything 
that God has given you to do." 
" How can you tell ? " said Norton. " It's 
all like a Chinese puzzle. How can you tell 
which piece fits into which ? " 
" But if every piece fitted, then the pattern 
would be all right," said Matilda. 
