North, South, East, and West. Of this giant's brains, thrown into the
air, they formed the clouds, while of the sparks from the land of fire
were made the stars.
"As the sons of Bör, who, you must remember, were the gods of heaven
and earth, were walking on the shore of the sea, they discovered two
blocks, whereof they created a man and a woman. Odin gave them life
and souls, while his brothers endowed them with other human faculties
and powers. Odin was the Jupiter, the chief, of the northern gods. He
is the god of song and of war, and was the inventor of the Runic
characters, or alphabet. He was the ruler of Valhalla, the home of
heroes slain in battle. There is much more that is curious and
interesting in the mythology of the Scandinavians, which I must ask
you to read for yourselves.
"Olaf II. propagated Christianity with fire and sword. He demolished
the temples of paganism, and founded Trondhjem, or Drontheim, as it is
called on our maps. His successor, St. Olaf, followed his example,
till his cruelty excited a rebellion, and Canute the Great, of
Denmark, landing in Norway, was elected king. Olaf fled into Sweden,
where he organized an army, and attempted to recover his throne; but
he was defeated and slain in a battle near Trondhjem. His body was
found, a few years later, in a perfect state of preservation, which
was regarded as a miracle, and Olaf was canonized as a saint. His
remains are said to have wrought many miracles, and up to the time of
the Reformation, thousands of pilgrims annually visited his shrine at
Trondhjem. Even in London churches were dedicated to this saint.
"Canute gave Norway to his son Sweyn, who, upon the death of his
father, was dispossessed of the throne by Magnus I., the son of St.
Olaf. He was succeeded by Harold III., a great warrior, who founded
Osloe, now Christiania. After Olaf III. and Magnus III. came Sigurd,
who, in 1107, made a pilgrimage of four years to Jerusalem, with a
fleet of sixty vessels, and distinguished himself in the holy wars.
His death was followed by civil dissensions, until Hako IV. obtained
the throne. He lost his life in an attempt to retain the Hebrides
Islands, claimed by Scotland. Then war with Denmark, the monopoly of
trade by the Hanse towns, and a fearful plague, which depopulated
whole sections, produced a decline in the national prosperity of
Norway. Hako VI., who died in 1380, had married the daughter of the
King of Denmark, and the crown of Norway descended to his son, Olaf
III., of Denmark, in whom the sovereignties of Norway and Denmark were
united. Olaf was succeeded by his mother Margaret, celebrated in
history as 'the Semiramis of the North.' She conquered Sweden, and
annexed it to her own dominions. By the 'Union of Calmar,' signed by
the principal nobles and prelates of the three Scandinavian kingdoms,
the three crowns were united in one person, the subjects of each to
have equal rights. This compact was disregarded, and Norway was
hopelessly oppressed by the ruler. The Union, however, continued till
1623; but Norway was subject to Denmark till 1814.
"When the allied powers of Europe, which were engaged in putting down
the first Napoleon, rearranged the map of Europe, the destiny of
Norway was changed. Russia wanted Finland, and she offered Norway in
compensation for it to Sweden, with the further condition that
Bernadotte should join the allies. He accepted the terms, and the King
of Denmark was compelled, by force of arms, to cede Norway to Sweden.
The Norwegians would not submit to the change, and declared their
independence. Prince Christian, of Denmark, who was then governor
general of Norway, called a convention of the people at Eidsvold, and
a new constitution was framed, and the prince elected King of Norway.
Bernadotte invaded Norway with a Swedish army, while the allies
blockaded the coast. Resistance was hopeless, and as Sweden offered
favorable terms, Christian abdicated, and an arrangement was
immediately effected. The constitution was accepted by the king, and
Norway became an independent nation, united to Sweden under one king.
Bernadotte became King of Sweden and Norway under the title of Charles
XIV., John. He refused the Norwegians a separate national flag; but
when he attempted to alter the constitution to suit his own views, the
Storthing resolutely and successfully resisted his interference. This
body abolished titles of nobility--an act which the king vetoed; but
three successive Storthings passed the law, and thus, by the
constitution, made it valid in spite of the veto. The Norwegians were
not to be intimidated even by the appearance of a military force, and
have ever been jealous to the last degree of their rights and
privileges as a nation.
"Bernadotte was succeeded by his son Oscar I., who gave the Norwegians
a separate national flag; and he flattered the vanity of the people by
allowing himself to be styled the 'King of Norway and Sweden' in all
public acts relating to Norway, instead of 'Sweden and Norway.' In
1859, Oscar was succeeded by his son Charles XV., who is now the King
of Sweden and Norway. In the history of Denmark and Sweden, more will
be said of this kingdom.
"In French, Norway is Norvège; in German, Norwegen; in Spanish,
Noruega; and Norge in the Scandinavian languages. Now, I dare say
you would like to visit the shore."
The professor closed his remarks, and the several boatswains piped
away their crews.
CHAPTER V.
MR. CLYDE BLACKLOCK AND MOTHER.
Belonging to the squadron were fourteen boats, ranging from the
twelve-oar barge down to the four-oar cutter. In the waters of
Brockway harbor, rowing had been the principal exercise of the
students, though the daily evolutions in seamanship were well
calculated to develop the muscles and harden the frame. They had been
carefully trained in the art, and, enjoying the amusement which it
afforded, they were apt scholars. As the safety of the squadron and
the saving of life at sea might often depend upon the skill with which
the boats were handled, the principal devoted a great deal of
attention to this branch of nautical education. To give an additional
zest to the exercise, he had occasionally offered prizes at the
boat-races which the students were encouraged to pull; and the first
cutter was now in possession of a beautiful silk flag, won by the
power of the crew in rowing.
Every boy in the squadron was a swimmer. In the summer season this
accomplishment had been taught as an art, an hour being devoted to the
lesson every day, if the weather was suitable. Cleats, the adult
boatswain of the Josephine, was the "professor" of the art, having
been selected for the responsible position on account of his
remarkable skill as a swimmer. The boys were trained in diving,
floating, swimming under water, and taught to perform various
evolutions. Not alone in the tranquil bay were they educated to the
life of the fishes, but also in the surf, and among the great waves.
They were taught to get into a boat from the water in a heavy sea. A
worn-out old longboat had done duty during the preceding summer as a
wreck, in order to familiarize the students with the possibilities of
their future experience. It was so prepared that a portion of its
planking could be suddenly knocked out, and the boat almost instantly
filled with water; and the problem was, to meet this emergency in the
best manner. Other boats were at hand in case of a real accident, or
if any naturally timid fellow lost his presence of mind. While the
"wreck," as the practice boat was called, was moving along over the
waves, pulled by half a dozen boys, Cleats, without warning or notice
of his intention, opened the aperture near her keel. Sometimes she was
loaded with stones, so that she went to the bottom like a rock, though
this part of the programme was always carried out on a beach, where
the receding tide would enable the professor to recover the boat. The
crew were then to save themselves by swimming ashore, or to another
boat. Sometimes, also, the "wreck" was loaded with broken spars,
pieces of board, and bits of rope; and the problem was for the crew
to construct a raft in the water, often in a rough sea. All these
exercises, and many others, were heartily enjoyed by the boys, and a
ringing cheer always announced the safety of a crew, either on the
shore, in a boat, or on the raft.
Many persons, and even those who are tolerable swimmers, have been
drowned simply by the loss of their presence of mind. The dashing of
the waves, or the great distance of the land or other place of safety,
intimidates them, and they are unable to use their powers. But the
students of the squadron were gradually and carefully accustomed to
the water, so that they could swim a reasonable distance without
wearing themselves out, could rest their limbs by floating, and were
taught to avail themselves of any expedient to secure their safety. If
a boat was stove on the rocks in a surf, or was run down by a vessel,
the fact of being in the water did not frighten them out of their
wits, for they had been trained to feel quite at home, as in their
native element. They were actually drilled to confront danger in
every imaginable form. But a gentle and timid boy was not pitched
into the water, even after he had learned to swim. His constitutional
shrinking was slowly and skilfully overcome, so that even the most
delicate--though but few such ever found their way into the ranks of
the squadron--took to the water as a pastime. Of course the degree of
proficiency in the art of swimming, and of the acquired ability to
meet danger in the water, differed very widely in different boys; but
all were accustomed to the waves, and, in a measure, to leading the
life of a duck or a fish.
The crews of the several boats piped over the side, and took their
places, the rest of the students being distributed in the barges and
cutters, till only the adult officers remained in the ship. Each one,
as it was loaded, pulled off, and took its station in the order in
which the boat squadron usually moved. The commodore's barge and the
ship's first cutter, each twelve oars, led the van, while the other
boats came in four ranks of three each. All the boats carried the
American flag at the stern, and each one had its number at the bow.
All the Young America's boats had their numbers on a white, the
Josephine's on a green, and the Tritonia's on a blue flag.
The tactics of the boat squadron were many and various, which had
been adopted more to give interest to the exercise than for any
inherent utility. These movements were regulated by signals from the
commodore's barge. Mr. Lowington had decided to make an excursion
among the islands in the Fjord before dinner, and visit the town in
the afternoon. A pilot was put in the commodore's barge, and Captain
Cumberland, as acting flag officer, was in command of the squadron.
The principal and Professor Badois were passengers in his barge.
The cutters were formed in their usual array, and the two boats
from the yachts brought up the rear. The signal officer, who was a
quartermaster from the ship, at the order of the captain, elevated the
white flag crossed with red, with which all the signals were made. The
coxswains of the several boats could see this flag, while the oarsmen
could not, being back to the barge, and not allowed to look behind
them.
"Oars!" said each coxswain, as soon as the signal appeared.
At this command the several crews, who had been laying on their oars,
prepared for the stroke. The signal officer dropped the flag to the
port side of the barge.
"Give way!" added each coxswain; and the boat squadron moved off.
In order to keep the lines full, the larger quarter boat of the Grace
had been borrowed and manned, and now took the place of the second
cutter, which had been stove, and upon which the three carpenters of
the squadron were now at work, making the necessary repairs. The fleet
made a splendid appearance, with the flags flying, and with the
officers and crews in their best uniforms. The people on the shore,
and on board of the various vessels in the harbor, gathered to see the
brilliant array. The crew of an English steamer cheered lustily, and
the lady passengers waved their handkerchiefs. Suddenly the signal on
the commodore's barge went up again.
"Stand by to toss!" said the several coxswains, as the fleet of boats
came abreast of the steamer, which was the Orlando, bound from Hull to
Christiania.
The signal went down to the port side.
"Toss!" continued the coxswains, only loud enough to be heard by the
crews, for they had been taught that the unnecessary screaming of
orders makes an officer seem ridiculous, and injures the effect of the
manoeuvre.
At the word every oar went up, and was held perpendicularly in the air
with the left hand. A bugle blast from the barge at this moment
brought every student to his feet, with his right hand to his cap.
"One!" said the coxswain of each boat, at a dip of the signal flag.
A rousing cheer, accompanied by a swing of the cap, followed, and
was twice repeated, making up the complement of the three cheers, in
return for the salutations of the steamer's people. Her crew returned
the compliment in like manner. At another blast of the bugle, the
crews were seated with their oars still up. Again the signal in the
barge was elevated.
"Stand by!" said the coxswains, which was only a warning to be ready.
The flag dropped to port.
"Let fall!" added the coxswain; and all the oars dropped into the
water together, while the flag was again elevated. "Give way!" and the
stroke was resumed.
The passengers of the Orlando clapped their hands vigorously, as they
witnessed the perfection of the movements. The fleet proceeded up
the bay towards the west front of the town, where a considerable
collection of people had assembled to witness the novel parade. The
barge led the way to the extreme west of the bay, where the signal
flag was again exhibited, and then swung first to the port and then to
the starboard. This was the signal for coming into single line, and
the coxswain of each boat gave the orders necessary to bring it into
range. It was so managed that each boat came into the new order as it
turned to pass in front of the town; so that they proceeded in a
single line before the people, but not more than twenty feet apart.
Once more the signal flag appeared, with a double motion upwards.
"Stand by to lay on your oars!" said the coxswains. "Oars!" they
continued, as the flag swung down to starboard. "Hold water!"
These orders soon brought the boats to a stand. The signal flag moved
in a horizontal circle.
"Pull, starboard; back, port. Give way!" continued the coxswains; and
the effect of this evolution was to turn the boats as on a pivot.
"Oars!" and the crew ceased pulling, with their oars all on a level,
and the blades feathered.
The boats had been turned half round, and each coxswain aligned his
own by the barge on the right. In this position three cheers were
given in compliment to the people on the shore, though the Norwegians
seemed to be too dull and heavy to comprehend the nature of the
movement. The boats swung again, and continued on their way, in single
line, through the narrow passage between Odderö and the main land.
Under the direction of the native pilot, the barge led the way among
the islands, affording the students an opportunity to see the shores.
When the fleet came into the broad channel, the order was resumed, as
at first, and after various manoeuvres, it was dismissed, each boat
returning to the vessel to which it belonged.
The appearance of the fleet, including the two beautiful yachts, and
the evolutions of the boats, had created a decided sensation on board
of the Orlando, which was crowded with passengers, most of them
tourists on their way to the interior of Norway. The crews of the
several vessels piped to dinner as soon as they returned from the
excursion; but the meal was hardly finished before visitors from the
steamer began to arrive, and the boatmen in the harbor made a good
harvest on the occasion. Among those who came to the ship was an
elegantly dressed lady, with her son and daughter, attended by a
servant man in livery. Mrs. Garberry Blacklock was duly presented to
the principal by one of the gentlemen who had introduced himself. She
was evidently a very fine lady; for she was "distinguished" in her
manners as well as in her dress. And her son, Clyde Blacklock, was as
evidently a very fine young gentleman, though he was only fourteen
years of age. It is doubtful whether Miss Celia Blacklock could be
regarded as a very fine young lady, for she appeared to be very
pretty, and very modest and retiring, with but a very moderate
estimate of her own importance.
For the tenth time Mr. Lowington briefly explained the nature of the
institution over which he presided; and the fine lady listened with
languishing ennui.
"But it is a very rough life for young gentlemen," suggested Mrs.
Blacklock. "I should fancy they would become very, very rude."
"Not necessarily," replied the principal. "We intend that the students
shall behave like gentlemen, and we think the discipline of the ship
has a tendency to promote good manners."
"They must live like sailors, and sailors are very, very rude."
"Not necessarily, madam. There is nothing in the occupation itself
that--"
"But I wish to know what the fellows do," interposed Mr. Clyde
Blacklock.
"There is nothing in the occupation itself that begets rudeness,"
added Mr. Lowington, giving no attention to the young gentleman, who
had so impolitely broken in upon the conversation of his elders. "I
see no reason why a young man cannot be a gentleman in a ship as well
as on shore."
"I dare say you have sailors to do the dirty work."
"No, madam; our students do all the work."
"Do they put their own fingers into the pitch and the tar?" inquired
the lady, with a curl of the lip which indicated her horror.
"Certainly; but we think pitch and tar are not half so defiling as
evil thoughts and bad manners."
"They are very, very disagreeable. The odor of tar and pitch is
intolerable."
"We do not find it so, for--"
"I say, I wish to know what the fellows do."
"We are accustomed to the odor of them," continued the principal. "To
some people the scent of musk, and even otto of roses, is not
pleasant; and, for my part, I rather enjoy that of tar and pitch."
"That is very, very singular. But Clyde desires to know what the
young gentlemen do," added the lady, glancing at her son, behind whom
stood the man in livery, as though he were the boy's exclusive
property.
"They have a regular routine of study," replied Mr. Lowington,
addressing the lady, and declining even to glance at the original
inquirer, for the rudeness of Mr. Clyde in interrupting the
conversation seemed to merit a rebuke. "They attend to the studies
usually pursued in the highest class of academies, including the
modern languages and navigation, the latter being a speciality in the
course."
"I don't care what they study," said Clyde. "What do they do in the
ship?"
"We prepare boys for college, and beyond that pursue a regular college
course, so far as our facilities will permit. Our students have the
advantage of travel; for, in the present cruise, we shall visit all
the principal nations of Europe."
"What do they do in the ship?"
"Clyde desires to know what the boys do in the ship," added the lady.
"They learn good manners, for the first thing, madam. There are
fifteen officers in this vessel, and nine in each of the others. They
are all students, who take their rank according to their merit. The
best scholar in each is the captain, and so on."
"Does the captain manage the ship?" asked Clyde.
"Certainly."
"I should like to be the captain," exclaimed the young gentleman.
"Do you think you could manage the ship?" asked his mother, with a
smile which expressed the pride she felt in the towering ambition of
her son.
"I could, if any fellow could."
"Clyde is very fond of the sea; indeed, he worries me sadly by his
adventurous spirit," said his mother.
"I think it would do him good to go to sea," added the principal,
rather dryly.
"The students made a beautiful appearance in their boats to-day,"
continued Mrs. Blacklock. "It was really very, very wonderful."
"They handle the boats very well indeed, but their skill was only
acquired by long and careful training. As we have a considerable
number of visitors on board, madam, we will show you a little
seamanship. Captain Cumberland," he added, turning to the young
commander, who had been making himself agreeable to Miss Celia
Blacklock.
The captain asked the young lady to excuse him, and stepping up to the
principal, bowed gracefully, and raised his cap.
"He's a regular swell," said Clyde to his man.
"He's a young gentleman as is highly polished, which these naval
officers is generally," replied Jeems.
Mr. Lowington directed the captain to call all hands, and go through
the evolutions of loosing and furling, for the gratification of the
guests of the ship. Captain Cumberland bowed and raised his cap again
as he retired, and the principal hoped that Clyde would take a lesson
in good manners from him.
"Will you walk to the quarter-deck, Miss Blacklock," said the captain,
touching his cap to the young lady, to whom he had been formally
introduced by the principal. "We are going to loose and furl, and you
can see better there than here."
"With pleasure," replied Miss Celia. "But what did you say you were
going to do?"
"Loose and furl the sails," replied the captain, as he conducted the
fair miss to the quarter-deck, where they were followed by Mr.
Lowington and the rest of the party.
"Mr. Judson," said the commander.
"Here, sir," replied the first lieutenant.
"Call all hands to loose and furl."
"All hands, sir," responded Judson, touching his cap to his superior,
as all on board were required to do.
"They are all swells," said Clyde to his man.
"All hands, loose sails!" shouted the boatswain, as he blew the proper
blast on his whistle.
In a few moments every officer and seaman was at his station for the
manoeuvre indicated by the call. The students, aware that they were
simply to "show off," were fully determined to astonish the wondering
crowd on the decks.
"Stand by to lay aloft, the ready-men!" shouted the first lieutenant,
as he received the order from the captain.
It was repeated by the second lieutenant on the forecastle, the third
in the waist, and the fourth on the quarter-deck.
"All ready, sir!" reported the several officers.
"Lay aloft!"
At the command those whose duty it was to prepare the sails and
rigging for the manoeuvre sprang up the rigging, and in three
minutes the midshipman aloft reported that all was ready.
"Lay aloft, sail-loosers!" continued the first lieutenant.
The seamen, who were arranged in proper order on deck, the royal
yard men first, then those who belonged on the top-gallant yards, the
topsail, and the lower yards, placed in succession, so that each could
reach his station without passing others, leaped into the rigging, and
went up like so many cats.
"Man the boom tricing-lines!"
These are ropes by which the studding-sail booms, which lie on the
yards, are hauled up out of the way.
"Trice up!"
The studding-sail booms were drawn up.
"Lay out! Loose sails!"
The hands jumped upon the foot-ropes, and worked themselves out to
their places on the yards, where they loosed the sails, overhauled the
rigging, and made everything ready for the final evolution. The
midshipman in the tops reported to the officers on deck when the
preparations were completed, and the lieutenants on deck, in their
turn, reported to the first lieutenant.
"Let fall!" said the executive officer; and all, as one, the sails
dropped from the yards.
The precision of the movement called forth a demonstration of applause
from the visitors. Mr. Clyde Blacklock stood with his mouth open,
looking up at the students on the yards, but occasionally glancing at
the "swellish" first lieutenant, who seemed to be the master-spirit of
the occasion, because he spoke in a loud voice, while the captain, who
really controlled the evolutions, could hardly be heard, except by the
executive officer, to whom alone his order was given.
"Lay in! Lay down from aloft!" said the first lieutenant; and in a
moment more all hands were on deck again.
"Do you ever man the yards, sir?" asked a gentleman of the principal.
"Occasionally, sir--not often. You are aware that it requires some
preparation, for we are obliged to extend life-lines over the yards,"
replied Mr. Lowington. "We are not in condition to do it now. If we
should happen to be visited by the king at Copenhagen or Stockholm,
and had previous notice, we should certainly do it."
The crew were then required to go through the manoeuvre of furling
sails, which was performed with the same precision as the first
evolution, and to the great satisfaction of the guests, who were then
invited to visit the cabins and steerage of the ship.
"Mother, I like this thing," said Mr. Clyde Blacklock.
"It's all very, very fine, Clyde," replied the tender mother.
"And the ship's going up the Baltic, and then up the Mediterranean."
"Yes, Clyde."
"And I want to go in her."
"You, Clyde!"
"Yes, that's what I say."
"And be a sailor?"
"I always told you I wanted to be a sailor. Didn't that head master,
or whatever he is, say it would do me good to go to sea?"
"Perhaps he did, but I can't go with you, my dear."
"I don't want you to go with me. I'm not a baby!" protested the
indignant youth.
"But you are my only son, dear."
"If you had forty only sons, it would be all the same to me. I say I
want to go in this ship, and be a sailor."
Mrs. Blacklock was appalled, and was sorely disturbed by the
announcement of her son. The young gentleman insisted that he should
be entered at once as a member of the ship's company. He suggested to
his anxious mother that she could travel by land while he went by sea,
and that she could see him every time the ship went into port. The
lady appeared to see no alternative, but evidently felt compelled to
yield to her son's demand. It was plain enough, even to a casual
observer, that Clyde was the head of the family. Mrs. Blacklock
promised to speak to the principal, but she hoped he would not be
able to take her son. Before she had an opportunity to make the
application, the Orlando's bell rang for her passengers to return. The
sound seemed to be a relief to the lady; but Mr. Clyde put his foot
down just there, and upset all her hopes.
"Come, Clyde; the Orlando is ready to go," said she.
"Let her go," replied the hopeful son.
"But we must go on board."
"You may go. I'm off to sea in this ship."
"Not now, my dear," pleaded Mrs. Blacklock.
"Now's the time. If you don't speak to that head master yourself, I
shall do so."
"Not now, my dearest boy. This ship is going to Christiania, and we
will speak to the gentleman on the subject when she arrives. Come,
Clyde; the boat is waiting for us, and all the other passengers have
gone."
"You can't fool me, mother. I'm going to sea now. I like this ship,
and I rather like those swells of officers."
Clyde positively refused to leave the ship, though his mother, almost
in tears, begged him to accompany her.
"My son won't go with me," said she, as Mr. Lowington came towards her
to ascertain the cause of their delay.
"If you desire, madam, the boatswain will put him into the boat for
you," replied the principal.
"Put me into the boat!" exclaimed the indignant youth. "I should be
glad to see him do it!"
"Should you? Peaks!"
"On deck, sir," replied the big boatswain, touching his cap to the
principal.
"Pray, don't, sir--don't!" begged the lady. "Clyde wants to go to sea
in your ship."
"O, does he, indeed!" exclaimed the principal. "We have a vacant
place, and he can be accommodated."
The fond mother's heart sank at this announcement. Mr. Lowington,
though his experience with students of this description had been far
from satisfactory, felt that his duty to humanity required him to take
this boy, who was evidently on the high road to ruin through the weak
indulgence of his mother.
CHAPTER VI.
A DAY AT CHRISTIANSAND.
"But, madam, your steamer seems to be on the point of starting,"
suggested Mr. Lowington, as the Orlando rang her bell, and whistled
violently.
"I cannot help it," replied the lady, apparently taking no notice of
the steamer. "I came over here on a pleasure excursion, and now I feel
as though I had lost my son."
"Lost him, madam! We intend to save him," laughed Mr. Lowington. "But
we have no claim upon him. If you desire to leave in the steamer, the
boatswain shall put the boy on board whether he is willing or not."
"No, no; that would be very, very harsh. Let the steamer go. This
matter is of vastly more consequence than going to Christiania.
James," she added, turning to the man in livery, "you will take the
boat, get our baggage from the steamer, and take it to the hotel on
shore."
"Yes, mem," replied James, as he very deliberately went over the side
into the boat.
"This will be a sad day to me, sir," continued Mrs. Blacklock, as she
glanced at her son, who was whistling an air from the last opera, as
indifferent as though his mother had been at peace in her own
drawing-room.
"I beg to repeat, madam, that I have not the slightest wish to take
your son into this institution."
"But Clyde insists upon joining the ship, and what can I do?"
"You can say no, if you please."
"You had better not say it, mother; if you do, I will run away, and go
to sea in a merchant ship," added Clyde, shaking his head.
"You hear, sir, what he says," replied Mrs. Blacklock, with a long and
deep sigh.
"That would be the very best thing in the world for a boy troubled
with his complaint," answered Mr. Lowington.
"I have no complaint; I'm not sick," growled Clyde.
"I'm afraid you are, my boy, though you don't know it. The most
dangerous maladies often make great progress even before their
existence is suspected."
"Nothing ails me," added Clyde.
"This seems to be a very nice ship, and you say the students are all
gentlemen," continued the lady, glancing around her at the ship and
the crew. "If Clyde must go to sea--"
"I must, mother," interposed the young gentleman, very decidedly.
"If he must go to sea, he had better go with you, sir."
"If you will walk into the cabin, madam, I will show you our
regulations," said the principal, leading the way down the steps.
Clyde followed, apparently unwilling that a word should be said which
he could not hear.
"I want to speak with your mother alone," interposed Mr. Lowington.
"I'm going too," persisted Clyde, after Mrs. Blacklock had descended
the stairs.
"I prefer to see your mother alone," added the principal, firmly.
"You are going to talk about me, and I want to hear what is said,"
replied the youth, rudely.
"Peaks, remain here," said the principal to the big boatswain, who had
followed them to the companionway.
Mr. Lowington descended the steps, and Peaks slipped in behind him,
fully understanding his duty without any explanations. Clyde attempted
to follow, but the entrance was effectually blockaded by the stalwart
forward officer.
"Get out of my way; I want to go down there," said Clyde, in no gentle
tones.
"It can't be done, my hearty," replied Peaks.
"I'm going down, any way."
"I think not, my little gentleman."
"Yes, I am! Get out of my way."
"Ease off, my hearty. Don't get up a squall."
"I want to see my mother," growled Clyde.
"You were not invited to the cabin, and your mother was," answered
Peaks, very mildly.
"I don't care if I wasn't; I'm going down."
"So you said before;" and the boatswain tried to pacify the youngster,
and to induce him to be reasonable; but Clyde had always had his own
way, and was ready to fight for it now, even though he had nothing to
gain by it.
Captain Cumberland was still walking with Miss Celia, explaining to
her the nature of the discipline on board, and giving her an account
of the voyage across the Atlantic. A group of the officers had
collected on the quarter-deck, and, much amused at the scene, were
observing the conduct of Clyde. As he became more violent, his sister
tried to quiet him, and induce him to behave like a gentleman; but he
replied to her in a tone and with words which made the captain's
cheeks tinge with indignation.
Finally, when he found that abuse had no effect upon the stout
boatswain, he drew back, and made a desperate plunge at his heavy
opponent. Peaks caught him by the shoulders, and lifted him off his
feet like a baby. Taking him in his arms, with one hand over his
mouth, to smother his cries, he bore him to the waist, where his yells
could not be heard by his mother.
"Be quiet, little one," said Peaks, as he seated himself on the
main-hatch, and twined his long legs around those of the prisoner, so
that he was held as fast as though he had been in the folds of an
anaconda. "Hold still, now, and I'll spin you a sea-yarn. Once on a
time there was a little boy that wanted to go to sea--"
"Let me go, or I'll kill you!" sputtered Clyde; but the boatswain
covered his mouth again, and silenced him.
"Kill me! That would be wicked. But I'm not a mosquito, to be cracked
in the fingers of such a dear little boy as you are. But you snapped
off my yarn; and if you don't hold still, I can't spin it ship-shape."
Clyde had well nigh exhausted his breath in his fruitless struggle,
and before his sister went far enough forward to see him, he was
tolerably calm, because he had no more strength to resist. Then the
boatswain told his story of a boy that wanted to go to sea, but found
that he could not have his own way on board the ship.
In the cabin, Mrs. Blacklock told a pitiful story of the wilfulness of
her son; that she was obliged to do just as he said, and if he wanted
anything, however absurd it might be, she was obliged to give it to
him, or he made the house too "hot" for her. Her husband had died when
the children were small, and the whole care of them had devolved on
her. Clyde had made her miserable for several years. She had sent
him to several celebrated schools; but he had got into trouble
immediately, and she had been compelled to take him away, to prevent
him from killing himself and her, as she expressed it. Her husband had
left her a handsome property, but she was afraid her son would spend
it all, or compel her to do so, before he became of age.
Mr. Lowington repeated only what most of her friends had told her
before--that her weak indulgence would be the ruin of the boy; that he
needed a strong arm. He was willing to take him into the Academy ship,
but he must obey all the rules and follow all the regulations. The
perplexed mother realized the truth of all he said.
"You will take him as an officer--won't you, sir?" she asked, when
she had in a measure reconciled herself to the discipline proposed.
"Certainly not, madam," replied the principal. "If he ever becomes an
officer, he must work himself up to that position, as the other
students do."
"But you could let him have one of the rooms in the cabin. I am
willing to pay extra for his tuition."
"No, madam; he must go with the other students, and do precisely as
they do."
"Where will his servant lodge?"
"His servant?"
"Yes, James. He will want a servant, for I don't know that he ever
dressed himself alone."
"He can have no servant, except those of the ship."
"That's very, very hard."
"Perhaps it is, but if the boy can't dress himself alone, he must lie
in his berth till he acquires the art by hard thinking. I wish you to
understand the matter thoroughly before you leave him, madam."
Mrs. Blacklock struggled with the hard terms; but even to her the case
seemed like a desperate one, and she was willing at last to try the
experiment, though she intended to follow the ship wherever she went,
to save him from suicide when his situation became absolutely
hopeless. The terms arranged, she followed Mr. Lowington on deck,
where Clyde was discovered in the loving embrace of the big boatswain,
who released him as soon as he saw the lady.
"Now, Clyde, my dear, we have arranged it all," said Mrs. Blacklock;
and it ought to be added that such a result would have been utterly
impossible if the subject of the negotiations had been present.
"I don't care if you have," replied Clyde, bestowing a fiery glance
upon the boatswain, who was smiling as blandly as though earth had no
naughty boys.
"Why, what's the matter, Clyde!" demanded the anxious mother.
"I've had enough of this ship," howled the little gentleman, as he
glanced again at the stout forward officer.
The complacent face of Peaks maddened him, and Clyde felt that,
perhaps for the first time in his life, he had lost a battle. He could
not bear the sight of the boatswain's placid features, unruffled by
anything like anger or malice. He felt that he had not even provoked
his powerful adversary. He howled in his anger, and then he cried in
his desperation. Suddenly he seized a wooden belaying-pin from the
rail, and shied it at the boatswain's head. Peaks caught it in his
hand, as though he had been playing toss-ball with his victim; but the
next instant his anaconda fold encircled the youth again. Mrs.
Blacklock screamed with terror.
"There is no harm done, madam," interposed the principal. "We don't
allow boys to throw things here."
"You are very, very harsh with the poor boy."
"And the poor boy is very, very harsh with us. He throws belaying-pins
at our heads."
"He did not mean any harm."
"Perhaps not; but that's an unpleasant way of manifesting his regard."
"I've had enough of this ship! I won't go in her!" howled Clyde,
struggling to escape from the grasp of the officer.
"Do you hear that, sir? Poor boy!"
"He will soon learn better than to behave in this violent manner. We
can cure him in ten minutes after you have left the ship."
"What! whip him?" exclaimed the mother, with horror.
"No, madam; we never strike a student under any circumstances, unless
it be in self-defence; but if a boy won't go when ordered, we carry
him. We always have force enough to do this without injury to the
person."
"But see the poor boy struggle!"
"It will do him no harm."
"He says now that he will not go in the ship."
"If I were his parent, it would be as I said, not as he said, after he
had ceased to be reasonable. I would consult the wishes and opinions
of a boy of mine, as long as he behaved properly--no longer. You have
only to leave him, and I assure you he shall be treated as kindly as
he will permit us to treat him. I do not wish to influence you, but I
am confident that ruin lies in that boy's path, unless he is
reformed."
Mrs. Blacklock actually wept. She loved the boy with a blind affection
in spite of the disrespect and even abuse that he heaped upon her. It
was a terrible struggle to her, but she finally decided to leave him
on board of the ship, perhaps satisfied that nothing else could ever
save him from himself, and her from the misery his reckless conduct
constantly occasioned her.
"You wished to go to sea, Clyde, and I have decided to leave you in
this ship," said the poor mother, trembling with emotion.
"But I tell you I won't stay in this ship," roared Clyde, as Peaks, at
a signal from the principal, released his prisoner.
"I can do nothing with you, my dear boy. You won't obey me, and I must
leave you to those who can control you. I am going on shore now, but I
shall see you again at Christiania."
"I won't stay!" howled Clyde.
"Good by, Clyde," said Mrs. Blacklock, desperately, as she folded her
son in her arms, and kissed him on both cheeks.
"I tell you I won't stay!" cried the angry youth, breaking away from
his mother's embrace.
"Make it short, madam," suggested Mr. Lowington.
"Do try to be good, Clyde, and then you can come home very, very
soon," added Mrs. Blacklock, as the principal conducted her to the
accommodation ladder, where the first cutter had been manned to put
her on shore.
"I tell you again, I won't stay! If you leave me, I'll jump
overboard."
"O!" groaned the weak mother.
"If you do, young man, we will pick you up with the greatest
pleasure," said Mr. Lowington, as he hurried the lady to the side.
"O, if he should!" gasped she.
"There is not a particle of danger, madam; Mr. Peaks will take
excellent care of him," replied her comforter.
The boatswain, at a nod from Mr. Lowington, again embraced Clyde, but
did not injure him, nor permit him to injure himself. The lady was
handed into the boat, and Captain Cumberland politely performed this
