not bear me out in saying that it was a pleasant 
picture. I should like to believe that Jehoiakim 
for that was the singular name of the gentleman who sat by his hearthstone had just received the Memphis " Palimpsest," fifteen days in 
advance of the date of its publication, and that 
his secretary was reading to him that monthly, 
and cutting its leaves as he read. I should like 
to have seen it in that year when Thales was 
learning astronomy in Memphis, and Necho was 
organizing his campaign against Carchemish. If 
Jehoiakim took the " Attic Quarterly," he might 
have read its comments on the banishment of the 
Alcmaeonidae, and its gibes at Solon for his pro 
hibitory laws, forbidding the sale of unguents, 
limiting the luxury of dress, and interfering with 
the sacred rights of mourners to passionately 
bewail the dead in the Asiatic manner ; the same 
number being enriched with contributions from 
two rising poets, a lyric of love by Sappho, 
and an ode sent by Anacreon from Teos, with 
an editorial note explaining that the MAGA was 
not responsible for the sentiments of the poem. 
 
But, in fact, the gentleman who sat before the 
backlog in his winter-house had other things to 
think of. For Nebuchadnezzar was coming that 
way with the chariots and horses of Babylon and 
a great crowd of marauders ; and the king had 
not even the poor choice whether he would be 
the vassal of the Chaldean or of the Egyptian. 
To us, this is only a ghostly show of monarchs 
and conquerors stalking across vast historic 
spaces. It was no doubt a vulgar enough scene 
of war and plunder. The great captains of that 
age went about to harry each other's territories 
and spoil each other's cities very much as we do 
nowadays, and for similar reasons.; Napoleon 
the- Great in Moscow, Napoleon the Small in 
Italy, Kaiser William in Paris, Great Scott in 
Mexico ! Men have not changed much. 
The Fire-Tender sat in his winter-garden in 
the third month ; there was a fire on the hearth 
burning before him. He cut the leaves of " Scrib- 
ner's Monthly" with his penknife, and thought of 
Jehoiakim. 
That seems as real as the other. In the gar 
den, which is a room of the house, the tall callas, 
 
rooted in the ground, stand about the fountain ; 
the sun, streaming through the glass, illumines 
the many-hued flowers. I wonder what Jehoia- 
kim did with the mealy-bug on his passion-vine, 
and if he had any way of removing the scale-bug 
from his African acacia ? One would like to 
know, too, how he treated the red-spider on the 
Le Marque rose. The record is silent. I do 
not doubt he had all these insects in his winter- 
garden, and the aphidae besides ; and he could 
not smoke them out with tobacco, for the world 
had not yet fallen into its second stage of the 
knowledge of good and evil by eating the for 
bidden tobacco-plant. 
I confess that this little picture of a fire on the 
hearth so many centuries ago helps to make real 
and interesting to me that somewhat misty past. 
No doubt the lotus and the acanthus from the 
Nile grew in that winter-house, and perhaps Je- 
hoiakim attempted the most difficult thing in 
the world the cultivation of the wild-flowers 
from Lebanon. Perhaps Jehoiakim was interested 
also, as I am through this ancient fireplace, 
which is a sort of domestic window into the an 
 
cient world, in the loves of Bernice and Abaces 
at the court of the Pharaohs. I see that it is the 
same thing as the sentiment perhaps it is the 
shrinking which every soul that is a soul has, 
sooner or later, from isolation which grew up 
between Herbert and the Young Lady Staying 
With Us. Jeremiah used to come in to that fire 
side very much as the Parson does to ours. The 
Parson, to be sure, never prophesies, but he grum 
bles, and is the chorus in the play that sings the 
everlasting ai.ai of " I told you so ! " Yet we like 
the Parson. He is the sprig of bitter herb that 
makes the pottage wholesome. I should rather, 
ten times over, dispense with the flatterers and 
the smooth-sayers than the grumblers. But the 
grumblers are of two sorts, the healthful-toned 
and the whiners. There are makers of beer who 
substitute for the clean bitter of the hops some 
deleterious drug, and then seek to hide the fraud 
by some cloying sweet. There is nothing of this 
sickish drug in The Parson's talk, nor was there 
in that of Jeremiah. I sometimes think there is 
scarcely enough of this wholesome tonic in mod 
ern society. The Parson says he never would 
 
give a child sugar-coated pills. Mandeville says 
he never would give them any. After all, you 
cannot help liking Mandeville. 
II. 
WE were talking of this late news from Jeru 
salem. The Fire-Tender was saying that it is 
astonishing how much is telegraphed us from the 
East that is not half so interesting. He was at a 
loss philosophically to account for the fact that the 
world is so eager to know the news of yesterday 
which is unimportant, and so indifferent to that 
of the day before which is of some moment. 
MANDEVILLE. I suspect that it arises from the 
want of imagination. People need to touch the 
facts, and nearness in time is contiguity. It 
would excite no interest to bulletin the last siege 
of Jerusalem in a village where the event was 
unknown, if the date was appended ; and yet the 
account of it is incomparably more exciting than 
that of the siege of Metz. 
OUR NEXT DOOR. The daily news is a neces 
sity. I cannot get along without my morning 
 
paper. The other morning I took it up, and was 
absorbed in the telegraphic columns for an hour 
nearly. I thoroughly enjoyed the feeling of 
immediate contact with all the world of yester 
day, until I read among the minor items that 
Patrick Donahue, of the city of New York, died 
of a sunstroke. If he had frozen to death, I 
should have enjoyed that; but to die of sun 
stroke in February seemed inappropriate, and I 
turned to the date of the paper. When I found 
it was printed in July, I need not say that I lost 
all interest in it, though why the trivialities and 
crimes and accidents, relating to people I never 
knew, were not as good six months after date as 
twelve hours, I cannot say. 
THE FIRE-TENDER. You know that in Con 
cord the latest news, except a remark or two by 
Thoreau or Emerson, is the Vedas. I believe 
the Rig- Veda is read at the breakfast-table in 
stead of the Boston journals. 
THE PARSON. I know it is read afterward in 
stead of the Bible. 
MANDEVILLE. That is only because it is sup 
posed to be older. I have understood that the 
 
Bible is very well spoken of there, but it is not 
antiquated enough to be an authority. 
OUR NEXT DOOR. There was a project on 
foot to put it into the circulating library, but 
the title New in the second part was considered 
objectionable. 
HERBERT. Well, I have a good deal of sym 
pathy with Concord as to the news. We are fed 
on a daily diet of trivial events and gossip, of 
the unfruitful sayings of thoughtless men and 
women, until our mental digestion is seriously 
impaired ; the day will come when no one will 
be able to sit down to a thoughtful, well-wrought 
book and assimilate its contents. 
THE MISTRESS. I doubt if a daily newspa 
per is a necessity, in the higher sense of the 
word. 
THE PARSON. Nobody supposes it is to wo 
men, that is, if they can see each other. 
THE MISTRESS. Don't interrupt, unless you 
have something to say ; though I should like to 
know how much gossip there is afloat that the 
minister does not know. The newspaper may 
be needed in society, but how quickly it drops 
 
out of mind when one goes beyond the bounds 
of what is called civilization. You remember 
when we were in the depths of the woods last 
summer how difficult it was to get up any inter 
est in the files of late papers that reached us, 
and how unreal all the struggle and turmoil of 
the world seemed. We stood apart, and could 
estimate things at their true value. 
THE YOUNG LADY. Yes, that was real life. 
I never tired of the guide's stories ; there was 
some interest in the intelligence that a deer had 
been down to eat the lily-pads at the foot of the 
lake the night before ; that a bear's track was 
seen on the trail we crossed that day ; even 
Mandeville's fish-stories had a certain air of 
probability ; and how to roast a trout in the 
.ashes and serve him hot and juicy and clean, 
and how to cook soup and prepare coffee and 
heat dish-water in one tin-pail, were vital prob 
lems. 
THE PARSON. You would have had no such 
problems at home. Why will people go so far 
to put themselves to such inconvenience ? I hate 
the woods. Isolation breeds conceit ; there are 
 
no people so conceited as those who dwell in 
remote wildernesses and live mostly alone. 
THE YOUNG LADY. For my part, I feel hum 
ble in the presence of mountains, and in the vast 
stretches of the wilderness. 
THE PARSON. I 'll be bound a woman would 
feel just as nobody would expect her to feel, 
under given circumstances. 
MANDEVILLE. I think the reason why the 
newspaper and the world it carries take no hold 
of us in the wilderness is that we become a kind 
of vegetable ourselves when we go there. I 
have often attempted to improve my mind in 
the woods with good solid books. You might 
as well offer a bunch of celery to an oyster. 
The mind goes to sleep : the senses and the 
instincts wake up. The best I can do when it 
rains, or the trout won't bite, is to read Dumas's 
novels. Their ingenuity will almost keep a man 
awake after supper, by the camp-fire. And there 
is a kind of unity about them that I like ; the 
history is as good as the morality. 
OUR NEXT DOOR. I always wondered where 
Mandeville got his historical facts. 
 
THE MISTRESS. Mandeville misrepresents 
himself in the woods. I heard him one night 
repeat " The Vision of Sir Launfal " 
(THE FIRE-TENDER. Which comes very near 
being our best poem.) 
as we were crossing the lake, and the guides 
became so absorbed in it that they forgot to 
paddle, and sat listening with open mouths, as 
if it had been a panther story. 
THE PARSON. Mandeville likes to show off 
well enough. I heard that he related to a 
woods' boy up there the whole of the Siege of 
Troy. The boy was very much interested, and 
said " there 'd been a man up there that spring 
from Troy, looking up timber." Mandeville al 
ways carries the news when he goes into the 
country. 
MANDEVILLE. I 'm going to take the Par 
son's sermon on Jonah next summer ; it 's the 
nearest to anything like news we Ve had from 
his pulpit in ten years. But, seriously, the boy 
was very well informed. He 'd heard of Albany ; 
his father took in the Weekly Tribune, and he 
had a partial conception of Horace Greeley. 
 
OUR NEXT DOOR. I never went so far out of 
the world in America yet that the name of Hor 
ace Greeley didn't rise up before me. One of 
the first questions asked by any camp-fire is, 
" Did ye ever see Horace ? " 
HERBERT. Which shows the power of the 
press again. But I have often remarked how 
little real conception of the moving world, as it 
is, people in remote regions get from the news 
paper. It needs to be read in the midst of 
events. A chip cast ashore in a refluent eddy 
tells no tale of the force and swiftness of the 
current. 
OUR NEXT DOOR. I don't exactly get the 
drift of that last remark ; but I rather like a 
remark that I can't understand ; like the land 
lady's indigestible bread, it stays by you. 
HERBERT. I see that I must talk in words of 
one syllable. The newspaper has little effect 
upon the remote country mind, because the remote country mind is interested in a very limited 
number of things. Besides, as the Parson says, 
it is conceited. The most accomplished scholar 
will be the butt of all the guides in the woods, 
 
because he cannot follow a trail that would puz 
zle a sable (saple the trappers call it). 
THE PARSON. It's enough to read the sum 
mer letters that people write to the newspapers 
from the country and the woods. Isolated from 
the activity of the world, they come to think 
that the little adventures of their stupid days 
and nights are important. Talk about that 
being real life ! Compare the letters such peo 
ple write with the other contents of the news 
paper, and you will see which life is real. That 's 
one reason I hate to have summer come, the 
country letters set in. 
THE MISTRESS. I should like to see some 
thing the Parson doesn't hate to have come. 
MANDEVILLE. Except his quarter's salary, 
and the meeting of the American Board. 
THE FIRE-TENDER. I don't see that we are 
getting any nearer the solution of the original 
question. The world is evidently interested in 
events simply because they are recent. 
OUR NEXT DOOR. I have a theory that a 
newspaper might be published at little cost, 
merely by reprinting the numbers of years be- 
 
fore, only altering the dates ; just as the Parson 
preaches over his sermons. 
THE FIRE-TENDER. It 's evident we must 
have a higher order of news-gatherers. It has 
come to this, that the newspaper furnishes 
thought-material for all the world, actually pre 
scribes from day to day the themes the world 
shall think on and talk about. The occupation 
of news-gathering becomes, therefore, the most 
important. When you think of it, it is aston 
ishing that this department should not be in the 
hands of the ablest men, accomplished scholars, 
philosophical observers, discriminating selectors 
of the news of the world that is worth thinking 
over and talking about. The editorial com 
ments frequently are able enough, but is it 
worth while keeping an expensive mill going to 
grind chaff? I sometimes wonder, as I open my 
morning paper, if nothing did happen in the 
twenty-four hours except crimes, accidents, defal 
cations, deaths of unknown loafers, robberies, 
monstrous births, say about the level of po 
lice-court news. 
OUR NEXT DOOR. I have even noticed that 
 
murders have -deteriorated ; they are not so high- 
toned and mysterious as they used to be. 
THE FIRE-TENDER. It is true that the news 
papers have improved vastly within the last 
decade. 
HERBERT. I think, for one, that they are 
very much above the level of the ordinary gos 
sip of the country. 
THE FIRE-TENDER. But I am tired of having 
the under-world still occupy so much room in 
the newspapers. The reporters are rather more 
alert for a dog-fight than a philological conven 
tion. It must be that the good deeds of the 
world outnumber the bad in any given day ; 
and what a good reflex action it would have 
on society if they could be more fully reported than the bad ! I suppose the Parson 
would call this the Enthusiasm of Humanity . 
THE PARSON. You 'll see how far you can 
lift yourself up by your boot-straps. 
HERBERT. I wonder what influence on the 
quality (I say nothing of quantity) of news the 
coming of women into the reporter's and editor's 
work will have. 
 
OUR NEXT DOOR. There are the baby-shows ; 
they make cheerful reading. 
THE MISTRESS. All of them got up by specu 
lating men, who impose upon the vanity of weak 
women. 
HERBERT. I think women reporters are more 
given to personal details and gossip than the 
men. When I read the Washington correspond 
ence I am proud of my country, to see how 
many Apollo Belvederes, Adonises, how much 
marble brow and piercing eye and hyacinthine 
locks, we have in the two houses of Con 
gress. 
THE YOUNG LADY. That 's simply because 
women understand the personal weakness of 
men ; they have a long score of personal flat 
tery to pay off too. 
MANDEVILLE. I think women will bring in el 
ements of brightness, picturesqueness, and purity 
very much needed. Women have a power of 
investing simple ordinary things with a charm ; 
men are bungling narrators compared with them. 
THE PARSON. The mistake they make is in 
trying to write, and especially to " stump-speak," 
 
like men ; next to an effeminate man there is 
nothing so disagreeable as a manish woman. 
HERBERT. I heard one once address a legisla 
tive committee. The knowing air, the familiar, 
jocular, smart manner, the nodding and winking 
innuendoes, supposed to be those of a man " up to 
snuff," and au fait in political wiles, were inex 
pressibly comical. And yet the exhibition was 
pathetic, for it had the suggestive vulgarity of a 
woman in man's clothes. The imitation is always 
a dreary failure. 
THE MISTRESS. Such women are the rare 
exceptions. I am ready to defend my sex ; 
but I won't attempt to defend both sexes in 
one. 
THE FIRE-TENDER. I have great hope that 
women will bring into the newspaper an elevating 
influence ; the common and sweet life of society 
is much better fitted to entertain and instruct us 
than the exceptional and extravagant. I confess 
(saving the Mistress's presence) that the evening 
talk over the dessert at dinner is much more 
entertaining and piquant than the morning paper, 
and often as important. 
 
THE MISTRESS. I think the subject had bet 
ter be changed. 
MANDEVILLE. The person, not the subject. 
There is no entertainment so full of quiet pleas 
ure as the hearing a lady of cultivation and 
refinement relate her day's experience in her 
daily rounds of calls, charitable visits, shop 
ping, errands of relief and condolence. The 
evening budget is better than the finance min 
ister's. 
OUR NEXT DOOR. That 's even so. My wife 
will pick up more news in six hours than I can 
get in a week, and I 'm fond of news. 
MANDEVILLE. I don't mean gossip, by any 
means, or scandal. A woman of culture skims 
over that like a bird, never touching it with the 
tip of a wing. What she brings home is the 
freshness and brightness of life. She touches 
everything so daintily, she hits off a character in 
a sentence, she gives the pith of a dialogue with 
out tediousness, she mimics without vulgarity ; 
her narration sparkles, but it doesn't sting. The 
picture of her day is full of vivacity, and it gives 
new value and freshness to common things. If 
 
we could only have on the stage such actresses 
as we have in the drawing-room ! 
THE FIRE-TENDER. We want something more 
of this grace, sprightliness, and harmless play of 
the finer life of society in the newspaper. 
OUR NEXT DOOR. I wonder Mandeville 
doesn't marry, and become a permanent sub 
scriber to his embodied idea of a newspaper. 
THE YOUNG LADY. Perhaps he does not rel 
ish the idea of being unable to stop his subscrip 
tion. 
OUR NEXT DOOR. Parson, won't you please 
punch that fire, and give us more blaze ? we are 
getting into the darkness of socialism. 
III. 
HERBERT returned to us in March. The Young 
Lady was spending the winter with us, and March, 
in spite of the calendar, turned out to be a winter 
month. It usually is in New England, and April 
too, for that matter. And I cannot say it is 
unfortunate for us. There are so many topics to 
be turned over and settled at our fireside that a 
 
winter of ordinary length would make little 
impression on the list. The fireside is, after all, 
a sort of private court of chancery, where noth 
ing ever does come to a final decision. The 
chief effect of talk on any subject is to strengthen 
one's own opinions, and, in fact, one never knows 
exactly what he does believe until he is warmed 
into conviction by the heat of attack and defence. 
A man left to himself drifts about like a boat on 
a calm lake ; it is only when the wind blows that 
the boat goes anywhere. 
Herbert said he had been dipping into the 
recent novels written by women, here and there, 
with a view to noting the effect upon literature 
of this sudden and rather overwhelming acces 
sion to it. There was a good deal of talk about 
it evening after evening, off and on, and I can 
only undertake to set down fragments of it. 
HERBERT. I should say that the distinguish 
ing feature of the literature of this day is the 
prominence women have in its production. They 
figure in most of the magazines, though very 
rarely in the scholarly and critical reviews, and 
in thousands of newspapers ; to them we are 
 
indebted for the oceans of Sunday-school books, 
and they write the majority of the novels, the 
serial stories, and they mainly pour out the 
watery flood of tales in the weekly papers. 
Whether this is to result in more good than evil 
it is impossible yet to say, and perhaps it would 
be unjust to say, until this generation has worked 
off its froth, and women settle down to artistic, 
conscientious labor in literature. 
THE MISTRESS. You don't mean to say that 
George Eliot, and Mrs. Gaskell, and George 
Sand, and Mrs. Browning, before her marriage 
and severe attack of spiritism, are less true to art 
than contemporary men novelists and poets. 
HERBRET. You name some exceptions that 
show the bright side of the picture, not only for 
the present, but for the future. Perhaps genius has 
no sex ; but ordinary talent has. I refer to the 
great body of novels, which you would know by 
internal evidence were written by women. They 
are of two sorts : the domestic story, entirely un- 
idealized, and as flavorless as water-gruel ; and the 
spiced novel, generally immoral in tendency, in 
which the social problems are handled, unhappy 
 
marriages, affinity and passional attraction, bigamy, 
and the violation of the seventh commandment. 
These subjects are treated in the rawest manner, 
without any settled ethics, with little discrimina 
tion of eternal right and wrong, and with very 
little sense of responsibility for what is set forth. 
Many of these novels are merely the blind out 
bursts of a nature impatient of restraint and the 
conventionalities of society, and are as chaotic as 
the untrained minds that produce them. 
MANDEVILLE. Don't you think these novels 
fairly represent a social condition of unrest and 
upheaval ? 
HERBERT. Very likely ; and they help to cre 
ate and spread abroad the discontent they de 
scribe. Stories of bigamy (sometimes disguised 
by divorce), of unhappy marriages, where the 
injured wife, through an entire volume, is on the 
brink of falling into the arms of a sneaking lover, 
until death kindly removes the obstacle, and the 
two souls, who were born for each other, but got 
separated in the cradle, melt and mingle into one 
in the last chapter, are not healthful reading for 
maids or mothers. 
 
THE MISTRESS. Or men. 
THE FIRE-TENDER. The most disagreeable 
object to me in modern literature is the man 
the women novelists have introduced as the lead 
ing character; the women who come in contact 
with him seem to be fascinated by his disdainful 
mien, his giant strength, and his brutal manner. 
He is broad across the shoulders, heavily moulded, 
yet as lithe as a cat ; has an ugly scar across his 
right cheek ; has been in the four quarters of the 
globe ; knows seventeen languages ; had a harem 
in Turkey and a Fayaway in the Marquesas ; can 
be as polished as Bayard in the drawing-room, 
but is as gloomy as Conrad in the library ; has a 
terrible eye and a withering glance, but can be 
instantly subdued by a woman's hand, if it is 
not his wife's ; and through all his morose and 
vicious career has carried a heart as purt as 
a violet. 
THE MISTRESS. Don't you think the Count 
of Monte Cristo is the elder brother of Ro 
chester ? 
THE FIRE-TENDER. One is a mere hero of 
romance ; the other is meant for a real man. 
 
MANDEVILLE. I don't see that the men novel- 
writers are better than the women. 
HERBERT. That 's not the question ; but what 
are women who write so large a proportion of the 
current stories bringing into literature ? Aside 
from the question of morals, and the absolutely 
demoralizing manner of treating social questions, 
most of their stories are vapid and weak beyond 
expression, and are slovenly in composition, show 
ing neither study, training, nor mental discipline. 
THE MISTRESS. Considering that women have 
been shut out from the training of the universi 
ties, and have few opportunities for the wide 
observation that men enjoy, isn't it pretty well 
that the foremost living writers of fiction are 
women ? 
HERBERT. You can say that for the moment, 
since Thackeray and Dickens have just died. 
But it does not affect the general estimate. We 
are inundated with a flood of weak writing. 
Take the Sunday-school literature, largely the 
product of women ; it hasn't as much character 
as a dried apple pie. I don't know what we are 
coming to if the presses keep on running. 
OUR NEXT DOOR. We are living, we are 
dwelling, in a grand and awful time ; I 'm glad 
I don't write novels. 
THE PARSON. So am I. 
OUR NEXT DOOR. I tried a Sunday-school 
book once ; but I made the good boy end in the 
poor-house, and the bad boy go to Congress ; and 
the publisher said it wouldn't do, the public 
wouldn't stand that sort of thing. Nobody but 
the good go to Congress. 
THE MISTRESS. Herbert, what do you think 
women are good for ? 
OUR NEXT DOOR. That 's a poser. 
HERBERT. Well, I think they are in a ten 
tative state as to literature, and we cannot yet 
tell what they will do. Some of our most bril 
liant books of travel, correspondence, and writ 
ing on topics in which their sympathies have 
warmly interested them, are by women. Some 
of them are also strong writers in the daily jour 
nals. 
MANDEVILLE. I 'm not sure there 's anything 
a woman cannot do as well as a man, if she sets 
her heart on it. 
 
THE PARSON. That 's because she 's no con 
science. 
CHORUS. O Parson ! 
THE PARSON. Well, it doesn't trouble her, if 
she wants to do anything. She looks at the end, 
not the means. A woman, set on anything, will 
walk right through the moral crockery without 
wincing. She 'd be a great deal more unscrupu 
lous in politics than the average man. Did you 
ever see a female lobbyist ? Or a criminal ? It 
is Lady Macbeth who does not falter. Don't 
raise your hands at me ! The sweetest angel or 
the coolest devil is a woman. I see in some of 
the modern novels we have been talking of the 
same unscrupulous daring, a blindness to moral 
distinctions, a constant exaltation of a passion into 
a virtue, an entire disregard of the immutable 
laws on which the family and society rest. And 
you ask lawyers and trustees how scrupulous 
women are in business transactions ! 
THE FIRE-TENDER. Women are often igno 
rant of affairs, and, besides, they may have a 
notion often that a woman ought to be privileged 
more than a man in business matters ; but I tell 
 
you, as a rule, that if men would consult their 
wives, they would go a deal straighter in business 
operations than they do go. 
THE PARSON. We are all poor sinners. But 
I 've another indictment against the women writ 
ers. We get no good old-fashioned love-stories 
from them. It 's either a quarrel of discordant 
natures one a panther, and the other a polar 
bear for courtship, until one of them is crippled 
by a railway accident ; or a long wrangle of mar 
ried life between two unpleasant people, who can 
neither live comfortably together nor apart. I 
suppose, by what I see, that sweet wooing, with 
all its torturing and delightful uncertainty, still 
goes on in the world ; and I have no doubt that 
the majority of married people live more happily 
than the unmarried. But it 's easier to find a 
dodo than a new and good love-story. 
MANDEVILLE. I suppose the old style of plot 
is exhausted. Everything in man and outside of 
him has been turned over so often that I should 
think the novelists would cease simply from want 
of material. 
THE PARSON. Plots are no more exhausted 
 
than men are. Every man is a new creation, and 
combinations are simply endless. Even if we 
did not have new material in the daily change of 
society, and there were only a fixed number of 
incidents and characters in life, invention could 
not be exhausted on them. I amuse myself some 
times with my kaleidoscope, but I can never 
reproduce a figure. No, no. I cannot say that 
you may not exhaust everything else : we may 
get all the secrets of a nature into a book by and 
by, but the novel is immortal, for it deals with 
men. 
The Parson's vehemence came very near carry 
ing him into a sermon ; and as nobody has the 
privilege of replying to his sermons, so none of 
the circle made any reply now. 
Our Next Door mumbled something about his 
hair standing on end, to hear a minister defend 
ing the novel ; but it did not interrupt the gen 
eral silence. Silence is unnoticed when people 
sit before a fire ; it would be intolerable if they 
sat and looked at each other. 
The wind had risen during the evening, and 
Mandeville remarked, as they rose to go, that it 
 
I
had a spring sound in it, but it was as cold as 
winter. The Mistress said she heard a bird that 
morning singing in the sun ; it was a winter 
bird, but it sang a spring song. 
have been much interested in what 
is called the Gothic revival. We 
have spent I don't know how many 
evenings in looking over Herbert's plans for a 
cottage, and have been amused with his vain 
efforts to cover with Gothic roofs the vast num 
ber of large rooms which the Young Lady draws 
in her sketch of a small house. 
I have no doubt that the Gothic, which is capa 
ble of infinite modification, so that every house 
built in that style may be as different from every 
other house as one tree is from every other, can 
be adapted to our modern uses, and will be, when 
artists catch its spirit instead of merely copying 
its old forms. But just now we are taking the 
Gothic very literally, as we took the Greek at 
one time, or as we should probably have taken 
the Saracenic, if the Moors had not been colored. 
Not even the cholera is so contagious in this 
country as a style of architecture which we hap 
pen to catch ; the country is just now broken out 
all over with the Mansard-roof epidemic. 
And in secular architecture we do not study 
what is adapted to our climate any more than in 
ecclesiastic architecture we adopt that which is 
suited to our religion. 
We are building a great many costly churches 
here and there, we Protestants, and as the most 
of them are ill adapted to our forms of worship, 
it may be necessary and best for us to change 
