to a general discussion about the character of our 
business and the evil we were doing. Hundreds of 
times have I wished myself well out of it. 

Several months had passed since our last visit 
from the strange woman closely veiled who had 
come in with the silent step and movement of a 
ghost, and then, after glancing through the bar 
room, as silently retired, and we did not expect to 
see her again. But one night it was nearly eleven 

o clock as a gentleman named L , well known 

in the city and eminent in his profession, stood at 
the bar drinking, I saw her enter. The gentleman 's 



 

back was turned toward the door, and he did not 
notice her. She was closely veiled, as before. Her 
dress was of some dark but fine material, and fell in 
graceful folds about her tall figure. A rich, dark 
shawl was drawn closely around her shoulders, and 
I saw the sparkle of a brilliant solitaire on one of 
her ungloved hands. Her other was thrust into the 
pocket of her dress. She stood for a moment or 
two in that statue-like way before mentioned, and 
then came swiftly but silently across the room, and 
laid a hand on the gentleman 's arm, at the same time 
drawing back a portion of her veil, so that on turn 
ing, as he did quickly, he could see her face. 

I saw it first, of course. It was the face of a wo 
man past thirty a face strongly marked, but beau 
tiful, the complexion a light brunette and the eyes 
large, black and brilliant. Every look and flash of 
her great eyes showed intense but repressed passion. 

Mr. L , on feeling the touch on his arm, turned 

with a start. As he did so, I saw the hand of the 
woman that still rested in the pocket of her dress 
move as if about to be withdrawn. For an instant 
they looked at each other, while I stood scared and 
breathless, for I had seen murder in the woman 's eyes. 

But only for an instant did she look at Mr. L . 

I saw her catch her breath, while a baffled and dis 
appointed expression swept over her face. Then 
with a swift movement her veil was drawn, and be 
fore the astonished Mr. L could utter a word 

she had vanished from the room. 



 

" Do you know that woman ?" he asked, in un 
feigned astonishment, and with considerable excite 
ment of manner. 

" I do not," I replied. 

" Has she been here before ?" 

" Two or three times, but not for several months 
until to-night." 

" What does she want ?" 

" I do not know. This is the first time she has 
seemed to recognize any one." 

" Indeed !" 

" Yes. When she came in before, she merely took 
a glance through the bar-room, keeping her veil 
down, and then went out quietly. Some called her 
a ghost, her movements were so gliding and noise 
less. I never saw her face before to-night" 

" And you have no idea who she is ?" 

" None in the world," I answered. " But let her 
be whom she may, she has deadly designs on some 
body, and it 's my guess that you made a narrow es 
cape just now." 

" You think so ?" 

" I'm sure of it. Each time she 's been here it has 
been noticed that she kept one hand in her pocket, 
and to-night I saw her move that hand as you turned 
in a way that could not be mistaken. She certainly 
held a pistol or dagger, and when she came spring 
ing across the room with the eager motions of a 
wild animal, I believe it was in her heart to kill 
you." 



 

I saw him shudder. 

" Why did she not do it ?" he asked, after a few 
moments. And he looked at me curiously. 

" Because," I said, " you were not her man." 

" Humph ! Maybe not." It was his only reply. 
Then he walked the floor of the bar-room for a good 
while, his eyes bent down. 

" She 's an ugly customer to be about," he re 
marked, at length, buttoning up his coat, " and if she 
does meet her man as you say, society will have a 
new sensation." 

"Do you know her, Mr. L ?" I asked as I 

saw him make a movement to go away. I put the 
question abruptly, and watched his face. I did not 
make much out of it. 

He only shook his head in reply. I did not be 
lieve him. 

" She mistook you for some one else," I said, try 
ing to lead him on. 

" Of course. If I 'd been her man, as you say, I 
don 't  know what might have happened." 

" She 's a splendid-looking woman," I remarked. 

" Splendid !" 

" I never saw such eyes." 

" Nor anybody else," he returned, a little off his 
guard, I thought. "At least," he added, "judging 
from the single glimpse I got of them. But I must 
go. I don 't  just like the kind of customers you 
have. They re dangerous. Good-night;" and he 
went away. 



CHAPTER XIII. 

I HEARD of the woman next day as having vis 
ited over a dozen drinking-saloons on the night 
she called on us. It was said that she lived in New 
York and was connected with a good family there, 
and that she had become partially deranged in con 
sequence of an unhappy love affair. Others said 
that she belonged to our own city, and that Mr. 

L knew all about her, while others affirmed 

that she was an actress from New Orleans, and was 
after a certain gambler well known in all our prin 
cipal seaboard towns. 

I had often seen this man, and, now that he was 
mentioned, I recalled his face as bearing some re 
semblance to that of Mr. L . And, what was a 

little singular, they had the same name, and for 
aught I knew to the contrary might be relatives. 

But L the gambler was a man of notoriously 

bad character, while L the lawyer stood high in 

the community as a man of honor and integrity. 

On the next afternoon, a little to my surprise, I 

saw L come in with two other well-dressed men. 

He had never before been at " The Retreat " in the 
daytime. I noticed a magnificent diamond pin on 
his bosom, and he wore, besides, a heavy gold chain 

 



 

and other jewelry. I did not remember to have seen 
these on the night before. His companions had 
also a good deal of jewelry about their persons. 

In looking at L as he stood drinking with 

his companions, I was struck with something a little 
strange in his appearance. His face seemed fuller 
and coarser, I thought, and the eyes less clear and 
calm, and not just like the eyes I remembered. 
Then I seemed to lose the old likeness, and to doubt 
if it were really Mr. L , after all. 

The three men, after drinking, walked away from 
the bar, and stood talking together, in undertones 
about something which appeared to both interest 
and disturb them. They looked excited and an 
noyed, I thought. After a while, L came back 

to the bar and handed me a bill to pay for the three 
drinks. As I gave him the change, I said, ventur 
ing to be a little familiar, 

" Hope that little affair didn 't keep you awake last 
night ?" 

" What little affair ?" he asked, with a half-angry 
flash lighting up his eyes. 

" Oh, you know the veiled lady," I answered, 
keeping my voice low and for his ears alone. 

I saw him start. A heavy frown darkened his 
face. He almost glared at me, a hell of passion 
burning in his eyes. And then I knew him. It 
was L the gambler. 

I drew quickly back from him, half afraid of what 
I saw in his countenance, saying, 



 

" Oh, pray excuse me. I mistook you for another 
person." 

" You did, ha ? What other person ?" he de 
manded. 

" I thought you were Mr. L ," I returned. 

" You look so much alike." 

" I am Mr. L . And now, sir, I want you to 

explain yourself." He had been drinking a good 
deal, I could see, and was growing more excited. 
His two companions, seeing that something had gone 
wrong between us, came up to the bar and looked at 
me curiously. , 

" See here, my young friend," said L , taking- 
out a revolver as he spoke and laying the barrel 
across the railing of the bar, " I never permit fel 
lows like you to meddle in my affairs." 

He looked like a devil incarnate, and I don 't  won 
der that I turned pale. 

" Put up that thing, Harry," exclaimed one of his 
friends. " He isn 't the sort of game to deal with in 
this fashion. If he 's insulted you, spit in his face, 
knock him down." 

As soon as I could speak, I said, 

" Beg pardon, sir. I thought you were Mr. L 

the lawyer." 

"The devil you did!" fell in tones of surprise 
from the gambler 's lips. " And what had he to do 
with the veiled lady ?" 

" She came in last night when he was here, and 
 



 

gave him a little start," I replied, not stopping to 
choose my words. 

The three men looked at each other in silence for 

some moments. Then L , speaking in a different 

tone, but with repressed excitement, asked, 

" What sort of a person was this veiled lady ?" 

I described her as minutely as I could, and while 
I did so I saw the men exchange glances and nod 
intelligently to each other. 

" What did she do ?" the gambler asked. 

I described the way in which she almost leaped 

across the room when she saw L , the expression 

of her face when she drew aside her veil, and the 
movement of the hand thrust down into the pocket 
of her dress. 

I saw his countenance darken and his lips draw 
tightly together. 

" A perfect she-devil !" one of the men said, in an 
undertone. 

" Was she ever here before ?" asked L . 

" Not lately. A few months ago she came in two 
or three times." 

What did she do?" 

" Only stood for a moment or two, with her veil 
down, and then went out." 

" You mistook me for Mr. L the lawyer, who 

resides in the city ?" said the gambler. 

" I did." 

" Do we look so much alike ?" 

"The resemblance is strong," I replied. 



 

" Humph !" he ejaculated, and then stood musing 
for a while. 

" You mustn t mind me," he said as he recollected 
himself. " I was a little rough, but it 's my way when 
things get crosswise. I thought you were meddling 
in a matter that did not concern you." 

Without further remark he turned away and went 
out with his friends, but in a little while came back 
alone, looking, I thought, pale and flurried. 

" Have you a private room," he asked, in a ner 
vous sort of way. 

" Yes," I answered. 

" I want it !" He spoke in a quick, imperative tone 
of voice. 

I was coming from behind the bar to show him up 
stairs, when a hand pushed open the street door sud 
denly and with force. I turned, and our lady visitor 
of the night before, with her veil drawn aside, looked 
at us with her large, dark, passion-lighted eyes. 

I saw the gambler blanch. He stood as if par 
alyzed. With a bound the woman sprang upon 
him, and ere he had time to gain an attitude of de 
fence had flung one hand spitefully in his face, and 
with the other stabbed him in the throat. 

I saw the blood gush over the woman 's hand. At 
sight of it she dropped the dagger with which she 

had wounded L and vanished through the door. 

All passed so quickly that it seemed the work of an 
instant. No attempt was made to follow her. 

An exclamation of horror fell from the gambler 's 




lips as he drew his hand from his throat and saw 
that it was covered with blood. Almost at the same 
moment his two friends came in from the street. 

" She 's done it for me," he gasped as they came 
up to where he stood. And then he cursed her with 
a foul profanity such as I had rarely if ever heard. 

No attempt was made to follow the woman. L 

was taken up stairs, and the nearest surgeon sent for. 
In the mean time every possible effort was made to 
stanch the flow of blood. 

The wound proved dangerous, but not fatal. After 
it was closed and dressed by the surgeon, his friends 
took him away in a carriage. An effort was made 
to keep the matter out of the newspapers, but the 
reporters got hold of it, and made it the sensation 
of the hour, at least among the flash and profession 
als. I don 't  know that people generally gave it more 
than a passing thought, but readers of the Police 
Gazette and kindred papers had an appetizing mor- 
ceau served up with quite a variety of sensational 
pictures, not one of which gave the stabbing incident 
correctly. 

Few men can look at blood without a shudder 
human blood, I mean and I am not of the number. 
A thrill of horror ran through me as I saw the glit 
ter of steel in the woman 's hand, the quick, flashing 
stroke and the gush of blood. I was so paralyzed 

for the moment that I could not stir, and L 

stood with his hands dabbling about his throat until 
his two friends came in from the street. They had 



 

met the woman just outside of the door, but not 
knowing what she had done, made no attempt to 
stop her. 

Only a week before, there had been a fight in the 
bar-room, during which a man had been badly cut, 
and now we had another stabbing affair. I could not 
get used to such things. They shocked my nerves 
terribly. If bad-looking fellows came in and we 
saw them pretty often I felt uneasy until they went 
away. If two men who had been drinking freely 
got to arguing with each other in voices raised to a 
higher pitch than usual, I was in a state of uncom 
fortable suspense until the battle of words was over. 
I had seen these little disputes over trifles run too 
often into quarrels that ended in blows. There was 
no counting on men after a glass or two. The most 
quiet were sometimes the most quarrelsome after 
drinking. Over and over again have I seen men 
who had come in with a good-humored face and a 
pleasant word for every one, change in half an hour 
to ill-natured, snarling curs. It kept one on the ten 
ter-hooks of anxiety and fear all the while. 

It took me a good while to get over this affair. I 

have not seen the gambler L in our city since, 

nor have I heard anything of the woman who made 
the attempt on his life. As for the gentleman whose 
resemblance to the gambler came near costing him 
his life, he did not make another call at " The Re 
treat," wherever else he may have gone. 



CHAPTER XIV. 

THE weeks and months passed on, and we gath 
ered in our harvests. " Were they bountiful ?" 
Yes. " But as a man soweth, so shall he reap." We 
had full harvests, but I do not think either Lloyd or 
I carried our sheaves with rejoicing. 

As for me, I had no one to care for or think about 
but myself. I had no wife or children to set them 
selves in opposition to my schemes, or to feel dis 
graced by my business. I went and came, and did 
as I pleased. It was different with my partner, Tom 
Lloyd. The harvest I reaped was not all grain and 
sweet-scented clover no, not by any means but as 
he gathered in he found more of juiceless brambles 
and stinging-nettles than wheat or hay. His harvest 
was indeed accursed. 

I had long since ceased to visit in his family. The 
opposition of his wife and daughter Maggy was so 
strong and unyielding that I found it unpleasant 
from the beginning to meet them. Maggy, as I have 
already said, was unusually attractive, of a sen 
sitive mental organization, and superior to most girls 
in her condition. Lloyd had been very fond and 
proud of her, as well he might be. 

My readers will remember the incident of her faint- 



ing in school, and the utter prostration of mind and 
body that followed. The young teacher Mark Wat 
son never called to see her again, and Maggy never 
went back to school. A gulf had opened suddenly 
between them, and it did not close. 

It was two or three months before Maggy showed 
interest in anything. During most of this time she 
suffered from physical as well as nervous prostration. 
For a whole week after she had the fainting spell at 
school she lay in a dull, half-unconscious state, an 
swering no questions and showing no interest in 
anything. Lloyd was very much alarmed and anx 
ious about her. His old tender love for her came 
back, and I know the thought that he had really 
brought her to this haunted him like a spectre and 
hurt him like a throbbing sore. 

" How is Maggy ?" I asked, one morning, several 
days after her trouble at school. Lloyd had come 
in at a much later hour than usual. His face wore 
an anxious expression. 

He merely shook his head in reply, and shut his 
lips tightly. 

" Not worse ?" I ventured to say. 

" Don 't know. Can t make it out," he replied, 
gloomily. 

" Hasn 't she rallied any within a day or two ?" 

" A little, maybe. She 's more restless, and starts 
and moans in her sleep." 

" Does she answer when you speak to her ?" 

" No. This morning I sat down by her bed, and 



 

taking her hand, squeezed it tightly, saying, Maggy 
dear " 

His voice broke a little, and I saw his lips work 
nervously. But he recovered his self-possession, 
and went on. 

" Maggy dear," I said, is there nothing I can do 
for you ? But for all I could see in her face her 
eyes were shut my voice made no impression. I 
tried again and again. I said, If you love me, 
Maggy, just press my hand. But she did not seem 
to hear. Oh, Hiram, it 's dreadful to see her so. 
I'm frightened about it. I haven t an instant 's peace 
of mind." 

He went back and forth between his home and the 
saloon several times each day. All his old love, 
which had seemed under the excitement and cross 
purposes attendant on the starting of our new busi 
ness wcllnigh crushed out, stirred once more in his 
heart and regained its old power. 

After about two weeks, Maggy began to recover 
from the shock she had received. To my question 
as to how she was, Lloyd answered, with a troubled 
look on his face, 

" I don 't  know what to think about her, Hiram. 
I'm sometimes afraid her mind 's gone. I 'd give al 
most anything to know just what happened at school 
if that teacher said anything wrong to her. Blast 
his heart ! If I was sure he 'd done or said anything 
out of the way, I 'd murder him." 

" That wouldn 't mend matters," I replied. 



 

" It would teach him a lesson, confound him !" he 
answered. 

A few days after, he seemed a little more cheerful, 
and to my question about Maggy said, 

" I hope she 'll come all right. Yesterday she sat 
up for an hour or two and talked a little. But her 
face is so sad, Hiram. I never saw anything like it. 
It makes the tears come into my eyes to look at 
her." 

Slowly her life-pulses came beating back, but 
never with the old strength and fullness. After a 
few weeks she began to take some interest in house 
hold matters, and to care for her two younger broth 
ers, Harvey and Willy, the latter not yet six years 
old. But she remained weak in body, and tired 
easily if she made any unusual effort. Often, for a 
whole hour at a time if not disturbed, she would 
sit with her hands laid across each other on her lap 
and her eyes fixed in an absent way. If spoken to 
at these times, she would give a low sigh, and drift 
back to what was around her like one coming out 
of a dream. Sometimes she would try to force a 
smile to her lips as you disturbed her reverie, but it 
was so faint and fugitive that you scarcely saw it. 

So it went on, month after month, Maggy gaining 
a little all the while, but so little that both father 
and mother gave up all hope of ever seeing the old 
sweet light in her face. Six months passed without 
her foot going over the threshold of her father 's 
house, and no persuasion could draw her out. If 



  

urged too strongly, the answer of her wet eyes and 
trembling lips always closed the argument. Several 
times her father brought a carriage to the door, 
hoping she might consent to ride out with him, but 
she could not be induced to go. If he lost patience 
with her, as he did now and then, particularly after 
he had been drinking a little more than usual, she 
would break into a fit of sobbing and crying, and so 
end the contest. He bought her handsome dresses, 
but she did not wear them ; he gave her a watch ; he 
gave her earrings and breastpins and one pretty trifle 
after another, but they were all laid away in her 
drawers. Her heart was not in them. 

Lloyd was baffled, worried and unhappy. He 
could not understand the case. He did not know a 
woman 's heart. I wonder if any man does ? 

" I shall have to make a change at home," he said 
after we had been in business six months and were 
beginning to get ahead. " Maggy won t go out, and 
she 'll die or get beside herself if there isn 't some 
break in her life. You 'd hardly know her, Hiram, 
she 's so altered. No more color in her face than 
there is in a snowbank. It used to do my heart 
good to hear her laughing and singing about the 
house, and to meet her smiling face when I came 
home. She would put her arm about my neck 
sometimes and kiss me when I came in, saying, 
Poor, dear father, you look so tired. " 

Lloyd stopped and turned his head away. I knew 
what it meant, for I heard a choke in his voice on 



 

the last word. In a little while he went on, drop 
ping his voice to a lower key : 

" But there 's nothing of that now. She hardly 
looks up when I come in, doesn 't seem to hear my 
step, never smiles when I speak to her, and looks at 
me sometimes in such a strange way that it sends a 
kind of creep to my heart." 

" What kind of a change do you think of making ?" 
I asked. 

" I must move out of that little house into a larger 
and better one, and buy new furniture : I can afford 
it now." 

" I have been wondering that you did not do this 
before," I replied. 

" I have thought of it, but when I did move, I 
wanted to make a sort of dash, and I'm not just able 
to do that yet." 

" Never mind about the dash. Get a nice new 
house somewhere in a pleasant neighborhood, and 
set Maggy and her mother at work to furnish it. Let 
them have their own say and gratify their own taste. 
I don 't  know anything more likely to bring Maggy 
round." 

" Glad you think so, Hiram," he answered, bright 
ening. " I don 't  see what else I can do." 

" It will work like a charm ; you may count on 
that," said I, confidently. 

But it didn t. They could not even get Maggy 
out to look at the new house. But after it was taken 
she assisted her mother in moving and arranging 

