     But Livy pinned them to her side,
     'The curse has come upon us!' cried
          The ladies of Shalott.
The second adventure befell Amanda alone, and in this wise.
Going one day to Rome, on business, she found herself shut up in a car
with a gorgeous officer and a meek young man, who read papers all the
way. The tall soldier, in his gray and silver uniform, with a furred,
frogged, and braided jacket, not to mention the high boots or the
becoming cap, was so very polite to the lone lady that she could not
remain dumb without positive rudeness. So Amanda conversed in her most
charming manner, finding inspiration doubtless in the dark eyes and
musical voice of her handsome vis-à-vis, for the officers from Turin
are things of beauty and joys for ever to those who love to look on
manly men.
Among other things, the two had a little joke about the Baron
Rothschild, who rode about Albano on a tiny donkey with two servants
behind him; also the Baroness, a painfully plain woman, with an ugly dog
the image of herself.
When they arrived at Rome, however, their joke was turned against them,
by the discovery that the meek man was the Baron's secretary, who would
doubtless repeat their chat at head-quarters. To see the handsome man
slap his brow, and then laugh like a boy at the fun, was worth a longer
journey, Amanda thought, as he put her into a carriage, gave her his
best martial salute, and went clanking away about his own affairs.
Amanda returned at 4 P.M., and her emotions may be imagined when the
dark face of her officer peered in at the car window, and the melodious
voice asked if he might be permitted to enter. Of course he might; and,
as no secretary now spoilt the tête-à-tête, Mars became delightfully
confidential, and poured his woes into the sympathising bosom of Amanda.
It had been a great affliction to him that his regiment was quartered at
Albano for some months. Mio Dio! so dull was it, life had already
become a burden; but now, if the Signorina was to be there, if she
permitted him to make himself known to her party, what joys were in
store for him. The Signorina loved to ride. Behold he had superb horses
languishing in the stables, that henceforth were dedicated to her use.
His fellow officers were gentlemen of good family, brave as lions, and
dying of ennui; if they might be presented to the ladies, life would
be worth having, and Albano a paradise, &c.
To all this devotion the prudent Amanda listened with pleasure, but
promised nothing till Signore Mars had made the acquaintance of certain
American gentleman and married ladies, then it would be possible to
enjoy the delights of which he spoke. The Colonel vowed he would
instantly devote himself to this task, and thus they came to the lonely
little station at Albano.
Amanda had ordered the carriage to meet her; but it was not there, and
she was forced to wait till all her fellow-passengers were gone. All but
the gallant officer, who decorously remained outside, marching to and
fro as if on guard, till his servant came with his horse. Then he begged
to be allowed to see why the carriage did not come, and Amanda
consented, for night was falling, and two miles of mud lay between her
and home.
Away dashed the servant, but his master did not follow: standing in the
doorway, he declared that he must remain as the Signorina's protector,
for no trains were due for hours; the dépôt man was gone, and it was too
late for any lady to stay there alone. Again Amanda gratefully
consented, wondering what would be the end of her adventure; and again
the stately Colonel resumed his march outside, singing as he tramped,
and evidently enjoying the escort duty that gave him so good an
opportunity of displaying not only his gallantry, but his fine voice and
handsome figure.
Down rattled the carriage at last, accompanied, to Amanda's dismay, by
three of the Colonel's friends, who had evidently received a hint of
the affair, and had come to have a hand in it.
With much bowing of the gentlemen, and much prancing of their fine
horses, Amanda was handed to her seat, and went lumbering back to the
hotel with her splendid escort careering about her, to the great
edification of the town.
When the rescued damsel told the tale to her mates, Matilda tore her
hair and lamented that she had not been there. Even the stern Livy had
no lecture for the erring lamb, but was as full of interest as either of
the girls, for anything in the shape of a soldier was dear to her heart.
When the ladies rode forth next day, three elegant St. Georges in full
rig saluted as these modern Unas ambled by on their meek donkeys--a
performance punctually executed ever afterward whenever the three blue
veils appeared. Much curvetting went on before the hotel door; much
clanking of spurs and sabres was heard in the little lane on to which
the apartment of the ladies looked, and splendid officers seemed to
spring up like violets in secluded spots where maidens love to stroll.
It was all very nice; and the girls were beginning to feel that the
charms of Albano rivalled those of Rome, when a sad blow upset their
castles in the air, and desolated the knights over the way.
The highly respectable Americans who were to serve as the link between
the soldiers and the ladies decidedly declined the office, objecting to
the martial gentleman as being altogether too dangerous to bring into
the dove-cot. So the poor dears sighed in vain, and the longing damsels
never rode the fine horses that were temptingly paraded before them on
all occasions.
They did their best; but it was soon evident to Lavinia that in some
unguarded moment the impetuous Mat would yield to the spell and go
gambading away for a ride sans duenna, sans habit, sans propriety,
sans everything. Amanda likewise seemed losing her head, and permitted
the dark-eyed Colonel to talk to her when they met; only a moment--but
what a perilous moment it was!--when this six-foot Mars leaned over a
green hedge and talked about the weather in the softest Italian that
ever melted a woman's heart.
'I'm going to Venice next week; so you may as well make up your minds to
it, girls. I cannot bear this awful responsibility any longer; for I
am very sure you will both be off to Turin with those handsome rascals
if we stay much longer. My mind is made up, and I won't hear a word.'
Thus Lavinia, with a stern countenance; for the romantic old lady felt
the charm as much as the girls did, and decided that discretion was the
better part of valour for the whole party.
'I should never dare to go home and tell my honoured parents that Mat
had run away with a man as handsome as Jove, and as poor as Job.
Amanda's indignant relatives would rise up and stone me if I let her
canter into matrimony with the fascinating Colonel, who may have a wife
and ten children in Turin, for all we know. They must be torn away at
once, or my character as duenna is lost for ever.'
Having made up her mind, Livy steeled her heart to all appeals, and
wrote letters, packed trunks, and watched her little flock like a
vigilant sheep-dog.
How she would ever have got them through that last week is very
uncertain, if a providential picnic had not helped her.
A fair was held in the town, and a delightful surprise-party was got up
among the artists of Rome. Twenty-five came driving over in a big
carriage, with four gaily decorated horses, postilions, hampers of
lunch, flutes and horns, and much jollity bottled up for the occasion.
A very festive spectacle they made as they drove through the narrow
streets with flowers and streamers in their hats, singing and joking in
true artistic style.
They meant to have lunched in the open air; but, as it was cloudy,
decided to spread the feast at the hotel. Such a delightful revel as
followed! A scene from the 'Decameron,' modernised, would give some idea
of it; for after the banquet all adjourned to the gardens of the Doria
Villa, and there disported themselves as merrily as if all the plagues
of life were quite forgotten, and death itself among the lost arts.
Flirting and dancing, charades and singing, stories and statues, poems
and pictures, gossip and gambols, absorbed the hours as pleasantly as in
the olden time. And if the costumes were not as picturesque as those in
Vedder's fine picture, the ladies were as lovely, the gentlemen as
gallant, and all much better behaved than those of Boccaccio's party.
A few drops of rain quenched the fun at its height, and sent the
revellers home as fast as four horses could take them, leaving the town
gaping after them, and our ladies much enlivened by the delights of the
day.
This third and last event pleasantly ended their sojourn at Albano; for
a day or two later they vanished, leaving the dear officers
disconsolate till the next batch of travelling ladies came to comfort
their despair.
A week was spent in Venice, floating about all day from one delightful
old church to another, or paying visits to Titians and Tintorettos;
buying little turtles, photographs, or Venetian glass; eating candied
fruit and seeing the doves fed in the square of San Marco; visiting
shops full of dusty antiquities, or searching the stalls on the Rialto
for Moor's-head rings; being rowed to the Lido by Giacomo in a red sash;
and lulled to sleep at night by the songs of a chorus that floated under
the windows in the moonlight.
Lavinia never could get used to seeing the butcher, the baker, and the
postman go their rounds in boats. Matilda was in bliss, with a gondola
all to herself, where she sat surrounded with water-colours, trying to
paint everything she saw; for here the energy she had lost at Rome
seemed to return to her. Amanda haunted a certain shop, trying to make
the man take a reasonable sum for a very ancient and ugly bit of
jewellery, which she called 'a sprigalario,' for want of a better name;
and after each failure she went off to compose herself with a visit to
the Doges.
Of course they all saw the Bridge of Sighs and the dungeons below, with
their many horrors; likewise a Mass at St. Mark's, where the Patriarch
was a fat old soul in red silk, even to his shoes and holy
pocket-handkerchief; and the service appeared to consist in six purple
priests dressing and undressing him like an old doll, while a dozen
white-gowned boys droned up in a gold cock-loft, and many beggars whined
on the dirty floor below.
Do other travellers eat locusts, I wonder, as ours did one sunny day,
sitting on church steps, and discover that the food of the Apostle was
not the insect whose 'zeeing' foretells hot weather; but the long, dry
pods of the locust-tree, sweet to the taste, but rather 'dry fodder,' as
the impious Livy remarked after choking herself with a quarter of a yard
of it.
When the week was up Mat implored to be left behind with Angela, the
maid, and Brio, a big poodle possessed of the devil. But she was torn
away, and only consoled by the promise of many new gloves, with as many
buttons as she pleased, when they got to Munich.
'The lakes are the proper entrance into Italy, and Venice a lovely exit.
One soon tires of it, and is ready to leave, which is an excellent
arrangement, though I should prefer to depart in some more cheerful
vehicle than a hearse,' observed Lavinia, as they left the long, black
gondola at the steps of the station.
'Haven't you a sigh for those lovely lakes, a tear for Albano, a pang of
regret for Rome?' asked Amanda, hoping to wring one moan for Italy from
the old lady.
'Not a sigh, not a tear, not a regret. I find I like them all better the
farther I get from them, and by the time I am at home I may be able to
say "I adore them," but I doubt it,' returned the incorrigible Livy, and
from that moment Amanda regarded her Granny as one dead to all the dear
delusions of antiquity.
VI.
LONDON.
'From this moment I cease to be the commander-in-chief. Livy adores
England, can speak the language, understands the money, and knows all
about London; so she shall be leader, and I will repose after my long
labour.' With this remark Amanda retired from office covered with glory,
and her mates voted to erect a statue in her honour as a token of their
undying gratitude.
Lavinia took the lead from the moment they landed at St. Catherine's
Warf; and though somewhat demoralized by a rough passage of eighteen
hours from Antwerp, was equal to the occasion. She did love England, and
thought London the most delightful city in the world, next to Boston.
Its mud and fog were dear to her; its beef and beer were nectar and
ambrosia, after the continental slops and messes; its steady-going,
respectable citizens, beautiful in her eyes, and the words 'home' and'
comfort' were not an idle mockery here.
Therefore the old lady joyfully sniffed the smoky air, gazed with
tenderness on the grimy houses, and cast herself, metaphorically
speaking, into the arms of a stout, ruddy-faced porter, as if at last
she had found a man and a brother.
Nobly did the burly Briton repay her confidence and earn the shilling
which in England makes all things possible. He bore them to the station,
got tickets, checked luggage, put the ladies in a first-class
compartment, gave them all necessary directions about the hotel they
were after, and when the bell rang touched his cap with a smile upon his
dear, red face, which caused Lavinia to add a sixpence to the shilling
she gave him with a mental blessing.
'This is truly a decent country. See how well one is cared for, how
civil everybody is, how honest, how manly,' began Livy, as she mounted
her hobby, and prepared for a canter over the prejudices of her friend;
for Amanda detested England because she knew nothing of it.
'The cabman cheated us, asking double fares,' replied the dear girl,
wrapping herself in many cloaks and refusing to admire the fog.
'Not at all,' cried Livy; 'the trunks were immense, and you'll find we
shall have to pay extra for them everywhere. It is the same as having
them weighed and paying for the pounds, only this saves much time and
trouble. Look at the handsome guard in his silver-plated harness. How
much nicer he is than a gabbling Italian, or a Frenchman who compliments
you one minute and behaves like a brute the next! It does my soul good
to see the clean, rosy faces, and hear good English instead of
gibberish.'
'Never in my life have I seen such tall, fine-looking men, only they are
all fair, which isn't my style,' observed Matilda, with a secret sigh
for the dark-eyed heroes from Turin.
Thus conversing, they soon came to the G---- Hotel just at the end of the
railway, and without going out of the station found themselves settled
in comfortable rooms.
'Regard, if you please, these toilette arrangements--two sorts of
bath-pan, two cans of cold water, one of hot, two big pitchers, much
soap, and six towels about the size of table-cloths. I call that an
improvement on the continental cup, saucer, and napkin accommodation,'
said Lavinia, proudly displaying a wash-stand that looked like a
dinner-table laid for a dozen, such was the display of glass, china, and
napery.
'The English certainly are a clean people,' replied Amanda, softening a
little as she remembered her fruitless efforts to find a bath-pan in
Brittany, where the people said the drought was caused by the English
using so much water.
'They need more appliances for cleanliness than any other race, because
they live in such a dirty country,' began Matilda, removing the soot
from her face in flakes.
What more she might have said is unknown; for Livy closed her mouth with
a big sponge, and all retired to repose after the trials of the past
night.
'Now, my dears, you shall have food fit for Christian women to eat. No
weak soup, no sour wine, no veal stewed with raisins, nor greasy salad
made of all the weeds that grow. Beef that will make you feel like
giants, and beer that will cheer the cockles of your hearts; not to
mention cheese which will make you wink, and bread with a little round
button atop of the loaf like the grand Panjandrum in the old story.'
Thus Lavinia enthusiastically, as she led her flock of two into the
eating-room at luncheon time. Being seated at a little table by one of
the great windows, the old lady continued to sing the praises of
Britannia while wafting for the repast.
'Isn't this better than a stone-floored café with nine clocks all
wrong, seven mirrors all cracked, much drapery all dirty, a flock of
garçons who fly about like lunatics, and food which I shudder to
think of? Look at this lofty room; this grave thick carpet; that
cheerful coal-fire; these neat little tables; these large, clean
windows; these quiet, ministerial waiters, who seem to take a paternal
interest in your wants, and best of all in this simple, wholesome,
well-cooked food.'
Here the arrival of a glorified beefsteak and a shining pint-pot of
foaming ale give an appropriate finish to Livy's lecture. She fell upon
her lunch like a famished woman, and was speechless till much meat had
vanished, and the ale was low in the pot.
'It is good,' admitted Amanda, who took to her beer like a born
Englishwoman, and swallowed some of her prejudices with her delicious
beef.
'It's such a comfort to know that I am not eating a calf's brains or a
pig's feet, that I can enjoy it with a free mind, and the sight of
those two beautiful old gentlemen gives it an added relish,' said
Matilda, who had been watching a pair of hale old fellows eat their
lunch in a solid, leisurely way that would have been impossible to an
American.
'It is so restful to see people take things calmly, and not bolt their
meals, or rush about like runaway steam-engines. It is this moderation
that keeps Englishmen so hearty, jolly, and long-lived. They don't tear
themselves to pieces as we do, but take time for rest, exercise, food,
and recreation, like sensible people as they are. It is like reposing on
a feather-bed to live here, and my tired nerves rejoice in it,' said
Lavinia, eating bread and cheese as if that was her mission in life.
'A slight amount of haste will be advisable, my Granny, unless we intend
to spend all our substance on these restful comforts of yours. This
hotel is delightfully cosy, but expensive; so the quicker we go into
lodgings the better for us,' suggested the thrifty Amanda, seeing that
Livy was too infatuated to care for cost.
'I'll go the first thing to-morrow and look at the rooms Mrs. Blank
recommended to us. This afternoon we will rest and write letters, unless
some one comes to call,' said Livy, leading her girls to the
reading-room, where sleep-inviting chairs, tables supplied with
writing-materials, and groves of newspapers, wooed the stranger to
repose.
Hardly were they seated, however, than Jeames brought in the card of a
friend who had been told when they would arrive, and hastened at once to
meet them. How pleasant is the first familiar face one sees in a strange
land! Doubly pleasant was Mr. C.'s, because he brought hospitable
invitations from other friends, kind welcomes, and tickets to several of
the art exhibitions then open.
Hardly had he gone, after a half-hour's chat, than another card was
handed, and the name it bore caused a slight flutter in the dove-cot. A
friend of Miss Livy's, in Boston, had sent orders to his brother in
London to devote himself to the wandering ladies when they came. They
had never met; the poor man didn't care to have his quiet invaded by
strange women, and to do the honours of London is no small task: yet
this heroic gentleman obeyed orders without a murmur; and, leaving his
artistic seclusion, shouldered his burden with the silent courage of a
Spartan.
A grave, dark, little man, with fine eyes, quiet manners, and a
straight-forward way with him that suited blunt Livy excellently. How
he dared to face the three unknown women so calmly, listen to their
impossible suggestions so politely, and offer himself as a slave so
cheerfully, will for ever remain a mystery to those grateful souls.
His first service was to pack them into a cab and bear them safely to
the bankers for letters and money; and this he followed up by several
weeks of servitude, which must have been worse than Egyptian bondage.
Two more large ladies joined the party after they were settled in
lodgings at Kensington; but, undaunted by the fact, this long-suffering
man escorted the whole five to galleries and theatres, trips into the
city, and picnics in the country; went shopping with them, lugged
parcels, ran errands, paid bills, and was in fact the sheet-anchor of
the whole party. Imagine the emotions of one shy man when called upon
to lead a flock of somewhat imposing ladies everywhere; to have two cabs
full on all occasions; to be obliged to support the invalids to follow
the caprices of the giddy, to gratify the demands of the curious, and to
hear the gabble of the whole five day after day.
Bürger's Brave Man was a coward compared to him; for he not only gave
his days, but his evenings also, joining in endless games of whist,
drinking much weak tea, and listening to any amount of twaddle on all
subjects.
The society was not such as intelligent men enjoy, being composed of two
Egyptian boys and three fussy old ladies. One of them was immensely
stout, wore a bright green cap, with half-a-pint of scarlet cherries
bobbing on her brow. She talked on all subjects, and handed round an
album full of her own poems on all occasions. The second must have been
a sister of 'Mr. T.'s Aunt,' so grim and incoherent was she. Sitting in
the corner, she stared at the world around her with an utterly
expressionless countenance, and when least expected broke out with some
startling remark, such as, 'If that fence had been painted green we
should get to heaven sooner,' or 'Before I had fits my memory was as
good as anybody's, but my daughter married a clergyman, and took it with
her.'
The third antiquity was the hostess, a buxom lady, much given to gay
attire and reminiscences of past glory, 'Before me 'usband went into
public life.' The strangers innocently supposed the departed Mr. K. to
have been an M.P. at least, and were rather taken aback on learning that
he had been a pawnbroker.
The Egyptian youths were handsome, dark lads, with melodious voices,
lustrous eyes, and such fiery tempers that one never knew whether they
were going to pass the bread or stab one with the carving-knife.
As a slight mitigation of this slow society, the Russian from Pension
Paradis appeared with his broadcloth more resplendent than ever. The
ladies had seen him in Rome; but the fever scared him away, and he was
now fleeing from another lodging-house, where the hostess evidently
intended to marry him to her daughter, in the MacStinger fashion.
In this varied circle did the devoted being afore-mentioned pass many
hours after the day's hard labour was happily over, and when anyone
pitied him for leading the life of a galley-slave, he hid his anguish
and answered with a smile,--
'My brother told me to do it, and I never disobey Tom. In fact, I find I
rather like it.'
That last fib was truly sublime, and the name of Cassabianca pales
before that of one who obeyed fraternal commands to the letter, and
tried to love his duty, heavy as it was. If, as has been sometimes
predicted, England had gone under just then, it might truly have been
said,--
     Though prince and peer and poet rare
       Were sunk among the piles,
     The noblest man who perished there
       Was faithful W. N----s.
The sight-seeing fever raged fiercely at first, and the flock of
Americans went from Windsor Castle to the Tower of London, from
Westminster Abbey to Madame Taussaud's Waxwork Show, with a vigour that
appalled the natives. They would visit two or three galleries in the
morning, lunch at Dolly's (the dark little chop-house which Johnson,
Goldsmith, and the other worthies used to frequent in the good old
times), go to Richmond in the afternoon and dine at the 'Star and
Garter,' or to Greenwich and eat 'white baits fish,' as the Russian
called that celebrated dish, and finish off the evening at some theatre,
getting home at midnight, in a procession of two cabs and a hansom.
When the first excitement was over, Lavinia and Matilda took a turn at
society, having friends in London. Amanda could not conquer her
prejudices sufficiently to accompany them, and, falling back on the
climate as her excuse, stayed at home and improved her mind.
'I feel now like girls in novels. You are the Duchess of Devonshire and
I am Lady Maud Plantagenet, going to a ball at Buckingham Palace. I know
that I was made to sit in the lap of luxury: it agrees with me so well,'
said Matilda, as the two rolled away to Aubrey House in a brougham, all
lamps, glass, and satin. Her long blue train lay piled up before her,
the light flashed on her best Roman ear-rings, her curls were in their
most picturesque array, and--crowning joy of all--cream-coloured gloves,
with six buttons, covered her arms, and filled her soul with happiness,
because they were so elegant and cost so little, being bought in Rome
just after the flood.
Dowager Livy responded gravely from the depths of her silver-grey silk,
enlivened with pink azaleas,--
'My child, thank your stars that you are a free-born Yankee, and have no
great name or state to keep up. Buckingham Palace is all very well, and
I shouldn't mind calling on Mrs. Guelph, or Saxe Coburg, whichever it
is, but I much prefer to be going to the house of a Radical M.P., who is
lending a hand to all good works. Mrs. T. is a far more interesting
woman to me than Victoria, for her life is spent in helping her
fellow-creatures. I consider her a model Englishwoman--simple, sincere,
and accomplished; full of good sense, intelligence, and energy. Her
house is open to all, friend and stranger, black and white, rich and
poor. Great men and earnest women meet there; Mazzini and Frances Power
Cobbe, John Bright and Jean Ingelow, Rossetti the poet, and Elizabeth
Garrett the brave little doctor. Though wealthy and living in an
historical mansion, the host is the most unassuming man in it, and the
hostess the simplest dressed lady. Their money goes in other ways, and
the chief ornament of that lovely spot is a school, where poor girls may
get an education. Mrs. T. gave a piece of her own garden for it, and
teaches there herself, aided by her friends, who serve the poor girls
like mothers and sisters, and help to lift them up from the slough of
despond in which so many sink. That beats anything you'll find in
Buckingham Palace, sister Mat.'
'If they want a drawing-teacher I'll offer myself, for I think that is
regularly splendid,' said Matilda warmly, as Livy paused for breath
after her harangue.
With these new ideas in her head, Lady Maud enjoyed her party, while the
Duchess revelled in radicals to her heart's content; for Aubrey House
was their head-quarters, and all were out in full force. It was cheering
to our spinster to find that things had moved a good deal since a former
visit, five or six years before, when Mill had carried into the House of
Commons a Woman's Rights petition that filled both arms. People laughed
then, and the stout-hearted women laughed also, but said, 'Our next
petition shall be so big it will have to go in a wheel-barrow.' Now the
same people talked over the question soberly, and began to think
something besides fun might come of it. The pioneers rejoiced over
several hard-won battles, and the scoffers came to see that the truest
glory was won by those who did the hard work, and stood by a good cause
when most unpopular; not by those who kept out of the field till the
fight was over, and then came in to wave the flags and beat the drums
over victories they had not helped to win.
'It seems to me that these Englishwomen make less noise and do more work
than we Americans. I shouldn't dare to say so in public; but their
quiet, orderly ways suits me better than the more demonstrative
performances of my friends at home. Slow coaches as we call them, I
should not be surprised if they got the suffrage before we did, as the
tortoise won in the fable,' was Lavinia's secret thought as they drove
away, after a very charming evening.
Perhaps the fact that reforms of all sorts had been poured into her ears
till her head was like a hive of bees, may account for this unpatriotic
thought. Or it may be the pleasant effect of the healthful aspect of
these English workers. Old or young, all seemed to have cheerful,
well-balanced minds, in strong, healthy bodies. No one complained of her
nerves, or let them unconsciously put a sharp edge to her tongue, give a
blue tinge to the world, or sour the milk of human kindness in her
heart. Less quick and bright, perhaps, than the ladies over the sea, but
more womanly, and full of a quiet tenacity of purpose better than
eloquence.
Miss Livy's tastes being of a peculiar sort, and pictures having palled
upon her to such a degree that she couldn't even look at an ornamental
sign-board without disgust, she often left her more artistic friends and
went forth on excursions of her own. As she never used either map or
guide book, it was a wonder how she found her way; and the infants were
often on the point of sending for the city crier, if there is such a
functionary, to find the lost duenna. But old Livy always turned up at
last, mud to the eyes, tired out, and more deeply impressed than ever
with the charms of London.
One day she set forth to hear Spurgeon. Being told that Lambeth was a
wretched quarter of the city, that the Tabernacle was two or three miles
away, and very difficult to enter when found, only added zest to the
thing, and she departed, sure of finding adventures, if not Spurgeon.
If an omnibus conductor had not befriended her, she would probably have
found herself at Hampstead or Chelsea, for London busses are as
bewildering as London streets. Thanks to this amiable man, who evidently
felt that the stranger in his gates needed all his care, the old lady
safely reached the Elephant and Castle, and was dismissed with a moss
rose-bud from the lips of her friend, a reassuring pat on the shoulder,
and a paternal ''Ere yer are, my dear,' which unexpected attentions
caused her to depart with speed.
There certainly was need of a Tabernacle in that quarter, for the
poverty and wickedness were very dreadful. Boys not yet in their teens
staggered by half-tipsy, or lounged at the doors of gin-shops.
Bonnetless girls roamed about singing and squabbling. Forlorn babies
played in the gutter, and men and women in every stage of raggedness
and degradation marred the beauty of that fair Sunday morning.
Crowds were swarming into the Tabernacle: but, thanks to the order a
friend had given her, Miss Livy was handed to a comfortable seat, with a
haggard Magdalen on one side and a palsy-stricken old man on the other.
Staring about her, she saw an immense building with two galleries
extending round three sides, and a double sort of platform behind and
below the pulpit, which was a little pen lifted high that all might see
and hear.
Every seat, aisle, window-ledge, step, and door-way, was packed with a
strange congregation; all nations, all colours, all ages, and nearly all
bearing the sad marks of poverty or sin. They all sung, cried out if
anything affected or pleased them in the sermon, and listened with
interest to the plain yet fervent words of the man who has gathered
together this flock of black sheep and is so faithful a shepherd to
them.
Every one knows how Spurgeon looks in pictures, but in the pulpit he
reminded Livy of Martin Luther. A square, florid face, stout figure, a
fine keen eye, and a natural, decided manner, very impressive. A strong,
clear voice of much dramatic power, and a way of walking the pulpit like
Father Taylor.
His sermon was on 'Small Temptations,' and he illustrated it by facts
and examples taken from real life, pointing out several of his
congregation, and calling them by name, which original proceeding seemed
to find favour with his people. He used no notes, but talked rather than
preached; and leaning over the railing, urged, argued, prayed, and sang
with a hearty eloquence, very effective, and decidedly refreshing after
High Church mummery abroad, and drowsy Unitarianism at home. Now and
then he stopped to give directions for the comfort of his flock in a
free and easy manner, which called up irresistible smiles on the faces
of strangers.
'Mrs. Flacker, you'd better take that child into the ante-room: he's
tired.' 'Come this way, friends: there's plenty of room.' 'Open all the
windows, Manning: it's very warm.' And when a sad sort of cry
interrupted him, he looked down at an old woman shaking with epilepsy,
and mildly remarked, 'Don't be troubled, brethren: our sister is subject
to fits,' and preached tranquilly on.
For two hours he held that great gathering, in spite of heat,
discomfort, and other afflictions of the flesh, and ended by saying, in
a paternal way,--
'Now remember what I've said through the week, and next Sunday show me
that I haven't talked in vain.'
He read a list of meetings for every night in the week. One especially
struck Livy, as it was for mothers to meet and talk over with him the
best ways of teaching and training their children. Spurgeon evidently
does not spare his own time and strength; and whatever his creed may be,
he is a good Christian in loving his neighbour better than himself,
and doing the work his hand finds to do with all his might.
'That is a better church than most of those I enter where respectable
saints have the best seats, and there is no place for sinners,' said
Livy when she got home. 'Spurgeon's congregation preached more
eloquently to me than he did. The Magdalen cried as if her heart was
broken, and I am sure those tears washed some of her sins away. The
feeble old man looked as if he had found a staff for his trembling hands
to lay hold upon, and the forlorn souls all about me, for a time at
least, laid down their burdens and found rest and comfort in their
Father's house. It did me more good than the preaching of all the
bishops in London, or the finest pageant at St. Paul's; and I am truly
glad I went, though the saucy conductor did smirk at me over the
rosebud.'
In contrast to this serious expedition, the old lady had a very jolly
one not long afterward. A certain congenial Professor asked her one day
what person, place, or thing in London she most desired to see.
Clasping her hands with the energy of deep emotion, she replied,--
'The home of the immortal Sairy Gamp. Long ago I made a vow, if I ever
came to London I'd visit that spot. Let me keep my vow.'
'You shall!' responded the Professor with a responsive ardour, which
caused Livy to dive into her waterproof without another word.
Away they went in a pouring rain, and what people thought of the damp
but enthusiastic couple who pervaded the city that day I can't say; I
only know a merrier pair of pilgrims never visited those grimy shrines.
They met several old friends, and passed several familiar spots by the
way. Major Bagstock and Cousin Phenix stared at them from a club-house
window. Tigg Montague's cab dashed by them in Regent Street, more
gorgeous than ever. The brothers Cheeryble went trotting cityward arm in
arm, with a smile and ha'penny for all the beggars they met; and the
Micawber family passed them in a bus, going, I suppose, to accompany
the blighted Wilkins to gaol.
In a certain grimly genteel street they paused to stare up at a row of
grimly respectable houses; for, though the name wasn't on any of the
doors, they were sure Mr. Dombey still lived there. A rough dog lay on
one of the doorsteps, and a curtain fluttered at an open upper window.
Poor Di was growling in his sleep, and above there little Paul was
watching for the golden water on the wall, while faithful Florence sung
to him, and Susan Nipper put away derisive sniffs and winks in closets
and behind doors for the benefit of 'them Pipchinses.'
Coming to a poorer part of the city, they met Tiny Tim tapping along on
his little crutch, passed Toby Veck at a windy street-corner, and saw
all the little Tetterbys playing in the mud.
'Come down this street, and take a glimpse at St. Giles's, the worst
part of London,' said the Professor; and, following, Livy saw misery
enough in five minutes to make her heart ache for the day. A policeman
kept near them, saying it wasn't safe to go far there alone.
Vice, poverty, dirt, and suffering reigned supreme within a stone's
throw of one of the great thoroughfares, and made Alsatia dangerous
ground for respectable feet. Here, too, they saw familiar phantoms: poor
Jo, perpetually moving on; and little Oliver led by Nancy, with a shawl
over her head and a black eye; Bill Sykes, lounging in a doorway,
looking more ruffianly than ever; and the Artful Dodger, who kept his
eye on them as two hopeful 'plants' with profitable pockets ready for
him.
They soon had enough of this, and hurried on along High Holborn, till
they came to Kingsgate Street, so like the description that I am sure
Dickens must have been there and taken notes. They knew the house in a
moment: there were the two dingy windows over the bird-shop; the checked
curtains were drawn, but of course the bottomless bandboxes, the wooden
pippins, green umbrella, and portrait of Miss Harris were all behind
them. It seemed so real that they quite expected to see a red, snuffy
old face appear, and to hear a drowsy voice exclaim: 'Drat that bell:
I'm a coming. Don't tell me it's Mrs. Wilkins, without even a pincushion
prepared.'
While Livy stood gazing in silent satisfaction (merely regretting that
the name on the door was Pendergast, not Sweedle-pipes), the Professor
turned to a woman, and asked with admirable gravity, 'Can you tell me
where Mrs. Gamp lives?'
'What's her business?' demanded the matron, with interest.
'A nurse, ma'am.'
'Is she a little fat woman?'
'Fat, decidedly, and old,' returned the Professor, without a smile on
his somewhat cherubic countenance.
'Well, she lives No. 5, round the corner.'
On receiving this unexpected reply, they looked at one another in comic
dismay; but would certainly have gone to No. 5, and taken a look at the
modern Sairy, if the woman hadn't called out as they moved on--
'I b'lieve that nuss's name is Britiain, not Gamp; but you can ask.'
Murmuring a hasty 'thank you,' they fled precipitately round the corner,
and there enjoyed a glorious laugh under an umbrella, to the great
amazement of all beholders.
Being on a Dickens pilgrimage, they went to Furnival's Inn, where he
wrote 'Pickwick' in a three-story room, and read it to the old porter.
The same old porter told them all about it, and quite revelled in the
remembrance. It did one's heart good to see the stiff, dried-up old
fellow thaw and glow with the recollection of the handsome young man who
was kind to him long ago, before the world had found him out.
'Did you think the book would be famous when he read it to you in 1834,
as you say?' asked the Professor, beaming at him in a way that would
have melted the heart of the stiff-tailed lion of the Northumberlands,
if he'd possessed such an organ.
'O dear, yes, sir; I felt sure it would be summat good, it made me laugh
so. He didn't think much of it; but I know a good thing when I see
it;' and the old man gave an important nod, as if all the credit of the
blessed 'Pickwick' belonged to him. 'He married Miss Hogarth while
livin' here; and you can see the room, if you like,' he added, with a
burst of hospitality, as the almighty sixpence touched his palm.
Up they went, over the worn stairs; and, finding the door locked,
solemnly touched the brass knob, read the name 'Ed Peck' on the plate,
and wiped their feet on a very dirty mat. It was ridiculous, of course;
but hero-worship is not the worst of modern follies, and when one's hero
has won from the world some of its heartiest smiles and tears, one may
be forgiven for a little sentiment in a dark entry.
Next they went to the Saracen's Head, where Mr. Squeers stopped when in
London. The odd old place looked as if it hadn't changed a particle.
There was the wooden gallery outside, where the chamber-maids stood to
see the coach off; the archway under which poor Nicholas drove that cold
morning; the office, or bar, where the miserable little boys shivered
while they took alternate sips out of one mug, and bolted hunches of
bread and butter as Squeers 'nagged' them in private and talked to them
like a father in public. Livy was tempted to bring away a little
porter-pot hanging outside the door, as a trophy; but fearing Squeers's
squint eye was upon her, she refrained, and took a muddy pebble instead.
They took a peep at the Temple and its garden. The fountain was not
playing, but it looked very pleasant, nevertheless; and as they stood
there the sun came out, as if anxious that they should see it at its
best. It was all very well to know that Shakespeare's 'Twelfth Night'
was played in Middle Temple Hall, that the York and Lancaster roses grew
here, that Dr. Johnson lived No. 1 Inner Temple Lane, and that Goldsmith
died No. 2 Brick Court, Middle Temple; these actual events and people
seemed far less real than the scenes between Pendennis and Fanny, John
Westlock and little Ruth Pinch. For their sakes Livy went to see the
place; and for their sakes she still remembers that green spot in the
heart of London, with the June sunshine falling on it as it fell that
day.
The pilgrimage ended with a breathless climb up the Monument, whence
they got a fine view of London, and better still of Todgerses. Livy
found the house by instinct; and saw Cherry Pecksniff, now a sharp-nosed
old woman, sitting at the back window. A gaunt, anxious-looking lady, in
a massive bonnet, crossed the yard, with a basket in her hand; and the
Professor said at once, 'That's Mrs. Todgers, and the amount of gravy
single gentlemen eat is still weighing heavy on her mind.' As if to
make the thing quite perfect, they discovered fitful glimpses of a
tousled-looking boy, cleaning knives or boots, in a cellar-kitchen; and
all the lawyers in London couldn't have argued them out of their firm
belief that it was young Bailey, undergoing his daily torment in company
with the black beetles and the mouldy bottles.
That nothing might be wanting to finish off the rainy-day ramble in an
appropriate manner, when Livy's companion asked what she'd have for
lunch, she boldly replied,--
'Weal pie and a pot of porter.'
As she was not fond of either, it was a sure proof of the sincerity of
her regard for the persons who have made them immortal. They went into
an eating-house, and ordered the lunch, finding themselves objects of
interest to the other guests. But, though a walking doormat in point of
mud, and somewhat flushed and excited by the hustling, climbing, and
adoring, it is certain there wasn't a happier spinster in this 'Piljin
Projess of a wale,' than the one who partook of 'weal pie' in memory of
Sam Weller, and drank 'a modest quencher' to the health of Dick
Swiveller at the end of that delightful Dickens day.
Much might be written about the domestic pleasures of English people,
but as the compiler of this interesting work believes in the sacredness
of private life, and has a holy horror of the dreadful people who
outrage hospitality by basely reporting all they have seen and heard,
she will practise what she preaches, and firmly resist the temptation to
describe the delights of country strolls with poets, cosey five-o'clock
teas in famous drawing-rooms, and interviews with persons whose names
are household words.
This virtuous reticence leaves the best untold, and brings the story of
two of our travellers to a speedy end. Matilda decided to remain and
study art, spending her days copying Turner at the National Gallery, and
her evenings in the society of the eight agreeable gentlemen who adorned
the house where she abode.
Amanda hurried home with friends to enjoy a festive summer among the
verdant plains of Cape Cod. With deep regret did her mates bid her
adieu, and nothing but the certainty of soon embracing her again would
have reconciled Livy to the parting; for in Amanda she had found that
rare and precious treasure, a friend.
'Addio, my beloved Granny; take care of your dear bones and come home
soon,' said Amanda, in the little back entry, while her luggage was
being precipitated downstairs.
