and Bobtail, sacrificing his dignity as the skipper of the craft, went
below and assumed the duties of cook and steward. He pared and sliced a
large quantity of potatoes, for Mr. Jones had declared that he was
already as hungry as a bear. These he fried, and put them in the oven to
keep them hot. The fish was cooked, and coffee made. The table had been
set at odd moments, and in less than an hour dinner was ready. Bobtail
was invited to dine with the passengers, and he was warmly commended for
his culinary skill.
"That's the best dinner I've eaten in the State of Maine," said Mr.
Jones, with enthusiasm.
"We can get up a pretty good dinner on board of the Skylark," added the
proud skipper. "The cook isn't much on puddings and pies, but on the
heavy grub he can do as well as the next man."
"I've drank worse coffee than yours at a first-class hotel in New York,"
said Mr. Howe.
"I can give you a chowder for supper, if you like," added the cook.
"I like the fried fish best."
"Perhaps we can give you something different."
The skipper and the passengers went on deck. Bobtail relieved the crew
at the helm, and sent him below to eat his dinner, and clear away the
dishes. The gentlemen lighted their cigars, and declared that they felt
perfectly happy. The Skylark was now going up Belfast Bay, close-hauled,
but still laying her course.
"Now, how long have we been?" asked Mr. Jones, taking out his watch.
"Just three hours."
"But we spent half an hour of it in fishing," suggested the skipper.
"Exactly so, and we have made the run in two hours and a half."
Monkey was called on deck, the jib taken in, and the Skylark ran
alongside a wharf, where she was secured. It was agreed to sail for
Camden on the return at six o'clock, and the passengers left the yacht
to explore the town. The skipper washed and "slicked up" as well as he
could. Putting on his bobtail coat, he went ashore, to call upon Colonel
Montague. After some inquiry he found the house; and it was easily
identified, for it was the finest one in the city. The visitor found the
owner of the Penobscot smoking his cigar under the shade of a tree,
where rustic chairs had been placed. He was alone, and gave the young
skipper a hearty greeting.
"I'm glad to see you, Captain Bobtail," said he, warmly, shaking the
hand of the boy. "I did not expect a visit from you quite so soon, but
I'm none the less glad to see you."
"I brought a couple of gentlemen up in the Skylark, and thought I would
call upon you while they were looking over the place."
"I'm glad you did. Grace and Mrs. Montague will be very glad to see you.
I will call them."
"Not yet, if you please, sir. I want to tell you what a scrape I got
into first; and then I don't know that you will want them to see me,"
replied Bobtail, blushing.
"A scrape?"
"Yes, sir."
"I hope you haven't been doing anything wrong."
"They say I have, but I have not. I am as innocent as you are, sir. I
thought I would come up and tell you about it, as I was here. Mother did
not send me."
"She did not?"
"No, sir; she was rather opposed to my saying anything to you about the
scrape."
"Sit down, Captain Bobtail, and tell me all about it," said the colonel,
in kindly tones, though there was an anxious expression on his face.
Little Bobtail told the whole story about the letter and the five
hundred dollar bill.
"And your mother paid this same bill to Mr. Gilfilian?" asked Colonel
Montague, very much troubled.
"Yes, sir. The squire wanted to know where she got the bill, and she
won't tell," added Bobtail.
"She won't tell!" echoed the colonel; and there was an expression of
relief in his face.
"She won't give even the slightest hint; and because she wouldn't
explain it, Squire Gilfilian caused her to be arrested. They said that
both of us will be sent to the state prison for stealing this money."
"That's bad."
"I know it is, sir; but I didn't take the letter; and I know mother came
honestly by the money."
"I know she did, too," added the colonel. "When does this examination
take place?"
"It was postponed till next Tuesday, at ten o'clock."
"Very well, Captain Bobtail. I know where your mother obtained the
money."
"You, sir!" exclaimed Bobtail.
"I do; and I will be in Camden next Tuesday to tell all I know about
it."
"Thank you, sir; you are very kind."
"Of course I shall not let your mother be convicted of stealing. I know
nothing about the letter; and therefore I can do nothing for you,
Captain Bobtail."
"If you clear my mother you will clear me. If we can only tell where the
money came from, we shall be all right."
"Don't give yourself any uneasiness at all about it. I will certainly be
present at the examination."
"But are you sure you know where my mother got the bill, sir?" asked
Bobtail.
"Certainly, I do; and she came honestly by it. But as this is her
affair, I don't feel at liberty to say anything about it yet."
Little Bobtail was confounded by this sudden solution of the mystery. If
Colonel Montague knew where his mother had obtained the bill, it was
plain enough to him that he had given it to her himself. He could not,
for the life of him, see why this gentleman, wealthy and liberal though
he was, should give her such an immense sum of money. It was a very
perplexing problem, and he could not solve it. His kind friend conducted
him to the house. Grace was so glad to see him, that she actually kissed
him this time; and Bobtail felt as though he had tumbled into a
cream-pot. Mrs. Montague was very demonstrative, and the Hon. Mr.
Montague was more dignified, but hardly less cordial.
"Now you must stay with us all night, and all to-morrow, and all next
week," said Grace.
"I can't," laughed Bobtail. "I brought two gentlemen up in the Skylark,
and I must sail them back to-night."
"Plague take the two gentlemen!" said Grace, pettishly. "Let them go
back in the stage or the steamer."
"I promised to take them back to-night; and I must keep my promise, you
know, if the sky falls," pleaded the young skipper.
"Of course he must, Grace," added her father. "But he will come up some
other time, and stay a month."
Little Bobtail spent an hour in the elegant mansion, whose luxuriously
furnished apartments filled him with wonder and astonishment, for he had
never seen anything half so fine. He promised faithfully to come some
other time, and stay longer. Grace walked with him down to the wharf.
The Skylark's passengers were on board, and ready to start, and in a few
moments the yacht was under way. Grace waved her handkerchief to the
gallant skipper, as the Skylark pulled away.
"Who is that young lady?" asked Mr. Jones, as Bobtail returned the
salute.
"That's the one that fell off the rocks at Blank Island," replied the
skipper.
"And the one you saved! Why didn't you say so before, so that we could
have a good look at her?"
"I didn't think of it."
"She is a rich man's daughter."
"Yes, sir; her father is as rich as mud."
"And one of these days, Captain Bobtail, you will marry her, just as it
is laid down in the novels," laughed Mr. Howe.
"I guess not;" and Bobtail blushed at the presumptuous idea. "She will
not marry any poor fellow like me, you'd better believe. She will fish
for bigger game than I am."
"She seems to like you very well."
"O, well, that's nothing; she's only a girl, and I'm only a boy," added
the skipper.
Much to his relief, the topic was changed. The return trip was quite as
pleasant as the other had been, and at nine o'clock the Skylark landed
her passengers at the steamboat wharf, in good order and condition, and
very much delighted with the excursion. The skipper received the eight
dollars for the trip, and paid off his crew. It was Saturday night, and
Monkey wanted to buy some provisions and groceries for his mother with
the money he had earned; but he proposed to return before ten, and sleep
on board, as usual. Bobtail told him he had better spend Sunday at home,
for he could not pay him when the yacht did not go out. The Darwinian
was willing to sleep on board without pay.
"Did you see Colonel Montague, Robert?" asked Mrs. Taylor, as he went
into the house.
"Yes, I saw him; and he promised to be at the examination next Tuesday."
"What did he say?"
"He said he knew where you got the money, and that it would be all
right; but I told him you didn't send me to him."
"What else did he say?" inquired Mrs. Taylor, anxiously.
"That's about all. He took me into the house, and treated me like a
lord. That's the handsomest house I ever went into;" and Bobtail
described the glories and the beauties of the mansion.
"Of course, after what you have done, they feel very grateful to you."
"I suppose so; but, mother, I can't keep that confounded bill out of my
head," continued Bobtail. "I conclude, if Colonel Montague knows where
you got it, he gave it to you himself."
"He must explain that himself."
"Of course he gave it to you. You saw him on board of the Penobscot, the
day before I was taken up."
"You had better not say anything more about it, Robert."
"But why should he give you such a pile of money?" persisted the boy.
"I didn't say he gave it to me."
"I know he did."
"Well, the less you say about it, the better."
"If that is the bill which that Slipwing sent in the letter, I should
like to know where Colonel Montague got it."
"I don't know anything at all about that," replied Mrs. Taylor.
The conversation was interrupted by the entrance of Ezekiel. He was
sober, because he could obtain no liquor. He had spent the day in
searching for the contraband cargo. He had been upon Negro Island, and
explored North-east Point, and all the surrounding country, but he could
find no vestige of the cases. He wanted to talk with Bobtail, and he
was very gentle and conciliating in his tones and manner. After beating
about the bush for a long time, he so far disregarded the instructions
of Captain Chinks, as to ask him what he had done with the cargo of the
Skylark.
"I see you have been talking with Captain Chinks," said Bobtail. "When
any one claims the boat, I am willing to talk with him, but I can't say
a word before that time;" and the young skipper abruptly left the house,
and went on board of the yacht.
He had scarcely seated himself in the standing-room before a gentleman
from the hotel came alongside in a boat, and wanted to engage the yacht
for the next day.
"To-morrow will be Sunday," replied the skipper.
"I know it; but I must leave on Monday," said the applicant.
"I don't engage her for Sundays, sir."
"It is the only time we have."
"I can't help it, sir."
"But we want to go down to Rockland to church."
"I can't let her go out on Sunday. I want to go to meeting myself, and
to Sunday school."
The gentleman begged hard, but Bobtail was as resolute as the case
required; he would as soon have thought of setting the Bay View House on
fire, or robbing the bank, as of going out in a boat for pleasure on
Sunday. The applicant offered him ten dollars, then twelve, and at last
fifteen, if he would take the party out; but he refused to go for any
sum that could be named, and the gentleman departed, with some hard
words about fanatics, and declared that he would not hire the boat on a
week day if he could not have her on Sunday.
At an early hour Bobtail turned in, with the feeling that he had done
his duty, though fifteen dollars was a large sum to sacrifice. He might
lose some of his engagements on other days by his observance of the
Sabbath, but he would as soon have thought of robbing the bank, or
setting the Bay View House on fire, for fifteen dollars, as of running
the Skylark on Sunday for that sum. He was satisfied with himself, after
he had faithfully considered the subject, and confident that there were
good people enough to make the yacht pay without wounding his own
conscience.
He went to church and to Sunday school the next day; and the services
never seemed to do him so much good as after the sacrifice he had made.
A party was ready for him on Monday, and though the weather was rainy
and foggy,--as it sometimes is at Camden,--he made his eight dollars,
and his passengers were entirely satisfied. A party wanted the boat on
Tuesday; but of course he could not go out until after the examination.
At nine o'clock in the morning the Penobscot dropped her anchor in
Camden harbor, and Colonel Montague immediately went on shore in the
barge. An hour later the defendants and the witnesses had assembled at
the office of Squire Norwood.
"We have our witness here," said Mr. Simonton, with one of his
pleasantest and blandest smiles--"Colonel Montague."
The justice bowed to the distinguished witness, and requested Squire
Gilfilian to produce the five hundred dollar bill, which was promptly
done. Squire Norwood then rehearsed the evidence which had been given at
the former hearing. The letter had been left on Mr. Gilfilian's desk; it
had disappeared, and the bank bill it had contained was paid to Mr.
Gilfilian by Mrs. Taylor, to cancel a mortgage on her husband's house.
One of the defendants had denied all knowledge of the letter after he
put it on the desk, and the other, refusing to explain where she had
obtained the bill, had been arrested as a party to the crime, or as
accessory to it.
"This is the bill," continued Squire Norwood, handing it to Colonel
Montague, who examined it for a moment. "Have you any knowledge of that
bill?"
"I have."
"Do you identify it?"
"Fully. I gave this bill to Mrs. Taylor last Thursday afternoon, about
sunset, on board of my yacht."
This evidence produced a decided sensation among the spectators. Squire
Gilfilian sprang to his feet, and Captain Chinks, who was toying with
his pocket-knife, turned as red as a red cabbage.
"On what account did you pay Mrs. Taylor five hundred dollars, Colonel
Montague?" demanded Mr. Gilfilian.
"She was in my employ many years ago. She came on board of my yacht last
Thursday, and told me her husband would lose his house if a mortgage
upon it of five hundred dollars was not paid; that the mortgage was
already foreclosed, and the house was to be advertised for sale. Under
these circumstances, I loaned her the money to save her from being
turned out of house and home," replied Colonel Montague, deliberately,
but with more agitation than the case seemed to warrant.
"You are confident that this is the same bill?" added Squire Norwood.
"Perfectly confident; I declare upon oath that it is the same bill."
"Now, Colonel Montague, where did you obtain this bill?"
"At Bar Harbor, Mount Desert."
"Of whom?"
"I have really forgotten the name of the gentleman, but he came to Mount
Desert in a small yacht, and had a very rough passage. He was quite
sick, and told me he was disgusted with yachting in a small craft. He
had just sold his boat for half her cost, and had received this five
hundred dollar bill in payment for her, which he wished me to change
for him, and I gave him smaller bills for it."
"Do you know the boat he sold?" asked Mr. Simonton.
"I never saw her, that I am aware of."
Squire Norwood ordered Mrs. Taylor to be discharged; Squire Gilfilian
suggested that Bobtail was the purchaser of the yacht, but it was proved
that he had not been absent from Camden even an hour before the time
when Colonel Montague obtained the bill, and he was also discharged.
When the examination was finished, Captain Chinks quietly stole out of
the office, evidently dissatisfied with the result. Little Bobtail was
warmly congratulated by all his friends, old and new, on the issue, and
he was hastening away, in order to take out his party in the Skylark,
when Mr. Hines stopped him.
CHAPTER XV.
A TRIP TO BAR HARBOR.
"Are you engaged to-day, Bobtail?" asked Mr. Hines, who was accompanied
by Mr. Brooks, the deputy sheriff.
"Not exactly, sir. Two gentlemen at the Bay View wished me to take them
out in the Skylark, but I told them I didn't think I could."
"If you are not engaged, I want you and your boat for two days," added
the custom-house official.
"Another party wanted me to-morrow; but of course I couldn't say
anything when I expected to be sent to the state prison by this time."
"I must have the boat for a couple of days, Bobtail. I won't say where
we are bound, and you need not mention that I am going with you,"
continued Mr. Hines, as he discovered Squire Gilfilian and Captain
Chinks talking together on the sidewalk. "You shall be paid for the use
of the boat at your usual rate, and I shall be ready in about an hour.
Mr. Brooks will go with us."
Little Bobtail wondered what was going to be done now, as Mr. Hines
sheered off and hastened to the hotel; but he had no time to consider
before Squire Gilfilian called him. He was not quite willing to believe
that the distinguished lawyer wished to convict him of a crime, but he
thought he was very zealous in his work.
"Bobtail, I am not quite satisfied about this business," said the
squire.
"I am, sir," replied the young skipper.
"I suppose so," added the lawyer, with a smile. "You ought to be. There
seems to be some connection between the boat you say you picked up and
the bill which was stolen from my letter."
"I don't know anything about that," said Bobtail.
"Do you mean to say that you picked that boat up?" asked Captain Chinks,
sharply.
"I do mean to say so."
"I'll bet a hundred dollars she is the boat that was bought with that
money."
"I think it's very likely; but I didn't buy her with it," replied
Bobtail.
"But you got some man to do it for you. The boat didn't turn up in
Camden harbor till a week after the money was lost."
"I don't know anything about that; but if you want to take me up again,
I'm ready," answered Bobtail, smartly.
"We don't want to take you up. We only want to know who stole that
letter. Your bringing that boat here, and no one claiming her, look a
little suspicious--that's all," added Squire Gilfilian.
"But I never was in Bar Harbor, where the boat was bought, in my life,"
pleaded Bobtail.
"You might have got some man to buy her for you."
"I might, but I didn't."
"You seem to be using the boat just as if she were your own."
"I told Captain Chinks I was ready to give her up whenever the owner
came for her; and she is advertised in the Camden Herald and the
Rockland Gazette."
"That's a blind," said Captain Chinks. "But I'm going to look the thing
up. I was in the squire's office when that letter came, and by and by
somebody will say I took it."
"Well, I don't know but you did," added Bobtail, though the suspicion
had never before entered his mind.
"What!" exclaimed the man with a doubtful reputation, his face flushing.
"I don't say you did; and I don't know anything at all about it."
"Don't be saucy, Bobtail," interposed Squire Gilfilian.
"I have just as much right to say he took the letter, as he has to say I
took it. He had just as much to do with it as I had; and he was in the
office when I left it."
"But you went back again, you rascal!" said Captain Chinks, angrily.
"No, I didn't go back again."
"You left the office before I did, but you overtook me on the road to
the Portland steamer wharf. You went back again; I know you did!"
stormed the captain.
"I didn't go back."
"Well, where were you all that time?"
"I went into a shop and bought some gingerbread and cheese, and I can
prove it, too."
"Didn't you hear me tell the post-master that I expected a letter with
some money in it, the day that letter came?" asked the squire.
"No, sir; I did not."
"I told the post-master what I expected when I asked him to send me the
letter. You were in the office then, Bobtail."
"No, sir; I didn't see you at all that day. I wasn't in the post-office
half a minute before the letter was given to me," answered Bobtail,
decidedly.
Squire Gilfilian wished to make it out that the boy knew there was money
in the letter, to account for his stealing it; but he made no progress
in his effort.
"I'm going to look this business up, anyhow," said Captain Chinks,
savagely. "I want your boat for two days, Bobtail."
"You can't have her," replied the young skipper, decidedly.
"I suppose not," sneered the captain. "You don't want this business
looked up."
"Whether I do or not, you can't have the boat."
"What's the reason I can't?"
"She is engaged; but if she was not engaged, I wouldn't let you have
her."
"Steady, Bobtail," interposed the squire. "You are a little too crank
for a boy."
"I can't help it. The last time Captain Chinks was in the boat, he
pitched into me; and that's where he got that black eye. I don't want
anything more to do with him."
"I'll pay for the boat," said the captain, who seemed desirous at this
point to change the subject of the conversation.
"You can't have her. She is engaged."
"Who is to have her?"
"Two or three parties want her. I'm going off for two days."
"Where are you going?"
"I don't know. The folks didn't tell me where."
"Who are the folks?" demanded Captain Chinks.
"It don't make any difference who they are. But I haven't time to stand
here talking all day. If you want anything of me, I'm ready to face the
music."
"Captain Chinks wants your boat to investigate the matter of the
letter," said Squire Gilfilian. "He is going to Bar Harbor, and wants
the boat so as to find the person who bought her, for of course she will
be known there. You had better let him have her."
"I can't let him have her. She is engaged."
"But this is a case that will warrant you in breaking your engagement."
"I don't think so."
"Your character is involved in this matter; and it is for your interest
to have the case cleared up."
"I don't believe Captain Chinks will clear it up. I know more about him
than some other fellows do, and I don't want him to whitewash my
character. I can't stop any longer, sir," said Bobtail, as he saw Mr.
Hines and the deputy-sheriff watching his movements.
Captain Chinks was very angry at the boy's last remarks, and began to
storm at him. Squire Gilfilian tried to calm him, and Bobtail walked off
while he was doing so.
"What's the matter, Bobtail?" asked Mr. Hines, when the boy joined him
in the office of the hotel.
"They are trying to make it out now that I bought the Skylark with the
money taken from the letter," answered the skipper, as he proceeded to
give the substance of the conversation with the squire and Captain
Chinks.
"Then the captain is going to Bar Harbor--is he?" laughed Mr. Hines. "I
hope he will go. I may want to use him there."
"Are you going to Bar Harbor, sir?" asked Bobtail.
"That's where we are bound."
"But I am not a pilot beyond Sedgwick. I have been there, but never to
Mount Desert," said the skipper.
"No matter, my lad; I'm a pilot to Bar Harbor, and it's quite time you
learned the way there," replied Mr. Hines. "Now get ready as fast as you
can, Bobtail, and don't say where you are going or who is going with
you; for I don't believe Captain Chinks would go to Bar Harbor if he
expected to meet me there."
The skipper purchased some provisions and stores for the yacht, which
Monkey had sailed up to the wharf at the head of the harbor, as he had
been instructed to do. Bobtail sent word to his mother that he should
be gone two or three days, and went on board. But his passengers did not
appear, and he waited impatiently for them. Captain Chinks was loafing
about the wharf, and Bobtail concluded that this was the reason they did
not come. The captain was evidently curious to know who were to go in
the Skylark. After waiting half an hour, a boy brought a note to the
skipper. It was from Mr. Hines, desiring him to sail at once, and to
stand up towards North-East Point. He obeyed his written order, and
beyond the point, a boat with his passengers came off from the shore.
Mr. Hines and the deputy sheriff went below, so as not to be recognized
by any persons in the boats which were sailing about in the vicinity.
The skipper laid his course for the northern point of Deer Island, and
the Skylark went off flying on her cruise.
"I began to think you were not coming," said Bobtail to Mr. Hines, who
sat near the cabin door.
"We couldn't get on board at that wharf without being seen by everybody;
and Captain Chinks was watching us," replied the custom-house official.
"Mr. Philbrook drove us round to the point, where we got a boy to bring
us off. Are there any boats near you, Bobtail?"
"Not a single one, sir. There is a lot of mackerel catchers half a mile
to the southward of us, and the Portland steamer is coming round the
point."
"All right," said Mr. Hines, taking a seat in the standing-room opposite
the skipper. "Has Captain Chinks any boat fit to go to Mount Desert in?"
"He had one a while ago, but I haven't seen her lately. I don't know
where she is now."
"Do you know the boat?"
"Yes; I should know her a mile off."
"I think we shall find her at Bar Harbor," laughed Mr. Hines.
"I shouldn't be surprised, for I begin to see the daylight sinning
through this business," added Bobtail, his eyes flashing.
"What do you see?"
"I think I know who stole that letter, and how the five hundred dollar
bill happened to go down to Bar Harbor."
"We shall know before we get back."
"What do you suppose Captain Chinks wanted to go to Bar Harbor in the
Skylark for?" asked Bobtail.
"I don't know, but I am afraid if you had gone with him you would never
have come back again; for you have spoiled all his plans. He will take
the steamer to-morrow morning at Rockland for Bar Harbor. But we shall
have time to look the matter up before he arrives, if the breeze holds."
Fortunately the wind did hold, and at eight o'clock in the evening the
Skylark reached her destination. The breeze was steady, but light, and
the passage was a delightful one through the narrow channels among the
islands. The skipper got up a nice dinner of beefsteak, green corn, and
tomatoes, which Mr. Hines declared was equal to the table at the Bay
View; and this was no equivocal compliment.
"That is Captain Chinks's boat," said Bobtail, as he pointed to a craft
at anchor near the steamboat wharf.
"I thought we should find her here," replied Mr. Hines. "He doesn't sail
that boat alone--does he?"
"No, sir; he has a nephew that lives with him; but he has gone to
Boston."
"Are you sure of that?"
"Captain Chinks says he has; that's all I know about it."
"How old is the nephew?"
"Almost twenty-one."
"In my opinion that nephew is here," added the custom-house official.
"That's so!" exclaimed Bobtail, as the Skylark passed the captain's
boat. "There he is now.--Hallo, Ben!"
"Is that you, Bobtail? Where did you pick up that boat?"
"Don't let on," interposed Mr. Hines; and the skipper did not answer the
question.
"Say! Where d'ye get her?" shouted Ben.
"She isn't mine."
"He knows all about her. Keep out of sight, Mr. Brooks. He knows you,
but not me," continued Mr. Hines.
The Skylark passed out of hearing of Ben's voice, but he immediately
jumped into his dory and pulled for the wharf. Bobtail ran the yacht up
to the landing-steps, and Mr. Brooks hastened on shore, so that Ben
Chinks should not recognize him.
"Say, Bob, where'd ye get this boat?" asked Ben, stepping upon the deck
of the Skylark.
"She don't belong to me," replied Bobtail.
"Don't you know the boat?" inquired Mr. Hines.
"Don't I know her?" repeated Ben.
"That's the question I asked."
"I cal'late I've seen her before; because she came into Bar Harbor about
ten days ago," replied Ben, cautiously.
"Exactly so," added the custom-house detective; "she was sold, and your
uncle or father bought her."
"Who told you all that?" asked Ben; and he did not seem to know whether
or not to admit the truth of the statement.
The detective whistled and looked about him as though he did not care
whether Captain Chinks bought her or not.
"Your uncle bought her dog cheap, too. I think Captain Chinks is a smart
man," added Mr. Hines.
"He's some," grinned Ben.
"But you and he drank a little too much of that liquor."
"What liquor? I don't drink liquor."
"You might as well own up. Captain Chinks and you were a little boozy
that day."
"What day?"
"Why, that day you sailed this boat up the bay."
"I didn't drink a drop," protested Ben, warmly.
"Then your uncle drank enough for both of you."
"No, he didn't, nuther. I didn't see him drink anything."
"Ah, it's no use to deny it," laughed Mr. Hines, as though he was only
indulging in a pleasantry.
"I wouldn't deny it if it was true; but it ain't."
"How did the boat get adrift, then?" queried Mr. Hines. "Both of you
must have been a little set up."
"Not a bit."
"The boat wouldn't have got adrift if you had either of you been all
right."
"Both of us were as straight as a gun."
"How did it happen, then?"
"It was blowing like Sam Hill, that day, you see--didn't Captain Chinks
tell you about it?"
"He didn't say you were both sober."
"Well, I was; and if he drank anything that day, I didn't see him do
it,' persisted Ben.
"But what in the world did you want to land your stuff in that place
for?"
"What place? What stuff?" demanded Ben.
"Those cases of brandy, of course. It's all right, my man. Captain
Chinks will be down here to-morrow. Little Bobtail here picked up the
yacht, and took her into Camden. The stuff was all landed in the night,
so that only two or three persons know anything about it--Little
Bobtail, myself, and a friend of mine."
"Who is he?"
"He's a friend of mine. We were on the lookout for this lot of brandy,
and we took it off Captain Chinks's hands, so that he won't have any
trouble in getting rid of it."
"Is that so? Who's the other man?"
"We don't call names in this business, you know," answered the
detective, mysteriously. "But I can't see what you wanted to land the
stuff in that place for. You would have been trapped if you had; for
there is a sharp detective over at Camden, looking out for cases of this
sort."
"Sho! Who is he?"
"His name's Hines."
"Hines? I never heard on him before."
"He's sharp."
Bobtail had to look overboard to keep from laughing.
"Ketch a weasel asleep!" grinned Ben. "Me'n my uncle's sharp enough to
whittle skewers with him. When he ketches Cap'n Chinks, he'll ketch a
weasel asleep, you bet! It was the cap'n's notion to land the stuff on
that island, and take it over, a little at a time, when we went out
fishing. We run the boat aground on a beach. You see, I found a hole in
the rocks--a kind of cave--that would hold the hull lot on't. We could
kiver up the mouth of the hole with rocks, so't no one'd ever think
anything was in it. The boat was on so hard we couldn't stir her, and we
went up to take a look at the hole. While we were gone, the tide riz,
and the wind blowed the boat off. The cap'n did some tall swearin' about
that time, you'd better believe; but it didn't do no good. The boat was
gone, and we couldn't git her. It was just dark, and I cal'lated the
wind would drive her on the rocks, and smash her all to pieces. It was
lucky Bob picked her up, for she might 'a been found by some feller
who'd made mischief out of that stuff in the cabin."
Bobtail had to tell the story of the picking up of the Skylark.
"She must have drifted up the bay, and then down, for the tide turned
not long after we lost her," said Ben. "We walked up to Islesboro', but
we didn't dare to say a word. The cap'n went over to Camden in the
packet, and I came down here. I took our boat here, and with a man to
help me, cruised all round Deer Island and Vinal Haven, to see if I
could find the Skylark; but I couldn't hear nothin' on her."
"What did the captain give for this boat?" asked Mr. Hines.
"Five hundred dollars."
"Didn't pay for her--did he?"
"Yes, he did; cash down. The man he bought her of 's up at one of the
hotels now."
"Is he?"
"Yes, he is;" and Ben described the house.
"If he has any more such boats to sell, I should like to buy one like
this at the same price. But when are you going out again?"
"Out where?"
"O, I understand all about this business; you needn't roll your eyes at
me," laughed the detective. "I know all about it; and when Captain
Chinks runs in another lot of brandy, I intend to take it off his hands,
if he isn't too sharp; and I want to know when to be on the lookout for
it."
"O, you do?" grinned Ben.
"When do you go?"
"I donno; you must ask the cap'n. When he gets a letter he will be off."
The conversation was continued till it was quite dark, and then Ben went
back to his boat. Little Bobtail laughed till his sides ached at the
tactics of Mr. Hines, as they walked up to the hotel, or boarding-house,
where the late owner of the Skylark lodged.
CHAPTER XVI.
THE CHASE.
Mr. Hines and Little Bobtail walked up to the hotel. The former had
possessed himself of sufficient evidence to convict Captain Chinks of
smuggling, and also of intense stupidity in employing a simpleton like
Ben Chinks in such a dangerous business, though rogues and villains
almost always leave a screw loose somewhere.
"We shall make a good case of it, Bobtail," said Mr. Hines.
"I could hardly keep from laughing while you were pumping Ben Chinks,"
replied the skipper. "The idea of your taking the stuff off Captain
Chinks's hands!"
"I did take it off his hands, and he will have no trouble now in getting
rid of it."
"I wouldn't have said anything if I had been Ben."
"Very likely you would, Bobtail; for with all the information I have
obtained from you, and from other sources, I spoke by the book, and he
had every reason to suppose I was in the captain's confidence."
"But do you really think Captain Chinks will come down here?" asked
Bobtail.
"I am almost sure of it."
"I should stay away, if I were him."
"He must come to unsnarl the tangle he has made here," replied the
detective. "He must have been more astonished and disconcerted when
Squire Gilfilian showed him the bill he had paid for the boat, than any
one else was. Very likely he will have another explanation to make to
show how he came by it, and he may trace it back to you in some way. But
we will keep an eye on him."
At the hotel they met Mr. Brooks, but the gentleman who had sold the
Skylark, being in feeble health, had retired early. Nothing could be
done, and Bobtail returned to the yacht, while his passengers took rooms
at the hotel, and slept like a rock till morning, for he had worked hard
all day. At sunrise the next morning he was on his feet again. The
Darwinian had more talent for sleeping than the skipper of the Skylark,
and did not turn out till half an hour later. Bobtail had scarcely shown
himself on deck before Ben Chinks pulled to the yacht.
"Say, Bob, who is that man with you?" asked he.
"You must ask him who he is?"
"Don't you know?"
"I never saw him till a few days ago. In his kind of business, he don't
always tell who he is. No doubt he will tell you before night who he is.
What have you been doing down here so long?" asked the skipper, wishing
to divert the conversation into some other channel.
"I have made a pile of money taking out parties to sail, while I'm
waiting."
"What are you waiting for?"
"Waiting for the old man. Didn't he tell you?"
"No; he didn't say much to me."
"What did he give you for picking up the boat?"
"He hasn't given me anything yet," replied Bobtail. "How much do you
charge a day for your boat and two hands?"
"Five dollars."
"I've taken some parties out in the boat, and I have been charging seven
and eight dollars a day."
"That's a better boat than the Eagle. If I had her I should charge eight
dollars a day. But how did you get that stuff out of the Skylark?"
"I ran over in the night, and landed it between one and two o'clock in
the morning, when no one was stirring in our part of the town. I hid it
away in the attic, and this man took it away in the night," replied
Bobtail, confining himself strictly to the facts, though of course he
was no less guilty of deception than if he had told a number of square
lies, except that the deception was in the interest of justice.
"It was lucky for the old man that you picked that boat up; but he's
mean if he don't give you something handsome," added Ben.
"I have had the use of the boat ever since I picked her up."
"Well, that's somethin'. There comes Monkey. Does he know anything about
this business?" whispered Ben.
"Not a thing."
This was a sufficient reason for saying nothing more about it, and Ben
soon returned to the Eagle. After breakfast, Bobtail went up to the
hotel, where his passengers lodged. In the course of the forenoon, the
deputy sheriff "interviewed" Mr. Gordon, the gentleman who had sold the
Skylark. He was sure he could identify the man who had paid him the five
hundred dollar bill. When the steamer from Portland, which touches at
Rockland, arrived, almost everybody went down to the wharf, Mr. Gordon
among the number.
"If you see the man who paid you the bill, point him out, if you please,
but don't say anything about it," said Mr. Brooks, as the gang plank of
the steamer was run out.
"There he is!" exclaimed Mr. Gordon, as Captain Chinks walked from the
boat to the wharf.
The deputy sheriff and Mr. Hines kept out of sight. Bobtail had been
sent away in the Skylark, that she might not attract the attention of
the smuggler, and was standing off and on a mile or more from the shore.
As soon as Captain Chinks landed, he was greeted by Ben, his nephew, who
was doubtless glad to see him.
"I s'pose you are tired of waiting--ain't you, Ben?" asked the captain,
who wore a troubled expression.
"Not a bit on't. I've been makin' five dollars a day, right along,
takin' parties out to sail," replied Ben, with a cheerful grin; "but I
had to pay a boy half a dollar a day to help me."
"That's pretty well."
"Why didn't you come down afore?"
"Because I didn't hear anything from St. John; and things are a little
mixed up to Camden."
"Mixed! Why, I thought everything had come out fust rate. You got the
Skylark and the stuff back as slick as a whistle."
"Who told you so?" demanded the captain, with a startled look.
"Why, Little Bobtail. He's here in the Skylark, and said you sent him."
Bobtail certainly had not said any such thing. Ben had inferred it from
what Mr. Hines had stated. It was not prudent to talk of these matters
in the midst of so many people, and the captain and his nephew hastened
on board of the Eagle.
"I didn't send him," said Captain Chinks, very much perplexed.
"You didn't?"
"No; the young villain picked up the boat, but I couldn't do anything
