the mine and publish a notice of it. They did not care a fig 
what you said about the property so you said something. 
Consequently we generally said a word or two to the efi'ect 
that the " indications " were good, or that the ledge was " six 
feet wide," or that the rock '* resembled the Comstock " (and 
80 it did — but as a general thing the resemblance was not 
startling enough to knock you down). If the rock was moder- 
ately promising, we followed the custom of the country, used 
strong adjectives and frothed at the mouth as if a very marvel 
in silver discoveries had transpired. If the mine was a " developed" 
one, and had no pay ore to show (and of course it 
hadn't), we praised the tunnel ; said it was one of the most 
infatuating tunnels in the land ; driveled and driveled about 
the tunnel till we ran entirely out of ecstasies — but never said 
a word about the rock. We would squander half a column of 
adulation on a shaft, or a new wire rope, or a dressed pine 
windlass, or a fascinating force pump, and close with a burst of 
admiration of the " gentlemanly and efficient Superintendent " 
of the mine — but never utter a whisper about the rock. And 
those people were always pleased, always satisfied. Occasion- 
ally we patched up and varnished our rejDutation for discrimi- 
nation and stern, undeviating accuracy, by giving some old 
abandoned claim a blast that ought to have made its dry bones 
rattle — and then somebody would seize it and sell it on the 
fleeting notoriety thus conferred upon it. 

There was nothing in the shape of a mining claim that was 
not salable. We received presents of "feet" every day. If 
we needed a hundred dollars or so, we sold some; if not, we 
hoarded it away, satisfied that it would ultimately be worth 
a thousand dollars a foot. I had a trunk about lialf full of 
" stock." When a claim made a stir in the market and went 
up to a high figure, I searched through my pile to see if I had 
any of its stock — and generally found it. 

The prices rose and fell constantly ; but still a fall disturbed 
us little, because a thousand dollars a foot was our figure, and 
we were content to let it fluctuate as much as it pleased till it 
reached it. My pile of stock was not all given to me by people 
who wished their claims " noticed." At least half of it was 
given me by persons who had no thought of such a thing, and 
looked for nothing more than a simple verbal " thank you ; " and 
you were not even obliged by law to furnish that. If you are 
coming up the street with a couple 
of baskets of apples in your hands, 
and you meet a friend, you natu- 
rally invite him to take a few. 
That describes the condition of 
things in Virginia in the "flush 
times." Every man had his pockets' full of stock, and it was the 
actual custom of the country to 
part with small quantities of it to 
friends without the asking. Very 
often it was a good idea to close the 
transaction instantly, when a man 
offered a stock present to a friend, 
for the offer was only good and 
. brnding at that moment, and if 
the price went to a high figure 
shortly afterward the procrastination was a thing to be regretted. 
Mr. Stewart (Senator, now, from 
Nevada) one day told me he 

would give me twenty feet of " Justis" stock if I would walk 
over to his oflice. It was worth five or ten dollars a foot. I 
asked him to make the offer good for next day, as I was just 
going to dinner. He said he would not be in town ; so I 
risked it and took my dinner instead of the stock. Within 
the week the price went up to seventy dollars and afterward 
to a hundred and fifty, but nothing could make that man yield. 
I suppose he sold that stock of mine and placed the guilty 
proceeds in his own pocket. [My revenge will be found in 
the accompanying portrait.] I met three friends one after- 
noon, who said they had been buying " Overman " stock at 
auction at eight dollars a foot. One said if I would come up 
to his office he would give me fifteen feet ; another said he 
would add fifteen ; the thu'd said he would do the same. But 

I was going after an inquest 
and could not stop. A few 
weeks afterward they sold all 
their " Overman " at six hun- 
dred dollars a foot and generously came around to tell 
me about it — and also to urge 
me to accept of the next forty-five feet of it that people tried 
to force on me. These are 
actual facts, and I could make 
the list a long one and still 
confine myself strictly to the 
truth. Many a time friends 
gave us as much as twenty-five feet of stock that was selling 
at twenty-five dollars a foot, and they thought no more of it 
than they would of offering a guest a cigar. These were 
"flush times" indeed! I thought they were going to last 
always, but somehow I never was much of a prophet. 

To show what a wild spirit possessed the mining brain of 
the community, I will remark that "claims" were actually 
" located " in excavations for cellars, where the pick had ex- 
posed what seemed to be quartz veins — and not cellars in the 
suburbs, either, but in the very heart of the city ; and forth- 
with stock would be issued and thrown on the market. It was 
small matter who the cellar belonged to — the " ledge " belonged 
to the finder, and unless the United States government inter- 
fered (inasmuch as the government holds the primary right to 
mines of the noble metals in Nevada — or at least did then), 
it was considered to be his privilege to work it. Imagine a 
stranger staking out a mining claim among the costly shrub- 
bery m your front yard and calmly proceeding to lay waste 
the ground with pick and shovel and blasting powder ! It has 
been often done in California. In the middle of one of the 
principal business streets of Virginia, a man "located" a 
mining claim and began a shaft on it. He gave me a hundred 
feet of the stock and I sold it for a fine suit of clothes because 
I was afraid somebody would fall down the shaft and sue for 
damages. I owned in another claim that was located in the 
middle of another street ; and to show how absurd people can 
be, that "East India" stock (as it was called) sold briskly 
although there was an ancient tunnel running directly under 
the claim and any man could go into it and see that it did not 
cut a quartz ledge or anything that remotely resembled one. 

One plan of acquiring sudden wealth was to " salt " a wild 
cat claim and sell out while the excitement was up. The process 
was simple. 
The schemer 
located a 
worthless 
ledge, sunk 
a shaft on it, bought a wagon load 
ofricli"Com- stock " ore, 
dumped a 
portion of it 
into the shaft 
and piled the 
rest by its 
side, above 
ground. Then he 
showed the 
property to a simpleton and sold it to 
him at a high figure. Of course the wagon load of rich ore 
was all that the victim ever got out of his purchase. A 
most remarkable case of "salting" was that of the "North 
Ophir." It was claimed that this vein was a - -e " extension " 
of the original " Ophir," a valuable mine on the " Corn- 
stock." For a few days everybody was talking about the rich 
developments in the JSorth Ophir. It was said that it yielded 
perfectly pure silver in small, solid lumps. I went to the 
place with the owners, and found a shaft six or eight feet 
deep, in the bottom of which was a badly shattered vein of 
dull, yellowish, unpromising rock. One would as soon expect 
to find silver in a grindstone. We got out a pan of the rub- 
bish and washed it in a puddle, and sure enough, among the 
sediment we found half a dozen black, bullet-looking pellets 
of unimpeachable " native " silver. Nobody had ever heard 
of such a thing before ; science could not account for such a 
queer novelty. The stock rose to sixty-five dollars a foot, and 
at this figure the world-renowned tragedian, McKean Bucha- 
nan, bought a commanding interest and prepared to quit the 
stage once more — he was always doing that. And then it 
transpired that the mine had been " salted " — and not in any 
hackneyed way, either, but in a singularly bold, barefaced and 
peculiarly original and outrageous fashion. On one of the 
lumps of " native " silver was discovered the minted legend, 
" TED States of," and then it was plainly apparent that the 
mine had been " salted" with melted half-dollars ! The lumps 
thus obtained had been blackened till they resembled native 
silver, and were then mixed with the shattered rock in the 
bottom of the shaft. It is literally true. Of course the price 
of the stock at once fell to nothing, and the tragedian was 
ruined. But for this calamity we might have lost McKean 
Buchanan from the stage. 



CHAPTEE XLT. 

THE " flush times " held bravely on. Something over two 
years before, Mr. Goodman and another journeyman, 
printer, had borrowed forty dollars and set out from San 
Francisco to try their fortunes in the new city of Yirginia. 
They found the Territorial Enterprise, a poverty-stricken 
weekly journal, gasping for breath and hkely to die. They 
bought it, type, fixtures, good-will and all, for a thousand dollars, 
on long time.. The editorial sanctum, news-room, press- 
room, publication office, bed-chamber, parlor, and kitchen were 
all compressed into one apartment and it was a small one, 
too. The editors and printers slept on the floor, a China- 
man did their cooking, and the " imposing-stone " was the 
general dinner table. But now things were changed. The 
paper was a great daily, printed by steam ; there were five 
editors and twenty-three compositors; the subscription price 
was sixteen dollars a year ; the advertising rates were exorbi- 
tant, and the columns crowded. The paper was clearing from 
six to ten thousand dollars a month, and the " Enterprise Build- 
ing" was finished and ready for occupation — a stately tire- 
proof brick. Every day from five all the way up to eleven 
columns of " live " advertisements were left out or crowded 
into spasmodic and irregular " supplements." 

The " Gould & Curry " company were erecting a monster 
hundred-stamp mill at a cost that ultimately fell little short of 
a million dollars. Gould & Curry stock paid heavy dividends. 
— a rare thing, and an experience confined to the dozen or fifteen 
claims located on the " main lead," the " Comstock." The 
Superintendent of the Gould & Curry lived, rent free, in a 
fine house built and furnished by the company. He drove a 
fine pair of horses which were a present from the company, 
and his salary was twelve thousand dollars a year. The super- 
intendent of another of the great mines traveled in grand 
state, had a salary of twenty-eight thousand dollars a year, and 
in a law suit in after days claimed that he was to have had 
one per cent, on the gross yield of the bullion likewise. 

Money was wonderfully plenty. The trouble was, not 
how to get it, — but how to spend it, how to lavish it, 
get rid of it, squander it. And so it was a happy thing 
that just at this juncture the news came over the wires 
that a great United States Sanitary Commission had been 
formed and money was wanted for the relief of the wounded 
sailors and soldiers of the Union languishing in the Eastern 
hospitals. Right on the heels of it came word that San 
Francisco had responded superbly before the telegram was 
half a day old. Virginia rose as one man ! A Sanitary 
Committee was hurriedly organized, and its chairman mounted 
a vacant cart in C street and tried to make the clamorous mul- 
titude understand that the rest of the committee were flying 
hither and thither and working with all their might and main, 
and that if the town would only wait an hour, an office would 
be ready, books opened, and the Commission prepared to 
receive contributions. His voice was drowned and his infor- 
mation lost in a ceaseless roar of cheers, and demands that 
the money be received now — they swore they would not wait. 
The chairman pleaded and argued, but, deaf to all entreaty, 
men plowed their way through the throng and rained checks 
of gold coin into the cart and skurried away for more. Hands 
clutching money, were thrust aloft out of the jam by men who 
hoped this eloquent appeal would cleave a road their strug- 
gling? could not open. The very Chinamen and Indians 
caught the excitement and dashed their half dollars into the 
cart without knowing or caring what it was all about. Women 
plunged into the crowd, trimly attired, fought their way to the 
cart with their coin, and emerged again, by and bj, with their 
apparel in a state of hopeless dilapidation. It was the wildest 
mob Virginia had ever seen and the most determined and ungovernable ; 
and when at last it abated its fury and dispersed, 
couldn't wait. 

It had not a penny in its pocket. To use its own phraseology, 
it came there " flush " and went away " busted." 

After that, the Commission got itself into systematic work- 
ing order, and for weeks the contributions flowed into its 
treasury in a generous stream. Individuals and all sorts of 
organizations levied upon themselves a regular weekly tax for 

the sanitary fund, graduated according to their means, and 
there was not another grand universal outburst till the famous 
" Sanitary Flour Sack " came our way. Its history is peculiar 
and interesting. A former schoolmate of mine, by the name 
of Reuel Gridley, was living at the little city of Austin, in 
the Reese river country, at this time, and was the Democratic 
candidate for mayor. He and the Republican candidate made 
an agreement that the defeated man should be publicly pre- 
sented with a fifty-pound sack of flour by the successful one, 
and should carry it home on his shoulder. Gridley was 
defeated. The new mayor gave him the sack of flour, and he 
shouldered it and carried it a mile or two, from Lower Austin 
to his home in Upper Austin, attended by a band of music and 
the whole population. Arrived there, he said he did not need 
the flour, and asked what the people thought he had better do 
with it. A voice said : 

" Sell it to the highest bidder, for the benefit of the Sani- 
tary fund." 

The suggestion was greeted with a round of applause, and 
Gridley mounted a dry-goods box and assumed the role of 
auctioneer. The bids v*'ent higher and higher, as the sympa- 
thies of the pioneers awoke and expanded, till at last the sack 
was knocked down to a mill man at two hundred and fifty 
dollars, and his check taken. He was asked where he would 
have the flour delivered, and he said : 

" Nowhere — sell it again." 

Now the cheers went up royally, and the multitude were 
fairly in the spirit of the thing. So Gridley stood there and 
shouted and perspired till the sun went down ; and when the 
crowd dispersed he had sold the sack to three hundred difierent 
people, and had taken in eight thousand dollars in gold. And 
still the flour sack was in his possession. 

The news came to Virginia, and a telegram went back: 

" Fetch along your flour sack ! " 

Thirty-six hours afterward Gridley arrived, and an after- 
noon mass meeting was held in the Opera House, and the 
auction began. But the sack had come sooner than it was 
expected ; the people were not thoroughly aroused, and the 
sale dragged. At nightfall only live thousand dollars had 
been secured, and there was a crestfallen feeling in the com- 
munity. However, there was no disposition to let the matter 
rest here and acknowledge vanquishnient at the hands of the 
village of Austin. Till late in the night the principal citizens 
were at work arranging the morrow's campaign, and when 
they went to bed they had no fears for the result. At eleven 
the next morning a procession of open carriages, attended by 
clamorous bands of music and adorned with a moving display 
of flags, filed along C street and was soon in danger of 
blockade by a huzzaing multitude of citizens. In the first 
carriage sat Gridley, with the flour sack in prominent view, 
the latter splendid with bright paint and gilt lettering ; also in 
the same carriage sat the mayor and the recorder. The other 
carriages contained the Common Council, the editors and 
reporters, and other people of imposing consequence. The 
crowd pressed to the corner of C and Taylor streets, expecting 
the sale to begin there, but they were disappointed, and also 
unspeakably surprised ; for the cavalcade moved on as if 
Virginia had ceased to be of importance, and took its way 
over the "divide," toward the small town of Gold Hill. 
Telegrams had gone ahead to Gold Hill, Silver City and 
Dayton, and those communities were at fever heat and 
rife for the conflict. It was a very hot day, and wonderfully 
dusty. At the end of a short half hour we descended into 
Gold Hill with drums beating and colors flying, and enveloped 
in imposing clouds of dust. The whole population — men, 
women and children, Chinamen and Indians, were massed in 
the main street, all the flags in town were at the mast head, 
and the blare of the bands was drowned in cheers. Gridley 
stood up and asked who would make the first bid for the 
National Sanitary Flour Sack. Gen. W. said : 

" The Yellow Jacket silver mining company oflfers a thou- 
sand dollars, coin ! " 

A tempest of applause followed. A telegram carried 
the news to Yirginia, and fifteen minutes afterward that city's 
population was massed in the streets devouring the tidings — 
for it was part of the programme that the bulletin boards 
should do a good work that day. Every few minutes a new 
dispatch was bulletined from Gold Hill, and still the excite- 
ment grew. Telegrams began to return to us from Virginia 
beseeching Gridley to bring back the flour sack; but such 
was not the plan of the campaign. At the end of an hour 
Gold Hill's small population had paid a figure for the flour 
sack that awoke all the enthusiasm of Virginia when the grand 
total was displayed upon the bulletin boards. Then the 
Gridley cavalcade moved on, a giant refreshed with new lager 
beer and plenty of it — for the people brought it to the 
carriages without waiting to measure it — and within three 
hours more the expedition had carried Silver City and Dayton 
by storm and was on its way back covered with glory. Every 
move had been telegraphed and bulletined, and as the pro- 
cession entered Virginia and filed down C street at half past 
eight in the evening the town was abroad in the thorough- 
fares, torches were glaring, flags flying, bands playing, cheer 
on cheer cleaving the air, and the city ready to surrender at 
discretion. The auction began, every bid Mas greeted with 
bursts of applause, and at the end of two hours and a half a 
population of fifteen thousand souls had paid in coin for a 
fifty-pound sack of flour a sum equal to forty thousand dollars 
in greenbacks ! It was at a rate in the neighborhood of three 
dollars for each man, woman and child of the population. 
The grand total would have been twice as large, but the 
streets were very narrow, and hundreds who wanted to bid 
could not get within a block of the stand, and could not make 
themselves heard. These grew tired of waiting and many of 
them went home long before the auction wasover. This was 
the greatest day Virginia ever saw, perhaps. 

Gridley sold the sack in Carson city and several California 
towns ; also in San Francisco. Then he took it east and sold 
it in one or two Atlantic cities, I think. I am not sure of 
that, but I know that he finally carried it to St. Louis, where a 
monster Sanitary Fair was being held, and after selling it 
there for a large sum and helping on the enthusiasm by displaying 
the portly silver bricks which Nevada's donation had 
produced, he had the flour baked up into small cakes and retailed
them at high prices. 

It was estimated that when the flour sack's mission was 
ended it had been sold for a grand total of a hundred and fifty 
thousand dollars in greenbacks! This is probably the only 
instance on record where common family flour brought three 
thousand dollars a pound in the public market. 

It is due to Mr. Gridley's memory to mention that the 
expenses of his sanitary flour sack expedition of fifteen thou- 
sand miles, going and .returning, were paid in large part, if 
not entirely, out of his own pocket. The time he gave to it 
was not less than three months. Mr. Gridley was a soldier 
in the Mexican war and a pioneer Californian. He died at 
Stockton, California, in December, 1870, greatly regretted. 

They were nabobs in those days— in the " flush times," 
I mean. Every rich strike in the mines created one or 
two. I call to mind several of these. They were careless, 
easy-going fellows, as a general thing, and the community at 
large was as much benefited by their riches as they were 
themselves — possibly more, in some cases. 

Two cousins, teamsters, did some hauling for a man and 
had to take a small segregated portion of a silver mine in lieu 
of $300 cash. They gave an outsider a third to open the 
mine, and they went on teaming. But not long. Ten months 
afterward the mine was out of debt and paying each owner 
$8,000 to $10,000 a month— say $100,000 a year. 

One of the earliest nabobs that Nevada was delivered of 
wore $6,000 worth of diamonds in his bosom, and swore he 
was unhappy because he could not spend his money as fast as 
lie made it. 

Another Nevada nabob boasted an income that often 
reached $16,000 a month ; and he used to love to teU how he 
had worked in the very mine that yielded it, for five dollars a 
day, when he first came to the country. 

The silver and sage-brush State has knowledge of another 
of these pets of fortune — lifted from actual poverty to affluence 
almost in a single night — who was able to offer $100,000 for a 
position of high official distinction, shortly afterward, and did 
ofler it — but failed to get it, his politics not being as sound aS 
his bank account. 


Then there was John Smith. He was a good, honest, kind- 
hearted soul, born and reared in the lower ranks of life, and 
miraculously ignorant. lie drove a team, and owned a small 
ranch — a ranch that paid him a comfortable living, for al- 
though it yielded but little hay, what little it did yield was 
worth from $250 to $300 in gold per ton in the market. 
Presently Smith traded a few acres of the ranch for a small 
undeveloped silver mine in Gold Hill. He opened the mine 
and built a little unpretending ten-stamp mill. Eighteen 
mouths afterward he retired from the hay business, for his 
mining income had reached a most comfortable figure. Some 
people said it was $30,000 a month, and others said it was 
$60,000. Smith was very rich at any rate. 

And then he went to Europe and traveled. And when he 
came back he was never tired of telling about the fine hogs he 
had seen in England, and 
the gorgeous sheep he had 
seen in Spain, and the fine 
cattle he had noticed in the 
vicinity of Rome. He was 
full of the wonders of the 
old world, and advised everybody to travel. He said a 
man never imagined what surprising things there were 
in the world till he had traveled. 

One day, on board ship, 
the passengers made up a 
pool of $500, which wac to 
be the property of the man 
who should come nearest to 
guessing the run of the vessel for the next twenty-four 
hours. Next day, toward noon, the figures were all in the 
purser's hands in sealed envelopes. Smith was serene and happy,
for he had been bribing the engineer. But another party won the prize ! Smitb 
said: 

" Here, that won't do ! He guessed two miles wider of 
the mark than I did." 

The purser said, "Mr. Smith, you missed it further than 
any man on board. We traveled two hundred and eight miles 
yesterday." 

"Well, sir," said Smith, "that's just where I've got you, 
for I guessed two himdred and nine. If you'll look at my 
figgers again you'll find a 2 and two O's, which stands for 200, 
don't it ? — and after 'em you'll find a 9 (2009), which stands 
for two hundred and nine. I reckon I'll take that money, if 
you please." 

The Gould & Curry claim comprised twelve hundred feet,. 
and it all belonged originally to the two men whose names it 
bears. Mr. Curry owned two thirds of it — and he said that he 
sold it out for twenty-five hundred dollars in cash, and an old 
plug horse that ate up his market value in hay and barley in 
seventeen days by the watch. And he said that Gould sold 
out for a pair of second-hand government blankets and a bot- 
tle of whisky that killed nine men in three hours, and that an 
unoffending stranger that smelt the cork was disabled for life. 
Four years afterward the mine thus disposed of was worth in 
the San Francisco marketeven millions six hundred thousand 
dollars in gold coin. 

In the early days a poverty-stricken Mexican who lived in 
 a canyon directly back of Virginia City, had a stream of water 
as large as a man's wrist trickling from the hill-side on his 
premises. The Ophir Company segregated a hundred feet of 
their mine and traded it to him for the stream of water. The 
hundred feet proved to be the richest part of the entire 
mine ; four years after the swap, its market value (including 
its mill) was $1,500,000. 

An individual who owned twenty feet in the Ophir mine 
before its great riches were revealed to men, ti-aded it for a 
horse, and a very sorry looking brute he was, too. A year or 
afterward, when Ophir stock went up to $3,000 a foot, this. 


man, who had not a cent, i( sed to say he was the most startling 
example of magnificence and misery the world had ever seen 
— because he was able to ride a sixty-thoiisand-dollar horse — 
yet could not scrape up cash enough to buy a saddle, and wag 
oblio:ed to borrow one 
or ride bareback. lie 
said if fortune were to 
give him another sixty- 
thousand-dollar horse it 
would ruin him. 

A youth of nineteen, 
who was a telegraph 
operator in Yirginia on 
a salary of a bundled 
dollars a month, and 
who, when he could not 
make out German namcb 
in the list of San Fran 
cisco steamer arrivaK, 
used to ingeniously select and supply substitutes for them out of an 
old Berlin city directory, 
made himself rich by watching the mining 
telegrams that passed tln-ough his hands and buying and selling 
stocks accordingly, tln'ough a friend in San Francisco. 
Once when a piivate dispatch was sent from Yirginia an- 
nouncing a rich strike in a prominent mine and advising that 
the matter be kept secret till a large amount of the stock could 
be secured, he bought forty "feet" of the stock at twenty 
dollars a foot, and afterward sold half of it at eight hundred 
dollars a foot and the rest at double that figure. Within three 
months lie was worth $150,000, and had resigned his telegraphic 
position. 

Another telegraph operator who had been discharged by 
the company for divulging the secrets of the office, agreed 

with a moneyed man in San Francisco to furnish him the 
result of a great Virginia mining lawsuit within an hour after 
its private reception by the parties to it in San Francisco. 
For this lie was to have a large percentage of the profits on 
purchases and sales made on it by his fellow-conspirator. So 
he went, disguised as a teamster, to a little wayside telegraph 
office in the mountains, got acquainted wdth the operator, and 
sat in the office day after day, smoking his pipe, complaining 
that his team was fagged out and nnable to travel — and mean- 
time listening to the dispatches as they passed clicking through 
the machine from Virginia. Finally the private dispatch an- 
nouncing the result of the lawsuit sped over the wires, and as 
soon as he heard it he telegraphed his friend in San Francisco : 

"Am tired waiting. Shall sell the team and go home." 

It was the signal agreed upon. The word "waiting" left 
out, would have signified that the suit had gone the other way. 
The mock teamster's friend picked up a deal of the mining 
stock, at low figures, before the news became public, and a 
fortune was the result. 

For a long time after one of the great Virginia mines had 
been incorporated, about fifty feet of the original location were 
etill in the hands of a man who had never signed the incorpo- 
ration papers. The stock became very valuable, and every 
effort was made to find this man, but he had disappeared. 
Once it was heard that he was in New York, and one or two 
speculators went east but faiJp.d to find him. Once the news 
came that he was in the Bermudas, and straightway a specu- 
lator or two hurried east and sailed for Bermuda — but he was 
not there. Finally he was heard of in Mexico, and a friend 
of his, a bar-keeper on a salary, scraped together a little money 
and sought him out, bought his "feet" for a hundred dollars, 
returned and sold the property for $75,000. 

But why go on ? The traditions of Silverland are filled 
with instances like these, and I would never get through enu- 
merating them were I to attempt do it. I only desired to give 
the reader an idea of a peculiarity of the "flush times" wdiicli 
I could not present so strikingly in any other way, and which 
some mention of was necessary to a realizing comprehension 
of the time and the country. 

I was personally acquainted with the majority of the 
nabobs I have referred to, and so, for old acquaintance sake, 
I have shifted their occupations and experiences around in 
such a way as to keep the Pacific public from recognizing 
these once notorious men. ]S[o longer notorious, for the 
majority of them have drifted back into poverty and obscurity 
again. 

In Nevada there used to be current the story of an adven- 
tm'e of two of her nabobs, which may or may not have 
occurred. I give it for what it is worth : 

Col. Jim had seen somewhat of the world, and knew more 
or less of its ways ; but Col. Jack was from the back settle- 
ments of the States, had led a life of arduous toil, and had 
never seen a city. These two, blessed with sudden wealth, 
projected a visit to New York, — Col. Jack to see the sights, 
and Col. Jim to guard his uusophistication from misfortune. 
They readied San Francisco in the night, and sailed in the 
morning. Arrived in New York, Col. Jack said : 

" I've heard tell of carriages all my life, and now I mean to 
have a ride in one ; I don't care what it costs. Come along." 

They stepped out on the sidewalk, and Col. Jim called a 
stylish barouche. But Col. Jack said : 

" No, su* ! Eone of your cheap-John turn-outs for me. 
I'm here to have a good time, and money ain't any object. I 
mean to have the nobbiest rig that's going. Now here comes 
the very trick. Stop that yaller one with the pictures on it — 
don't you fret — I'll stand all the expenses myself." 

So Col. Jim stopped an empty omnibus, and they got in. 
Said Col. Jack : 

"Ain't it gay, though? Oh, no, I reckon not! Cush- 
ions, and windows, and pictures, till you can't rest. "What 
would the boys say if they could see us cutting a swell like 
this in New York ? By George, I wish they coidd see us." 

Then he put his head out of the windo-w, and shouted to 
the driver : 


" Saj, Jolmny, this suits me ! — suits yours truly, you bet, 
you ! I want this shebang all day. I'm on it, old man ! Let 
'em out ! Make 'em go ! We'll make it all right with you 
sonny ! " 

The driver passed his hand through the strap-hole, and tap- 
ped for his fare — it was before the gongs came into common 
use. Col. Jack took the hand, and shook it cordially. He 
said: 

" You twig me, old pard ! All right between gents. 
Smell of tJiat and see how you like it ! " 

And he put a twenty-dollar gold piece in the driver's 
hand. After a moment 
the driver said he could 
not make change. 

" Bother the change ! 
Hide it out. Put it in 
your pocket." 

Then to Col. Jim, with 
a sounding slap on his 
thigh : 

"-c4V5 it style, though ? 
Hanged if I don't hire 
this thing every day for a week." 

The omnibus stojjped, 
and a young lady got in. Col. Jack stared a moment, 
then nudged Col. Jim with 
his elbow : 

"Don't say a word,'' 
he whispered. " Let her 
ride, if she wants to. Gracious, there's room enough." 

The young lady got out her porte-monnaie, and handed her 
fare to Col. Jack. 

" What's this for ? " said he. 

" Give it to the driver, please." 

" Take back your money, madam. We can't allow it. 

You're welcome to ride here as long as you please, but this she- 
bang's chartered, and we can't let you pay a cent." 

The girl shrunk into a corner, bemldered. An old lady 
with a basket climbed in, and proffered her fare. 

" Excuse me," said Col. Jack. " You're perfectly welcome 
here, madam, but we can't allow you to pay. Set right down 
there, mum, and don't you be the least uneasy. Make your- 
self just as free as if you was in your own turn-out." 

Within two minutes, three gentlemen, two fat women, and 
a couple of children, entered. 

" Come right along, friends," said Col. Jack ; " don't mind 
us. This is a free blow-out." Then he whispered to Col. 
Jim, " lew York ain't no sociable place, I don't reckon — it 
ain't no nmne for it !" 

