ultramontane sound. 
CHANGING QUARTERS. 
PERHAPS it may not interest you to know how we 
moved, that is, changed our apartments. I did not 
see it mentioned in the cable despatches, and it may not be 
generally known, even in Germany ; but, then, the cable 
is so occupied with relating how his Serenity this, and his 
Highness that, and her Loftiness the other one, went out 
doors and came in again, owing to a slight superfluity of 
the liquid element in the atmosphere, that it has no time 
to notice the real movements of the people. And yet, 
so dry are some of these little German newspapers of 
news, that it is refreshing to read, now and then, that the 
king, on Sunday, walked out with the Duke of Hesse 
after dinner (one would like to know if they also had 
sauer-kraut and sausage), and that his prospective mother- 
in-law, the Empress of Russia, who was here the other 
day, on her way home from Como, where she was nearly 
drowned out by the inundation, sat for an hour on Sun- 
day night, after the opera, in the winter garden of the 
palace, enjoying the most easy family intercourse. 
But about moving. Let me tell you that to change 
quarters in the face of a Munich winter, which arrives 
here the 1st of November, is like changing front to the 
enemy just before a battle ; and, if we had perished in the 
attempt, it might have been put upon our monuments, as 
it is upon the out-of-cannon-cast obelisk in the Karolina 
Platz, erected to the memory of the thirty thousand Ba- 
varian soldiers who fell in the disastrous Russian winter 
campaign of Napoleon, fighting against all the interests 
 
of Grermany, — " they, too, died for their Fatherland." 
Bavaria happened also to fight on the wrong side at Sa- 
dowa, and I suppose that those who fell there also died 
for Fatherland : it is a way the Germans have of doing, 
and they mean nothing serious by it. But, as I was say- 
ing, to change quarters here as late as November is a 
little difficult, for the wise ones seek to get housed for 
the winter by October : they select the sunny apartments, 
get on the double-windows, and store up wood. The 
plants are tied up in the gardens, the fountains are cov- 
ered over, and the inhabitants go about in furs and the 
heaviest winter clothing long before we should think of 
doing so at home. And they are wise : the snow comes 
early, and, besides, a cruel fog, cold as the grave and 
penetrating as remorse, comes down out of the near 
Tyrol. One morning early in November, I looked out 
of the window to find snow falling, and the ground cov- 
ered with it. There was dampness and frost enough in 
the air to make it cling to all the tree-twigs, and to take 
fantastic shapes on all the queer roofs and the slenderest 
pinnacles and most delicate architectural ornamenta- 
tions. The city spires had a mysterious appearance in 
the gray haze ; and above all, the round-topped towers of 
the old Frauen Kircke, frosted with a little snow, loomed 
up more grandly than ever. When I went around to 
the Hof Garden, where I late had sat in the sun, and 
heard the brown horse-chestnuts drop on the leaves, the 
benches were now full of snow, and the fat and friendly 
fruit-woman at the gate had retired behind glass windows 
into a little shop, which she might well warm by her 
own person, if she radiated heat as readily as she used 
to absorb it on the warm autumn days, when I have 
marked her knitting in the sunshine. 
But we are not moving. The first step we took was 
to advertise our wants in the " Neueste Nachrichten," 
(" Latest News ") newspaper. We desired, if possible, 
admission into some respectable German family, where 
we should be forced to speak German, and in which our 
society, if I may so express it, would be some compensa- 
tion for our bad grammar. We wished also to live in 
the central part of the city, — in short, in the immediate 
neighborhood of all the objects of interest (which are 
here very much scattered), and to have pleasant rooms. 
In Dresden, where the people are not so rich as in Mu- 
nich, and where different customs prevail, it is custom- 
ary for the best people, I mean the families of university 
professors, for instance, to take in foreigners, and give 
them tolerable food and a liberal education. Here it is 
otherwise. Nearly all families occupy one floor of a 
building, renting just rooms enough for the family, so 
that their apartments are not elastic enough to take in 
strangers, even if they desire to do so. And generally 
they do not. Munich society is perhaps chargeable with 
being a little stiff and exclusive. Well, we advertised 
in the " Neueste Naehrichten." This is the liberal paper 
of Munich. It is a poorly-printed, black-looking daily 
sheet, folded in octavo size, and containing anywhere 
from sixteen to thirty-four pages, more or less, as it hap- 
pens to have advertisements. It sometimes will not have 
more than two or three pages of reading matter. There 
will be a scrap or two of local news, the brief telegrams 
taken from the official paper of the day before, a bit or 
two of other news, and perhaps a short and slashing edi- 
torial on the ultramontane party. The advantage of 
printing and folding it in such small leaves is, that the 
size can be varied according to the demands of adver- 
tisements or news (if the German papers ever find out 
what that is) : so that the publisher is always giving, 
every day, just what it pays to give that day; and the 
reader has his regular quantity of reading matter, and 
does not have to pay for advertising space, which in 
journals of unchangeable form cannot always be used 
profitably. This little journal was started something 
like twenty years ago. It probably spends little for news, 
has only one or, at most, two editors, is crowded with 
advertisements, which are inserted cheap, and costs, de- 
livered, a little over six francs a year. It circulates in 
the city some thirty-five thousand. There is another 
little paper here of the same size, but not so many leaves, 
called " The Daily Advertiser," with nothing but adver- 
tisements, principally of theatres, concerts, and the daily 
sights, and one page devoted to some prodigious yarn, 
generally concerning America, of which country its read- 
ers must get the most extraordinary and frightful impres- 
sion. The " Nachrichten " made the fortune of its first 
owner, who built himself a fine house out of it, and 
retired to enjoy his wealth. It was recently sold for one 
hundred thousand guldens ; and I can see that it is piling 
up another fortune for its present owner. The Germans, 
who herein show their good sense and the high state of 
civilization to which they have reached, are very free 
advertisers, going to the newspapers with all their wants, 
and finding in them that aid which all interests and all 
sorts of people, from kaiser to kerl, are compelled, in 
these days, to seek in the daily journal. Every German 
town of any size has three or four of these little journals 
of flying leaves, which are excellent papers in every 
respect, except that they look like badly-printed, hand- 
bills, and have very little news and no editorials worth 
speaking of. An exception to these in Bavaria is the 
" Allgemeine Zeitung " of Augsburg, which is old and 
immensely respectable, and is perhaps, for extent of cor- 
respondence and splendidly-written editorials on a great 
variety of topics, excelled by no journal in Europe 
except " The London Times.'* It gives out two editions 
daily, the evening one about the size of " The New-York 
Nation ; " and it has all the telegraphic news. It is 
absurdly old-grannyish, and is malevolent in its pre- 
tended conservatism and impartiality. Yet it circulates 
over forty thousand copies, and goes all over Germany. 
But were we not saying something about moving? 
The truth is, that the best German families did not re- 
spond to our appeal with that alacrity which we had no 
right to expect, and did not exhibit that anxiety for our 
society which would have been such a pleasant evidence 
of their appreciation of the honor done to the royal city 
of Munich by the selection of it as a residence during 
the most disagreeable months of the year by the adver- 
tising undersigned. Even the young king, whose ap- 
proaching marriage to the Russian princess, one would 
think, might soften his heart, did nothing to win our 
regard, or to show that he appreciated our residence 
" near " his court, and, so far as I know, never read with 
any sort of attention our advertisement, which was com- 
posed with as much care as Goethe's Faust, and prob- 
ably with the use of more dictionaries. And this, when 
he has an extraordinary large Kesidenz, to say nothing 
about other outlying palaces and comfortable places to 
live in, in which I know there are scores of elegantly- 
furnished apartments, which stand idle almost the year 
round, and might as well be let to appreciative strangers, 
who would accustom the rather washy and fierce fres- 
cos on the walls to be stared at. I might have selected 
rooms, say on the court which looks on the exquisite 
bronze fountain, Perseus with the head of Medusa, a 
copy of the one in Florence by Benvenuto Cellini, where 
we could have a southern exposure. Or we might, so it 
would seem, have had rooms by the winter garden, 
where tropical plants rejoice in perennial summer, and 
blossom and bear fruit while a northern winter rage 
without. Yet the king did not see it " by those lamps ; " 
and I looked in vain on the gates of the Residenz for 
the notice so frequently seen on other houses, of apart- 
ments to let. And yet we had responses. The day 
after the announcement appeared, our bell rang per- 
petually ; and we had as many letters as if we had 
advertised for wives innumerable. The German notes 
poured in upon us in a flood ; each one of them contain- 
ing an offer tempting enough to beguile an angel out of 
paradise, at least, according to our translation : they 
proffered us chambers that were positively overheated 
by the flaming sun (which, I can take my oath, only 
 
ventures a few feet above the horizon at this season), 
which were friendly in appearance, splendidly furnished, 
and near to every desirable thing, and in which, usually, 
some American family had long resided, and experienced 
a content and happiness not to be felt out of Germany. 
I spent some days in calling upon the worthy frauen 
who made these alluring offers. The visits were full of 
profit to the student of human nature, but profitless 
otherwise. I was ushered into low, dark chambers, small 
and dreary, looking towards the sunless north, which 
I was assured were dehsrhtful and even elegant. I was 
taken up to the top of tall houses, through a smell of 
cabbage that was appalling, to find empty and dreary 
rooms, from which I fled in fright. We were visited by 
so many people who had chambers to rent, that we were 
impressed with the idea that all Munich was to let ; and 
yet, when we visited the places offered, we found they 
were only to be let alone. One of the frauen who did 
us the honor to call, also wrote a note, and enclosed 
a. letter that she had just received from an American- 
gentleman (I make no secret of it that he came from 
Hartford), in which were many kindly expressions for 
her welfare, and thanks for the aid he had received in 
his study of German ; and yet I think her chambers are 
the most uninviting in the entire city. There were 
people who were willing to teach us German, without 
rooms or board ; or to lodge us without giving us German 
or food ; or to feed us, and let us starve intellectually, and 
lodge where we could. 
But all things have an end, and so did our hunt for 
lodgings. I chanced one day in my walk to find, with no 
help from the advertisement, very nearly what we desired, 
— cheerful rooms in a pleasant neighborhood, where 
the sun comes when it comes out at all, and opposite the 
Glass Palace, through- which the sun streams in the after- 
noon with a certain splendor, and almost next door to 
the residence and laboratory of the famous chemist, 
Prof Liebig ; so that we can have our feelings analyzed 
whenever it is desirable. When we had set up our 
household gods, and a fire was kindled in the tall white 
porcelain family monument, that is called here a stove, 
— and which, by the way, is much more agreeable than 
your hideous, black, and air-scorching cast-iron stoves, — 
and seen that the feather-beds under which we were 
expected to lie were thick enough to roast the half of 
the body, and short enough to let the other half freeze, 
we determined to try for a season the regular German 
cookery, our table heretofore having been served with 
food cooked in the English style with only a slight Ger- 
man flavor. A week of the experiment was quite 
enough. I do not mean to say that the viands served 
us were not good, only that we could not make up our 
minds to eat them. The Germans eat a great deal of 
meat ; and we were obliged to take meat when we pre- 
ferred vegetables. Now, when a deep dish is set before 
you wherein are chunks of pork reposing on stewed 
potatoes, and another wherein a fathomless depth of 
sauer-kraut supports coils of boiled sausage, which, con- 
sidering that you are a mortal and responsible being, 
and have a stomach, will you choose ? Here in Munich, 
nearly all the bread is filled with anise or caraway seed : 
it is possible to get, however, the best wheat bread we 
have eaten in Europe, and we usually have it ; but one 
must maintain a constant vigilance against the inroads 
of the fragrant seeds. Imagine, then, our despair, when 
one day the potato, the one vegetable we had always 
eaten with perfect confidence, appeared stewed with 
caraway-seeds. This was too much for American human 
nature, constituted as it is. Yet the dish that finally 
sent us back to our ordinary and excellent way of living 
is one for which I have no name. It may have been 
compounded at different times, have been the result of 
many tastes or distastes : but there was, after all, a unity 
in it that marked it as the composition of one master 
artist; there was an unspeakable harmony in all its 
flavors and apparently ununitable substances. It looked 
like a terrapin soup, but it was not. Every dive of the 
spoon into its dark liquid brought up a different object, — 
a junk of unmistakable pork, meat of the color of roast 
hare, what seemed to be the neck of a goose, some- 
thing in strings that resembled the rags of a silk dress, 
shreds of cabbage, and what I am quite willing to take 
my oath was a bit of Astrachan fur. If Prof. Liebig 
wishes to add to his reputation, he could do so by analyz- 
ing this dish, and publishing the result to the world. 
And, while we are speaking of eating, it may be in- 
ferred that the Germans are good eaters ; and although 
they do not begin early, seldom taking much more than 
a cup of coffee before noon, they make it up by very sub- 
stantial dinners and suppers. To say nothing of the 
extraordinary dishes of meats which the restaurants 
serve at night, the black-bread and odorous cheese and 
beer which the men take on board in the course of an 
evening would soon wear out a cast-iron stomach in 
America ; and yet I ought to remember the deadly pie 
and the corroding whiskey of my native land. The res- 
taurant life of the people is, of course, different froin 
their home life, and perhaps an evening entertainment 
here is no more formidable than one in America, but it 
is different. Let me give you the outlines of a supper 
to which we were invited the other night : it certainly 
cannot hurt you to read about it. We sat down at eight. 
There were first courses of three sorts of cold meat, 
accompanied with two sorts of salad ; the one, a compo- 
site, with a potato basis, of all imaginable things that 
are eaten. Beer and bread were unlimited. There was 
then roast hare, with some supporting dish, followed by 
jellies of various sorts, and ornamented plates of some- 
thing that seemed unable to decide whether it would be 
jelly or cream ; and then came assorted cake and the 
white wine of the Ehine and the red of Hungary. We 
were then surprised with a dish of fried eels, with a 
sauce. Then came cheese ; and, to crown all, enormous, 
triumphal-looking loaves of cake, works of art in appear- 
anije, and delicious to the taste. We sat at the table till 
twelve o'clock ; but you must not imagine that every- 
body sat still all the time, or that, appearances to the 
contrary notwithstanding, the principal object of the 
entertainment was eating. The songs that were sung 
in Hungarian as well as German, the poems that were 
recited, the burlesques of actors and acting, the imita- 
tions that were inimitable, the take-off of table-tipping 
and of prominent musicians, the wit and constant flow 
of fun, as constant as the good-humor and free hospi- 
tality, the unconstrained ease of the whole evening, — 
these things made the real supper which one remembers 
when the grosser meal has vanished, as all substantial 
things do vanish. 
CHRISTMAS TIME. — MUSIC. 
I OR a month Munich has been preparing for Christ- 
mas. The shop-windows have had a holiday look 
December. I see one every day in which are dis- 
ayed all the varieties of fruits, vegetables, and confec- 
tionery possible to be desired for a feast, done in wax, — 
a most dismal exhibition, and calculated to make the 
adjoining window, which has a little fountain and some 
green plants waving amidst enormous pendent sausages 
and pigs' heads and various disagreeable hashes of 
pressed meat, positively enticing. And yet there are 
some vegetables here that I should prefer to have in wax, 
— for instance, sauer-kraut. The toy windows are 
worthy of study, and next to them the bakers'. A favor- 
ite toy of the season is a little crib, with the Holy Child, 
in sugar or wax, lying in it in the most uncomfortable 
attitude. Babies here are strapped upon pillows, or 
between pillows, and so tied up and wound up that they 
cannot move a muscle, except, perhaps, the tongue ; and 
so, exactly like little mummies, they are carried about 
the street by the nurses, — poor little things, packed away 
so, even in the heat of summer, their little faces looking 
out of the down in a most pitiful fashion. The popular 
toy is a representation, in sugar or wax, of this period 
of life. Generally the toy represents twins, so swathed 
and bound ; and, not infrequently, the bold conception 
of the artist carries the point of the humor so far as to 
introduce triplets, thus sporting with the most dreadful 
possibilities of life. 
, The German bakers are very ingenious ; and if they 
could be convinced of this great error, that because 
things are good separately, they must be good in com- 
bination, the produce of their ovens would be much more 
eatable. As it is, they make delicious cake, and of end- 
less variety ; but they also offer us conglomerate forma- 
tions that may have a scientific value, but are utterly 
useless to a stomach not trained in Germany. Of this 
sort, for the most part, is the famous Lebkuchen, a sort 
of gingerbread manufactured in Niirnberg, and sent all 
over Germany : " age does not [seem to] impair, nor 
custom stale its infinite variety." It is very different 
from our simple cake of that name, although it is usually 
baked in flat cards. It may contain nuts or fruit, and is 
spoiled by a flavor of conflicting spices. I should think 
it might be sold by the cord, it is piled up in such quan- 
tities ; and, as it grows old and is much handled, it ac- 
quires that brown, not to say dirty, familiar look, which 
may, for aught I know, be one of its chief recommenda- 
tions. The cake, however, which prevails at this season 
of the year comes from the Tyrol ; and, as the holidays 
approach, it is literally piled up on the fruit-stands. It 
is called Klatzenbrod, and is not a bread at all, but an 
amalgamation of fruits and spices. It is made up into 
small round or oblong forms ; and the top is ornamented, 
in various patterns, with split almond meats. The color 
is a faded black, as if it had been left for some time in 
a country store ; and the weight is just about that of pig- 
iron. I had formed a strong desire, mingled with dread, 
to taste it, which I was not likely to gratify, — one gets 
so tired of such experiments after a time, — when a friend 
sent us a ball of it. There waS' no occasion to call in 
Prof. Liebig to analyze the substance : it is a plain case. 
The black mass contains, cut up and pressed together, 
figs, citron, oranges, raisins, dates, various kinds of nuts, 
cinnamon, nutmeg, cloves, and I know not what Other 
spices, together with the inevitable anise and caraway 
seeds. It would make an excellent cannon-ball, and 
would be specially fatal if it hit an enemy in the stomach. . 
These seeds invade all dishes. The cooks seem pos- 
sessed of one of the rules of whist, — in case of doubt, 
play a trump : in case of doubt, they always put in 
anise-seed. It is sprinkled profusely in the blackest rye 
bread, it gets into all the vegetables, and even into the 
holiday cakes. 
The extensive Maximilian Platz has suddenly grown 
up into booths and shanties, and looks very much like a 
temporary Western village. There are shops for the 
sale of Christmas articles, toys, cakes, and gimcracks; 
and there are, besides, places of amusement, if one of the 
sorry menageries of sick beasts with their hair half worn 
off can be so classed. One portion of the platz is now 
a lively and picturesque forest of evergreens, an exten- 
sive thicket of large and small trees, many of them 
trimmed with colored and gilt strips of paper. I meet 
in every street persons lugging home their little trees ; 
for it must be a very poor household that cannot have its 
Christmas-tree, on which are hung the scanty store of 
candy, nuts, and fruit, and the simple toys that the 
needy people will pinch themselves otherwise to obtain. 
At this season, usually, the churches get up some 
representations for the children, — the stable at Bethle- 
hem, with the figures of the Virgin and Child, the wise 
men, and the oxen standing by. At least, the churches 
must be put in spic-and-spah order. I confess that I 
like to stray into these edifices, some of them gaudy 
enough when they are, so to speak, off duty, when the 
choir is deserted, and there is only here and there a 
solitary worshipper at his prayers ; unless, indeed, as it 
sometimes happens, when I fancy myself quite alone, I 
come by chance upon a hundred people, in some remote 
corner before a side chapel, where mass is going on, but 
so quietly that the sense of solitude in the church is not 
disturbed. Sometimes, when the place is left entirely to 
myself, and the servants who are putting it to rights, 
and, as it were, shifting the scenes, I get a glimpse of 
the reality of all the pomp and parade of the services. 
At first I may be a little shocked with the familiar man- 
ner in which the images and statues and the gilded para- 
phernalia are treated, very different from the stately 
ceremony of the morning, when the priests are at the 
altar, the choir is in the organ-loft, and the people crowd 
nave and aisles. Then every thing is sanctified and 
inviolate. Now, as I loiter here, the old woman sweeps 
and dusts about as if she were in an ordinary crockery 
store : the sacred things are handled without gloves. 
And, lo ! an unclerical servant, in his shirt-sleeves, 
climbs up to the altar, and, taking down the silver-gilded 
cherubs, holds them, head down, by one fat foot, while 
he wipes them off with a damp cloth. To think of sub- 
mitting a holy cherub to the indignity of a damp cloth ! 
One could never say too much about the music here. 
I do not mean that of the regimental bands, or the or- 
chestras in every hall and beer-garden, or that in the 
churches on Sundays, both orchestral and vocal. Nearly 
every day, at half-past eleven, there is a parade by the 
Residenz, and another on the Marian Platz; and at 
each the bands play for half an hour. In the Loggie by 
the palace the music-stands can always be set out, and 
they are used in the platz when it does not storm ; and 
the bands play choice overtures and selections from the 
operas in fine style. The bands are always preceded 
and followed by a great crowd as they march through 
the streets, — people who seem to live only for this half- 
hour in the day, and whom no mud or snow can deter 
from keeping up with the music. It is a little gleam of 
comfort in the day for the most wearied portion of the 
community : I mean those who have nothing to do. 
But the music of which I speak is that of the con- 
servatoire and opera. The Hof Theatre, opera, and con- 
servatoire are all under one royal direction. The latter 
has been recently re-organized with a new director, in 
accordance with the Wagner notions somewhat. The 
young king is cracked about Wagner, and appears to 
 
care little for other music : lie brings out his operas at 
great expense, and it is the fashion here to like Wagner 
whether he is understood or not. The opera of the 
Meister-Sano-er von Niirnbers;, which was brouo;ht out 
last summer, occupied over five hours in the representa- 
tion, which is unbearable to the Germans, who go to the 
opera at six o'clock or half-past, and expect to be at 
home before ten. His latest opera, which has not yet 
been produced, is founded on the Niebelungen Lied, and 
will take three evenings in the representation, which is 
almost as bad as a Chinese play. The present director 
of the conservatoire and opera, a Prussian, Herr von 
Bulow, is a friend of Wagner. There are formed here 
in town two parties, — the Wagner and the conservative, 
the new and the old, the modern and classical ; only the 
Wagnerites do not admit that their admiration of Beet- 
hoven and the older composers is less than that of 
the others, and so for this reason Bulow has given us 
more music of Beethoven than of any other composer. 
One thing is certain, that the royal orchestra is trained 
to a high state of perfection : its rendition of the grand 
operas and its weekly concerts in the Odeon cannot 
easily be surpassed. The singers are not equal to the 
orchestra, for Berlin and Vienna offer greater induce- 
ments ; but there are people here who regard this orches- 
tra as superlative. They say that the best orchestras in 
the world are in Germany ; that the best in Germany is 
in Munich ; and, therefore, you can see the inevitable 
deduction. We have another parallel syllogism. The 
greatest pianist in the world is Liszt ; but then Herr 
Bulow is actually a better performer than Liszt ; there- 
fore you see again to what you must come. At any rate, 
we are quite satisfied in this provincial capital ; and, if 
there is anywhere bettor music, we don't know it. Bu- 
low's orchestra is not very large, — there are less than 
eighty pieces, — but it is so handled and drilled, that, 
when we hear it give one of the symphonies of Beetho- 
ven or Mendelssohn, there is little left to be desired. 
 
Bulow is a wonderful conductor, — a little man, all nerve 
and fire, and he seems to inspire every instrument. It 
is worth something to see him lead an orchestra : his 
baton is magical ; head, arms, and the whole body are 
in motion ; he knows every note of the compositions ; 
and the precision with which he evokes a solitary note 
out of a distant instrument with a jerk of his rod, or 
brino;s a wail from the concurring!; violins, like the moan- 
ing of a pine forest in winter, with a sweep of his arm, is 
most masterly. About the platform of the Odeon are 
the marble busts of the great composers ; and, while the 
orchestra is giving some of Beethoven's masterpieces, I 
like to fix my eyes on his serious and genius-full face, 
which seems cognizant of all that is passing, and believe 
that he has a posthumous satisfaction in the interpreta- 
tion of his great thoughts. 
The managers of the conservatoire also give vocal con- 
certs, and there are, besides, quartet soirees; so that 
there are few evenings without some attraction. The 
opera alternates with the theatre two or three times a 
week. The singers are, perhaps, not known in Paris 
and London, but some of them are not unworthy to be. 
There is the barytone, Herr Kindermann, who now, at 
the age of sixty-five, has a superb voice and manner, and 
has had few superiors in his time on the German stage. 
There is Frau Dietz, at forty-five, the best of actresses, 
and with a still fresh and lovely voice. -There is Herr 
Nachbar, a tenor, who has a future ; Fraulein Stehle, a 
soprano, young and with an uncommon voice, who enjoys 
a large salary, and was the favorite until another soprano, 
the Malinger, came and turned the heads of king and 
opera habitues. The resources of the Academy are, how- 
ever, tolerably large ; and the practice of pensioning for 
life the singers enables them to keep always a tolerable 
company. This habit of pensioning officials, as well as 
musicians and poets, is very agreeable to the Germans. 
A gentleman the other day, who expressed great surprise 
at the smallness of the salary of our President, said, that, 
of course, Andrew Johnson would receive a pension when 
he retired from office. I could not explain to him how 
comical the idea was to me; but when I think of the 
American people pensioning Andrew Johnson, — well, 
like the jfictitious Yankee in " Mugby Junction," " I laff, 
I du." 
There is some fashion, in a fudgy, quaint way, here in 
Munich ; but it is not exhibited in dress for the opera. 
People go — and it is presumed the music is the attrac- 
tion — in ordinary apparel. They save all their dress 
parade for the concerts ; and the hall of the Odeon is as 
brilliant as provincial taste can make it in toilet. The 
ladies also go to operas and concerts unattended by gen- 
tlemen, and are brought, and fetched away, by their ser- 
vants. There is a freedom and simplicity about this 
which I quite like ; and, besides, it leaves their husbands 
and brothers at liberty to spend a congenial evening in 
the cafes beer-gardens, and clubs. But there is always 
a heavy fringe of young officers and gallants both at 
opera and concert, standing in the outside passages. It 
is cheaper to stand, and one can hear quite as well, and 
see more. 
LOOKING FOR WARM 
WEATHER. 
FROM MUNICH TO NAPLES. 
AT all events, saith the best authority, " pray that 
your flight be not in winter ; " and it might have 
added, don't go south if you desire warm weather. In 
January, 1869, I had a little experience of hunting after 
genial skies ; and I will give you the benefit of it in some 
free running notes on my journey from Munich to 
Naples. 
It was the middle of January, at eleven o'clock at 
night, that we left Munich, on a mixed railway train, 
choosing that time, and the slowest of slow trains, that 
we might make the famous Brenner Pass by daylight. It 
was no easy matter, at last, to pull up from the dear old 
city in which we had become so firmly planted, and to 
leave the German friends who made the place like home 
to us. One gets to love Germany and the Germans as 
he does no other country and people in Europe. There 
has been something so simple, honest, genuine, in our 
Munich life, that we look back to it with longing eyes 
from this land of fancy, of hand-organ music and squalid 
splendor. I presume the streets are yet half the day hid 
in a mountain fog ; but I know the superb military bands 
are still playing at noon in the old Marian Platz and in 
the Loggie by the Residenz ; that at half-past six in the 
evening our friends are quietly stepping in to hear the 
opera at the Hof Theatre, where everybody goes to hear 
the music, and nobody for display, and that they will be 
at home before half-past nine, and have despatched the 
servant for the mugs of foaming beer ; I know that they 
 
still hear every week the choice conservatou'e orchestral 
concerts in the Odeon ; and, alas that experience should 
force me to think of it ! I have no doubt that they sip, 
every morning, coffee which is as much superior to that 
of Paris as that of Paris is to that of London ; and that 
they eat the delicious rolls, in comparison with which 
those of Paris are tasteless. I wonder, in this land of 
wine, — and yet it must be so, — if the beer-gardens are 
still filled nightly ; and if it could be that I should sit at 
a little table there, a comely lass would, before I could ask 
for what everybody is presumed to want, place before me 
a tall glass full of amber liquid, crowned with creamy 
foam. Are the handsome officers still sipping their coffee 
in the Cafe Maximilian ; and, on sunny days, is the crowd 
of fashion still streaming down to the Isar, and the high, 
sightly walks and gardens beyond ? 
As I said, it was eleven o'clock of a clear and not very 
severe night ; for Munich had had no snow on the ground 
since November. A deputation of our friends were at 
the station to see us off, and the farewells between the 
gentlemen were in the hearty fashion of the country. I 
know there is a prejudice with us against kissing between 
men ; but it is only a question of taste : and the experi- 
ence of anybody will tell him that the theory that this 
sort of salutation must necessarily be desirable between 
opposite sexes is a delusion. But I suppose it cannot be 
denied that kissing between men was invented in Ger- 
many before they wore full beards. Well, our good-bys 
said, we climbed into our bare cars. There is no way of 
heating the German cars, except by tubes filled with hot 
water, which are placed under the feet, and are called 
foot-warmers. As we slowly moved out over the plain, 
we found it was cold ; in an hour the foot-warmers, not 
hot to start with, were stone cold. You are going to 
sunny Italy, our friends had said : as soon as you pass 
the Brenner you will have sunshine and delightful 
weather. This thought consoled us, but did not warm 
our feet. The Germans, when they travel by rail, wrap 
themselves in furs, and carry foot-sacks. 
We creaked along, with many stoppings. At two 
o'clock we were at Rosenheim. Rosenheim is a windy 
place, with clear starlight, with a multitude of cars on a 
multiplicity of tracks, and a large, lighted refreshment- 
room, which has a glowing, jolly stove. We stay there 
an hour, toasting by the fire and drinking excellent coffee. 
Groups of Germans are seated at tables playing cards, 
smoking, and taking coflfee. Other trains arrive ; and 
huge men stalk in, from Vienna or Russia, you would 
say, enveloped in enormous fur overcoats, reaching to the 
heels, and with big fur boots coming above the knees, in 
which they move like elephants. Another start, and a 
cold ride with cooling foot-warmers, droning on to Kurf- 
stein. It is five o'clock when we reach Kurfstein, which 
is also a restaurant, with a hot stove, and more Germans 
going on as if it were daytime ; but by this time in the 
morning the coffee had got to be wretched. After an 
hour's waiting, we dream on again, and, before we know 
it, come out of our cold doze into the cold dawn. 
Through the thick frost on the windows we see the faint 
outlines of mountains. Scraping away the incrustation, 
we find that we are in the Tyjol, — high hills on all 
sides, no snow in the valley, a bright morning, and the 
snow peaks are soon rosy in the sunrise. It is just as we 
expected, — little villages under the hills, and slender 
church-spires with brick-red tops. At nine o'clock we 
are in Innsbruck, at the foot of the Brenner. No snow 
yet. It must be charming here in the summer. 
Durino; the night we have got out of Bavaria. The 
waiter at the restaurant wants us to pay him nmety 
kreuzers for our coffee, which is only six kreuzers a cup 
in Munich. Remembering that it takes one hundred 
kreuzers to make a gulden in Austria, I launch out a 
Bavarian gulden, and expect ten kreuzers in change. I 
have heard that sixty Bavarian kreuzers are equal to 
one hundred Austrian ; but this waiter explains to me 
that my gulden is only good for ninety kreuzers. I, in 
my turn, explain to the waiter that it is better than the 
coffee ; but we come to no understanding, and I give up, 
before I begin, trying to understand the Austrian cur- 
rency. During the day I get my pockets full of coppers, 
which are very convenient to take in change, but appear 
to have a very slight purchasing power in Austria even, 
and none at all elsewhere, and the only use for which I 
have found is to give to Italian beggars. One of these 
pieces satisfies a beggar when it drops into his hat ; and 
then it detains him long enough in the examination of it, 
so that your carriage has time to get so far away that his 
renewed pursuit is usually unavailing. 
The Brenner Pass repaid us for the pains we had 
taken to see it, especially as the sun shone and took the 
frost from our windows, and we encountered no snow on 
the track ; and, indeed, the fall was not deep, except on 
the high peaks about us. Even if the engineering of the 
road were not so interesting, it was something to be again 
amidst mountains that can boast a height of ten thousand 
feet. After we passed the summit, and began the zigzag 
descent, we were on a sharp lookout for sunny Italy. I 
expected to lay aside my heavy overcoat, and sun myself 
at the first station among the vineyards. Instead of that, 
we bade good-by to bright sky, and plunged into a snow- 
storm, and, so greeted, drove down into the narrow 
gorges, whose steep slopes we could see were terraced to 
the top, and planted with vines. We could distinguish 
enough to know that, with the old Roman ruins, the 
churches and convent towers perched on the crags, and 
all, the scenery in summer must be finer than that of the 
Rhine, especially as the vineyards here are picturesque, 
— the vines being trained so as to hide and clothe the 
ground with verdure. 
It was four o'clock when we reached Trent, and colder 
than on top of the Brenner. As the Council, owing to 
the dead state of its members for now three centuries,   
was not in session, we made no long tarry. We went 
