“We shall be out of earshot here,” said Mrs. Hoyt as she closed the
door, locking it at the same time. “And now tell me what’s up, and what
about Pinky Swett.”
“You know her?”
“Yes, slightly.”
“More than slightly, I guess.”
Mrs. Hoyt’s eyes flashed impatiently. Mrs. Dinneford saw it, and took
warning.
“She’s got that cursed baby.”
“How do you know?”
“No matter how I know. It’s enough that I know. Who is she?”
“That question may be hard to answer. About all I know of her is that
she came from the country a few years ago, and has been drifting about
here ever since.”
“What is she doing with that baby? and how did she get hold of it?”
“Questions more easily asked than answered.”
“Pshaw! I don’t want any beating about the bush, Mrs. Bray.”
“Mrs. Hoyt,” said the person addressed.
“Oh, well, Mrs. Hoyt, then. We ought to understand each other by this
time.”
“I guess we do;” and the little woman arched her brows.
“I don’t want any beating about the bush,” resumed Mrs. Dinneford. “I am
here on business.”
“Very well; let’s to business, then;” and Mrs. Hoyt leaned back in her
chair.
“Edith knows that this woman has the baby,” said Mrs. Dinneford.
“What!” and Mrs. Hoyt started to her feet.
“The mayor has been seen, and the police are after her.”
“How do you know?”
“Enough that I know. And now, Mrs. Hoyt, this thing must come to an
end, and there is not an instant to be lost. Has Pinky Swett, as she is
called, been told where the baby came from?”
“Not by me.”
“By anybody?”
“That is more than I can say.”
“What has become of the woman I gave it to?”
“She’s about somewhere.”
“When did you see her?”
Mrs. Hoyt pretended to think for some moments, and then replied:
“Not for a month or two.”
“Had she the baby then?”
“No; she was rid of it long before that.”
“Did she know this Pinky Swett?”
“Yes.”
“Curse the brat! If I’d thought all this trouble was to come, I’d have
smothered it before it was half an hour old.”
“Risky business,” remarked Mrs. Hoyt.
“Safer than to have let it live,” said Mrs. Dinneford, a hard, evil
expression settling around her mouth. “And now I want the thing done.
You understand. Find this Pinky Swett. The police are after her, and may
be ahead of you. I am desperate, you see. Anything but the discovery and
possession of this child by Edith. It must be got out of the way. If it
will not starve, it must drown.”
Mrs. Dinneford’s face was distorted by the strength of her evil
passions. Her eyes were full of fire, flashing now, and now glaring like
those of a wild animal.
“It might fall out of a window,” said Mrs. Hoyt, in a low, even voice,
and with a faint smile on her lips. “Children fall out of windows
sometimes.”
“But don’t always get killed,” answered Mrs. Dinneford, coldly.
“Or, it might drop from somebody’s arms into the river--off the deck of
a ferryboat, I mean,” added Mrs. Hoyt.
“That’s better. But I don’t care how it’s done, so it’s done.”
“Accidents are safer,” said Mrs. Hoyt.
“I guess you’re right about that. Let it be an accident, then.”
It was half an hour from the time Mrs. Dinneford entered this house
before she came away. As she passed from the door, closely veiled, a
gentleman whom she knew very well was going by on the opposite side
of the street. From something in his manner she felt sure that he
had recognized her, and that the recognition had caused him no little
surprise. Looking back two or three times as she hurried homeward, she
saw, to her consternation, that he was following her, evidently with the
purpose of making sure of her identity.
To throw this man off of her track was Mrs. Dinneford’s next concern.
This she did by taking a street-car that was going in a direction
opposite to the part of the town in which she lived, and riding for
a distance of over a mile. An hour afterward she came back to her own
neighborhood, but not without a feeling of uneasiness. Just as she
was passing up to the door of her residence a gentleman came hurriedly
around the nearest corner. She recognized him at a glance. It seemed as
if the servant would never answer her ring. On he came, until the sound
of his steps was in her ears. He was scarcely ten paces distant when the
door opened and she passed in. When she gained her room, she sat down
faint and trembling. Here was a new element in the danger and disgrace
that were digging her steps so closely.
As we have seen, Edith did not make her appearance at the mission
sewing-school on the following Thursday, nor did she go there for many
weeks afterward. The wild hope that had taken her to Briar street, the
nervous strain and agitation attendant on that visit, and the reaction
occasioned by her father’s failure to get possession of the baby, were
too much for her strength, and an utter prostration of mind and body was
the consequence. There was no fever nor sign of any active disease--only
weakness, Nature’s enforced quietude, that life and reason might be
saved.
CHAPTER XVII.
THE police were at fault. They found Pinky Swett, but were not able to
find the baby. Careful as they were in their surveillance, she managed
to keep them on the wrong track and to baffle every effort to discover
what had been done with the child.
In this uncertainty months went by. Edith came up slowly from her
prostrate condition, paler, sadder and quieter, living in a kind of
waking dream. Her father tried to hold her back from her mission work
among the poor, but she said, “I must go, father; I will die if I do
not.”
And so her life lost itself in charities. Now and then her mother
made an effort to draw her into society. She had not yet given up her
ambition, nor her hope of one day seeing her daughter take social rank
among the highest, or what she esteemed the highest. But her power over
Edith was entirely gone. She might as well have set herself to turn
the wind from its course as to influence her in anything. It was all in
vain. Edith had dropped out of society, and did not mean to go back. She
had no heart for anything outside of her home, except the Christian work
to which she had laid her hands.
The restless, watchful, suspicious manner exhibited for a long time by
Mrs. Dinneford, and particularly noticed by Edith, gradually wore off.
She grew externally more like her old self, but with something new in
the expression of her face when in repose, that gave a chill to the
heart of Edith whenever she saw its mysterious record, that seemed in
her eyes only an imperfect effort to conceal some guilty secret.
Thus the mother and daughter, though in daily personal contact, stood
far apart--were internally as distant from each other as the antipodes.
As for Mr. Dinneford, what he had seen and heard on his first visit to
Briar street had aroused him to a new and deeper sense of his duty as
a citizen. Against all the reluctance and protests of his natural
feelings, he had compelled himself to stand face to face with the
appalling degradation and crime that festered and rioted in that almost
Heaven-deserted region. He had heard and read much about its evil
condition; but when, under the protection of a policeman, he went from
house to house, from den to den, through cellar and garret and hovel,
comfortless and filthy as dog-kennels and pig-styes, and saw the sick
and suffering, the utterly vile and debauched, starving babes and
children with faces marred by crime, and the legion of harpies who were
among them as birds of prey, he went back to his home sick at heart, and
with a feeling of helplessness and hopelessness out of which he found it
almost impossible to rise.
We cannot stain our pages with a description of what he saw. It is so
vile and terrible, alas, so horrible, that few would credit it. The few
imperfect glimpses of life in that region which we have already given
are sad enough and painful enough, but they only hint at the real truth.
“What can be done?” asked Mr. Dinneford of the missionary, at their next
meeting, in a voice that revealed his utter despair of a remedy. “To me
it seems as if nothing but fire could purify this region.”
“The causes that have produced this would soon create another as bad,”
 was answered.
“What are the causes?”
“The primary cause,” said Mr. Paulding, “is the effort of hell to
establish itself on the earth for the destruction of human souls; the
secondary cause lies in the indifference and supineness of the people.
‘While the husband-men slept the enemy sowed tares.’ Thus it was of
old, and thus it is to-day. The people are sleeping or indifferent, the
churches are sleeping or indifferent, while the enemy goes on sowing
tares for the harvest of death.”
“Well may you say the harvest of death,” returned Mr. Dinneford,
gloomily.
“And hell,” added the missionary, with a stern emphasis. “Yes, sir, it
is the harvest of death and hell that is gathered here, and such a
full harvest! There is little joy in heaven over the sheaves that are
garnered in this accursed region. What hope is there in fire, or any
other purifying process, if the enemy be permitted to go on sowing his
evil seed at will?”
“How will you prevent it?” asked Mr. Dinneford.
“Not by standing afar off and leaving the enemy in undisputed
possession--not by sleeping while he sows and reaps and binds into
bundles for the fires, his harvests of human souls! We must be as alert
and wise and ready of hand as he; and God being our helper, we can drive
him from the field!”
“You have thought over this sad problem a great deal,” said Mr.
Dinneford. “You have stood face to face with the enemy for years, and
know his strength and his resources. Have you any well-grounded hope of
ever dislodging him from this stronghold?”
“I have just said it, Mr. Dinneford. But until the churches and the
people come up to the help of the Lord against the mighty, he cannot be
dislodged. I am standing here, sustained in my work by a small band of
earnest Christian men and women, like an almost barren rock in the midst
of a down-rushing river on whose turbulent surface thousands are being
swept to destruction. The few we are able to rescue are as a drop in
the bucket to the number who are lost. In weakness and sorrow, almost
in despair sometimes, we stand on our rock, with the cry of lost souls
mingling with the cry of fiends in our ears, and wonder at the churches
and the people, that they stand aloof--nay, worse, turn from us coldly
often--when we press the claims of this worse than heathen people who
are perishing at their very doors.
“Sir,” continued the missionary, warming on his theme, “I was in a
church last Sunday that cost its congregation over two hundred thousand
dollars. It was an anniversary occasion, and the collections for the day
were to be given to some foreign mission. How eloquently the preacher
pleaded for the heathen! What vivid pictures of their moral and
spiritual destitution he drew! How full of pathos he was, even to tears!
And the congregation responded in a contribution of over three thousand
dollars, to be sent somewhere, and to be disbursed by somebody of whom
not one in a hundred of the contributors knew anything or took the
trouble to inform themselves. I felt sick and oppressed at such a
waste of money and Christian sympathy, when heathen more destitute and
degraded than could be found in any foreign land were dying at home in
thousands every year, unthought of and uncared for. I gave no amens to
his prayers--I could not. They would have stuck in my throat. I said to
myself, in bitterness and anger, ‘How dare a watchman on the walls
of Zion point to an enemy afar off, of whose movements and power and
organization he knows but little, while the very gates of the city are
being stormed and its walls broken down?’ But you must excuse me, Mr.
Dinneford. I lose my calmness sometimes when these things crowd my
thoughts too strongly. I am human like the rest, and weak, and cannot
stand in the midst of this terrible wickedness and suffering year after
year without being stirred by it to the very inmost of my being. In my
intense absorption I can see nothing else sometimes.”
He paused for a little while, and then said, in a quiet, business way,
“In seeking a remedy for the condition of society found here, we must
let common sense and a knowledge of human nature go hand in hand with
Christian charity. To ignore any of these is to make failure certain. If
the whisky-and policy-shops were all closed, the task would be easy. In
a single month the transformation would be marvelous. But we cannot hope
for this, at least not for a long time to come--not until politics and
whisky are divorced, and not until associations of bad men cease to
be strong enough in our courts to set law and justice at defiance. Our
work, then, must be in the face of these baleful influences.”
“Is the evil of lottery-policies so great that you class it with the
curse of rum?” asked Mr. Dinneford.
“It is more concealed, but as all-pervading and almost as disastrous in
its effects. The policy-shops draw from the people, especially the poor
and ignorant, hundreds of thousands of dollars every year. There is no
more chance of thrift for one who indulges in this sort of gambling than
there is for one who indulges in drink. The vice in either case drags
its subject down to want, and in most cases to crime. I could point you
to women virtuous a year ago, but who now live abandoned lives; and they
would tell you, if you would question them, that their way downward
was through the policy-shops. To get the means of securing a hoped-for
prize--of getting a hundred or two hundred dollars for every single
one risked, and so rising above want or meeting some desperate
exigency--virtue was sacrificed in an evil moment.”
“The whisky-shops brutalize, benumb and debase or madden with cruel and
murderous passions; the policy-shops, more seductive and fascinating in
their allurements, lead on to as deep a gulf of moral ruin and hopeless
depravity. I have seen the poor garments of a dying child sold at a
pawn-shop for a mere trifle by its infatuated mother, and the money
thrown away in this kind of gambling. Women sell or pawn their clothing,
often sending their little children to dispose of these articles, while
they remain half clad at home to await the daily drawings and receive
the prize they fondly hope to obtain, but which rarely, if ever, comes.
“Children learn early to indulge this vice, and lie and steal in order
to obtain money to gratify it. You would be amazed to see the scores of
little boys and girls, white and black, who daily visit the policy-shops
in this neighborhood to put down the pennies they have begged or
received for stolen articles on some favorite numbers--quick-witted,
sharp, eager little wretches, who talk the lottery slang as glibly as
older customers. What hope is there in the future for these children?
Will their education in the shop of a policy-dealer fit them to become
honest, industrious citizens?”
All this was so new and dreadful to Mr. Dinneford that he was stunned
and disheartened; and when, after an interview with the missionary
that lasted over an hour, he went away, it was with a feeling of utter
discouragement. He saw little hope of making head against the flood of
evil that was devastating this accursed region.
CHAPTER XVIII.
MRS. HOYT, alias Bray, found Pinky Swett, but she did not find the
poor cast-off baby. Pinky had resolved to make it her own capital in
trade. She parleyed and trifled with Mrs. Hoyt week after week, and each
did her best to get down to the other’s secret, but in vain. Mutually
baffled, they parted at last in bitter anger.
One day, about two months after the interview between Mrs. Dinneford
and Mrs. Hoyt described in another chapter, the former received in an
envelope a paragraph cut from a newspaper. It read as follows:
“A CHILD DROWNED.--A sad accident occurred yesterday on board the
steamer Fawn as she was going down the river. A woman was standing with
a child in her arms near the railing on the lower deck forward. Suddenly
the child gave a spring, and was out of her arms in a moment. She caught
after it frantically, but in vain. Every effort was made to recover the
child, but all proved fruitless. It did not rise to the surface of the
water.”
Mrs. Dinneford read the paragraph twice, and then tore it into little
bits. Her mouth set itself sternly. A long sigh of relief came up from
her chest. After awhile the hard lines began slowly to disappear, giving
place to a look of satisfaction and comfort.
“Out of my way at last,” she staid, rising and beginning to move about
the room. But the expression of relief and confidence which had come
into her face soon died out. The evil counselors that lead the soul into
sin become its tormentors after the sin is committed, and torture it
with fears. So tortured they this guilty and wretched woman at every
opportunity. They led her on step by step to do evil, and then crowded
her mind with suggestions of perils and consequences the bare thought of
which filled her with terror.
It was only a few weeks after this that Mrs. Dinneford, while looking
over a morning paper, saw in the court record the name of Pinky
Swett. This girl had been tried for robbing a man of his pocket-book,
containing five hundred dollars, found guilty, and sentenced to prison
for a term of two years.
“Good again!” exclaimed Mrs. Dinneford, with satisfaction. “The wheel
turns.”
After that she gradually rose above the doubts and dread of exposure
that haunted her continually, and set herself to work to draw her
daughter back again into society. But she found her influence over Edith
entirely gone. Indeed, Edith stood so far away from her that she seemed
more like a stranger than a child.
Two or three times had Pinky Swett gone to the mission sewing-school in
order to get a sight of Edith. Her purpose was to follow her home, and
so find out her name and were she lived. With this knowledge in her
possession, she meant to visit Mrs. Bray, and by a sudden or casual
mention by name of Edith as the child’s mother throw her off her guard,
and lead her to betray the fact if it were really so. But Edith was sick
at home, and did not go to the school. After a few weeks the little girl
who was to identify Edith as the person who had shown so much interest
in the baby was taken away from Grubb’s court by her mother, and nobody
could tell where to find her. So, Pinky had to abandon her efforts in
this direction, and Edith, when she was strong enough to go back to
the sewing-school, missed the child, from whom she was hoping to hear
something that might give a clue to where the poor waif had been taken.
Up to the time of her arrest and imprisonment, Pinky had faithfully paid
the child’s board, and looked in now and then upon the woman who had it
in charge, to see that it was properly cared for. How marvelously the
baby had improved in these two or three months! The shrunken limb’s were
rounded into beautiful symmetry, and the pinched face looked full and
rosy. The large brown eyes, in which you once saw only fear or a mystery
of suffering, were full of a happy light, and the voice rang out often
in merry child-laughter. The baby had learned to walk, and was daily
growing more and more lovable.
But after Pinky’s imprisonment there was a change. The woman--Mrs. Burke
by name--in whose care the child had been placed could not afford to
keep him for nothing. The two dollars week received for his board added
just enough to her income to enable her to remain at home. But failing
to receive this, she must go out for day’s work in families at least
twice in every week.
What, then, was to be done with little Andy, as the baby was called?
At first Mrs. Burke thought of getting him into one of the homes
for friendless children, but the pleasant child had crept into her
affections, and she could not bear the thought of giving him up. His
presence stirred in her heart old and tender things long buried out of
sight, and set the past, with its better and purer memories, side
by side with the present. She had been many times a mother, but her
children were all dead but one, and she--Alas! the thought of her,
whenever it came, made her heart heavy and sad.
“I will keep him a while and see, how it comes out,” she said, on
getting the promise of a neighbor to let Andy play with her children and
keep an eye on him whenever she was out. He had grown strong, and could
toddle about and take care of himself wonderfully well for a child of
his age.
And now began a new life for the baby--a life in which he must look
out for himself and hold his own in a hand-to-hand struggle. He had no
rights that the herd of children among whom he was thrown felt bound to
respect; and if he were not able to maintain his rights, he must go down
helplessly, and he did go down daily, often hourly. But he had will and
vital force, and these brought him always to his feet again, and with
strength increased rather than lost. On the days that Mrs. Burke went
out he lived for most of the time in the little street, playing with the
children that swarmed its pavements, often dragged from before wheels or
horses’ hoofs by a friendly hand, or lifted from some gutter in which he
had fallen, dripping with mud.
When Mrs. Burke came home on the evening of her first day out, the baby
was a sight to see. His clothes were stiff with dirt, his shoes and
stockings wet, and his face more like that of a chimney-sweep than
anything else. But this was not all; there was a great lump as large
as a pigeon’s egg on the back of his head, a black-and-blue spot on his
forehead and a bad cut on his upper lip. His joy at seeing her and the
tearful cry he gave as he threw his arm’s about her neck quite overcame
Mrs. Burke, and caused her eyes to grow dim. She was angry at the plight
in which she found him, and said some hard things to the woman who had
promised to look after the child, at which the latter grew angry in
turn, and told her to stay at home and take care of the brat herself, or
put him in one of the homes.
The fresh care and anxiety felt by Mrs. Burke drew little Andy nearer
and made her reject more decidedly the thought of giving him up. She
remained at home on the day following, but did not find it so easy as
before to keep the baby quiet. He had got a taste of the free, wild life
of the street, of its companionship and excitement, and fretted to go
out. Toward evening she put by her work and went on the pavement with
Andy. It was swarming with children. At the sight of them he began to
scream with pleasure. Pulling his hand free from that of Mrs. Burke,
he ran in among them, and in a moment after was tumbled over on the
pavement. His head got a hard knock, but he didn’t seem to mind it, for
he scrambled to his feet and commenced tossing his hands about, laughing
and crying out as wildly as the rest. In a little while, over he was
knocked again, and as he fell one of the children stepped on his hand
and hurt him so that he screamed with pain. Mrs. Burke caught him in her
arms; but when he found that she was going to take him in the house he
stopped crying and struggled to get down. He was willing to take the
knocks and falls. The pleasure of this free life among children was more
to him than any of the suffering it brought.
On the next day Mrs. Burke had to go out again. Another neighbor
promised to look after Andy. When she returned at night, she found
things worse, if anything, than before. The child was dirtier, if that
were possible, and there were two great lumps on his head, instead of
one. He had been knocked down by a horse in the street, escaping death
by one of the narrowest of chances, and had been discovered and removed
from a ladder up which he had climbed a distance of twenty feet.
What help was there? None that Mrs. Burke knew, except to give up the
child, and she was not unselfish enough for this. The thought of sending
him away was always attended with pain. It would take the light out of
her poor lonely life, into which he had brought a few stray sunbeams.
She could not, she would not, give him up. He must take his chances. Ah,
but they were hard chances! Children mature fast under the stimulus
of street-training. Andy had a large brain and an active, nervous
organization. Life in the open air gave vigor and hardness to his
body. As the months went by he learned self-reliance, caution,
self-protection, and took a good many lessons in the art of aggression.
A rapidly-growing child needs a large amount of nutritious food to
supply waste and furnish material for the daily-increasing bodily
structure. Andy did not get this. At two years of age he had lost all
the roundness of babyhood. His limbs were slender, his body thin and his
face colorless and hungry-looking.
About this time--that is, when Andy was two years old--Mrs. Burke took
sick and died. She had been failing for several months, and unable to
earn sufficient even to pay her rent. But for the help of neighbors and
an occasional supply of food or fuel from some public charity, she would
have starved. At her death Andy had no home and no one to care for him.
One pitying neighbor after another would take him in at night, or let
him share a meal with her children, but beyond this he was utterly cast
out and friendless. It was summer-time when Mrs. Burke died, and the
poor waif was spared for a time the suffering of cold.
Now and then a mother’s heart would be touched, and after a
half-reluctantly given supper and a place where he might sleep for the
night would mend and wash his soiled clothes and dry them by the fire,
ready for morning. The pleased look that she saw in his large, sad
eyes--for they had grown wistful and sad since the only one he had known
as a mother died--was always her reward, and something not to be put
out of her memory. Many of the children took kindly to Andy, and often
supplied him with food.
“Andy is so hungry, mamma; can’t I take him something to eat?” rarely
failed to bring the needed bread for the poor little cast-adrift. And
if he was discovered now and then sound asleep in bed with some pitying
child who had taken him in stealthily after dark, few were hard-hearted
enough to push him into the street, or make him go down and sleep on the
kitchen floor. Yet this was not unfrequently done. Poverty is sometimes
very cruel, yet often tender and compassionate.
One day, a few months after Mrs. Burke’s death, Andy, who was beginning
to drift farther and farther away from the little street, yet always
managing to get back into it as darkness came on, that he might lay his
tired body in some friendly place, got lost in strange localities.
He had wandered about for many hours, sitting now on some step or
cellar-door or horse-block, watching the children at play and sometimes
joining in their sports, when they would let him, with the spontaneous
abandon of a puppy or a kitten, and now enjoying some street-show or
attractive shop-window. There was nothing of the air of a lost child
about him. For all that his manner betrayed, his home might have been in
the nearest court or alley. So, he wandered along from street to
street without attracting the special notice of any--a bare-headed,
bare-footed, dirty, half-clad atom of humanity not three years old.
Hungry, tired and cold, for the summer was gone and mid-autumn had
brought its chilly nights, Andy found himself, as darkness fell, in a
vile, narrow court, among some children as forlorn and dirty as himself.
It was Grubb’s court--his old home--though in his memory there was of
course no record of the place.
Too tired and hungry for play, Andy was sitting on the step of a
wretched hovel, when the door opened and a woman called sharply the
names of her two children. They answered a little way off. “Come in
this minute, and get your suppers,” she called again, and turning back
without noticing Andy, left the door open for her children. The poor
cast-adrift looked in and saw light and food and comfort--a home that
made him heartsick with longing, mean and disordered and miserable as
it would have appeared to your eyes and mine, reader. The two children,
coming at their mother’s call, found him standing just on the threshold
gazing in wistfully; and as they entered, he, drawn by their attraction,
went in also. Then, turning toward her children, the mother saw Andy.
“Out of this!” she cried, in quick anger, raising her hand and moving
hastily toward the child. “Off home with you!”
Andy might well be frightened at the terrible face and threatening words
of this woman, and he was frightened. But he did not turn and fly, as
she meant that he should. He had learned, young as he was, that if he
were driven off by every rebuff, he would starve. It was only through
importunity and perseverance that he lived. So he held his ground, his
large, clear eyes fixed steadily on the woman’s face as she advanced
upon him. Something in those eyes and in the firmly-set mouth checked
the woman’s purpose if she had meant violence, but she thrust him out
into the damp street, nevertheless, though not roughly, and shut the
door against him.
Andy did not cry; poor little baby that he was, he had long since
learned that for him crying did no good. It brought him nothing. Just
across the street a door stood open. As a stray kitten creeps in through
an open door, so crept he through this one, hoping for shelter and a
place of rest.
“Who’re you?” growled the rough but not unkindly voice of a man, coming
from the darkness. At the same moment a light gleamed out from a match,
and then the steadier flame of a candle lit up the small room, not more
than eight or nine feet square, and containing little that could be
called furniture. The floor was bare. In one corner were some old bits
of carpet and a blanket. A small table, a couple of chairs with the
backs broken off and a few pans and dishes made up the inventory of
household goods.
As the light made all things clear in this poor room, Andy saw the
bloodshot eyes, and grizzly face of a man, not far past middle life.
“Who are you, little one?” he growled again as the light gave him a view
of Andy’s face. This growl had in it a tone of kindness and welcome to
the ears of Andy who came forward, saying,
“I’m Andy.”
“Indeed! You’re Andy, are you?” and he reached out one of his hands.
“Yes; I’m Andy,” returned the child, fixing his eyes with a look so
deep and searching on the man’s face that they held him as by a kind of
fascination.
“Well, Andy, where did you come from?” asked the man.
“Don’t know,” was answered.
“Don’t know!”
Andy shook his head.
“Where do you live?”
“Don’t live nowhere,” returned the child; “and I’m hungry.”
“Hungry?” The man let the hand he was still holding drop, and getting up
quickly, took some bread from a closet and set it on the old table.
Andy did not wait for an invitation, but seized upon the bread and
commenced eating almost ravenously. As he did so the man fumbled in his
pockets. There were a few pennies there. He felt them over, counting
them with his fingers, and evidently in some debate with himself.
At last, as he closed the debate, he said, with a kind of compelled
utterance,
“I say, young one, wouldn’t you like some milk with your bread?”
“Milk! oh my I oh goody! yes,” answered the child, a gleam of pleasure
coming into his face.
“Then you shall have some;” and catching up a broken mug, the man went
out. In a minute or two he returned with a pint of milk, into which he
broke a piece of bread, and then sat watching Andy as he filled himself
with the most delicious food he had tasted for weeks, his marred face
beaming with a higher satisfaction than he had known for a long time.
“Is it good?” asked the man.
“I bet you!” was the cheery answer.
“Well, you’re a little brick,” laughed the man as he stroked Andy’s
head. “And you don’t live anywhere?”
“No.”
“Is your mother dead?”
“Yes.”
“And your father?”
“Hain’t got no father.”
“Would you like to live here?”
Andy looked toward the empty bowl from which he had made such a
satisfying meal, and said,
“Yes.”
“It will hold us both. You’re not very big;” and as he said this the man
drew his arm about the boy in a fond sort of way.
“I guess you’re tired,” he added, for Andy, now that an arm was drawn
around him, leaned against it heavily.
“Yes, I’m tired,” said the child.
“And sleepy too, poor little fellow! It isn’t much of a bed I can give
you, but it’s better than a door-step or a rubbish corner.”
Then he doubled the only blanket he had, and made as soft a bed as
possible. On this he laid Andy, who was fast asleep almost as soon as
down.
“Poor little chap!” said the man, in a tender, half-broken voice, as he
stood over the sleeping child, candle in hand. “Poor little chap!”
The sight troubled him. He turned with a quick, disturbed movement and
put the candle down. The light streaming upward into his face showed
the countenance of a man so degraded by intemperance that everything
attractive had died out of it. His clothes were scanty, worn almost
to tatters, and soiled with the slime and dirt of many an ash-heap or
gutter where he had slept off his almost daily fits of drunkenness.
There was an air of irresolution about him, and a strong play of feeling
in his marred, repulsive face, as he stood by the table on which he
had set the candle. One hand was in his pocket, fumbling over the few
pennies yet remaining there.
As if drawn by an attraction he could not resist, his eyes kept turning
to the spot where Andy lay sleeping. Once, as they came back, they
rested on the mug from which the child had taken his supper of bread and
milk.
“Poor little fellow!” came from his lips, in a tone of pity.
Then he sat down by the table and leaned his head on his hand. His face
was toward the corner of the room where the child lay. He still fumbled
the small coins in his pocket, but after a while his fingers ceased to
play with them, then his hand was slowly withdrawn from the pocket, a
deep sigh accompanying the act.
After the lapse of several minutes he took up the candle, and going over
to the bed, crouched down and let the light fall on Andy’s face. The
large forehead, soiled as it was, looked white to the man’s eyes, and
the brown matted hair, as he drew it through his fingers, was soft and
beautiful. Memory had taken him back for years, and he was looking at
the fair forehead and touching the soft brown hair of another baby. His
eyes grew dim. He set the candle upon the floor, and putting his hands
over his face, sobbed two or three times.
When this paroxysm of feeling went off, he got up with a steadier air,
and set the light back upon the table. The conflict going on in his
mind was not quite over, but another look at Andy settled the question.
Stooping with a hurried movement, he blew out the candle, then groped
his way over to the bed, and lying down, took the child in his arms and
drew him close to his breast. So the morning found them both asleep.
CHAPTER XIX.
MR. DINNEFORD had become deeply interested in the work that was going
on in Briar street, and made frequent visits to the mission house.
Sometimes he took heart in the work, but oftener he suffered great
discouragement of feeling. In one of his many conversations with Mr.
Paulding he said,
“Looking as I do from the standpoint gained since I came here, I am
inclined to say there is no hope. The enemy is too strong for us.”
“He is very strong,” returned the missionary, “but God is stronger, and
our cause is his cause. We have planted his standard here in the very
midst of the enemy’s territory, and have not only held our ground for
years, but gained some victories. If we had the people, the churches and
the law-officers on our side, we could drive him out in a year. But we
have no hope of this--at least not for a long time to come; and so, as
wisely as we can, as earnestly as we can, and with the limited means at
our control, we are fighting the foe and helping the weak, and gaining a
little every year.”
“And you really think there is gain?”
“I know it,” answered the missionary, with a ringing confidence in his
voice. “It is by comparisons that we are able to get at true results.
Come with me into our school-room, next door.”
They passed from the office of the mission into the street.
“These buildings,” said Mr. Paulding, “erected by that true Christian
charity which hopeth all things, stand upon the very site of one of the
worst dens once to be found in this region. In them we have a chapel for
worship, two large and well ventilated school-rooms, where from two to
three hundred children that would not be admitted into any public school
are taught daily, a hospital and dispensary and bathrooms. Let me show
you the school. Then I will give you a measure of comparison.”
Mr. Dinneford went up to the school-rooms. He found them crowded with
children, under the care of female teachers, who seemed to have but
little trouble in keeping them in order. Such a congregation of boys and
girls Mr. Dinneford had never seen before. It made his heart ache as he
looked into some of their marred and pinched, faces, most of which bore
signs of pain, suffering, want and evil. It moved him to tears when he
heard them sing, led by one of the teachers, a tender hymn expressive of
the Lord’s love for poor neglected children.
“The Lord Jesus came to seek and to save that which was lost,” said the
missionary as they came down from the school-room, “and we are trying to
do the same work. And that our labor is not all in vain will be evident
when I show you what this work was in the beginning. You have seen a
little of what it is now.”
They went back to the office of the missionary.
“It is nearly twenty years,” said Mr. Paulding, “since the organization
of our mission. The question of what to do for the children became
at once the absorbing one. The only building in which to open a
Sunday-school that could be obtained was an old dilapidated frame house
used as a receptacle for bones, rags, etc.; but so forbidding was its
aspect, and so noisome the stench arising from the putrefying bones
and rotting rags, that it was feared for the health of those who
might occupy it. However it was agreed to try the effect of scraping,
scrubbing, white-washing and a liberal use of chloride of lime. This
was attended with such good effects that, notwithstanding the place was
still offensive to the olfactories, the managers concluded to open in it
our first Sabbath-school.
“No difficulty was experienced in gathering in a sufficient number of
children to compose a school; for, excited by such a novel spectacle
as a Sabbath-school in that region, they came in crowds. But such a
Sabbath-school as that first one was beyond all doubt the rarest thing
of the kind that any of those interested in its formation had ever
witnessed. The jostling, tumbling, scratching, pinching, pulling of
hair, little ones crying and larger ones punching each other’s heads and
swearing most profanely, altogether formed a scene of confusion and
riot that disheartened the teachers in the start, and made them begin to
think they had undertaken a hopeless task.
“As to the appearance of these young Ishmaelites, it was plain that they
had rarely made the acquaintance of soap and water. Hands, feet and
face exhibited a uniform crust of mud and filth. As it was necessary to
obtain order, the superintendent, remembering that ‘music hath charms
to soothe the savage breast,’ decided to try its effects on the untamed
group before him; and giving out a line of a hymn adapted to the tune of
‘Lily Dale,’ he commenced to sing. The effect was instantaneous. It was
like oil on troubled waters. The delighted youngsters listened to the
first line, and then joined in with such hearty good-will that the old
shanty rang again.
“The attempt to engage and lead them in prayer was, however, a matter of
great difficulty. They seemed to regard the attitude of kneeling as very
amusing, and were reluctant to commit themselves so far to the ridicule
of their companions as to be caught in such a posture. After reading to
them a portion of the Holy Scriptures and telling them of Jesus,
they were dismissed, greatly pleased with their first visit to a
Sabbath-school.
“As for ourselves, we had also received a lesson. We found--what indeed
we had expected--that the poor children were very ignorant, but we also
found what we did not expect--namely, such an acute intelligence and
aptitude to receive instruction as admonished us of the danger of
leaving them to grow up under evil influences to become master-spirits
in crime and pests to society. Many of the faces that we had just seen
were very expressive--indeed, painfully so. Some of them seemed to
exhibit an unnatural and premature development of those passions whose
absence makes childhood so attractive.
“Hunger! ay, its traces were also plainly written there. It is painful
to see the marks of hunger on the human face, but to see the cheeks of
childhood blanched by famine, to behold the attenuated limbs and bright
wolfish eyes, ah! that is a sight.
“The organization of a day-school came next. There were hundreds of
children in the district close about the mission who were wholly without
instruction. They were too dirty, vicious and disorderly to be admitted
into any of the public schools; and unless some special means of
education were provided, they must grow up in ignorance. It was
therefore resolved to open a day-school, but to find a teacher with her
heart in such a work was a difficulty hard to be met; moreover, it was
thought by many unsafe for a lady to remain in this locality alone, even
though a suitable one should offer. But one brave and self-devoted
was found, and one Sunday it was announced to the children in the
Sabbath-school that a day school would be opened in the same building at
nine o’clock on Monday morning.
“About thirty neglected little ones from the lanes and alleys around
the mission were found at the schoolroom door at the appointed hour. But
when admitted, very few of them had any idea of the purpose for which
they were collected. The efforts of the teacher to seat them proved a
failure. The idea among them seemed to be that each should take some
part in amusing the company. One would jump from the back of a bench
upon which he had been seated, while others were creeping about the
floor; another, who deemed himself a proficient in turning somersaults,
would be trying his skill in this way, while his neighbor, equally
ambitious, would show the teacher how he could stand on his head.
Occasionally they would pause and listen to the singing of a hymn or the
reading of a little story; then all would be confusion again; and thus
the morning wore away. The first session having closed, the teacher
retired to her home, feeling that a repetition of the scenes through
which she had passed could scarcely be endured.
“Two o’clock found her again at the door, and the children soon gathered
around her. Upon entering the schoolroom, most of them were induced
to be seated, and a hymn was sung which they had learned in the
Sabbath-school. When it was finished, the question was asked, ‘Shall we
pray?’ With one accord they answered, ‘Yes.’ ‘And will you be quiet?’
They replied in the affirmative. All were then requested to be silent
and cover their faces. In this posture they remained until the prayer
was closed; and after resuming their seats, for some minutes order was
preserved. This was the only encouraging circumstance of the day.
“For many weeks a stranger would scarcely have recognized a school in
this disorderly gathering which day after day met in the old gloomy
building. Very many difficulties which we may not name were met and
