half-perplexed ; he almost began to think he had 
said something to Rose, after all ! 

" The mighty thoughts evolved from his brain 



 

are in some confusion, I fear," whispered Bessie 
to Rose ; " he will have no trouble in keeping 
himself down to earth this afternoon, I think." 

After some hours, the party assembled in the 
glen to join in a round game. " It is ver} r dark," 
said Aunt Faith, looking up through the thick 
foliage ; " I fear we are going to have a storm." 

" Let us run down to the lakeshore and look," 
said Bessie, and several of the j^oung people 
started down the glen, followed by the rest of the 
party at a slower pace ; all but Sibyl who still 
remained on the rock with Graham Marr. 

When they reached the beach, a threatening 

expanse of sky and water met their gaze ; the 

lake was unusually still, but its blue changed 

into a leaden gray, and out in the west a white 

streak followed by a black line told of the 

approaching squall. In the south, and east, the 

sky was clear and summer-like, but from the 

north-west great clouds came rolling up, looking 

black and menacing, and the air was oppressively 

close. 

 

" A thunder-storm ! " said Hugh, " and close 
upon us too ! " 

" Oh, I am so terribly afraid of thunder!" said 
Edith Chase, turning pale. * 4 What shall we 
do?" 

" Why did we not notice the storm before ? " 
said Aunt Faith, in dismay ; " it must have been 
some time coming up." 

" No, Aunt," said Bessie ; " probably not more 
than ten minutes. That is what I mean when I 
call the western lakes treacherous ; the changes 
are so sudden." 

" You are right, Miss Darrell," said Mr. Gay, 
looking over the dark water with an uneasy 
expression in his face ; " I don't think much of 
these fresh water mill-ponds. On the ocean, 
now, we know what to expect." 

" Isn't there some house near by, Hugh ? ' 
asked Aunt Faith. 

" No, Aunt. I selected this place because it 
was so solitary, you remember ; there is no house 
within two miles." 



 

" Could we not get there, by driving rapidly, 
before the storm reaches us ? " said Mr. Gay, 
mindful of his rheumatism. 

" I am afraid not, sir," replied Hugh : " it 
would take some time to harness the horses, and 
besides, the house is not on the road, but across 
the fields towards the south." 

" What shall we do ? " said Edith Chase, as 
the sullen water began to break with a low 
sound on the beach at her feet. 

" The lake is beginning to growl already," 
said Hugh. " Come, Aunt Faith, let us go back 
to the woods ; we will make the best shelter we 
can for you, all. A summer thunder-storm is 
not such a terrible disaster after all." 

" We can't trim up the wagon with all the 
beautiful wreaths we made," lamented Gem. 
" It's too bad ! " 

" The shower will prevent the show," said 
Hugh, laughing. 

" Why is Hugh like Tennyson's Brook" said 
Rose Saxon, as the party made their way back to 
the glen. 



 



" Because he is idyl" said Bessie. 

" Good, but not correct. Because he, — 

 Chatters, chatters, as he goes, 
Till all our nerves do quiver, — 
For we may talk, or we may stop, 
Eut Hugh puns on forever, 
Ever, 
Hugh puns on forever.' " 

sang Rose, taking up the well-known air as she 
sprang over the rocks in advance of the rest. 

" - We shall have to make an impromptu wig- 
wam under the shelter of those rocks and beech- 
trees," said Mr. Leslie, collecting the shawls and 
water-proof cloaks ; " the foliage of the beech is 
very thick, and the rock will protect you from 
the west, in which direction the storm is coming. 
Mr. Marr, please throw down those shawls." 

" What is the matter, Mr. Leslie ? " said Sibyl, 
descending from her perch. 

" A thunder-storm ! " said Hugh, " and close 
upon us, too ! " 

"Surely, then, you are not thinking of re- 



 

niaining here under the trees," said Graham 
Marr, hastily putting on his water-proof coat. 

" The ladies will be in more danger from the 
drenching rain, th'in from the lightning," replied 
Mr. Leslie, brerking down branches for his wig- 
wam. " He:e, Jonas ! Jonas ! have you a 
hatchet tVere ? " 

Bu^ Jonas did not answer, and Hugh, upon 
going \n to the platform, discovered that he had 
started homeward with his cart, having first 
harnessed the four-in-hand. The horses were 
standing tied to the trees, but they looked 
uneasy, and one of the leaders pawed the 
ground restlessly. " I shall have to stay here 
with them," thought Hugh, " or they may break 
away when the storm strikes them. He ran 
back and called over the edge of the cliff. 
" Jonas has gone home, Mr. Leslie, and I shall 
be obliged to stay with the horses ; but here is 
the hatchet." 

" Very well ! " said the clergyman, catching 
the hatchet with the dexterity of an Indian as 



 

Hugh threw it clown ; " go back to the horses, 
Mr. Warrington. We can attend to the ladies." 

Under his direction an impromptu wigwam 
was speedily built of long boughs, with the high 
rock as a background ; this was thatched with 
bushes, and the shawls and cloaks spread over 
the whole as the first muttering of thunder was 
heard. " Oh ! " said Edith Chase, " what shall 
I do ? I cannot stand the lightning ! " P 

" Come inside with me ! " said Aixat Faith ; 
" you can hide your head in my lap." 

The ladies hurried inside the wigwam, Aunt 
Faith, Sibyl, Rose Saxon, Edith Chase, Lida 
Powers, Bessie, Annie Chase and Gem. 

" I see there is room for the gentlemen, too," 
said Gideon Fish, creeping in. 

" I really think we had better all be together," 
said Graham Marr, following his example. 

" Tom ! " called Aunt Faith, pulling aside a 
cloak that formed part of the wall " come inside 
directly." 

" Oh, Aunt Faith ! we've found a splendid 



 

cave up here ; it holds Jim and me first-rate," 
answered a voice from above. 

" They've squeezed themselves into a little 
cranny in the rock, Mrs. Sheldon," said Mr. 
Leslie, looking up and laughing to see the 
' splendid cave ; * " I think they will keep dry by 
force of compression." 

" Aren't you coming inside, Mr. Mount? " said 
Lid a Powers. 

"No. I shall go and help Hugh with the 
horses ; you had better come too, Walter. We 
may have some trouble with them." 

" Mr. Leslie, you will join us, I hope?" said 
Rose Saxon, peeping out from between the 
leaves. 

" I think not, Miss Rose. I am hardened, you 
know ; I have camped out in winter storms too 
many times to dread a July shower. But I 
insist upon Mr. Gay's going inside. The i Boston 
man ' will now have an opportunity ; he can * to 
a wigwam with a squaw go,' " quoted Mr. Leslie, 
helping the old bachelor under the overhanging 
branches. 



 

In a few moments the storm was upon them ; 
first a tornado of wind, then intense and almost 
continuous lightning, followed by heavy rolling 
thunder. Edith Chase trembled, and buried her 
face in her hands. 

" This war of the elements affects my nerves," 
whispered Graham to Sibyl, by whose side he 
was crouching. 

" Does it ? " she replied coldly ; " I was not 
aware you were so timid." 

Then came the rain, falling in sheets, the 
drenching torrent of a summer thunder-shower. 
In spite of the foliage, the wet began to penetrate 
the wigwam ; Sibyl, who sat on the outside of 
the huddled circle, felt the drops on her shoulder 
through her light dress. 

" Take this coat, Miss Warrington," said Mr. 
Leslie, stooping down and parting the branches. 

" Oh no ! " replied Sibyl ; you need it more 
than I do." 

But the coat was thrown around her, and Mr. 
Leslie was gone before she could remonstrate. 



 

At last, after half an hour, the fury of the 
storm was over, but the rain still fell steadily. 

"I am afraid it will not clear immediately," 
said Mr. Leslie, coming to the wigwam entrance ; 
u I have been down to the lake, and the sky 
looks as though we should have a wet night.' ' 

"How dark it is ! " said Aunt Faith ; " What 
time is it ? " 

" Half-past seven," said Mr. Leslie, looking at 
his watch. 

" Oh, how shall we ever get home ? " sighed 
Edith Chase. 

" We had better start immediately, I think," 
said Mr. Gay ; " it will be very unpleasant to ride 
in the darkness as well as in the rain." 

" And the horses ! " said Lida Powers ; " I hope 
they will be quiet. That black was inclined to 
dance a little when we came out." 

" Now, Ladies ! " said Mr. Leslie, coming 
towards the wigwam again, " I have been up on 
the plateau ; the horses are ready, and the sooner 
we start the better, as more black clouds are 



 

gathering in the west. Mrs. Sheldon, let me 
help you up the bank." 

" Oh, Mr. Leslie, how wet you are ! " ex- 
claimed Aunt Faith, as she emerged from the 
wigwam. " Where is your coat ? " 

" Miss Warrington has it," he replied ; " I 
made her take it." 

" Here it is, Mr. Leslie," said Sibyl, stepping 
from under cover. 

" Keep it, Sibyl," said the clergyman in a low 
tone. " It gives me pleasure to see you protected." 

" It is still raining steadily, I perceive," said 
Graham Marr, peeping out from the sheltering 
branches; "don't you think we had better 
remain here awhile longer, ladies ? " 

" The rain won't wash us away, Graham," 
said his cousin Rose. 

" It washes out dyes, however, and shows us 
all in our true colors," whispered Bessie to Lida 
Powers. " Look at Graham ! He looks like a 
faded ray ! " 

" He always was a fair-weather piece of 



 

goods," answered Lida ; high color, you know, 
don't stand soaking.'' 

Reaching the wagon, the company climbed 
inside, the cushions had been kept dry, but the 
floor was wet, and the rain still fell with the 
persistence that betokens what farmers call a 
" steady soaker." Edith Chase sat with Aunt 
Faith at the rear end of the wagon, but Bessie 
in Edith's old place, felt her spirits rising with 
every plunge of the restless leaders. 

u Do you think you can manage them, Hugh?" 
she whispered, just before they started. 

"I hope so," he replied confidently. But the 
blacks had had their nerves tried by the flies, 
the thunder, and the lightning ; besides, they 
had never been driven four-in-hand before, and 
they had their doubts as to what the bays were 
doing behind them. For the first mile or two 
they kept the road, and then they whirled sud- 
denly round to the left, and stood still. 

" Oh ! " cried Edith Chase, " we shall all be 
killed!" 



 

However, after some persuasion, the blacks 
started on again as suddenly as they had stopped, 
for wonderful are the ways of balky horses. 
But the increasing darkness brought new terror ; 
black clouds settled down over the earth and the 
narrow, winding road grew invisible before them. 
After several more miles a flash of lightning: and 
a peal of thunder startled the party, the leaders 
veered round again, jumping violently, and 
carrying the wagon perilously near the gully. 
William Mount and Walter Hart sprang to the 
horses' heads, while the ladies screamed in con- 
cert. Aunt Faith was an arrant coward where 
riding was concerned. " I would rather get out 
and walk all the way home than sit in this wagon 
a moment longer," she said, earnestly. 

" Take me with you, aunt," said Gem, who 
was crying aloud. 

" I will go, too," said Edith Chase, climbing 
down with alacrity ; " it cannot be very far, 
now." 

" We are still four miles from Westerton," 



 

said Hugh. " There is no clanger, Aunt Faith ; 
do get in again. The horses are only a little 
balky ; they will be quiet soon." 

" Do you call that quiet?" said Rose Saxon, 
as a flash of lightning revealed the plunging 
leaders with William Mount and Walter Hart 
at their heads. 

" By all means, -let us walk," said Graham 
Man, getting out quickly. 

" Of course if the ladies insist upon walking, 
it is oar duty to accompany them," said Gideon 
Fish, following his example. 

" Mrs. Sheldon," said Mr. Gay, " if you will 
walk, pray take my arm." 

" Miss Darrell, I shall be happy to help you 
down,'' said Gideon Fish. 

" Thank you, but I shall stay where I am; I 
am not at all afraid," replied Bessie. 

After a few moments, the horses started again ; 
and the walking party plodded along behind; 
Hugh drove very slowly so as to keep near them, 
and, in the darkness, Bessie climbed up on the 



 

driver's seat beside him. " Bravo, little woman ! 
I knew you would not be afraid," said Hugh. 

" Afraid, Hugh ! With you ! " exclaimed 
Bessie. 

At the other end of the wagon sat Sibyl and 
Mr. Leslie, who also preferred the wagon .to the 
road. The rain still fell, and the wind had grown 
cold, but although Sibyl still wore the coat, her 
companion did not seem to notice his uncovered 
shoulders. Tbey talked earnestly together in 
low tones all the way, and when at last the 
lights of Westerton appeared in the darkness 
ahead, and the pedestrians, emboldened by these 
signs of civilization, took their seats in the 
wagon again, Sibyl's face was so bright that 
Aunt Faith noticed it. " You do not look at all 
cold, my dear," she said, as the light from the 
first street lamps fell across the wagon, " and 
yet the air is very chilly." 

" I fear I shall have an attack of dumb-ague,' 
laid Graham Marr, shivering. 

Edith Chase sat on the edge of the seat, ready 



 

to spring, watching the leaders with intent gaze ; 
as they approached the old stone house she 
heaved a deep sigh of relief. " I am so glad it 
is over," she said, audibly. 

" I hope you will all come in and have a cup 
of hot coffee after the exposure," said Aunt 
Faith, as, one by one, the tired guests climbed 
down from the circus-wagon. 

" We are all so wet, I think we had better go 
directly home," said Lida Powers. 

" Thank you, Mrs. Sheldon," said Edith Chase, 
" but we really must go directly home ; come, 
Annie." 

"Excuse me, Mrs. Sheldon," said Mr. Gay, 
'* but my seventy years require hot flannels. 
Good-night." 

Mr. Leslie had accompanied Sibyl up the long 
walk to the piazza in order to take back his 
coat when she was under shelter. All the other 
guests made their excuses at the gate, all but 
Gideon Fish, and when Bessie saw him lingering, 
she pretended to be very obtuse. u Well, as 



 

you won't any of you come in, I will say « good- 
night ' to all of you," she said, closing the gate 
and turning away. "I couldn't help it, Aunt 
Faith," she whispered, as they went up the walk ; 
" Gideon wanted some of your coffee, but we 
have had enough of him for one day, I think." 
Mr. Leslie, however, put on his coat and took 
his coffee with the cousins as though unconscious 
of his wet clothes; Hugh made up a bright 
wood fire on the hearth, and they all talked over 
the incidents of the day, and laughed over its 
disasters together. It is always amusing to look 
back on discomfort when it is well over. 

" Where now is your beautiful ' Monday 
morning, bright and early,' Tom?" said Aunt 
Faith, remembering the conversation at the 
breakfast-table. 

" Sic transit gloria Monday ! " said Hugh. 

" Incorrigible," said Mr. Leslie, laughing as he 
said good-night. 





CHAPTER VIII. 

RIGHT AT LAST. 

SIBYL," said Aunt Faith, the day after the 

picnic, " have you completed all your 

preparations for Saratoga ? " 

" You speak as though my going was a 

matter-of-course, Aunt," said Sibyl slowly. 

" Is it not, dear ? I supposed your decision was 

made several weeks ago/' said Aunt Faith, 

thinking of the written paper which Sibyl had 

given her to read. 

" I think I shall go," said Sibyl, after a pause. 

" Everything is ready but the pearls ; I can buy 

them any time." 





 

" I hope you will enjoy the summer, my dear," 
said Aunt Faith, taking her niece's hand affectionately 

" Then you approve of my going, Aunt ? " 

" You must make your own decision, Sibyl. 
No one can aid you in such a question as this," 
replied Aunt Faith gravely. 

Sibyl sat awhile in silence ; then she rose and 
left the room. 

An hour or two afterwards, Bridget came up- 
stairs to tell Aunt Faith that Mr. Leslie wished 
to see her ; she went down, somewhat surprised 
at so early a call, and found the young clergy- 
man waiting for her in the parlor. 

" Mrs. Sheldon," he said, after the first words 
of greeting, " poor Margaret Brown is in great 
trouble. You remember our conversation about 
her yesterday ? Calling in to tell her of it this 
morning, I found two of the children stricken 
down with fever, seriously ill, the doctor says ; 
and I have come directly to you for aid ; to you 
and Miss Warrington." 



 

" Sibyl has gone out, Mr. Leslie, but I shall be 
glad to do anything I can. Shall I go there at 
once, or send a nurse ? " 

" I hardly know yet ; I came to talk the mat- 
ter over with you. I do not like to ask you to 
go there, for the fever may be dangerous, and yet 
Margaret needs sympathy as much as money. 
Perhaps if they could all be moved into a purer 
air, — into the country, for instance, — away from 
that crowded neighborhood, it would be the 
wisest course. " 

" But can the sick children bear a journey 
now?" 

" I think they could go a few miles in an easy 
carriage, but, as they are growing worse every 
hour, it must be done at once if done at all. 
Do you know of any farm-house where they 
could be received for a time ? " 

" Mr. Green might take them,'' said Aunt 
Faith ; " he would probably expect ample pay- 
ment, however. Mr. Leslie, I am sorry I cannot 
give you carte blanche ; but owing to outside 



 

circumstances, I have but a small sum at my dis- 
posal at present. 

" We will put our means together, Mrs. 
Sheldon. I have something laid by, and perhaps 
Miss Warrington will assist us." 

" Sibyl has other uses for her money, I fear." 

" Surely none more worthy than this, Mrs. 
Sheldon." 

Aunt Faith grew somewhat impatient. " Mr. 
Leslie," she said emphatically, "you do not un- 
derstand my niece." 

" I think I understand Miss Warrington's 
character, and I think she will help Margaret 
Brown," replied the young clergyman gravely. 

At this moment a step on the gravel-walk was 
heard, and Sibyl herself crossed the piazza and 
entered the hall. 

" Have you been down town, Sibyl ? " asked 
Aunt Faith. 

" Yes, aunt," replied Sibyl, coloring slightly, 
as she returned Mr. Leslie's greeting. 

" Have you made any purchases ? " continued 



 

Aunt Faith, glancing at an oblong box in her 
niece's hand. 

Sibyl hesitated ; then, as if impelled by a sudden impulse, she took off the wrapping-paper 
and opened the case. " I have bought my 
pearls at last, Aunt Faith. Are they not 
beautiful ? " she said. 

The fair jewels lay on a velvet bed, white and 
perfect, and looking from them to Sibyl's blonde 
beauty, one could not help noticing their adaptation to each other. 

" They are very lovely, my dear," said Aunt 

Faith, passing the case to Mr. Leslie. He took 

the jewels, looked at them a moment, and retaining 
the case in his band, said, " I came 

here this morning to ask your assistance in a case 

of distress, Miss Warrington. Margaret Brown 

is in need of instant aid ; two of the children 

are ill, and I wish to have them removed into 

the country, if possible, before they grow worse. 

I rely upon you to help us." 

Sibyl sat with downcast eyes a moment. 


