certainly must those around her." 
" She did not seem a bit sorry that we had lost our for- 
tune, though she will miss some of its benefits." 
" We must learn a lesson, my little girl, and not fall into 
the habit of aggravating our troubles, and thinking our lot 
the hardest. There are many rough paths in this world, 
but we will remember who has said, 'My grace shall be 
sufficient for thee.' " 
Jessie did not mention her meeting with Mrs. Westlake. 
It was the first time that she had received any direct re- 
buff, and from this source it came with double keenness. 
And yet she was glad that it had not been Eleanor. 
She understood the changes now as she never had before. 
She began to realize that they must fill an entirely different 
sphere. It was the greater trial because she was conscious 
of no alteration in herself. The virtues, graces, and refine- 
ments of the old life would be carried into the new ; and 
yet who would seek them for their absolute worth ? But 
Were such summer friends worthy of regard and regret? 
In this hour Jessie Ashburton drew still nearer to Gad 
CHAPTER V. 
A "STEW HOUSE. 
THE quiet tide of life was broken with the Ashburtons. 
Eleanor went to the city several times with Philip to look 
at houses, but always returned dispirited and moody. 
At length, in despair, he said one night, 
" Madge, will you and Jessie go down with me to-mor- 
row? I have been offered a house at quite a bargain. El- 
eanor looked at it once and thought it would not do, but 
I find that we cannot have much choice for the rent we 
will be able to pay." 
Madge was quite elated ; Jessie, in her more quiet fash- 
ion, was equally pleased with this mark of Philip's con- 
fidence. 
" I am sorry that Nelly takes matters so hard," Philip 
said, anxiously. "You two will have to assume the lead, 
with mamma's counsel. And I think we can have quite a 
pretty little nest of a home without being very extrava- 
gant ; for now, my small women, we are poor." 
" Jessie spends half her time in the kitchen, learning to 
cook," exclaimed Madge, by way of encouragement. 
"Bravo ! " said Philip, laughingly. " The house is some- 
thing of a journey up town, but you can see the river ficm 
it, and we shall have quite a garden." 
" That will suit mamma admirably." 
"Eleanor inclines to Brooklyn or Williamsburg, but the 
extra expense will more than make the difference in rent. 
This neighborhood is quiet and respectable, though the 
house is old-fashioned." 
" It will be the more cosy, then." 
 
"Madge, I am glad and thankful that you can always 
find a stray gleam of sunshine." 
She smiled brightly at his commendation. 
They started off in good spirits the next morning. The 
house was on the east side of the town a long block, 
with some rather pretentious buildings at one end, a num- 
ber of vacant lots between, and near the river this cluster 
of cottages, old-fashioned indeed. 
"The very last one," said Philip. 
Beyond rose a ledge of rock, but between that and the 
opposite shore of Long Island the river gleamed and 
sparkled in the spring sunshine. The house stood de- 
tached, as did all in this row, and, what was quite unusual 
in the way of adornment, a wisteria had climbed to the 
roof, and a month or two later would be trailing long 
sprays of green and lilac about the windows. 
"Why, it is pretty," declared Madge. "And I like 
the wildness of the place about here. I couldn't get my 
breath in those houses;" and she nodded towards the 
brick row. 
w They are to be let in tenements, a floor to a family. 
We looked at one. They are finished in a very pretty, 
modern fashion." 
" But to be crowded in with other people ! " 
" No, we couldn't take that quite yet," said Philip, with 
rather a proud gesture. 
They had a gay time exploring the interior. On the 
lower floor were two very fair-sized rooms, and back of the 
hall a large kitchen, with a basement wash-room quite con- 
venient. Above there were three sleeping apartments, and 
one small one, with a garret over the whole. 
" Why, I think we could do very well," said Madge, 
"only I'd like to have that horrid blue and buff paper 
taken off the parlor. I suppose that frightened Nelly. 
And if it could be painted up a little O, do look at 
these funny brass knobs ! Why, they are so small that on 
can hardly take hold of them ! And the mantels are so 
very high and quaint! O, it isn't Home Nook!" and th 
brightness died out of her voice. 
" No," Philip returned, gravely. 
" But the garden will be nice ; " and Jessie took a glimpse 
out of the window. " There is a long grape arbor, and trees 
and rose-bushes." 
"Thank you, Jessie, for seeing so much. It is quite the 
best thing for the rent that I have found, and I must give 
an answer to-morrow. I think we will have the paper 
changed, and the knobs. I could paint it myself." 
They went over it again, arranging it for use. They 
would have one parlor, and a library or sitting-room. In 
the summer, they could cook down stairs, and use their 
kitchen exclusively for a dining-room. Mamma could have 
one of the second-floor apartments, Nelly one, which would 
be a sort of guest chamber, also "if they ever had any 
company," appended Madge. 
"And I'll take the small one," said Philip. 
"If we have a servant, we must put her in the garret." 
" I think we had better learn to do without," was Jessie's 
quiet rejoinder. 
They explored nooks, and corners, and closets, and found 
them really capacious. Jessie looked at all with the eye 
of a housekeeper, for somehow she felt that Eleanor was 
not just the one to go into kitchen details. 
"Now we will run around in the next street, and take a 
flying view of a house for four hundred." 
"And this ?" 
" I can have for three hundred dollars, by paying six 
months' rent in advance." 
"Four hundred would be two thirds of your salary, 
Philip." 
" Yes. Clement will help us out a little ; but it seemi 
right to begin with the utmost economy. If we are pros- 
pered, we can make a change." 
 
" Yes," said Jessie, with quiet decision. 
She remarked that Philip never spoke of their father 
being able to do anything again. What if Mrs. Deane's 
unkind surmise should prove correct? 
The house was larger and a trifle more modern, besides 
having two bedrooms in the attic, but they thought they 
could have as many comforts in the small one. 
*' Now, I want you to see a suit of rooms in a tenement 
house that can be had for four hundred." 
" I should not like it," said Jessie, promptly. 
" They are very nice, and quite to one's self." 
A second floor, containing parlor, kitchen, three bed- 
rooms, a large clothes-press, and a bath-room. There were 
corniced ceilings, one marble mantel, doors grained in oak, 
and the whole had a very pretty, stylish air; but the sleep- 
ing-rooms were all small, and the yard was merely a square 
of grass, with clothes-line posts at the corners, and a flagged 
walk around. 
"It's pretty," said Madge, "but I believe I like the 
other best for us." 
" I am sure that I do," was Jessie's rejoinder. 
" Philip, how do real poor people manage to live in a 
city?" 
" In a year's time you will be able to answer the ques- 
tion," he replied, with a half-sad, half-playful smile. 
" But, after all, we have some resources that very poor 
people cannot fall back upon." 
And yet Jessie sighed. She was coming face to face 
with poverty very rapidly. 
So they returned home, and talked the matter over with 
mamma. She approved of their decision, and the house 
was taken at once. 
Eleanor listened in silence, esteeming her acquiescence 
a great sacrifice. Philip travelled to and fro, busy, ener 
getic, and cheerful. Mr. Ashburton began to walk round 
his room, and business matters progressed towards a set- 
tlement. Friends flocked in to comfort and assist, and 
some, perhaps from curiosity, to see how the Ashburtons 
bore their misfortune ; for there seemed to be a strand of 
this underlying much of human nature, and though very 
few actually rejoiced over their downfall, more than one 
felt that it was not an altogether unsatisfactory turn in the 
wheel of fortune, where so much seems like chance. 
Mr. Kenneth, their clergyman, was one of their firmest 
and most comforting friends. His mother, a very estima- 
ble widow lady, who was not likely to change her home, 
offered them room for pictures, or any choice articles they 
did not care to dispose of, as their new abode would be 
rather limited. 
Philip took the girls down again to see how much it had 
improved. The obnoxious paper had been replaced by one 
chaste and neutral-tinted, the mantels, that had been a sort 
of dismal lead-colored imitation of marble, were black, and 
the paint fresh and really pretty. 
"I did that myself!" announced Philip, with a touch of 
triumph. " And now look at our dining-room ! " 
Instead of the smoky wall, it was a soft grayish-pearl 
color. 
" Phil, you are a jewel ! " exclaimed Madge. " Why, we 
shall be a sort of Swiss Family Robinson only we shall 
not live on an island." 
"Now, we will bring the furniture down and arrange it. 
I haven't but about ten days' grace, and then I must take 
my place in the ranks." 
But when they began to dismantle their beloved home, 
a sharp pang of anguish seized them all ; for every corner 
and every article was associated with some tender remem- 
brance. Jessie's tears fell silently, but now and then 
Madge broke down. 
" I can't help it," she would say, with a sob. " It's so 
hard, after all ! and now I begin to feel afraid that we shall 
never come back." 
 
Philip, gaining daily experience, thought it quite prob- 
lematical also. Fortunes were not so easily won. His 
own dreams he thrust into the background, and not even 
his mother guessed the pain he hid beneath the smiling 
face. 
Was it wrong to pray for prosperity and happiness, and 
work faithfully for them ? It did not seem an ignoble aim 
when hallowed by love and self-sacrifice. "For their 
sake," he said to himself, when the way looked long and 
dreary. 
Eleanor assisted with a grave face and pre-occupied 
manner. It would have been a comfort now to hear her 
chide Madge's follies ; but she preserved a silence that, 
while it had nothing actually sullen or cross in it, was still 
uncomfortable. Even her mother was shut out of her con- 
fidence. 
The young girl was fighting a hard battle in her own 
strength. Nothing could soften this misfortune with her. 
Every day she felt her nameless little wants and longings, 
her artistic perceptions, her refinements, and subtile har- 
monies rushing over her, and flooding her very soul. 
Then the contact with coarse materialisms for so she 
would call them stung her into keenest misery. Jessie's 
quiet persistence and Madge's energy roused a bitter feel- 
ing. They did not suffer as she. They were not giving 
up their very life, wrenching their souls out of the true 
orbit. 
With the exception of the piano and two or three pic- 
tures, the parlor was to remain untouched. Their sitting- 
room and library furniture was transferred to the new 
house, and when the two rooms were put in order, Philip 
declared them charming. Their dining-room needed much 
more simplicity, and some of their chamber furniture was 
quite too elegant for their new station. 
As they drew near the end, Mr. and Mrs. Ashburton 
went to spend a few days with Mrs. Kenneth. Madg 
and Jessie worked unweariedly, and Eleanor, too, did good 
service. 
" Poor Nelly ! " Madge said, pityingly, in her absence. 
" Aunt Waltham was right it is harder for her. She 
doesn't seem meant for poverty and toil. I wish something 
nice could happen to her;" and the generous child racked 
her brains, wondering what would be " nice." 
" And it is mean that a little money should make such 
difference. She is as good and handsome as she was be- 
fore, and it seems to me that she ought to be loved the 
better for her misfortunes. And yet see that young Max- 
well you know we always thought he looked like a 
hero, and I'm sure that he was quite devoted to Nelly 
and on Sunday he and his sister swept by in state, giv- 
ing her the merest little nod but, O, didn't she look 
like a queen ! And Mrs. Westlake and May Rossiter 
who would have thought of their being so ungenerous?*' 
" Isn't that rather severe, Madge ? " 
" No," was the frank and ready rejoinder. "If May had 
lost her fortune, and we were riding round in our carriage, 
do you suppose we should pass her with a disdainful little 
sniff? O, Jessie ! why isn't the world better and kinder? 
It is in trial and adversity that one most needs love and 
tenderness." 
"Yes," Jessie faltered, "but we cannot have everything 
just as we would like." 
"And yet I don't see why these grand, heroic things 
cannot beautify common life. See what Phil has given 
up ; yet no one praises him, or seems to think it at all be- 
yond the merest duty." 
" He is not doing it to be seen of men." 
" But I would like some one to see it, all the same. 
There is a great deal of talk about noble and unselfish 
deeds ; but are they really appreciated ? " 
" There is One who knows, Madge." 
The girl was silent, revolving some tangled problem ui 
 
ner mind. The world looked so wide and conlused to 
her just then ! Why were the good and true called upon 
to suffer, the selfish and cold-hearted prospered, burdens 
of all kinds coming together, and 
"Jessie, what do you do when everything looks wrong 
and hard, unjust, I mean? Doesn't it seem as if God 
sometimes forgot people for a while ? " 
" I don't know," Jessie returned slowly, her eyes going 
out to the distant heavens. "I feel as if I wanted to keep 
close to him, that I might not be forgotten ; and he can 
make a little light shine on the darkest path." 
"I do not believe that I understand it in your way. 
When I see anything wrong and mean, I experience a 
strong desire to rush out and fight it to the end, set the 
matter right, and make others acknowledge it. I met 
May Rossiter a few days ago, and I wanted to say to her, 
'I am just as good and worthy without a dollar as I was 
three months ago, when papa was rich.' " 
Jessie smiled at the energy and the face flushing to a 
brilliant color. 
" We must let some things go, Madge," she said. " You 
remember poor Don Quixote's fate. No one but God can 
*ight all the wrong things in the world." 
" More's the pity ! " and Madge sighed. 
"Do you want a human deliverer? O, Madge, that is 
a dangerous longing." 
"I would like to have matters set straight." 
"But that can only be in heaven. And if God places 
as here to work out a destiny, we must take up the duty 
that lies nearest; I believe we shall always find that 
sufficient." 
Madge was silent, but her active mind went traversing 
limitless space. She was daring, and but for her extreme 
honesty and love of truth, would have been easily set 
astray. 
One April morning, the last of their possessions were 
carried out of dear old Home Nook. Madge wnnderea 
up and down declaring that it was just like a funeral. 
Among the trees the birds were chirping and sending out 
little trills on the mellow air. Down there the maples 
would bud, the lilacs shower wafts of spicy sweetness, 
and the wind make long, tremulous furrows in the tall 
June grass. Here on the porch, roses and honeysuckle 
would bloom in riotous beauty, and the flowers they had 
tended with such care would delight other hearts and 
eyes. 
Madge suddenly felt rebellious and defiant. What had 
they done that this great trouble should come upon 
them? 
Eleanor paced slowly down the stairs and through the 
wide hall. She was very pale so stricken, indeed, that 
Jessie longed to clasp her arms about the slender form 
and comfort her. The pain and suffering had not lifted 
her out of herself, nor ennobled her in any respect. The 
self-reliance had not the vital pith of an heroic soul, but 
the pride of a narrow one. There was a strange sinking 
about the eyes, and a look that in a tenderer face would 
have been wistful. But the scarlet lips were still defiant, 
and in strong contrast with the pallor of the brow. 
Ah, Eleanor Ashburton, you think now that life has no 
greater trial to offer than leaving behind all these luxuries, 
and going out into what you call the desert. But there 
are strifes that rend the soul, pangs that go deeper than 
loss of wealth and station. It may be yours to know all 
this, to find yourself solitary and friendless, and to cry from 
the depths of despair to the God whom you now slight. 
"Come," Philip began, in his cheery way; "we are 
going to seek our fortunes in a new world. Just here on 
the threshold let us pray that we may return." 
Would they ever? Glancing at each other with sor- 
rowful young eyes, the voices were too tremulous to uttei 
any response. Perhaps the silent prayers were heard 
above by Him whom nothing escapes. 
 
The servants, except Hannah, had been discharged a 
few days before. She was to accompany them, and was 
fain to remain ; but Mrs. Ashburton was too conscientious 
to take advantage of her devotion. One and another 
thronged round for a last good by ; but at length they were 
seated in the cars. How frequently they had taken the 
short journey for pleasure! 
The fragrant breath of the spring morning came in 
delicious wafts as they passed reaches of meadows broken 
by hurrying streams, or clumps of pungent cedars of deep- 
est green. The sunshine quivered in the air like a tremu- 
lous veil, but their eyes were dim to beauty. All th 
tender grace of the world seemed left behind at Home 
Nook. 
Madge was the first to rally. For all they had spent 
days in arranging their new house, it was still far from 
perfect. There was some unpacking yet to be done, and 
the home-like touches to add. Philip was to go back 
after his parents, and the three girls went to work with 
much energy. 
" What a lucky thing that there is a grate here ! " ex- 
claimed Madge. " I'm going to build a tiny fire, for it will 
be chilly this evening." 
She longed to add that it would also give a touch 
of the place that had always been so dear, but she 
deemed it wiser not to call up the recollection. As the 
fire blazed in its blue and scarlet gleams, her courage 
returned. Jessie slid into the housekeeping niche most 
gracefully. Indeed, so engrossed were they that the after 
noon sped by almost unheeded. 
A carriage rolled through the street and halted at the 
door. Philip assisted his mother out, and Jessie ran to 
give her a welcome. Mr. Ashburton followed, leaning 
heavily on his son, and they were ushered into the library, 
as they had christened the back parlor. Pretty and fa- 
miliar things were grouped about, quaint bracket* with a 
vase, or a little marble bust that had commended itself tc 
some one's love, the well-known pictures, papa's easy-chair 
and the great, roomy lounge in green reps. In the chim- 
ney recesses stood two book-cases that just filled the space. 
One had belonged to Philip, and the other to the girls. 
"It is really delightful!" exclaimed Mrs. Ashburton. 
"I think you must have been gifted with fairy skill 
Why, we hardly miss anything!" 
She could not have bestowed more precious praise upon 
Madge and Jessie. 
Mr. Ashburton was made comfortable upon the lounge, 
Eleanor arranged his pillow and threw a light afghan 
over his shoulders. The younger ones took their mother 
through the house, displaying each room with no little 
pride. 
" It is quite wonderful," she said, in her sweet fashioa 
" I feel as if we might be very happy here." 
"O, mamma, if we should be!" 
" And why not, Jessie ? " 
There was a look of calm and tender resignation in the 
fair face that it was good to behold a kind of glorified 
endurance. 
"My darlings," Mrs. Ashburton said, "God has left us 
the greatest of all blessings in preserving our little house- 
hold unbroken. We must show our gratitude by not 
repining at what he saw best to take. I believe I could 
spare the fortune more readily than any of you." 
"O, mamma, I begin to think it will not be so 
terrible, after all. And now look at our rooms. Philip 
insisted upon taking this little one. Nelly's will have to 
bo used if we have any company." 
"I do not suppose that we shall be altogether neg- 
lected." 
" Some one will want to see how we look, and if we 
bear our misfortunes well," Madge said, with natirica) 
gayety. 
 
a l hope that we have a few friends actuated by a 
higher motive than curiosity," Mrs. Ashburton rejoined 
with tender gravity. 
"There is a good deal of meanness and selfishness in 
the world," Madge made energetic reply. 
" My darling, it pains me to see you begin life with this 
spirit of railing. Can we not give others credit for as 
much generosity and kindness as we possess?" 
Madge was silent from regard to her mother. Eleanor 
fancied that the careless and light-hearted child was not 
capable of much suffering; but many things during the 
past month had stung her keenly. 
They did not finish their examination a moment too 
soon, for just then the dinner-bell rang. 
" Help me out, Philip," Mr. Ashburton said to his son. 
"I want to take this first meal in our new home with 
you all." 
As he uttered the words " our new home," it touched 
them with a sense of nearness they had not experienced 
before. And though it was an effort to totter out to the 
dining-room and sit through the meal, growing more ex- 
hausted with every second, yet he bore up for his children's 
sakes. 
His illness had told fearfully upon him, and he looked 
like an old man. His eyes were sunken, and the lines had 
deepened in his thin cheeks. His whole frame trembled 
at the slightest motion, and his voice had in it a strangely 
weak quaver. 
Yet, on the whole, it was an enjoyable meal, more cheer- 
ful than they could have imagined. And though Mr. 
Ashburton had to be taken to bed immediately afterwards, 
he begged his wife to spend the evening with the chil- 
dren. 
"I surely can spare you for a little while," he said, 
"after having had all your time of late." 
Mrs. Ashburton found the young folks in quite an 
animated discussion about household affairs. It WIN 
rather warm, and, in some respects, Utopian. Eleanor, 
perhaps, best understood the value of money. 
Philip announced to them that, after all expenses wer 
paid, they would have about seven hundred dollars re- 
maining. This he proposed to place in a bank for a sort 
of reserve-fund. Eleanor had said that they could not 
live on Philip's salary. 
"But I'm thankful that we shall not have to call upon 
Clement this year. It is high time that we heard from him. 
And who will write ? " 
Philip paused, for his voice was a trifle unsteady. 
" I will," said Mrs. Ashburton. " And I believe that we 
shall find him both sympathizing and generous." 
" If he can buy back Home Nook some day ! " 
They all hoped in their hearts that he might possess both 
the desire and the ability. 
"I believe I shall learn to do something," Madge de- 
clared. " I must dream out my splendid possibilities ! " 
"And now let us sing 'Naomi' for our evening hymn," 
said Mrs. Ashburton. 
Eleanor went to the piano. Mrs. Ashburton had a 
purpose in proposing this hymn. It had always been a 
great favorite of hers, for the sweet content breathed in 
every line. And as the young voices blent with Philip's 
rich tenor, she observed with pain that one was silent. 
How they lingered over the last dear line, 
" And crown my journey's end," 
M if it were indeed a prayer. 
"Good night." 
It was their mother's voice and kiss. They had taken 
the first important step in their journey ; but how and 
where would it end ? 
 
CHAPTER VI. 
ROMANCE AND EXPERIENCE. 
A maw life indeed. Its social aspects were so widely 
different that it took the family some time to feel at all 
settled in their new sphere. They would have been more 
than human if they could have submitted to the change 
at once, and kindly. Every day, dozens of trifling wants 
and sacrifices bore down upon them, making in the aggre- 
gate a burden not easily borne as yet. 
Philip accepted his position with a sturdy manliness. 
At eight in the morning he took his place at the desk, with 
piles of correspondence before him, through which he 
waded, answered, and placed on file, vibrating between 
this and the journal-like ledger. He had to endure the 
imperious ways of consequential elders, and a species of 
sneering impertinence from ill-bred and rather jealous 
juniors, who considered him an interloper, promotion being 
generally the rule in this large mercantile house. From 
three till six the seniors finished their work, and dropped 
off slowly, and Philip was thankful when he could close 
the tiresome pages and set his face homeward. 
Hannah had remained a week, and then left reluctantly. 
Jessie insisted upon trying the post of housekeeper first, 
for, as Mr. Ashburton appeared rather poorly again, his 
wife devoted herself chiefly to nursing. Eleanor took the 
supervision of the rooms, and Madge declared, dismally, 
that there was nothing left for her. 
She did not find much time to be idle, however. There 
was the yard to tidy, and the flower-beds to be put in 
order ; errands to do, sweeping, cleaning, and odds and 
ends af all kinds, which generally fell to her lot. 
When they came to the end of May, the monthly account* 
were made out. It seemed that they had given up all the 
luxuries and every needless expense, except a few delica 
cies for their father. And yet the expenses during the 
month had amounted to nearly one hundred dollars ! 
The girls glanced at each other in dismay. 
" Just twice Philip's salary," said Eleanor. " I said that 
we could not live on that. And when we come to buy 
clothes " 
" I'm sure we have studied over every dish and every 
dollar haven't we, Madge?" Jessie began, in great ear- 
nest, as if she felt herself tacitly accused of extravagance. 
"And had the very simplest of lunches and desserts. 
How do poor people live ? " 
They still retained their late dinners on Philip's account, 
but they had been shorn of much of their elegance. In- 
deed, the girls had prided themselves upon being partic- 
ularly economical, and consulted mamma beforehand. 
" We must try again," said Jessie, hopefully. " When 
we come to have experience " 
"I wish I could do something," interrupted Madge, 
energetically. " We have everything in such good order 
now that I might be spared." 
Eleanor flushed and bit her lip. This seemed a covert 
thrust for her, though Madge had no such thought. 
" What could you do ? " she asked, with something like 
contempt. 
"I do not know ; " and a lovely color mantled the child's 
face. " Around on the avenue there is a girl tending in a 
fancy store. She gets four dollars a week." 
"Madge, have you no more pride than to mix up with 
such people ? " demanded Eleanor, angrily, her dark eyes 
flashing. 
Madge was abashed. She had fallen into a friendly talk 
with the girl one day, who, finding herself an object of 
interest, did not hesitate to make her case as entertaining 
as possible. 
 
But, Nelly " 
"I am sure neither mamma nor Philip would tolerate 
such an idea! You are too young, and such positions 
always give a girl a bold and flippant manner; and you are 
careless enough now, Madge. If you must do anything 
presently, there is gchool teaching, which is always respect- 
able " 
"And which would kill me, I am sure. I never could 
endure that." 
A ring at the door made a break in the discussion. 
Madge ran, and brought back a letter for Eleanor. 
" From aunt Waltham," she said, handing it to her sister. 
Eleanor broke the seal of violet-colored wax containing 
her aunt's aristocratic monogram. Then she read in silence. 
The others could not well renew the conversation ; so Jessie 
took up some sewing that was in her kitchen work-basket. 
" Aunt Waltham is coming next week," said Eleanor, 
presently. " She will spend Tuesday with us." 
That was not the most agreeable announcement in the 
world, but the girls took it without comment. 
Philip laughed a little at their long faces that evening, 
when they related their poor attempt at economy. 
" Why, I think that does very well," he said. " You 
will learn much by experience, and there have been several 
articles purchased this month that we may not need in 
some time again." 
" But by the end of the year we shall have all our money 
spent," rejoined Jessie, in a tone of apprehension. 
"Well, we may be doing better another year at least, 
I may. Just now, you see, my age is against me. Every 
year tells on a salary." 
Philip spoke hopefully, as he believed. Having taken 
hold of work in good earnest, he would look only at the 
bright side. 
" And there is always Clement to fall back upon," pui- 
sued Madge. 
a l have a fancy that I should like to work through with- 
out any help from Clement. I know just how he will feel 
about the loss of Home Nook, and he will never rest until 
it is ours again. So if we could save that much for him, 
it would be like adding to the store." 
" Dear Phil, when I hear you talk it seems as if we 
might have it ; but I am doubtful." 
" Well, we'll do the best we can." 
" But some of us ought to help." 
Madge uttered this with a perplexed face. She was 
quite anxious to know Philip's opinion concerning employ- 
ment for girls. 
" I think you do assist," he said, gravely. " For a month 
we have only had a woman come in to wash and iron. 
You have kept the house in order, cooked, gone to market, 
and helped wait upon papa. I have found no buttons oflj 
had plenty of collars and handkerchiefs, and have not been 
compelled to go without my breakfast. Are you not satisfied 
with that praise, O small housekeeper?" 
They both laughed. Madge felt that she must give up 
her point for the present, but it only slept in the active 
brain, and was ready to wake at the first summons. 
"I am glad that you do not feel discouraged with us," 
Jessie said, almost gayly. 
" Discouraged ! No, indeed." 
Then they talked a little about aunt Waltham's visit, 
which was rather dreaded. 
"Girls," said Philip, "she must take us just as we are. 
And I think aunt Waltham is very sensible in some mat- 
ters. She will not expect the elegance of Home Nook in 
this little nest, and I'm sure Jessie cooks nicely enough for 
a queen." 
"And Madge can make lovely desserts," was Jessie's 
comforting rejoinder. 
It could hardly be said that Mr. Ashburton improved at 
all. Some days he cheered them a good deal ty coming 
down stairs and taking a walk around the garden, as 
Madge insisted upon calling it. Small as it was, it proved 
quite a source of interest and pleasure. The lilacs had 
budded, and the honeysuckle thrust out long, brownish-red 
tendrils, that suggested sweetness and bloom. The peach 
tree was ready to shower the glory of its pale pink blos- 
soming, and Philip had brought home several clusters of 
pansies, and a lovely monthly rose. 
Mr. Ashburton glanced at them listlessly, as if his mind 
was far away. It had certainly received a severe shock. 
Then there were days when he hardly left his couch, and 
his pallid face filled them all with alarm. 
Mr. Stanhope had gone to Europe, though no one knew 
in exactly what capacity, taking his daughter with him. 
Mr. Ashburton had not seen him since the commencement 
of his illness, and he had felt quite hurt at this want of 
friendly interest. It could hardly be called that, either, 
for he had always been eager in his inquiries. Frequently 
had he said to Philip, "I was coming up to Riverside 
yesterday, but this or that event occurred. Remember 
me to your father, and tell him that I shall surely be up 
in a day or two." 
A few days before his sailing he had hurried into Philip's 
place of business. 
"I just stepped in to leave a good by for your father," 
he exclaimed, in apparent haste. " It is too bad that I've 
not seen him, for we have been the best of friends many a 
year, and I'm sorry to go away without ; but my time is so 
brief, and I have been just driven every moment. We both 
tried to do our best, Fin sure, and no one can regret this 
unfortunate affair more deeply than I. Give him my sin- 
cerest regards, and my hopes for his recovery and prosper- 
ity. I have set out to do the best that I can." 
"He wanted to see you very much," Philip could not 
help saying ; and he gave a quick, scrutinizing glance at 
the other's face. 
Mr. Stanhope colored, and his peculiar light-gray eye* 
wavered somewhat. 
" It is just possible that I may run up a moment. Give 
me the number, please ; and I am sure that I wish you all 
success, though there are many changes in life ;" and he 
Bighed. 
Philip went on with his writing, but he could not dismiss 
the half suspicion that Mr. Stanhope was at the bottom of 
their misfortunes. He had acted rather singularly. Mr. 
Weir, who had now gone to Chicago, had once expressed 
something like a doubt, and it haunted Philip persistently. 
He never whispered it at home, however. 
Mr. Ashburton felt the coldness and neglect keenly, 
though he made no sign. After this last message, he waited 
in a nervous, expectant state, the disappointment rendering 
him noticeably worse. 
He had never been able to recall the exact conversation 
of that fatal morning. It seemed to him that he had in 
the heat of the moment expressed some unguarded doubt 
or suspicion that he regretted the instant after. The 
swarthy flush upon Mr. Stanhope's face and the flash of 
his eye had startled him in many a dreaming moment 
since. Then that endless and confusing mass of fig- 
ures, the appalling losses, the sort of crushing, hopeless 
weight that seemed to be dashed upon him, still made him 
shiver. 
He knew that Home Nook was Bold, and that he had 
come out of the wreck with a good name ; but it was the 
dreary waste between that so troubled him. If some one 
could set the weak brain straight, and tell him what was 
reality, and how much feverish dreams and reveries ! Or 
if he could recover ! But this lapse of time and energy 
upon a sick-bed seemed unendurable. 
Madge's two or three unwittingly pointed sentences 
stirred an uncomfortable feeling in Eleanor's soul. She 
kept thinking of it that night in the solitude of her own 
