or indulge in any of the romping fondling which the lately wedded
are prone to forget may be less interesting to spectators than to
themselves. Yet, she was ready to affirm stoutly that, in her
parlance, "they thought the world and all of one another;" that Mr.
Fordham studied his wife's inclinations, anticipated her wishes, and
ministered to her comfort more than any other gentleman she knew;
while "Mr. Fordham likes this," or, "he is not fond of that," were
decisive phrases in Jessie's mouth in the conduct of her domestic
affairs, and her many devices to make his home-coming at noon and
evening, an ever-new pleasure, called forth the continual admiration
of the handmaiden.
It was a puzzle past her finding out. But here was a test that could
hardly fail. The wife should, according to Phoebe's creed, fly on
the wings of love and anxiety to the bedside of her sick lord;
become his nurse and servitor until he recovered.
To the girl's grieved disappointment,--for she was sincerely
attached to the whilom "Miss Jessie," and wanted to think well of
her in all things--Mrs. Fordham said, composedly, if not
coolly--"Very well, Phoebe! Bring in breakfast!" and turned again
to the window at which she was standing, when the news was brought
to her of her husband's sad case.
"I'm right down sorry--that I am!" grumbled the servant over the
kitchen range. "I did hope she'd show some feeling for him when he's
maybe took for dipthery or quincy or something else awful. And he
such a good provider and well-spoken gentleman, and never so much as
raising his voice in a temper with her, but treating her like a
queen! I've a mind to slip up myself, and ask what he'll have to
eat. These are the beautifullest muffins ever I see! She is a master
hand at the like. And I know she made these, as she does all sorts
of nice things, because he likes 'em. Queer she never lets on but
what I get up the dishes he praises. Mistresses mostly is glad
enough to pocket the compliments as belongs to their girls. She's a
genuwine lady, and no mistake, but it cuts me to see her so
cold-hearted to him. I suppose they're what folks call a
'fashionable couple.'"
While this soliloquy was going on, the subject of it stood still at
the window, gazing into the street. It was a bleak December day.
There had been rain in the night; then the thermometer sank
abruptly, and by morning the sidewalks were glazed with ice. The
earth was black and grim, the clouds, grayly sullen, seemed to rest
upon the chimney-tops, and while Jessie looked, it began to snow,
gently for a while, then so fast that a wavering sheet soon shut out
her view of distant objects. The cottage was on a corner, and this
being a side-window, gave upon the college-grounds on one hand,
Judge Provost's house, garden, and lawn on the other. By changing
her position never so slightly, the lady could have beheld the
balconied front and imposing cupola of the Wyllys' residence, of
which the happy pair had taken formal possession ten days before,
postponing their bridal tour until Spring. "For," as the bride
eagerly explained to everybody--"both of us have been everywhere on
this side of the water, and winter-travelling is an awful bore. To
be sure, we've been abroad, too, and seen everything that is worth
seeing. So we are beating our brains to devise something
recherché" (pronounced rechurchy) "in the way of a wedding-trip.
And it is so sweet and romantic to come to our own home, right
away! Indeed, as I told Orrin, it isn't safe to leave such carpets
and furniture as ours unprotected."
Jessie had heard all this fanfaronade, and much more from Mrs.
Baxter, but she was not thinking of it now. Nor did she move so as
to bring the "new and superb mansion of our popular fellow-citizen,
Orrin Wyllys, Esq.," within the range of her vision; only seemed to
watch the falling snow, and the few passers-by who dotted the
whitening streets at this early hour. In reality, she was
speculating upon the meaning of the stillness in the chamber
overhead. Was Roy, then, too ill to get up? Was his room
comfortable? What attention from nurse or physician did he need? How
was she to learn and supply his wants? It would be barbarous
unkindness, if he were very sick, to stand aloof and leave the
charge of him to hirelings. Yet her personal attendance would be
awkward for both. She was not sure that he would approve of it, so
fastidious had been his care to excuse her from such offices. He had
spoken, in an off-hand way, overnight, of feeling chilly, and
apologized for not offering to read the new number of a magazine to
her by saying that his throat was sore. Without consulting him, she
had brewed a pitcher of hot lemonade, and insisted upon his drinking
it after he went to his room. He had thanked her with the invariable
courtesy that met her every effort to serve him, and "was sure it
was all he needed. A most agreeable prescription too!" he added, as
he bore off the pitcher. It was a shock, after this pleasant
parting, to hear that he was sick in bed. What if he were to be
seriously ill? Her heart gave a great bound, then ceased moving for
a moment. He was so robust, so full of life and energy, that this
could not be.
What if he were to die! She too thought of diphtheria. There had
been several fatal cases of it in Hamilton recently. She was pale
and faint; her limbs giving way under her as she admitted the
frightful supposition. What would she be--what would she do if the
strong staff of his protection, the solace of his companionship,
were reft from her?
For she knew that, little cause as she had given him in the
circumstances attending their marriage, to cherish her as all men
should--as some men do the women who love them fervently and
constantly, there was hardly a wife in the land who was surrounded
by the atmosphere of chivalrous devotion which encompassed her in
the secluded life she led as the nominal mistress of Roy Fordham's
home. Her deep mourning was a sufficient excuse for declining to
enter the gay circle in which Mrs. Wyllys fluttered and her diamonds
and husband shone. But Roy saw to it that she was not lonely. The
Baxters, Provosts, and others of his friends were often with them
during the day, and he spent his evenings, as a rule, at home.
"Will you favor me with your company in the library, or shall I come
to your sitting-room?" he would ask, when supper was over.
They wrote and studied together as two friends of the same sex
might; talked freely upon all subjects suggested by either--each
watchful that no chance touch should wound the other; make him or
her swerve quickly aside lest the next step should be upon the fresh
grave that lay ever between them. In all their intercourse, Roy's
apparent ease far surpassed his wife's. Cheerful, cordial, always
kind and more than kind in manner and language, he yet comported
himself as if there were nothing abnormal in this sort of
association; as if passion and regret were alike things of the Past,
to which he had said they need never again recur. No warmer
love-name than "Jessie, dear," ever passed his lips, and after the
night of the home bringing, he had never offered to kiss or embrace
her. A hand-clasp, night and morning; a smiling bow and lively
phrase, when he came in to dinner and tea, were the most
affectionate courtesies exchanged. But no distraught lover, at the
height of his lunacy, ever studied his mistress's fantasies, sought
to penetrate and fulfil her will, as did this quiet and courtly
husband that of the woman who had confessed that her heart was none
of his when he married her. Flowers, fruits, birds, and books were
lavished upon her; passed into her hands through other than his, but
were always procured by him in response to some expressed liking on
her part, or in accordance with what he imagined were her wishes or
needs. Nor was his unobtrusive attention to her health less
constant. In the same friendly style, he regulated exercise, diet,
and work; saw that her habits were not too sedentary, and that she
did not expose herself imprudently to cold, damp, or fatigue.
Her review of all this was rapid and circumstantial.
"He deserves all that I can do for him. False delicacy nor pride
shall keep me back from ministering to the wants of one who is to me
father, brother, friend. I may, at least, wait upon him as a hostess
might tend an honored guest--a housekeeper the master of the house!"
she had decided by the time Phoebe set coffee, muffins, and steak
upon the table.
Then to the serving-girl's increased chagrin, she sat down, with
Roy's vacant chair opposite her, and break-fasted alone.
"Not much of a breakfast, to be sure!" said Phoebe, returning at
the end of ten minutes, to find the room deserted. "Half a muffin,
and a cup of coffee, and she clean forgot to carve the steak! Looks
like she was in love--but that can't be!"
"Come in!" said the changed voice that had wrought upon Phoebe's
womanly compassion, as Jessie awaited the warrant to enter the
sick-room--a faint-hearted lingerer upon the threshold. She buoyed
up her courage by remembering that she was the housekeeper who had
come for the orders for the day; the diffidence she railed at
inwardly, as ridiculous and uncalled for, had no visible effect,
except to heighten her color, and make her carry her head a trifle
less loftily.
Already Mrs. Wyllys had been heard to say that, "if Mrs. Fordham
were worth a million in her own right, she could not look more
haughty and indifferent to people who were richer and better bred.
When, as everybody knew, she was a poor preacher's daughter with
just money enough to buy her wedding-clothes. Though, pity knows,
they couldn't have cost much! Was there ever such awful taste, as
not to lighten her mourning to suit the circumstances? Who ever
heard of a bride's wearing crêpe?"
There were red spots upon Roy's cheeks, when he saw who his visitor
was--probably hectic, for his demeanor was natural. With instant
thought of her probable embarrassment, he put out his hand,
smilingly.
"Ah! Jessie, dear! Good-morning! You are very good to visit a poor
fellow in his affliction. For such a throat and head as I have
to-day are an affliction. I seldom strike my colors to a common
cold."
"This seems to me to be an uncommon one!" Jessie said, feeling
his pulse with the practised touch she had learned in her
parish-visiting. "You have fever. You ought to have medical advice.
Who is your physician?"
"I have never had occasion to call in one since I came to Hamilton.
Suppose we 'bide a bit,' as our worthy President says, and if I am
not better in the course of an hour or two, we can send for Dr.
Bradley. I had a trying day yesterday. Professor Fairchild is sick,
and I had some of his classes in addition to my own. It is well this
is Saturday. I can lie still, and rest my throat with a clear
conscience. Provided"--smiling in her grave face--"provided you do
not let me trouble you!"
"Trouble me! you should know better than that! But"--hesitating--"if
you will let me say it"--
"Go on! there is nothing you may not say to me," he said
encouragingly.
"I do think it would be better to see Dr. Bradley, at once--if only
as a precautionary measure."
He started--looked at her intently.
"You are thinking of diphtheria! You ought not to have come in until
that point was settled. There may be danger to you. If, through my
carelessness--"
He turned his face away, unable or unwilling to finish the sentence.
"I never thought of that!" said Jessie, simply. "If I had, I
should have come all the same. Whatever may be the doctor's opinion,
I shall stay here, and take care of you. It is my place."
She rang the bell for Phoebe, and in Roy's hearing, ordered her to
go for the doctor. She would not have her charge suspect that she
was unduly alarmed, or believe there was occasion for a hasty
summons. Then, she brought a sunshiny face to the bedside, and put a
fresh pillow under the hot, heavy head.
"You don't know what a famous nurse I am," she said, blithely. "My
father"--her voice sinking with the sacred word--"used to say that
nursing was a talent, and that I was born with it."
She set to work, forthwith, without waiting for permission. Roy,
regarding her silently from his bed, heartily endorsed Mr. Kirke's
verdict. Not Eunice herself could have moved more soundlessly,
wrought more efficiently to alleviate, so far as she could, the pain
and discomfort of his situation. The doctor was at home, and obeyed
the call promptly. Roy glanced inquiringly at Jessie when he was
announced.
"Show him up!" was all she said, and when he followed Phoebe into
the chamber, she met him with high-bred ease as the lady of the
house; as the patient's wife discussed his symptoms; heard, with
marked gratification, that her fears of diphtheria were unfounded,
and received his directions gratefully and attentively.
"A fine woman, and a most devoted wife!" pronounced Dr. Bradley, at
his luncheon-table, that day. "Let me hear no more gossip about her,
girls. Remember!"
"But, Papa, they do say they live queerly!" ventured the
irrepressible Selina. "Mrs. Wyllys--"
"Is a fool! see that you don't become another in listening to her
twaddle!" was the peremptory reply.
Orrin Wyllys, hearing accidentally of his cousin's indisposition,
called at noon, and was conducted by Phoebe, by warrant of the
relationship, into Roy's presence. The chamber was heated usually by
the furnace register, but Roy lay in bed gazing at the glowing pile
of coals in the grate. There was a happy ray in his eyes,
spontaneity in the gayety with which he welcomed his guest, that did
not accord with the latter's preconceived ideas of the dolor of a
sick-room.
"You look like an invalid--don't you?" was Wyllys' second remark.
"This is the cheeriest place I have been in to-day. It is what the
English call beastly weather, out-of-doors. I don't blame anybody
for keeping his bed. I thought you showed me the room across the
hall as yours when you took me through the house, that night, 'the
last of your quasi widowerhood.'"
"We changed the arrangement afterward," rejoined Roy, carelessly.
"But it is a luxury--is'n't it? to lie still on a stormy day, and
stare a fire like that out of countenance; especially on a holiday,
when there are no phantoms of unsaid lectures to torment one's
reveries. I am enjoying it amazingly. I hadn't the remotest
conception that being sick was so delightful."
"By Jove! I should think you would luxuriate in it, unless you have
less brains than I give you credit for! With an houri for
head-nurse, too! I say! get out of that! I can play the sentimental
sufferer as well as you, and I have a native bias for lazy luxury,
which you haven't. I dare say, you cunning dog! if all were told,
there is some dainty mess preparing for you below stairs,--a triumph
of conjugal affection and culinary skill, that should be tasted by
none but an educated appetite. A Teuton like yourself would be as
well suited with bretzels and sauerkraut, washed down by a gallon of
lager. I am a devout predestinarian, and here lies the case. I have
a canine hunger upon me. I am on my way home to luncheon. Without,
'the day is dark and cold and dreary.' I am led to this corner of
cosiness and comfort and fairy fare to dispossess you. Impostor! how
dare you lie there, and grin at my emptiness and agony! Confess!
what did you have for breakfast? What do you mean to devour for
lunch? What do you hope to consume for dinner?"
Roy could never resist the infection of this merry banter, seldom
indulged in by Orrin except when with him. It brought back their
early days--"when you thrashed the big boys for bullying me"--he
liked to remind the other when they slept, played, and studied
together. Orrin had his foibles, and a graver fault or so, but he
was his friend, as he had told Dr. Baxter, and the boyish love for
his gallant senior was still strong upon him. His laugh now was
hearty and mischievous.
"Such a breakfast!" he said. "Gotten up in strict conformity with
the injunction--'Feed a cold'"--
"And you will have a fever to starve!" interjected Wyllys. "That
would be poetical justice! But go on!"
"Imprimis;" resumed Fordham,--"a cup of Turkish coffee,--fragrant
and clear. Item, cream toast. Knowest thou the taste thereof? Of
real cream toast? light, rich, smooth, that sootheth the inflamed
membrane of the throat, and maketh the diaphragm to rejoice
exceedingly? Item, broiled chicken--a marvel of juicy tenderness; an
omelette aux fines herbes which was an inspiration"--
"For Heaven's sake!" Orrin feigned to tear his hair. "If you don't
want to be murdered in your bed, hold your tongue!"
Roy was in a paroxysm of laughter; Wyllys, scowling horribly, had
snatched the poker and was making adroit passes at him, like the
cunning master of fence he was, when Jessie, ignorant of the liberty
Phoebe had taken, and supposing her patient to be alone, entered.
She had a waiter in one hand containing a silver pitcher and goblet,
and a plate in the other, heaped with hothouse grapes. Transfixed
with astonishment at the spectacle within she stopped on the
threshold. Her amazement was not lessened when Orrin, replacing his
weapon on the hearth, threw himself into a chair and covered his
face with his handkerchief.
"A victim of covetousness!" exclaimed Roy, trying to check his
merriment.
"Of misplaced confidence!" uttered Orrin, gloomily, removing his
cambric, and arising with a show of melancholy composure. "I hope I
have the pleasure of seeing you quite well, Mrs. Fordham! I should
judge so from your blooming appearance, but having just had a
notable lesson in the deceitfulness of outward seeming, I am
sceptical as to the evidence of the senses and human reason."
"A dash of scepticism is like vaccine virus,--a useful thing, where
there is fear of infection," said Jessie, not comprehending what had
gone before, and not choosing to ask questions of him.
She bowed in passing him, making of her full hands a tacit excuse
for the cavalier salutation,--a pretext that was transparent to the
person she intended to slight. Depositing her burden upon a table,
she bent over it, pretending to rearrange the grapes and stir the
contents of the pitcher, that her face might cool before he had a
chance to scrutinize it. His presence in this place was odious to
her. What had she, in her self-abasement and earnest reachings after
a nobler life than he had ever thought of, or aspired to, to do with
his masquerading tricks and persiflage? His mummery, then and
there, was more than heartless--it was an insult to her, with the
recollection of her broken vows and blighted life, dogging every
thought of possible happiness. Her residence in Hamilton had no
severer trial than these chance encounters with him--her husband's
nearest of kin.
"Nectar and grapes of Eshcol!" he exclaimed in a tone of calm
despair, referring to the contents of waiter and plate. "You may not
believe it, Mrs. Fordham--in fact I don't expect you to, for it is
the nature of your sex to trust and trust again,--but you are
nourishing a serpent! a base trickster! yet one of whose want of
originality I am ashamed. The interesting invalid dodge is the
stalest and flimsiest known to the guild of artful dodgers. Now, if
I were in his place--"
"I am heartily glad you are not!" escaped Jessie, against her will
to treat him with civility for Roy's sake.
Her emphasis of sincerity was unmistakable and wrought with various
effect upon her two auditors.
"So am I!" laughed Roy, his eyes alight with more than mirth. "The
grapes you cannot touch, my grasping friend! They were a present to
me, not an hour since, from Miss Fanny Provost--a basketful,
wreathed with exquisite flowers. She believes in the reality of my
interesting invalidism. As for the nectar--give him a sip--Jessie,
please! It is not fair that one man should monopolize all the good
things of life."
Jessie poured out the draught, without jest or smile; then stood
back with a gesture that bade him help himself if he would. She
would not be a party to the sport, Orrin perceived.
"A missish, spiteful show of disdain!" he thought, contemptuously.
"She is hardly worth a scene!"
To show that he was not repelled or overawed, he advanced a step;
took up the goblet with a profound obeisance; stared her in the
eyes, and swallowed a mouthful. Roy's shout of exultation and the
uncontrollable grimace of the dupe, moved Jessie to a smile, but she
did not speak.
"Witches' broth?" queried Orrin, with the tragical gravity of one
who has made up his mind to die like a man.
"So Socrates might have glared and growled!" said Roy. "'The
hemlock, jailor?'" mimicking the other's tone. "Not this time, my
dear fellow! Only sage tea, sweetened with honey and stiffened with
alum--an incomparable gargle, according to such eminent authorities
as Miss Eunice Kirke, her sister, and, last and least, Dr. Bradley."
Orrin took up his hat, undismayed to the last.
"Sage tea! I go home a wiser, if not a better man! I am glad to
see there is nothing the matter with you, Roy, while I lament, as
one of your blood and lineage, over your unblushing hypocrisy. Mrs.
Fordham--"
"You used to call her 'Jessie,'" interrupted Roy. "I said, 'Cousin
Hester,' yesterday, to your bride. Shall I imitate your formal
address?"
"No! But my little wife is august in nobody's eyes. Whereas, Mrs.
Fordham--Cousin Jessie--I beg your pardon! Which shall it be?"
His back was to Roy; his meaning gaze upon herself was, to her
perception, audacious insolence. Not daring to resent it in Roy's
hearing, she yet obeyed the wifely impulse to seek his protection.
"That is for your cousin to decide. My name belongs to him!" She
said it proudly, flashing her wide eyes from one to the other, and
moving involuntarily nearer to Roy.
Wyllys caught up the last words.
"His relations should be yours, if the partnership be in good faith,
and on equal terms."
"That is for him to decide!" answered she, precisely as before.
"Thank you! I do not shirk the responsibility," said Roy putting
himself in the breach as usual, when he saw her non-plussed or
disturbed. "Another sip of nectar, Orrin, before you breast the
storm?"
A wry face was the response, and the most fascinating man in
Hamilton bowed himself out. As he drew the door to after him, he
glanced across the hall. The room Roy had showed him as his was
opposite, and the door open. There was fire in that grate also; a
lady's sewing-chair in front of it, and a work-box he recognized as
Jessie's on the small table beside it. On the back of the chair hung
a linen apron, with pockets, such as he had seen her wear when
engaged in household tasks in Dundee, or gardening. He guessed
directly that she had stopped in there to lay it off when she
brought up the gargle. That this was her apartment, he was sure,
when another step revealed a bureau with a ladies' dressing-case
open upon it.
"Separate apartments!" he mused, picking his steps lightly down the
cottage stairs. "Very unsentimental! Very un-American! decidedly
independent and jolly. But, in this case, what is the meaning of
it?"
He believed he had the clue to the mystery before he inserted his
latch-key in the door of his--or his wife's--house. Jessie Fordham
could not forget that Jessie Kirke had loved him. The decent show of
conjugal felicity he had witnessed that day was a hollow crust below
which the lava still surged and seethed. Jessie was more faithful to
the one great passion of her life, and less philosophical than he
had been ready to believe. Her scrupulous avoidance of him whenever
this could be done without awakening suspicion; the half bitter
retorts that fell now and then from the lips she would train to the
utterance of conventional lies; the indignant sparkle of the eyes
that answered the searching appeal of his--what were all these but
the ill-concealed tokens of an attachment that had so inwrought
itself with the fibres of heart and being as to defy her strenuous
attempts to pluck it forth, or keep it out of sight. It was a
revelation to him, and a flattering one--one that merited serious
consideration.
The devil gat hold of him in that hour; sifted him as wheat,
bringing all that was base in his nature uppermost. Heretofore, he
had shunned everything that could secure for him the reputation of a
cicisbeo. When a woman was once married, she became an object of
indifference to him. He accounted the pursuit of such, a hazardous
and flavorless exhibition of Lothario-ism which the refined age
should frown down. He was not a gourmand or libertine, he had
often proudly asserted to himself. Pleasures of that stamp he left
to men of grosser tastes and coarser grain. He had meant to allow
his cousin all the domestic peace which should honestly fall
to his share, and to cultivate amicable relations with his
cousin-in-law--Roy's wife, who had given conclusive evidence of
intelligent appreciation of himself.
But if Jessie were unhappy; not on terms with her respectable
husband, cleverly as both dissembled--if Jessie still loved him--
"C'est une autre chose!" he muttered between his teeth, and
complacently knocking the snow off his boots upon the marble steps
of his "mansion."
His most heartless propositions always sought cover in the facile
foreign tongue.
A writer in the last generation defined an egotist to be "One who
would burn down his neighbor's house to boil an egg for himself."
Orrin Wyllys was an Egotist.
CHAPTER XXII.
The snow-storm waxed furious as the day wore on.
Jessie unclosed the blinds of the windows opposite the bed, that Roy
might see it in all its might and beauty.
"It is a foot deep in the street," she said. "The evergreens in the
Campus are loaded; the firs and junipers are like enormous
sugar-loaves, and some of the slighter trees--cedar and
arbor-vitæ--are bowed nearly double. There is one"--laughing with
almost her olden glee--"the ambitious arbor-vitæ near the east gate,
which you said last Sunday, 'carried too much sail aloft for a
gale,' whose crown not only touches the ground, but is frozen there,
while the roots hold firm. I wish you could see it! It reminds me of
the poor lady who, in her rage to be ultra-fashionable, had her hair
dressed very a la Chinoise,--dragged up so high and twisted so
tightly on the back of her head, that she could not get her heels to
the floor. I do enjoy a grand old-fashioned snow-storm! None of the
petulant flurries with swirling flakes, that spend their strength in
an hour, but such a tempest as this, that does not abate under a day
and a night. One has such a delicious feeling of home comfort and
seclusion--the almost certainty that strangers will not intermeddle
with fireside joys and interests while the household is shut in--I
was about to say--tucked in snugly by the great white veil."
Roy liked to hear her talk. Her girlish prattle was more charming to
him than the profoundest disquisitions of scholars, or the brilliant
repartee of literary coteries. Aware of this, and that part of her
nursely duty was to amuse the patient; ignorant that his heart was
leaping with a new-born hope, so sweet and sudden that his head
whirled dizzily under its influence, and the world took on rarest
robes of beauty, she rambled on, her eyes bent upon the driving
fleeces without. She had never been handsomer than now. Every trace
of the shock that had prostrated nervous forces and reason, three
months before, was gone from figure and countenance, while she
thought only of gratifying her companion and her own fancy for a
wild, winter day. Not dreaming of the impassioned gaze that dwelt
upon her, she stood in an attitude of careless grace, a half smile
playing about her mouth.
"As she used to stand in the oriel, at sunset!" thought Roy, with an
unheard sigh. "Is all that, then,
    "'The tender grace of a day that is dead'?
Can it 'never come back to me?'"
"I can think how Old Windbeam would wrap this mantle about his head
and shoulders," resumed Jessie more softly. "How blackly the pines
show against his sides! The meadows are an immense méringue;
Willow Creek is frozen and invisible under the snow--so tightly
locked within its banks that its groans can be heard, in the pauses
of the storm, all the way to the Parsonage. I used to lie awake on
sharp, frosty nights, and hear the rumble of the imprisoned air
running all the way from the upper bridge down to the falls. The
holly-berries on the tree by the front porch peep out saucily from
the little woolly piles that collect upon the spikes and leaves; the
church-yard is level from fence to fence--oh, Roy!"
With the cry, she sank down upon a low seat, weeping as from the
depths of a riven heart.
"Under the snow! under the snow!" she reiterated, in a transport of
distress. "I cannot bear to think of it!"
"Come to me, dear Jessie!" said Fordham, in gentle command. He
hardly expected that she would obey, but she did, groping her way by
reason of the blinding tears, and sobbing unrestrainedly. He had not
seen her weep before since the night of her arrival at the cottage.
"Sit here!" he said, designating a chair at his side. "I have
something to say when you can hear it. These tears will ease your
burdened heart, and they are due to the memory of the dear ones who
are for a little while out of our sight."
She had stifled her sobs, but her head was still bowed; her frame
heaved in the ground-swell of the passing storm.
"For a little while! Out of our sight!" he repeated,
thoughtfully--longingly. "We shall be together--all of us--very
soon. Did you ever ask yourself if you would be able to await the
call of the Master--all your appointed time;--ever imagine what a
crushing load mortality and its ills would be to you, if, 'while in
the body pent,' you could be a witness of the blessedness of those
who are 'forever with the LORD'? Dear child! The Father leads us as
wisely as lovingly!"
The expression of his religious faith and experience never sounded
like cant, even in the ears of the scoffer. It was a part of his
life. His utterances were fearless, simple, fervent, enforcing
respect for their author, although the listener might not be in
sympathy with their spirit. Jessie ceased to weep or sigh while he
talked; presently showed her tear-stained face, tremulous with sad
smiles, and laid her hand timidly upon his.
"Thank you! Every word is a drop of comfort. But so much talking is
bad for your throat, and the fever will return if you are agitated.
It was childish and selfish in me to give way as I did. But," her
lip quivering anew--"it came in upon me like a flood! the happy
by-gone hours and the dear old manse! Just how it all looked, as I
had seen it, a hundred times in the winter weather I always loved.
And the changes--and where they are now!"
"I ought to thank you for allowing me to sorrow with and try to
console you. Don't be afraid of me, dear! afraid to bring your
trials, with your pleasures, to your friend. If left to yourself,
just now,--if I had not called you to me, you would have rushed away
to hide your tears in your own room. You never wound me except when
you act and look as if you stood in dread of my displeasure or
criticism. Won't you be candid and tell me why this is so? Am I a
very cruel taskmaster? Do you not believe me when I say that I
desire no other earthly good as I do to make you contented--happy,
if that can be."
"I do believe it! I should be slow to see and to be convinced if I
did not!" began Jessie, the truth trembling upon her tongue. The
temptation to unbosom herself without fear and reserve was very
strong. "But I feel myself to be unworthy of your regard, and the
goodness you show me. And you are so wise and discreet--so
self-contained--"
A pang changed his features. He stirred restlessly, biting his lip
to keep back a repetition of the word "self-contained!" that would
have been a groan.
"You are suffering!" said Jessie, anxiously. "I have made you
worse!"
"No; a passing pain--that is all! You always make me better. What
should I have done without you, to-day, my kind nurse?"
A perverse fit, one of her spoiled-child freaks, seized Jessie.
"Phoebe would have taken excellent care of you!" she said,
demurely, casting down her eyes to hide the gleam of mischief
darting up to the surface. "She wanted to make brown gravy soup, and
roast a fat duck for your dinner, with mince-pie--'to leave a nice
taste in his mouth, ma'am.' And she persists in the belief that a
gargle of red-pepper tea, with mustard-draughts upon your feet, and
a cayenne poultice about your throat 'would pull you through,' when
doctor's stuffs fail. As to society, your cousin, or, maybe, Dr.
Baxter would have come in to cheer you up. What a godsend a big
linen sheet would be to the good President, on a day like this,
with a listener who is hors du combat with a hoarse cold!"
"I have not needed to be cheered up, since I saw the first glimpse
of your face, this morning!" answered Roy, unguardedly. Conscious
that he was trenching upon forbidden ground, he diverted the
conversation. "What a flow of spirits Orrin has! I did hurt my
throat laughing at his tragico-comico envy of my surroundings. I
wish he had a home, one like this, if it were shared by a
congenial companion, a woman who was more nearly his equal, mentally
and morally, than the one he has chosen. He would be much happier
than he can hope to be in the splendid pile he calls by that name."
"He seems perfectly satisfied with wife and house," returned Jessie,
dryly. "And the marriage was certainly one of preference on Miss
Sanford's part. Not that I admire or like her, and I know her better
than you do. But I am persuaded that we waste our pity when we
expend it on either of them."
They chatted, then, of various matters in the familiar style in
which their conversations were generally carried on, until the day
closing in about them, the fire spread a mellow radiance over the
area immediately around it; the white bed and the noble head laid
high on the pillows; upon Jessie's earnest face and crown of raven
hair. It was the hour and the scene for the confidential talk of
husband and wife; the outpouring of true soul to true; the only
unrestrained heart-communion this side the Land where subterfuge and
disguise are unknown; speech as far more excellent and satisfying
than the language of unwedded lovers as the perfume from the
unfolded lily surpasses that which steals from the bud.
Between these two, love was neither named nor hinted at. The wife's
hands lay crossed upon her knees, and the husband did not offer to
hold or touch them, or stroke the beautiful hair with which the
betrothed had toyed unrebuked. It was an anomalous intimacy, the
restraints and courtesies of which would have been laughed at as
affectations, if the story of them were not totally discredited by
the world outside "the great white veil" that shut them into their
home,--theirs in name and in fact.
Jessie got up, at length, stepping over the carpet without rustle or
jar, "the poetry of motion," thought the looker-on, and laid more
coals upon the fiery mass in the grate. Many-colored flames shot up
through and darted, like living serpents, along the pile; the low
crackling and hissing of the igniting lumps awoke a cricket in the
chimney-corner. Jessie, kneeling on the rug, glanced over her
shoulder, on hearing the cheery chirp, and smiled at Roy.
"You don't treat the crickets on your hearth as Gruffand Tackleton
boasted that he did--'crunch 'em, sir!' I like to hear the little
busybodies--don't you?"
Without rising, when she had seemed to hearken for a while, she
began to sing. Roy had not heard a note from her, even in church,
since their marriage, and he held his breath, lay motionless, lest
she should awaken from her reverie. It was an old ballad she was
crooning--half Scotch, and with a thought of pathos in the melody,
although the words were not plaintive.
    "Tis rare to see the morning bleeze,
    Like a bonfire, frae the sea;
    'Tis fair to see the burnie kiss
    The lip o' the flowery lea.
    And fine it is on green hillside
    Where hums the bonnie bee,
    But rarer, fairer, finer far,
    Is the Ingleside to me."
A light roseate film hid her from Roy's eyes. The Ingleside, where
she now knelt! his and hers! did she really love it so well as not
to pine for the haunts of her girlhood? And what had pressed that
cry from her that was still echoing through his heart-chambers? the
appeal that would have meant in a loving wife uncontrollable
yearning for the sympathy of him who best knew her needs and her
sorrows?
"O, Roy!" she had said, hands outstretched as if to fasten upon his
for support in the deep waters. It imported more--a million times
more, that childlike wail--to him than all she had afterward
expressed of gratitude and esteem. In that hour, consecrate forever
by what his musings brought forth, he resolved to woo and win a
second time the only woman he had ever loved; who he had believed
was lost to him for all time, chained as she was to his side, forced
into a relation she abhorred by vows her dying father and
he--impatient, ruthless lover!--had put into her mouth. He would be
very wary, very patient, but love like his must conquer in the end.
Doubts might oppose him in the broad light of day and common-sense,
but he would not be turned aside. He did not underrate the
difficulties that lay in the way of this novel wooing. Jessie was no
longer the fresh-hearted, impetuous girl who had laid her hand
confidingly in his (his palm thrilled now in the recollection!) as
he sat by her in the oriel-window, the shadows of the tossing
jessamine-bells--"joy-bells," he called them--cast upon her white
dress and the carpet by the April sunshine; the dewiness and scents
of the Spring morning in the air; the "light that was never on land
and sea" glorifying the eyes uplifted to his.
Faulty, but frank, with a mind stored with crude riches, a heart
whose capacity for love and Love's sacrifices even he had divined
rather than discovered--she had been easily won, though not lightly
sought. Now, the luxuriant womanliness, the growth of which he
marked from day to day in her physique, had not kept pace with the
chastened development of her inner nature. If he had said in that
early stage of "Love's Young Dream"--"She is like no other girl I
ever met!" she was now a veritable unique--a gem a monarch might be
proud to set in his diadem.
For all that, he would win her! Should she arise from her lowly
place by the ingle, and without a word of explanation or excuse for
what was past, again give him her hand, saying merely, "I love you!"
he would let all that had been enigmatical in their intercourse go
from his remembrance at once and entirely; would trust her with his
honor and affections, above all and through all that might stagger
his faith in another. Was his a pitiful, cringing spirit? Was it a
high or a mean type of human love that made him, possessing his
tried soul in more abundant patience, say in the prospect of the
tedious and cautious, it might be the arduous, approach to the goal
of his desires, that must be his, if he would make success a
certainty;--
"And they seemed unto him but a few days for the love he had to
her!"
CHAPTER XXIII.
Mrs. Orrin Wyllys had "run in very sociably" to chat for an hour
with her dear cousin, Mrs. Fordham.
"Orrin brought me to the door," she said, divesting herself of her
fur cloak, and untying the coquettish hood that half covered her
head. "I knew Mr. Fordham would be at the meeting in the Town Hall.
Orrin promised to meet him there. He can't bear for me to be alone,
so he offered to leave me to a comfortable dish of gossip with you
while he attended to the interests of the 'dear people.' Of course,
it is very gratifying to have one's husband so popular, but I often
tell Orrin that I don't see one-tenth nor one-hundredth part as much
of him as I ought to. I don't believe there is another man in the
United States who is so run after. Not that this surprises me,"
tittering and trying to blush. "I, of all people alive, ought to
have most charity with such devotion. It is a consolation to be
assured that he regrets these numerous draughts upon his time as
much as I do, and I am not disposed to be jealous. I do think mutual
confidence is just the sweetest thing in the world. Between married
lovers, I mean. What are you so busy about?"
Jessie's work-basket was heaped with calico and flannel.
"Making clothes for some poor children," she answered. "If you will
excuse me, I will go on with my work, as the garments are sadly
needed."
"Certainly! I shall be more at my ease if you do not seem to mind my
being here. You are the most industrious woman I know. It positively
fatigues one to watch you. I suppose, though, there is everything in
being trained to such habits from childhood. Now, I haven't a thing
to do from morning to night, which is lucky, for I have always been
so carefully waited upon from my cradle up to the present hour,
when my darling husband will hardly let me put my foot to the ground
without his assistance. You can't imagine how aux petits soins he
is in the retirement of our sweet, sweet home! True, the house is
large, preposterously large--as I told my dear, indulgent father
when he bought it. And as Orrin is fond of style, and I have always
been used to it, we keep up a ridiculous establishment when one
considers the size of the family. Now, I dare say, you keep but two
or three women-servants, and maybe no man at all, as you have no
carriage of your own?"
"Phoebe is our only servant," said Jessie, unperturbed at having
to state the mortifying fact with which Mrs. Wyllys was already
acquainted.
"Is it possible!" looking curiously about her through her gold
eye-glass. "Yet everything about your little place is as neat as a
pin. What a valuable creature she must be! I declare I must tell
Orrin that! 'Five servants to wait upon two people, my love!' I said
to him this very evening. 'It is frightful extravagance!' But he
insists that I shall be relieved from all drudgery, knowing how
