way. As in the stupor of a sudden calamity, and not fully comprehending
it, Mrs. Hawkins saw Laura led away by the officer.

With little space for thought she was rapidly driven to the railway
station, and conveyed to the Hospital for Lunatic Criminals. It was
only when she was within this vast and grim abode of madness that she
realized the horror of her situation. It was only when she was received
by the kind physician and read pity in his eyes, and saw his look of
hopeless incredulity when she attempted to tell him that she was not
insane; it was only when she passed through the ward to which she
was consigned and saw the horrible creatures, the victims of a double
calamity, whose dreadful faces she was hereafter to see daily, and was
locked into the small, bare room that was to be her home, that all her
fortitude forsook her. She sank upon the bed, as soon as she was left
alone--she had been searched by the matron--and tried to think. But her
brain was in a whirl. She recalled Braham’s speech, she recalled the
testimony regarding her lunacy. She wondered if she were not mad; she
felt that she soon should be among these loathsome creatures. Better
almost to have died, than to slowly go mad in this confinement.

--We beg the reader’s pardon. This is not history, which has just been
written. It is really what would have occurred if this were a novel.
If this were a work of fiction, we should not dare to dispose of Laura
otherwise. True art and any attention to dramatic proprieties required
it. The novelist who would turn loose upon society an insane murderess
could not escape condemnation. Besides, the safety of society, the
decencies of criminal procedure, what we call our modern civilization,
all would demand that Laura should be disposed of in the manner we
have described. Foreigners, who read this sad story, will be unable to
understand any other termination of it.

But this is history and not fiction. There is no such law or custom as
that to which his Honor is supposed to have referred; Judge O’Shaunnessy
would not probably pay any attention to it if there were. There is no
Hospital for Insane Criminals; there is no State commission of lunacy.
What actually occurred when the tumult in the court room had subsided
the sagacious reader will now learn.

Laura left the court room, accompanied by her mother and other friends,
amid the congratulations of those assembled, and was cheered as she
entered a carriage, and drove away. How sweet was the sunlight, how
exhilarating the sense of freedom! Were not these following cheers the
expression of popular approval and affection? Was she not the heroine of
the hour?

It was with a feeling of triumph that Laura reached her hotel, a
scornful feeling of victory over society with its own weapons.

Mrs. Hawkins shared not at all in this feeling; she was broken with the
disgrace and the long anxiety.

“Thank God, Laura,” she said, “it is over. Now we will go away from this
hateful city. Let us go home at once.”

“Mother,” replied Laura, speaking with some tenderness, “I cannot go
with you. There, don’t cry, I cannot go back to that life.”

Mrs. Hawkins was sobbing. This was more cruel than anything else, for
she had a dim notion of what it would be to leave Laura to herself.

“No, mother, you have been everything to me. You know how dearly I love
you. But I cannot go back.”

A boy brought in a telegraphic despatch. Laura took it and read:

“The bill is lost. Dilworthy ruined. (Signed) WASHINGTON.” For a moment
the words swam before her eyes. The next her eyes flashed fire as she
handed the dispatch to her mother and bitterly said,

“The world is against me. Well, let it be, let it. I am against it.”

“This is a cruel disappointment,” said Mrs. Hawkins, to whom one grief
more or less did not much matter now, “to you and, Washington; but we
must humbly bear it.”

“Bear it;” replied Laura scornfully, “I’ve all my life borne it, and
fate has thwarted me at every step.”

A servant came to the door to say that there was a gentleman below who
wished to speak with Miss Hawkins. “J. Adolphe Griller” was the name
Laura read on the card. “I do not know such a person. He probably comes
from Washington. Send him up.”

Mr. Griller entered. He was a small man, slovenly in dress, his tone
confidential, his manner wholly void of animation, all his features
below the forehead protruding--particularly the apple of his
throat--hair without a kink in it, a hand with no grip, a meek, hang-dog
countenance. He was a falsehood done in flesh and blood; for while every
visible sign about him proclaimed him a poor, witless, useless weakling,
the truth was that he had the brains to plan great enterprises and
the pluck to carry them through. That was his reputation, and it was a
deserved one. He softly said:

“I called to see you on business, Miss Hawkins. You have my card?”

Laura bowed.

Mr. Griller continued to purr, as softly as before.

“I will proceed to business. I am a business man. I am a lecture-agent,
Miss Hawkins, and as soon as I saw that you were acquitted, it occurred
to me that an early interview would be mutually beneficial.”

“I don’t understand you, sir,” said Laura coldly.

“No? You see, Miss Hawkins, this is your opportunity. If you will enter
the lecture field under good auspices, you will carry everything before
you.”

“But, sir, I never lectured, I haven’t any lecture, I don’t know
anything about it.”

“Ah, madam, that makes no difference--no real difference. It is not
necessary to be able to lecture in order to go into the lecture tour.
If ones name is celebrated all over the land, especially, and, if she is
also beautiful, she is certain to draw large audiences.”

“But what should I lecture about?” asked Laura, beginning in spite of
herself to be a little interested as well as amused.

“Oh, why; woman--something about woman, I should say; the marriage
relation, woman’s fate, anything of that sort. Call it The Revelations
of a Woman’s Life; now, there’s a good title. I wouldn’t want any better
title than that. I’m prepared to make you an offer, Miss Hawkins, a
liberal offer,--twelve thousand dollars for thirty nights.”

Laura thought. She hesitated. Why not? It would give her employment,
money. She must do something.

“I will think of it, and let you know soon. But still, there is very
little likelihood that I--however, we will not discuss it further now.”

“Remember, that the sooner we get to work the better, Miss Hawkins,
public curiosity is so fickle. Good day, madam.”

The close of the trial released Mr. Harry Brierly and left him free
to depart upon his long talked of Pacific-coast mission. He was very
mysterious about it, even to Philip.

“It’s confidential, old boy,” he said, “a little scheme we have hatched
up. I don’t mind telling you that it’s a good deal bigger thing than
that in Missouri, and a sure thing. I wouldn’t take a half a million
just for my share. And it will open something for you, Phil. You will
hear from me.”

Philip did hear from Harry a few months afterward. Everything promised
splendidly, but there was a little delay. Could Phil let him have a
hundred, say, for ninety days?

Philip himself hastened to Philadelphia, and, as soon as the spring
opened, to the mine at Ilium, and began transforming the loan he had
received from Squire Montague into laborers’ wages. He was haunted with
many anxieties; in the first place, Ruth was overtaxing her strength in
her hospital labors, and Philip felt as if he must move heaven and
earth to save her from such toil and suffering. His increased pecuniary
obligation oppressed him. It seemed to him also that he had been one
cause of the misfortune to the Bolton family, and that he was dragging
into loss and ruin everybody who associated with him. He worked on day
after day and week after week, with a feverish anxiety.

It would be wicked, thought Philip, and impious, to pray for luck; he
felt that perhaps he ought not to ask a blessing upon the sort of labor
that was only a venture; but yet in that daily petition, which this
very faulty and not very consistent young Christian gentleman put up, he
prayed earnestly enough for Ruth and for the Boltons and for those
whom he loved and who trusted in him, and that his life might not be a
misfortune to them and a failure to himself.

Since this young fellow went out into the world from his New England
home, he had done some things that he would rather his mother should not
know, things maybe that he would shrink from telling Ruth. At a certain
green age young gentlemen are sometimes afraid of being called milksops,
and Philip’s associates had not always been the most select, such as
these historians would have chosen for him, or whom at a later, period
he would have chosen for himself. It seemed inexplicable, for instance,
that his life should have been thrown so much with his college
acquaintance, Henry Brierly.

Yet, this was true of Philip, that in whatever company he had been he
had never been ashamed to stand up for the principles he learned from
his mother, and neither raillery nor looks of wonder turned him from
that daily habit he had learned at his mother’s knees.--Even flippant
Harry respected this, and perhaps it was one of the reasons why Harry
and all who knew Philip trusted him implicitly. And yet it must be
confessed that Philip did not convey the impression to the world of a
very serious young man, or of a man who might not rather easily fall
into temptation. One looking for a real hero would have to go elsewhere.

The parting between Laura and her mother was exceedingly painful to
both. It was as if two friends parted on a wide plain, the one to
journey towards the setting and the other towards the rising sun, each
comprehending that every step henceforth must separate their lives,
wider and wider.

CHAPTER LIX.

When Mr. Noble’s bombshell fell in Senator Dilworthy’s camp, the
statesman was disconcerted for a moment. For a moment; that was all. The
next moment he was calmly up and doing. From the centre of our country
to its circumference, nothing was talked of but Mr. Noble’s terrible
revelation, and the people were furious. Mind, they were not furious
because bribery was uncommon in our public life, but merely because here
was another case. Perhaps it did not occur to the nation of good and
worthy people that while they continued to sit comfortably at home and
leave the true source of our political power (the “primaries,”) in the
hands of saloon-keepers, dog-fanciers and hod-carriers, they could go on
expecting “another” case of this kind, and even dozens and hundreds of
them, and never be disappointed. However, they may have thought that to
sit at home and grumble would some day right the evil.

Yes, the nation was excited, but Senator Dilworthy was calm--what was
left of him after the explosion of the shell. Calm, and up and doing.
What did he do first? What would you do first, after you had tomahawked
your mother at the breakfast table for putting too much sugar in your
coffee? You would “ask for a suspension of public opinion.” That is
what Senator Dilworthy did. It is the custom. He got the usual amount of
suspension. Far and wide he was called a thief, a briber, a promoter of
steamship subsidies, railway swindles, robberies of the government in
all possible forms and fashions. Newspapers and everybody else called
him a pious hypocrite, a sleek, oily fraud, a reptile who manipulated
temperance movements, prayer meetings, Sunday schools, public charities,
missionary enterprises, all for his private benefit. And as these
charges were backed up by what seemed to be good and sufficient,
evidence, they were believed with national unanimity.

Then Mr. Dilworthy made another move. He moved instantly to Washington
and “demanded an investigation.” Even this could not pass without
comment. Many papers used language to this effect:

“Senator Dilworthy’s remains have demanded an investigation. This sounds
fine and bold and innocent; but when we reflect that they demand it at
the hands of the Senate of the United States, it simply becomes matter
for derision. One might as well set the gentlemen detained in the public
prisons to trying each other. This investigation is likely to be like
all other Senatorial investigations--amusing but not useful. Query. Why
does the Senate still stick to this pompous word, ‘Investigation?’ One
does not blindfold one’s self in order to investigate an object.” Mr.
Dilworthy appeared in his place in the Senate and offered a resolution
appointing a committee to investigate his case. It carried, of course,
and the committee was appointed. Straightway the newspapers said:

“Under the guise of appointing a committee to investigate the late Mr.
Dilworthy, the Senate yesterday appointed a committee to investigate
his accuser, Mr. Noble. This is the exact spirit and meaning of the
resolution, and the committee cannot try anybody but Mr. Noble without
overstepping its authority. That Dilworthy had the effrontery to offer
such a resolution will surprise no one, and that the Senate could
entertain it without blushing and pass it without shame will surprise
no one. We are now reminded of a note which we have received from the
notorious burglar Murphy, in which he finds fault with a statement of
ours to the effect that he had served one term in the penitentiary and
also one in the U. S. Senate. He says, ‘The latter statement is untrue
and does me great injustice.’ After an unconscious sarcasm like that,
further comment is unnecessary.” And yet the Senate was roused by the
Dilworthy trouble. Many speeches were made. One Senator (who was accused
in the public prints of selling his chances of re-election to his
opponent for $50,000 and had not yet denied the charge) said that, “the
presence in the Capital of such a creature as this man Noble, to testify
against a brother member of their body, was an insult to the Senate.”

Another Senator said, “Let the investigation go on and let it make an
example of this man Noble; let it teach him and men like him that
they could not attack the reputation of a United States Senator with
impunity.”

Another said he was glad the investigation was to be had, for it was
high time that the Senate should crush some cur like this man Noble, and
thus show his kind that it was able and resolved to uphold its ancient
dignity.

A by-stander laughed, at this finely delivered peroration; and said:

“Why, this is the Senator who franked his baggage home through the mails
last week--registered, at that. However, perhaps he was merely engaged
in ‘upholding the ancient dignity of the Senate,’--then.”

“No, the modern dignity of it,” said another by-stander. “It don’t
resemble its ancient dignity but it fits its modern style like a glove.”

There being no law against making offensive remarks about U. S.
Senators, this conversation, and others like it, continued without let
or hindrance. But our business is with the investigating committee.

Mr. Noble appeared before the Committee of the Senate; and testified to
the following effect:

He said that he was a member of the State legislature of the
Happy-Land-of-Canaan; that on the --- day of ------ he assembled himself
together at the city of Saint’s Rest, the capital of the State, along
with his brother legislators; that he was known to be a political enemy
of Mr. Dilworthy and bitterly opposed to his re-election; that Mr.
Dilworthy came to Saint’s Rest and reported to be buying pledges of
votes with money; that the said Dilworthy sent for him to come to
his room in the hotel at night, and he went; was introduced to
Mr. Dilworthy; called two or three times afterward at Dilworthy’s
request--usually after midnight; Mr. Dilworthy urged him to vote for
him; Noble declined; Dilworthy argued; said he was bound to be elected,
and could then ruin him (Noble) if he voted no; said he had every
railway and every public office and stronghold of political power in the
State under his thumb, and could set up or pull down any man he chose;
gave instances showing where and how he had used this power; if Noble
would vote for him he would make him a Representative in Congress; Noble
still declined to vote, and said he did not believe Dilworthy was going
to be elected; Dilworthy showed a list of men who would vote for him--a
majority of the legislature; gave further proofs of his power by telling
Noble everything the opposing party had done or said in secret caucus;
claimed that his spies reported everything to him, and that--

Here a member of the Committee objected that this evidence was
irrelevant and also in opposition to the spirit of the Committee’s
instructions, because if these things reflected upon any one it was
upon Mr. Dilworthy. The chairman said, let the person proceed with his
statement--the Committee could exclude evidence that did not bear upon
the case.

Mr. Noble continued. He said that his party would cast him out if he
voted for Mr. Dilworthy; Dilworthy said that that would inure to
his benefit because he would then be a recognized friend of his
(Dilworthy’s) and he could consistently exalt him politically and make
his fortune; Noble said he was poor, and it was hard to tempt him so;
Dilworthy said he would fix that; he said, “Tell, me what you want, and
say you will vote for me;” Noble could not say; Dilworthy said “I will
give you $5,000.”

A Committee man said, impatiently, that this stuff was all outside
the case, and valuable time was being wasted; this was all a plain
reflection upon a brother Senator. The Chairman said it was the quickest
way to proceed, and the evidence need have no weight.

Mr. Noble continued. He said he told Dilworthy that $5,000 was not
much to pay for a man’s honor, character and everything that was
worth having; Dilworthy said he was surprised; he considered $5,000
a fortune--for some men; asked what Noble’s figure was; Noble said he
could not think $10,000 too little; Dilworthy said it was a great deal
too much; he would not do it for any other man, but he had conceived
a liking for Noble, and where he liked a man his heart yearned to help
him; he was aware that Noble was poor, and had a family to support, and
that he bore an unblemished reputation at home; for such a man and such
a man’s influence he could do much, and feel that to help such a man
would be an act that would have its reward; the struggles of the poor
always touched him; he believed that Noble would make a good use of this
money and that it would cheer many a sad heart and needy home; he would
give the $10,000; all he desired in return was that when the balloting
began, Noble should cast his vote for him and should explain to the
legislature that upon looking into the charges against Mr. Dilworthy of
bribery, corruption, and forwarding stealing measures in Congress he had
found them to be base calumnies upon a man whose motives were pure and
whose character was stainless; he then took from his pocket $2,000 in
bank bills and handed them to Noble, and got another package containing
$5,000 out of his trunk and gave to him also. He----

A Committee man jumped up, and said:

“At last, Mr. Chairman, this shameless person has arrived at the point.
This is sufficient and conclusive. By his own confession he has received
a bribe, and did it deliberately.

“This is a grave offense, and cannot be passed over in silence, sir. By
the terms of our instructions we can now proceed to mete out to him such
punishment as is meet for one who has maliciously brought disrespect
upon a Senator of the United States. We have no need to hear the rest of
his evidence.”

The Chairman said it would be better and more regular to proceed with
the investigation according to the usual forms. A note would be made of
Mr. Noble’s admission.

Mr. Noble continued. He said that it was now far past midnight; that
he took his leave and went straight to certain legislators, told
them everything, made them count the money, and also told them of the
exposure he would make in joint convention; he made that exposure, as
all the world knew. The rest of the $10,000 was to be paid the day after
Dilworthy was elected.

Senator Dilworthy was now asked to take the stand and tell what he knew
about the man Noble. The Senator wiped his mouth with his handkerchief,
adjusted his white cravat, and said that but for the fact that public
morality required an example, for the warning of future Nobles, he would
beg that in Christian charity this poor misguided creature might be
forgiven and set free. He said that it was but too evident that this
person had approached him in the hope of obtaining a bribe; he had
intruded himself time and again, and always with moving stories of his
poverty. Mr. Dilworthy said that his heart had bled for him--insomuch
that he had several times been on the point of trying to get some one to
do something for him. Some instinct had told him from the beginning that
this was a bad man, an evil-minded man, but his inexperience of such had
blinded him to his real motives, and hence he had never dreamed that
his object was to undermine the purity of a United States Senator. He
regretted that it was plain, now, that such was the man’s object and
that punishment could not with safety to the Senate’s honor be withheld.
He grieved to say that one of those mysterious dispensations of an
inscrutable Providence which are decreed from time to time by His wisdom
and for His righteous, purposes, had given this conspirator’s tale a
color of plausibility,--but this would soon disappear under the clear
light of truth which would now be thrown upon the case.

It so happened, (said the Senator,) that about the time in question, a
poor young friend of mine, living in a distant town of my State, wished
to establish a bank; he asked me to lend him the necessary money; I said
I had no, money just then, but world try to borrow it. The day before
the election a friend said to me that my election expenses must be
very large specially my hotel bills, and offered to lend me some money.
Remembering my young, friend, I said I would like a few thousands now,
and a few more by and by; whereupon he gave me two packages of bills
said to contain $2,000 and $5,000 respectively; I did not open the
packages or count the money; I did not give any note or receipt for
the same; I made no memorandum of the transaction, and neither did my
friend. That night this evil man Noble came troubling me again: I could
not rid myself of him, though my time was very precious. He mentioned my
young friend and said he was very anxious to have the $7000 now to begin
his banking operations with, and could wait a while for the rest. Noble
wished to get the money and take it to him. I finally gave him the
two packages of bills; I took no note or receipt from him, and made no
memorandum of the matter. I no more look for duplicity and deception in
another man than I would look for it in myself. I never thought of
this man again until I was overwhelmed the next day by learning what a
shameful use he had made of the confidence I had reposed in him and
the money I had entrusted to his care. This is all, gentlemen. To the
absolute truth of every detail of my statement I solemnly swear, and I
call Him to witness who is the Truth and the loving Father of all whose
lips abhor false speaking; I pledge my honor as a Senator, that I have
spoken but the truth. May God forgive this wicked man as I do.

Mr. Noble--“Senator Dilworthy, your bank account shows that up to
that day, and even on that very day, you conducted all your financial
business through the medium of checks instead of bills, and so kept
careful record of every moneyed transaction. Why did you deal in bank
bills on this particular occasion?”

The Chairman--“The gentleman will please to remember that the Committee
is conducting this investigation.”

Mr. Noble--“Then will the Committee ask the question?”

The Chairman--“The Committee will--when it desires to know.”

Mr. Noble--“Which will not be during this century perhaps.”

The Chairman--“Another remark like that, sir, will procure you the
attentions of the Sergeant-at-arms.”

Mr. Noble--“D--n the Sergeant-at-arms, and the Committee too!”

Several Committeemen--“Mr. Chairman, this is Contempt!”

Mr. Noble--“Contempt of whom?”

“Of the Committee! Of the Senate of the United States!”

Mr. Noble--“Then I am become the acknowledged representative of a
nation. You know as well as I do that the whole nation hold as much
as three-fifths of the United States Senate in entire
contempt.--Three-fifths of you are Dilworthys.”

The Sergeant-at-arms very soon put a quietus upon the observations of
the representative of the nation, and convinced him that he was not in
the over-free atmosphere of his Happy-Land-of-Canaan:

The statement of Senator Dilworthy naturally carried conviction to the
minds of the committee.--It was close, logical, unanswerable; it bore
many internal evidences of its truth. For instance, it is customary in
all countries for business men to loan large sums of money in bank bills
instead of checks. It is customary for the lender to make no memorandum
of the transaction. It is customary, for the borrower to receive the
money without making a memorandum of it, or giving a note or a receipt
for it’s use--the borrower is not likely to die or forget about it.
It is customary to lend nearly anybody money to start a bank with
especially if you have not the money to lend him and have to borrow it
for the purpose. It is customary to carry large sums of money in bank
bills about your person or in your trunk. It is customary to hand a
large sum in bank bills to a man you have just been introduced to (if
he asks you to do it,) to be conveyed to a distant town and delivered
to another party. It is not customary to make a memorandum of this
transaction; it is not customary for the conveyor to give a note or a
receipt for the money; it is not customary to require that he shall get
a note or a receipt from the man he is to convey it to in the distant
town. It would be at least singular in you to say to the proposed
conveyor, “You might be robbed; I will deposit the money in a bank and
send a check for it to my friend through the mail.”

Very well. It being plain that Senator Dilworthy’s statement was rigidly
true, and this fact being strengthened by his adding to it the support
of “his honor as a Senator,” the Committee rendered a verdict of “Not
proven that a bribe had been offered and accepted.” This in a manner
exonerated Noble and let him escape.

The Committee made its report to the Senate, and that body proceeded to
consider its acceptance. One Senator indeed, several Senators--objected
that the Committee had failed of its duty; they had proved this man
Noble guilty of nothing, they had meted out no punishment to him; if the
report were accepted, he would go forth free and scathless, glorying in
his crime, and it would be a tacit admission that any blackguard could
insult the Senate of the United States and conspire against the sacred
reputation of its members with impunity; the Senate owed it to the
upholding of its ancient dignity to make an example of this man
Noble--he should be crushed.

An elderly Senator got up and took another view of the case. This was
a Senator of the worn-out and obsolete pattern; a man still lingering
among the cobwebs of the past, and behind the spirit of the age. He
said that there seemed to be a curious misunderstanding of the case.
Gentlemen seemed exceedingly anxious to preserve and maintain the honor
and dignity of the Senate.

Was this to be done by trying an obscure adventurer for attempting to
trap a Senator into bribing him? Or would not the truer way be to find
out whether the Senator was capable of being entrapped into so shameless
an act, and then try him? Why, of course. Now the whole idea of the
Senate seemed to be to shield the Senator and turn inquiry away from
him. The true way to uphold the honor of the Senate was to have none but
honorable men in its body. If this Senator had yielded to temptation
and had offered a bribe, he was a soiled man and ought to be instantly
expelled; therefore he wanted the Senator tried, and not in the usual
namby-pamby way, but in good earnest. He wanted to know the truth
of this matter. For himself, he believed that the guilt of Senator
Dilworthy was established beyond the shadow of a doubt; and he
considered that in trifling with his case and shirking it the Senate was
doing a shameful and cowardly thing--a thing which suggested that in
its willingness to sit longer in the company of such a man, it was
acknowledging that it was itself of a kind with him and was therefore
not dishonored by his presence. He desired that a rigid examination be
made into Senator Dilworthy’s case, and that it be continued clear into
the approaching extra session if need be. There was no dodging this
thing with the lame excuse of want of time.

In reply, an honorable Senator said that he thought it would be as well
to drop the matter and accept the Committee’s report. He said with some
jocularity that the more one agitated this thing, the worse it was for
the agitator. He was not able to deny that he believed Senator Dilworthy
to be guilty--but what then? Was it such an extraordinary case? For
his part, even allowing the Senator to be guilty, he did not think his
continued presence during the few remaining days of the Session would
contaminate the Senate to a dreadful degree. [This humorous sally was
received with smiling admiration--notwithstanding it was not wholly new,
having originated with the Massachusetts General in the House a day or
two before, upon the occasion of the proposed expulsion of a member for
selling his vote for money.]

The Senate recognized the fact that it could not be contaminated by
sitting a few days longer with Senator Dilworthy, and so it accepted the
committee’s report and dropped the unimportant matter.

Mr. Dilworthy occupied his seat to the last hour of the session. He said
that his people had reposed a trust in him, and it was not for him to
desert them. He would remain at his post till he perished, if need be.

His voice was lifted up and his vote cast for the last time, in support
of an ingenious measure contrived by the General from Massachusetts
whereby the President’s salary was proposed to be doubled and every
Congressman paid several thousand dollars extra for work previously
done, under an accepted contract, and already paid for once and
receipted for.

Senator Dilworthy was offered a grand ovation by his friends at home,
who said that their affection for him and their confidence in him were
in no wise impaired by the persecutions that had pursued him, and that
he was still good enough for them.

[The $7,000 left by Mr. Noble with his state legislature was placed
in safe keeping to await the claim of the legitimate owner. Senator
Dilworthy made one little effort through his protege the embryo banker
to recover it, but there being no notes of hand or, other memoranda to
support the claim, it failed. The moral of which is, that when one
loans money to start a bank with, one ought to take the party’s written
acknowledgment of the fact.]

CHAPTER LX.

For some days Laura had been a free woman once more. During this time,
she had experienced--first, two or three days of triumph, excitement,
congratulations, a sort of sunburst of gladness, after a long night of
gloom and anxiety; then two or three days of calming down, by degrees--a
receding of tides, a quieting of the storm-wash to a murmurous
surf-beat, a diminishing of devastating winds to a refrain that bore the
spirit of a truce-days given to solitude, rest, self-communion, and
the reasoning of herself into a realization of the fact that she was
actually done with bolts and bars, prison horrors and impending death;
then came a day whose hours filed slowly by her, each laden with some
remnant, some remaining fragment of the dreadful time so lately ended--a
day which, closing at last, left the past a fading shore behind her and
turned her eyes toward the broad sea of the future. So speedily do we
put the dead away and come back to our place in the ranks to march in
the pilgrimage of life again.

And now the sun rose once more and ushered in the first day of what
Laura comprehended and accepted as a new life.

The past had sunk below the horizon, and existed no more for her; she
was done with it for all time. She was gazing out over the trackless
expanses of the future, now, with troubled eyes. Life must be begun
again--at eight and twenty years of age. And where to begin? The page
was blank, and waiting for its first record; so this was indeed a
momentous day.

Her thoughts drifted back, stage by stage, over her career. As far as
the long highway receded over the plain of her life, it was lined with
the gilded and pillared splendors of her ambition all crumbled to ruin
and ivy-grown; every milestone marked a disaster; there was no green
spot remaining anywhere in memory of a hope that had found its fruition;
the unresponsive earth had uttered no voice of flowers in testimony that
one who was blest had gone that road.

Her life had been a failure. That was plain, she said. No more of that.
She would now look the future in the face; she would mark her course
upon the chart of life, and follow it; follow it without swerving,
through rocks and shoals, through storm and calm, to a haven of rest
and peace or shipwreck. Let the end be what it might, she would mark her
course now--to-day--and follow it.

On her table lay six or seven notes. They were from lovers; from some
of the prominent names in the land; men whose devotion had survived
even the grisly revealments of her character which the courts had
uncurtained; men who knew her now, just as she was, and yet pleaded as
for their lives for the dear privilege of calling the murderess wife.

As she read these passionate, these worshiping, these supplicating
missives, the woman in her nature confessed itself; a strong yearning
came upon her to lay her head upon a loyal breast and find rest from
the conflict of life, solace for her griefs, the healing of love for her
bruised heart.

With her forehead resting upon her hand, she sat thinking, thinking,
while the unheeded moments winged their flight. It was one of those
mornings in early spring when nature seems just stirring to a half
consciousness out of a long, exhausting lethargy; when the first faint
balmy airs go wandering about, whispering the secret of the coming
change; when the abused brown grass, newly relieved of snow, seems
considering whether it can be worth the trouble and worry of contriving
its green raiment again only to fight the inevitable fight with the
implacable winter and be vanquished and buried once more; when the sun
shines out and a few birds venture forth and lift up a forgotten song;
when a strange stillness and suspense pervades the waiting air. It is a
time when one’s spirit is subdued and sad, one knows not why; when the
past seems a storm-swept desolation, life a vanity and a burden, and the
future but a way to death. It is a time when one is filled with vague
longings; when one dreams of flight to peaceful islands in the remote
solitudes of the sea, or folds his hands and says, What is the use of
struggling, and toiling and worrying any more? let us give it all up.

It was into such a mood as this that Laura had drifted from the musings
which the letters of her lovers had called up. Now she lifted her head
and noted with surprise how the day had wasted. She thrust the letters
aside, rose up and went and stood at the window. But she was soon
thinking again, and was only gazing into vacancy.

By and by she turned; her countenance had cleared; the dreamy look was
gone out of her face, all indecision had vanished; the poise of her head
and the firm set of her lips told that her resolution was formed. She
moved toward the table with all the old dignity in her carriage, and all
the old pride in her mien. She took up each letter in its turn, touched
a match to it and watched it slowly consume to ashes. Then she said:

“I have landed upon a foreign shore, and burned my ships behind me.
These letters were the last thing that held me in sympathy with any
remnant or belonging of the old life. Henceforth that life and all that
appertains to it are as dead to me and as far removed from me as if I
were become a denizen of another world.”

She said that love was not for her--the time that it could have
satisfied her heart was gone by and could not return; the opportunity
was lost, nothing could restore it. She said there could be no love
without respect, and she would only despise a man who could content
himself with a thing like her. Love, she said, was a woman’s first
necessity: love being forfeited; there was but one thing left that could
give a passing zest to a wasted life, and that was fame, admiration, the
applause of the multitude.

And so her resolution was taken. She would turn to that final resort
of the disappointed of her sex, the lecture platform. She would array
herself in fine attire, she would adorn herself with jewels, and stand
in her isolated magnificence before massed audiences and enchant them
with her eloquence and amaze them with her unapproachable beauty. She
would move from city to city like a queen of romance, leaving marveling
multitudes behind her and impatient multitudes awaiting her coming.
Her life, during one hour of each day, upon the platform, would be a
rapturous intoxication--and when the curtain fell and the lights were
out, and the people gone, to nestle in their homes and forget her, she
would find in sleep oblivion of her homelessness, if she could, if not
she would brave out the night in solitude and wait for the next day’s
hour of ecstasy.

So, to take up life and begin again was no great evil. She saw her way.
She would be brave and strong; she would make the best of what was left
for her among the possibilities.

She sent for the lecture agent, and matters were soon arranged.

Straightway, all the papers were filled with her name, and all the dead
walls flamed with it. The papers called down imprecations upon her head;
they reviled her without stint; they wondered if all sense of decency
was dead in this shameless murderess, this brazen lobbyist, this
heartless seducer of the affections of weak and misguided men; they
implored the people, for the sake of their pure wives, their sinless
daughters, for the sake of decency, for the sake of public morals, to
give this wretched creature such a rebuke as should be an all-sufficient
evidence to her and to such as her, that there was a limit where the
flaunting of their foul acts and opinions before the world must stop;
certain of them, with a higher art, and to her a finer cruelty, a
sharper torture, uttered no abuse, but always spoke of her in terms of
mocking eulogy and ironical admiration. Everybody talked about the new
