by continuous sugar plantations, with only here and 
there a scattering sapling or row of ornamental China- 
trees. The timber is shorn off clear to the rear of the 
plantations, from two to four miles. When the first 
frost threatens to come, the planters snatch off their 
crops in a hurry. When they have finished grinding 
the cane, they form the refuse of the stalks (which 
they call bagasse ) into great piles and set fire to them, 
though in other sugar countries the bagasse is used for 
fuel in the furnaces of the sugar-mills. Now the piles 
of damp bagasse burn slowly, and smoke like Satan’s 
own kitchen. 
An embankment ten or fifteen feet high guards both 
banks of the Mississippi all the way down that lower 
end of the river, and this embankment is set back from 
the edge of the shore from ten to perhaps a hundred 
feet, according to circumstances ; say thirty or forty 
feet, as a general thing. Fill that whole region with 
an impenetrable gloom of smoke from a hundred miles 
of burning bagasse piles, when the river is over the 
banks, and turn a steamboat loose along there at mid- 
night and see how she will feel. And see how you will 
feel, too ! You find yourself away out in the midst of 
a vague, dim sea that is shoreless, that fades out and 
loses itself in the murky distances ; for you cannot 
discern the thin rib of embankment, and you are always 
imagining you see a straggling tree when you don’t. 
The plantations themselves are transformed by the 
smoke, and look like a part of the sea. All through 
your watch you are tortured with the exquisite misery 
of uncertainty. You hope you are keeping in the 
river, but you do not know. All that you are sure 
about is that you are likely to be within six feet of the 
bank and destruction, when you think you are a good 
half-mile from shore. And you are sure, also, that if 
you chance suddenly to fetch up against the embank- 
ment and topple your chimneys overboard, you will 
have the small comfort of knowing that it is about 
what you were expecting to do. One of the great 
Vicksburg packets darted out into a sugar plantation 
one night, at such a time, and had to stay there a 
week. But there was no novelty about it; it had often 
been done before. 
I thought I had finished this chapter, but I wish to 
add a curious thing, while it is in my mind. It is only 
relevant in that it is connected with piloting. There 
used to be an excellent pilot on the river, a Mr. X., 
who was a somnambulist. It was said that if his mind 
was troubled about a bad piece of river, he was pretty 
sure to get up and walk in his sleep and do strange 
things. He was once fellow-pilot for a trip or two 
with George Ealer, on a great New Orleans passenger 
packet. During a considerable part of the first trip 
George was uneasy, but got over it by and by, as X, 
seemed content to stay in his bed when asleep. Late 
one night the boat was approaching Helena, Ark. ; the 
water was low, and the crossing above the town in a 
very blind and tangled condition. X. had seen the 
crossing since Ealer had, and as the night was particu- 
larly drizzly, sullen, and dark, Ealer was considering 
whether he had not better have X. called to assist 
in running the place, when the door opened and X. 
walked in. Now, on very dark nights, light is a deadly 
enemy to piloting ; you are aware that if you stand in 
a lighted room, on such a night, you cannot see things 
in the street to any purpose ; but if you put out the 
lights and stand in the gloom you can make out objects 
in the street pretty well. So, on very dark nights, 
pilots do not smoke ; they allow no fire in the pilot- 
house stove, if there is a crack which can allow the 
least ray to escape ; they order the furnaces to be 
curtained with huge tarpaulins and the skylights to be 
closely blinded. Then no light whatever issues from 
the boat. The undefinable shape that now entered the 
pilot-house had Mr. X.’s voice. This said: 
“Let me take her, George; Fve seen this place 
since you have, and it is so crooked that I reckon I 
can run it myself easier than I could tell you how to 
doit.” 
“It is kind of you, and I swear I am willing, 
I haven’t got another drop of perspiration left in me. 
I have been spinning around and around the wheel 
like a squirrel. It is so dark I can’t, tell which way 
she is swinging till she is coming around like a 
whirligig.” 
So Ealer took a seat on the bench, panting and 
breathless. The black phantom assumed the wheel 
without saying anything, steadied the waltzing steamer 
with a turn or two, and then stood at ease, coaxing 
her a little to this side and then to that, as gently and 
as sweetly as if the time had been noonday. When 
Ealer observed this marvel of steering, he wished he 
had not confessed! He stared, and wondered, and 
finally said : 
"Well, I thought I knew how to steer a steamboat, 
but that was another mistake of mine.” 
X. said nothing, but went serenely on with his work. 
He rang for the leads; he rang to slow down the 
steam ; he worked the boat carefully and neatly into 
invisible marks, then stood at the center of the wheel 
and peered blandly out into the blackness, fore and 
aft, to verify his position ; as the leads shoaled more 
and more, he stopped the engines entirely, and the 
dead silence and suspense of “drifting” followed; 
when the shoalest water was struck, he cracked on the 
steam, carried her handsomely over, and then began to 
work her warily into the next system of shoal marks ; 
the same patient, heedful use of leads and engines fol- 
lowed, the boat slipped through without touching bot- 
tom, and entered upon the third and last intricacy of 
the crossing; imperceptibly she moved through the 
gloom, crept by inches into her marks, drifted tediously 
till the shoalest water was cried, and then, under a 
tremendous head of steam, went swinging over the reef 
and away into deep water and safety ! 
Ealer let his long-pent breath pour out in a great 
relieving sigh, and said: 
“ That’s the sweetest piece of piloting that was ever 
done on the Mississippi River! I wouldn’t believe it 
could be done, if I hadn’t seen it,” 
There was no reply, and he added : 
“Just hold her five minutes longer, partner, and let 
me run down and get a cup of coffee.” 
A minute later Ealer was biting into a pie, down in 
the “texas,” and comforting himself with coffee. Just 
then the night watchman happened in, and was about 
to happen out again, when he noticed Ealer and ex- 
claimed : 
“ Who is at the wheel, sir?” 
“X.” 
“ Dart for the pilot-house, quicker than lightning."
The next moment both men were flying up the pilot- 
house companion-way, three steps at a jump ! Nobody 
there! The great steamer was whistling down the 
middle of the river at her own sweet will ! The watchman 
shot out of the place again; Ealer seized the 
wheel, set an engine back with power, and held his 
breath while the boat reluctantly swung away from a 
“towhead,” which she was about to knock into the 
middle of the Gulf of Mexico ! 
By and by the watchman came back and said : 
“Didn't that lunatic tell you he was asleep, when 
he first came up here?” 
“No.” 
“ Well, he was. I found him walking along on top 
of the railings, just as unconcerned as another man 
would walk a pavement ; and I put him to bed ; now 
just this minute there he was again, away astern, going 
through that sort of tight-rope deviltry the same as 
before.” 
“ Well, I think I'll stay by next time he has one of 
those fits. But I hope he’ll have them often. You 
just ought to have seen him take this boat through 
Helena crossing. I never saw anything so gaudy be- 
fore. And if he can do such gold-leaf, kid-glove, 
diamond-breastpin piloting when he is sound asleep, 
what couldn't he do if he was dead !” 
CHAPTER XI L 
SOUNDING 
WHEN the river is very low, and one’s steamboat is 
drawing all the water ’ ’ there is in the chan- 
nel, — or a few inches more, as was often the case in 
the old times, — one must be painfully circumspect in 
his piloting. We used to have to “ sound ” a number 
of particularly bad places almost every trip when the 
river was at a very low stage. 
Sounding is done in this way: The boat ties up at 
the shore, just above the shoal crossing; the pilot not 
on watch takes his 1 4 cub 9 9 or steersman and a picked 
crew of men (sometimes an officer also), and goes out 
in the yawl — provided the boat has not that rare and 
sumptuous luxury, a regularly devised “sounding- 
boat 99 — and proceeds to hunt for the best water, the 
pilot on duty watching his movements through a spy- 
glass, meantime, and in some instances assisting by 
signals of the boat’s whistle, signifying “try higher 
up 99 or “try lower down”; for the surface of the 
water, like an oil-painting, is more expressive and in- 
telligible when inspected from a little distance than 
very close at hand. The whistle signals are seldom 
necessary, however; never, perhaps, except when the 
wind confuses the significant ripples upon the water’s 
surface. When the yawl has reached the shoal place, 
the speed is slackened, the pilot begins to sound the 
depth with a pole ten or twelve feet long, and the 
steersman at the tiller obeys the order to " hold her up 
to starboard ” ; or "let her fall off to larboard ” ;* or 
"steady — steady as you go.” 
When the measurements indicate that the yawl is 
approaching the shoalest part of the reef, the command 
is given to " Ease all ! ” Then the men stop rowing 
and the yawl drifts with the current. The next order 
is, " Stand by with the buoy!” The moment the 
shallowest point is reached, the pilot delivers the order, 
"Let go the buoy!” and over she goes. If the pilot 
is not satisfied, he sounds the place again; if he finds 
better water higher up or lower down, he removes the 
buoy to that place. Being finally satisfied, he gives 
the order, and all the men stand their oars straight up 
in the air, in line; a blast from the boat's whistle indi- 
cates that the signal has been seen; then the men 
"give, way ” on their oars and lay the yawl alongside 
the buoy; the steamer comes creeping carefully down, 
is pointed straight at the buoy, husbands her power for 
the coming struggle, and presently, at the critical mo- 
ment, turns on all her steam and goes grinding and 
wallowing over the buoy and the sand, and gains the 
deep water beyond. Or maybe she doesn't; maybe 
she “strikes and swings ! Then she has to while 
away several hours (or days) sparring herself off. 
Sometimes a buoy is not laid at all, but the yawl 
goes ahead, hunting the best water, and the steamer 
follows along in its wake. Often there is a deal of fun 
and excitement about sounding, especially if it is a 
glorious summer day, or a blustering night. But in 
winter the cold and the peril take most of the fun out 
of it. 
The term “larboard” is never used at sea, now, to signify the left 
hand; but was always used on the river in my time. 
A buoy is nothing but a board four or five feet long, 
with one end turned up ; it is a reversed schoolhouse 
bench, with one of the supports left and the other re- 
moved. It is anchored on the shoalest part of the reef 
by a rope with a heavy stone made fast to the end of 
it. But for the resistance of the turned-up end of the 
reversed bench, the current would pull the buoy under 
water. At night, a paper lantern with a candle in it is 
fastened on top of the buoy, and this can be seen a 
mile or more, a little glimmering spark in the waste of 
blackness. 
Nothing delights a cub so much as an opportunity 
to go out sounding. There is such an air of adventure 
about it; often there is danger; it is so gaudy and 
man-of-war-like to sit up in the stern-sheets and steer a 
swift yawl ; there is something fine about the exultant 
spring of the boat when an experienced old sailor crew 
throw their souls into the oars ; it is lovely to see the 
white foam stream away from the bows ; there is music 
in the rush of the water ; it is deliciously exhilarating, in 
summer, to go speeding over the breezy expanses of 
the river when the world of wavelets is dancing in the 
sun. It is such grandeur, too, to the cub, to get a 
chance to give an order ; for often the pilot will simply 
say, “Let her go about!” and leave the rest to the 
cub, who instantly cries, in his sternest tone of com- 
mand, “Ease, starboard! Strong on the larboard! 
Starboard, give way! With a will, men!” The cub 
enjoys sounding for the further reason that the eyes of 
the passengers are watching all the yawl's movements 
with absorbing interest, if the time be daylight ; and if 
it be night, he knows that those same wondering eyes 
are fastened upon the yawl's lantern as it glides out 
into the gloom and dims away in the remote distance. 
One trip a pretty girl of sixteen spent her time in 
our pilot-house with her uncle and aunt, every day and 
all day long. I fell in love with her. So did Mr. 
Thornburg’s cub, Tom G. Tom and I had been 
bosom friends until this time; but now a coolness 
began to arise. I told the girl a good many of my 
river adventures, and made myself out a good deal of a 
hero; Tom tried to make himself appear to be a hero, 
too, and succeeded to some extent, but then he always 
had a way of embroidering. However, virtue is its 
own reward, so I was a barely perceptible trifle ahead 
in the contest. About this time something happened 
which promised handsomely for me : the pilots decided 
to sound the crossing at the head of 21 . This would 
occur about nine or ten o’clock at night, when the 
passengers would be still up ; it would be Mr. Thorn- 
burg’s watch, therefore my chief would have to do the 
sounding. We had a perfect love of a sounding-boat — 
long, trim, graceful, and as fleet as a greyhound; her 
thwarts were cushioned ; she carried twelve oarsmen ; 
one of the mates was always sent in her to transmit 
orders to her crew, for ours was a steamer where no 
end of “ style ” was put on. 
We tied up at the shore above 21 , and got ready. 
It was a foul night, and the river was so wide, there, 
that a landsman’s uneducated eyes could discern no 
opposite shore through such a gloom. The passengers 
were alert and interested ; everything was satisfactory. 
As I hurried through the engine-room, picturesquely 
gotten up in storm toggery, I met Tom, and could not 
forbear delivering myself of a mean speech : 
“Ain’t you glad you don’t have to go out sound- 
ing?” 
Tom was passing on, but he quickly turned, and 
said: 
“ Now just for that, you can go and get the sound- 
ing-pole yourself. I was going after it, but I'd see 
you in Halifax, now, before I’d do it.” 
“Who wants you to get it? I don’t. It’s in the 
sounding-boat.” 
“It ain’t, either. It’s been new-painted; and it’s 
been up on the ladies’ cabin guards two days, drying.” 
I flew back, and shortly arrived among the crowd of 
watching and wondering ladies just in time to hear the 
command : 
“ Give way, men !” 
I looked over, and there was the gallant sounding- 
boat booming away, the unprincipled Tom presiding at 
the tiller, and my chief sitting by him with the sound- 
ing-pole which I had been sent on a fool’s errand to 
fetch. Then that young girl said to me: 
“ Oh, how awful to have to go out in that little boat 
on such a night ! Do you think there is any danger?” 
I would rather have been stabbed. I went off, full 
of venom, to help in the pilot-house. By and by the 
boat’s lantern disappeared, and after an interval a 
wee spark glimmered upon the face of the water a mile 
away. Mr. Thornburg blew the whistle in acknowledg- 
ment, backed the steamer cmt, and made for it. We 
flew along for a while, then slackened steam and went 
cautiously gliding toward the spark. Presently Mr. 
Thornburg exclaimed : 
“ Hello, the buoy-lantern’s out!” 
He stopped the engines. A moment or two later he 
said: 
“ Why, there it is again !” 
So he came ahead on the engines once more, and 
rang for the leads. Gradually the water shoaled up, 
and then began to deepen again ! Mr. Thornburg- 
muttered : 
“ Well, I don’t understand this. I believe that buoy 
has drifted off the reef. Seems to be a little too far to 
the left. No matter, it is safest to run over it, any- 
how.” 
So, in that solid world of darkness we went creeping 
down on the light. Just as our bows were in the act 
of plowing over it, Mr. Thornburg seized the bell- 
ropes, rang a startling peal, and exclaimed: 
“ My soul, it’s the sounding-boat!” 
A sudden chorus of wild alarms burst out far below 
— a pause — and then a sound of grinding and crash- 
ing followed. Mr. Thornburg exclaimed : 
“ There ! the paddle-wheel has ground the sounding- 
boat to lucifer matches! Run! See who is killed!” 
I was on the main-deck in the twinkling of an eye. 
My chief and the third mate and nearly all the men 
were safe. They had discovered their danger when it 
was too late to pull out of the way; then, when the 
great guards overshadowed them a moment later, they 
were prepared and knew what to do; at my chief’s 
order they sprang at the right instant, seized the 
guard, and were hauled aboard. The next moment 
the sounding-yawl swept aft to the wheel and was 
struck and splintered to atoms. Two of the men and 
the cub Tom were missing — a fact which spread like 
wildfire over the boat. The passengers came flocking 
to the forward gangway, ladies and all, anxious-eyed, 
white-faced, and talked in awed voices of the dreadful 
thing. And often and again I heard them say, “ Poor 
fellows! poor boy, poor boy!” 
By this time the boat’s yawl was manned and away r 
to search for the missing. Now a faint call was heard, 
off to the left. The yawl had disappeared in the other 
direction. Half the people rushed to one side to en- 
courage the swimmer with their shouts ; the other half 
rushed the other way to shriek to the yawl to turn 
about. By the callings the swimmer was approaching, 
but some said the sound showed failing strength. The 
crowd massed themselves against the boiler-deck rail- 
ings, leaning over and staring into the gloom; and 
every faint and fainter cry wrung from them such 
words as “Ah, poor fellow, poor fellow! is there no 
way to save him?” 
But still the cries held out, and drew nearer, and 
presently the voice said pluckily : 
“ I can make it! Stand by with a rope !“ 
What a rousing cheer they gave him ! The chief 
mate took his stand in the glare of a torch-basket, a 
coil of rope in his hand, and his men grouped about 
him. The next moment the swimmer’s face appeared 
in the circle of light, and in another one the owner of 
it was hauled aboard, limp and drenched, while cheer 
on cheer went up. It was that devil Tom. 
The yawl crew searched everywhere, but found no 
sign of the two men. They probably failed to catch 
the guard, tumbled back, and were struck by the wheel 
and killed. Tom had never jumped for the guard at 
all, but had plunged head-first into the river and dived 
under the wheel. It was nothing; I could have done 
it easy enough, and I said so ; but everybody went on 
just the same, making a wonderful to-do over that ass, 
as if he had done something great. That girl couldn’t 
seem to have enough of that pitiful “ hero ” the rest of 
the trip ; but little I cared ; I loathed her, anyway. 
The way we came to mistake the sounding-boat’s 
lantern for the buoy-light was this : My chief said that 
after laying the buoy he fell away and watched it till it 
seemed to be secure; then he took up a position a 
hundred yards below it and a little to one side of the 
steamer’s course, headed the sounding-boat up-stream, 
and waited. Having to wait some time, he and the 
officer got to talking; he looked up when he judged 
that the steamer was about on the reef ; saw that the 
buoy was gone, but supposed that the steamer had 
already run over it; he went on with his talk; he 
noticed that the steamer was getting very close down to 
him, but that was the correct thing ; it was her business 
to shave him closely, for convenience in taking him 
aboard ; he was expecting her to sheer off, until the 
last moment ; then it flashed upon him that she was 
trying to run him down, mistaking his lantern for the 
buoy-light; so he sang out, " Stand by to spring for 
the guard, men!” and the next instant the jump was 
made. 
CHAPTER XIII. 
A PILOT’S NEEDS 
B UT I am wandering from what I was intending to 
do ; that is, make plainer than perhaps appears in 
the previous chapters some of the peculiar require- 
ments of the science of piloting. First of all, there is 
one faculty which a pilot must incessantly cultivate 
until he has brought it to absolute perfection. Nothing 
short of perfection will do. That faculty is memory. 
He cannot stop with merely thinking a thing is so and 
so ; he must know it ; for this is eminently one of the 
 exact sciences. With what scorn a pilot was 
looked upon, in the old times, if he ever ventured to 
deal in that feeble phrase “I think * instead of the 
vigorous one, “I know!” One cannot easily realize 
what a tremendous thing it is to know every trivial 
detail of twelve hundred miles of river and know it 
with absolute exactness. If you will take the longest 
street in New York, and travel up and down it, con- 
ning its features patiently until you know every house 
and window and lamp-post and big and little sign by 
heart, and know them so accurately that you can in- 
stantly name the one you are abreast of when you are 
set down at random in that street in the middle of an 
inky black night, you will then have a tolerable notion 
of the amount and the exactness of a pilot’s knowledge 
who carries the Mississippi River in his head. And 
then, if you will go on until you know every street 
crossing, the character, size, and position of the cross- 
ing-stones, and the varying depth of mud in each of 
those numberless places, you will have some idea of 
what the pilot must know in order to keep a Mississippi 
steamer out of trouble. Next, if you will take half of 
the signs in that long street, and change their places 
once a month, and still manage to know their new 
positions accurately on dark nights, and keep up with 
these repeated changes without making any mistakes, 
you will understand what is required of a pilot’s peer- 
less memory by the fickle Mississippi. 
I think a pilot’s memory is about the most wonderful 
thing in the world. To know the Old and New Testa- 
ments by heart, and be able to recite them glibly, for- 
ward or backward, or begin at random anywhere in 
the book and recite both ways and never trip or make 
a mistake, is no extravagant mass of knowledge, and 
no marvelous facility, compared to a pilot’s massed 
knowledge of the Mississippi and his marvelous facility 
in the handling of it. I make this comparison deliber- 
ately, and believe I am not expanding the truth when 
I do it. Many will think my figure too strong, but 
pilots will not. 
And how easily and comfortably the pilot’s memory 
does its work ; how placidly effortless is its way ; how 
unconsciously it lays up its vast stores, hour by hour, 
day by day, and never loses or mislays a single valu- 
able package of them all ! Take an instance. Let a 
leadsman cry, “Half twain! half twain! half twain! 
half twain! half twain!” until it becomes as monoto- 
nous as the ticking of a clock; let conversation be 
going on all the time, and the pilot be doing his share 
of the talking, and no longer consciously listening to 
the leadsman ; and in the midst of this endless string 
of half twains let a single “ quarter twain!” be interjected,
without emphasis, and then the half twain cry 
go on again, just as before: two or three weeks later 
that pilot can describe with precision the boat’s posi- 
tion in the river when that quarter twain was uttered, 
and give you such a lot of head-marks, stern-marks, 
and side-marks to guide you, that you ought to be able 
to take the boat there and put her in that same spot 
again yourself! The cry of “ quarter twain ” did not 
really take his mind from his talk, but his trained 
faculties instantly photographed the bearings, noted 
the change of depth, and laid up the important details 
for future reference without requiring any assistance 
from him in the matter. If you were walking and 
talking with a friend, and another friend at your side 
kept up a monotonous repetition of the vowel sound 
A, for a couple of blocks, and then in the midst inter- 
jected an R, thus, A, A, A, A, A, R, A, A, A, 
etc., and gave the R no emphasis, you would not be 
able to state, two or three weeks afterward, that the R 
had been put in, nor be able to tell what objects you 
were passing at the moment it was done. But you 
could if your memory had been patiently and labori- 
ously trained to do that sort of thing mechanically. 
Give a man a tolerably fair memory to start with, 
and piloting will develop it into a very colossus of 
capability. But only in the matters it is daily drilled 
in . A tipie would come when the man’s faculties 
could not help noticing landmarks and soundings, and 
his memory could not help holding on to them with 
the grip of a vice ; but if you asked that same man at 
noon what he had had for breakfast, it would be ten 
chances to one that he could not tell you. Astonish- 
ing things can be done with the human memory if you 
will devote it faithfully to one particular line of 
business. 
At the time that wages soared so high on the Missouri River, 
my chief, Mr. Bixby, went up there and 
learned more than a thousand miles of that stream with 
an ease and rapidity that were astonishing. When he 
had seen each division once in the daytime and once at 
night, his education was so nearly complete that he 
took out a “daylight” license; a few trips later he 
took out a full license, and went to piloting day and 
night — and he ranked A i, too. 
Mr. Bixby placed me as steersman for a while under 
a pilot whose feats of memory were a constant marvel 
to me. However, his memory was born in him, I 
think, not built. For instance, somebody would 
mention a name. Instantly Mr. Brown would break in: 
“Oh, I knew him . Sallow-faced, red-headed fellow, 
with a little scar on the side of his throat, like a 
splinter under the flesh. He was only in the Southern 
trade six months. That was thirteen years ago. I 
made a trip with him. There was five feet in the 
upper river then; the Henry Blake grounded at the 
foot of Tower Island drawing four and a half ; the 
George Elliott unshipped her rudder on the wreck of 
the Sunflower 
“ Why, the Sunflower didn’t sink until ” 
“ I know when she sunk; it was three years before 
that, on the 2d of December; Asa Hardy was captain 
of her, and his brother John was first clerk; and it was 
his first trip in her, too; Tom Jones told me these 
things a week afterward in New Orleans; he was first 
mate of the Sunflower . Captain Hardy stuck a nail in 
his foot the 6th of July of the next year, and died of 
the lockjaw on the 15th. His brother John died two 
years after, — 3d of March, — erysipelas. I never saw 
either of the Hardys, — they were Alleghany River 
men, — but people who knew them told me all these 
things. And they said Captain Hardy wore yarn 
socks winter and summer just the same, and his first 
wife’s name was Jane Shook, — she was from New 
England, — and his second one died in a lunatic 
asylum. It was in the blood. She was from Lexing- 
ton, Kentucky. Name was Horton before she was 
married.” 
And so on, by the hour, the man’s tongue would 
go. He could not forget anything. It was simply 
impossible. The most trivial details remained as dis- 
tinct and luminous in his head, after they had lain 
there for years, as the most memorable events. His 
was not simply a pilot’s memory; its grasp was uni- 
versal. If he were talking about a trifling letter he 
had received seven years before, he was pretty sure to 
deliver you the entire screed from memory. And 
then, without observing that he was departing from the 
true line of his talk, he was more than likely to hurl in 
a long-drawn parenthetical biography of the writer of 
that letter ; and you were lucky indeed if he did not 
take up that writer’s relatives, one by one, and give 
you their biographies, too. 
Such a memory as that is a great misfortune. To 
it, all occurrences are of the same size. Its possessor 
cannot distinguish an interesting circumstance from an 
uninteresting one. As a talker, he is bound to clog 
his narrative with tiresome details and make himself an 
insufferable bore. Moreover, he cannot stick to his 
subject. He picks up every little grain of memory he 
discerns in his way, and so is led aside. Mr. Brown 
would start out with the honest intention of telling you 
a vastly funny anecdote about a dog. He would be 
” so full of laugh ” that he could hardly begin; -then 
his memory would start with the dog’s breed and 
personal appearance ; drift into a history of his owner ; 
of his owner’s family, with descriptions of weddings 
and burials that had occurred in it, together with reci- 
tals of congratulatory verses and obituary poetry 
proyoked by the same ; then this memory would recollect 
that one of these events occurred during the celebrated 
“ hard winter ” of such and such a year, and a minute 
description of that winter would follow, along with the 
names of people who were frozen to death, and statis- 
tics showing the high figures which pork and hay went 
up to. Pork and hay would suggest corn and fodder; 
corn and fodder would suggest cows and horses; cows., 
and horses would suggest the circus and certain cele- 
brated bare-back riders ; the transition from the circus to 
the menagerie was easy and natural ; from the elephant 
to equatorial Africa was but a step ; then of course the 
heathen savages would suggest religion; and at the 
end of three or four hours’ tedious jaw, the watch 
would change, and Browm would go out of the pilot- 
house muttering extracts from sermons he had heard 
years before about the efficacy of prayer as a means of 
grace. And the original first mention would be all 
you had learned about that dog, after all this waiting 
and hungering. 
A pilot must have a memory; but there are two 
higher qualities which he must also have. He must 
have good and quick judgment and decision, and a 
cool, calm courage that no peril can shake. Give a 
man the merest trifle of pluck to start with, and by the 
time he has become a pilot he cannot be unmanned by 
any danger a steamboat can get into ; but one cannot 
quite say the same for judgment. Judgment is a 
matter of brains, and a man must start with a good 
stock of that article or he will never succeed as a 
pilot. 
The growth of courage in the pilot-house is steady 
all the time, but it does not reach a high and satisfac- 
tory condition until some time after the young pilot 
has been “standing his own watch’ ’ alone and under 
the staggering weight of all the responsibilities
connected with the position. When an apprentice has 
become pretty thoroughly acquainted with the river, he 
goes clattering along so fearlessly with his steamboat, 
night or day, that he presently begins to imagine that 
it is his courage that animates him ; but the first time 
the pilot steps out and leaves him to his own devices 
he finds out it was the other man's. He discovers 
that the article has been left out of his own cargo 
altogether. The whole river is bristling with exigencies 
in a moment ; he is not prepared for them ; he does 
not know how to meet them ; all his knowledge 
forsakes him; and within fifteen minutes he is as white as 
a sheet and scared almost to death. Therefore pilots 
wisely train these cubs b y various strategic -tricks to 
look danger in the face a little more calmly. A favorite 
way of theirs is to play a friendly swindle upon the 
candidate. 
Mr. Bixby served me in this fashion once, and for 
years afterward I used to blush, even in my sleep, 
when I thought of it. I had become a good steers- 
man ; so good, indeed, that I had all the work to do 
on our watch, night and day. Mr. Bixby seldom 
made a suggestion to me ; all he ever did was to take 
the wheel on particularly bad nights or in particularly 
bad crossings, land the boat ""when she needed to be 
landed, play gentleman of leisure nine-tenths of the 
watch, and collect the wages. The lower river was 
about bank-full, and if anybody had questioned my 
ability to run any crossing between Cairo and New 
Orleans without help or instruction, I should have felt 
irreparably hurt. The idea of being afraid of any 
crossing in the lot, in the daytime , was a thing too 
preposterous for contemplation. Well, one matchless 
summer’s day I was bowling down the bend above 
Island 66, brimful of self-conceit and carrying my 
nose as high as a giraffe’s, when Mr. Bixby said: 
'I am going below a while. I suppose you know 
the next crossing?” 
This was almost an affront. It was about the plainest 
and simplest crossing in the whole river. One 
couldn’t come to any harm, whether he ran it right or 
not; and as for depth, there never had been any 
bottom there. I knew all this, perfectly well. 
“ Know how to run it? Why, I can run it with my 
eyes shut.” 
"How much water is there in it?” 
“ Well, that is an odd question. I couldn’t get bot- 
tom there with a church steeple.” 
“You think so, do you?” 
The very tone of the question shook my confidence. 
That was what Mr. Bixby was expecting. He left, 
without saying anything more. I began to imagine all 
sorts of things. Mr. Bixby, unknown to me, of 
course, sent somebody down to the forecastle with 
some mysterious instructions to the leadsmen, another 
messenger was sent to whisper among the officers, and 
then Mr. Bixby went into hiding behind a smoke-stack 
where he could observe results. Presently the 
captain stepped out on the hurricane deck; next the 
chief mate appeared ; then a clerk. Every moment or 
two a straggler was added to my audience ; and before 
I got to the head of the island I had fifteen or twenty 
people assembled down there under my nose. I began 
to wonder what the trouble was. As I started across, 
the captain glanced aloft at me and said, with a sham 
uneasiness in his voice : 
“ Where is Mr. Bixby?” 
“ Gone below, sir.” 
But that did the business for me. My imagination 
began to construct dangers out of nothing, and they 
multiplied faster than I could keep the run of them. 
All at once I imagined I saw shoal water ahead ! The 
wave of coward agony that surged through me then 
came near dislocating every joint in me. All my con- 
fidence in that crossing vanished. I seized the bell- 
rope; dropped it, ashamed; seized it again; dropped 
it once more; clutched it tremblingly once again, and 
pulled it so feebly that I could hardly hear the stroke 
myself. Captain and mate sang out instantly, and 
both together : 
“ Starboard lead there! and quick about It ! ’ 
This was another shock. I began to climb the 
wheel like a squirrel; but I would hardly get the boat 
started to port before I would see new dangers on that 
side, and away I would spin to the other ; only to find 
perils accumulating to starboard, and be crazy to get 
