"So I was thinking. They want to go right off after dinner."
"I shall be ready. We will bring the boat down now.--Will you go with
me, Stumpy?" continued Leopold, turning to his friend.
"I should like to go, first rate," answered Stumpy.
They hastened to the wharf where the new boat lay, and in a few minutes
more they were standing down the river in her.
"She works tip-top," said the skipper, as soon as he began to feel the
boat bearing on the tiller. "She minds her helm as soon as I touch the
stick."
"She's as handsome as a picture, too. She don't look much like your old
boat," replied Stumpy, with a smile as he realized the contrast.
"Not much. She seems to go at railroad speed. We haven't been used to
going along at this rate."
"That's so. What's her name Le?"
"She hasn't any yet. We will think of something for her."
The skipper sailed the boat down to the mouth of the river, and came
about off the light-house, located on a projecting cliff which extended
out nearly half a mile from the southern shore. The trial-trip was
entirely satisfactory; and on her return the sloop was moored near the
old boat, which was now used as a tender for the new one. The young
boatmen went home to get their dinners and made preparations for the
trip to the Isle-au-Haut. Leopold saw the two gentlemen who were to be
his passengers, and agreed to take them over for five dollars. They did
not object to the price, as the island was over ten miles distant, and
there would not be any packet for several days.
Leopold filled the water-keg in the sloop, and laid in a stock of
provisions for the voyage. At two o'clock the party started; but we do
not intend to follow them in the details of the trip. The breeze was
fresh and the sloop was fast. At four o'clock Leopold had landed his
passengers; but it was eight in the evening when the boat reached
Rockhaven on her return, for the skipper was obliged to beat back. The
five dollars earned in the voyage was promptly handed over to the
watch-maker, reducing by this amount the debt due him. By nine o'clock
Leopold was fast asleep, for he and Stumpy had arranged to try the
mackerel again the next morning.
The skipper of the new boat was very tired for the day had been a long,
laborious, and exciting one. It was four o'clock when he awoke the next
morning. When he went out, he found Stumpy waiting on the piazza for
him. He had not stopped to eat his breakfast, but had provision enough
in the basket for both of them.
"We are late," said Stumpy, as Leopold joined him.
"I know it; but I was so tired I didn't wake up," replied the skipper.
"I have seen half a dozen boats go down the river since I stood here,
added Stumpy, ruefully.
"I don't expect we shall do much to-day. Folks have found out about the
mackerel."
They went down to the new boat, and were soon under way. At the point,
they saw that all the craft which came out of the river were headed in
the same direction--towards the reef off High Rock.
"What are you going to call this boat?" asked Stumpy, as the skipper
started the sheets, off the light-house. "I don't feel quite at home in
her without being able to call her by name."
"I haven't thought of any name yet," replied Leopold.
"We want something to call her by."
"She has no name."
"Then we will call her the No-Name, till you fix upon something,"
laughed Stumpy.
"All right."
The "No-Name" passed half a dozen of the boats bound to the reef; but
when she reached her destination, there were not less than twenty craft,
of all sorts and sizes, on the fishing-ground, huddled into a heap, near
the spot where the luckless Waldo had gone down. The secret was out. A
fisherman going off to the deep water, on the morning before, had seen
Leopold's boat near the reef; and when it was said that the young man
had obtained a large catch of mackerel, he knew where they came from.
But the vicinity of the reefs was the usual place for catching these
fish when they were to be had at all; and as soon as there were mackerel
in the market, the fishermen and others knew where to go for them. In a
few moments Leopold had joined the crowd, and the fish bit as smartly as
before. The No-Name was more fortunate than most of her companions, and
got about four hundred mackerel. She might have got twice as many if she
had remained longer on the ground; but Leopold reasoned that fish
without a market were not very valuable. His was the first boat to reach
Rockhaven; and he sold his fare at seven cents apiece. By half past
eight the No-Name was washed down, and ready for a party, if any
offered. Stumpy went home with seven dollars in his pocket, and Leopold
diminished his debt by twenty-one dollars.
There was no "job" for him at the hotel that day; but in the afternoon
Leopold took his father and mother and Herr Schlager out to sail in the
new boat; and he was quite as happy on this occasion as though he had
made five dollars by the trip. The next morning there were no mackerel
off the ledges, or if there were, they would not bite; and the No-Name
made a profitless trip. When she returned, Leopold found two gentlemen
at the hotel who wished to sail over to Rockland, as there was no
steamer that day. While the skipper was making his trade with them,
Harvey Barth entered the office. The sick man had finished his narrative
of the loss of the Waldo the day before, and sent it off by the mail in
the steamer. He looked sadder and more gloomy than usual.
"I should like to go over with you," said Harvey, after Leopold had
named the price for the trip. "I will pay my share of it."
The gentlemen looked at Harvey and did not seem to like the appearance
of him; and he certainly did not promise to be a very agreeable
companion for an excursion. They took no notice of him, and the steward
was mortified by their coldness.
"Are you going to leave us, Mr. Barth?" asked the landlord, who was
behind the counter.
"Yes; I thought I would be on my way to New York as soon as I could, for
I want to find that drummer," drawled Harvey, with his usual hacking
cough. "I feel better this morning, and I think I can stand it to move
towards home. Those men don't seem to want me to go with them, but I
suppose I can wait till to-morrow. If you will give me my bill, I will
pay it."
"Never mind that, Mr. Barth."
"But I can pay what I owe."
"You can't pay anything here," laughed the landlord. "We don't charge
shipwrecked people anything."
"But I have been here about ten days."
"You can stay ten or twenty more at the same rate, if you will," added
Mr. Bennington.
Harvey Barth remonstrated, but the landlord was firm. The physician who
had attended him also refused to take a cent from him, and so did all
who had done anything for him. He tried to give a dollar apiece to the
employes of the hotel who had been kind to him, but not one of them
would accept the gift. When Harvey left the room, the two passengers for
Rockland asked the landlord who he was; and when informed that he was
the only survivor of the Waldo, they changed their tone, and desired his
company. They sent for him, and politely offered him a passage with
them.
"I don't want to go where I am not wanted," replied Harvey.
"But we shall be delighted to have you go with us," said one of the
gentlemen, and the other heartily indorsed the remark.
"I'll pay my share of the expense, if you are really willing to let me
go with you."
"We are glad to have you go with us; and as to the expense, we will
arrange that when we get to Rockland."
Shortly after the No-Name departed, manned, by Leopold and Stumpy, with
the three passengers in the standing-room. On the passage, Harvey, at
the request of his new friends, told the whole story of the wreck of the
Waldo, and then dwelt with particular emotion upon the loss of his
diary. One of the gentlemen resided in New York city, and volunteered to
assist him in recovering the cherished volume. When they arrived at
their destination, Harvey was not permitted to pay any portion of the
expense of the trip; and the gentlemen insisted upon his accompanying
them to the best hotel in the city, where from the abundant sympathy of
the proprietor, he was not permitted to diminish his funds by a single
dollar. Having, a few days after, obtained the fifty copies of the
newspaper which contained his account of the loss of the brig, he
started in the steamer for Boston, with a free ticket in his pocket.
His first care after he got on board the boat, was to read the narrative
he had written. He was sorely grieved to find that the first half of the
account had been struck out by the remorseless editor; but it must be
added that this portion of the history was wholly irrelevant, being made
up of observations on the outward voyage of the Waldo, and remarks upon
the geography, climate, people and institutions of Cuba. Then, in the
description of the wreck, Harvey was indignant when he found that all
his finest passages had been eliminated from the manuscript. Adjectives
and fine phrases without number had been struck out, and the poor
steward felt that he might as well never have been a schoolmaster. The
truth was, that the editor had only three columns of his paper to spare,
and all he and his readers wanted were the facts in regard to the wreck.
A vivid description of a tempest at sea seemed to be lost upon them. But
Harvey felt that he should not realize half the pleasure he had
anticipated in distributing the fifty copies of the paper among his
friends at home.
It was late at night when the No-Name arrived at her moorings in the
river at Rockhaven; for on the return trip the wind was contrary and
very light. Leopold, after this "job," had reduced his indebtedness to
Herr Schlager to about thirty-two dollars. Our space does not permit us
to follow him in the process of extinguishing the debt, but it was all
wiped out by the first of October. All the summer visitors had left the
place, and it was a "dry time" at the Cliff House. The landlord counted
up his profits, and felt rich when he realized that he owned the hotel,
did not owe a dollar to any man, and had twenty-five hundred dollars in
the bank, or otherwise available for immediate use. He had a plan drawn
for the enlargement of the hotel which would give him fifty chambers,
besides a large dining-room and parlor. But it would cost eight thousand
dollars to complete the building and furnish the house; and being a
prudent man, he decided not to carry out the project till his funds were
considerably increased.
About the middle of October the steamer brought to Rockhaven a woman,
apparently about forty years of age, who registered her name at the
Cliff House as Miss Sarah Liverage. Though it was certain, from her own
confession, that she had never been there before, she seemed to know all
about the hotel, and all the persons connected with it. She was a
plain-looking woman, well, but not richly, dressed, and her speech
indicated that she was not a cultivated person. There was nothing
remarkable about her, except her knowledge of the hotel, and a certain
excitement in her manner, which indicated that she had come to Rockhaven
for a special purpose, which, however, she was not forward in revealing.
She followed the landlord into the office, though he insisted upon
showing her into the parlor. She wrote her name in the register, and
then astonished Mr. Bennington and Leopold by asking to have the room
which had formerly been occupied by Harvey Barth assigned to her.
"That is not one of the rooms we usually give to ladies, and we can do
better for you," replied the landlord.
"I'd rather have that room, if it don't make any difference to you,"
replied Miss Liverage.
"Certainly you can have it, if you want it, for it is not occupied."
"I shall be much obliged to you if you will let me have it."
"You knew Harvey Barth, I suppose," said the landlord, as Leopold, who
often conducted guests to their rooms, picked up the small valise, which
was her only baggage.
"Well, yes; I ought to know him. I took care of him in the hospital
three weeks before he died," replied Miss Liverage, confidently.
"Is he dead?" asked Mr. Bennington, startled by the announcement.
"Yes, sir; he died about a fortnight ago."
"It is only six weeks since he left here," added Leopold, who was even
more shocked than his father at the news.
"We didn't hear a word from him after he left Rockland," continued Mr.
Bennington. "I'm sure I didn't think he was so near his end, though I
saw that he couldn't live very long."
"I thought he would be able to get out again, till the very day he died.
He ate a hearty dinner, for a sick man, and then was taken with
bleeding at the lungs, and died right off. I went with his body to the
place he was brought up, and he was buried a week ago last Thursday,
from the house of his uncle. He had good care while he lived, if he was
in the hospital; and I believe everybody in the town turned out to go to
his funeral. But I guess I'll go to my room now."
Leopold conducted her to the chamber, placed her valise in a chair, and
saw that the wash-stand was provided with water and towels.
"Are you sure this is the room that Harvey Barth had?" asked Miss
Liverage, as Leopold was about to retire.
"Sure as I am of anything," replied the young man. "I used to stay with
him a good deal, when I wasn't busy. Was Harvey Barth a relation of
yours?"
"Well, no, not exactly; but I was a good deal interested in him. You are
Leopold, I suppose," added Miss Liverage, who appeared to be anxious to
change the direction the conversation had taken.
"That's my name."
"And this was Harvey's room," continued the woman glancing around the
chamber, and then bestowing especial attention upon the fireplace.
"This was his room," replied Leopold, as he moved towards the door. "Can
I do anything more for you?"
"No, nothing now. You are the boatman, I believe; and you have bought a
new boat."
"I bought one just before Harvey Barth left the house. Did he tell you
about her?"
"Well, nothing in particular, only he said you were a great boatman, and
a very good boy."
As the woman did not seem inclined to say anything more, Leopold left
the room, and returned to the office.
"Can you make out what she is, Leopold?" asked his father.
"No; she says she is no relation to Harvey, but she was a good deal
interested in him. She seems to know all about me; but I suppose Harvey
Barth told her."
"I wonder what she is driving at?" added the landlord, whose curiosity,
as well as that of his son, was raised to the highest pitch.
"I haven't any idea. If she is not a relation of Harvey, what is she,
and why did she want his room?"
"I can't tell."
"How old do you think she is, father?"
"About forty, I should say."
"Harvey couldn't have been engaged to her, or anything of that
sort--could he?" suggested Leopold.
"I should think not. She is ten years older than he was, I should say,"
replied Mr. Bennington.
No satisfactory solution presented itself, and Miss Sarah Liverage had
to remain a mystery for the time.
CHAPTER VII.
SOMETHING ABOUT THE HIDDEN TREASURE.
Miss Sarah Liverage had been three days at the Cliff House before the
mystery of her coming appeared to promise a solution. The landlord was
sure she had come for something, for all her speech and all her actions
indicated this. She had not visited the shore for recreation, and was
not idling away a vacation. One day she commenced a conversation with
Mr. Bennington, and the next with Leopold; and, though she evidently
desired to make some important revelation, or ask some startling
question, she always failed to carry out her purpose. She was nervous
and excitable; and on the second day of her stay at the hotel, the
chambermaid discovered her in her room, on her knees before the
fireplace, apparently investigating the course of the flue; but when the
girl asked her what she was doing, she answered that she was looking
for her shawl-pin, which she had dropped.
The weather was rather chilly, and the wind blew fresh and stormy on the
bay, so that Leopold seldom went out in the new boat, but did a man's
work about the hotel; for as the season advanced the "help" was reduced.
Miss Liverage, for some reason, seemed to be very desirous of
cultivating his acquaintance, and she talked with him much more than
with his father. On the second day of her stay she offered him a dollar,
when he brought her a pitcher of water to drink in the parlor, which the
young man was too proud to accept. The guest talked to him for half an
hour; and he noticed that she did not drink any of the water he had
brought. On the strength of this and other similar incidents, Leopold
declared that she was a very strange woman. She sent for him, or
procured his attendance by less direct means, as though she had
something to say; but she did not say it. She asked a multitude of
questions in regard to some of the localities in the vicinity, but she
did not connect her business at Rockhaven with any of them.
On the third day of her residence at the Cliff House a violent
north-east storm commenced, and the guest could not go out of the house
as she had been accustomed to do in the forenoon for a short time. From
the cliff near the house Leopold had explained to her the geography of
the vicinity; and when she inquired where the ledges were on which the
Waldo had been lost, he indicated the direction in which they were
situated, for the high land on the south shore of the river intercepted
the view of them. Miss Liverage appeared to become more desperate in her
purpose, whatever it was as the day passed away; and the storm seemed to
increase her excitement. On the fourth day after her arrival, she
vibrated between her chamber and the parlor all the forenoon,
occasionally visiting the dining-room and the office. The landlord said
she was "as uneasy as a fish out of water;" and he carried books and
newspapers to her, but these did not seem to occupy her attention. She
only glanced at them, and it was plain that her mind wandered when she
attempted to read them. After dinner, on this eventful day her
desperation appeared to culminate in a resolve to do something; and for
the twentieth time since her arrival she sent for Leopold.
When he entered the parlor, where she was nervously walking across the
floor, she closed the door after him, and looked out at the windows
which opened on the piazza, apparently to assure herself that no one was
within hearing distance of her. She labored under more than her usual
excitement of manner, and the landlord's son was impressed with a belief
that something was about to happen. Miss Liverage had evidently made up
her mind to say something, and Leopold promptly made up his mind, also,
to hear what it was.
"I didn't come down here for nothing," said she, and then paused to
observe the effect of this startling revelation upon her auditor.
"I didn't suppose you did," replied Leopold, judging from the pause that
he was expected to say something, though he was not very deeply
impressed by the guest's announcement.
"Leopold, Harvey Barth said you were a very nice young man," she added.
"Then I suppose I am, for I think Mr. Barth was a man of good judgment,"
laughed Leopold.
"He told me you owed some money for your new boat."
"He told the truth at that time; but I don't owe anything now. I was
very lucky with the mackerel, and I have had plenty of jobs for the
boat, so that I have paid up all I owed."
"Then you have paid your debt," added Miss Liverage, apparently "headed
off" by the young man's reply.
"I don't owe a cent to anybody."
"I didn't know but you might want to make some money."
"I do; I am always ready to make a dollar, though I don't owe anybody
anything," replied Leopold, willing to encourage the woman, while he did
not desire to make anything out of her.
"Five hundred dollars is a good deal of money," continued Miss Liverage,
watching the countenance of the young man very closely.
Leopold did not dispute the remark, and with a nod he admitted the truth
of it.
"I suppose you would not object to making five hundred dollars,
Leopold."
"I don't believe I should, if I could make it honestly, fairly, and
above-board; but I wouldn't steal five hundred dollars for the sake of
having it."
"Of course not. I wouldn't, either," protested Miss Liverage. "I never
did anything which was not honest, fair, and above-board, and I never
mean to. Now, Leopold, I can put you in the way of making five hundred
dollars."
"Can you? I am sure I shall not object. I suppose the money would do me
as much good as it would anybody."
"I have no doubt it would. Now, can you keep a secret?" demanded the
woman, more excited than ever; so much so that her manner began to be
decidedly melo-dramatic.
"That depends on circumstances," answered Leopold, who was not yet quite
clear in his own mind whether or not the woman was crazy. "If it is to
cheat anybody out of a cent, even, I wouldn't keep a secret any more
than I would the itch, if I could get rid of it."
"Nonsense, Leopold! I am not going to cheat or wrong anybody. I wouldn't
do such a thing for all the money in the world."
"I can keep a secret that won't harm anybody," added the young man.
"Will you promise me solemnly not to tell any one, not even your father,
what I say to you?" asked Miss Liverage, in a low tone, and in a very
impressive manner.
"If the matter don't concern my father, I won't tell him of it, or
anybody else. But I don't want you to tell me anything that concerns any
person--that is, in a way to do any injury."
"It don't concern any living soul," interposed Miss Liverage,
impatiently. "I know where there is some money."
The last remark was whispered, after a glance at the door and all the
windows of the parlor.
"Where is it?" asked Leopold, now for the first time manifesting a real
interest in the conversation.
"In the ground."
"Buried?"
"Yes."
Miss Liverage was very much agitated for a few moments, for she had now
actually entered upon the business which had brought her to Rockhaven.
Of course this important revelation was in some manner to involve Harvey
Barth; but Leopold was not willing to believe that the sick man had
buried any considerable sum of money, unless his speech and his life
while at the hotel were both a lie.
"Will you promise to keep the secret?" demanded the woman, as soon as
she had overcome in a measure her agitation.
"On the condition I said, I will," replied Leopold. "But after you have
told me, if I find that anybody is to be wronged by my keeping still, I
shall tell all I know."
"I'm satisfied. I hope you don't think I came down here, all the way
from New York, to cheat or wrong anybody."
"I hope not. If you did, I can't do anything for you."
"You shall judge for yourself. It is just as Harvey Barth said: you are
a good young man, and you will be as honest by me as you mean to be by
other folks."
"Of course I will be."
"Your share of the money will be five hundred dollars. Shall you be
satisfied with this?"
"I think I shall be," laughed Leopold, to whom the amount seemed like a
fortune.
"You agree to take this as your share?"
"Yes; I agree to it."
"And to keep the secret?"
"On the conditions I named."
"I am satisfied with the conditions. If you and I don't get this money,
somebody else will, who has no more right to it than we have."
"But who owns the money?" asked Leopold, whose views of an honest policy
required him to settle this question first.
"Nobody."
"Nobody!" exclaimed the young man. "It must belong to somebody."
"No it don't."
"How can that be?"
"The owner is dead and gone."
"Then it belongs to his heirs."
"He has no heirs."
"Who is he, anyhow?"
"He isn't anybody now. Didn't I say he was dead and gone?" demanded Miss
Liverage, impatiently.
"Well, who was he, then?"
"I don't know."
"It's very strange," mused Leopold.
"I know it's strange. I am the only person living who knows anything
about this money. If I don't take it, somebody else will, or it will
stay in the ground till the end of the world," said the woman. "It's a
plain case; and I think the money belongs to me as much as it does to
anybody else."
"Where is it buried?"
Before she would answer this question, Miss Liverage satisfied herself
that Leopold understood the bargain they had made, and was ready to
abide by all its conditions. With the proviso he had before insisted
upon, the young man agreed to the arrangement.
"I don't know exactly where the money was buried," continued the owner
of the great secret.
"O, you don't!" exclaimed Leopold, rising from his chair, and bursting
into a laugh. "Then this is a 'wild goose chase.'"
"No, it isn't. But now you have agreed to the terms, I will tell you all
about it. Sit down; for I don't want to scream out what I have to say.
Will any one hear us?"
"No; I think not."
"Won't your father?"
"No, he has gone up to Squire Wormbury's."
Miss Liverage drew her chair up to the cheerful wood fire that blazed in
the Franklin stove, and Leopold seated himself in the corner nearly
opposite her, with his curiosity intensely excited by what he had
already heard.
"In the first place do you know whatever became of Harvey Barth's
diary?" Miss Liverage began.
"I haven't the least idea; but he said it was stolen from him, and he
was going to get it when he went to New York," replied Leopold, deeply
interested even in this matter.
"But he never found it, and I don't believe anybody stole it. I think it
is in this house now. Our first business is to find it."
"We couldn't find it in the time of it, and I don't believe we can now."
"We must find it, for that diary will tell us just where the money is
buried."
"You never will find the diary or the money."
"Don't be too fast. Harvey told me where the money was buried. It was
under the cliffs at High Rock," added Miss Liverage.
"The cliffs are about a mile long."
"The money was buried in the sand."
"The beach under High Rock is half a mile long, and it would be a
winter's job to dig it all over. But who hid the money there?"
"A man who was wrecked in the brig."
"Was it Harvey Barth?"
"No; the man was a passenger and called himself Wallbridge; but Harvey
thought this was not his real name."
"That was the name of the passenger as it was printed in the newspaper."
"Harvey wrote down all he knew about him in his diary. He buried his
money--twelve hundred dollars in gold--on the beach; and in the diary
the place is described. Harvey inquired about the passenger in Rockland;
but no one knew anything about him."
"Twelve hundred in gold," said Leopold, musingly.
"Yes; and I have agreed to give you nearly half of it."
"If we find it," added the young man, who considered the information
rather too indefinite for entire success.
"I think we can find it."
"Did Harvey Barth tell you just where the money was buried?"
"He said it was buried on the beach. He talked a great deal about it the
day before he died, and said, if he ever got well enough, he should go
and get it; and then he would pay me handsomely for all I had done for
him. I was a nurse in the hospital, you see, and was his only companion.
He felt very bad about the loss of his diary, and told me all about it.
He said he put it in the flue of the fireplace, because there was no
closet in the room. Now, if nobody stole it, the diary must be there
yet. I have looked into the flue, but I couldn't see anything of it; and
I have made up my mind that it dropped down somewhere."
"The room is directly over this parlor, and if it dropped into the
chimney, it must have come down into this fireplace," replied Leopold.
"I am sure nothing was ever seen of it."
They examined the flue of the Franklin stove, and Miss Liverage was
satisfied with the young man's statement in regard to its construction.
"Some one may have picked it up and put it away," suggested the nurse.
"There was a summer piece fastened into the front of this stove, which
was not taken down till I removed it to make the fire when you came. If
the diary had been there, I should have found it. But I will search the
whole house for it, though I am of Harvey Barth's opinion, that some one
stole the book. If any person saw him put it into the flue, as Harvey
thought the drummer did, he might have supposed it was something very
valuable. Why should he take so much pains to hide it, if it was not? If
the drummer did not take it himself, he may have told somebody else, who
did steal it. If he had left the diary on the table, nobody would have
touched it, I know. It was all because he hid it, that he lost it."
Miss Liverage was sure the diary was still in the house, and during that
and the next day, while the storm lasted, Leopold searched the hotel
from cellar to garret. He did not find the key to the hidden treasure of
High Rock. The nurse searched for herself, so far as she could do so
without exciting the suspicions of the hotel people; but she was no more
successful than her confidant in the secret. If the diary was in the
house, it could not be found. The structure of the chimney, in which the
flue of the fireplace was built, was carefully examined; and Leopold's
conclusion seemed to be fully verified. Miss Liverage was reluctantly
compelled to abandon all hope of finding the coveted volume.
The storm ended, and the sun shone again. The wind came fresh and cold
from the north-west. The nurse looked from the windows of the hotel upon
the waters of the river, which, sheltered from the force of the blast,
were as smooth as an inland pond though the waves rolled up white and
angry beyond the point. The guest at the Cliff House, though she had
given up all expectation of finding the diary, had not abandoned the
hope of obtaining the hidden treasure.
"Now, Leopold, we must go to the beach under High Rock," said she, after
the storm was over.
"What is the use of going there, if you don't know where the money is
hidden?" demanded the boatman.
"I think I can find the place," replied Miss Liverage. "Harvey told me
where it was; but I can't think of the names he used in telling me. I
was pretty sure I should find the diary, when I left New York."
"If you want to go to High Rock, I will take you down there in the
boat," added Leopold.
"I'm afraid of boats. Can't we go by land?"
"Not very well. My boat is as stiff as a man-of-war, and you can go a
great deal easier in her than you can climb over the rocks on the other
side of the river."
Miss Liverage considered the matter, and after dinner she decided to
undertake the hazardous trip, as she regarded it. She had an engagement
the next week in New York, and she could not remain in Rockhaven more
than a day or two longer. What she did must be done at once. Mr.
Bennington was astonished when he saw his son taking her out to sail on
such a chilly, blustering day; but he always allowed his guests to suit
themselves, and offered no objection to the expedition. Leopold seated
his timid passenger in the standing-room, and shoved off the boat. In
the river she made smooth sailing of it; but the instant she passed the
range of the high bluff on the north shore, the No-Name plunged into a
heavy sea, burying her bow deep in a foam-crested billow, whose dense
spray drenched the water-proof of Miss Liverage, and it seemed to her as
if the end of all things had come.
"Mercy on us!" screamed she, trying to rise from her seat, as the bow of
the boat was lifted far up by the wave.
"Sit down, Miss Liverage," said Leopold, pushing her back into her seat.
"We shall be drowned!" cried the terrified passenger.
"This is nothing; the boat is doing first rate," answered Leopold.
"I shall be wet to the skin," she added, as another cloud of spray was
dashed over her. The skipper went to the cuddy, forward, and brought
from it an old oil-cloth coat, which he spread over his passenger.
Though this garment protected her from the spray, the angry waves were
still a vivid terror to her, and the skipper vainly assured her there
was no danger. Letting off the main sheet, he put the boat before the
wind, and then she rolled, pitched, and floundered, till Miss Liverage
declared she was frightened out of her life.
"Don't be alarmed. There! you can see the ledges now where the Waldo
went to pieces," added Leopold, pointing to the black rocks, now in
sight, upon which the white foam broke at every surge of the sea.
"I can't see anything, Leopold," gasped Miss Liverage, holding on to the
washboard with both hands. "Do go back as fast as you can."
"But you can't find the money if you don't go and look for it."
"I don't care for the money. I wouldn't stay out here another minute for
the whole of it," protested the passenger.
She pleaded so earnestly that Leopold finally came about, and beat his
way back to the river, and soon landed her in front of the hotel. She
declared she would not get into a boat again for all the treasure hidden
in the bowels of the earth.
Miss Liverage was satisfied that Leopold was both honest and zealous,
and she finally concluded to commit to him the search for the buried
money. The next day she started for home, disappointed and disheartened
at the result of her visit to Rockhaven, though she had some hope that
her confidant might yet discover the treasure.
CHAPTER VIII.
AN IMPORTANT DISCOVERY.
The landlord of the Cliff House was a man who attended to his own
business to the exclusion of that of others, and he did not trouble
himself any further about the affairs of his guest, though his curiosity
was somewhat excited at first. Leopold "was not happy" in being obliged
to conceal his thoughts and actions from his father; but then Mr.
Bennington did not question him in regard to her conduct after he was a
little accustomed to the ways of Miss Liverage. The young man did not
place much reliance upon the statements of the nurse. He had heard and
read about "money-diggers" before. He was familiar with the story of
Wolfert Webber, who had dug over the whole of his cabbage garden in
search of hidden treasure, and he had no little contempt for those who
allowed themselves to be carried away by such vain and silly illusions.
While he had no doubt that Miss Liverage was in earnest, he had little
confidence in the existence of the hidden treasure at High Rock.
Though Leopold did not intend to become a Wolfert Webber, and dig over
half a mile of beach under the cliffs, he admitted to himself the
possibility of the existence of the treasure. He had promised the nurse
that he would search for the money, and he did so; but he felt that the
task was like "looking for a needle in a hay-mow," and he abandoned it
before he had made himself ridiculous in his own estimation. He wrote a
letter to the nurse, who had given him her address in New York,
informing her of the ill success of his endeavors. She answered the
letter, giving him further instructions, saying that the money was
buried not more than a foot below the surface of the beach, and near a
projecting rock. Probably when she was less excited than during her
visit to Rockhaven, her memory had recalled some of the statements of
Harvey Barth; for certainly she had said nothing so definite as this
when she was with Leopold.
The young man, aided by these directions, which certainly were not very
precise, made another attempt to find the treasure. There was more than
one "projecting rock," and he dug over all the sand and gravel to the
depth of a foot in the vicinity of every part of the cliff which
answered to the description given. He worked very hard, and the boatmen
who saw him at his labors wondered if he expected to find clams so far
up on the beach.
He found neither clams nor money; and when he had finished the search he
was more than ever dissatisfied with himself for being led away by such
a chimera. He wrote to Miss Liverage again, informing her of the
continued failure of his efforts, and declaring that he would not "fool
with the matter" any longer. The nurse did not answer his last letter
and it was evident that she too had "lost hope." Leopold never heard
anything more from her or about her, and in a few weeks he had forgotten
all about the "hidden treasure of High Rock," for he did not believe
there was any treasure there, and it was not pleasant for him to
remember that he had made a fool of himself.
Leopold and Stumpy went to school together during the winter, and
continued to be as good friends as ever. Mrs. Wormbury struggled with
her hard lot, and Squire Moses still threatened to take possession of
the cottage. The Cliff House prospered in its small way, and the
landlord still nursed his grand project of having a big hotel in
Rockhaven. During the next season Leopold did very well with his boat,
both with the fishing and with the "jobs" from the hotel. He saved his
money and still kept it in the iron safe of Herr Schlager, who was as
proud of and as devoted as ever to his nephew. In the spring, the
question for the name of the new boat came up again, and the skipper was
prepared to settle the question. Among the guests at the hotel in the
summer, was the family of the Hon. Franklin Hamilton, a wealthy merchant
of New York, who was a native of Rockhaven. They had spent a few days at
the Cliff House for several seasons, though it was painfully apparent to
the landlord that his accommodations were not satisfactory to his
distinguished and wealthy guests, for the time they spent at the house
was very brief. The family consisted of Mr. Hamilton, his wife and an
only daughter. They always wanted to sail when they came to Rockhaven,
but Ben Chipman's boat did not suit them. Leopold did not buy his sloop
till after they had gone; but he congratulated himself upon the fact
that when they came the next season he should be able to sail them in a
boat which was good enough for any nabob in the land.
Being in funds in the spring, he fitted up the sloop very nicely, and
could not help anticipating the pleasure it would afford him to sail the
Hamiltons, especially the daughter, who, at the age of fourteen, was a
very pretty girl. Revelling in these delightful thoughts, it suddenly
occurred to him that he might give the young lady's name to the boat. It
was certainly a very pretty name for so jaunty a craft as the sloop. It
was Rosabel. In another week it appeared in gilt letters on the stern of
the boat. In the summer the family came again. Rosabel was taller and
prettier than ever, and Leopold actually realized all his pleasant and
romantic anticipations, as he sailed her and her parents about the bay.
Mr. Hamilton engaged the boat for every day during his stay, which was
prolonged to a whole week, or twice as long as he usually remained; for
Rosabel was so pleased with the water excursions that her father
extended his visit at her desire. Probably Leopold had as much romance
in his nature as most young men of seventeen, and after his first full
season in the Rosabel, the beautiful face and form of Miss Hamilton were
a very distinct image in his mind, often called up, and often the
subject of his meditations, though he could not help thinking of the
wide gulf that yawned between the daughter of the rich merchant and the
son of the humble landlord of a small hotel.
In the fall of the year, Leopold observed that his father was making
frequent visits to Squire Moses Wormbury; and it soon came out that the
rich man was to loan the landlord six thousand dollars, to enable the
latter to make his contemplated improvements upon the hotel. The squire
was to have this sum on the first of January, and though Mr. Bennington
did not want it for several months, he consented to take it at that
time; for Squire Moses would not allow it to remain a single month
uninvested. The landlord was confident that he could make money enough
on the new hotel to pay off the mortgage in three years. As soon as the
snow melted in the spring, the work was commenced. The old portion of
the hotel was partly torn to pieces, and for a time business was very
good at the Island Hotel, for the Cliff House was closed.
Both the landlord and his son, pleasurably excited by the alterations in
progress, worked with their own hands. Among other changes, the parlor
chimney was taken down, and Leopold took a hand in the job, enjoying the
operation of tumbling down to the cellar great masses of brick.
"Hold on, Le," shouted the mason who was at work with him, when they had
removed the chimney as far as the level of the parlor floor. "What's
that?"
The mason pointed to a bundle which was lodged in an opening back of the
flue of the Franklin stove that had stood in the parlor. It was covered
with bricks and lime dust, but the mason brought it to the surface with
his iron bar.
"I know what it is," exclaimed Leopold, as he picked up the package, and
knocked it several times against a partition in order to remove the soot
and dust from it.
It was the oil-cloth containing the diary of Harvey Barth.
Leopold was somewhat excited by the discovery, and all the incidents of
Miss Sarah Liverage's visit to the hotel came back fresh to his mind,
though they had occurred eighteen months before.
"What is it?" asked the mason, whose curiosity was excited by the event.
"It is a book that belonged to Harvey Barth, the steward of the Waldo,
which was wrecked off High Rock," replied Leopold. "I will take care of
it."
"But how came it in the chimney?" asked the workman.
"He put it in the flue of the fireplace, and it tumbled down."
"What did he put it in there for?"
"Because there was no closet in the room, and he was a very queer
fellow. He is dead now."
"What are you going to do with the book, then?"
"Send it to his friends, if I can find where they are."
Leopold carried the diary to his room, in a part of the house which was
not to be disturbed, and locked it up in his chest. He wanted to read
the portion which related to the wreck of the Waldo, and the burying of
the money, if such an event had occurred, of which he had some grave
doubts. But he could not stop then, for he was doing a man's work for
his father, and his conscience would not allow him to waste his time.
The mason asked more questions when Leopold returned to his work, and
they were answered as definitely as the circumstances would permit. The
young man examined the construction of the chimney, and found another
flue besides that of the Franklin stove, into which the diary had
