"It's all about the pictures. Mr. Darol sold some designs for me, and I
wanted Granny to have the money; but I never dreamed that she had been
sick. And did you miss me much? I never told Mr. Darol about it until
yesterday. I suppose it wasn't right. And oh! Granny, I'm sorry if I've
given you the least mite of pain; but all the time I've been as happy
as Joe's big sunflower."
"We shall set Granny crazy," said thoughtful Hal.
"Oh, my dinner!" and Dot flew to the stove-oven like the "moon-eyed
herald of dismay."
There was no damage done. The chickens were browned to a turn. She took
them out on a dish, and made her gravy, and then Hal came to help with
the vegetables. Potatoes, onions, carrots stewed with milk dressing,
cranberry sauce, celery,--altogether a fit repast for anybody's
Christmas dinner.
"If Granny could only come?"
"I've been thinking that we might take her up a little while at
dessert. She asked to sit up before Charlie came. What a day of
excitement!"
"O Hal! it's all lovely. And I can't help thinking how good God was
not to let her die in the night, when we were to have such a happy
day. He saw it, with the angels keeping Christmas around him; didn't
he, Hal?" said little Dot.
"Yes, my darling."
"And I'm so full of joy! I can't help crying every other minute! And to
think of that magnificent Charlie earning fifty dollars!"
Hal went to summon the "children," and explain to Granny, that if she
would be very quiet, and take a good rest, she might get up when the
dessert was brought on. The old woebegone look had vanished from her
face, and the faded eyes held in their depths a tender brightness.
She assented rather unwillingly to the proposal, for she could hardly
bear them out of her sight an instant. Hal closed the door between, but
she begged him to open it again.
"I'd like to hear you talk. I'll lie still, and never say a word."
A happy group they were, gathered round the table. Dot was perched up
at the head, and Hal took the opposite end, to do the carving. They
had time, then, to look round and see how pretty Charlie was growing.
The contact with refinement, and, in a certain sense, society, had
improved her very much. If any thing, she had grown still farther out
of the Wilcox sphere.
Then she had to tell her story.
"You really don't mean Mary Jane Wilcox?" interrupted Joe. "Why, we
used to go to school together!"
"I never thought of them," said Hal, "when I was considering where
I could write. Then Granny was taken sick, and the bad news about
Joe,--and somehow I had a fancy that you were safe."
"Mrs. Wilcox has been like a mother. She is good, and I do like her;
but, somehow, she is not our kind, after all. But oh, if you could only
see Mr. Darol! I am going to stay a whole week, and he is coming out
here. I told them all about you, Hal."
Hal colored a little.
"I'm glad I went, and made a beginning. There is ever so much hard
work before me; but it is what I like. I am actually studying wood
engraving. And Miss Charteris found me some work to do in my leisure
time. She is as lovely as she can be, and a real artist. Think of her
getting five hundred dollars for a picture!"
"And if you should ever do that!" said Kit admiringly.
"No: I haven't that kind of genius. But they all do say that my talent
for designing is remarkable; and I shall be able to earn a good deal of
money, even if I do not get as much at one time. I'm so glad, and so
thankful!"
They all looked at brave Charlie; and, somehow, it didn't seem as if
she were the little harum-scarum, who never had a whole dress for six
consecutive hours, who ran around bare-headed and bare-footed, and was
the tint of a copper-colored Indian. Why, she was almost as elegant as
Flossy, but with a nobler grace. There was nothing weak about her. You
felt that she would make a good fight to the end, and never go astray
in paths of meanness, deceit, or petty pride.
Then they had to tell what had happened to them. She had all the
rejoicing over Joe, without any of the pain and anguish. For, now that
he was here, she could not imagine the bitter tears which had been the
portion of the household.
How gay they were! There was no china on the table, no silver forks, no
cut-glass goblets; but the dinner was none the less enjoyable. There
never were such roasted chickens, nor such cranberry sauce, nor such
celery! And certainly never such glad and loving hearts. The sorrows
and successes drew them the more closely together.
What if Granny had let them stray off years ago, to forget and grow
cold! Ah! she had her reward now. Every year after this it would pour
in a golden harvest.
"We will have our dessert in style," said Hal.
"Kit, please help take off the dishes, for I know Dot must be tired."
"I will too," responded Charlie promptly.
They gathered up the fragments, and carried them in the pantry, took
away the dishes, brushed off the cloth, and then came the crowning
glories. First, two beautiful bouquets, with a setting of crisp,
fragrant geranium leaves; then a dish of apples, rosy-cheeked and
tempting.
"It is fortunate that I made a good large pie," said Dot with much
complacency.
Hal bundled Granny in a shawl; but, before he could help her out of
bed, Joe's strong arms had borne her to the kitchen. Hal brought the
rocking-chair, and they made her comfortable with pillows.
They all, I think, saw a strange beauty in her on this Christmas Day.
The little silvery curls,--they always would curl; the pale, wrinkled
face; the faded eyes, with their youth and glory a thing of the past;
the feeble, cracked voice; the trembling hands,--all beautiful in their
sight. For the hands had toiled, the voice had comforted, the lips had
kissed away pains and griefs. Every furrow in the face was sacred. What
watching and anxiety and unfaltering labor they bespoke!
Dot poured her a cup of tea: then she proceeded to cut the pie.
"Dot, you are a royal cook!" exclaimed Joe. "We have discovered your
special genius."
It was very delightful. Granny had a little slice, and added her
praises to the rest so lavishly bestowed.
"There never was but one such Christmas. If I were a boy, I should
pronounce it 'red-hot,'" laughed Joe. "I'm almost sorry to outgrow the
boyish tricks and slang."
"And you can't cool it," appended Kit, with a melancholy shake of the
head.
"If there was one face more," began Granny slowly.
Yes, just one was needed to complete the group.
The sun stole softly out of the window. The happy day was drawing to a
close. Would life, too, draw to a close without her?
"Hark!" exclaimed Dot.
For the merry jingle of sleigh-bells ceased suddenly. Was it some
unwelcome guest to break in upon the sanctity of their twilight hour?
A knock at the door. Charlie, being the nearest, opened it. A lady
dressed in deep mourning, and a tall, fine-looking gentleman. She
certainly had never seen either of them before.
The veil was raised. Oh, that face, with all its fairness and beauty;
the golden hair, the lustrous eyes! They all knew then.
"O Granny, Granny!" and Florence was kneeling at her grandmother's
feet, kissing the wasted hands, her sad, pathetic voice broken with
sobs. "I had to come: I couldn't stay away. I've been selfish and
ungrateful, and God has punished me sorely. And, when I turned to
him in my sorrow, he brought before me all my neglect, my pride, my
cruelty. O Granny! can it be forgiven?"
"There's nothing to forgive, child."
She kissed the sweet, wet face. At that moment she forgot every thing
save that this darling had come back.
"Yes, there is so much, so much! You don't know. For, after I was
married, I might have come. Edmund was tender and noble. This is my
husband, Mr. Darol."
She rose as she uttered this, and made a gesture with her outstretched
hand. Mr. Darol bowed.
"This is my dear grandmother Edmund; and these are my brothers and
sisters. It is so long since I have seen any of you, that you seem
strangers to me."
There was a peculiar silence in the room.
"Oh!" with a low, imploring cry,--"have you no welcome for me? Have I
forfeited all regard, all remembrance?"
Hal came round to her side; but she was so stately and beautiful, that
he felt almost awed.
"It is Hal, I know. Oh! take me back in your midst: for only yesterday
I buried my little baby; and I know now the sense of loss that I
entailed upon you."
They all crowded round her then. Not one had forgotten darling Flossy.
Kisses and fond clasps. They were so glad to take her into their circle.
"This is Joe," she said, "and Kit, and Dot. O Charlie! to see you all
once more! and to have you all alive! For I have been haunted with
a terrible fear lest some of you might have fallen out of the old
home-chain. Not a break, thank God!"
Then she brought them to her husband. Oh, how wild she had been when
she fancied that she might be ashamed of them!--this group of brave,
loving faces, full of the essential elements of nobility.
Ah, Florence, if you had known all their deeds of simple heroism!
Charlie helped her take off her wrappings. She had not changed greatly,
except to grow older and more womanly.
"Granny has been ill!" she exclaimed in quick alarm.
"Yes, nearly all winter. But she is better now. O Flossy, I am so glad
you came to-day!" and Hal's soft eyes swam in tears.
"It was Christmas. I could not help thinking of the dear old Christmas
when we were all together. O Hal! if you could know all my shame and
sorrow!"
"Joe," said Granny feebly, "will you take me back to bed? I'm tired
again. I'm a poor old body at the best. Then you can come and sit round
me."
"Shall I send the driver away?" asked Mr. Darol of Florence.
"Yes: I can't leave them to-night. You will not mind?"--
She glanced around as she uttered this, as if apologizing for the poor
accommodations.
"No, I shall not mind," in a grave tone.
Granny was carried to bed again. Hal shook up the pillow, and
straightened the spreads. Joe laid her in tenderly, saying, as he
kissed her,--
"You have us all home again in the old shoe!"
The room was neat and orderly; poor, to be sure, but with a cheerful
air. Hal brought in the flowers, and Kit some chairs, and they made
quite a party.
"But think of the dishes!" whispered housewifely Dot. "And not a clean
one for morning, we've used so many. But, oh! wasn't it elegant? And
Florence is a real lady!"
"We had better slip out, and look after our household gods," Hal
murmured in return.
Before they were fairly in the business, Charlie joined them.
"Let me help too," she said. "I don't hate to wash dishes quite as much
as I used; and I am so happy to-night that I could do almost any thing!"
They were a practical exemplification of the old adage. Many hands did
make light work. In a little while they had their house in order.
"But what a family!" exclaimed Dot. "Where are we to put them all?"
"I've been thinking. Florence and her husband can have my room, and we
will make a bed for Kit and Joe in the flower-room. They won't mind it,
I guess."
"Dot can sleep with Granny, and I can curl up in any corner for
to-night," said Charlie.
"Hal never had a wink of sleep last night. We talked and sang Christmas
hymns, and Granny thought that she would not live."
Charlie gave a sad sigh.
"You are angels, both of you," she answered. "And when Mr. Darol
comes,--oh! isn't it funny that Florence's husband should have the same
name? I wonder"--
Charlie was off into a brown study.
"Oh!" she exclaimed, "isn't it odd? Florence's name is Darol,
and there is my Mr. Darol. Why, I do believe they look something
alike,--Flossie's husband, I mean."
To which rather incoherent statement no one was able to reply.
"Perhaps we had better put my room in order," suggested Hal, returning
to the prose of housekeeping.
Dot found some clean sheets and pillow-cases. Charlie followed them,
and assisted a little. The bed was freshly made, a clean napkin spread
over the worn washstand, towels as white as snow, and every thing
neat, if not elegant.
"Though, of course, it will look very common to Flossy," said Dot with
a sigh. "I feel almost afraid of her, she is so grand."
"But she isn't a bit better than we are," returned Charlie stoutly. "I
think Hal is really the noblest of the lot, and the most unfortunate.
But I told Mr. Darol all about the green-house, Hal!"
Hal colored. Charlie was a warm and courageous champion.
Then they went down stairs. Florence still sat at the head of Granny's
bed, and had been crying. Hal remembered his hard thoughts of Flossy
the night before with a pang of regret; for, though they had been poor
and burdened with cares, death had not come nigh them, but had taken
Florence's first-born in the midst of her wealth and ease.
Charlie went round to them. "Florence," she began a little timidly, "do
you live in New York?"
"Yes."
"I've been there since the last of August."
"You?" returned Florence in surprise. "What are you doing?"
"Studying at the School of Design."
"Why, Charlie! how could you get there?"
"It was very strange. I almost wonder now if it really did happen to
me. You see, I worked in the mill, and saved up some money; and then
I went to New York. You remember Mrs. Wilcox, don't you? I've been
boarding there. And, while I was trying to find out what I must do, I
met a Mr. Paul Darol, who is a perfect prince"--
"O Florence! we have heard all this story," interrupted Mr. Darol. "It
is the little girl for whom Uncle Paul sold the designs. She wanted
some money to take home, you know. He never mentioned the name."
"Then he is your uncle," said Charlie, quite overwhelmed at her
success.
"Yes; and you are a brave girl, a genius too. Florence, I'm proud
enough of this little sister. Why didn't Uncle Paul think,--but you
don't look a bit alike."
And this was Charlie! Here were the brothers and sisters of whom she
had felt secretly ashamed! Joe, the dear, noble fellow; Hal, tender
and devoted; heroic Charlie; ambitious Kit; and fond little Dot. Oh!
instead, she was the one for whom they needed to blush,--her own
selfish, unworthy soul, that had stood aloof the past year, when she
might have come to their assistance. How it humbled her! She even
shrank away from her husband's eyes.
"I think Granny is growing weary," Hal said presently, glancing at the
pallid cheek. "She has had a great deal of excitement to-day; and now,
if you will come up stairs and look at my flowers, we can let her have
a little rest."
They all agreed to the proposal.
So Hal gave her a composing draught; and, though Joe was fain to stay,
Granny sent him away with the others. They had all been so good, that
she, surely, must not be selfish; and, truth to tell, a little quiet
would not come amiss.
For, happy dream! she had lived to see them all come back. What more
could she ask? That she might recover her health, and feast on their
smiles and joyousness; and she prayed humbly to God that it might be
so, in his great mercy.
CHAPTER XX.
  WHEREIN THE OLD SHOE BECOMES CROWDED.
They trooped up the narrow stairs. Why, the old loom-room looked like a
palace! Hal had made some very pretty brackets out of pine, and stained
them; and they were ranged round the wall, upholding a pot of flowers
or trailing vines, and two or three little plaster casts. Here were
some bookshelves, the table surmounted by a very passable writing-desk,
Hal's construction also. But the flowers were a marvel.
"Hal's dream was a green-house," exclaimed Florence. "But I don't see
how you found time for it all"--
"It has been profit as well as pleasure," said Hal with a little
pride. "Last winter I sold a quantity of flowers, and, in the spring,
bedding-plants and garden vegetables."
"Oh!" returned Florence, choking back the sobs, "do you remember one
summer day, long, long ago, when we all told over what we would like to
have happen to us? And it has all come about."
"Even to my fiddle," said Kit.
"And my running away," appended Charlie with great satisfaction.
Hal brought in some chairs.
"We're going to sit in the corner on the floor," said Charlie; and the
three younger ones ranged themselves in a small group.
Florence and her husband walked round to view the flowers, guided by
Joe.
"You appear to have wonderful success," remarked Mr. Darol. "These
tuberoses are very fine."
"They were frosted about ten days ago, and have hardly recovered. That
is, I lost most of my blossoms."
"Oh, what a pity!"
"And all our Christmas money," said Dot softly.
"No matter," returned Charlie. "You can have all of mine. I meant every
penny of it for Granny."
"And now I want to hear what you have been doing all these years. I
know it was my own act that shut me out of your joys and sorrows; but
if you will take me back"--and the voice was choked with tears.
Hal pressed the soft hand.
"You will find Edmund a brother to you all," she went on. "It is my
shame, that after my marriage, knowing that I could come any time, I
hesitated to take the step."
"It is a poor old house," exclaimed Hal tremulously.
"But holds more love and heroism than many grander mansions," Mr. Darol
said in his deep, manly tone. "Florence is right: I should like to be
a brother to you all. I honored Charlie before I fancied that I should
ever have a dearer claim."
"And I've been a sort of black sheep," returned Charlie frankly. "Hal
and Joe are the heroes in this family."
"It is so wonderful to have Joe safe!"
"And to think how sad we were last night," Dot began. "We did not
expect any one to help us keep Christmas but Kit."
"O Dot! tell me all about it," said Charlie eagerly. "I do like to hear
it so. And how Joe came home."
Dot was a little shy at first; but presently she commenced at Hal's
losing the school, Granny's sickness, Joe's shipwreck, the trouble and
sorrow that followed in succession, the misfortune of the flowers, and
then she came to the night when Granny wanted to die and go to heaven.
Only last night; but oh, how far off it appeared! She told it very
simply, but with such unconscious pathos that they were all crying
softly Florence leaned her head on her husband's shoulder, hiding her
face.
"And I never knew a word of it!" exclaimed Charlie with the quiver of
tears in her voice. "I didn't want to tell you about my going, for fear
you'd worry over me, or, if I should be disappointed, you would feel
it all the more keenly. But I never thought any thing sad could happen
to you."
"I should like to hear the first part of Charlie's adventures," said
Mr. Darol. "How did she come to know that she had a genius?"
"She used to be punished enough in school for drawing comical faces,"
answered Joe. "Little did Mr. Fielder think that you would make an
artist!"
"But I planned then to run away and live in the woods. I believe I once
took you off, Kit."
"Yes; and we were threatened with the jail, weren't we, because we made
a fire. But how you did talk, Charlie! You were always splendid on the
fighting side."
"I was made to go right straight ahead," said Charlie. "And, if I had
been afraid, I should never have done any thing."
"And we want to hear how you did it," pursued Mr. Darol.
So Charlie related her trials and perplexities, her fruitless journeys,
and her vain endeavors, until she met Mr. Paul Darol, who seemed to
understand just what she wanted.
"I don't see how you had the courage," Florence remarked. "And if I'd
only known you were there, Charlie!"
Charlie shrugged her shoulders. Now that the fight had been made,
and terminated successfully, she was rather glad to have gone into it
single-handed: not from any vanity, but a kind of sturdy independence
that had always characterized Charlie Kenneth.
And then they rambled farther back, to the time of Hal's sad accident.
Perhaps the most truly noble thing about them was their fearlessness
and honesty. They were not ashamed of the poverty and struggle: there
was no petty deceit or small shams to cover the truth.
Ah, what heroic lives they had all been, in a simple way! For it is not
only in great matters that men and women must fight: it is the truth
and endurance and perseverance which they bring into every-day events
that moulds character. Not a poor, false, or useless soul among them,
unless it was hers, Florence thought.
Hal stole down a time or two to see Granny, who had fallen into a
peaceful sleep. And presently the old clock struck ten. Dot and Kit
were nodding.
"I am going to put you in our old room," Hal said to Florence. "It is
the best I can do."
"No: let me sit up and watch with Granny."
"That is not at all necessary. Last night she was nervous. I fancy she
was haunted by a dim impression of impending change, and thought it
must mean death. Instead, it was the dearest of joys."
"O Hal! I don't feel worthy to come among you. Not simply because I
chose to go away, to have luxury and ease and idleness, while you
were in want and sorrow; for in those old days I thought only of
myself. But, a few months after I was married, Mrs. Osgood died, and
I was quite free to choose. Don't shrink away from me Hal, though the
cowardice has in it so much of vile ingratitude. I had not the courage
to be true to my secret longings. She had filled my weak soul with her
beliefs; and I persuaded myself that my debt to her was greater than
that to my own kindred."
"O Florence, hush! let it all go, since you have come back," pleaded
unselfish Hal.
"And then my precious baby came. Hardly four months ago. He had your
tender eyes, Hal; and they used to reproach me daily. But I made a
hundred excuses and delays. And then God took him, to let me feel what
a wrench the soul endures when its cherished ones are removed. All
these years I have been like one dead to you, without the sweet comfort
of those who know their treasures are safe in heaven. When we came back
from his grave yesterday, I told Edmund my deeper shame and anguish,
my disloyalty to those who had the first claim. And if any of you had
been dead, if I could never have won Granny's forgiveness, ah, how
heavy my burden would have proved!"
"But we all consented to your going," Hal said, longing to comfort her.
"Because you knew how weak and foolish I was, with my sinfully
ambitious longings. And oh, if my husband had been less noble!"
"You shall not so blame yourself on this blessed Christmas night. Is
there not to be peace on earth, and tenderness and good will for all?
And it seems as if you never could have come back at a more precious
moment."
Hal, foolish boy, cried a little in her arms. It was so sweet to have
her here.
After a while the children were all disposed of. Hal apologized to Joe
for the rather close and fragrant quarters.
"Don't worry, old comrade. When you've slept on a whale's backbone, or
a couple of inches of tarred rope, you take any thing cheerfully, from
a hammock to a bed of eider down."
Kit cuddled in his arms. Dear old Joe was the best and bravest of
heroes to him.
Hal threw himself on the lounge, covered with shawls and overcoats, for
the bedclothes were insufficient to go around. He laughed softly to
himself. Such a houseful as this the "Old Shoe" had never known before.
What was poverty and trouble now? A kind of ghostly phantom, that
vanished when one came near it. Why, he had never felt so rich in all
his life!
Granny was none the worse the next morning for her excitement. Dot
bathed her face, combed out the tiny silver curls, and put on a
fresh wrapper. Charlie helped get breakfast, though she was not as
deft-handed as Dot. The two tables were set again; and, when they
brought Granny out, she was more than proud of her family.
That seemed to be a gala-day for all Madison. When the news was once
started, it spread like wild-fire. Joe Kenneth wasn't drowned after
all, but had come back safe, a great, tall, handsome fellow. Florence
had returned with her fine-looking husband; and wild, queer Charlie had
actually been transformed into the family beauty.
"There never was a finer set of children in Madison," said Mr. Terry,
clearing his voice of a little huskiness. "And to think they're Joe
Kenneth's poor orphans! I tell you what! Granny Kenneth has been one
woman out of a thousand. Didn't everybody say she had better let the
youngsters go to the poor-house. And now they're a credit to the town.
Think of Joe being praised in the papers as he was! That went to my
heart,--his giving up a chance for life to some one else. He's a brave
fellow, and handsome as a picture. There isn't a girl but would jump
at the chance of marrying him. He will be a captain before he is five
years older, mark my words."
Dr. Meade was brimful of joy also. He kissed Charlie, and laughed at
her for running away, and was much astonished to find how fortunate she
had been But Joe was everybody's idol.
"I think some of you ought to be spared," exclaimed the good doctor.
"I don't see where you were all stowed last night. I have two or three
rooms at your service; and, indeed, am quite willing to take you all
in. But, anyhow, Kit and Joe might come for lodgings."
"We put them in the flower-room," said Charlie.
"Which accounts for their blooming appearance, I suppose;" and the
doctor pinched Charlie's ear.
Between themselves, they had endless talks. It seemed as if all the
stories would never get told. And, strangely enough, they came to pity
poor Flossy, who, among them all, had the only lasting sorrow.
Charlie took to Mr. Darol at once; and before the day ended they were
all fast friends.
"I think yours is a most remarkable family," he said to Florence.
"There is not one of the children but what you might be proud of
anywhere."
"I am so glad you can love them!" and the grateful tears were in her
eyes.
"And, when we return home, it seems as if we ought to take Charlie.
There she will have just the position she needs."
"O Edmund! I don't deserve that you should be so good to me. I was
longing to ask it. But I have been so weak and foolish!"
"My darling, that is past. I will say now, that my only misgiving about
you has been the apparent forgetfulness of old family ties. But I knew
you were young when you left your home, and that Mrs. Osgood insisted
upon this course; besides, I never could tell how worthy they were of
fond remembrance."
"And did not dream that I could be so basely ungrateful!" she answered
in deepest shame. "I abhor myself: I have forfeited your respect."
"Hush, dear! Let it all be buried in our child's grave. Perhaps his
death was the one needful lesson. And now that we have found them all,
we must try to make amends."
Florence sobbed her deep regret, nestling closely to his heart.
"Your brother Hal interests me so much! It seems that he will always
feel the result of his accident in some degree, on account of a
strained tendon. He has such a passionate love for flowers, and the
utmost skill in their care and culture. But he ought to have a wider
field for operations."
"Oh!" she said, "if we could help him. Charlie has worked her way so
energetically, that she only needs counsel and guidance. Kit and Dot
are still so young!"
"I don't wonder Uncle Paul was attracted. There is something very
bright and winsome about Charlie. I had to laugh at her naïve
confession of being a black sheep."
"She used to be so boyish and boisterous! not half as gentle as dear
Hal."
"But it seems to be toned down to a very becoming piquancy;" and he
smiled.
"How very odd that she should have met your uncle!" Florence said
musingly. "How surprised he will be!"
Dr. Meade came over again that evening, and insisted upon the boys
accepting his hospitality; so Joe and Kit were packed into the sleigh,
and treated sumptuously.
Granny continued to improve, and could sit up for quite a while. She
enjoyed having them all around her so much! It was like the old time,
when the gay voices made the house glad.
And so the days passed, busy, and absolutely merry.
Charlie and Florence helped cook, and Joe insisted upon showing
how he could wash dishes. On Sunday they all went to church except
Dot,--Granny would have it so.
On Monday Mr. Darol came. Charlie had given him very explicit
directions, but she was hardly expecting him so soon. Sitting by the
window she saw him coming down the street in a thoughtful manner, as if
he were noting the landmarks.
"O Mr. Darol!" and she sprang to the door, nearly overturning Dot.
"Yes: you see I have been as good as my word. How bright you look! So
there was nothing amiss at home?"
"Indeed there was! but, in spite of it, we have all been so happy! For
everybody came home at Christmas, even Joe, whom they thought drowned.
This is my little sister Dot. And oh, this is my brother Hal!"
Mr. Darol clasped the hand of one, and gave the other a friendly pat on
the soft golden hair.
"I dare say Charlie has told you all about me: if she has not she is a
naughty girl. Why"--
For in the adjoining room sat Florence, close to Granny's chair. No
wonder he was amazed.
"That's Florence, and you've seen her before. And Mr. Edmund Darol is
here," went on Charlie in a graciously explanatory manner.
"They are my brothers and sisters," said Florence with a scarlet flush.
He looked at her in deep perplexity.
"Mrs. Osgood adopted Florence," Charlie interposed again. "It was all
her fault; for she would not allow the relation to be kept up, and"--
"This is your grandmother?" he interrupted almost sharply, feeling
unconsciously bitter against Florence.
"This is dear Granny."
He took the wrinkled hand, not much larger than a child's, for all it
had labored so long and faithfully.
"Mrs. Kenneth," he said, "I am proud to make your acquaintance. One
such child as Charlie would be glory enough."
Charlie fairly danced with delight to see Granny so honored in her old
days. And as for the poor woman, she was prouder than a queen.
"You've been so good to her!" she murmured tremulously, nodding her
head at Charlie.
"She is a brave girl, even if she did run away. I have used my best
efforts to make her sorry for it."
"But oh! Mr. Darol, the work was all undone as soon as I came home.
For when I found them sick, and full of trouble, it seemed so good to
be able to take care of myself, that I think running away the most
fortunate step of my whole life."
"I am afraid that we shall never bring you to a proper state of
penitence;" and he laughed.
"You were so good to her!" said Granny again, as if she had nothing but
gratitude in her soul.
"It was a great pleasure to me. But I never dreamed that I had made the
acquaintance of one of your family before."
"He will never like me so well again," thought Florence; "but that is
part of my punishment. I have been full of pride and cowardice."
Mr. Darol made himself at home in a very few moments, for he was
interested beyond measure.
"It is a poor place," ruminated Charlie, glancing round; "but we
cannot help it, I'm sure. All of us have done our best."
Then she dismissed the subject with her usual happy faculty, and became
wonderfully entertaining; so much so, indeed, that, when Mr. Darol
glanced at his watch, he said,--
"In about half an hour my train goes down to the city. I have not
said half that I wanted to. I have not seen your brother Joe, nor the
hot-house; and what am I to do?"
"Stay," replied Charlie; and then she colored vividly. "Our house is so
small that it will not hold any more; but Dr. Meade has already taken
in Kit and Joe, and he is just splendid!"
Mr. Darol laughed.
"Are there any hotel accommodations?"
"Oh, yes! at the station."
"Then I think I will remain; for my visit isn't half
finished, and I am not satisfied to end it here."
Charlie was delighted.
After that they went up to the flower-room. It seemed to improve every
day, and was quite a nest of sweets.
"So Miss Charlie hasn't all the family genius," said Mr. Darol. "It is
not every one who can make flowers grow under difficulties."
"They were nipped a little about the middle of the month. One night my
fire went out."
"And it blighted the flowers he meant to cut in a few days," explained
Charlie, "so that at first there did not seem a prospect of a very
merry Christmas."
And Charlie slipped her hand within Mr. Darol's, continuing, in a
whisper, "I can never tell you how glad I was to have the money. It was
like the good fortune in a fairy story."
He looked at the beaming, blushing face with its dewy eyes. Ah! he
little guessed, the day he first inspected Charlie Kenneth's drawings,
that all this pleasure was to arise from a deed of almost Quixotic
kindness.
Yet he wondered more than ever how she had dared to undertake such a
quest. Strangely courageous, earnest, and simple-hearted, with the
faith of a child, and the underlying strength of a woman,--it seemed as
if there might be a brilliant and successful future before her.
And this delicate brother with a shadow in his eyes like the drifts
floating over an April sky,--he, too, needed a friend to give him a
helping hand. Who could do it better than he, whose dearest ones were
sleeping in quiet, far-off graves?
CHAPTER XXI.
  HOW THE DREAMS CAME TRUE.
Charlie insisted upon Mr. Darol remaining to supper; and he was nothing
loth.
"Dear me!" exclaimed Dot, "we shall have to echo the crow's suggestive
query,--
    'The old one said unto his mate,
    "What shall we do for food to ate?"'"
"Make some biscuit or a Johnny-cake," said Charlie, fertile in
expedients. "Dot, I've just discovered the bent of your budding mind."
"What?" asked the child, tying on a large apron.
"Keeping a hotel. Why, it's been elegant for almost a week!--a perfect
crowd, and not a silver fork or a goblet, or a bit of china; rag-carpet
on the floor, and a bed in the best room. Nothing but happiness inside
and out! Even the ravens haven't cried. You see, it isn't money, but a
contented mind, a kitchen apron, a saucepan, and a genius for cooking."
"But you must have something to cook," was Dot's sage comment.
"True, my dear. Words of priceless wisdom fall from your young
lips,--diamonds and pearls actually! Now, if you will tell me what to
put in a cake"--
"A pinch of this, and a pinch of that," laughed Dot. "I am afraid to
trust your unskilful hands; so you may wait upon me. Open the draught,
and stir the fire: then you may bring me the soda and the sour milk,
and beat the eggs--oh, there in the basket!"
"Dot, my small darling, spare me! I am in a hopeless confusion.
Your brain must be full of shelves and boxes where every article is
labelled. One thing at a time."
"The fire first, then."
Dot sifted her flour, and went to work. Charlie sang a droll little
song for her, and then set the table. Their supper was a decided
success. Edmund came in, and was delighted to see his uncle. There was
hero Joe, gay as a sky-full of larks. It didn't seem as if any of them
had ever known trouble or sorrow. Even Granny gave her old chirruping
laugh.
The next day they had some serious talks. Hal and Mr. Darol slipped
into a pleasant confidence.
"I've been thinking over your affairs with a good deal of interest,"
he said. "It seems to me that you need a larger field for profitable
operations. I should not think Madison quite the place for a brilliant
success. You need to be in the vicinity of a large city. And, since
three of the others will be in New York principally, it certainly
would be better for you. Would your grandmother object to moving?"
"I don't know," Hal answered thoughtfully.
"Floriculture is becoming an excellent business. Since you have such a
decided taste for it, you can hardly fail. I should recommend Brooklyn,
Jersey City, or Harlem. Besides the flowers, there is a great demand
for bedding-plants. You haven't any other fancy?" and he studied Hal's
face intently.
Hal's lip quivered a moment. "It was my first dream, and I guess the
best thing that I can do. I could not endure hard study, or any thing
like that. Yes, I have decided it."
"I wish you would make me a visit very soon, and we could look around,
and consider what step would be best. You must forgive me for taking a
fatherly interest in you all. I love young people so much!"
Hal's eyes sparkled with delight. He did not wonder that Charlie had
told her story so fearlessly to him.
"You are most kind. I don't know how to thank you."
"You can do that when you are successful;" and he laughed cordially.
They had all taken Flossy's husband into favor, and their regard was
fully returned by him. Indeed, they appeared to him a most marvellous
little flock. As for Florence, the awe and strangeness with which she
had first impressed them was fast wearing off. As her better soul
came to light, she seemed to grow nearer to them, as if the years of
absence were being bridged over. Fastidious she would always be in some
respects, but never weakly foolish again. She had come to understand
a few of the nobler truths of life, learned through suffering,--that
there was a higher enjoyment than that of the senses, or the mere
outward uses of beauty.
They all appreciated the manner in which she made herself at home. They
gave her the best they had, to be sure; and she never pained them by
any thoughtless allusion to her luxuries. She had not lost her old art
with the needle, and Dot's dresses were renovated in such a manner that
she hardly knew them.
Granny would never allow her to regret her going with Mrs. Osgood.
"It was all right," she would say cheerfully. "The good Lord knew what
was best. I don't mind any of it now,--the losses and crosses, the
sorrows and sicknesses, and all the hard work. Your poor father would
be glad if he could see you, and I've kept my promise to him. So don't
cry, dearie. If you hadn't gone away, I shouldn't 'a' known how sweet
it was to have you come back."
Florence and Mr. Darol made their preparations to return. They decided
to take Charlie back with them, and install her in her new home; though
Charlie did not exactly like the prospect of having her visit abridged.
"I meant to stay all this week," she said decisively. "I cannot have
another vacation until next summer."
"But you will go back with me to my sad house, and help me to forget
my baby's dead face," Florence returned beseechingly. "O Charlie! I do
mean to be a true and fond sister to you if you will let me."
So Charlie consented; though she would much rather have staid, and had
a "good time" with Dot and Hal.
"If Florence was not here, I should like to perch myself on a
chair-back, and whistle 'Hail Columbia' to all the world. Dear old
shoe! What sights of fun we have had in it! I am rather sorry that I'll
soon be a woman. Oh, dear! You always do have some trouble, don't
you?"
"Charlie, Charlie!" and Dot shook her small forefinger.
Joe was going too. "But I shall be back in a few days," he said to
Granny.
"O Joe! if you wouldn't go to sea any more,--and when you've been
a'most drowned"--
"O Granny! best mother in the world, do not feel troubled about me. We
are a family of geniuses, and I am the duckling that can't stay brooded
under mother-wings. It's my one love, and I should be a miserable fish
if you kept me on dry land. I have been offered a nice position to go
to Charleston; and as I am not rich, and have not the gout, I can't
afford to retire on a crust. But you'll see me every little while; and
you'll be proud enough of me when I get to be a captain."
Granny felt that she could not be any prouder of him if he was a king.
There was a great thinning-out again. Kit bemoaned the lonesomeness of
the place; but Dot's housewifely soul was comforted with the hope of a
good clearing-up time.
In two days Joe returned.
"Florence is as elegant as a queen," he reported; "not the grandest or
richest, but every thing in lovely style. Charlie went wild over the
pictures. And there are great mirrors, and marble statues, and carpets
as soft as spring-hillsides. You never imagined, Granny, that one of us
would attain to such magnificence, did you?"
Granny listened in wide-eyed wonder, and bobbed her little curls.
"And Darol's a splendid fellow! Flossy always did have the luck!"
