fields, of the stacked corn, the apples and pears 
and grapes. And the leaves all aglow, the chest- 
nuts full of yellow burrs. You ought to come 
then, Mr. Ogden!" 
"I believe I will. Can we all go nutting? 
That is after the frosts, though." 
"Yes, late in October." 
"Oh, look!" 
We had been going on for a few moments, 
now we paused again. It was so all the way 
up. Something to see and to feel, to pause and 
 
drink in with all one's soul. Here a rock sculp- 
tured and set as if by an artist hand. Richest 
moss, great, feathery fronds, pellucid waters, 
breaks of sunshine, and haunts of deep gloom. 
Now we were serious, then we laughed gaily at 
some quick jest. It takes so little to amuse 
when one is young and happy. 
We passed the stream at length and went on 
to the mountain-top. What a fair outlying 
prospect ! There was the village below, the 
church spires, some tall factory chimneys, and 
beyond it all mountains again. I thought of 
the hills standing about Jerusalem, and the Lord 
everywhere, standing about his people. 
" O," exclaimed Fan at length, "we must go 
back, who will get our dinner ? ' 
" Who will eat it ? is a subject for our more 
serious consideration ; ' said Winthrop. 
"And if 
' When we get there 
The cupboard is bare ? ' 
"That would be a dire misfortune. By the 
time we reach the bottom again, we shall be as 
hungry as bears." 
"You might comfort yourself like the old man 
of Kilkenny." 
 
"How was that?' inquired Winthrop. 
Stuart's eyes twinkled with their fun-loving 
light as he began : 
" There was an old man of Kilkenny. 
Who never had more than a penny. 
He spent all that money in onions and honey, 
This wayward old man of Kilkenny." 
They all laughed heartily. We began our 
descent but were changed about somehow. Every 
body helped the one who came to hand. Now 
it was Dick, then Mr. Ogden or Stuart. We 
slipped and scrambled and uttered small shrieks, 
making the way very lively. 
"See here!' exclaimed Winthrop --" a wild 
rose and buds, I think them so especially beauti- 
ful. Who is queen of the May to be crowned ? 
"You are too late ;' laughed Fan, "May has 
gone." 
" Queen of Midsummer, then. Miss Endicott 
accept this late treasure. Let it blossom and 
wither on your heart- -sweets to the sweet." 
This was to Fan. Her blue eyes laughed 
saucily. 
"The sweet in both cases being about alike," 
she made answer. 
He gave it to her in a mock sentimental 
fashion just as his speech had been. She fast- 
 
ened it in the bosom of her dress, making a 
sweeping courtesy. 
A strange flash glowed over Dick FairnVs 
face. I do not think any one else observed it, 
but it sent my heart up to my throat in a 
moment. I understood with a kind of secret 
sense that it was both love and jealousy. Then 
I glanced at gay laughing Fan. Did she mis- 
trust ? 
I felt strangely, sadly wise, as if in five 
minutes I had grown years older. A thing like 
this coming into our very midst ! Well, among 
so many girls there would probably be one or 
two marriages, and who more likely than win- 
some, beguiling Fanny. 
In the valley they were at work. A fire had 
been kindled and a great tea kettle was swing- 
ing in the blaze. Baskets were being unpacked. 
Table cloths and dishes laid out, and everybody 
talked at once. 
"Rose," said papa, "I have been looking for 
you. Miss Old ways wants you to help with the 
table. Where are Daisy, Lil and Tim ? ' 
"Nelly promised to keep watch and ward to- 
day ; ' and with that I shook out my large 
white kitchen apron which nearly covered the 
skirt of my dress, and went to work in good 
earnest. 
"I suppose we do enjoy things better when 
we have to work for them,' said old Mrs. 
Granby. "We rush round helter skelter, get 
our puddings shaken up and our nice crisp pie- 
crust jammed and broken, and eat biscuits that 
have been spread for three hours, and a bite of 
cold meat, and after we have gone home to 
think it over it seems ever so much better than 
a great dinner." 
" The good-fellowship adds. I never go on a 
picnic bat I think of the Apostles having all 
things in common ; ' returned Miss Oldways. 
"Yes," said papa, "they gave of their time 
and interest, and love, as well. It was not 
merely a little money. They brought in the 
whole family and bestowed with the open-handed 
tenderness that blesses the giver as well." 
I heard snatches of their talk as I ran onward, 
and snatches of other talk. Here were sand- 
witches dripping with jelly, that had somehow 
been upturned in the basket. 
' Jelly is fashionable with meats," suggested 
some one. 
" There ! I haven't put in a single spoon. 
And I took the trouble to tie red threads 
around each handle, then left them on the dress- 
er. That was smart ! ' 
" we will' reverse the order of things and have' 
two creams with one spoon, the second to wait 
until the first is served." 
"Is every plate used? Let's count. All the 
elders must come first thirty, thirty-one, and 
the young girls wait on the table thirty-eight 
it is but fair that their mothers should have the 
best once in a while. Sixty-one ! Now ring the 
bell." 
They filled up the first table, putting a lit- 
tle child in here and there. The tea and coffee 
steamed out their appetizing fragrance, and as 
we had no vases, we placed mounds of fern, 
grasses and wild flowers on the table. Every 
body ate and drank and had a good time. The 
dishes were washed, wiped, and put on again, 
the children summoned, and after a while all 
had been feasted. Then there was a general 
clearing away, except at one end of the long 
table where the fragments were collected for 
those who might get hungry by and by. 
CHAPTER X 
the eating and drinking, the elders 
gathered for a sociable chat. It was as 
i?W good as old-fashioned country visiting. 
Modern calls seem to have carried away the 
charm of social intercourse. After you have 
staid five minutes you begin to think you must 
go. You cannot stop to tell this or that bit of 
pleasantness, or get near to each other. But 
there was no hurry here. Phases of religious 
experiences were compared in a homely way, 
mixed up with the turning of a gown, or buy- 
ing of a new carpet. With others grace and 
gardening went hand in hand. Such magnifi- 
cent clove pinks, great double lucious blossoms! 
blue salvias that were quite a rarity- -ivies, 
geraniums sick neighbors who enjoyed them 
odd enough snatches where one couldn't unc" 
stand, 
 
Well, is it not the true living after all? Is 
religion the sacred Sunday thing that must be 
laid by and not profaned by common every-day 
uses? Did anyone ever hear of it wearing out? 
When these people had exchanged thoughts on 
trials and mercies, faith that could see, and 
weak faith that stumbled, compared and com- 
forted each other, who shall say it was not as 
good as a sermon ? Why should we not help 
to lift each other up in our common needs? 
Great things come to very few, only. 
I lingered for quite a while, resting myself 
and answering questions about mamma, baby 
and Mr. Duncan. It was so dreamily pleasant. 
The sun high over head had found our little 
nook and was making it all alight with quiver- 
ing golden rays. Hill seemed to lapse into hill, 
tree interlaced with tree, nook, corner and ravine 
added their suggestive tender gloom. People 
came and went, groups of children rushed in and 
devoured plates of fragments. They played vari- 
ous games, and at last settled to a tremendous 
circle of Copenhagen. 
" Where is your sister? ' asked Winthrop, " I 
been hunting everywhere for her. Will 
not take a walk with me?" 
We had not gone very far before the bell 
rang. 
"The children are to sing their carols now. 
" I suppose you have heard them fifty times ? v 
" Fifty-one will not surfeit me. Besides, I 
must look after my class." 
" O, bother ! Look after me a little while. I 
am going back to the city on Saturday, and I 
shall not see you for ever so long. I actually 
envy that dolt of a Duncan who is sick at your 
house. I never met two girls that I liked so 
well. I don't see how there is any goodness 
left for the parish." 
He uttered all this in a rather cross, aggrieved 
tone which made it sound so comically I could 
not forbear laughing. 
. " O, you don't know I wonder if I might 
trust you with a secret ? ' 
He flushed to the roots of his hair. An un- 
comfortable chill went over me. 
" There are your Aunts ! ' I said, glad to be 
relieved from the sudden embarrassment. 
The carriage came up through the opening. 
Miss Lucy dressed in white and looking very 
sweet. Papa went to speak to them. 
The children were gathering from " near and 
from far." We teachers "counted noses," begged 
the groups not to disperse, ran hither and thith- 
er, and at last settled to the business before us. 
I was so glad that Miss Churchill and Miss 
Lucy had reached us in time for the singing. 
What if dresses were a little limp and stained 
and soiled, hats awry and curls blown in tangles, 
there were hosts of happy faces and lightsome, 
ringing voices. 
Papa generally wrote a childish hymn for 
special occasions and mamma arranged the mu- 
sic. They sang that, then several Easter 
Carols. 
Miss Lucy beckoned me toward her. 
"How delightful it is ! " she exclaimed. "And 
you've had a good time all day long. I wish 
I was a little girl! Oh, they are not going to 
stop? Please ask them to sing again. Would 
Christmas carols be out of place?' 
I mentioned it to papa who smiled in his sweet 
fashion and acquiesced. We had the "Kings of 
Orient," "Wonderful Night," and "Ring out 
merry bells for Christmas." How sweet those 
young voices sounded on the summer air ! I 
was really proud of the children. 
"Now," began papa after the last echoes had 
dropped from the tree-tops, " we must form a 
line for our homeward march. We have had a 
pleasant day and enjoyed ourselves to the utter- 
most. Let us thank God for this great blessing." 
They stood reverently until he dismissed them 
with the benediction. 
The wagons and carriages began to come in 
and were filled. Some chose to walk home and 
let others ride. Mr. Trafford started to form 
the ranks again. Fan came up and we paused 
to say a few words to the Churchills, then to 
Mrs. Ryder who declared that everything had 
been just delightful, and that she felt ten years 
younger. Dick was very grave, I remarked, 
and scarcely spoke. 
The very last of the line was Fan and Mr. 
Ogden. I gave them a quick glance but was 
hurried on by the throng behind me, and occu- 
pied with answering the childrens' questions. 
Yet I wondered a little what she had been about 
since dinner. 
We heard it all afterward, but it is fresher 
just as it happened to her. She and Jennie 
Ryder, and Annie and Chris Fellows went first 
to gather ferns and mosses. Of course some of 
the young men followed in their wake. When 
their basket had been filled they strolled off two 
and two, presently losing sight of each other. 
The day gave its touch of grace and romance to 
their lives. We all guessed that 'Mr. Hunter 
cared for Annie Fellows, and were not much 
surprised when we heard a little later, that they 
had "made up their minds' during the ramble. 
Fan and Dick strolled onward as well. Dick 
was unusually silent. 
"Shall we go back?' Fan asked softly by and 
by. 
" Go back !" and Dick looked surprised. " Not 
unless you are tired of me. ' 
He seemed so down-hearted that Fan had not 
the courage to confess even in her laughing way. 
"I am afraid you have not enjoyed yourself 
very well. But you have given a great pleasure 
to Mrs. Ryder --and Jennie could not have 
come without her. She has to stay at home so 
much." 
" She is a splendid girl," said Dick. 
"Indeed she is. Dick, I have a bright idea! 
Why couldn't we when the evenings are a little 
cooler, get up a surprise party for her ? It 
would be jolly." 
"Yes." 
"But you do not seem very much interested." 
"I am interested in anything you like. Only 
I was thinking ; ' and he paused to study her 
face. 
" How queer you are ! ' with an embarrassed 
laugh. 
"Am I? And you don't like queerness- -you 
don't like me?" 
Fan began to pull a fern leaf to pieces. It 
was an odd personal question, but it could not 
mean anything. Still her heart beat strangely, 
and her breath seemed to tangle as it came up. 
" You know I like you of course," in a sharp, 
saucy way, flinging out her curls. " And you 
are good and pleasant and clever. Don't I ask 
favors first of you ? ' 
"You never ask- -for yourself." 
" \Vhv, yes, it is because it pleases me.' 
"I wish I could do something for you, alone." 
He snapped off a dry twig and began to 
break it into bits. Then he kicked a stone out 
of the path, keeping his face away from her. 
She experienced a peculiar embarrassment. 
Where was the happy medium between warmth 
and coolness? She liked the brotherly friendship 
they had fallen into. Was it friendship really? 
"If I did want anything, I should not hes- 
itate to come to you." 
Then they walked on in uncomfortable silence. 
It was very awkward. In the new light coming 
to Fan, she felt there was something unsaid. 
Was it best to get over it as rapidly as possible, 
leave it behind ? 
"I think we must return. Papa may want 
me." 
He turned reluctantly. She quickened her 
pace at first. 
"Don't hurry. The day will come to an end 
soon enough. I should like it to last a week, 
at least." 
"What an odd idea. We only want pleasant 
days to last. 
"Isn't this pleasant to you?' 
"Why- -yes. All my days are pleasant for 
that matter. But I thought it was beginning 
to bore you." 
He did not answer for quite a while, then he 
seemed to go far away from the subject. 
" It's been nice for you at the Churchills." 
"Well yes. Though I don't want you to 
think I was pleased with the notice because 
they are rich." 
"I know that does not make any difference 
with you." 
"But then for that matter your father is rich, 
too. And there are only two children." 
"Yet I wish the home was like yours." 
" With seven girls ? You would have no comfort 
of your life if you were the only boy among 
them," and Fan laughed merrily. 
" I would not mind trying it. Or at least " 
"Be warned in time," and Fan shook her 
fore-finger threateningly. 
ct l can't,' he exclaimed, with a sudden ve- 
hemence in his tone. "Only I'd be contented 
with one. Fanny, couldn't you? I mean I 
love you ! ' 
It was all out then ! Fan stood still and white 
while lie was scarlet and trembling. Both were 
surprised witli a deep solemn awe, as if amazed 
to have reached such a point. 
" I didn't mean to tell you so soon. I had 
hardly put it into shape myself. But when I saw 
that Winthrop Ogden hanging round after you, 
I knew it all then just like a flash. And why 
shouldn't it be ? They have enough at home 
without you. And it would be so sweet! I 
should think of nothing but your happiness. I 
dreamed it all out on the porch last night, 
sitting alone with father." 
His eves and voice were alike imploring, and 
he had spoken so rapidly that it carried her 
right along. Now she put up her hand with a 
gesture of pain. 
"Oh, Dick, dear Dick, I am so sorry! I 
never thought of this ! ' 
"Well!" with a kind of manly assurance, 
"think of it now. I will be patient. We can 
ask your mother and see what she says." 
" Dick, I had better tell you just the truth. 
I am sorry there is any need to say it. I like 
you very much in the pleasant, sisterly fashion 
that has grown up between us. I do not believe 
it can ever be any different. So it is best not 
to hope, not to plan- 
" Oh, Fanny, I cannot help it. How could I 
stop all at once ? ' 
She was touched to the heart. What should 
she do? The tears came into her eyes. 
" I must luove -acted very wrongly to make 
you care so much for me in this way. I can 
never, never forgive myself." 
He could not bear to hear the woman he 
loved blamed, and the tears conquered him. 
"It is nothing you have done, don't think 
that," he said earnestly. " You can't help being 
sweet and pretty, any more than that bird up 
there can help singing. And you can't help 
being just what I want. You have treated me 
the same as you have others, that is, I mean 
you never tried in any way to make me love 
you. It just came. And if you will only try " 
" If I did try, Dick, I should be ashamed to 
confess that I could not love so good, and ten- 
der, and true a man as you are. Then, perhaps 
I might marry you, not loving you the best, 
which would be very, very wicked, and ruin 
your happiness. Oh, Dick, forgive me and let 
me be your sister or your friend, or else let me 
go quite away. I am so sorry." 
They walked on until the sound of voices 
reached them. ." Please leave me here," she 
entreated falteringly. 
" I'm a great blundering chap, I know. I 
have said it all better ' 
" It isn't the saying, it is the thing itself. 
O, Dick, don't you see that if I had loved you, 
one word would have been enough. I should be 
too honest to tease or make excuses." 
" Yes, I suppose it is so," in a slow, pathetic 
 
way that made Fan think she was a miserable 
wretch. And you can't help it, I know. I'll 
try to leave matters as they were, to be a 
brother." 
He swallowed over a great lump in his throat, 
and turned away without another word. When 
she found herself quite alone she threw her trem- 
bling figure on the mossy tree-roots and sobbed 
bitterly. The glad unconsciousness of girlhood 
was over. 
"If he were not so good," she thought, "or 
so rich, or so kind! If I could find some fault. 
And that makes it appear all the worse in me. 
Oh, papa, dear, what have I done ? Why does 
every one want to - - ? ' 
And then she knew it was the old, old story, 
that had begfin way back in Eden-days. People 
always did, and always would, and sometimes 
there was a hitch and a snarl, and the thread 
broke. 
She heard the bell calling the children to- 
gether, so she rose, and went to the tiny brook 
to bathe her face. But she felt so shame-faced 
and cowardly that she did not dare join them 
until the singing was done. Then Dick would 
be putting Mrs. Ryder in his wagon, and al] 
 
the others bustling about. No one would take 
much notice of her. 
" O, here you are, run-away!" said a bright, 
rather imperious voice. " Your sister has been 
worried to death about you. I thought I should 
have to be^in and search the mountains. Come 
along. I shall not give you another chance to 
go astray." 
With that Winthrop Ogden took possession 
of her. The carriages began to move on. The 
line was forming, and Mr. Endicott walked 
down its length. 
" I have Miss Fannie here, safe ; ' Mr. Ogden 
said, with a confident nod. 
Fan was so glad to escape observation that 
she uttered not a word. 
"My Uncle and Aunts are here waiting to 
speak to you." 
She suffered herself to be led thither, listened 
to the chat and answered again without under- 
standing a word. 
They fell in the rear of the procession. In- 
deed she hardly noticed how they lagged behind, 
until the tramp of the feet had quite .a distant 
sound. 
"Where were you all the afternoon?' Mr. 
Ogclen asked. "Your sister and I started once 
to find you." 
 'Did you?" absently. 
" Yes. We did not know but the bears 
might have come out and eaten you up." 
" Hardly." 
" You were not alone?' 
"No. We went for ferns. Jennie Ryder and 
the rest." 
" Miss Ryder has been back this hour. She 
and her mother went away with the very first 
with Mr. Fairlie." 
"Oh," indifferently. 
"Well, what were you doing?' 
' I won't be questioned, there ! ' 
"You are sure you were not in mischief?' 
No answer to this, and a long silence. 
" Well, Miss Obstinacy," he began at length, 
"I really am afraid something has occurred to 
ruffle your temper." 
" I do not know as you are compelled to suffer 
from it ! ' she returned, positively provoked. 
" Ah, but I couldn't leave you here in a 
howling wilderness, with the others miles ahead." 
" You exaggerate. Suppose we walk on and 
overtake them ? ' 
"We are walking on." 
She was in no mood for badinage. Indeed, 
her heart smote her bitterly for the pain she had 
unwittingly caused. She was upbraiding herself 
and trying to think where the first false step 
had begun. 
"Are you tired?' he asked presently in a 
gentler tone. 
"Not much. But a day like this always finds 
one rather stupid at its close." 
"Were your mental exertions in the woods 
very severe ? Did you stop to analyze and class- 
ify the ferns ? ' 
"No." 
"You must have found some delightful em- 
ployment." 
No answer again. 
"Do you know that I am going back to the 
city on Saturday ? ' 
" Are you? indeed ! ' 
"I dare say you will not miss me." 
"I do not know why I should, specially." 
"That is unfriendly." 
"Is it? Well," rousing herself a trifle, "I 
suppose we do miss any one with whom we 
have had a bright, pleasant time. And your 
Aunt Lucy will be very sorry to have you go!"
"And yet, she will have you." 
"I am only one of the incidentals, Mr. Ogden. 
People who don't belong truly, step into each 
others' lives and when the time comes, step out 
again. But one born in the household is differ- 
ent." 
"They all like you so much. I am almost 
jealous of uncle Churchill's regard." 
" O, you need not be." 
"He is old-fashioned and strict in some of his 
notions, but he has a splendid heart." 
"I believe that." 
"O, Miss Endicott, please look back at this 
sunset ! It is still more glorious than the one 
we saw the evening of our ride ! Do you know, 
I hate to return. Everything is so lovely here." 
Some of the wide fields lay in the shade, 
some in the bronze Light of the dying sun. All 
the tree-tops were burnished, and now it was so 
still that not a leaf stirred. A distant Whip- 
poor-will began his melancholy lay. 
" Oh, we must hurry on ; ' said Fanny recol- 
lecting herself. "The others have passed the 
curve of the road and are out of sight." 
They quickened their pace a trifle. Presently 
he inquired 
 
""What is to be done to-morrow?' 
" Why nothing." 
" No tea parties nor croquet ? ' 
" I believe not. We shall all be tired. I have 
had two or three weeks of dissipation and think 
it high time to rest up a little." 
" Suppose you take a drive with me? That 
will not be tiresome. About four in the after- 
noon, say." 
Fan started again. 
" I think I would rather not ;" she replied, curtly. 
"Why?" 
"For various reasons that I cannot enumer- 
ate.'' 
" I am glad you have more than one, for that 
might be rather hard upon me. Well, can I 
come over to tea then ? that is if you are not 
to have other company." 
"I dare say they will all be glad to entertain 
you." 
"I don't wish any one but just you. I shall 
have to take the others part of the time. But 
on my last day I deserve some indulgence.'*' 
"I may not feel indulgent;' she answered 
carelessly. 
"Miss Fanny- -and I have so many things to 
ask!" 
 
"Don't ask them;' she said recklessly. Was 
she walking; into another fire ? 
"I must ask one." 
She expressed no curiosity or anxiety, but 
her heart beat so loudly it seemed as if he must 
hear it. Dick Fairlie's love-making had been 
honest and true, but this young man? So she 
walked on more rapidly. 
"Yes; one question. How else should I know? 
And it is too great a risk to leave you here with 
no word- 
"Mr. Ogden, I think you have lost your 
senses ; ' she interrupted sharply. 
"I thought so myself to-day. When you went 
off with that Fairlie ! I know he was with you 
this afternoon, and I resolved then to have my 
say. I do not mean to lose through being a 
laggard. My darling, can you- -do you- -?'' 
Fan turned and faced him. She was cool and 
angry. 
"Mr. Ogden," she said decisively, "that is 
enough ! It may be your habit to make love to 
city girls on a fortnight's acquaintance, but it 
is not mine to receive it. I have been friendly 
because I thought you a gentleman ?' 
"Fanny! Miss Endicott," and he confronted 
her in so authoritative a fashion, that she felt 
his strength at once. " You mistake me alto- 
gether. I am not in the habit of trifling. If I 
speak soon it is because I must leave you, and I 
know another loves you. You have only to say 
that you prefer him, and I will be silent." 
He waited several minutes for her to answer, 
but how could she ? It was a cruel strait. Her 
cheeks were crimson with shame. 
"Then I think I have a right to be heard." 
She summoned all her reckless bravery. 
"Mr. Ogden,'' she began in an ironical tone; 
" how long do you suppose you could remem- 
ber ? It would be the wildest of folly to listen 
to you." 
" You doubt me altogether ! What shall I do 
to convince you? Let me have that withered 
rose at your throat. I gave it to you this morn- 
ing and it will be precious to me. How long a 
probation will you set me - - a year ? Well, 
when you receive this rose back some day you 
will know that I am of the same mind." 
He took it and dropped it into his pocket 
memorandum. Then they walked on in silence. 
On the way the children were dispersed near- 
est their homes. By the Church, Fanny and Mr. 
Ogdeii came up with the last. She did not dare 
leave him or she would have joined her father. 
A kind of fascination kept her under his in- 
fluence. 
They paused at the gate. The others had 
entered. 
"Do you want me to come to-morrow? ' His 
tone was almost peremptory. 
"I- -no- Her's sounded as if tears were 
not far off, and the long lashes shaded her eyes, 
}>ut still he read the face, and read in it, further- 
more, something she did not know was there. 
" Very well. If you love me, as I hope you 
will some day, I can wait. You will learn how 
truly every word was meant. I think then you 
will be noble enough to admit it. Good by, 
little darling." 
He gave her one kiss and was gone. She 
flew up the path and into the wide hall, pale as 
a ghost. 
We were all there, mamma with baby in her 
arms, tiny Tim hanging to her skirt, Lily and 
Daisy talking like two chatter-boxes. There 
was a promiscuous heap of hats and baskets on 
the floor. 
"Children!' exclaimed papa, "don't set your 
 
mother crazy! Take some of these articles to 
the kitchen. There, I nearly stepped into some 
one's hat. Rose my clear '' 
Fan entered at this moment. Papa stood first, 
so she put her arm around his neck and gave a 
little sob. 
" My dear girl, you are tired to death ! How 
pale you look. Mamma would a cup of tea do 
her any good ? And isn't our supper ready ? ' 
I hung up the hats, and sent Daisy off with 
a cargo of baskets. 
" No, I don't want a mouthful," Fan said. 
" It was a splendid day, but I am tired to the 
uttermost and would like to drop into bed with- 
out a word. Or if I was Edith and mamma 
could cuddle me in her arms. Oh dear ! ' 
I think that mamma guessed something was 
amiss. She gave baby to me and went straight 
to Fan. 
" Oh, mamma, darling, what would the world 
be without you ? I feel as if I had been lost 
somewhere and just come to light. Do I really 
belong to you ? 
With that she gave a little hysterical laugh 
which ended with passionate crying. 
' I am a baby, there ! I am ashamed of my- 
 
self. Let me run and put away my toggery v 
and maybe I shall come to my senses." 
The children were washed and brushed. Stuart 
had just come in, and we sat down to the table. 
Fanny entered presently, but she neither ate nor 
drank, and seemed to be quite unlike herself. 
Indeed, I do not think she came to her senses 
until she and mamma had a good long talk, she 
lying in her fresh, cool bed. The friendly dusk 
