^^ch torture would be insupportable. 
He was much too early, but, presently Barton appeared 
at his post, shocked at the change a few hours had 
wrought in Mr. Tremaine,and understanding at once 
that matters were unchanged. 
" Have you done anything?" he inquired. 
" No. I thought I should like to see that hackman, 
if you could find him for me." 
"I might, at noon," Barton answered, slowly. "Can 
you not get some one in your place? Money is no 
object." 
Ralph Tremainc's eyes wore a sharp, unnatural stare, 
and there was a fervcrish pleading in his voice. 
"I cannot take any step until I know whether that 
was Mrs. Tremaine, you saw. I do not suppose it was." 
" Poor fellow," thought Barton, much moved. Then, 
aloud — "If the thing can be managed, Tremaine, I will do 
it for you, I will let you know shortly, "and, with that, 
he disappeared. 
Tremaine walked up and down the platform, a long 
while. It seemed to him as if he were going crazy with 
suspense. And when Barton returned, which he did 
finally, there was still another weary delay, but now 
the city was fairly astir. There was a continual rushing 
in and out, carts, wagons, and expressmen jostling each 
other, noise and confusion of every kind, but Tremaine 
only heard it dimly. Then the hackmen began to 
gather. Barton rambled slowly around , inspecting each 
one, and at length accosted the latest comer. 
" Were you here about noon, yesterday?" he asked. 
" At noon. Well, no. I just drove up for a minute 
and went right away. 'Bout one ; train time, anyhow." 
' ' You took a lady and gentleman ? " 
The man was silent, and eyed his companion closely. 
"A rather slight woman, dressed in gray, and a tall, 
dark gentleman, fine looking. lie assisted her in, 
while you were on your box." 
" Suppose I did?" the man said gruffly. 
' ' Where did 3011 leave them ? " 
"At the Park, Six Avenue entrance." 
"And what became of them then?" 
"I do not know." 
"Will you describe them minutely for a friend of 
mine?" and Barton summoned Tremaine. 
" I do not know much about the lady. The man was 
a-watching for her. He came to me and engaged the 
hack, before the train was in, told me to stand just here, 
and keep my seat. He was not a common-looking man, 
and he had a short, sharp way, as if it would not be quite 
safe to cfoss him , and he said he would pay me well for any 
trouble he made. Presently he came along with the 
lady." 
" Describe her, as nearly as you can," Tremaine said, 
huskily. 
" She was a very fair height, and wore a gray dress 
and sack, trimmed with something a little darker. I 
remember noticing the stripe around her skirt. She 
had a round hat, with a bit of scarlet in it, and a light 
veil; I did not see her face, but her hair was blight, 
not red, but a curious color, and curled a little." Trc- 
maine groaned inwardly. The hair stamped her as 
Dora, at once. 
" And you do not know where they went?" 
" No. I drove right back." 
"Could you identify the man again?" 
" Oh, yes, easily. He had very black eyes, with a 
curiously look in them, and a full beard, though not very 
thick. Yes. I could tell him again." 
" That will do," said Tremaine, turning very abruptlj'. 
He and Barton went down the length of the platform 
without a word, but he could no longer feel doubtful. 
A horrible thought chilled the blood around his heart. 
The man had been watching for her. Then it was he, 
who sent the note to Dora, and it was madness to sup- 
pose that she would go away with a stranger, so she 
must have known him. Could she have been summon- 
ed to any friend? But no, she would have left a few 
words for him, surely. The whole matter was inexplica- 
ble. " Well," Barton said, presently, to recall the other. 
"I am obliged for the trouble," Tremaine returned. 
"You cannot do anything more ; indeed, there is noth- 
ing to be done, except to call in the aid of. a detective, 
as you suggested. Whether it would be wisest — " and 
his voice died away in a quivering sound. 
"If I cared — " Barton began, hesitatingly. 
"Cared !" Tremaine's face was white with a suddeil 
passion-heat. 
u Not just that, Mr. Tremaine. If I wanted her 
found, in spite of everything. I would have it done, if I 
moved heaven and earth ! " 
Did he want her found? If she could return in a few 
days, and explain her absence satisfactorily to him, lie 
would rather the world at large knew nothing about it. 
For he had a stubborn, abiding faith in her. He knew 
how thoroughly good and noble she was, that she would 
not stoop to a lie, or deception of any kind, at least, in 
his sane moments, he felt certain of this. Yet he under- 
stood the construction the world would put upon her 
sudden flight. Nothing less than an elopement. To 
him the idea was simply preposterous. He was satisfied 
that she did not care enough for any other man to 
do that. He held all the love of her soul. 
But there might be something back of this event, that 
she would rather explain to him alone. He hated, even, 
to have Barton suspect her. 
"I think I will wait a few days," he said, weakly, 
bidding Barton good-morning. "And — Barton — I 
trust jx>u with my honor, as well as hers." 
Tremaine went back to the hackman, for he had 
another question, that he could not have put before a 
third person. The man was jesting with a comrade, 
but he came forward, touching his hat. 
"I want to ask jou if you observed any signs of— 
of friendliness," familiarity, he was about to say, at 
first, but checked himself, " between these two persons, 
you drove away, yesterday? Did she take his arm?" 
"No. And when he offered to help her in, she would 
not touch his hand. Though it is sometimes done for a 
blind." 
Even this wretch dared to impugn Dora's motives. 
He must get away and think it all over,' settling upon 
something, or he should go crazy. He could not face 
Mrs. May bin, just yet, so he chose the store, instead. 
Now and then, of a morning, he was late, so this would 
pass unremarked. 
There was a friend waiting for him, who said, in a 
careless, genial way — 
" Why, Tremaine,what is the matter? You look as 
if you had been sick a month." 
"I had a bad headache last night, and did not sleep 
any," which was true enough. But, after making an 
effort to confine his attention to what the man was say- 
ing, he found his mind growing clearer. 
There followed an hour or two of business, and it 
proved a benefit to Ralph Tremaine. He said to his 
book-keeper, that he should not go out to lunch — so he 
was left alone in the office. Yesterday, there stood a 
single rose-bud in that tiny vase — to-day, a desert 
could not have been more lonely. 
Now he began to take serious counsel with himself. 
Either, Dora had been persuaded away, by some fraud 
or misrepresentation, to further the schemes of some 
designing persons, or, she had gone willingly, knowing 
a reason why it was best so to do. That love was at 
the bottom, he utterly disbelieved, and then, every little 
circumstance rushed over him again, looking almost as 
if there had been some complicity on her part. If so, 
it would be much wiser to let her come back and 
explain. 
How often, ia life, a series of events seem to involve 
one like a web, making guilt, in a greater or less de- 
gree, almost certain, and j'ct, all these incidents might 
have occurred, without the one, crowning deed, and 
passed by quite unnoticed. A lesson for our charity 
and hasty judgment, and the grander love> that has 
learned patience without suspicion. 
And, though he had a great deal of faith in Dora, 
faith of a certain kind, these verj' misgivings made him 
resolve to wait a few days. A woman was not likely 
to be spirited away and detained against her will, when 
there was nothing to be gained ; and, certainly, Dora 
Tremaine was of no paramount importance to any one 
but her husband. Yes, he would wait, two days, at 
least. 
CHAPTER IV. 
AN UNEXPECTED VISITOR. 
SWpgR. TREMAINE announced to Mrs. Maybin 
ntM w that Mrs. Tremaine would not be at home, for 
"**" several days. The house-keeper asked noques- 
lions, but she saw that something had gone wrong, 
lie passed Barton, on the road, with a nod, but neither 
had any desire to exchange words. Of course, Barton 
knew from the grave, pre-occupied face that the matter 
was still in abeyance. 
Thus passed the two days, and now, the fourth had 
begun, since he had said farewell to Dora, at the lawn 
gate. No tidings of any kind. A stern, set resolve 
came into his face. He wished, now, that he had taken 
some decisive step immediately. His first business in 
the city must be that. Poor Dora! 'She might have 
met with a fatal accident, or been murdered. Now he 
began to conjure up a thousand things, and blame him- 
self in a bitter, unreasonable fashion. 
Mrs. Maybin was waiting to receive her orders, as he 
made a rush from the breakfast-room. 
"Never mind," he exclaimed, impatiently. 
"It is a chance whether I am home to dinner, and I 
really do not care what there is. Do not take much 
trouble." 
A ring at the hall-door startled them both. Mrs. 
Maybin opened it, with an air of injured dignity. 
"Was Mr. Tremaine at home ? Could he be seen,on 
some very important business?" 
" Will you give jour name, please ?" she asked, stiffly. 
"That is not necessary," the stranger said, with a 
most provoking air of blandness. 
She ushered him into the library, and went to inform 
her master, who was rather vexed at the interruption. 
"A stranger?" he said, wonderingly. 
"Yes. I should remember, if I had ever seen such 
eyes before." 
"Eyes ! Black and large, and a full, black beard?" 
Mr. Tremaine was strangely agitated. 
"Eyes that could stare you out of countenance. If 
there is much good in that man. I am mistaken," she 
said with a virtuous sniff. 
Mr. Tremaine crossed over to the library, like a man 
in a dream, shutting the door carefully behind him. 
The stranger was standing in front of one of the 
well-filled book cases, and turned at his entrance. 
What was there, in his appearance, to chill Ralph Tre- 
maine so unaccountably ? A man, not far from his own 
age, perhaps, not looking young, when you came to ex- 
amine him, but, with a jaunty air, and a certain andacitj
that was not impertinence, and, so, could not be put 
down* with th£ grave manner of the" othei*. It was not 
a trusty face. You felt, instinctively, that there was 
something furtive and sinister under cvcrj- soft line, 
though an unthinking person would have pronounced 
him handsome, at once. His features were tolerably 
regular, but they had this peculiarity, that, whereas he 
was stout enough for manly contour, and his hands 
so plump, that every joint made a dent, instead of show- 
ing a bone, his features were thin. His nose was 
straight, with thin nostrils; his lips compressed into 
a scarlet line, showing vividty under the fringe of mus- 
tache. His forehead was narrow at the temples, and, 
when his eyelids drooped, you remarked that they were 
thin also. His eyes were quite large, and of a peculiar 
opaque black, with no transparency ; the pupils scarcely 
discernible from the iris. They gave him an unscru- 
pulous look, and were not pleasant to behold. 
Ralph Tremaine felt that here was the man who had 
seen Dora, on the day of her disappearance, and could, 
perhaps, give the latest account of her. Yet he trem- 
bled in every pulse, and could command neither his 
voice nor his thoughts. 
" I did not give my name to your — domestic," as if 
he were hardly, sure so commanding a woman could fill 
a subordinate position ; " and yet, you may have heard 
it — Jasper Cameron." 
He knew, in an instant,that Mr. Tremaine had not, 
for he merely made a negative motion of the head. 
' ' Is Mrs. Tremaine at home ? ° 
" She is not." 
There was a constriction in Mr. Tremaine's throat, 
and a sadden shiver in every pulse. 
' ' She left home, on Tuesday," Mr. Cameron continued. 
" She did. I appeal to you to explain the mystery. 
The last tidings I have of her, are that she left the 
railroad depot in your company." 
A certain exultant shadow, for it could not be called 
a smile, crossed Cameron's face. 
"Then she has not volunteered an explanation?" 
"I can endure this suspense no longer. If she is 
alive, if you have any tidings of her, speak, at once," 
Tremaine said in a tone of passionate pain. 
"You have heard nothing?" The face and tone 
were a trifle incredulous. 
"Nothing. In mercy, speak ! " 
" I do not know as my tidings are of a very agree- 
able nature. How much of Dora Verner's history did 
you know, when you married her? " 
Great drops of perspiration stood on Tremaine's 
forehead, and an ague seemed to seize every limb. 
U I knew nothing of her history, save that her moth- 
er's marriage had been veiy unfortunate. Her uncle, 
Mr. Verner, adopted her." 
u Some months, before her adoption she became my 
wife." 
"Impossible!" Mr. Tremaine believed the fellow 
inventing some specious lie. 
'Not at all, my dear sir. She admitted the fact, on 
Tuesday. It has been a sad mistake, of course, her 
marriage with you, but she supposed me dead, years 
before." 
"But her youth — she is barety past twenty-one, 
now. No, it cannot be ! " 
The story sounded so utterly improbable. Could 
she have been the wife of another man, and kept the 
secret from him? 
' 'She was very young, not yet fifteen. It was a 
girl's ardent, unreasoning love, if you will; and, as a 
long separation stared us in the face, we decided to 
marry, and keep our secret, being thereby sure of one 
another. I was going to China for three years. On 
the passage out, we were wrecked and most of the crew 
reported lost. I drifted to an island, inhabited only 
by savages, and it was months before any chance of 
escape offered." 
" Yet you did not return ? " 
Ralph Tremaine had an eager, frantic hope of prov 
ing the man's story wrong somewhere. 
" No. It was along while before I found an oppoi 
tunity. 
I was young and full of restless curiosity, I must 
confess, loving travel and adventure. The years 
passed rapidly with me. No answer came to my let- 
ters, and I imagined myself quite forgotten." 
' ' Do you suppose — she heard ? " The question came 
with a gasp.
He could not tell Ralph Trcmainc such a deliberate 
lie, knowing that it would not further his cause. 
"There were a good many changes in her life, just 
then. Her uncle adopted her, and so letters missed. 
It has been an unfortunate affair." 
" Oh, why did you come back ? " Tremaine groaned, 
"She thought you dead, and we were happy. And 
now — ?" 
"She is my wife, of course. The law gives her to 
me, I believe, I find the old regard strong upon me." 
There was a little sneering triumph in this. It stung 
Tremaine keenly. 
"I insist that she shall be produced " he said, in a 
deep, decisive tone. "It is as she wills." 
Cameron studied his rival a moment. Men. of this 
stamp were quietly persevering. And, if he could not 
bend Dora Tremaine to his will, it was well that she 
should have no strong ally in this husband, for the 
present, at least. 
"I proposed, on Tuesday*, that we should both seek 
you and have a mutual explanation. I am willing to 
overlook this fatal mistake, and I still love her, as I 
loved the sweet, daring, spirited child. She would not 
agree to this proposal, though since, she has been free 
to write or to come." 
A deathly agony clutched Tremaine's soul. Dora 
stajing away from him to whom she owed the first con- 
fession ! Could she retain any of the old affection for 
this man ? Oh, the story must be some base, hideous 
lie! 
" I have no proof of all this," he said steadily, trying 
to read the unfathomable eyes of tlje other. 
" Except that she still remains away. I told her 
that I felt it my duty to make this explanation to you, 
though she begged me to delay. Of course, she feels 
that my claim is first ; and then, she is not sure that 
you would forgive, pardon the word, the deception she 
unwittingly used. If she had mentioned her marriage 
with me, this event would not have taken jou so by 
surprise. It is possible that the difference in our posi- 
tions may influence her, somewhat. I am still a com- 
paratively poor man." 
That was a keen thrust, as Jasper Cameron meant 
it should be. But Tremaine turned upon him. 
"You do not know her, at all, if you think that," he 
said, almost savagely. "If she chooses me, it will be 
because she loves me." 
"lam not sure that the right of choice is hers," 
was the almost caustic response. " I still wish to keep 
her as mine, my wife. I love her. I am willing to care 
for her to the best of my ability. If a court of law 
must decide, my claiift is still a good one. It is not 
my fault that letters misspd." 
Ralph Tremaine groaned aloud. What did this man 
know of love? 
" If you will bring her here," he said brokenly, " and 
I hear from her lips that she desires — to give me up, I 
will make no further objection. This much I must 
learn positively." 
"If she will come." There was a suggestion of 
doubt in the voice. 
Ralph Tremaine paced the floor in impotent anguish. 
" I may as well say, Mr. Tremaine, that I do not 
mean to relinquish my claim, easily. The law, and this 
woman's free consent, made her my wife, and, although 
you maj' have the most monej r , I think that there is a 
little justice in the land. If she had not felt some 
scruple restraining her, you may imagine that she would 
have flpwn to you, at once." 
Tremaine bowed at this . He could not gainsay its truth . 
"Will you give me her address?" he asked. 
"Excuse me, but in the first place I do not think I 
have any right,without her consent. And since she is 
at liberty to seek you — " 
"Did she know of your coming?" 
" She knew "that I intended to explain — yes. In a 
similar case, I know I should have been wild with sus- 
pense. It was a matter of duty and honor." 
" And she is quite free, you say ? " 
"Entirely so, at present. I should not even attempt 
to influence her." ¥ 
Jasper Cameron ground his white teeth as he said 
this. It was the truth, but it was simply because she 
was no longer in his power. This, his sense of honor 
did not lead him to confess. . 
" Then, nothing can be done at present?" Tremaine 
said, in a weak, wandering wa}\ • 
" Mr. Tremaine, we may as well be honest with one 
another. Nothing can ever be done in the sense you 
mean. If you choose to take her back, she can never 
be jxrnr lawful wife, while I am alive. I am not the 
kind of man to die, easil}-, or heaven knows I should 
have been under ground or under water long ago." * 
" Very well." Tremaine drew himself up haughtily, 
and his voice was as clearly cold as a sound heard in 
frosty air. " I have only a message to send. Will 
you tell her that I wish to see j~ouboth,at any time you 
may appoint? The sooner, the better for me." 
Then he bowed loftily. Jasper Cameron felt that he 
was dismissed, and considered that he had made suffi- 
cient impression. He knew of nothing more that 
would advance his cause, just now, and returned the 
courtesy with that indifferent air of his, bordering on 
impertinence. 
" I will deliver your message, as soon as I see her." 
He walked out of the room iu his jaunty fashion. 
Ralph Tremaine did not stir, until he heard the street 
gate shut ; then he bowed his head in his hands, over- 
whelmed by the sudden tide of anguish. He really 
could not question the truth of the story, much 
as he desired it, for Dora's continued absence was 
proof of the strongest kind. Indeed, it looked rather 
manly in Cameron to come, he thought, since Dora 
was so unwilling. 
How many times daring the last few days had he 
gone over the incidents, not only of the week, but of 
their married life ! Dora rarely spoke of the time be- 
fore her adoption. She and her mother had been poor 
— not reduced to bitter extremes, perhaps, but there 
was something about it from which she instinctively 
shrank. He would have been very glad to take eveiy 
little trouble and hardship into his keeping, but this 
she did not appear to desire. There had always been 
something peculiar about her, he confessed to himself. 
The note, then, must have been from Jasper Came- 
ron. This was why she left no message. Had she 
known of it before, and been all along expecting some 
such summons? She had gone to the city and met him, 
and then — Was there some old affection, a long for- 
gotten chord that his appearance electrified into new 
life? " A ghTs unreasoning love," he had said. Per- 
haps Dora Verner had worshipped this man, with the 
strength and passion he had never been able to rouse. 
Most women would pronounce Cameron handsome, and 
his charms must have rendered him inore fascinating 
when youth was added. This was why he had found a 
strange lack in her, a tender grace gone. Yet she 
Certainly was learning to love him, and, on that fatal 
torning, she had been sweeter and dearer than ever 
Jefore. She had said of her own accord — " The wife 
who loves you." 
The sight of Cameron had undone all this, If she 
Still &tfed most for him, Tremaine, she would hate 
come or written, and told him her side of the story, 
wanting to be judged leniently. He knew he could 
have found it in his heart to forgive, to fight for her, if 
it came to that, to think of some expedient whcrel^ he 
might gain her cause and herself. It was evident that 
Cameron did not mean to yield her easity, but there 
would be some law to right a woman, who had been 
deserted and neglected for nearly seven years. 
She had not come. There was the bitter sting to 
Tremaine. Her soul had swerved in its allegiance, and, 
perhaps, even now she was debating which of the men 
she should choose. That made him angry. Ah Dora, 
your hour of grace passed, then. A most auspicious 
moment, and jet, you were not here to seize it and be 
received into favor, by this man, who was generous to a 
fault, and yet, in some circumstances, resentful and im- 
placable. 
He gave a dreary, hopeless groan. The horrible 
truth stared him in the face with its stern and rugged 
power, because it was so simple. Dora, unable to 
decide which had the deepest claim upon her affections, 
was delaying the crisis. Cameron had hinted that he 
was the richer of the two, but even that had not been 
sufficient to incline Dora towards him. No, she had 
never loved him, and now, doubtless, she felt that it 
would always be an impossibility. 
It appeared to him one of the easiest things in the 
world for Dora to come and confess the truth. She 
never had the habit of stumbling over little matters, 
or descending to subterfuges, in order to make a thing 
present a smooth appearance. Generally, when she 
was at fault — such events had happened — she owned 
it, in a frank, earnest manner, the moment that she was 
convinced. She had no touchy, sullen „ pride, and 
she did possess a high courage and strict sense of right. 
So he wondered the more at her course, now, and 
although it crashed him to the depths of despair, he 
admitted that there must be some underlying motive. 
He gaspod for breath, as this consciousness asserted 
itself. It was the fell signature to the death warrant 
of his hopes. After Dora had once doubted, once 
compared their claims, leaning to his rival's side, she 
could be nothing to him. A shiver of agony sped 
through every pulse. To have his fabric .of bliss 
dashed down for the second time, was fatal indeed ! 
No after resurrection was possible. 
He groped his way across the room like a man 
stricken blind, holding out his hands uncertainly. All 
the joy and hope of life vanished away, at a blow. 
Dora was not his, something subtler than law had 
interfered. She did not care to come back to him and 
acknowledge her direful mistake, when she must have 
known that he could both pity and forgive. 
He shrank intensely, at this first moment, from facing 
the world. Hush it up, never so quietly, the truth or a 
part of it, must come out, sooner or later. There was 
a circle of friends and neighbors to be astounded, to 
pity, or, with a certain worldly sagaciousness,fanej' that 
he might have been wiser. He had taken matters very 
much for granted, but it hardly seemed to him possibb 
that Gilbert Verner could have known of this secret 
marriage. 
He went up stairs to Dora's room, and wandered 
about, purposeless. The dress and little slippers had 
been restored to their place. Indeed, since the few 
days of Mrs. Maybin's administration, the apartment 
had taken on a rather prim look. He remembered 
coming home from his mother's funeral, when a boy, 
and finding all her pretty, dainty belongings, that he 
could have kissed with a passion of reverence and 
longing, put out of sight. And so with this. The 
pin-cushion was in rarest order. Generally, there was 
a broach or two, and a pair of ear-rings dangling from 
a pin, a stray ribbon or collar ; for, though she was 
delicately neat with her personal appointments, she 
alwaj r s left some trace of herself behind. Once he 
had laughingly quoted to her — 
"Here's your glove, child, 
Soiled and empty, as you left it, 
Yet your hand's warmth seems to stay 
In it still, as though, this moment, 
You had drawn your hand away." 
But now there was nothing to find. The sense of 
loss and desolation made him shudder. A funeral 
indeed. 
How many times she had glanced out of this window, 
.and nodded to him, below, in the path ! Here stood 
her red and white willow work basket, with a napkin 
spread carefully over it. Mrs. Maybin, feeling that 
she had no right to reduce it to order, had covered the 
•disorder. Between the housekeeper and her mistress, 
this had been a rather contested point, until, one day 
Dora petulantly broke out with — 
" Mrs. Maybin, I do not want you to touch a single 
thing in my room ! When I wish them taken care of, I 
can do it." And so the poor woman had withstood a 
very strong temptation, in Mrs. Tremaine's absence. 
Presently, Mr. Tremaine wandered down again. 
Part of- the truth must be told, and he was not a man 
to shift off until to-morrow, the responsibility that 
belongs to to-day. 
"Mrs. Maybin," he said, summoning her; Mrs. 
Tremaine may be absent for some time. Everything 
will go on just the same as usual." 
She knew, by the hollow tone and ashen gray face, 
that something very unusual had occurred — but the 
face and voice alike, forbade questioning. 
As he went feebly down the broad avenue, he glanced 
back. What was it that touched him with so keen a 
pang? Saddest of all, the roses at the summer-house 
were blossoming quite unnoticed. A month ago, she 
had said — 
" I shall be so glad when roses come ! " 
jaspek Cameron's experiment. 
BOMETIME before, Jasper Cameron had gone 
down the same path, softly whistling an air 
from Fra Diavolo. He had found a car at the 
right moment, and was speedily whirled to New York. 
All the time, he had been thinldng intently, and a close 
observer might have remarked the perplexed lines visi- 
ble on his brow, and appearing to change with every 
thought. Truth to tell, he was in a most anxious state 
of mind. To-day he must take a bold step in the 
dark. 
He placed a curious reliance upon fate. He was a 
man to work with the most unscrupulous and unswerv- 
ing fidelity, while events were in his hands; but when 
he could no longer control them, he gave an indifferent 
nod around, as if he defied all the world, thinking, 
since he could not help nor hinder, thousands of others 
were as impotent. The event would be unfolded pres- 
ently, and he would stand ready to seize the most im- 
portant fragment and give it his impress, immediately. 
He was sure of one thing — Dora Tremaine would not 
go back to her husband, which, after all, was in his 
favor, as it hardly appeared probable that Tremaine 
could find her. If he could keep them apart for some time 
to come, it would be an advantage, for she, frightened, 
and occupied with her own troubles, would hardly think 
of anything beyond. And Mr. Tremaine was the kind 
of man to take a hard blow quietly — not run around 
the world showing his wounds. 
" I will see what can be done with Colby," he said 
to himself, after some fruitless wanderings about the 
city. 
Mr. Leonard Colby was a lawyer by profession — 
but of late years, he bad taken to dabbling in stocks 
and real estate. His chief business room wore a brisk 
air; with the two clerks, who always had their hands full, 
and referred every chance comer to the inner office,, 
with an air that seemed to say, that their very life de- 
pended upon the rapidity with which they went about 
their duties. 
The second room was large, well lighted, and more 
orderly. Mr. Oldson, a thin, middle-aged man, who 
wore glasses, and peered furtively over the tops of 
them, always sat at a high desk, but turned quickly at 
every step, and seemed ever on the alert. It was his 
duty to attend to all customers, except some one who 
had special business with his superior. Mr. Colby had 
a desk on the opposite side of the room, and you could 
generally find him here, during business hours. 
Cameron ran the gauntlet of the clerks and Mr. Old- 
son. Mr. Colby glanced up and nodded, in a measured, 
as well as peculiar fashion. There was no frank wel- 
come" in his face, neither the kind of authoritative 
distance, such men fall into the habit of using. It 
was, rather, as if he wished Cameron thousands of miles 
away, but had no power to send him there. Seeing it, 
the visitor smiled, inwardly. 
Mr. Colby was a man of fifty, or thereabouts, mod- 
erately stout, well looking, with a high forehead, bald 
at the top. Both hair and beard, which had been 
rather sandy in their prime, were now well grizzled, 
but inclining to yellow, not the patriarchal snowy tint. 
His features were regular, somewhat delicate, indeed, 
his upper-lip very short, and curved in a peculiar man- 
ner. It gave the whole face an expression of weak- 
ness, as if he might be easily overcome by any power- 
ful temptation. And yet, on the whole, Mr. Colby 
stood very fair with his fellow men. A good, hearty, 
honorable person, who had prospered deservedly. 
Now and then he drove a hard bargain, but he took 
good care that it should be in a quarter where it would 
not affect his reputation. 
" Good-morning," Cameron said, jauntily. 
Cottty motioned him to a seat, returning the saluta- 
tion in a most courteous manner. 
' 'Fine day," Cameron began, glancing out of the 
window nonchalantly, and yet, not a movement of the 
other's face escaped him. 
' 'Yes. Any news?" 
There was a studied indifference in Colby's tone, and 
he took up some papers, as if he were about to look 
them over. 
Cameron gave a light, meaning laugh, that grated on 
his listener's ears. 
Cfc Yes, news in abundance, but, maybe, you will not 
think it of the right sort." Then he tilted his chair a 
trifle, and looked as if he meant to have a long, comfort- 
able conference. 
Mr. Colby glanced furtively at Mr. Oldson. Now, 
he did not mean that his book-keeper should hear one 
word of the conversation, but he wished to convince 
Mr.. Cameron that all the world might listen with im- 
punity. Of course he failed altogether. 
" Well," Cameron said, with another irritating 
laugh, " I suppose settlements will be forthcoming at 
the right date. I was proposing to Mrs. — " 
Colby started, suddenty. 
" I think we will take the private office, Mr. Came- 
ron. Oldson, I do not want to be interrupted." 
This was such an ordinary occurrence, that Oldson 
bowed without raising his eyes from the ledger. But 
Mr. Colby, nervous and ill at ease, felt afraid that 
every act had a prominent significance that might, one 
day, be brought against him. 
The private office was a very cosy little place, con- 
taining a leathern covered lounge, and reclining chair. 
Jasper Cameron took the former. It was his principle 
to enjoy all the ease he could find in this life. Mr. 
f'olby indulged in several turns across the room, with 
his hands clasped behind him. His visitor seemed in 
no haste to break the silence. 
" Cameron ," he began at length, " is jour — is — 
Mrs.—" 
" The wife of two husbands, you mean. I suppose 
she is really Mrs. Cameron. My claim is first &nd 
strongest, and I mean to enforce it." 
There was a look about the man's face, that was not 
pleasant to behold. 
" Is she in the city ? " 
'  She is. Since Tuesday she has been in my keeping." 
" And does she mean—- I would like to see her, 
Cameron." 
The younger laughed again. 
" If I produce her before the first of September, it 
will be in sufficient time." 
Colby's face changed from pale to red. If he could 
only know just where his adversarj' meant to strike ! 
lie cat down, but moved about uneasily, debating how 
he could best make Cameron show his hand. 
Suddenly the other started up. 
" Colbj," he said, " we may as well be fair and 
honest with each other. You have a great deal at 
stake, so have I, only I cannot lose anything, and 
with you it is — ruin ! " 
That smile was enough to madden any one ! 
" Mr. Cameron, you jump at conclusions." 
" Not without some authority, it must be confessed. 
We have been beating about the bush, trying to make 
each other commit himself, and the result is, we stand 
about where we did a fortnight ago. I will tell you 
what I know. This trust was confided to your care by 
a dying man, who, at the last moment, verifying the 
oldT adage that blood is thicker than water, left his 
