"Who's he?"
"That's the one," said Mr. O'Brien, pointing to Sam. "He's cut my toe
off, and I'm bladin' to death."
"What does this mean, Sam?" said the doctor, sternly.
"He was in a hurry," stammered Sam, "and I didn't want him to go away,
so I thought I'd try to cure him, but the knife slipped, and--"
"I'll attend to your case afterwards. Sit down, sir."
"Will I die?" asked Dennis, lugubriously.
"No danger, now. You might, if I hadn't come just as I did."
Matters were soon remedied, and Dennis went away relieved, well
satisfied because the doctor declined, under the circumstances, to
receive any fee.
"Now, Sam," said the doctor, after he had gone, "what do you mean by
such work as this?"
"I thought I could do it," said Sam, abashed.
"I ought to turn you away for this."
"It was only a mistake," said Sam.
"It came near being a very serious mistake. What would you have done
if I had not come just as I did?"
"I don't know," said Sam.
"Never touch my instruments again. If you do I shall discharge you at
once; that is, after giving you a sound flogging."
Sam felt that he had got off easily, and determined not to set up
again as doctor on his own account.
CHAPTER XXIII.
SAM FALLS INTO BAD COMPANY.
For a time matters went on smoothly. Sam was abashed by the result of
his experiment, and discouraged from making another. He felt that he
had a good place. Living chiefly at the lodging-house his expenses
were small, and four dollars a week were ample to meet them. There was
one thing he missed, however,--the freedom to roam about the streets
at will. He felt this the more when the pleasant spring weather came
on. There were times when he got sick of the confinement, and longed
to leave the office.
It was a bright morning in May when Dr. Graham called from the inner
office:--
"Sam."
"What, sir?"
"Do you know the way to Brooklyn?"
"Yes, sir."
"I want you to go over there for me."
"All right, sir."
It may be explained that Dr. Graham, on the first of May, had moved
over to Brooklyn, and was occupying a house about a mile from Fulton
Ferry.
"I want you to go to my house," said the doctor, "No. -- H---- street,
and carry this letter to my wife."
"Yes, sir."
"I forgot entirely to leave her some money to meet a bill; but if you
go at once it will reach her in time. Stay, I will give you the
address on a card."
"All right, sir."
"Here is a quarter. It will pay your car-fare, and over the ferry both
ways. Now, mind you come back as quick as you can."
This Sam readily promised. He was glad to get away for the morning, as
he calculated that the expedition would take him nearly, or quite,
three hours. He took a car and got out at the Astor House. On his way
down to the ferry he met an old street acquaintance,--Jim Nolan.
"How are you, Sam?" said Jim.
"Tip-top!" answered Sam.
"Where do you keep yourself? Are you blackin' boots, now?"
"No," answered Sam, with rather an important air. "I'm in an office."
"How much do you get?"
"Four dollars a week."
"That's good. How'd you get it?"
"Oh, the doctor took a fancy to me, and asked me to come."
"You're in luck. So you're with a doctor?"
"Yes,--Dr. Graham. He's a corn-doctor."
"Where does he hang out?"
"No.--, Broadway."
"Do you have much to do?"
"Not very much."
"How do you come down here, then?"
"I'm takin' a letter to Brooklyn for the doctor."
"Are you?"
"Yes," said Sam; adding unluckily, "There's money in it."
"Is there?" said Jim, pricking up his ears. "How do you know? Let's
see the letter."
Sam took the letter from his inside coat-pocket, and passed it to
Jim.
The latter held it up to the light, and tried to look inside. Fortune
favored his efforts. The envelope was imperfectly fastened, and came
open.
"There, Jim," said Sam, "now see what you've done."
"Let's look inside, and see how much money there is," suggested Jim.
Sam hesitated.
"It won't do any harm to look at it," said the tempter.
"That's so," said Sam.
He accordingly drew out the enclosure, and disclosed two ten-dollar
bills.
Jim's eyes sparkled with greed.
"Twenty dollars!" he exclaimed. "What a lot of good that would do
us!"
Sam's principles were not firm, but he had a good place, and the
temptation was not as strong as in Jim's case; so he answered, "Maybe
it would, but it aint ours."
Jim fastened his little black eyes on Sam cunningly.
"It might be," he answered.
"How could it be?"
"You could keep it."
"The doctor'd find it out."
"Tell him somebody hooked it out of your pocket. He wouldn't know."
Sam shook his head.
"I aint goin to lose a good place just for that," he said.
"Think what a lot of things you could do for ten dollars," urged Jim.
"Twenty, you mean."
"That's ten apiece, isn't it?"
"Oh, you want some, do you?" inquired Sam.
"Yes; I'll take it from you, and then give you back half. So, it'll be
me that stole it. They can't do nothin' to you. Come, I'll go over to
Brooklyn with you, and then you can make up your mind."
On board the boat Jim renewed his persuasions, and finally Sam
yielded.
"I'm afraid the doctor'll think I took it," he said.
"No matter! He can't prove nothin'."
"We'll find it hard to change the bills."
"No we won't. I'll tell you where to go. Can you play billiards?"
"No; but I'd like to learn."
"I know, and I'll learn you. There's a saloon over in Brooklyn where
we can go and have a game. We'll pay out of one of the bills."
Now Sam had long wanted to learn the game of billiards, and this
seemed a good opportunity. Perhaps this consideration as much as any
determined him to close with his friend's proposal. When, therefore,
they had reached the Brooklyn side, instead of taking the horse-cars
to Dr. Graham's house, Sam followed his companion to a low billiard
saloon not far away.
There were four tables, one of which only was occupied, for it was too
early. On one side of the room was a bar, behind which stood a man in
his shirt-sleeves.
"Well, boys, what do you want?" he asked.
"We want a table," said Jim. "We're goin to play a game."
The man in the shirt-sleeves produced, from underneath the counter, a
green pasteboard box containing four ivory billiard balls.
"What table will you have?" he asked.
"This one here," said Jim, leading the way to one farthest from the
door.
"Now take a cue, Sam," he said. "We'll have a jolly game."
"You must tell me how to play."
"Oh, I'll learn you."
Jim was not a very skilful player, but he knew something about the
game, and under his instruction Sam made some progress, being able to
make a shot now and then. He was very much pleased with the game, and
determined to devote his spare earnings to this form of recreation
hereafter. When the game was ended, a full hour had passed.
"I didn't think it was so late," said Sam, starting. "I shall have to
go."
"Go and pay for the game first."
"You ought to pay half."
"No; I beat. The one that loses the game has to pay."
"Of course you beat. It was my first game."
"Never mind. You'll soon play as well as I, and then I shall have to
pay half the time."
"Do you think I'll improve?"
"Of course you will. We'll play again to-night."
"Here?"
"No, in New York. I'll show you a good saloon in Chatham street."
Sam stepped up to the counter.
"How much do you want?" he asked.
"Sixty cents."
"It's only twenty-five cents a game," said Jim Nolan.
"Your game was longer than two ordinary ones. I'll call it fifty
cents."
Sam produced the ten-dollar bill, and received in return nine dollars
and a half. The clerk was rather surprised at a boy presenting so
large a bill. He suspected that it was not come by honestly; but, as
he argued, that was none of his business. What he cared for most was
to get paid for the billiards. So Sam, who had felt a little uneasy
about offering the money, was more at his ease.
"We had a good game, didn't we?" said Jim.
"Yes," said Sam.
"And you did bully for the first time. I couldn't play so well my
first game."
Sam felt flattered by this compliment from his companion.
"Now I must go back," he said.
"I'll go along back with you. But we'll take a drink first. I want to
change my bill too."
"Why didn't you do it in the billiard-saloon? They had a bar there."
"They might suspect something if both of us offered tens. Here's a
place close by. Come in here."
Jim led the way into a drinking-saloon, and Sam followed.
"It's my treat," said Jim. "What'll you have?"
"What are you goin' to take?"
"A whiskey-punch."
"I'll take one too."
"Two whiskey-punches, and mind you make 'em stiff," said Jim.
He tossed down his glass, but Sam drank more slowly.
Jim paid for the drinks, and they went out into the street.
CHAPTER XXIV.
SAM'S EXCUSES.
Sam was not used to liquor, and was more easily affected than most.
When he got out into the street his head spun round, and he staggered.
His companion observed it.
"Why, you don't mean ter say yer tight, Sam?" he said, pausing and
looking at him.
"I don't know what it is," said Sam, "but I feel queer."
"Kinder light in the head, and shaky in the legs?"
"Yes, that's the way I feel."
"Then you're drunk."
"Drunk!" ejaculated Sam, rather frightened, for he was still
unsophisticated compared with his companion.
"Just so. I say, you must be a chicken to get tight on one
whiskey-punch," added Jim, rather contemptuously.
"It was strong," said Sam, by way of apology, leaning against a
lamp-post for support.
"It was stiffish," said Jim. "I always take 'em so."
"And don't you feel it at all?" queried Sam.
"Not a bit," said Jim, decidedly. "I aint a baby."
"Nor I either," said Sam, with a spark of his accustomed spirit. "Only
I aint used to it."
"Why, I could take three glasses, one after the other, without gettin'
tight," said Jim, proudly. "I tell you, I've got a strong stomach."
"I wish I hadn't taken the drink," said Sam. "When will I feel
better?"
"In an hour or two."
"I can't go back to the doctor this way. He'll know I've been
drinkin'. I wish I could lie down somewhere."
"I'll tell you what. Come round to the ferry-room. You can sit down
there till you feel better."
"Give me your arm, Jim. I'm light-headed."
With Jim's assistance Sam made his way to Fulton Ferry, but instead of
going over in the next boat he leaned back in his seat in the
waiting-room, and rested. Jim walked about on the pier, his hands in
his pocket, with an independent air. He felt happy and prosperous.
Never before in his life, probably, had he had so much money in his
possession. Some men with a hundred thousand dollars would have felt
poorer than Jim with nine dollars and a half.
By and by Sam felt enough better to start on his homeward journey. Jim
agreed to accompany him as far as the New York side.
"I don't know what the doctor will say when he finds out the money is
gone," said Sam, soberly.
"You just tell him it was stolen from you by a pickpocket."
"Suppose he don't believe it?"
"He can't prove nothin'."
"He might search me."
"So he might," said Jim. "I'll tell you what you'd better do."
"What?"
"Just give me the money to keep for you. Then if he searches you, he
won't find it."
If Jim expected this suggestion to be adopted, he undervalued Sam's
shrewdness. That young man had not knocked about the streets eight
months for nothing.
"I guess not," said Sam, significantly. "Maybe I wouldn't find it any
easier if you took it."
"You don't call me a thief, do you?" demanded Jim, offended.
"It looks as if we was both thieves," said Sam, candidly.
"You needn't talk so loud," said Jim, hurriedly. "There's no use in
tellin' everybody that I see. I don't want the money, only, if the old
man finds it, don't blame me."
"You needn't be mad, Jim," said Sam. "I'll need the money myself. I
guess I'll have to hide it."
"Do you wear stockin's?" asked Jim.
"Yes; don't you?"
"Not in warm weather. They aint no good. They only get dirty. But if
you wear 'em, that's the place to hide the money."
"I guess you're right," said Sam. "I wouldn't have thought of it.
Where can I do it?"
"Wait till we're on the New York side. You can sit down on one of the
piers and do it. Nobody'll see you."
Sam thought this good advice, and decided to follow it.
"There is some use in stockin's," said Jim, reflectively. "If I was in
your place, I wouldn't know where to stow away the money. Where are
you goin' now?"
"I'll have to go back," said Sam. "I've been a long time already."
"I'm goin to get some dinner," said Jim.
"I haven't got time," said Sam. "Besides, I don't feel so hungry as
usual. I guess it's the drink I took."
"It don't take away my appetite," said his companion, with an air of
superiority.
Sam took the cars home. Knowing what he did, it was with an
uncomfortable feeling that he ascended the stairs and entered the
presence of Dr. Graham.
The doctor looked angry.
"What made you so long?" he demanded abruptly. "Did you find the
house?"
"No," answered Sam, wishing that his embarrassing explanations were
fully over. "No, I didn't."
"You didn't find the house!" exclaimed the doctor, in angry surprise.
"Why didn't you?"
"I thought it wasn't any use," stammered Sam.
"Wasn't any use!" repeated the chiropodist. "Explain yourself, sir, at
once."
"As long as I hadn't got the letter," proceeded Sam.
Now the secret was out.
"What did you do with the letter?" demanded Dr. Graham, suspiciously.
"I lost it."
"Lost it! How could you lose it? Did you know there was money in it?"
said his employer, looking angry and disturbed.
"Yes, sir; you said so."
"Then why were you not careful of it, you young rascal?"
"I was, sir; that is, I tried to be. But it was stolen."
"Who would steal the letter unless he knew that it contained money?"
"That's it, sir. I ought not to have told anybody."
"Sit down, and tell me all about it, or it will be the worse for you,"
said the doctor.
"Now for it!" thought Sam.
"You see, sir," he commenced, "I was in the horse-cars in Brooklyn,
when I saw a boy I knew. We got to talking, and, before I knew it, I
told him that I was carryin' a letter with money in it. I took it out
of my coat-pocket, and showed it to him."
"You had no business to do it," said Dr. Graham. "No one but a fool
would show a money-letter. So the boy stole it, did he?"
"Oh, no," said Sam, hastily. "It wasn't he."
"Who was it, then? Don't be all day telling your story," said the
doctor, irritably.
"There was a young man sitting on the other side of me," said Sam. "He
was well-dressed, and I didn't think he'd do such a thing; but he must
have stole the letter."
"What makes you think so?"
"He got out only two or three minutes afterwards, and it wasn't long
after that that I missed the letter."
"What did you do?"
"I stopped the car, and went back. Jim went back along with me. We
looked all round, tryin' to find the man, but we couldn't."
"Of course you couldn't," growled the doctor. "Did you think he would
stay till you came up?"
"No, sir. That is, I didn't know what to think. I felt so bad about
losing the money," said Sam, artfully.
Now this story was on the whole very well got up. It did not do credit
to Sam's principles, but it did do credit to his powers of invention.
It might be true. There are such men as pickpockets to be found riding
in our city horse-cars, as possibly some of my readers may have
occasion to know. As yet Dr. Graham did not doubt the story of his
young assistant. Sam came very near getting off scot-free.
"But for your carelessness this money would not have been lost," said
his employer. "You ought to make up the loss to me."
"I haven't got any money," said Sam.
A sudden thought came to Dr. Graham. "Empty your pockets," he said.
"How lucky I put the bills in my stocking!" thought Sam.
He turned out his pockets, disclosing fifty cents. It was Friday, and
to-morrow his weekly wages would come due.
"That's all I've got," he said.
"Twenty dollars is five weeks salary," said Dr. Graham. "You ought to
work for me five weeks without pay."
"I'd starve to death," said Sam, in alarm. "I wouldn't be able to buy
anything to eat."
"I can keep back part of your salary, then," said his employer. "It is
only proper that you should suffer for your negligence."
At this moment a friend of the doctor's entered the office.
"What is the matter?" he asked.
Dr. Graham explained briefly.
"Perhaps," said the visitor, "I can throw some light upon your loss."
"You! How?"
"I happened to be coming over from Brooklyn an hour since on the same
boat with that young man there," he said, quietly.
Sam turned pale. There was something in the speaker's tone that
frightened him.
CHAPTER XXV.
BROUGHT TO JUSTICE.
Sam would have been glad to leave the office, but he knew that to ask
would be to subject him to increased suspicion. Besides, the stranger
might not be intending to accuse him.
Dr. Graham's attention was excited, and he asked, "Do you know
anything of this matter, Mr. Clement?"
"Yes, doctor. As I said, I was on board the Brooklyn ferry with this
young man and a friend of his, whom I believe he addressed as Jim. I
heard them talk, being in the next seat, about money, and something
was said about concealment. My curiosity was aroused, and I made up my
mind to follow them after they left the boat."
"He knows all about it," thought Sam. "I wish I hadn't come back."
"Go on," said Dr. Graham, eying Sam sternly as he spoke. "You followed
the boys?"
"Yes. They made their way to the end of a pier, where this young man
of yours slipped off his stockings, and, as well as I could tell, for
I was watching at a distance, concealed some bills in them, and
afterwards drew them on again. It struck me at once that if the money
had been honestly come by, they wouldn't have been so anxious to
secrete it."
"Sam," said the doctor, sternly, "what have you to say to this
charge?"
"It was my money," stammered Sam.
"What did you put it in your stockings for?"
"Jim told me how dangerous it was to carry it round in my pocket
loose. So, as I hadn't any pocket-book, I put it in my stockings."
"Very probable, indeed. Suppose you take off your stockings."
Sam had decided objections to this; but he saw that it would be of no
use to urge them, and slowly and reluctantly complied.
"Now put in your hand, and take out the money."
Sam did so.
The doctor counted the bills.
"Here are only nine dollars," he said. "Take out the rest."
"There isn't any more," said Sam.
"Don't attempt to deceive me," said his employer, sternly. "It will be
the worse for you if you do."
"There isn't any more," persisted Sam, earnestly. "If you don't
believe it, you may look yourself."
Dr. Graham did so, and found the statement correct.
"There were twenty dollars in the letter," he said, sternly. "What has
become of the other eleven?"
There was no use in persisting in denial further, and Sam made a
virtue of necessity.
"Jim got half the money," he confessed.
"Who's Jim?"
"Jim Nolan."
"How came he to get half the money? Did you owe it to him?"
For the first time it struck Sam that he had been a fool to give away
ten dollars without adequate return. All that Jim had given him was
bad advice, which is never worth taking.
"I don't know how I came to give it to him," said Sam. "It was he who
wanted me to take the money. I wouldn't have done it but for Jim."
"It strikes me," said Mr. Clement, "that Jim is not a very desirable
companion. So you gave him ten dollars?"
"Yes, sir."
"Did you spend any of the money?" asked Dr. Graham.
"Yes, sir."
"In what way?"
"I went in with Jim, and played a game of billiards."
"Paying for the game with my money?"
"Yes, sir."
"What else?"
"Jim took me into a drinking-place, and treated me to a
whiskey-punch."
"Also with my money, I suppose."
"Yes, sir; he wanted to get the ten-dollar bill changed."
"Was this in Brooklyn or New York?"
"In Brooklyn."
"Upon my word, very well planned. So you expected me to believe your
story about having your pocket picked. Did you?"
"Yes, sir."
"A pretty story, Mr. Clement," said the doctor, turning to his friend.
"What would you advise me to do, arrest the boy?"
"Oh, don't," implored Sam, turning pale; "I'll never do it again."
"You won't have the chance," said the doctor, drily.
"If you ask my advice," said Mr. Clement, "I will give it. I suspect
this Jim is the worse boy of the two. Now he's got ten dollars of your
money."
"Yes, sir."
"Do you mean to let him keep it?"
"He's spent part of it by this time."
"You can get the rest back."
"How? I don't know the boy."
"You know his name. The Superintendent of the Newsboys Lodging House
could probably put you on his track. Besides, your boy here can help
you."
"I don't know but you are right."
"Sam," said Mr. Clement, "are you willing to help Dr. Graham get back
his money?"
"I don't like to get Jim into a scrape," said Sam.
"It seems he's got you into a scrape. It is your only chance of
escaping being sent to Blackwell's Island."
"Will Jim be sent there?"
"That depends on the doctor. If this Jim will give back what he has of
the money you gave him, and agree to give back the rest as soon as he
earns it, I think the doctor will let him off."
"Then I'll do what I can," said Sam.
"As for you," said the doctor, "I shall retain these nine dollars;
also the four I was to have paid you to-morrow. If I get back the full
amount from your confederate, I will pay you the difference. Now how
can you get at this Jim?"
"He'll be somewhere around City Hall Park," said Sam.
"You may go in search of him. Tell him to come to this office with
you. If he don't come he will be arrested, and I will have no mercy
upon him. If you undertake to play me false, the same fate awaits
you."
"Don't be afraid," said Sam. "I'll come back, honor bright!"
"Do you think he will?" asked Dr. Graham, turning to Mr. Clement.
"Yes, for he knows it wouldn't be safe for him to stay away."
"Go away, then, and come back as soon as possible."
Sam made all haste to the City Hall Park, where he expected to find
Jim. He was not disappointed. Jim was sitting on one of the steps of
the City Hall smoking a cigar. He had the air of a gentleman of
leisure and independent income, with no cares to disturb or harass
him.
He did not see Sam till the latter called him by name.
"Where'd you come from, Sam?" he asked, placidly.
"From the office."
"Did the boss make a row about the money?"
"You bet he did!"
"Ho didn't find out, did he?"
"Yes, he did."
Jim looked up now.
"He don't know anything about me does he?" he inquired.
"I had to tell him."
"That's mean!" exclaimed Jim. "You'd ought to be ashamed to tell on a
friend."
"I had to. There was a chap--a friend of the doctor's--that was on the
boat, and heard us talkin' about the money. He followed us, and saw me
stuff the money in my stockin'."
Jim indulged in a profane ejaculation.
"What's he goin' to do about it?" he asked.
"He's made me give up the money, and he's sent me for you."
"I won't go," said Jim, hastily.
"You'd better. If you don't, you'll be took up."
"What am I to go to the office for?" asked Jim, rather startled.
"To give up the money."
"I've spent two dollars."
"If you give up what's left, and agree to pay the rest, he'll let you
off."
"Did he say so?"
"Yes, he told me so."
If there had been any hope of escaping with the money, Jim would have
declined calling on Dr. Graham; but of that he knew there was little
chance. Indeed, he was not altogether unknown to the police, having,
on two or three previous occasions, come under their notice. So,
considerably less cheerful than before, he accompanied Sam to the
office.
"Is this the boy?" asked the doctor, surveying Sam's companion
attentively.
"Yes, sir."
"I am glad to see you, young man," said the doctor, drily. "Suppose we
settle money matters first of all. How much have you left?"
Jim drew out eight dollars in bills.
"So far, so good. You owe me two dollars."
"Yes, sir."
"I won't ask for your note of hand. I'm afraid I couldn't negotiate
it; but I expect you to pay me back the balance by instalments. If
not, I shall know where to lay hold of you."
Jim had nothing to say.
"Now you can go. Sam, you can stay."
"I suppose he's goin' to send me off," thought Sam.
"You may stay till to-morrow night, Sam," said the doctor, "and I will
pay you what balance I owe you. After that, I think we had better part
company. You are a little too enterprising for me."
Sam made no objection. In fact, he had got tired of the confinement,
and thought it would be an agreeable variety to return to his old life
again. The next evening, therefore, he retired from professional life,
and, with a balance of fifty cents in his possession, set up once more
as a street vagabond. When Jim Nolan paid up his indebtedness, he
would be entitled to two dollars more. Until then he was held for the
debt of his confederate.
CHAPTER XXVI.
PIPKIN'S DINING-ROOMS.
Sunday is a dull day with the street-boys, whatever their business may
be. The boot-blacks lose least, but if the day be unpropitious their
earnings are small. On such a day the Newsboys Lodge is a great
resource. It supplies all that a boy actually needs--lodging and two
meals--for the small sum of eighteen cents, and in cases of need will
trust boys to that amount.
Sam naturally had recourse to this hold on finding himself out of a
situation. He had enough to pay his expenses, and did not feel
compelled to go to work till Monday. Monday morning, however, the
reduced state of his finances compelled him to look for employment. If
he had had a little capital he might have set up as a newsboy or
boot-black, but five cents can hardly be considered sufficient capital
for either of these lines of business. Credit is the next best thing
to capital, but Sam had no credit. He found that out, after an
ineffectual attempt to borrow money of a boot-black, who, having ten
dollars in a savings-bank, was regarded in his own class with high
respect as a wealthy capitalist. The name of this exceptional young
man was William Clark, better known among the boys as Ready Money
Bill.
When twelve o'clock came, and Sam had earned nothing, he bethought
himself of Bill, the capitalist.
"Bill," he said, "I want to borrer a dollar."
"You do!" said Bill, sharply. "What for?"
"To set me up in business."
"What business?"
"Evenin' papers."
"Haven't you got no stamps?"
"No."
"What have you been doin'?"
"I've been in an office."
"Why didn't you stay?"
"The boss thought he wouldn't need me no longer."
"I see," said Bill, nodding. "You got sacked."
"Not exactly."
"Same thing."
"Will you lend me the money?"
"I'd never get it back ag'in."
"Yes, you would."
"I dunno about that. Where'd you get money to pay me back?"
"The boss owes me two dollars."
"Why don't he pay you?"
"One of my friends cheated him out of it, and he won't pay me till
it's paid back."
"May be he won't pay it back."
"Yes, he will. Will you lend me the money?"
"No, I won't. You'd ought to have saved money like I have."
"I'd have had two dollars, if Jim hadn't stolen money."
"That aint my fault. I aint goin' to lose my money for you. You can
save like I do."
Bill was right, no doubt. He was a bee, and Sam was a drone, and the
drones are always ready to avail themselves of the accumulations of
their more industrious brothers.
Sam began to feel hungry. However irregular he might be in other ways,
his appetite was surprisingly regular. He paused in front of a
restaurant, and looked wistfully in at the windows.
"I wish I was a waiter," he thought. "They have all they want to eat
every day."
It will be seen that Sam's ambition was not a lofty one. But then he
was practical enough to see that three square meals a day are more to
be desired than empty fame.
As he was standing at the window a man from within came to the door.
Being without a hat, Sam supposed him to be connected with the
restaurant, as, indeed, he was. Sam drew back, supposing that he was
to be sent off. But here he was mistaken.
"Come here, Johnny," said the proprietor, for it was the owner of the
restaurant who addressed our hero.
Sam approached wondering.
"Have you had dinner?"
"No," said Sam, promptly.
"Would you like some?"
Sam's answer, in the affirmative, was equally prompt.
"But you haven't any money, eh?"
"That's so," said Sam. "Wonder how he found out?" he thought.
"We don't give away dinners, but you can earn one," said Mr. Pipkin,
for it was Pipkin's restaurant.
"Do you want me for a waiter?" asked Sam, hopefully.
"No; you wouldn't do. You haven't had experience. I want a boy to
distribute handbills in front of the saloon. Can you do that?"
"Yes, I can," said Sam, eagerly. "I've done that before."
"All right. Come in."
Sam entered. He hoped that a preliminary dinner would be offered him,
but Mr. Pipkin was not in the habit of paying in advance, and,
perhaps, he was right. He brought forward a pile of circulars about
the same size as Dr. Graham's, and handed them to Sam.
"I've just opened a new saloon," he said, "and I want to invite the
patronage of the public. Stand here, and distribute these to the
passers-by."
"All right," said Sam. "When will you give me some dinner?"
"In about an hour. This is the time when people generally dine, and I
want to catch as many as I can."
Sam read one of the circulars rapidly.
This is the way it read:
"PIPKIN'S DINING-ROOMS.
Unsurpassed for the excellence of cookery, and the
cheapness of prices.
Call once,
And you will be sure to come again."
"I'm goin' to come once, and I'll call again if they'll let me," said
Sam to himself.
In about an hour he was called in. The customers had thinned out, but
there were a few at the tables. Sam was directed to sit down at a
table in the back part of the room.
"Now, then," said the waiter, "hurry up, young 'un, and tell us what
you want."
"Roast turkey and cranberry sauce," ordered Sam.
"All out. Try again," was the laconic reply.
"Roast chicken."
"That's all out too."
Sam looked disappointed.
"Oyster stew."
"All out."
"Is everything out?"
"No; there's some roast veal, unless you prefer hash."
"I don't like hash," said Sam, decidedly. "Bring on your veal, and
don't forget the potatoes, and some bread and butter."
"You've got a healthy appetite," said the waiter.
"You bet I have, and I've a right to it. I've earned my dinner, and I
want it."
The articles he had ordered were brought, and he attacked them with
vigor. Then he called for a second course.
"A piece of mince-pie."
"All out," said the waiter.
"Apple-pie."
"That's out."
"I guess your customers all had healthy appetites to-day," said Sam.
"Bring on something or other, and mind you bring enough of it."
A plate of rice-pudding was set before him, and speedily appropriated.
He tried to get a second plate, but his application was unsuccessful.
He was given to understand that he was entitled to only one plate, and
was forced to rise from the table not wholly satisfied.
CHAPTER XXVII.
CONCLUSION.
Sam did not retain his new position long. A week later he was
dismissed. Though no reason was assigned, the proprietor probably
thought it better to engage a boy with a smaller appetite. But Sam was
by no means discouraged. He was more self-reliant than when nearly a
year before he entered the city, and more confident of rubbing along
somehow. If he could not sell papers, he could black boots. If wholly
without capital, he could haunt the neighborhood of the piers, and
seek employment as a baggage-smasher.
For the next two years it will be unnecessary to detail Sam's
experiences. They did not differ materially from those of other
street-boys,--now a day of plenty, now of want, now a stroke of luck,
which made him feel rich as a millionnaire, now a season of bad
fortune. Day by day, and week by week, his recollections of his
country home became more vague, and he could hardly realize that he
had ever lived anywhere else than in the streets of New York. It was
at this time that the unexpected encounter with Deacon Hopkins brought
back the memories of his early life, and led him to contrast them
curiously with his present experiences. There did not seem much for
Sam to be proud of, ragged vagabond as he was; but for all that he
looked down upon his former self with ineffable contempt.
"What a greenhorn I was when I first came to the city!" he reflected.
"How easy I was took in! I didn't know nothin' about life then. How
sick I was when I smoked my first cigar! Now, I can smoke half a
dozen, one after the other, only I can't raise the stamps to buy 'em.
How I fooled the deacon, though!" and Sam laughed in hearty enjoyment
of the joke. "I wonder what'll he say of me when he gets back."
Sam plunged his hands deep down into his pockets. There was nothing to
hinder, for, as usual, they were empty. He had spent the small amount
obtained from the deacon, and he was just even with the world. He had
neither debts nor assets. He had only daily recurring wants, and these
he was not always able to supply.
It was in the afternoon of the day made memorable by his interview
with the deacon that another adventure befell Sam. As it exhibits him
in a more favorable light than usual, I am glad to chronicle it.
He was lounging about, waiting for something to turn up, when he felt
a little hand slipped into his, and heard a small voice pleading,
"Take me home. I'm lost."
Sam looked down in surprise to find his hand clasped by a little boy,
apparently about four years of age. What attracted him to Sam is
uncertain. Possibly his face seemed familiar to the little boy.
"What's your name, Johnny?" asked Sam, gently.
"My name aint Johnny; it's Bertie," said the little boy.
"What's your other name?"
"Dalton."
"Bertie Dalton?"
"Yes. I want to go home."
"So you shall," said Sam, good-naturedly, "if you'll tell me where you
