governor, won't \ve have fine times now, we three to- 
gether ? " And, school-boy fashion, George gave a great 
bound for joy. 
A rose flush had risen in Martha's cheek ; her eyes 
were gentle now. "/will keep the house/' she said 
softly, as if to herself, and smiled. 
"Yes, you shall," said George; "you shall, my 
pretty one. Hurrah for the little housekeeper of 
Misery Landing! Won't it be nice, governor, to 
find her here when we come in from hunting?" 
"Very nice, my boy; only I fear I cannot enjoy 
the sight with you. But that need make no differ- 
ence." 
"Well, no," replied George, with the frank ingrat- 
itude of youth. " But I 'm sorry on your own ac- 
count, governor; we'd have been so comfortable all 
together. Marthy would have been like a daughter 
to you." 
"Thank you, George; you are very kind. But I 
must go." 
" Soon, governor ? " 
" I'll stay to see you married, my boy. Suppose 
we say next Tuesday ? I will give a ball, and in- 
vite all the village to do you honor." 
" Next Tuesday ! my ! " ejaculated George in the 
excess of his joy. Words failed him, but he caught 
his love in his arms. That at least needed no lan- 
guage. 
 
The girl burst from his embrace. " "What ! " she 
cried, in a voice strained high with passion, " I 
marry you, you ungrateful dog! Never, never, here 
or anywhere ! I will die first ! " The door closed 
after her, and the two men stood gazing at vacancy. 
A week later at Misery Landing there is a boy 
racked with fever ; a man nurses him, if not ten- 
derly, at least with exactest care. 
"She will not see me, even see me!" cries the 
delirious voice. " Marthy ! my little 'Marthy ! " 
The days pass ; the fever lasts, and consumes the 
small store of strength ; still, night and day, the 
voice of the sick boy never ceases its cry for her he 
loves. His heart exhausts its last drops in calling 
her name. At length the burning tide finds nothing 
more to nourish it, and departs, leaving death to fin- 
ish the work The boy is conscious again, but wasted, 
pale, and pinched, his form under the sheet like a 
skeleton, his voice a whisper, his hands strangely 
white and weak. He lies in the luxurious hammock- 
bed, but notices nothing; his large eyes are closed, 
his breath labored. The man who watches him so 
closely is trying every human device to raise him to 
life again ; for three days, for a week, night and day 
he tends him, administering hour by hour drops of 
delicate cordial and the small nourishment his feeble 
frame will bear, laying, as it were, the very atoms in 
place for a new foundation. But he gains almost 
 
nothing, since the hopeless mind he cannot reach, 
and that is killing the body. In the night he finds 
the boy weeping; too weak to sob aloud, the great 
tears on his pale cheeks bear witness to his despair. 
There came a night when, rousing suddenly from a 
sleep which had overwhelmed his weary eyes, he 
thought the boy was dead, so rigid and so motion- 
less seemed the still form under the sheet. He 
shuddered. Was it death? "I have done all I 
could," he said to himself, hurriedly, as he had often 
said it before; but the words failed this time, and 
he stood face to face for one bare moment with his 
inmost self. Then, pale as the face before him, he 
approached the bed, and laid his trembling hand 
upon the heart. It was still beating. The boy slept. 
Calling the old half-breed to keep watch, John Jay 
rushed out into the night, climbed down the ladder, 
and rowed the boat swiftly across the bay toward 
the village. As the sun rose above the eastern woods 
he reached the beach cottage, and found the girl out- 
side. Without a word he took her hand and led her 
to the boat. She followed mutely, and in silence 
they took the journey together, nor paused until they 
stood in the presence of the sleeping boy. Then the 
man spoke. "He will die unless you love him, 
Martha." 
" I cannot," answered the girl, bowing her face upon 
her hands. 
 
" Then, at least let him love you ; that will suffice 
him, poor fellow ! " 
She did not speak. 
"Martha," said the gentleman, bending over her 
and drawing away her hands, "what I tell you is 
absolutely true. I have done my best, as far as skill 
and care can go ; but the boy no, he is a man 
now cannot live without you. Look at him. Will 
you let him die?" 
He drew her forward. Hand in hand they stood 
together and gazed upon the poor pinched face before 
them ; from long habit a tear even in sleep crept 
from under the closed lids. 
"We cannot do this thing, Martha," said the man 
in a low deep voice. He turned away a moment and 
left her there alone; then coming back to the bed- 
side, he lifted the sleeper, laid him in her arms, his 
head resting on her shoulder, and without a word 
went away into the wide world again, leaving Misery 
Landing behind him forever. 
Two weeks later he presented himself at the door 
of Francesca's opera-box in the Academy. Francesca 
was still beautiful, and still Francesca : no " Madame " 
graced her card. 
" Good evening, Mr. Jay," she said, smiling the same 
old beautiful smile. " You have been away just a year 
in the wilderness. I hope you have enjoyed yourself ? " 
" Immensely," answered John. 
 
EPILOGUE. 
Place, Fifth Avenue mansion. Scene, Dinner. Time, 7 P. M. 
MRS. JAY. " By the way, John, you have never told 
me about that Lake Superior hermitage of yours, 
Misery Landing, wasn't it ? I suppose you behaved 
very badly there." 
JOHN JAY. " Of course. I always do, you know. 
Hand me a peach, please. That claret-colored velvet 
becomes you admirably, Francesca." 
MRS. JAY. " Do you think so ? I am so glad. I 
made a real study of this trimming. But about Misery 
Landing, John ; you never told me " 
JOHN JAY. " And never shall, madame." 
SOLOMON. 
MIDWAY in the eastern part of Ohio lies the 
coal country; round-topped hills there begin 
to show themselves in the level plain, trending back 
from Lake Erie; afterwards rising higher and higher, 
they stretch away into Pennsylvania and are dignified 
by the name of AUeghany Mountains. But no names 
have they in their Ohio birthplace, and little do the 
people care for them, save as storehouses for fueL The 
roads lie along the slow-moving streams, and the farm- 
ers ride slowly over them in their broad-wheeled wag- 
ons, now and then passing dark holes in the bank from 
whence come little carts into the sunshine, and men, 
like silhouettes, walking behind them, with glow-worm 
lamps fastened in their hat-bands. Neither farmers 
nor miners glance up towards the hilltops ; no doubt 
they consider them useless mounds, and, were it not 
for the coal, they would envy their neighbors of the 
grain-country, whose broad, level fields stretch un- 
broken through Central Ohio ; as, however, the canal- 
boats go away full, and long lines of coal-cars go away 
full, and every man's coal-shed is full, and money 
conies back from the great iron-mills of Pittsburgh, 
Cincinnati, and Cleveland, the coal country, though 
unknown in a picturesque point of view, continues to 
grow rich and prosperous. 
Yet picturesque it is, and no part more so than the 
valley where stands the village of the quaint German 
Community on the banks of the slow-moving Tusca- 
rawas River. One October day we left the lake behind 
us and journeyed inland, following the water-courses 
and looking forward for the first glimpse of rising 
ground ; blue are the waters of Erie on a summer day, 
red and golden are its autumn sunsets, but so level, so 
deadly level are its shores that, at times, there comes 
a longing for the sight of distant hills. Hence our 
journey. Night found us still in the ""Western Re- 
serve." Ohio has some queer names of her own for 
portions of her territory, the " Fire Lands," the " Do- 
nation Grant," the "Salt Section," the "Refugee's 
Tract," and the "Western Reserve" are names well 
known, although not found on the maps. Two days 
more and we came into the coal country ; near by were 
the " Moravian Lands," and at the end of the last day's 
ride we crossed a yellow bridge over a stream called 
the "One-Leg Creek." 
" I have tried in vain to discover the origin of this 
name," I said, as we leaned out of the carriage to watch 
the red leaves float down the slow tide. 
 
" Create one, then. A one-legged soldier, a farmer's 
pretty daughter, an elopement in a flat-bottomed boat, 
and a home upon this stream which yields its stores of 
catfish for their support," suggested Erminia. 
" The original legend would be better than that if we 
could only find it, for real life is always better than 
fiction," I answered. 
" In real life we are all masked ; but in fiction the 
author shows the faces as they are, Dora." 
"I do not believe we are all masked, Erminia. I 
can read my friends like a printed page." 
"O, the wonderful faith of youth!" said Erminia, 
retiring upon her seniority. 
Presently the little church on the hill came into 
view through a vista in the trees. "We passed the mill 
and its flowing race, the blacksmith's shop, the great 
grass meadow, and drew up in front of the quaint hotel 
where the trustees allowed the world's people, if unin- 
quisitive and decorous, to remain in the Community 
for short periods of time, on the payment of three dol- 
lars per week for each person. This village was our 
favorite retreat, our little hiding-place in the hill-coun- 
try ; at that time it was almost as isolated as a solitary 
island, for the Community owned thousands of outlying 
acres and held no intercourse with the surrounding 
townships. Content with their own, unmindful of the 
rest of the world, these Germans grew steadily richer 
and richer, solving quietly the problem of co-operative 
 
labor, while the French and Americans worked at it in 
vain with newspapers, orators, and even cannon to aid 
them. The members of the Community were no as- 
cetic anchorites j each tiled roof covered a home with a 
thrifty mother and train of grave little children, the 
girls in short-waisted gowns, kerchiefs, and frilled caps, 
and the boys in tailed coats, long-flapped vests, and 
trousers, as soon as they were able to toddle. We 
liked them all, we liked the life ; we liked the moun- 
tain-high beds, the coarse snowy linen, and the remark- 
able counterpanes ; we liked the cream-stewed chicken, 
the Kase-lab, and fresh butter, but, best of all, the hot 
bretzels for breakfast. And let not the hasty city im- 
agination turn to the hard, salty, sawdust cake in the 
shape of a broken-down figure eight which is served 
with lager-beer in saloons and gardens. The Com- 
munity bretzel was of a delicate flaky white in the 
inside, shading away into a golden-brown crust of crisp 
involutions, light as a feather, and flanked by little 
pats of fresh, unsalted butter, and a deep-blue cup 
wherein the coffee was hot, the cream yellow, and the 
sugar broken lumps from the old-fashioned loaf, now 
alas ! obsolete. 
We stayed among the simple people and played at 
shepherdesses and pastorellas; we adopted the hours 
of the birds, we went to church on Sunday and sang 
German chorals as old as Luther. We even played at 
work to the extent of helping gather apples, eating the 
 
best, and riding home on top of the loaded four-horse 
wains. But one day we heard of a new diversion, a 
sulphur-spring over the hills about two miles from the 
hotel on land belonging to the Community ; and, obey- 
ing the fascination which earth's native medicines exer- 
cise over all earth's children, we immediately started in 
search of the nauseous spring. The road wound over 
the hill, past one of the apple-orchards, where the girls 
were gathering the red fruit, and then down a little 
declivity where the track branched off to the Com- 
munity coal-mine ; then a solitary stretch through the 
thick woods, a long hill with a curve, and at the foot a 
little dell with a patch of meadow, a brook, and a log- 
house with overhanging roof, a forlorn house unpainted 
and desolate. There was not even the blue door which 
enlivened many of the Community dwellings. " This 
looks like the huts of the Black Forest," said Erminia. 
" Who would have supposed that we should find such 
an antique in Ohio ! " 
" I am confident it was built by the M. B.'s," I re- 
plied. " They tramped, you know, extensively through 
the State, burying axes and leaving every now and 
then a mastodon behind them." 
"Well, if the Mound-Builders selected this site 
they showed good taste," said Erminia, refusing, in her 
afternoon indolence, the argunaentum nonsensicum with 
which we were accustomed to enliven our conversation. 
It was, indeed, a lovely spot, the little meadow, 
 
smooth and bright as green velvet, the brook chatter- 
ing over the pebbles, and the hills, gay in red and 
yellow foliage, rising abruptly on all sides. After some 
labor we swung open the great gate and entered the 
yard, crossed the brook on a mossy plank, and followed 
the path through the grass towards the lonely house. 
An old shepherd-dog lay at the door of a dilapidated 
shed, like a block-house, which had once been a stable ; 
he did not bark, but, rising slowly, came along beside 
us, a large, gaunt animal that looked at us with such 
melancholy eyes that Erminia stooped to pat him. 
Ermine had a weakness for dogs; she herself owned 
a wild beast of the dog kind that went by the name 
of the " Emperor Trajan " ; and, accompanied by this 
dignitary, she was accustomed to stroll up the avenues 
of C , lost in maiden meditations. 
We drew near the house and stepped up on the 
sunken piazza, but no signs of life appeared. The 
little loophole windows were pasted over with paper, 
and the plank door had no latch or handle. I knocked, 
but no one came. " Apparently it is a haunted house, 
and that dog is the spectre," I said, stepping back. 
" Knock three times," suggested Ermine ; " that is 
what they always do in ghost-stories." 
"Try it yourself. My knuckles are not cast- 
iron." 
Ermine picked up a stone and began tapping on the 
door. " Open sesame," she said, and it opened. 
 
Instantly the dog slunk away to his block-house and 
a woman confronted us, her dull face lighting up as 
her eyes ran rapidly over our attire from head to foot. 
"Is there a sulphur-spring here?" I asked. "We 
would like to try the water." 
" Yes, it 's here fast enough in the back hall. Come 
in, ladies ; I 'm right proud to see you. From the city, 
I suppose ? " 
" From C ," I answered ; " we are spending a few 
days in the Community." 
Our hostess led the way through the little hall, and 
throwing open a back door pulled up a trap in the 
floor, and there we saw the spring, a shallow well 
set in stones, with a jar of butter cooling in its white 
water. She brought a cup, and we drank. "Deli- 
cious," said Ermine. "The true, spoiled-egg flavor! 
Four cups is the minimum allowance, Dora." 
" I reckon it 's good for the insides," said the woman, 
standing with arms akimbo and staring at us. She 
was a singular creature, with large black eyes, Eoman 
nose, and a mass of black hair tightly knotted on the 
top of her head, but pinched and gaunt; her yellow 
forehead was wrinkled with a fixed frown, and her thin 
lips drawn down in permanent discontent. Her dress 
was a shapeless linsey-woolsey gown, and home-made 
list slippers covered her long, lank feet. " Be that the 
fashion ? " she asked, pointing to my short, closely 
fitting walking-dress. 
 
" Yes," I answered ; " do you like it ? " 
" Well, it does for you, sis, because you 're so little 
and peaked-like, but it wouldn't do for me. The other 
lady, now, don't wear nothing like that; is she even 
with the style, too ? " 
"There is such a thing as being above the style, 
madam," replied Ermine, bending to dip up glass num- 
ber two. 
" Our figgers is a good deal alike," pursued the wo- 
man ; " I reckon that fashion ud suit me best." 
Willowy Erminia glanced at the stick-like hostess. 
" You do me honor," she said, suavely. " I shall con- 
sider myself fortunate, madam, if you will allow me to 
send you patterns from C . What are we if not 
well dressed ? " 
" You have a fine dog," I began hastily, fearing lest 
the great, black eyes should penetrate the sarcasm ; 
" what is his name ? " 
"A stupid beast! He's none of mine; belongs to 
my man." 
" Your husband ? " 
"Yes, my man. He works in the coal-mine over 
the hill." 
" You have no children ? " 
" Not a brat. Glad of it, too." 
"You must be lonely," I said, glancing around the 
desolate house. To my surprise, suddenly the woman 
burst into a flood of tears, and sinking down on the 
floor she rocked from side to side, sobbing, and cover- 
ing her face with her bony hands. 
"What can be the matter with her?" I said in 
alarm; and, in my agitation, I dipped up some sul- 
phur-water and held it to her lips. 
"Take away the smelling stuff, I hate it!" she 
cried, pushing the cup angrily from her. 
Ermine looked on in silence for a moment or two, 
then she took off her neck-tie, a bright-colored Roman 
scarf, and threw it across the trap into the woman's 
lap. " Do me the favor to accept that trifle, madam," 
she said, in her soft voice. 
The woman's sobs ceased as she saw the ribbon ; she 
fingered it with one hand in silent admiration, wiped 
her wet face with the skirt of her gown, and then sud- 
denly disappeared into an adjoining room, closing the 
door behind her. 
" Do you think she is crazy ? " I whispered. 
" no ; merely pensive." 
" Nonsense, Ermine ! But why did you give her 
that ribbon?" 
" To develop her aesthetic taste," replied my cousin, 
finishing her last glass, and beginning to draw on her 
delicate gloves. 
Immediately I began gulping down my neglected 
dose ; but so vile was the odor that some time was 
required for the operation, and in the midst of my 
struggles our hostess reappeared. She had thrown on 
 
an old dress of plaid delaine, a faded red ribbon was 
tied over her head, and around her sinewed throat re- 
posed the Eoman scarf pinned with a glass brooch. 
" Keally, madain, you honor us," said Ermine, gravely. 
" Thankee, marm. It 's so long since I 've had on 
anything but that old bag, and so long since I 've seen 
anything but them Dutch girls over to the Community, 
with their wooden shapes and wooden shoes, that it 
sorter come over me all 't onct what a miserable life 
I 've had. You see, I ain't what I looked like ; now 
I Ve dressed up a bit I feel more like telling you that 
I come of good Ohio stock, without a drop of Dutch 
blood. My father, he kep' a store in Sandy, and I had 
everything I wanted until I must needs get crazy over 
Painting Sol at the Community. Father, he wouldn't 
hear to it, and so I ran away ; Sol, he turned out good 
for nothing to work, and so here I am, yer see, in 
spite of all his pictures making me out the Queen 
of Sheby." 
" Is your husband an artist ? " I asked. 
" No, miss. He 's a coal- miner, he is. But he used 
to like to paint me all sorts of ways. Wait, I 'll show 
yer." Going up the rough stairs that led into the 
attic, the woman came back after a moment with a 
number of sheets of drawing-paper which she hung up 
along the walls with pins for our inspection. They 
were all portraits of the same face, with brick-red 
cheeks, enormous black eyes, and a profusion of shin- 
 
ing black hair hanging down over plump white shoul- 
ders ; the costumes were various, but the faces were 
the same. I gazed in silence, seeing no likeness to 
anything earthly. Erminia took out her glasses and 
scanned the pictures slowly. 
" Yourself, madam, I perceive," she said, much to my 
surprise. 
"Yes, 'm, that 's me," replied our hostess, compla- 
cently. " I never was like those yellow-haired girls 
over to the Community. Sol allers said my face was 
real rental" 
" Eental ? " I repeated, inquiringly. 
"Oriental, of course," said Ermine. "Mr. Mr. 
Solomon is quite right. May I ask the names of these 
characters, madam ? " 
" Queen of Sheby, Judy, Euth, Esthy, Po-co-hon-tus, 
Goddessaliberty, Sunset, and eight Octobers, them with 
the grapes. Sunset 's the one with the red paint be- 
hind it like clouds." 
"Truly a remarkable collection," said Ermine. 
" Does Mr. Solomon devote much time to his art ? " 
" No, not now. He couldn't make a cent out of 
it, so he 's took to digging coal. He painted all them 
when we was first married, and he went a journey all 
the way to Cincinnati to sell 'em. First he was going 
to buy me a silk dress and some ear-rings, and, after 
that, a farm. But pretty soon home he come on a 
canal-boat, without a shilling, and a bringing all the 
 
pictures back with him ! Well, then he tried most 
everything, but he never could keep to any one trade, 
for he 'd just as lief quit work in the middle of the 
forenoon and go to painting; no boss 'll stand that, 
you know. We kep' a going down, and I had to sell 
the few things my father give me when he found I was 
married whether or no, my chany, my feather-beds, 
and my nice clothes, piece by piece. I held on to the 
big looking-glass for four years, but at last it had to go, 
and then I just gave up and put on a linsey-woolsey 
gown. When a girl's spirit 's once broke, she don't 
care for nothing, you know ; so, when the Com- 
munity offered to take Sol back as coal-digger, I just 
said, 'Go,' and we come." Here she tried to smear 
the tears away with her bony hands, and gave a low 
groan. 
" Groaning probably relieves you," observed Ermine. 
" Yes, 'm. It 's kinder company like, when I 'm 
all alone. But you see it 's hard on the prettiest 
girl in Sandy to have to live in this lone lorn place. 
Why, ladies, you mightn't believe it, but I had 
open-work stockings, and feathers in my winter bun- 
nets before I was married ! " And the tears broke 
forth afresh. 
"Accept my handkerchief," said Ermine; "it will 
serve your purpose better than fingers." 
The woman took the dainty cambric and surveyed 
it curiously, held at arm's length. " Keg'lar thistle- 
 
down, now, ain't it ? " she said ; " and smells like a 
locust-tree blossom." 
" Mr. Solomon, then, belonged to the Community ? " 
I asked, trying to gather up the threads of the story. 
" No, he didn't either ; he 's no Dutchman, I reckon, 
he 's a Lake County man, born near Painesville, he is." 
"I thought you spoke as though he had been in 
the Community." 
"So he had; he didn't belong, but he worked for 
'em since he was a boy, did middling well, in spite 
of the painting, until one day, when he come over 
to Sandy on a load of wood and seen me standing 
at the door. That was the end of him," continued 
the woman, with an air of girlish pride; "he could 
n't work no more for thinking of me." 
" Ou la vanit va-t-elle se nicher? " murmured Er- 
mine, rising. "Come, Dora; it is time to return." 
As I hastily finished my last cup of sulphur-water, 
our hostess followed Ermine towards the door. " Will 
you have your handkercher back, marm?" she said, 
holding it out reluctantly. 
" It was a free gift, madam," replied my cousin ; " I 
wish you a good afternoon." 
" Say, will yer be coming again to-morrow ? " asked 
the woman as I took my departure. 
" Very likely ; good by." 
The door closed, and then, but not till then, the 
melancholy dog joined us and stalked behind until we 
 
had crossed the meadow and reached the gate. We 
passed out and turned up the hill; but looking back 
we saw the outline of the woman's head at the upper 
window, and the dog's head at the bars, both watch- 
ing us out of sight. 
In the evening there came a cold wind down from 
the north, and the parlor, with its primitive ventilators, 
square openings in the side of the house, grew chilly. 
So a great fire of soft coal was built in the broad 
Franklin stove, and before its blaze we made good 
cheer, nor needed the one candle which flickered on 
the table behind us. Cider fresh from the mill, carded 
gingerbread, and new cheese crowned the scene, and 
during the evening came a band of singers, the young 
people of the Community, and sang for us the song 
of the Lorelei, accompanied by home-made violins 
and flageolets. At length we were left alone, the 
candle had burned out, the house door was barred, 
and the peaceful Community was asleep ; still we 
two sat together with our feet upon the hearth, look- 
ing down into the glowing coals. 
"Ich weisz nicht was soil es bedeuten 
Dasz ich so traurig bin," 
I said, repeating the opening lines of the Lorelei; 
"I feel absolutely blue to-night." 
"The memory of the sulphur- woman," suggested 
Ermine. 
 
" Sulphur- woman ! What a name ! " 
"Entirely appropriate, in my opinion." 
" Poor thing ! How she longed with a great long- 
ing for the finery of her youth in Sandy." 
"I suppose from those barbarous pictures that she 
was originally in the flesh," mused Ermine ; " at 
present she is but a bony outline." 
" Such as she is, however, she has had her romance," 
I answered. " She is quite sure that there was one 
to love her ; then let come what may, she has had 
her day." 
" Misquoting Tennyson on such a subject ! " said 
Ermine, with disdain. 
" A man 's a man for all that and a woman 's a 
woman too," I retorted. "You are blind, cousin, 
blinded with pride. That woman has had her trage- 
dy, as real and bitter as any that can come to us." 
" What have you to say for the poor man, then ? " 
exclaimed Ermine, rousing to the contest. "If there 
is a tragedy at the sulphur-house, it belongs to the 
sulphur-man, not to the sulphur-woman." 
"He is not a sulphur-man, he is a coal-man; keep 
to your bearings, Ermine." 
"I tell you," pursued my cousin, earnestly, "that 
I pitied that unknown man with inward tears all 
the while I sat by that trap-door. Depend upon it, 
he had his dream, his ideal; and this country girl 
with her great eyes and wealth of hair represented 
 
the beautiful to his hungry soul. He gave his whole 
life and hope into her hands, and woke to find his 
goddess a common wooden image." 
" Waste sympathy upon a coal-miner ! " I said, imi- 
tating my cousin's former tone. 
" If any one is blind, it is you," she answered, 
with gleaming eyes. " That man's whole history stood 
revealed in the selfish complainings of that creature. 
He had been in the Community from boyhood, there- 
fore of course he had no chance to learn life, to see 
its art-treasures. He has been shipwrecked, poor soul, 
hopelessly shipwrecked." 
"She too, Ermine." 
"She!" 
"Yes. If he loved pictures, she loved her chany 
and her feather-beds, not to speak of the big looking- 
glass. No doubt she had other lovers, and might 
have lived in a red brick farmhouse with ten un- 
opened front windows and a blistered front door. 
The wives of men of genius are always to be pitied ; 
they do not soar into the crowd of feminine admirers 
who circle round the husband, and they are therefore 
called 'grubs/ 'worms of the earth,' 'drudges,' and 
other sweet titles." 
" Nonsense," said Ermine, tumbling the arched coals 
into chaos with the poker ; " it 's after midnight, let 
us go up stairs." I knew very well that my beau- 
tiful cousin enjoyed the society of several poets, 
 
painters, musicians, and others of that ilk, without 
concerning herself about their stay-at-home wives. 
The next day the winds were out in battle array, 
howling over the Strasburg hills, raging up and down 
the river, and whirling the colored leaves wildly 
along the lovely road to the One-Leg Creek. Evidently 
there could be no rambling in the painted woods 
that day, so we went over to old Fritz's shop, played 
on his home-made piano, inspected the woolly horse 
who turned his crank patiently in an underground 
den, and set in motion all the curious little images 
which the carpenter's deft fingers had wrought. 
Fritz belonged to the Community, and knew nothing 
of the outside world; he had a taste for mechanism, 
which showed itself in many labor-saving devices, 
and with it all he was the roundest, kindest little 
man, with bright eyes like a canary-bird. 
" Do you know Solomon the coal-miner ? " asked 
Ermine, in her correct, well-learned German. 
" Sol Bangs ? Yes, I know him," replied Fritz, in 
his "Wiirtemberg dialect. 
" What kind of a man is he ? " 
" Good for nothing," replied Fritz, placidly. 
"Why?" 
" Wrong here " ; tapping his forehead. 
" Do you know his wife ? " I asked. 
"Yes." 
" What kind of a woman is she ? " 
 
" Too much tongue. Women must not talk much." 
"Old Fritz touched us both there," I said, as we 
ran back laughing to the hotel through the blustering 
wind. " In his opinion, I suppose, we have the pop- 
ular verdict of the township upon our two prottgfa, 
the sulphur-woman and her husband." 
The next day opened calm, hazy, and warm, the 
perfection of Indian summer ; the breezy hill was out- 
lined in purple, and the trees glowed in rich colors. 
In the afternoon we started for the sulphur-spring 
without shawls or wraps, for the heat was almost 
oppressive; we loitered on the way through the still 
woods, gathering the tinted leaves, and wondering why 
no poet has yet arisen to celebrate in fit words the 
glories of the American autumn. At last we reached 
the turn whence the lonely house came into view, and 
at the bars we saw the dog awaiting us. 
" Evidently the sulphur-woman does not like that 
melancholy animal," I said, as we applied our united 
strength to the gate. 
"Did you ever know a woman of limited mind 
who liked a large dog ? " replied Ermine. " Occasion- 
ally such a woman will fancy a small cur; but to 
appreciate a large, noble dog requires a large, noble 
mind." 
" Nonsense with your dogs and minds," I said, 
laughing. "Wonderful! There is a curtain." 
It was true. The paper had been removed from 
 
one of the windows, and in its place hung some 
white drapery, probably part of a sheet rigged as a 
curtain. 
Before we reached the piazza the door opened, and 
our hostess appeared. "Glad to see yer, ladies," she 
said. " "Walk right in this way to the keeping-room." 
The dog went away to his block-house, and we 
followed the woman into a room on the right of the 
hall; there were three rooms, beside the attic above. 
An Old- World German stove of brick-work occupied 
a large portion of the space, and over it hung a few 
tins, and a clock whose pendulum swung outside; a 
table, a settle, and some stools completed the furni- 
ture ; but on the plastered walls were two rude 
brackets, one holding a cup and saucer of figured 
china, and the other surmounted by a large bunch 
of autumn leaves, so beautiful in themselves and so 
exquisitely arranged that we crossed the room to 
admire them. 
"Sol fixed 'em, he did," said the sulphur- woman ; 
"he seen me setting things to rights, and he would 
do it. I told him they was trash, but he made me 
promise to leave 'em alone in case you should call 
again." 
" Madam Bangs, they would adorn a palace," said 
Ermine, severely. 
"The cup is pretty too," I observed, seeing the 
woman's eyes turn that way. 
 
"It 's the last of my chany," she answered, with 
pathos in her voice, " the very last piece." 
As we took our places on the settle we noticed 
the brave attire of our hostess. The delaine was 
there ; but how altered ! Flounces it had, skimped, 
but still flounces, and at the top was a collar of 
crochet cotton reaching nearly to the shoulders ; the 
hair, too, was braided in imitation of Ermine's sunny 
coronet, and the Eoman scarf did duty as a belt 
around the large flat waist. 
"You see she tries to improve," I whispered, as 
Mrs. Bangs went into the hall to get some sulphur- 
water for us. 
"Vanity," answered Ermine. 
We drank our dose slowly, and our hostess talked 
on and on. Even I, her champion, began to weary 
of her complainings. " How dark it is ! " said Ermine 
at last, rising and drawing aside the curtain. " See, 
Dora, a storm is close upon us." 
We hurried to the door, but one look at the black 
cloud was enough to convince us that we could not 
reach the Community hotel before it would break, 
and somewhat drearily we returned to the keeping- 
room, which grew darker and darker, until our host- 
ess was obliged to light a candle. " Eeckon you 'll 
have to stay all night ; I 'd like to have you, ladies," 
she said. "The Community ain't got nothing cov- 
ered to send after you, except the old king's coach, 
 
and I misdoubt they won't let that out in such a 
