more calmly quiet than this portion of the darksome earth appeared 
to be. A little frosty, the air did not stir enough to rustle the leaves 
on the trees. Crickets and some other fall insects had it all their 
own way. Wych Hazel went over to the ground on the other side of 
the road and tried that. Frosty, and still, and starlight, it was on the 
other side of the road; in the bright gloom even her point of view 
did not seem to be changed. Her next move was back to the 
cottage. There she stood still upon the steps.
Presently the door opened behind her. 'My little lady' said Gyda.
'I am here, all safe.'
'Won't you come in?'
'But I cannot hear anything!' said Hazel. 'I might go a little bit 
down the road'
'No,' said Gyda. 'He wouldn't have you, nor forgive me if I let you. 
There'll be no great trouble, my lady; my lad's men will all do what 
he bids them; and if there's trouble, he'll get it over.'
'Do you think so?'She drew a long breath, stepping down off the 
stone again and listening. The old woman's hand came softly to 
hers to draw her in, for the watch had already lasted long; but just 
then a faint reddish light arose in the dark above the Hollow.
'What's that?'
'It's fire, my lady.'
'There!' Hazel exclaimed. 'O don't stay hereyou will get cold; 
but just leave me.'
Gyda would not leave her however, nor lose sight of her. Their 
words drew Prim to the door, who had earlier returned to the 
cottage. They all stood looking. There was a glow of light 
certainly; it brightened and spread for a while; yet it was rather like 
the glare from a good-sized bonfire than the token of any more 
serious conflagration. Nevertheless they watched it, the younger 
women painfully; until they saw that the light was stationary, did 
not increase, then certainly was less, then evidently fading. 'It's all 
getting over,' said Gyda; 'and it's not great thing at all. Come you 
in before the master gets back. It's your wisest.'
'I never was famed for being wise,' said Hazel, her spirits taking a 
little spring as the fire went down. But she turned and went in, and 
stood before the peaceful fire on the hearth, looking into its red 
depths. Primrose sat down, but with a different face, sober and 
meditative in another way. Gyda went out to her kitchen. Perhaps 
Hazel was tired of standing, for she presently knelt down on the 
hearth stone, holding out her fingers to the blaze, covered with the 
red light from head to foot. She looked rather pale, through it all.
'Prim,' she said suddenly, 'did you ever stay all night up here?'
'No. Never.'
'Then of course you do not know where we are to make believe 
sleep.'
'I suppose it will be in that room where our things were laid. Mrs. 
Boërresen will tell us. Hazel, will you mind, if I say something I 
want to say?'
'I cannot tell whether I shall mind or not.'
'Shall I say it?'
'Yes, if you want to,' said Hazel, devoting herself to the tongs and 
the fallen brands.
'It is only just this.What are you going to do about dress?'
If ever anybody was astonished, it was perhaps Miss Kennedy just 
then.
'Dress!' she echoed, looking at Primrose and then down at the trim, 
invisible brown riding-habit, which, looped up and fastened out of 
the way had been perforce retained through the evening. Very 
stylish, no doubt, as all her dresses were; though in this case the 
best style happening to be simplicity, the brown habit with its deep 
white linen frills was almost severely plain. 'Prim,I have not the 
faintest idea what you mean!'
'I don't mean now, to-night, of course.'
'Any time. What do you mean by "do"?'
'Manage' said Prim. She looked as if she were searching into the 
subject, with a doubtful mood upon her. She went on. 'Do you 
suppose Dane would like you to dress as you have been 
accustomed to do?'
Wych Hazel rose to her feet. Whatever Mr. Rollo's own right to 
comment upon her or her dress might be, she was not in the least 
disposed to take the comments at second hand.
'I should think your recollection might tell you,' she said, 'that Mr. 
Rollo feels quite free to find fault with me whenever he sees 
occasion.'
'But Hazel,' said Prim meekly,'don't be angry,Do you want to 
wait for that?'
Hazel gave a half laugh. 'People always think I am angry,' she 
said.'I wonder if I am such a tempest?'
'You are not a tempest at all,' said Prim still meekly; 'not now, 
certainly; but I know you can feel things, and I don't want you to 
feel anything I say, except pleasantly. Indeed I don't, Hazel.'
'I'm glad you think I can feel things, but I suppose my 
comprehension is less lively. I do not even know what "managing" 
about my dress would be. I never "manage"!' said Hazel, with a 
fierce onset upon the brands.
'I know you haven't. But don't you thinkperhapsyou will have 
to? Don't you think it will be best?'
'I don't know how, and I never do it, and I do not know what you 
mean,' Miss Wych answered, sending a column of sparks up the 
chimney and shewing a few in her own eyes. Which however she 
did not turn upon Primrose. Primrose eyed the sparks which flew 
up chimney, with an unrecognizing face.
'You know, Hazel,' she began again, 'your dress is always so 
beautiful.'
'Well? If my guardians ever find it out, they never object.'
'But you know, Hazel! you know!' exclaimed Primrose in some 
distress. 'How shall I speak to you? Your guardians would not 
meddle, I suppose, either of them; but don't you think, now, that 
Dane will want you to do a little as he does? Do you think he will 
like you to dress so expensively? and you know you do, Hazel. 
And he gave up his cigars long ago.'
If Prim could have known all the minute thorns she was sticking 
into her friend! Hazel was vexed enough to laugh, or to cry, or to 
do anything, almost.
'I am glad he has,'she said, 'but really I have nothing answering 
to cigars in all my list of expenses.'
'O Hazel! don't you think so?'
'No. I suppose you like them better than I do.'
'What, cigars?'
'Yes. I should think any man would be thankful to get rid of them. 
Mr. Falkirk never smokes.'
'I don't like them. But men do. And Dane always smoked such 
delicious cigarsI used to catch the sweet scent of them often in 
summer time, when windows were open, and then I knew he was 
lingering about somewhere near; in the garden or the meadow.' 
Prim gave the least little unconscious sigh as she spoke. Hazel 
glanced at her, and her own face grew very thoughtful. The subject 
of dress was left quite in the distance.
'And he has given all that up,' Prim went on; 'and I thought, 
perhaps, you had not thought about it. All this about dress, I mean.'
'No, I have not,' said Hazel. 'Especially as I do not know what "all 
this" is. What to do with cigars seems clear; but my dresses hang 
in the dark. Never mind,a girl with two guardians is not likely to 
go very far in any direction.' And Hazel carefully set the tongs in 
place, and swept up the hearth; and then suddenly caught up her 
shawl again and wrapped it round her.
'What can have become of that fire?' she said. 'It is an age since we 
came in. Let's go and see.'
But opening the door revealed only the quiet, clear, starry sky and 
the still air. No glare of fire; no sound of voices; the crickets 
seemed to be going on comfortably and much as usual. The air was 
a trifle more chill, too; and after a few minutes of fruitless 
watching the two girls came indoors again; but they would not 
accept Gyda's proposition and go to bed. It was not very late, they 
said; and once more the three women sat down round the fire to 
wait. After a time however, Primrose gave it up and went off. 
Hazel sat still, pondering. Not in her great chair now, but down at 
the corner of the hearth; with a disturbed mind going over Prim's 
enigmas. Something about her was sure to displease,that seemed 
to be as near as she could come to it; and a restless, uneasy sort of 
pain crept into her heart and over her face. But the minute 
returning steps were heard outside the door, Hazel darted away to 
where Prim was already asleep.
Could Prim have been set to talk to her? she thought as she looked. 
But it was no use to raise that question to-night. Nevertheless the 
question lifted its own head now and then,that, and one other 
sorrowful thought which the evening had left: she was ready to 
join him in singing anythingexcept just what he loved best! And 
Hazel went to sleep with a sigh upon her lips.
CHAPTER XII.
COFFEE AND BUNS.
Wych Hazel sat watching her friend at her toilet. 
'Prim,' she said, 'will you be angry?'
'Me? Angry? No. About what?'
'Because,' said Hazel, 'your dress is not looped right. And I want to 
alter it.'
Primrose laughed a little. 'What's the use?' she said. 'Next time it 
will be wrong again. I can't reach the mystery of your loopings. 
They are loopings, but your dress is never in a bunch anywhere
only falls into place in a lovely manner. I can't be like that, Hazel.'
Hazel's busy fingers were making changes.
'There!'she said. 'Now it is a great deal more "beautiful." Do you 
feel demoralized?'
'Hazel!' said Prim facing round,'did you suppose I mean that? 
When Dane likes everything to be as beautiful, and as right, every 
way, as it can be? Look at his horses; and look at his own dress.'
'Ask him to look at your's,'Hazel said with a laugh, and pushing 
Prim gently before her into the next room.
Breakfast was well seasoned with talk, and the talkers lingered 
over their meal, until Dr. Arthur declared that if the rest could stay 
there all day, he could not; and so broke up the sitting.
'Miss Kennedy,' he said as they left the table, 'will you come to the 
door a moment, before you put on your hat, and let me see your 
eyes?'
'See my eyes!'Hazel followed him doubtfully.
'Yes, I want to know how they look now they are open. How 
nearly do you feel like yourself again?' he said, in the midst of a 
somewhat close and earnest examination.
'I am perfectly well, thank you.'
' "Perfectly well."For instance, did you thoroughly enjoy riding 
on horseback yesterday?'
In spite of the evident good faith of the doctor's question, Wych 
Hazel's cheeks gave such instant swift answer, that he was fain to 
turn his eyes away.
'Not the October air,' he went on gravely, 'nor the coloured leaves, 
nor the sunshine; nor even the exhilaration; but the exercise. How 
is that, compared with a year ago?'
'I am not quite so strong for it, I think,' Hazel answered 
unwillingly.
'Imperfectly well,' said Dr. Arthur. 'And for what are you most 
inclined when the ride is over?'but again the tell-tale face 
warned him of dangerous ground.
'I have not been riding much'she said deprecatingly. 'I am all out 
of practice.'
'That goes for something. Always supposing that it always used to 
be so when you happened to be "out of practice." '
Hazel was silent.
'These guardians!' said Dr. Arthur with some emphasis. 'I cannot 
imagine what Mr. Falkirk was thinking of, when he kept you away 
all summer, letting you wear yourself out!'
'He did not keep me. I kept myself,' said Wych Hazel.
'Did you! Suppose Mr. Falkirk had kept himself here?'
Rollo came to the conference at this point. He knew the reason of 
his friend's care, for he had questioned him with relation to his 
professional curiosity the evening before. But he had a clue to 
Wych Hazel's three days' sleep, which Dr. Arthur could not have.
'Dr. Maryland, I thought you had more sense!' said the girl 
impatiently. 'The last time you saw me, you said the only thing 
was to let me have my own way.'
'Depends a little upon what direction the "way" takes,' said Dr. 
Arthur. 'You don't want another sleep, do you?'
'Thank you,I have had one.'
'Had one!' Dr. Arthur exclaimed. 'Not like that?'
'Not precisely like that,' said Hazel demurely. 'I have had several 
different ones.'
Dr. Arthur laughed, and gave up his research.
'I begin to comprehend Mr. Falkirk!' he said. 'Dane, if you can 
brave this lady's displeasure, I wish you would see that she does 
not overtax herself for three months to come. Nor then, without my 
permission.'
'But it is miles and miles from here to Chickaree!' said Miss Wych 
as she ran in.
The inconvenience of having two guardians is, that when you have 
got rid of one you have to face the other. And that other had to be 
faced at the dinner table to-day. It was well that the twelve miles' 
ride had not taken down Hazel's strength below the mischief point. 
Rollo, it must be remarked, had been obliged to gallop back again 
after very slight tarrying.
'Good evening, Miss Hazel,' said her elder guardian as he met her 
in the dining room. 'I think I have not seen you since this time 
yesterday.'
'A little later than this, sir. It was after dinner when we parted.'
'Quite so. Why did we not meet at breakfast? I was here. You were 
not.'
'No, sir. That seems to have been the reason.'
'Why were you not at home?'
'Well, sir, I was in charge of my other authority, and could not get 
home till he said the word.'
Mr. Falkirk surveyed his ward.
'Miss Hazel, your motions are usually determined by your own 
will, and by nothing else,in my experience.'
'My dear sir, if you remember your experience so imperfectly, it 
cannot do you much good. Have I ever been allowed to go 
anywhere alone?'
'Why did not Rollo bring you home in proper time?'very shortly.
'First there was a man in trouble, and then a mill,' said Miss Wych, 
composedly pouring water from her carafe. 'And so of course such 
small affairs as women had to wait.'
'What was the matter?'
'The man met with an accident. The mill was set on fire. But both 
were cared for satisfactorilyyou need not be uneasy, Mr. 
Falkirk. Two such energetics as Mr. Rollo and Dr. Arthur suffice 
for all the common events of life.'
'And you,where were you?'
'Miss Maryland and I, sir, were summarily bestowed at Mrs. 
Boërresen's for safe keeping.'
'Who is Mrs. Boërresen?'
'My dear Mr. Falkirk!if you only would stir about a little you 
would learn so much!' said Wych Hazel. 'Mrs. Boërresen is a quite 
remarkable person of foreign birth who lives near Morton Hollow.'
'Rollo's old nurse!' said Mr. Falkirk.
Wych Hazel bowed her head with extreme sedateness and went on 
with her dinner. Mr. Falkirk made a gesture of extreme impatience.
'It seems to me, Miss Hazel, that your other guardian had time to 
see you safe home, before allowing himself to be claimed by his 
own affairs. If you had not discretion enough to come, he should 
have had enough to bring you.'
'It needs valour as well as discretion to run away from one's 
guardians,' said Miss Kennedy lifting her brows. 'I should have 
been quite happy, sir, I am sure, to ride home alone.'
"Why didn't he bring you?' growled the elder guardian. 'Or why 
didn't you make him bring you?'
'Yes, sir. Did you ever try to make Mr. Rollo do anything?'
'Quite out of order!' grumbled Mr. Falkirk; 'quite out of order! 
Miss Hazel, it may need valour and discretion both, as you seem to 
intimate, but I must beg that you will not have the like thing 
happen again. If you cannot get home in proper time, I prefer that 
you should not ride with him. I thought the fellow knew better!'
A glance, lightning-swift, from under the dark lashes fell upon Mr. 
Falkirk's unconscious face. The girl waited a little before she made 
reply.
'How am I to know beforehand, Mr. Falkirk? Mills are uncertain 
things. And men. You are really sure of nothing but women in this 
world.'
'What do you mean about a mill burning?' came very deep out of 
Mr. Falkirk's throat.
'Some of the Charteris men set it on fire. The mill was not burned, 
because watch had been kept; and at the first sign of fire all hands 
went to work taking out cotton bales till the fire was reached. 
There was something of a bonfire outside.'
'Hm. How much loss?'
'Not much. A thousand or two.'
Mr. Falkirk went no further into the subject, or into any other, till 
the dessert had been taken away and he was fingering the nuts. Mr. 
Falkirk took no dessert. And in the midst of cracking a hard nut, 
effort availed to crack something else.
'Do we go to town this winter, Miss Hazel?'
'I have taken no thought whatever about the winter, sir.'
'Do you intend to stay here?'
'I thought we agreed, sir, to let the winter question wait?'
'I made no such agreement, Miss Hazel. On the contrary, if we let 
the question wait, there will be no house to receive you when you 
make up your mind to go.'
'Then we will wait.'
'No, Miss Hazel, if you please I will have your decision. If it 
makes no difference to you, it makes some to me. Either here or 
New Yorkbut you must say which.'
'O if you put me in a corner, Mr. Falkirk, I shall stay here,' said 
Wych Hazel.
'I suppose so. And now, Miss Hazel, will you kindly go a little 
further and give me your reasons?'
'My dear Mr. Falkirk, you know we agreed long ago, that between 
you and me reasons should be left to take care of themselves. Do 
let the winter question rest!'
'I thought we agreed long ago that between you and me there 
should be confidence,' said her guardian somewhat bitterly.
Now Mr. Falkirk was unreasonable, but it is not in the nature of 
men to know when they are unreasonable. So making a great and 
ill-adjusted effort with his nut-cracker, it slipped and did Mr. 
Falkirk's finger some harm, instead of the nut. Mr. Falkirk dipped 
his finger into cold water, wrapped it in his handkerchief, and went 
off, disgusted with the world generally.
'We never did!' thought Hazel to herself. 'I plainly told him it could 
not be.' But for all that she felt just a little bit troubled and hurt.
Four days of storms, during which Mr. Falkirk passed himself off 
for sugar and salt, and even Mr. Rollo was somewhat hindered of 
his pleasure, ended at last in a brilliant Saturday afternoon. But 
though Wych Hazel did send some wistful glances out of the 
window, she knew perfectly well there could be no coming from 
Morton Hollow that night. Still, the feminine mind is good at 
devices; and Miss Kennedy was not the first girl who (for the 
nonce) has enacted the part of Mahomet. The mountain could not 
stir,therefore
She thought it all out, sitting opposite to Mr. Falkirk at dinner; and 
when that gentleman had taken his departure, the young mistress 
of the house fell into a sudden state of activity; her last move being 
to smother herself in a huge dingy cloak, akin to those worn by the 
mill people in their improved condition.
'Look at me, Byo,' she said, pulling the rough hood up over her 
silky curls.
'My dear,' began Mrs. Bywank,'Miss Wych,if Mr. Rollo 
should see you!'
'He would see nothing but my cloak.'
'My dear, I'm not so sure. He has wonderful sharp eyes. And you 
don't wear your cloak like a mill girl.'
'Don't I look like a new hand?' said Hazel laughing.
'And if he should find out, what would he think!' said Mrs. 
Bywank. 
'He would think you had a cold and couldn't come,' said Wych. 
'There's the gig!'and down she ran, slipping out unseen to join 
Reo in the darkness.
Riding in an old gig was rather a new experience. The way was 
still, starlight, and lonely, until they came out into the 
neighbourhood of the mills. When the lights were visible, and a 
certain confused buzz of still distant voices gave token of the 
lively state of the population in the Hollow, Hazel and her faithful 
attendant left the gig and went forward on foot.
The Charteris mills were silent and dark; the stir was ahead, where 
a cluster of lights shewed brilliantly through the darkness; and 
soon Wych Hazel and Reo found themselves in the midst of a 
moving throng. A large shed, it was hardly better, open to the 
street and to all comers, was the place of illumination, and the 
centre of savoury odours which diffused themselves refreshingly 
over the whole neighbourhood. Coffee, yes certainly Mr. Rollo's 
coffee and hot buns were on hand there; and truly they began to be 
on hand more literally among the crowd. Wych Hazel loitered and 
looked and kept herself out of the lamp shine as well as she could. 
Men and women were going in and coming out, eating and 
drinking, talking and jesting; there was a pleasant let-up to 
business in the Hollow; it looked like a fair, except that there was 
no buying and selling other than the viands. There were long deal 
tables in the shed, besieged by the applicants for buns and coffee, 
and served by women stationed behind the tables. The crowd was 
orderly, though very lively. Reo's curiosity and admiration were 
immense; I think he would have tried the buns for himself, if he 
had not been in close attendance upon his mistress. Women came 
out from the shed guarding a pile of the hot buns in their hands; 
others stood by the tables taking their supper; men came out and 
lounged about talking and eating, with a mug in one hand and a 
bun in the other. To anybody that knew Morton Hollow it was a 
pleasant sight. It spoke of a pause from grinding care and 
imbruting toil; a gleam of hope in the work-a-day routine. The 
men were all more or less washed and brushed up; for changing 
their dress there had been no time.
Hazel was afraid to linger too long or scan too closely; she passed 
on to the mill with the throng, waited near the door until the reader 
went in, passing so close that Hazel could have touched him. Then 
she followed and took her place at the end of a form near the door. 
That was policy.
The reading room was the huge bare apartment where the fire had 
been laid, and tracked, a few nights before. The rafters still shewed 
some smoke, and there was a less number of bales piled up at the 
end of the room than when Hazel had seen it the first time. Lamps 
hung now from the beams overhead, enough of them to give a fair 
illumination; for as Rollo explained to her afterwards, he wanted to 
have a view of his hearers. Their view of him was secured by a 
well arranged group of burners in that quarter. The audience room 
was as rough as the audience.
It was a strange experience for the little lady of Chickaree. In the 
midst of all that crowd of mill hands, with their coarse dresses and 
unkempt heads and head gear, she was in a part of the world very 
far from her own. A still, respectful crowd they were, however. 
Looking beyond and over them, to the circle of lights at the end of 
the cotton bales, she could just see Dane's head, where he was 
standing and speaking to some one; then presently he mounted 
upon his rude rostrum and the light illumined his whole figure.
'He ain't keerful about shewin' hisself,'said a drawling native 
voice in Wych Hazel's neighbourhood. 'Hain't no objection to 
folks' reck'nin' his inches.'
'He's baulder'n I'd loike to be' said another voice, Wych Hazel 
could not guess of what nationality.
'A can bear it,' answered a woman. 'I'd loike to see you a standin' 
up for your picter, Jim!'
'He don't mind!' said a brisk lass. 'You bet, he knows all about it. 
Don't he, though!'
'Is he a married mon?'
'Na, he's got nobody to look arter him.'
'He don't mind that, ayther.'
'He's mighty onconsarned, anyhow,' said the first speaker. 'Lawk, I 
never could be a orator.'
'Don't, then,' said the girl. 'You hush, or he'll hear.'
Rollo did them justice, as far as not minding anything went. His 
first action after taking his stand, was to fold his arms and take a 
somewhat prolonged survey of the company. The quick gray eyes 
came everywhere; did they know Hazel? It appeared not; for after 
a few minutes of this silent survey, Rollo bade his audience 'good 
evening' and began his work.
He gave them in the first place the principal items of the week's 
news out of several papers which he had at hand. This, it was 
plain, was an extremely popular part of the entertainment. He read 
and talked, explaining where it was necessary, sometimes 
responding to a question from some one in the crowd. The papers 
were both English and German, American and foreign; the bits of 
intelligence carefully chosen to interest and to stimulate interest. 
This part of the programme took up something over a half hour. 
The next thing was the story if the "Chimes." And here also the 
reading was exceedingly successful. Knowing his hearers more 
thoroughly than is the privilege of most readers, Rollo could give 
them a word of help just where it was necessary to make them 
understand the author; briefly, and only as it was needed; for the 
rest, he made the story speak to their hearts. Perhaps the simplicity 
of his aim, which had no regard whatever to his own prominence 
in the performance, gave him an advantage over most people who 
read in public; perhaps Rollo was uncommonly gifted; but Wych 
Hazel certainly thought, when she had time to think about it, that it 
was no wonder Miss Powder or anybody else should make parties 
to come and hear him, and rather wondered the whole countryside 
were not there. And as for the rough audience who were present, 
they were entranced. They forgot themselves. They forgot 
everything in the world but Tiny Tim and his father and all the 
humble experiences of the family; and tears and laughter 
alternately testified to what a degree the reader had them all in his 
hand. Hazel for her part laughed and cried when the rest did,and 
when they did not.
Just as this part of the reading was finished, there came a slight 
disturbance down near the door; but all that appeared to the reader 
was that one of the mill girls got up and went out.
'Where's the master?' a small frightened child had said, peering in. 
'I wants him.'
'Well you can't have him,' answered the rough cloak imperiously. 
'Don't you see he's busy?'
Whereupon the small girl lifted up her voice in lamentation, and 
was instantly smothered in the cloak and swept out of the mill; 
neither one appearing on those boards again that night. But the 
reading went on, and the hours too; and it was eleven o'clock, all 
told, before the audience were dismissed. Coming out at last into 
the starlight darkness, Mr. Rollo ran full up against Dr. Arthur 
Maryland.
'Arthur!What now?'
'Dane, you can tell meWhere is the Patrick who has no wife? 
I've been to six and they're all happy men.'
'Patrick? who has lost his wife? It is Rafferty. What do you want 
him for?'
'Something the matter there.'
'What?Come, I'll shew you the way. What is it?'
'A child hurt. The father away drinking, the young ones at home 
fighting,as near as I can make it out. This one got a fall.'
Rollo had used his voice a good deal that evening, namely, for two 
and a half consecutive hours. He said scarcely a word more until 
they got to the house in question; but as he went he thought what 
he would do with the gin shops whenever he should get control in 
the Hollow. The cabin of the wifeless Patrick was high up the 
valley and high up on the bank, a short way after all. A little 
stream of light came out to meet them from the open door; and 
once in line with this, Dr. Arthur stopped short with a suppressed 
exclamation, and Rollo looked up.
The door had probably been left open of intent for air; for on some 
low seat in the middle of the floor sat Wych Hazel, still muffled 
partly in the cloak, which she had not taken time to throw off. The 
hood had fallen back, and the cloak fell away on either side from 
her silken folds and white laces; Hazel's attention was wholly 
absorbed by the child on her lap. A little tattered figure lay with its 
head on the young lady's breast; while both Wych Hazel's hands, 
the one passed round the child as well as the other, were clasped 
tight around one little arm. So they sat, quite still,the child's eyes 
upon her face; while a small circle of great admiration stood 
around; fingers in mouth, hands behind back, wholly absorbed in 
the vision or spell-bound with the voice. For she was softly 
singing.
'You'll never be in Adam's case of destitution,that's one thing!' 
was Dr. Arthur's comment, as his friend sprang past him into the 
cabin. Then however, like a wise man, postponing other things to 
business, Rollo only demanded calmly what the matter was? Hazel 
had not expected him, and there was a look of surprise and a 
minute's flush; then her thoughts too went back to business.
'I think her arm is broken. I have been holding it in place.'
'And she let you?' queried Dr. Arthur.
'I would do it. She is more quiet now.'
'Sixteen carats fine!' said Dr. Arthur. 'Half the women I know 
would have dropped the arm the moment they saw me, and nine-
tenths of the others would not have touched it at all! Now let me 
see.'
But first a change was made. Rollo took the child into his own 
arms. It was done too swiftly and skilfully for the poor little 
creature to make any objection, but its dismay and displeasure 
were immediately proclaimed. The new hands that held it were 
however both kind and strong, and the master's voice was already 
known, even by these little ones. So the worst was soon over, 
thanks to the firmness that had kept the arm quiet till the doctor 
came. It was true; she "had the fight in her," as Dane had once 
said; though now the woman was taking her revenge, and Hazel 
sat behind the others with blanched cheeks. Dr. Arthur glanced at 
her once or twice.
' "Ever so far away to Chickaree"!' he said,'I should think it was! 
Dane, can you find a substitute to watch this child to-night?'
'I'll see to that,' said his friend briefly; and laying the child out of 
his arms as soon as its arm was made secure, he went to Wych 
Hazel, pulled her hood on again, and drawing her hand through his 
arm took her out of the cabin. Then asked her 'how she expected to 
get home?'
'O Reo is here, somewhere.'
'With the carriage?"
'With an incognito gig.'
Rollo put her into a chair, stationed Dr. Arthur to keep ward over 
her, and went to look for Reo. It seems that in the interest of the 
reading Reo had missed the episode of his mistress's leaving the 
assembly room, and had thereafter been wholly without a clue by 
which to seek her. Near the mill Rollo found him, and presently 
brought up the gig to Patrick Rafferty's cottage. Unsuspiciously 
Wych Hazel allowed herself to be put into it. Then, standing with 
the reins in his hand, Dane spoke to the doctor.
'It is late, Arthur; come up to my house and I'll take care of you. 
Reo, take the road straight up to Mrs. Boërresen's.'
With which he jumped into the gig and put the horse in motion; 
with such good will that before Dr. Arthur could get to the foot of 
the hill the gig had climbed to Gyda's door, and Rollo had lifted 
Wych Hazel out.
'But I did not mean to come here!' she said dismayfully. 'I was 
thinking of something else! Mr. Rollowhat made you do so?'
'The obvious necessity of the case.'
'But I must go home.'
'To-morrow.'
He staid no further question. He opened the gate and led the little 
lady across the few steps to the door.
'Gyda,' said he as they went in, 'let us have some coffee and 
anything else that can be had quickly. Three people wanting it.' 
And with that he went into the next room for the cushions.
'I shall stand for an upholsterer one of these days,' he remarked, as 
he arranged and prepared Wych Hazel's easy chair. 'There! Now!'
He unfastened and threw off the rough cloak, much as if he did not 
like it; took Wych Hazel's hands and put her in her place.
'What have you got to say to me?' he queried softly.
Hazel felt extremely shy and discomposed at the course things had 
taken. It had been no part of her plan to have her escapade known 
to any but the old servants at home; and here she was, not only 
discovered but carried off,and that with Mr. Falkirk's strictures 
still sounding in her ears. Yet her first words went to another point.
'You should not touch me,' she said with a gentle little push,'I 
have not washed my face. And you know I had to use every means 
I could think of to quiet the child.'
Hazel shivered a little, thinking what the screams had been at first 
when she took the case in hand. Dane's eyes laughed and sparkled, 
but he only disregarded her admonitions, and remarked that she 
'did not answer him?'
'Mr. Rollo, I must go home. Mr. Falkirk will be so vexed.'
'What else have you got to say me?'
'What do you want to hear about?' said Hazel demurely. 'I liked the 
reading very much,all that I heard of it. And the people seemed 
to like you.'
'Did you think I would not find you out?'
'And you did not!' she said triumphantly.
'I should have found you out in another half hour. I saw you, and 
you bothered me very much, but the lights were in my eyes. Did 
you hope I would not see you, Hazel?'
She laughed gaily. 'Of course I hoped that! How did I "bother" 
you, please?'
'Something I did not understand. Gyda, won't you take Miss 
Kennedy where she can wash her face?'
Gyda led the way to her kitchen, a little detached building 
connected with the house by a covered way. It was warm and light 
with fire and full of savoury odours from the cookery going on. 
Here the young lady was supplied with a bowl of water and a 
napkin, and Hazel came back very much refreshed.
It was now half-past twelve o'clock and more. Dr. Arthur was 
come, and there were preparations on foot for supper. Reo had 
come to, and was sent to Gyda's little kitchen to get some 
refreshment, while the others supped.
'Now,' said Rollo, as he gave Wych Hazel some porridge and filled 
her cup, 'you may begin and give an account of yourself.'
'Autocratic,' said Hazel. 'I am no longer a mill girl, Mr. Rollo.'
'You came into my dominions with my livery. There's no help for 
you now.'
'Well,'said Hazel,'the only drawback to the pleasure of my 
drive over from Chickaree, was the state of mind in which I had 
left Mrs. Bywank.'
'Well?' said Rollo, proceeding to take care of the doctor's cup. 'Go 
on. Arthur and I are very curious.'
'After that, I wanted a bun, and saw no invitation to strangers.'
'You were there, were you! Isn't it a good institution?'
'Veryfor people who are not strangers. Reo and I devoured 
things with our eyes for some time. Then I When the reading 
began, I was in my place.'
'I should say, you were in somebody else's place. Never mind! If it 
was not so late, I'd send down and get a bun for you.'
'What came in between the "Then" and the "When"?' said Dr. 
Arthur. 'If one may inquire. Mere blank space?'
'Not quite,' said Hazel laughing and colouring. 'Just private, 
scientific business. I was testing theories.'
'We are both interested in that, the doctor and I,' said Dane. 
'Theories, and scientific business. Pray explain, Hazel.'
'I once heard a short lecture on magnetism,' said Miss Wych, all 
grave except the gleam in her eyes; 'and it occurred to me to put it 
to the proof. So I stood by the door and saw the people go in.'
Dr. Arthur laughed, but asked no further questions.
'Your true lovers of science are always ready to venture a good 
deal in the pursuit of it,' observed Dane drily.
Wych Hazel's lips curled with mischief.
'When I got in,' she said, 'before the reading, I heard a good deal 
about the reader. Most of it striking, and some of it new.'
'That at least all may hear,' remarked Dr. Arthur. 'Science may 
have its reserves; but public news about Dane!'
'It's very old indeed,' said the person concerned. 'Only new to this 
witness. May be safely passed over.'
If Mr. Rollo was good at reading faces, he might see that remarks 
about him were considered quite too much her own personal 
property to be repeated to anybody in the world but himself. Wych 
Hazel sat silent, stirring her coffee.
'We are ready to hear the rest,' he remarked with a smile. 'Go on to 
the broken arm. How did you get hold of that?'
'One of the children came for you. And somebody had to go,' she 
answered simply.
'And "somebody" had to keep the broken arm in place, I suppose. 
But how came you to think of doing that?' said Rollo, who all the 
while was looking after the comfort of his two guests in his own 
fashion of quick-eyed ministry.
'I did not, till I had the child in my lap,' said Hazel; 'and then I 
remembered all of a sudden something in one of my old 
Edgeworth story books. So I tried, and succeeded.'
'I wish every one read story books to as good purpose,' said Dr. 
Arthur. 'There is no describing from what you saved the child. But 
at first I suppose she made great resistance?'
'Very great.'Hazel did not want to enlarge upon that part of the 
subject. And here Reo entered.
'Ha, Reo! are you made up for your journey already?' said Rollo. 
'You can report to Mrs. Bywank that Miss Wych was too much 
fatigued to take the drive home; and bring the carriage over in the 
morning.'
Wych Hazel looked up, but her courage failed her for a protest. 
She was obliged to let the order stand.
The fire was bright, the coffee was excellent, the little party so 
oddly thrown together were happy in mutual confidence and 
sympathy. Such hours are not too common, and a certain kindly 
recognition of this one sat upon every face. Gyda was busy 
preparing a room for Miss Kennedy and had not joined them.
'How does the work of the world look to you, Arthur, from this 
corner?' said Dane, when they had subsided a little from supper to 
the consideration of each other.
'Every spot of true Christian work is a centre,' said his friend. 'The 
"corners" are for darknessnot light. Work is the most enticing 
thing in the world to me, Dane!'
'Gyda's fireside was the corner I meant,it's not dark just now!
and I was thinking, that from this nook of quiet the work looks 
easy. So it is! It is a hand to hand and foot to foot battle; but it is 
easy to follow the captain that one loves.'
'I don't know that it is always easy,' said Dr. Arthur; 'but it can be 
done. Once in a while, you know, we are sent to carry a redoubt 
with only his orders before us. The Lord himself seems to be in 
quite another part of the field.'
'That is, to those who do not know.'
'Of course. I speak only of the seeming. But I like the fight, and I 
like the struggle. I like to measure battlements and prepare my 
scaling ladders, and lead a forlorn hope. It suits me, I believe.'
'Battlements?' Hazel repeated. 'Do you mean heights of difficulty?'
'Guarded by depths of sin,' said Dr. Arthur.
Hazel looked from one to the other. Yes, she could like that too, if 
she were a man. How much could she do, being a woman?
'And that is all seeming too, Arthur,' his friend went on. 'Really, 
the fighter need never be out of that "feste Burg." I was thinking 
just now, not only that work looks easy, but that it looks small. 
Individual effort, I mean; the utmost that any one man can do. It is 
a mere speck. The living waters that shall be "a river to swim in," 
are very shallow yet; and where the fishers are to stand and cast 
their nets, it is a waste of barrenness. You have never been on the 
shores of the Dead Sea, Arthur; you do not know how a little 
thread of green on the mountain side shews where a spring of 
sweet water runs down through the waste.'
'What then, Mr. Rollo?' said Wych Hazel.
'It is such a tiny thread of life upon the universal brown death.'
'Is that what the world looks like to you?' said Hazel, wondering.
