wish you’d set that cap in order, Rose I went to bed in such a hurry,
I pulled the strings off it and left it all in a heap. Phebe, dear, you
shall dust round a mite, just as you used to, for I haven’t had anyone
to do it as I like since you’ve been gone, and it will do me good to see
all my knickknacks straightened out in your tidy way,” said the elder
lady, getting up with a refreshed expression on her rosy old face.
“Shall I dust in here too?” asked Phebe, glancing toward an inner room
which used to be her care.
“No, dear, I’d rather do that myself. Go in if you like, nothing is
changed. I must go and see to my pudding.” And Aunt Plenty trotted
abruptly away with a quiver of emotion in her voice which made even her
last words pathetic.
Pausing on the threshold as if it was a sacred place, the girls looked
in with eyes soon dimmed by tender tears, for it seemed as if the gentle
occupant was still there. Sunshine shone on the old geraniums by the
window; the cushioned chair stood in its accustomed place, with the
white wrapper hung across it and the faded slippers lying ready. Books
and basket, knitting and spectacles, were all just as she had left them,
and the beautiful tranquility that always filled the room seemed so
natural, both lookers turned involuntarily toward the bed, where Aunt
Peace used to greet them with a smile. There was no sweet old face upon
the pillow now, yet the tears that wet the blooming cheeks were not for
her who had gone, but for her who was left, because they saw something
which spoke eloquently of the love which outlives death and makes the
humblest things beautiful and sacred.
A well-worn footstool stood beside the bed, and in the high-piled
whiteness of the empty couch there was a little hollow where a gray head
nightly rested while Aunt Plenty said the prayers her mother taught her
seventy years ago.
Without a word, the girls softly shut the door. And while Phebe put the
room in the most exquisite order, Rose retrimmed the plain white cap,
where pink and yellow ribbons never rustled now, both feeling honored
by their tasks and better for their knowledge of the faithful love and
piety which sanctified a good old woman’s life.
“You darling creature, I’m so glad to get you back! I know it’s
shamefully early, but I really couldn’t keep away another minute. Let
me help you I’m dying to see all your splendid things. I saw the trunks
pass and I know you’ve quantities of treasures,” cried Annabel Bliss all
in one breath as she embraced Rose an hour later and glanced about the
room bestrewn with a variety of agreeable objects.
“How well you are looking! Sit down and I’ll show you my lovely
photographs. Uncle chose all the best for me, and it’s a treat to see
them,” answered Rose, putting a roll on the table and looking about for
more.
“Oh, thanks! I haven’t time now one needs hours to study such things.
Show me your Paris dresses, there’s a dear I’m perfectly aching to see
the last styles,” and Annabel cast a hungry eye toward certain large
boxes delightfully suggestive of French finery.
“I haven’t got any,” said Rose, fondly surveying the fine photographs as
she laid them away.
“Rose Campbell! You don’t mean to say that you didn’t get one Paris
dress at least?” cried Annabel, scandalized at the bare idea of such
neglect.
“Not one for myself. Aunt Clara ordered several, and will be charmed to
show them when her box comes.”
“Such a chance! Right there and plenty of money! How could you love your
uncle after such cruelty?” sighed Annabel, with a face full of sympathy.
Rose looked puzzled for a minute, then seemed to understand, and assumed
a superior air which became her very well as she said, good-naturedly
opening a box of laces, “Uncle did not forbid my doing it, and I had
money enough, but I chose not to spend it on things of that sort.”
“Could and didn’t! I can’t believe it!” And Annabel sank into a chair,
as if the thought was too much for her.
“I did rather want to at first, just for the fun of the thing. In fact,
I went and looked at some amazing gowns. But they were very expensive,
very much trimmed, and not my style at all, so I gave them up and kept
what I valued more than all the gowns Worth every made.”
“What in the world was it?” cried Annabel, hoping she would say
diamonds.
“Uncle’s good opinion,” answered Rose, looking thoughtfully into the
depths of a packing case, where lay the lovely picture that would always
remind her of the little triumph over girlish vanity, which not only
kept but increased “Uncle’s good opinion.”
“Oh, indeed!” said Annabel blankly, and fell to examining Aunt Plenty’s
lace while Rose went on with a happy smile in her eyes as she dived into
another trunk.
“Uncle thinks one has no right to waste money on such things, but he
is very generous and loves to give useful, beautiful, or curious gifts.
See, all these pretty ornaments are for presents, and you shall choose
first whatever you like.”
“He’s a perfect dear!” cried Annabel, reveling in the crystal, filigree,
coral, and mosaic trinkets spread before her while Rose completed her
rapture by adding sundry tasteful trifles fresh from Paris.
“Now tell me, when do you mean to have your coming-out party? I ask
because I’ve nothing ready and want plenty of time, for I suppose it
will be the event of the season,” asked Annabel a few minutes later as
she wavered between a pink coral and a blue lava set.
“I came out when I went to Europe, but I suppose Aunty Plen will want to
have some sort of merry-making to celebrate our return. I shall begin
as I mean to go on, and have a simple, sociable sort of party and invite
everyone whom I like, no matter in what ‘set’ they happen to belong. No
one shall ever say I am aristocratic and exclusive so prepare yourself
to be shocked, for old friends and young, rich and poor, will be asked
to all my parties.”
“Oh, my heart! You are going to be odd, just as Mama predicted!” sighed
Annabel, clasping her hands in despair and studying the effect of three
bracelets on her chubby arm in the midst of her woe.
“In my own house I’m going to do as I think best, and if people call me
odd, I can’t help it. I shall endeavor not to do anything very dreadful,
but I seem to inherit Uncle’s love for experiments and mean to try some.
I daresay they will fail and I shall get laughed at. I intend to do it
nevertheless, so you had better drop me now before I begin,” said Rose
with an air of resolution that was rather alarming.
“What shall you wear at this new sort of party of yours?” asked Annabel,
wisely turning a deaf ear to all delicate or dangerous topics and
keeping to matters she understood.
“That white thing over there. It is fresh and pretty, and Phebe has one
like it. I never want to dress more than she does, and gowns of that
sort are always most becoming and appropriate to girls of our age.”
“Phebe! You don’t mean to say you are going to make a lady of her!”
 gasped Annabel, upsetting her treasures as she fell back with a gesture
that made the little chair creak again, for Miss Bliss was as plump as a
partridge.
“She is one already, and anybody who slights her slights me, for she is
the best girl I know and the dearest,” cried Rose warmly.
“Yes, of course I was only surprised you are quite right, for she may
turn out to be somebody, and then how glad you’ll feel that you were so
good to her!” said Annabel, veering around at once, seeing which way the
wind blew.
Before Rose could speak again, a cheery voice called from the hall,
“Little mistress, where are you?”
“In my room, Phebe, dear,” and up came the girl Rose was going to “make
a lady of,” looking so like one that Annabel opened her china-blue eyes
and smiled involuntarily as Phebe dropped a little curtsey in playful
imitation of her old manner and said quietly: “How do you do, Miss
Bliss?”
“Glad to see you back, Miss Moore,” answered Annabel, shaking hands in a
way that settled the question of Phebe’s place in her mind forever, for
the stout damsel had a kind heart in spite of a weak head and was really
fond of Rose. It was evidently “Love me, love my Phebe,” so she made up
her mind on the spot that Phebe was somebody, and that gave an air of
romance even to the poorhouse.
She could not help staring a little as she watched the two friends work
together and listened to their happy talk over each new treasure as
it came to light, for every look and word plainly showed that years
of close companionship had made them very dear to one another. It was
pretty to see Rose try to do the hardest part of any little job herself
still prettier to see Phebe circumvent her and untie the hard knots,
fold the stiff papers, or lift the heavy trays with her own strong
hands, and prettiest of all to hear her say in a motherly tone, as she
put Rose into an easy chair: “Now, my deary, sit and rest, for you
will have to see company all day, and I can’t let you get tired out so
early.”
“That is no reason why I should let you either. Call Jane to help or
I’ll bob up again directly,” answered Rose, with a very bad assumption
of authority.
“Jane may take my place downstairs, but no one shall wait on you here
except me, as long as I’m with you,” said stately Phebe, stooping to put
a hassock under the feet of her little mistress.
“It is very nice and pretty to see, but I don’t know what people will
say when she goes into society with the rest of us. I do hope Rose won’t
be very odd,” said Annabel to herself as she went away to circulate
the depressing news that there was to be no grand ball and, saddest
disappointment of all, that Rose had not a single Paris costume with
which to refresh the eyes and rouse the envy of her amiable friends.
“Now I’ve seen or heard from all the boys but Charlie, and I suppose he
is too busy. I wonder what he is about,” thought Rose, turning from the
hall door, whither she had courteously accompanied her guest.
The wish was granted a moment after, for, going into the parlor to
decide where some of her pictures should hang, she saw a pair of brown
boots at one end of the sofa, a tawny-brown head at the other, and
discovered that Charlie was busily occupied in doing nothing.
“The voice of the Bliss was heard in the land, so I dodged till she went
upstairs, and then took a brief siesta while waiting to pay my respects
to the distinguished traveler, Lady Hester Stanhope,” he said, leaping
up to make his best bow.
“The voice of the sluggard would be a more appropriate quotation, I
think. Does Annabel still pine for you?” asked Rose, recalling certain
youthful jokes upon the subject of unrequited affections.
“Not a bit of it. Fun has cut me out, and the fair Annabella will be
Mrs. Tokio before the winter is over if I’m not much mistaken.”
“What, little Fun See? How droll it seems to think of him grown up and
married to Annabel of all people! She never said a word about him, but
this accounts for her admiring my pretty Chinese things and being so
interested in Canton.”
“Little Fun is a great swell now, and much enamored of our fat friend,
who will take to chopsticks whenever he says the word. I needn’t ask how
you do, Cousin, for you beat that Aurora all hollow in the way of color.
I should have been up before, but I thought you’d like a good rest after
your voyage.”
“I was running a race with Jamie before nine o’clock. What were you
doing, young man?”
“‘Sleeping I dreamed, love, dreamed, love, of thee,’” began Charlie, but
Rose cut him short by saying as reproachfully as she could, while the
culprit stood regarding her with placid satisfaction: “You ought to have
been up and at work like the rest of the boys. I felt like a drone in
a hive of very busy bees when I saw them all hurrying off to their
business.”
“But, my dear girl, I’ve got no business. I’m making up my mind, you
see, and do the ornamental while I’m deciding. There always ought to
be one gentleman in a family, and that seems to be rather my line,”
 answered Charlie, posing for the character with an assumption of languid
elegance which would have been very effective if his twinkling eyes had
not spoilt it.
“There are none but gentlemen in our family, I hope,” answered Rose,
with the proud air she always wore when anything was said derogatory to
the name of Campbell.
“Of course, of course. I should have said gentleman of leisure. You see
it is against my principles to slave as Archie does. What’s the use?
Don’t need the money, got plenty, so why not enjoy it and keep jolly
as long as possible? I’m sure cheerful people are public benefactors in
this world of woe.”
It was not easy to object to this proposition, especially when made by
a comely young man who looked the picture of health and happiness as he
sat on the arm of the sofa smiling at his cousin in the most engaging
manner. Rose knew very well that the Epicurean philosophy was not the
true one to begin life upon, but it was difficult to reason with Charlie
because he always dodged sober subjects and was so full of cheery
spirits, one hated to lessen the sort of sunshine which certainly is a
public benefactor.
“You have such a clever way of putting things that I don’t know how to
contradict you, though I still think I’m right,” she said gravely. “Mac
likes to idle as well as you, but he is not going to do it because he
knows it’s bad for him to fritter away his time. He is going to study
a profession like a wise boy, though he would much prefer to live among
his beloved books or ride his hobbies in peace.”
“That’s all very well for him, because he doesn’t care for society and
may as well be studying medicine as philandering about the woods
with his pockets full of musty philosophers and old-fashioned poets,”
 answered Charlie with a shrug which plainly expressed his opinion of
Mac.
“I wonder if musty philosophers, like Socrates and Aristotle, and
old-fashioned poets, like Shakespeare and Milton, are not safer company
for him to keep than some of the more modern friends you have?” said
Rose, remembering Jamie’s hints about wild oats, for she could be a
little sharp sometimes and had not lectured “the boys” for so long it
seemed unusually pleasant.
But Charlie changed the subject skillfully by exclaiming with an anxious
expression: “I do believe you are going to be like Aunt Jane, for that’s
just the way she comes down on me whenever she gets the chance!
Don’t take her for a model, I beg she is a good woman but a mighty
disagreeable one in my humble opinion.”
The fear of being disagreeable is a great bugbear to a girl, as this
artful young man well knew, and Rose fell into the trap at once, for
Aunt Jane was far from being her model, though she could not help
respecting her worth.
“Have you given up your painting?” she asked rather abruptly, turning to
a gilded Fra Angelico angel which leaned in the sofa corner.
“Sweetest face I ever saw, and very like you about the eyes, isn’t
it?” said Charlie, who seemed to have a Yankee trick of replying to one
question with another.
“I want an answer, not a compliment,” and Rose tried to look severe as
she put away the picture more quickly than she had taken it up.
“Have I given up painting? Oh, no! I daub a little in oils, slop a
little in watercolors, sketch now and then, and poke about the studios
when the artistic fit comes on.”
“How is the music?”
“More flourishing. I don’t practice much, but sing a good deal in
company. Set up a guitar last summer and went troubadouring round in
great style. The girls like it, and it’s jolly among the fellows.”
“Are you studying anything?”
“Well, I have some lawbooks on my table good, big, wise-looking chaps
and I take a turn at them semioccasionally when pleasure palls or
parents chide. But I doubt if I do more than learn what ‘a allybi’ is
this year,” and a sly laugh in Charlie’s eye suggested that he sometimes
availed himself of this bit of legal knowledge.
“What do you do then?”
“Fair catechist, I enjoy myself. Private theatricals have been the rage
of late, and I have won such laurels that I seriously think of adopting
the stage as my profession.”
“Really!” cried Rose, alarmed.
“Why not? If I must go to work, isn’t that as good as anything?”
“Not without more talent than I think you possess. With genius one can
do anything without it one had better let the stage alone.”
“There’s a quencher for the ‘star of the goodlie companie’ to which I
belong. Mac hasn’t a ray of genius for anything, yet you admire him for
trying to be an M.D.,” cried Charlie, rather nettled at her words.
“It is respectable, at all events, and I’d rather be a second-rate
doctor than a second-rate actor. But I know you don’t mean it, and only
say so to frighten me.”
“Exactly. I always bring it up when anyone begins to lecture and it
works wonders. Uncle Mac turns pale, the aunts hold up their hands in
holy horror, and a general panic ensues. Then I magnanimously promise
not to disgrace the family and in the first burst of gratitude the dear
souls agree to everything I ask, so peace is restored and I go on my way
rejoicing.”
“Just the way you used to threaten to run off to sea if your mother
objected to any of your whims. You are not changed in that respect,
though you are in others. You had great plans and projects once,
Charlie, and now you seem to be contented with being a ‘jack of all
trades and master of none’”.
“Boyish nonsense! Time has brought wisdom, and I don’t see the sense of
tying myself down to one particular thing and grinding away at it year
after year. People of one idea get so deucedly narrow and tame, I’ve
no patience with them. Culture is the thing, and the sort one gets by
ranging over a wide field is the easiest to acquire, the handiest to
have, and the most successful in the end. At any rate, it is the kind I
like and the only kind I intend to bother myself about.”
With this declaration, Charlie smoothed his brow, clasped his hands over
his head, and, leaning back, gently warbled the chorus of a college song
as if it expressed his views of life better than he could:
    “While our rosy fillets shed
    Blushes o’er each fervid head,
    With many a cup and many a smile
    The festal moments we beguile.”
“Some of my saints here were people of one idea, and though they were
not very successful from a worldly point of view while alive, they were
loved and canonized when dead,” said Rose, who had been turning over a
pile of photographs on the table and just then found her favorite, St.
Francis, among them.
“This is more to my taste. Those worn-out, cadaverous fellows give me
the blues, but here’s a gentlemanly saint who takes things easy and does
good as he goes along without howling over his own sins or making other
people miserable by telling them of theirs.” And Charlie laid a handsome
St. Martin beside the brown-frocked monk.
Rose looked at both and understood why her cousin preferred the
soldierly figure with the sword to the ascetic with his crucifix. One
was riding bravely through the world in purple and fine linen, with
horse and hound and squires at his back; and the other was in a
lazar-house, praying over the dead and dying. The contrast was a strong
one, and the girl’s eyes lingered longest on the knight, though she said
thoughtfully, “Yours is certainly the pleasantest and yet I never heard
of any good deed he did, except divide his cloak with a beggar, while
St. Francis gave himself to charity just when life was most tempting and
spent years working for God without reward. He’s old and poor, and in a
dreadful place, but I won’t give him up, and you may have your gay St.
Martin if you want him.”
“No, thank you, saints are not in my line but I’d like the golden-haired
angel in the blue gown if you’ll let me have her. She shall be my little
Madonna, and I’ll pray to her like a good Catholic,” answered Charlie,
turning to the delicate, deep-eyed figure with the lilies in its hand.
“With all my heart, and any others that you like. Choose some for your
mother and give them to her with my love.”
So Charlie sat down beside Rose to turn and talk over the pictures for
a long and pleasant hour. But when they went away to lunch, if there
had been anyone to observe so small but significant a trifle, good St.
Francis lay face downward behind the sofa, while gallant St. Martin
stood erect upon the chimneypiece.
Chapter 3 MISS CAMPBELL
While the travelers unpack their trunks, we will pick up, as briefly as
possible, the dropped stitches in the little romance we are weaving.
Rose’s life had been a very busy and quiet one for the four years
following the May day when she made her choice. Study, exercise,
housework, and many wholesome pleasures kept her a happy, hearty
creature, yearly growing in womanly graces, yet always preserving
the innocent freshness girls lose so soon when too early set upon the
world’s stage and given a part to play.
Not a remarkably gifted girl in any way, and far from perfect; full of
all manner of youthful whims and fancies; a little spoiled by much love;
rather apt to think all lives as safe and sweet as her own; and,
when want or pain appealed to her, the tender heart overflowed with a
remorseful charity which gave of its abundance recklessly. Yet, with
all her human imperfections, the upright nature of the child kept her
desires climbing toward the just and pure and true, as flowers struggle
to the light; and the woman’s soul was budding beautifully under the
green leaves behind the little thorns.
At seventeen, Dr. Alec pronounced her ready for the voyage around the
world, which he considered a better finishing off than any school
could give her. But just then Aunt Peace began to fail and soon slipped
quietly away to rejoin the lover she had waited for so long. Youth
seemed to come back in a mysterious way to touch the dead face with lost
loveliness, and all the romance of her past to gather around her memory.
Unlike most aged women, her friends were among the young, and at her
funeral the grayheads gave place to the band of loving girls who made
the sweet old maiden ready for her rest, bore her pall, and covered her
grave with the white flowers she had never worn.
When this was over poor Aunt Plenty seemed so lost without her lifelong
charge that Dr. Alec would not leave her, and Rose gladly paid the debt
she owed by the tender service which comforts without words. But Aunt
Plenty, having lived for others all her days, soon rebelled against this
willing sacrifice, soon found strength in her own sincere piety, solace
in cheerful occupation, and amusement in nursing Aunt Myra, who was a
capital patient, as she never died and never got well.
So at last the moment came when, with free minds, the travelers could
set out, and on Rose’s eighteenth birthday, with Uncle Alec and the
faithful Phebe, she sailed away to see and study the big, beautiful
world which lies ready for us all if we only know how to use and enjoy
it.
Phebe was set to studying music in the best schools, and while she
trained her lovely voice with happy industry, Rose and her uncle roamed
about in the most delightful way till two years were gone like a dream
and those at home clamored for their return.
Back they came, and now the heiress must make ready to take her place,
for at twenty-one she came into possession of the fortune she had been
trying to learn how to use well. Great plans fermented in her brain,
for, though the heart was as generous as ever, time had taught her
prudence and observation shown her that the wisest charity is that which
helps the poor to help themselves.
Dr. Alec found it a little difficult to restrain the ardor of this young
philanthropist who wanted to begin at once to endow hospitals, build
homes, adopt children, and befriend all mankind.
“Take a little time to look about you and get your bearings, child. The
world you have been living in is a much simpler, honester one than that
you are now to enter. Test yourself a bit and see if the old ways seem
best after all, for you are old enough to decide, and wise enough to
discover, what is for your truest good, I hope,” he said, trying to feel
ready to let the bird escape from under his wing and make little flights
alone.
“Now, Uncle, I’m very much afraid you are going to be disappointed in
me,” answered Rose with unusual hesitation yet a very strong desire
visible in her eyes. “You like to have me quite honest, and I’ve learned
to tell you all my foolish thoughts so I’ll speak out, and if you find
my wish very wrong and silly, please say so, for I don’t want you to
cast me off entirely, though I am grown up. You say, wait a little, test
myself, and try if the old ways are best. I should like to do that, and
can I in a better way than leading the life other girls lead? Just for a
little while,” she added, as her uncle’s face grew grave.
He was disappointed, yet acknowledged that the desire was natural and
in a moment saw that a trial of this sort might have its advantages.
Nevertheless, he dreaded it, for he had intended to choose her society
carefully and try to keep her unspoiled by the world as long as
possible, like many another fond parent and guardian. But the spirit of
Eve is strong in all her daughters forbidden fruit will look rosier to
them than any in their own orchards, and the temptation to take just one
little bite proves irresistible to the wisest. So Rose, looking out from
the safe seclusion of her girlhood into the woman’s kingdom which she
was about to take possession of, felt a sudden wish to try its pleasures
before assuming its responsibilities, and was too sincere to hide the
longing.
“Very well, my dear, try it if you like, only take care of your health
be temperate in your gaiety and don’t lose more than you gain, if that
is possible,” he added under his breath, endeavoring to speak cheerfully
and not look anxious.
“I know it is foolish, but I do want to be a regular butterfly for a
little while and see what it is like. You know I couldn’t help seeing a
good deal of fashionable life abroad, though we were not in it, and here
at home the girls tell me about all sorts of pleasant things that are to
happen this winter, so if you won’t despise me very much, I should like
to try it.”
“For how long?”
“Would three months be too long? New Year is a good time to take a fresh
start. Everyone is going to welcome me, so I must be gay in spite of
myself, unless I’m willing to seem very ungrateful and morose,” said
Rose, glad to have so good a reason to offer for her new experiment.
“You may like it so well that the three months may become years.
Pleasure is very sweet when we are young.”
“Do you think it will intoxicate me?”
“We shall see, my dear.”
“We shall!” And Rose marched away, looking as if she had taken a pledge
of some sort, and meant to keep it.
It was a great relief to the public mind when it became known that Miss
Campbell was really coming out at last, and invitations to Aunt Plenty’s
party were promptly accepted. Aunt Clara was much disappointed about the
grand ball she had planned, but Rose stood firm, and the dear old lady
had her way about everything.
The consequence was a delightfully informal gathering of friends to
welcome the travelers home. Just a good, old-fashioned, hospitable
housewarming, so simple, cordial, and genuine that those who came to
criticize remained to enjoy, and many owned the charm they could neither
describe nor imitate.
Much curiosity was felt about Phebe, and much gossip went on behind fans
that evening, for those who had known her years ago found it hard to
recognize the little housemaid in the handsome young woman who bore
herself with such quiet dignity and charmed them all with her fine
voice. “Cinderella has turned out a princess,” was the general verdict,
and Rose enjoyed the little sensation immensely, for she had had many
battles to fight for her Phebe since she came among them, and now her
faith was vindicated.
Miss Campbell herself was in great demand and did the honors so prettily
that even Miss Bliss forgave her for her sad neglect of Worth, though
she shook her head over the white gowns, just alike except that Phebe
wore crimson and Rose, blue trimmings.
The girls swarmed eagerly around their recovered friend, for Rose had
been a favorite before she went away and found her throne waiting for
her now. The young men privately pronounced Phebe the handsomest “But
then you know there’s neither family nor money, so it’s no use.” Phebe,
therefore, was admired as one of the ornamental properties belonging to
the house and left respectfully alone.
But bonny Rose was “all right,” as these amiable youths expressed it,
and many a wistful eye followed the bright head as it flitted about the
rooms as if it were a second Golden Fleece to be won with difficulty,
for stalwart kinsmen hedged it round, and watchful aunts kept guard.
Little wonder that the girl found her new world an enchanting one and
that her first sip of pleasure rather went to her head, for everybody
welcomed and smiled on her, flattered and praised, whispered agreeable
prophecies in her ear, and looked the compliments and congratulations
they dared not utter till she felt as if she must have left her old self
somewhere abroad and suddenly become a new and wonderfully gifted being.
“It is very nice, Uncle, and I’m not sure I mayn’t want another three
months of it when the first are gone,” she whispered to Dr. Alec as he
stood watching the dance she was leading with Charlie in the long hall
after supper.
“Steady, my lass, steady, and remember that you are not really a
butterfly but a mortal girl with a head that will ache tomorrow,” he
answered, watching the flushed and smiling face before him. “I almost
wish there wasn’t any tomorrow, but that tonight would last forever it
is so pleasant, and everyone so kind,” she said with a little sigh of
happiness as she gathered up her fleecy skirts like a white bird pluming
itself for flight.
“I’ll ask your opinion about that at two A.M.,” began her uncle with a
warning nod.
“I’ll give it honestly,” was all Rose had time to say before Charlie
swept her away into the particolored cloud before them.
“It’s no use, Alec train a girl as wisely as you choose, she will break
loose when the time comes and go in for pleasure as eagerly as the most
frivolous, for ‘’tis their nature to,’” said Uncle Mac, keeping time
to the music as if he would not mind “going in” for a bit of pleasure
himself.
“My girl shall taste and try, but unless I’m much mistaken, a little
bit of it will satisfy her. I want to see if she will stand the test,
because if not, all my work is a failure and I’d like to know it,”
 answered the doctor with a hopeful smile on his lips but an anxious look
in his eyes.
“She will come out all right bless her heart! so let her sow her
innocent wild oats and enjoy herself till she is ready to settle down.
I wish all our young folks were likely to have as small a crop and get
through as safely as she will,” added Uncle Mac with a shake of the head
as he glanced at some of the young men revolving before him.
“Nothing amiss with your lads, I hope?”
“No, thank heaven! So far I’ve had little trouble with either, though
Mac is an odd stick and Steve a puppy. I don’t complain, for both will
outgrow that sort of thing and are good fellows at heart, thanks to
their mother. But Clara’s boy is in a bad way, and she will spoil him as
a man as she has as a boy if his father doesn’t interfere.”
“I told brother Stephen all about him when I was in Calcutta last year,
and he wrote to the boy, but Clara has got no end of plans in her head
and so she insisted on keeping Charlie a year longer when his father
ordered him off to India,” replied the doctor as they walked away.
“It is too late to ‘order’ Charlie is a man now, and Stephen will find
he has been too easy with him all these years. Poor fellow, it has been
hard lines for him, and is likely to be harder, I fancy, unless he comes
home and straightens things out.”
“He won’t do that if he can help it. He has lost all his energy living
in that climate and hates worry more than ever, so you can imagine what
an effort it would be to manage a foolish woman and a headstrong boy. We
must lend a hand, Mac, and do our best for poor old Steve.”
“The best we can do for the lad is to marry and settle him as soon as
possible.”
“My dear fellow, he is only three and twenty,” began the doctor, as
if the idea was preposterous. Then a sudden change came over him as
he added with a melancholy smile, “I forget how much one can hope and
suffer, even at twenty-three.”
“And be all the better for, if bravely outlived,” said Uncle Mac, with
his hand on his brother’s shoulder and the sincerest approval in
his voice. Then, kindly returning to the younger people, he went on
inquiringly, “You don’t incline to Clara’s view of a certain matter, I
fancy?”
“Decidedly not. My girl must have the best, and Clara’s training would
spoil an angel,” answered Dr. Alec quickly.
“But we shall find it hard to let our little Rose go out of the family.
How would Archie do? He has been well brought up and is a thoroughly
excellent lad.”
The brothers had retired to the study by this time and were alone, yet
Dr. Alec lowered his voice as he said with a tender sort of anxiety
pleasant to see: “You know I do not approve of cousins marrying, so I’m
in a quandary, Mac, for I love the child as if she were my own and feel
as if I could not give her up to any man whom I did not know and trust
entirely. It is of no use for us to plan, for she must choose for
herself yet I do wish we could keep her among us and give one of our
boys a wife worth having.”
“We must, so never mind your theories but devote yourself to testing our
elder lads and making one of them a happy fellow. All are heart-whole,
I believe, and, though young still for this sort of thing, we can be
gently shaping matters for them, since no one knows how soon the moment
may come. My faith it is like living in a powder mill to be among a lot
of young folks nowadays! All looks as calm as possible till a sudden
spark produces an explosion, and heaven only knows where we find
ourselves after it is over.”
And Uncle Mac sat himself comfortably down to settle Rose’s fate while
the doctor paced the room, plucking at his beard and knitting his brows
as if he found it hard to see his way.
“Yes, Archie is a good fellow,” he said, answering the question he had
ignored before. “An upright, steady, intelligent lad who will make an
excellent husband if he ever finds out that he has a heart. I suppose
I’m an old fool, but I do like a little more romance in a young man than
he seems to have more warmth and enthusiasm, you know. Bless the boy! He
might be forty instead of three or four and twenty, he’s so sober, calm,
and cool. I’m younger than he is, and could go a-wooing like a Romeo if
I had any heart to offer a woman.”
The doctor looked rather shamefaced as he spoke, and his brother
burst out laughing. “See here, Alec, it’s a pity so much romance and
excellence as yours should be lost, so why don’t you set these young
fellows an example and go a-wooing yourself? Jessie has been wondering
how you have managed to keep from falling in love with Phebe all this
time, and Clara is quite sure that you waited only till she was safe
under Aunt Plenty’s wing to offer yourself in the good old-fashioned
style.”
“I!” And the doctor stood aghast at the mere idea, then he gave a
resigned sort of sigh and added like a martyr, “If those dear women
would let me alone, I’d thank them forever. Put the idea out of their
minds for heaven’s sake, Mac, or I shall be having that poor girl flung
at my head and her comfort destroyed. She is a fine creature and I’m
proud of her, but she deserves a better lot than to be tied to an old
fellow like me whose only merit is his fidelity.”
“As you please, I was only joking,” and Uncle Mac dropped the subject
with secret relief. The excellent man thought a good deal of family and
had been rather worried at the hints of the ladies. After a moment’s
silence he returned to a former topic, which was rather a pet plan of
his. “I don’t think you do Archie justice, Alec. You don’t know him as
well as I do, but you’ll find that he has heart enough under his cool,
quiet manner. I’ve grown very fond of him, think highly of him, and
don’t see how you could do better for Rose than to give her to him.”
“If she will go,” said the doctor, smiling at his brother’s businesslike
way of disposing of the young people.
“She’ll do anything to please you,” began Uncle Mac in perfect good
faith, for twenty-five years in the society of a very prosaic wife had
taken nearly all the romance out of him.
“It is of no use for us to plan, and I shall never interfere except to
advise, and if I were to choose one of the boys, I should incline to my
godson,” answered the doctor gravely.
“What, my Ugly Duckling!” exclaimed Uncle Mac in great surprise.
“The Ugly Duckling turned out a swan, you remember. I’ve always been
fond of the boy because he’s so genuine and original. Crude as a green
apple now, but sound at the core, and only needs time to ripen. I’m sure
he’ll turn out a capital specimen of the Campbell variety.”
“Much obliged, Alec, but it will never do at all. He’s a good fellow,
and may do something to be proud of by and by, but he’s not the mate
for our Rose. She needs someone who can manage her property when we are
gone, and Archie is the man for that, depend upon it.”
“Confound the property!” cried Dr. Alec impetuously. “I want her to
be happy, and I don’t care how soon she gets rid of her money if it is
going to be a millstone round her neck. I declare to you, I dreaded the
thought of this time so much that I’ve kept her away as long as I could
and trembled whenever a young fellow joined us while we were abroad.
Had one or two narrow escapes, and now I’m in for it, as you can see
by tonight’s ‘success’ as Clara calls it. Thank heaven I haven’t many
daughters to look after!”
“Come, come, don’t be anxious take Archie and settle it right up safely
and happily. That’s my advice, and you’ll find it sound,” replied the
elder conspirator, like one having experience.
“I’ll think of it, but mind you, Mac, not a word of this to the sisters.
We are a couple of old fools to be matchmaking so soon but I see what is
before me and it’s a comfort to free my mind to someone.”
“So it is. Depend on me not a breath even to Jane,” answered Uncle Mac,
with a hearty shake and a sympathetic slap on the shoulder.
“Why, what dark and awful secrets are going on here? Is it a Freemason’s
Lodge and those the mystic signs?” asked a gay voice at the door; and
there stood Rose, full of smiling wonder at the sight of her two uncles
hand in hand, whispering and nodding to one another mysteriously.
They stared like schoolboys caught plotting mischief and looked so
guilty that she took pity on them, innocently imagining the brothers
were indulging in a little sentiment on this joyful occasion, so she
added quickly, as she beckoned, without crossing the threshold, “Women
not allowed, of course, but both of you dear Odd Fellows are wanted, for
Aunt Plenty begs we will have an old-fashioned contra dance, and I’m to
lead off with Uncle Mac. I chose you, sir, because you do it in style,
pigeon wings and all. So, please come and Phebe is waiting for you,
Uncle Alec. She is rather shy you know, but will enjoy it with you to
take care of her.”
“Thank you, thank you!” cried both gentlemen, following with great
alacrity.
Unconscious, Rose enjoyed that Virginia reel immensely, for the
pigeon wings were superb, and her partner conducted her through the
convolutions of the dance without a fault, going down the middle in his
most gallant style. Landing safely at the bottom, she stood aside to let
him get his breath, for stout Uncle Mac was bound to do or die on that
occasion and would have danced his pumps through without a murmur if she
had desired it.
Leaning against the wall with his hair in his eyes, and a decidedly
bored expression of countenance, was Mac, Jr., who had been surveying
the gymnastics of his parent with respectful astonishment.
“Come and take a turn, my lad. Rose is fresh as a daisy, but we old
fellows soon get enough of it, so you shall have my place,” said his
father, wiping his face, which glowed like a cheerful peony.
“No, thank you, sir I can’t stand that sort of thing. I’ll race you
round the piazza with pleasure, Cousin, but his oven is too much for
me,” was Mac’s uncivil reply as he backed toward the open window, as if
glad of an excuse to escape.
“Fragile creature, don’t stay on my account, I beg. I can’t leave my
guests for a moonlight run, even if I dared to take it on a frosty night
in a thin dress,” said Rose, fanning herself and not a bit ruffled by
Mac’s refusal, for she knew his ways and they amused her.
“Not half so bad as all this dust, gas, heat, and noise. What do you
suppose lungs are made of?” demanded Mac, ready for a discussion then
and there.
“I used to know, but I’ve forgotten now. Been so busy with other things
that I’ve neglected the hobbies I used to ride five or six years ago,”
 she said, laughing.
“Ah, those were times worth having! Are you going in for much of
this sort of thing, Rose?” he asked with a disapproving glance at the
dancers.
“About three months of it, I think.”
“Then good-bye till New Year.” And Mac vanished behind the curtains.
“Rose, my dear, you really must take that fellow in hand before he gets
to be quite a bear. Since you have been gone he has lived in his books
and got on so finely that we have let him alone, though his mother
groans over his manners. Polish him up a bit, I beg of you, for it is
high time he mended his odd ways and did justice to the fine gifts he
hides behind them,” said Uncle Mac, scandalized at the bluntness of his
son.
“I know my chestnut burr too well to mind his prickles. But others do
not, so I will take him in hand and make him a credit to his family,”
 answered Rose readily.
“Take Archie for your model he’s one of a thousand, and the girl who
gets him gets a prize, I do assure you,” added Uncle Mac, who found
matchmaking to his taste and thought that closing remark a deep one.
“Oh, me, how tired I am!” cried Rose, dropping into a chair as the last
carriage rolled away somewhere between one and two.
“What is your opinion now, Miss Campbell?” asked the doctor, addressing
her for the first time by the name which had been uttered so often that
night.
“My opinion is that Miss Campbell is likely to have a gay life if she
goes on as she has begun, and that she finds it very delightful so far,”
 answered the girl, with lips still smiling from their first taste of
what the world calls pleasure.
Chapter 4 THORNS AMONG THE ROSES
For a time everything went smoothly, and Rose was a happy girl. The
world seemed a beautiful and friendly place, and fulfillment of her
brightest dreams appeared to be a possibility. Of course this could not
last, and disappointment was inevitable, because young eyes look for a
Paradise and weep when they find a workaday world which seems full of
care and trouble till one learns to gladden and glorify it with high
thoughts and holy living.
Those who loved her waited anxiously for the disillusion which must come
in spite of all their cherishing, for till now Rose had been so busy
with her studies, travels, and home duties that she knew very little
of the triumphs, trials, and temptations of fashionable life. Birth and
fortune placed her where she could not well escape some of them, and Dr.
Alec, knowing that experience is the best teacher, wisely left her to
learn this lesson as she must many another, devoutly hoping that it
