in each of tliij.se countless places, — like that stump, 
you know. When the river first begins to rise, 
you can run half a dozen of the deepest of them ; 
when it rises a foot more you can run another 
dozen ; the next foot will add a couple of dozen, 
and so on: so you see you have to know your 
banks and marks to a dead moral certainty, and 
never get them mixed ; for when you start through 
one of those cracks, there's no backing out again, 
as there is in the big river ; you've got to go 
through, or stay there six months if you get caught 
on a falling river. There are about fifty of these 
cracks which you can't run at all except when the 
river is brim full and over the banks." 

" This new lesson is a cheerful prospect." 

" Cheerful enough. And mind what I've just 
told you ; when you start into one of those places 
you've got to go through. They are too narrow to 
turn around in, too crooked to back out of, and the 
shoal water is always tt? at the head ; never else- 
where. And the head of them is always likely to 
be filling up, little by little, so that the marks you 
reckon their depth by, this seaKOii, may not answer 
for next." 

" Learn a new set, then, every year ?" 

" Exactly. Cramp her up to the bar ! What 
are you standing up through the middle of the 
river for ?" 

The next few mont'is showed me strange things. 
On the same day that we held the conversation 
above narrated, we met a great rise coming down 
the river. The whole vast face of the stream was 
black with drifting dead logs, broken boughs, and 
great trees that had caved in and been washed 
away. It required the nicest steering to pick one's 
way through this rushing raft, even in the day- 
time, when crossing from point to point; and at 
night the ditKculty was mightily increased ; every 
now and then a huge log, lying deep in the water, 
would suddenly appear right under our bows, 
coming head-on ; no use to try to avoid it then; we 
could only stop the engines, and one wheel would 
walk over that log from one end to the other, 
keeping up a thundering racket and careening the 
boat in j, way that was very uncomfortable to pas- 
sengers. Now and then we would hit one of these 
sunken logs a rattling bang, dead in the centre, 
with a full head of steam, and it would stun the 
boat as if she had hit a continent. Sometimes this 
log would lodge and stay right across our nose, and 
back the Mississippi up before it ; we would have 
to do a little craw-fishing, then, to get away from 
the obstruction. We often hit ivhite logs, in the 
dark, for we could not see them till we were right 
on them ; but a black log in a pretty distinct object 
at night. A white snag is an ugly customer when 
the daylight is gone. 

Of course, on the great rise, down came a swarm 
of prodigious timber-ral'Ls from the head waters of 
the Mississippi, coal barges from Pittsburgh, little 
trading scows from eveiywliere, and broad-horns 
from " Posey County," Indiana, freighted with 
" fruit and furniture " — the usual term for describ- 
ing it, though in plain English the freight thus 
aggrandized was hoop-poles and pumpkins. Pilots 
bore a mortal hatred to these craft ; and it was 
returned with usury. The law required all such 
helpless traders to keep a light burning, but it was 
a law that was often broken. All of a sadden on 
a murky night a light would hop up, right under 
our bowSj almost, and au agonized voice, with the 
backwoods " whang " to it, would wail out : 

" What 'n the you goin' to ! Cain't you see 

nothin', you dash-dashed aig-suckin', sheep-stealin', 
one-eyed son of a stuffed monkey !" 

Then for an instant, as we whistled by, the red 
glare from our furnaces would reveal the scow and 
the form of the gesticulating orator as if under a 
lightning flash, and in that inst?ini our firemen and 
deck-hands would penJ and receive a tempest of 
missiles ad profanity, one of our wheels would 
wj'lk off with the crashing fragments of a steering- 
oar, and down the dead blackness would shut again. 
And that flatboatman would be sure to go into New 
Orleans and sue our boat, swearing stoutly that he 
had a light burning all the time, when in truth his 
gang had the lantern down below to sing and lie 
and drink and gamble by, and no watch on deck. 
Once, at night, in one oi' those forest-bordered 
crevices (behind an island) which stoaniboatiucn 
intensely describe with the phrase "a:; (hxrk as the 
inside of a cow," we should have eaten up a Posey 
County family, fruit, furniture, and all, but that 
they happened to be tiddliug down below and we 
just caught the sound of the music in time to sheer 
off, doing no serious damage, unfortunately, but 
coming so near it that we had good hopes for a 
moment. These people brought up their lantern, 
then, of course ; and as we backed and filled to get 
away, the precious family stood in the light of it — 
both sexes and various ages — and cursed us till 
everything turned blue. Once a coal-boatman sent 
a bullet through our pilot-house, when we borrowed 
a steering-oar of him, in a very narrow place. 
During this big rise these small-fry craft were 

, an intolerable nuisance. We were running chute 
after chute, — a new world to me, — and if there was 
a particularly cramped place in a chute, we were 

. pretty sure to meet a broad-horn there ; and if he 
failed to be there, we would find him in a still 
worse locality, namely, the head of the chute, on the 
shoal water. And then there would be no end of 
profane cordialities exchanged. 

Sometimes, in the big river, when we would be 
feeling our way cautiously along through a fog, the 

deep hush would suddenly be broken by yells and 
a clamor of tin pans, and all in an instant a log 
raft would appear vaguely through the webby veil, 
close upon as ; and then we did not wait 'to swap 
knives, but snatched our engine bells out by the 
roots and piled on all the steam we had, to scramble 
out of the way ! One doesn't hit a rock or a solid 
log raft with a steamboat when he can get excused. 
You will hardly believe it, but many steamboat 
clerks always carried a large assortment of religious 
tracts with them in those old departed steamboat- 
ing days. Indeed they did. Twenty times a day 
we would be cramping up around a bar, while a 
string of these small-fry rascals were drifting down 
into the head of the bend away above and beyond 
us a couple of miles. Now a skiff would dart away 
from one of them and come lighting its laborious 
way across the desert of water. It would " ease 
all," in the shadow of our forecastle, and the pant- 
ing oarsman would shout, " Gimme a pa-a-per !'* 
as the skiff drifted swiftly astern. The clerk would 
throw over a file of New Orleans journals. If 
these were picked up without comment, you might 
notice that now a dozen other skiffs had been drift- 
ing down upon us without saying anything. You 
understand, they had been waiting to see how No. 
I was going to fare. No. 1 making no comment, 
all the rest would bend to their oars and come on, 
and as fast as they came the clerk would now 
heave over neat bundles of religious tracts tied to 
shingles. The amount of hard swearing which 
twelve packages of religious literature will com- 
mand when impartially divided up among twelve 
raftsmen's crews, who have pulled a heavy skiff 
two miles on a hot day to get them, is simply in- 
credible. 

As I have said, the big rise brought a new 
world under my vision. By the time the river was 
over its banks we had forsaken our old paths and 
were hourly climbing over bars that had stood ten 
feet out of water before ; we were shaving stumpy 
shores, like that at the foot of Madrid Bend, which 
I had always seen avoided before ; we were clat- 
tering through chutes like that of 82, where the 
opening at the foot was an unbroken wall of timber 
till our nose was almost at the ver}'- spot. Some of 
these chutes were utter solitudes. The dense, un- 
touched forest overhung botl? banks of the crooked 
little crack, and one could believe that human crea- 
tures had never intruded there before. The sving- 
ing grape-vines, the grassy nooks and vistas glimpsed 
as we swept by, the flowering creepers waving their 
red blossoms from the tops of dead trunks, and all 
the spendthrift richness of the forest foliage, were 
wasted and thrown away there. The chutes were 
lovely places to steer in ; they were deep, except at 
the head; the current was gentle; under the "points" 
the water was absolutely dead, and the invisible 
banks so bluff that where the tender willow thickets 
pijected you could buiy your boat's broadside in 
them as you tore along, and then you seemed fairly 
to fly. 

Behind other islands we found wretched little 
farms, and wretcheder little log-cabins ; there were 
crazy rail-fences sticking a foot or two above the 
water, with one or two jeans-clad, chills-racked, 
yellow-faced male miserables roosting on the top- 
rail, elbows on knees, jaws in hands, grinding to- 
bacco and discharging the result at floating chips 
through crevices left by lost milk-teeth ; while the 
rest of the family and the few farm animals were 
huddled together in an empty wood-flat riding at 
her moorings close at hand. In this flatboat the 
family would have to cook and eat and sleep for a 
lesser or greater number of days (or possibly weeks), 
until the river should fall two or three feet and let 
them get back to their log-cabin and their chills 
again — chills being a merciful provision of an all- 
wise Providence to enable them to take exercise 
without exertion. And this sort of watery camp- 
ing out was a thing which these people were rather 
liable to be treated to a couple of times a year : by 
the December rise out of the Ohio, and the June 
rise out of the Mississippi. And yet these were 
kindly dispensations, for they at least enabled the 
poor things to rise from the dead now and then, and 
look upon life when a steamboat went by. They 
appreciated the blessing, too, for they spread their 
mouths and eyes wide open, and made the most of 
these occasions. Now what could these banished 
creatures find to do to keep from dying of the blues 
during the low- water season ! 

Once, in one of these lovely island chutes, we 
found our course completely bridged by a great 
fallen tree. This will serve to show how narrow 
some of the chutes were. The passengers had an 
hour's recreation in a virgin w'Merness, while the 
boat-hands chopped the bridge away ; for there was 
no such thing as turning back, you comprehend. 

From Cairo to Ej,ton Rouge, when the river is 
over its banks, you have no particular trouble in 
the night, for the thousand-mile wall of dense forest 
that guards the two banks all the way is only gap- 
ped with a farm or wood-yard opening at intervals, 
and so you can't " get out of the river " much easier 
than you could get out of a fenced lane ; but from 
Baton Rouge to New Orleans it is a different matter. 
The river is more than a mile wide, and very deep 
— as much as two hundred feet, in places. Both 
banks, for a good deal over a hundred miles, are 
shorn ot their timber and bordered by continuous 
sugar plantations, with only here and there a scatter- 
ing sapling or row of ornamental China-trees. The 
timber is shorn off clear to the rear of the plantations, 
from two to four miles. When the first frost threat- 
ens to come, the planters snatch off their crops in a 
hurry. When they have finished grinding the cane, 
they form the refuse of the stalks (which they call 
bagasse) into great piles and set fire to them, though 
in other sugar countries the bagasse is used for fuel 
6in the furnaces of the sugar mills. Now the piles 
of damp bagasse bum slowly, and smoke like Satan's 
own kitchen. 

An embankment ten or fifteen feet high guards 
both banks of the Mississippi all the way down that 
lower end of the river, and this embankment is' set 
back from the edge of the shore from ten to perhaps 
a hundred feet, according to circumstances; say 
thirty or forty feet, as a general thing. Fill that 
whole region with an impenetrable gloom of smoke 
from a hundred miles of burning bagasse piles, when 
the river is over the banks, and turn a steamboat 
loose along there at midnight and see how she will 
feel. And see how you will feel too ! You find 
yourself away out in the midst of a vague dim sea 
that is shoreless, that fades out and looses itself in 
the murky distances ; for you cannot discern the 
thin rim of embankment, and you are always 
imagining you see a straggling tree when you don't. 
The plantations themselves are transformed by the 
smoke and look like a part of the sea. All through 
your watch you are tortured with the exquisite 
misery of uncertainty. You hope you are keeping 
in the river, but you do not know. All that you 
are sure about is that you are likely to be within 
six feet of the bank and destruction, when you think 
you are a good half mile from shore. And you are 
sure, also, that if you chance suddenly to fetch up 
against the embankment and topple your chimneys 
overboard, you will have the small' comfort of knowing 
that it is about what you were expecting to do. 
One ol the great Vicksburg packets darted out into 
a sugar plantation one night, at such a time, and had 
to stay there a week. But there was no novelty 
about it ; it had often been done before. 

I thought I had finished this number, but I wish 
to add a curious thing while it is in my mind. It 
is only relevant in that it is connected with pilot- 
ing. There used to be an excellent pilot on the river, 
a Mr. X., who was a somnambulist. It was said that 
if his mind was troubled about a bad piece of river, 
he was pretty sure to get up and walk in his sleep 
and do strange things. He was once lellow-pilot 

for a trip or two with George E , on a great New 

Orleans passenger packet. During a considerable 
part of the first trip George was uneasy, but got over 
it by and by, as X. seemed content to stay in his bed 
when asleep. Late one night the boat was approach- 
ing Helena, Arkansas ; the water was low, and the 
crossings above the town in a very blind and tangled 

condition. X. had seen the crossing since E 

had, and as the night was particularly drizzly, sullen, 
and dark, E was considering whether he 

had not better have X. called to assist in running 
the place, when the door opened and X. walked . in. 
Now on very dark nights, light is a deadly enemy 
to piloting ; you are aware that if you stand in a 
lighted room, on such a night, you cannot see things 
in the street to any purpose ; but if you put out 
the lights and stand in the gloom you can make out 

objects in the street pretty well. So, on very dark 
nights, pilots do not smoke ; they allow no fire in 
the pilot-house stove if there is a crack which can 
allow the least ray to escape ; they order the furna- 
ces to be curtained with huge tarpaulins and the sky- 
lights to be closely blinded. Then no light what- 
ever "uej f 'om the boat. The undefinable shape 
that ir dp tered the pilot-house had Mr. X.*s voice. 
This sa. . — 

" Let me take her, Mr. E : I we seen this place 

since you have, and it is so crooked that I reckon I 
can run it myself easier than I could tell you how 
to do it." 

" It is kind of you, and I swear I am willing. I 
haven 't got another drop of perspiration left in me. 
T hae been spinning around and around the wheel 
like a squirrel. It is so dark I can 't tell which way 
she is swinging till she is coming around like a 
whirligig." 

So E took a seat on the bench, panting and 

breathless. The black phantom assumed the wheel, 
without saying anything, steadied the waltzing 
steamer with a turn or two, and then stood at ease, 
coaxing her a little to this side and then to that, as 
gently and as sweetly as if the time had been noon- 
day. When E observed this marvel of steering, 

he wished he had not confessed ! He stared, and 
wondered, and finally said, — 

" Well, I thought I knew how to steer a steam- 
boat, but that was another mistake of mine." 

X. said nothing, but went serenely on with his 
work. He rang tor the leads; he rang to slow down 
the steam ; he worked the boat earofully and neatly 
into invisible marks, then stood at the centre of the 
wheel and peered blandly out into the blackness, 
fore and aft, to verify his position ; as the leads shoal- 
ed more and more, he stopped the engines entire- 
ly, and the dead silence and suspense of " drifting " 
followed ; when the shoalest water was struck, he 
cracked on the steam, carried her \andsomely over, 
and then began to work her wanly nto the next 
system of shoal marks : the san.e patient, heedful 
use of leads and engines followed, the boat slipped 
through without touching bofom, and entered upon 
the third and last intricacy oi ihe crossing : imper- 
ceptibly she moved through the gloom, crept by 
inches into her marks, drifted tediously till the 
shoalest water was cried, and then, under a tremen- 
dous head of steam, went swinging over the reef 
and away into deep water and safety ! 

E let his long-pent breath pour out in a great, 

relieving sigh, and said : 

"That's the sweetest piece of piloting that was 
ever done on the Mississippi River ! I wouldn't be- 
lieved it could be done, if I hadn't seen it." 

There was no reply, and he added : — 

" Just hold her five minutes longer, partner, and 
let me run down and get a cup of cofi'ee." 

A minute later E was biting into a pie, down 

in the " texas," and comforting himself with coffee. 


Just then the night watchman happened in, and was 

about to happen out again, when he noticed E 

and exclaimed, — 

"Who is at the wheel sir?" 

" X." 

"Dart for the pilot-house, quicker than lightning!" 

The next moment both men were aying up the 
pilot-house companion way, three steps at a jump ! 
Nobody there ! The great steamer was whistling 
down the middle of the river at her own sweet will ! 

The watchman shot out of the place again ; E 

seized the wheel, set an engine back with power, and 
held his breath while the boat reluctantly swung 
away from a " towhead " which she was about to 
knock into the middle of the Gulf of Mexico ! 

By and by the watchman came back and said, — 

" Didn't that lunatic tell you he was asleep, when 
he first came up here ? " 

" No." 

" Well, he was. I found him walking along on 
top of the railings, just as unconcerned as another 
man would walk a pavement ; and I put him to 
bed ; now just this minute there he was again, away 
astern, going through that sort of tight-rope deviltry 
the same as before " 

" Well, I think I 'll stay by, next time he has one 
of those fits. But I hope he 'll have them often. 
You just ought to have seen him take this boat 
through Helena crossing.  never saw anything 
so gaudy before. And if he can do such gold -leaf, 
kid-glove, diamond-breasfcpin piloting when he is 
sound asleep, what could iit he do if he was dead !" 


CHAPTER V. 



"SOUNDING." FACULTIES PECUr.IARLY NECES- 
SARY TO A PILOT. 

When the river is very low, and one's steamboat 
is " drawing all the water " there is in the channel, 
— or a few inches more, as was often the case in 
the old times, — one must be painfully circumspect 
in his piloting. We used to have to " sound " a 
number of particularly bad places almost every 
trip when the river was at a very low stage. 

Sounding is done in this way. The boat ties up 
at the shore, just above the shoal crossing; the 
pilot not on watch takes his " cub " or steersman 
and a picked crew of men (sometimes an officer 
also), and goes out in the yawl — provided the boat 
has not that rare and sumi)tuous luxury, a regularly- 
devised " sou.nding-boat " — and proceeds to hunt for 
the best water, the pilot on duty watching his 
movements through a spy-glass, meantime, and in 
some instances assisting by signals of the boat's 
whistle, signifying " try liigher up " or " try lower 
down ;" for the surface of the water, lilce an oil- 
painting, is more exproasive and intelligible when 
inspected from a little distance than very close at 
hand. The whistle signals are seldom necessary, 
however ; never, perhaps, except when the wind 
confuses the significant ripples upon the water's 
surface. When the yawl has reached the shoal 
place, the speed is slackened, the pilot begins to 
sound the depth with a pole ten or twelve feet long, 
and the steersman at the tiller obeys the order to 
" hold her up to starboard ;" or "let her fall to lar- 
board ;"' or " steady — steady as you go." 

When the measurements indicate that the yawl 
is approaching the shoalest part of the reef, the 
command is given to " ease all !" Then the men 
stop rowing and the yawl drifts with the current. 
The next order is, " Stand by with the buoy !" 
The moment the shallowest point is reached 
the pilot delivers the order, " Let go the buoy !" 
and over she goes. If the pilot is not satis- 
fied, he sounds the place again ; if he finds better 
water higher up or lower down, he removes the 
buoy to that place. Being finally satisfied, he 
gives the order, and all the men stand their oars 
straight up in the air, in line ; a blast from the 
boat's whistle indicates that the signal has been 
seen ; then the men " give way " on their oars and 
lay the yawl alongside the buoy ; the steamer comes 
creeping carefully down, is pointed straight at the 
buoy, husbands her power for the coining struggle, 
and presently, at the critical moment, turns on all 
her steam and goes grinding and wallowing over 
the buoy and the sand, and gains the deep water 
beyond. Or maybe she doesn't ; maybe she 
" strikes and swings." Then she has to while away 
several hours (or days) sparring herself otf. 

Sometimes a buoy is not laid at all, but the yawl 
goes ahead, hunting the best water, and the steamer 
follows along in its wake. Often there is a deal of 
fun and excitement about sounding, especially if it 
is a glorious summer day, or a blusturing night. 
But in winter the cold and the peril take most of 
the fun out of it. 

A buoy is nothing but a board four or five feet 
long, with one end turned up ; it is a reversed boot- 
jack. It is anchored on the shoalest part of the 
reef by a rope with a heavy stone made fast to the 
end of it. But for the resistance of the turned-up 
end, the current would pull the buoy under water 
At night a paper lantern with a candle in it is fast- 
ened on top of the buoy, and this can be seen a mile 
or more, a little glimmering spark in the waste of 
blackness. 

Nothing delights a cub so much as an oppor- 
tunity to go out sounding. There is such an air 
of adventure about it ; often there is danger ; it is 
so gaudy and man-of-war-like to sit up in the 
stern-sheets and steer a swift yawl ; there is something
fine about the exultant spring of the b at 
when an experienced old sailor crew throw their 
souls into the oars ; it is lovely to see the white 
foam stream away from the bows ; there is music 
in the rush of the water ; it is deliciously exhilarat- 
ing, in summer, to go speeding over the breezy 
expanses of the river when the world of vravlets 
is dancing in the sun. It is such grandeur, too, 
to the cub, to get a chance to give an order ; for 
often the pilot will simply say, " Let her go about !" 
and leave the rest to the cub, who instantly cries, 
in his sternest tone of command, " Ease starboard ! 
Strong on the larboard ! Starboard give way ! With 
a will, men !" The cub enjoys sounding for the 
further reason that the eyes of the passengers are 
watching all the yawl's movements with absorbing 
interest, if the time be daylight ; and if it be night 
he knows that those same wondering eyes are fast- 
ened upon the yawl's lantern as it glides out into 
the gloom and fades away in the remote distance. 

One trip a pretty girl of sixteen spent her time 
in our pilot-house with her uncle and aunt, every 
day and all day long. I fell in love ith her. So 

did Mr. T 's cub, Tom G . Tom and I had 

been bosom friends until this time ; but now a cool- 
ness began to arise. I told the girl a good many of 
my river adventures, and made myself out a good 
deal of a hero; Tom tried to make himself appear to be 
a hero, too, and succeeded to some extent, but then 
he always had a way of embroidering. However, 
virtue is its own reward, so I was !a barely perceptible 
trifle ahead in the contest. About this time 
something happened which promised handsomely 
ijr me : the pilots decided to sound the crossing at 
the head of 21. This would occur at nine or ten 
o'clock at night, when the passengers would bu 

still up; it would be Mr. T 's watch, therefore 

my chief would have to do the sounding. We had 
a perfect love of a sounding-boat — long, trim, grace- 
ful, and as fleet as a greyhound ; her thwarts were 
cushioned ; she carried twelve oarsmen ; one of the 
mates was always sent in her to transmit orders to 
her crew, for ours was a steamer where no end of 
" style " was put on. 

We tied up at the shore above 21, and got ready. 
It was a foul night, and the river was so wide, 
there, that a landsman's uneducated eyes could dis- 
cern no opposite shore through such a gloom. The 
passengers were alert and interested ; everything 
was satisfactory. As I hurried through the engine- 
room, picturesquely gotten up in storm toggery, I 
met Tom, and could not forbear delivering myself 
of a mean speech  — 

" Aint you glad yow don't have to go out sound- 
ing? 

Tom was passing on, but he quickly turned, and 
said, — 

" Now just for that, you can go and get the 
sounding-pole yourself I was going after it, but 
I 'd see you in Halifax, now, before I 'd do it." 
" Who wants you to get it ?  dont. It 's in 
the sounding-boat." 

" It ain't, either. Its been new-painted ; and 
it's been up on the lady's-cabin guards two days, 
drying." 

I flew back, and shortly arrived among the 
crowd of watching and wondering ladies just in 
time to hear the command ; 

" Give way, men ! " 

I looked over, and there was the gallant sound- 
ing-boat booming away, the unprincipled Tom pre- 
siding at the tiller, and my chief sitting by him 
with the sounding-pole which I had been sent on a 
fool's errand to fetch. Then that young girl said 
to me, — 

" Oh, how awful to have to go out in that lit- 
tle boat on such a night ! Do you think there is 
any danger ? " 

I would rather have been stabbed. I went off 
full of venom, to help in the pilot-house. By and 
by the boat's lantern disappeared, and after an in- 
terval a wee spark glimmered upon the face of the 

water a mile away. Mr. T blew the whistle, 

in acknowledgment, backed the steamer out, and 
made for it. We flew along for awhile, then slack- 
ened steam and went cautiously gliding toward the 
spark. Presently Mr. T exclaimed, — 

'* Hello, the buoy-lantern's out ! " 

He stopped the engines. A moment or two 
later he said — 

" Why, there it is again ! " 

So he came a head on the engines once more, and 
rang for the leads. Gradually the water- shoaled 
up, and then began to deepen again I Mr. T — 
muttered : 

" Well, I don't understand this. I believe that 
buoy has drifted off the reef Seems to be a little 
too far to the left. No matter, it is safest to run 
over it, anyhow.'' 

So, in that solid world of darkness, we went 
creeping down on the li_nht. Just as our bows 

were in the act of plowing over it, Mi*. T seized 

the bell-ropes, rang a startling peal, and exclaim- 
ed, — 

" My soul, it's the sounding-boat ! " 

A sudden chorus of wild alarms burst out far 
below — a pause — and then a sound of grinding and 
crashing followed. Mr. T exclaimed, — 

" There ! the paddle-wheel has ground the sound- 
ing-boat to lucifer matches ! Run ! See who is 
killed ! " 

I was on the main deck in the twinkling of an 
eye. My chief and the third mate and nearly all 
the men were safe. They had discovered their 
danger when it was too late to pull out of the way ; 
then, when the great guards overshadowed them a 
moment later, they were prepared and knew what 
to do ; at my chief's order they sprang at the right 
instant, seized the guard, and were hauled aboard. 
The next moment the sounding yawl swept aft to 
the wheel and was struck and splintered to atoms. 
Two of the men and the cub Tom, were missing — 

a lact which spread like wild-fire over the boat. 
The passengers came flocking to the forward gang- 
way, ladies and all, anxious-eyed, white-faced, and 
talked in awed voices of the dreadiai thing. And 
often and again I heard them say, " Poor fellows ! 
poor boy, poor boy ! " 

By this time the boat's yawl was manned and 
away, to search for the missing. Nov a faint call 
was heard, off to the left. The yawl had disap- 
peared in the other direction. Half the people 
rushed to one side to encourage the swimmer with 
their shouts ; the f ther half rushed the other way 
to shriek to the yawl to turn about. By the call- 
ings, the swimmer was approaching, but soiixci said 
the sound showed failing strength. The crowd 
