ing tea. " Since you have taken him under j^our jurisdic 
tion, I suppose he is safe, at least ; " and there was a 
little sneer in the words. 
" I have not seen Herbert since since he ran away 
in the grove," returned Nelly tremulously. 
' ' Of course you are quite prepared to answer to his 
father for whatever befalls him ? " 
" I will answer to his father as far as I am concerned," 
she made answer quietly. 
It did not seem as if any thing evil could happen to 
the child. It was still broad daylight ; and he was used 
to roaming about. If Miss Grove believed him in danger, 
could she sit there so calmly? Maud wore the same look 
of insolent defiance that had characterized her in the 
afternoon. Nelly experienced a strange sinking about 
the heart, feeling pitted, as it were, against them in a 
cruel struggle. 
" But it is unusual for the child to stay so," said grand 
mother, with much alarm in her countenance. 
" I have always insisted upon promptness ; but then 
like regularity in all matters, and have accustomed 
 self to such habits. For years we have gone on in 
complete order ; but I am no longer mistress, and there 
fore not responsible. Still, since I have consented to 
remain solely on account of these motherless children, 
my only sister's children, I do desire to do my duty by 
them without any interference. It was a very simple 
thing that occurred this afternoon. The child is meddle 
some and destructive to the last degree, and I sent for 
him, as I had a perfect right to do ; for I found he had 
broken my bracelet, and it was my place to punish him. 
You must sec, Mrs. Kinnard, how utterly uncalled for 
your imprudent indulgence was in shielding him, and in 
thus enabling him to defy me. I think his father can 
hardly fail to say so." 
Nelh- heard her through with a quiet dignity. 
" I did not shield him in any respect, Miss Grove. I 
should not have taken any notice of the matter ; but he 
and Maud were wrangling in a very improper manner. 
I am not fully acquainted with your method of bringing 
up children. But in our family, where there was a much 
greater difference in regard to ages, one child was never 
allowed to strike another ; and Maud had given him a 
severe blow." 
" He kicked me," said Maud in eager justification. 
" I think Maud will also bear me witness, if she cares 
to tell the truth, that I insisted upon his obeying you." 
A dull blush suffused Maud's face. 
"You had him in your lap, with your dress around 
him," the young lady returned with a most offensive 
self-complacency. 
Nelty could have shaken her ; for it flashed into her 
mind that Maud might not have repeated the transaction 
correctly. 
' I am not much used to children's quarrels ; and we 
were carefully trained not to misrepresent if it was ever 
 
necessary to bear evidence against one another. Will 
you be kind enough to tell me, Maud, what you said to 
j-our aunt? I shall take the liberty of repeating your 
whole conversation to your father ; for I must say I 
considered it very impertinent in a little girl." 
" Indeed ! Maud gives me no trouble that way. 
Answer Mrs. Kinnard, Maud. You told me" 
" That that " and the child's voice faltered, while 
her eyes sought her aunt's with a sort of frightened 
entreaty. 
Miss Grove generally scorned any thing like falsehood ; 
but now her anger at Dr. Kinnard' s wife was greater 
than her vaunted love of truth. Maud had most impru 
dently colored the whole transaction, and had said of 
her stepmother, " She won't let him come in." 
" That Mrs. Kinnard was his mother, or something of 
that sort, and he clung to her for protection. I suppose it 
was as much your manner that influenced Maud as any 
thing you said," returned Miss Grove with a covert air 
of triumph. 
" Did I tell him to go to your aunt, Maud, or did I 
not? Answer simply yes, or no." 
" I don't remember ; " and Maud began to cry. 
" She gave me the impression that you were shielding 
Herbert. But she was greatly excited, I must confess ; 
and ordinarily Herbert obeys me." 
There was the sound of a breezy voice in the office ; 
and Nelly's heart leaped with joy. He entered with a 
gay salutation, passed around and kissed his wife, noting 
with the quick eye of affection that something had dis 
composed her. 
"Where is Bertie?" he asked as he took his cup of 
tea. " Dismissed on account of some meritorious deed? " 
"Mrs. Kinnard was the last person who saw him, I 
believe," returned Miss Grove. 
" I will tell you after supper," Nelly said quietly. 
Dr. Kinnard glanced from one to the other. There 
had evidently been a storm ; but he was most unromanti- 
cally hungry, and thankful for Nell}*'s good sense. Then 
he had a message to deliver to his mother from a distant 
friend ; and the conversation took a general turn. 
Miss Grove rose when he was through. " Will you 
be kind enough to remain," asked Nelh', "while I 
make my explanations ; ' ' and the lady stood in a haughty 
dignity, with one hand on the back of her chair, her face 
curved with a scornful half-smile. 
Nelly went briefly over the incidents of the afternoon. 
She did not repeat all Maud's insolence, for she did not 
desire to bring either of the elder ladies into personal 
conflict with herself ; and she was by far too kind-hearted 
to thus mortify them in the presence of the son and 
brother. 
Dr. Kinnard turned abruptly. " Where was the brace 
let, Adelaide ? " he asked. 
"On my dressing-table, when I left it: on the floor, 
when I found it, and broken. I had been out of the 
room for a few moments." 
' ' How I wish you would not keep gimcracks around 
where that boy can get at them, or, better still, not have 
him everlastingly in your room ! I have told you a hun 
dred times to send him out just as soon as his lessons 
were through. Is it badly broken? Maud, go and fetch 
it- And he has not come in yet? Has any one sent- Mat 
to see?" 
"I have," said Nelly ; for she could see that her hus 
band was much annoyed. 
" He hasn't spunk enough to run away, so never fear," 
glancing at Nelly's face of alarm. " And, if he did, he 
would run back again. I shall have to take him in hand, 
Adelaide. I have always said women could not manage 
boys." 
"I am sure I have managed him until" and an 
angry light shot out of Miss Grove's eyes. 
' ' But now lie is growing out of your reach ; that is the 
truth. He must either be a molly-coddle (which no son 
of mine ever shall, if I can prevent) , or there must be a 
different state of affairs. Ask Jane if Mat has come yet. 
Oh ! " for at that moment Maud entered with her. aunt's 
bracelet, and handed it to her father, who examined it 
minutely. 
" It has been trodden on," he said. "I'll settle this 
matter myself, Adelaide ; and, if the boy has told a false 
hood, he shall be severely punished. I have a horror of 
children's lying. And, Maud, you are not called upon 
to administer any correction whatever to Bertie. Did 
you strike first, or did he kick? " 
" He he struck me." 
" Keep your hands off him in the future," said the 
doctor in a voice which strongly suggested obedience. 
Nelly glanced at the pale, stolid face. Could she 
understand that her misrepresentation was absolute 
falsehood? or was she wrapped about with that terrible 
self-complacency which deadened all finer distinctions? 
Not a lovable little girl ; and yet Nelly felt as if she 
wanted the doctor to take her on his knee, and talk to 
her until the cold and rigid little heart should melt. She 
could not quite approve of this hardness and indifference 
on his part. 
" I have two or three prescriptions to compound ; so I 
must go to the office. Send Bertie right to me." Then, 
catching a glimpse of Nelly's sad face, he put his arm 
around her, and drew her in the office with him. But 
his departure was a signal for the loosening of tongues. 
Maud listened to the injudicious strictures of aunt and 
grandmother, which were not calculated to increase her 
respect for her stepmother, and felt how absolute^ cruel 
it was of her father to thus transfer his love and interest 
to that young thing, as her aunt termed her, whose pretty 
face had caught his attention, while her own dear 
mamma was lying in the grave. 
 
Dr. Kinnard compounded his two prescriptions silently, 
while Nelly sat and watched him. There were twenty 
things she wanted to say ; but she knew he could not bear 
to be interrupted while he was engaged in any such matter. 
Perhaps the whole secret of his tolerating her in the office 
was, that she did not bother him with subjects foreign to 
the one he had in hand. Then he turned suddenly. 
" Nelly, did you tell me all that happened this after 
noon, all that both children did and said?" 
The question took her so by surprise, that she colored 
violently the first instant, and was silent. 
"There was something else?" and he fixed his keen 
eyes upon her. 
" I told you all that was necessary," she answered. 
" But I want to know every word ; " and, coming around 
the table, he sat down, taking both hands in his. 
"I am not used to telling tales, or making complaints," 
she said almost haughtily. 
' ' First case of insubordination ; " and there was a 
shrewd half-smile in his ej'e, which hardly covered the 
persistent determination. " I am very sorry the incident 
should have occurred, Nelly. I hoped there would be no 
conflict until matters had settled into a somewhat com 
fortable groove for us all ; but I understood from your 
face and voice that you were keeping something back. 
I trusted your judgment then : can you not trust mine 
now?" 
Poor Nelly ! The one thing she had strongly resolved 
not to do, was, to estrange the father from the chil 
dren ; to prejudice him in any way while his love for 
her was so strong and new. Maud's disrespect looked 
worse to her now than it had out in the grove ; and, if she 
told it all, it must make Dr. Kinnard angry in her behalf. 
" Oh," she cried with girlish eagerness, " let it all go ! 
Let us think of Bertie, and what must be done. Little as 
I know about boys, this does not seem the right influence 
for him." 
 
"One thing at a time. You have not -answered my 
question. I want that first of all." 
"I think you are a little cruel," Nelly said with spirit. 
" I do not desire to make any complaint. You must see 
how very embarrassing the position is for me." 
"Let us get through with it, then. Come, be frank 
and honest with me. Don't you suppose that I realize 
the awkward position, that you are stepmother to these 
children ? " 
The tears came into Nelly's eyes ; and she hid her face 
suddenly upon her huband's breast. " I will tell you," 
she said, " if you will promise not to be severe with Maud. 
They are your children : they have even a greater right to 
your love than I." 
' ' Love ! What foolish distinctions you women do 
make ! Nelly, I hope I have sense enough to be just in 
any event. You are over-sensitive." 
Nelly delayed no longer, but repeated the scene, leaving 
out, it must be confessed, a little of the worst. Then she 
glanced timidly up in her husband's face. 
" Oh ! I am not going to scold you," he said with a faint 
smile ; " but you know, Nelly, that I have a great dislike 
of evasions, or, rather, understanding only part of a mat 
ter in which I am to judge. Maud is an insolent little 
vixen ! " and, springing up, the doctor began to pace the 
floor. 
" But you will forgive her this time, for my sake? Oh, 
please do, Barton ! It would make it worse for me. She 
is Aunt Adelaide's favorite ; and, if I brought her into 
disgrace with you " 
"There, there, Nelly ! Don't go to crying about it. I 
will not say a word, if it pleases you better : in fact, I do 
suppose I should get myself into a hornet's nest. But 
Maud must not be allowed in any such conduct. You shall 
be respected by the children : of that I am resolved." 
Just then there was a tap at the door ; and the doctor 
opened it. 
" I don't think Master Bertie is anywhere on the place," 
said Mat. " Would he have gone away, think?" 
' ' Have you looked in the barn ? You found him there 
once asleep, you know. Or, stay " And he called up 
the stairway to Miss Grove, 
" Look in Bertie's room, will you? " 
There was an entrance to this room from the kitchen 
part. While it was yet early, Bertie had stolen home, and 
hurried into bed. He was frightened and hungry ; and, 
hearing his aunt's voice on her return, he had covered 
himself smoothly over. But, though she might have looked 
into his room under any other circumstances, she certainly 
had not done so now, until requested by his father. He 
was soundly asleep. Had his punishment been in her 
hands, she would have roused him in a moment ; but now 
she only glanced at him with a bitter, self-satisfied smile, 
and went quietly down stairs. 
" He is there, Barton. I suppose he was too guilty and 
ashamed to face any one, and had a dread of the punish 
ment that he knew was sure to come. He is a very cow 
ardly child. Shall I wake him up ? " 
The doctor thought a moment. " No : let him sleep. I 
will attend to his case in the morning. . Tell Maud to come 
down to me." 
Miss Grove bit her lip, and hesitated, then said, 
"Barton, she is very much excited, and in a highly 
nervous state. I think you had better defer any thing you 
have to say to her until breakfast-time. I was just about 
to send her to bed." 
There was the least possible entreaty in Miss Grove's 
voice ; but her brother-in-law did not heed it. 
" I will not keep her but a moment or two. It is best 
for me to see her to-night." 
Maud entered the office, pale and trembling. Her aunt 
had half a mind to brave all, and accompany her. But 
being requested to retire would have proved too great an 
 
humiliation ; and she knew Dr. Kinnard to be quite 
capable of such a course. 
There was a look of sullen fear in the child's eyes ; and 
her features seemed sharper and thinner than ever. Nelly 
felt really sorry for her. ^ 
"Maud," began her father, eying her with a half-con 
tempt, " if you were at all disrespectful to your mother 
this afternoon, I want you to beg her pardon. And, in 
future, I want you and Bertie to understand that you are 
to obey her as promptly in any matter as } r ou do me." 
That was all, then. She hated to beg Mrs. Kinnard's 
pardon ; but that was better than her having told all, and 
being in no end of a difficulty. So she collected her self- 
possession, and the certain obtuseness of feeling that so 
largely characterized her, and did as she was bid, in a 
formal way that was extremely annoying to Nelly. 
" My little girl," she returned, compelling herself to 
speak kindly, "I hope you will soon begin to feel that I 
am your friend, at least. I know your own mamma is 
dead, and that is a great loss to any child ; but I shall try 
to fill her place as well as you will allow me. I am ready 
to love you, and sympathize in all your pleasures and 
pursuits when you feel well enough acquainted to give me 
a share. It is our duty to try to make papa happy by 
our loving one another, as well as loving him. Will you 
try?" 
Maud colored, and then became pale again, averted her 
face, and murmured a few indistinct words, turning toward 
the door. Then she opened it, said good-night briefly, 
and vanished. 
The doctor went on pacrng the room, with his hands 
folded behind him. Suddenly he broke out with, 
"It is not what you have been used to, Nelly. The 
elements of affection and kindliness that formed so large 
a part in your household life are altogether wanting here. 
With all a man's solemn truth, I say I am sorry for it. 
But what to do " 
" Let me help you ; " and she slipped her hand within 
his arm, joining his walk. 
" That was all a farce with Maud ; I saw it as well as 
you, but I was determined that she should pay you some 
outward respect. Nelly, the world has a great prejudice 
against stepmothers, and perhaps daughters-in-law. I 
think the matter is about evenly balanced. There are 
good and bad on both sides, just as there are good and bad 
husbands and fathers. Why, think of a man beating his 
poor little child, and sending him out on a cold winter day 
to beg for money to but rum with ! Think how cruel 
Mat's wife was to their little child ! And yet I am sorry 
that you must suffer in the world's estimation for the in 
justice of other people." 
"But isn't that just one of the things the Saviour com 
mends ? What virtue is there in suffering patiently the 
result of our own faults? " 
" I don't pretend to understand these things," and he 
looked a little puzzled. " And I hate to have you. pre 
judged, suspected of any thing so foreign to your nature. 
But I had my way in bringing you here : so I must endure 
the other with what grace I can ; " and he smiled grimly. 
' ' Aunt Adelaide would take nothing short of a positive 
dismissal, I fancy ; for she exaggerates her point of duty 
most heroically. Yet I think sometimes, if she managed 
the children differently, they might not be so so unlike 
childhood in its natural state." 
"Can't you do something for them? can't we both?" 
cried Nelly earnestly. " It seems to me that they are 
not being brought up judiciously." 
" I don't know how much I love children, whether I 
have any of that overwhelming passion that women in 
dulge in ; but I have a great tenderness in some ways. I 
can't bear to see a child abused ' or ill treated ; and 
you'll laugh at me, Nelly ; but I positively cannot endure 
to see a child beaten, so much of it comes under my 
 
notice ! Mothers are tried and angry, and worn out with 
their labors : so, when a child is troublesome or dis 
obedient, a whipping settles it the quickest of anything ; 
therefore it is resorted to. Half the time, it is merely 
indulgence in one's own temper. I found out, a year ago, 
that Adelaide was in the habit of giving Bertie liberal 
allowances with a strap : so I took that away, and told 
her, when Bertie did any thing grave enough for such 
punishment, she must send him to me." 
" And so you were tried frequently ; was that it? " 
On the contrary. She has appealed to me a few times ; 
and Bertie has managed to commit some depredations in 
my office. I will candidly own that I can only strike a 
child in the heat of anger. There seems something so 
cowardly, so obnoxious, in the unequal warfare of a strong 
man pitted against a little child that he could crush and 
kill, and does sometimes maim. It may be necessary in 
schools, where a crowd of boys are herded together ; but it 
seems to me there might be other punishments devised in 
a household, that would not injure a child in any way. 
But I cannot see that Bertie has improved much under 
the new regime" 
"Yet I think he is a good deal afraid of Aunt Ade 
laide." 
"That is true. There is something cowardly about 
the child, that annoys me. I like fearless, outspoken 
children, who are honestly sorry for a fault, and who, 
perhaps, forget the next day, and do the same thing. 
Adelaide is an excellent teacher ; but I do believe the 
boy would be better off in a school with other children." 
" He certainly would," said Nelly decisively. 
"I promised Adelaide that I would make no change 
for the coming year ; but I think I must. I want him to 
be manly, truthful, honest in principle ; not that mere 
outward honesty that refrains from stealing your neigh 
bor's coat or his money. And I wish but here I arn 
shifting these burthens on your shoulders ; a thing I had 
resolved not to do." 
"And why not?" Nelly stood up with a sweet 
bravery shining in her eyes. " Am I not to help in this 
work as well? Is it merely to take your love and service, 
and give nothing in return? I did not marry you for 
that." 
He stooped, and kissed her. " I wish you had been 
their mother," he said huskily ; " and yet you are such a 
child yourself. No, I must not make the burthen too 
heavy. I suspect I am something of a coward and a 
shirk myself," he appended grimly. " I ought to take 
the responsibility of my body ." 
" I think you ought," returned Nelly gravely. 
' ' But I had promised myself a sort of holiday house 
hold life," he continued with a shrug and a half-smile. 
"Barton, life isn't all meant for a holiday. We have 
had a verj* bright golden one ; and now I want you to let 
me help yOU with the work. Bertie needs a father's care 
and interest and love. Let him come a little more into 
your life. It will b,e a trouble, I know ; but it brings 
with it a sweet reward. I wouldn't give up my remem 
brance of papa's sympathy and tenderness for all the 
wealth of the world." 
" Mr. Endicott is a better man than I," said Dr. Kin- 
nard simply. Then, with a smile, "I hope you have 
brought a little of his goodness with you to leaven us ; for 
we all need it." 
He sat down, and took her on his knee, holding the fair 
hand in his, and resting his chin upon it. 
" What will you do with Bertie? " she asked presently. 
" It puzzles me. The bracelet has certainly been 
stepped upon. Just falling from a table could not injure 
it in that manner. It seems as if Bertie ought to have 
told you the truth. And, if he should persist in his state 
ment, Aunt Adelaide will not believe it I am afraid. So 
I am between two fires." 
" You will not punish him, then, unless you are con 
vinced ? " 
"Most assuredly not." 
" I think we shall be able to tell. It seems to me that 
Miss Grove's method with him tends to make him con 
ceal trifles, rather than admit them. She is strict and 
stern, putting him down continually, and finding fault. 
The child really has no freedom of ideas in any direc 
tion." 
" Except mischief." 
" And how much of this is due to unemployed re 
sources ? " Nelly asked with a smile. " I do think, Barton, 
a little judicious praise is ever so much better than repres 
sion and fault-finding. And I shall be so glad to have 
you take him more under your care." 
" Well, we will see. There, let Bertie and his troubles 
rest until to-morrow." 
She wisely said no more. He looked over a late maga 
zine, and read her some extracts from a scientific article. 
Meanwhile she was thinking. What if this episode, 
beginning so uncomfortably, should open the door to the 
duties she had been longing for, and that wider sphere, 
the opportunity of bringing in a fresh current to the 
household so becalmed on the stagnant shores of for 
mality and selfishness? And if she could render these 
children dearer to their father, and more worthy of his 
love, she would, at least, have achieved something that 
would justify her standing in their mother's place. 
CHAPTER IX. 
" The wheels of time work heavily: 
We marvel, day by day, 
To see how from the chain of life 
The gilding wears away." L. E. L. 
BERTIE KINNARD came down to breakfast the next morn 
ing, ashamed, frightened, and sullen. How much of it was 
due to Miss Grove's previous lecture, and the methods 
she had taken to convince him of his heinousness in seek 
ing shelter at his stepmother's side, and daring to disobey 
her, his father certainly could not know. A long list of 
punishments were held in store, small daily privations 
and trials. She always exacted the most rigorous justice. 
" Come here," said his father after the meal was con 
cluded. " I want you to tell me the exact truth about 
the bracelet. Did you break it ? " 
"No," was the. brief reply. 
" What did you do with it? " 
"I I looked at it." 
" Here, hold up your head, so. If you are telling the 
truth, you need not be ashamed. What else did you do?" 
Bertie glanced about uneasily, and picked at the buttons 
on his coat. There was a dogged look in his face, that 
betrayed a very persistent will, after all. 
"I took it out and looked at it, and put it back 
again," he said slowly. 
' ' You are very sure ? '" 
"Yes, sir." 
" Very well, Bertie, I am going to believe exactly what 
you say. I do not think you could be so cowardly or so 
dishonorable as to tell your father a falsehood. There, 
put on your hat, and take a good long run, and see if 
you cannot find a pleasanter face." 
"Barton!" exclaimed Miss Grove, while her brow 
crimsoned with anger, "you don't mean to say that you 
believe that child ! " 
" I said it certainly." 
' ' Do you suppose I could have trodden on that brace 
let (the theory you advanced last night) , and not known 
or remembered it? Maud, I know, never injured it. And 
Bertie does tell falsehoods. He will deny any thing when 
there is the slightest chance of getting clear." 
"I cannot explain the mystery, Adelaide. The boy 
would not be so hardened as to deny it without a blush 
surely : if so, it speaks badly for his past training." 
He knew that clinched the matter for his sister-in-law. 
She turned almost swarthy in her passion, being deprived 
thus of her strongest weapon. 
"Very well," she snapped. " If the child is ruined 
by your foolish indulgence, so let it be. It is what I told 
you a year ago. ' Spare the rod, and spoil the child.' I 
should have made him confess it." 
"I am afraid I don't put as much faith in Solomon's 
wisdom as you do," said the doctor dryly. "His one 
son was not a very brilliant exponent of his father's 
theory, if I recollect rightly. We have had quite enough 
of this, I fancy. I'll take your bracelet into town, and 
get it repaired." 
" Thank you. I can attend to it myself; " and she 
swept out of the hall indignantly. 
"Well," said the doctor when his mother had left 
the room, " I suppose it has ended very unsatisfactorily. 
Still I couldn't think the child would persist in a false 
hood ; and I was anxious to have the matter ended. I 
have made Adelaide very angry. Have I pleased any 
one?" 
 
"Bertie, no doubt. I have an odd feeling about it. 
I should hate to say that I was not convinced ; and, in 
any case, you did the best. It is something to a child to 
be believed." 
"I daresay Aunt Adelaide will make it up to him. 
However, she cannot abridge his playtime, nor give him 
a thrashing. Do you want to go out with me ? If so, be 
ready in half an hour. ' ' 
Bertie's school-bell rang ten minutes earlier than usual ; 
and it always rang fifteen minutes before the time, in order 
to give him a chance to get in, and wash his hands and face 
before school-hours began. These few minutes were a 
great gratification to Miss Grove. Then Bertie had his ears 
snapped soundly until they were like a bit of red flannel. 
Boxing had been interdicted by the doctor. In fact, the 
whole morning was one continuation of sundry small and 
aggravated punishments, which made Bertie dull at his 
lessons, and perfect!}" vicious in his hatred of his aunt. 
If he dared to tell his stepmother ! "Wouldn't she take 
his part again ? 
Nelly had not been at all satisfied with the doctor's 
manner of examining into the case. The child had been 
disobedient to his aunt, ugly to his sister, and cowardly 
at the end of it all. But, seen in the morning light, the 
affair appeared trivial to his father ; and he was glad to 
dismiss it with as few words as possible. However, she 
made no further comment. There was nothing small or 
nagging in her nature. 
But that afternoon, when she saw Bertie cross the field 
on his way to the grove, she tied on her sun-hat, and fol 
lowed him. When quite out of hearing of the house, she 
called to him. He watched her shyly at first, and did not 
seem inclined to be very friendly. But, after a while, he 
ventured to sit down beside her. 
" Oh ! what are you doing, Bertie? " she cried in sur 
prise. 
The child had a grasshopper in his hand, which he was 
rapidly dismembering. 
" That is very, very cruel," she went on quickl}*. 
"Bertie, would you like to have some great giant come 
along, and pull out your arms and legs ? Would it not 
hurt you?" 
" There are no giants ; " and he looked up triumphant 
ly. " Aunt Adelaide said so. She wouldn't let me read 
about them, because it was not true." 
' ' But there are men large enough and strong enough 
to tear you limb from limb. Look at that poor grass 
hopper. You have killed it. Are you not sorry ? The 
poor little thing did you no harm." 
" Well, it was only a grasshopper. It wasn't good 
for any thing." 
" What are you good for, Bertie? " 
The child hung his head. 
" God made you ; and he made the grasshopper also. 
Suppose papa was to say, ' Bertie, you are not good for 
any thing : so I will cut you up with some of my sharp 
knives.' How would you like that? " 
" But he wouldn't," said Bertie confidently. 
" No, he would not, because he loves you. And God 
wants you to love whatever helpless and innocent little 
things he creates." 
Bertie was studying a knotty problem, and had not 
followed the last clause of the argument. 
"Does he love me since he went to Wachusett, and 
married you ? " he asked. 
Nelly was startled and annoyed. She thought of Miss 
Grove's exceeding conscientiousness that the children 
should not witness their father's marriage ; yet she had 
not hesitated to explain it to them, greatly in her dis 
favor. Her heart swelled with the sense of injustice. 
She realized that she must fight her way through preju 
dices and opposition, if she gained any thing. The 
prospect of such bitter warfare was not pleasant. And 
much of it must be borne alone. She could not make 
Dr. Kinnard see the necessity of what she wished to do, 
much that she considered her absolute duty. 
" Bertie, papa loves you just as well now as he did 
then ; and he wants you to be a good and noble boy, so 
that he can love you better every day." 
" But what did he marry you for, then? " 
" That I might come here, and love you also. Your 
own mamma is dead, and I am to take her place, to show 
you how to be a good boy, and please papa. Will you 
not try to love me a little? " and Nelly's voice trembled. 
But the question had no seriousness in it for him. He 
looked up stolidly, his mind intent on his own thoughts. 
" Sa}V he began presently, " won't you make Aunt 
Adelaide let me have some supper when papa doesn't 
come home? I'm so hungry always." 
" Were you hungry last night? " 
Bertie hung his head, and looked ashamed. 
" It was not at all brave, Bertie, to skulk off to bed 
when you knew you had been naughty. If }*ou were tell 
ing the truth about the bracelet, you should have come 
in, and said to Aunt Adelaide that you were sorry for 
disobeying her, and begged sister's pardon for kicking 
her" 
"But she struck me," he interrupted. "Aunt Ade 
laide always lets her." 
" But papa told her that she must not do so any more. 
If she should, you are to tell him. It is very rough and 
ungentlemanly to strike or kick a girl." 
" I'll tell papa next time ; " and Bertie shook his head 
with emphasis. 
" And you will be kind to her, will you not? " 
The child stared vacantly. 
" And to the grasshoppers. It is wicked to be so 
cruel ; and God does not love cruel children. Do you 
know who God is, Bertie? " 
 
" God lives up in the sky. He sees all I do ; and, if I 
am a bad boy, he will punish me everlastingly." 
He said it like a lesson learned by rote, with no more 
real feeling than if he had been stating the commonest 
fact about the earth at his feet. Nelly looked at him in 
amaze. 
" And are you not afraid of being punished? " 
" I'm afraid of Aunt Adelaide. God can't come here 
and punish me ; and I'll tell you what I mean to do," 
bending his- head confidentially " I shall be a big man 
then, and I won't go where he is. I'd like to run away 
from Aunt Adelaide." 
" Why did you not last night? You had a good oppor 
tunity." 
" Because I am only a little boy. I'll wait until I get 
to be a man. I'll see if she'll snap my ears then, and 
make me hold a big book so she can rap my knuckles. 
I'll kill her if she does ! " 
"O Bertie, Bertie !" cried Nelly, aghast. Poor little 
heathen ! And this had been the result of his training. 
He understood fear and hate ; but did he know the mean 
ing of love? She would try him again. 
" Bertie, do you love papa?" 
" Yes," returned Bertie readily. 
" What do you do when you love a person? " 
Bertie drew a long breath, and thought for a moment ; 
then wisely and truly answered, "I don't know." 
"You try to please them; you obey them when they 
ask you to do any thing; you would never strike them, 
nor do any thing cruel to them, nor tell them a falsehood. 
Can you remember this?" 
Bertie gave her a searching glance. He felt, somehow, 
that he had lost caste ; and, with a child's eager vanity, 
he wanted to redeem himself. 
"But I know my tables," he said, "and who all the 
great generals were ; and I'm studying Latin. Caesar 
conquered Gaul, and a great part of Britain. Afterwards, 
the Normans went over with William the Conqueror ; 
and, oh ! I know all of the kings of England and France. 
Sometimes they have had emperors. And the King of 
Russia is called a czar. Russia is the largest division in 
Europe. Switzerland is the only republic ; " and the child 
paused for a breath. 
"What a purely mechanical being!" Nelly thought 
with a sad smile. 
" Never mind," she said : " we will talk of other mat 
ters, though you have studied well, Bertie." And then 
she endeavored to rouse his mind into some kind of per 
sonal activity ; but it was disheartening work. Miss 
Grove was no believer in filling a child's head with any 
thing but good, substantial facts. She snubbed and 
discouraged all curiosity on the part of a young pupil. 
Very methodical, very precise, cold by nature, she had no 
patience with the sentimental part of humanity. To dress 
well, and keep neat and clean ; to behave properly on all 
occasions ; to have the mind well stored with knowledge, 
the taste cultivated in certain respects ; to be dignified and 
ladylike for a girl, manly and stoical for a boy, she held 
the most necessary requirements of life. The children 
had known none of the caressing tenderness and sympathy 
that had been daily food to the Endicotts. Their mother 
consigned them to a nurse. Their father saw them but 
seldom ; and he had not been a demonstrative man in those 
earlier years. Though they had been rather delicate, yet 
no dangerous illness had ever roused his anxiety concern 
ing them ; and, under Miss Grove's government, they were 
still farther removed from him. Nelly's first feeling about 
them had been quite true : they were not dear, naughty, 
