are kept as clean and nice as they were when in use.
Those worn by Charles V. and Philip II. were examined
with much care; but there seemed to be no marks
of any hard knocks on them. At the head of the room
stands a figure of St. Ferdinand, dressed in regal robes,
with a golden crown on the head and a sword in the
hand, which is borne in solemn procession to the royal
chapel by priests, on the 29th of May, and is kept there
two weeks to receive the homage of the people.
In another room is a great variety of articles of historic
interest, among which may be mentioned the steel
writing–desk of Charles V., the armor he wore when he
entered Tunis, his camp–stool and bed, and, above all,
the steel armor, ornamented with gold, that was worn
by Columbus. In the collection of swords were those
of the principal kings, the great captain, and other
heroes.
“There is the armor of Isabella, which she wore
at the siege of Granada,” said the doctor.
“Did she fight?” asked Murray.
“No more than her husband. Both were sovereigns
in their own right; and it was the fashion to wear these
things.”
“Very likely she had this on when Columbus called
to see her at Granada,” suggested Sheridan.
“I don’t know about that. I fancy she did not
wear it in the house, but only when she presented herself
before the army,” replied the doctor.
The party spent a long time in this building, so
interested were the young men in viewing these memorials
of the past grandeur of Spain. After dinner they
went to the naval museum, which is near the armory.
It contains a great number of naval relics, models of
historic vessels, captured flags, and similar mementos
of the past. The chart of Columbus was particularly
interesting to the students from the New World. There
are several historical paintings, representing scenes in
the lives of Cortes, Pizarro, and De Soto. A portrait
of Columbus is flanked on each side by those of the
sovereigns who patronized him.
“This is a beautiful day,” said Dr. Winstock, as
they left the museum. “They call it very cold here,
when the mercury falls below the freezing point. It
does not often get below twenty–four, and seldom so
low as that. I think the glass to–day is as high as
fifty–five.”
“I call it a warm day for winter,” added Sheridan.
“But the air of this city is very subtle. It will kill
a man, the Spaniards say, when it will not blow out a
candle. I think we had better take a berlina, and ride
over to the Prado. The day is so fine that we may
possibly see some of the summer glories of the place.”
“What are they?” asked Murray.
“To me they are the people who walk there; but of
course the place is the pleasantest when the trees and
shrubs are in foliage.”
A berlina was called, and the party drove through
the Calle Mayor, the Puerta del Sol, and the Calle de
Alcala, which form a continuous street, the broadest
and finest in Madrid, from the palace to the Prado,
which are on opposite sides of the city. A continuation
of this street forms one end of the Prado; and another
of the Calle de Atocha, a broad avenue reaching from
the Plaza Mayor, near the palace, forms the other end.
These are the two widest streets of Madrid. The Calle
de Alcala is wide enough to be called a boulevard,
and contains some of the finest buildings in the city.
“That must be the bull–ring,” said Sheridan, as the
party came in sight of an immense circular building.
“I have read that it will hold twelve thousand people.”
“Some say sixteen thousand; but I think it would
not take long to count all it would hold above ten
thousand. Philip V. did not like bull–fights, and he
tried to do away with them; but the spectacle is the
national sport, and the king made himself very unpopular
by attempting to abolish it. As a stroke of policy,
to regain his popularity, he built this Plaza de Toros.
It is what you see; but it is open to the weather in the
middle; and all bull–fights are held, ‘Si el tiempo no lo
impide’ (if the weather does not prevent it). This is
the Puerta de Alcala,” continued the doctor, pointing
to a triumphal arch about seventy feet high, built by
Charles III. “The gardens on the right are the ‘Buen
Retiro,’ pleasant retreat. Now we will turn, and go
through the Prado, though all this open space is often
called by this name.”
“But what is the ‘pleasant retreat’?”
“It is a sort of park and garden, not very attractive
at that, with a pond, a menagerie, and an observatory.
It is not worth the trouble of a visit,” added the doctor,
as he directed the driver to turn the berlina.
“I have often seen a picture of that statue,” said
Sheridan, as they passed a piece of sculpture representing
a female seated on a chariot drawn by lions.
“That is the Cybele.”
“Who is she?”
“Wife of Saturn, and mother of the gods,” replied
Sheridan.
“This is the Salon del Prado” continued the doctor,
as the carriage turned to the left into an avenue
two hundred feet wide. “There are plenty of people
here, and I think we had better get out and walk, if
you are not too tired; for you want to see the people.”
The berlina was dismissed, and the party joined the
throng of Madrileños. Dr. Winstock called the attention
of his young friends to three ladies who were
approaching them. They wore the mantilla, which is
a long black lace veil, worn as a head–dress, but falling
in graceful folds below the hips. The ladies—except
the high class, fashionable people—wear no bonnets.
The mantilla is a national costume, and the fan is a
national institution among them. They manage the
latter, as well as the former, with peculiar grace; and
it has even been said that they flirt with it, being able
to express their sentiments by its aid.
“But these ladies are not half so pretty as I supposed
the Spanish women were,” said Murray.
“That only proves that you supposed they were
handsomer than they are,” laughed Sheridan.
“They are not so handsome here as in Cadiz and
Seville, I grant,” added the doctor; “but still I think
they are not bad looking.”
“I will agree to that,” replied Murray. “They are
good–looking women, and that’s all you can say of
them.”
“Probably you have got some extravagant ideas
about Spanish girls from the novels you have read,”
laughed the doctor; “and it is not likely that your
ideal beauty will be realized, even in Cadiz and Seville.
Here is the Dos de Mayo.”
“Who’s she?” asked Murray, looking rather vacantly
at a granite obelisk in the middle of an enclosed garden.
“It is not a woman,” replied the doctor.
“Excuse me; I think you said a dose of something,”
added Murray.
“That monument has the name of ‘El Dos de
Mayo,’ which means ‘the second of May.’ It commemorates
a battle fought on this spot in 1808 by the
peasants, headed by three artillerymen, and the French.
The ground enclosed is called ‘The Field of Loyalty.’”
“What is this long building ahead?” inquired Sheridan.
“That’s the Royal Museum, which contains the richest
collection of paintings in Europe.”
“Isn’t that putting it pretty strong, after what we
have seen in Italy and Germany?” asked Sheridan.
“I don’t say the largest or the best–arranged collection
in Europe, but the richest. It has more of the old
masters, of the best and most valuable pictures in the
world, than any other museum. We will go there
to–morrow, and you can judge for yourselves.”
“Of course we are competent to do that,” added
Murray with a laugh.
“We haven’t been to any churches yet, doctor,” said
Sheridan.
“There are many churches in Madrid, but none of
any great interest. The city has no cathedral.”
“I am thankful for that!” exclaimed Murray. “I
have seen churches enough, though of course I shall go
to the great cathedrals when we come to them.”
“You will be spared in Madrid. Philip II. was
asked to erect one; but he would appropriate only a
small sum for the purpose, because he did not wish any
church to rival that of the Escurial.”
“I am grateful to him,” added Murray.
“The Atocha church contains an image which is
among the most venerated in Spain. It works miracles,
and was carved by St. Luke.”
“Another job by St. Luke!” exclaimed Murray.
“That is hardly respectful to an image whose magnificent
dress and rich jewels would build half a score
of cheap churches.”
“Are there any theatres in Madrid, doctor?” asked
Murray.
“Of course there are; half a dozen of them. The
principal is the Royal Theatre, near the palace, where
the performance is Italian opera. It is large enough
to hold two thousand; but there is nothing Spanish
about it. If you want to see the Spanish theatre you
must go to some of the smaller ones. As you don’t
understand Spanish, I think you will not enjoy it.”
“I want to see the customs of the country.”
“The only custom you will see will be smoking; and
you can see that anywhere, except in the churches,
where alone, I believe, it is not permitted. Everybody
smokes, even the women and children. I have seen a
youngster not more than five years old struggling with
a cigarillo; and I suppose it made him sick before he
got through with it; at least, I hope it did, for the
nausea is nature’s protest against the practice.”
“But do the ladies smoke?”
“Not in public; but in private many of them do. I
have seen some very pretty girls smoking in Spain.”
“I don’t remember that I have seen a man drunk in
Spain,” said Sheridan.
“Probably you have not; I never did. The Spaniards
are very temperate.”
This long talk brought the party back to the hotel
just at dark. The next day was Sunday; but many of
the students visited the churches, though most of them
were willing to make it a day of rest, in the strictest
sense of the word. On Monday morning, as the
museum did not open till one o’clock, the doctor and
his protégés took a berlina, and rode out to the palace
of the Marquis of Salamanca, where they were permitted
to explore this elegant residence without restraint.
In one of the apartments they saw a large
picture of the Landing of the Pilgrims, by a Spanish
artist; and it was certainly a strange subject. Connected
with the palace is a museum of antiquities quite
extensive for a private individual to own. The Pompeian
rooms contain a vast quantity of articles from
the buried city.
“Who is this Marquis of Salamanca?” asked Sheridan,
as they started on their return.
“He is a Spanish nobleman, a grandee of Spain
I suppose, who is somewhat noted as a financier.
He has invested some money in railroads in the United
States. The town of Salamanca, at the junction of the
Erie and Great Western, in Western New York, was
named after him,” replied Dr. Winstock.
“I have been through the place,” added Sheridan.
“This is not a very luxurious neighborhood,” said
Murray, when they came to one of those villages of
poor people, of which there were several just outside
of the city.
“Generally in Europe the rich are very rich, and the
poor are very poor. Though the rich are not as rich in
Spain as in some other countries, there is no exception
to the rule in its application to the poor. These hovels
are even worse than the homes of the poor in Russia.
Wouldn’t you like to look into one of them?”
“Would it be considered rude for us to do so?”
asked Sheridan.
“Not at all. These people are not so sensitive as
poor folks in America; but, if they are hurt by our
curiosity, a couple of reales will repair all the damages.”
“Is this a château en Espagne?” said Murray. “I
have read about such things, but I never saw one
before.”
“Châteaux en Espagne are castles in the air,—things
unreal and unsubstantial; and, so far as the idea of
comfort is concerned, this is a château en Espagne. When
we were in Ireland, an old woman ran out of a far
worse shanty than this, and, calling it an Irish castle,
begged for money. In the same sense we may call
this a Spanish castle.”
The carriage was stopped, and the party alighted.
“You see, the people live out–doors, even in the
winter,” said the doctor. “The door of this house is
wide open, and you can look in.”
The proprietor of the establishment stood near the
door. He wore his cloak with as much style as though
he had been an hidalgo. Under this garment his clothes
were ragged and dirty; and he wore a pair of spatterdashes,
most of the buttons of which were wanting, and
it was only at a pinch that they staid on his ankles.
His wife and four children stopped their work, or their
play, as the case was, and gazed at the unwonted
visitors.
“Buenos dias, caballero,” said the doctor, as politely
as though he had been saluting a grandee.
The man replied no less politely.
“May we look into your house?” asked the doctor.
“Esta muy a la disposicion de usted,” replied the
caballero (it is entirely at your disposal).
This is a cosa de España. If you speak of any thing
a Spaniard has, he makes you a present of it, be it his
house or his horse, or any thing else; but you are not
expected to avail yourself of his generosity. It would
be as impolite to take him at his word as it would be
for him not to place it “at your disposal.”
The house was of one story, and had but one door
and one window, the latter very small indeed. The
floor was of cobble–stones bedded in the mud. The
little window was nothing but a hole; there was no
glass in it; and the doctor said, that, when the weather
was bad, the occupants had to close the door, and put
a shutter over the window, so that they had no light.
The interior was divided into two rooms, one containing
a bed. Every thing was as simple as possible.
The roof of the shanty was covered with tile which
looked like broken flower–pots. In front, for use in
the summer, was an attempt at a veranda, with vines
running up the posts.
The doctor gave the smallest of the children a peseta,
and bade the man a stately adieu, which was answered
with dignity enough for an ambassador. The party
drove off, glad to have seen the interior of a Spanish
house.
“Why did you give the money to the child instead
of the father?” asked Sheridan.
“I suppose your experience in other parts of Europe
would not help you to believe it, but the average Spaniard
who is not a professional beggar is too proud to
receive money for any small favor,” replied the doctor.
“I have had a peseta indignantly refused by a man who
had rendered me a small service. This is as strange
as it is true, though, when you come to ride on a diligencia,
you will find that driver, postilion, and zagal will
do their best to get a gratuity out of you. I speak
only of the Spaniard who does you a favor, and not
those with whom you deal; but, as a general rule, the
people are too proud to cheat you.”
“They are very odd sort of people,” added Murray.
“There is one shovelling with his cloak on.”
“Not an unusual sight. I have seen a man ploughing
in the field with his cloak on, and that on a rather
warm day. You notice here that the houses are not
scattered as they are with us; but even these shanties
are built in villages,” continued the doctor.
“I noticed that the houses were all in villages in all
the country we have come through since we left Barcelona,”
said Murray.
“Can you explain the reason?”
“I do not see any reason except that is the fashion
of the country.”
“There is a better reason than that. In early days
the people had to live in villages in order to be able
to defend themselves from enemies. In Spain the
custom never changes, if isolated houses are even safe
at the present time.”
“What is that sheet of paper hanging on the balcony
for?” asked Murray. “There is another; and
now I can see half a dozen of them.” The berlina
was within a short distance of the Puerta del Sol.
“A sheet of white paper in the middle of the balcony
signifies that the people have rooms to let; if at
the corner, they take boarders.”
The party arrived at the hotel in season for dinner;
and, when it was over, they hastened to the Museo, or
picture–gallery. The building is very long, and of no
particular architectural effect. It has ten apartments
on the principal floor, in which are placed the gems of
the collection. In the centre of the edifice is a very
long room which contains the burden of the paintings.
There are over two thousand of them, and they are the
property of the Crown. Among them are sixty–two by
Rubens, fifty–three by Teniers, ten by Raphael, forty–six
by Murillo, sixty–four by Velasquez, twenty–two by
Van Dyck, forty–three by Titian, thirty–four by Tintoretto,
twenty–five by Paul Veronese, and hundreds by
other masters hardly less celebrated.
The doctor’s party spent three hours among these
pictures, and they went to the museum for the same
time the next day; for they could better appreciate
these gems than most of the students, many of whom
were not willing to use a single hour in looking at
them. Our party visited the public buildings, and
took many rides and walks in the city and its vicinity,
which we have not the space to report. On Wednesday
morning the ship’s company started for Toledo.
CHAPTER XIII.
AFTER THE BATTLE IN THE FELUCCA.
We left the second master of the Tritonia and
the two runaway seamen in a rather critical
situation on board of the felucca. We regret the
necessity of jumping about all over Spain to keep the
run of our characters; but we are obliged to conform
to the arrangement of the principal,—who was absolute
in his sway,—and follow the young gentlemen
wherever he sends them. Though Mr. Lowington was
informed, before his departure with the ship’s company
of the Prince, of the escape of Raimundo and the two
“marines,” he was content to leave the steps for the recovery
of the runaways to the good judgment of the
vice–principal in charge of the Tritonia.
Raimundo had managed his case so well that the
departure of the three students from the vessel was not
discovered by any one on board or on shore. If the
alguacil was on the lookout for his prisoner, he had
failed to find him, or to obtain any information in regard
to him. The circumstances had certainly favored
the escape in the highest degree. The distance across
the harbor, the concealment afforded by the hulls of
the vessels of the fleet, and the shadow of the sea–wall
under which the fugitives had placed themselves, had
prevented them from being seen. Indeed, no one
could have seen them, except from the deck of the
Tritonia or the Josephine; and probably those on
board of the latter were below, as they were on the
former.
Of course Mr. Salter, the chief steward of the Tritonia,
was very much astonished when he found that
the prisoners had escaped from the brig. Doubtless he
made as much of an excitement as was possible with
only one of his assistants to help him. He had no
boat; and he was unable to find one from the shore
till the felucca was well out of the harbor. Probably
Hugo was as zealous as the occasion required in the
investigation of the means by which the fugitives had
escaped; but he was as much astonished as his chief
when told that Bill Stout and Bark Lingall were gone.
The brig was in its usual condition, with the door
locked; but the unfastened scuttle soon disclosed the
mode of egress selected by the rogues. Mr. Pelham,
assisted by Mr. Fluxion, vice–principal of the Josephine,
did all they could to find the two “marines,”
without any success whatever; but they had no suspicion
that the second master, who had disappeared the
night before, was one of the party.
The next morning all hands from the two consorts
were sent on board of the American Prince. Mr.
Fluxion was the senior vice–principal, and had the command
of the vessel. The ship’s company of the Josephine
formed the starboard, and that of the Tritonia
the port watch. The officers took rank in each grade
according to seniority. Mr. Fluxion was unwilling to
sail until he had drilled this miscellaneous ship’s company
in their new duties. He had a superabundance
of officers, and it was necessary for them to know their
places. In the morning he had telegraphed to the
principal at Saragossa, in regard to the fugitives; and
the order came back for him to sail without them. Mr.
Lowington was not disposed to waste much of his time
in looking for runaways: they were pretty sure to come
back without much assistance. At noon the Prince
sailed for Lisbon; and all on board of her were
delighted with the novelty of the new situation. As it
is not necessary to follow the steamer, which safely
arrived at Lisbon on the following Sunday morning, we
will return to Raimundo and his companions.
Filipe, struggling, and swearing the heaviest oaths,
was bound hand and foot in the bottom of the felucca,
and lashed to the heel of the mainmast. Juan lay
insensible in the space between the cuddy and the
mainmast, where he had fallen when the young Spaniard
hit him with the spare tiller. The boat had
broached to when the helm was abandoned by the
boatman’s son, to go to the assistance of his father.
Of course Raimundo and Bark were very much excited
by this sudden encounter; and it had required the
united strength of both of them to overcome the boatman,
though he was not a large man. Bill Stout had
done nothing. He had not the pluck to help secure
Filipe after he had been thrown down, or rather
dragged down, by Bark.
As soon as the victory was accomplished, Raimundo
sprang to the helm, and brought the felucca up to her
course again. His chest heaved, and his breathing was
so violent as to be audible. Bark was in no better
condition; and, if Juan had come to his senses at that
moment, he might have conquered both of them.
“Pick up that knife, Lingall,” said Raimundo, as
soon as he was able to speak.
He pointed to the knife which the boatman had
dropped during the struggle; and Bark picked it up.
“Now throw it overboard,” added the second master.
“We can handle these men, I think, if there are
no knives in the case.”
“No; don’t do that!” interposed Bill Stout. “Give
it to me.”
“Give it to you, you coward!” replied Raimundo.
“What do you want of it?”
“I will use it if we get into another fight. I don’t
like to tackle a man with a knife in his hand, when I
have no weapon of any kind,” answered Bill, who,
when the danger was over, began to assume his usual
bullying tone and manner.
“Over with it, Lingall!” repeated Raimundo sharply.
“You are good for nothing, Stout: you had not pluck
enough to touch the man after your friend had him
down.”
Bark waited for no more, but tossed the knife into
the sea. He never “took any stock” in Bill Stout’s
bluster; but he had not suspected that the fellow
was such an arrant coward. As compared with Raimundo,
who had risen vastly in his estimation within
the last few hours, he thoroughly despised his fellow–conspirator.
If he did not believe it before, he was
satisfied now, that the gentlest and most correct students
could also be the best fellows. However it had
been before, Bill no longer had any influence over him;
while he was ready to obey the slightest wish of the
second master, whom he had hated only the day before.
“See if you can find the other knife,—the one the
young man had,” continued Raimundo.
“I see it,” replied Bark; and he picked up the ugly
weapon.
“Send it after the other. The less knives we have
on board, the better off we shall be,” added the second
master. “I don’t like the habit of my countrymen in
carrying the cuchilla any better than I do that of yours
in the use of revolvers.”
“I think it was stupid to throw away those knives,
when you have to fight such fellows as these,” said
Bill Stout, as he glanced at the prostrate form of the
older boatman, who was writhing to break away from
his bonds.
“Your opinion on that subject is of no value just
now,” added Raimundo contemptuously.
“What do you say, Bark?” continued Bill, appealing
to his confederate.
“I agree with Raimundo,” answered Bark. “I
don’t want to be mixed up in any fight where knives
are used.”
“And I object just as much to knifing a man as I
do to being knifed,” said Raimundo. “Though I am
a Spaniard, I don’t think I would use a knife to save
my own life.”
“I would,” blustered Bill.
“No, you wouldn’t: you haven’t pluck enough to do
any thing,” retorted Bark. “I advise you not to say
any thing more on this subject, Stout.”
At this moment Filipe made a desperate attempt to
free himself; and Bill retreated to the forecastle, evidently
determined not to be in the way if another
battle took place. Bark picked up the spare tiller the
second master had dropped, and prepared to defend
himself. Another club was found, and each of those
who had the pluck to use was well prepared for
another attack.
“Lie still, or I will hit you over the head!” said
Bark to the struggling skipper, as he flourished the
tiller over him.
But the ropes with which he was secured were strong
and well knotted. Bark was a good sailor, and he had
done this part of the work. He looked over the fastenings,
and made sure that they were all right.
“He can’t get loose, Mr. Raimundo,” said he.
“But Juan is beginning to come to his senses,”
added the second master. “He has just turned half
over.”
“I hope he is not much hurt: we may get into a
scrape if he is.”
“I was just thinking of that. But I don’t believe
he is very badly damaged,” added Raimundo. “If
the old man can’t get away, suppose you look him
over, and see what his condition is.”
Bark complied with this request. Filipe seemed to
be interested in this inquiry; and he lay quite still
while the examination was in progress. The young
sailor found a wound and a considerable swelling on
the side of Juan’s head; but it was now so dark that
he could not distinctly see the nature of the injury.
“Have you a match, Mr. Raimundo?” he asked.
“I have not. We were not allowed to have matches
on board the Tritonia,” replied the second master.
“Tengo pajuelas,” said Filipe. “Una linterna en el
camarote de proa.”
“What does he say?” inquired Bark, glad to find
that the skipper was no longer pugnacious.
“He says he has matches, and that there is a lantern
in the cuddy,” replied Raimundo. “Here, Stout, look
in the cuddy, and see if you can find a lantern
there.”
Bill had the grace to obey the order, though he was
tempted to refuse to do so. He found the lantern, for
he had seen it while he lay in the cuddy. He brought
it to Bark, and took the lamp out of the globe.
“You will find some matches in Filipe’s pockets,”
added Raimundo.
“I have matches enough,” answered Bill.
“I forgot that you used matches,” said the second
master; “but I am glad you have a chance to make
a better use of them than you did on board of the
Tritonia.”
“You needn’t say any thing! You are the first
officer that ever run away from that vessel,” growled
Bill, as he lighted a match, and communicated the blaze
to the wick of the lamp.
It was a kerosene–lamp, just such as is used at home,
and probably came from the United States. Bark
proceeded to examine the wound of Juan, and found it
was not a severe one. The young man was rapidly
coming to himself, and in a few minutes more he would
be able to take care of himself.
“I think we had better move him into the cuddy,”
suggested Bark. “We can make him comfortable
there, and fasten him in at the same time.”
“That’s a capital idea, Lingall; and if Stout will
take the helm I will help you move him,” answered
Raimundo.
“I will help move him,” volunteered Bill.
“I supposed you were afraid of him,” added the
second master. “He has about come to himself.”
Juan spoke then, and complained of his head. Bark
and Bill lifted him up, and carried him to the cuddy,
where they placed him on the bed of old garments upon
which they had slept themselves during the afternoon.
Bark had some little reputation among his companions
as a surgeon, probably because he always carried a
sheet of court–plaster in his pocket, and sometimes had
occasion to attend to the wounds of his friends. Perhaps
he had also a taste for this sort of thing; for he
was generally called upon in all cases of broken heads,
before the chief steward, who was the amateur surgeon
of the Tritonia, was summoned. At any rate, Bark,
either from genuine kindness, or the love of amateur
surgical dressing, was not content to let the wounded
Spaniard rest till he had done something more for
him. He washed the injury in fresh water, closed the
ugly cut with a piece of court–plaster, and then bound
up the head of the patient with his own handkerchief.
The wounded man tried to talk to him; but he could
not understand a word he said. If his father spoke
English, it was certain that the son did not. When he
had done all this, Bark relieved Raimundo at the helm,
and the latter went forward to talk with the patient,
who was so quiet that Bark had not thought of fastening
the door of the cuddy.
“I am well now,” said Juan, “and I want to go out.”
“You must not go out of this place; if you do, we
shall hit you over the head again,” replied the second
master sternly.
“Where is my father?” asked the patient.
“He is tied hand and foot; and we shall tie you in
the same way if you don’t keep still and obey orders,”
added Raimundo. “Lie still where you are, and no
harm shall be done to you.”
Raimundo, taking the lantern with him, left the
cuddy, and fastened it behind him with the padlock he
found in the staple. Putting the key in his pocket, he
made an examination into the condition of Filipe, with
the aid of the lantern. He found him still securely
bound, and, better than that, as quiet as a lamb.
“How is my son?” asked he.
“He is doing very well. We have dressed his
wound, and he will be as well as ever in a day or two,”
replied Raimundo.
“Gracias, muchos gracias!” exclaimed the prisoner.
“If we had been armed as you were, he might have
lost his life,” added Raimundo, moving aft to the helm.
“I think we are all right, Lingall.”
“I am very glad of it. We came very near getting
into a bad scrape,” replied Bark.
“It is bad enough as it is. I have been afraid of
something of this kind ever since we got well out of
the port of Barcelona,” continued the second master.
“The villain asked me so many questions about my
money that my suspicions were excited, and I was on
the watch for him. Then he was so anxious that we
should drink wine, I was almost sure he meant mischief.”
“I am very sorry I drank any wine. It only makes
my head ache,” replied Bark penitently.
“I have heard my uncle speak of these men; and I
know something about them.”
“The wine did not make my head ache,” said Bill.
“That’s because there is nothing in it,” answered
Raimundo, who could not restrain his contempt for the
incendiary.
“But I do not understand exactly how the fight was
begun,” said Bark. “The first I knew, the boatman
sprang at you.”
“That’s the first I knew, though I was on the lookout
for him, as I had been all the afternoon. He
understood what I meant when I told you this man
means mischief.”
“But he told you he could not speak English.”
“Most of the boatmen speak more or less English:
they learn it from the passengers they carry. He
wanted to know whether we had money before he did
any thing. He was probably satisfied that we had
some before he attempted to assault us.”
“I know you have money,” cried Filipe, in English;
and he seemed to be more anxious to prove the correctness
of his conclusion than to disprove his wicked
intentions.
“You have not got any of it yet,” replied Raimundo.
“But I will have it!” protested the villain.
“You tempt me to throw you and your son overboard,”
said Raimundo sternly, in Spanish.
“Not my son,” answered the villain, suddenly changing
his tone. “He is his mother’s only boy.”
“You should have thought of that before you brought
him with you on such business.”
The boatman, for such a villain as he was, seemed to
have a strange affection for his son; and Raimundo was
almost willing to believe he had not intended till some
time after they left the port to rob his passengers. Perhaps,
with the aid of the wine, he had expected an easy
victory; for, though the students were all stout fellows,
they were but boys.
“I will not harm you if you do not injure my boy,”
pleaded Filipe.
“It is not in your power to harm us now; for we
have all the power,” replied the second master.
“But you are deserters from your ship. I can tell
where you are,” added Filipe, with something like
triumph in his tones.
“We expect you to tell all you know as soon as you
return.”
“I can do it in Tarragona: they will arrest you there
if I tell them.”
“We are not afraid of that: if we were, we should
throw you and your son overboard.”
Filipe did not like this side of the argument, and he
was silent for some time. It must be confessed that
Raimundo did not like his side any better. The fellow
could inform the police in Tarragona that the party
were deserters, and cause them to be sent back to Barcelona.
Though this was better than throwing the
boatman and his son overboard, which was only an idle
threat, it would spoil all his calculations, and defeat
all his plans. He studied the case for some time, after
he had explained to Bark what had passed between
himself and Filipe in Spanish.
“You want more money than you were to receive
for the boat; do you, Filipe?” asked he.
“I have to pay five hundred reales on this boat in
three days, or lose it and my small one too,” replied
