sell out for fifty cents."
"I suppose you want a few to carry round and sell?"
"Yes."
"Where do you think of going with them?"
"Down to the wharves. I'm a baggage-smasher, and I thought I might make
somethin' by sellin' papers, when I hadn't any baggage to carry."
"I get my papers from the 'American News Company' on Nassau Street."
"I know the place well enough."
"What papers do you think I could sell best?" asked Ben.
"The picture papers go off as fast as any," said the street dealer.
"But I'll tell you what, my lad, maybe I can make an arrangement for you
to sell papers for me."
"I don't think I'd like to stand here all day," said Ben, supposing the
other to mean to engage him to tend the stand.
"I don't mean that."
"Well," said Ben, "I'm open to an offer, as the old maid of sixty told a
feller that called to see her."
"I'll tell you what I mean. I'll give you a bundle of papers every
morning to take with you. You will sell what you can, and bring back the
rest at night."
"I like that," said Ben, with satisfaction. "But how much will I get?"
"It will depend on the price of the papers. 'Harper's Weekly' and 'Frank
Leslie' sell for ten cents. I will allow you two cents on each of these.
On the 'Ledger' and 'Weekly,' and other papers of that price, I will
allow one cent. You'd make rather more if you bought them yourself; but
you might have them left on your hands."
"That's so," said Ben.
"Did you ever sell papers?"
"I used to sell the mornin' and evenin' papers before I went to
baggage-smashin'."
"Then you know something about the business. When do you want to begin?"
"Right off."
"Very well; I will make you up a bundle of a dozen papers to begin on.
I'll put in three each of the illustrated papers, and fill up with the
story papers."
"All right, mister, you know better than I what people will buy."
The dealer began to collect the papers, but paused in the middle of his
task, and looked doubtfully at our hero.
"Well, what's up?" asked Ben, observing his hesitation.
"How do I know but you'll sell the papers, and keep the money yourself?"
said the dealer.
"That's so," said Ben. "I never thought of that."
"That wouldn't be very profitable for me, you see."
"I'll bring back the money or the papers," said Ben. "You needn't be
afraid."
"Very likely you would; but how am I to know that?"
"So you don't want to trust me," said Ben, rather disappointed.
"Have you got any money?"
"Yes."
"Very well, you can leave enough with me to secure me against loss, and
I will give you the papers."
"How much will that be?"
After a little thought, the dealer answered, "Seventy-five cents." He
had some doubt whether Ben had so much; but our hero quickly set his
doubts at rest by drawing out his two half-dollars, and demanding a
quarter in change.
The sight of this money reassured the dealer. Ben's ragged clothes had
led him to doubt his financial soundness; but the discovery that he was
a capitalist to the extent of a dollar gave him considerable more
respect for him. A dollar may not be a very large sum; I hope that to
you, my young reader, it is a very small one, and that you have never
been embarrassed for the want of it; but it is enough to lift a ragged
street boy from the position of a penniless vagabond to that of a
thrifty capitalist. After seeing it, the dealer would almost have felt
safe in trusting Ben with the papers without demanding a deposit of
their value. Still it was better and safer to require a deposit, and he
therefore took the dollar from Ben, returning twenty-five cents in
change.
This preliminary matter settled, he made up the parcel of papers.
"There they are," he said. "If you're smart, you can sell 'em all before
night."
"I hope so," said Ben.
With the papers under his arm, Ben made his way westward to the
Cortlandt Street ferry, which was a favorite place of resort with him.
He did not have long to wait for his first customer. As he was walking
down Cortlandt Street, he met a gentleman, whose attention seemed
attracted by the papers he carried.
"What papers have you got there, my lad?" he inquired.
"'Harper's Weekly,' 'Frank Leslie,' 'Ledger,' 'Weekly,'" repeated Ben,
glibly, adding the names of the other papers in his parcel.
"Give me the two picture papers," said the gentleman. "Twenty cents, I
suppose."
"Yes," said Ben, "and as much more as you want to pay. I don't set no
limit to the generosity of my customers."
"You're sharp," said the gentleman, laughing. "That's worth something.
Here's twenty-five cents. You may keep the change."
"I'll do it cheerfully," said Ben. "Thank you, sir. I hope you'll buy
all your papers of me."
"I won't promise always to pay you more than the regular price, but you
may leave 'Harper's' and 'Leslie' at my office every week. Here is my
card."
Ben took the card, and put it in his pocket. He found the office to be
located in Trinity Building, Broadway.
"I'll call every week reg'lar," he said.
"That's right, my lad. Good-morning."
"Good-mornin'."
Ben felt that he had started well. He had cleared nine cents by his
sale, four representing his regular commission, while the other five
cents might be regarded as a donation. Nine cents was something. But for
his idea about the papers, he would have made nothing so far. It is a
very good thing to have two strings to your bow, so Ben thought, though
the thought did not take that precise form in his mind. He kept on his
way till he reached the ferry. There was no train in on the other side,
and would not be for some time, but passengers came over the ferry, and
Ben placed himself where he could be seen. It was some time before he
sold another paper however, although Ben, who improved some of his spare
time by looking over the pictures, was prepared to recommend them.
"What papers have you got, boy?" asked a tall, lank man, whose thin
lips and pinched expression gave him an outward appearance of meanness,
which, by the way, did not belie his real character.
Ben recited the list.
"What's the price of 'Harper's Weekly'?"
"Ten cents."
"Ten cents is too much to pay for any paper. I don't see how they have
the face to ask it."
"Nor I," said Ben; "but they don't consult me,"
"I'll give you eight cents."
"No you won't, not if I know it. I'd rather keep the paper for my
private readin'," answered Ben.
"Then you are at liberty to do so," said the gentleman, snappishly.
"You'd make profit enough, if you sold at eight cents."
"All the profit I'd make wouldn't pay for a fly's breakfast," said Ben.
The gentleman deigned no response, but walked across the street in a
dignified manner. Here he was accosted by a boot-black, who proposed to
shine his boots.
"He'll get 'em done at the wholesale price, see if he don't," thought
Ben. He kept an eye on the boot-black and his patron until the job was
finished. Then he witnessed what appeared to be an angry dispute between
the two parties. It terminated by the gentleman lifting his cane in a
menacing manner. Ben afterwards gained from the boy particulars of the
transaction, which may be given here in the third person.
"Shine yer boots?" asked the boot-black, as the gentleman reached his
side of the street, just after his unsuccessful negotiations with Ben.
"What do you charge?" he inquired.
"Ten cents."
"That's too much."
"It's the reg'lar price."
"I can get my boots blacked for five cents anywhere. If you'll do it for
that, you can go to work."
The boy hesitated. It was half price, but he had not yet obtained a job,
and he yielded. When the task was finished, his generous patron drew
four cents from his pocket.
"I haven't got but four cents," he observed. "I guess that'll do."
The boy was indignant, as was natural. To work for half price, and then
lose one-fifth of his reduced pay, was aggravating. What made it worse
was, that his customer was carefully dressed, and bore every appearance
of being a man of substance.
"I want another cent," he demanded.
"You're well enough paid," said the other, drawing on a kid glove. "Four
cents I consider very handsome pay for ten minutes' work. Many men do
not make as much."
This reasoning did not strike the little boot-black as sound. He was no
logician; but he felt that he had been defrauded, and that in a very
mean manner.
"Give me my money," he screamed, angrily.
"I'll hand you over to the authorities," said the gentleman,--though I
hardly feel justified in calling him such,--lifting his cane menacingly.
What could the boy do? Might was evidently on the side of the man who
had cheated him. But he was quick-witted, and a characteristic mode of
revenge suggested itself. The street was muddy (New York streets are
occasionally in that condition). The boot-black stooped down and
clutched a handful of mire in his hand, fortunately having no kid gloves
to soil, and, before his late customer fathomed his intention,
plentifully besprinkled one of the boots which he had just carefully
polished.
"That's worth a cent," he remarked, with satisfaction, escaping from the
wrath of the injured party.
His victim, almost speechless with rage, seemed disposed to pursue him;
but the boy, regardless of the mire, had run across the street, and to
follow would only be to make matters worse.
"If I ever catch you, I'll break every bone in your body, you little
vagabond," he said, in a voice almost choked by passion, shaking his
cane energetically.
Ben, who had witnessed the whole, burst into a hearty laugh, which drew
upon his head a portion of wrath. After a pause, the victim of his own
meanness turned up a side street. The reader will be glad to learn that
he had to employ a second boot black; so that he was not so much better
off for his economical management after all. It may be added that he was
actuated in all his dealings by the same frugality, if we may dignify it
by that name. He was a large dealer in ready-made under-clothing, for
the making of which he paid starvation prices; but, unfortunately, the
poor sewing-girls, whom he employed for a pittance, were not so well
able to defend themselves against imposition as the smart little
boot-black, who "knew his rights, and knowing, dared maintain."
CHAPTER XXII.
THE HEAVY VALISE.
Ben had sold half his papers when the arrival of the train from
Philadelphia gave him an opportunity to return to his legitimate
calling.
"Smash your baggage, sir?" asked Ben of a dark-complexioned man of
thirty-five, who carried a moderate-sized valise.
"Yes," said the other.
"Where shall I carry it?"
"To----" Here the man hesitated, and finally answered, "There is no need
of telling you. I will take it from you when we have got along far
enough."
Ben was about to walk beside the owner of the valise; but the latter
objected to this.
"You needn't walk beside me," he said. "Keep about a block ahead."
"But how will I know where to go?" asked Ben, naturally.
"You know where Broome Street runs into the Bowery?"
"Of course I do."
"Go there by the shortest route. Don't trouble yourself about me. I'll
follow along behind, and take the valise from you there. If you get
there before I do, wait for me."
"I suppose I'm too ragged to walk alongside of him," thought Ben.
He could think of no other reason for the direction given by the other.
However, Ben's pride was not very much hurt. Although he was ragged now,
he did not mean to be long. The time would come, he was confident, when
he could lay aside his rags, and appear in a respectable dress.
The valise which he carried proved to be considerably heavier than would
have been imagined from its size.
"I wonder what's in it," thought Ben, who found it tugging away at his
arms. "If it's shirts they're cast-iron. Maybe they're just comin' in
fashion."
However, he did not perplex himself much about this point. Beyond a
momentary curiosity, he felt no particular interest in the contents of
the valise. The way in which it affected him principally was, to make
him inwardly resolve to ask an extra price, on account of the extra
weight.
After walking a while he looked back for the owner of the valise. But he
was not in sight.
"I might carry off his baggage," thought Ben, "without his knowin' it."
He kept on, however, never doubting that the owner would sooner or later
overtake him. If he did not care enough for the valise to do this, Ben
would not be responsible.
He had just shifted the heavy burden from one hand to the other, when he
felt himself tapped on the shoulder. Looking round, he saw that the one
who had done this was a quiet-looking man, of middle size, but with a
keen, sharp eye.
"What's wanted?" asked Ben.
"Where did you get that valise, my lad?" asked the new-comer.
"I don't know as that's any of your business," answered Ben, who didn't
perceive the other's right to ask the question.
"Is it yours?"
"Maybe it is."
"Let me lift it a moment."
"Hands off!" said Ben, suspiciously. "Don't try none of your tricks on
me."
The other did not appear to notice this.
"I take it for granted that the valise is not yours," he said. "Now tell
me where you got it from."
There was something of authority in his manner, which led Ben to think
that he had a warrant for asking the question, though he could not guess
his object in doing so.
"I'm a baggage-smasher," answered Ben. "I got this from a man that came
by the Philadelphia train."
"Where is he?"
"I guess he's behind somewheres."
"Where are you carrying the valise?"
"Seems to me you want to know a good deal," said Ben, undecided as to
the right of the other to ask so many questions.
"I'll let you into a secret, my lad; but you must keep the secret. That
valise is pretty heavy, isn't it?"
"I'll bet it is."
"To the best of my information, the man who employed you is a noted
burglar, and this valise contains his tools. I am a detective, and am on
his track. I received a telegram an hour ago from Philadelphia,
informing me that he was on his way. I got down to the wharf a little
too late. Now tell me where you are to carry this;" and the detective
pointed to the valise.
"I am to meet the gentleman at the corner of Broome Street and the
Bowery," said Ben.
"Very well. Go ahead and meet him."
"Shall you be there?" asked Ben.
"Never mind. Go on just as if I had not met you, and deliver up the
valise."
"If you're goin' to nab him, just wait till I've got my pay. I don't
want to smash such heavy baggage for nothin'."
"I agree to that. Moreover, if I succeed in getting hold of the fellow
through your information, I don't mind paying you five dollars out of
my own pocket."
"Very good," said Ben. "I shan't mind takin' it, not by no means."
"Go on, and don't be in too much of a hurry. I want time to lay my
trap."
Ben walked along leisurely, in accordance with his instructions. At
length he reached the rendezvous. He found the owner of the valise
already in waiting.
"Well, boy," he said, impatiently, "you took your time."
"I generally do," said Ben. "It aint dishonest to take my own time, is
it?"
"I've been waiting here for a quarter of an hour. I didn't know but
you'd gone to sleep somewhere on the way."
"I don't sleep much in the daytime. It don't agree with my constitution.
Well, mister, I hope you'll give me something handsome. Your baggage
here is thunderin' heavy."
"There's twenty-five cents," said the other.
"Twenty-five cents!" exclaimed Ben, indignantly.
"Twenty-five cents for walkin' two miles with such a heavy load. It's
worth fifty."
"Well, you won't get fifty," said the other, roughly.
"Just get somebody else to carry your baggage next time," said Ben,
angrily.
He looked round, and saw the quiet-looking man, before referred to,
approaching. He felt some satisfaction in knowing that his recent
employer would meet with a check which he was far from anticipating.
Without answering Ben, the latter took the valise, and was about moving
away, when the quiet-looking man suddenly quickened his pace, and laid
his hand on his arm.
The burglar, for he was really one, started, and turned pale.
"What do you want?"
"You know what I want," said the detective, quietly. "I want you."
"What do you want me for?" demanded the other; but it was easy to see
that he was nervous and alarmed.
"You know that also," said the detective; "but I don't mind telling
you. You came from Philadelphia this morning, and your name is 'Sly
Bill.' You are a noted burglar, and I shall take you into immediate
custody."
"You're mistaken," said Bill. "You've got hold of the wrong man."
"That will soon be seen. Have the kindness to accompany me to the
station-house, and I'll take a look into that valise of yours."
Bill was physically a stronger man than the detective, but he succumbed
at once to the tone of quiet authority with which he spoke, and prepared
to follow, though by no means with alacrity.
"Here, my lad," said the detective, beckoning Ben, who came up. "Come
and see me at this place, to-morrow," he continued, producing a card,
"and I won't forget the promise I made you."
"All right," said Ben.
"I'm in luck ag'in," he said to himself. "At this rate it won't take me
long to make fifty dollars. Smashin' baggage for burglars pays pretty
well."
He bethought himself of his papers, of which half remained unsold. He
sold some on the way back to the wharf, where, after a while, he got
another job, for which, being at some distance, he was paid fifty cents.
At five in the afternoon he reported himself at the news-stand.
"I've sold all the papers you gave me," he said, "and here's the money.
I guess I can sell more to-morrow."
The news-dealer paid him the commission agreed upon, amounting to
eighteen cents, Ben, of course, retaining besides the five cents which
had been paid him extra in the morning. This made his earnings for the
day ninety-eight cents, besides the dollars promised by the detective.
CHAPTER XXIII.
THE SURPRISE.
Ben had certainly met with good luck so far. Even his temporary
detention at the station-house he regarded as a piece of good luck,
since he was paid handsomely for the confinement, while his bed there
was considerably more comfortable than he often enjoyed. His adventure
with the burglar also brought him in as much as under ordinary
circumstances he would have earned in a week. In two days he was able to
lay aside fifteen dollars and a half towards his fund.
But of course such lucky adventures could not be expected every day. The
bulk of his money must be earned slowly, as the reward of persistent
labor and industry. But Ben was willing to work now that he had an
object before him. He kept up his double business of baggage-smasher and
vender of weekly papers. After a while the latter began to pay him
enough to prove quite a help, besides filling up his idle moments.
Another good result of his new business was, that, while waiting for
customers, he got into the habit of reading the papers he had for sale.
Now Ben had done very little reading since he came to New York, and, if
called upon to read aloud, would have shown the effects of want of
practice, in his frequent blunders. But the daily lessons in reading
which he now took began to remedy this deficiency, and give him
increased fluency and facility. It also had the effect of making him
wish that his education had not been interrupted, so that his Cousin
Charles might not be so far ahead of him.
Ben also gave up smoking,--not so much because he considered it
injurious, but because cigars cost money, and he was economizing in
every possible way. He continued to sleep in the room under the wharf,
which thus far the occupants had managed to keep from the knowledge of
the police. Gradually the number had increased, until from twenty to
thirty boys made it a rendezvous nightly. By some means a stove had been
procured, and what was more difficult, got safely down without
observation, so that, as the nights grew cooler, the boys managed to
make themselves comfortable. Here they talked and told stories, and had
a good time before going to sleep. One evening it was proposed by one of
the boys that each should tell his own story; for though they met
together daily they knew little of each other beyond this, that they
were all engaged in some street avocation. Some of the stories told were
real, some burlesque.
First Jim Bagley told his story.
"I aint got much to tell, boys," he said. "My father kept a cigar store
on Eighth Avenue, and my mother and sister and I lived behind the shop.
We got along pretty well, till father got run over by a street-car, and
pretty soon after he died. We kept the store along a little while, but
we couldn't make it go and pay the rent; so we sold out to a man who
paid half down, and promised to pay the rest in a year. But before the
year was up he shut up the shop, and went off, and we never got the rest
of the money. The money we did get did not last long. Mother got some
sewin' to do, but she couldn't earn much. I took to sellin' papers; but
after a while I went into the match business, which pays pretty good. I
pay mother five dollars a week, and sometimes more; so she gets along
well."
"I don't see how you make so much money, Jim," said Phil Cranmer. "I've
tried it, and I didn't get nothin' much out of it."
"Jim knows how," said one of the boys. "He's got enterprise."
"I go off into the country a good deal," said Jim. "There's plenty of
match boys in the city. Sometimes I hire another boy to come along and
help me. If he's smart I make money that way too. Last time I went out I
didn't make so much."
"How was that, Jim?"
"I went up to Albany on the boat. I was doin' pretty well up there, when
all to once they took me up for sellin' without a license; so I had to
pay ten dollars afore they'd let me off."
"Did you have the money to pay, Jim?"
"Yes, but it cleaned me out, so I didn't have but two dollars left. But
I travelled off into the country towns, and got it back in a week or
two. I'm glad they didn't get hold of Bill."
"Who was Bill?"
"The feller that sold for me. I couldn't have paid his fine too. That's
about all I have to tell."[B]
"Captain Jinks!" called out one of the boys; "your turn next."
Attention was directed to a tall, overgrown boy of sixteen, or possibly
seventeen, to whom for some unknown reason the name of the famous
Captain Jinks had been given.
"That aint my name," he said.
"Oh, bother your name! Go ahead."
"I aint got nothing to say."
"Go ahead and say it."
The captain was rather taciturn, but was finally induced to tell his
story.
[B] The main incidents of Jim Bagley's story are true, having been
communicated to the writer by Jim himself, a wide-awake boy of fifteen,
who appeared to possess decided business ability and energy. The name
only is fictitious.
"My father and mother are dead," he said. "I used to live with my sister
and her husband. He would get drunk off the money I brought home, and if
I didn't bring home as much as he expected, he'd fling a chair at my
head."
"He was a bully brother-in-law," said Jerry. "Did it hurt the chair
much?"
"If you want to know bad, I'll try it on you," growled the narrator.
"Good for Captain Jinks!" exclaimed two or three of the boys.
"When did you join the Hoss Marines?" asked Jerry, with apparent
interest.
"Shut up your mouth!" said the captain, who did not fancy the joke.
"Go ahead, Jinks."
"I would not stand that; so I went off, and lived at the Lodge till I
got in here. That's all."
Captain Jinks relapsed into silence, and Tim McQuade was called upon. He
had a pair of sparkling black eyes, that looked as if he were not averse
to fun.
"Maybe you don't know," he said, "that I'm fust cousin to a Markis."
"The Markis of Cork," suggested one of the boys.
"And sometimes I expect to come in for a lot of money, if I don't miss
of it."
"When you do, just treat a feller, will you?" said Jerry.
"Course I will. I was born in a big castle made of stone, and used to go
round dressed in welvet, and had no end of nice things, till one day a
feller that had a spite ag'in the Markis carried me off, and brought me
to America, where I had to go to work and earn my own livin'."
"Why don't you write the Markis, and get him to send for you?" asked
Jerry.
"'Cause he can't read, you spalpeen! What 'ud be the use of writin' to
him?"
"Maybe it's the fault of your writin', Tim."
"Maybe it is," said Tim. "When the Markis dies I'm going back, an' I'll
invite you all to come an' pass a week at Castle McQuade."
"Bully for you, Tim! Now, Dutchey, tell us your story."
Dutchey was a boy of ten, with a full face and rotund figure, whose
English, as he had been but two years in the country, was highly
flavored with his native dialect.
"I cannot English sprechen," he said.
"Never mind, Dutchey. Do as well as you can."
"It is mine story you want? He is not very long, but I will tell him so
goot as I can. Mine vater was a shoemaker, what makes boots. He come
from Sharmany, on der Rhein, mit my moder, and five childer. He take a
little shop, and make some money, till one day a house fall on his head
mit a brick, an he die. Then I go out into der street, and black boots
so much as I get him to do, and the money what I get I carry home to
mine moder. I cannot much English sprechen, or I could tell mine story
more goot."
"Bully for you, Dutchey! You're a trump."
"What is one trump?" asked the boy, with a puzzled expression.
"It is a good feller."
This explanation seemed to reconcile Dutchey to being called a trump,
and he lay back on the bed with an expression of satisfaction.
"Now, Ben, tell us your story."
It was Ben, the luggage boy, who was addressed. The question embarrassed
him, for he preferred to keep his story secret. He hoped ere long to
leave his present haunts and associates, and he did not care to give the
latter a clue by which they might trace him in his new character and
position. Yet he had no good reason to assign for silence. He was
considering what sort of a story he could manufacture, that would pass
muster, when he was relieved from further consideration by an unexpected
occurrence.
It appears that a boy had applied for admission to the rendezvous; but,
on account of his unpopular character, had been refused. This naturally
incensed him, and he determined to betray the boys to the policeman on
the beat. The sight that greeted Ben, as he looked towards the entrance,
was the face of the policeman, peering into the apartment. He uttered a
half exclamation, which attracted the general attention. Instantly all
was excitement.
"The copp! the copp!" passed from mouth to mouth.
The officer saw that the odds were against him, and he must summon help.
He went up the ladder, therefore, and went in search of assistance. The
boys scrambled up after him. Some were caught, and ultimately sentenced
to the Island, on a charge of stealing the articles which were found;
but others escaped. Among these was Ben, who was lucky enough to glide
off in the darkness. He took the little German boy under his protection,
and managed to get him safely away also. In this case the ends of
justice were not interfered with, as neither of the two had been guilty
of dishonesty, or anything else rendering them amenable to the law.
"Well, Dutchey, we're safe," said Ben, when they had got some blocks
away from the wharf. "How do you feel?"
"I lose mine breath," said the little boy, panting with the effort he
had made.
"That's better than losin' your liberty," said Ben. "You'll get your
breath back again. Now we must look about and see where we can sleep. I
wonder if Jim Bagley's took."
Just then a boy came running up.
"Why, it's Ben and Dutchey," he said.
"Jerry, is it you? I'm glad you're safe."
"The copp got a grip of me, but I left my jacket in his hands. He can
carry that to the station-house if he wants to."
Jerry's appearance corresponded to his statement, his jacket being gone,
leaving a dilapidated vest and ragged shirt alone to protect the upper
part of his body. He shivered with the cold, for it was now November.
"Here, Jerry," said Ben, "just take my vest an' put over yours. I'll
button up my coat."
"If I was as fat as Dutchey, I wouldn't mind the cold," said Jerry.
The three boys finally found an old wagon, in which all three huddled up
together, by this means keeping warmer than they otherwise could. Being
turned out of their beds into the street might have been considered a
hardship by boys differently reared, but it was not enough to disturb
the philosophy of our young vagrants.
CHAPTER XXIV.
BEN TRANSFORMED.
Ben worked away steadily at his double occupation, saving money as well
as he could; but he met with no more profitable adventures. His earnings
were gradual. Some weeks he laid by as much as a dollar and a half, or
even two dollars, but other weeks he barely reached a dollar. So the end
of March came before he was able to carry out the object which he had in
view.
One morning about this time Ben carefully counted up his deposits, and
found they amounted to fifty dollars and thirty-seven cents. It was a
joyful moment, which he had long looked forward to. He had been tempted
to rest satisfied with forty when he had reached that sum, but he
resisted the temptation.
"I aint goin' to do things by halves," he said to himself. "I can't do
it for less'n fifty dollars. I must wait awhile."
But the moment had arrived when he could accomplish his purpose. As Ben
looked down at his ragged attire, which was in a considerably worse
condition then when he was first presented to the reader, he felt that
it was high time he got a new suit.
The first thing to be done was to get his money. He made his way to the
savings-bank, and presented himself at the counter.
"I want all of my money," he said.
"I hope you're not going to spend it all," said the bank officer, who by
this time had come to feel acquainted with Ben, from his frequent calls
to make deposits.
"I'm goin' to buy some new clothes," said Ben. "Don't I look as if I
needed some?"
"Yes, you are rather out at elbows, I must admit. But new clothes won't
cost all the money you have in the bank."
"I'm goin' home to my friends," said Ben, "after I've got dressed
decently."
"That's a good resolution, my boy; I hope you'll stick to it."
"It's what I've been workin' for, for a long time," said Ben.
He filled out the order for the money, and it was delivered to him.
The next thing was to buy a new suit of clothes. Usually Ben had
procured his outfit in Chatham Street, but he soared higher now. He made
his way to a large ready-made clothing warehouse on Broadway, and
entered. The main apartment was spacious, the counters were heaped with
articles of dress, and numerous clerks were ready to wait upon
customers.
"Well, what's wanted?" asked one, glancing superciliously at the ragged
boy entering.
"Have you got any clothes that will fit me?" asked Ben.
"I guess you've lost your way, Johnny, haven't you?"
"What makes you think so?" asked Ben.
"This isn't Chatham Street."
"Thank you for the information," said Ben. "I thought it was when I saw
you here."
There was a laugh, at the clerk's expense, among those who heard the
retort.
"What are you here for, any way?" demanded the clerk, with an air of
insulted majesty.
"To buy some clothes," said Ben; "but you needn't show 'em to me. I'll
go to somebody else."
"Have you got any money?"
"You'll know soon enough."
He went to another part of the store, and applied to a salesman whose
appearance he liked better. After some hesitation, Ben made choice of a
suit of substantial warm cloth, a dark mixed sack-coat, vest of the same
material, and a pair of pants of neat pattern.
"I won't trouble you to send 'em," said Ben, "as my house is closed for
the season."
The bundle was made up, and handed to him. The price of the entire suit
was twenty dollars, which was a good price for those days. Ben took the
bundle under his arm and went out.
His purchases were not yet all made. He went next to a furnishing store,
and bought three shirts, three pairs of stockings, some collars, and a
necktie, finishing up with a pair of gloves. These cost him eight
dollars. A neat felt hat and a pair of shoes, which he procured
elsewhere, completed his outfit. On counting up, Ben found that he had
expended thirty-six dollars, leaving in his hands a balance of fourteen
dollars and thirty-seven cents.
Before putting on his new purchases, Ben felt that he must go through a
process of purification. He went, therefore, to a barber's basement
shop, with which baths were connected, and, going down the steps, said
to the barber's assistant, who happened to be alone at the time, "I want
a warm bath."
"Pay in advance," said the young man, surveying the ragged figure before
him with some hesitation.
"All right," said Ben. "How much is it?"
"Twenty-five cents."
"Here it is," said Ben, producing the exact amount from his vest-pocket.
Such ragged customers were not usual; but there seemed to be no good
excuse for refusing Ben, as he had the money to pay. In five minutes the
bath was declared to be ready, and Ben, entering the small room assigned
to him, joyfully divested himself of the ragged garments which he was
never again to put on, and got into the tub. It probably will not excite
surprise when I say that Ben stood in need of a bath. His street life
had not been particularly favorable to cleanliness, nor had he been
provided with such facilities for attending to his toilet as are usual
in well-regulated families. However, he was quite aware of his
deficiencies in this way, and spared neither pains nor soap to remedy
them. It was a work of time; but finally he felt satisfied with the
result of his efforts, and, after drying himself, proceeded to put on
his new clothes. They proved to fit excellently. Indeed, they wrought
such a change in our hero's appearance that he could hardly believe in
his own identity when he stood before the glass, and saw reflected the
form of a well-dressed boy, in place of the ragged figure which he saw
on entering. The only thing which marred his good appearance was his
hair, which had grown to undue length. He determined to have it cut
before he left the barber's shop.
He tied up the clothes he had taken off in the paper which had contained
his new suit, and, opening the door, went out into the main room with
the bundle under his arm.
Meanwhile the proprietor of the shop had returned.
"Who is taking a bath?" he asked of his assistant.
"A ragged street boy," said the latter.
"What did you let him in for?"
"He paid in advance."
"I don't care about such customers any way," said the barber. "Remember
next time."
"All right."
At this moment Ben made his appearance; but that appearance was so much
altered that the young man looked at him in astonishment. He looked
thoroughly well dressed, and might have passed readily for the scion of
a wealthy family.
"Were two bath-rooms occupied?" asked the proprietor.
"No."
"I thought you said--"
"I was never so surprised in my life," said the assistant. "Did you get
changed in the bath?" he asked of Ben.
"Yes," said Ben.
"What made you wear such a ragged suit?"
"I was in disguise," said Ben; "but I've got tired of it, and thrown it
off. I think I'll have my hair cut."
"Take a seat," said the proprietor. "I'll cut your hair myself. How will
you have it cut?"
"I want to be in the fashion," said Ben. "Make it look as well as you
can."
He took his seat, and the task commenced. The barber was skilful in his
art, and he saw at once what style would become Ben best. He exerted
himself to the utmost, and when at the end of half an hour he withdrew
the cloth from around our hero's neck, he had effected a change almost
marvellous in Ben's appearance.
I have already said that Ben was naturally good-looking. But even good
looks need fair play, and rags and neglect are apt to obscure the gifts
of nature. So Ben had never looked his best till now. But when his hair
was cut and arranged, and he looked in the mirror to observe the
effect, he was himself surprised. It was some like the change that
transformed Cinderella into a princess.
"I shan't be ashamed to tell my cousin who I am now," he said.
CHAPTER XXV.
BEN MAKES HIMSELF KNOWN.
Ben went out into the street with two bundles under his arm. One
contained the ragged clothes which he had just taken off. The other,
which was much smaller, contained his extra shirts and stockings. The
first he did not care to keep. He therefore lost no time in throwing it
into an alley-way.
"It'll be a lucky chap that finds it," thought Ben.
He next put on his gloves, and considered what he should do next. It was
half-past twelve o'clock already, for he had not been able to get his
money from the bank till ten, and the purchases and bath, as well as the
hair-cutting, had taken up considerable time. He began to feel hungry,
and appetite suggested that he should first of all go to a restaurant
and get some dinner.
On the way thither he met two of his street acquaintances, who passed
him without the slightest mark of recognition. This pleased Ben, for it
assured him that the change which he had effected in his appearance was
a considerable one.
While eating dinner, he deliberated what he should do. It was Saturday,
and it would be almost too late to start for his Pennsylvania home. He
decided to go to his sister's house on Madison Avenue, and make himself
known there first of all. He was influenced to this partly by the desire
he had to meet his cousin, who, as he knew, was making his home, while
attending school, at the house of Mr. Abercrombie. He had more than once
been up to that part of the city in the hope of catching a glimpse of
the cousin for whom he retained his old, boyish love; but he had always
shrunk, even when seeing him, from attracting his observation. He did
not wish to be remembered in his rags, and so denied himself the
pleasure for which he yearned. But now he was satisfied with his
appearance. He felt that he was as well dressed as Charles himself, and
would do no discredit to him if they were seen in the street together.
He got on board an omnibus, and took his seat. A lady soon after
entered, and sat down beside him She drew out some money from her
purse, and, passing it to Ben, said, "Will you have the kindness to pass
up my fare, sir?"
"Certainly," said Ben, politely.
It was a small incident, but he felt, from the young lady's manner of
addressing him, that she looked upon him as her equal socially, and this
afforded him not a little pleasure. He wondered how he could have been
content to drift about the streets so long, clothed in rags. New hopes
and a new ambition had been awakened within him, and he felt that a new
life lay before him, much better worth living than the old life.
These thoughts occupied him as he rode up Broadway.
At length he left the omnibus, and took the shortest route to his
