
“I am very sorry, Lilian; but I did everything with the hope of
pleasing you.”

“Now here’s a pretty kettle of fish!” exclaimed my indignant bride.
“What can we do?”

“I can’t alter the house, my dear, but I can change the furniture so
as to suit you, though doing so will be very expensive,” I continued,
meekly, as I endeavored to conciliate her.

We had been married only about four months, and the present occasion
looked very much like a quarrel. I had not had the remotest suspicion
that she was so spunky. It did occur to me that she was slightly
unreasonable, if one so beautiful could be unreasonable. Her father
was as poor as a church mouse. His house, as I have hinted, was meanly
furnished, and certainly neither the house nor the furniture was worthy
to be compared with the one I had provided for my little wife. She had
no reason for putting on airs, and being so fiercely critical about the
carpets and the chairs. They were vastly better than she had ever had
at home.

“Do you think I will live in this house, Paley Glasswood?” said she,
with her lips compressed and her eyes snapping with indignation.

“Why, I hope so,” I replied, more astonished than she had been at any
time during the visit to the new house.

“You are mistaken, Paley Glasswood. I am your wife, but not your slave;
I am not to be dragged from my home when and where you please. You
ought to have told me what you intended to do in the beginning.”

“I know it now; and I confess that I was wrong,” I replied, with due
humility, and, I may add, with perfect sincerity. “I hope you will
forgive me, this time Lilian, and I will never be guilty of such an
offence again.”

“I should hope not. But here we are! What’s to be done with this house
and furniture?”

“Why, my dear, won’t you go to housekeeping with me?”

“Certainly not, in this house,” she answered, with a flourish.

This announcement was very startling to me. It was appalling to think
that I had expended fifteen hundred in preparing a cage which the bird
refused to occupy. Intensely as I loved, adored Lilian, I could not
help seeing that she was developing a trait of character which I did
not like. But I was a politic man, and seeing how useless it was to
attempt to argue the matter while she was in her present frame of mind,
I had to keep still. We left the house and walked home. For the first
time since we were married she declined to take my arm, and I began to
be very miserable. Somehow it seemed to me that the meeker I was, and
the more I deprecated her wrath, the greater became her objection to
the house.

“What shall I say to dear ma?” demanded Lilian, after she had thrown
off her things.

“My dear, you need not say a word to her. I will do all this unpleasant
business myself,” I replied. “You can lay all the blame upon me. I will
tell her that we are going to our new house to-morrow.”

“You needn’t tell her any such thing, for I am not.”

Before we had proceeded any farther with the discussion Mrs. Oliphant
entered the room. The battle was imminent.




CHAPTER VI.

A FAMILY JAR.


I DID not feel at all at ease when Mrs. Oliphant entered the room. I
was entirely willing to be conquered and trodden under the little feet
of the fair Lilian, but I was not so ready to be trampled upon by the
unromantic feet of “dear ma.” I was conscious that my pretty wife was
getting the weather-gage of me—that she had already got it, in fact.
I was not disposed to complain of this, but I intended, if possible,
to out-manœuvre Mrs. Oliphant. I regarded Lilian as “my family,” and I
wished to have her “set off” from my mother-in-law.

In spite of all the strong talk which my lovely wife had used in regard
to the English basement house, I confidently expected that she would
take her place in the new home I had provided for her. If she was
dissatisfied with it, she would soon love it for my sake, if not for
its own. But I was sure she did not rebel on her own account; it was
the influence of her mother which had controlled her. I accepted the
theory that the queen’s majesty could do no wrong. If anything was not
right, it was the fault of the ministers.

After I had permitted her to say all she had to say, and to exhaust her
vocabulary of invective, she would quietly submit to the new house,
move in, be as happy as a queen in a short time, and wonder how she had
ever thought the little snuggery was not a palace. I had made a fearful
expenditure in preparing the house for her; I had thrust my head into
the jaws of the monster Debt, and I must make the best of the situation.

“Ma,” said Lilian, as her mother entered the room, “what do you suppose
Paley has done?”

The poor child looked at the faded carpet as she spoke, hardly daring
to raise her eyes to the maternal visage. I hoped she contrasted the
hueless fabric on the floor with those bright colors which gleamed from
her own carpet in the Needham street house.

“Why, what has he done?” asked Mrs. Oliphant, with a theatrical start,
which was modified by a tiger smile bestowed upon me.

“He has hired a house?” replied Lilian, with a gasping sigh, which was
simply intended as convincing evidence that she was not implicated in
the nefarious transaction.



“Hired a house!” exclaimed Mrs. Oliphant; and her sigh was genuine, and
not intended for effect.

“And furnished it too!” added Lilian, with horror, as she piled up the
details of my hideous wickedness.

“And furnished it too!” groaned poor Mrs. Oliphant, sinking into a
chair, as though she had reached the depth of despair in the gulf into
which my infamous conduct had plunged her.

“He did not say a word to me about the house or furniture until this
very afternoon!” continued my beautiful wife, holding up both her
pretty white hands the better to emphasize her astonishment and chagrin.

“Of course, if you desire to leave your own pleasant home, Lilian, it
is not for me to say a word,” added the meek mamma, with another sigh,
which seemed to measure the depth of the resignation that could submit
to such an outrage.

“But I do not desire to leave my pleasant home,” protested Lilian. “I
never had such a thought. I am sure, I have been so happy here that I
never dreamed of another home, as long as you were willing to keep us,
mother.”

“You have been very kind indeed to us, Mrs. Oliphant,” I ventured to
remark, though I was not certain that the time had come for me to
defend myself. “I feel very grateful to you for the sacrifice you have
made to accommodate us; and I am sure I shall never forget it.”

“A mother lives for her children alone,” sighed Mrs. Oliphant. “Even
when they are married she cannot lose her interest in them.”

“Certainly not, madam; especially not in so good a daughter as Lilian.”

“It is hard enough to have them removed by marriage from the direct
influence of a mother, and to feel that she is no longer a mother in
the sense she has been.”

I thought that Mrs. Oliphant had submitted to the marriage of her
daughter with tolerable resignation, and would even permit the other
two to go to the sacrifice without rebelling against the dictates of
fate.

“Of course she can never be entirely removed from a mother’s
influence,” I replied, wishing that she could. “You have been very kind
and considerate toward us since we were married—to me for Lilian’s
sake.”

“And for your own,” she interposed.

“I trust I shall never be ungrateful. I feel called upon to explain
my conduct,” I continued. “You remember, when we returned from our
bridal tour that something was said about boarding. We could not
find such accommodations as we desired, and you were so kind as to
offer to accommodate us till we could obtain a house, or make other
arrangements.”

“Yes, I remember,” replied Mrs. Oliphant. “I don’t take boarders, but I
was willing to do what I could for Lilian’s comfort and happiness.”

“You were, madam; and I was very grateful to you for your
consideration, both to Lilian and to me. You intimated that it would
not be convenient for you to take us to board, but you were willing
to sacrifice your own comfort and your own feelings to oblige us. I
was very sorry indeed that the circumstances compelled us to trespass
upon your kindness. You did us a favor for which I shall never cease
to be grateful. But I did not feel willing to compel you to submit
to the inconvenience of boarding us any longer than was absolutely
necessary. My gratitude compelled me, when I found a house, to take it,
and relieve you at once from all the care and responsibility which your
self-sacrificing nature had imposed upon you.”

“And without even permitting me to see the house in which I was to
live!” exclaimed Lilian, coming to the assistance of her mother, who
seemed to be thrown into disorder by my tactics.

“I did not suppose it was possible for any one, even with your refined
taste, Lilian, to object to such a beautiful little house. But I was
obliged to hire it on the instant, or lose it. Another man would have
taken it in less than half an hour. It is so near your mother’s that
you can come to see her half-a-dozen times a day, if you please.”

“But I will never live in that house,” protested Lilian, with more
energy than I thought the occasion required, though I could not help
adoring her while her cheeks glowed and her eyes snapped.

“Don’t say that, dear Lilian. You should endeavor to conform to the
wishes of your husband,” mildly interposed the suffering parent.
“Doubtless he has done all for the best, and perhaps you will like the
house, after all.”

“I know I never shall like it,” snapped the divine Lilian; which was as
much as to say that she was fully determined not to like it.

“Mrs. Oliphant, would you do me the favor to walk over to the house
with me?” I suggested to the affectionate mother.

“No; I would rather not. I never step between man and wife,” replied
she, with praiseworthy resolution. “I do not wish to see the house.
This is an affair between you and Lilian, and it is my duty to be
strictly neutral.”

“But I hope you appreciate my motives?”

“I can not say that I do,” she answered. “I think a man should consult
his wife before he hires and furnishes the house in which she is to
spend a great deal more time than her husband.”

I wish to say to my readers that I heartily endorse Mrs. Oliphant’s
position. A man ought to consult his wife about the house in which
she is to spend more of her time than he. It is eminently proper,
right and just that he should do so; but I beg to call the attention
of the critic to my unfortunate position. Lilian was an angel (in my
estimation); her mother was not an angel. The daughter was a mere
doll—I am writing after the lapse of years. She was completely
under the control of her mother. What I suspected then, I knew
afterwards—that Mrs. Oliphant intended to have us as permanent
boarders.

Mr. Oliphant had long been running behind-hand under the heavy expenses
of his extravagant family. Something must be done to eke out his
failing income, or the two unmarried daughters could no longer hold
their position in society. They must dress, or be banished by their own
vanity from the circle in which they moved—a circle which contained
husbands. They could not take strangers as boarders, for the house was
not fit to accommodate them; but a son-in-law would submit in silence,
while a stranger would rebel. I was the victim.

If I proposed housekeeping, my plan would be condemned, as another
boarding-place had been already. Perhaps I persuaded myself into the
belief, under the necessities of the occasion, that I was hiring and
furnishing the English basement house as a pleasant surprise to Lilian.
If I did, it was a comfortable delusion, for it was really only a
scheme to escape from the clutches of my mother-in-law, and to avoid
the martyrdom of my situation on Tremont street. Perhaps the reader
will forgive me after this explanation. If he does not, it is not the
worst of my errors, and I would thank God most devoutly if I had no
graver sin to answer for.

I told Mrs. Oliphant that I had hired a house which was rather better
than I could afford; that I had furnished it at an expense which was
beyond my means, in order to please Lilian. I said something more about
the “pleasant surprise,” and was positive that no bank officer of my
degree had so fine an establishment. I repeated all I had said about
not imposing upon her self-sacrificing nature. But all I said seemed
to fall flat upon her ear. She was not touched by my devotion to her
daughter; on the contrary she was disgusted with me, as I read her
sentiments in her face, for she did not utter them.

Lilian felt that she had an able champion in her mother, and she said
but little. Still professing entire impartiality, Mrs. Oliphant read me
a lecture on the impropriety of my conduct, frequently interpolating
the discourse with the statement that it was none of her business
though, as I had asked her advice (which I had not), she felt obliged
to be candid with me. She and Lilian seemed to understand each other
perfectly, and while the latter resolutely refused to occupy the house
I had prepared for her reception, the former mildly and often declared
that a wife should submit to her husband. Lilian knew what to say so as
not to implicate her mother in any improper remarks. I think my wife
loved me almost as much as she feared her mother. I am sure that she
would have accepted the situation with pleasure, if she had not been
under her “dear ma’s” influence.

What could I do? I had well-nigh ruined myself in fitting up the
house. I was vexed, and as the conversation proceeded I began to grow
impatient. Finally I left the house to buy some cigars, I said, but in
reality to find an opportunity to think over my situation. I did think
it over, and I did not buy any cigars, for I was not allowed to smoke
them, even in the kitchen. Lilian would yield at once, if she could
escape her mother’s influence. As it was, I must fight the battle with
both of them.

I walked across the Common, thinking what I should do. If I submitted
this time, I should not only be obliged to bear the privations to which
the Oliphants subjected themselves in order to maintain their social
position, but I must forever be the willing slave of “dear ma.” I could
not endure the thought. If the family chose to live on tough beef and
salt fish, it was their affair, not mine. I could not stand it, and the
result of my deliberations was that I decided not to stand it. I went
back to the house, stiffened for any thing that might occur, though it
almost broke my heart to think of opposing Lilian.

“Perhaps the person who wanted the house you have hired would be
willing to take it now, and purchase the furniture you have put into
it?” suggested Mrs. Oliphant, when the subject was resumed.

Perhaps he would; but my idea just then was that he would not have the
opportunity to do so.

“I think not; the party who wanted it would have furnished it at half
the expense I have incurred,” I replied.

“Couldn’t you let it as a furnished house?” she added.

“My lease does not permit me to underlet it.”

“I think it would be cruel to take Lilian away from her own pleasant
home, when she wishes to remain here so much,” continued Mrs. Oliphant,
a little more sharply than she had yet spoken. “But, of course, it is
none of my business and I do not wish to interfere between you.”

After supper, I saw Lilian alone in our room. She was as resolute as a
little tiger. She positively refused to go into the English basement
house, or to have anything to do with it.

“I think you have insulted my mother,” she added.

“Insulted her!” I exclaimed, rather startled by this new charge which
had evidently been put into her brain by “dear ma.”

“She has made her arrangements to board us, and now you want to go
away.”

“She hasn’t made any arrangements at all. Not an article of furniture
has been added to the house.”

“She says she has; and I think she knows best,” retorted Lilian,
sharply.

“You have spoken to me every day for a month about furnishing our room.”

“I think we ought to furnish it.”

“And pay thirty dollars a week for our board! I don’t think so,” I
replied; and this was almost the first time I had ventured to disagree
with her.

“Mother says she boards us cheaper than any body else would,” snapped
my pretty one. “Now you insult her for her kindness to us.”

“I have already explained my position to her. I did not mean to insult
her, and I don’t think my conduct will bear that construction. But,
Lilian, the house in Needham Street is all ready for us. I have even
hired a servant girl, who is there now.”

“I will not go into it, Paley. If you wish to abuse my mother you can,
but I will not. I am sorry you have ceased to love me.”

“I have not ceased to love you, Lilian,” I replied, putting my arm
around her neck and kissing her.

Then I went over the whole argument again, and if I did not convince
her that I had not insulted or wronged her mother, it was because her
fears set logic at naught.

“You will sell the furniture, and give up the house—won’t you, Paley?”
said she, in her most fascinating way.

“I would if I could Lilian, but the die is cast. I must go, or I am
ruined.”

Suddenly, in a fit of passion, she shook my arm from her neck and
shrunk from me.

“For the last time, Paley, I say it, I will never go into that house,”
said she, angrily.

“I am sorry, Lilian,” I replied, sadly. “You do not act like the loving
wife you have always been.”

“I will not be insulted any longer.”

“Very well, Lilian; I am going to move into the new house to-morrow.”

“What!” exclaimed she, aghast, for she evidently did not believe me
capable of such rebellion.

“I shall go to the new house to-morrow, after bank hours. If you will
not go with me, I cannot help it; and I must go alone.”

“Do you mean to say that you will desert me?” gasped she.

“Lilian, I will not pretend to say that what I have done is right,
though I did it to please you. I have provided you a house much better
than the home of your parents. I have done everything I could to
make it comfortable and pleasant. I am sorry I did this without your
knowledge, but it is done, and cannot be undone. If you will live in
the house for a year or so, and then are not happy, I will leave it. I
can do no more to please you.”

“I will not move into it!” said she, more bitterly than ever.

I went out of the house, and walked the streets till eleven o’clock at
night in utter misery. I returned home. Lilian told me ever so many
things her mother had said, and was firmer than ever. The next morning
when I went to the bank, I felt like a hopeless martyr.

“Mr. Bristlebach wishes to see you in the director’s room, Mr.
Glasswood,” said the messenger to me.

The president looked stern when I entered the room, and I realized that
some charge was pending against me.




CHAPTER VII.

A SHADOW OF SUSPICION.


I HAD not sinned against the bank in thought, word, or deed, and
I had no fears of the result of an interview with the president.
All my sorrows related to my domestic difficulty, which was hardly
banished from my mind for a moment, though I did try to imagine what
Mr. Bristlebach could possibly want of me. Whatever pecuniary trouble
stared me in the face, I had never even been tempted to appropriate a
penny belonging to the bank.

“Mr. Glasswood, I have sent for you,” said Mr. Bristlebach, sternly.

“Yes, sir; and I am here,” I replied, very respectfully.

“When did you balance your cash last?”

“Yesterday afternoon.”

“Did it come out right?”

“Yes, sir,” I replied, with the utmost confidence.

“Close the door, if you please.”

I did so, and though Mr. Bristlebach did not often take the trouble
to spare any one’s feelings, this order looked ominous to me. I would
give all my earthly hopes at this moment for the consciousness of the
rectitude of my character which I possessed at that time. I shut the
door, and took my stand again in the august presence of the great
man—he was great to me, if he was not to others.

“Mr. Glasswood!” continued Mr. Bristlebach, sternly.

I bowed meekly, to intimate that I was ready to hear anything he
pleased to say.

“Your cash is not right.”

“It was right yesterday, at three o’clock,” I answered.

“If it was right at three, it was not at five. I advise you, Mr.
Glasswood, to make no denials to any statement which you know to be
true. You are a defaulter, sir!”

Troubles never come singly. It was not enough that I should quarrel
with my angelic wife, but I must cross swords with Mr. Bristlebach,
who was far from angelic. I might as well find the deep water off Long
Wharf and drown myself. What would Lilian say if I did? Would she care?
Or would she be only shocked? Bad as it was, the affair at the bank
did not seem half so desperate as the quarrel with Lilian. I bowed my
head meekly to Mr. Bristlebach’s charge. I was innocent, and it did not
make much difference to me what the president said. Under the shadow as
I was of a heavier woe than this, it really did not seem worth while to
defend myself.

“I say you are a defaulter, Mr. Glasswood,” repeated the president,
more severely than before.

“No, sir, I am not,” I answered, very mildly.

“Have you the effrontery to deny the charge?”

“Yes, sir, I have.”

“You have robbed the bank of twelve hundred dollars, at least; and how
much more I don’t know.”

“No, sir; I have not robbed the bank of twelve hundred dollars; nor of
even a single cent.”

“I am surprised that you should have the hardihood to deny the charge.
Shall I call on your uncle, who is one of your bondsmen?”

“If you please, I do not object,” I replied; and I think I should not
have objected to any thing.

“Perhaps you will make the bank good yourself?” sneered Mr.
Bristlebach.

“I don’t owe the bank a penny, sir.”

“Mr. Glasswood—sit down!”

I sat down.

“Listen to me, sir!”

I listened.

“I have worked up the case, and understand it perfectly. I am
informed that three or four weeks ago you had in your pocket several
hundred dollars—perhaps a thousand dollars or more,” continued Mr.
Bristlebach, whose looks as well as his words were intended to carry
confusion to my soul. “Will you do me the favor to say whether or not
this statement is true?”

“Quite true, sir. The sum in my pocket-book was one thousand dollars,”
I replied, beginning to gather up a little light on the subject.

“A thousand dollars! Very well, sir! I am glad you have not the
effrontery to deny it. Bank officers in your situation do not usually
carry a thousand dollars about with them.”

“I do, when I have it to carry, sir.”

“Don’t be impudent, Mr. Glasswood. Will you deny that this sum was
abstracted from the funds of the bank?”

“Certainly I shall deny it, sir. Did Mr. Shaytop inform you that I had
taken it from the bank?”

“Who said anything about Mr. Shaytop?” demanded he, sternly.

“I did, sir. It is not very manly in him to accuse me of stealing
simply because I refused to hire any more teams of him. Since I was
married I have found it necessary to curtail my expenses.”

“Do not attempt to dodge the issue, sir.”

“I am ready to look the issue fairly in the face.”

“You had this money. You confess it.”

“I affirm it. I don’t confess it.”

“Since you had it, perhaps you will not deem it impertinent in me to
ask where you got it?” sneered Mr. Bristlebach, who seemed to be as
certain that I had robbed the bank as though he had already proved the
charge.

“Under the circumstances, sir, I should not deem it impertinent,” I
replied coolly; and, under the influence of my domestic trouble, I felt
rather reckless.

“Well, sir, where did you get it?”

“I borrowed it.”

“Precisely so! Borrowed it of the bank!”

“I beg your pardon, Mr. Bristlebach, but there is a wide gulf between
my premise and your conclusion. I did not borrow the money of the
bank. If I had, doubtless the paper I offered would have passed under
your eyes.”

“Mr. Glasswood, your tone and manner do not please me.”

“I hope you will excuse me, sir, if I venture to say that the charge
you make against me does not please me.”

“Will you tell me of whom you borrowed the money?”

“With pleasure, sir. Of my Aunt Rachel.”

Mr. Bristlebach looked at me; looked sharply at me. He seemed to be a
little staggered at something, though, of course, I did not suppose he
believed me. He asked me twenty questions about my aunt, all of which
I answered with a greater regard for the truth than I was sometimes in
the habit of paying to that sublime virtue.

“Mr. Glasswood, your cash is twelve hundred dollars short,” he added.

“I was not aware of the fact,” I replied.

“After you went away yesterday, I made a strict examination of your
department, and you have heard the result.”

I was surprised at the announcement, and of course I could not disprove
the assertion.

“I can only say, sir, that I left it right at three o’clock yesterday,”
I added.

“Do you doubt my statement?”

“Certainly not, sir; but I do not understand it.”

“The fact that you had a thousand dollars, or any large sum about you,
and that you recklessly exhibited it in the dining-room of a hotel, was
quite enough to excite my suspicions.”

“If I had stolen the money, I think I should not have been so stupid as
to exhibit it. If I know myself, I should not.”

“But you did show it.”

“I did show it; but it was not stolen.”

“I think it was; and when I heard of the circumstances, I spent my
afternoon here in making the investigation. Perhaps you can put me in
the way of verifying your statement that you borrowed the money of your
aunt?”

“I shall be very glad to do so. My aunt lives in Springhaven. She will
show you my note.”

“Even if she does show me your note, and it is fully proved that you
borrowed a thousand dollars of her, that will not explain how your cash
happens to be twelve hundred dollars short.”

“Perhaps I can explain that myself, if you will allow me to examine my
drawer,” I replied.

Just then a light flashed through my mind, and I recalled an incident
which had occurred just after the closing of the bank on the preceding
day, which my private griefs had driven out of my head. I understood
it all then, and I was satisfied that I should utterly confound Mr.
Bristlebach, though I was, at the same time, in danger of confounding
the cashier. But the clock was striking nine, and it was time to open
the bank. There was not time to count the cash again, and I did not
care to expose a little irregularity on the part of the cashier, by
telling what I knew.

Mr. Bristlebach bit his lips and looked at the clock. Through the
glass windows of the directors’ room, he saw a man come in with a
check in his hand. He was evidently deliberating upon the propriety of
permitting me to discharge my duties for the forenoon. We were one hand
short, and there was no one to take my place.

“Mr. Glasswood, you will not go out of the bank, even for a moment,
until this matter is settled. Go to your place, and as soon as the bank
closes, we will count the cash again in your presence.”

I went to my station, after taking my drawer from the safe. I was now
not quite willing to believe that the president considered me guilty.
If he did, he would not trust me with the funds of the bank, though he
had forbidden me to leave the building. I proceeded in the discharge of
my duties as usual, but I soon discovered that the eyes of my superiors
were upon me, and if I had been disposed to indulge in a coup d’etat,
I was too closely watched to permit it to be a success.

Within half an hour after the opening of the bank, the cashier handed
me twelve hundred dollars in payment for a draft, which had been placed
in my keeping, and which I had deposited in the safe. Just after the
bank closed the day before, he had accommodated a friend from my
department, by giving him the cash for this draft on a bank, which, for
some reasons best known to its officers, declined to pay it after bank
hours. It is not for me to discuss the propriety of this action on the
part of my superior. It was irregular, and the cashier was personally
responsible for his conduct. The draft had been handed to me, and I
included it in my cash in balancing.

I learned that the cashier had not been present when the president
counted my cash. The book-keeper and receiving teller had assisted him,
and as the draft was not in my drawer, the amount appeared to be a
deficit on my part. It was very strange to me that I did not think of
this transaction sooner.

Perhaps if my family trouble had not perplexed me, I should have done
so. But it came to my mind soon enough to correct the impression in the
mind of the president, if I had not chosen to suffer rather than betray
the irregularity of my superior.

“That makes it all right,” said the cashier, as he slipped the bills
into my drawer, rather slyly.

“I’m afraid not, Mr. Heavyside,” I replied, in a low tone, for Mr.
Bristlebach seemed to be all eyes and ears on this forenoon.

“What do you mean, Glasswood?” he asked.

“What time did you leave the bank yesterday?”

“About three. I went out to ride with my wife.”

“Where do you get your teams?”

“Of Shaytop. Why do you ask?”

“My cash was examined yesterday afternoon, after both of us left; and I
am charged with a deficit of twelve hundred dollars.”

“Whew!” whistled Heavyside, more alarmed than I was.

He stood by my side at the counter while I told him that Shaytop “had
put a flea into the ear of the president” on my account.

“The scoundrel! I will never drive another of his teams!” exclaimed the
cashier.

Shaytop was not likely to make much by his snivelling operation, which
was too mean for any gentleman to appreciate. There was no ground for
a charge against me, and I think the stable-keeper made it out of pure
