mother of his precious children and threw a veil 
over the unhappy past. 

Two years had lapsed away since the angel of 


death drew her from his side. Mrs. Fielding 
still held her place as the true mother of his chil 
dren. Her life had become so bound up in their 
lives their good so dependent on her ministra 
tion that no thought of separation had intruded. 

Is it remarkable that a true man and a true 
woman, whose daily lives so met in a mutual in 
terest, should be attracted by stronger forces ? Is 
it remarkable that respect, regard, and admiration 
should take love into their fraternity, and give 
her the highest place ? 

"As you are, and have been, for years, their 
true mother," said Mr. Garland, taking the hand 
of Mrs. Fielding one evening, as she came back 
from the apartment where the children slept, to 
their family sitting-room he had listened, as he 
sat alone to the tender inflections of her voice as 
she talked with, and read to them ; that voice 
stirring emotion deeper and deeper, like music to 
which the heart lifts itself in sweet responses. 
"As you are, and have been, for years their true 




mother, will you not be a mother to them in 
name also ?" 

He held the hand tightly, and looked into her 
face. Her eyes, startled at first, dropped away 
from his, and fell upon the floor. Mr. Garland 
felt an impulse in her hand, as if she were about 
to withdraw it, and his, with a responsive im 
pulse took hold with a firmer clasp. 

"The currents of our lives," he said in his 
calm, true, earnest voice, " have in God 's provi 
dence been for some time running side by side, 
taking equally the sunshine and shade, and feel 
ing, almost as one, the rippling breezes. Shall 
they not flow together ? I testify, here, to your 
dignified, womanly conduct in every relation in 
my home. You have been true to yourself and 
your sex in all things. So true, that from respect 
and admiration, a deeper and tenderer feeling to 
wards you has been born. I say this frankly. 
And now, Mrs. Fielding, how stands the case? 
Shall our lives flow together as a single stream ? 
It is for you to say." 



 

For more than a minute Mrs. Fielding stood, 
looks downcast and breath indrawn to an almost 
imperceptible respiration. When she raised her 
eyes, slowly, they were wet with blinding tears, 
and her lips had an irrepressible quiver ; but Mr. 
Garland saw light shining through the tears, and 
consent on her trembling inarticulate lips. He 
led her to a scat. 

" I have not sought this, Mr. Garland heaven 
be my witness " Her delicate woman 's na 
ture shrank. 

"And I am also your witness, dear, true, right- 
hearted friend, whom God his ways are not as 
our ways has so kindly led to my side! Be 
nearer and dearer to me than a friend ; that is, if 
in your heart you can draw nearer. I do not 
want the hand I hold unless all that can bless a 
man goes with it." 

And the blessing was his. 

How sweetly, purely, and tranquilly flowed 
their stream of life, full to the grassy and flower- 
decked brim ! a true man and a true woman, 



 

with high aims and heaven-rising aspirations, 
walked onward side by side in duty and love, 
and not a heart-throb beat in discord. Could an 
idle, sorrowing, self-afflicting life have so crowned 
the years of Mrs. Fielding with blessing ? It is 
only along the path of usefulness that the Lord 
can lead to life 's best fruitions here, and tht 

happiness of heaven hereafter. 





 



X. 

OUR HEAVENLY GOMES. 

" A LITTLE while longer," and the speaker 
lifted her eyes upwards with a pious air 
" only a little while longer, and then I shall put 
off this vile body, and go upwards to my home !" 
" Where the wicked cease from troubling, and 
the weary are at rest." The response came from 
a sad-looking person, on whose face discontent 
and weariness of life were strongly written. 
"Only a little while longer," she added, repeating the words of her who had first spoken. 
" There are some of us who would bless God if 
our feet were as near their journey 's end as 
yours. The ordeal of this life is not an easy one. 
Toil, sorrow, weariness, disappointments from 
cradle to grave the path is rugged ; and out of the 



 

depths of its pain and darkness the soul cries out, 
Lord, shorten the way ! " 

"Ay, shorten the way," groaned a third of the 
group which had surrounded the bed of a sick 
sister. u We have no house here no abiding 
place no continuing city. Open, Lord, the 
pearly gates of the new Jerusalem, and let our 
feet move down the golden streets." 

Pious responses fell from tremulous lips, and 
pious eyes went upwards. 

"Going home." One who had not, till now, 
spoken, let her voice steal out in a low, but firm 
utterance. She was a woman who had passed the 
summit of life, and was now stepping downwards 
on the graveward side. Her face was placid, 
though pain marks were on her forehead, and 
pain shadows on her lips. "Going home. Home 
is a sweet word, my sisters ! But to what kind of 
homes are we going ? That is worth a thought." 

"To heavenly homes," was answered by one. 
" To the paradise of God." 

" In my Father 's house are. many mansions," 



 

said another, repeating the sweet assurance of our 
Lord. 

" We are in exile wanderers from home 
waiting and longing for the time of our return," 
sighed out a third. 

" Did it never occur to you," said the one who 
had asked as to the kind of homes to which they 
were going, " that our dwelling-places in the 
other life will be just what we make them ?" 

Eyes full of questions and doubts were turned 
upon the speaker. 

" I go to prepare a place for you, that where T 
am ye may be also." It was the sick sister 's an 
swer. " The Lord prepares and makes beautiful 
our heavenly homes. The mansions are ready 
and waiting our arrival." 

"And we do nothing towards the work?" 
asked the last speaker. 

We must be meet for the habitation of an 
gels." 

" Vague all, my sisters," was answered. " Let 
us look inward, and study the movements and re- 



 

suits of our own lives. We build, each for him 
self, our eternal dwelling-places, and when we 
come into their manifest occupation, we shall find 
them beautiful or deformed, according as we have 
made them. It is so in this life ; and the order 
will not be changed. As we feel and think, and 
thence act, so are our surroundings here; and 
such will be the law of our surroundings in the 
life to come. Can it be otherwise ? We should 
be . indeed strangers and aliens, if the homes in 
which we dwelt did not correspond with our 
states of thought and feeling. The mind makes 
for itself a habitation, and peoples it with compa 
nions, among which it loves to abide. This is its 
home. Death cannot change these companion 
ships ; but, by the removal of external and inter 
vening things, renders them closer and more inti 
mate. Turn your thoughts inward; think calmly, 
closely, seriously ; and your convictions will as 
sent to what I have said." 

A few moments of silence, but no reply. The 
speaker went on. 



 

* We are too much inclined to look at death as 
the producer of some great change in our inner 
lives. We talk as though we expected to put off 
discontent and selfishness; hardness towards the 
neighbor; jealousies and anger; all the evil 
things we cherish in our minds and to rise into 
some vaguely conceived states of celestial blessed 
ness, purity and peace. My sisters, this is all a 
vain delusion. Simply and nakedly as we are 
when we die, shall we rise into a perception of 
our existence in the spiritual world. There are 
two worlds, remember the spiritual and the na 
tural ; one interior, the other exterior ; and we 
live in both of them at the same time : in the 
outer or natural world as to our bodies and 
senses ; in the inner or spiritual world as to our 
souls and mental consciousness. Now we dwell 
as to our bodies in material homes, among visible 
companions ; and at the same time, as to our spi 
rits in homes not made with hands, among invisi 
ble companions, with whom our minds hold inter 
course. And of what quality are these compa- 



 

nions ? Ah, that is the significant question ! Do 
they lift our thoughts heavenward, or hold us near 
the earth ? Do they stimulate pride or teach us 
lessons of humility ? Are they ministers of dis 
content or resignation ? Do they inspire love of 
self and the world, or love of God and the neigh 
bor ? We do not part company with these com 
panions at death they belong to our inner habita 
tion ; to the dwelling-places that we are building 
for our souls. God cannot take us out of ourselves, 
for that would be to destroy us. He can only pro 
vide for our happiness according to the free deter 
mination of our lives, and give of the good things 
of his love and wisdom in the degree that we are 
capable of receiving them. The measure can be 
no greater and will be no less. All that we can 
receive, he will give for he is the good Giver." 

No one ventured a reply, for the sister 's words 
had penetrated the region of conviction. 

" And so, my sisters, let us not turn our eyes 
longingly away to an imaginary home beyond the 
grave, which we can never find ; but inwardly 



 

upon ourselves, in careful examination. Let us 
look well to the home we are building, and to the 
companions with whom, in our hidden hearts, we 
most delight to associate. If the spirits of pride, 
indolence, murmuring, impatience, self-indulgence, 
envy, disregard of the neighbor, vaunting esteem, 
and conceit of personal goodness, dwell with us 
here, we shall go home to them when we pass to 
the other world. But if patience, meekness, love 
of the neighbor and forgetfulness of self, endu 
rance, humble-minded ness, and the delight of 
serving others, abide in our souls, we shall enter 
the heavenly mansions where angels dwell forever 
with the Lord. Let us then no longer keep look 
ing away and longing for the time of going home, 
but rather set ourselves diligently to the work of 
furnishing the homes which are to be our eternal 
abiding-place; for, as we make them, so will they 
be found when we come to enter and dwell in 
them consciously. May that time be far away, 
for we cannot have too many years in which to 
build and people our heavenly homes." 



 

The silence that followed was broken by the 
sick woman, who, with clasped hands and tearful 
eyas raised heavenward, thus prayed audibly 

" Lord, give thy servant patience to wait, and 
diligence to work." 

And the murmuring responses that met her 

prayer, showed that the lesson was understood. 





 



XI. 

FORGIVENESS. 

A MONG the varieties of individual experience, 
** we occasionally meet with a singular condi 
tion utter want of faith in God 's willingness to 
forgive. In this state of mind was a lady of con 
siderable intelligence, and well known for her 
charities. Early in life, she had been gay and 
fashionable; but, after thirty, became a devout 
church member. 

Mrs. Olney was not a happy Christian. From 
the very commencement of her religious experi 
ence, her soul dwelt under a cloud. That " God 
is love," she read in Scripture ; and she also read 
therein this other declaration "I am a just 
God." But, from some mental peculiarity, she 
was not able to see how, in forgiving her for her 



past transgressions, God could be in harmony 
with himself. 

"He must be just as well as merciful," I heard 
her remark, one evening, to a friend. The an 
swer, to which I listened, went over the common 
ground of atonement for the satisfaction of jus 
tice. I watched Mrs. Olney 's face. It did not 
brighten. The argument failed. 

"Yes yes I understand all that," was her 
answer. 

"And are you not satisfied to rest here?" asked 
the friend. 

" No," was the despondent reply. 

"Why not?" 

" Simply, because having broken the law, and 
thus offended God, I cannot see how forgiveness 
is possible. My early life was an insult to him. 
I'm ade light of his precepts ; I scorned the offers 
of salvation. When he said, Give me thy heart, 
I turned from him, and laid my heart an offering 
upon the shrine of this wicked world. And now, 



 

when I seek him, he hides his face from me. I 
am in terror, but he mocks at my fear." 

" Every one that asketh receiveth ; and he that 
seeketh findeth ; and to him that knocketh, it 
shall be opened." So answered the friend in 
words of divine truth. 

I again observed the lady 's face, to see how 
this clear declaration would aifect her. For a 
moment, it seemed to lighten ; but the shadow 
was not lifted. 

"It must be regarded only as an appearance 
that God is angry," I ventured here to remark. 
"Divine love infinite compassion are qualities 
adverse to anger. The wicked, under such suf 
fering and restraint as are the consequences of 
evil, naturally enough attribute their pains to the 
angry punishment of an offended God. And 
when God speaks in warning to the wicked, it is 
as a father to his disobedient children. He ap 
pears with signs of anger, though love and com 
passion are in his heart. There is a state of evil 
*mong men, which will obey no law but that of 



 

fear. The sword must be unsheathed, and the 
right arm bared, or the wicked will not submit. 
This is the state addressed, when anger and 
punishment are spoken of in the word. God 's 
infinite love, which yearns over every creature, 
was veiling itself under forms of wrath." 

She listened calmly, and with evident interest ; 
and did not offer any suggestions adverse to what 
I had said. Still, I could see no light drifting 
through the shadows on her face. Her mental 
condition interested me, and I endeavored to 
comprehend its meaning ; but, after a long con 
versation, I found myself unable to get down to 
the real cause of her morbid state. To the clear 
est teaching of the Bible, and the fairest conclu 
sions drawn therefrom, she had only her doubts 
to oppose. They were, enshrouding her like a 
pall, and no sun-rays of truth seemed strong 
enough to scatter them. 

" I cannot see it," was the answer she gave ; 
" and unless I can see it, what help for me is 

there in all you say ?" . 


 

J was interested in Mrs. Olney. So far as her 
outward life was concerned, she lived in obedience 
to the precepts of religion. She was always in 
her place at church, and among the foremost in 
the various uses of church membership a devout 
worshiper, and a doer of good deeds. If any, it 
seemed to me, were to live in the sunshine of spi 
ritual confidence, her sky, of all others, should 
have been clear. But, clouds and obscurity were 
there. 

" Do you know Mrs. Olney ?" I inquired of a 
most excellent lady, who was a member of the 
same church to which Mrs. Olney belonged. 

" I used to know her," was the answer received. 
" But we have not spoken for ten years." 

" I am sorry to hear you say this," I returned. 
"Mrs. Olney is a true woman, if I read her 
aright." 

"There is much in her character that I ad 
mire," said the lady, " and from all that I hear of 
her, she is trying to lead a good and useful life. 



 

But, she bears in her heart a spirit of unforgive- 
ness." 

" Towards whom ?" I asked. 

" Towards me," she answered. " I was so un 
fortunate as to offend her very deeply. The 
cause of offence I will not excuse. I am not sur 
prised that she became angry ; nor even that she 
refused, for a long time afterwards, to regard mo 
with anything but displeasure. The act, on my 
part has been sorely repented I have suffered, 
on account thereof, painful humiliation of spirit. 
I condemn it as wrong I have put far from me 
the spirit by which it was inspired ; and I believe, 
that, as a sin before God, it is not kept in remem 
brance against me. If Mrs. Olney could only 
forget and forgive !" 

I had now the clue to Mrs. Olney 's state. It 
was her own unforgiving spirit that clouded her 
mind. In her idea of God, there was an attribu 
tion of perverted human passions; and as she was 
not able to reach a state of forgiveness towards 
her friend, so she found it impossible to under- 



 

stand how God could put aside anger and receive 
her with divine forgiveness. 

"Have you made efforts towards a reconcilia 
tion?" I asked. 

" Not of late. After she became a member of 
our church, I several times purposely threw my 
self in her way; but she refused to meet my 
advances. Once, happening to be in the same 
company, where conversation was general, I responded to a remark which she had just made; 
but she took no notice of me whatever. On an 
other occasion we were introduced by a mutual 
friend, who was not aware that we had met be 
fore ; when she bowed icily, not even offering her 
hand and after standing in silence for a few mo 
ments, turned away, and moved to a distant part 
of the room." 

" Has she spoken against you ?" I further in 
quired. 

" I fear that she has, judging from the manner 
of a few who are her intimate friends. In seve 
ral instances, I have observed a drawing off from 



 

me, and a standing at a distance, of persons who 
were once familiar and friendly. The cause of 
this, right or wrong, I have laid at her door. 
Not that I believe her capable of trying to injure 
me through indulgence of any vindictive spirit 
for I think better of her Christianity than that ; 
but, not having forgiven me in her heart, she 
finds it impossible to think of me as being in any 
essential degree changed from what I was ten or 
fifteen years ago, and so not only retains her old 
dislike, but infuses something of its quality into 
the minds of her intimate friends." 

Now I understood Mrs. Olney 's case better. 
At our next meeting, I so managed the conversa 
tion, that it drifted towards herself and her un 
happy state of mind. Shadows gathered over her 
face ; all cheerfulness died away from her tone?. 

" I have thought of you a great deal, since our 
last conversation," said I. 

This expression of interest naturally opened 
her mind to anything I'm ight say. 



 

" The hindrance," I added, " must be in your 
self; for it cannot be in God." 

" If I knew the hindrance !" she sighed heavily. 

" Is it not possible," I suggested, " that some 
where in your heart, hidden away from distinct 
consciousness, dwells an unforgiving spirit ?" 

Her eyes were cast down as I spoke ; but, she 
raised them instantly from the floor, in a half 
startled way, fixing upon me a look of inquiry. 

"It often happens," I continued, "that our 
ideas of God take the hue of interior states. We 
can only think of him as like-minded with our 
selves. Angry at sin, because we are angry when 
the laws we make are violated ; unforgiving, be 
cause we cannot forgive those who trespass against 
us." 

She dropped her startled eyes away from mine, 
a jd let them rest upon the floor again. 

"There may be much involved in what you 
say," she remarked, not long afterwards, in a sub 
dued voice. " Some things are hard to forgive," 
she added, like one thinking aloud. 



 

"And yet," I ventured to say, "only in the 
degree that we forgive men their trespasses, can 
we expect God to forgive our trespasses in other 
words, there must be a forgiving state in our 
own hearts, before we can have any realizing 
sense of the Lord 's infinite forgiveness." 

Evidently, thought with her was flowing in a 
new direction. I did not think it well to press 
the subject, but left her to continue, or change it, 
as she might feel inclined. 

" Do you really think," she asked, " that God 
only forgives us in the degree that we exercise 
forgiveness towards others?" 

" Literally, that is the teaching of Scripture," 
was my reply. " ( If ye forgive not men their 
trespasses, neither will your heavenly Father for 
give your trespasses. But, going past the literal 
sense of this law, let us go down to its spirit. A 
state of true religion is a state of love love to 
God and the neighbor. If we cannot forgive, we 
cannot love. God is not angry he does not de 
cline forgiveness but, because of our unforgiving 



 

states, he cannot dwell with us in love. Ever he 
stands at the door, knocking, and asking for en 
trance. It is for us to open the door, by removing the evil things set in it as bars and bolts ; 
and until we do this, he cannot enter." 

A window was opened in the mind of Mrs. Ol- 
ney, through which clearer light came in. What 
she had regarded as only a just displeasure to 
wards one who had injured her in past times, but 
whose life in the present was, to human eyes, 
blameless, she now saw to have in it the hai d 
qualities of an unforgiving spirit. It was for 
what had been done to her, that she retained dislike. Mrs. Olney belonged to that class of per 
sons, who, when clearly satisfied in regard to any 
course of action, move forward with resolute self- 
compulsion. First she decided, that, as a Chris 
tian woman, she could no longer hold towards 
the lady of whom I have spoken the attitude of 
a stranger. Next came the question as to how 
the lady was to be approached ^whether for 
mally, and with oral reference to the past ; or, by 



 

friendly advances, when next they happened to 
be thrown together in company. The latter me 
thod was chosen ; and the opportunity was not 
long delayed. I was present, and witnessed the 
unobtrusive scene. Perhaps no other person had 
any conception of what it involved. 

The lady referred to, as having given offence 
to Mrs. Olney years before, was sitting on one end 
of a sofa. She had been conversing with a friend 
who had just risen and crossed the room, leaving 
the place at her side vacant. At this moment, I 
saw Mrs. Olney quietly pass over, and occupy the 
seat, offering her hand as she sat down. The 
hand was taken and held not at once relin 
quished. Both faces were in full view. That 
of Mrs. Olney was considerably heightened in 
color ; but, its expression, though subdued, was 
frank and kind. Over the other face, light was 
leaping ; and I saw sudden tears almost brim 
ming the eyes. Only for a short time, the na 
tural embarrassment of this meeting continued. 

The tender of forgiveness and Christian fellow- 


ship for all that was involved was so gladly 
accepted, that Mrs. Olney felt her heart begin 
ning to warm and glow, almost immediately, 
with new-born pleasures. 

For nearly the whole of that evening, these two 
old friends, between whom a gulf of years had, in 
a moment, been bridged over, kept close together. 
There was, in Mrs. Olney 's countenance, a new 
expression. All the clouds which had rested 
over it for so long a period were swept away, and 
peace dwelt there amid sunshine. The reconcili 
ation was complete. From that hour, they be 
came tenderly attached to each other ; and were 
inseparable co-workers in all the external things 
appertaining to their church membership. 

" You have come up from the valley of doubt," 
I said, in meeting her not long aftewards. 

" Yes," she answered. " I am not troubled as 
in former times. That strange, shadowed state 
