"Please keep it all, ma'am. I can get lots more. I know where it's ever
so thick."
"Thank you, thank you," said the lady; and as the carriage started she
reached out her hand to John. He did not understand the motion, until
he saw a cent drop in the road at his feet. Instantly all his illusion
and his pleasure vanished. Something like tears were in his eyes as he
shouted,—
"I don't want your cent. I don't sell flag!"
John was intensely mortified. "I suppose," he said, "she thought I was
a sort of beggar-boy. To think of selling flag!"
At any rate, he walked away and left the cent in the road, a humiliated
boy. The next day he told Jim Gates about it. Jim said he was green not
to take the money; he'd go and look for it now, if he would tell him
about where it dropped. And Jim did spend an hour poking about in the
dirt, but he did not find the cent. Jim, however, had an idea: he said
he was going to dig sweet-flag, and see if another carriage wouldn't
come along.
John's next rebuff and knowledge of the world was of another sort.
He was again walking the road at twilight, when he was overtaken by
a wagon with one seat, upon which were two pretty girls, and a young
gentleman sat between them driving. It was a merry party, and John
could hear them laughing and singing as they approached him. The wagon
stopped when it overtook him, and one of the sweet-faced girls leaned
from the seat and said, quite seriously and pleasantly,—
"Little boy, how's your mar?"
John was surprised and puzzled for a moment. He had never seen the
young lady, but he thought that she perhaps knew his mother; at any
rate his instinct of politeness made him say,—
"She's pretty well, I thank you."
"Does she know you are out?"
And thereupon all three in the wagon burst into a roar of laughter and
dashed on.
It flashed upon John in a moment that he had been imposed on, and it
hurt him dreadfully. His self-respect was injured somehow, and he felt
as if his lovely, gentle mother had been insulted. He would like to
have thrown a stone at the wagon, and in a rage he cried,—
"You're a nice"—But he couldn't think of any hard, bitter words quick
enough.
Probably the young lady, who might have been almost any young lady,
never knew what a cruel thing she had done.
XI
HOME INVENTIONS
The winter season is not all sliding down hill for the farmer-boy by
any means; yet he contrives to get as much fun out of it as from any
part of the year. There is a difference in boys: some are always jolly,
and some go scowling always through life as if they had a stone-bruise
on each heel. I like a jolly boy.
I used to know one who came round every morning to sell molasses candy,
offering two sticks for a cent apiece; it was worth fifty cents a day
to see his cheery face. That boy rose in the world. He is now the owner
of a large town at the West. To be sure, there are no houses in it
except his own; but there is a map of it and roads and streets are laid
out on it, with dwellings and churches and academies and a college and
an opera-house, and you could scarcely tell it from Springfield or
Hartford, on paper. He and all his family have the fever and ague, and
shake worse than the people at Lebanon: but they do not mind it; it
makes them lively, in fact. Ed May is just as jolly as he used to be.
He calls his town Mayopolis, and expects to be mayor of it; his wife,
however, calls the town Maybe.
The farmer-boy likes to have winter come, for one thing, because it
freezes up the ground so that he can't dig in it; and it is covered
with snow, so that there is no picking up stones, nor driving the cows
to pasture. He would have a very easy time if it were not for the
getting up before daylight to build the fires and do the "chores."
Nature intended the long winter nights for the farmer-boy to sleep;
but in my day he was expected to open his sleepy eyes when the cock
crew, get out of the warm bed and light a candle, struggle into his
cold pantaloons, and pull on boots in which the thermometer would have
gone down to zero, rake open the coals on the hearth and start the
morning fire, and then go to the barn to "fodder." The frost was thick
on the kitchen windows; the snow was drifted against the door; and
the journey to the barn, in the pale light of dawn, over the creaking
snow, was like an exile's trip to Siberia. The boy was not half awake
when he stumbled into the cold barn, and was greeted by the lowing and
bleating and neighing of cattle waiting for their breakfast. How their
breath steamed up from the mangers, and hung in frosty spears from
their noses! Through the great lofts above the hay, where the swallows
nested, the winter wind whistled and the snow sifted. Those old barns
were well ventilated.
I used to spend much valuable time in planning a barn that should be
tight and warm, with a fire in it if necessary in order to keep the
temperature somewhere near the freezing point. I couldn't see how the
cattle could live in a place where a lively boy, full of young blood,
would freeze to death in a short time if he did not swing his arms and
slap his hands, and jump about like a goat. I thought I would have a
sort of perpetual manger that should shake down the hay when it was
wanted, and a self-acting machine that should cut up the turnips and
pass them into the mangers, and water always flowing for the cattle
and horses to drink. With these simple arrangements I could lie in
bed, and know that the "chores" were doing themselves. It would also
be necessary, in order that I should not be disturbed, that the crow
should be taken out of the roosters, but I could think of no process
to do it. It seems to me that the hen-breeders, if they know as much
as they say they do, might raise a breed of crowless roosters, for the
benefit of boys, quiet neighborhoods, and sleepy families.
There was another notion that I had, about kindling the kitchen fire,
that I never carried out. It was, to have a spring at the head of my
bed, connecting with a wire, which should run to a torpedo which I
would plant overnight in the ashes of the fireplace. By touching the
spring I could explode the torpedo, which would scatter the ashes and
uncover the live coals, and at the same time shake down the sticks
of wood which were standing by the side of the ashes in the chimney,
and the fire would kindle itself. This ingenious plan was frowned on
by the whole family, who said they did not want to be waked up every
morning by an explosion. And yet they expected me to wake up without
an explosion. A boy's plans for making life agreeable are hardly ever
heeded.
I never knew a boy farmer who was not eager to go to the district
school in the winter. There is such a chance for learning, that he
must be a dull boy who does not come out in the spring a fair skater,
an accurate snowballer, and an accomplished slider downhill, with or
without a board, on his seat, on his stomach, or on his feet. Take a
moderate hill, with a foot-slide down it worn to icy smoothness, and a
"go-round" of boys on it, and there is nothing like it for whittling
away boot-leather. The boy is the shoemaker's friend. An active lad
can wear down a pair of cowhide soles in a week so that the ice will
scrape his toes. Sledding or coasting is also slow fun compared to
the "bareback" sliding down a steep hill over a hard, glistening
crust. It is not only dangerous, but it is destructive to jacket and
pantaloons to a degree to make a tailor laugh. If any other animal wore
out his skin as fast as a schoolboy wears out his clothes in winter,
it would need a new one once a month. In a country district-school,
patches were not by any means a sign of poverty, but of the boy's
courage and adventurous disposition. Our elders used to threaten to
dress us in leather and put sheet-iron seats in our trousers. The
boy said that he wore out his trousers on the hard seats in the
school-house ciphering hard sums. For that extraordinary statement
he received two castigations,—one at home, that was mild, and one
from the schoolmaster, who was careful to lay the rod upon the boy's
sliding-place, punishing him, as he jocosely called it, on a sliding
scale, according to the thinness of his pantaloons.
What I liked best at school, however, was the study of history, early
history, the Indian wars. We studied it mostly at noontime, and we had
it illustrated as the children nowadays have "object-lessons,"—though
our object was not so much to have lessons as it was to revive real
history.
Back of the school-house rose a round hill, upon which tradition said
had stood in colonial times a block-house, built by the settlers for
defense against the Indians. For the Indians had the idea that the
whites were not settled enough, and used to come nights to settle them
with a tomahawk. It was called Fort Hill. It was very steep on each
side, and the river ran close by. It was a charming place in summer,
where one could find laurel, and checkerberries, and sassafras roots,
and sit in the cool breeze, looking at the mountains across the river,
and listening to the murmur of the Deerfield. The Methodists built a
meeting-house there afterwards, but the hill was so slippery in winter
that the aged could not climb it, and the wind raged so fiercely
that it blew nearly all the young Methodists away (many of whom were
afterwards heard of in the West), and finally the meeting-house
itself came down into the valley and grew a steeple, and enjoyed
itself ever afterwards. It used to be a notion in New England that a
meeting-house ought to stand as near heaven as possible.
The boys at our school divided themselves into two parties; one was the
Early Settlers and the other the Pequots, the latter the most numerous.
The Early Settlers built a snow fort on the hill, and a strong fortress
it was, constructed of snowballs rolled up to a vast size (larger than
the Cyclopean blocks of stone which form the ancient Etruscan walls
in Italy), piled one upon another, and the whole cemented by pouring
on water which froze and made the walls solid. The Pequots helped the
whites build it. It had a covered way under the snow, through which
only could it be entered, and it had bastions and towers and openings
to fire from, and a great many other things for which there are no
names in military books. And it had a glacis and a ditch outside.
When it was completed, the Early Settlers, leaving the women in the
school-house, a prey to the Indians, used to retire into it, and await
the attack of the Pequots. There was only a handful of the garrison,
while the Indians were many, and also barbarous. It was agreed that
they should be barbarous. And it was in this light that the great
question was settled whether a boy might snowball with balls that he
had soaked over night in water and let freeze. They were as hard as
cobblestones, and if a boy should be hit in the head by one of them
he could not tell whether he was a Pequot or an Early Settler. It
was considered as unfair to use these ice-balls in an open fight, as
it is to use poisoned ammunition in real war. But as the whites were
protected by the fort, and the Indians were treacherous by nature, it
was decided that the latter might use the hard missiles.
The Pequots used to come swarming up the hill, with hideous war-whoops,
attacking the fort on all sides with great noise and a shower of balls.
The garrison replied with yells of defiance and well-directed shots,
hurling back the invaders when they attempted to scale the walls.
The Settlers had the advantage of position, but they were sometimes
overpowered by numbers, and would often have had to surrender but for
the ringing of the school-bell. The Pequots were in great fear of the
school-bell.
I do not remember that the whites ever hauled down their flag and
surrendered voluntarily; but once or twice the fort was carried by
storm and the garrison were massacred to a boy, and thrown out of the
fortress, having been first scalped. To take a boy's cap was to scalp
him, and after that he was dead, if he played fair. There were a great
many hard hits given and taken, but always cheerfully, for it was in
the cause of our early history. The history of Greece and Rome was
stuff compared to this. And we had many boys in our school who could
imitate the Indian war-whoop enough better than they could scan arma,
virumque cano.
XII
THE LONELY FARM-HOUSE
The winter evenings of the farmer-boy in New England used not to be so
gay as to tire him of the pleasures of life before he became of age.
A remote farm-house, standing a little off the road, banked up with
sawdust and earth to keep the frost out of the cellar, blockaded with
snow, and flying a blue flag of smoke from its chimney, looks like
a besieged fort. On cold and stormy winter nights, to the traveler
wearily dragging along in his creaking sleigh, the light from its
windows suggests a house of refuge and the cheer of a blazing fire. But
it is no less a fort, into which the family retire when the New England
winter on the hills really sets in.
The boy is an important part of the garrison. He is not only one of the
best means of communicating with the outer world, but he furnishes
half the entertainment and takes two thirds of the scolding of the
family circle. A farm would come to grief without a boy on it, but it
is impossible to think of a farm-house without a boy in it.
"That boy" brings life into the house; his tracks are to be seen
everywhere, he leaves all the doors open, he hasn't half filled the
wood-box, he makes noise enough to wake the dead; or he is in a
brown-study by the fire and cannot be stirred, or he has fastened a
grip upon some Crusoe book which cannot easily be shaken off. I suppose
that the farmer-boy's evenings are not now what they used to be; that
he has more books, and less to do, and is not half so good a boy as
formerly, when he used to think the almanac was pretty lively reading,
and the comic almanac, if he could get hold of that, was a supreme
delight.
Of course he had the evenings to himself after he had done the "chores"
at the barn, brought in the wood and piled it high in the box, ready to
be heaped upon the great open fire. It was nearly dark when he came
from school (with its continuation of snowballing and sliding), and he
always had an agreeable time stumbling and fumbling around in barn and
woodhouse in the waning light.
John used to say that he supposed nobody would do his "chores" if he
did not get home till midnight; and he was never contradicted. Whatever
happened to him, and whatever length of days or sort of weather was
produced by the almanac, the cardinal rule was that he should be at
home before dark.
John used to imagine what people did in the dark ages, and wonder
sometimes whether he wasn't still in them.
Of course, John had nothing to do all the evening, after his
"chores,"—except little things. While he drew his chair up to the
table in order to get the full radiance of the tallow candle on his
slate or his book, the women of the house also sat by the table
knitting and sewing. The head of the house sat in his chair, tipped
back against the chimney; the hired man was in danger of burning his
boots in the fire. John might be deep in the excitement of a bear
story, or be hard at writing a "composition" on his greasy slate;
but, whatever he was doing, he was the only one who could always be
interrupted. It was he who must snuff the candles, and put on a stick
of wood, and toast the cheese, and turn the apples, and crack the
nuts. He knew where the fox-and-geese board was, and he could find the
twelve-men-Morris. Considering that he was expected to go to bed at
eight o'clock, one would say that the opportunity for study was not
great, and that his reading was rather interrupted. There seemed to be
always something for him to do, even when all the rest of the family
came as near being idle as is ever possible in a New England household.
No wonder that John was not sleepy at eight o'clock: he had been flying
about while the others had been yawning before the fire. He would like
to sit up just to see how much more solemn and stupid it would become
as the night went on; he wanted to tinker his skates, to mend his sled,
to finish that chapter. Why should he go away from that bright blaze,
and the company that sat in its radiance, to the cold and solitude of
his chamber? Why didn't the people who were sleepy go to bed?
How lonesome the old house was; how cold it was, away from that great
central fire in the heart of it; how its timbers creaked as if in the
contracting pinch of the frost; what a rattling there was of windows,
what a concerted attack upon the clapboards; how the floors squeaked,
and what gusts from round corners came to snatch the feeble flame of
the candle from the boy's hand! How he shivered, as he paused at the
staircase window to look out upon the great fields of snow, upon the
stripped forest, through which he could hear the wind raving in a kind
of fury, and up at the black flying clouds, amid which the young moon
was dashing and driven on like a frail shallop at sea! And his teeth
chattered more than ever when he got into the icy sheets, and drew
himself up into a ball in his flannel nightgown, like a fox in his hole.
For a little time he could hear the noises downstairs, and an
occasional laugh; he could guess that now they were having cider, and
now apples were going round; and he could feel the wind tugging at the
house, even sometimes shaking the bed. But this did not last long. He
soon went away into a country he always delighted to be in; a calm
place where the wind never blew, and no one dictated the time of going
to bed to any one else. I like to think of him sleeping there, in such
rude surroundings, ingenuous, innocent, mischievous, with no thought
of the buffeting he is to get from a world that has a good many worse
places for a boy than the hearth of an old farm-house, and the sweet
though undemonstrative affection of its family life.
But there were other evenings in the boy's life that were different
from these at home, and one of them he will never forget. It opened
a new world to John, and set him into a great flutter. It produced a
revolution in his mind in regard to neckties; it made him wonder if
greased boots were quite the thing compared with blacked boots; and he
wished he had a long looking-glass, so that he could see, as he walked
away from it, what was the effect of round patches on the portion of
his trousers he could not see except in a mirror; and if patches were
quite stylish, even on everyday trousers. And he began to be very much
troubled about the parting of his hair, and how to find out on which
side was the natural part.
The evening to which I refer was that of John's first party. He knew
the girls at school, and he was interested in some of them with a
different interest from that he took in the boys. He never wanted to
"take it out" with one of them, for an insult, in a stand-up fight,
and he instinctively softened a boy's natural rudeness when he was
with them. He would help a timid little girl to stand erect and slide;
he would draw her on his sled, till his hands were stiff with cold,
without a murmur; he would generously give her red apples into which
he longed to set his own sharp teeth; and he would cut in two his
lead-pencil for a girl, when he would not for a boy. Had he not some of
the beautiful auburn tresses of Cynthia Rudd in his skate, spruce-gum,
and wintergreen box at home? And yet the grand sentiment of life was
little awakened in John. He liked best to be with boys, and their
rough play suited him better than the amusements of the shrinking,
fluttering, timid, and sensitive little girls. John had not learned
then that a spider-web is stronger than a cable; or that a pretty
little girl could turn him round her finger a great deal easier than a
big bully of a boy could make him cry "enough."
John had indeed been at spelling-schools, and had accomplished the
feat of "going home with a girl" afterwards; and he had been growing
into the habit of looking around in meeting on Sunday, and noticing
how Cynthia was dressed, and not enjoying the service quite as much if
Cynthia was absent as when she was present. But there was very little
sentiment in all this, and nothing whatever to make John blush at
hearing her name.
But now John was invited to a regular party. There was the invitation,
in a three-cornered billet, sealed with a transparent wafer: "Miss C.
Rudd requests the pleasure of the company of," etc., all in blue ink,
and the finest kind of pin-scratching writing. What a precious document
it was to John! It even exhaled a faint sort of perfume, whether of
lavender or caraway-seed he could not tell. He read it over a hundred
times, and showed it confidentially to his favorite cousin, who had
beaux of her own, and had even "sat up" with them in the parlor. And
from this sympathetic cousin John got advice as to what he should wear
and how he should conduct himself at the party.
XIII
JOHN'S FIRST PARTY
It turned out that John did not go after all to Cynthia Rudd's party,
having broken through the ice on the river when he was skating that
day, and, as the boy who pulled him out said, "come within an inch of
his life." But he took care not to tumble into anything that should
keep him from the next party, which was given with due formality by
Melinda Mayhew.
John had been many a time to the house of Deacon Mayhew, and
never with any hesitation, even if he knew that both the deacon's
daughters—Melinda and Sophronia—were at home. The only fear he had
felt was of the deacon's big dog, who always surlily watched him as
he came up the tanbark walk, and made a rush at him if he showed the
least sign of wavering. But upon the night of the party his courage
vanished, and he thought he would rather face all the dogs in town than
knock at the front door.
The parlor was lighted up, and as John stood on the broad flagging
before the front door, by the lilac-bush, he could hear the sound of
voices—girls' voices—which set his heart in a flutter. He could
face the whole district school of girls without flinching,—he didn't
mind 'em in the meeting-house in their Sunday best; but he began to
be conscious that now he was passing to a new sphere, where the girls
are supreme and superior, and he began to feel for the first time that
he was an awkward boy. The girl takes to society as naturally as a
duckling does to the placid pond, but with a semblance of sly timidity;
the boy plunges in with a great splash, and hides his shy awkwardness
in noise and commotion.
When John entered, the company had nearly all come. He knew them every
one, and yet there was something about them strange and unfamiliar.
They were all a little afraid of each other, as people are apt to be
when they are well dressed and met together for social purposes in the
country. To be at a real party was a novel thing for most of them,
and put a constraint upon them which they could not at once overcome.
Perhaps it was because they were in the awful parlor, that carpeted
room of haircloth furniture, which was so seldom opened. Upon the
wall hung two certificates framed in black,—one certifying that, by
the payment of fifty dollars, Deacon Mayhew was a life member of the
American Tract Society; and the other that, by a like outlay of bread
cast upon the waters, his wife was a life member of the A. B. C. F. M.,
a portion of the alphabet which has an awful significance to all New
England childhood. These certificates are a sort of receipt in full for
charity, and are a constant and consoling reminder to the farmer that
he has discharged his religious duties.
There was a fire on the broad hearth, and that, with the tallow candles
on the mantelpiece, made quite an illumination in the room, and enabled
the boys, who were mostly on one side of the room, to see the girls,
who were on the other, quite plainly. How sweet and demure the girls
looked, to be sure! Every boy was thinking if his hair was slick, and
feeling the full embarrassment of his entrance into fashionable life.
It was queer that these children, who were so free everywhere else,
should be so constrained now, and not know what to do with themselves.
The shooting of a spark out upon the carpet was a great relief, and was
accompanied by a deal of scrambling to throw it back into the fire, and
caused much giggling. It was only gradually that the formality was at
all broken, and the young people got together and found their tongues.
John at length found himself with Cynthia Rudd, to his great delight
and considerable embarrassment, for Cynthia, who was older than John,
never looked so pretty. To his surprise he had nothing to say to her.
They had always found plenty to talk about before, but now nothing that
he could think of seemed worth saying at a party.
"It is a pleasant evening," said John.
"It is quite so," replied Cynthia.
"Did you come in a cutter?" asked John, anxiously.
"No; I walked on the crust, and it was perfectly lovely walking," said
Cynthia, in a burst of confidence.
"Was it slippery?" continued John.
"Not very."
John hoped it would be slippery—very—when he walked home with
Cynthia, as he determined to do, but he did not dare to say so, and the
conversation ran aground again. John thought about his dog and his sled
and his yoke of steers, but he didn't see any way to bring them into
conversation. Had she read the "Swiss Family Robinson"? Only a little
ways. John said it was splendid, and he would lend it to her, for which
she thanked him, and said, with such a sweet expression, she should be
so glad to have it from him. That was encouraging.
And then John asked Cynthia if she had seen Sally Hawkes since the
husking at their house, when Sally found so many red ears; and didn't
she think she was a real pretty girl?
"Yes, she was right pretty;" and Cynthia guessed that Sally knew it
pretty well. But did John like the color of her eyes?
No; John didn't like the color of her eyes exactly.
"Her mouth would be well enough if she didn't laugh so much and show
her teeth."
John said her mouth was her worst feature.
"Oh no," said Cynthia, warmly; "her mouth is better than her nose."
John didn't know but it was better than her nose, and he should like
her looks better if her hair wasn't so dreadful black.
But Cynthia, who could afford to be generous now, said she liked black
hair, and she wished hers was dark. Whereupon John protested that he
liked light hair—auburn hair—of all things.
And Cynthia said that Sally was a dear, good girl, and she didn't
believe one word of the story that she only really found one red ear at
the husking that night, and hid that and kept pulling it out as if it
were a new one.
And so the conversation, once started, went on as briskly as
possible about the paring-bee and the spelling-school, and the new
singing-master who was coming, and how Jack Thompson had gone to
Northampton to be a clerk in a store, and how Elvira Reddington, in
the geography class at school, was asked what was the capital of
Massachusetts, and had answered "Northampton," and all the school
laughed. John enjoyed the conversation amazingly, and he half wished
that he and Cynthia were the whole of the party.
But the party had meantime got into operation, and the formality was
broken up when the boys and girls had ventured out of the parlor into
the more comfortable living-room, with its easy-chairs and everyday
things, and even gone so far as to penetrate the kitchen in their
frolic. As soon as they forgot they were a party, they began to enjoy
themselves.
But the real pleasure only began with the games. The party was nothing
without the games, and indeed it was made for the games. Very likely
it was one of the timid girls who proposed to play something, and when
the ice was once broken, the whole company went into the business
enthusiastically. There was no dancing. We should hope not. Not in
the deacon's house; not with the deacon's daughters, nor anywhere in
this good Puritanic society. Dancing was a sin in itself, and no one
could tell what it would lead to. But there was no reason why the boys
and girls shouldn't come together and kiss each other during a whole
evening occasionally. Kissing was a sign of peace, and was not at all
like taking hold of hands and skipping about to the scraping of a
wicked fiddle.
In the games there was a great deal of clasping hands, of going round
in a circle, of passing under each other's elevated arms, of singing
about my true love, and the end was kisses distributed with more or
less partiality according to the rules of the play; but, thank Heaven,
there was no fiddler. John liked it all, and was quite brave about
paying all the forfeits imposed on him, even to the kissing all the
girls in the room; but he thought he could have amended that by kissing
a few of them a good many times instead of kissing them all once.
But John was destined to have a damper put upon his enjoyment. They
were playing a most fascinating game, in which they all stand in a
circle and sing a philandering song, except one who is in the centre
of the ring and holds a cushion. At a certain word in the song, the
one in the centre throws the cushion at the feet of some one in the
ring, indicating thereby the choice of a mate, and then the two sweetly
kneel upon the cushion, like two meek angels, and—and so forth. Then
the chosen one takes the cushion and the delightful play goes on. It
is very easy, as it will be seen, to learn how to play it. Cynthia was
holding the cushion, and at the fatal word she threw it down,—not
before John, but in front of Ephraim Leggett. And they two kneeled, and
so forth. John was astounded. He had never conceived of such perfidy
in the female heart. He felt like wiping Ephraim off the face of the
earth, only Ephraim was older and bigger than he. When it came his
turn at length—thanks to a plain little girl for whose admiration he
didn't care a straw—he threw the cushion down before Melinda Mayhew
with all the devotion he could muster, and a dagger look at Cynthia.
And Cynthia's perfidious smile only enraged him the more. John felt
wronged, and worked himself up to pass a wretched evening.
When supper came he never went near Cynthia, and busied himself in
carrying different kinds of pie and cake, and red apples and cider,
to the girls he liked the least. He shunned Cynthia, and when he was
accidentally near her, and she asked him if he would get her a glass of
cider, he rudely told her—like a goose as he was—that she had better
ask Ephraim. That seemed to him very smart; but he got more and more
miserable, and began to feel that he was making himself ridiculous.
Girls have a great deal more good sense in such matters than boys.
Cynthia went to John, at length, and asked him simply what the
matter was. John blushed, and said that nothing was the matter. Cynthia
said that it wouldn't do for two people always to be together at a
party; and so they made up, and John obtained permission to "see"
Cynthia home.
It was after half past nine when the great festivities at the Deacon's
broke up, and John walked home with Cynthia over the shining crust and
under the stars. It was mostly a silent walk, for this was also an
occasion when it is difficult to find anything fit to say. And John
was thinking all the way how he should bid Cynthia goodnight; whether
it would do and whether it wouldn't do, this not being a game, and
no forfeits attaching to it. When they reached the gate there was an
awkward little pause. John said the stars were uncommonly bright.
Cynthia did not deny it, but waited a minute and then turned abruptly
away, with "Good-night, John!"
"Good-night, Cynthia!"
And the party was over, and Cynthia was gone, and John went home in a
kind of dissatisfaction with himself.
It was long before he could go to sleep for thinking of the new world
opened to him, and imagining how he would act under a hundred different
circumstances, and what he would say, and what Cynthia would say; but a
dream at length came, and led him away to a great city and a brilliant
house; and while he was there he heard a loud rapping on the under
floor, and saw that it was daylight.
XIV
THE SUGAR CAMP
I think there is no part of farming the boy enjoys more than the making
of maple sugar; it is better than "blackberrying," and nearly as good
as fishing. And one reason he likes this work is that somebody else
does the most of it. It is a sort of work in which he can appear to be
very active and yet not do much.
And it exactly suits the temperament of a real boy to be very busy
about nothing. If the power, for instance, that is expended in play
by a boy between the ages of eight and fourteen could be applied to
some industry, we should see wonderful results. But a boy is like a
galvanic battery that is not in connection with anything: he generates
electricity and plays it off into the air with the most reckless
prodigality. And I, for one, wouldn't have it otherwise. It is as much
a boy's business to play off his energies into space as it is for a
flower to blow, or a catbird to sing snatches of the tunes of all the
other birds.
In my day, maple-sugar making used to be something between picnicking
and being shipwrecked on a fertile island where one should save from
the wreck tubs and augers, and great kettles and pork, and hen's-eggs
and rye-and-indian bread, and begin at once to lead the sweetest life
in the world. I am told that it is something different nowadays, and
that there is more desire to save the sap, and make good, pure sugar,
and sell it for a large price, than there used to be, and that the
old fun and picturesqueness of the business are pretty much gone. I
am told that it is the custom to carefully collect the sap and bring
it to the house, where there are built brick arches, over which it is
evaporated in shallow pans; and that pains is taken to keep the leaves,
sticks, and ashes and coals out of it; and that the sugar is clarified;
and that, in short, it is a money-making business, in which there is
very little fun, and that the boy is not allowed to dip his paddle
into the kettle of boiling sugar and lick off the delicious sirup. The
prohibition may improve the sugar, but it is cruel to the boy.
As I remember the New England boy (and I am very intimate with one),
he used to be on the qui vive in the spring for the sap to begin
running. I think he discovered it as soon as anybody. Perhaps he knew
it by a feeling of something starting in his own veins,—a sort of
spring stir in his legs and arms, which tempted him to stand on his
head, or throw a handspring, if he could find a spot of ground from
which the snow had melted. The sap stirs early in the legs of a country
boy, and shows itself in uneasiness in the toes, which get tired of
boots, and want to come out and touch the soil just as soon as the sun
has warmed it a little. The country boy goes barefoot just as naturally
as the trees burst their buds, which were packed and varnished over in
the fall to keep the water and the frost out. Perhaps the boy has been
out digging into the maple-trees with his jack-knife; at any rate, he
is pretty sure to announce the discovery as he comes running into the
house in a great state of excitement—as if he had heard a hen cackle
in the barn—with, "Sap's runnin'!"
And then, indeed, the stir and excitement begin. The sap-buckets,
which have been stored in the garret over the woodhouse, and which
the boy has occasionally climbed up to look at with another boy, for
they are full of sweet suggestions of the annual spring frolic,—the
sap-buckets are brought down and set out on the south side of the
house and scalded. The snow is still a foot or two feet deep in the
woods, and the ox-sled is got out to make a road to the sugar camp,
and the campaign begins. The boy is everywhere present, superintending
everything, asking questions, and filled with a desire to help the
excitement.
It is a great day when the cart is loaded with the buckets and the
procession starts into the woods. The sun shines almost unobstructedly
into the forest, for there are only naked branches to bar it; the snow
is soft and beginning to sink down, leaving the young bushes spindling
up everywhere; the snow-birds are twittering about, and the noise
of shouting and of the blows of the axe echoes far and wide. This is
spring, and the boy can scarcely contain his delight that his outdoor
life is about to begin again.
In the first place the men go about and tap the trees, drive in
the spouts, and hang the buckets under. The boy watches all these
operations with the greatest interest. He wishes that some time when a
hole is bored in a tree that the sap would spout out in a stream as it
does when a cider-barrel is tapped; but it never does, it only drops,
sometimes almost in a stream, but on the whole slowly, and the boy
learns that the sweet things of the world have to be patiently waited
for, and do not usually come otherwise than drop by drop.
Then the camp is to be cleared of snow. The shanty is re-covered with
boughs. In front of it two enormous logs are rolled nearly together,
and a fire is built between them. Forked sticks are set at each end,
and a long pole is laid on them, and on this are hung the great caldron
kettles. The huge hogsheads are turned right side up, and cleaned out
to receive the sap that is gathered. And now, if there is a good "sap
run," the establishment is under full headway.
The great fire that is kindled up is never let out, night or day, as
long as the season lasts. Somebody is always cutting wood to feed
it; somebody is busy most of the time gathering in the sap; somebody
is required to watch the kettles that they do not boil over, and to
fill them. It is not the boy, however; he is too busy with things in
general to be of any use in details. He has his own little sap-yoke
and small pails, with which he gathers the sweet liquid. He has a
little boiling-place of his own, with small logs and a tiny kettle. In
the great kettles the boiling goes on slowly, and the liquid, as it
thickens, is dipped from one to another, until in the end kettle it is
reduced to sirup, and is taken out to cool and settle, until enough is
made to "sugar off." To "sugar off" is to boil the sirup until it is
thick enough to crystallize into sugar. This is the grand event, and
it is only done once in two or three days.
But the boy's desire is to "sugar off" perpetually. He boils his kettle
down as rapidly as possible; he is not particular about chips, scum, or
ashes; he is apt to burn his sugar; but if he can get enough to make a
little wax on the snow, or to scrape from the bottom of the kettle with
his wooden paddle, he is happy. A good deal is wasted on his hands and
the outside of his face and on his clothes, but he does not care; he is
not stingy.
To watch the operations of the big fire gives him constant pleasure.
Sometimes he is left to watch the boiling kettles, with a piece of
pork tied on the end of a stick, which he dips into the boiling mass
when it threatens to go over. He is constantly tasting of it, however,
to see if it is not almost sirup. He has a long round stick, whittled
smooth at one end, which he uses for this purpose, at the constant
risk of burning his tongue. The smoke blows in his face; he is grimy
with ashes; he is altogether such a mass of dirt, stickiness, and
sweetness, that his own mother wouldn't know him.
He likes to boil eggs with the hired man in the hot sap; he likes to
roast potatoes in the ashes, and he would live in the camp day and
night if he were permitted. Some of the hired men sleep in the bough
shanty and keep the fire blazing all night. To sleep there with them,
and awake in the night and hear the wind in the trees, and see the
sparks fly up to the sky, is a perfect realization of all the stories
of adventures he has ever read. He tells the other boys afterwards that
he heard something in the night that sounded very much like a bear. The
hired man says that he was very much scared by the hooting of an owl.
The great occasions for the boy, though, are the times of "sugaring
off." Sometimes this used to be done in the evening, and it was made
the excuse for a frolic in the camp. The neighbors were invited;
sometimes even the pretty girls from the village, who filled all
the woods with their sweet voices and merry laughter and little
affectations of fright. The white snow still lies on all the ground
except the warm spot about the camp. The tree branches all show
distinctly in the light of the fire, which sends its ruddy glare far
into the darkness, and lights up the bough shanty, the hogsheads, the
buckets on the trees, and the group about the boiling kettles, until
the scene is like something taken out of a fairy play. If Rembrandt
could have seen a sugar party in a New England wood, he would have
made out of its strong contrasts of light and shade one of the finest
pictures in the world. But Rembrandt was not born in Massachusetts;
people hardly ever do know where to be born until it is too late. Being
born in the right place is a thing that has been very much neglected.
At these sugar parties every one was expected to eat as much sugar as
possible; and those who are practiced in it can eat a great deal. It
is a peculiarity about eating warm maple-sugar that, though you may
eat so much of it one day as to be sick and loathe the thought of it,
you will want it the next day more than ever. At the "sugaring off"
they used to pour the hot sugar upon the snow, where it congealed,
without crystallizing, into a sort of wax, which I do suppose is the
most delicious substance that was ever invented. And it takes a great
while to eat it. If one should close his teeth firmly on a ball of it,
he would be unable to open his mouth until it dissolved. The sensation
while it is melting is very pleasant, but one cannot converse.
The boy used to make a big lump of it and give it to the dog, who
seized it with great avidity, and closed his jaws on it, as dogs will
on anything. It was funny the next moment to see the expression of
perfect surprise on the dog's face when he found that he could not open
his jaws. He shook his head; he sat down in despair; he ran round in
a circle; he dashed into the woods and back again. He did everything
except climb a tree and howl. It would have been such a relief to him
if he could have howled! But that was the one thing he could not do.
XV
THE HEART OF NEW ENGLAND
It is a wonder that every New England boy does not turn out a poet, or
a missionary, or a peddler. Most of them used to. There is everything
in the heart of the New England hills to feed the imagination of the
boy, and excite his longing for strange countries. I scarcely know what
the subtle influence is that forms him and attracts him in the most
fascinating and aromatic of all lands, and yet urges him away from
all the sweet delights of his home to become a roamer in literature
and in the world,—a poet and a wanderer. There is something in the
soil and the pure air, I suspect, that promises more romance than is
forthcoming, that excites the imagination without satisfying it, and
begets the desire of adventure. And the prosaic life of the sweet
home does not at all correspond to the boy's dreams of the world.
In the good old days, I am told, the boys on the coast ran away and
became sailors; the country boys waited till they grew big enough to
be missionaries, and then they sailed away, and met the coast boys in
foreign ports.
John used to spend hours in the top of a slender hickory-tree that
a little detached itself from the forest which crowned the brow of
the steep and lofty pasture behind his house. He was sent to make
war on the bushes that constantly encroached upon the pasture land;
but John had no hostility to any growing thing, and a very little
bushwhacking satisfied him. When he had grubbed up a few laurels and
young treesprouts, he was wont to retire into his favorite post of
observation and meditation. Perhaps he fancied that the wide-swaying
stem to which he clung was the mast of a ship; that the tossing forest
behind him was the heaving waves of the sea; and that the wind which
moaned over the woods and murmured in the leaves, and now and then
sent him a wide circuit in the air, as if he had been a blackbird on
the tiptop of a spruce, was an ocean gale. What life and action and
heroism there was to him in the multitudinous roar of the forest, and
what an eternity of existence in the monologue of the river which
brawled far, far below him over its wide stony bed! How the river
sparkled and danced and went on—now in a smooth amber current, now
fretted by the pebbles, but always with that continuous busy song! John
never knew that noise to cease, and he doubted not if he stayed here a
thousand years that same loud murmur would fill the air.
