careless. If you will pardon all deficiencies of costume, we will not
delay installing Madame Canaris in the place she does us the honor to
fill.”
“But I am not the mistress, sir. Please change nothing; my place at home
was very humble; I am afraid I cannot fill the new one as I ought,”
stammered Gladys, somewhat dismayed at the prospect which the new name
and duty suggested.
“You will have no care, except of us. Mrs. Bland keeps the machinery
running smoothly, and we lead a very quiet life. My territory ends at
that door; all beyond is yours. I chiefly haunt this wing, but sometimes
roam about below stairs a little, a very harmless ghost, so do not be
alarmed if you should meet me.”
Helwyze spoke lightly, and tapped at the door of the den as he passed.
“Come out, slave of the pen, and be fed.”
Canaris came, wearing a preoccupied air, and sauntered after them, as
Helwyze led the new mistress to her place, shy and rosy, but resolved to
do honor to her husband at all costs.
Her first act, however, gave them both a slight shock of surprise; for
the instant they were seated, Gladys laid her hands together, bent her
head, and whispered Grace, as if obeying a natural impulse to ask
Heaven’s blessing on the first bread she broke in her new home. The
effect of the devoutly simple act was characteristically shown by the
three observers. The servant paused, with an uplifted cover in his hand,
respectfully astonished; Canaris looked intensely annoyed; and Helwyze
leaned back with the suggestion of a shrug, as he glanced critically
from the dimpled hands to the nugget of gold that shone against the
bended neck. The instant she looked up, the man whisked off the silver
cover with an air of relief; Canaris fell upon his bread like a hungry
boy, and Helwyze tranquilly began to talk.
“Was the surprise Felix prepared for you a satisfactory one? Olivia and
I took pleasure in obeying his directions.”
“It was lovely! I have not thanked him yet, but I shall. You, also, sir,
in some better way than words. What made you think of it?” she asked,
looking at Canaris with a mute request for pardon of her involuntary
offence.
Glad to rush into speech, Canaris gave at some length the history of his
fancy to reproduce, as nearly as he could, the little room at home,
which she had described to him with regretful minuteness; for she had
sold every thing to pay the debts which were the sole legacy her father
left her. While they talked, Helwyze, who ate little, was observing
both. Gladys looked more girlish than ever, in spite of the mingled
dignity and anxiety her quiet but timid air betrayed. Canaris seemed in
high spirits, talking rapidly, laughing often, and glancing about him as
if glad to be again where nothing inharmonious disturbed his taste and
comfort. Not till dessert was on the table, however, did he own, in
words, the feeling of voluptuous satisfaction which was enhanced by the
memory that he had been rash enough to risk the loss of all.
“It is not so very terrible, you see, Gladys. You eat and drink like a
bird; but I know you enjoy this as much as I do, after those detestable
hotels,” he said, detecting an expression of relief in his young wife’s
face, as the noiseless servant quitted the room for the last time.
“Indeed I do. It is so pleasant to have all one’s senses gratified at
once, and the common duties of life made beautiful and easy,” answered
Gladys, surveying with feminine appreciation the well-appointed table
which had that air of accustomed elegance so grateful to fastidious
tastes.
“Ah, ha! this little ascetic of mine will become a Sybarite yet, and
agree with me that enjoyment is a duty,” exclaimed Canaris, looking
very like a young Bacchus, as he held up his wine to watch its rich
color, and inhale its bouquet with zest.
“The more delicate the senses, the more delicate the delight. I suspect
Madame finds her grapes and water as delicious as you do your olives and
old wine,” said Helwyze, finding a still more refined satisfaction than
either in the pretty contrast between the purple grapes and the white
fingers that pulled them apart, the softly curling lips that were the
rosier for their temperate draughts, and the unspoiled simplicity of the
girl sitting there in pearls and shimmering silk.
“When one has known poverty, and the sad shifts which make it seem mean,
as well as hard, perhaps one does unduly value these things. I hope I
shall not; but I do find them very tempting,” she said, thoughtfully
eying the new scene in which she found herself.
Helwyze seemed to be absently listening to the musical chime of silver
against glass; but he made a note of that hope, wondering if hardship
had given her more of its austere virtue than it had her husband.
“How shall you resist temptation?” he asked, curiously.
“I shall work. This is dangerously pleasant; so let me begin at once,
and sing, while you take your coffee in the drawing-room. I know the
way; come when you will, I shall be ready;” and Gladys rose with the
energetic expression which often broke through her native gentleness.
Canaris held the door for her, and was about to resume his seat, when
Helwyze checked him:—
“We will follow at once. Was I not right in my prediction?” he asked, as
they left the room together.
“That we should soon tire of each other? You were wrong in that.”
“I meant the ease with which you would soon learn to love.”
“I have not learned—yet.”
“Then this vivacity is a cloak for the pangs of remorse, is it?” and
Helwyze laughed incredulously.
“No: it is the satisfaction I already feel in the atonement I mean to
make. I have a grand idea. I, too, shall work, and give Gladys reason
to be proud of me, if nothing more.”
Something of her own energy was in his mien, and it became him. But
Helwyze quenched the noble ardor by saying, coldly,—
“I see: it is the old passion under a new name. May your virtuous
aspirations be blest!”
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                  IX.
Helwyze was right, and Canaris found that his sudden marriage did
stimulate public interest wonderfully. There had always been something
mysterious about this brilliant young man and his relations with his
patron; who was as silent as the Sphinx regarding his past, and
tantalizingly enigmatical about his plans and purposes for the future.
The wildest speculations were indulged in: many believed them to be
father and son; others searched vainly for the true motive of this
charitable caprice; and every one waited with curiosity to see the end
of it. All of which much amused Helwyze, who cared nothing for the
world’s opinion, and found his sense of humor tickled by the ludicrous
idea of himself in the new rôle of benefactor.
The romance seemed quite complete when it was known that the young poet
had brought home a wife whose talent, youth, and isolation seemed to
render her peculiarly fitted for his mate.
Though love was lacking, vanity was strong in Canaris, and this was
gratified by the commendation bestowed on the new ornament he wore; for
as such simple Gladys was considered, and shone with reflected lustre,
her finer gifts and graces quite eclipsed by his more conspicuous and
self-asserting ones.
With unquestioning docility she gave herself into his hands, following
where he led her, obeying his lightest wish, and loving him with a
devotion which kept alive regretful tenderness when it should have
cherished a loyal love. He gladly took her into all the gayety which for
a time surrounded them, and she enjoyed it with a girl’s fresh delight.
He showed her wise and witty people whom she admired or loved; and she
looked and listened with an enthusiast’s wonder. He gave her all he had
to give, novelty and pleasure; though the one had lost its gloss for
him, and too much of the other he was forced to accept from Helwyze’s
hands. But through all the experiences that now rapidly befell her,
Gladys was still herself; innocently happy, stanchly true,
characteristically independent, a mountain stream, keeping its waters
pure and bright, though mingled with the swift and turbid river which
was hurrying it toward the sea.
Curiosity being satisfied, society soon found some fresher novelty to
absorb it. Women still admired Canaris, but marriage lessened his
attractions for them; men still thought him full of promise, but were
fast forgetting the first successful effort which had won their
applause; and the young lion found that he must roar loud and often, if
he would not be neglected. Shutting himself into his cell, he worked
with hopeful energy for several months, often coming out weary, but
excited, with the joyful labor of creation. At such times there was no
prose anywhere; for heaven and earth were glorified by the light of that
inner world, where imagination reigns, and all things are divine. Then
he would be in the gayest spirits, and carry Gladys off to some hour of
pleasant relaxation at theatre, opera, or ball, where flattery refreshed
or emulation inspired him; and next day would return to his task with
redoubled vigor.
At other times his fickle mistress deserted him; thought would not soar,
language would not sing, poetry fled, and life was unutterably “flat,
stale, and unprofitable.” Then it was Gladys, who took possession of
him; lured him out for a brisk walk, or a long drive into a wholesomer
world than that into which he took her; sung weary brain to sleep with
the sweetest lullabies of brother bards; or made him merry by the
display of a pretty wit, which none but he knew she could exert. With
wifely patience and womanly tact she managed her wayward but beloved
lord, till despondency yielded to her skill, and the buoyant spirit of
hope took him by the hand, and led him to his work again.
In the intervals between these fits of intellectual intoxication and
succeeding depression, Gladys devoted herself to Helwyze with a
faithfulness which surprised him and satisfied her; for, as she said,
her “bread tasted bitter if she did not earn it.” He had expected to be
amused, perhaps interested, but not so charmed, by this girl, who
possessed only a single talent, a modest share of beauty, and a mind as
untrained as a beautiful but neglected garden. This last was the real
attraction; for, finding her hungry for knowledge, he did not hesitate
to test her taste and try her mental mettle, by allowing her free range
of a large and varied library. Though not a scholar, in the learned
sense of the word, he had the eager, sceptical nature which interrogates
all things, yet believes only in itself. This had kept him roaming
solitarily up and down the earth for years, observing men and manners;
now it drove him to books; and, as suffering and seclusion wrought upon
body and brain, his choice of mute companions changed from the higher,
healthier class to those who, like himself, leaned towards the darker,
sadder side of human nature. Lawless here, as elsewhere, he let his mind
wander at will, as once he had let his heart, learning too late that
both are sacred gifts, and cannot safely be tampered with.
All was so fresh and wonderful to Gladys, that her society grew very
attractive to him; and pleasant as it was to have her wait upon him with
quiet zeal, or watch her busied in her own corner, studying, or sewing
with the little basket beside her which gave such a homelike air, it was
still pleasanter to have her sit and read to him, while he watched this
face, so intelligent, yet so soft; studied this mind, at once sensitive
and sagacious, this nature, both serious and ardent. It gave a curious
charm to his old favorites when she read them; and many hours he
listened contentedly to the voice whose youth made Montaigne’s worldly
wisdom seem the shrewder; whose music gave a certain sweetness to
Voltaire’s bitter wit or Carlyle’s rough wisdom; whose pitying wonder
added pathos to the melancholy brilliancy of Heine and De Quincy.
Equally fascinating to him, and far more dangerous to her, were George
Sand’s passionate romances, Goethe’s dramatic novels, Hugo and Sue’s
lurid word-pictures of suffering and sin; the haunted world of
Shakespeare and Dante, the poetry of Byron, Browning, and Poe.
Rich food and strong wine for a girl of eighteen; and Gladys soon felt
the effects of such a diet, though it was hard to resist when duty
seconded inclination, and ignorance hid the peril. She often paused to
question with eager lips, to wipe wet eyes, to protest with indignant
warmth, or to shiver with the pleasurable pain of a child who longs, yet
dreads, to hear an exciting story to the end. Helwyze answered
willingly, if not always wisely; enjoyed the rapid unfolding of the
woman, and would not deny himself any indulgence of this new whim,
though conscious that the snow-drop, transplanted suddenly from the free
fresh spring-time, could not live in this close air without suffering.
This was the double life Gladys now began to lead. Heart and mind were
divided between the two, who soon absorbed every feeling, every thought.
To the younger man she was a teacher, to the elder a pupil; in the one
world she ruled, in the other served; unconsciously Canaris stirred
emotion to its depths, consciously Helwyze stimulated intellect to its
heights; while the soul of the woman, receiving no food from either,
seemed to sit apart in the wilderness of its new experience, tempted by
evil as well as sustained by good spirits, who guard their own.
One evening this divided mastery was especially felt by Helwyze, who
watched the young man’s influence over his wife with a mixture of
interest and something like jealousy, as it was evidently fast becoming
stronger than his own. Sitting in his usual place, he saw Gladys flit
about the room, brushing up the hearth, brightening the lamps, and
putting by the finished books, as if the day’s duties were all done, the
evening’s rest and pleasure honestly earned, eagerly waited for. He well
knew that this pleasure consisted in carrying Canaris away to her own
domain; or, if that were impossible, she would sit silently looking at
him while he read or talked in his fitful fashion on any subject his
master chose to introduce.
The desire to make her forget the husband whose neglect would have
sorely grieved her if his genius had not been his excuse in her eyes for
many faults, possessed Helwyze that night; and he amused himself by the
effort, becoming more intent with each failure.
As the accustomed hour drew near, Gladys took her place on the footstool
before the chair set ready for Felix, and fell a musing, with her eyes
on the newly replenished fire. Above, the unignited fuel lay black and
rough, with here and there a deep rift opening to the red core beneath;
while to and fro danced many colored flames, as if bent on some eager
quest. Many flashed up the chimney, and were gone; others died
solitarily in dark corners, where no heat fed them; and some vanished
down the chasms, to the fiery world below. One golden spire, tremulous
and translucent, burned with a brilliance which attracted the eye; and,
when a wandering violet flame joined it, Gladys followed their motions
with interest, seeing in them images of Felix and herself, for childish
fancy and womanly insight met and mingled in all she thought and felt.
Forgetting that she was not alone, she leaned forward, to watch what
became of them, as the wedded flames flickered here and there, now
violet, now yellow. But the brighter always seemed the stronger, and the
sad-colored one to grow more and more golden, as if yielding to its
sunshiny mate.
“I hope they will fly up together, out into the wide, starry sky, which
is their eternity, perhaps,” she thought, smiling at her own eagerness.
But no; the golden flame flew up, and left the other to take on many
shapes and colors, as it wandered here and there, till, just as it
glowed with a splendid crimson, Gladys was forced to hide her dazzled
eyes and look no more. Turning her flushed face away, she found Helwyze
watching her as intently as she had watched the fire, and, reminded of
his presence, she glanced toward the empty chair with an impatient sigh
for Felix.
“You are tired,” he said, answering the sigh. “Mrs. Bland told me what a
notable housewife you are, and how you helped her set the upper regions
to rights to-day. I fear you did too much.”
“Oh, no, I enjoyed it heartily. I asked for something to do, and she
allowed me to examine and refold the treasures you keep in the great
carved wardrobe, lest moths or damp or dust had hurt the rich stuffs,
curious coins, and lovely ornaments stored there. I never saw so many
pretty things before,” she answered, betraying, by her sudden animation,
the love of “pretty things,” which is one of the strongest of feminine
foibles.
He smiled, well pleased.
“Olivia calls that quaint press from Brittany my bazaar, for there I
have collected the spoils of my early wanderings; and when I want a
cadeau for a fair friend, I find it without trouble. I saw in what
exquisite order you left my shelves, and, as you were not with me to
choose, I brought away several trifles, more curious than costly, hoping
to find a thank-offering among them.”
As he spoke, he opened one of the deep drawers in the writing-table, as
if to produce some gift. But Gladys said, hastily,—
“You are very kind, sir; but these fine things are altogether too grand
for me. The pleasure of looking at and touching them is reward enough;
unless you will tell me about them: it must be interesting to know what
places they came from.”
Feeling in the mood for it, Helwyze described to her an Eastern bazaar,
so graphically that she soon forgot Felix, and sat looking up as if she
actually saw and enjoyed the splendors he spoke of. Lustrous silks
sultanas were to wear; misty muslins, into whose embroidery some
dark-skinned woman’s life was wrought; cashmeres, many-hued as rainbows;
odorous woods and spices, that filled the air with fragrance never blown
from Western hills; amber, like drops of frozen sunshine; fruits, which
brought visions of vineyards, olive groves, and lovely palms dropping
their honeyed clusters by desert wells; skins mooned and barred with
black upon the tawny velvet, that had lain in jungles, or glided with
deathful stealthiness along the track of human feet; ivory tusks that
had felled Asiatic trees, gored fierce enemies, or meekly lifted princes
to their seats.
These, and many more, he painted rapidly; and, as he ended, shook out of
its folds a gauzy fabric, starred with silver, which he threw over her
head, pointing to the mirror set in the door of the armoire behind
her.
“See if that is not too pretty to refuse. Felix would surely be inspired
if you appeared before him shimmering like Suleika, when Hatem says to
her,—
        “‘Here, take this, with the pure and silver streaking,
          And wind it, Darling, round and round for me;
        What is your Highness? Style scarce worth the speaking,
          When thou dost look, I am as great as He.’”
Gladys did look, and saw how beautiful it made her; but, though she did
not understand the words he quoted, the names suggested a sultan and his
slave, and she did not like either the idea or the expression with which
Helwyze regarded her. Throwing off the gauzy veil, she refolded and put
it by, saying, in that decided little way of hers, which was prettier
than petulance,—
“My Hatem does not need that sort of inspiration, and had rather see his
Suleika in a plain gown of his choosing, than dressed in all the
splendors of the East by any other hand.”
“Come, then, we must find some better souvenir of your visit, for I
never let any one go away empty-handed;” with that he dipped again into
the drawer, and held up a pretty bracelet, explaining, as he offered it
with unruffled composure, though she eyed it askance, attracted, yet
reluctant, a charming picture of doubt and desire,—
“Here are the Nine Muses, cut in many-tinted lava. See how well the
workman suited the color to the attribute of each Muse. Urania is blue;
Erato, this soft pink; Terpsichore, violet; Euterpe and Thalia, black
and white; and the others, these fine shades of yellow, dun, and drab.
That pleases you, I know; so let me put it on.”
It did please her; and she stretched out her hand to accept it,
gratified, yet conscious all the while of the antagonistic spirit which
often seized her when with Helwyze. He put on the bracelet with a
satisfied air; but the clasp was imperfect, and, at the first turn of
the round wrist, the Nine Muses fell to the ground.
“It is too heavy. I am not made to wear handcuffs of any sort, you see:
they will not stay on, so it is of no use to try;” and Gladys picked up
the trinket with an odd sense of relief; though poor Erato was cracked,
and Thalia, like Fielding’s fair Amelia, had a broken nose. She rose to
lay it on the table, and, as she turned away, her eye went to the clock,
as if reproaching herself for that brief forgetfulness of her husband.
Half amused, half annoyed, and bent on having his own way, even in so
small a thing as this, Helwyze drew up a chair, and, setting a Japanese
tray upon the table, said, invitingly,—
“Come and see if these are more to your taste, since fine raiment and
foolish ornaments fail to tempt you.”
“Oh, how curious and beautiful!” cried Gladys, looking down upon a
collection of Hindoo gods and goddesses, in ebony or ivory: some
hideous, some lovely, all carved with wonderful delicacy, and each with
its appropriate symbol,—Vishnu, and his serpent; Brahma, in the sacred
lotus; Siva, with seven faces; Kreeshna, the destroyer, with many
mouths; Varoon, god of the ocean; and Kama, the Indian Cupid, bearing
his bow of sugar-cane strung with bees, to typify love’s sting as well
as sweetness. This last Gladys examined longest, and kept in her hand as
if it charmed her; for the minute face of the youth was beautiful, the
slender figure full of grace, and the ivory spotless.
“You choose him for your idol? and well you may, for he looks like
Felix. Mine, if I have one, is Siva, goddess of Fate, ugly, but
powerful.”
“I will have no idol,—not even Felix, though I sometimes fear I may make
one of him before I know it;” and Gladys put back the little figure with
a guilty look, as she confessed the great temptation that beset her.
“You are wise: idols are apt to have feet of clay, and tumble down in
spite of our blind adoration. Better be a Buddhist, and have no god but
our own awakened thought; ‘the highest wisdom,’ as it is called,” said
Helwyze, who had lately been busy with the Sâkya Muni, and regarded all
religions with calm impartiality.
“These are false gods, and we are done with them, since we know the true
one,” began Gladys, understanding him; for she had read aloud the life
of Gautama Buddha, and enjoyed it as a legend; while he found its mystic
symbolism attractive, and nothing repellent in its idolatry.
“But do we? How can you prove it?”
“It needs no proving; the knowledge of it was born in me, grows with my
growth, and is the life of my life,” cried Gladys, out of the fulness of
that natural religion which requires no revelation except such as
experience brings to strengthen and purify it.
“All are not so easily satisfied as you,” he said, in the sceptical tone
which always tried both her patience and her courage; for, woman-like,
she could feel the truth of things, but could not reason about them. He
saw her face kindle, and added, rapidly, having a mind to try how firmly
planted the faith of the pretty Puritan was: “Most of us agree that
Allah exists in some form or other, but we fall out about who is the
true Prophet. You choose Jesus of Nazareth for yours; I rather incline
to this Indian Saint. They are not unlike: this Prince left all to
devote his life to the redemption of mankind, suffered persecutions and
temptations, had his disciples, and sent out the first apostles of whom
we hear; was a teacher, with his parables, miracles, and belief in
transmigration or immortality. His doctrine is almost the same as the
other; and the six virtues which secure Nirvâna, or Heaven, are charity,
purity, patience, courage, contemplation, and wisdom. Come, why not take
him for a model?”
Gladys listened with a mixture of perplexity and pain in her face, and
her hand went involuntarily to the little cross which she always wore;
but, though her eye was troubled, her voice was steady, as she answered,
earnestly,—
“Because I have a nobler one. My Prince left a greater throne than yours
to serve mankind; suffered and resisted more terrible persecution and
temptation; sent out wiser apostles, taught clearer truth, and preached
an immortality for all. Yours died peacefully in the arms of his
friends, mine on a cross; and, though he came later, he has saved more
souls than Buddha. Sir, I know little about those older religions; I am
not wise enough even to argue about my own: I can only believe in it,
love it, and hold fast to it, since it is all I need.”
“How can you tell till you try others? This, now, is a fine one, if we
are not too bigoted to look into it fairly. Wise men, who have done so,
say that no faith—not even the Christian—has exercised so powerful an
influence on the diminution of crime as the old, simple doctrine of
Sâkya Muni; and this is the only great historic religion that has not
taken the sword to put down its enemies. Can you say as much for yours?”
“No; but it is worth fighting for, and I would fight, as the Maid of
Orleans did for France, for this is my country. Can you say of your
faith that it sustained you in sorrow, made you happy in loneliness,
saved you from temptation, taught, guided, blessed you day by day with
unfailing patience, wisdom, and love? I think you cannot; then why try
to take mine away till you can give me a better?”
Seldom was Gladys so moved as now, for she felt as if he was about to
meddle with her holy of holies; and, without stopping to reason, she
resisted the attempt, sure that he would harm, not help, her, since
neither his words nor example had done Felix any good.
Helwyze admired her all the more for her resistance, and thought her
unusually lovely, as she stood there flushed and fervent with her plea
for the faith that was so dear to her.
“Why, indeed! You would make an excellent martyr, and enjoy it. Pity
that you have no chance of it, and so of being canonized as a saint
afterward. That is decidedly your line. Then, you won’t have any of my
gods? not even this one?” he asked, holding up the handsome Kama, with a
smile.
“No, not even that. I will have only one God, and you may keep your
idols for those who believe in them. My faith may not be the oldest, but
it is the best, if one may judge of the two religions by the happiness
and peace they give,” answered Gladys, taking refuge in a very womanly,
yet most convincing, argument, she thought, as she pointed to the
mirror, which reflected both figures in its clear depths.
Helwyze looked, and though without an atom of vanity, the sight could
not but be trying, the contrast was so great between her glad, young
face, and his, so melancholy and prematurely old.
“Satma, Tama—Truth and Darkness,” he muttered to himself; adding aloud,
with a vengeful sort of satisfaction in shocking her pious nature,—
“But I have no religion; so that defiant little speech is quite thrown
away, my friend.”
It did shock her; for, though she had suspected the fact, there was
something dreadful in hearing him confess it, in a tone which proved his
sincerity.
“Mr. Helwyze, do you really mean that you believe in nothing invisible
and divine? no life beyond this? no God, no Christ to bless and save?”
she asked, hardly knowing how to put the question, as she drew back
dismayed, but still incredulous.
“Yes.”
He was both surprised, and rather annoyed, to find that it cost him an
effort to give even that short answer, with those innocent eyes looking
so anxiously up at him, full of a sad wonder, then dim with sudden dew,
as she said eagerly, forgetting every thing but a great compassion,—
“O sir, it is impossible! You think so now; but when you love and trust
some human creature more than yourself, then you will find that you do
believe in Him who gives such happiness, and be glad to own it.”
“Perhaps. Meantime you will not make me happy by letting me give you
any thing; why is it, Gladys?”
The black brows were knit, and he looked impatient with himself or her.
She saw it, and exclaimed with the sweetest penitence,—
“Give me your pardon for speaking so frankly. I mean no disrespect; but
I cannot help it when you say such things, though I know that gratitude
should keep me silent.”
“I like it. Do not take yourself to task for that, or trouble about me.
There are many roads, and sooner or later we shall all reach heaven, I
suppose,—if there is one,” he added, with a shrug, which spoiled the
smile that went before.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   X.
Gladys stood silent for a moment, with her eyes fixed on the little
figures, longing for wisdom to convince this man, whom she regarded with
mingled pity, admiration and distrust, that he could not walk by his own
light alone. He guessed the impulse that kept her there, longed to have
her stay, and felt a sudden desire to reinstate himself in her good
opinion. That wish, or the hope to keep her by some new and still more
powerful allurement, seemed to actuate him as he hastily thrust the gods
and goddesses out of sight, and opened another drawer, with a quick
glance over his shoulder towards that inner room.
At that instant the clock struck, and Gladys started, saying, in a tone
of fond despair,—
“Where is Felix? Will he never come?”
“I heard him raging about some time ago, but perfect silence followed,
so I suspect he caught the tormenting word, idea, or fancy, and is busy
pinning it,” answered Helwyze, shutting the drawer as suddenly as he
opened it, with a frown which Gladys did not see; for she had turned
away, forgetting him and his salvation in the one absorbing interest of
her life.
“How long it takes to write a poem! Three whole months, for he began in
September; and it was not to be a long one, he said.”
“He means this to be a masterpiece, so labors like a galley-slave, and
can find no rest till it is done. Good practice, but to little purpose,
I am afraid. Poetry, even the best, is not profitable now-a-days, I am
told,” added Helwyze, speaking with a sort of satisfaction which he
could not conceal.
“Who cares for the profit? It is the fame Felix wants, and works for,”
answered Gladys, defending the absent with wifely warmth.
“True, but he would not reject the fortune if it came. He is not one of
the ethereal sort, who can live on glory and a crust; his gingerbread
must not only be gilded, but solid and well-spiced beside. You adore
your poet, respect also the worldly wisdom of your spouse, madame.”
When Helwyze sneered, Gladys was silent; so now she mused again, leaning
on the high back of the chair which she longed to see occupied. He mused
also, with his eyes upon the fire, fingers idly tapping, and a furtive
smile round his mouth, as if some purpose was taking shape in that busy
brain of his. Suddenly he spoke, in a tone of kindly interest, well
knowing where her thoughts were, and anxious to end her weary waiting.
“Perhaps the poor fellow has fallen asleep, tired out with striving
after immortality. Go and wake him, if you will, for it is time he
rested.”
“May I? He does not like to be disturbed; but I fear he is ill: he has
eaten scarcely any thing for days, and looks so pale it troubles me. I
will peep first; and if he is busy, creep away without a word.”
Stepping toward the one forbidden, yet most fascinating spot in all the
house, she softly opened the door and looked in. Canaris was there,
apparently asleep, as Helwyze thought; for his head lay on his folded
arms as if both were weary. Glancing over her shoulder with a nod and a
smile, Gladys went in, anxious to wake and comfort him; for the little
room looked solitary, dark, and cold, with dead ashes on the hearth, the
student lamp burning dimly, and the food she had brought him hours ago
still standing untasted, among the blotted sheets strewn all about. At
her first touch he looked up, and she was frightened by the expression
of his face, it was so desperately miserable.
“Dear, what is it?” she asked, quickly, with her arms about him, as if
defying the unknown trouble to reach him there.
“Disappointment,—nothing else;” and he leaned his head against her,
grateful for sympathy, since she could give no other help.
“You mean your book, which does not satisfy you even yet?” she said,
interpreting the significance of the weary, yet restless, look he wore.
“It never will! I have toiled and tried, with all my heart and soul and
mind, if ever a man did; but I cannot do it, Gladys. It torments me, and
I cannot escape from it; because, though it is all here in my brain, it
will not be expressed in words.”
“Do not try any more; rest now, and by and by, perhaps, it will be
easier. You have worked too hard, and are worn out; forget the book, and
come and let me take care of you. It breaks my heart to see you so.”
“I was doing it for your sake,—all for you; and I thought this time it
would be very good, since my purpose was a just and generous one. But it
is not, and I hate it!”
With a passionate gesture, Canaris hurled a pile of manuscript into the
further corner of the room, and pushed his wife from him, as if she too
were an affliction and a disappointment. It grieved her bitterly; but
she would not be repulsed; and, holding fast in both her own the hand
that was about to grasp another sheaf of papers, she cried, with a tone
of tender authority, which both controlled and touched him,—
“No, no, you shall not, Felix! Put me away, but do not spoil the book;
it has cost us both too much.”
“Not you; forgive me, it is myself with whom I am vexed;” and Canaris
penitently kissed the hands that held his, remembering that she could
not know the true cause of his effort and regret.
“I shall be jealous, if I find that I have given you up so long in
vain. I must have something to repay me for the loss of your society all
this weary time. I have worked to fill your place: give me my reward.”
“Have you missed me, then? I thought you happy enough with Helwyze and
the books.”
“Missed you! happy enough! O Felix! you do not know me, if you think I
can be happy without you. He is kind, but only a friend; and all the
books in the wide world are not as much to me as the one you treat so
cruelly.” She clasped tightly the hands she held, and looked into his
face with eyes full of unutterable love. Such tender flattery could not
but soothe, such tearful reproach fail to soften, a far prouder, harder
man than Canaris.
“What reward will you have?” he asked, making an effort to be cheerful
for her sake.
“Eat, drink, and rest; then read me every word you have written. I am no
critic; but I would try to be impartial: love makes even the ignorant
wise, and I shall see the beauty which I know is in it.”
“I put you there, or tried; so truth and beauty should be in it. Some
time you shall hear it, but not now. I could not read it to-night,
perhaps never; it is such a poor, pale shadow of the thing I meant it to
be.”
“Let me read it,” said a voice behind them; and Helwyze stood upon the
threshold, wearing his most benignant aspect.
“You?” ejaculated Canaris; while Gladys shrunk a little, as if the
proposition did not please her.
“Why not? Young poets never read their own verses well; yet what could
be more soothing to the most timorous or vain than to hear them read by
an admiring and sympathetic friend? Come, let me have my reward, as well
as Gladys;” and Helwyze laid his hand upon the unscattered pile of
manuscript.
“A penance, rather. It is so blurred, so rough, you could not read it;
then the fatigue,”—began Canaris, pleased, yet reluctant still.
“I can read any thing, make rough places smooth, and not tire, for I
have a great interest in this story. He has shown me some of it, and it
is good.”
Helwyze spoke to Gladys, and his last words conquered her reluctance,
whetted her curiosity; he looked at Canaris, and his glance inspired
hope, his offer tempted, for his voice could make music of any thing,
his praise would be both valuable and cheering.
“Let him, Felix, since he is so kind, I so impatient that I do not want
to wait;” and Gladys went to gather up the leaves, which had flown
wildly about the room.
“Leave those, I will sort them while you begin. The first part is all
here. I am sick of it, and so will you be, before you are through. Go,
love, or I may revoke permission, and make the bonfire yet.”
Canaris laughed as he waved her away; and Gladys, seeing that the cloud
had lifted, willingly obeyed, lingering only to give a touch to the
dainty luncheon, which was none the worse for being cold.
“Dear, eat and drink, then my feast will be the sweeter.”
“I will; I’ll eat and drink stupendously when you are gone; I wish you
bon appetit,” he said, filling the glass, and smiling as he drank.
Contented now, Gladys hurried away, to find Helwyze already seated by
the study-table, with the manuscript laid open before him. He looked up,
wearing an expression of such pleasurable excitement, that it augured
well for what was coming, and she slipped into the chair beside the one
set ready for Canaris on the opposite side of the hearth, still hoping
he would come and take it. Helwyze began, and soon she forgot every
thing,—carried away by the smoothly flowing current of the story which
he read so well. A metrical romance, such as many a lover might have
imagined in the first inspiration of the great passion, but few could
have painted with such skill. A very human story, but all the truer and
sweeter for that fact. The men and women in it were full of vitality and
color; their faces spoke, hearts beat, words glowed; and they seemed to
live before the listener’s eye, as if endowed with eloquent flesh and
blood.
Gladys forgot their creator utterly, but Helwyze did not; and even while
reading on with steadily increasing effect, glanced now and then towards
that inner room, where, after a moment of unnecessary bustle, perfect
silence reigned. Presently a shadow flickered on the ceiling, a shadow
bent as if listening eagerly, though not a sound betrayed its approach
as it seemed to glide and vanish behind the tall screen which stood
before the door. Gladys saw nothing, her face being intent upon the
reader, her thoughts absorbed in following the heart-history of the
woman in whom she could not help finding a likeness to herself.
Helwyze saw the shadow, however, and laughed inwardly, as if to see the
singer irresistibly drawn by his own music. But no visible smile
betrayed this knowledge; and the tale went on with deepening power and
pathos, till at its most passionate point he paused.
“Go on; oh, pray go on!” cried Gladys, breathlessly.
“Are you not tired of it?” asked Helwyze; with a keen look.
“No, no! You are? Then let me read.”
“Not I; but there is no more here. Ask Felix if we may go on.”
“I must! I will! Where is he?” and Gladys hurried round the screen, to
find Canaris flung down anyway upon a seat, looking almost as excited as
herself.
“Ah,” she cried, delightedly, “you could not keep away! You know that it
is good, and you are glad and proud, although you will not own it.”
“Am I? Are you?” he asked, reading the answer in her face, before she
could whisper, with the look of mingled awe and adoration which she
always wore when speaking of him as a poet,—
“Never can I tell you what I feel. It almost frightens me to find how
well you know me and yourself, and other hearts like ours. What gives
you this wonderful power, and shows you how to use it?”
“Don’t praise it too much, or I shall wish I had destroyed, instead of
re-sorting, the second part for you to hear.” Canaris spoke almost
roughly, and rose, as if about to go and do it now. But Gladys caught
his hand, saying gayly, as she drew him out into the fire-light with
persuasive energy,—
“That you shall never do; but come and enjoy it with us. You need not be
so modest, for you know you like it. Now I am perfectly happy.”
She looked so, as she saw her husband sink into the tall-backed chair,
and took her place beside him, laughing at the almost comic mixture of
sternness, resignation, and impatience betrayed by his set lips, silent
acquiescence, and excited eyes.
“Now we are ready;” and Gladys folded her hands with the rapturous
contentment of a child at its first fairy spectacle.
“All but the story. I will fetch it;” and Helwyze stepped quickly behind
the screen before either could stir.
Gladys half rose, but Canaris drew her down again, whispering, in an
almost resentful tone,—
“Let him, if he will; you wait on him too much. I put the papers in
order; he will read them easily enough.”
“Nay, do not be angry, dear; he does it to please me, and surely no one
could read it better. I know you would feel too much to do it well,” she
answered, her hand in his, with its most soothing touch.
There was no time for more. Helwyze returned, and, after a hasty
resettling of the manuscript, read on, without pausing, to the story’s
end, as if unconscious of fatigue, and bent on doing justice to the
power of the protégé whose success was his benefactor’s best reward.
At first, Gladys glanced at her husband from time to time; but presently
the living man beside her grew less real than that other, who, despite a
new name and country, strange surroundings, and far different
circumstances, was so unmistakably the same, that she could not help
feeling and following his fate to its close, with an interest almost as
intense as if, in very truth, she saw Canaris going to his end. Her
interest in the woman lessened, and was lost in her eagerness to have
the hero worthy of the love she gave, the honor others felt for him;
and, when the romance brought him to defeat and death, she was so
wrought upon by this illusion, that she fell into a passion of sudden
tears, weeping as she had never wept before.
Felix sat motionless, his hand over his eyes, lips closely folded, lest
they should betray too much emotion; the irresistible conviction that it
was good, strengthening every instant, till he felt only the
fascination and excitement of an hour, which foretold others even more
delicious. When the tale ended, the melodious voice grew silent, and
nothing was heard but the eloquent sobbing of a woman. Words seemed
unnecessary, and none were uttered for several minutes, then Helwyze
asked briefly,—
“Shall we burn it?”
As briefly Canaris answered “No;” and Gladys, quickly recovering the
self-control so seldom lost, looked up with “a face, clear shining after
rain,” as she said in the emphatic tone of deepest feeling,—
“It would be like burning a live thing. But, Felix, you must not kill
that man: I cannot have him die so. Let him live to conquer all his
enemies, the worst in himself; then, if you must end tragically, let the
woman go; she would not care, if he were safe.”
“But she is the heroine of the piece; and, if it does not end with her
lamenting over the fallen hero, the dramatic point is lost,” said
Helwyze; for Canaris had sprung up, and was walking restlessly about the
room, as if the spirits he had evoked were too strong to be laid even by
himself.
“I know nothing about that; but I feel the moral point would be lost, if
it is not changed. Surely, powerful as pity is, a lofty admiration is
better; and this poem would be nobler, in every way, if that man ends by
living well, than by dying ignominiously in spite of his courage. I
cannot explain it, but I am sure it is so; and I will not let Felix
spoil his best piece of work by such a mistake.”
“Then you like it? You would be happy if I changed and let it go before
the world, for your sake more than for my own?”
Canaris paused beside her, pale with some emotion stronger than
gratified vanity or ambitious hope. Gladys thought it was love; and,
carried out of herself by the tender pride that overflowed her heart and
would not be controlled, she let an action, more eloquent than any
words, express the happiness she was the first to feel, the homage she
would be the first to pay. Kneeling before him, she clasped her hands
together, and looked up at him with cheeks still wet, lips still
tremulous, eyes still full of wonder, admiration, fervent gratitude, and
love.
