in, and over the hills and the lowland the brilliance and 
glow of the evening sunlight was just at its brightest. Diana 
sat gazing out, while her thoughts went wandering. Suddenly she pulled them up ; and her question was rather a 
departure, though standing in a certain negative connection 
with them. 
' Basil, I can't make out just what faith is.' 
' Cannot you ? ' 
' No. Can you help me ? The Bible says, " believe" 
' believe." I believe. I believe everything it tells me, and 
you tell me ; but I have not faith.' 
' How do you know that ? ' 
' If I had, I should be a Christian.' 
' And you think you are not ? ' 
' I am sure I am not.' 
' Are you willing ? ' 
' I think I am willing,' Diana answered slowly, looking out into the sunlight. 
' If you are right, then faith must be something more 
than mere belief.' 
'What more is it?' she said eagerly, turning her face 
towards him now. 
' I think, the heart has its part in it, as well as the head 
and it is with the heart that the difficulty lies. In true 
Bible faith, the heart gives its confidence where the intellect 
has given its assent. " With the heart man believeth unto 
righteousness." That is what the Lord wants ; our per 
sonal trust in him ; unreserved and limitless trust ' 
' Trust ? ' said Diana. ' Then why cannot I give it ? 
why don't I ? ' 
 
' That is the question to be answered. But Di, the 
heart cannot yield that confident trust, so long as there is 
any point in dispute between it and God ; so long as there 
is any consciousness of holding back something from him 
or refusing something to him. Disobedience and trust 
cannot go together. It is not the child who is standing 
out in rebellion, who can stretch out his hand for his 
father's gifts and know that they will be given.' 
' Do you think I am rebelling, Basil ? ' 
' I cannot see into your heart, Di.' 
' What could I be " holding back " from God ? ' 
' Unconditional surrender.' 
' Surrender of what ? ' 
'Yourself your will. When you have made that 
surrender, there will be no difficulty about trusting. There 
never is.' 
Diana turned to the window again, and leaning her 
head on her hand sat motionless for a long time. Sunlight 
left the bottom lands and crept up the hills and faded out 
of the sky. Dusk and dews of twilight fell all around, and 
the dusk deepened till the stars began to shine out here 
and there. Sweet summer scents came in on the dew- 
freshened air ; sweet chirrup of insects made their gentle 
running commentary on the silence ; Miss Collins had long 
ago caused the little bell with which she was wont to notify 
her employers that their meals were ready, to sound its 
tinkling call to supper ; but Diana had not heard it, and 
the minister would not disturb her. It was after a very 
long time of this silence that she rose, came to the table 
where he was sitting, and knelt down beside it. 
' I believe,' she said. ' And I trust, Basil.' 
He took her hand, but said nothing otherwise. He 
could not see her face, for she had laid it down upon some 
 
books, and besides the room was very dusky now. But 
when he expected some further words which should tell of 
relief, or joy, to his surprise he felt that Diana was weeping, and then that her tears had grown into a storm. Most 
strange for her, who very rarely let him or anyone see the 
outbursts of such feeling ; indeed even by herself she was 
very slow to come to the indulgence of tears. It was not 
her way. Now, before she was aware, they were flowing ; 
and as it is with some natures, if you open the sluice gates 
at all, a flood pours forth which makes it impossible to shut 
them again for a while. And this time I think she forgot 
that anybody was by. He was puzzled. Was it joy or 
sorrow ? Hard for herself to tell, there was so much of both 
in it. For with the very first finding of a sufficient refuge 
and help for her trouble, Diana had brought her burden 
to His feet, and there was weeping convulsively; partly 
from the sense of the burden, partly with the sense of laying it down, and with the might of that infinite sympathy 
the apprehension of which was beginning to dawn upon 
her now for the first time. What is it like ? O what is it 
like ! It is the " Dayspring from on high." Basil could not 
read all she was feeling and spell it out. But I think he 
had a sort of instinct of it, and felt that his wife was very 
far from him, in this her agony of joy and sorrow ; for he 
kept motionless, and his broad brow, which never was 
wrinkled, was very grave. One hand he laid lightly upon 
Diana's shoulder, as if so to remind her of his presence 
and close participation in all that concerned her ; otherwise 
he did not interrupt her nor make any claim upon her 
attention. 
Gradually Diana's sobs ceased ; and then she grew 
utterly still ; and the two sat so together, for neither of 
them knew how long. At last Diana raised her head. 
 
' You have had no supper all this while ! ' she said. 
' I have had something much better,' said he, gently 
kissing her cheek. 
' To see me cry ? ' said Diana. ' I don't know why I 
cried.' 
' I think I do. Don't you feel better for it ? 
' Yes. Or else, for that which made me do so. Come 
down, Basil.' 
At tea she was perfectly herself and quite as usual, 
except for the different expression in her face. It was 
hardly less grave than before, but something dark had gone 
out and something light had come in. 
' I can face the Sewing Society now,' she remarked 
towards the end of the meal. 
' The Sewing Society ! ' her husband echoed. ' Is that 
much to face ? ' 
' I have not been once since I was married. And they 
make so much fuss about it, I must go now. They meet 
to-morrow at mother's.' 
' What do they sew ? ' 
' They pretend to be making up a box for some mis- 
sionary out west.' 
' I guess there is no pretence about it.' 
' Yes, there is. They have been eight months at work 
upon a box to go to Iowa somewhere, to a family very much 
in want of everything ; and the children and mother are 
almost, or quite I guess, in rags, and the ladies here are 
comfortably doing a little once a week, and don't even 
expect to have the box made up till Christmas time. Think 
of the people in Iowa waiting and waiting, with hardly 
anything to put on, while we meet once a week and sew a 
little and talk and have supper.' 
' How would you manage it ? ' 
 
' I would send off the box next week, Basil.' 
' So would I. Suppose now we do ? ' 
' Send off a box ? ' 
' Yes. I will give you the money you can go I will 
drive you down to Gunn's, and you can get there whatever you think would be suitable, and we will have the fun 
to ourselves.' 
The colour flushed into Diana's face ; it was the first 
flush of pleasure that had come there in a long while. 
' You are very good, Basil ! ' she said. ' Don't you 
think I could drive Saladin ? ' 
' Where ? ' 
' Anywhere. I mean, that I could go to places then 
without troubling you to drive me.' 
' I can stand so much trouble. It is not good for a man 
to live too easy.' 
' But it might be convenient for you sometimes.' 
' So it might. And pleasant for you. No, I should not 
like to trust you to Saladin. I wonder rf your mother would 
let me have Prince, if I offer her a better horse in exchange. 
Perhaps I can do better than that. We will see.' 
' O Basil, you must not get another horse for me ! ' 
' I will get anything I like for you.' 
' But do you mean, and keep Saladin too ? ' 
' I mean that. Saladin is necessary to me.' 
' Then don't Basil. I can tell you, people will say you are 
extravagant if you have two horses.' 
' I cannot help people talking scandal.' 
' No, but it will hurt your influence.' 
' Well, we will feel the pulse of the public to-morrow. 
But I think they would stand it.' 
They drove down to Mrs. Starling's the next day. Mr. 
Masters had other business and must go further. Diana went 
 
in alone. She was early, for she had come to help her 
mother make the preparations ; and at first these engrossed 
them both. 
' Well,' said Mrs. Starling, when some time had passed, 
'how do you get along with your husband? ' 
Diana's eyes opened slightly. ' It would be a very strange 
person that could not get on with Mr. Masters,' she answered. 
' Easy, is he ? I hate easy men ! The best of 'em are 
helpless enough ; but when you get one of the easy soft, 
they are consented if every door hangs on one hinge.' 
Diana made no answer. 
' How does your girl get along ? 
' Very well. Pretty well.' 
' What you want with a girl, I don't see.' 
' I didn't either. But Mr. Masters wants me to do other 
things.' 
' Set you up to be a lady ! Well, the world's full o' 
fools.' 
' I am as busy, mother, as ever I was in my life.' 
' Depends on what you call business. Making yourself 
unfit for business, I should say. Call it what you like. I 
suppose he is your humble servant, and just gives you your 
own way.' 
' He is not that sort of man at all, mother. He is as 
kind as he can be ; but he is nobody's humble servant.' 
' Then I suppose you are his. There is somebody now, 
Diana ; it's Kate Boddington. Do go i-n and take care of 
her you can do so much, and keep her from coming out 
here where I am.' 
' Well, Di ! ' exclaimed her relative as Diana met her. 
'Ain't it a sight to see. you at the sewin' meetin' ! Why 
haven't you been before ? Seems to me, you make an uncommon long honeymoop of it.' 
Diana's natural sweetness and dignity, and further- 
more, the great ballast of old pain and new gladness which 
lay deep down in her heart, kept her quite steady and unruffled under all such breezes. She had many of the like 
to meet that day ; and the sweet calm and poise of her 
manner through them all would have done honour to the 
most practrsed woman of the world. Most of her friends 
and neighbours here collected had scarce seen her since her 
marriage, unless in church ; and they were curious to 
know how she would carry herself, and curious in general 
about many things. It was a sort of battery that Diana 
had to face, and sometimes a masked battery ; but it was 
impossible to tell whether a shot hit. 
'What I want to know,' said Mrs. Boddington, 'is, 
where the minister and you made it up, Di. You were 
awful sly about it ! ' 
' Ain't that so ? ' chimed in Mrs. Carpenter. ' I never 
had no notion o' what was goin' on ; not the smallest 
idee ; and I was jest a sayin' one day to Miss Gunn, or 
somebody I declare I don't know now who 'twas, I was 
so dumbfounded when the news come, it took all my 
memory away ; but I was jes' a sayin' to somebody, and 
I remember it because I'd jes' been after dandelion greens 
and couldn't find none ; they was jest about past by then, 
and bitter ; and we was a settin' with our empty baskets : 
and I was jes' tellin' somebody, I don't know who 'twas, 
who I thought would make a good wife for the minister ; 
when up comes Mrs. Starling's Josiah and reaches me the 
invitation. " There ! " says I ; "if he ain't a goin' to have 
Diana Starling! " I was beat.' 
' I dare say you could have fitted him just as well,' 
remarked Mrs. Starling. 
' Wall, I don't know. I was thinkin', but I guess 
it's as well not to say now what I was thinkin'.' 
' That so ! ' assented Miss Barry. ' I don't believe he 
thinks nobody could ha' chosen for him no better than he 
has chosen for himself.' 
' Men never do know what is good for them,' Mrs. 
Salter remarked, but not ill-naturedly ; on the contrary, 
there was a gleam of fun in her face. 
' I'm thankful anyway he hain't done worse,' said another lady. ' I used to be afraid he would go and get himself hitched to a fly-away.' 
' Euphemie Knowlton ? ' said Mrs. Salter. ' Yes, I 
used to wonder if we shouldn't get our minister's wife 
from Elmfield. It looked likely at one time.' 
' Those two wouldn't ha' pulled well together, ne ver,' 
said another. 
' I should like to know how he and Di's goin' to pull 
together ? ' said Mrs. Flandin acidly. ' He goin' one way, 
and she another.' 
' Do you think so, Mrs. Flandin ? ' asked the lady thus, 
in a very uncomplimentary manner, referred to. 
' Wall ain't it true ? ' said Mrs. Flandin judicially. 
' I do not think it is true.' 
'Wall, I'm glad to hear it, I'm sure,' said the other ; 
'but there's a word in the Scriptur about two walking 
together when they ain't agreed.' 
' Mr. Masters and I are agreed, ' said Diana, while 
her lips parted in a very slight smile and a lovely tinge of 
rose-colour came over her cheeks. 
' But not in everything, I reckon ? ' 
' In everything I know,' said Diana steadily, while a 
- considerable breeze of laughter went round the room. 
Mrs. Flandin was getting the worst of it. 
' Then it'll be the worse for him ! ' she remarked with 
a jerk at her sewing. Diana was silent now, but Mrs. 
Boddington took it up. 
' Do you mean to say, Mis' Flandin, you approve of 
quarrels between man and wife ? and quarrels in high 
places too ? ' 
' High places ! ' echoed Mrs. Flandin. ' When it says 
that a minister is to be the servant of all ! ' 
' And ain't he ? ' said Mrs. Carpenter. ' Is there a place 
or a thing our minister don't go to if he's wanted ? and 
does he mind whether it's night or day, or rough or smooth, 
and does he care how fur it is, or how long he goes without his victuals ? I will say, I never did see a no more 
self-forgetful man than is Mr. Masters; and I've a good 
right to know, and I say it with feelin's of gratitude.' 
'That's jes' so,' said Miss Barry, her eyes glistening 
over her knitting, which they did not need to watch. And 
there was a hum of assent through the room. 
' I'm not sayin' nothin' agin him,' said Mrs. Flandin in 
an injured manner; 'but what I was hintin' I warn't 
sayin' nothin', is that he's married a ' 
' A beauty ' said Mrs. Boddington. 
' I don't set no count on beauty,' said the other. ' I 
allays think, ef a minister is a servant of the Lord, and I 
hope Mr. Masters is, it's a pity his wife shouldn't be too. 
That's all.' 
' But I am, Mrs. Flandin,' said Diana quietly. 
' What ? ' 
' A servant of the Lord.' 
' Since when ? ' demanded the other incredulously. 
' Does it matter, since when ? ' said Diana, with a calm 
gentleness which spoke for her. ' I was not always so, 
but I am now.' 
' Hev' you met with a change ? ' the other asked, again 
judicially, and critically. 
' Yes.' 
 
' Ain't that good news, now ! ' said Miss Barry dropping 
her knitting and fairly wiping her eyes. 
' I hope your evidences is clear,' said the other lady. 
' Do you want to hear what they are ? ' said Diana. ' I 
have come to know the Lord Jesus I have come to believe in him I have given myself to be his servant. As 
truly his servant, though not so good a one, as my husband 
is. But what he bids me, I'll do.' 
The little assembly was silent, silent all round. Both 
the news and the manner of the teller of it were imposing. Decided, clear, calm, sweet, Diana's grey eyes as 
well as her lips gave her testimony ; they did not shrink 
from other eyes, nor droop in hesitation or difficulty ; as 
little was there a line of daring or self-assertion about 
them. The dignity of the woman struck and hushed her 
companions. 
' Our minister'll be a happy man, I'm thinkin',' said 
good Mrs. Carpenter, speaking out what was the secret 
thought of many present. 
'You haven't joined the church, Diana,' said Mrs. 
Starling harshly. 
' I will do that the first opportunity, mother.' 
' That's your husband's doing. I allays knew he'd wile 
a bird off a bush ! ' 
' I am very thankful to him' said Diana calmly. 
That calm of hers was unapproachable. It would 
neither take offence nor give it ; although it is true it did 
irritate some of her neighbours and companions by the very 
distance it put between them and her. Diana was different from them, and growing more different ; yet it was 
hard to find fault. She was so handsome too ; that helped 
the effect of superiority ; and her dress, what was there 
about her dress ? It was a pale lilac muslin, no way remarkable in itself ; but it fell around lines so soft and noble, 
and about so queenly a carriage, it waved with so quiet 
and graceful motions ; there was a temptation to think Diana must have called in dressmaking aid that was not lawful for the minister's wife. As the like often happens, Diana was set apart by a life-long sorrow from all their world 
of experience, and they thought she was proud. 
' What did you pay for that muslin, Diana ? ' Mrs. Flandin asked. 
' Fifteenpence.' 
' Du tell ! well I should ha' thought it was more,' remarked Miss Gunn. ' It's made so elegant.' 
' I made it myself,' said Diana smiling. 
' Du tell ! ' said Miss Gunn again, reviewing the gown. 
For, as I hinted, its draperies were graceful, their lovely 
lines being unbroken by furbelows and flummery ; and the 
sleeves were open and half long with a full ruffle which fell 
away from Diana's beautiful arms. 
' How Phemie Knowlton used to dress ! ' Miss Gunn 
went on, moved by some hidden association of ideas. 
' I wonder is nobody ever comin' back to Elmfield ? ' 
said Mrs. Boddington. ' They don't do nothin' with the 
place, and it's just waste.' 
The talk wandered on ; but Diana's thoughts remained 
fixed. They had flown back over the two years since 
Evan and she had their explanation in the blackberry field, 
and for a little while she sat in a dream, feeling the stings 
of pain that seemed, she thought, to grow more lively now, 
instead of less. The coming in of Mr. Masters roused her, 
and with a sort of start she put away the thought of Evan 
and of days and joys past for ever, and forcibly swung herself back to present things. People were very well-behaved! 
after her husband came, and she did her part, she knew, 
 
satisfactorily; for she saw his eye now and then resting on 
her or meeting her's with the hidden smile in it she had 
learned to know. And besides, nothing was ever dull 
or commonplace where he was ; so even in Mrs. Starling's 
house and Mrs. Flandin's presence the rest of the evening 
went brightly off. And then, driving home, through the 
light of a young moon and over the quiet country, Diana 
watched the wonderful calm line where the hill-tops met 
the sky ; and thought, surely, with the talisman she had 
just found, of heavenly love and sympathy and strength, 
she could walk the rest of her way through life and bear 
it till the end. Then, by and by, beyond that dividing 
line of eternity, there would be bright heaven, instead of 
the dusky earth. If only she could prevent Basil from 
knowing how she felt and so losing all peace in life himself. But his peace was so fixed in heaven, she wondered 
if anything on earth could destroy it ? She would not try 
that question. 
CHAPTER XXV. 
MISS COLLINS' WORK. 
IT was well for Diana that she had got a talisman, of better power than the world can manufacture. It was well for 
her too that she followed up earnestly the clue to life which 
had been given her. If you have a treasure house of supplies, and are going to have to get to it in the dark by 
and by, it is good to learn the way very well while the light 
is there. For weeks Diana gave herself before all other 
things to the study of her Bible and to better understanding 
of faith's duties and privileges. In all this Basil was a great 
help ; and daily his wife learned more and more to admire 
and revere the mind and temper of the man she had married. Reverence would have led surely to love, in such a 
nature as Diana's ; but Diana's heart was preoccupied. 
What love could not do, however, conscience and gratitude 
did as far as possible. Nothing that concerned Basil's 
comfort or honour was uncared for by his wife. So among 
other things, she never intrusted the care of his meals 
entirely to Miss Collins ; and quite to that lady's discomfiture, would often come into the kitchen and prepare some 
nice dish herself, or superintend the preparation of it. Miss 
Collins resented this. She shared the opinion of some of 
the ladies of the sewing society, that Mrs. Masters was quite 
proud and needed to be " taken down " a bit ; and if she got a 
good chance, she had it in her mind to do a little of the 
" taking down " herself. 
 
It was one evening late in September. Frosts had 
hardly set in yet, and every change in the light and colour 
carried Diana's mind back to Evan and two years ago, and 
mornings and evenings of that time which were so filled 
with nameless joys and hopes. Diana did not give herself 
to these thoughts nor encourage them ; they came with the 
suddenness and the start of lightning. Merely the colour 
of a hill at sunset was enough to flash back her thoughts 
to an hour when she was looking for Evan ; or a certain 
sort of starlight night would recall a particular walk along 
the meadow fence ; or a gust and whiff of the wind would 
bring with it the thrill that belonged to one certain stormy 
September night that never faded in her remembrance. Or 
the smell of coffee sometimes, when it was just at a certain 
stage of preparation, would turn her heart sick. These associations and remembrances were countless and incessant 
always under the reminders of the September light and atmosphere ; and Diana could not escape from them, though 
as soon as they came she put them resolutely away. 
This evening Mr. Masters was out. Diana knew he 
had gone a long ride and would be tired, that is, if he ever 
could be tired, and would be certainly ready for his supper 
when he came in. So she went out to make ready a certain dish of eggs which she knew he liked. Such service 
as this she could do, and she did. There was no thoughtful care, no smallest observance which could have been 
rendered by the most devoted affection, which Diana did 
not give to her husband. Except, she never offered a kiss, 
or laid her hand in his or upon his shoulder. Happily for 
her, Basil was not a particularly demonstrative man ; for 
every caress from him was " as vinegar upon nitre ; " she 
did not shew repulsion, that was all. 
' I guess I kin do that, Mis' Masters,' said her handmaid, who always preferred to keep the kitchen for her own 
domain. Diana made no answer. She wa-s slowly and 
delicately peeling her eggs, and probably did not notice 
the remark. Miss Collins, however, resented the neglect. 
' Mr. Masters is gone a great deal. It's sort o' lonesome up here on the hill. Dreadfully quiet, don't you 
think it is ? ' 
' I like quiet,' Diana answered absently. 
' Du, hey ? Wall, I allays liked life. I never could get 
too much o' that. I should like a soldier's life uncommon, 
if I was a man.' 
Diana had finished peeling her eggs, and now began to 
wash a bunch of green parsley which she had fetched from 
the garden, daintily dipping it up and down in a bowl of 
spring-water. 
' It was kind o' lively down to the post office,' Miss 
Collins remarked again, eyeing the beautiful half-bared 
arm and the whole figure, which in its calm elegance was 
both imposing and irritating to her. Miss Collins indeed 
had a very undefined sense of the beautiful ; yet she vaguely knew that nobody else in Pleasant Valley looked so or 
carried herself so ; no other woman's dress adorned her so, 
or was so set off by the wearer ; although Diana's present 
attire was a very simply made print gown ; not even the 
stylish ladies of Elmfield produced an equal effect with 
their French dresses. And was not Diana " Mis' Starling's daughter ? " And Diana seemed not to hear or care 
what she had to say ! 
' Everybody comes to the post office,' she went on grimly ; ' you hev' only to watch, and you see all the folks ; and 
you know all that is goin' on. An', that suits me 'exactly.' 
'But you had nothing to do with the post office,' said 
Diana. ' How could you see everybody ? ' 
' You keep your eyes open, and you'll see things, most 
places,' said Miss Collins. ' La ! I used to be in and out ; 
why shouldn't I ? And now and then I'd say to Miss 
Gunn " You're jest fagged out with standin' upon your 
feet ; you jes' go in there and sit down by the fire and 
don't let the pot bile over and put it out ; and I'll see to 
the letters and the folks." And so she did, and so I did. It 
was as good as a play.' 
' How? ' said Diana, feeling a vague pain at the thought 
of the post office ; that place where her hopes had died. 
Somehow there was a vague dread in her heart also, without any reason. 
' Wall you git at folks' secrets if they have any,' Miss 
Collins answered, suddenly checking her flow of words. 
Diana did not ask again ; the subject was disagreeable. 
She began to cut up her parsley deftly with a sharp knife ; 
and her handmaid stood and looked at her. 
' Some folks thought, you know, at one time, that Mr. 
Masters was courtin' Phemie Knowlton. I didn't let on, 
but la ! I knowed it warn't so. Why there warn't never a 
letter come from her to him, nor went from him to her.' 
' She was here herself,' said Diana ; ' why should they 
write ? You could tell nothing by that.' 
' She warn't here after she had gone away,' said Miss 
Collins ; ' and that was jes' the time when I knowed all 
about it. I knowed about other people too.' 
That was also the time after Evan had quitted Pleasant 
Valley. Yet Diana did not know why she could not keep 
herself from trembling. If Evan had written, then, this 
Jemima Collins and her employer, Miss Gunn, would have 
known it and drawn their conclusions. Well, they had no 
data to go upon now. 
' Bring me a little saucepan, Jemima, will you ? ' 
 
Jemima brought it. Now her mistress (but she never 
called her so) would be away and off in a minute or two 
more, and leave her to watch the saucepan, she knew, and 
her opportunity would be over. Still she waited to choose 
her words. 
' You ain't so fond o' life as I be,' she observed. 
'Perhaps not,' said Diana. 'I do not think I should 
like a situation in the post office.' 
' But I should ha' thought you'd ha' liked to go all 
over the world and see everything. Now Pleasant Valley 
seems to me something like a corner. Why didn't you ? ' 
'Why didn't I what?' said Diana, standing up. She 
had been stooping down over her saucepan which now sat 
upon a little bed of coals. 
' La ! you needn't look at me like that,' said Miss Collins chuckling. ' It's no harm. You had your ch'ice, and 
you chose it ; only I would have took the other.' 
' The other what ? What would you have taken ? ' 
' Wall, I don' know,' said Miss Collins ; ' to be sure, 
one never doos know till one is tried, they say ; but if I 
had, I think I should ha' took 'tother one.' 
' I do not understand you,' said Diana walking off to 
the table, where she began to gather up the wrecks of the 
parsley stems. She felt an odd sensation of cold about the 
region of her heart, physically very disagreeable. 
' You are hard to make understand then,' said Miss 
Collins. ' I suppose you know you had two sweethearts, 
don't you ? And sure enough you had the pick of the lot. 
'Tain't likely you've forgotten.' 
' How dare you speak so ? ' asked Diana, not passionately, but with a sort of cold despair, eying her handmaiden. 
' Dare ? ' said the latter. ' Dare what ? I ain't saying 
nothin'. 'Tain't no harm to have two beaux ; you chose 
your ch'ice, and he hain't no cause to be uncontented, anyhow. About the 'tother one I don't say nothin', I should 
think he was ; but that's nat'ral. I s'pose he's got over it 
by now. You needn't stand and look. He's fur enough 
off, too. Your husband wont be jealous. You knowed you 
had two men after you.' 
' I cannot imagine why you say that,' Diana repeated, 
standing as it were at bay. 
' How I come to know ? That's easy. Didn't I tell you 
I was in the post office ? La, I know, I see the letters.' 
' Letters ! ' cried Diana, in a tone which forthwith made 
Miss Collins open all the eyes she had. It was not a 
a scream ; it was not even very loud ; yet Miss Collins 
went into a swift calculation to find out what was in it. Be- 
yond her ken, happily; it was a heart's death cry. 
' Yes,' she said stolidly ; ' I said letters. Ain't much 
else goin' at the post office, 'cept letters and papers ; and I 
ain't one o' them as sets no count by the papers. La, what 
do I care for the news at Washington ? I don't know the 
folks ; they may all die or get married, for what I care ; 
but in Pleasant Valley I know where I be, and I know who 
the folks be. And that's what made me allays like to get 
a chance to sort the letters, or hand 'em out.' 
' You never saw many letters of mine,' said Diana, turning away to hide her lips which she felt were growing 
strange. But she must speak ; she must know more. 
' N o,' said Miss Collins ; ' not letters o' your writin,' 
ef you mean that.' 
' Letters of mine of any sort. I don't get many letters.' 
' Some of 'em's big ones, when they come, My ! didn't 
I use to wonder what was in 'em ! Two stamps, and three 
stamps. I s'pose feelin's makes heavy weight.' Miss Collins laughed a little. 
' Two stamps and three stamps ? ' said Diana fiercely ; 
' how many were there ? ' 
' I guess I knowed of three. Two I handed out o' the 
box myself ; and Miss Gunn, she said there was another. 
There was no mistakin' them big letters. They was on soft 
paper, and lots o' stamps, as I said.' 
' You gave them out ? Who to ? ' 
'To Mis' Starlin' herself. I mind partic'lerly. She 
come for 'em herself, and she got 'em. You don't mean 
she lost 'em on her way hum ? They was postmarked some 
queer name, but they come from Californy ; I know that. 
You hain't never forgotten 'em ? I've heerd it's good to be 
off with the old love before you are on with the new ; but 
I never heerd o' folks forgettin' their love letters. La, 
'tain't no harm to have love letters. Nobody can cast that 
up to ye. You have chosen your ch'ice, and it's all right. 
I reckon most folks would be proud to have somebody else 
thrown over for them.' 
Diana heard nothing of this. She was standing, deaf 
and blind, seeming to look out of the window; then slow- 
ly, moved by some instinct, not reason, she went out of the 
kitchen and crept up stairs to her own room and laid herself upon her bed. Deaf and blind ; she could neither 
think nor feel ; she only thought she knew that she was 
dead. The consciousness of the truth pressed upon her to 
benumbing ; but she was utterly unable to separate points 
or look at the connection of them. She had lived and suffered before ; now she was crushed and dead ; that was all 
she knew. She could not even measure the full weight of 
her misery ; she lay too prostrate beneath it. 
So things were, when very shortly after the minister 
came in. He had put up his horse, and came in with his 
day's work behind him. Diana's little parlour was bright, 
for a smart fire was blazing ; the evenings and mornings 
were cool now in Pleasant Valley; and the small table 
stood ready for supper, as Diana had left it. She was up 
stairs, probably ; and up stairs he went, to wash his hands 
and get re-acly for the evening; for the minister was the 
neatest man living. There he found Diana, laid upon her 
bed, where nobody ever saw her in the day-time ; and 
furthermore, lying with that nameless something in all the 
lines of her figure which is the expression not of pain but 
of despair ; and those who have never seen it before, read 
it at first sight. How it should be despair, of course the 
minister had no clue to guess ; so although it struck him 
with a sort of strange chill, he supposed she must be suffering from some bodily ailment, in spite of the fact that 
nobody had ever known Diana to have so much as a headache in her life until now. Her face was hid. Basil 
went up softly and laid his hand on her shoulder, and felt 
so the slight convulsive shiver that ran over her. But his 
inquiries could get nothing but monosyllables in return ; 
hardly that ; rather inarticulate utterances of assent or dissent to his questions or proposals. Was she suffering? 
Yes. What was the cause ? No intelligible answer. 
Would she not come down to tea ? No. Would she have 
anything ? No. Could he do anything for her ? No. 
' Diana,' said her husband tenderly, ' is it bad news ? ' 
There was a pause, and he waited. 
' Just go down,' she managed with great difficulty to 
say. ' There is nothing the matter with me. I'll come by 
and by. I'll just lie still a little.' 
She had not shewn her face, and the minister quietly 
withdrew, feeling that here was more than appeared on 
the surface. There was enough appearing on the surface 
to make him uneasy ; and he paid no attention to Miss 
 
Collins, who brought in the supper and bustled about 
rather more than was necessary. 
' Don't ring the bell, Jemina,' Mr. Masters said. ' Mrs. 
Masters is not coming down.' 
Miss Collins went on to make the tea. That was always Diana's business. 
' What ails her ? she asked abruptly. 
' You ought to know,' said the minister. ' What did she 
complain of.' 
'Complain ! ' echoed the handmaiden. ' She was as well 
as you be, not five minutes afore you come in. 
' How do you know ? ' 
' Guess I had ought to ! Why she was in the kitchen 
talkin' and fiddle-faddlin' with them eggs ; she thinks I 
ain't up to 'em. There warn't nothin' on earth the matter 
with her then. She had sot the table in here and fixed up 
the fire, and then she come in to the kitchen and went to 
work at the supper. There ain't never nothin' the matter 
with her.' 
The minister made no sort of remark, nor put any 
further inquiry, nor looked even curious, Miss Collins 
however did. Her brain got into a sudden confusion of 
possibilities. Pouring out the tea, she stood by the table 
reflecting what she should say next. 
'I guess she's mad at me,' she began slowly. 'Or 
maybe she's afeard you'll be mad with her. La ! 'tain't 
nothin'. I told her, you'd never be jealous. 'Tain't no 
harm for a girl to have two beaux, is it ? ' 
The minister gave her a quick look from under his 
brows, and replied calmly that he ' supposed not.' 
' Wall, I told her so ; and now she's put out 'cause I 
knowed o' them letters. La, folks that has the post office 
can't help but know more o' what concerns their fellow 
creatures than other folks doos. I handled them myself 
you see, and handed them out ; leastways two o' them 
that warn't no fault o' mine nor of anybody's. La, she 
needn't to mind ! ' 
' How much tea did you put in, Jemina ? ' 
' I don't know, Mr. Masters. I put in a pinch. Mrs. 
Masters had ought to ha' been here to make it herself. 
She knows how you like it.' 
' I like more than such a pinch as this was. If you 
will empty the tea-pot, I will make a cup for myself. That 
will do, thank you.' 
Left alone, Mr. Masters sat for a little while with his 
head on his hand, neglecting the supper. Then he roused 
himself and went on to make some fresh tea. And very 
carefully and nicely he made it, poured out a cup and prepared it, put it on a little tray then and carried it steaming 
and fragrant up to his wife's room. Diana was lying just 
as he had left her. Mr. Masters shut the door, and came 
to the bedside. 
' Di,' said he gently, ' I have brought you a cup of tea.' 
There was neither answer nor movement. He repeated 
his words. She murmured an unintelligible rejection of 
the proposal, keeping her face carefully covered. 
' No,' said he, ' I think you had better take it. Lift up 
your head, Di, and try. It is good.' 
The tone was tender and quiet, nevertheless Diana had 
known Mr. Masters long enough to be assured that when 
he had made up his mind to a thing, there was no bringing him off it. She would have to take the tea ; and as 
he put his hand under her head to lift her up, she suffered 
him to do it. Then he saw her face. Only by the light 
of a candle it is true ; but that revealed more than enough. 
So wan, so deathly pale, so dark in the lines round the 
 
eyes and those indescribable shadows which mental pain 
brings into a face, that her husband's heart sank down. 
No small matter, easy to blow away, had brought his 
strong beautiful Diana to look like that. But his face 
shewed nothing; though indeed she never looked at it; 
and his voice was clear and gentle just as usual in the few 
words he said. He held the cup to her lips, and after she 
had drank the tea and lay down again, he passed his hand 
once or twice with a tender touch over her brow and the 
disordered hair. Then, with no more questions or remarks, he took away the candle and the empty cup, and 
Diana saw him no more that night. 
 
CHAPTER XXVI. 
THINGS UNDONE. 
THE mischief-maker slept peacefully till morning. Nobody else. Diana did not keep awake, it is true ; she was 
at that dull stage of misery when something like stupor 
comes over the brain ; she slumbered heavily from time to 
time. Nature does claim such a privilege sometimes. It 
was Basil who watched the night through ; watched and 
prayed. There was no stupor in his thoughts ; he had a 
very full, though vague, realization of great evij that had 
come upon them both. He was very near the truth, too, 
after an hour or two of pondering. Putting Miss Collins' 
hints, Diana's own former confessions, and her present condition together, he saw, clearer than it was good to see, the 
probable state of affairs. And yet he was glad to see it ; 
if any help or bettering was ever to come, it was desirable 
that his vision should be true and his wisdom have at least 
firm data to act upon. But what action could touch the 
case ? the most difficult that a man can have to deal with. 
Through the night Basil alternately walked the floor and 
knelt down, sometimes at his study table, sometimes before 
the open window, where it seemed almost as if he could 
read signs of that invisible sympathy he was seeking. The 
