not, if the Lord's work or the needs of others 
wanted it more." 

" Extravagance ! " said Flora. "Just enthusiasm." 

" Come, I will read you another story. But the 

poor woman who gave all she had into the Lord's 

treasury, was not rated as a fool by him. I will 

read you now 

"A PROBLEM ABOUT STUTEN MONEY. 

" Most of you know, it is true, right well what 
stuten money is, but certainly all do not. Among 
us, when people go to church on Sunday, the children and younger serving people of the peasants 
get a groschen to take along; with which they can 
buy a stuten, that is, a white roll, at noon when 
they come out of church; by the help of which 
they can stay in the village and so go to church 
again in the afternoon. Now there are a boy, a 
girl, and an old woman known to me, who have no 
other money but the stuten money they get on 
Sundays. So each one of them falls to considering 
how he or she can do something for the heathen. 
And they arrange it on this wise. One of them 
every other Sunday eats no roll, and thinks within 
herself, "I eat as much as I wanted this morning at 
home, and I can do the same again this evening." 
The two others buy each a small roll for half a 
groschen, and lay up the other half groschen every 
Sunday; and when the year comes round, they 



 

have all three of them, counting the festivals, 
thirty groschen saved up, and bring them with 
glad, smiling faces to go for the conversion of 
the heathen. And upon being afterwards asked 
whether hunger did not often trouble them on 
Sunday? they say, they have always felt as if 
they had had enough ; and with God's help, they 
will do the same way next year.'" 

" What sort of a story do you call that ? " asked 
Flora, when her brother paused. 

" I call it, a story of what can be done." 

" And I call it, a story of what ought not to be 
done. Both the children and the old women needed 
their bread for themselves ; it was not good for them 
to go without it. And what is a groschen ? or thirty 
groschen ?' 

"What are 'two mites, which make a farthing?'" 

" that is in the Bible." 

"But it was in a poor woman's heart first; or we 
should never have had it in the Bible." 

" Well, look at our luncheon," said Flora. 

" I will look at it, when I see it. What then ? " 

" Do you mean that we shall do wrong to eat it? " 

"Not at all." 

"How can those people be right, and we not 
wrong ? " 

"Yes, Ditto," said Maggie. "I do not under 
stand." 

" Those people must give their groschen, or give 
nothing. It was all they could give." 

"But we might give more than we do, if we 



 

would live on bread and water," said Flora. "If 
we are to give all we could give. Our luncheon 
would come to a good many groschen, I can tell 
you." 

"We must ask Mr. Murray. I am not wise 
enough to talk to you," said Meredith. "I hope 
he will come ! we are getting work ready for him. 
Meantime I will read you another little story. 
Maybe we shall find some light. 

"'AS POOR, YET MAKING MANY RICH. 

" ' There was a poor day-labourer who lived by 
his work, from hand to mouth. He heard it read 
out of the Old Testament, that under the old covenant every Israelite was bound to give to God the 
tenth of all his incomings. That went through and 
through the man's head, and he thought : Could the 
Israelites do that by the law, and should not we 
Christians be able to do it by the love of Christ ? 
So, honestly and faithfully, he lays by the tenth 
of his daily wages; the Lord blesses him, so that 
many a time he earns sixteen groschen a day ; and 
at the end of the year he comes with his hands 
full, bringing sixteen thaler twenty groschen for 
the conversion of the heathen, and with hearty 
pleasure; and he says, "The love of Christ con- 
straineth me so, I have wanted for nothing."'" 

"Not much of a story," said Meredith, in concluding, " but a good deal of a suggestion." 

" Suggestion of what ? " asked his sister. 

" Duty. Certainly, a Christian ought to be able 



 

to do more for love than an old Hebrew did for 
law; and from this time I will imitate that old 
German fellow." 

"But, Ditto ! " exclaimed his sister. "A tenth of 
your income, you must remember, is a great deal." 

" Not in proportion " said Meredith. " He would 
want every one of his remaining groschen for his 
necessities; I should not. It seems to me, the 
richer one is, the larger the proportion should be 
that should go to the Lord's uses." 

" I shall ask Mr. Murray to make you reason 
able ! " Flora exclaimed. " Stop talking, and go 
on with your reading." 

" The next story is about ' One Groschen and 
Two Pennies.' 

'"It is true, what the Bible says "The Lord 
maketh sore, and bindeth up; he woundeth, and 
his hands make whole." My heart learned the 
meaning of this word, when a short time ago I 
had to expel two pupils from the Mission house, 
who had been led astray by Satan. This gave me 
great pain, but it had to be done, for their sakes 
and for the sake of the house; and it was some 
what alleviated in that they came back sorry and 
penitent and were taken in again. 

"  To the honour of the Lord I will here speak 
good of the balm which shortly after my great 
hurt he laid upon the wounds. May it have some 
what of the sweetness of that ointment which filled 
the whole house. 

" ' Soon after the departure of the pupils was 



 

made known, I had a visit from an eight-year-old 
boy. He had a groschen. in his hand and a reading-book under his arm. He told me that he had 
found this groschen fourteen days before on the 
way to church, that he had asked his father to publish the discovery and he himself had announced it 
in school. But nobody had been found to own 
the groschen. I said to him : " Well, what do you 
think, my child ? does the groschen belong to you ? 
will you buy something with it ? " The boy answered " No, the groschen is not mine, so I am not 
going to keep it. I will give it to the dear Saviour 
for the poor heathen children, to get a spelling- 
book for them." When I questioned him further, 
he said that once in the church, where his father 
takes him every Sunday, I had said, "whoever 
keeps what does not belong to him is a thief; and " 
he added with great seriousness, "you said, a 
Christian child must not be a thief!" I received 
the groschen now and thanked him. But the boy 
had not done yet. He asked me if it were true, 
that two of the pupils had been expelled from the 
mission house ? When with a sorrowful face I assented, he answered, " You need not be so troubled 
about that. You can send me instead. I can spell 
already, and I will soon learn to read." When the 
little fellow with great earnestness had said that, I 
could not help folding him to my breast in heart 
felt gladness. Then I knelt down and together 
with him prayed that the Lord would some time 
make a true missionary of him. He went away at 



 

last, but could not at first rightly understand how 
it was that I had as yet no use for him. 

'"Soon after this, I received a letter from a dear 
friend who had been making a lively stir in the 
matter of the mission among his school and the 
parish to which his school belonged. The Lord 
had granted him access to the hearts of great and 
small, and with cordial pleasure he had been collecting till he should have a full thaler made up, 
which then should be sent me. Now he wrote, 
the thaler was made up, and he sent it, and this 
was how it had come about. In a hospital, where 
he is accustomed to hold devotional service for an 
hour, he had mentioned the conversion of the hea 
then. The next day came a widow, shoved four 
groschen under one of the books which lay on the 
table, and then, with a greeting from her children, 
laid two groschen on the table, saying: "Now the 
thaler will be made up ! " To this mission thaler, 
which indeed was made up now, a little girl of 
nine years old had every Sunday contributed two 
pennies, which she received from her mother to buy 
rolls with. Some time after, the mother brought 
the child's two pennies again, silently ; but it struck 
our friend that she had great tears in her eyes. 
The thing was soon explained. The child had fallen ill. Sunday her mother said to her, "To-day 
you shall keep your roll for yourself." " No," the 
child answered, " I could not be easy if I did. I 
promised my dear Saviour once, that as long as 
you gave me two pennies to buy rolls with, I 



 

would give the money on Sunday for the heathen." 
How glad that true mother's heart must have been. 
She had reason to say, "But what a value these 
two pennies had for me ! I could not let them out 
of my hands at first, for joy." God bless mother, 
child, and teacher ! The mission must indeed thrive 
when such gifts are offered. From another dear 
friend of missions, personally unknown to me more 
over, I received a contribution for the mission, in 
the making up of which both men and beasts had 
given their help. The contributors were specially 
mentioned, the men at their head ; then 'at the conclusion followed, "A hen, so much and so much." 

"Well, Ditto," said Flora, "I will say, you do 
read the most extraordinary stories ? " 

"Like them?" 

"No, I don't think I do, much. Do you bring 
them forward as our examples, hen and all ? " 

" You might do worse." 

" But, Ditto," Maggie said anxiously, "you do not 
think we ought to go without what we want, do 
you? for the sake of the heathen." 

"Ask Mr. Murray that question, Maggie. Whose 
hat is that I see over the wall, coming up to the 
gate?" 

Maggie jumped up to look, and then with a 
scream of " Uncle Eden ! Uncle Eden ! " sprang 
away down the path to meet him. The others 
dropped book and work and followed her. The 
pine wood was screened off from the shrubbery 
and pleasure grounds (but indeed all Mosswood 




 

pretty much was pleasure grounds) by a low stone 
wall, in which wall a little gate admitted to the 
entrance of the wood. By the time Mr. Murray, 
skirting the wall, had come to that point, the group 
of young people had reached it also; and there 
Mr. Murray received a welcome that might have 
satisfied any man. Maggie threw herself on his 
neck with cries of delight ; Flora's bright, handsome 
face sparkled with undisguised pleasure; even Es 
ther looked glad, and Meredith's wringing grasp of 
the hand was as expressive as anything else. Sur 
rounded by them, almost hemmed in his steps, questioned and answered and welcomed, all in a breath, 
by the gay little group, Mr. Murray slowly made his 
progress along the pine walk towards the, present 
camping place. He had got the round-robin, yes, 
and he had obeyed their summons as soon as he 
could after clearing away a few impediments of 
business; he had made an early start and come all 
the way that morning from Bay House; and he 
was very glad to be with them. Now what were 
they going to do with him ? 

Saying which last, Mr. Murray stretched himself 
on the soft carpet of pine needles and surveyed the 
tokens of work and play around the spot. 

" From Bay House this morning ! And no lunch 
yet ? That's good ! " cried Maggie. " Now, dear 
Ditto, the first thing is to give him something to 
eat. He must be ravenous. If you'll build a fire 
place, I'll make the fire ; and then we can have the 
kettle boiled in a very little time. " 



 

Mr. Murray lay on his elbow on the pine needles 
and watched them, as Meredith built a few stones 
together to support the tea-kettle, and then he and 
Maggie ran about collecting bits of pine and pine 
cones and fuel generally. And then there was the 
careful laying of dry tinder together, and the match 
applied, and the blue, hospitable smoke began to 
curl up under and round the kettle, and an aromatic, odoriferous smell came floating in the air. 

"This is better than anything I have seen for 
some time, children," he said. 

"Ah wait ! " cried Maggie. "We have got stewed 
pigeons for lunch." 

Mr. Murray laughed. " What are you all doing 
out here, besides eating pigeons V " 

" We have set out with the determination to live 
out of doors," said Flora; "and so we do it. This 
is the third day; and it is absolutely delightful." 

" What are you doing ? " 

" I see you looking at our worsteds aren't they 
pretty colours, Mr. Murray? Esther and I play 
with these, while Ditto reads to us. And we have 
laid up a great deal of work for you." 

" In what shape, pray ? " 

" Questions. Somehow, as we read, we get up 
difficult questions, that nobody can answer, and 
that we are not all agreed upon ; and then by general consent we refer them to you." 

Mr. Murray watched the tiny tongues of flame 
which were darting up round the tea-kettle, where 
Maggie sat supplying small sticks and resinous 



 

pine cones to feed the fire. The scene was as pretty as possible ; Meredith roaming hither and thither collecting more fuel, and the shawls and even 
the worsted lying about, with the gay, young figures, touching up the gipsey view with bits of colour. He watched in silence. 

"Moos wood is the most delicious place we have 
ever seen," Flora went on. 

"Almost any place is good in October. How 
pleasant this veiled light is. What are you about, 
Maggie ? " 

 "This is the pot of pigeons, Uncle Eden; we are 
going to get them hot. The kettle boils ; now 
would you like some coffee, Uncle Eden?" 

But Mr. Murray declared himself satisfied with 
tea. And in a little while the scene became more 
gipsey than ever; except that gipseys are not supposed to indulge in much refinement of china cups 
and silver spoons. Everybody was picking pigeon 
bones, however; and bread and butter, and cups 
of tea, and baked potatoes (which came out hot 
from the house, brought in a basket by Fairbairn), 
and peaches and pears to conclude with, were discussed with great enjoyment and amidst a great 
deal of talk. Fenton arrived from the fishing to 
take his share ; but I do not think he was as glad 
to see his uncle as the others had been; and as 
soon as lunch was over he took himself away again. 
Then cups and plates and debris were packed away 
into the cart; the little fire had burnt itself out; 
fingers were washed in Eastern fashion, somebody 



 

pouring water over the others' hands; and at last 
worsted needles and knitting needles came into 
play again, and the circle was made up around Mr. 
Murray, who declared himself to be quite refreshed 
and rested. 

" Ready for questions, Uncle Eden? " 

" Are the questions very deep ? " 

"0 yes, Uncle Eden; none of us can answer 
them." 

" They had need to be profound ! How did they 
come up ? " 

"From Meredith's book. Ditto was reading to 
us some delicious stories about the old Saxons, ftnd 
their ways and their gods; and we have ever so 
many questions to ask you, Uncle Eden." 

" Have you any more of those Saxon stories on 
hand, Meredith?" 

" Plenty, sir." 

" Then I wish you would go on and read another; 
and so I should perhaps get into the atmosphere 
of your questions. Besides, I feel like being luxurious and lazy in this warm, spicy air. Suppose 
we have a story now, and the questions by and by ? " 

They were all agreed to that. Maggie settled 
herself to listen comfortably, and Mr. Murray lay 
on his elbow and looked thoughtfully into the 
readers face, or into the blue-green pine wilderness around, or above to the quiet, clear blue which 
stretched over all; but if Mr. Murray's body was 
resting, I am inclined to think his mind was busy 
enough. 



 



CHAPTER X. 

" The story that I am going to tell you now 
shall bear the heading, "The Hearts of the Children turned to the Fathers." I read it with a deal 
of trouble, in an old, yellowed manuscript which 
the mice had gnawed at. But it bears so entirely 
the impress of truth that it may speak for itself, 
although the things happened more than a thou 
sand years ago. I would rather, if I could, give it 
again exactly as it stood written in that manuscript; but I am unable to do so, because I only 
made extracts from it. I found the MS. in the 
library of the Town House at Luneburg, where I 
was staying for a few days just then, and with the 
permission of both the burgermasters of the city, I 
searched the Town House library through. When 
later I came to live in Luneburg for many years, 
these and other old MSS. were no longer to be 
found ; and I heard that a Jew, to whom the burgermasters had sold a number of old suits of ar 
mour and weapons, had probably demanded to have 
these manuscripts into the bargain, thinking that he 
might in England dispose of them for a high price. 



 

The MS. was entitled: "Res gestae Landolfi, Apostoli Salzonum, qui Horzge ripas ad habitant ;" i. e., 
"Acts of Landolf, the apostle to the Saxons who lived 
on tJie Oerze." I have told you already many things 
about this Landolf. It has been mentioned that he 
built the first wooden church in this whole region 
of country, there where the heathen god Woden's 
place of sacrifice had been ; which place, under the 
name of the "cold church," still belongs to the 
Hermannsburg glebe, ever since the church was 
burned down in a predatory inroad of the Wends, 
and Hermann Billing built the stone parish church 
in Hermannsburg. I have told you too of this Landolf, how he had gradually converted the whole 
region to Christianity, like a skilful general, consecrating to the 'Christian faith for the worship of 
the true God, precisely those places where the 
heathen had been wont to adore their false idols, 
so that the triumph of Christianity could in nothing have been more forcibly manifested than , in 
this founding of Christian altars and chapels on the 
very places where previously the heathen abominations had been enacted. 

"'One hour from Hermannsburg above on the 
Oerze, two little rivers, the Oerze and Wieze, flow 
into one another. Such meetings of two rivers are 
called in high German Miinden, in low German 
Midden; so accordingly the village situated at the 
meeting of the two rivers above mentioned bears 
the name of Miiden. Just a little above the place 
where the Wieze flows into the Oerze, in the mid- 



 

die of the latter river, lay a wonderfully beautiful 
little island, almost like an egg in circumference, 
which had a circuit of perhaps from ninety to a 
hundred paces. How often when I was a child 
have I visited that little island, and stayed there 
for hours at a time. In the whole surrounding region I knew no lovelier place, and it was always a 
'particular delight to me when I could wander that 
way. On both sides of the island the swift-flowing, 
clear waters of the Oerze went rushing past, transparent to the very bottom, over the glistening sands 
of which and among the long, thick, green tufts of 
the water ranunculus hosts of nimble trout played 
and darted about. A little bridge on each side 
connected the island with the two shores. If you 
crossed the bridge which spanned the left arm of 
the Oerze, you came into green meadows and the 
parsonage garden, which extended along the left 
bank of the river, enclosed with a hedge as high as 
the trees. If you went from the island over the 
bridge of the right arm of the Oerze, you were in 
the court-yard of the parsonage, where the pastor's 
dwelling stood. This island was entirely framed 
in with high oaks and alders; and a number of 
mighty old oaks, with large trunks and lifting their 
heads high in air, grew on the island and wholly 
overshadowed it with their green roof of leaves. So 
still it was, so cool, and so secluded, upon this island 
that even the fiercest summer had no power over 
it; it was green and fresh when everything around 
it was withered and dried up by the hot sunbeams. 



 

And now as I write this it stirs me with pain to 
be forced to say that this island has disappeared! 
How can that have come about? It has fallen a 
sacrifice to the idol of Utility. The fine oaks have 
been felled, and used for building timber ; the alders 
have been cut down and turned to firewood; the 
island is no more, for the two arms of the Oerze 
have been dammed up, and a straight river bed carries the Oerze now through green meadows which 
stretch along both shores. Yes, these are beautiful 
too, these green meadows, and they are very profitable also at the same time; but the wonderful 
beauty of the island is departed, vanished, with no 
trace of it left ; and in the entire valley of the Oerze 
there is not a place that can be compared to it. 
See, my dear readers, this is what is done by the 
much bepraised "Enclosings," which could have 
originated only in our earthly-minded age ; and 
which spare nothing, neither right nor usage; respect no old legend, no old custom ; have no eye at 
all for beauty, rate everything only according to 
its utility, and cannot endure anything round, but 
favour only straight lines and sharp corners. Even 
the very unreasoning beasts mourn over the way in 
which the "Enclosings" are carried on. The valley 
of the Oerze, once thickly peopled with nightingales 
on both shores of the river, now has not a single 
one to show; the poor creatures love the thicket, 
the dim light, the shade and solitude, where they 
sing their songs to God and men; but the new 
fangled clearings drive the whole away together. 



 

That is no matter; to be sure their singing brings 
no money in. 

" ' Well, on this old island in heathen times was 
the sanctuary of the god Thor, or Donner, as he 
was likewise called by our forefathers. Among 
these oaks and alders stood his altar, a big round 
stone of granite. Near this great stone lay a vast 
number of what are called thunderbolts ; for every 
thunderbolt that a Saxon found he laid down at 
Thor's, or Donner's, altar. Now if you do not know 
what thunderbolts are, go to your pastors or to some 
other learned folk, and they will tell you, and perhaps she you one. The learned called them Belemnites. They are longish, round, wedge-shaped stones, pointed below, growing broader above; at 
the point they are quite solid and- have a so-called 
Peddig, that is, a fine, round core, as in the middle 
of a tree-stem, which, however, is entirely turned 
to stone; towards the other end this core grows 
thicker and more crumbly, and at last the stone be 
comes quite hollow. These are petrifactions of sea 
animals, which have remained since the time of the 
flood. In my childhood the people still called these 
stones "thunderbolts," and the belief was generally 
prevalent that in heavy thunder showers such thunderbolts fall from the clouds upon the earth. That 
belief had its origin in the heathen time. It was the 
belief of our heathen ancestors, that Thor, or Donner, the son of their principal deity Woden, was 
the god of thunder; a man with a handsome, serious face and yellow beard, whose blast caused the 



 

thunder, and who in thunder-storms drove through 
the air in a chariot drawn by goats, and then in 
the lightning cast his thunderbolts on the earth, so 
that men might fear and honour him. And he 
was not only the god of thunder, in the belief of 
our forefathers, but the god of justice also. Who 
ever wished to confirm a contract with his neighbour, made it before the altar of Thor; and what 
ever had been promised " by Thor," could not be 
taken back. Also, as people believed, he watched 
over all laws and rights in the land; in the taking 
of oaths he was the witness appealed to. And 
woe to him who perverted law and justice, woe to 
him who swore a false oath; Thor's thunderbolt 
was sure to fall upon the audacious transgressor 
and dashed him to pieces. And so, from this it 
came that every thunderbolt found was laid down 
at Thor's altar, as witnesses for the god who guarded 
laws and rights, and punished covenant-breakers 
and false swearers with his strong hand. He dwelt 
among oaks, elders and alder-trees; for which reason these trees, which were sacred to him, were al 
ways found about the places where sacrifices were 
offered in his honour. Our forefathers were known 
for their inviolable truth. Even the heathen historian Tacitus says of them, that the word of a Sax 
on was worth more than the oath of a Roman, and 
that among them good customs were regarded with 
more reverence than good statues among the Romans. From this you can easily imagine in what 
high honour the god Thor was held by our fore- 



 

fathers, and how sacred was Thor's place of sacrifice. But alas, the full ferocity of heathenism also 
came out in the worship of Thor ; for human victims were slain in his honour, whenever through 
some failure of faith-keeping or breaking of a covenant a curse rested upon the community. And 
how often may not yonder little island as well have 
drunk the blood of slaughtered men ! 

"'Now in Landolf 's time, when he and the Christian doctrine had already been received at old Hermann Billing's, the priest of Thor's sacrificial altar 
on the island I have described, was a silver-haired 
old man, whom the MS. calls Henricus; i.e., Heinrich, who also for long years had been a faithful 
friend of Hermann. However, since Hermann had 
become a Christian, Heinrich had proudly with 
drawn from him; he held him to be a covenant- 
breaker, and threatened him with the judgment of 
Thor, which sooner or later would fall upon him 
because he had forsaken the faith of his fathers. 
Hermann sought an interview with his old friend, 
but the proud priest of Thor refused to give it. 
Now, when in the great assembly of the people at 
the stone-houses, of which I have formerly spoken, 
Landolf received permission to declare the Christian faith openly in the whole country, he did not 
fail to visit among other places also the sanctuary of Thor upon this island, and to preach the 
Gospel to the people who gathered there for the offering of sacrifices. Heinrich had no liberty or 
power to hinder the preaching; but when it was 



 

done he came out as its most decided opponent; 
and declared in unmeasured terms that the Saxons 
who had turned or who should turn to Christianity, 
were covenant-breakers, on whom Thor's vengeance 
would speedily fall. In flaming zeal, with these 
words he lifted one of the thunderbolt stones which 
lay beside Thor's altar, shewed it to the people, and 
threatened that with such weapons Thor would 
punish the apostates. Then arose Landolf 's commanding figure, and looking at old Heinrich with 
a gentle, happy, beaming smile, he spoke : 

" 'Brother, the Christian's God is better than 
your heathen god. See! all this while he, the 
only true God, has borne patiently with your heathen ways, has seen how you slew human sacri 
fices and became murderers of your fellow-men; 
and instead of punishing you for your sins and 
transgressions, he has borne with you in great 
love and patience; and now still, he is not lifting 
his arm of vengeance against you, but is saying; 
'Children, I have overlooked the times of ignorance ; but now the time  of salvation has come, I 
open to you my arms of grace and pray you be ye 
reconciled to your God.' But your god knows no 
love. Hermann has not transgressed in anywise; 
he has only become a Christian ; he simply abhors 
the transgressions which he used to commit. He 
proves his love towards you ; he has kept his friend 
ship for you; he has besought you; 'Brother, come 
let us talk together about our beliefs, and see whose 
faith is the right one.' The God of the Christians 



 

has taught him to love like this. But you, you 
hate the brother whom once you held dear, who 
has done nothing to harm you; you refuse him so 
much as a friendly interview; your heathen god 
has taught you to hate like this. Men," he went 
on, turning to the people who stood around them, 
"which is the right God? the God who loves 
and teaches to love, or the God that hates, and 
teaches to hate?" 

