fiercely around. 
Mother has tears in her eyes. She besieges the doctor, 
who shuffles, evades, says Theo was indulging in hysterics, 
a la Mrs. Sandborn. 
“ Doctor,” and a solemn light comes in Theo’s wan 
face, “ let us all teU the truth. It is such an awful shock 
when one in apparent health dies suddenly ! ” 
“ You are not going to die,” in a very obstinate tone, 
shaking his head decisively. 
“Will you dare to tell me what is the matter? ” and 
Theo’s eyes, lovely and sad, transfix him. He compresses 
his lips, and is silent. 
“I know it: I have known it a long while. It is 
heart-disease.” 
“ Who told you such an ” — I am sure the rest was 
going to be — “ infernal lie ; ” but he did not dare utter 
the falsehood himself. 
“ When Dr. Holloway was here, I went to him. I had 
mistrusted before.” 
“ A miserable, humbugging specialty doctor, who ought 
to be kicked out of the profession ! And he told you a 
pack of lies, — that you wouldn’t live a year, unless you 
came to him for treatment — five dollars a visit! We 
respectable doctors wouldn’t dare do such a thing. And 
he showed you plates of the heart in every stage of the dis- 
ease. I would like to burn up every one in the country ! 
And you came home, and cried in secret, and made your 
will, and forgave your enemies, and — did you take any 
of his medicine ? ’ ’ 
“No: I didn’t quite believe him;” and Theo laughs, 
intensely amused by all this show of passion, then catches 
her breath with a quick gasp, and is deadly white. 
“ There. Don’t talk any more. It is a little irregu- 
larity. I dare say you have danced too much.” 
“ Then I went to old Dr. Vandenburg,” she goes on 
quietly. 
At this Dr. Sheldon turns pale. 
“When was all this cantering around after old men, I 
would like to know ? ’ ’ 
“ A year ago last spring.” 
“ And Dr. Van said ” — 
“ That it was organic heart-disease. Oh ! I made him 
tell the truth. The probabilities were, that I should die 
young ; but I might live to be an old woman. He would 
bring in the vision of caps and specs and canes, and 
a general dilapidation, like that of the ‘ One Hoss 
Shay.’ ” 
Dr. Sheldon seems to take counsel with himself ; but his 
face gi*ows sadly tender. 
“ Well, it is just that,” he admits. “ This morning I 
thought, ‘ Whom the gods love,’ &c. Now I think you 
are too much of a reprobate to die, and that you are spared 
to repent of your sins. But don’t let me hear of any more 
Dr. Holloways, or there’ll be ‘ some other guess hollering,’ 
as my dear old grandmother used to say. And now, Theo, 
my brave little girl,” taking up the soft hand, and burying 
it in his beard, “it is as Dr. Van said. You hold your 
life somewhat in your own hands. A little carelessness 
may hurry you out of the world before God’s appointed 
time, or what seems such ; and, on the other hand, you may 
live many years to be a comfort to those around you. 
Your gay and buoyant temperament will do a great deal. 
You are healthy in every other respect ; and there is no 
sign of that much-to-be-dreaded enemy, the dropsy. So 
now, be a good little girl, will you? and don’t worry. 
 
Don’t get in such a taking as you must have been last 
night. Try, try your utmost, and do me some credit.” 
He bends over as if he means to kiss her. 
O brave, heart-broken Theo ! She shuts her lips to- 
gether, and tries to crush back the tears. 
“ Cry, if you want to,” he says, grunting over a lump 
in his throat: “ it will do you good. Then everybody 
must keep very quiet, and you try to sleep. I will leave you 
an anodyne. To-morrow you will be able to get up a 
little, and have your pretty curls brushed out. I will drop 
in again during the morning.” 
We sit in silence long after he is gone. I fan Theo 
gently ; Dell works at her embroidery ; but mother thinks, 
with her hands dropped patheticallj" in her lap. 
“ Chrissie,” Theo begins softly, ‘‘ I must talk a little. 
Now you know why I left off the singing-lessons. I 
wanted you to think me indifferent. Dr. Vandenburg said 
it was the worst thing I could do, that, and using my arms 
violently in any sort of calisthenics : so I just buried all 
my hopes, oh ! and danced on their grave when I wanted 
to ciy instead. Dr. Holloway said I must have travel, 
and this and that ; but old Dr. Van was so good ! Then 
I knew I should never be able to do much of aiiy thing in 
this world.” 
Her lip quivers, her voice dies away. I cry softly. My 
sweet, brave Theo, who might have sung with the birds ! 
So maiiy things are made plain to me now ! 
“ I do not feel as if I should die,” she exclaims, with a 
strange vigor in her voice. “ Perhaps — there, don’t be 
foolish, all of you. Are you glad to have me, at aiiy 
cost ? ’ ’ 
“ O Theo! ” Mamma is kneeling by the bed, kissing 
her hands. 
“You may have me for many a long year to come. 
Mrs. Sandborn doesn’t die, you see: she only has 
‘ spells.’ ” 
I really do begin to respect Mrs. Sandborn. She may 
liave heart-disease. 
‘ ‘ Could I have something to eat, think ? I am not a bit 
romantic or ethereal.” 
It pleases mother to go down stairs, and prepare it. 
A bird might eat as much ; but it makes a break in the sad, 
pathetic, tense strain of feeling. 
Neighbors begin to come in. Who is sick that the 
doctor should be here three times in one day ? What is it, 
really? Theo has not looked well of late. Why don’t we 
tiy change of air ; and so on, in the pleasant, inconsequent 
gossip, the little irritants that draw out the deep, inward 
sorrow by a process of diversion. 
Supper-time. How ridiculous ! and yet we must eat. 
No one has said a word about Mr. Ross. Neither does he 
return. 
Dell goes out for a walk ; mother takes a little rest on 
the sofa down stairs : I am alone with Theo. 
“ Chi’issie,” she begins in a very low tone, “will you 
help me to think what happened last night ? ’ ’ 
“ How can I? I was not here,” I reply with a great 
gasp. 
“ Did Alex say any thing down stairs? ” 
“ No : he went straight out.” 
‘ ‘ The man who came had something to do with it. I have 
had many horrible misgivings, Chris. I was so angry last 
night ! I stood here, in the middle of the floor, and stamped 
mj" foot like a little vixen. But it was so strange ! I cannot 
make it out.” 
“ Where did he go? ” 
“ Ah, I don’t know. Chris, he was crazy. His eyes 
were terrible. He would give me no satisfaction, but 
went round, packing up a few articles in a satchel, and 
then — maybe I did try him. I insisted upon knowing. 
He said — oh, with such a laugh ! — that I had complained 
of his love so often, and now he meant to relieve me of it ; 
 
that, as kisses and caresses and watchful tender care had 
been so burdensome, I need take no more. I can’t remem- 
ber all. He never kissed me after the coming of that man. 
Chrissie, light the gas, dear, and look in that second bu- 
reau-drawer. There is a box containing some papers, — 
his brothers’ letters and his mother’s.” He accidentally 
broke the lock yesterday morning. Open it, and bring 
them all to me.” 
I look in the box : it is quite empty. 
“ There isn’t a letter here.” 
“ Yes, there is ; scattered in the drawer, maybe, he tum- 
bled things about so.” 
I take out ever}- thing. Not a letter or a scrap of 
paper. It is some time before she will be convinced. 
“ Chrissie,” after a long silence, “ do you know of any 
reason why he should thus desert me ? ’ ’ 
“ No,” I cry tremulously, “ unless — unless” — 
‘‘ Unless he had a wife before he married me. I think, 
Chrissie, that he had, and that she has come to this coun- 
try. If I had died last night, dear, it would all have 
been ended.” 
CHAPTER XVIII. 
" When sorrows come, they come not single spies, . . , 
Like sweet hells jangled, out of tune, and harsh.” 
Hamlet. 
Theo does not sleep much through the night. Once or 
twice, just lost in the realms of dreamland, she cries out, 
“ O my love, my love ! ” At morning she turns wearily 
“ To think of a whole long life without any more love, 
any more tender kisses, anj" foolish, endearing care, put- 
ting on my stockings and slippers, canying me about in 
his arms, bathing my head when it ached, brushing my 
hair and kissing it, and saying ridiculously sweet things. 
He loved me so ! I used to wish he never had ; and yet I 
came to like it — and now it is gone forever.’’ 
“ He may come back, Theo.” 
“But how can he explain? — unless he was drunk, 
yes, absolutely drunk, Chrissie ; and he did not look like 
that. If he was, I should be bitterly ashamed of him all 
my days. I said to him, ‘ Sometimes a man has a wife 
in another country.’ I think the Devil must have put 
it into my mind ; and I thought he would strike me to 
the floor. I felt so afraid of him, that I wished, oh ! how 
I wished I was free ! And now ’ ’ — 
“ Do you love him, Theo? do you? ” and I look eagerly 
in her Cyes. 
“Yes, I suppose I do,” in an absent, dreamy way 
“ He always had a strange fascination for me. The night 
we made up for the last time, when it seemed fated that I 
must marry him, I told him what the doctors had said. 
 
‘ If I were sure of clying in a year, would you want to 
many me?’ I asked. And he said he would rather have 
one year of bliss with me than a lifetime with any other 
woman. He promised to take such care of me ; and, 
Chrissie, I thought it would soften the blow at the last, if 
I had belonged to some one else a little while. I had such 
queer, strange feelings now and then, quite as if I might 
die. We were so poor too ! I could do nothing but remain 
a burthen on you. I made him promise to board home for 
six months : it would be a little help. Was it selfish? and 
is God punishing me for that planning? ” 
“ O Theo my darling, you did it for our sakes I ” And, 
fiinging my arms about her, we both sob softlj", just as 
if the keen ears of love could not hear. 
She recovers first, and gathers up her voice by dint of 
little coughs and sundiy clearings of her throat. 
“ Not all together. You see, I had come to believe that 
my life was not worth much, and he loved me so. I could 
make him very happy ; and, in return, he would do a little 
for me and mine. But, if I had not loved him to some 
extent, I could not have done it. He wasn’t rich enough 
to make it an absolute temptation ; ’ ’ and she laughs as 
happy childhood might laugh. “ I began to feel that it 
was a duty. I couldn’t seem to put it out of my way. 
But, Theo, if I had possessed health and strength, and my 
voice, I do not believe I would have married aiy- one. I 
should have liked so to study, to sing, if only in a church, 
where people were listening with reverent hearts. Was 
it vanity"? Well, that was all taken away. And now I 
seem so confused. only we must find out. Either I am a 
deserted wife, or no legal wife, even with truth on my side. 
I have been studying it over during the night. I must 
write to his brothers. Sometimes there is insanity in a 
famity", you know. Now I am tired, and will rest a while. 
Tidy up my room, and bring in some fresh flowers. Don’t 
you remember, how, through the winter, he used to buy 
little nosegays for me when they were scarce and high ? 
He was always thinking of me.” 
She lies still, watching me as I go around. My heart 
seems broken wdth love and grief. Why must this have 
come upon us, uponTheo? She did not want to marry 
him. There was a whole wide world for him to choose 
from. 
Theo tries to sit up for a little while, but faints away 
again. Ah, how bravely she has kept this fatal secret ! 
We talk over what is best to do. If there was some 
one to ask. I think of Miss Newby ; but, after all, what 
could she do ? Oh, if I had a friend like Mr. Sargent ! 
On the third day, there being no tidings, we tell Dr. 
Sheldon. He is surprised, indignant, puzzled, and really 
does not know what to think. A man a year or two mar- 
ried would hardly have left his wife, and staid away seven 
years, without her following. It seems as if some one 
would have heard about it. There is insanity : there have 
been cases where husbands have gone away mysteriously. 
“The best thing is to write to these Kosses at Man- 
chester. And now. Miss Theo, if he comes back, what 
are you going to do ? ” 
A quiver runs over Theo’s face, through her hands ; and 
the lips try weakly, but fail to utter a sound. 
“ If you were my child, you should not live a day nor 
an hour with him, until the truth was positively ascer- 
tained.” 
“ You think that would be right? ” she cries ; and an 
expression of relief illumines her countenance. “ I 
want to do just what is right. One’s moods change so, 
you know. And it is queer ; but so few people think alike ! 
I have wanted to do that ; but I felt afraid ” — 
“ Do it. Keep to that one idea. Who will write for 
you?” 
“ I believe I would rather ; ” and a faint coloi* comes to 
her cheek. 
 
She waits a week, and then sends off the letters ; for she 
remembers the address. The next day a note comes for 
her. 
A note, did I say? — a long, passionate, penitent, ex- 
travagant love-letter. He is in New York, dying to see 
her. He has found a situation at a very fair salary, and he 
has looked at some rooms. Would she not rather keep 
house? These rooms are furnished very nicely. If he 
could see her, he would explain about that fatal evening. 
He had some trouble that nearly drove him crazy ; but it 
is over now. Nothing shall ever happen between them 
again. He begs and prays to be taken back. He pictures 
their future life so beautifully, his love and loneliness so 
pathetically. Any woman’s heart would be touched. 
Will she come down to New York? She has only to 
telegraph, and he will meet her anjnvhere. 
‘ ‘ And to think that I might have died and been buried 
in these seven days,” she says brokenly “Would he 
have been sorry, I wonder? He told me once, he would 
rather hold me dead in his arms than to know I would out- 
live him, and love another.” 
She cannot sit up an hour at a time yet ; but she writes 
a note with trembling fingers, to the effect that he can see 
her in her father’s house, where he left her. She has a 
good deal of pride, this pale little Theo. 
Mother objects strenuously. “ It will kill you, Theo,” 
she insists. 
“ No, it will not kill me. I want to be fair and just. 
And I want to see him again.” 
So he comes. I usher him up stairs, and leave them 
together. He stays two long hours talking, until I think 
I shall go wild. 
Theo is so exhausted, she cannot speak. Her ruffles are 
crushed, her hair all disordered, her pillow tumbled. How 
many times he has kissed the pale face, I cannot even 
guess. 
“ He could not or would not explain, Chrissie,” she 
eries out with sharp anguish, as the twilight comes on. 
“ It is all where it was before. He is angry at my writing 
to his brothers.” 
He is over again on Sunday. Then the doctor storms, 
and forbids any more visits. 
Theo counts wearily. “ Twelve days for a steamer to 
go, twelve to return, and two or three days’ delay. Oh, 
how long to wait ! ’ ’ 
She is very ill again. Once Dr. Sheldon watches all 
night. How good and kind he is ! 
School begins. It seems as if all the years to come 
were to be divided by these two periods, — “school 
begins,” and “it is vacation.” I am losing the bright, 
happy interest I had at first. 
The confinement is telling on father. He has a little 
fever, and no appetite. He must break out, and spend two 
weeks in the country. His eyes trouble him very much 
too : so he gives up the situation. We have my eight 
dollars a week, and Dell’s four. I must take Dell’s 
money out of the bank to pay the half-yearly interest. 
What of my old dresses are serviceable ? How can I trim 
and furbish and alter? Ah, what should I do without 
Theo ? 
The month passes, and the letter comes. It is curious, 
to say the least; a very guarded, non-committal missive, 
exhorting Theo to love and trust her husband, as to give 
him up would no doubt ruin his life, he loves her so. It 
does not say boldly and clearly that he never has been 
married, but that she need not fear being troubled. The 
sentence is suspicious. 
What can we do next? 
Dr. Sheldon learns that we can send by an agent ; or a 
lawyer here can communicate with a lawyer at Manchester, 
or, better still, at Edinburgh, where Mr. Ross spent those 
}Tars of his young hfe. Search can be made. 
 
It is ridiculous that a little money should stand between 
us and this necessary knowledge. But the unvarnished 
truth is, that there is not even enough to bury Theo if 
she should die. One comes to laugh drearily at misery 
even. 
“ I warn you all fairly,” I say with an imposing wave 
of my hand, “ that I never shall forgive any one who dies 
before we have at least one hundred dollars in the bank.” 
Theo improves a little. What shall she do? Mr. Ross 
protests that the idea of a previous marriage is false, and 
an insult to him. Cannot Theo believe his brothers? 
Then he grows exigeant. She is his wife. He is willing 
to take her, and pro\ide a home for her, — the best within 
his means ; or, if she prefers, he will come back here. 
That cannot be, we all admit. 
“ Perhaps I had better go,” she remarks with a dreary 
hopelessness in her voice. “ I am making you so much 
trouble. And — I do not believe I shall live very long 
anywhere. What does it matter? ” 
Oh ! it matters very much to us. My stale little joke 
about money in the bank is nothing. 
“ Chrissie,” she saj-s one night, “let us go back to 
your room. Maybe I shall sleep better.” 
I have not dared to propose it ; but I feel that it will be 
more cheerful, and am glad to consent. Dell is sweet with 
bits of quaint, homely wit, and Theo often smiles. 
But oh ! it seems as if she never slept. I sometimes 
hear her cry softly in the night. Is it for the arms that 
used to encircle her, the heart whereon she rested ? 
We keep our secret quite well at first, but — is it be- 
cause Mr. Ross feels that he is making no headway ? — he 
goes to spend one evening with Mrs. Hudson, and be- 
speaks her sympathy. She is very much surprised ; but 
she never could quite approve the marriage. Miss Durant 
was so young and thoughtless, so gay and fond of society ; 
not at all the kind of giil to make a happy domestic 
home, such as pleases most men, such as they have a 
right to expect. If she can do any thing for him, she 
would be glad to undertake it. He is quite right in want- 
ing to remove his wife from the undue influence her fami- 
ly exercise over her. 
If she could see Mrs. Ross, and talk the matter over 
sensibly, dispassionately 
So she calls. Introducing herself to mother, she begs 
to see Mrs. Ross on a very important matter. 
Mother consults Theo, who decides to see her. She is 
still weak ; and Mrs. Hudson is sent up stairs. Theo is 
in our great chintz-covered rocker, in a tidy silk wrapper 
made out of my old lavender bridesmaid dress, trimmed 
with black silk ruffles from another old dress. A soft 
plaiting of illusion is around neck and wrists ; there is a 
bit of pink and black lace at her throat ; and her curls 
are tied back with a pink ribbon. She looks so little and 
baby-like, her slender, limp hands white as snow, her 
cheeks colorless, her lips pale, but her eyes large and 
dark as night. Every thing about the room is pretty with 
industry rather than expense ; and there are several vases 
of flowers. 
It is quite awkward at flrst. Mrs. Hudson explains 
her errand. As the chosen friend of Mr. Ross, feeling, as 
she may say, quite like a mother towards him, she under- 
takes this errand as she would for a son. A person out- 
side of the disputes and differences — she hardty dared 
say quarrels — could see so much more clearly where the 
fault lay, and ad\dse with a more correct judgment. She 
had warned IMr. Ross before the marriage, that she was 
afraid it would not be for his happiness, there was so 
much difference in years and every thing. But since it 
had been entered into, even if unwisely, did not Theo 
think it her duty to tiy and conform to her husband’s 
wishes? Young married people were so better off 
by themselves. She had always said, if a daughter of hers 
 
married, she must go away from home at first. This 
clinging to your family so strongly" made wretched work. 
Mr. Ross felt that he had been an object of mistrust and 
suspicion ; that there had been a good deal of interference 
between him and his wife ; that her family had persuaded 
her to stay at home when he wanted to go away ; that he 
was ready to take rooms any day in New York for board- 
ing or housekeeping, but that her mother would not listen 
to her going ; that he was almost crazy with the enforced 
separation, the mistrust, and lack of confidence ; but that 
if he could have his wife all to himself, peace would 
soon reign between them. 
Theo listens to the long harangue ; for, as Mrs. Hudson 
is not interrupted, she feels herself gaining ground. She 
flushes a little, turns pale, compresses her lips with some- 
thing lile anger, and, when the ladj" has exhausted her 
flow of eloquence, she says calmly, — 
“And this is the explanation Mr. Ross has given you 
of the trouble, the reason ” — 
“Reason! Isn’t it enough?” cries the lady sharply. 
“ I told Mr. Ross if I were a man, no father or mother 
should meddle with wife of mine.” 
“ I quite agree that Mr. Ross is crazy, if he told you 
that,” continues Theo, her cheeks burning. “This is 
the truth, Mrs. Hudson. My husband left me one night 
at ten o’clock. He had been out all the afternoon and 
evening, and, coming in then, packed up a few articles, and 
left me on my father’s hands, without one word of ex- 
planation. There had been no trouble, no quarrel, and I 
was ready to go anywhere that he should find a situation. 
For a week, I never heard one word ; and now he can not 
or will not explain why he did such a thing. Since then 
I have been very ill ; some of the time not able to walk 
about the room. What could I do alone, and in immi- 
nent danger of dying ? ’ ’ 
There Theo’s voice quivers and breaks, and she shades 
her face with the soft, waxen hand. 
“ He went away because he felt that he was not rightly 
treated.” 
“ You know nothing of it, Mrs. Hudson ! ” Theo says 
indignantly. 
“I am sure his story sounds quite as probable as 
yours,” is the sharp rejoinder. 
“ He has but to explain that absence to me, to grant 
me an interview with one friend of his, and the matter 
can be settled. It is not we who have turned him out,” 
Theo cries with spirit: ‘‘it is he who went. And that 
night I might have died.” 
“It is any woman’s duty to leave her own family for 
her husband,” is the rigid comment. 
“ When he is her husband,” rises to Theo’s lips ; but 
she does not utter it. 
“ I think you can do nothing,” Theo says after she has 
regained her composure. “The conditions I have im- 
posed are not very difficult.” Then she leans her head 
back wearily, and closes her eyes. 
Mrs. Hudson goes, with a shower of hopes on Theo’s 
devoted head. 
Now the subject gets a complete airing. In a day or 
two, everybody in Northwood knows that “something” 
has happened between Mrs. Ross and her husband, — the 
pretty Theo Durant who married the Englishman last 
winter. “ She has refused to live with him,” “ They have 
turned him out of the house,” “ Her mother said so and 
so,” and all manner of improbable stories are afloat. 
Aunt Hetty comes rushing up like a whirlwind. “ "What 
has happened?” Poor as we are (and now is aunt 
Hetty’s time of triumphs : she flings our poverty into our 
teeth, in season and out of season) , — poor as we are, 
she should think we would be glad to have one girl married 
off, with poor Joseph half-gone in consumption, and such 
a great family on his hands ; the dependent ones being 
Theo and our darling boy Dick. But she always thought 
 
something would happen to us, when Chrissie turned up 
her nose at James Miller. It was flying in the face of 
Providence, and now she can see the result. But she’ll 
never have so good a chance again. 
Mother tries to explain somewhat ; but aunt Hetty is 
rampant. At last, in sheer despair, she admits her worst 
suspicion. 
It startles aunt Hetty ; but she returns valiantly to the 
charge. Until we know it for certain, Theo ought to be 
living with her husband. She don’t believe any such 
story about a nice-appearing man like Mr. Ross ; and why 
didn’t we look into the matter before? Why did we go 
to all the expense of a wedding, if we knew or suspected 
such a thing ? 
At last she is safely out, and mother collects her scat- 
tered wits. 
It is one of the solutions that have been whispered 
about a little. Some person tells father that some one 
else knows all about it, — a Scotch woman Ihdng with a 
family in Northwood : so he sets about finding her. 
She protests that she has never laid eyes on Mr. Ross, 
and knows nothing of him. She came from Inverness 
when she was but ten years old ; and he might have ten 
wives in Edinburgh, and she be none the wiser. She 
remembered saying to some pther body’s servant that old- 
country people often did leave wives behind them when 
they came to America. 
Several other stories resolve themselves into the merest 
bits of gossip. Theo improves, and is able to come down 
stairs ; but, oh, how white, how wan, and fragile ! There is 
a transparent look about her that brings tears to my eyes. 
Mr. Ross grows more aggressive and authoritative. 
Perhaps he suspects, that, in our straitened circumstances, 
we cannot cope with the enemy. He begs and pleads and 
implores, then he threatens Theo. She is his legal wife, 
and he will have her. He has never treated her unkindlj' , 
never refused her any thing : she has no showing what- 
ever. He will give her two days to consider ; then, if 
she does not go peaceably with him, he will invoke the 
law, and push every thing to the bitter end. He will make 
it so hot for her, that she will be glad to leave North wood. 
And his eyes glower with vengeful light. 
All through these terrible interviews, Theo is so 
strangely calm ! Is it because she feels the sword of death 
may cut the Gordian knot at any moment? As for me, I 
am almost wild. How can I bear to give her up to either 
mortal adversary? 
“ If I could only tell what was best,” she says wearily, 
at the dead of night, lying sleepless in my arms. “At 
times it seems as if I ought to go : I should not live very 
long, and the trouble would be over for all of you — I 
have made you so much in my short life ! He loves me, 
and will be good to me the little while ’ ’ — 
“O Theo, Theo!” I cry. “Tell me God’s solemn 
truth. Was he always good? I have come to mistrust 
him strangely. His gleaming eyes looked so tigerish to- 
night ! Why, it seemed as if he could crush you in his 
hands I ” 
A great shudder runs over her. My poor darling ! I 
kiss the cold cheek : she is cold so much now, as if she 
were but half alive. 
“ Tigerish — that is just the word, Chrissie : it ex- 
presses the quality of his love, or infatuation. Let me 
tell you all, Chris, as I never have before. On our wed- 
ding-journey I used to feel as if I iriust run away. It was 
so strange, — being loved every moment, being questioned 
continually, never having an instant or a thought that 
were your very own. I tried at first to laugh him out of 
it. And then I found that he was frightfully jealous. If 
a person looked at me in the street, at the table, or across 
the room, he was vexed. One day some one said, ‘ Is 
that pretty little girl that man’s wife, or daughter? ’ and it 
 
put him in such a fearful passion, that he changed our 
hotel, though we were going away the next morning. So 
I began to lay aside my innocent little vanities. I am not 
jealous a bit, you know ; and it seemed so foolish to me ! 
And, after we came home, he did not want me to see any 
of my old friends. I had him: why was I not satisfied? 
He wanted no one beside me. He used to sit and read, 
with me in his lap : it was so absurd, and I used to get so 
tired! And, Chris!’’ with a little hysteric laugh, “he 
objected to my sitting in this room, or in the parlor, 
because I could look out on the street. I used to hope it 
was the foolishness of the honeymoon merely ; and I was 
so glad, so thankful, when the ‘ Works ’ opened. Yet he 
always questioned me about the minutest thing. He used 
to make me promise, that, if he died, I never would marry 
again ; and he used to suppose cases, — that if he com- 
mitted some crime and had to go to prison, would I be 
true and faithful, never allowing any one to so much as 
kiss me? Oh, I can’t tell you all ! It was hourly, daily 
torture. I tried to be patient, thinking it was his great 
love ; I tried to be good, devoted, to have no way but 
his” — 
She breaks down then in a fit of sobbing. I kiss away 
the tears, and try to comfort. 
‘ ‘ I was like a prisoner always ; yet no princess of royal 
blood could have been more faithfully waited upon. And, 
oh ! how he hated to have me do any thing in the house, — 
wipe a dish, or dust a room. He was jealous of you all, 
and apparently afi'aid of the least confidence. Did I ever 
tallt about him ? What did the family say about him to 
me ? Yet I do beheve, if you had wanted money, he would 
have given you any amount, — shared all things but just 
me. And, Chris, this was why I asked him that night 
about another wife. It flashed upon me mysteriously that 
he had some secret he was afraid of. Once we had read 
‘ Jane Eyre ’ together ; and he insisted that it was simply 
because she did not love him enough, that she did not go 
off and marry Rochester secretly. • But suppose she had 
already been married to him? ’ he asked ; and, O Chrissie ! 
his face turned such a deadly, solemn white ! ‘ She would 
not have been his wife,’ I made answer; and we argued 
the point until he was angry. All these things have come 
back to me during his absence. I do not want to be 
unjustly suspicious. I married him of my own accord, and 
meant to make him happy while I did live. But oh ! it 
wears me out : it seems to crush and torture every pulse in 
my body. And, because I have such a wild longing for 
freedom, I distrust myself. Have I any right now to seek 
my own happiness ? If we have been joined together in 
God, ought we not to stay? If there is nothing but a 
miserable complication concerning some one else, that is 
none of my business, ought I not to overlook it? I think 
and think, until my brain is all chaos. Then I imagine I 
am away among strangers, and he goes off as he did that 
evening, and I am left to die alone.” 
“ O Theo, it can not, shall not be ! ” I cry. “ And we 
all love you so ! ” 
“Then my life may be so short, dear. Perhaps he 
would feel better if I died in his arms.” 
In the frantic terror that seizes me I sit up in the bed, 
and cry and pray and implore that she will not go back to 
him. There has been enough on his side, surely, to jus- 
tify suspicion. If she will only wait — one month more. 
In that time, if nothing new occurs — 
Something shall occur, I decide mentally, even as I am 
pleading. I will sell my dear watch, I will borrow some 
money of Miss Newby, and send to Scotland. 
As last she promises me to wait the month. 
CHAPTER XIX. 
I GO about all day as if in a dream. The lessons are 
purely mechanical. I find, when I reach home, that Theo 
and mother are agreed that she had better stay at home 
another month. Indeed, she is still in the doctor’s hands, 
and he strenuously opposes any change. 
The next day I pluck up courage, and go to a watch- 
maker. Fifty dollars is all I can get for my watch unless 
I wish to exchange it ; then he will offer me a very good 
bargain. 
I apply to another. Second-hand watches are a drug, 
he informs me, and he should think this was not — the 
very best time-keeper. How long have I had it ? 
I assure him that it has been excellent. 
He will undertake to sell it for me. So many people 
are parting with their watches ! Now if I wanted any 
thing, — jewelry or silver- ware — 
I walk out slowly, wondering how much it will cost to 
send to Scotland. I do not number many lawyers among 
my acquaintances, although a few students. There is Mr. 
Sargent, and I smile bitterly. Are we Durant girls fated 
to be unfortunate in love ? What will happen to Dell ? 
As I saunter along, some one comes toward me. I see 
the shadow, but do not look up. 
‘ ‘ Miss Durant ! ’ ’ 
Oh ! I should know that voice anywhere. It is not the 
 
first time I have spoken to Mr. Sargent in the street, 
though more frequently I avoid him. Now I absolutely 
put out my hand. I need some strong, true friend. 
He turns. “ Are you going down Harvard Street? ” 
“I? Yes, I suppose so.” 
He sees the pain and anguish in my face, that I hardly 
know is there. 
“ I will walk a little way with you. I have wanted to 
see you so much, Miss Durant ! Even at the risk of being 
considered impertinent, I want to ask you about my little 
friend Theo, — Mrs. Ross. Would you very much mind 
telling me what has happened ? ’ ’ 
His voice is so truly sympathetic, that it brings tears to 
my eyes. 
‘‘ Let us put ourselves entirely aside,” he says with a 
sweet, calm gravity. “ I have been wondering this past 
week if I could do auy thing for you or yours. I used to 
hke your sister so much ! She has been very ill, I hear. 
Can the story be true, that she has married a villain who 
has basely deceived her? The truth ought to be pub- 
lished, once for all.” 
“If we could learn the truth ! ’ ’ And somehow I can 
hardly keep from crying there in the street. 
“ Do you not know truly? ” 
“ Mr. Sargent, may I tell yOU the story? It is a long 
one,” and I look up eagerlj'. 
“ Then let us walk down John Street to the park.” He 
finds my hand, and draws it through his arm, so like old 
limes. 
I clear my voice, and begin, — before the marriage, 
Theo’s hesitation, Mr. Ross’s e\'ident determination to win 
her at all hazard, and then go briefly over to the night he 
went away, and his subsequent conduct, and all the little 
incidents that led us to suspect. 
‘ ‘ But why do you not find this man at Pittsburg ? ” he 
asks. 
 
“ How could we? We do not even know his name,’ 
I answer in surprise. 
“ I think I could find him. That would determine 
whether it was marriage, or some crime ; and, if the latter, 
I should advise your sister to get a divorce. There is a 
limit to mercy, or justice would not have been instituted. 
There may be little sins against one, to be forgiven 
seventy times seven ; but a crime against civil law is not 
included in that, to my thinking. Is your sister too ill to 
discuss this matter with a friend ? ’ ’ 
“No,” hesitatingly. 
“ Will you allow me to see her? ” 
