"I can 't think better of you than I do," the 
young man declared. 
Bessie Alden looked at him a moment again. 
" You certainly speak very well to young ladies. 
But why don 't you address the House ? isn't that 
what they call it ?" 
"Because I have nothing to say," said Lord Lambeth. 
" Haven't you a great position ?" asked Bessie 
Alden. 
He looked a moment at the back of his glove. 
" I'll set that down," he said, " as one of your mistakes to your credit." And as if he disliked 
talking about his position, he changed the subject. 
" I wish you would let me go with you to the Tower, and to Hampton Court, and to all those other 
places." 
" We shall be most happy," said Bessie. 
" And of course I shall be delighted to show 
you the House of Lords some day that suits you. 
There are a lot of things I want to do for you. I 
want to make you have a good time. And I should 
like very much to present some of my friends to 
you, if it wouldn 't bore you. Then it would be 
awfully kind of you to come down to Branches." 
  
" We are much obliged to you, Lord Lambeth," 
said Bessie. " What is Branches ?" 
" It 's a house in the country. I think you might 
like it." 
Willie Woodley and Mrs. Westgate at this mo 
ment were sitting in silence, and the young man 's 
ear caught these last words of Lord Lambeth's. 
"He 's inviting Miss Bessie to one of his castles," 
he murmured to his companion. 
Mrs. Westgate, foreseeing what she mentally 
called " complications," immediately got up ; and 
the two ladies, taking leave of Lord Lambeth, returned, under Mr. Woodley 's conduct, to Jones 's 
Hotel. 
Lord Lambeth came to see them on the morrow, 
bringing Percy Beaumont with him the latter 
having instantly declared his intention of neglecting none of the usual offices of civility. This declaration, however, when his kinsman informed him 
of the advent of their American friends, had been 
preceded by another remark. 
" Here they are, then, and you are in for it." 
" What am I in for ?" demanded Lord Lambeth. 
" I will let your mother give it a name. With 
all respect to whom," added Percy Beaumont, " I 
must decline on this occasion to do any more police duty. Her Grace must look after you her 
self." 
" I will give her a chance," said her Grace 
a trifle grimly. " I shall make her go and see 
them." 
" She won 't do it, my boy." 
" We'll see if she doesn 't," said Lord Lambeth. 
But if Percy Beaumont took a sombre view of 
the arrival of the two ladies at Jones 's Hotel, he 
was sufficiently a man of the world to offer them 
a smiling countenance. He fell into animated 
conversation conversation, at least, that was an 
imated on her side with Mrs. Westgate, while 
his companion made himself agreeable to the 
younger lady . Mrs. Westgate began confessing 
and protesting, declaring and expounding. 
"I must say London is a great deal brighter 
and prettier just now than it was when I was here 
last in the month of November. There is evidently a great deal going on, and you seem to have 
a good many flowers. I have no doubt it is very 
charming for all you people, and that you amuse 
yourselves immensely. It is very good of you to 
let Bessie and me come and sit and look at you. 
I suppose you will think I am very satirical, but 
I must confess that that 's the feeling I have in 
London." 
" I am afraid I don 't quite understand to what 
feeling you allude," said Percy Beaumont. 
" The feeling that it 's all very well for you English people. Every thing is beautifully arranged 
for you." 
" It seems to me it is very well for some Americans, sometimes," rejoined Beaumont. 
"For some of them, yes if they like to be patronized. But I must say I don 't like to be patronized. I may be very eccentric, and undisci 
plined, and outrageous, but I confess I never was 
fond of patronage. I like to associate with people on the same terms as I do in my own country ; 
that 's a peculiar taste that I have. But here people seem to expect something else Heaven knows 
what ! I am afraid you will think I am very un 
grateful, for I certainly have received a great deal 
of attention. The last time I was here, a lady 
sent me a message that I was at liberty to come 
and see her." 
" Dear me ! I hope you didn 't go," observed Percy Beaumont. 
" You are deliciously naif, I must say that for 
you !" Mrs. Westgate exclaimed. " It must be a 
great advantage to you here in London. I suppose 
that if I myself had a little more naivete, I should 
enjoy it more. I should be content to sit on a 
chair in the park, and see the people pass, and be 
told that this is the Duchess of Suffolk, and that 
is the Lord Chamberlain, and that I must be thankful for the privilege of beholding them. I dare 
say it is very wicked and critical of me to ask for 
any thing else. But I was always critical, and I 
freely confess to the sin of being fastidious. I am 
told there is some remarkably superior second-rate 
society provided here for strangers. Herd! I don 't want any superior second-rate society. I 
want the society that I have been accustomed to." 
" I hope you don 't call Lambeth and me secondrate," Beaumont interposed. 
" Oh, I am accustomed to you," said Mrs. Westgate. " Do you know that you English sometimes 
make the most wonderful speeches? The first 
time I came to London I went out to dine as I 
told you, I have received a great deal of attention. 
After dinner, in the drawing-room, I had some 
conversation with an old lady : I assure you I had. 
I forget what we talked about, but she presently 
said, in allusion to something we were discussing 
Oh, you know, the aristocracy do so-and-so ; but 
in one 's own class of life it is very different. In 
one 's own class of life ! What is a poor unpro 
tected American woman to do in a country where 
she is liable to have that sort of thing said to 
her?" 
" You seem to get hold of some very queer old 
ladies ; I compliment you on your acquaintance !" 
Percy Beaumont exclaimed. " If you are trying 
to bring me to admit that London is an odious 
place, you'll not succeed." 
" Pour vous aidres. I never satirical contrary," 
Mrs. Westgate retorted. I make use of this expression, because both interlocutors had begun to 
raise their voices. Percy Beaumont naturally did 
not like to hear his country abused, and Mrs. Westgate, no less naturally, did not like a stubborn debater. 
" Hallo !" said Lord Lambeth ; lt what are they 
up to now ?" And he came away from the window, 
where he had been standing with Bessie Alden. 
" I quite agree with a very clever country-woman 
of mine," Mrs. Westgate continued, with charming ardor, though with imperfect relevancy. She 
smiled at the two gentlemen for a moment with 
terrible brightness, as if to toss at their feet 
upon their native heath the gauntlet of defiance. 
" For me, there are only two social positions worth 
speaking of that of an American lady, and that 
of the Emperor of Russia." 
"And what do you do with the American gen 
tlemen ?" asked Lord Lambeth. 
" She leaves them in America !" said Percy 
Beaumont. 
On the departure of their visitors, Bessie Alden 
told her sister that Lord Lambeth would come the 
next day, to go with them to the Tower, and that 
he had got; kindly offered to bring bis "trap," and 
 Mrs. Vestgate listened in 
silence to lria pdmmimicafcidn, and for some time 
afterward she said nothing. But at last, " If you 
had not requested me the other day not to mention 
it," she began, " there is something I should venture to ask you." Bessie frowned a little ; her 
dark blue eyes were more dark than blue. But 
her sister went on. " As it is, I will take the risk. 
You are not in love with Lord Lambeth : I believe 
it, perfectly. Very good. But is there, by chance, 
any danger of your becoming so ? It 's a very simple question ; don 't take offense. I have a particular reason," said Mrs. Westgate, " for wanting 
to know." 
Bessie Alden for some moments said nothing ; 
she only looked displeased. " IS T o ; there is no 
danger," she answered at last, curtly. 
"Then I should like to frighten them," declared Mrs. Westgate, clasping her jewelled hands. 
" To frighten whom ?" 
"All these people; Lord Lambeth 's family 
and friends." 
" How should you frighten them ?" asked the 
young girl. 
" It wouldn 't be I it would be you. It would 
frighten them to think that you should absorb 
his lordship 's young affections." 
  
Bessie Alden, with her clear eyes still over 
shadowed by her dark brows, continued to interrogate. " Why should that frighten them ?" 
Mrs. West-gate poised her answer with a smile 
before delivering it. "Because they think you 
are not good enough. You are a charming girl, 
beautiful and amiable, intelligent and clever, and 
as bien-elevee as it is possible to be; but you are 
not a fit match for Lord Lambeth." 
Bessie Alden was decidedly disgusted. " Where 
do you get such extraordinary ideas ?" she asked. 
" You have said some such strange things lately. 
My dear Kitty, where do you collect them ?" 
Kitty was evidently enamored of her idea. 
"Yes, it would put them on pins and needles, 
and it wouldn 't hurt you. Mr. Beaumont is already most uneasy ; I could soon see that." 
The young girl meditated a moment. "Do 
you mean that they spy upon him that they in 
terfere with him ?" 
" I don 't know what power they have to interfere, but I know that a British mamma may worry her son 's life out." 
It has been intimated that, as regards certain 
disagreeable things, Bessie Alden had a fund of 
skepticism. She abstained on the present occasion from expressing disbelief, for she wished 
not to irritate her sister. But she said to herself that Kitty had been misinformed that this 
was a traveller 's tale. Though she was a girl of 
a lively imagination, there could in the nature of 
things be, to her sense, no reality in the idea of 
her belonging to a vulgar category. What she 
said aloud was, " I must say that in that case I 
am very sorry for Lord Lambeth." 
Mrs. Westgate, more and more exhilarated by 
her scheme, was smiling at her again. "If I 
could only believe it was safe !" she exclaimed. 
"When you begin to pity him, I, on my side, am 
afraid." 
" Afraid of what ?" 
" Of your pitying him too much." 
Bessie Alden turned away impatiently; but at 
the end of a minute she turned back. " What if 
I should pity him too much ?" she asked. 
Mrs. Westgate hereupon turned away, but after a moment 's reflection she also faced her sister 
again. " It would come, after all, to the same 
thing," she said. 
Lord Lambeth came the next day with his 
trap, and the two ladies, attended by Willie 
Woodley, placed themselves under his guidance, 
and were conveyed eastward, through some of 
the duskier portions of the metropolis, to the 
great turreted donjon which overlooks the London shipping. They all descended from their 
  
vehicle and entered the famous inclosure; and 
they secured the services of a venerable beef-eat 
er, who, though there were many other claimants 
for legendary information, made a fine exclusive 
party of them and marched them through courts 
and corridors, through armories and prisons. He 
delivered his usual peripatetic discourse, and they 
stopped and stared, and peeped and stooped, according to the official admonitions. Bessie Alden 
asked the old man in the crimson doublet a great 
many questions ; she thought it a most fascina 
ting place. Lord Lambeth was in high good 
humor ; he was constantly laughing ; he enjoyed 
what he would have called the lark. Willie 
Woodley kept looking at the ceilings and tapping the walls with the knuckle of a pearl-gray 
glove ; and Mrs. Westgate, asking at frequent in 
tervals to be allowed to sit down and wait till 
they came back, was as frequently informed that 
they would never come back. To a great many 
of Bessie 's questions chiefly on collateral points 
of English history the ancient warder was naturally unable to reply; whereupon she always 
appealed to Lord Lambeth. But his lordship 
was very ignorant. He declared that he knew 
nothing about that sort of thing, and he seemed 
greatly diverted at being treated as an authority. 
" You can 't expect every one to know as much 
as you," he said. 
"I should expect you to know a great deal 
more," declared Bessie Alden. 
" Women always know more than men about 
names and dates, and that sort of thing," Lord 
Lambeth rejoined. " There was Lady Jane Grey 
we have just been hearing about, who went in 
for Latin and Greek, and all the learning of her 
age." 
" You have no right to be ignorant, at all 
events," said Bessie. 
" Why haven 't I as good a right as any one 
else?" 
"Because you have lived in the midst of all 
these things." 
"What things do you mean? Axes, and 
blocks, and thumb-screws ?" 
" All these historical things. You belong to 
a historical family." 
"Bessie is really too historical," said Mrs. 
Westgate, catching a word of this dialogue. 
"Yes, you are too historical," said Lord Lambeth, laughing, but thankful for a formula. 
"Upon my honor, you are too historical !" 
He went with the ladies a couple of days later 
to Hampton Court, Willie Woodley being also of 
the party. The afternoon was charming, the famous horse-chestnuts were in blossom, and Lord 
Lambeth, who quite entered into the spirit of the 
cockney excursionist, declared that it was a jolly 
old place. Bessie Alden was in ecstasies ; she 
went about murmuring and exclaiming. 
" It 's too lovely," said the young girl ; " it 's too 
enchanting ; it 's too exactly what it ought to be !" 
At Hampton Court the little flocks of visitors 
are not provided with an official bell-wether, but 
are left to browse at discretion upon the local 
antiquities. It happened in this manner that, in 
default of another informant, Bessie Alden, who 
on doubtful questions was able to suggest a great 
many alternatives, found herself again applying 
for intellectual assistance to Lord Lambeth. But 
he again assured her that he was utterly help 
less in such matters that his education had been 
sadly neglected. 
"And I am sorry it makes you unhappy," he 
added, in a moment. 
" You are very disappointing, Lord Lambeth," 
she said. 
" Ah, now, don 't say that," he cried. " That 's 
the worst thing you could possibly say." 
" No," she rejoined, u it is not so bad as to say 
that I had expected nothing of you." 
" I don 't know. Give me a notion of the sort 
of thing you expected." 
" Well," said Bessie Alden, " that you would be 
more what I should like to be what I should 
try to be in your place." 
" Ah, my place !" exclaimed Lord Lambeth. 
" You are always talking about my place !" 
The young girl looked at him ; he thought she 
colored a little ; and for a moment she made no 
rejoinder. 
"Does it strike you that I am always talking 
about your place ?" she asked. 
" I am sure you do it a great honor," he said, 
fearing he had been uncivil. 
" I have often thought about it," she went on, 
after a moment. " I have often thought about 
your being a hereditary legislator. A hereditary legislator ought to know a great many 
things." 
" Xot if he doesn 't legislate." 
" But you do legislate ; it 's absurd your saying 
you don 't. You are very much looked up to here 
I am assured of that." 
" I don 't know that I ever noticed it." 
" It is because you are used to it, then. You 
ought to fill the place." 
"How do you mean to fill it?" asked Lord 
Lambeth. 
" You ought to be very clever and brilliant, and 
to know almost every thing." 
  
Lord Lambeth looked at her a moment. 
"Shall I tell you something?" he asked. "A 
young man in my position, as you call it " 
"I didn 't invent the term," interposed Bessie 
Alden. " I have seen it in a great many books." 
" Hang it ! you are always at your books. A 
fellow in my position, then, does very well what 
ever he does. That 's about what I mean to say." 
" Well, if your own people are content with 
you," said Bessie Alden, laughing, " it is not for 
me to complain. But I shall always think that, 
properly, you should have been a great mind a 
great character." 
" Ah, that 's very theoretic," Lord Lambeth declared. " Depend upon it, that 's a Yankee prejudice." 
" Happy the country," said Bessie Alden, 
" where even people 's prejudices are so elevated !" 
" Well, after all," observed Lord Lambeth, " I 
don 't know that I am such a fool as you are trying to make me out." 
" I said nothing so rude as that ; but I must 
repeat that you are disappointing." 
" My dear Miss Alden," exclaimed the young 
man, " I am the best fellow in the world !" 
" Ah, if it were not for that !" said Bessie 
Alden, with a smile. 
Mrs. Westgate had a good many more friends 
in London 'than she pretended, and before long 
she had renewed acquaintance with most of them. 
Their hospitality was extreme, so that, one thing 
leading to another, she began, as the phrase is, to 
go out. Bessie Alden, in this way, saw some 
thing of what she found it a great satisfaction to 
call to herself English society. She went to balls 
and danced, she went to dinners and talked, she 
went to concerts and listened (at concerts Bessie 
always listened), she went to exhibitions and 
wondered. Her enjoyment was keen and her curiosity insatiable, and, grateful in general for all her 
opportunities, she especially prized the privilege 
of meeting certain celebrated persons authors 
and artists, philosophers and statesmen of 
whose renown she had been a humble and distant 
beholder, and who now, as a part of the habitual 
furniture of London drawing-rooms, struck her 
as stars fallen from the firmament and become 
palpable revealing also sometimes, on contact, 
qualities not to have been predicted of sidereal 
bodies. Bessie, who knew so many of her con 
temporaries by reputation, had a good many per 
sonal disappointments ; but, on the other hand, 
she had innumerable satisfactions and enthusiasms, and she communicated the emotions of 
either class to a dear friend, of her own sex, in 
Boston, with whom she was in voluminous correspondence. Some of her reflections, indeed, she 
attempted to impart to Lord Lambeth, who came 
almost every day to Jones 's Hotel, and whom Mrs. 
Westgate admitted to be really devoted. Captain 
Littledale, it appeared, had gone to India ; and of 
several others of Mrs. Westgate 's ex-pensioners 
gentlemen who, as she said, had made, in New 
York, a club-house of her drawing-room no tid 
ings were to be obtained ; but Lord Lambeth was 
certainly attentive enough to make up for the accidental absences, the short memories, all the other 
irregularities, of every one else. He drove them in 
the Park, he took them to visit private collections 
of pictures, and, having a house of his own, in 
vited them to dinner. Mrs. Westgate, following 
the fashion of many of her compatriots, caused 
herself and her sister to be presented at the English court by her diplomatic representative for 
it was in this manner that she alluded to the 
American minister to England, inquiring what 
on earth he was put there for, if not to make 
the proper arrangements for one 's going to a 
Drawing-room. 
Lord Lambeth declared that he hated Drawing- 
rooms, but he participated in the ceremony on 
the day on which the two ladies at Jones 's Hotel 
repaired to Buckingham Palace in a remarkable 
coach which his lordship had sent to fetch them. 
He had on a gorgeous uniform, and Bessie Alden 
was particularly struck with his appearance especially when on her asking him, rather foolishly 
as she felt, if ho were a loyal subject, he replied 
that he was a loyal subject to her. This decla 
ration was emphasized by his dancing with her 
at a royal ball to which the two ladies afterward 
went, and was not impaired by the fact that she 
thought he danced very ill. He seemed to her 
wonderfully kind ; she asked herself, with growing vivacity, why he should be so kind. It was 
his disposition that seemed the natural answer. 
She had told her sister that she liked him very 
much, and now that she liked him more she wondered why. She liked him for his disposition ; 
to this question as well that seemed the natural 
answer. When once the impressions of London 
life began to crowd thickly upon her she completely forgot her sister 's warning about the cyn 
icism of public opinion. It had given her great 
pain at the moment, but there was no particular 
reason why she should remember it ; it corre 
sponded too little with any sensible reality; and 
it was disagreeable to Bessie to remember dis 
agreeable things. So she was not haunted with 
the sense of a vulgar imputation. She was not 
in love with Lord Lambeth she assured herself 
of that. It will immediately be observed that 
  
when such assurances become necessary the 
state of a young lady 's affections is already ambiguous ; and, indeed, Bessie Alden made no attempt to dissimulate to herself, of course a 
certain tenderness that she felt for the young 
nobleman. She said to herself that she liked the 
type to which he belonged the simple, candid, 
manly, healthy English temperament. She spoke 
to herself of him as women speak of young men 
they like alluded to his bravery (which she had 
never in the least seen tested), to his honesty 
and gentlemanliriess, and was not silent upon 
the subject of his good looks. She was perfectly conscious, moreover, that she liked to think of 
his more adventitious merits ; that her imagination was excited and gratified by the sight of a 
handsome young man endowed with such large 
opportunities opportunities she hardly knew for 
what, but, as she supposed, for doing great things 
for setting an example, for exerting an influence, for conferring happiness, for encouraging 
the arts. She had a kind of ideal of conduct for 
a young man who should find himself in this mag 
nificent position, and she tried to adapt it to Lord 
Lambeth 's deportment, as you might attempt to fit 
a silhouette in cut paper upon a shadow projected 
upon a wall. But Bessie Alden 's silhouette refused to coincide with his lordship 's image, and this 
want of harmony sometimes vexed her more than 
she thought reasonable. When he was absent it 
was, of course, less striking ; then he seemed to 
her a sufficiently graceful combination of high responsibilities and amiable qualities. But when he 
sat there within sight, laughing and talking with 
his customary good humor and simplicity, she 
measured it more accurately, and she felt acutely 
that if Lord Lambeth 's position was heroic, there 
was but little of the hero in the young man himself. Then her imagination wandered away from 
him very far away ; for it was an incontestable 
fact that at such moments he seemed distinctly 
dull. I am afraid that while Bessie 's imagination was thus invidiously roaming, she can not 
have been herself a very lively companion ; but 
it may well have been that these occasional fits 
of indifference seemed to Lord Lambeth a part 
of the young girl 's personal charm. It had been 
a part of this charm from the first that he felt 
that she judged him and measured him more 
freely and irresponsibly more at her ease and 
her leisure, as it were than several young ladies 
with whom he had been on the whole about as 
intimate. To feel this, and yet to feel that she 
also liked him, was very agreeable to Lord Lambeth. He fancied he had compassed that gratification so desirable to young men of title and 
  
fortune being liked for himself. It is true that 
a cynical counsellor might have whispered to 
him, "Liked for yourself? Yes; but not so 
very much !" He had, at any rate, the constant 
hope of being liked more. 
It may seem, perhaps, a trifle singular but it 
is nevertheless true that Bessie Alden, when he 
struck her as dull, devoted some time, on grounds 
of conscience, to trying to like him more. I say 
on grounds of conscience, because she felt that 
he had been extremely " nice" to her sister, and 
because she reflected that it was no more than 
fair that she should think as well of him as he 
thought of her. This effort was possibly some 
times not so successful as it might have been, for 
the result of it was occasionally a vague irritation, which expressed itself in hostile criticism of 
several British institutions. Bessie Alden went 
to some entertainments at which she met Lord 
Lambeth ; but she went to others at which his 
lordship was neither actually nor potentially 
present ; and it was chiefly on these latter occasions that she encountered those literary and artistic celebrities of whom mention has been made. 
After a while she reduced the matter to a principle. If Lord Lambeth should appear any 
where, it was a symbol that there would be no 
poets and philosophers ; and in consequence for 
it was almost a strict consequence she used to 
enumerate to the young man these objects of her 
admiration. 
" You seem to be awfully fond of those sort 
of people," said Lord Lambeth one day, as if the 
idea had just occurred to him. 
"They are the people in England I am most 
curious to see," Bessie Alden replied. 
"I suppose that 's because you have read so 
much," said Lord Lambeth, gallantly. 
" I have not read so much. It is because we 
think so much of them at home." 
" Oh, I see," observed the young nobleman. 
" In Boston." 
"Not only in Boston; every where," said Bes 
sie. " We hold them in great honor ; they go to 
the best dinner parties." 
" I dare say you are right. I can 't say I know 
many of them." 
" It 's a pity you don 't," Bessie Alden declared. 
" It would do you good." 
" I dare say it would," said Lord Lambeth, very 
humbly. " But I must say I don 't like the looks 
of some of them." 
"Xeither do I of some of them. But there 
are all kinds, and many of them are charm 
ing." 
"I have talked with two or three of them," the 
  
young man. went on, " and I thought they had a 
kind of fawning manner." 
"Why should they fawn?" Bessie Alden de 
manded. 
" I'm sure I don 't know. Why, indeed ?" 
" Perhaps you only thought so," said Bessie. 
" Well, of course," rejoined her companion
" that 's a kind of thing that can 't be proved." 
" In America they don 't fawn," said Bessie. 
" Ah, well, then, they must be better company." 
Bessie was silent a moment. " That is one of 
the things I don 't like about England," she said ; 
"your keeping the distinguished people apart." 
" How do you mean apart ?" 
" Why, letting them come only to certain places. 
You never see them." 
Lord Lambeth looked at her a moment. " What 
people do you mean ?" 
" The eminent people the authors and artists 
the clever people." 
"Oh, there are other eminent people besides 
those," said Lord Lambeth. 
" Well, you certainly keep them apart," repeat 
ed the young girl. 
"And there are other clever people," added 
Lord Lambeth, simply. 
Bessie Alden looked at him, and she gave a light 
laugh. " Xot many," she said. 
On another occasion just after a dinner party 
she told him that there was something else in 
England she did not like. 
" Oh, I say !" he cried, " haven 't you abused us 
enough ?" 
u I have never abused you at all," said Bessie ; 
"but I don 't like your precedence." 
" It isn't my precedence !" Lord Lambeth de 
clared, laughing. 
" Yes, it is yours just exactly yours ; and I 
think it 's odious," said Bessie. 
" I never saw such a young lady for discussing 
things ! Has some one had the impudence to go 
before you ?" asked his lordship. 
"It is not the going before me that I object 
to," said Bessie ; " it is their thinking that they 
have a right to do it a right that I recognize" 
" I never saw such a young lady as you are for 
not recognizing. I have no doubt the thing is 
beastly, but it saves a lot of trouble." 
" It makes a lot of trouble. It 's horrid," said 
Bessie. 
" But how would you have the first people go ?" 
asked Lord Lambeth. " They can 't go last." 
" Whom do you mean by the first people ?" 
" Ah, if you mean to question first principles !" 
said Lord Lambeth. 
"If those are your first principles, no wonder 
  
some of your arrangements are horrid," observed 
Bessie Alden, with a very pretty ferocity. " I am 
a young girl, so of course I go last ; but imagine 
what Kitty must feel on being informed that she 
is not at liberty to budge until certain other ladies 
have passed out." 
" Oh, I say, she is not  informed ! " cried Lord 
Lambeth. "JSTo one would do such a thing as 
that." 
" She is made to feel it," the young girl insisted 
" as if they were afraid she would make a rush 
for the door.  S T o ; you have a lovely country," said 
Bessie Alden, " but your precedence is horrid." 
" I certainly shouldn 't think your sister would 
like it," rejoined Lord Lambeth, with even exaggerated gravity. But Bessie Alden could induce 
him to enter no formal protest against this repulsive custom, which he seemed to think an extreme 
convenience. 
Percy Beaumont all this time had been a very 
much less frequent visitor at Jones 's Hotel than 
his noble kinsman ; he had, in fact, called but twice 
upon the two American ladies. Lord Lambeth, 
who often saw him, reproached him with his neglect, and declared that, although Mrs. Westgate 
had said nothing about it, he was sure that she 
was secretly wounded by it. "She suffers too 
much to speak," said Lord Lambeth. 
"That 's all gammon," said Percy Beaumont; 
" there 's a limit to what people can suffer !" And, 
though sending no apologies to Jones 's Hotel, he 
undertook in a manner to explain his absence. 
" You are always there," he said, " and that 's reason enough for my not going." 
"I don 't see why. There is enough for both 
of us." 
"I don 't care to be a witness of your your 
reckless passion," said Percy Beaumont. 
Lord Lambeth looked at him with a cold eye, 
and for a moment said nothing. " It 's not so ob 
vious as you might suppose," he rejoined, dryly, 
" considering what a demonstrative beggar I am." 
" I don 't want to know any thing about it 
nothing whatever," said Beaumont. " Your mother asks me every time she sees me whether I believe you are really lost and Lady Pimlico does 
the same. I prefer to be able to answer that I 
know nothing about it that I never go there. I 
stay away for consistency 's sake. As I said the 
other day, they must look after you themselves." 
"You are devilish considerate," said Lord 
Lambeth. " They never question me." 
" They are afraid of you. They are afraid of 
irritating you and making you worse. So they go 
to work very cautiously, and, somewhere or other, 
they get their information. They know a great 
  
deal about you. They know that you have been 
with those ladies to the dome of St. Paul 's and 
where was the other place ? to the Thames 
Tunnel." 
" If all their knowledge is as accurate as that, 
it must be very valuable," said Lord Lambeth. 
" Well, at any rate, they know that you have 
been visiting the sights of the metropolis. They 
think very naturally, as it seems to me that 
when you take to visiting the sights of the me 
tropolis with a little American girl, there is serious 
cause for alarm." Lord Lambeth responded to this 
intimation by scornful laughter, and his companion continued, after a pause : " I said just now I 
didn 't want to know any thing about the affair ; 
but I will confess that I am curious to learn 
whether you propose to marry Miss Bessie Alden." 
On this point Lord Lambeth gave his interlocutor no immediate satisfaction ; he was musing, with a frown. " By Jove," he said, " they go 
rather too far. They shall find me dangerous 
I promise them." 
Percy Beaumont began to laugh. " You don 't 
redeem your promises. You said the other day 
you would make your mother call." 
Lord Lambeth continued to meditate. " I 
asked her to call," he said, simply. 
" And she declined ?" 
" Yes ; but she shall do it yet." 
" Upon my word," said Percy Beaumont, " if 
she gets much more frightened I believe she 
will." Lord Lambeth looked at him, and he went 
on. " She will go to the girl herself." 
" How do you mean she will go to her?" 
" She will beg her off, or she will bribe her. 
She will take strong measures." 
Lord Lambeth turned away in silence, and his 
companion watched him take twenty steps and 
then slowly return. " I have invited Mrs. Westgate and Miss Alden to Branches," he said, " and 
this evening I shall name a day." 
"And shall you invite your mother and your 
sisters to meet them ?" 
"Explicitly!" 
" That will set the Duchess off," said Percy 
Beaumont. " I suspect she will come." 
" She may do as she pleases." 
Beaumont looked at Lord Lambeth. " You do 
really propose to marry the little sister, then?" 
" I like the way you talk about it !" cried the 
young man. " She won 't gobble me down ; don 't 
be afraid." 
" She won 't leave you on your knees," said 
Percy Beaumont. " What is the inducement ?" 
"You talk about proposing: wait till I have 
proposed," Lord Lambeth went on. 
  
" That 's right, my dear fellow ; think about it," 
said Percy Beaumont. 
" She 's a charming girl," pursued his lordship. 
" Of course she 's a charming girl. I don 't 
know a girl more charming, intrinsically. But 
there are other charming girls nearer home." 
"I like her spirit," observed Lord Lambeth, 
almost as if he were trying to torment his cousin. 
" What 's the peculiarity of her spirit ?" 
"She 's not afraid, and she says things out, 
and she thinks herself as good as any one. She 
is the only girl I have ever seen that was not 
dying to marry me." 
" How do you know that, if you haven 't asked 
her ?" 
" I don 't know how ; but I know it." 
" I am sure she asked me questions enough 
