




bent over it, and licked it, and seemed to say, " Come, 
my child; we are pursued; we must go." She 
walked away towards the west, and the little thing 
skipped after her. It was slow going for the slender 
legs, over the fallen logs, and through the rasping 
bushes. The doe bounded in advance, and waited ; 
the fawn scrambled after her, slipping and tumbling 
along, very groggy yet on its legs, and whining a 
good deal because its mother kept always moving 
away from it. The fawn evidently did not hear the 
hound ; the little innocent would even have looked 
sweetly at the dog, and tried to make friends with it, 
if the brute had been rushing upon him. By all the 
means at her command the doe urged her young one 
on ; but it was slow work. She might have been a 
mile away while they were making a few rods. 
Whenever the fawn caught up he was quite content 
to frisk about. He wanted more breakfast, for one 
thing ; and his mother wouldn't stand still. She 
moved on continually ; and his weak legs were tangled 
in the roots of the narrow deer-path. 

Shortly came a sound that threw the doe into a 
panic of terror, — a short, sharp yelp, followed by a 
prolonged howl, caught up and re-echoed by other 
hayings along the mountain-side. The doe knew 
what that meant. One hound had caught her trail, 
and the whole pack responded to the " view-halloo." 
The danger was certain now ; it was near. She 
could not crawl on in this way ; the dogs would soon 
be upon them. She turned again for flight : the fawn, 
scrambling after her, tumbled over, and bleated pite- 
ously. The baying, now emphasized by the yelp of 
certainty, came nearer. Flight with the fawn was 
impossible. The doe returned and stood by it, head 



 

erect, and nostrils distended. She stood perfectly 
still, but trembling. Perhaps she was thinking. The 
fawn took advantage of the situation, and began to 
draw his luncheon ration. The doe seemed to have 
made up her mind. She let him finish. The fawn^ 
having taken all he wanted, lay down contentedly, 
and the doe licked him for a moment. Then, with 
the swiftness of a bird, she dashed away, and in 
moment was lost in the forest. She went in the 
direction of the hounds. 

According to all human calculations, she was going 
into the jaws of death. So she was : all human calcu- 
lations are selfish. She kept straight on, hearing the 
baying every moment more distinctly. She descended 
the slope of the mountain until she reached the more 
open forest of hard-wood. It was freer going here, 
and the cry of the pack echoed more resoundingly 
in the great spaces. She was going due east, when 
(judging by the sound, the hounds were not far off, 
though they were still hidden by a ridge) she turned 
away towards the north, and kept on at a good pace. 
In five minutes more she heard the sharp, exultant 
yelp of discovery, and then the deep-mouthed howl of 
pursuit. The hounds had struck her trail where she 
turned, and the fawn was safe. 

The doe was in good running condition, the ground 
was not bad, and she felt the exhilaration of the 
chase. For the moment, fear left her, and she bounded 
on with the exaltation of triumph. For a quarter of 
an hour she went on at a slapping pace, clearing the 
moose-bushes with bound after bound, flying over the 
fallen logs, pausing neither for brook or ravine. The 
baying of the bounds grew fainter behind her. But 
she struck a bad piece of going, a dead-wood slash. 




It was marvellous to see her skim over it, leaping 
among its intricacies, and not breaking her slender 
legs. No other living animal could do it. .But it 
was killing work. She began to pant fearfully ; she 
lost ground. The baying of the hounds was nearer. 
She climbed the hard- wood hill at a slower gait : but, 
once on more level, free ground, her breath came back 
to her, and she stretched away with new courage, and 
may be a sort of contempt of her heavy pursuers. 

After running at a high speed perhaps half a mile 
farther, it occurred to her that it would be safe now 
to turn to the west, and, by a wide circuit, seek her 
fawn. But, at the moment, she heard a sound that 
chilled her heart. It was the cry of a hound to 
the west of her. The crafty brute had made the cir- 
cuit of the slash, and cut off her retreat. There was 
nothing to do but to keep on ; and on she went, still 
to the north, with the noise of the pack behind her. 
In five minutes more she had passed into a hill- 
side clearing. Cows and young steers were grazing 
there. She heard a tinkle of bells. Below her, down 
the mountain-slope, were other clearings, broken by 
patches of woods. Fences intervened ; and a mile 
or two down lay the valley, the shining Ausable, and 
the peaceful farm-houses. That way also her hered- 
itary enemies were. Not a merciful heart in all that 
lovely valley. She hesitated ; it was only for an in- 
stant. She must cross the Slidebrook Valley if possi- 
ble, and gain the mountain opposite. She bounded 
on ; she stopped. What was that ? From the valley 
ahead came the cry of a searching hound. All the 
devils were loose this morning. Every way was 
closed but one, and that led straight down the moun- 
tain to the cluster of houses. Conspicuous among 



them was a slender white wooden spire. The doe did 
not know it was the spire of a Christian chapel, but 
perhaps she thought that human pity dwelt there, and 
would be more merciful than the teeth of the hounds* 

** The hounds are baying on my track : 
O white man ! will you send me back ? " 

In a panic, frightened animals will always flee to 
human-kind from the danger of more savage foes. 
They always make a mistake in doing so. Perhaps 
the. trait is the survival of an era of peace on earth ; 
perhaps it is a prophecy of the golden age of the 
future. The business of this age is murder, — the 
slaughter of animals, the slaughter of fellow-men, by 
the wholesale. Hilarious poets who never fired a gun 
write hunting songs, — Ti-ra-la : and good bishops 
write war-songs, — Ave the Czar ! 

The hunted doe went down " the open," clearing 
the fences splendidly, flying along the stony path. It 
was a beautiful sight. But consider what a shot 
it was! If the deer, now, could only have been 
caught ! No doubt there were tender-hearted people 
in the valley who would have spared her life, shut her 
up in a stable, and petted her. Was there one who 
would have let her go back to her waiting fawn ? It 
is the business of civilization to tame or kill. 

The doe went on ; she left the saw-mill on John's 
Brook to her right ; she turned into a wood-path. As 
she approached Slide Brook, she saw a boy standing 
by a tree with a raised rifle. The dogs were not in 
sight, but she could hear them coming down the hill. 
There was no time for hesitation. With a tremendous 
burst of speed she cleared the stream, and, as she 
touched the bank, heard the " ping " of a rifle bullet 
in the air above her. The cruel sound gave wings to 

the poor thing. In a moment more she was in the 
opening : she leaped into the travelled road. Which 
way ? Below her in the wood was a load of hay : a 
man and a boy, with pitchforks in their hands, were 
running towards her. She turned south, and flew 
along the street. The town was up. Women and 
children ran to the doors and windows ; men snatched 
their rifles ; shots were fired ; at the big boarding- 
houses, the summer boarders, who never have any- 
thing to do, came out and cheered ; a camp-stool was 
thrown from a veranda. Some young fellows shoot- 
ing at a mark in the meadow saw the flying deer, and 
popped away at her : but they were accustomed to a 
mark that stood still. It was all so sudden ! There 
were twenty people who were just going to shoot her ; 
when the doe leaped the road fence, and went away 
across a marsh towards the foot-hills. It was a fear- 
ful gauntlet to run. But nobody except the deer con- 
sidered it in that light. Everybody told what he was 
just going to do! everybody who had seen the per- 
formance was a kind of hero, — everybody except the 
deer. For days and days it was the subject of con- 
versation ; and the summer boarders kept their guns 
at hand, expecting another deer would come to be 
shot at. 

The doe went away to the foot-hills, going now 
flower, and evidently fatigued, if not frightened half 
to death. Nothing is so appalling to a recluse as a 
half a mile of summer boarders. As the deer entered 
the thin woods she saw a rabble of people start across 
the meadow in pursuit. By this time, the dogs, pant- 
ing and lolling out their tongues, came swinging along, 
keeping the trail, like stupids, and consequently los- 
ing ground when the deer doubled. But, when the 





doe had got into the timber, she heard the savage 
brutes howling across the meadow. (It is well 
enough, perhaps, to say that nobody offered to shoot 
the dogs.) 

The courage of the panting fugitive was not gone : 
she was game to the tip of her high-bred ears. But 
the fearful pace at which she had just been going told 
on her. Her legs trembled, and her heart beat like a 
trip-hammer. She slowed her speed perforce, but still 
fled industriously up the right bank of the stream. 
When she had gone a couple of miles, and the dogs 
were evidently gaining again, she crossed the broad, 
deep brook, climbed the steep, left bank, and fled on 
in the direction of the Mount Marcy trail. The ford- 
ing of the river threw the hounds off for a time. She 
knew, by their uncertain yelping up and down the op- 
posite bank, that she had a little respite : she used it, 
however, to push on until the baying was faint in her 
ears ; and then she dropped, exhausted, upon the 
ground. 

This rest, brief as it was, saved her life. Roused 
again by the baying pack, she leaped forward with 
better speed, though without that keen feeling of ex- 
hilarating flight that she had in the morning. It was 
still a race for life ; but the odds were in her favor, 
she thought. She did not appreciate the dogged 
persistence of the hounds, nor had any inspiration 
told her that the race is not to the swift. She was a 
little confused in her mind where to go ; but an in- 
stinct kept her course to the left, and consequently far- 
ther away from her fawn. Going now slower, and now 
faster, as the pursuit seemed more distant or nearer, 
she kept to the south-west, crossed the stream again, 
left Panther Gorge on her right, and ran on by Hay- 





stack and Skylight in the direction of the Upper 
Ausable Pond. I do not know her exact course 
through this maze of mountains, swamps, ravines, and 
frightful wildernesses. I only know that the poor 
thing woi^ked her way along painfully, with sinking 
heart and unsteady limbs, lying down " dead-beat " at 
intervals, and then spurred on by the cry of the re- 
morseless dogs, until, late in the afternoon she stag- 
gered down the shoulder of Bartlett, and stood upon 
the shore of the lake. If she could put that piece of 
water between her and her pursuers, she would be 
safe. Had she strength to swim it ? 

At her first step into the water she saw a sight that 
send her back with a bound. There was a boat mid- 
lake ; two men were in it. One was rowing : the other 
had a gun in his hand. They were looking towards 
her : they had seen her. (She did not know that they 
had heard the baying of hounds on the mountains, 
and had been lying in wait for her an hour.) What 
should she do ? The hounds were drawing near. 
No escape that way, even if she could still run. 
With only a moment's hesitation she plunged into the 
lake, and struck obliquely across. Her tired legs 
could not propel the tired body rapidly. She saw the 
boat headed for her. She turned towards the centre 
of the lake. The boat turned. She could hear the 
rattle of the oar-locks. It was gaining on her. Then 
there was a silence. Then there was a splash of the 
water just ahead of her, followed by a roar round the 
lake, the words " Confound it all ! " and a rattle of 
the oars again. The doe saw the boat nearing her. 
She turned irresolutely to the shore whence she came: 
the dogs were lapping the water, and howling there. 
She turned again to the centre of the lake. 



The brave, pretty creature was quite exhausted now. 
In a moment more, with a rush of water, the boat was 
on her, and the man at the oars had leaned over and 
caught her by the tail. 

'^ Knock her on the head with that paddle!" he 
shouted to the gentleman in the stern. 

The gentleman was a gentleman, with a kind, 
smooth-shaven face, and might have been a minister 
of some sort of everlasting gospel. He took the pad- 
dle in his hand. Just then the doe turned her head, 
and looked at him with her great, appealing eyes. 

" I can't do it ! my soul, I can't do it ! " and he 
dropped the paddle. '' Oh, let her go ! " 

" Let thunder go ! " was the only response of the 
guide as he slung the deer round, whipped out his 
hunting-knife, and made a pass that severed her jug- 
ular. 

And the gentleman ate that night of the venison. 

The buck returned about the middle of the after- 
noon. The fawn was bleating piteously, hungry and 
lonesome. The buck was surprised. He looked about 
in the forest. He took a circuit and came back. His 
doe was nowhere to be seen. He looked down at the 
fawn in a helpless sort of way. The fawn appealed 
for his supper. The buck had nothing whatever to 
give his child, — nothing but his sympathy. If he 
said anything, this is what he said : " I 'm the head of 
this family ; but, really, this is a novel case. I 've 
nothing whatever for you. I don't know what to do. 
I Ve the feelings of a father ; but you can't live on 
them. Let us travel." 

The buck walked away : the little one toddled after 
him. They disappeared in the forest. , 



There has been a lively inquiry after the primeval 
man. Wanted, a man who would satisfy the conditions 
of the miocene environment, and yet would be good 
enough for an ancestor. We are not particular about 
our ancestors, if they are sufficiently remote ; but we 
must have something. Failing to apprehend the pri- 
meval man, science has sought the primitive man where 
he exists as a survival in present savage races. He is, 
at best, only a mushroom growth of the recent period 
(came in, probably, with the general raft of mamma- 
lian fauna) ; but he possesses yet some rudimentary 
traits that may be studied. 

It is a good mental exercise to try to fix the mind 
on the primitive man divested of all the attributes he 
has acquired in his struggles with the other mammalian 
fauna. Fix the mind on an orange, the ordinary occu- 
pation of the metaphysician : take from it. without eat- 
ing it, odor, color, weight, form, substance, and peel ; 
then let the mind still dwell on it as an orange. The 
experiment is perfectly successful; only, at the end 
of it, you haven't any mind. Better still, consider the 
telephone : take away from it the metallic disk, and 
the magnetized iron, and the connecting wire, and then 
let the mind run abroad on the telephone. The mind 
won't come back. I have tried by this sort of process 
to get a conception of the primitive man. I let the 



mind roam away back over the vast geologic spaces, 
and sometimes fancy I see a dim image of him stalking 
across the terrace epoch of the quaternary period. 

But this is an unsatisfying pleasure. The best results 
are obtained by studying the primitive man as he is 
left here and there in our era, a witness of what has 
been ; and I find him most to my mind in the Adiron- 
dack system of what geologists call the Champlain 
epoch. I suppose the primitive man is one who owes 
more to nature than to the forces of civilization. 
What we seek in him are the primal and original 
traits, unmixed with the sophistications of society, and 
unimpaired by the refinements of an artificial culture. 
He would retain the primitive instincts, which are 
cultivated out of the ordinary, commonplace man. I 
should expect to find him, by reason of an unrelin- 
quished kinship, enjoying a special communion with 
nature, — admitted to its mysteries, understanding its 
moods, and able to predict its vagaries. He would be 
a kind of test to us of what we have lost by our gre- 
garious acquisitions. On the one hand, there would 
be the sharpness of the senses, the keen instincts 
which the fox and beaver still possess, the ability to 
find one's way in the pathless forest, to follow a trail, 
to circumvent the wild denizens of the woods ; and, on 
the other hand, there would be the philosophy of life 
which the primitive man, with little external aid, would 
evolve from original observation and cogitation. It is 
our good fortune to know such a man ; but it is difficult 
to present him to a scientific and cavilling generation. 
He emigrated from somewhat limited conditions in 
Vermont, at an early age, nearly half a century ago, 
and sought freedom for his natural development back- 
ward in the wilds of the Adirondacks. Sometimes it 





is a love of adventure and freedom that sends men out 
of the more civilized conditions into the less ; some- 
times it is a constitutional physical lassitude which 
leads them to prefer the rod to the hoe, the trap to the 
sickle, and the society of bears to town-meetings and 
taxes. I think that Old Mountain Phelps had merely 
the instincts of the primitive man, and never any hos- 
tile civilizing intent as to the wilderness into which he 
plunged. Why should he want to slash away the 
forest, and plough up the ancient mould, when it is 
infinitely pleasanter to roam about in the leafy soli- 
tudes, or sit upon a mossy log and listen to the chatter 
of birds and the stir of beasts ? Are there not trout 
in the streams, gum exuding from the spruce, sugar in 
the maples, honey in the hollow trees, fur on the sables, 
warmth in hickory-logs ? Will not a few days' plant- 
ing and scratching in the " open " yield potatoes and 
rye ? And, if there is steadier diet needed than veni- 
son and bear, is the pig an expensive animal ? If Old 
Phelps bowed to the prejudice or fashion of his age, 
— since we have come out of the tertiary state of 
things, — and reared a family, built a frame-house in a 
secluded nook by a cold spring, planted about it some 
apple-trees and a rudimentary garden, and installed a 
group of flaming sunflowers by the door, I am con- 
vinced that it was a concession that did not touch his 
radical character ; that is to say, it did not impair his 
reluctance to split oven-wood. 

He was a true citizen of the wilderness. Thoreau 
would have liked him, as he liked Indians and wood- 
chucks, and the smell of pine-forests; and, if Old 
Phelps had seen Thoreau, he would probably have 
said to him, " Why on airth, Mr. Thoreau, don't you 
live accordin' to your preachin' ? " You might be 

misled by the shaggy suggestion of Old Phelps's given 
name — Orson — into the notion that he was a mighty 
hunter, with the fierce spirit of the Berserkers in his 
veins. Nothing could be farther from the truth. The 
hirsute and grisly sound of Orson expresses only his 
entire affinity with the untamed and the natural, an 
uncouth but gentle passion for the freedom and wild- 
ness of the forest. Orson Phelps has only those un- 
conventional and humorous qualities of the bear which 
make the animal so beloved in literature ; and one does 
not think of Old Phelps so much as a lover of nature, 
— to use the sentimental slang of the period, — as a 
part of nature itself. 

His appearance at the time when as a " guide " he 
began to come into public notice fostered this impres- 
sion, — a sturdy figure, with long body and short legs, 
clad in a woollen shirt and butternut-colored trousers 
repaired to the point of picturesqueness, his head sur- 
mounted by a limp, light-brown felt hat, frayed away 
at the top, so that his yellowish hair grew out of it 
like some nameless fern out of a pot. His tawny hair 
was long and tangled, matted now many years past 
the possibility of being entered by a comb. His fea- 
tures were small and delicate, and set in the frame of 
a reddish beard, the razor having mowed away a clear- 
ing about the sensitive mouth, which was not seldom 
wreathed with a child-like and charming smile. Out 
of this hirsute environment looked the small gray eyes, 
set near together ; eyes keen to observe, and quick to 
express change of thought ; eyes that made you be- 
lieve instinct can grow into philosophic judgment. 
His feet and hands were of aristocratic smallness, 
although the latter were not worn away by ablutions ; 
in fact, they assisted his toilet to give you the impres- 





sion that here was a man who had just come out of the 
ground, — a real son of the soil, whose appearance was 
partially explained by his humorous relation to soap. 
" Soap is a thing," he said, " that I hain't no kinder 
use for." His clothes seemed to have been put on 
him once for all, like the bark of a tree, a long time 
ago. The observant stranger was sure to be puzzled 
by the contrast of this realistic and uncouth exterior 
with the internal fineness, amounting to refinement 
and culture, that shone through it all. What com- 
munion had supplied the place of our artificial breed- 
ing to this man ? 

Perhaps his most characteristic attitude was sitting 
on a log, with a short pipe in his mouth. If ever man 
was formed to sit on a log, it was Old Phelps. He was 
essentially a contemplative person. Walking on a 
country road, or anywhere in the " open," was irksome 
to him. He had a shambling, loose-jointed gait, not 
unlike that of the bear : his short legs bowed out, as 
if they had been more in the habit of climbing trees 
than of walking. On land, if we may use that expres- 
sion, he was something like a sailor ; but, once in the 
rugged trail or the unmarked route of his native forest, 
he was a different person, and few pedestrians could 
compete with him. The vulgar estimate of his con- 
temporaries, that reckoned Old Phelps " lazy," was 
simply a failure to comprehend the conditions of his 
being. It is the unjustness of civilization that it sets 
up uniform and artificial standards for all persons. 
The primitive man suffers by them much as the con- 
templative philosopher does, when one happens to 
arrive in this busy, fussy world. 

If the appearance of Old Phelps attracts attention, 
his voice, when first heard, invariably startles the listener. 
A small, high-pitched, half -querulous voice, it 
easily rises into the shrillest falsetto ; and it has a 
quality in it that makes it audible in all the tempestb 
of the forest, or the roar of rapids, like the piping of 
a boatswain's whistle at sea in a gale. He has a way 
of letting it rise as his sentence goes on, or when he is 
opposed in argument, or wishes to mount above other 
voices in the conversation, until it dominates every- 
thing. Heard in the depths of the woods, quavering 
aloft, it is felt to be as much a part of nature, an origi- 
nal force, as the northwest wind or the scream of the 
hen-hawk. When he is pottering about the camp-fire, 
trying to light his pipe with a twig held in the flame, 
he is apt to begin some philosophical observation in a 
small, slow, stumbling voice, which seems about to end 
in defeat, — when he puts on some unsuspected force, 
and the sentence ends in an insistent shriek. Horace 
Greeley had such a voice, and could regulate it in the 
same manner. But Phelps's voice is not seldom plain- 
tive, as if touched by the dreamy sadness of the woods 
themselves. 

When Old Mountain Phelps was discovered, he was, 
as the reader has already guessed, not understood by 
his contemporaries. His neighbors, farmers in the 
secluded valley, had many of them grown thrifty and 
prosperous, cultivating the fertile meadows, and vigo- 
rously attacking the timbered mountains; while Phelps, 
with not much more faculty of acquiring property than 
the roaming deer, had pursued the even tenor of the 
life in the forest on which he set out. They would 
have been surprised to be told that Old Phelps owned 
more of what makes the value of the Adirondacks than 
all of them put together, but it was true. This woods- 
man, this trapper, this hunter, this fisherman, this sit- 





ter on a log, and philosopher, was the real proprietor 
of the region over which he was ready to guide the 
stranger. It is true that he had not a monopoly of its 
geography or its topography, though his knowledge 
was superior in these respects ; there were other trap- 
pers, and more deadly hunters, and as intrepid guides: 
but Old Phelps was the discoverer of the beauties and 
sublimities of the mountains ; and, when city strangers 
broke into the region, he monopolized the apprecia- 
tion of these delights and wonders of nature. I sup- 
pose, that, in all that country, he alone had noticed 
the sunsets, and observed the delightful processes of 
the seasons, taken pleasure in the woods for themselves, 
and climbed mountains solely for the sake of the pro- 
spect.^ He alone understood what was meant by 
" scenery." In the eyes of his neighbors, who did not 
know that he was a poet and a philosopher, I dare say 
he appeared to be a slack provider, a rather shiftless 
trapper and fisherman ; and his passionate love of the 
forest and the mountains, if it was noticed, was ac- 
counted to him for idleness. When the appreciative 
tourist arrived, Phelps was ready, as guide, to open to 
him all the wonders of his possessions ; he, for the first 
time, found an outlet for his enthusiasm, and a re- 
sponse to his own passion. It then became known 
what manner of man this was who had grown up here 
in the companionship of forests, mountains, and wild 
animals ; that these scenes had highly developed in 
him the love of beauty, the aesthetic sense, delicacy of 
appreciation, refinement of feeling ; and that, in his 
solitary wanderings and musings, the primitive man, 
self-taught, had evolved for himself a philosophy and 
a system of things. And it was a sufficient system, 
so long as it was not disturbed by external scepticism. 



 

When the outer world came to him, perhaps he had 
about as much to give to it as to receive from it ; prob- 
ably more, in his own estimation ; for there is no con- 
ceit like that of isolation. 

Phelps loved his mountains. He was the discoverer 
of Marcy, and caused the first trail to be cut to its 
summit, so that others could enjoy the noble views 
from its round and rocky top. To him it was, in noble 
symmetry and beauty, the chief mountain of the globe. 
To stand on it gave him, as he said, '^ a feeling of hea- 
ven up-h'isted-ness." He heard with impatience that 
Mount Washington was a thousand feet higher, and 
he had a child-like incredulity about the surpassing 
sublimity of the Alps. Praise of any other elevation 
he seemed to consider a slight to Mount Marcy, and 
did not willingly hear it, any more than a lover hears 
the laudation of the beauty of another woman than 
the one he loves. When he showed us scenery he 
loved, it made him melancholy to have us speak of 
scenery elsewhere that was finer. And yet there was 
this delicacy about him, that he never over-praised 
what he brought us to see, any more than one would 
over-praise a friend of whom he was fond. I remem- 
ber, that, when for the first time, ^fter a toilsome jour- 
ney through the forest, the splendors of the Lower 
Ausable Pond broke upon our vision, — that low-lying 
silver lake, imprisoned by the precipices which it re- 
flected in its bosom, — he made no outward response 
to our burst of admiration : only a quiet gleam of the 
eye showed the pleasure our appreciation gave him. 
As some one said, it was as if his friend had been ad- 
mired, — a friend about whom he was unwilling to say 
much himself, but well pleased to have others praise. 

Thus far, we have considered Old Phelps as sim- 





ply the product of the Adirondacks ; not so much 
a self-made man (as the doubtful phrase has it) as a 
natural growth amid primal forces. But our study 
is interrupted by another influence, which complicates 
the problem, but increases its interest. No scientific 
observer, so far as we know, has ever been able to 
watch the development of the primitive man, played 
upon and fashioned by the hebdomadal iteration of 
" Greeley's Weekly Tri-bune." Old Phelps educated 
by the woods is a fascinating study ; educated by the 
woods and the Tri-bune, he is a phenomenon. No 
one at this day can reasonably conceive exactly what 
this newspaper was to such a mountain valley as 
Keene. If it was not a Providence, it was a Bible. 
It was no doubt owing to it that Democrats became as 
scarce as moose in the Adirondacks. But it is not 
of its political aspect that I speak. I suppose that 
the most cultivated and best informed portion of the 
earth's surface — the Western Reserve of Ohio, as 
free from conceit as it is from a suspicion that it lacks 
anything — owes its pre-eminence solely to this com- 
prehensive journal. It received from it everything 
except a collegiate and a classical education, — things 
not to be desired, since they interfere with the self- 
manufacture of man. If Greek had been in this cur- 
riculum, its best known dictum would have been 
translated, " Make thyself." This journal carried to 
the community that fed on it not only a complete 
education in all departments of human practice and 
theorizing, but the more valuable and satisfying assur- 
ance that there was nothing more to be gleaned in 
the universe worth the attention of man. This pan- 
oplied its readers in completeness. Politics, litera- 
ture, arts, sciences, universal brotherhood and sister- 



 

hood, — nothing was omitted ; neither the poetry of 
Tennyson, nor the philosophy of Margaret Fuller ; 
neither the virtues of association, nor of unbolted 
wheat. The laws of political economy and trade 
were laid down as positively and clearly as the best 
way to bake beans, and the saving truth that the mil- 
lennium would come, and come only when every foot 
of the earth was subsoiled. 

I do not say that Orson Phelps was the product of 
nature and the Tri-bune ; but he cannot be explained 
without considering these two factors. To him Gree- 
ley was the Tri-bune, and the Tri-bune was Greeley ; 
and yet I think he conceived of Horace Greeley as 
something greater than his newspaper, and perhaps 
capable of producing another journal equal to it in 
another part of the universe. At any rate, so com- 
pletely did Phelps absorb this paper and this person- 
ality, that he was popularly known as ''Greeley" in 
the region where he lived. Perhaps a fancied resem- 
blance of the two men in the popular mind had some- 
thing to do with this transfer of name. There is no 
doubt that Horace Greeley owed his vast influence in 
the country to his genius, nor much doubt that he 
owed his popularity in the rural districts to James 
Gordon Bennett ; that is, to the personality of the 
man which the ingenious Bennett impressed upon the 
country. That he despised the conventionalities of 
society, and was a sloven in his toilet, was firmly be- 
lieved ; and the belief endeared him to the hearts of 
the people. To them ''the old white coat" — an 
antique garment of unrenewed immortality — was as 
much a subject of idolatry as the redingote grise to 
the soldiers of the first Napoleon, who had seen it by 
the camp-fires on the Po and on the Borysthenes, and 
