his canvas. "What else should I say ? It would 
certainly be a great deal of trouble to say any- 
thing different." 
" Well," said Gertrude, " you have seen people 
before that you have liked, have you not? " 
" Indeed I have, thank Heaven ! " 
"And they have been very different from us," 
Gertrude went on. 
" That only proves," said Felix, " that there 
are a thousand different ways of being good com- 
pany." 
" Do you think us good company ? " asked Ger- 
trude. 
" Company for a king ! " 
Gertrude was silent a moment ; and then, 
" There must be a thousand different ways of 
being dreary," she said ; " and sometimes I think 
we make use of them all." 
Felix stood up quickly, holding up his hand. 
" If you could only keep that look on your face 
for half an hour while I catch it ! " he said, 
" It is uncommonly handsome." 
   
" To look handsome for half an hour that is 
a great deal to ask of me," she answered. 
" It would be the portrait of a young woman 
who has taken some vow, some pledge, that she 
repents of," said Felix, "and who is thinking it 
over at leisure." 
" I have taken no vow, no pledge," said Ger- 
trude, very gravely ; " I have nothing to repent of." 
" My dear cousin, that was only a figure of 
speech. I am very sure that no one in your ex- 
cellent family has anything to repent of." 
" And yet we are always repenting ! " Gertrude 
exclaimed. " That is what I mean by our being 
dreary. You know it perfectly well ; you only 
pretend that you don't." 
Felix gave a quick laugh. " The half hour is 
going on, and yet you are handsomer than ever. 
One must be careful what one says, you see." 
" To me," said Gertrude, " you can say any- 
thing." 
Felix looked at her, as an artist might, and 
painted for some time in silence. 
" Yes, you seem to me different from your father 
and sister from most of the people you have 
lived with," he observed. 
" To say that one's self," Gertrude went on, "is 
like saying by implication, at least that one 
is better. I am not better ; I am much worse. 
 
But they say themselves that I am different. It 
makes them unhappy." 
"Since you accuse me of concealing my real 
impressions, I may admit that I think the tend- 
ency among you generally is to be made un- 
happy too easily." 
" I wish you would tell that to my father," said 
Gertrude. 
" It might make him more unhappy ! " Felix 
exclaimed, laughing. 
" It* certainly would. I don't believe you have 
seen people like that." 
" Ah, my dear cousin, how do you know what I 
have seen?" Felix demanded. " How can I tell 
you ? " 
" You might tell me a great many things, if you 
only would. You have seen people like yourself 
people who are bright and gay and fond of 
amusement. We are not fond of amusement." 
" Yes," said Felix, " I confess that rather strikes 
me. You don't seem to me to get all the pleasure 
out of life that you might. You don't seem to me 
to enjoy Do you mind my saying this ? " 
he asked, pausing. 
" Please go on," said the girl, earnestly. 
" You seem to me very well placed for enjoying. 
You have money and liberty and what is called in 
Europe a position.' But you take a painful view 
of life, as one may say." 
   
" One ought to think it bright and charming 
and delightful, eh ? " asked Gertrude. 
"I should say so if one can. It is true it all 
depends upon that," Felix added. 
" You know there is a great deal of misery in 
the world," said his model. 
" I have seen a little of it," the young man re- 
joined. " But it was all over there beyond the 
sea. I don't see any here. This is a paradise." 
Gertrude said nothing ; she sat looking at the 
dahlias and the currant-bushes in the garden, 
while Felix went on with his work. " To ' en- 
joy,' " she began at last, " to take life not pain- 
fully, must one do something wrong? " 
Felix gave his long, light laugh again. " Seri- 
ously, I think not. And for this reason, among 
others : you strike me as very capable of enjoy- 
ing, if the chance were given you, and yet at the 
same time as incapable of wrong-doing." 
" I am sure, " said Gertrude, " that you are very 
wrong in telling a person that she is incapable of 
that. We are never nearer to evil than when we 
believe that." 
" You are handsomer than ever," observed Fe- 
lix, irrelevantly. 
Gertrude had got used to hearing him say this. 
There was not so much excitement in it as at 
first. " What ought one to do ? " she continued. 
 
" To give parties, to go to the theatre, to read 
novels, to keep late hours ? " 
" I don't think it 's what one does or one 
doesn't do that promotes enjoyment," her com- 
panion answered. " It is the general way of look- 
ing at life." 
" They look at it as a discipline that 's what 
they do here. I have often been told that." 
" Well, that r s very good. But there is another 
way," added Felix, smiling : " to look at it as an 
opportunity." 
" An opportunity yes," said Gertrude. " One 
would get more pleasure that way." 
" I don't attempt to say anything better for it 
than that it has been my own way and that is 
not saying much ! " Felix had laid down his 
palette and brushes ; he was leaning back, with 
his arms folded, to judge the effect of his work. 
" And you know," he said, " I am a very petty 
personage." 
" You have a great deal of talent," said Ger- 
trude. 
" No no," the young man rejoined, in a tone 
of cheerful impartiality, " I have not a great deal 
of talent. It is nothing at all remarkable. I as- 
sure you I should know if it were. I shall always 
be obscure. The world will never hear of me." 
Gertrude looked at him with a strange feeling. 
   
She was thinking of the great world which he 
knew and which she did not, and how full of brill- 
iant talents it must be, since it could afford to 
make light of his abilities. " You need n't in gen- 
eral attach much importance to anything I tell 
you," he pursued ; " but you may believe me when 
I say this, that I am little better than a good- 
natured feather-head." 
" A feather-head? " she repeated. 
" I am a species of Bohemian." 
" A Bohemian ? " Gertrude had never heard 
this term before, save as a geographical denomina- 
tion ; and she quite failed to understand the figur- 
ative meaning which her companion appeared to 
attach to it. But it gave her pleasure. 
Felix had pushed back his chair and risen to his 
feet ; he slowly came toward her, smiling. " I am 
a sort of adventurer," he said, looking down at her. 
She got up, meeting his smile. "An advent- 
urer?" she repeated. " I should like to hear your 
adventures." 
For an instant she believed that he was going 
to take her hand ; but he dropped his own hands 
suddenly into the pockets of his painting-jacket. 
" There is no reason why you should n't," he said. 
" I have been an adventurer, but my adventures 
have been very innocent. They have all been 
happy ones ; I don't think there are any I should 
 
n't tell. They were very pleasant and very pretty ; 
I should like to go over them in memory. Sit 
down again, and I will begin," he added in a mo- 
ment, with his naturally persuasive smile. 
Gertrude sat down again on that day, and she 
sat down on several other days. Felix, while he 
plied his brush, told her a great many stories, and 
she listened with charmed avidity. Her eyes rested 
upon his lips ; she was very serious ; sometimes, 
from her air of wondering gravity, he thought she 
was displeased. But Felix never believed for more 
than a single moment in any displeasure of his 
own producing. This would have been fatuity if 
the optimism it expressed had not been much more 
a hope than a prejudice. It is beside the matter 
to say that he had a good conscience ; for the best 
conscience is a sort of self-reproach, and this young 
man's brilliantly healthy nature spent itself in ob- 
jective good intentions which were ignorant of any 
test save exactness in hitting their mark. He told 
Gertrude how he had walked over France and 
Italy with a painter's knapsack on his back, pay- 
ing his way often by knocking off a flattering por- 
trait of his host or hostess. He told her how he 
had played the violin in a little band of musicians 
not of high celebrity who traveled through 
foreign lands giving provincial concerts. He told 
her also how he had been a momentary ornament 
   
of a troupe of strolling actors, engaged in the ar- 
duous task of interpreting Shakespeare to French 
and German, Polish and Hungarian audiences. 
While this periodical recital was going on, Ger- 
trude lived in a fantastic world ; she seemed to 
herself to be reading a romance that came out in 
daily numbers. She had known nothing so de- 
lightful since the perusal of " Nicholas Nickleby." 
One afternoon she went to see her cousin, Mrs. 
Acton, Robert's mother, who was a great invalid, 
never leaving the house. She came back alone, on 
foot, across the fields this being a short way 
which they often used. Felix had gone to Boston 
with her father, who desired to take the young 
man to call upon some of his friends, old gentle- 
men who remembered his mother remembered 
her, but said nothing about her and several of 
whom, with the gentle ladies their wives, had 
driven out from town to pay their respects at the 
little house among the apple-trees, in vehicles 
which reminded the Baroness, who received her 
visitors with discriminating civility, of the large, 
light, rattling barouche in which she herself had 
made her journey to this neighborhood. The af- 
ternoon was waning ; in the western sky the great 
picture of a New England sunset, painted in crim- 
son and silver, was suspended from the zenith ; 
and the stony pastures, as Gertrude traversed 
 
them, thinking intently to herself, were covered 
with a light, clear glow. At the open gate of 
one of the fields she saw from the distance a man's 
figure; he stood there as if he were waiting for 
her, and as she came nearer she recognized Mr. 
Brand. She had a feeling as of not having seen 
him for some time ; she could not have said for 
how long, for it yet seemed to her that he had 
been very lately at the house. 
" May I walk back with you ? " he asked. And 
when she had said that he might if he wanted, he 
observed that he had seen her and recognized her 
half a mile away. 
"You must have very good eyes," said Ger- 
trude. 
" Yes, I have very good eyes, Miss Gertrude," 
said Mr. Brand. She perceived that he meant 
something ; but for a long time past Mr. Brand 
had constantly meant something, and she had al- 
most got used to it. She felt, however, that what 
he meant had now a renewed power to disturb her, 
to perplex and agitate her. He walked beside her 
in silence for a moment, and then he added, " I 
have had no trouble in seeing that you are begin- 
ning to avoid me. But perhaps," he went on, "one 
need n't have had very good eyes to see that." 
" I have not avoided you," said Gertrude, with- 
out looking at him. 
   
"I think you have been unconscious that you 
were avoiding me," Mr. Brand replied. " You 
have not even known that I was there." 
" Well, you are here now, Mr. Brand ! " said 
Gertrude, with a little laugh. " I know that very 
well." 
He made no rejoinder. He simply walked be- 
side her slowly, as they were obliged to walk over 
the soft grass. Presently they came to another 
gate, which was closed. Mr. Brand laid his hand 
upon it, but he made no movement to open it ; he 
stood and looked at his companion. "You are 
very much interested very much absorbed," he 
said. 
Gertrude glanced at him ; she saw that he was 
pale and that he looked excited. She had never 
seen Mr. Brand excited before, and she felt that 
the spectacle, if fully carried out, would be im- 
pressive, almost painful. "Absorbed in what?" 
she asked. Then she looked away at the illumi- 
nated sky. She felt guilty and uncomfortable, 
and yet she was vexed with herself for feeling so. 
But Mr. Brand, as he stood there looking at her 
with his small, kind, persistent eyes, represented 
an immense body of half -obliterated obligations, 
that were rising again into a certain distinctness. 
" You have new interests, new occupations," he 
went on. " I don't know that I can say that you 
  Ill 
have new duties. We have always old ones, Ger- 
trude," he added. 
" Please open the gate, Mr. Brand," she said ; 
and she felt as if, in saying so, she were cowardly 
and petulant. But he opened the gate, and al- 
lowed her to pass ; then he closed it behind him- 
self. Before she had time to turn away he put 
out his hand and held her an instant by the 
wrist. 
" I want to say something to you," he said. 
" I know what you want to say," she answered. 
And she was on the point of adding, "And I 
know just how you will say it; " but these words 
she kept back. 
" I love you, Gertrude," he said. " I love you 
very much ; I love you more than ever." 
He said the words just as she had known he 
would ; she had heard them before. They had 
no charm for her ; she had said to herself before 
that it was very strange. It was supposed to be 
delightful for a woman to listen to such words ; 
but these seemed to her flat and mechanical. " I 
wish you would forget that," she declared. 
" How can I why should I ? " he asked. 
" I have made you no promise given you no 
pledge," she said, looking at him, with her voice 
trembling a little. 
" You have let me feel that I have an influence 
over you. You have opened your mind to me." 
   
" I never opened my mind to you, Mr. Brand ! " 
Gertrude cried, with some vehemence. 
" Then you were not so frank as I thought 
as we all thought." 
" I don't see what any one else had to do with 
it ! " cried the girl. 
"I mean your father and your sister. You 
know it makes them happy to think you will lis- 
ten to me." 
She gave a little laugh. " It does n't make 
them happy," she said. "Nothing makes them 
happy. No one is happy here." 
"I think your cousin is very happy Mr. 
Young," rejoined Mr. Brand, in a soft, almost 
timid tone. 
" So much the better for him ! " And Gertrude 
gave her little laugh again. 
The young man looked at her a moment. " You 
are very much changed," he said. 
" I am glad to hear it," Gertrude declared. 
" I am not. I have known you a long time, 
and I have loved you as you were." 
" I am much obliged to you," said Gertrude. 
" I must be going home." 
He on his side, gave a little laugh. 
" You certainly do avoid me you see ! " 
"Avoid me, then," said the girl. 
He looked at her again ; and then, very gently, 
 
" No I will not avoid you," he replied ; " but I 
will leave you, for the present, to yourself. I 
think you will remember after a while some 
of the things you have forgotten. I think you 
will come back to me ; I have great faith in that." 
This time his voice was very touching ; there was 
a strong, reproachful force in what he said, and 
Gertrude could answer nothing. He turned away 
and stood there, leaning his elbows on the gate 
and looking at the beautiful sunset. Gertrude 
left him and took her way home again ; but when 
she reached the middle of the next field she sud- 
denly burst into tears. Her tears seemed to her 
to have been a long time gathering, and for some 
moments it was a kind of glee to shed them. But 
they presently passed away. There was some- 
thing a little hard about Gertrude; and she never 
wept again. 
VI. 
GOING of an afternoon to call upon his niece, 
Mr. Went worth more than once found Robert 
Acton sitting in her little drawing-room. This 
was in no degree, to Mr. Wentworth, a perturb- 
ing fact, for he had no sense of competing with his 
young kinsman for Eugenia's good graces. Mad- 
ame Minister's uncle had the highest opinion of 
Robert Acton, who, indeed, in the family at large, 
was the object of a great deal of undemonstrative 
appreciation. They were all proud of him, in so 
far as the charge of being proud may be brought 
against people who were, habitually, distinctly 
guiltless of the misdemeanor known as " taking 
credit." They never boasted of Robert Acton, 
nor indulged in vainglorious reference to him; 
they never quoted the clever things he had said, 
nor mentioned the generous things he had done. 
But a sort of frigidly-tender faith in his unlimited 
goodness was a part of their personal sense of 
right; and there can, perhaps, be no better proof 
of the high esteem in which he was held than the 
fact that no explicit judgment was ever passed 
 
upon his actions. He was no more praised than he 
was blamed ; but he was tacitly felt to be an orna- 
ment to his circle. He was the man of the world 
of the family. He had been to China and brought 
home a collection of curiosities ; he had made a 
fortune or rather he had quintupled a fortune 
already considerable ; he was distinguished by 
that combination of celibacy, " property," and 
good humor which appeals to even the most sub- 
dued imaginations ; and it was taken for granted 
that he would presently place these advantages at 
the disposal of some well-regulated young woman 
of his own " set." Mr. Wentworth, was not a 
man to admit to himself that his paternal du- 
ties apart he liked any individual much better 
than all other individuals ; but he thought Robert 
Acton extremely judicious ; and this was perhaps 
as near an approach as he was capable of to the 
eagerness of preference, which his temperament 
repudiated as it would have disengaged itself from 
something slightly unchaste. Acton was, in fact, 
very judicious and something more beside ; and 
indeed it must be claimed for Mr. Wentworth that 
in the more illicit parts of his preference there 
hovered the vague adumbration of a belief that his 
cousin's final merit was a certain enviable capacity 
for whistling, rather gallantly, at the sanctions of 
mere judgment for showing a larger courage, a 
   
finer quality of pluck, than common occasion de- 
manded. Mr. Wentworth would never have risked 
the intimation that Acton was made, in the small- 
est degree, of the stuff of a hero ; but this is small 
blame to him, for Robert would certainly never 
have risked it himself. Acton certainly exercised 
great discretion in all things beginning with his 
estimate of himself. He knew that he was by no 
means so much of a man of the world as he was 
supposed to be in local circles ; but it must be 
added that he knew also that his natural shrewd- 
ness had a reach of which he had never quite given 
local circles the measure. He was addicted to tak- 
ing the humorous view of things, and he had dis- 
covered that, even in the narrowest circles such a 
disposition may find frequent opportunities. Such 
opportunities had formed for some time that is, 
since his return from China, a year and a half be- 
fore the most active element in this gentleman's 
life, which had just now a rather indolent air. 
He was perfectly willing to get married. He was 
very fond of books, and he had a handsome li- 
brary ; that is, his books were much more numer- 
ous than Mr. Wentworth's. He was also very fond 
of pictures ; but it must be confessed, in the fierce 
light of contemporary criticism, that his walls were 
adorned with several rather abortive masterpieces. 
He had got his learning and there was more of 
 
it than commonly appeared at Harvard College ; 
and he took a pleasure in old associations, which 
made it a part of his daily contentment to live so 
near this institution that he often passed it in driv- 
ing to Boston. He was extremely interested in 
the Baroness Miinster. 
She was very frank with him ; or at least she 
intended to be. "I am sure you find it very 
strange that I should have settled down in this 
out-of-the-way part of the world ! " she said to him 
three or four weeks after she had installed herself. 
" I am certain you are wondering about my mo- 
tives. They are very pure." The Baroness by 
this time was an old inhabitant; the best society 
in Boston had called upon her, and Clifford Went- 
worth had taken her several times to drive in his 
buggy. 
Robert Acton was seated near her, playing with 
a fan ; there were always several fans lying about 
her drawing-room, with long ribbons of different 
colors attached to them, and Acton was always 
playing with one, "No, I don't find it at all 
strange," he said slowly, smiling. " That a clever 
woman should turn up in Boston, or its suburbs 
that does not require so much explanation. 
Boston is a very nice place.'* 
" If you wish to make me contradict you," said 
the Baroness, " vous vous y prenez mal. In certain 
moods there is nothing I am not capable of 
agreeing to. Boston is a paradise, and we are in 
the suburbs of Paradise." 
" Just now I am not at all in the suburbs ; I 
am in the place itself," rejoined Acton, who was 
lounging a little in his chair. He was, however, 
not always lounging; and when he was he was 
not quite so relaxed as he pretended. To a cer- 
tain extent, he sought refuge from shyness in this 
appearance of relaxation ; and like many persons 
in the same circumstances he somewhat exagger- 
ated the appearance. Beyond this, the air of being 
much at his ease was a cover for vigilant observa- 
tion. He was more than interested in this clever 
woman, who, whatever he might say, was clever 
not at all after the Boston fashion ; she plunged 
him into a kind of excitement, held him in vague 
suspense. He was obliged to admit to himself 
that he had never yet seen a woman just like this 
not even in China. He was ashamed, for in- 
scrutable reasons, of the vivacity of his emotion, 
and he carried it off, superficially, by taking, still 
superficially, the humorous view of Madame Miin- 
ster. It was not at all true that he thought it 
very natural of her to have made this pious pilgrim- 
age. It might have been said of him in advance 
that he was too good a Bostonian to regard in the 
light of an eccentricity the desire of even the re- 
 
motest alien to visit the New England metropolis. 
This was an impulse for which, surely, no apology 
was needed ; and Madame Miinster was the for- 
tunate possessor of several New England cousins. 
In fact, however, Madame Miinster struck him as 
out of keeping with her little circle ; she was at 
the best a very agreeable, a gracefully mystifying 
anomaly. He knew very well that it would not 
do to address these reflections too crudely to Mr. 
Wentworth ; he would never have remarked to 
the old gentleman that he wondered what the 
Baroness was up to. And indeed he had no great 
desire to share his vague mistrust with any one. 
There was a personal pleasure in it ; the greatest 
pleasure he had known at least since he had come 
from China. He would keep the Baroness, for 
better or worse, to himself ; he had a feeling that 
he deserved to enjoy a monoply of her, for he was 
certainly the person who had most adequately 
gauged her capacity for social intercourse. Before 
long it became apparent to him that the Baroness 
was disposed to lay no tax upon such a monopoly. 
One day (he was sitting there again and play- 
ing with a fan) she asked him to apologize, should 
the occasion present itself, to certain people in 
Boston for her not having returned their calls. 
" There are half a dozen places," she said ; " a 
formidable list. Charlotte Wentworth has writ- 
   
ten it out for me, in a terrifically distinct hand. 
There is no ambiguity on the subject; I know 
perfectly where I must go. Mr. Wentworth in- 
forms me that the carriage is always at my dis- 
posal, and Charlotte offers to go with me, in a 
pair of tight gloves and a very stiff petticoat. 
And yet for three days I have been putting it off. 
They must think me horribly vicious." 
" You ask me to apologize," said Acton, " but 
you don't tell me what excuse I can offer." 
" That is more," the Baroness declared, " than 
I am held to. It would be like my asking you to 
buy me a bouquet and giving you the money. I 
have no reason except that somehow it 's too 
violent an effort. It is not inspiring. Would n't 
that serve as an excuse, in Boston ? I am told 
they are very sincere ; they don't tell fibs. And 
then Felix ought to go with me, and he is never 
in readiness. I don't see him. He is always 
roaming about the fields and sketching old barns, 
or taking ten-mile walks, or painting some one's 
portrait, or rowing on the pond, or flirting with 
Gertrude Wentworth." 
" I should think it would amuse you to go and 
see a few people," said Acton. " You are having 
a very quiet time of it here. It 's a dull life for 
you." 
"Ah, the quiet, the quiet!" the Baroness 
 
exclaimed. " That 's what I like. It 's rest. 
That 's what I came here for. Amusement ? I 
have had amusement. And as for seeing people 
I have already seen a great many in my life. 
If it did n't sound ungracious I should say that 
I wish very humbly your people here would leave 
me alone ! " 
Acton looked at her a moment, and she looked 
at him. She was a woman who took being looked 
at remarkably well. " So you have come here 
for rest ? " he asked. 
"So I may say. I came for many of those 
reasons that are no reasons don't you know ? 
and yet that are really the best : to come away, 
to change, to break with everything. When once 
one comes away one must arrive somewhere, and 
I asked myself why I should n't arrive here." 
" You certainly had time on the way ! " said 
Acton, laughing. 
Madame Miinster looked at him again ; and 
then, smiling : " And I have certainly had time, 
since I got here, to ask myself why I came. How- 
ever, I never ask myself idle questions. Here I 
ain, and it seems to me you ought only to thank 
me." 
" When you go away you will see the difficul- 
ties I shall put in your path." 
" You mean to put difficulties in my path ? " 
she asked, rearranging the rosebud in her corsage. 
   
" The greatest of all that of having been so 
agreeable" 
" That I shall be unable to depart? Don't be 
too sure. I have left some very agreeable people 
over there." 
" Ah," said Acton, " but it was to come here, 
where I am I " 
" I did n't know of your existence. Excuse me 
for saying anything so rude ; but, honestly speak- 
ing, I did not. No," the Baroness pursued, " it 
was precisely not to see you such people as you 
that I came." 
" Such people as me ? " cried Acton. 
" I had a sort of longing to come into those nat- 
ural relations which I knew I should find here. 
Over there I had only, as I may say, artificial re- 
lations. Don't you see the difference ? " 
" The difference tells against me," said Acton. 
" I suppose I am an artificial relation." 
" Conventional," declared the Baroness ; " very 
conventional." 
" Well, there is one way in which the relation 
of a lady and a gentleman may always become 
natural," said Acton. 
" You mean by their becoming lovers ? That 
may be natural or not. And at any rate," re- 
joined Eugenia, " nous n'en sommes pas Id ! " 
They were not, as yet ; but a little later, when 
 
she began to go with him to drive, it might almost 
have seemed that they were. He came for her 
several times, alone, in his high " wagon," drawn 
by a pair of charming light-limbed horses. It 
was different, her having gone with Clifford Went- 
worth, who was her cousin, and so much younger. 
It was not to be imagined that she should have 
a flirtation with Clifford, who was a mere shame- 
faced boy, and whom a large section of Boston 
society supposed to be "engaged" to Lizzie Acton. 
Not, indeed, that it was to be conceived that the 
Baroness was a possible party to any flirtation 
whatever ; for she was undoubtedly a married 
lady. It was generally known that her matri- 
monial condition was of the " morganatic " order ; 
but in its natural aversion to suppose that this 
meant anything less than absolute wedlock, the 
conscience of the community took refuge in the 
belief that it implied something even more. 
Acton wished her to think highly of American 
scenery, and he drove her to great distances, pick- 
ing out the prettiest roads and the largest points 
of view. If we are good when we are contented, 
Eugenia's virtues should now certainly have been 
uppermost ; for she found a charm in the rapid 
movement through a wild country, and in a com- 
panion who from time to time made the vehicle 
dip, with a motion like a swallow's flight, over 
   
roads of primitive construction, and who, as she 
felt, would do a great many things that she might 
ask him. Sometimes, for a couple of hours to- 
gether, there were almost no houses ; there were 
nothing but woods and rivers and lakes and hori- 
zons adorned with bright-looking mountains. It 
seemed to the Baroness very wild, as I have said, 
and lovely ; but the impression added something 
to that sense of the enlargement of opportunity 
which had been born of her arrival in the New 
World. 
One day it was late in the afternoon : Acton 
pulled up his horses on the crest of a hill which 
commanded a beautiful prospect. He let them 
stand a long time to rest, while he sat there and 
talked with Madame Miinster. The prospect was 
beautiful in spite of there being nothing human 
within sight. There was a wilderness of woods, 
and the gleam of a distant river, and a glimpse of 
half the hill-tops in Massachusetts. The road had 
a wide, grassy margin, on the further side of which 
there flowed a deep, clear brook ; there were wild 
flowers in the grass, and beside the brook lay the 
trunk of a fallen tree. Acton waited a while ; at 
last a rustic wayfarer came trudging along the 
road. Acton asked him to hold the horses a 
service he consented to render, as a friendly turn 
to a fellow-citizen. Then he invited the Baroness 
 
to descend, and the two wandered away, across 
the grass, and sat down on the log beside the 
brook. 
" I imagine it does n't remind you of Silber- 
stadt," said Acton. It was the first time that he 
had mentioned Silberstadt to her, for particular 
reasons. He knew she had a husband there, and 
this was disagreeable to him ; and, furthermore, 
it had been repeated to him that this husband 
wished to put her away a state of affairs to 
which even indirect reference was to be depre- 
cated. It was true, nevertheless, that the Baron- 
ess herself had often alluded to Silberstadt ; and 
Acton had often wondered why her husband 
wished to get rid of her. It was a curious posi- 
tion for a lady this being known as a repudiated 
wife ; and it is worthy of observation that the 
Baroness carried it off with exceeding grace and 
dignity. She had made it felt, from the first, that 
there were two sides to the question, and that her 
own side, when she should choose to present it, 
would be replete with touching interest. 
" It does not remind me of the town, of course," 
she said, " of the sculptured gables and the Gothic 
