that very night, he would have taken extra precautions, but he was not
inclined to be suspicious, or to anticipate danger.
Perhaps an hour later, Tom, who found himself unusually restless, got up
from his hard couch, leaving Ferguson fast asleep, and went out into
the air, thinking that a walk would do him good and dispose him to
sleep. The night was dark, but not wholly so. There was no moon, but a
few stars were shining; and as his eyes became accustomed to the faint
light, he could easily distinguish objects at the distance of a few
rods.
Tom's thoughts reverted to his humble home, more than three thousand
miles away. Probably the fact that he had committed to John Miles a sum
of money to send to his father, had turned his thoughts in that
direction.
"Father will be glad to get the seventy-five dollars," thought Tom, "and
I am sure he will need it. I wish it could get there more quickly, but
it is a long way off."
Tom was not homesick, and was far from wishing himself back, with his
object in coming yet unaccomplished, but it did occur to him, that he
would like to see his father and mother, and brothers and sisters, if
only for a few minutes.
When he came out he had no particular direction in mind in which he
wished to walk, but chance directed his steps toward the tent of his
friend, John Miles.
When he came near it, his attention was arrested by the sight of a
crouching figure which appeared to be entering the tent. His first
thought was, that Miles, like himself, had got up from his couch and was
just returning. He was on the point of calling out "John," when a sudden
doubt and suspicion silenced him.--"Might not it be a robber?"
Tom was determined to find out. He crept nearer, so that he could have a
clearer view of the figure.
"It's Bill Crane!" he said to himself, with sudden recognition. "What's
he up to?"
Tom could guess. He didn't know the man's antecedents, but he had read
his character aright. He was instantly on the alert. Crane evidently was
on a thief's errand, and was likely to steal not only Miles's money but
Tom's. Our hero was alive to the emergency, and resolved to foil him. He
had his revolver with him; for in the unsettled state of society, with
no one to enforce the laws, and indeed no laws to enforce, it was the
custom for all men to go armed.
Tom was not long left in doubt as to Crane's intentions. He saw him
cautiously pulling at something in the tent, and felt sure that it was
the bag of treasure. He decided that the time had come to act.
"Put that back," he exclaimed in boyish, but clear, commanding tone.
Bill Crane turned suddenly, panic-stricken.
He saw Tom standing a few feet from him, with a revolver in his hand.
All was not lost. He might, he thought, intimidate the boy.
"Mind your business, you young cub," he growled.
"What are you about?" demanded Tom.
"I am going to sleep with Miles. He invited me. Does that satisfy you?"
"No, it doesn't, for I know that it's a lie. You are here to rob him."
"You'd better not insult me, boy, or I'll have your life."
"Get up this instant and leave the tent, or I'll fire," said Tom,
resolutely.
"A young cub like you can't frighten me. That shooting-iron of yours
isn't loaded," said Bill Crane, rather uneasily.
"It'll be rather a bad thing for you to take the risk," said Tom, with a
coolness that surprised himself, for the situation was a strange one for
a boy brought up in a quiet New England farming town.
"What do you want of me?" growled the desperado, uncomfortably, for he
was satisfied that the weapon was loaded, and Tom looked as if he would
shoot.
"I want you to leave that tent at once," said Tom.
"Suppose I don't."
"Then I shall fire at you."
"And be hung for attempted murder."
"I think I could explain it," said our hero. "You know very well what
will happen to you if you are caught."
Bill Crane did know. Hanging was the penalty for theft in the early
days of California, and he had no desire to swing from the branch of a
tree.
"You're a young fool!" he said roughly, as he rose from his stooping
posture. "I wanted to ask Miles to do a little commission for me in
Frisco. I had no thought of robbing him."
"You can see him in the morning about it," said Tom, resolutely.
"I'll be even with you for this," said the foiled thief, as he sullenly
obeyed the boy, half-ashamed to do so.
Tom went back to his tent, aroused Ferguson, and the two took turns in
guarding the tent of Miles during the night. Tom did not wish to awaken
him, for he needed rest on the eve of a long and fatiguing journey.
CHAPTER V.
MILES SETS OUT ON HIS JOURNEY.
"When Miles woke up in the morning he found Tom beside him.
"Hallo, Tom!" he said, in some surprise. "This is an early call."
"I have been here half the night," said Tom, quietly.
"How is that?"
"I was afraid you would be robbed."
"Did you have any particular reason for fearing it?" asked Miles,
quickly.
Thereupon Tom described his chance visit of the evening before, and what
he saw. As might have been expected, John Miles was indignant.
"The miserable sneak! I'd like to wring his neck," he exclaimed. "Did
you say he had his hand upon the bag of gold-dust, Tom?"
"Yes; I distinctly saw him attempting to draw it out from under your
head."
"If the boys knew of this, Crane's fate would be sealed. A thief in a
mining camp has a short shrift."
"You mean he would be hung?" asked Tom, in surprise.
"Yes, he would grace a limb of yonder tree, and I am not sure but it
would be the best way to dispose of him."
Tom shuddered.
"It would be a terrible fate," he said. "I should like to see him
punished, but I don't want him hanged."
"Then you will have to keep your mouth shut. Once let the boys get hold
of what happened, and nothing will save him."
"Then I shall keep it to myself."
"I will see Crane, and let him understand that I am aware of the attempt
he made," said Miles.
After breakfast he came upon Crane within a few rods of Missouri Jack's
saloon.
"Look here, Bill Crane," said Miles, "I've got something to say to you."
"What is it?" returned Crane, sullenly, looking ill at ease.
"I understand you favored me with a visit, last night."
"Who told you so?"
"Tom Nelson."
"The young cub had better mind his own business," growled Crane, in a
menacing tone.
"He did me a service in preventing your intended theft."
"If he says I meant to rob you, he lies!"
"Nevertheless, if he should make public what he saw, the boys would be
likely to believe him rather than you," said Miles, significantly.
"Is he going to tell?" asked Crane, nervously.
"He has told me, but is not likely to speak of it to others, being
unwilling that you should suffer the punishment you deserve."
"He is very kind," sneered Bill Crane, but he felt very much relieved.
"You probably owe your life to his kindness," said Miles, quietly. "He
tells me you wish me to do something for you in Frisco."
"I've changed my mind," said Crane, abruptly; "I may go there myself,
soon."
Miles smiled.
"I thought it might be something urgent," he said, "since it led you to
come to my tent at midnight."
"I thought you would be starting away early this morning."
"Well thought of, Bill Crane; but it is only fair to tell you that I
don't believe a word you say. I have one thing to say to you before I
go, and you had better bear it in mind. If you harm a hair of Tom
Nelson's head, and I believe you quite capable of it, I will never rest
till I have found you out and punished you for it."
"I am not afraid of you, John Miles," retorted Crane, but he looked
uncomfortable.
"You will have cause to be, if you injure Tom."
Miles walked off, leaving behind him a bitter enemy.
"I hate him--him and the boy too!" muttered Bill Crane. "If I dared, I
would put my mark on him before he leaves the camp."
But Crane did not dare. He knew that he was in a very critical position.
His safety depended on the silence of two persons--one of whom would
soon be gone. He was not aware that Ferguson also knew of his attempted
crime, or the danger would have seemed greater. However much he thirsted
for vengeance, it would not do to gratify it now. He must bide his time.
Bill Crane was cunning as well as malignant. He decided to quiet Tom's
suspicions if he could, and ensure his continued silence, by an
affectation of friendliness. He waited till he saw our hero washing dust
beyond earshot of any listeners, and strolled up to him.
"How are you getting on, Tom?" he asked, with an appearance of
friendliness.
Tom looked up quickly. Considering all that had happened, he was
somewhat struck by Crane's effrontery.
"Fairly well," he answered coldly.
"Shan't I relieve you a few minutes?" proposed Crane.
"No, thank you."
"It's pretty hard work, and don't pay as well as it might. I think
California's a humbug, for my part."
"Have you tried washing for gold?" asked Tom. "I haven't seen you at
work."
"Not here. I've tried it elsewhere, but it's slow."
"Then, why do you stay here?" asked Tom, naturally.
Crane shrugged his shoulders.
"Because I haven't money to get away," he said. "I'm waiting for
something to turn up. If I could only get to Frisco, I would go into
some business. I would like to have gone with Miles."
"Was that what you were going to propose to him, last night?" asked Tom,
dryly.
"Yes, I wanted to speak to him on that subject. I had a great mind to
ask him to lend me a little money, and take me along with him. I would
have arranged to pay him soon after we reached Frisco."
Tom knew that the fellow was lying, and remained silent.
"You made a little mistake about my intentions," continued Bill Crane,
smoothly, "but perhaps it was natural under the circumstances."
Tom thought it was, but still preserved silence, much to Crane's
discomfiture.
Bill Crane eyed him sharply, and saw his incredulity, but for that he
cared little, if only he could secure his silence.
"I think you will see that it isn't fair to me to speak of this matter,"
he continued.
"I had made up my mind not to speak of it," said Tom. "I don't want to
get you into trouble."
"Good-morning, Mr. Crane," said Lawrence Peabody, who had just come up.
"Good-morning, Peabody. I was watching our friend Tom. How are you
getting on?"
"I haven't done anything yet to-day. It's dirty work. I don't think
it's fit for a gentleman; Tom, there, is used to work, and he don't
mind."
"Shall we go round to Jack's?"
"All right!"
And the two walked away together.
"I am sorry Peabody doesn't keep better company," Tom said to himself.
"Bill Crane won't do him any good."
CHAPTER VI.
ROBBED IN HIS SLEEP.
Tom was right in concluding that Bill Crane's influence over Peabody was
anything but good. The young Bostonian, however, was not long subjected
to it. During the night following John Miles's departure, the little
settlement at River Bend was called upon to deplore the loss of an
eminent member.
In brief, somewhere between midnight and dawn Mr. William Crane took his
departure, without the ceremony of leave-taking. Had he gone alone no
one perhaps would have felt any violent sorrow, but he took with him a
horse belonging to Adam Dietrich, an industrious young German, who had
only recently arrived. No one had seen the two go together, but it was
only natural to suppose that Crane had spirited away the horse.
Dietrich borrowed a horse, and, accompanied by a friend, set out in
search of the thief, but returned at night unsuccessful. Had it been wet
weather, it might have been possible to track the fugitive; but it was
very dry, and the trail was soon lost. It was almost impossible to tell
what direction Crane would choose, and continued pursuit would not pay,
so Adam sadly returned to his work.
Little doubt was entertained among the miners that Crane was responsible
for the loss of the horse. Had he been caught, there would have been
small chance for him, so generally was he pronounced guilty. A few of
his companions, especially Missouri Jack, defended him.
"Bill Crane wouldn't steal a horse any more than I would," said Jack;
and there were those who agreed with him without acquitting Bill. "Bill
ain't no saint, but he ain't a thief."
Whether Jack believed what he said, admits of a doubt. Crane needed a
different advocate to clear him from suspicion.
It may as well be stated that Crane did steal the horse. He had a
decided objection to walking as long as he could ride, and, having no
animal of his own, annexed the property of his neighbor.
He had two motives which influenced him to leave the settlement. First,
he was in Tom's power, and he was by no means certain that our hero
would keep silence touching his night-attempt at robbery. In the second
place, he still coveted the bag of gold-dust which John Miles carried
away with him. He had been prevented from taking it; but, as Miles was
travelling alone, he foresaw a better chance of success if he should
follow on his track.
How or under what circumstances he should make the new attempt he left
to be decided later. The first thing, obviously, was to overtake him.
Crane experienced the same difficulty in tracking Miles that had led to
the failure of his own pursuers. It was only on the fifth day, that, as
he halted his steed on the hillside, and cast long glances about him, he
caught sight, a mile away, of the object of his pursuit. He could not
mistake the sturdy, broad-shouldered figure, and large, massive head.
"That's Miles, sure enough!" he exclaimed, joyfully. "I thought I had
missed him, but I'm in luck. That bag must be mine."
The most direct course was to ride up in the fashion of a highwayman,
and demand the bag. But Crane did not mean to proceed in this fashion.
Physically, though not a weak man, he was not a match for Miles, and he
knew it. Cunning must supply the place of strength. He knew that Miles
was a sound sleeper, and could think of no better plan than repeating
the visit he had made in camp. It was already late in the afternoon when
he caught sight of the sturdy miner. It was his policy now to keep him
in sight, but not to approach near enough for recognition. Once seen,
Miles would be on his guard, and the game would be spoiled. Crane
halted, therefore, and drew back within the shadow of the trees,
henceforth advancing cautiously.
John Miles did not once turn back. Had he done so, it is quite possible
that he might have caught a glimpse of his pursuer. He had travelled
since morning, and his faithful horse was beginning to show signs of
fatigue.
"You are tired, my poor Dick," he said kindly, stroking the horse. "You
deserve supper and rest, and you shall have it."
Dick appeared to understand what his rider said, for he gave a short
neigh of satisfaction.
John Miles looked around him. Just ahead was a large tree, under whose
broad branches it would be pleasant to recline. Not far away was a
slender mountain-stream trickling over the rocks. Nothing could have
been better.
Miles slid from his horse and made preparations to encamp for the night,
first leading his faithful steed to the stream, where he quenched his
thirst. Then he brought out his slender stock of provisions and partook
of supper.
"It's pleasant to rest after a long day's ride," soliloquized Miles. "I
must have made forty miles to-day. I could easily have gone farther, had
it been on the prairies at home, but these mountain-roads are hard upon
man and beast."
After supper Miles threw himself upon the ground, and his mind became
busy with his plans and prospects.
"I shall reach Frisco in three days, according to my calculations," he
reflected; "and then, first of all, I must attend to Tom's commission.
That's a good boy, Tom. I wish he were here with me to-night. Why didn't
I urge him to come with me? He is not doing very well where he is, and
there are plenty of chances for a smart boy in the city. If I find any
opening for him, I will send for him. I don't know what gives me such an
interest in that boy, but I'd sooner do him a good turn than any man I
know. I hope that thief Crane won't play any trick upon him. If he does,
I swear I'll get even with him."
John Miles little suspected that he himself stood in more peril from the
man he denounced than our hero. Had he known that Bill Crane was lurking
in the vicinity, he would scarcely have courted slumber so fearlessly.
Physical fatigue and the stillness of outward nature speedily brought
on a feeling of drowsiness that was not long in bringing sleep. Twilight
had hardly given place to night when our traveller had become "to dumb
forgetfulness a prey."
This was what Bill Crane had been waiting for. He rightly calculated
that Miles would soon be asleep. He inferred this from his own feelings.
He, too, had travelled many miles, and felt drowsy; but, with the object
he had in view near accomplishment, he was able to resist the promptings
of nature.
Crane rode till he was but a few rods from Miles, then dismounted and
tethered his horse. With stealthy step he approached the sleeper. With
satisfaction he regarded the upturned face of the man whom, if waking,
he would have feared, and noted his deep, regular breathing.
"You wouldn't sleep so sound, John Miles," he said to himself, "if you
knew I was standing over you. How easily I could put a bullet into you!
But then I wouldn't have the satisfaction of anticipating your
disappointment when you wake up and find your treasure gone! No, you
may live. I have no use for your life, that is, if you don't wake up. In
that case, I may have to kill you."
The bag of gold-dust lay under the head of Miles. He knew of no better
place for it, calculating that any attempt at removal would arouse him.
So it might under ordinary circumstances, but unusual fatigue made him
sleep like a log. Bill Crane kneeled down, and by delicate manipulation
succeeded in drawing the bag from beneath the sleeper's head. Lest the
removal of the pillow might awaken Miles, he replaced it by a coat,
which he folded up so as to produce about the same elevation above the
ground.
The transfer was made, without in the least interfering with the
slumbers of the tired traveller.
Bill Crane rose to his feet, triumphant. Not only was he possessed of a
sum of which he stood sorely in need, but he had the satisfaction of
outwitting his adversary. Moreover, he had obtained Tom's money in
addition, and thus revenged himself upon the boy who had once thwarted
him.
"Good-by, John Miles!" he said, lifting his hat mockingly. "Sorry to
inconvenience you, but can't help it. A long sleep, and pleasant
dreams!"
Thus speaking, he turned away, unconscious that he had been observed by
a third party.
CHAPTER VII.
THE HEATHEN CHINEE.
This third party belonged to that peculiar race immortalized by Bret
Harte. He was a heathen Chinee! His face was smooth and bland, and wore
an expression of childlike innocence which was well calculated to
deceive. Ah Sin possessed the usual craft of his countrymen, and
understood very well how to advance his worldly fortunes. He belonged to
the advance guard of immigrants from the Central Flowery Kingdom, and
with a companion, Ah Jim, was engaged in mining in the immediate
neighborhood. His gains had not been great thus far, but then his
expenses had amounted to little or nothing. He and his friend had
brought two bags of rice from San Francisco, and they were well
satisfied with this solitary article of diet.
Ah Sin, from a distance, had seen John Miles encamp for the night, and,
impelled by curiosity or a more questionable motive, had approached to
take a view of the stranger. Before reaching him he caught sight of Bill
Crane, and his almond eyes straightway watched the movements of that
gentleman, while he himself kept sufficiently in the background to
escape observation.
When he saw Crane stealthily remove the bag from under the sleeper's
head, he became very much interested, and a bland smile overspread his
face, while his cue vibrated gently with approval.
"'Melican man very smart," he murmured to himself. "He steal his
friend's money while he sleep."
My readers are probably aware that our Mongolian visitors find a
difficulty in pronouncing the letter r, and invariably replace it by
l.
"Suppose other 'Melican man wake up, he make a low," continued Ah Sin,
softly.
But the other 'Melican man did not wake up, and Bill Crane got away with
his booty, as we already know. Cautiously the Chinaman followed him,
and ascertained where he intended to pass the night. It was at a
moderate distance from the cabin which the two Chinamen had selected for
their mining camp.
Bill Crane jumped from his horse, stretched his limbs, and gaped.
"I'm powerful sleepy," he soliloquized. "I can't go any farther
to-night. I don't like to rest so near Miles, but I can be on the road
before he wakes up. I guess it will be safe enough."
Crane, having made up his mind to rest, rolled himself up in his
blanket, and stretched himself out, first tying his horse to a sapling.
The place was retired, and he felt moderately confident that, even if he
overslept himself, he would not be discovered.
"I'd like to see Miles when he discovers his loss," he said to himself,
smiling at the thought. "He'll be ready to tear his hair, and won't have
the least idea how the gold-dust was spirited away. You excel me in
brute strength, John Miles, but one thing I am pretty sure of, you
haven't got my brains," and he complacently tapped his forehead.
"There must be at least two hundred dollars' worth in that bag," he
reflected. "It isn't a great haul, but it will do. It will last me some
time, and perhaps start me in something in Frisco. Bill Crane, you've
done a good stroke of business to-day. You are entitled to a good
night's rest, and you shall have it."
First, however, he concealed the bag. He did not think it safe to place
it under his head as Miles had done. He scooped a hole in the earth near
by, deposited the bag, replaced the dirt, and spread a few leaves over
the top.
"No one will think of searching there," thought Crane. "Even if Miles
himself surprises me here, he won't suspect anything."
Bill Crane felt that he was unusually sharp and crafty, and felt great
contempt for the stupidity of the man whom he had overreached. The time
was not far off when he had occasion to doubt whether he had not
overrated his own artfulness.
A pair of almond eyes, lighted up with mild wonder, followed closely
all the movements of William Crane. When the bag was concealed, and
Crane lay down to sleep, the Chinaman nodded blandly, and remarked
softly, "All light! Me go find Ah Jim."
Ah Sin had to walk but half a mile to find the partner of his toils. Ah
Sin and Ah Jim, though not related to each other, were as like as two
peas. The same smooth face, the same air of childlike confidence, the
same almond eyes, a pigtail of the same length, a blouse and loose pants
of the same coarse cloth, were characteristic of both.
When the two met, they straightway plunged into a conversation in which
Ah Sin had most to say.
Ah Jim listened attentively, and was evidently well pleased with what
his companion said. I am afraid my young friends are not well up in the
Chinese tongue, and would not understand the conversation, however
faithfully reported. They must infer what it was from what followed.
The two Chinamen bent their steps towards the resting-place of Bill
Crane. Ah Sin carried a bag of about the same size as the one Crane had
stolen, which he carefully filled with sandy earth. With stealthy steps
these two innocent heathen drew near the spot, and looked searchingly at
the recumbent form of the eminent representative of American
civilization.
Ah Sin turned to Ah Jim with a pleased smile.
"All light!" he said. "'Melican man asleep."
A similar smile lighted up the face of Ah Jim. "'Melican man sleep
sound," he said; "no wake up."
Quite unaware of the honor done him by the special Chinese embassy which
had taken this early opportunity to call upon him, Bill Crane slept on.
There was a smile upon his upturned face as if he were dreaming of
something pleasant. He should have been a prey to remorse, if his
conscience had done its duty, but Bill's conscience had grown callous,
and gave him very little trouble. It was only when he was found out that
he became sensible of a kind of mental discomfort which came as near to
remorse as he was capable of feeling.
Reassured by the deep, regular breathing of the sleeper, Ah Sin and his
friend proceeded to their work. The former drew a slender stiletto-like
knife from a fan which protruded above the collar of his blouse, and,
stooping down, began skilfully to remove the dirt which covered the bag
of gold-dust. From time to time he stole a glance at the sleeper to mark
the first indications of returning consciousness. It was well for Crane
that his sleep continued. A Chinaman does not set a high value upon
human life, and the long stiletto would have been plunged into the
'Melican man before he was well aware of what was going on. Bill Crane's
good genius saved him from this sudden exit by continuing the profound
slumber in which he was repairing the ravages of fatigue.
The Chinamen therefore met with no interruption in their work. They drew
out from its place of concealment the buried bag, and emptying the
contents of their own poured into it the combined treasures of Miles and
poor Tom. Then they filled the first bag with the worthless dust which
they had brought with them, and carefully reburied it in the ground.
They did their work so carefully and well that no one was likely to
suspect that the bag had been tampered with.
Having done their work, Ah Sin and his friend smiled upon each other in
bland satisfaction, which was further expressed by a low guttural
chuckle.
"All light," said Ah Sin, with a nod.
"All light," chimed in Ah Jim, nodding in return.
A consciousness of lofty virtue could not have produced a happier
expression upon any face than appeared on the mild countenance of the
Chinamen.
"'Melican man much supplised when he wake up," remarked Ah Jim.
"Chinamen make much money," returned his friend.
The two enterprising visitors returned to their quarters, and concealed
their booty in a safe place. Then they too lay down and slept the sleep
of confiding innocence.
Bret Harte has not told us whether the heathen Chinee has a conscience;
but if he has, neither Ah Sin nor Ah Jim experienced any inconvenience
from its possession. Neither they nor Bill perhaps can fairly be taken
as fair representatives of the different religious systems under which
they were trained. Bill Crane could hardly claim any superiority over
the heathen Chinee in point of honesty.
CHAPTER VIII.
BILL CRANE'S DISAGREEABLE DISCOVERY.
It was five o'clock in the morning when Bill Crane opened his eyes. He
felt refreshed by his night's sleep, yet under ordinary circumstances
would have deferred getting up for at least an hour. But the
consciousness that he had a treasure to guard, and the knowledge that he
was at any moment liable to be called to account by the real owner,
whose camp was scarcely more than a mile distant, aroused him to
exertion.
"I must get away while John Miles is still asleep," he bethought
himself. "Let me get to Frisco first, and I can at once dispose of it,
and he will never find me out."
Crane did not wait to prepare breakfast. That he could take on the road
an hour or two later, when he felt safe from interruption. He rose and
shook himself. This was his scanty toilet. Next he must take the bag
from its place of concealment, and then he could commence his journey.
While uncovering the bag, Crane did not discover that it had been
tampered with, partly because it was still there. It was natural to
suppose that, if discovered by a third party, it would be carried away.
He did not even open the bag, not thinking it necessary.
"John Miles hasn't waked up yet," he said to himself with a smile. "When
he does, there'll be some swearing, I'll be bound. You're a good boy,
John Miles, but you ain't so smart as you think you are. I think I have
got the start of you this time."
Bill Crane rode off smiling.
His course led him by the camp of the Chinamen. Early as it was they
were astir. Ah Sin saw the rider, and at once recognized him as the man
he had robbed. How could Crane know that those pleasant-faced barbarians
had served him such a trick?
"Hallo, Chinamen!" he said aloud. "Have they got out here already? I'll
speak to them. Hallo, John!" he said, halting his horse, for even then
every Chinaman was John.
"How do, John?" replied Ah Sin, smiling blandly.
"My name isn't John, but no matter. What are you two doing?"
"Looking for gold," was the reply.
"Do you find any?"
"Velly little. Bad place."
"Have you been in San Francisco?"
"Yes, John."
"Why didn't you stay there?"
"Too many Chinamen--too little washee,--washee."
"What have you got in the way of provisions? Mine are stale. I'd like to
buy some of you."
"We have got a little lice, John."
"Got a little what? Oh, I know: you mean rice. Why don't you pronounce
your English better?"
"Because Chinamen not 'Melican men."
"Then I suppose I may as well be moving on, as I can't get anything out
of you. Oh, have you got any tea, John?"
"Yes, John."
"Got any made?"
Ah Sin produced a cup, for he and his friend had just prepared their
breakfast, and being warm, Bill Crane gulped it down with a relish.
"After all, a man needs some warm drink in the morning," he said to
himself. "How much to pay, John?"
"Nothing, John. 'Melican man welcome."
"John, you're a gentleman, or rather both of you are gentlemen, even if
you are heathens. I'll remember you in my prayers."
The eminent Christian, Bill Crane, rode off from the Chinese camp,
calmly confident of his moral superiority to the two benighted heathen
whom he left behind him. Whether he remembered his promise to intercede
for them in prayer is a little doubtful, or would have been, if he had
had occasion to pray himself. It is to be feared that prayer and William
Crane had long been strangers.
As Crane rode away, the two Chinamen exchanged glances. A gentle smile
lighted up their yellow faces, and they were doubtless thinking of
something pleasant. They exchanged a few guttural remarks which I should
like to be able to translate, for they doubtless referred to Bill Crane,
whom they had kindly supplied with a cup of tea gratis. Yet, perhaps,
considering all things, it was the dearest cup of tea Crane had ever
drank, since it was the only return he got for a bag of gold-dust worth
over two hundred dollars. But there is an old saying, "Where ignorance
is bliss, 'tis folly to be wise." Crane was just as happy as if the bag
really contained gold-dust. But this happy ignorance was not to last
long.
After riding five or six miles our traveller thought he might venture to
dismount for rest and refreshment. He selected as his breakfast-table
the green sward beside a sparkling mountain streamlet. He dismounted,
permitting his horse to graze while he took out the stale provisions
which must constitute his morning meal. They were not very palatable,
and Crane sighed for the breakfasts of old, the memory of which at this
moment was very tantalizing. But he comforted himself with the thought
that he had the means of making up for his enforced self-denial when he
reached San Francisco.
This naturally led him to open the bag, and feast his eyes over his
easily obtained wealth. He untied the string, and with a smile of
pleased anticipation peered at the contents.
His face changed suddenly.
Was he dreaming? In place of the shining dust, his eyes rested on--sand.
He hastily thrust in his finger, and stirred the grains. But nothing
else was to be discovered. The bag contained nothing but worthless sand.
Crane stared at the deceptive bag in the most lugubrious astonishment.
Surely the bag contained gold-dust when he concealed it. There could be
no doubt on that point, for he had opened it and seen the contents for
himself. But in that case, how could such a change have been effected in
one night? It had not been touched; so, at any rate, he believed. He had
found it in the morning in the exact spot where he had placed it
overnight, and yet--
Bill Crane took another look at the contents of the bag, hoping that he
had been deceived by some ocular delusion, but the second examination
brought him no comfort. He sank back, feeling in a state of mental and
bodily collapse.
Never was poor thief so utterly bewildered as Bill Crane. He could
almost believe that some magical transformation had been practiced at
his expense. Was it possible, he thought, that John Miles, discovering
his loss, had visited him, and played this trick upon him? He could not
believe this. It was not in accordance with John's direct,
straightforward nature. Instead of acting in this secret manner, he
would have sternly charged Crane with the robbery, and punished him on
the spot. Leaving him out of the account, then, the mystery deepened. It
never occurred to Crane to suspect the Chinamen who had so hospitably
furnished him with a cup of tea. Even if they had come into his mind, he
would have been puzzled to account for their knowledge of his having the
bag in his possession.
Bill Crane was decidedly unhappy. His glowing anticipations of
prosperity, based upon the capital contained in the bag, were rudely
broken in upon, and the airy fabric of his hopes dashed to the ground.
He felt that fortune had been unkind--that he was a deeply injured man.
Had his claim to the stolen property been the best possible, he could
not have felt the injustice of fate more keenly.
"It's always the way!" he exclaimed in deep dejection. "I always was
unlucky. Just as I thought I was on my feet again, this cursed gold-dust
turns to sand. Here am I out in the wilderness without an ounce to my
name. I don't know what to do. I'd give a good deal, if I had it, to
find out what became of the gold-dust."
As he spoke, Crane, in a fit of ill-temper, kicked the unlucky bag to a
distance, and slowly and disconsolately mounting his horse, plodded on
his way. All his cheerfulness was gone. It was some comfort, but still
scant, to think that John Miles was as unlucky as himself. Both had
become penniless tramps, and were alike the sport of Fortune. There was
a difference in respect to their desert, however. John Miles may
rightly claim the reader's sympathy, while Bill Crane must be considered
to have met with a disaster which he richly deserved.
CHAPTER IX.
CLEANED OUT.
John Miles slept long, and awoke feeling refreshed and cheerful. He had
a healthy organization, and never failed to eat and sleep well. Like
Crane, he had no toilet to make, but sprang to his feet already dressed.
His first thought was naturally of his treasure. His heart gave a quick
bound when he failed to discover it in the place where he remembered to
have put it. In dismay he instituted a search, which, of course, proved
unavailing.
"Who could have taken it?" thought Miles, large drops of perspiration
gathering upon his forehead.
All about him was loneliness. He could see no signs of life. Yet the bag
could not have gone away of itself. There was certainly human agency in
the matter.
Miles confessed to himself with sadness that he had been imprudent to
leave the bag where it would naturally excite the cupidity of any
passing adventurer. That it must have been taken by such a one seemed
evident. In that case, the chance of recovering it seemed slender
enough. Nevertheless, John Miles decided to make an effort, hopeless as
it was, to discover the whereabouts of his lost property.
"If it had been mine, I wouldn't have cared so much," he said to
himself, with a sigh; "but poor Tom's money is gone too. I will make it
up to him if I live, but I am afraid his father will be inconvenienced
by the delay."
Miles made preparations for his departure, and strode away, looking
searchingly to the right and left in search of something that might
throw light upon his loss. Presently he espied the two Chinamen. Could
they have taken it? He would at any rate speak to them.
"Good-morning, John," he said, when he came within hearing distance.
Ah Sin bobbed his head, and repeated "Good-morning, John."
"Do you live here?"
"Yes, we washee-washee for gold."
"Does anyone else live near by?"
The two inclined their heads, and answered in the negative.
"Have you seen anyone pass last night or this morning?"
"Yes," answered Ah Sin. "'Melican man stay all nightee--over there.
Chinaman give him a cup of tea this morning."
"How long ago?" asked Miles, eagerly.
"Two hours," answered Ah Jim.
"In what direction did he go?"
The two Chinamen readily told him.
Miles decided to tell them of the loss of his bag of gold-dust. Possibly
they could throw some light upon his loss.
"Some one stole a small bag of dust from me last night," he said. "I
suspect it was the man you describe. Did he appear to have any such
article with him?"
"Yes," answered Ah Sin, who, with natural cunning, saw that this
information would divert suspicion from them. "It was so large,"
indicating the size with his hands.
Of course his description was accurate, for he had very good reason to
know the size of the bag.
"He must have been the thief," said Miles, eagerly. "In what direction
did you say he went?"
Ah Sin pointed to the west.
"I will follow him. It is on my way. If I catch the villain, it will be
the worse for him."
"He velly bad man," said Ah Sin, sympathizingly.
"That's where you are right, my heathen friend. Well, good-morning,
John. I am much obliged to you for your information."
"Velly welcome, John."
As John Miles rode away, Ah Sin turned to his friend Ah Jim, and
remarked,--
"S'pose he catch him, he kill him."
"All lightee!" returned Ah Jim. "He velly bad man, he thief."
The two Chinamen exchanged glances. If they had been white men, there
would have been a smile or a wink, but these children of Confucius
looked so serenely virtuous, so innocent of guile, that the most
experienced detective would have seen nothing in their faces indicating
any guilty knowledge of the lost treasure. But, guileless as they
seemed, they had proved more than a match for Bill Crane and his victim.
       *       *       *       *       *
John Miles rode away with a faint hope that he might overtake the man,
whoever he might be, who had stolen his precious bag. In due time he
reached the spot where Crane had examined the bag, and on discovering
its worthless contents, had thrown it away. The thief had not taken the
trouble to empty it.
When Miles saw it he hurried to it, hoping he might find some of the
treasure inside. Of course he was disappointed, and at the same time
bewildered.
"This is certainly my bag," he said to himself. "Here are my initials,
J. M. Then there are other marks well known to me. I could swear to it
anywhere. But how does it happen that it is full of sand, and why has
the thief thrown it away? That beats me!"
Miles decided that for some reason unknown the thief had transferred its
contents to some other bag--perhaps his own--and then had discarded the
original one, in wanton humor filling it instead with sand.
"He may have been afraid it would be found on him," thought Miles. "The
marks on the bag would have been evidence enough to condemn him. By
throwing away my bag he thinks himself safe."
His solution of the puzzle was ingenious, but as we know he erred in two
respects. Bill Crane had not filled the bag with sand and thrown it away
from prudential considerations, nor had he profited by the theft he had
committed. He had been as badly outwitted as his victim, and the profit
had gone to the bland and obliging Chinamen, who had thus far escaped
suspicion.
John Miles slackened his rein, and thought seriously and sadly of the
position to which he was reduced. What was he to do? He was, in the
expressive language of the country, "cleaned out," and brought to a pass
where he must begin life over again, with the disadvantage of being
seventy-five dollars in debt, for he was resolved that Tom's loss should
be paid back to the uttermost penny.
Presently philosophy came to his aid.
"It might have been worse," he reflected. "Two hundred dollars is too
large a sum to lose, but it wont take long to make up if I have any sort
of luck. I wish I were in San Francisco. It may trouble me to get there
without means."
When misfortune comes it is always best to look it manfully in the face,
and not to shrink from or over estimate it. John Miles had a strong,
