"This is where Mr. Kiley lives." 
"It is a poor lodging-house, I should judge." 
"Yes, he told me so." 
"You did not tell me so. How are we going in 
there, Desire ? I don't like it." 
" We can go as well as they can, I suppose," said 
I, getting out of the carriage and holding forth my 
hand to help Caroline. She emerged, casting an 
eye of doubt and dislike up and down the street, 
and at the row of buildings before one of which we 
stood. By the untidy entrance way, the open door, 
the soiled walls, the broken window panes here and 
there, the forlorn, unkept appearance everywhere, 
one could see only too plainly that it was a house 
that had no home in it, only a number of in dwellers. 
" I don't like to go in here, Desire ! " 
" People have to live here, Caroline," 
" That is just it ! I would not mind if it were 
empty. But people have fevers, and all sorts of 
things ; and it is so dirty ! 
"Come!" said I. "If people can live here, we 
can afford to look at it." 
I went in, and Caroline followed, doubtfully. We 
went up one flight of stairs, and knocked. I had 
expected a little bettering of the aspect of things 
when the door should open ; and within it was cer 
tainly broom clean ; but alas, it was also like a place 
 
swept bare. Besides the two human beings we had 
come to see, the room had hardly anything in it. 
A poor bed, on which no blankets could be sup 
posed, from the look of it and from the fact that 
one or two articles of wearing apparel lay across 
it, evidently doing duty as covering; a very few 
very poor chairs; an apology for a washstand; that 
was about all. One or two trunks were visible. 
Mrs. Kiley lay in the bed. 
Caroline was so much startled and confused at 
the sight of all this, and at the contrast it presented 
with the very well looking and well mannered man 
who received us there, that as she told me after 
wards she hardly knew which way to look. I left 
her to talk to him, while I went up to the bed. Ah 
me, what anxious eyes met mine ! what a worn, 
hungry face ! I could hardly keep from bursting 
into tears. 
"How do you do, Mrs. Riley?" I said, taking her 
hand. 
She a nswered that she was not very well; and 
as she spoke a shiver ran over her. 
"You are ill?" said I, "or is it the cold of this 
terrible day ? " And I saw there was no pretence 
of lire anywhere. I saw it with horror. 
" I am not ill, I think. I think it is the extreme 
weather," she answered. " Isn't the weather ex 
treme ? " 
" Fearfully cold ! I have come to bring you, I 
hope, good news. Dr. Odenwalder will at least 
look over his papers to find your husband's let 
 
ters; and if they are there he ivitt find them. 
But we will not wait for that, to make you more 
comfortable. Keep up a good heart, in the mean 
time. I am going to get something to warm 
you." 
I would not wait another minute, but drew Caroline away; first putting in Mr. Riley's hands Sandie Birkenstall's ten dollars and begging him to 
get coals and have a fire immediately and get out 
of pawn anything they might specially require. 
Then I ran down stairs, ordered the coachman, and 
in a minute we were driving off again. 
" What now ? " said my sister. " That was what 
I call a short visit ! But you hurried me so, I 
could not ask what you meant. What do you 
mean ? " 
" We are going back again ; we'll finish the visit 
then," I replied. 
" Back again ! " cried Caroline. " To that place ? " 
" Of course. We could not leave them so. Did 
you see that woman's face? I cannot get my 
breath freely till I see it with a different look 
upon it." 
"But we can do nothing till Dr. Odenwalder 
finds the papers." 
"Yes, we can. We can keep her from dying of 
cold and starvation." And a sob had like to have 
choked me. " You could not go home, Caroline, 
and eat your dinner, with the thought of those two 
hungry faces ? " 
" I suppose," Caroline said discontentedly, " if I 
 
knew all the hungry people there are and had the 
thought of their faces before me, I could not eat 
at all ! The only way is, not to see what you can't 
help. There is no use in it." 
" See all you can," said I shortly. 
" But I cannot help all, Desire." 
"You can do more than you think; if you want 
to do it." 
"And what are we stopping here for?" she said, 
as the carriage again stood still. It was before the 
door of a large restaurant. 
" Wait a moment and you shall see." 
"I will not wait in the carriage," said Caroline, following me out of it. " The weather is too 
bitter. Such a day for such work ! " 
"The very day for it," I answered joyously, 
pushing open the restaurant door; and I proceeded 
to give an order for coffee, bread, cold roast chicken 
and potatoes. 
"Are you going to take this down there?" said 
Caroline. I nodded. 
" Beefsteak would be better." 
"Couldn't have it hot. Cold beefsteak is no 
good." 
Caroline smiled, and seeing that she was as she 
expressed the matter, "in for it," she invested some 
quarters in cake and pies. I left a pledge for the 
return of the dishes, had all packed in a basket, 
and we set off again. But I stopped at a grocery 
and purchased also tea and sugar and one or two 
other little things; then we went on. 
 
Mr. Riley had minded his business, as I had 
minded mine; for he had got a fire kindled, and 
the place looked by so much more heartsome. Now 
Caroline and I spread napkins, which I had also 
provided, over the bed and upon a chair; I man 
aged to warm up the coffee; and then we had the 
joy of seeing it tasted by lips that, I am afraid, 
had tasted nothing before that day. Mr. Riley had 
had his breakfast, I knew; but to common men 
breakfast does not do away with the need of din 
ner ; and he was hungry again by this time. But 
I think, all the salt he took to his food was not in 
the shape of crystals. I think some tears went in. 
joy of ministry ! is there anything like it in all 
the wide world ? 
"Well," said Caroline, as we were at last driving 
away, " that will do for one day ! " 
"No," said I, "there is more yet." 
"What, pray?" 
"We must get those people into a decent lodging." 
" But, Desire, do you manage to keep warm ? " 
"I don't know," said I laughing. "I have not 
thought of it." 
"Have you no conscience about Mr. Iredell's 
horses and servant ? " 
" I sent Sam to get his dinner while we were at 
Mr. Riley's. Mr. Iredell never forgets his ser 
vants , I have learned that. He is muffled in furs, 
besides. Sam, I mean." 
" But won't you wait to hear whether Dr. Odenwalder finds the papers ? " 
 
"We cannot move the Rileys to-day. But I want 
to have things ready. Dr. Odenwalder will find 
the papers. Didn't you hear? he does not want 
Mr. Iredell after him. " 
"Desire," said my sister after a pause, "this is 
all very well, what you have done to-day; and I 
am not at all sorry to have been with you; if I 
don't catch a fearful cold, that is. But I go back 
to what I was saying. It seems to me, you and 
Mr. Iredell carry things to an extreme. I could 
not do this every day; and you could not." 
" I do not. I am not sure, perhaps lie does." 
"Well, it is too much." 
"What is too much?" 
" This trying to help everybody." 
"No, Caroline, it is not that. Only everybody 
you know." 
" But you cannot do it." 
"Why not?" 
"Without giving up your life to it, that is; and 
most of us have something else to do." 
" Nobody ought to do what he cannot," said I. 
"If you do what you can, Caroline that is enough." 
" But that is a very vague word," said Caroline 
uneasily. "How can one tell what one can?" 
" I don't know," said I seriously. " I am begin 
ning to think it is one of the most tremendous 
questions there are. She hath done what she 
could ! I should like that to be said of me." 
"I am sure it might be said of you to-day, " 
Caroline answered. 
 
"Not till I have found a decent lodging for those 
poor people to move into to-morrow morning." 
" Desire, if you take the words literally so, then 
nobody does what he could." 
"I am beginning to think it." With the exception perhaps of Mr. Iredell, I added in my 
thought. 
" Then the words must not be taken literally so, 
don't you see ? " 
" No, I don't see. How do you see it ? " 
"Why, Desire, at that rate, nobody does what he 
can. Nobody does what he ought." 
"You think the words must be accommodated 
to the people, not the people conformed to the 
words ? " 
" I do not think anything absurd. But you are 
simply requiring an impossibility." 
"Are not we to follow Christ if we are Christians?" 
"Yes." 
"Did he spare himself? Did he turn away any 
that applied? Did he stop for weariness, or even 
sometimes for necessary food ? Caroline, he 
pleased not himself  and that is what we are all 
bent on doing." 
"Don't you think there are duties to society, and 
to one's family ? " 
"These are our duties to society, I think. To 
lift the heavy burdens, how is it the words 
run? and let the oppressed go free; and that ye 
break every yoke; when thou seest the hungry, 
 
that thou feed him, and that thou bring the pooi 
that are cast out to thine house. I may not have 
the words exactly, but I know they are in the fifty- 
eighth chapter of Isaiah, something like that." 
"But there is Society; what I mean by Society," 
said Caroline; "you leave all that out." 
"Who gave you authority to set it up and make 
an idol of it?" 
"I do not make an idol of it! " 
"And make sacrifices to it" I went on; not 
heeding her. 
"I do not make sacrifices to it." 
" Caroline ! Stop and think." 
"What sacrifices?" 
"Time and money." 
"What time and money? Do you mean, visiting my friends ? " 
" And dressing to visit them ; and inviting them 
to your house to visit you, and preparing an entertainment for them when they come." 
"Arid you would not do all that?" cried Caroline. "And what would become of Society, upon 
your plan ? " 
"Ay, what would become of it?" said I sadly. 
"There would be no hungry without food, and 
none starved for want of fire. There would be no 
industrious poor without work. There would be 
no miserable sick uncared for. There would be no 
tenement houses. There would be fewer prisons, 
and I guess, no penitentiaries. It seems to me, 
Society would be better off." 
 
"What would become of our rich friends?" 
" You would see them as friends, when they ivere 
friends ; and when they were .merely rich people  
you would let them alone." 
"And you would not make an entertainment 
for them; never give a party, a dinner, or a 
supper?" 
" Not because they were rich or fashionable. 
Christ says not. You forget, Caroline, it is not I 
that make the rules, Jesus said. When thou makest 
a dinner or a supper, call not thy rich friends ." 
"We should have to new furnish all our houses, 
then," said Caroline scornfully. 
" I suppose you would. So a great deal of money 
would be set free, you see, to do better work." 
" And of course we should dress in homespun." 
There would be some saving in that direction," 
I drily allowed. 
" What would become of all the tradespeople who 
supply us ? " 
"They would supply you still, I suppose; only 
with different things." 
" How come you to be the only wise one, among 
so many? did you ever think of that? " 
" Not because I am really either better or wiser 
than other people," I said. " But I suppose, being 
out of the whirl, I can see; and my ears not being- 
deafened with the cry of the world, I can hear the 
words of the Master. Caroline, I hear them ! 
and they sound sweet to me; and I wish you heard 
them." 
 
" And what do you think Mr. Birkenstall would 
say, if I heard them in your sense ? " 
"There is another question, Caroline; and it 
seems to me a prior question. What will the Lord 
say, if you don't ? " 
The carriage stopped at Caroline's door; for she 
had declared she could go no further with me. She 
left me with a curt good bye; and I went on my 
way alone. It happened that I knew where to go. 
I had heard Olive speak of a nice poor woman, a 
dressmaker, who had part of her house to let. To 
her I went; found an empty flat which would do 
admirably; made conditional arrangements with 
her, and returned home to await news from Dr. 
Odenwalder. 
Olive was only faintly interested in my story; 
and averred she had had enough to do to keep 
warm where she was, and she wondered how I had 
existed. Her sympathies were with me in my furcape; not with the unsheltered misery I had gone 
to relieve. So it is; people sympathize with what 
they know, not with what they don't know. In 
Chesterfield there is no such suffering to be even 
heard of; and here my sister is transformed into a 
fine lady, and does not touch the outer world. The 
bite of hunger, the palsy of cold, are things she can 
not imagine. It is a true saying of somebody, that 
many ar_e cruel, not from hardness of heart but from 
want of imagination. I can see that her prosperity 
is not good for her. 
We dressed and dined, and were sitting at work 
 
in the evening, when a note was brought to me. 
Seal and monogram I guessed whom it was from. 
"St. Bedes Bedory, 
Jan. 17, 18. 
" My dear Miss Burgoyne, 
" I am a great sinner ! and feel that on this occasion I must make my confession at your shrine. 
Obedient to your well urged petition, I have gone 
into the Herculean task of clearing not the Au- 
gsean stables, but what is worse, my baskets of 
papers. Every possible variety of irrelevant thing and subject came thereby under my hand disclosing an amount of work undone and that ought to be 
done, which I am sure would have moved Hercules 
in my place to contemplate the problem of self-de 
struction. You observe, I do not compare myself 
with Hercules except in moral strength, wherein 
I never heard that the old demi-god was distinguished; so I cannot be charged with self-laudatiori. But the point which will interest you is, that 
I came at length upon Mr. Biley's papers; all of 
them, I judge; full and true as he described them 
to you, and establishing perfectly his story and his 
claim. His story it will be a mortification to me 
always to remember; his claim we shall be happy 
immediately to acknowledge; and will put him at 
once into the station and office which he was in 
vited here to fill, and which I have good hope he 
will fill worthily. With such a patron saint, how 
can he fail ? 
 
"Pray forgive my troubling you with the re- 
quest to send Mr. Kiley to me, or if you please, his 
address. That little item was forgotten in our busi 
ness transaction this morning. Knowing Mr. Ire- 
dell's, as who does not? I flatter myself that I 
shall not go wrong in addressing you there. Let 
the mantle of your charity, which I am sure is a 
generous garment, be thrown over the sins of 
" Your very humble and obliged servant, 
" GUSTAVUS ODENWALDER." 
So that business is disposed of. I was much 
amused by the doctor's note, and Olive was as 
much mystified by it. 
Feb. 20. 
THAT was a beginning of doing Mr. Iredell's 
work, which has stretched on into a good deal 
of activity, of the same sort. I had soon no more 
care for Mr. Riley. After seeing him and his wife 
moved into their new quarters, and provided with 
a few things needful for the moment, I could, leave 
that piece of machinery to run itself. Mr. Riley 
was accepted by his brother clergymen, put in 
office, well paid, and set to work; and l^oth he 
and his wife brightened up into good looks and 
happy living. I have had no other case of such 
peculiar interest or such brilliant issue, perhaps- 
 
but almost every day brings applicants of one 
sort and another, telling each his different story 
of perplexity or pain. It is good to relieve perplexity ! and it is better yet to soften away pain. 
I do it sometimes in one way, sometimes in an 
other, yet generally do it. Not with the spending of much money either; often a very little will 
serve, like a drop of oil upon the clogged wheels 
of the social machine, and to ! it is in running 
order again. Sometimes no money at all is called 
for; but a little time and sympathy and influence 
exerted in the right place. When mine is not 
enough I make Olive or Caroline come into the 
breach. And so, day after day, I am busy in the 
sweetest possible way. I have time enough too 
for all my own needs; and the constant stir of interest and action keeps me fresh for study and 
ready for enjoyment of every enjoyable thing that 
offers. Dr. Odenwalder one night expressed his 
apprehension that we must be run down with applications ; but I explained to him that all go first 
through the hands of Mr. Iredell's special agent or 
man of business; and it is only such cases as he 
has ascertained to be genuine that are allowed to 
come to Mr. Iredell himself for treatment. Harry 
announces no such applicant who does not como 
provided with a note or ticket of credit from this 
agent. Dr. Odenwalder opened his eyes, I thought, 
though they have seen so much of the world that 
they are habitually wide open, and muttered " Sys 
tem!" 
 
"Nothing to be done without system, Mr. Ire- 
dell says." 
" And Mr. Iredell's fair substitute ! But ladies 
so young, do not generally learn lessons so 
old." 
I did not tell him how I had learned system in 
my dairy at home long ago. 
But I have found that in all this activity I have 
been describing, there lurks for me a subtle temptation. It delights rne that I can do and am doing 
Mr. Iredell's work. The thought comes to me with 
insidious sweetness, after one and another case is 
disposed of, that Mr. Iredell would be pleased ; that 
I am carrying on what he wants done; I am, in a 
sort, his servant; and it seems to me there is nothing I would rather be. I caught myself in some 
such thought lately, and reckoned with myself 
about it. This will not do; this is not right, in 
any view of it. I ought to feel just all that for 
Christ's sake; the joy of doing what he wants done, 
the privilege of being his servant, the delight of 
pleasing him; and here am I putting another name 
for his, and forgetting the real relations of things, 
even letting another affection overtop and throw 
into shadow the love which nothing should dim 
and nothing should hide. Ay, it is even so. I 
suppose, in Mr. Iredell's absence I have thought 
myself safe, and let myself go in a certain hidden 
indulgence of feeling. His image encounters me 
in all corners of the house; I think as I cross the 
threshold of the dining room, Here his foot steps; 
 
in the hall I always imagine him coming or going; 
in the library his presence is in his chair; at the 
dinner-table his place is in fancy filled. I did not 
know I was doing this, did not know it for some 
time. I have determined what I must do. I will 
be gone before the master of the house comes back ; 
and I will never stay in this house again. As soon 
as his letters give us warning to expect his return, 
I shall fly. I am very deeply ashamed of myself, 
but flight in this instance is the best bravery. I 
am not at all in the state of mind I was in at Mrs. 
Bowdoin's, before Olive's marriage; all that is over; 
I am quiet and content; but I find my heart is 
alive on that side, and I must run away. I wonder why things are twisted and tied so together in 
this world, things that have no actual and proper 
connection ? But there, I suppose, I am begging 
the question. They have an inner connection, no 
doubt; no doubt this special experience of mine is 
meant to make a better servant of me; more wholly 
and heartily devoted to Christ, than I should be 
perhaps if my human life had what it wanted. 
Now, I think, I am all his. I think there is nothing kept back, but my Lord has my whole heart. 
I am sure I agree to all his arrangements for me 
and am satisfied. 
 
Feb. 22. 
I PLUNGE into work all I can. The weather 
continues very severe. So hard a winter has 
not been known, they say, in thirty years. To 
day it was very bitter. Coming out of a shop this 
morning, at the door I encountered an old woman 
offering emery bags for sale. I stopped and bought 
one, and glanced at the woman's face. It was 
pinched with cold, and had besides that wan, peculiar look that comes from want of food. I asked 
her if she had a good sale for her wares ? 
"Not very," she answered. "This is the first sixpence I have taken to-day. I am thankful to you." 
Something in her appearance touched me. 
" Come in," said I opening the shop door again, 
" it is too cold to talk here. Come in and let me 
speak to you. Have you nobody at home to help 
you, and nothing better to do than this ? " 
So she told me her story. She had been well 
off once, and belonged to a respectable family; 
had two sons, well brought up. One went to sea, 
and came not again. The other, after a series of 
vicissitudes, got a position and work in this city as 
a scribe, and sent for his mother to come and live 
with him. She is not a Philadelphia!!. She came, 
and for a while things went well ; they had a comfortable little home and were happy. Then she fell 
ill, and he lost work attending to her. After weeks 
she recovered; and soon after, worn with privation 
and fatigue, for he had worked fearfully hard and 
 
gone without proper sleep, the son took to his bed. 
It was the mother's turn to watch and wait; but 
as she could not also write and earn money, she 
was. forced to apply to the pawnbrokers. So went 
one thing after another, one thing after another; 
and with all, she could not give her boy sufficient 
nourishment, nor the almost as much needed repose of mind and rest of nerve. He failed continually; then died; and the expenses of those days 
swallowed up whatever was left. Mrs. Palimpset 
had taken, in despair, to making emery bags and 
other little articles, and could dispose of them only 
by standing in the street. She told all this with 
quiet patience ; hardly a tear escaped her ; she said 
she knew the Lord was good and would not let her 
starve ; she was trusting in him. 
"W.hat have you on?" said I suddenly taking 
hold of her clothes, which hung limp around her 
"Have you no flannel, in this weather?" 
" It had to go," she answered quietly. "My boy 
wanted something " 
She got no further, and I waited for no more, 
but pulled her into an inner room of the shop; 
which was a little thread and needle store where 
I often dealt. Here I stripped off my flannel petticoat and obliged her to put it on. She made 
much objection, but I looked at my fur cape and 
could not have endured my flannel petticoat an 
other minute. "Now," said I, "come with me." 
I took her into the carriage and drove to the 
address she gave me. A poor house, but decent 
 
outwardly. We went up stairs to the garret room. 
Here she lived. And it was bare; utterly bare; no 
fire, no bed; everything had gone to the pawn 
broker. And here this old woman lived alone! 
me, I thought my heart would stand still. I made 
her hand over to me her pawn tickets, gave her 
money to get a dinner, and drove home. 
There I found Ernestine Forella, come to luncheon. I had not seen her for weeks; she having 
been in New York nearly all the time I have been 
here. I told my story; adding that Olive must 
give me some money, for my stock was out. 
" What are you going to do ? " said Olive. 
" Make her comfortable." 
" But, Desire, you cannot make everybody com 
fortable." 
" I'll just do all in that line I can. If you will 
do as much, and Miss Forella the same, there will 
be quite a good deal more comfort in the world." 
" I never made anybody comfortable in my life," 
said Ernestine. 
" How much money do you want?" said Olive. 
" I do not know. She has nothing" 
" In that case it will take an amount to supply 
her." 
" Less than you think. She will do without Per 
sian carpets." 
"But how long do you suppose 7 should have 
any carpets at all, if I tried to fill every pocket I 
find empty ? " 
" I don't want you to fill her pockets. She will 
 
try to do that, at least, for herself. But you and 
Miss Forella must help sell her emery bags and 
things. That you can do." 
Ernestine was greatly amused by this proposal. 
Olive declared that I was " crazy." 
"That is what the world always says of thoso 
who do not follow it," I remarked. 
"Well," said Ernestine, "people must be crazy 
not to follow it. That fact is a sign that they are 
out of their wits." 
" One side or the other " I said. 
" It is likely that an individual here and there 
should be right, and all the rest of the world 
wrong ! " said Olive. 
"Don't you know that the Bible says, If any 
man will be wise in this world, let him become a fool 
that he may be wise. " 
"You interpret that to suit yourself, of course." 
"Olive, I am only obeying the Lord's command 
that thou deal thy bread to the hungry; when thou 
seest the naked, that thou cover him. " 
"Yes, this time it is my bread," said Olive. "Be 
sides, I have calls to make this afternoon. I shall 
want the carriage. I do not knoAV if that will 
affect your plarns." 
"Then I must walk," I said. "And yet, I do 
not know how I can, it is so far. Calls can wait, 
Olive? I must have the carriage for a couple of 
hours." 
"And I will go with you!" cried Ernestine. "It 
is pinching cold, but I must see the fun. I have 
 
got some money, and I'll help, Desire. Will you 
let me go along with you ? " 
I fancied she had her own ends to serve, as in 
deed it turned out; but of course I accepted her 
company and her contribution together. From 
Olive I got further supplies as a loan to Mr. Iredell, which seemed to me comical enough, as it- 
all comes from him, and immediately after luncheon Ernestine and I set out. I went down first to 
the kitchen and asked the old cook, who like Harry, 
has been a long time in Mr. Iredell's service and 
knows his ways, for a basketful of things, "for 
one of Mr. Iredell's people." She knows what that 
means; and I received some cold boiled beef, some 
nice legs and wings of fowls left from the table, 
half an apple pie, some potatoes and apples, and a 
few smoked herring. The basket went inside the 
Clarence, with Ernestine and me, somewhat to her 
disgust. 
" You know I am learning from you how to be 
good," she said. "Now is this part of the lesson?" 
"What?" 
"This basket. Can't one ride in a carriage with 
out a basket of provisions at one's feet?" 
"Not if the provisions and you have to go at 
the same time." 
" Dreadful ! And one mustn't be dressed, I sup 
pose ? " 
"Depends on what the word means to you," I 
answered laughing. 
"What does it mean to you?" 
 
"In this weather? My fur cape and a warm 
bonnet and gloves." 
" That's a splendid cape ! " said Ernestine ; " it's 
so nice and big, and it's beautiful fur. Did Olive 
give it to you ? " 
"Yes." 
" She's pretty good, I think. You needn't com 
plain of her. I wouldn t, of anybody that gave 
rne such a cape as that. It looks like Mr. Iredell's 
doing. I know him, you see. He has tried to 
make me good so often; but he never gave me 
anything. I am afraid I should never do for be 
nevolence! Can one wear a silk dress, for in 
stance, when one does this work? and are kid 
gloves out of place ? I can't live without kid 
gloves. You've got fur-lined gloves? Comforta 
ble, but so ugly ! They make your hands look 
such monsters. I cannot bear them. Will kid 
gloves do, Desire ? " 
" Old ones, and dark ones, if you can keep your 
hands warm." 
"Old and dark? why?" 
"You are apt to go where light ones would 
be soon spoiled ; and they do not look fitting, 
either." 
"But old?" insisted Ernestine. 
" Old will do, and it's economy." 
"Economy! How I hate it. And you do not 
care for economy. See what sums you have been 
calling for to-day." 
" I am not going to spend one penny more than 
 
just must be spent. But this poor old woman has 
nothing but bare walls around her, Ernestine." 
"I cannot imagine it," said Ernestine shrugging 
her shoulders. 
No, she could not ; and her power of imagination, 
I could see, grew in the course of the doings of that 
afternoon. We drove first to the pawnbroker's. 
"But here I found that Mrs. Palimpset's goods were 
mostly outlawed and had been sold. So at least the 
man assured me ; if he spoke truth or not I had no 
means of determining. From there we went to a 
dealer in second-hand furniture. Here I procured 
a bedstead and bed, two chairs, a strong little table, a stove, a tea kettle, a boiler and a frying 
pan. Next I went to a grocer's and laid in 
a small supply of articles immediately wanted ; 
tea and sugar, bread and butter, a little cheese 
and some more herring, and potatoes. Then I 
ordered in a small quantity of coals and kindling 
wood. 
"What next?" Ernestine asked, as I came back 
to the carriage. 
" I am going to put her room in order." 
" ! Is it a clean place ? " 
" Pretty well." 
"May I go?" 
" Certainly." 
I had ordered the things sent immediately and 
promised a fee ; so when I got to the house I found 
the warehouse van there before me. Mrs. Palimp- 
set was not at home, of which I was very glad. I 
 
arranged things to my liking; had the little stove 
put up; hired the boy that brought the coals to 
kindle a fire and fill the kettle for me, having first 
got it washed by the woman down stairs. I for 
got to say I had gone to a hardware store and got 
a couple of plates and cups and saucers and tea pot 
and knives and spoons; how many things are nec 
essary for the simplest beginning of civilized life ! 
and these articles I washed, as soon as the water
was hot. Meanwhile I hired the aforesaid woman to 
wash out a cupboard in the room and help me put 
up the bedstead; and after an hour's brisk work I 
had the little room tidy, warm, comfortable, with 
the table set and a supply of good things upon it. 
Ernestine had lingered, watching me and my ac 
tivity, with a face expressing interest, scorn, and 
astonishment by turns. But interest grew and 
scorn abated. 
"Desire, I wish you could give me a cup of tea ! " 
she said at last. " And that pie looks good enough 
to eat ! " 
" You cannot have it," said I. u And as for the 
tea, I am not at home, you know." 
" Nonsense ! " 
" What is nonsense ? " 
" Such punctilio. It is all yours." 
"No, not since I have given it. And I have not 
given it either. The money is not mine." 
" Well, some of it was mine," said Ernestine, 
" and I think that entitles me to a cup of tea. I 
am tired and thirsty. Really, Desire." 
 
"You shall have it, as soon as Mrs. Palimpset 
comes home." 
" When will she come?"- 
" I do not know. Soon, I hope, for it is growing 
late and cold." 
She was coming, as I spoke. We heard the slow, 
weary step ascending the last flight of stairs; and 
my heart filled with such joy as those never knew 
who never tasted it, thinking what she was coming to that she did not expect. She opened the 
door, and stood still. I think she thought she had 
missed her way; but then I went forward and took 
her hand. 
It was almost too much. When she saw what I 
