His mother had written a good deal of Yerbury gossip to him, but it had
been mostly of the pleasant order. When he dropped into Maverick's
office the next day, and was welcomed so heartily that it was like a
brother's greeting, he listened to the other side. Affairs were worse
than ever. The bank had gone into liquidation, and would pay about forty
per cent. Property mortgages had been foreclosed right and left; there
was nothing, scarcely, doing; there had been want and misery and
sickness, and now diphtheria was raging.
"So you see the revival didn't do every thing," said Maverick grimly.
"I'm of the opinion, if some of them had preached less, and distributed
bread and broth with a freer hand, it would have been more of a good
work. The praying would be well enough in its place, and, for those old
fellows who pray on a full stomach, very enjoyable, I dare say. But I'd
like them to look after their drains and their wells and their cisterns
before they ask the Almighty to sanctify these afflictions to the poor
wretches who suffer from them. And now, Jack Darcy, what are you going
to do? Have you found better pastures?" and Maverick glanced up with
curious inquiry.
"No," replied Jack, rather reluctantly it must be confessed. It seemed
to him now that he had been spending his time for nought, unless
pleasure counted, and he felt a trifle ashamed of it.
Maverick gave an odd little laugh that puzzled the other.
"See here, Maverick," began Jack in such earnest that he blushed like a
great boy, "I haven't found any new place for myself. The world seems
just full and running over. The great cities have their own men out of
employment, and hordes from every other place. I'd be almost ashamed to
ask for a job. I declare, I'd rather raise as much of my living as I
could in our back garden, or take Perley's farm, and put it together,
and set men raising strawberries, than tramp round, asking for work,
with a feeling that it was taken from some one who had a better right,
who was a native of the soil."
"Then you have not lost your conscience?"
"I hope not. It is the same old story everywhere. What is to be done
about it?" and Jack knit his brows. "I have been going over the books
that I thought would help or let in a little light on the matter, but it
is a wisdom hard to get at. How to make more work in the world, how to
cheapen living, how to"--
"Bring about the millennium! What dead earnest you are in, Darcy!"
"Weren't you in earnest a moment ago, Maverick, when you talked about
the praying and the bread and broth?" said Jack with a great knot drawn
in his brow.
"Yes, Heaven knows. And some one must take hold of the thing who has
eyes to see, and brains, and--and money. You see, people have crowded
into cities and towns, and if they could be sent out somewhere! Why
don't we organize colonies or something of the sort? Now, there's
Florida. Living is cheap, and in such a climate there are fewer needs of
clothing and fuel. I have been wondering why the big dons in cities did
not gather up the poor they have been feeding at soup-houses and
everywhere, and send them out with some one to manage until they could
stand alone. There would be less diphtherias and fevers and starvation;
for that's its right name, Darcy. What can you do when one's system is
all run out with meal-mush, and weak tea that is half willow-leaves, and
such trash? There's Kilburn--he has had the name of being good to the
poor this winter because he has given them trust at his store. Such
stuff! I have looked into a few samples," and the expressive nostrils
curled in disgust. "He makes an enormous profit, for he sells the
poorest kind of goods to these people at the highest prices. Then he
manages to get hold of something, house or furniture, or maybe
clothes,--I don't know. He and Deacon Boyd--Darcy, how can a man honor
religion when these two men are its exponents? So good to the poor! Pah!
It makes me sick. Isn't there a cleaner air somewhere on God's earth?
Can't they be taken out of this?"
"If they could be! There must be one way out, Maverick: better, perhaps,
than going West where thousands are tramping about. And Heaven knows
they need a new factor in civilization down there!"
The young eyes met in sudden hopeful animation. Had they solved even one
strand of the great tangle, that worse than Gordian knot which could not
be cut?
The door opened slowly; and there entered a middle-aged, rather grizzled
man, with shaggy eyebrows, sparse beard, and bent shoulders. He glanced
in hesitatingly, his eyes wandering down to Darcy.
"I declare to man!" and he stared hard, with the door-knob still in his
hand. "Jack Darcy! I heard you were home. How d'y do? How d'y do?" and
he wrung the hand warmly. "I'm powerful glad to see you," and he looked
him slowly over, from head to foot. "Why, you've grown, or something!
What a great giant you are!--Morning, doctor," nodding rather
incidentally to Maverick. "So you've had a long tramp, Jack? Your mother
brought some of the letters over to my old lady, who has been rather
poorly the last two months. Why, you could set up book-writing! Well,
what's the good word? Can't be like Yerbury all over."
"There are too many towns full of idle people, if that is what you mean.
But it was splendid, Cameron! I have one more dream,--to go up and down
the Western coast, and over the Rocky Mountains; but I want to digest
this first. I have no fancy for mental dyspepsia," and he gave a good,
wholesome laugh.
"The right way, Jack," nodded Maverick, with a shrewd twinkle in his
eye.
"Well, you've come back to a dull place,--a dull place," and Cameron
shook his head despondingly. "We used to be main proud of old Yerbury;
but--is the whole world to go on and starve to death, with such crops,
and such an abundance of every thing?"
"We are going to weather it through, Cameron," Jack answered with a
stubborn hopefulness. "There have been hard times before that have ended
in renewed prosperity."
"Yes. There was '57; hard enough, Heaven knows, with the banks going to
smash everywhere. It ruined my father. And way back in '37, when there
was such a wild-fire about real estate, and it came out just as this
has. Do people ever learn by experience, Maverick?" and the man gave a
short, unmirthful chuckle. "You could buy up half Yerbury to-day, for
taxes and mortgages. I can't, for the life of me, see how it all came
about. And that it has gone all over the world,--well, human nature in
England or Germany can't well laugh at human nature in this
country.--Are these things like cholera and fevers, doctor, taking a
clean sweep once in a while?" and Cameron gave a twist to the end of his
faded beard, as if he might wring the secret out of it.
"We have learned to manage the cholera, and see in it, not a
dispensation of Providence, but the natural result of filth and greed
and carelessness. Darcy and I are getting up a panacea now," with a
bright little laugh. "But how is Mrs. Cameron? Is her medicine out?"
"Yes;" and Cameron drew a phial from his pocket. "You don't think it
would do to stop here? She's pretty well, I should say;" and he fingered
the bottle as if he were debating whether to have it filled or not.
"No. She must go on. She is getting her strength back nicely; but it's
bad policy to stop at three-quarters of the race,--eh, Cameron? The
first warm day I'll take her out driving."
While he was talking, he reached out for the bottle, and began
compounding. Cameron nodded an acknowledgment of the last sentence, then
turning to Jack, said abruptly,--
"What was the scheme, Darcy?"
Jack flushed, and glanced at Maverick.
"Emigration, the old remedy," answered the doctor. "England has tried
her hand at it pretty successfully; so why shouldn't we? Only we need
not go out of our own country. There are thousands of acres of
productive land lying idle, and thousands of people starving, or worse.
Too many here,--not enough there."
"Where to?" Cameron asked laconically, his face unmoved by any ripple of
enthusiasm.
Jack seemed to be put on his mettle by it. Lack of faith in him always
roused his belligerent qualities, back in the old school days.
"Yes, Cameron," in an incisive tone, looking steadily out of his
determined eyes. "The cities are crowded over and over, and full of
tramps, and the West swarms with them. We need not imagine we have all
the idle people here at the East. But farming there has come to be a
business of great things, almost as bad as manufacturing. You must have
money, or the big fellows will swallow you up. But we were talking of
Florida. No winter, as one may say; and your house a simple matter, your
fuel, your clothes, a mere nothing. You could hardly starve if you
tried."
Cameron came back to his chair, pushed it out from the wall, planted
himself deliberately in it, and tilted back, pushing up his old felt
hat, as if he did not mean to have his vision obstructed. Then he gave
his beard another twist.
"Can you tell me why this is, Jack Darcy? Here are countries with fine
and lovely climates, where every thing grows to your hand; yet they
always seem to lie idle: Italy and Spain and Turkey and South America,
and our own Gardens of Eden," with a bit of sarcastic smile. "The very
ease of living seems to take the ambition out of one. Well, why
shouldn't it? Even the bees, you know, were demoralized when they found
they did not have to lay up for winter. Wouldn't those people come to be
worse tramps and idlers? I'm sure the poor white trash of the South has
helped itself very little."
"We were talking of concerted effort," interposed
Maverick,--"purchasing a large tract of land, forming a community,
taking different kinds of workmen, and making a success of it. Why
should we not have flourishing towns in Florida, as well as in Kansas?"
"To be sure, to be sure!" nodding his head and tugging at his beard in a
manner that showed he was not a whit convinced. "Then you give up," he
said, "that any thing can be done at home?"
"Any thing done at home?" Jack lifted his level brows, and stared a
little.
"Yes. The going away may all be very well. I tried it in '57; went out
to Indiana with a little money, and tried farming that I didn't know any
thing about, had the ague six months, and then came back poorer
certainly. Now, the thing is just here with a good many of us,--we have
our little homes, and in such times as these, in any hard times, we
couldn't sell for any thing worth while. Then there's many a thing, to a
man or a woman past middle life, that can't be reckoned in dollars and
cents: the home you've made for yourself, the old friends, the church,
even the familiar street you've walked over so often that every
flagstone comes to have a near look."
"But those who have no homes, no strong interests"--
"If I was going to found a colony, I should want a little better stock,"
with a short, dry laugh.
"May be you have a plan?" suggested Maverick good-naturedly.
"Well, I've thought it over a good deal this winter, sitting in the
house with the old lady;" and there came a peculiar far-off look in
Cameron's eye as he studied a figure in the carpet. "If God worked
miracles nowadays, and was to make a dozen or so honest men with a good,
stout share of brains, there might be a little lifting-up of the dull
skies. Take this town, leaving out politics and all that sort. Five
years ago we were prosperous, and there wasn't a prettier town anywhere
about. Good wages were paid, people were thrifty; and I will say it for
David Lawrence, if he was one of your high kind, he was a gentleman.
I've worked for him fifteen years steady. Then the Eastmans came in, and
there was nothing but hurry and drive, grumbling about high wages,
buying cheap wools, and if cloth was poor, blaming the men. Then wages
went down and down, and, when the men stood out, the scum of all the
places around was brought in. Yerbury improved, and beer-saloons
multiplied. Houses were thrown together and sold; and now they're all
falling apart, and standing empty, and half a dozen families are
crowding into one miserable tenement. Who made the money? Was it high
wages that ruined Hope Mills, and wrecked Yerbury Bank?"
"You have hit the truth somewhere, Cameron."
"Those men were thieves and swindlers; and I suppose to-day they're
living on the fat of the land, milk and honey thrown in. See here, I'm
not an educated man, but I have a little common sense. Suppose we'd been
let to go our ways quiet like,--the farmers holding on to their farms,
and making two blades of grass grow where one grew before. Wasn't that
some old philosopher's advice? Suppose David Lawrence hadn't built that
great palace out on Hope Terrace (he was a plainish man himself), and
there had been five or six beside him making a moderate share of money.
He's lost all his great fortune, there's seventy thousand or so gone
somewhere, the bank has smashed with thousands more of everybody's
money, with nothing much to show but trumpery mortgages; there's no work
and no money, and a howl goes up that there has been over-production.
Not over-production of honesty, I take it."
Maverick looked at the little earnest man, and laughed a hearty,
cheering sort of laugh that was like pouring oil into a wound. Jack
stared with wide-open eyes.
"I've been to hear Rantley two or three times,--he's going about
lecturing, you know,--but I don't see as he has any very good plan for
getting work on its legs again. Then I've listened to the parson this
winter, to please the old lady; and he is sure all this is a judgment
for our sins. Seems to me, judgment went a little askew: why doesn't it
touch Eastman and such fellows?"
"Has nothing been done?" asked Jack. "I have heard no business gossip
for the last three months. Can't it be proved that he was a defaulter?"
"Perhaps it could. The old lady was reading the other morning about the
scapegoat being sent into the wilderness with everybody's sins on his
head; and I guess they'd rather have him off somewhere, and pack the
trouble on him. He might tell too much if he was here. They couldn't get
the money back, even if he has it; but no one ever will believe that
David Lawrence profited by it. That money belongs to the people of
Yerbury, who have earned it, and saved it; and I say thieving and
roguery have more to do with hard times than 'surplus of labor.' The big
men have taken the money that belonged to the little ones."
"None of the Lawrence estate has been settled, I suppose?" asked Jack.
"Every thing is for sale. The mortgage on the big house is to be
foreclosed, also on the mill I believe. I declare to you, Darcy, it
makes my heart ache to see those dumb spindles, and the great silent
engine standing like a mourner at a funeral. Come now, why should Hope
Mills go to ruin, and Yerbury fall to pieces, while you and Maverick go
and build up Florida? Wouldn't the money and the energy do something
here?"
Cameron's eyes looked out of their overhanging thatch with a puzzled,
thoughtful expression, as if there must be a solution to the mystery.
Jack was startled. Building up Florida looked feasible, but building up
Yerbury--
"Then you will not go with us?" said Maverick with a half-laugh.
"I've my little home clear of debt, and a trifle at interest; and over
in Yerbury churchyard there are two graves dear to me and my old lady.
It would break her heart to leave them. And sometimes, Maverick, I thank
God, that I've no sons to grow up tramps or worse. No, I'll stay here,
and fight through somehow."
They were silent for several minutes, each one tugging at the knotty
problem. Then Cameron rose, reached out for the phial of medicine, drove
his slouch-hat down over his forehead, and walked toward the door.
"Drop in and see us, Jack, after you have thought it over a bit.
Mother's always had a warm corner in her heart for you.--Morning,
doctor;" and, nodding, he closed the door behind him.
CHAPTER XI.
JACK and Maverick glanced at each other, a long, searching, questioning
glance.
"Given twenty or forty moderate fortunes, instead of the one great one,"
said Jack slowly.
"And you have a greater amount of general prosperity and happiness."
"Co-operation," continued Jack.
"And now, if you don't mind, you may take a walk with me," said
Maverick. "Office-hours are over, and I have some rather serious cases
on hand. Jerry's gone lame, stuck a nail in his foot, so I console
myself with pedestrian theories."
"All right. I may need a pilot."
It was a mid-April day; but spring was late, and every thing looked
bleak to Jack after his Southern sojourn. Certainly it was quite
different from the trim little town of Jack's boyhood. The blight of
poverty and thriftlessness had fallen upon it. There were piles of
refuse in the streets, still half frozen; there were muddy stoops and
shabby hall-doors, and broken area-palings, and now and then a window
patched up with paper or rags. For though there may be much high
theorizing and preaching on the two or three exceptional men who have
lifted themselves out of dens of poverty, and come through great
tribulation, there are thousands who work out nothing but blind
destruction and utter shipwreck, and who in frantic efforts for
salvation drag down those nearest and dearest, as a drowning man may
clutch at his own brother.
"Not very inviting," apologized Maverick; "but I have two calls to make
here in Boyd's Row,--old rookeries that ought to have been pulled down
long ago, but I suppose they still bring in Boyd considerable. I have
made a complaint about the drains: they are enough to breed a
pestilence. Tom Byrne has three children down with scarlet-fever. Two of
them will be carried out presently, but I hope to save the little girl.
No--I won't take you in."
"Tom Byrne--he was a mill-hand. And I know his wife well. Yes,
Maverick." And Jack followed him.
It was a two-story cottage with three rooms on a floor, and two families
occupying it. The Byrnes were up-stairs.
The two beds were in the front room, for the middle one was dark. There
was a well-worn carpet on the floor, and the furniture very poor. Jenny
Byrne had sold her best to pay the quarter's rent in the last place
which they had left the first of January, the landlord preferring it
should stand empty. Her little savings had been swept away by the bank
disaster: there was no work, and three children to feed, except that
Deacon Boyd found Tom sufficient employment to pay his rent.
On one bed close by the window lay the little girl, heavy-eyed and
crimson. The elder boy had come to the stupor that precedes death, the
other was restless with a half delirium. Jenny Byrne's round rosy cheeks
had vanished, and her eyes had a distraught look, the lurking fear of
coming woe. She stared at Jack a moment, then stretched out her hand,
but as quickly withdrew it.
"Did you tell him, doctor? O Mr. Darcy!"
"Yes. He would come."
She wiped away some tears with the corner of her faded apron, then
answered a question of Jack's. What could he say to the poor thing?
Surely she had done her duty with truest endeavor; and Tom Byrne was a
very fair average man, liking his daily glass of beer, but rarely going
farther.
"Can you fix a bed in the other room, and put Kitty in it?" the doctor
asked. "She is better, but I would rather have her out of here."
"And Jamie is better too?" she questioned, with tremulous eagerness.
"His fever is nearly gone, and he's having such a nice sleep"--
"Sleep is the best thing for him," returned the doctor briefly. "About
Kitty"--
The mother's wan face flushed. She came close to Dr. Maverick, her eyes
downcast.
"The coal gave out this morning, and I've no fire there," she said just
above a whisper. "The relief-store is closed"--
"Yes, yes; I'll see to it;" with a nod. "I will be in again"--looking at
the sleeping child--"say about four." Then he changed the medicine for
Kitty, and gave one or two orders.
Jack thrust a bank-note in Jenny's hand, with his good-by. "Tom will be
so glad to see you, Mr. Darcy," she said, with an effort at calmness.
"Can nothing be done for them?" asked Jack, as they regained the street.
"No. Jamie had gone too far when I was called in. Larger rooms, fresher
air, nourishing food: that's the secret of a physician's success in many
cases. Poor little ones! He will not go through the night. Now, Jack,
you are not to come in here, positively. Stand in this breeze, and blow
the scarlet-fever out of your clothes."
He did as he was bid, and, getting tired, tramped up and down. How much
of man's selfishness and dishonesty there was in this! If the time could
ever come when the mists and fogs of complacency would be swept off,
and we could see that it was the innocent suffering for the guilty, not
that these poor souls were sinners above all men, as the self-righteous
Pharisee preaches!
Maverick rejoined him with a grave face, then the two went down Main
Street. Houses to let, stores and shops closed, and those open but
half-stocked, and wearing a listless air. If three hard years so told on
the place, and there was no prospect of better things, what would it be
in five or ten? Was it some such misfortune that had overtaken those
grand and luxurious cities of Oriental lands?
"Where are the Lawrences?" Jack asked presently.
"Well, I really do not know. I think I did hear that Mrs. Lawrence had
gone to New York. The young man"--
Jack held his breath, and there was a strange flutter at his heart.
After all these years he saw again the pale, handsome child who had
given him a boy's ardent love.
"I have a fancy that he will not amount to much. Queer idea that of
Cameron's, wasn't it, Darcy? Who was it that first preached or wrote of
the 'duty nearest one'? Of course things cannot stay this way forever,
they must mend; and maybe if some one took hold to help mend
them--Cameron's idea is not a bad one. Maybe the same amount of money
and energy expended here would be productive of good results: still I
hold on to Florida for my poor and wretched suffering ones. But it is
worth thinking of. Here, let us turn round by Hope Mills."
Jack was silent. "Hope Mills!" It rang through his brain like a chime of
bells. Of course he knew that Mr. Hope had given them his name; but had
he builded better than he knew? Was it indicative of something greater
than the power of one man,--of many men? of strong, earnest endeavor;
of truth, honor, and honesty; of thrift, and happy, jocund industry,
once more?
But now it was very silent. The great yard had an untidy look, with some
piles of weather-beaten lumber, and old débris. The windows were
covered with dust; the broad stone steps showed where the winter snows
had fallen and melted, leaving streaks of dirt, and more had blown in
the corners. No cheerful creak of the great engine; no vapory puffs of
smoke circling skyward from the chimney; no whir of looms. It saddened
one inexpressibly.
"It is a big subject," said Jack slowly. "I've been puzzling my brains
half the winter with what wiser heads than mine have said about capital
and labor,--Mill and Brassey and Howell, and our own men, with soft,
sweet bits of Ruskin, and savage bits of Carlyle. I don't know but
Carlyle was right when he said, 'The beginning and the end of what is
the matter with us, in these days, is, that we have forgotten God.'
Cameron said it another way,--honor and honesty. Because, certainly,
honor appeals to all that is noblest in human nature,--to chivalry, and
tenderness and thought for others; and nothing ever prospered, in the
long-run, that did not have a substratum of truth."
"Well, according to Bristow, we came back to him this winter--not I,
Darcy, I don't make any pretence,"--and he shook his head with slow
gravity. "But I was interested in the revival on psychological grounds.
I had never been so inside of one before. Bristow is a good man, no
doubt; but it is just the one chosen way with him,--strong crying and
praying, and believing yourself a sinner above all men, and then a
sudden peace and happiness, and a courage to endure,--a blind,
unreasoning courage to take the present as it is, because God sent it,
and it must be for the best. Boyd and Whitlow and Kenny were the great
lights. They went about from house to house; they exhorted and prayed.
Whitlow was one of the old bank-directors. Strange to say, he did not
lose a penny. His money was in government-bonds; and now he has
persuaded Yerbury that if his advice had been taken there would have
been no trouble. Whitlow discharged his man this winter, and took in his
place a half-grown boy. Mrs. Whitlow sets a good example to her class by
discharging one handmaid and making the other do double duty. Yet, so
far as I can find, Whitlow is a richer man than he was three years ago.
Kenny keeps his factory open, and gives the men three days' work in the
week, and pays them in poor shoes, as much as possible; and takes out a
good deal in high rent. Boyd, who has the name of being the greatest
saint of all,--does what? Opens that miserable row of houses, that he
couldn't let on any terms, and takes in tenants who are willing to work
out the rent. He gets good prices, too. Is he losing on them? Faugh! the
very term of charity makes me sick. And this winter he purchased a good
deal of the stock of the relief-store. Wretched flour; miserable,
adulterated stuff of tea; pork, some of it that wasn't fit to eat; and
cheap butter, that every one would have been ten times better without. I
went to him one day, red-hot, in a sanitary view of the business; and he
preached religion to me,--his kind. 'Boyd,' said I, 'there's Keppler's
saloon, your own property, paying you a good income, no doubt, in these
hard times, adding to the want and misery of Yerbury faster than your
whole church can save. If you are in earnest, go break up that den of
iniquity!'"
Jack laughed. "What did he say to that?"
"Meekly, that Keppler had a lease for five years, and was going on the
second. The man is so honorable, he cannot break faith with his
fellow-man, forsooth; but he breaks faith with God, in a serene,
untroubled manner." And Maverick's lip curled scornfully under the
fringe of moustache.
"But there must be some gold, or the counterfeit would not be so
successfully received. We have had so much false money everywhere, that,
since we can make that pass, we do not trouble ourselves. And yet,
Maverick, there is something in it that you and I don't see clearly
yet; but we cannot teach it acceptably until we can show better fruit.
And, when leaders of all kinds, in high places, show that self only is
at the bottom of every thing they do, it seems hopeless to demand that
the class below, watching them, and suffering from their wrongdoing,
shall attain a higher moral status. How can they help following coarsely
in the footsteps of their betters?"
"Darcy, suppose you turn parson!" and Maverick laughed half quizzically.
"See here: the world wants a very old sermon preached again to it,
hammered into every fibre, put up over every doorway,--the essence of
all knowledge, all religion, briefly comprehended in this, 'Love thy
neighbor as thyself.' You won't need gown or bands for that work. Not
to have one code of morals for the rich, and one for the poor; one creed
for Sunday, and quite another belief for Monday; to have no lofty,
impossible theories and exalted moods, but truthful, honest living; not
to push away the miserable, ignorant souls, but take them by the hand in
hearty co-operation. Maybe Cameron has the right clew. Why should we let
human love be shamed by such things as an Oneida community or a Mormon
city?"
The strong, earnest voice stirred Jack like martial music. All these
years he had been struggling with a great, blind, confused
something,--perhaps it was not a silver-mine or a railroad, but a work
just here in the town of his boyhood, where he was known, where he had
played and worked.
"Seventeenthly, and lastly," and Maverick looked at his watch, "I cannot
idle any more time upon you, and must cut short with a 'To be
continued.' We will talk it over again and again; and, if we cannot get
it into shape, there is still Florida left. So, while you are dreaming
it out by this great silent mill, whose prisoned spirits should prate of
prosperity instead of desolation, I'll run my course around Yerbury, and
we'll compare notes over our cigars. Addio," waving his hand.
Jack watched the compact figure as it moved briskly away; then he
sauntered round the mill, down one street and up another, strolled out
to Lovers' Lane, and returned by Larch Avenue. The Barry house began to
show signs of life, for old Mat was clearing up the grounds. This was
the one oasis that had not been bitten by speculation. He thought of
winsome little Sylvie, and one summer evening when Irene Lawrence
stepped into that pretty, cosey room with the grace and beauty of a
Juno. Where was she now? And what was Fred doing? Making a great leap
into name and fame, doubtless, now that he was put upon his mettle. The
old boyish freaks came back to his mind, the enthusiastic unreasoning
adoration, the last tender parting. An intense and subtile sympathy
filled his soul; and, though he smiled a little, the memory was very
sacred.
The texture of Jack's mind was not of the quick, brilliant, or sanguine
order. He went over his books again; he ruminated as he cleaned the
garden-paths, spaded the beds, trimmed the trees and shrubbery, and
attended to the odds and ends known only to a careful householder.
Cousin Jane was in her element out here; and they two discoursed of
farming and gardening, and industry, she in a sharp, trenchant way.
She had remarked incidentally that her visit was near its end. Now that
Jack was home, cousin Ellen would not need her.
"I don't see why you should not make your home here, cousin Jane,"
replied Mrs. Darcy. "Grandmother grows feebler all the time, and you
have quite spoiled me by your strength and cheeriness. You have no
nearer tie; and if you could content yourself with us--Jack was
speaking about it a few evenings since. We should like so to keep you,
cousin Jane."
Jane Morgan studied the beseeching eyes a while, then dropped her own,
and thought.
"Very well," she answered, "if you like to have it so. While I am well
and strong I think I ought to do enough somewhere to earn my living, and
not use up the little laid by for a rainy day. If you and Jack are
agreed, we'll consider it a bargain for a year. I like to be settled
about what I'm going to do: there's nothing so uncomfortable as hanging
on tenterhooks. When my visit's through I like to go, if I'm going; not
stand an hour or two with the door-knob in my hand."
Jack was delighted. They could spare him now and then of an evening to
stroll down to Maverick's office, where they discussed pretty nearly
every thing under the sun. It was so in the beginning,--"the earth was
without form, and void." Then the Barrys returned; Sylvie changed in
some indescribable way as to a kind of delicate outside manner, but the
same fresh, earnest girl in heart and soul, taking up her friendship
with Jack just where she had laid it down. Yet they had both grown
broader and richer in nature and experience, and there was something of
the subtile flavor of new acquaintanceship.
Yerbury cleaned house, even to the tidying-up of streets and
carting-away of rubbish. It was pitiful to see the attempts of some of
the poor women, who washed their worn white curtains, scrubbed the
shutters and hall-door, and set out a few ragged geraniums in the front
yard, or made a little bed of lettuce and onions.
Yerbury Savings Bank was in the hands of a receiver. Some sold out their
small accounts for a trifle: it was agreed there could not be much in
the way of dividends. Here was a great mortgage on the Downer farm,
that the Eastmans had partly cut into city lots. And, though Downer had
received a large price, he was a poor man to-day, with no business, and
several sons tramping the highways for work. Farms had not been
profitable, but had the wealth and extravagance produced any better
result? These places around would be sold presently for any sum they
would bring.
"Speculation did look so tempting, though," said Jack with a humorous
smile. "But for grandmother I might have been in the midst of it."
"There's just one thing that makes a man or a country rich," said Jane
Morgan incisively; "and that's industry, good, honest labor. Marking up
one's goods before breakfast, as the Frenchman did, realizes no absolute
money. The speculators jingle their dollars from hand to hand, until
some poor fool, attracted by the noise, gives them a hundred for their
twenty. When a man makes money simply by another person's loss, he has
not created any thing, or made any more of it; and the world's no
better, that I can see."
"Cousin Jane, you are dipping into political economy;" and Jack nodded
gayly. "I shall have to ask Maverick and some of the others up here; and
maybe you can put in a straw, or a head of wheat, toward the
regeneration of Yerbury."
"I dip into a little common sense now and then, and it seems to me
that's what the world needs. There is no lack of the uncommon kind, and
it's not to be altogether despised, since at times uncommon things are
given to people to do. But, if all the bees in the hive thought they had
a call to be queens, it runs in my mind there'd be a lack of honey
presently."
"You are on the right foundation, cousin Jane. We must not only make the
honey an honorable thing, but honor the bees, put labor on a better,
truer foundation."
"I should just say, 'See here, my friends, it is not possible for us all
to be rich, whether it is some fixed immutable law of fate, or the lack
of necessary elements in one's character, or the meeting of the right
person with the right circumstances; but the fact is there, true as
judgment. You can be comfortable and clean if you have the energy; and
it is better to scrub your own kitchen-floor, or raise a bushel of
potatoes, than to sit and whine about luck or respectability. Now and
then a ready-made fortune drops down upon one, and I don't know but it
often brings a curse: anyhow, what you work for, you are pretty sure to
enjoy.' It makes me mad when I see healthy, hearty young women sighing
for servants and pianos and what not; when their grandmothers, who had
as good blood, and as good sense, didn't despise honest work."
Sylvie Barry came in while Miss Morgan was in the midst of her "speech,"
as Jack declared it to be; and now she clapped her small white hands,
with a "Bravo!"
"A new disciple, Jack," and she smiled. "Miss Morgan, we shall set you
to reading our favorite authors, and solving the tremendous question.
Where can we get work for these to do? For a great many stand idle in
the market-place, because they have not been hired. What can we set them
at?"
"Well, Miss Barry, I don't know much about the big, outside questions;
but, going around Yerbury a little this winter, I shouldn't say the work
was all done up; or, done in such a poor, thrown-together way, that it
tumbles right to pieces again. There's skewy, ill-made beds with ragged
counterpanes; there's shreds of old ingrain-carpets, that you fall over;
there's broken chairs, and shabby clothes, and dirty corners,--work
enough, I should say, to last some woman an hour or two. She might get
out her pieces of calico, and, with the children's help, make a new
spread, maybe a tidy apron, and she might braid a rag mat out of bits,
and a hundred things that go toward comfort. No: all the work isn't
done up yet, Miss Sylvie," and Jane Morgan stopped just then, to knit
the seam-stitch in a stocking for a poor body.
Sylvie threw herself on the footstool, and leaned her arms on Miss
Morgan's knee.
"I wasn't thinking so much of that when I spoke," she began earnestly;
"but I do wonder if some of us couldn't take it up. There are
art-schools, and music-schools, and cooking-schools, in the great
cities; and why couldn't we start something of the kind here? Poor
people--the real poor, I mean--are often wasteful and idle because they
do not just know how to be any thing else. They buy cheap garments in
stores, and they soon come apart. I had a sewing-school last summer, and
I found some mothers didn't seem to care whether their children learned
or not,--since there was so much sewing done by machines. But if the
mothers could be taught a little"--
"That's about the upshot of what I said. You see, Miss Barry, people
have been earning so much money of late years, that sewing has gone out
of fashion. It didn't pay to do this or that, so they earned and spent.
Now they sit listless in their dirt and rags, bemoaning hard times. It
is good to know how to do more than one thing," and Miss Morgan nodded
her head confidently, her strong face full of earnestness.
"Why can't you and Sylvie start a school--what shall we call it?--of
useful and homely arts? You see, the girls do work in the mills and
shops until they get married, and then they do not know how to make the
best of their husbands' money. But don't crowd out all the beauty and
the pleasure; there must be something to enlist the heart. Give a man an
interest in a thing, and you awake a new feeling, an enthusiasm that
makes every thing go as smoothly as oiling up machinery."
"I have often thought," said Mrs. Darcy in her soft, gentle voice,
"that the poor did not get as much good of their money as the better
classes, because they never have enough to buy advantageously, and
store-keepers so often take the advantage of them. Now, yesterday I was
over to Mrs. Hall's, and the poor thing was trying to make some bread,
and she was not fit to stand up and knead it; so I thought I'd try. The
flour was heavy and sticky and lumpy, and what I should call very
unprofitable. No one could make good bread out of it. She said they
traded at Kilburn's, because he would wait if they did not have the
money. The flour was seven and a half a barrel; the eighth, ninety-five
cents; and I do not believe the bread was fit to eat. So you must
remember, when you blame people for poor cooking, that they may not
always have decent materials to work with."
"Maverick was growling about Kilburn the other evening. It is a shame
that he should sell such poor goods, when prices have come down a good
deal."
"Can you not reform him a little?" and Mrs. Darcy smiled.
"Cousin Jane and Sylvie might go into business, as did the poor weavers
of Toad Lane, with their sack of oatmeal, firkin of butter, a little
sugar and flour," said Jack laughingly. "A fair division of labor. The
men of Yerbury shall provide work, and the women shall train the
inefficient how and where to spend money."
Sylvie glanced up with bright, inquiring eyes.
"Was it some more co-operation?" she asked.
Jack brought out his book, and read the story of the "Equitable Pioneers
of Rochdale" and their wonderful success from a small beginning. The
girl listened with wide-open eyes, and even Jane Morgan laid down her
knitting.
"The queen-bee and the workers again," said she, as Jack closed the
book. "It is not every man for himself, but every man for each other.
And it comes back, always."
CHAPTER XII.
"WHERE is grandmother?" Jack asked one morning late in May, as he came
in from the garden, and found her place at the table vacant.
"She does not feel very well this morning, and I told her there was no
need of rising with the lark," answered cousin Jane; but, though her
voice was cheerful, there was a new gravity in her face.
"It is something unusual"--
"She is getting to be an old lady, Jack. There, sit down to your
breakfast while it is nice and hot. No fear but what I will attend to
grandmother."
She had risen; but in the midst of her dressing her hands had lost their
cunning, her limbs their strength. Jane came to look at her in alarm.
"It's a warning," she said, with her grand old smile. "But I have no
pain, and so you can leave me here for a while. My strength may come
back."
Mrs. Darcy was much frightened.
"Remember that ninety-four is a good old age, and she has hardly had a
sick day in her life. After breakfast Jack might go over for Dr.
Maverick. He is sensible, and will not torment her with experiments."
Jack rather hurried through his meal, and then ran up to grandmother's
room. She put out her wrinkled hand, thin to be sure, but still slender
and smooth, with no knobby joints. A proud sort of beauty illumined the
old face, though the eyes were a little dull.
"Dear boy," and there was a curious quaver in her voice, "I've had to
give in at last. The Lord knows best. He has given me many a happy year
with you; yet I have never forgotten the folks over yonder. I shall be
glad to see them again,--your father, Jack, and the rest. 'Then they
came to the land of Beulah, where the sun shineth day and night, and
betook themselves to rest'--you know. We used to read it together."
A sharp pang went to Jack's heart. He pressed the limp hand to his lips,
and gazed into the face that had changed in some indescribable way. Then
Jane came with a tempting breakfast, and fed her with wonderful
gentleness, it seemed to him.
He went out, and brought Maverick back with him.
"It is a general breaking-up of nature," said the doctor with a tender
gravity. "Nothing can be done, unless she should suffer; but I do not
think she will. It is the way lives ought to end oftener. Give her
whatever she will take; and keep cheerful, all of you. After all, it is
only a little journey."
"Where?" the young eyes asked as they met each other in solemn mood.
Jack scarcely left her. She liked to open her eyes, and find him sitting
there, when she would smile faintly, and murmur a few words. Sylvie and
Miss Barry were the only visitors admitted to her room. They used to
read out of "Pilgrim's Progress," the book she had loved so well, and
occasionally they sang some sweet old hymn.
"Jack," she said once, "you will find everything in my old box there in
the bureau. It was my mother's, and came across the sea with me. You
have been a good lad. You took your father's place with me, and you must
never regret that you staid here to make an old woman happy. You have
been a good lad--a good--little lad"-- And her mind wandered to other
years.
Just growing gradually weaker, and falling asleep peacefully. A long,
well-spent life, and a death to remember and desire.
They buried her in Yerbury churchyard, and the townspeople turned out to
do her honor. Jack thought of another death, and the almost solitary
state of the funeral.
How good it was that they had Jane Morgan now! She carried them right
along.
Jack opened the brass-bound box, still fragrant with its sandal-wood
lining. Some old letters, the trinkets she had saved from her poverty,
and a will bequeathing her all, in government bonds, to Jack.
There was nearly seven thousand dollars. With his own little savings he
felt quite rich.
"Jack," said his mother, "all these years you have waited patiently, and
put by your own dreams. Do not think that I did not notice the struggle.
It was very generous and kindly; and I am glad, for grandmother's sake,
that you staid. But now if you like we will go somewhere else, and make
a new home"--did her voice tremble a little then? "I am still young
enough to take root elsewhere, and cousin Jane is so energetic she helps
one to new life. There may be prettier and more prosperous places, and
you have years before you in which to realize a fortune."
He glanced up at the face bending over him, instinct with the honorable
grace of middle life; the hair with a few threads of silver; the soft,
fine skin showing some wrinkles about the eyes and two or three light
creases across the forehead; the cheeks out of which roundness had
vanished, and the lips the scarlet of girlhood, but though both were
pale the mouth was still tender and sweet. A womanly woman,--that seemed
to him a perfect description of his mother, a woman who had loved three
generations, and held by them. Now for his sake she would give up the
old ties, and try a new world,--this shy, shrinking, loving woman.
What would she leave? She had never known any other home in her married
