It was nothing to Stamford that she should have 
promised Hicks to practice a song with him, and no 
process of reasoning could have made it otherwise. 
The imaginary opponent with whom he scornfully 
argued the matter had not a word for himself. 
Neither could the young girl answer anything to 
the cutting speeches which he mentally made her 
as he sat alone chewing the end of his cigar : and 
he was not moved by the imploring looks which his 
fancy painted in her face, when he made believe 
that she had meekly returned to offer him some 
sort of reparation. Why should she excuse her- 
self ? he asked. It was he who ought to excuse 
himself for having been in the way. The dialogue 
went on at length, with every advantage to the 
inventor. 
He was finally aware of some one standing near 
and looking down at him. It was the second mate, 
who supported himself in a conversational posture 
by the hand which he stretched to the shrouds 
above their heads. "Are you a good sailor, Mr. 
Staniford? " he inquired. He and Staniford were 
friends in their way, and had talked together be- 
fore this. 
 
u Do you mean seasickness? Why?" Stamford 
looked up at the mate's face. 
" Well, we 're going to get it, I guess, before long. 
We shall soon be off the Spanish coast. We 've had 
a great run so far." 
"If it conies we must stand it. But I make it a 
rule never to be seasick beforehand." 
" Well, I ain't one to borrow trouble, either. 
It don't run in the family. Most of us like to 
chance things. I chanced it for the whole war, and 
I come out all right. Sometimes it don't work so 
well." 
" Ah ? " said Stamford, who knew that this was 
a leading remark, but forbore, as he knew Mason 
wished, to follow it up directly. 
" One of us chanced it once too often, and of 
course it was a woman." 
"The risk?" 
" Not the risk. My oldest sister tried tamin' a 
tiger. Ninety-nine times out of a hundred, a tiger 
won't tame worth a cent. But her pet was such a 
lamb most the while that she guessed she 'd chance 
it. It didn 't work. She 's at home with mother 
now, — three children, of course, — and he 's in 
hell, I s'pose. He was killed 'long-side o' me at 
Gettysburg. Ike was a good fellow when he was 
sober. But my souls, the life he led that poor 
girl ! Yes, when a man 's got that tiger in him, 
there ought to be some quiet little war round for 
puttin' him out of his misery." Staniford listened 
 
silently, waiting for the mate to make the applica- 
tion of his grim allegory. " I s'pose I 'm preju- 
diced ; but I do hate a drunkard ; and when I 
see one of 'em makin' up to a girl, I want to go 
to her, and tell her she 'd better take a real tiger 
out the show, at once." 
The idea which these words suggested sent a 
thrill to Stamford's heart, but he continued silent, 
and the mate went on, with the queer smile, which 
could be inferred rather than seen, working under 
his mustache and the humorous twinkle of his 
eyes evanesce ntly evident under his cap peak. 
" I don't go round criticism' my superior officers, 
and I don't say anything about the responsibility 
the old man took. The old man 's all right, accord- 
in' to his lights ; he ain't had a tiger in the family. 
But if that chap was to fall overboard, — well, I 
don't know how long it would take to lower a boat, 
if I was to listen to my conscience. There ain't 
really any help for him. He 's begun too young 
ever to get over it. He won't be ashore at Try- 
East an hour before he 's drunk. If our men had 
any spirits amongst 'em that could be begged, 
bought, or borrowed, he 'd be drunk now, right 
along. Well, I 'm off watch," said the mate, at the 
tap of bells. " Guess we 'll get our little gale 
pretty soon." 
" Good-night," said Staniford, who remained pon- 
dering. He presently rose, and walked up and down 
the deck. He could hear Lydia and Hicks trying 
 
that song : now the voice, and now the flute ; then 
both together ; and presently a burst of laughter. 
He began to be angry with her ignorance and inex- 
perience. It became intolerable to him that a 
woman should be going about with no more knowl- 
edge of the world than a child, and entangling her- 
self in relations with all sorts of people. It was 
shocking to think of that little sot, who had now 
made his infirmity known to all the ship's company, 
admitted to association with her which looked to 
common eyes like courtship. From the mate's in- 
sinuation that she ought to be warned, it was evi- 
dent that they thought her interested in Hicks ; 
and the mate had come, like Dunham, to leave the 
responsibility with Staniford. It only wanted now 
that Captain Jenness should appear with his ap- 
peal, direct or indirect. 
While Staniford walked up and down, and scorned 
and raged at the idea that he had anything to do 
with the matter, the singing and fluting came to a 
pause in the cabin ; and at the end of the next 
tune, which brought him to the head of the gang- 
way stairs, he met Lydia emerging. He stopped 
and spoke to her, having instantly resolved, at sight 
of her, not to do so. 
" Have you come up for breath, like a mer- 
maid ? " he asked. " Not that I 'm sure mermaids 
do." 
" Oh, no," said Lydia. " I think I dropped my 
handkerchief where we were sitting." 
 
Staniford suspected, with, a sudden return to a 
theory of her which he had already entertained, 
that she had not done so. Bat she went lightly by 
him, where he stood stolid, and picked it up ; and 
now he suspected that she had dropped it there on 
purpose. 
" You have come back to walk with me ? " 
" No !" said the girl indignantly. " I have not 
come back to walk with you ! " She waited a mo- 
ment ; then she burst out with, " How dare you 
say such a thing to me ? What right have you to 
speak to me so ? What have I done to make you 
think that I would come back to " — 
The fierce vibration in her voice made him know 
that her eyes were burning upon him and her lips 
trembling. He shrank before her passion as a man 
must before the justly provoked wrath of a woman, 
or even of a small girl. 
" I stated a hope, not a fact," he said in meek 
uncandor. " Don't you think you ought to have 
done so? " 
" I don't — I don't understand you," panted 
Lydia, confusedly arresting her bolts in mid-course. 
Staniford pursued his guilty advantage ; it was 
his only chance. " I gave way to Mr. Hicks when 
you had an engagement with me. I thought — you 
would come back to keep your engagement." He 
was still very meek. 
" Excuse me," she said with self-reproach that 
would have melted the heart of any one but a man 
 
who was in the wrong, and was trying to get out of 
it at all hazards. " I didn 't know what you meant 
— I" — 
" If I had meant what you thought," interrupted 
Staniford nobly, for he could now afford to be gen- 
erous, "I should have deserved much more than 
you said. But I hope you won't punish my awk- 
wardness by refusing to walk with me." 
He knew that she regarded him earnestly before 
she said, " I must get my shawl and hat." 
" Let me go ! " he entreated. 
" You couldn 't find them," she answered, as she 
vanished past him. She returned, and promptly 
laid her hand in his proffered arm ; it was as if she 
were eager to make him amends for her harshness. 
Staniford took her hand out, and held it while he 
bowed low toward her. " I declare myself satis- 
fied." 
" I don't understand," said Lydia, in alarm and 
mortification. 
" When a subject has been personally aggrieved 
by his sovereign, his honor is restored if they 
merely cross swords." 
The girl laughed her delight in the extravagance. 
She must have been more or less than woman not 
to have found his flattery delicious. " But we are 
republicans ! " she said in evasion. 
" To be sure, we are republicans. Well, then, 
Miss Blood, answer your free and equal one thing : 
is it a case of conscience ? " 
 
" How ? " she asked, and Staniford did not recoil 
at the rusticity. This how for what, and the inter- 
rogative yes, still remained. Since their first walk, 
she had not wanted to know, in however great sur- 
prise she found herself. 
" Are you going to walk with me because you 
had promised? " 
" Why, of course," faltered Lydia. 
" That isn 't enough." 
" Not enough ? " 
" Not enough. You must walk with me because 
you like to do so." 
Lydia was silent. 
" Do you like to do so ? " 
" I can't answer you," she said, releasing her 
hand from him. 
" It was not fair to ask you. What I wish to do 
is to restore the original status. You have kept 
your engagement to walk with me, and your con- 
science is clear. Now, Miss Blood, may I have 
your company for a little stroll over the deck of the 
Aroostook ? " He made her another very low bow. 
" What must I say ? " asked Lydia, joyously. 
" That depends upon whether you consent. If 
you consent, you must say, c I shall be very glad.' " 
"And if I don't?" 
" Oh, I can't put any such decision into words." 
Lydia mused a moment. "I shall be very glad," 
she said, and put her hand again into the arm he 
offered. 
 
As happens after such a passage they were at 
first silent, while they walked up and down. 
" If this fine weather holds," said Staniford, " and 
you continue as obliging as you are to-night, you 
can say, when people ask you how you went to Eu- 
rope, that you walked the greater part of the way. 
Shall you continue so obliging ? Will you walk 
with me every fine night ? " pursued Staniford. 
" Do you think I 'd better say so? " she asked, 
with the joy still in her voice. 
" Oh, I can't decide for you. I merely formulate 
your decisions after you reach them, — if they 're 
favorable." 
" Well, then, what is this one ? " 
" Is it favorable ? " 
"You said you would formulate it." She laughed 
again, and Staniford started as one does when a 
nebulous association crystallizes into a distinctly re- 
membered fact. 
" What a curious laugh you have ! " he said. 
" It 's like a nun's laugh. Once in France I lodged 
near the garden of a convent where the nuns kept 
a girls' school, and I used to hear them laugh. You 
never happened to be a nun, Miss Blood ? " 
" No, indeed ! " cried Lydia, as if scandalized. 
" Oh, I merely meant in some previous existence. 
Of course, I didn 't suppose there was a convent in 
South Bradfield." He felt that the girl did not 
quite like the little slight his irony cast upon South 
Bradfield, or rather upon her for never having been 
 
anywhere else. He hastened to say, " I 'm sure 
that in the life before this you were of the South 
somewhere." 
" Yes ? " said Lydia, interested and pleased again 
as one must be in romantic talk about one's self. 
" Why do you think so ? " 
He bent a little over toward her, so as to look 
into the face she instinctively averted, while she 
could not help glancing at him from the corner of 
her eye. " You have the color and the light of the 
South," he said. " When you get to Italy, you 
will live in a perpetual mystification. You will go 
about in a dream of some self of yours that was 
native there in other days. You will find yourself 
retrospectively related to the olive faces and the 
dark eyes you meet ; you will recognize sisters and 
cousins in the patrician ladies when you see their 
portraits in the palaces where you used to live in 
such state." 
Staniford spiced his flatteries with open bur- 
lesque ; the girl entered into his fantastic humor. 
" But if I was a nun ? " she asked, gayly. 
" Oh, I forgot. You were a nun. There was a 
nun in Venice once, about two hundred years ago, 
when you lived there, and a young English lord 
who was passing through the town was taken to 
the convent to hear her sing ; for she was not only 
of 'an admirable beauty,' as he says, but sang ' ex- 
tremely well.' She sang to him through the grat- 
ing of the convent, and when she stopped he said, 
 
 
' Die whensoever you will, you need to change 
neither voice nor face to be an angel ! ' Do you 
think — do you dimly recollect anything that makes 
you think — it might — Consider carefully : the 
singing extremely well, and " — He leant over 
again, and looked up into her face, which again she 
could not wholly withdraw. 
" No, no ! " she said, still in his mood. 
" Well, you must allow it was a pretty speech." 
" Perhaps," said Lydia, with sudden gravity, in 
which there seemed to Staniford a tender insinua- 
tion of reproach, " he was laughing at her." 
" If he was, he was properly punished. He went 
on to Rome, and when he came back to Venice the 
beautiful nun was dead. He thought that his words 
 seemed fatal.' Do you suppose it would kill you 
now to be jested with ? " 
" I don't think people like it generally." 
" Why, Miss Blood, you are intense ! " 
" I don't know what you mean by that," said 
Lydia. 
" You like to take things seriously. You can't 
bear to think that people are not the least in ear- 
nest, even when they least seem so." 
" Yes," said the girl, thoughtfully, " perhaps 
that 's true. Should you like to be made fun of, 
yourself ? " 
" I shouldn 't mind it, I fancy, though it would 
depend a great deal upon who made fun of me. I 
suppose that women always laugh at men, — at 
 
their clumsiness, their want of tact, the fit of their 
clothes." 
" I don't know. I should not do that with any 
one I " — 
" You liked ? Oh, none of them do ! " cried 
Staniford. 
" I was not going to say that," faltered the girl. 
" What were you going to say ? " 
She waited a moment. " Yes, I was going to 
say that," she assented with a sigh of helpless ve- 
racity. " What makes you laugh ? " she asked, in 
distress. 
" Something I like. I 'm different from you : I 
laugh at what I like ; I like your truthfulness, — 
it 's charming." 
" I didn 't know that truth need be charming." 
" It had better be, in women, if it 's to keep even 
with the other thing." Lydia seemed shocked; 
she made a faint, involuntary motion to withdraw 
her hand, but he closed his arm upon it. "Don't 
condemn me for thinking that fibbing is charming. 
I shouldn 't like it at all in you. Should you in 
me?" 
" I shouldn 't in any one," said Lydia. 
" Then what is it you dislike in me ? " he sud- 
denly demanded. 
" I didn 't say that I disliked anything in you." 
" But you have made fun of something in me ? " 
"No, no!" 
" Then it wasn 't the stirring of a guilty con- 
 
science when you asked me whether I should like 
to be made fun of ? I took it for granted you 'd 
been doing it." 
"You are very suspicious. " 
" Yes ; and what else ? " 
" Oh, you like to know just what every one 
thinks and feels." 
"Go on ! " cried Staniford. " Analyze me, form- 
ulate me ! " 
" That 's all." 
"All I come to?" 
" All I have to say." 
" That 's very little. Now, I 'll begin on you. 
You don't care what people think or feel." 
" Oh, yes, I do. I care too much." 
"Do you care what I think ? " 
" Yes." 
" Then I think you 're too unsuspicious." 
" Ought I to suspect somebody ? " she asked, 
lightly. 
" Oh, that 's the way with all your sex. One 
asks you to be suspicious, and you ask whom you 
shall suspect. You can do nothing in the abstract. 
I should like to be suspicious for you. Will you 
let me?" 
" Oh, yes, if you like to be." 
" Thanks. I shall be terribly vigilant, — a per- 
fect dragon. And you really invest me with 
authority ? " 
« Yes." 
 
" That 's cb arming." Staniford drew a long 
breath. After a space of musing, he said, " I 
thought I should be able to begin by attacking 
some one else, but I must commence at home, and 
denounce myself as quite unworthy of walking to 
and fro, and talking nonsense to you. You must 
beware of me, Miss Blood. " 
"Why?" asked the girl. 
" I am very narrow-minded and prejudiced, and 
I have violent antipathies. I shouldn 't be able to 
do justice to any one I disliked." 
" I think that 's the trouble with all of us," said 
Lydia. 
" Oh, but only in degree. I should not allow, if 
I could help it, a man whom I thought shabby, and 
coarse at heart, the privilege of speaking to any 
one I valued, — to my sister, for instance. It 
would shock me to find her have any taste in com- 
mon with such a man, or amused by him. Don't 
you understand ? " 
" Yes," said Lydia. It seemed to him as if by 
some infinitely subtle and unconscious affinition 
she relaxed toward him as they walked. This was 
incomparably sweet and charming to Staniford, — 
too sweet as recognition of his protecting friend- 
ship to be questioned as anything else. He felt 
sure that she had taken his meaning, and he rested 
content from further trouble in regard to what it 
would have been impossible to express. Her tacit 
confidence touched a kindred spring in him, and he 
began to talk to her of himself: not of his charac- 
ter or opinions, — they had already gone over them, 
— but of his past life, and his future. Their 
strangeness to her gave certain well-worn topics 
novelty, and the familiar project of a pastoral ca- 
reer in the far West invested itself with a color of 
romance which it had not worn before. She tried 
to remember, at his urgence, something about her 
childhood in California ; and she told him a great 
deal more about South Bradfield. She described 
its characters and customs, and, from no vantage- 
ground or stand-point but her native feeling of their 
oddity, and what seemed her sympathy with him, 
made him see them as one might whose life had 
not been passed among them. Then they began to 
compare their own traits, and amused themselves 
to find how many they had in common. Staniford 
related a singular experience of his on a former 
voyage to Europe, when he dreamed of a collision, 
and woke to hear a great trampling and uproar on 
deck, which afterwards turned out to have been 
caused by their bare escape from running into an 
iceberg. She said that she had had strange 
dreams, too, but mostly when she was a little girl ; 
once she had had a presentiment that troubled her, 
but it did not come true. They both said they did 
not believe in such things, and agreed that it was 
only people's love of mystery that kept them no- 
ticed. He permitted himself to help her, with his 
disengaged hand, to draw her shawl closer about 
 
the shoulder that was away from him. He gave 
the action a philosophical and impersonal character 
by saying immediately afterwards : " The sea is 
really the only mystery left us, and that will never 
be explored. They circumnavigate the whole 
globe," — here he put the gathered shawl into the 
fingers which she stretched through his arm to take 
it, and she said, "Oh, thank you!" — "but they 
don't describe the sea. War and plague and fam- 
ine submit to the ameliorations of science," — the 
closely drawn shawl pressed her against his shoul- 
der; his mind wandered; he hardly knew what he 
was saying, — " but the one utterly inexorable ca- 
lamity — the same now as when the first sail was 
spread — is a shipwreck." 
" Yes," she said, with a deep inspiration. And 
now they walked back and forth in silence broken 
only by a casual word or desultory phrase. Once 
Stamford had thought the conditions of these prom- 
enades perilously suggestive of love-making ; an- 
other time he had blamed himself for not think- 
ing of this; now he neither thought nor blamed 
himself for not thinking. The fact justified itself, 
as if it had been the one perfectly right and wise 
thing in a world where all else might be questioned. 
" Isn 't it pretty late ? " she asked, at last. 
" If you 're tired, we 'll sit down," he said. 
" What time is it ? " she persisted. 
"Must I look?" he pleaded. They went to a 
lantern, and he took out his watch and sprang the 
 
case open. " Look ! " lie said. " I sacrifice myself 
on the altar of truth." They bent their heads low 
together over the watch ; it was not easy to make 
out the time. " It 's nine o'clock," said Stamford. 
" It can't be ; it was half past when I came up," 
answered Lydia. 
"One hand 's at twelve and the other at nine," 
he said, conclusively. 
" Oh, then it 's a quarter to twelve." She caught 
away her hand from his arm, and fled to the gang- 
way. " I didn 't dream it was so late." 
The pleasure which her confession brought to his 
face faded at sight of Hicks, who was turning the 
last pages of a novel by the cabin lamp, as he fol- 
lowed Lyclia in. It was the book that Staniford 
had given her. 
" Hullo ! " said Hicks, with companionable ease, 
looking up at her. " Been having quite a tramp." 
She did not seem troubled by the familiarity of 
an address that incensed Staniford almost to the 
point of taking Hicks from his seat, and tossing 
him to the other end of the cabin. " Oh, you 've 
finished my book," she said. " You must tell me 
how you like it, to-morrow." 
" I doubt it," said Hicks. " I 'm going to be 
seasick to-morrow. The captain 's been shaking his 
head over the barometer and powwowing with the 
first officer. Something 's up, and I guess it 's a 
gale. Good-by ; I shan't see you again for a week 
or so." 
 
He nodded jocosely to Lydia, and dropped his 
eyes again to his book, ignoring Stamford's pres- 
ence. The latter stood a moment breathing quick ; 
then he controlled himself and went into his room. 
His coming roused Dunham, who looked up from 
his pillow. " What time is it?" he asked, stupidly. 
" Twelve,  ' said Staniford. 
u Had a pleasant walk ? " 
" If you still think," said Staniford, savagely, 
" that she 's painfully interested in you, you can 
make your mind easy. She doesn 't care for either 
of us." 
"Either of us?" echoed Dunham. He roused 
himself. 
" Oh, go to sleep; go to sleep ! " cried Staniford. 
XV. 
The foreboded storm did not come so soon as had 
been feared, but the beautiful weather which had 
lasted so long was lost in a thickened sky and a sul- 
len sea. The weather had changed with Staniford, 
too. The morning after the events last celebrated, 
he did not respond to the glance which Lydia 
gave him when they met, and he hardened his 
heart to her surprise, and shunned being alone with 
her. He would not admit to himself any reason 
for his attitude, and he could not have explained to 
her the mystery that at first visibly grieved her, 
and then seemed merely to benumb her. But the 
moment came when he ceased to take a certain 
cruel pleasure in it, and he approached her one 
morning on deck, where she stood holding fast to 
the railing where she usually sat, and said, as if 
there had been no interval of estrangement between 
them, but still coldly, " We have had our last walk 
for the present, Miss Blood. I hope you will 
grieve a little for my loss." 
She turned on him a look that cut him to the 
heart, with what he fancied its reproach and its 
wonder. She did not reply at once, and then she 
did not reply to his hinted question. 
" Mr. Staniford," she began. It was the second 
 
time he had heard her pronounce his name ; he 
distinctly remembered the first. 
"Well?" he said. 
" I want to speak to you about lending that 
book to Mr. Hicks. I ought to have asked you 
first." 
" Oh, no," said Staniford. " It was yours." 
" You gave it to me," she returned. 
" Well, then, it was yours, — to keep, to lend, to 
throw away." 
" And you didn 't mind my lending it to him ? " 
she pursued. " I " — 
She stopped, and Staniford hesitated, too. Then 
he said, " I didn 't dislike your lending it ; I dis- 
liked his having it. I will acknowledge that." 
She looked up at him as if she were going to 
speak, but checked herself, and glanced away. The 
ship was plunging heavily, and the livid waves 
were racing before the wind. The horizon was lit 
with a yellow brightness in the quarter to which 
she turned, and a pallid gleam defined her profile. 
Captain Jenness was walking fretfully to and fro ; 
he glanced now at the yellow glare, and now cast 
his eye aloft at the shortened sail. While Stani- 
ford stood questioning whether she meant to say 
anything more, or whether, having discharged her 
conscience of an imagined offense, she had now 
reached one of her final, precipitous silences, Cap- 
tain Jenness suddenly approached them, and said to 
him, " I guess you 'd better go below with Miss 
Blood." 
 
The storm that followed had its hazards, but 
Stamford's consciousness was confined to its discom- 
forts. The day came, and then the dark came, and 
both in due course went, and came again. Where 
he lay in his berth, and whirled and swung, and 
rose and sank, as lonely as a planetary fragment 
tossing in space, he heard the noises of the life with- 
out. Amidst the straining of the ship, which was 
like the sharp sweep of a thunder-shower on the 
deck overhead, there plunged at irregular intervals 
the wild trample of heavily-booted feet, and now 
and then the voices of the crew answering the 
shouted orders made themselves hollowly audible. 
In the cabin there was talking, and sometimes even 
laughing. Sometimes he heard the click of knives 
and forks, the sardonic rattle of crockery. After 
the first insane feeling that somehow he must get 
ashore and escape from his torment, he hardened 
himself to it through an immense contempt, equally 
insane, for the stupidity of the sea, its insensate 
uproar, its blind and ridiculous and cruel mischiev- 
ousness. Except for this delirious scorn he was a 
surface of perfect passivity. 
Dunham, after a day of prostration, had risen, 
and had perhaps shortened his anguish by his reso- 
lution. He had since taken up his quarters on a 
locker in the cabin ; he looked in now and then 
upon Staniford, with a cup of tea, or a suggestion 
of something light to eat ; once he even dared to 
boast of the sublimity of the ocean. Staniford 
 
stared at him with eyes of lack-lustre indifference, 
and waited for him to be gone. But he lingered to 
say, "You would laugh to see what a sea-bird our 
lady is ! She hasn 't been sick a minute. And 
Hicks, you 'll be glad to know, is behaving himself 
very well. Really, I don't think we 've done the 
fellow justice. I think you 've overshadowed him, 
and that he 's needed your absence to show himself 
to advantage." 
Staniford disdained any comment on this except 
a fierce " Humph ! " and dismissed Dunham by 
turning his face to the wall. He refused to think 
of what he had said. He lay still and suffered in- 
definitely, and no longer waited for the end of the 
storm. There had been times when he thought 
with acquiescence of going to the bottom, as a prob- 
able conclusion ; now he did not expect anything. 
At last, one night, he felt by inexpressibly minute 
degrees something that seemed surcease of his mis- 
ery. It might have been the end of all things, for 
all he cared ; but as the lull deepened, he slept 
without knowing what it was, and when he woke 
in the morning he found the Aroostook at anchor 
in smooth water. 
She was lying in the roads at Gibraltar, and be- 
fore her towered the embattled rock. He crawled 
on deck after a while. The captain was going 
ashore, and had asked such of his passengers as 
liked, to go with him and see the place. When 
Staniford appeared, Dunham was loyally refusing 
 
to leave his friend till he was fairly on foot. At 
sight of him they suspended their question long 
enough to welcome him back to animation, with the 
patronage with which well people hail a convales- 
cent. Lydia looked across the estrangement of the 
past days with a sort of inquiry, and Hicks chose 
to come forward and accept a cold touch of the 
hand from him. Staniford saw, with languid ob- 
servance, that Lydia was very fresh and bright ; 
she was already equipped for the expedition, and 
could never have had any doubt in her mind as 
to going. She had on a pretty walking dress 
which he had not seen before, and a hat with the 
rim struck sharply upward behind, and her masses 
of dense, dull black hair pulled up and fastened 
somewhere on the top of her head. Her eyes shyly 
sparkled under the abrupt descent of the hat-brim 
over her forehead. 
His contemptuous rejection of the character of 
invalid prevailed with Dunham ; and Staniford 
walked to another part of the ship, to cut short the 
talk about himself, and saw them row away. 
u Well, you've had a pretty tough time, they 
say," said the second mate, lounging near him. 
Wk I don't see any fun in seasickness myself." 
u It 's a ridiculous sort of misery," said Stani- 
ford. 
" I hope we shan't have anything worse on board 
when that chap gets back. The old man thinks he 
can keep an eye on him." The mate was looking 
after the boat. 
 
" The captain says lie hasn 't any money," Stam- 
ford remarked carelessly. The mate went away 
without saying anything more, and Staniford re- 
turned to the cabin, where he beheld without abhor- 
rence the preparations for his breakfast. But he 
had not a great appetite, in spite of his long fast. 
lie found himself rather light-headed, and came 
on deck again after a while, and stretched himself 
in Hicks's steamer chair, where Lydia usually sat 
in it. He fell into a dull, despairing reverie, in 
which he blamed himself for not having been more 
explicit with her. He had merely expressed his 
dislike of Hicks; but expressed without reasons it 
was a groundless dislike, which she had evidently 
not understood, or had not cared to heed ; and since 
that night, now so far away, when he had spoken 
to her, he had done everything he could to harden 
her against himself. He had treated her with a 
stupid cruelty, which a girl like her would resent 
to the last ; he had forced her to take refuge in the 
politeness of a man from whom he was trying to 
keep her. 
His heart paused when he saw the boat return- 
ing in the afternoon without Hicks. The others 
reported that they had separated before dinner, and 
that they had not seen him since, though Captain 
Jenness had spent an hour trying to look him up 
before starting back to the ship. The captain wore 
a look of guilty responsibility, mingled with intense 
exasperation, the two combining in as much hag- 
 
gardness as his cheerful visage could express. " If 
he 's here by six o'clock," he said, grimly, "all well 
and good. If not, the Aroostook sails, any way." 
Lydia crept timidly below. Stan i ford complexly 
raged to see that the anxiety about Hicks had 
blighted the joy of the day for her. 
" How the deuce could he get about without any 
money ? " he demanded of Dunham, as soon as they 
were alone. 
Dunham vainly struggled to look him in the eye. 
" Staniford," he faltered, with much more culpa- 
