nonsense, a feminine safety-valve which she hardly ever be 
fore had had occasion to seek. 
" Yes," said Bro, a pained quiver crossing his face for an 
instant. " The valve also is pronounced worthless," he added 
in a monotonous voice. 
Mother and daughter noticed his tone and his lifeless 
look ; they attributed it to his deep, bitter disappointment, 
and felt sorry for him. 
" But the screw, Bro ? " said Mrs. Manning. 
" That is successful, I believe ; the patent is granted." 
" I knew it," she replied triumphantly. " Even / could 
see the great merits it had. I congratulate you, Bro." 
" So do I," said Marion. She would have congratulated 
anybody that evening. 
" The valve is a disappointment to me," said the man, 
speaking steadily, although dully. " I had worked over it so 
long that I counted upon it as certain." 
Then he rose and went over to the mill. 
In the mean time Lawrence Vickery was riding homeward 
comfortably on the hand-car, and had no idea that he was 
supposed to be dead. But he learned it ; and learned some 
thing else also from Marion's sensitive, tremulous face, deli 
cate as a flower. A warm-hearted, impulsive fellow, he was 
touched by her expression, and went further than he intended. 
That is to say, that, having an opportunity, thanks to Mrs. 
Manning, who went up stairs, purposely leaving them alone 
together, he began by taking Marion's hand reassuringly, and 
looking into her eyes, and ended by having her in his arms 
and continuing to look into her eyes, but at a much nearer 
range. In short, he put himself under as firm betrothal bonds 
as ever a man did in the whole history of betrothals. 
In the mean time the soft-hearted mother, sitting in the 
darkness up stairs, was shedding tears tenderly, and thinking 
of her own betrothal. That Lawrence was poor was a small 
matter to her, compared with the fact that Marion was loved 
at last, and happy. Lawrence was a Vickery, and the son of 
her old friend ; besides, to her, as to most Southern women, 
the world is very well lost for the sake of love. 
And Bro, over at the saw-mill ? 
His red lights shone across the marsh as usual, and he 
was in his work-room ; in his hand was the model of his 
valve. He had made it tell a lie that night ; he had used it as 
a mask. He gazed at it, the creature of his brain, his com 
panion through long years, and he felt that he no longer cared 
whether it was good for anything or not ! Then he remem 
bered listlessly that it was good for nothing ; the highest au 
thorities had said so. But, gone from him now was the com 
prehension of their reasons, and this he began to realize. He 
muttered over a formula, began a calculation, both well known 
to him ; he could do neither. His mind strayed from its duty 
idly, as a loose bough sways in the wind. He put his hands 
to his head and sat down. He sat there motionless all night. 
But oh, how happy Marion was ! Not effusively, not spo- 
kenly, but internally ; the soft light shining out from her heart, 
however, as it does through a delicate porcelain shade. Old 
Mr. Vickery was delighted too, and a new series of invitations 
followed in honor of the betrothal ; even the superintendent 
was invited, and came on his hand-car. Bro was included 
also, but he excused himself. His excuses were accepted 
without insistence, because it was understood that he was al 
most heart-broken by his disappointments. Joy and sorrow 
meet. When the engagement had lasted five weeks, and Ma 
rion had had thirty-five days of her new happiness, the old 
grandfather died, rather suddenly, but peacefully, and without 
pain. Through a long, soft April day he lay quietly looking 
at them all, speechless but content ; and then at sunset he 
passed away. Mrs. Manning wept heartily, and Marion too ; 
even Lawrence was not ashamed of the drops on his cheeks 
as he surveyed the kind old face, now for ever still. Every 
body came to the funeral, and everybody testified respect ; 
then another morning broke, and life went on again. The 
sun shines just the same, no matter who has been laid in the 
earth, and the flowers bloom. This seems to the mourner a 
strange thing, and a hard. In this case, however, there was 
no one to suffer the extreme pain of violent separation, for all 
the old man's companions and contemporaries were already 
gone ; he was the last. 
Another month went by, and another ; the dead heats of 
summer were upon them. Marion minded them not ; scorch 
ing air and arctic snows were alike to her when Lawrence 
was with her. Poor girl ! she had the intense, late-coming 
love of her peculiar temperament : to please him she would 
have continued smiling on the rack itself until she died. But 
why, after all, call her " poor " ? Is not such love, even if un- 
returned, great riches ? 
Bro looked at her, and looked at her, and looked at her. 
He had fallen back into his old way of life again, and nobody 
noticed anything unusual in him save what was attributed to 
his disappointment. 
" You see he had shut himself up there, and worked over 
that valve for years," explained Mrs. Manning ; " and, not let 
ting anybody know about it either, he had come to think too 
much of it, and reckon upon it as certain. He was always 
an odd, lonely sort of man, you know, and this has told upon 
him heavily." 
By and by it became evident that Lawrence was restless. 
He had sold off what he could of his inheritance, but that 
was only the old furniture ; no one wanted the sidling, unre 
paired house, which was now little better than a shell, or the 
deserted cotton-fields, whose dikes were all down. He had a 
scheme for going abroad again ; he could do better there, he 
said ; he had friends who would help him. 
" Shall you take Miss Marion ? " asked Bro, speaking un 
expectedly, and, for him, markedly. They were all present. 
" Oh, no," said Lawrence, " not now. How could I ? 
But I shall come back for her soon." He looked across at his 
betrothed with a smile. But Marion had paled suddenly, and 
Bro had seen it. 
The next event was a conversation at the mill. 
Young Vickery wandered over there a few days later. He 
was beginning to feel despondent and weary : everything at 
Wilbarger was at its summer ebb, and the climate, too, af 
fected him. Having become really fond of Marion now, and 
accustomed to all the sweetness of her affection, he hated to 
think of leaving her; yet he must. He leaned against the 
window-sill, and let out disjointed sentences of discontent to 
Bro ; it even seemed a part of his luck that it should be dead 
low water outside as he glanced down, and all the silver chan 
nels slimy. 
" That saw makes a fearful noise," he said. 
" Come into my room," said Bro ; " you will not hear it so 
plainly there." It was not the work-room, but the bedroom. 
The work-room was not mentioned now, out of kindness to 
Bro. Lawrence threw himself down on the narrow bed, and 
dropped his straw hat on the floor. " The world's a miser 
able hole," he said, with unction. 
Bro sat down on a three-legged stool, the only approach 
to a chair in the room, and looked at him ; one hand, in the 
pocket of his old, shrunk linen coat, was touching a let 
ter. 
" Bah ! " said Lawrence, clasping his hands under his head 
and stretching himself out to his full length on the bed, " how 
in the world can I leave her, Bro ? Poor little thing ! " 
Now to Bro, to whom Marion had always seemed a cross 
between a heavenly goddess and an earthly queen, this epithet 
was startling ; however, it was, after all, but a part of the 
whole. 
" It is a pity that you should leave her," he replied slowly. 
" It would be much better to take her with you." 
" Yes, I know it would. I am a fickle sort of fellow, too, 
and have all sorts of old entanglements over there, besides. 
They might take hold of me again." 
Bro felt a new and strange misgiving, which went through 
three distinct phases, with the strength and depth of an ocean, 
in less than three seconds : first, bewilderment at the new 
idea that anybody could be false to Marion ; second, a wild, 
darting hope for himself ; third, the returning iron conviction 
that it could never be, and that, if Lawrence deserted Marion, 
she would die. 
" If you had money, what would you do ? " he asked, com 
ing back to the present heavily. 
" Depends upon how much it was." 
" Five thousand dollars ? " 
" Well I'd marry on that, but not very hilariously, old 
fellow." 
" Ten ? " 
" That would do better." 
Nothing has as yet been said of Lawrence Vickery's appearance. It will be described now, and will, perhaps, throw 
light backward over this narration. 
Imagine a young man, five feet eleven inches in height, 
straight, strong, but slender still, in spite of his broad shoulders ; imagine, in addition, a spirited head and face, bright, 
steel-blue eyes, a bold profile, and beautiful mouth, shaded by 
a golden mustache ; add to this, gleaming white teeth, a dimple in the cleft, strongly molded chin, a merry laugh, and a 
thoroughly manly air ; and you have Lawrence Broughton 
Vickery at twenty-eight. 
When at last he took himself off, and went over to see 
Marion and be more miserable still, Bro drew the letter from 
his pocket, and read it for the sixth or seventh time. During 
these months his screw had become known, having been 
pushed persistently by the enterprising young lawyer who as 
pired to patent business in the beginning, and having held its 
own since by sheer force of merit. The enterprising young 
lawyer had, however, recently forsaken law for politics ; he 
had gone out to one of the Territories with the intention of 
returning some day as senator when the Territory should be 
a State (it is but fair to add that his chance is excellent). But 
he had, of course, no further knowledge of the screw, and 
Bro now managed the business himself. This letter was from 
a firm largely engaged in the manufacture of machinery, and 
it contained an offer for the screw and patent outright ten 
thousand dollars. 
" I shall never invent anything more," thought Bro, the 
words of the letter writing themselves vacantly on his brain. 
" Something has gone wrong inside my head in some way, 
and the saw-mill will be all I shall ever attend to again." 
Then he paused. 
" It would be worth more money in the end if I could keep 
it," he said to himself. " But even a larger sum might not 
serve so well later, perhaps." It was all to be Marion's in 
either case which would be best ? Then he remembered 
her sudden pallor, and that decided him. " He shall have it 
now," he said. " How lucky that he was content with ten ! " 
Some men would have given the money also in the same 
circumstances ; but. they would have given it to Marion. It 
was characteristic of Bro's deep and minute knowledge of the 
girl, and what would be for her happiness, that he planned to 
give the money to the man, and thus weight down and steady 
the lighter nature. 
He dwelt a long time upon ways and means ; he was sev 
eral days in making up his mind. At last he decided what to 
do ; and did it. 
Three weeks afterward a letter came to Wilbarger, di 
rected in a clear handwriting to " Mr. Lawrence Broughton 
Vickery." It was from a Northern lawyer, acting for another 
party, and contained an offer for Vickery Island with its 
house, cotton-fields, and marsh ; price offered, ten thousand 
dollars. The lawyer seemed to be acquainted with the size 
of the island, the condition of the fields and out-buildings ; 
he mentioned that the purchase was made with the idea of 
reviving the cotton-culture immediately, similar attempts on 
the part of Rhode Island manufacturers, who wished to raise 
their own cotton, having succeeded on the sea-islands farther 
north. Lawrence, in a whirl of delight, read the letter aloud 
in a cottage-parlor, tossed it over gayly to Mrs. Manning, and 
clasped Marion in his arms. 
" Well, little wife," he said happily, stroking her soft hair, 
" we shall go over the ocean together now." 
And Bro looked on. 
The wedding took place in the early autumn. Although 
comparatively quiet, on account of old Mr. Vickery's death, 
all Wilbarger came to the church, and crowded into the cot 
tage afterward. By a happy chance, " the worm " was at the 
North, soliciting aid for his " fold," and Marion was married 
by a gentle little missionary, who traversed the watery coast- 
district in a boat instead of on horseback, visiting all the sea- 
islands, seeing many sad, closed little churches, and encoun 
tering not infrequently almost pure paganism and fetich-wor 
ship among the neglected blacks. Bro gave the bride away. 
It was the proudest moment of his life and the saddest. 
" Somebody must do it," Mrs. Manning had said ; " and 
why not Bro ? He has lived in our house for twelve years, 
and, after all, now that old Mr. Vickery is gone, he is in one 
way our nearest friend. Do let me ask him, Marion." 
" Very well," assented the bride, caring but little for any 
thing now but to be with Lawrence ever} instant. 
She did, however, notice Bro during the crowded although 
informal reception which followed the ceremony. In truth, 
he was noticeable. In honor of the occasion, he had ordered 
from Savannah a suit of black, and had sent the measure 
ments himself ; the result was remarkable, the coat and vest 
being as much too short for him as the pantaloons were too 
long. He wore a white cravat, white-cotton gloves so large 
that he looked all hands, and his button-hole was decked with 
flo\vers, as many as it could hold. In this garb he certainly 
was an extraordinary object, and his serious face appearing at 
the top made the effect all the more grotesque. Marion was 
too good-hearted to smile ; but she did say a word or two in 
an undertone to Lawrence, and the two young people had their 
own private amusement over his appearance. 
But Bro was unconscious of it, or of anything save the 
task he had set for himself. It was remarked afterward that 
" really Bro Cranch talked almost like other people, joked and 
laughed, too, if you will believe it, at that Manning wedding." 
Lawrence promised to bring his wife home at the end of a 
year to see her mother, and perhaps, if all went well, to take 
the mother back with them. Mrs. Manning, happy and sad 
together, cried and smiled in a breath. But Marion was ra 
diant as a diamond ; her gray eyes flashed light. Not even 
when saying good-by could she pretend to be anything but 
supremely happy, even for a moment. By chance Bro had 
her last look as the carriage rolled away ; he went over to the 
mill carrying it with him, and returned no more that night. 
Wilbarger began to wonder after a while when that Rhode 
Island capitalist would begin work in his cotton-fields ; they 
are wondering still. In course of time, and through the 
roundabout way he had chosen, Bro received the deeds of 
sale ; he made his will, and left them to Marion. Once Mrs. 
Manning asked him about the screw. 
" I have heard nothing of it for some time," he replied ; 
and she said no more, thinking it had also, like the valve, 
proved a failure. In the course of the winter the little work 
room was dismantled and the partitions taken down ; there is 
nothing there now but the plain wall of the mill. The red 
lights no longer shine across the marsh to Vickery Island, and 
there is no one there to see them. The new keeper lives in a 
cabin at the bridge, and plays no tricks on the superintendent, 
who, a man of spirit still, but not quite so sanguine as to the 
future of Wilbarger, still rolls by on his hand-car from north 
east to southeast. 
Bro has grown old ; he is very patient with everybody. 
Not that he ever was impatient, but that patience seems now 
his principal characteristic. He often asks to hear portions of 
Marion's letters read aloud, and always makes gently the final 
comment : " Yes, yes ; she is happy ! " 
It is whispered around Wilbarger that he "has had a 
stroke " ; Mrs. Manning herself thinks so. 
Well, in a certain sense, perhaps she is right. 
THE scholars were dismissed. Out they trooped big 
boys, little boys, and full-grown men. Then what antics 
what linked lines of scuffling ; what double shuffles, leaps, 
and somersaults ; what rolling laughter, interspersed with 
short yelps and guttural cries, as wild and free as the sounds 
the mustangs make, gamboling on the plains ! For King 
David's scholars were black black as the ace of spades. He 
did not say that ; he knew very little about the ace. He said 
simply that his scholars were " colored " ; and sometimes he 
called them " the Children of Ham." But so many mistakes 
were made over this title, in spite of his careful explanations 
(the Children having an undoubted taste for bacon), that he 
finally abandoned it, and fell back upon the national name of 
"freedmen," a title both good and true. He even tried to 
make it noble, speaking to them often of their wonderful lot 
as the emancipated teachers and helpers of their race ; laying 
before them their mission in the future, which was to go over 
to Africa, and wake out of their long sloth and slumber the 
thousands of souls there. But Cassius and Pompey had only 
a mythic idea of Africa ; they looked at the globe as it was 
turned around, they saw it there on the other side, and then 
 
their attention wandered off to an adventurous ant who was 
making the tour of Soodan and crossing the mountains of 
Kong as though they were nothing. 
Lessons over, the scholars went home. The schoolmaster 
went home too, wiping his forehead as he went. He was a 
grave young man, tall and thin, somewhat narrow-chested, 
with the diffident air of a country student. And yet this 
country student was here, far down in the South, hundreds of 
miles away from the New Hampshire village where he had 
thought to spend his life as teacher of the district school. 
Extreme near-sightedness and an inherited delicacy of con 
stitution which he bore silently had kept him out of the field 
during the days of the war. " I should be only an encum 
brance," he thought. But, when the war was over, the fire 
which had burned within burst forth in the thought, " The 
freedmen ! " There was work fitted to his hand ; that one 
thing he could do. " My turn has come at last," he said. 
" I feel the call to go." Nobody cared much because he was 
leaving. " Going down to teach the blacks ? " said the farm 
ers. " I don't see as you're  called, David. We 've paid dear 
enough to set em free, goodness knows, and now they ought 
to look out for themselves." 
" But they must first be taught," said the schoolmaster. 
" Our responsibility is great ; our task is only just begun." 
" Stuff ! " said the farmers. What with the graves down 
in the South, and the taxes up in the North, they were not 
prepared to hear any talk about beginning. Beginning, in 
deed ! They called it ending. The slaves were freed, and it 
was right they should be freed ; but Ethan and Abner were 
gone, and their households were left unto them desolate. Let 
the blacks take care of themselves. 
So, all alone, down came David King, with such aid and 
instruction as the Freedman's Bureau could give him, to this 
little settlement among the pines, where the freedmen had 
built some cabins in a careless way, and then seated them 
selves to wait for fortune. Freedmen ! Yes ; a glorious 
 
idea ! But how will it work its way out into practical life ? 
What are you going to do with tens of thousands of ignorant, 
childish, irresponsible souls thrown suddenly upon your hands ; 
souls that will not long stay childish, and that have in them 
also all the capacities for evil that you yourselves have you 
with your safeguards of generations of conscious responsibility 
and self-government, and yet so many lapses ! This is what 
David King thought. He did not see his way exactly ; no, 
nor the nation's way. But he said to himself : " I can at least 
begin ; if I am wrong, I shall find it out in time. But now it 
seems to me that our first duty is to educate them." So he 
began at " a, b, and c " ; " You must not steal " ; " You must 
not fight " ; " You must wash your faces " ; which may be 
called, I think, the first working out of the emancipation 
problem. 
Jubilee Town was the name of the settlement ; and when 
the schoolmaster announced his own, David King, the title 
struck the imitative minds of the scholars, and, turning it 
around, they made " King David " of it, and kept it so. De 
lighted with the novelty, the Jubilee freedmen came to school 
in such numbers that the master was obliged to classify them ; 
boys and men in the mornings and afternoons ; the old people 
in the evenings ; the young women and girls by themselves 
for an hour in the early morning. " I can not do full justice 
to all," he thought, " and in the men lies the danger, in the 
boys the hope ; the women can not vote. Would to God the 
men could not either, until they have learned to read and to 
write, and to maintain themselves respectably ! " For, aboli 
tionist as he was, David King would have given years of his 
life for the power to restrict the suffrage. Not having this 
power, however, he worked at the problem in the only way 
left open : " Take two apples from four apples, Julius how 
many will be left ? " " What is this I hear, Csesar, about 
stolen bacon ? " 
On this day the master went home, tired and dispirited ; 
the novelty was over on both sides. He had been five months 
 
at Jubilee, and his scholars were more of a puzzle to him than 
ever. They learned, some of them, readily ; but they forgot 
as readily. They had a vast capacity for parrot-like repeti 
tion, and caught his long words so quickly, and repeated them 
so volubly, with but slight comprehension of their meaning, 
that his sensitive conscience shrank from using them, and he 
was forced back upon a rude plainness of speech which was 
a pain to his pedagogic ears. Where he had once said, 
" Demean yourselves with sobriety," he now said, " Don't get 
drunk." He would have fared better if he had learned to 
say " uncle " and " aunty," or " maumer," in the familiar 
Southern fashion. But he had no knowledge of the customs ; 
how could he have ? He could only blunder on in his slow 
Northern way. 
His cabin stood in the pine forest, at a little distance from 
the settlement; he had allowed himself that grace. There 
was a garden around it, where Northern flowers came up 
after a while a little pale, perhaps, like English ladies in In 
dia, but doubly beautiful and dear to exiled eyes. The school 
master had cherished from the first a wish for a cotton-field 
a cotton-field of his own. To him a cotton-field repre 
sented the South a cotton-field in the hot sunshine, with a 
gang of slaves toiling under the lash of an overseer. This 
might have been a fancy picture, and it might not. At any 
rate, it was real to him. There was, however, no overseer 
now, and no lash ; no slaves and very little toil. The negroes 
would work only when they pleased, and that was generally 
not at all. There was no doubt but that they were almost 
hopelessly improvident and lazy. " Entirely so," said the 
planters. " Not quite," said the Northern schoolmaster. And 
therein lay the difference between them. 
David lighted his fire of pitch-pine, spread his little table, 
and began to cook his supper carefully. When it was nearly 
ready, he heard a knock at his gate. Two representative 
specimens of his scholars were waiting without Jim, a field- 
hand, and a woman named Esther, who had been a house- 
servant in planter's family. Jim had come " to berry an 
axe," and Esther to ask for medicine for a sick child. 
" Where is your own axe, Jim ? " said the schoolmaster. 
" Somehow et's rusty, sah. Dey gets rusty mighty 
quick." 
" Of course, because you always leave them out in the 
rain. When will you learn to take care of your axes ? " 
" Don know, mars. 
" I have told you not to call me master," said David. " I 
am not your master." 
" You's schoolmars, I reckon," answered Jim, grinning at 
his repartee. 
" Well, Jim," said the schoolmaster, relaxing into a smile, 
" you have the best of it this time ; but you know quite well 
what I mean. You can take the axe ; but bring it back to 
night. And you must see about getting a new one immedi 
ately ; there is something to begin with. Now, Esther, what 
is it ? Your boy sick ? Probably it is because you let him 
drink the water out of that swampy pool. I warned you." 
" Yes, sah," said the woman impassively. 
She was a slow, dull-witted creature, who had executed 
her tasks marvelously well in the planter's family, never vary 
ing by a hair's breadth either in time or method during long 
years. Freed, she was lost at once; if she had not been 
swept along by her companions, she would have sat down 
dumbly by the wayside, and died. The schoolmaster offered 
supper to both of his guests. Jim took a seat at the table at 
once, nothing loath, and ate and drank, talking all the time 
with occasional flashes of wit, and an unconscious suggestion 
of ferocity in the way he hacked and tore the meat with his 
clasp-knife and his strong white teeth. Esther stood ; no 
thing could induce her to sit in the master's presence. She 
ate and drank quietly, and dropped a courtesy whenever he 
spoke to her, not from any especial respect or gratitude, how 
ever, but from habit. " I may possibly teach the man some 
thing," thought the schoolmaster; " but what a terrible crea- 
 
ture to turn loose in the world, with power in his hand ! 
Hundreds of these men will die, nay, must die violent deaths 
before their people can learn what freedom means, and what 
it does not mean. As for the woman, it is hopeless ; she can 
not learn. But her child can. In truth, our hope is in the 
children." 
And then he threw away every atom of the food, washed 
his dishes, made up the fire, and went back to the beginning 
again and cooked a second supper. For he still shrank from 
personal contact with the other race. A Southerner would 
have found it impossible to comprehend the fortitude it required for the New-Englander to go through his daily rounds 
among them. He did his best ; but it was duty, not liking. 
Supper over, he went to the schoolhouse again : in the even 
ings he taught the old people. It was an odd sight to note 
them as they followed the letters with a big, crooked forefin 
ger, slowly spelling out words of three letters. They spelled 
with their whole bodies, stooping over the books which lay 
before them until their old grizzled heads and gay turbans 
looked as if they were set on the table by the chins in a 
long row. Patiently the master taught them ; they had gone 
no further then " cat " in five long months. He made the 
letters for them on the blackboard again and again, but the 
treat of the evening was the making of these letters on the 
board by the different scholars in turn. " Now, Dinah B." 
And old Dinah would hobble up proudly, and, with much 
screwing of her mouth and tongue, and many long hesita 
tions, produce something which looked like a figure eight 
gone mad. Joe had his turn next, and he would make, per 
haps, an H for a D. The master would go back and explain 
to him carefully the difference, only to find at the end of ten 
minutes that the whole class was hopelessly confused : Joe's 
mistake had routed them all. There was one pair of spec 
tacles among the old people : these were passed from hand 
to hand as the turn came v not from necessity always, but as 
an adjunct to the dignity of reading. 
"Never mind the glasses, Tom. Surely you can spell 
bag without them." 
"Dey helps, Mars King David," replied old Tom with 
solemn importance. He then adorned himself with the spec 
tacles, and spelled it " g, a, b." 
But the old people enjoyed their lesson immensely; no 
laughter, no joking broke the solemnity of the scene, and 
they never failed to make an especial toilet much shirt-col 
lar for the old men, and clean turbans for the old women. 
They seemed to be generally half-crippled, poor old crea 
tures ; slow in their movements as tortoises, and often un 
wieldy ; their shoes were curiosities of patches, rags, strings, 
and carpeting. But sometimes a fine old black face was 
lifted from the slow-moving bulk, and from under wrinkled 
eyelids keen sharp eyes met the master s, as intelligent as his 
own. 
There was no church proper in Jubilee. On Sundays, the 
people, who were generally Baptists, assembled in the school 
room, where services were conducted by a brother who had 
" de gif ob preachin ," and who poured forth a flood of Scrip 
ture phrases with a volubility, incoherence, and earnestness 
alike extraordinary. Presbyterian David attended these ser 
vices, not only for the sake of example, but also because he 
steadfastly believed in " the public assembling of ourselves 
together for the worship of Almighty God." 
" Perhaps they understand him," he thought, noting the 
rapt black faces, "and I, at least, have no right to judge 
them I, who, with all the lights I have had, still find myself 
unable to grasp the great doctrine of Election." For David 
had been bred in Calvinism, and many a night, when younger 
and more hopeful of arriving at finalities, had he wrestled 
with its problems. He was not so sure, now, of arriving at 
finalities either in belief or in daily life ; but he thought the 
fault lay with himself, and deplored it. 
The Yankee schoolmaster was, of course, debarred from 
intercourse with those of his own color in the neighborhood. 
There were no " poor whites " there ; he was spared the sight 
of their long, clay-colored faces, lank yellow hair, and half- 
open mouths ; he was not brought into contact with the igno 
rance and dense self-conceit of this singular class. The 
whites of the neighborhood were planters, and they regarded 
the schoolmaster as an interloper, a fanatic, a knave, or a 
fool, according to their various degrees of bitterness. The 
phantom of a cotton-field still haunted the master, and he 
often walked by the abandoned fields of these planters, and 
noted them carefully. In addition to his fancy, there was 
now another motive. Things were not going well at Jubilee, 
and he was anxious to try whether the men would not work 
for good wages, paid regularly, and for their Northern teacher 
and friend. Thus it happened that Harnett Ammerton, retired planter, one afternoon perceived a stranger walking up 
the avenue that led to his dilapidated mansion ; and as he 
was near-sighted, and as any visitor was, besides, a welcome 
interruption in his dull day, he went out upon the piazza to 
meet him ; and not until he had offered a chair did he rec 
ognize his guest. He said nothing ; for he was in his own 
house ; but a gentleman can freeze the atmosphere around 
him even in his own house, and this he did. The school 
master stated his errand simply : he wished to rent one of the 
abandoned cotton-fields for a year. The planter could have 
answered with satisfaction that his fields might lie for ever 
untilled before Yankee hands should touch them ; but he was 
a poor man now, and money was money. He endured his visit 
or, and he rented his field ; and, with the perplexed feelings of 
his class, he asked himself how it was, how it could be, that a 
man like that yes, like that had money, while he himself had 
none ! David had but little money a mere handful to throw 
away in a day, the planter would have thought in the lavish 
old times ; but David had the New England thrift. 
" I am hoping that the unemployed hands over at Jubilee 
will cultivate this field for me," he said " for fair wages, of 
course. I know nothing of cotton myself." 
 
" You will be disappointed," said the planter. 
" But they must live ; they must lay up something for the 
winter." 
" They do not know enough to live. They might exist, 
perhaps, in Africa, as the rest of their race exists ; but here, 
in this colder climate, they must be taken care of, worked, 
and fed, as we work and feed our horses precisely in the 
same way." 
" I can not agree with you," replied David, a color rising 
in his thin face. " They are idle and shiftless, I acknowledge 
that ; but is it not the natural result of generations of servi 
tude and ignorance ? " 
" They have not capacity for anything save ignorance." 
"You do not know then, perhaps, that I that I am try 
ing to educate those who are over at Jubilee," said David. 
There was no aggressive confidence in his voice ; he knew 
that he had accomplished little as yet. He looked wistfully 
at his host as he spoke. 
Harnett Ammerton was a born patrician. Poor, homely, 
awkward David felt this in every nerve as he sat there ; for 
he loved beauty in spite of himself, and in spite of his belief 
that it was a tendency of the old Adam. (Old Adam has 
such nice things to bother his descendants with ; almost a 
monopoly, if we are to believe some creeds.) So now David 
tried not to be influenced by the fine face before him, and 
steadfastly went on to sow a little seed, if possible, even upon 
this prejudiced ground. 
" I have a school over there," he said. 
" I have heard something of the kind, I believe," replied 
the old planter, as though Jubilee Town were a thousand 
miles away, instead of a blot upon his own border. " May I 
ask how you are succeeding ? " 
There was a fine irony in the question. David felt it, 
but replied courageously that success, he hoped, would come 
in time. 
" And I, young man, hope that it will never come ! The 
negro with power in his hand, which you have given him, 
with a little smattering of knowledge in his shallow, crafty 
brain a knowledge which you and your kind are now striv 
ing to give him will become an element of more danger in 
this land than it has ever known before. You Northerners 
do not understand the blacks. They are an inferior race by 
nature; God made them so. And God forgive those (al 
though I never can) who have placed them over us yes, 
virtually over us, their former masters poor ignorant crea 
tures ! " 
At this instant an old negro came up the steps with an 
armful of wood, and the eye of the Northerner noted (was 
forced to note) the contrast. There sat the planter, his head 
crowned with silver hair, his finely chiseled face glowfng with 
the warmth of his indignant words ; and there passed the old 
slave, bent and black, his low forehead and broad animal fea 
tures seeming to typify scarcely more intelligence than that 
of the dog that followed him. The planter spoke to the ser 
vant in his kindly way as he passed, and the old black face 
lighted with pleasure. This, too, the schoolmaster's sensitive 
mind noted : none of his pupils looked at him with anything 
like that affection. " But it is right they should be freed it 
is right," he said to himself as he walked back to Jubilee ; 
" and to that belief will I cling as long as I have my being. 
It is right." And then he came into Jubilee, and found three 
of his freedmen drunk and quarreling in the street. 
Heretofore the settlement, poor and forlorn as it was, had 
escaped the curse of drunkenness. No liquor was sold in the 
vicinity, and David had succeeded in keeping his scholars 
from wandering aimlessly about the country from place to 
place often the first use the blacks made of their freedom. 
Jubilee did not go to the liquor ; but, at last, the liquor had 
come to Jubilee. Shall they not have all rights and privileges, 
these new-born citizens of ours ? The bringer of these doc 
trines, and of the fluids to moisten them, was a white man, 
one of that class which has gone down on the page of Ameri- 
 
can history, knighted with the initials C. B. " The Captain " 
the negroes called him ; and he was highly popular already, 
three hours of the Captain being worth three weeks of Da 
vid, as far as familiarity went. The man was a glib-tongued, 
smartly dressed fellow, well supplied with money ; and his 
errand was, of course, to influence the votes at the next elec 
tion. David, meanwhile, had so carefully kept all talk of 
politics from his scholars that they hardly knew that an elec 
tion was near. It became now a contest between the two 
higher intelligences. If the schoolmaster had but won the 
easily won and strong affections of his pupils ! But, in all 
those months, he had gained only a dutiful attention. They 
did not even respect him as they had respected their old mas 
ters, and the cause (poor David !) was that very thrift and in 
dustry which he relied upon an an example. 
"Ole Mars Ammerton wouldn't wash his dishes ef dey 
was nebber washed," confided Maum June to Elsy, as they 
caught sight of David's shining pans. 
The schoolmaster could have had a retinue of servants 
for a small price, or no price at all ; but, to tell a truth which 
he never told, he could not endure them about him. 
" I must have one spot to myself," he said feverishly, after 
he had labored all day among them, teaching, correcting un 
tidy ways, administering simple medicines, or binding up a 
bruised foot. But he never dreamed that this very isolation 
of his personality, this very thrift, were daily robbing him of 
the influence which he so earnestly longed to possess. In 
New England every man's house was his castle, and every 
man's hands were thrifty. He forgot the easy familiarity, the 
lordly ways, the crowded households, and the royal careless 
ness to which the slaves had always been accustomed in their 
old masters homes. 
At first the Captain attempted intimacy. 
" No reason why you and me shouldn't work together," 
he said with a confidential wink. " This thing's being done 
all over the South, and easy done, too. Now's the time for 
 
smart chaps like us transition, you know. The old South 
erners are mad, and won't come forward, so we'll just sail in 
and have a few years of it. When they're  ready to come 
back why, we'll give em up the place again, of course, if 
our pockets are well lined. Come, now, just acknowledge 
that the negroes have got to have somebody to lead em." 
" It shall not be such as you," said David indignantly. 
" See those two men quarreling ; that is the work of the liquor 
you have given them ! " 
" They 've as good a right to their liquor as other men 
have," replied the Captain carelessly ; " and that's what I tell 
em ; they ain't slaves now they're  free. Well, boss, sorry 
you don't like my idees, but can't help it ; must go ahead. 
Remember, I offered you a chance, and you would not take it. 
Morning." 
The five months had grown into six and seven, and Jubi 
lee Town was known far and wide as a dangerous and disor 
derly neighborhood. The old people and the children still 
came to school, but the young men and boys had deserted in 
a body. The schoolmaster's cotton-field was neglected ; he 
did a little there himself every day, but the work was novel, 
and his attempts were awkward and slow. One afternoon 
Harnett Ammerton rode by on horseback; the road passed 
near the angle of the field where the schoolmaster was at 
work. 
" How is your experiment succeeding ? " said the planter, 
with a little smile of amused scorn as he saw the lonely- 
