small shallot. Make a force-meat of this, with bread-crumbs moistened
with warm milk. Put some thin strips of cold corned (not smoked) ham in
the bottom of the pie, next to the crust; lay upon these pieces of the
bird, peppered and buttered, then a layer of the force-meat, and so on,
until you are ready for the gravy. Strain this, return to the fire,
and season with pepper and a glass of wine. Heat to a boil, pour into
the pie, and cover with the upper crust, cutting a slit in the middle.
Ornament with pastry leaves, arranged in a wreath about the edge, and
in the middle a pastry bird, with curled strips of pastry about it.
This last should be baked separately and laid on when the pie is done,
to cover the hole in the middle.
Bake three hours if your pie be large, covering with paper if it
threaten to brown too fast.
QUAIL PIE.
Clean, truss, and stuff the birds. Loosen the joints with a penknife,
but do not separate them. Parboil them for ten minutes, while you
prepare a puff-paste. Line a deep dish with this; put in the bottom
some shreds of salt pork or ham; next, a layer of hard-boiled eggs,
buttered and peppered; then the birds, sprinkled with pepper and
minced parsley. Squeeze some lemon-juice upon them, and lay upon the
breasts pieces of butter rolled in flour. Cover with slices of egg,
then with shred ham; pour in some of the gravy in which the quails were
parboiled, and put on the lid, leaving a hole in the middle. Bake over
an hour.
WILD PIGEONS. (Stewed.) 
Clean and wash very carefully, then lay in salt and water for an hour.
Rinse the inside with soda and water, shaking it well about in the
cavity; wash out with fair water and stuff with a force-meat made of
bread-crumbs and chopped salt pork, seasoned with pepper. Sew up the
birds, and put on to stew in enough cold water to cover them, and allow
to each a fair slice of fat bacon cut into narrow strips. Season with
pepper and a pinch of nutmeg. Boil slowly in a covered saucepan until
tender; take from the gravy and lay in a covered dish to keep warm.
Strain the gravy, add the juice of a lemon and a tablespoonful of
currant jelly, thickening with browned flour. Boil up and pour over the
pigeons.
WILD-PIGEON PIE. 
This is made precisely as is quail pie, except that the pigeons are cut
into four pieces each, and not stuffed. Parboil and lay in the dish in
alternate layers with the bacon and boiled eggs. Make the gravy richer
than for the quails, by the addition of a good lump of butter, rolled
in flour, stirred in and boiled up to thicken before you put it on the
fire. Wild pigeons are usually tougher and leaner than the tame.
WILD DUCKS.
Nearly all wild ducks are liable to have a fishy flavor, and when
handled by inexperienced cooks, are sometimes uneatable from this
cause. Before roasting them, guard against this by parboiling them
with a small carrot, peeled, put within each. This will absorb the
unpleasant taste. An onion will have the same effect; but, unless you
mean to use onion in the stuffing, the carrot is preferable. In my own
kitchen I usually put in the onion, considering a suspicion of garlic a
desideratum in roast duck, whether wild or tame.
ROAST DUCK. (Wild.)
Parboil as above directed; throw away the carrot or onion, lay in fresh
water half an hour; stuff with bread-crumbs seasoned with pepper, salt,
sage, and onion, and roast until brown and tender, basting for half
the time with butter and water, then with the drippings. Add to the
gravy, when you have taken up the ducks, a tablespoonful of currant
jelly, and a pinch of cayenne. Thicken with browned flour and serve in
a tureen.
WILD DUCKS. (Stewed.) 
Parboil ten minutes, when you have drawn them, and put in a raw carrot
or onion. Lay in very cold water half an hour. Cut into joints, pepper,
salt, and flour them. Have ready some butter in a frying-pan, and fry
them a light brown. Put them in a saucepan and cover with gravy made of
the giblets, necks, and some bits of lean veal. Add a minced shallot,
a bunch of sweet herbs, salt, and pepper. Cover closely and stew half
an hour, or until tender. Take out the duck, strain the gravy when you
have skimmed it; put in a half-cup of cream or rich milk in which an
egg has been beaten, thicken with browned flour, add a tablespoonful of
wine and the juice of half a lemon, beaten in gradually not to curdle
the cream; boil up and pour over the ducks. This is about the best way
of cooking wild ducks.
WILD TURKEY.
This stately stalker of Southern forests and Western prairies is
eagerly sought after by the lovers of good eating in those regions.
The dark meat and game flavor proclaim his birthright of lordly
freedom as truly after he is slain and cooked, as did his lithe grace
of figure, lofty carriage, and bright eye while he trod his native
wilds. I have heard sportsmen declare that when they have inveigled
him up to a blind by imitating the call of his harem or younglings,
they have stood in covert, gun at shoulder and finger on the trigger,
spell-bound by pitying admiration of his beauty. But I have never seen
that sensibility curbed appetite while they told the story at the
table adorned by the royal bird; have noted, indeed, that their mouths
watered rather than their eyes, as he crumbled, like a dissolving view,
under the blade of the carver.
Draw and wash the inside very carefully, as with all game. Domestic
fowls are, or should be, kept up without eating for at least twelve
hours before they are killed; but we must shoot wild when we can
get the chance, and of course it often happens that their crops are
distended by a recent hearty meal of rank or green food. Wipe the
cavity with a dry soft cloth before you stuff. Have a rich force-meat,
bread-crumbs, some bits of fat pork, chopped fine, pepper, and salt.
Beat in an egg and a couple of tablespoonfuls of melted butter. Baste
with butter and water for the first hour, then three or four times with
the gravy; lastly, five or six times with melted butter. A generous and
able housekeeper told me once that she always allowed a pound of butter
for basting a large wild turkey. This was an extravagant quantity, but
the meat is drier than that of the domestic fowl, and not nearly so
fat. Dredge with flour at the last, froth with butter, and when he is
of a tempting brown, serve. Skim the gravy, add a little hot water,
pepper, thicken with the giblets chopped fine and browned flour, boil
up, and pour into a tureen. At the South the giblets are not put in the
gravy, but laid whole, one under each wing, when the turkey is dished.
Garnish with small fried sausages, not larger than a dollar, crisped
parsley between them.
Send around currant jelly and cranberry sauce with it.
SMALL BIRDS.
ROAST SNIPE OR PLOVERS.
Clean and truss, but do not stuff. Lay in rows in the dripping-pan, or
tie upon a spit, sprinkle with salt, and baste well with butter, then
with butter and water. When they begin to brown, which will be in about
ten minutes, cut as many rounds of bread (without crust) as there are
birds. Toast quickly, butter, and lay in the dripping-pan, a bird upon
each. When the birds are done, serve upon the toast, with the gravy
poured over it. The toast should lie under them while cooking at least
five minutes, during which time the birds should be basted with melted
butter seasoned with pepper.
The largest snipe will not require above twenty minutes to roast.
WOODCOCK.
This is the most delicious of small birds, and may be either roasted or
broiled.
Roast.
The English do not draw woodcock, regarding the trail as a bonne
bouche, and I have known American housekeepers who copied them in this
respect. In this case roast precisely as you would snipe or plover,
only putting the toast under the birds so soon as they begin to cook,
to catch the trail.
To my taste, a better, and certainly to common sense people a less
objectionable plan, is to fill the birds with a rich force-meat of
bread-crumbs, peppered and salted, shortened with melted butter. Sew
them up and roast, basting with butter and water, from twenty minutes
to half an hour. When half done, put circular slices of buttered toast
beneath, and serve upon these when you take them up.
Broiled.
Split down the back, and broil over a clear fire. Butter, pepper,
and salt when done, and let them lie between two hot dishes for five
minutes before sending to table. Small snipe are nice broiled in this
way; also robins and doves.
SALMI OF WOODCOCK OR SNIPE.
Clean and half-roast the birds; cut in quarters, and put in a saucepan
with gravy made of the giblets, necks, and some bits of fat pork,
stewed in a little water. Add a minced button onion, salt, and a
pinch of cayenne, and stew fifteen minutes or until tender, closely
covered. Take out the birds, and pile neatly upon buttered toast in
a chafing-dish. Strain the gravy and return to the fire, adding some
small pieces of butter rolled in flour, the juice of a lemon and a
little wine. Boil up, and pour over the salmi.
ORTOLANS, REED-BIRDS, RAIL, AND SORA
may be roasted or broiled. A good way is to roll an oyster in melted
butter, then in bread-crumbs seasoned with pepper and salt, and put
into each bird before roasting. Baste with butter and water three
times, put the rounds of toast underneath, and baste freely with melted
butter. They will require about twenty minutes to cook, and will be
found delicious.
TO KEEP GAME FROM TAINTING.
Draw so soon as they come into your possession; rinse with soda and
water, then with pure cold water; wipe dry, and rub them lightly with
a mixture of fine salt and black pepper. If you must keep them some
time, put in the cavity of each fowl a piece of charcoal; hang them in
a cool, dark place, with a cloth thrown over them. Small birds, unless
there are too many of them, may be kept in a refrigerator after you
have drawn, washed, and wiped them.
The charcoal is an admirable preventive of decomposition.
SAUCES FOR MEAT AND FISH.
These are no longer the appendages of the rich man’s bill of fare only.
A general knowledge of made sauces, as well as the more expensive ones
imported from abroad and sold here at high prices, is a part of every
intelligent housekeeper’s culinary education. Few are so ignorant as
to serve a fish sauce with game, or vice versâ. From the immense
number of receipts which I have collected and examined, I have selected
comparatively few but such as I consider “representative” articles.
The ingenious housewife is at liberty, as I said before, elsewhere, to
modify and improve upon them.
First, par excellence, as the most important, and because it is the
groundwork of many others, I place
MELTED OR DRAWN BUTTER.
NO. 1.
    2 teaspoonfuls flour.
    1½ ounce butter.
    1 teacupful hot water or milk.
    A little salt.
Put the flour and salt in a bowl, and add a little at a time of the
water or milk, working it very smooth as you go on. Put into a tin cup
or saucepan, and set in a vessel of boiling water. As it warms, stir,
and when it has boiled a minute or more, add the butter by degrees,
stirring all the time until it is entirely melted and incorporated with
the flour and water. Boil one minute.
Mix with milk when you wish to use for puddings, with water for meats
and fish.
NO. 2.
    1½ teaspoonful of flour.
    2 ounces butter.
    1 teacupful (small) hot water.
Wet the flour to a thin smooth paste with cold water, and stir into the
hot, which should be in the inner vessel. When it boils, add the butter
by degrees, and stir until well mixed. Boil one minute.
NO. 3.
    3 ounces butter.
    Half-pint water (hot).
    A beaten egg.
    1 heaping teaspoonful flour.
Wet the flour to a smooth paste with a little cold milk, and add to the
hot water in the inner vessel, stirring until thick. Have ready the
beaten egg in a cup. Take a teaspoonful of the mixture from the fire,
and beat with this until light; then another, and still another. Set
aside the cup when this is done, and stir the butter into the contents
of the inner saucepan gradually, until thoroughly mixed, then add the
beaten egg in the same way. There is no danger of clotting the egg, if
it be treated as I have described.
EGG SAUCE. 
    3 hard-boiled eggs.
    A good teacupful drawn butter.
    A little salt.
Chop the yolks only of the eggs very fine, and beat into the hot drawn
butter, salting to taste.
This is used for boiled fowls and boiled fish. For the former, you can
add some minced parsley; for the latter, chopped pickles, capers, or
nasturtium seed. For boiled beef, a small shallot minced fine.
Or,
Omit the boiled eggs, and beat up two raw ones very light, and put into
the drawn butter instead, as directed in No. 3. For boiled beef or
chicken, you may make the drawn butter of hot liquor taken from the pot
in which the meat is cooking, having first carefully skimmed it.
SAUCE FOR BOILED OR BAKED FISH.
    4 ounces butter.
    1 tablespoonful flour.
    2 anchovies.
    1 teaspoonful chopped capers, or nasturtium seed, or green pickle.
    1 shallot.
    Pepper and salt to taste.
    1 tablespoonful vinegar.
    1 teacupful hot water.
Put the water into the inner saucepan, chop the anchovies and shallot,
and put in with the pepper and salt. Boil two minutes, and strain back
into the saucepan when you have rinsed with hot water. Now add the
flour wet smooth with cold water, and stir until it thickens; put in
the butter by degrees, and when it is thoroughly melted and mixed, the
vinegar; lastly, the capers and a little nutmeg.
WHITE SAUCE FOR FISH. 
Make drawn butter by receipt No. 2, but with double the quantity of
flour, and use, instead of water, the liquor in which the fish was
boiled. Add four tablespoonfuls of milk, in which a shallot and a head
of celery or a pinch of celery-seed has been boiled, then strained out.
Boil one minute, and stir in a teaspoonful of chopped parsley.
OYSTER SAUCE. 
    1 pint oysters.
    Half a lemon.
    2 tablespoonfuls butter.
    1 tablespoonful flour.
    1 teacupful milk or cream.
    Cayenne and nutmeg to taste.
Stew the oysters in their own liquor five minutes, and add the milk.
When this boils, strain the liquor and return to the saucepan. Thicken
with the flour when you have wet it with cold water; stir it well in;
put in the butter, next the cayenne (if you like it), boil one minute;
squeeze in the lemon-juice, shake it around well, and pour out.
Or,
Drain the oysters dry without cooking at all; make the sauce with the
liquor and other ingredients just named. Chop the raw oysters, and stir
in when you do the butter; boil five minutes, and pour into the tureen.
Some put in the oysters whole, considering that the sauce is handsomer
than when they are chopped.
Oyster sauce is used for boiled halibut, cod, and other fish, for
boiled turkey, chickens, and white meats generally.
CRAB SAUCE.
    1 crab, boiled and cold.
    4 tablespoonfuls of milk.
    1 teacupful drawn butter.
    Cayenne, mace, and salt to taste.
Make the drawn butter as usual, and stir in the milk. Pick the meat
from the crab, chop very fine, season with cayenne, mace, and salt to
taste; stir into the drawn butter. Simmer three minutes, but do not
boil.
Lobster sauce is very nice made as above, with the addition of a
teaspoonful of made mustard and the juice of half a lemon. This is a
good fish sauce.
ANCHOVY SAUCE.
    6 anchovies.
    A teacupful drawn butter.
    A wineglass pale Sherry.
Soak the anchovies in cold water two hours; pull them to pieces, and
simmer in just enough water to cover them for half an hour. Strain the
liquor into the drawn butter (No. 3), boil a minute, add the wine; heat
gradually to a boil, and stew five minutes longer. You may substitute
two teaspoonfuls of anchovy paste for the little fish themselves.
Serve with boiled fish.
SAUCE FOR LOBSTERS.
    5 tablespoonfuls fresh butter.
    Teacupful vinegar.
    Salt and pepper to taste, with a heaping teaspoonful white sugar.
    1 teaspoonful made mustard.
    Minced parsley.
Beat the butter to a cream, adding gradually the vinegar, salt, and
pepper. Boil a bunch of parsley five minutes, chop small; beat into
the butter; lastly the sugar and mustard. The butter must be light as
whipped egg.
BREAD SAUCE.
    1 pint milk.
    1 cup bread-crumbs (very fine).
    1 onion, sliced.
    A pinch of mace.
    Pepper and salt to taste.
    3 tablespoonfuls butter.
Simmer the sliced onion in the milk until tender; strain the milk and
pour over the bread-crumbs, which should be put into a saucepan. Cover
and soak half an hour; beat smooth with an egg-whip, add the seasoning
and butter; stir in well, boil up once, and serve in a tureen. If it is
too thick, add boiling water and more butter.
This sauce is for roast poultry. Some people add some of the gravy from
the dripping-pan, first straining it and beating it well in with the
sauce.
WHITE CELERY SAUCE.
    2 large heads of celery.
    1 teacupful of broth in which the fowl is boiled.
    1 teacupful cream or milk.
    Salt and nutmeg.
    Heaping tablespoonful flour, and same of butter.
Boil the celery tender in salted water; drain, and cut into bits half
an inch long. Thicken the gravy from the fowl—a teacupful—with the
flour; add the butter, salt, and nutmeg, then the milk. Stir and beat
until it is smooth; put in the celery; heat almost to boiling, stirring
all the while; serve in a tureen, or, if you prefer, pour it over the
boiled meat or fowls.
ONION SAUCE.
    4 white onions.
    1 teacupful hot milk.
    3 tablespoonfuls butter.
    Salt and pepper to taste.
Peel the onions, boil tender, press the water from them, and mince
fine. Have ready the hot milk in a saucepan; stir in the onions, then
the butter, salt, and pepper. Boil up once.
If you want to have it particularly good, make nice melted or drawn
butter (No. 3); beat the mashed onion into it; add a teacupful of
cream or new milk, season, boil up, and serve.
MAÎTRE D’HÔTEL SAUCE. 
    1 teacupful drawn butter.
    1 teaspoonful minced parsley.
    1 lemon.
    Cayenne and salt to taste.
Draw the butter (No. 2); boil the parsley three minutes; take it out
and lay in cold water five minutes, to cool; chop and stir into the
butter; squeeze in the lemon-juice, the pepper and salt; beat hard with
an egg-whip, return to the fire, and boil up once.
This is a “stock” sauce, being suitable for so many dishes, roast or
boiled.
MINT SAUCE FOR ROAST LAMB.
    2 tablespoonfuls green mint, chopped fine.
    1 tablespoonful powdered sugar.
    Half a teacupful cider vinegar.
Chop the mint, put the sugar and vinegar in a sauce boat, and stir in
the mint. Let it stand in a cool place fifteen minutes before sending
to table.
MUSHROOM SAUCE.
    1 teacupful young mushrooms.
    4 tablespoonfuls butter.
    1 teacupful cream or milk.
    1 teaspoonful flour.
    Nutmeg, mace, and salt to taste.
Stew the mushrooms in barely enough water to cover them until tender.
Drain, but do not press them, and add the cream, butter, and seasoning.
Stew over a bright fire, stirring all the while until it begins to
thicken. Add the flour wet in cold milk, boil up and serve in a boat,
or pour over boiled chickens, rabbits, etc.
CAULIFLOWER SAUCE.
    1 small cauliflower.
    3 tablespoonfuls butter, cut in bits, and rolled in flour.
    1 onion.
    1 small head of celery.
    Mace, pepper, and salt.
    1 teacupful water.
    1 teacupful milk or cream.
Boil the cauliflower in two waters, changing when about half done, and
throwing away the first, reserve a teacupful of the last. Take out the
cauliflower, drain and mince. Cook in another saucepan the onion and
celery, mincing them when tender. Heat the reserved cupful of water
again in a saucepan, add the milk; when warm put in the cauliflower and
onion, the butter and seasoning—coating the butter thickly with flour;
boil until it thickens.
This is a delicious sauce for boiled corned beef and mutton.
ASPARAGUS SAUCE.
    A dozen heads of asparagus.
    2 teacupfuls drawn butter.
    2 eggs.
    The juice of half a lemon.
    Salt and white pepper.
Boil the tender heads in a very little salted water. Drain and chop
them. Have ready a pint of drawn butter, with two raw eggs beaten into
it; add the asparagus, and season, squeezing in the lemon-juice last.
The butter must be hot, but do not cook after putting in the asparagus
heads. This accompanies boiled fowls, stewed fillet of veal, or boiled
mutton.
APPLE SAUCE.
Pare, core, and slice some ripe tart apples, stew in water enough to
cover them until they break to pieces. Beat up to a smooth pulp, stir
in a good lump of butter, and sugar to taste.
Apple sauce is the invariable accompaniment of roast pork—or fresh pork
cooked in any way. If you wish, you can add a little nutmeg.
PEACH SAUCE.
Soak a quart of dried peaches in water four hours. Wash them, rubbing
them against one another by stirring around with a wooden spoon. Drain,
and put into a saucepan with just enough water to cover them. Stew
until they break to pieces. Rub to a soft smooth pulp, sweeten to taste
with white sugar. Send to table cold, with roast game or other meats.
CRANBERRY SAUCE.
Wash and pick a quart of ripe cranberries, and put into a saucepan with
a teacupful of water. Stew slowly, stirring often until they are thick
as marmalade. They require at least an hour and a half to cook. When
you take them from the fire, sweeten abundantly with white sugar. If
sweetened while cooking, the color will be bad. Put them into a mould
and set aside to get cold.
Or, 
And this is a nicer plan—strain the pulp through a cullender or sieve,
or coarse mosquito-net, into a mould wet with cold water. When firm,
turn into a glass dish or salver. Be sure that it is sweet enough.
Eat with roast turkey, game, and roast ducks.
TO BROWN FLOUR.
Spread upon a tin plate, set upon the stove, or in a very hot oven,
and stir continually after it begins to color, until it is brown all
through.
Keep it always on hand. Make it at odd minutes, and put away in a glass
jar, covered closely. Shake up every few days to keep it light and
prevent lumping.
TO BROWN BUTTER.
Put a lump of butter into a hot frying-pan, and toss it around over a
clear fire until it browns. Dredge browned flour over it, and stir to
a smooth batter until it begins to boil. Use it for coloring gravies,
such as brown fricassees, etc.; or make into sauce for baked fish and
fish-steaks, by beating in celery or onion vinegar, a very little
brown sugar and some cayenne.
CATSUPS AND FLAVORED VINEGARS.
MADE MUSTARD. 
    4 tablespoonfuls best English mustard.
    2 teaspoonfuls salt.
    2 teaspoonfuls white sugar.
    1 teaspoonful white pepper.
    2 teaspoonfuls salad oil.
    Vinegar to mix to a smooth paste—celery or Tarragon vinegar if you
        have it.
    1 small garlic, minced very small.
Put the mustard in a bowl and wet with the oil, rubbing it in with a
silver or wooden spoon until it is absorbed. Wet with vinegar to a
stiff paste; add salt, pepper, sugar, and garlic, and work all together
thoroughly, wetting little by little with the vinegar until you
can beat it as you do cake-batter. Beat five minutes very hard; put
into wide-mouthed bottles—empty French mustard bottles, if you have
them—pour a little oil on top, cork tightly, and set away in a cool
place. It will be mellow enough for use in a couple of days.
Having used this mustard for years in my own family, I can safely
advise my friends to undertake the trifling labor of preparing it in
consideration of the satisfaction to be derived from the condiment.
I mix in a Wedgewood mortar, with pestle of the same; but a bowl is
nearly as good. It will keep for weeks.
HORSE-RADISH.
Scrape or grind, cover with vinegar, and keep in wide-mouthed bottles.
To eat with roast beef and cold meats.
WALNUT CATSUP.
Choose young walnuts tender enough to be pierced with a pin or needle.
Prick them in several places, and lay in a jar with a handful of salt
to every twenty-five, and water enough to cover them. Break them with
a billet of wood or wooden beetle, and let them lie in the pickle a
fortnight, stirring twice a day. Drain off the liquor into a saucepan,
and cover the shells with boiling vinegar to extract what juice remains
in them. Crush to a pulp and strain through a cullender into the
saucepan. Allow for every quart an ounce of black pepper and one of
ginger, half an ounce of cloves and half an ounce of nutmeg, beaten
fine. Put in a pinch of cayenne, a shallot minced fine for every two
quarts, and a thimbleful of celery-seed tied in a bag for the same
quantity. Boil all together for an hour, if there be a gallon of the
mixture. Bottle when cold, putting an equal quantity of the spice in
each flask. Butternuts make delightful catsup.
MUSHROOM CATSUP.
    2 quarts of mushrooms.
    ¼ lb. of salt.
Lay in an earthenware pan, in alternate layers of mushrooms and salt;
let them lie six hours, then break into bits. Set in a cool place,
three days, stirring thoroughly every morning. Measure the juice
when you have strained it, and to every quart allow half an ounce of
allspice, the same quantity of ginger, half a teaspoonful of powdered
mace, a teaspoonful of cayenne. Put into a stone jar, cover closely,
set in a saucepan of boiling water over the fire, and boil five hours
hard. Take it off, empty into a porcelain kettle, and boil slowly
half an hour longer. Let it stand all night in a cool place, until
settled and clear. Pour off carefully from the sediment, and bottle,
filling the flasks to the mouth. Dip the corks in melted rosin, and tie
up with bladders.
The bottles should be very small, as it soon spoils when exposed to the
air.
IMITATION WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE.
    3 teaspoonfuls cayenne pepper.
    2 tablespoonfuls walnut or tomato catsup (strained through muslin).
    3 shallots minced fine.
    3 anchovies chopped into bits.
    1 quart of vinegar.
    Half-teaspoonful powdered cloves.
Mix and rub through a sieve. Put in a stone jar, set in a pot of
boiling water, and heat until the liquid is so hot you can not bear
your finger in it. Strain, and let it stand in the jar, closely
covered, two days, then bottle for use.
OYSTER CATSUP.
    1 quart oysters.
    1 tablespoonful salt.
    1 teaspoonful cayenne pepper, and same of mace.
    1 teacupful cider vinegar.
    1 teacupful sherry.
Chop the oysters and boil in their own liquor with a teacupful of
vinegar, skimming the scum as it rises. Boil three minutes, strain
through a hair-cloth; return the liquor to the fire, add the wine,
pepper, salt, and mace. Boil fifteen minutes, and when cold bottle for
use, sealing the corks.
TOMATO CATSUP. 
    1 peck ripe tomatoes.
    1 ounce salt.
    1 ounce mace.
    1 tablespoonful black pepper.
    1 teaspoonful cayenne.
    1 tablespoonful cloves (powdered).
    7 tablespoonful ground mustard.
    1 tablespoonful celery seed (tied in a thin muslin bag).
Cut a slit in the tomatoes, put into a bell-metal or porcelain kettle,
and boil until the juice is all extracted and the pulp dissolved.
Strain and press through a cullender, then through a hair sieve.
Return to the fire, add the seasoning, and boil at least five hours,
stirring constantly for the last hour, and frequently throughout the
time it is on the fire. Let it stand twelve hours in a stone jar on the
cellar floor. When cold, add a pint of strong vinegar. Take out the bag
of celery seed, and bottle, sealing the corks. Keep in a dark, cool
place.
Tomato and walnut are the most useful catsups we have for general
purposes, and either is in itself a fine sauce for roast meat, cold
fowl, game, etc.
LEMON CATSUP.
    12 large, fresh lemons.
    4 tablespoonfuls white mustard-seed.
    1 tablespoonful turmeric.
    1 tablespoonful white pepper.
    1 teaspoonful cloves.
    1 teaspoonful mace.
    1 saltspoonful cayenne.
    2 tablespoonfuls white sugar.
    2 tablespoonfuls grated horse-radish.
    1 shallot, minced fine.
    Juice of the lemons.
    2 tablespoonfuls table-salt.
Grate the rind of the lemons; pound or grind the spices, and put all
together, including the horse-radish. Strew the salt over all, add
the lemon-juice, and let it stand three hours in a cool place. Boil
in a porcelain kettle half an hour. Pour into a covered vessel—china
or stone—and let it stand a fortnight, stirring well every day. Then
strain, bottle, and seal.
It is a fine seasoning for fish sauces, fish soups, and game ragoûts.
“EVER-READY” CATSUP. 
     2 quarts cider vinegar.
    12 anchovies, washed, soaked, and pulled to pieces.
    12 small onions, peeled and minced.
    1 tablespoonful mace.
    3 tablespoonfuls fine salt.
    3 tablespoonfuls white sugar.
    1 tablespoonful cloves.
    3 tablespoonfuls whole black pepper.
    2 tablespoonfuls ground ginger.
    1 tablespoonful cayenne.
    1 quart mushrooms, minced, or
    1 quart ripe tomatoes, sliced.
Put into a preserving kettle and boil slowly four hours, or until the
mixture is reduced to one-half the original quantity. Strain through a
flannel bag. Do not bottle until next day. Fill the flasks to the top,
and dip the corks in beeswax and rosin.
This catsup will keep for years. Mixed with drawn butter, it is used as
a sauce for boiled fish, but is a fine flavoring essence for gravies of
almost any kind.
A GOOD STORE SAUCE.
    2 tablespoonfuls horse-radish (grated).
    1 tablespoonful allspice.
    A grated nutmeg.
    3 large pickled onions (minced fine).
    2 dozen whole black peppers.
    A pinch of cayenne.
    1 tablespoonful salt.
    1 tablespoonful white sugar.
    1 quart vinegar from walnut or butternut pickle.
Mix all the spices well together; crush in a stone jar with a
potato-beetle or billet of wood; pour the vinegar upon these, and let
it stand two weeks. Put on in a porcelain or clean bell-metal kettle
and heat to boiling; strain and set aside until next day to cool and
settle. Bottle and cork very tightly. It is an excellent seasoning for
any kind of gravy, sauce, or stew.
MOCK CAPERS. 
Gather green nasturtium seed when they are full-grown, but not yellow;
dry for a day in the sun; put into small jars or wide-mouthed bottles,
cover with boiling vinegar, slightly spiced, and when cool, cork
closely. In six weeks they will be fit for use. They give an agreeable
taste to drawn butter for fish, or boiled beef and mutton.
CELERY VINEGAR.
    A bunch of fresh celery, or
    A quarter of a pound of celery seed.
    1 quart best vinegar.
    1 teaspoonful salt.
    1 tablespoonful white sugar.
Cut up the celery into small bits, or pour the seed into a jar; scald
the salt and vinegar, and pour over the celery stalks or seed; let it
cool, and put away in one large jar tightly corked. In a fortnight
strain and bottle in small flasks, corking tightly.
ONION VINEGAR.
    6 large onions.
    1 tablespoonful salt.
    1 tablespoonful white sugar.
    1 quart best vinegar.
Mince the onions, strew on the salt, and let them stand five or six
hours. Scald the vinegar in which the sugar has been dissolved,
pour over the onions; put in a jar, tie down the cover, and steep a
fortnight. Strain and bottle.
ELDERBERRY CATSUP.
    1 quart of elderberries.
    1 quart of vinegar.
    6 anchovies, soaked and pulled to pieces.
    Half a teaspoonful mace.
    A pinch of ginger.
    2 tablespoonfuls white sugar.
    1 teaspoonful salt.
    1 tablespoonful whole peppers.
Scald the vinegar and pour over the berries, which must be picked from
the stalks and put into a large stone jar. Cover with a pane of glass,
and set in the hot sun two days. Strain off the liquor, and boil up
with the other ingredients, stirring often, one hour, keeping covered
unless while stirring. Let it cool; strain and bottle.
This is used for flavoring brown gravies, soups, and ragoûts, and,
stirred into browned butter, makes a good piquant sauce for broiled or
baked fish.
PEPPER VINEGAR.
    6 pods red peppers broken up.
    3 dozen black pepper-corns.
    2 tablespoonfuls white sugar.
    1 quart of best vinegar.
Scald the vinegar in which the sugar has been dissolved; pour over the
pepper, put into a jar, and steep a fortnight. Strain and bottle.
This is eaten with boiled fish and raw oysters, and is useful in the
preparation of salads.
HORSE-RADISH VINEGAR.
    6 tablespoonfuls scraped or grated horse-radish.
    1 tablespoonful white sugar.
    1 quart vinegar.
Scald the vinegar; pour boiling hot over the horseradish. Steep a week,
strain and bottle.
SALADS.
“The dressing of the salad should be saturated with oil, and seasoned
with pepper and salt before the vinegar is added. It results from
this process that there never can be too much vinegar; for, from the
specific gravity of the vinegar compared with oil, what is more than
useful will fall to the bottom of the bowl. The salt should not be
dissolved in the vinegar, but in the oil, by which means it is more
equally distributed throughout the salad.”—Chaptal, a French chemist.
The Spanish proverb says, “that to make a perfect salad, there should be
a miser for oil, a spendthrift for vinegar, a wise man for salt, and a
madcap to stir the ingredients up and mix them well together.”
SYDNEY SMITH’S RECEIPT FOR SALAD DRESSING.
    Two boiled potatoes, strained through a kitchen sieve,
    Softness and smoothness to the salad give;
    Of mordant mustard take a single spoon—
    Distrust the condiment that bites too soon;
    Yet deem it not, thou man of taste, a fault,
    To add a double quantity of salt.
    Four times the spoon with oil of Lucca crown,
    And twice with vinegar procured from town;
    True taste requires it, and your poet begs
    The pounded yellow of two well-boiled eggs.
    Let onions’ atoms lurk within the bowl,
    And, scarce suspected, animate the whole;
    And lastly, in the flavored compound toss
    A magic spoonful of anchovy sauce.
    Oh, great and glorious! oh, herbaceous meat!
    ’Twould tempt the dying anchorite to eat.
    Back to the world he’d turn his weary soul,
    And plunge his fingers in the salad bowl.
At least twenty-five years ago I pasted the above doggerel in my
scrap-book, and committed it to memory. The first salad I was ever
trusted to compound was dressed in strict obedience to the directions
of the witty divine, and to this day these seem to me pertinent and
worthy of note. The anchovy sauce can be omitted if you like, and a
spoonful of Harvey’s or Worcestershire substituted. This is best suited
for chicken or turkey salad.
LOBSTER SALAD. 
Pick out every bit of the meat from the body and claws of a cold boiled
lobster. Lay aside the coral for the dressing, and mince the rest. For
the dressing you will need—
    4 eggs, boiled hard.
    2 tablespoonfuls salad oil.
    1 teaspoonful made mustard.
    1 teaspoonful salt.
    2 teaspoonfuls white sugar.
    ½ teaspoonful cayenne pepper. Vinegar at discretion.
    1 teaspoonful of Harvey’s, Worcestershire, or anchovy sauce.
Rub the yolks to a smooth paste in a mortar or bowl, with a Wedgewood
pestle, a silver or wooden spoon, until perfectly free from lumps.
Add gradually, rubbing all the while, the other ingredients, the coral
last. This should have been worked well upon a plate with a silver
knife or wooden spatula. Proceed slowly and carefully in the work of
amalgamating the various ingredients, moistening with vinegar as they
stiffen. Increase the quantity of this as the mixture grows smooth,
