she knew too, would help their play with wine. 
Against these combined powers, what was she? 
And what was to become of them all ? 
Part of the question was answered at dinner that 
 
evening. Mr. Copley announced that Brierley Cottage was unoccupied and that he had retaken it for 
them. 
" Brierley ! " cried Mrs. Copley. " Brierley ! Are 
we going back there again ! Frank, do you mean 
that we are to spend all our lives apart in future ? " 
" Not at all, my dear ! If you will be so good 
as to stay with me, I shall be very happy." 
" In London ! But you know very well I cannot live in London." 
" Then you can go down to Brierley." 
" And how often shall you come there ? " 
" When the chinks of business are wide enough 
to let nie slip through." 
" Business ! All you live for is business. Mr. 
Copley, what do you expect is to become of Dolly, 
shut up in a cottage down in the country ? " 
"How is she to get married, you mean? She 
expects a fairy prince to come along one of these 
days; and of course he could find her at Brierley 
as easily as anywhere. It makes no difference in 
a fairy tale. In fact, the unlikely places are just 
the ones where the princes turn up." 
"You will not be serious! " sighed Mrs. Copley. 
" Serious ? I am nothing but serious. The regular suitor, proposed by the parents, has offered 
himself and been rejected; and now there is nothing to do but to wait for the fairy prince." 
Poor Mrs. Copley gave it up. Her husband's 
words were always too quick for her. 
Brierley was afterwards discussed between her 
 
and Dolly. The proposal was welcome to neither 
of them. Yet London would not do for Mrs. Copley ; she grew impatient of it more and more. And 
so, within a week after their arrival, they left it 
and went down again to their old home in the 
country. It felt like going to prison, Mrs. Copley 
said. Though the country was still full of summer's wealth and beauty; and it was impossible 
not to feel the momentary delight of the change 
from London. The little garden was crowded 
with flowers, the fields all around rich in grass 
and grain ; the great trees of the Park standing in 
their unchanged regal beauty ; the air sweet as air 
could be, without orange blossoms. And, yet it 
seemed to the two ladies, when Mr. Copley left 
them again after taking them down to the cottage, 
that they were shut off and shut up in a respectable 
and very eligible prison, from whence escape was 
doubtful. 
CHAPTER XXX. 
DOWN HILL. 
TO do Mr. Copley justice, he left the prison very 
well provided and furnished. The store closet 
and pantry were stocked ; the house put in tolerable 
order, and two maids were taken down. The old 
gardener had disappeared, but Dolly declared she 
would keep the flowers in order herself. So for a 
number of weeks things really went not ill with 
them at Brierley. Dolly did keep the flowers in 
order, and she did a great many other things ; the 
chief of which however was attending to her 
mother. How exquisitely she did this it would 
take a great deal of detail to tell. It was shewn, 
or felt rather, for a great part, in very small particulars. Not only in taking care of her mother's 
wardrobe and toilette, like the most skilled of 
waiting maids; not only in ordering and provid- 
ing her meals like the most dainty of housekeepers ; 
not only in tireless reading aloud of papers and 
books, whatever could be got to interest Mrs. Cop- 
ley; these were part, but besides these there were 
a thousand little touches a day given to Mrs. Copley's comfort, that even herself hardly took any 
 
note of. Dolly's countenance never was seen to fall 
in her mother's presence, nor her spirits perceived 
to flag. She was like the flowers with which she 
filled the house and dressed the table ; sweet and 
fresh and cheery and lovely. And so ministering, 
and so ministered to, I cannot say that the life of 
the mother and daughter was other than a happy 
one. If Mrs. Copley was sensible of a grievous 
want here and there, which made her nervous and 
irritable whenever she thought of it, the tenderness 
of Dolly's soothing and the contagion of Dolly's 
peace were irresistible ; and if Dolly had a gnawing 
subject of care, which hurt and pricked and stung 
her perpetually, a cloud of fear darkening over 
her, from the shadow of which she could not get 
free; yet the loving care to ward off both the pain 
and the fear from her mother, helped at least to 
keep her own heart fresh and strong to bear whatever was coming. 
So in their little room, at their table, or about 
the flowers in the garden, or sitting in the honey- 
suckle porch reading, the mother and daughter 
were always together, and the days of late summer and then of autumn went by sweetly enough. 
And when the last roses were gone and the honey- 
suckle vines had ceased to send forth their breath 
of fragrance, and leaves turned sear, and the winds 
blew harsh from the sea, Dolly and Mrs. Copley 
made themselves all the snugger in the cottage; 
and knitting and reading was carried on in the 
glow of a good fire that filled all their little room 
 
with brightness. They were ready for winter; and 
winter when it came did not chill them ; the house- 
hold life was warm and busy. All this while they 
had the stir of frequent visits from Mr. Copley, and 
between whiles the expectation of them. They 
were never long; he came and went, Mrs. Copley 
said, like a gust of wind, with a rush and a whistle 
and a roar, and then was gone, leaving you to feel 
how still it was. However, these gusts of wind 
brought a great deal of refreshment. Mr. Copley 
always came with his hands full of papers; always had the last London or Edinburgh Quarterly, 
and generally some other book or books for his 
wife and daughter to delight themselves withal. 
And though Dolly was not always satisfied with 
her father's appearance, yet on the whole he gave 
her no new or increased occasion for anxiety. 
So the autumn and winter went not ill away. The 
cottage had no visitors. It was at some distance 
from the village, and in the village there was 
hardly anybody that would have held himself entitled to visit there. The doctor was an old bachelor. 
The rector took no account of the two stranger 
ladies whom now and then his eye roved over in 
service time. Truly they were not often to be 
seen in his church, for the distance was too far 
for Mrs. Copley to walk, unless in exceptionally 
good days; when the weather and the footing and 
her own state of body and mind were in rare harmony over the undertaking. There was nobody 
else to take notice of them, and nobody did take 
 
notice of them; and in process of time it came to 
pass, not unnaturally, that Mrs. Copley began to 
get tired of living alone. For though it is extremely pleasant to be quiet, yet it remains true that man, 
was made a social animal; and if he is in a healthy 
condition he craves contact with his fellows. As 
the winter wore away, some impression of this sort 
seemed to force itself upon Mrs. Copley. 
"I wonder what your father is dreaming of!" 
she said one day, when she had sat for some time 
looking at Dolly who was drawing. " He seems 
to think it quite natural that you should live down 
here at this cottage, year in and year out, like a 
toad in a hole ; with no more life or society. We 
might as well be shut up in a nunnery, only then 
there would be more of us. I never heard of a 
nunnery with only two nuns." 
" Are you getting tired of it, mother ? " 
"Tired! that isn't the word. I think I am 
growing stupid, and gradually losing my wits." 
"We have not been a bit stupid this winter, 
mother dear." 
"We haven't seen anybody." 
" The family are soon coming to Brierley House, 
Mrs. Jersey says. I dare say you will see some- 
body then." 
" I don't believe we shall. The English don't 
like strangers, I tell you, Dolly, unless they come 
recommended by something or other; and there 
is nothing to recommend us." 
Mrs. Copley uttered this last sentence with such 
 
a dismal sort of realization, that Dolly laughed 
oat. 
" You are too modest, mother. I do not believe 
things are as bad as that." 
" You will see," said her mother. " And I hope 
you will stop going to see the housekeeper then." 
" I do not know why I should," said Dolly quietly. 
However, this question began to occupy her; 
not the question of her visiting Mrs. Jersey or of 
any one else visiting them ; but this prolonged liv- 
ing alone to which her mother and she seemed to be 
condemned. It was not good, and it was not right ; 
and Dolly saw that it was beginning to work unfavourably upon Mrs. Copley's health and spirits. 
But London ? and a lodging house ? That would be 
worse yet ; and for a house to themselves in London 
Dolly did not believe the means were at hand. 
Lately things had been less promising. Mr. 
Copley seemed to be not so ready with his money ; 
and he did not look well. Yes, he was well, he 
said when she asked him; nevertheless, her anxious eye read the old signs. She had not noticed 
them during the winter, or but slightly and rarely. 
Whether Mr. Copley had been making a vigorous 
effort to be as good as his word and spare Dolly 
pain; whether his sense of character had asserted 
itself, whether he had been so successful in speculation or play that he did not need opiates and 
could do without irritants ; I do not know. There 
had been an interval. Now Dolly began to be 
conscious again of the loss of freshness, the undue 
 
flush, the weak eyes, the unsteady mouth, the uneven gait. A stranger as yet might have passed 
it all by without notice; Dolly knew the change 
from her father's former quick, confident movements, iron nerves and muscular activity. And 
what was almost worse than all to her, among indications of his being entered on a downward 
course, she noticed that now he avoided her eye; 
looked at her, but preferred not meeting her look. 
I cannot tell how dreadful this was to Dolly. She 
had been always accustomed, until lately, to respect her father and to see him respected; to look 
at him as holding his place among men with much 
more than the average of influence and power; he 
was apt to do what he wished to do, and also to 
make other men do it. He was recognized as a 
leader in all parties and plans in which he took 
any share ; Mr. Copley's word was quoted and Mr. 
Copley's lead was followed; and as is the case with 
all such men, his confidence in himself had been 
one of his sources of power and means of success. 
Dolly had been all her life accustomed to this as 
the natural and normal condition of things. Now 
she saw that her father had ceased to respect himself. The agony this revelation brought to Mr. 
Copley's loyal little daughter, it is impossible to 
tell. She felt it almost unbearable, shrank from 
it, would have closed her eyes to it; but Dolly was 
one of those whose vision is not clouded but rather 
made more keen by affection; and she failed to see 
nothing that was before her. 
 
The ministry Dolly applied to this new old trouble 
was of the most exquisite kind. Without making 
it obtrusive, she bestowed upon her father a sort 
of service the like of which not all the interest of 
courts can obtain for their kings. She was tender 
of him, with a tenderness that came like the 
touch of a soft summer wind; coming and going, 
and coming again. It calls for no answer or return; only it is there with its blessing, comforting 
tired nerves and soothing ruffled spirits. Mr. Copley hardly knew what Dolly was doing; hardly 
knew that it was Dolly; when now it was a gen- 
tle touch on his arm, leading him to the tea-table, 
and now a specially prepared cup, and Dolly bringing it, and standing before him smiling and tasting 
it, looking at him over it. And Mr. Copley certainly thought at such times that a prettier vision 
was not to be seen in the whole united kingdom. 
Another time she would perch herself upon his 
knee and stroke back his hair from his temples, 
with fingers so delicate it was like the touch of a 
fairy; and then sometimes she would lay her head 
caressingly down on his shoulder; and though at 
such times Dolly could willingly have broken her 
heart in weeping, she let Mr. Copley see nothing 
but smiles, and suffered scarce so much as a stray 
sigh to come to his ear. 
" Have you seen anything of the great people ? " 
he asked one evening, when Dolly had moved his 
sudden admiration. 
" Do you mean the people at the House ? " his 
 
wife said. " No, of course. Don't you know, Mr. 
Copley, you must be great yourself to have the 
great look at you." 
" Humph ! There are different ways of being 
great. I shouldn't wonder, now, if you could 
shew Lady Brierley as much as Lady Brierley 
could shew you in some ways." 
"What extravagant notions you do have, Frank," 
said his wife. " You are so much of an American, 
you forget everybody around you is English." 
"Lady Brierley has been only a little while come 
home," said Dolly. " We need not discuss her 
yet." 
And so speaking, Dolly brought out the Bible. 
The reading with her mother had become a regu- 
lar thing now, greatly helpful to Mrs. Copley's 
good rest, Dolly believed, both by day and night ; 
and latterly when he had been at the cottage her 
father had not run away when she brought her 
book. Alone with her mother, Dolly had long 
since added prayer to the reading; not yet in her 
father's presence. Her heart beat a little, it cost 
an effort ; all the same Dolly knew it must now be 
done. With a grave little face she brought out 
her Bible, laid it on the table, and opened it at the 
fifth chapter of Matthew. 
" Here comes our domestic chaplain ! " said her 
father. Dolly looked up at him and smiled. 
"Then of course you would not interfere with 
anything the chaplain does?" she said. 
" Only not preach," said her father in the same 
 
tone. " I don't approve of any but licensed preaching. And that one need not hear unless one has a 
mind to." 
" I let the Bible do the preaching, generally," 
said Dolly. "But we do pray, father." 
"Who?" said Mr. Copley quickly. "Your mother and you ? Everybody prays, I hope, now and 
then." 
"We do it now, and then too, father. Or rather, 
I do it now, after reading." 
Mr. Copley made no reply; and Dolly went on, 
feeling that the way was open to her, if it were 
also a little difficult to tread. She read part of the 
chapter, feeling every word through and through. 
Alas, alas, alas! The "poor in spirit," the "pure 
in heart," the "meek," where were these? and 
what had their blessing to do with the ears to 
which she was reading ? The " persecuted for 
righteousness' sake," how she knew her father 
and mother would lay that off upon the martyrs 
of olden time, with whom and their way of life, 
they thought, the present time has nothing to do ! 
and so, with the persecuted dismiss the meek and 
the pure. The blessings referred certainly to a 
peculiar set of persons; no one is called on in 
these days to endure persecution. Dolly knew 
how they would escape applying what they heard 
to themselves; and she knew, with her heart full, 
what they were missing thereby. She went on, 
feeling every word so thrillingly that it was no 
wonder they came from her lips with a very 
G
peculiar and moving utterance; that is the way 
with words that are spoken from the heart; and 
although indeed the lovely sentences might have 
passed by her hearers, as trite or unintelligible or 
obsolete, the inflexions of Dolly's voice caught the 
hearts of both parents and stirred them involuntarily with an answering thrill. She did not know- 
it; she did know that they were very still and listening; and after the reading was done, though she 
trembled a little, her own feelings were so roused 
that it was not very difficult for Dolly to kneel 
down by the table and pray. 
But she had only scanty opportunities of working upon her father in this or in any way; Mr. 
Copley's visits to Brierley, always short, began 
now to be more and more infrequent. 
As weeks went on arid the spring slipped by, 
another thing was unmistakeable about these visits; Mr. Copley brought less money with him. 
Through the autumn and winter, the needs of the 
little household had been indifferently well supplied. Dolly had paid her servants and had money 
for her butcher and grocer. Now this was no longer always the case. Mr. Copley came sometimes 
with empty pockets and a very thin pocketbook; 
he had forgotten, he said; or, he would make it all 
right next time. Which Dolly found out he never 
did. Her servants' wages began to get in arrear, 
and Dolly herself consequently into anxious perplexity. She had, she knew, a little private stock 
of her own, gained by her likenesses and other 
 
drawings; but like a wise little woman as she was, 
Dolly resolved she would not touch it unless she 
came to extremity. But what should she do? Just 
one thing she was clear upon; she would not run 
in debt; she would not have what she could not 
pay for. She paid off one servant and dismissed 
her. This could not happen without the knowledge of Mrs. Copley. 
" But however are you going to manage ? " the 
latter asked in much concern. 
"Honestly, mother. and nicely too. You 
will see. I must be a poor thing if I could not 
keep these little rooms in order." 
"And make beds? and set tables? and wash 
dishes ? " 
" I like to set tables. And what is it to wash 
two cups and spoons? And if I make the beds, 
we shall have them comfortable." 
" Jane certainly had her own ideas about mak- 
ing beds, and they were different from mine," said 
Mrs. Copley. " But I hate to have you, Dolly. 
It will make your hands red and rough." 
"Nothing does that for my hands luckily, mother 
dear. Don't you mind. We shall get on nicely." 
"But what's the matter? haven't you got money 
enough?" 
" Mother, I won't have servants that I cannot 
pay punctually." 
" Don't your father give you money to pay 
them ? " 
" He gave me money enough to pay part ; so I 
 
pay part, and send the other part away," said 
Dolly, gaily. 
" I hope he has not got into speculation again," 
said Mrs. Copley. " I can't think what he busies 
himself about in London." 
This subject Dolly changed as fast as she 
could. She feared something worse than speculation. Whether it were cards, or dice, or betting, or more business-like forms of the vice, however, the legitimate consequences were not slow to 
come ; the supply of money for the little household 
down at Brierley became like the driblets of a 
stream which has been led off from its proper bed 
by a side channel; only a few trickling drops instead of the full, natural current. Dolly could not 
get from her father the means to pay the wages of 
her remaining servant. This was towards the beginning of summer. 
Dolly pondered now very seriously what she 
should do. The lack of a housemaid she had 
made up quite comfortably with her own two busy 
hands; Mrs. Copley at least had been in particular 
comfort, whenever she did not get a fit of fretting 
on Dolly's account; and Dolly herself had been 
happy, though unquestionably the said hands had 
been very busy. Now what lay before her was an- 
other thing. She could not consult her mother, 
and there was nobody else to consult; she must 
even make up her mind as to the line of duty the 
best way she might; and however the difficulty 
and even the impossibility of doing without anybody stared her in the face, it was constantly met 
by the greater impossibility of taking what she 
could not pay for. Dolly made up her mind on 
the negative view of the case; what she could 
being not clear, only what she could not. She 
would dismiss her remaining servant, and do the 
cooking herself. It would be only for two. And 
perhaps, she thought, this step would go further 
to bring her father to his senses than any other 
step she could take. 
Dolly however went wisely to work. Quite 
alone in the house she and her mother could not 
be. She went to her friend Mrs. Jersey and talked 
the matter over with her; and through her got a 
little girl, a small farmer's daughter, to come and 
do the rough work. She let her mother know as 
little as possible about the matter; she took some 
of her own little stock and paid off the cook, 
representing to her mother no more than that 
she had exchanged the one helpmeet for the 
other. But poor Dolly found presently that she 
did not know how to cook. How should she ? 
" What's become of all our good bread ? " said 
Mrs. Copley, a day or two after the change. 
"And Dolly, I don't know what you call this, 
but if it is meant for hash, it is a mistake." 
Dolly heard in awed silence; and when dinner 
and breakfast had seen repeated animadversions of 
the like kind, she made up her mind again and 
took her measures. She went to her friend Mrs. 
Jersey, and asked her to teach her to make bread. 
 
"To make bread!" the good housekeeper re- 
peated in astonishment. "You, Miss Dolly? Can 
that be necessary ? " 
"Mother cannot eat poor bread," said Dolly simply. "And there is nobody but me to make it. 
I think I can learn, Mrs. Jersey ; cannot I ? " 
The tears stood in the good woman's eyes. 
"But my dear Miss Dolly," she began anxiously, 
" this is a serious matter. You do not look very 
strong. Who does the rest of the cooking? Pardon me for being so bold to ask; but I am concerned about you." 
Therewith Dolly's own eyes became moist; however, it would never do to take that tone; so she 
shook off the feeling, and confessed she was the 
sole cook in her mother's establishment, and that 
for her mother's well-doing it was quite needful 
that what she eat should be good and palatable. 
And Dolly declared she would like to know how 
to do things, and be independent. 
"You've got the realest sort of independence," 
said the housekeeper. " Well, my dear, come, and 
I'll teach you all you want to know." 
There followed now a series of visits to the 
House, in which Mrs. Jersey thoroughly fulfilled 
her promise. In the kind housekeeper's room 
Dolly learned not only to make bread and biscuit 
and everything else that can be concocted of flour ; 
but she was taught how to cook a bit of beefsteak, 
how to broil a chicken, how to make omelettes and 
salads and a number of delicate French dishes; 
 
stews and soups and ragouts and no end of comfortable things. Dolly was in great earnest, therefore lost not a hint and never forgot a direction ; 
she was quick and keen to learn ; and Mrs. Jersey 
soon declared laughingly that she believed she was 
born to be a cook. 
"And it goes great qualities to that, Miss Dolly," 
she said. "You needn't take it as low praise. 
There are people no doubt that are nothing but 
cooks; that's the fault of something else, I always believe. Whoever can be a real cook can 
be something better if he has a chance and a 
will." 
"It seems to me, it is just common sense, Mrs. 
Jersey." 
" I suppose you are not going to tell me that that 
grows on every bush ? Yes, common sense has a 
great deal to do, no doubt; but one must have another sort of sense; one must know when a thing 
is right; and one must be able to tell the moment 
of time when it is right, and then one must be decided and quick to take it then and not let it have 
the other moment which would make it all wrong. 
Now, Miss Dolly, I see you know when to take off 
an omelette and yet you couldn't tell me how you 
know." 
Dolly's learning was indeed by practising with 
her own hands. One day it happened that Lady 
Brierley had come into the housekeeper's room to 
see about some arrangements she was making for 
Mrs. Jersey's comfort. While she was there, Dolly 
 
opened the door from an adjoining light closet, 
with her sleeves rolled up to her elbows and her 
arms dusted with flour. Seeing somebody whom 
she did not know, Dolly retreated, shutting the 
door after her. 
" Whom have you got there, Mrs. Jersey?" said 
the lady, forgetting what she had come about. 
"That girl is too handsome to be among the 
rnaids." 
"She's not among the maids, my lady. She is 
not in the house. She only came to get some instruction from me, which I was very glad to give 
her?" 
" Of course. That is quite in your way. But 
she does not belong in the village, I think ? " 
"No, my lady, nor hereabouts at all, properly. 
She lives in Brierley Cottage; she and her mother; 
I believe the father is there now and by times, but 
they live alone mostly, and he is in London. They 
have been much better off; and last year they went 
travelling all through Europe. I thought I should 
never see them again; but here they are back, and 
have been for a year." 
"I think I have heard of them. Are they 
poor?" 
" I am much afraid so, my lady." 
"Would it do any good, Jersey, if I went 
there ? " 
"It would be a great kindness, my lady. I think 
it might do good." 
The final result of all which was a visit. It was 
 
now full summer; the season had come into its 
full bloom and luxuriance. Roses were opening 
their sweet buds all around Brierley Cottage; the 
honeysuckles made the porch into an arbour; the 
garden was something of a wilderness, but a wilderness of lovely old-fashioned things. One warm 
afternoon, Dolly with a shears in her hand had 
gone out into the garden to cut off the full-blown 
roses which to-morrow would shed their leaves; 
doing a little trimming by the way, both of rose- 
bushes and other things ; the wildering of the garden had been so great. And very busy she was, 
and enjoying it; "cutting in" here, and "cutting 
out" there, flinging the i-efuse shoots and twigs 
carelessly from her into the walk to be gathered 
up afterwards. She was so busy she never heard 
the roll of carriage wheels, never heard them stop, 
nor the gate open; knew nothing, in fact, but the 
work she was busy with, till a slight sound on the 
gravel near by made her look round. Then she 
saw at one glance the lady standing there in laces 
and feathers, the carriage waiting outside the gate, 
and the servants in attendance around it. Dolly 
shook herself free of the roses and stepped forward, 
knowing very well who it must be. A little fresh 
colour had been brought into her cheeks by her exercise and the interest in her work; a little extra 
flush came now, with the surprise of this apparition. She was as lovely as one of her own rose 
branches, and the wind had blown her hair about, 
which was always wayward, we know, giving per 
 
haps to the great lady the impression of equal want 
of training. But she was very lovely, and the visiter could not take her eyes off her. 
" You are Miss Copley ? " she said. " I have 
heard Mrs. Jersey speak of you." 
" Mrs. Jersey is a very kind friend to me," said 
Dolly. " Will Lady Brierley walk in ? " 
Mrs. Jersey is her friend, thought the lady as 
she followed Dolly into the cottage. Probably she 
is just of that level, and my coming is thrown away. 
However she went in. The little cottage sitting 
room was again something of a puzzle to her; it 
was not rich, but neither did it look like anything 
Mrs. Jersey would have contrived for her owu 
accommodation. Flowers filled the chimney and 
stood in vases or baskets ; books lay on one table, 
on the other drawing materials; and simple as 
everything was, there was nevertheless in everything the evidence, negative as well as positive, 
that the tastes at home there were refined and 
delicate and cultivated. It is difficult to tell just 
how the impression comes upon a stranger, but it 
came upon Lady Brierley before she had taken her 
seat. Dolly too, the more she looked at her, puzzled her. She had set down her basket of roses 
and thrown off her garden hat, and now opened 
the blinds which shaded the room too much, and 
took a chair near her visiter. The girl's manner, 
the lady saw, was extremely composed; she did 
not seem at all fluttered at the honour done her, 
and offered her attentions with a manner of simple 
 
courtesy which was graceful enough but perfectly 
cool. So cool, that it rather excited Lady Brier- 
ley's curiosity, who was accustomed to be a person 
of great importance wherever she went. Her eye 
took in swiftly the neatness of the room, its plainness, and yet its expression of life and mental activity; the work and workbasket on the chair, the 
bunch of ferns and amaranthus in one vase, the 
roses in another, the violets on the table, the physiognomy of the books, which were not from the 
next circulating library, the drawing materials; and 
then came back to the figure seated before her, with 
the tossed beautiful hair and the very delicate, spirited face; and it crossed Lady Brierley's mind^ if 
she had a daughter like that ! with the advantages and bringing up she could have given her, 
what would she not have been ! And the next 
thought was, she was glad that her son was in 
Russia. Dolly had opened the window and sat 
quietly down. She knew her mother would not 
wish to be called. Once, months ago, Dolly had a 
little hoped for this visit, and thought it might 
bring her a pleasant friend, or social acquaintance 
at least; now that so long time had passed since 
Lady Brierley's return, with no sign of kindness 
from the great house, she had given up any such 
expectation; and so cared nothing about the visit. 
Dolly's mind was stayed elsewhere; she did not 
need Lady Brierley; and it was in part the beautiful disengaged grace of her manner which drew 
the lady's curiosity. 
 
" I did not know Brierley Cottage was such a 
pretty place," she began. 
" It is quite comfortable," said Dolly. " Now in 
summer, when the flowers are out, I think it is 
very pretty." 
" You are fond of flowers. I found you pruning 
your rose-bushes, were you not ? " 
" Yes," said Dolly. " The old man who used to 
attend to it has left me in the lurch since we went 
away. If I did not trim them, they would go untrimmed. They do go untrimmed, as it is." 
" Is there no skill required ? " 
"O yes," said Dolly, her face wrinkling all up 
with fun ; " but I have enough for that. I have 
learned so much. And pruning is very pretty 
work. This is not just the time for it." 
"How can it be pretty? I do not under- 
stand." 
" No, I suppose not," said Dolly. " But I think 
it is pretty to cut out the dead wood which is unsightly, and cut away the old wood which can be spared, leaving the best shoots for blossoming the 
next year. And then the trimming in of over- 
grown bushes, so as to have neat, compact, graceful shrubs, instead of wild awkward-growing things 
it is constant pleasure, for every touch tells; and 
the rose-bushes, I believe seem almost like intelligent creatures to me." 
" But you would not deal with intelligent creatures so ? " 
" The Lord does," said Dolly quietly. 
 
" What do you mean ? " said the lady sharply. 
" I do not understand your meaning." 
" I did not mean that all people were rose-bushes," 
said Dolly, with again an exquisite gleam of amusement in her face. 
" But will you not be so good as to explain ? 
What can you mean, by your former remark ? " 
" It is not a very deep meaning," said Dolly 
with a little sigh. "You know, Lady Brierley, 
the Bible likens the Lord's people, Christians, to 
plants in the Lord's garden; and the Lord is the 
husbandman; and where he sees that a plant is 
growing too rank and wild, he prunes it cuts it 
in that it may be thriftier and healthier and do 
its work better." 
" That's a dreadful idea ! Where did you get 
it?" 
" Christ said so," Dolly answered, looking now 
in the face of her questioner. " Is it a dreadful 
idea ? It does not seem so to me. He is the Husbandman. And I would not like to be a useless 
branch." 
" You have been on the continent lately ? " 
Lady Brierley quitted the former subject. 
"Yes; last year." 
" You went to my old lodging house at Sorrento, 
I think I heard from Mrs. Jersey. Did you find it 
comfortable ? " 
" delightful ! " said Dolly with a breath which 
told much. "Nothing could be nicer, or lovelier." 
" Then you enjoyed life in Italy ? " 
 
" Very mjuch. But indeed I enjoyed it every- 
where." 
"What gave you so much pleasure? I envy 
you. Now I go all over Europe, and find nothing 
particular to hold me anywhere. And I see by the 
way you speak that it was not so with you." 
" No " said Dolly half smiling. " Europe was 
like a great, real fairyland to me. I feel as if I 
had been travelling in fairyland." 
"Do indulge me and tell me how that was? 
The novelty, perhaps." 
" Novelty is pleasant enough," said Dolly, " but 
I do not think it was the novelty. Some was 
more fascinating the last week than it was the 
first." 
" Ah, Rome ! there one never gets to the end of 
the novelties." 
" It was not that," said Dolly shaking her head. 
"I grew absolutely fond of the gladiator; and 
Raphael's Michael conquering the dragon*was much 
more beautiful to me the last time I saw it than 
ever it was before; and so of a thousand other 
things. They seemed to grow into my heart. So 
at Venice. The palace of the doges I did not 
appreciate it at first. It was only by degrees that I 
learned to appi-eciate it." 
" Your taste for art has been uncommonly 
cultivated ! " 
No" said Dolly. " I do not know anything 
about art. Till this journey I had never seen 
much." 
 
"There is a little to see at Brierley," said the 
lady of the house. " I should like to shew it to 
you." 
" I should like dearly to see it again," said Dolly. 
"Your ladyship is very kind. Mrs. Jersey did 
shew me the house once, when we first came here; 
and I was delighted with some of the pictures, and 
the old carvings. It was all so unlike anything at 
home." 
" At home ? " said Lady Brierley enquiringly. 
" I mean, in America." 
"Novelty again," said the lady smiling, for she 
could not help liking Dolly. 
"No," said Dolly, "not that. It was far more 
than that. It was the real beauty, and then, it 
was the tokens of a family which had had power 
enough to write its history all along. , There was 
the power, and the history; and suph a strange 
breath of other days. There is nothing like that in 
America.'' 
" Then we shall keep you in England ? " said 
