summer air, there was a lively exchange of impres- 
sions, opinions, speculations, anecdotes,..* Gordon 
Wright was surely an excellent friend. He took an 
interest in you. He asked no idle questions and 
made no vague professions ; but he entered into your 
situation, he examined it in detail, and what he 
learned he never forgot. Months afterwards, he asked 
you about things which you yourself had forgotten 
He was not a man of whom it would be generally 
said that he had the gift of sympathy ; but he gave 
his attention to a friend's circumstances with a con- 
scientious fixedness which was at least very far 
removed from indifference. Bernard had the gift of 
sympathy — or at least he was supposed to have it ; 
but even he, familiar as he must therefore have been 
with the practice of this charming virtue, was at 
times so struck with his friend's fine faculty of tak- 
ing other people's affairs seriously that he constantly 
exclaimed to hinlself, "The excellent fellow — the 
admirable nature ! " 
Bernard had two or three questions to ask about 
the three persons who appeared to have formed for 
some time his companion's principal society, but he 
was indisposed to press them. He felt that he should 
see for himself, and at a prospect of entertainment 
of this kind, his fancy always kindled. Gordon was, 
moreover, at iirst rather shy of confidences, though 
after they had lain on the grass ten minutes there 
was a good deal said. 
" Now what do you think of her face ? " Gordon 
asked, after staring a while at the sky through the 
oak-boughs. 
" Of course, in future," said Longueville, " when- 
ever you make use of the personal pronoun feminine, 
I am to understand that Miss Vivian is indicated." 
"Her name i s Angela' said Gordon; "but of 
course I can scarcely call her that." 
" It 's a beautiful name," Longueville rejoined ; " but 
I may say, in answer to your question, that I am not 
struck with the fact that her face corresponds to it." 
" You don't think her face beautiful, then ? " 
" I don't think it angelic. But how can I tell ? I 
have only had a glimpse of her." 
" Wait till she looks at you and speaks — wait till 
she smiles," said Gordon. 
" I don't think T saw her smile — ; .t least, not at 
me, directly. I hope she will ! " Longueville went 
on. But who is she — this beautiful girl with the 
beautiful name ? " 
" She is her mother's daughter," said Gordon 
Wright. "I don't really know a great deal more 
about her than that." 
" And who is her mother ? " 
" A delightful little woman, devoted to Miss Vivian. 
She is a widow, and Angela is her only child. They 
have lived a great deal in Europe ; they have but a 
modest income. Over here, Mrs. Vivian says, they 
can get a lot of things for their money that they 
can't get at home. So they stay, you see. When 
they are at home they live in New York. They 
know some of my people there. When they are in 
Europe they live about in different places. They are 
fond of Italy. They are extremely nice ; it 's impos 
sible to be nicer. They are very fond of books, fond 
of music, and art, and all that. They always read in 
the morning. They only come out rather late in 
the day." 
"I see they are very superior people," said Ber- 
nard. "And little Miss Evers — what does she do 
in the morning? I know what she does in the 
evening ! " 
"I don't know what her regular habits are. I 
haven 't paid much attention to her. She is very 
pretty." 
" Wunderschon ! " said Bernard. " But you were 
certainly talking to her last evening." 
" Of course I talk to her sometimes. She is totally 
different from Angela Vivian — not nearly so culti- 
vated ; but she seems very charming." 
" A little silly, eh ? " Bernard suggested 
" She certainly is not so wise as Miss Vivian." 
" That would be too much to ask, eh ? But the 
Vivians, as kind as they are wise, have taken her 
under their protection." 
" Yes," said Gordon, " they are to keep her another 
month or two. Her mother has gone to Marienbad, 
which I believe is thought a dull place for a young 
girl ; so .that, as they were coming here, they offered 
to bring her with them. Mrs. Evers is an old friend 
of Mrs. Vivian, who, on leaving Italy, had come up 
to Dresden to be with her. They spent a month 
there together ; Mrs. Evers had been there since the 
winter. I think Mrs. Vivian really came to Baden- 
Baden — she would have preferred a less expensive 
place — to bring Blanche Evers. Her mother wanted 
her so much to come." 
"And was it for her sake that Captain Lovelock 
came, too ? " Bernard asked. 
Gordon Wright stared a moment. 
" I 'm sure I don't know ! " 
"Of course you can't be interested in that," said 
Bernard smiling. " Who is Captain Lovelock ! " 
"He is an Englishman. I believe he is what's 
called aristocratically connected — the younger 
brother of a lord, or something of that sort." 
" Is he a clever man ? " 
" I haven 't talked with him much, but I doubt it. 
He is rather rakish ; he plays a great deal." 
" But is that considered here a proof of rakish- 
ness ? " asked Bernard. " Haven 't you played a Kttle 
yourself?" 
Gordon hesitated a moment. 
"Yes, I have played a little. I wanted to try 
some experiments. I had made some arithmetical 
calculations of probabilities, which I wished to test." 
Bernard gave a long laugh. 
"I am delighted with the reasons you give for 
amusing yourself ! Arithmetical calculations ! " 
" I assure you they are the real reasons ! " said 
Gordon, blushing a little. 
" That 's just the beauty of it. You were not 
afraid of being ' drawn in,' as little Miss Evers 
says ? " 
'' I am never drawn in, whatever the thing may be. 
I go in, or I stay out; but I am not drawn," said 
Gordon Wright. 
" You were not drawn into coming with Mrs. Vivian 
and her daughter from Dresden to this place ? " 
" I didn' t come with them ; I came a week later." 
" My "dear fellow," said Bernard, " that distinction 
is unworthy of your habitual candor." 
" Well, I was not fascinated ; I was not overmas- 
tered. I wanted to come to Baden." 
" I have no doubt you did. Had you become very 
intimate with your friends in Dresden ? " 
" I had only seen them three times." 
"After which you followed them to this place ? 
Ah, don't say you were not fascinated ! " cried Ber- 
nard, laughing and springing to his feet. 
VI. 
That evening, in the gardens of the Kursaal, he 
renewed acquaintance with Angela Vivian. Her 
mother came, as usual, to sit and listen to the music, 
accompanied by Blanche Evers, who was in turn at- 
tended by Captain Lovelock. This little party found 
privacy in the crowd; they seated themselves in a 
quiet corner in an angle of one of the barriers of the 
terrace, while the movement of the brilliant Baden 
world went on around them. Gordon "Wright en- 
gaged in conversation with Mrs. Vivian, while Ber- 
nard enjoyed an interview with her daughter. This 
young lady continued to ignore the fact of their 
previous meeting, and our hero said to himself that 
all he wished was to know what she preferred — he 
would rigidly conform to it. He conformed to her 
present programme ; he had ventured to pronounce 
the word Siena the evening before, but he was careful 
not to pronounce it again. She had her reasons for 
her own reserve ; he wondered what they were, and 
it gave him a certain pleasure to wonder. He en- 
joyed the consciousness of their having a secret to- 
gether, and it became a kind of entertaining suspense 
to see how long she would continue to keep it. For 
himself, he was in no hurry to let the daylight in ; 
the little incident at Siena had been, in itself, a charm- 
ing affair ; but Miss Vivian's present attitude gave it 
a sort of mystic consecration. He thought she car- 
ried it off very well — the theory that she had not 
seen him before ; last evening she had been slightly 
confused, but now she was as self-possessed as if the 
line she had taken were a matter of conscience. Why 
should it be a matter of conscience ? Was she in 
love with Gordon Wright, and did she wish, in con- 
sequence, to forget — and wish him not to suspect — 
that she had ever received an expression of admira- 
tion from another man ? This was not likely ; it was 
not likely, at least, that Miss Vivian wished to pass 
for a prodigy of innocence ; for if to be admired is to 
pay a tribute to corruption, it was perfectly obvious 
that so handsome a girl miist have tasted of the tree 
of knowledge. As for her being in love with Gordon 
Wright, that of course was another affair, and Bernard 
did not pretend, as yet, to have an opinion on this 
point, beyond hoping very much that she might be. 
He was not wrong in the impression of her good 
looks that he had carried away from the short inter- 
view at Siena. She had a charmingly chiselled face, 
with a free, pure outline, a clear, fair complexion, and 
the eyes and hair of a dusky beauty. Her features 
had a firmness which suggested tranquillity, and yet 
her expression was light and quick, a combination — 
or a contradiction — which gave an original stamp to 
her beauty. Bernard remembered that he had thought 
it a trifle "bold"; but he now perceived that this 
had been but a vulgar misreading of her dark, direct, 
observant eye. The eye was a charming one ; Ber- 
nard discovered in it, little by little, all sorts of things ; 
and Miss Vivian was, for the present, simply a hand- 
some, intelligent, smiling girl. He gave her an op- 
portunity to make an allusion to Siena ; he said to 
her that his friend told him that she and her mother 
had been spending the winter in Italy. 
" Oh yes," said Angela Vivian ; " we were in the 
far south ; we were five months at Sorrento." 
" And nowhere else ? " 
" We spent a few days in Eome. We usually pre- 
fer the quiet places ; that is my mother's taste." 
" It was not your mother's taste, then," said Ber- 
nard, " that brought you to Baden ? " 
She looked at him a moment. 
" You mean that Baden is not quiet ? " 
Longueville glanced about at the moving, murmur- 
ing crowd, at the lighted windows of the Conversa- 
tion-house, at the great orchestra perched up in its 
pagoda. 
" This is not my idea of absolute tranquillity." 
" Nor mine, either," said Miss Vivian. " I am not 
fond of absolute tranquillity." 
" How do you arrange it, then, with your mother ? " 
Again she looked at him a moment, with her clever, 
slightly mocking smile. 
" As you see. By making her come where I wish." 
" You have a strong will," said Bernard. " I see 
that." 
" No. I have simply a weak mother. But I make 
sacrifices too, sometimes." 
" What do you call sacrifices ? " 
" Well, spending the winter at Sorrento." 
Bernard began to laugh, and then he told her she 
must have had a very happy life — " to call a winter 
at Sorrento a sacrifice." 
" It depends upon what one gives up," said Miss 
Vivian. 
" What did you give up ? " 
She touched him with her mocking smile again. 
" That is not a very civil question, asked in that 
way." 
"You mean that I seem to doubt your abnega- 
tion?" 
" You seem to insinuate that I had nothing to re- 
nounce. I gave up — I gave up — " and she looked 
about her, considering a little — "I gave up society." 
" I am glad you remember what it was," said Ber- 
nard. " If I have seemed uncivil, let me make it up. 
When a woman speaks of giving up society, what she 
means is giving up admiration. You can never have 
given up that — you can nevisr have escaped from it. 
You must have found it even at Sorrento." 
" It may have heen there, but I never found it. It 
 was very respectful — it never expressed itseE" 
" That is the deepest kind," said Bernard. 
" I prefer the shallower varieties," the young girl 
answered. 
"Well,", said Bernard, "you must remember that 
although shallow admiration expresses itself, all the 
admiration that expresses itself is not shallow." 
Miss Vivian hesitated a moment. 
"Some of it is impertinent," she said, looking 
straight at him, rather gravely. 
Bernard hesitated about as long. 
" When it is impertinent it is shallow. That comes 
to the same thing." 
The young girl frowned a little. 
" I am not sure that I understand — I am rather 
stupid. But you see how right I am in my taste for 
such places as this. I have to come here to hear such 
ingenious remarks." 
"You should add that my coming, as well, has 
soniething to do with it." 
" Everything ! " said Miss Vivian. 
"Everything? Does no one else make ingenious 
remarks ? Doesn 't my friend Wright ? " 
"Mr. Wright says excellent things, but I should 
not exactly call them ingenious remarks." 
" It is not what "Wright says ; it 's what he does. 
That 's the charm ! " said Bernard. 
His companion was silent for a moment. " That 's 
not usually a charm; good conduct is not thought 
pleasing." 
  " It surely is not thought the reverse ! " Bernard 
exclaimed. 
" It doesn 't rank — in the opinion of most people 
— among the things that make men agreeable." 
" It depends upon what you call agreeable." 
" Exactly so," said Miss Vivian. " It all depends 
on that." 
" But the agreeable," Bernard went on — " it isn 't 
after all, fortunately, such a subtle idea ! The world 
certainly is agreed to think that virtue is a beautiful 
thing." 
Miss Vivian dropped her eyes a moment, and then, 
looking up, 
" Is it a charm ? " she asked. 
"For me there is no charm without it," Bernard 
declared. 
" I am afraid that for me there is," said the young 
girl- 
Bernard was puzzled — he who was not often puz- 
zled. His companion struck him as altogether too 
clever to be likely to indulge in a silly affectation of 
cynicism. And yet, without this, how could one ac- 
count for her sneering at virtue ? 
"You talk as if you had sounded the depths of 
vice ! " he said, laughing. " What do you know about 
other than virtuous charms ? " 
" I know, of course, nothing about vice ; but I have 
known virtue when it was very tiresome." 
" Ah, then it was a poOr affair. It was poor virtue. 
The best virtue is never tiresome." 
Miss Vivian looked at him a little, with her fine 
discriminating eye. 
" What a dreadful thing to have to think any virtue 
poor ! " 
This was a touching reflection, and it might have 
gone further had not the conversation been inter- 
rupted by Mrs. Vivian's appealing to her daughter 
to aid a defective recollection of a story about a 
Spanish family they had met at Biarritz, with which 
she had undertaken to entertain Gordon Wright. 
After this, the little circle was joined by a party of 
American friends who were spending a week at 
Baden, and the conversation became general. 
VII. 
But on the following evening, Bernard again found 
himself seated in friendly colloquy with this interest- 
ing girl, while Gordon Wright discoursed with her 
mother on one side, and little Blanche Evers chat- 
tered to the admiring eyes of Captain Lovelock on 
the other. 
" You and your mother are very kind to that little 
girl," our hero said ; " you must be a great advantage 
to her." 
Angela Vivian directed her eyes to her neighbors, 
and let them rest a while on the young girl's little 
fidgeting figure and her fresh, coquettish face. For 
some moments she said nothing, and to Longueville, 
turning over several things in his mind, and watch- 
ing her, it seemed that her glance was one of disfavor. 
He divined, he scarcely knew how, that her esteem 
for her pretty companion was small. 
"I don't know that I am very kind," said Miss 
Vivian. " I have done nothing in particular for her." 
" Mr. Wright tells me you came to this place mainly 
on her accoimt." 
"I came for myself," said Miss Vivian. "The 
consideration you speak of perhaps had weight with 
my mother." 
" You are not an easy person to say appreciative 
things to," Bernard rejoined. "One is tempted to 
say them ; but you don't take them." 
The young girl colored as she listened to this ob- 
servation. 
" I don't think you know," she murmured, looking 
away. Then, " Set.it down to modesty," she added. 
" That, of course, is what I have done. To what 
else could one possibly attribute an indifference to 
compliments ? " 
" There is something else. One might be proud." 
" There you are again ! " Bernard exclaimedt " You 
won't even let me praise your modesty." 
" I would rather you should rebuke my pride." 
" That is so humble a speech that it leaves no room 
for rebuke." 
For a moment Miss Vivian said nothing. 
" Men are singularly base," she declared presently, 
with a little smile. " They don't care in the least to 
say things that might help a person. They only care 
to say things that may seem effective and agreeable." 
" I see : you think that to say agreeable things is a 
great misdemeanor." 
"It comes from their vanity," Miss Vivian went 
on, as if she had not heard him. " They wish to ap- 
pear agreeable and get credit for cleverness and ten- " 
dresse, no matter how silly it would be for another 
person to believe them." 
Bernard was a good deal amused, and a little 
. nettled. 
" Women, then,'' he said, " have rather a fondness 
for producing a bad impression — they like to appear 
disagreeable ? " 
His companion bent her eyes upon her fan for a 
moment as she opened and closed it. 
" They are capable of resigning themselves to it — 
for a purpose." 
Bernard was moved to extreme merriment. 
" For what purpose ? " 
" I don't know that I mean for a purpose," said 
Miss Vivian ; " but for a necessity." 
" Ah, what an odious necessity ! " 
" Necessities usually are odious. But women meet 
them. Men evade them and shirk them.'' 
"I contest your proposition. Women are them- 
selves necessities ; but they are not odious ones ! " 
And Bernard added, in a moment, " One couldn 't 
evade them, if they were!" 
" I object to being called a necessity," said Angela 
Vivian. " It diminishes one's merit." 
" Ah, but it enhances the charm of life ! " 
" For men, doubtless ! " 
"The charm of life is very great," Bernard went 
"on, looking up at the dusky hills and the summer 
stars, seen through a sort of mist of music and talk, 
and of powdery light projected from the softly lurid 
windows of the gaming-rooms. "The charm of life 
is extreme. I am unacquainted with odious necessi- 
ties. I object to nothing ! " 
Angela Vivian looked about her as he had done — 
looked perhaps a moment longer at the summer stars ; 
and if she had not already proved herself a young 
lady of a contradictory turn, it might huve been sup- 
posed she was just then tacitly admitting the charm 
of life to be considerable. s 
" Do you suppose Miss Evers often resigns herself to 
being disagreeable — for a purpose ? " asked Longue- 
ville, who had glanced at Captain Lovelock's com- 
panion again. 
" She can't be disagreeable ; phe is too gentle, too 
soft." 
" Do you mean too silly ? " 
"I don't know that I call her silly. She is not 
very wise ; but she has no pretensions — absolutely 
none — so that one is not struck with anything in- 
congruous." 
" What a terrible description ! I suppose one ought 
to have a fevy pretensions.'' 
" You see one comes off more easily without them," 
said Miss Vivian. 
"Do you oall that coming off easily ?" 
She loqjced t hin* a moment gyayely. 
"I am very fond of Blanche," she said. 
" Captain Lovelock is rather fond of her," Bernard 
went on. 
  The girl assented. 
"He is completely fascinated — he is very much 
in love with her." 
"And do they mean to make an international 
match?" 
" I hope not'; my mother and I are greatly troubled." 
" Isn 't he a good fellow ? " 
" He is a good fellow ; but he is a mere trifler. He 
hasn 't a penny, I believe, and he has very expensive 
habits. He gambles a great deal. We don't know 
what to do.'' 
" You should send for the young lady's mother." 
" We have written to her pressingly. She answers 
that Blanche can take care of herself, and that she 
must stay at Marienbad to finish her cure. She has 
just begun a new one." 
"Ah well," said Bernard, "doubtless Blanche can 
take care of herself." 
For a moment his companion said nothing ; then 
she exclaimed — 
" It 's what a girl ought to be able to do ! " 
" I am sure you are !" said Bernard. 
She met his eyes, and she was going fo make some 
rejoinder; but before she had time to speak, her 
mother's Ijtttej cler, conciliatory voice interposed. 
Mrs. Vivian appealed to her daughter, as she had 
done the night before. 
" Dear Angela, what was the name of the gentle- 
man who delivered that delightful course of lectures 
that we heard in Geneva, on — what was the title ? — 
' The Eedeeming Features of the Pagan Morality.' " 
Angela flushed a little. 
"I have quite forgotten his name, mamma," she 
said, without looking round. 
" Come and sit by me, my dear, and we will talk 
them over. I wish Mr. Wright to hear about them," 
Mrs. Vivian went on. 
" Do you wish to convert him to paganism ? " Ber- 
nard asked. 
" The lectures were very dull ; they had no redeem- 
ing features," said Angela, getting up, but turning 
away from her mother. She stood looking at Ber- 
nard Longueville ; he saw she was annoyed at her 
mother's interference. " Every now and then," she 
said, " I take a turn through the gaming-rooms. The 
last time. Captain Lovelock went with me. Will you 
come to-night ? " 
Bernard assented with expressive alacrity ; he was 
charmed with her not wishing to break off her con- 
versation with him. 
" Ah, we 'll all go ! " said Mrs. Vivian, who had 
been listening, and she invited the others to accom- 
pany her to the Kursaal. 
They left their places, but Angela went first, with 
Bernard Longueville by her side ; and the idea of her 
having publicly braved her mother, as it were, for 
the sake of his society, lent for the moment an almost 
ecstatic eneiy to his tread. If he had been tempted 
to presume upon his triumph, however, he would 
have found a check in the fact that the young girl 
herself tasted very soberly of the sweets of defiance. 
She was silent and grave ; she had a manner which 
took the edge from the wantonness of filial indepen- 
dence. Yet, for all this, Bernard was pleased with 
his position ; and, as he walked with her through the 
lighted and crowded rooms, where they soon detached 
themselves from their companions, he felt that pe- 
culiar satisfaction which best expresses itself in silence. 
Angela looked a while at the rows of still, attentive 
faces, fixed upon the luminous green circle, across 
which little heaps of louis d'or were being pushed 
to and fro, and she continued to say nothing. Then 
at last she exclaimed simply, " Come away ! " They 
turned away and passed into another chamber, in 
which there was no gambling. It was an immense 
apartment, apparently a ball-room ; but at present it 
was quite unoccupied. There were green velvet 
benches all around it, and a great polished floor 
stretched away, shining in the light of chandeliers 
adorned with innumerable glass drops. Miss Vivian 
stood a moment on the threshold; then she passed 
in, and they stopped in the middle of the place, fac- 
ing each other, and with their figures reflected as if 
they had been standing on a sheet of ice. There 
was no one in the room ; they were entirely alone. 
" Why don't you recognize me ? " Bernard mur- 
mured quickly. 
" Eeoognize you ? " 
" Why do you seem to forget our meeting at 
Siena ? " 
She might have answered if she had answered im- 
mediately ; but she hesitated, and while she did so 
something happened at the other end of the room 
which caused her to shift her glance. A green velvet 
fortiere suspended in one of the door-ways — not 
that through which our friends had passed — was 
lifted, and Gordon Wright stood there, holding it up, 
and looking a.% thenj. His companions were behind 
him. 
" Ah, here they are ! " cried Gordon, in his loud, 
clear voice. 
This appeared to strike Angela Vivian as an inter- 
ruption, and Bernard saw it very much in the same 
light. 
VIII. 
He forbore to ask her his question again — she 
might tell him at her convenience. But the days 
passed by, and she never told him — she had her 
own reasons. Bernard talked with her very often; 
conversation formed indeed the chief entertainment of 
the quiet little circle of which he was a member. 
They sat. on the terrace and talked in the mingled 
starlight and lamplight, and they strolled in the deep 
green forests and wound along the side of the gentle 
Baden hills, under the influence of colloquial ten- 
dencies. The Black Forest is a country of almost 
unbroken shade, and in the still days of midsummer 
the whole place was covered with a motionless canopy 
of verdure. Our friends were not extravagant or 
audacious people, and they looked at Baden life 
very much from the outside — they sat aloof from 
the brightly lighted drama of professional revelry. 
Among themselves as well, however, a little drama 
went forward in which each member of the company 
had a part to play. Bernard Longueville had been 
surprised at first at what he would have called Miss 
Viviap's approachableness — at the frequency with 
which he encountered opportunities for sitting near 
her and entering into conversation. He had expected 
that Gordon Wright would deem himself to have 
established an anticipatory claim upon the young 
lady's attention, and that, in pursuance of this claim, 
he would occupy a recognized place at her side. Gor- 
don was, after all, wooing her; it was very natural 
he should seek her society. In fact, he was never 
very far off; but Bernard, for three or four days, had 
the anomalous consciousness of being still nearer. 
Presently, however, he perceived that he owed this 
privilege simply to his friend's desire that he should 
become acquainted with Miss Vivian — should receive 
a vivid impression of a person in whom Gordon was 
so deeply interested. After this result might have 
been supposed to be attained, Gordon Wright stepped 
back into his usual place and showed her those small 
civilities which were the only homage that the quiet 
conditions of their life rendered possible — walked 
with her, talked with her, brought her a book to read, 
a chair to sit upon, a couple of flowers to place in the 
bosom of her gown, treated her, in a word, with a 
sober but by no means inexpressive gallantry. He 
had not been making violent love, as he told Longue- 
ville, and these demonstrations were certainly not 
violent. Bernard said to himself that if he were 
not in the secret, a spectator would scarcely make the 
discovery that Gordon cherished an even very safely 
tended flame. Angela Vivian, on her side, was not 
strikingly responsive. There was nothing in her de- 
portment to indicate that she was in love with hei 
systematic suitor. She was perfectly gracious and 
civil. She smiled in his face when he shook hands 
with her ; she looked at him and listened when he 
talked ; she let him stroll beside her in the lichten- 
thal Alley ; she read, or appeared to read, the books 
he lent her, and she decorated herself with the flowers 
he offered. She seemed neither bored nor embar- 
rassed, neither irritated nor oppressed. But it was 
Bernard's belief that she took no more pleasure in 
his attentions than a pretty girl must always take in 
any recognition of her charms. " If she 's not indiffer- 
ent," he said to himself, " she is, at any rate, impar- 
tial - profoundly impartial." 
It was not till the end of a week that Gordoii 
Wright told him exactly how his business stood with 
Miss Vivian and what he had reason to expect and 
hope — a week during which their relations had been 
of the happiest and most comfortable cast, and dur- 
ing which Bernard, rejoicing in their long walks and 
talks, in the charming weather, in the beauty and 
entertainment of the place, and in other things 
besides, had not ceased to congratulate himself on 
coming to Baden. Bernard, after the first day, had 
asked his friend no questions, He had a great respect 
for opportunity, coming either to others or to himself 
and he left Gordon to turn his lantern as fitfully as 
might be upon the subject which was tacitly open 
between them, but of which as yet only the mere 
edges had emerged into light. Gordon, on his side, 
seemed content for the moment with having his 
clever friend under his hand; he reserved him for 
final appeal or for some other mysterious use. 
" You can't tell me you don't know her now," he 
said, one evening as the two young men strolled along 
the Lichtenthal Alley — " now that you have had a 
whole week's observation of her." 
"What is a week's observation of a singularly 
clever and complicated woman?" Bernard asked. 
" Ah, your week has been of some use. You have 
found out she is complicated ! " Gordon rejoined.   
" My dear Gordon," Longueville exclaimed, " I 
don't see what it signifies to you that I should find 
Miss Vivian out ! When a man 's in love, what need 
he care what other people think of the loved ob- 
ject ? " 
" It would certainly be a pity to care too much. 
But there is some excuse for him in the loved object 
being, as you say, complicated." 
" Nonsense ! That 's no excuse. The loved object 
is always complicated." 
Gordon walked on in silence a moment. 
"Well, then, I don't care a button what you 
think ! " 
" Bravo . That 's the way a man should talk," cried 
Longueville. 
Gordon indulged in another fit of meditation, and 
then he said — 
" Now that leaves you at liberty to say what you 
please." 
" Ah, my dear fellow, you are ridiculous ! " said 
Bernard. 
" That 's precisely what I want you to say. You 
always think me too reasonable." 
" Well, I go back to my first assertion. I don't know 
Miss Vivian — I mean I don't know her to have 
opinions about her. I don't suppose you wish me to 
string you off a dozen mere hanalites — ' She 's a 
charming girl — evidently a superior person — has a 
great deal of style.' " 
" Oh no," said Gordon ; " I know all that. But, at 
any rate," he added, " you like her, eh ? " 
" I do more," said Longueville. " I admire her." 
" Is that doing more ? " asked Gordon, reflectively. 
"Well, the greater, whichever it is, includes the 
less." 
" You won't commit yourself," said Gordon. " My 
dear Bernard," he added, " I thought you knew such 
an immense deal about women ! " 
Gordon Wright was of so kindly and candid a 
nature that it is hardly conceivable that this remark 
should have been framed to make Bernard commit 
himself by putting him on his mettle. Such a view 
would imply indeed on Gordon's part a greater famil- 
iarity with the uses of irony than he had ever pos- 
sessed, as well as a livelier conviction of the irritable 
nature of his friend's vanity. In fact, however, it 
may be confided to the reader that Bernard was 
pricked in a tender place, though the resentment of 
vanity was not visible in his answer. 
" You were quite wrong," he simply said. " I am as 
ignorant of women as a monk in his cloister." 
" You try to prove too much. You don't think her 
sympathetic ! " And as regards this last remark, 
Gordon Wright must be credited with a certain 
ironical impulse. 
Bernard stopped impatiently. 
" I ask you again, what does it matter to you what 
I think of her?" 
" It matters in " this sense — that she has refused 
me." 
" Eefused you ? Then it is all over, and nothing 
matters." 
" No, it isn 't over,'' said Gordon, with a positive 
head-shake. " Don't you see it isn 't over ? " 
Bernard smiled, laid his hand on his friend's 
shoulder and patted it a little. 
" Your attitude might almost pass for that of resig- 
nation." 
" I 'm not resigned ! " said Gordon Wright. 
" Of course not. But when were you refused ? " 
