could give no better promise than what he read 
there. 
"You will cleave to me?" said Morris. "You 
know you are your own mistress you are of age." 
"Ah, Morris !" she murmured, for all answer ; or 
rather not for all, for she put her hand into his own. 
He kept it awhile, and presently he kissed her again. 
This is all that need be recorded of their conversa- 
tion ; but Mrs. Penniman, if she had been present, 
would probably have admitted that it was as well it 
had not taken place beside the fountain in Washing- 
ton Square. 
XI. 
CATHERINE listened for her father when he came 
in that evening, and she heard him go to his study. 
She sat quiet, though her heart was beating fast, for 
nearly half an hour; then she went and knocked 
at his door va ceremony without which she never 
crossed the threshold of this apartment. On enter- 
ing it now, she found him in his chair beside the 
fire, entertaining himself with a cigar and the even- 
ing paper. 
" I have something to say to you," she began very 
gently; and she sat down in the first place that 
offered. 
" I shall be very happy to hear it, my dear," said 
her father. He waited waited, looking at her 
while she stared, in a long silence, at the fire. He 
was curious and impatient, for he was sure she was 
going to speak of Morris Townsend ; but he let her 
take her own time, for he was determined to be very 
mild. 
" I am engaged to be married !" Catherine an- 
nounced at last, still staring at the fire. 
The Doctor was startled ; the accomplished fact 
was more than he had expected ; but he betrayed 
no surprise. " You do right to tell me," he simply 
said. "And who is the happy mortal whom you 
have honored with your choice ?" 
" Mr. Morris Townsend." And as she pronounced 
her lover's name Catherine looked at him. What 
she saw was her father's still gray eye and his clear- 
cut, definite smile. She contemplated these objects 
for a moment, and then she looked back at the fire ; 
it was much warmer. 
" When was this arrangement made ?" the Doctor 
asked. 
" This afternoon two hours ago." 
" Was Mr. Townsend here ?" 
" Yes, father ; in the front-parlor." She was very 
glad that she was not obliged to tell him that the 
ceremony of their betrothal had taken place out 
there under the bare ailantus-trees. 
" Is it serious ?" said the Doctor. 
" Yery serious, father." 
Her father was silent a moment. "Mr. Towns- 
end ought to have told me." 
" He means to tell you to-morrow." 
" After I know all about it from you ? He 
ought to have told me before. Does he think 
I didn't care, because I left you so much lib- 
erty?" 
" Oh no," said Catherine ; " he knew you would 
care. And we have been so much obliged to you 
for for the liberty." 
The Doctor gave a short laugh. "You might 
have made a better use of it, Catherine." 
" Please don't say that, father !" the girl urged, 
softly, fixing her dull and gentle eyes upon him. 
He puffed his cigar awhile, meditatively. " You 
have gone very fast," he said, at last. 
" Yes," Catherine answered, simply ; " I think we 
have." 
Her father glanced at her an instant, removing his 
eyes from the h're. " I don't wonder Mr. Townsend 
likes you ; you are so simple and so good." 
" I don't know why it is ; but he does like me. 
I am sure of that." 
" And are you very fond of Mr. Townsend ?" 
" I like him very much, of course, or I shouldn't 
consent to marry him." 
" But you have known him a very short time, my 
dear." 
" Oh," said Catherine, with some eagerness, " it 
doesn't take long to like a person when once you 
begin." 
"You must have begun very quickly. Was it 
the first time you saw him that night at your aunt's 
party?" 
" I don't know, father," the girl answered. " I 
can't tell you about that." 
" Of course ; that's your own affair. You will 
have observed that I have acted on that principle. 
I have not interfered ; I have left you your liberty ; 
I have remembered that you are no longer a little 
girl that you have arrived at years of discretion." 
" I feel very old and very wise," said Catherine, 
smiling faintly. 
" I am afraid that before long you will feel older 
and wiser yet. I don't like your engagement." 
"Ah!" Catherine exclaimed, softly, getting up 
from her chair. 
" No, my dear. I am sorry to give you pain ; but 
I don't like it. You should have consulted me be- 
fore you settled it. I have been too easy with you, 
and I feel as if you had taken advantage of my in- 
dulgence. Most decidedly you should have spoken 
to me first." 
Catherine hesitated a moment, and then " It was 
because I was afraid you wouldn't like it," she con- 
fessed. 
"Ah, there it is ! You had a bad conscience." 
" No, I have not a bad conscience, father !" the 
girl cried out, with considerable energy. " Please 
don't accuse me of anything so dreadful !" These 
words, in fact, represented to her imagination some- 
thing very terrible indeed, something base and cruel, 
which she associated with malefactors and prison- 
ers. " It was because I was afraid afraid " she 
went on. 
" If you were afraid, it was because you had been 
foolish." 
" I was afraid you didn't like Mr. Townsend." 
" You were quite right. I don't like him." 
" Dear father, you don't know him," said Cathe- 
rine, in a voice so timidly argumentative that it 
might have touched him. 
" Very true ; I don't know him intimately. But 
I know him enough ; I have my impression of him. 
You don't know him either." 
She stood before the fire with her hands lightly 
clasped in front of her ; and her father, leaning back 
in his chair and looking up at her, made this remark 
with a placidity that might have been irritating. 
I doubt, however, whether Catherine was irritated, 
though she broke into a vehement protest. " I don't 
know him ?" she cried. " Why, I know him better 
than I have ever known any one !" 
" You know a part of him what he has chosen 
to show you. But you don't know the rest." 
" The rest ? What is the rest ?" 
" Whatever it may be, there is sure to be plenty 
of it." 
" I know what you mean," said Catherine, remem- 
bering how Morris had forewarned her. " You mean 
that he is mercenary." 
Her father looked up at her still, with his cold, 
quiet, reasonable eye. " If I meant it, my dear, I 
should say it ! But there is an error I wish partic- 
ularly to avoid that of rendering Mr. Townsend 
more interesting to you by saying hard things about 
him." 
" I won't think them hard if they are true," said 
Catherine. 
" If you don't, you will be a remarkably sensible 
young woman !" 
" They will be your reasons, at any rate, and you 
will want me to hear your reasons." 
The Doctor smiled a little. " Yery true. You 
have a perfect right to ask for them." And he puff- 
ed his cigar a few moments. " Yery well, then ; 
without accusing Mr. Townsend of being in love only 
with your fortune and with the fortune that you 
justly expect I will say that there is every reason to 
suppose that these good things have entered into his 
calculation more largely than a tender solicitude for 
your happiness strictly requires. There is, of course, 
nothing impossible in an intelligent young man en- 
tertaining a disinterested affection for you. You are 
an honest, amiable girl, and an intelligent young 
man might easily find it out. But the principal 
thing that we know about this young man who is, 
indeed, very intelligent leads us to suppose that, 
however much he may value your personal merits, 
he values your money more. The principal thing 
we know about him is that he has led a life of dis- 
sipation, and has spent a fortune of his own in doing 
so. That is enough for me, my dear. I wish you 
to marry a young man with other antecedents a 
young man who could give positive guarantees. If 
Morris Townsend has spent his own fortune in 
amusing himself, there is every reason to believe 
that he would spend yours." 
The Doctor delivered himself of these remarks 
slowly, deliberately, with occasional pauses and pro- 
longations of accent, which made no great allowance 
for poor Catherine's suspense as to his conclusion. 
She sat down at last, with her head bent and her 
eyes still fixed upon him ; and strangely enough I 
hardly know how to tell it even while she felt that 
what he said went so terribly against her, she ad- 
mired his neatness and nobleness of expression. 
There was something hopeless and oppressive in hav- 
ing to argue with her father ; but she too, on her 
side, must try to be clear. He was so quiet ; he was 
not at all angry ; and she, too, must be quiet. But 
her very effort to be quiet made her tremble. 
" That is not the principal thing we know about 
him," she said ; and there was a touch of her tremor 
in her voice. " There are other things many other 
things. He has very high abilities he wants so 
much to do something. He is kind, and generous, 
and true," said poor Catherine, who had not suspect- 
ed hitherto the resources of her eloquence. " And 
his fortune his fortune that he spent was very 
small." 
" All the more reason he shouldn't have spent it," 
cried the Doctor, getting up with a laugh. Then, as 
Catherine, who had also risen to her feet again, stood 
there in her rather angular earnestness, wishing so 
much and expressing so little, he drew her toward 
him and kissed her. " You won't think me cruel ?" 
he said, holding her a moment. 
This question was not reassuring; it seemed to 
Catherine, on the contrary, to suggest possibilities 
which made her feel sick. But she answered co- 
herently enough, " No, dear father ; because if you 
knew how I feel and you must know, you know 
everything you would be so kind, so gentle." 
" Yes, I think I know how you feel," the Doctor 
said. " I will be very kind be sure of that. And 
I will see Mr. Townsend to-morrow. Meanwhile, 
and for the present, be so good as to mention to no 
one that you are engaged." 
XII. 
ON the morrow, in the afternoon, he stayed at 
home, awaiting Mr. Townsend's call a proceeding 
by which it appeared to him (justly perhaps, for he 
was a very busy man) that he paid Catherine's suitor 
great honor, and gave both these young people so 
much the less to complain of. Morris presented 
himself with a countenance sufficiently serene he 
appeared to have forgotten the "insult" for which 
he had solicited Catherine's sympathy two evenings 
before and Doctor Sloper lost no time in letting 
him know that he had been prepared for his visit. 
" Catherine told me yesterday what has been go- 
ing on between you," he said. " You must allow 
me to say that it would have been becoming of you 
to give me notice of your intentions before they had 
gone so far." 
"I should have done so," Morris answered, "if 
you had not had so much the appearance of leaving 
your daughter at liberty. She seems to me quite 
her own mistress." 
"Literally, she is. But she has not emancipated 
herself morally quite so far, I trust, as to choose a 
husband without consulting me. I have left her at 
liberty, but I have not been in the least indifferent. 
The truth is, that your little affair has come to a head 
with a rapidity that surprises me. It was only the 
other day that Catherine made your acquaintance," 
" It was not long ago, certainly," said Morris, with 
great gravity. " I admit that we have not been slow 
to to arrive at an understanding. But that was very 
natural, from the moment we were sure of ourselves 
and of each other. My interest in Miss Sloper 
began the first time I saw her." 
"Did it not by chance precede your first meet- 
ing ?" the Doctor asked. 
Morris looked at him an instant. "I certainly 
had already heard that she was a charming girl." 
"A charming girl that's what you think her?" 
"Assuredly. Otherwise I should not be sitting 
here." 
The Doctor meditated a moment. "My dear 
young man," he said at last, " you must be very 
susceptible. As Catherine's father I have, I trust, 
a just and tender appreciation of her many good 
qualities ; but I don't mind telling you that I have 
never thought of her as a charming girl, and never 
expected any one else to do so." 
Morris Townsend received this statement with a 
smile that was not wholly devoid of deference. " I 
don't know what I might think of her if I were her 
father. I can't put myself in that place. I speak 
from my own point of view." 
" You speak very well," said the Doctor ; " but 
that is not all that is necessary. I told Catherine 
yesterday that I disapproved of her engagement." 
" She let me know as much, and I was very sorry 
to hear it. I am greatly disappointed." And Mor- 
ris sat in silence awhile, looking at the floor. 
"Did you really expect I would say I was de- 
lighted, and throw my daughter into your arms ?" 
" Oh no ; I had an idea you didn't like me." 
" What gave you the idea ?" 
" The fact that I am poor." 
" That has a harsh sound," said the Doctor, " but 
it is about the truth speaking of you strictly as a 
son-in-law. Your absence of means, of a profession, 
of visible resources or prospects, places you in a 
category from which it would be imprudent for me 
to select a husband for my daughter, who is a weak 
young woman with a large fortune. In any other 
capacity I am perfectly prepared to like you. As 
a son-in-law, I abominate you." 
Morris Townsend listened respectfully. " I don't 
think Miss Sloper is a weak woman," he presently 
" Of course you must defend her it's the least 
you can do. But I have known my child twenty 
years, and you have known her six weeks. Even 
if she were not weak, however, you would still be 
a penniless man." 
" Ah, yes ; that is my weakness ! And therefore, 
you mean, I am mercenary I only want your 
daughter's money." 
" I don't say that. I am not obliged to say it ; and 
to say it, save under stress of compulsion, would be 
very bad taste. I say simply that you belong to the 
wrong category." 
"But your daughter doesn't marry a category," 
Townsend urged, with his handsome smile. " She 
marries an individual an individual whom she is 
so good as to say she loves." 
"An individual .who offers so little in return." 
" Is it possible to offer more than the most tender 
affection and a life-long devotion 3" the young man 
demanded. 
"It depends how we take it. It is possible to 
offer a few other things besides, and not only is it 
possible, but it is the custom. A life-long devotion 
is measured after the fact; and meanwhile it is 
usual in these cases to give a few material securi- 
ties. What are yours ? A very handsome face 
and figure, and a very good manner. They are ex- 
cellent as far as they go, but they don't go far 
enough." 
"There is one thing you should add to them," 
said Morris " the word of a gentleman." 
" The word of a gentleman that you will always 
love Catherine ? You must be a fine gentleman to 
be sure of that." 
" The word of a gentleman that I am not merce- 
nary ; that my affection for Miss Sloper is as pure 
and disinterested a sentiment as was ever lodged in 
a human breast. I care no more for her fortune 
than for the ashes in that grate." 
"I take note I take note," said the Doctor. 
"But, having done so, I turn to our category again. 
Even with that solemn vow on your lips, you take 
your place in it. There is nothing against you but 
an accident, if you will ; but, with my thirty years' 
medical practice, I have seen that accidents may 
have far-reaching consequences." 
Morris smoothed his hat it was already remark- 
ably glossy and continued to display a self-control 
which, as the Doctor was obliged to admit, was ex- 
tremely creditable to him. But his disappointment 
was evidently keen. 
 
"Is there nothing I can do to make you believe 
in me?" 
" If there were, I should be sorry to suggest it, for 
don't you see? I don't want to believe in you," 
said the Doctor, smiling. 
" I would go and dig in the fields." 
" That would be foolish." 
" I will take the first work that offers to-morrow." 
" Do so by all means but for your own sake, not 
for mine." 
"I see; you think I am an idler!" Morris ex- 
claimed, a little too much in the tone of a man who 
has made a discovery. But he saw his error im- 
mediately, and blushed. 
" It doesn't matter what I think, when once I have 
told you I don't think of you as a son-in-law." 
But Morris persisted : " You think I would squan- 
der her money ?" 
The Doctor smiled. " It doesn't matter, as I say ; 
but I plead guilty to that." 
" That's because I spent my own, I suppose," said 
Morris. " I frankly confess that. I have been wild ; 
I have been foolish. I will tell you every crazy 
thing I ever did, if you like. There were some 
great follies among the number I have never con- 
cealed that. But I have sown my wild-oats. Isn't 
there some proverb about a reformed rake ? I was 
not a rake, but I assure you I have reformed. It is 
better to have amused one's self for awhile and have 
done with it. Your daughter would never care for 
a milksop ; and I will take the liberty of saying that 
you would like one quite as little. Besides, between 
my money and hers there is a great difference. I 
spent my own ; it was because it was my own that I 
spent it. And I made no debts ; when it was gone 
I stopped. I don't owe a penny in the world." 
"Allow me to inquire what you are living on 
now though I admit," the Doctor added, " that the 
question, on- my part, is inconsistent." 
" I am living on the remnants of my property," 
said Morris Townsend. 
" Thank you," the Doctor gravely replied. 
Yes, certainly, Morris's self-control was laudable. 
"Even admitting I attach an undue importance to 
Miss Sloper's fortune," he went on, " would not that 
be in itself an assurance that I would take good care 
of it?" 
" That you should take too much care would be 
quite as bad as that you should take too little. Cath- 
erine might suffer as much by your economy as by 
your extravagance." 
" I think you are very unjust !" The young man 
made this declaration decently, civilly, without vio- 
lence. 
" It is your privilege to think so, and I surrender 
my reputation to you ! I certainly don't flatter my- 
self, I gratify you." 
"Don't you care a little to gratify your daugh- 
ter? Do you enjoy the idea of making her miser- 
able?" 
"I am perfectly resigned to her thinking me a 
tyrant for a twelvemonth." 
" For a twelvemonth !" exclaimed Morris, with a 
laugh. 
" For a lifetime, then. She may as well be miser- 
able in that way as in the other." 
Here at last Morris lost his temper. " Ah, you 
are not polite, sir !" he cried. 
" You push me to it you argue too much." 
" I have a great deal at stake." 
" Well, whatever it is," said the Doctor, " you have 
lost it." 
" Are you sure of that ?" asked Morris ; " are you 
sure your daughter will give me up ?" 
" I mean, of course, you have lost it as far as I am 
concerned. As for Catherine's giving you up no, I 
am not sure of it. But as I shall strongly recommend 
it, as I have a great fund of respect and affection in 
my daughter's mind to draw upon, and as she has 
the sentiment of duty developed in a very high de- 
gree, I think it extremely possible." 
Morris Townsend began to smooth his hat again. 
" I, too, have a fund of affection to draw upon," he 
observed, at last. 
The Doctor at this point showed his own first 
symptoms of irritation. "Do you mean to defy 
me?" 
" Call it what you please, sir. I mean not to give 
your daughter up." 
The Doctor shook his head. " I haven't the least 
fear of your pining away your life. You are made 
to enjoy it." 
Morris gave a laugh. " Your opposition to my 
marriage is all the more cruel, then. Do you intend 
to forbid your daughter to see me again ?" 
" She is past the age at which people are forbid- 
den, and I am not a father in an old-fashioned novel. 
But I shall strongly urge her to break with you." 
" I don't think she will," said Morris Townsend. 
"Perhaps not; but I shall have done what I 
could." 
" She has gone too far " Morris went on. 
" To retreat ? Then let her stop where she is." 
" Too far to stop, I mean." 
The Doctor looked at him a moment ; Morris had 
his hand on the door. " There is a great deal of im- 
pertinence in your saying it." 
" I will say no more, sir," Morris answered ; and, 
making his bow, he left the room. 
 
IT may be thought the Doctor was too positive, 
and Mrs. Almond intimated as much. But, as he 
said, he had his impression ; it seemed to him suffi- 
cient, and he had no wish to modify it. He had 
passed his life in estimating people (it was part of 
the medical trade), and in nineteen cases out of 
twenty he was right. 
" Perhaps Mr. Townsend is the twentieth case," 
said Mrs. Almond. 
" Perhaps he is, though he doesn't look to me at 
all like a twentieth case. But I will give him the 
benefit of the doubt, and, to make sure, I will go and 
talk with Mrs. Montgomery. She will almost cer- 
tainly tell me I have done right ; but it is just pos- 
sible that she will prove to me that I have made the 
greatest mistake of my life. If she does, I will beg 
Mr. Townsend's pardon. You needn't invite her to 
meet me, as you kindly proposed ; I will write her a 
frank letter, telling her how matters stand, and ask- 
ing leave to come and see her." 
" I am afraid the frankness will be chiefly on your 
side. The poor little woman will stand up for her 
brother, whatever he may be." 
" Whatever he may be ! I doubt that. People 
are not always so fond of their brothers." 
" Ah," said Mrs. Almond, " when it's a question of 
thirty thousand a year coming into a family 
" If she stands up for him on account of the mon- 
ey, she will be a humbug. If she is a humbug, I 
shall see it. If I see it, I won't waste time with 
her." 
"She is not a humbug she is an exemplary 
woman. She will not wish to play her brother a 
trick simply because he is selfish." 
" If she is worth talking to, she will sooner play 
him a trick than that he should play Catherine one. 
Has she seen Catherine, by-the-way does she know 
her?" 
" Not to my knowledge. Mr. Townsend can have 
had no particular interest in bringing them together." 
" If she is an exemplary woman, no. But we shall 
see to what extent she answers your description." 
" I shall be curious to hear her description of 
you," said Mrs. Almond, with a laugh. "And, 
meanwhile, how is Catherine taking it ?" 
" As she takes everything as a matter of course." 
" Doesn't she make a noise ? Hasn't she made a 
scene " 
" She is not scenic." 
" I thought a lovelorn maiden was always scenic." 
"A ridiculous widow is more so. Lavinia has 
made me a speech ; she thinks me very arbitrary." 
" She has a talent for being in the wrong," said 
Mrs. Almond. " But I am very sorry for Catherine, 
all the same." 
" So am I. But she will get over it." 
" You believe she will give him up ?" 
" I count upon it. She has such an admiration 
for her father." 
" Oh, we know all about that. But it only makes 
me pity her the more. It makes her dilemma the 
more painful, and the effort of choosing between 
you and her lover almost impossible." 
" If she can't choose, all the better." 
" Yes ; but he will stand there entreating her to 
choose, and Lavinia will pull on that side." 
" I am glad she is not on my side ; she is capable 
of ruining an excellent cause. The day Lavinia 
gets into your boat it capsizes. But she had better 
be careful," said the Doctor. " I will have no trea- 
son in my house." 
" I suspect she will be careful ; for she is at bot- 
tom very much afraid of you." 
" They are both afraid of me, harmless as I am," 
the Doctor answered. "And it is on that that I 
build on the salutary terror I inspire." 
XIV. 
HE wrote his frank letter to Mrs. Montgomery, 
who punctually answered it, mentioning an hour at 
which he might present himself in the Second Ave- 
nue. She lived in a neat little house of red brick, 
which had been freshly painted, with the edges of 
the bricks very sharply marked out in white. It 
has now disappeared, with its companions, to make 
room for a row of structures more majestic. There 
were green shutters upon the windows without slats, 
but pierced with little holes, arranged in groups ; 
and before the house was a diminutive "yard," or- 
namented with a bush of mysterious character, and 
surrounded by a low wooden paling, painted in the 
same green as the shutters. The place looked like 
a magnified baby-house, and might have been taken 
down from a shelf in a toy-shop. Doctor Sloper, 
when he went to call, said to himself, as he glanced 
at the objects I have enumerated, that Mrs. Mont- 
gomery was evidently a thrifty and self-respecting 
little person the modest proportions of her dwell- 
ing seemed to indicate that she was of small stature 
who took a virtuous satisfaction in keeping her- 
self tidy, and had resolved that, since she might not 
be splendid, she would at least be immaculate. She 
received him in a little parlor, which was precisely 
the parlor he had expected : a small unspeckled 
bower, ornamented with a desultory foliage of tissue- 
paper, and with clusters of glass drops, amidst which 
to carry out the analogy the temperature of the 
leafy season was maintained by means of a cast-iron 
stove, emitting a dry blue flame, and smelling strong- 
ly of varnish. The walls were embellished with en- 
gravings swathed in pink gauze, and the tables orna- 
mented with volumes of extracts from the poets, 
usually bound in black cloth stamped with florid de- 
signs in jaundiced gilt. The Doctor had time to 
take cognizance of these details ; for Mrs. Mont- 
gomery, whose conduct he pronounced under the 
circumstances inexcusable, kept him, waiting some 
ten minutes before she appeared. At last, however, 
she rustled in, smoothing down a stiff poplin dress, 
with a little frightened flush in a gracefully rounded 
cheek. 
She was a small, plump, fair woman, with a bright, 
clear eye, and an extraordinary air of neatness and 
briskness. But these qualities were evidently com- 
bined with an unaffected humility, and the Doctor 
gave her his esteem as soon as he had looked at her. 
A brave little person, with lively perceptions, and 
yet a disbelief in her own talent for social, as distin- 
guished from practical, affairs this was his rapid 
mental resume of Mrs. Montgomery ; who, as he saw, 
was flattered by what she regarded as the honor of 
his visit. Mrs. Montgomery, in her little red house 
in the Second Avenue, was a person for whom Dr. 
Sloper was one of the great men one of the fine 
gentlemen of New York ; and while she fixed her 
agitated eyes upon him, while she clasped her mit- 
tened hands together in her glossy poplin lap, she 
had the appearance of saying to herself that he quite 
answered her idea of what a distinguished guest 
would naturally be. She apologized for being late ; 
but he interrupted her. 
"It doesn't matter," he said; "for while I sat 
here I had time to think over what I wish to say to 
you, and to make up my mind how to begin." 
" Oh, do begin !" murmured Mrs. Montgomery. 
" It is not so easy," said the Doctor, smiling. 
" You will have gathered from my letter that I wish 
to ask you a few questions, and you may not find it 
very comfortable to answer them." 
" Yes ; I have thought what I should say. It is 
not very easy." 
"But you must understand my situation my 
state of mind. Your brother wishes to marry my 
daughter, and I wish to find out what sort of a young 
man he is. A good way to do so seemed to be to 
come and ask you, which I have proceeded to do." 
Mrs. Montgomery evidently took the situation 
very seriously ; she was in a state of extreme moral 
concentration. She kept her pretty eyes, which 
were illumined by a sort of brilliant modesty, at- 
tached to his own countenance, and evidently paid 
the most earnest attention to each of his words. 
Her expression indicated that she thought his idea 
of coming to see her a very superior conception, 
but that she was really afraid to have opinions on 
strange subjects. 
" I am extremely glad to see you," she said, in a 
tone which seemed to admit, at the same time, that 
this had nothing to do with the question. 
The Doctor took advantage of this admission. 
"I didn't come to see you for your pleasure; I 
came to make you say disagreeable things and you 
can't like that. What sort of a gentleman is your 
brother ?" 
Mrs. Montgomery's illuminated gaze grew vague, 
and began to wander. She smiled a little, and for. 
some time made no answer, so that the Doctor at 
last became impatient. And her answer, when it 
came, was not satisfactory. " It is difficult to talk 
about one's brother." 
" Not when one is fond of him, and when one has 
plenty of good to say." 
" Yes, even then, when a good deal depends on 
it," said Mrs. Montgomery. 
" Nothing depends on it for you." 
" I mean for for " and she hesitated. 
" For your brother himself. I see." 
" I mean for Miss Sloper," said Mrs. Montgomery. 
The Doctor liked this ; it had the accent of sin- 
cerity. "Exactly; that's the point. If my poor 
girl should marry your brother, everything as re- 
gards her happiness would depend on his being a 
good fellow. She is the best creature in the world, 
arid she could never do him a grain of injury. He, 
on the other hand, if he should not be all that we 
desire, might make her very miserable. That is 
why I want you to throw some light upon his char- 
acter, you know. Of course, you are not bound to 
do it. My daughter, whom you have never seen, is 
nothing to you ; and I, possibly, am only an indis- 
creet and impertinent old man. It is perfectly open 
to you to tell me that my visit is in very bad taste, 
and that I had better go about my business. But I 
don't think you will do this; because I think we 
shall interest you my poor girl and I. I am sure 
that if you were to see Catherine she would interest 
you very much. I don't mean because she is inter- 
esting in the usual sense of the word, but because 
you would feel sorry for her. She is so soft, so sim- 
ple-minded, she would be such an easy victim ! A 
bad husband would have remarkable facilities for 
making her miserable ; for she would have neither 
the intelligence nor the resolution to get the better 
of him, and yet she would have an exaggerated 
power of suffering. I see," added the Doctor, with 
his most insinuating, his most professional laugh, 
" you are already interested." 
" I have been interested from the moment he told 
me he was engaged," said Mrs. Montgomery. 
" Ah ! he says that he calls it an engagement ?" 
" Oh, he has told me you didn't like it." 
" Did he tell you that I don't like Mm ?" 
" Yes, he told me that too. I said I couldn't help 
it," added Mrs. Montgomery. 
" Of course you can't. But what you can do is 
to tell me I am right to give me an attestation, as 
it were." And the Doctor accompanied this remark 
with another professional smile. 
Mrs. Montgomery, however, smiled not at all ; it 
was obvious that she could not take the humorous 
view of his appeal. " That is a good deal to ask," 
she said, at last. 
" There can be no doubt of that ; and I must, in 
conscience, remind you of the advantages a young 
man marrying my daughter would enjoy. She has 
an income of ten thousand dollars in her own right, 
left her by her mother ; if she marries a husband I 
approve, she will come into almost twice as much 
more at my death." 
Mrs. Montgomery listened in great earnestness to 
