and she was so quiet. 
Mary inclined to the opinion that she was a rather sul- 
len little thing. Her visits to the kitchen were very brief, 
except when she came for her meals. 
,The new existence bewildered Titania. It appeared first 
like the mimic life of the stage, and had for her the same 
unreal air. She could not understand how she had drifted 
into it, although the few surface facts were easy enough 
of comprehension. There had been no one to take care 
of her ; and, beside, not being strong enough to endure her 
former life she shrank from it now with a deadly horror. 
She felt within herself the instinct of hiding, like some 
poor hunted animal. But that she should be here com- 
pelled to menial occupations, ordered to fetch and carry 
like a dog, taunted with being an object of charity, listen- 
ing occasionally when Mrs. Winstead explained to her 
friends how her sympathies had been touched, how she had 
burdened herself with a child who could be of very little 
use for a year or two to come ; but when one saw these 
 
countless waifs in great cities one longed to reach out a 
helping hand, and save them from lives of infamy. 
Titania's blood rose hot within her at these wordy false- 
hoods. Was she not giving her daily toil for the plain 
attic, and common fare ? For, however elegant the table 
might be in the dining-room its luxuries did not descend to 
the- kitchen. The choice desserts and fruits, the savory 
meats, were set aside. Mrs. Winstead certainly had made 
management a fine art. She and her daughter went clad 
in silks and laces, the table was a picture, with its choice 
and costly appointments and dainty fare, but the thrift 
back of it all was surprising. Not a pin was wasted. Not 
a crumb that could be turned into anything else was thrown 
away. No idleness was tolerated in a dependent. 
And yet, in spite of the drawbacks, Titania almost rev- 
elled in a sense of beauty. The old town was so lovely, 
even when she walked behind Miss Helena, carrying bas- 
ket, or satchel, or shawl. The house and grounds, the 
furniture, carpets, and pictures, were each a revelation in 
themselves. She drank in the refinement, the harmony, 
the culture, with the eagerness of a thirsty traveller. She 
had enjoyed a certain luxurious life with Kate, but that 
had been tinctured with vulgarity, and lacked the fine 
adjustments. This was intensely selfish in many points, 
and they would gladly have crowded her out of the 
sesthetical side if they could, but she kept these dreams 
of delight closely within her heart, and waited. She had 
needed so much patience in her short life !
Beside the overbearing authority of the women she was 
tormented with a covert insolence and cruelty from Mr. 
Archie, the son of the house. He liked to tease her, just 
as he teased the cat and the dog ; nay, it was more amuse- 
ment, because he could rouse her soul, startle her into some 
demonstration of impatience or anger. Not often, it was 
true. She feared him, and sought shelter under his moth- 
er's wing, where she knew he would not dare molest her. 
So passed away a month. Regular living and whole- 
some sleep began to show their beneficial effects. The 
wan face filled out, and now and then flushed with exqui- 
site pink tints. The little white fingers looked less like 
claws, and there came to her an almost exultant strength 
in place of the dreary languor. The terrible weakness in 
her back was quite forgotten on some days. 
" Really, mamma, mine," exclaimed Archie, one morning, 
" I must compliment you upon the improvement in your 
handmaiden. She looks less like a human spider, and 
will, no doubt, become an ornament to the Oaks, though 
I think people rarely choose pretty servants. If she is 
to be Helena's property will not the contrast between 
mistress and maid be too great?" 
Miss Winstead at sixteen was large and mature-looking. 
Nature had formed her on a generous model. Her feat- 
ures were not fine, and certainly far from any point of sym- 
metrical beauty ; her hands and feet could lay no claim to 
Cinderella-like proportions. Her hair was brown, and 
abundant, but unfortunately her complexion was not of the 
kind for an harmonious contrast, being neither " wholly 
dark, nor fair." Indeed, Mr. Archibald had taken what 
little family beauty there was to inherit, and was rather 
proud of it. 
" Archibald," said his mother, severely, " I wish you would 
pay a little attention to the rules of good-breeding. No 
gentleman, I think, is called upon to discuss his mother's 
servants." 
" I merely made a comment. You must admit that she 
has improved wonderfully. And she has magnificent eyes. 
Now, Lena, if you possessed such orbs what execution 
might you not do among the sterner sex?" 
Helena flushed swarthily. Celestial rosy-red was not 
among her tints. 
" At least, Archibald, you can refrain from insulting yout 
sister. I wish to hear no more upon the subject," was the 
pointed reply. 
Mr. Archie gave a little laugh, and sipped his coffee. 
He could afford to try his mother's temper since he was to 
go away in a few days. 
After he had left the room Helena glanced up at her 
mother. The worthy matron's brow was somewhat ruffled. 
"I am not quite sure but Archie is right, mamma," she 
said, in a tone of annoyance. " That child is too pretty for 
a servant. There is something about her that I do not ex- 
actly understand, the thing that we should call birth in 
another person. It seems impossible to put her down, be- 
cause she is not outwardly self-assertive, and yet she shows 
her pride in every step, in every word." 
" Birth and pride ! What are you talking about, Helena? 
It is our duty to make her know her place. A child picked 
out of the gutter." 
" She seems to keep her place, that is the worst of it. 
She gives one very few chances to snub her. I sometimes 
think she has seen more of the world, and is wiser than we 
imagine, she has such a peculiar air about her. And I don't 
see what need a girl in her station has of such a faultless 
complexion, or such perfect features ! And the tint of her 
hair is enough to madden one I " 
Helena's smouldering fire burst out then. The child's 
beauty had become a grievance to her. 
Mrs. Winstead glanced at her daughter. Jane, as she 
persisted in calling the child, had been a sort of under- 
current of dissatisfaction. 
" I must say I did not consider Jane especially pretty 
when I saw her at the Home. That she has improved, I 
am sorry to confess, as beauty in her station is only a snare 
and an evil. But whether it would be worth while to give 
her up on that account ; for she learns very quickly, and is 
already exceedingly useful. She waits on the table much 
better than Hannah, she is learning to sew neatly, and has 
a wonderful taste in arrangement. She is just the girl to 
become invaluable to one, unless " 
" Unless Archie should fall in love with her ! " and Helena 
felt that she had thrown a bomb into the cainp. 
" Helena ! " Mrs. Winstead was an exclamation point. 
" Well, the like has happened," retorted Helena, sulkily. 
" How utterly absurd ! I doubt if the child is twelve 
years old, and for the next three years Archie will be in 
college. During that time he will find no scarcity of hand- 
some girls. After all, there is plenty of this pink-and- 
white baby beauty in the world ; and I should keep Jane 
strictly under my own eye. Besides, do you imagine 
Archibald would so demean himself?" 
"He wouldn't marry her, of course," said Miss Helena; 
" but even a flirtation might be uncomfortable." 
Mrs. Winstead laughed scornfully. 
" Don't distress yonrself about that, my dear. I fancy I 
should be quite equal to such an emergency." 
Helena did not bring forth a still more potent argument, 
on a point that might affect her more than the dreaded 
flirtation. She hated the little flings of contrast of which 
Archibald was so fond. To be exposed to them, sharp 
little wasp stings as they would prove, appeared almost 
unendurable. 
" Besides, Helena, pretty children invariably make plain 
women. This girl at sixteen may have nothing noticeable 
about her. Complexions fade, and her hair will change to 
a dull brown." 
"But she has fine eyes ; unusual eyes." 
" And I may not keep her," continued Mrs. Winstead, 
dryly. " I certainly shall not sacrifice the well-being of my 
family to her. There, I think we have discussed the child 
quite enough. She is not worth such a fuss." 
With that Mrs. Winstead rose loftily, and, ringing the 
bell, summoned Jane to wash the silver and clear away 
the lunch-dishes. The servants partook of their dinner 
exactly at twelve, in the kitchen. Lunch for the family 
was at one. 
The remnants of the dinner of the day before generally 
served for lunch, and, though Titania sometimes coveted 
the luxuries she put away, pride would have prevented her 
touching them, if she had not been so strictly forbidden. 
Helena went to her room, and her novel. Mrs.Winstead 
inspected her handmaiden's work, the ripping of some 
dresses that were to be made over into elegant fall gar- 
ments. There certainly was no fault to find. The little 
fingers had been deft and industrious; and yet the lady 
drew her brows into a severe frown. 
Titania entered the room presently. Her dress was of 
dingy gray, a faded lawn, made with no ornamentation 
whatever, except the frill of the same around the neck. But 
the pearly, satin-fine skin seemed lovelier by contrast, and 
the rapid exercise had brought a delicate pink to her 
cheeks, while her small scarlet mouth was the one touch of 
brilliance enhancing the whole. 
The dull, jealous hate with which Titania had at first in- 
spired Mrs. Winstead returned with tenfold force. She 
could have destroyed the winsome beauty forever, had such 
a thing been possible, and answered to her conscience that 
it was for the child's good. There was one thing that she 
could do. 
" Jane," she said in a peremptory manner, " bring me a 
cloth of some kind a piece of that skirt-lining will do. 
There, sit here on this stool, and pin it tightly about your 
neck." 
The child sat down, then she turned, and asked rather 
abruptly, moved by a sudden presentiment, 
"What are you going to do ? " 
"Make you look rather more respectable," replied the 
lady, in a sharp tone. " A frousy-headed servant I cannot 
endure." 
"You shall not cut my hair!" and Titania's hands went 
np to defend her precious cnrls, shorn of so much glory in 
the hospital, where it had been absolutely necessary. 
" What ! " demanded Mrs. Winstead. " You insolent 
little thing to dare use such language to me I Put down 
your hands this moment." 
" You shall not," cried the child ; " it is my hair ; you 
have no right ! " and she faced her mistress with the same 
air of resolute defiance with which she had once con- 
fronted Dick Bridger. 
For answer she received a blinding, stinging blow, that 
made the room whirl around to her dazed vision. 
" You insolent little huzzy, I'll teach you to speak to me 
in that manner! " and Titania felt herself seized by a strong 
arm, and held as if in a vice, while the clip of the scissors 
rang in her ears. 
"Oh, don't, don't!" she implored, "please don't. I will 
do everything you tell me, and not waste my time. I will 
be so good, only don't cut it, please ! " 
Alas! the ruthless scissors made quick work of it. Hold- 
ing her with one hand with the other she sped on the 
work of destruction. The soft, golden curls fell about the 
floor, quivering as if they, too, suffered at being severed 
from the fair head. 
" I'll teach you to be such a fury ! I should think you 
would be ashamed of such a frightful temper I That is the 
way you thank me for my kindness in picking you out of 
the street, as one may say." 
"Oh, if you only had not taken me! If you had left me 
with kind Mrs. Post. If you will send me back again ! " 
sobbed the child. 
"Turn around." 
She obeyed, the te.irs streaming from her eyes. Re- 
sistance was useless, for the cruel deed was well-nigh 
accomplished. 
" I want you to understand that I am mistress, and that 
I expect my servants to obey me," said Mrs. Winstead, 
with a glance that almost quenched the spirit of the 
child; "I shall not send you back to Mrs. Post, but have 
you bound immediately. Here you remain until you are 
eighteen. Dare to go away and you shall be arrested, and 
put in prison as a common vagrant. Venture to defy me. 
as you have done to-day, and you will learn what sort of 
punishment I can inflict. Go to your room and wash your 
face, and brush the hair out of your dress. Or stay clear 
up this litter, first." 
Titania went for the brush and pan, and carefully re- 
moved the obnoxious curls, together with the shreds of her 
ripping. 
" Take it down-stairs, and tell Mary to put it in the fire," 
was the next order. 
Down she crept tremblingly. For some seconds she 
stood at the door, when a little sob caught Hannah's ear. 
"Oh, lauk a massy!" cried Hannah, startled out of her 
wonted prudence and stolidity ; " what a fright you're 
made, sure enough. Who did it ? " 
"Mrs. Winstead. And I hate her !" 
The child's soft-brown eyes flashed fire. 
"Well, that's mean enough, goodness knows ! Fd a fit 
Jike a tiger. And, oh, them soft, beautiful curls! Why, 
they look a'most human. Oh, how could she ! " 
" Hannah, attend to your own business," exclaimed Mary, 
who in turn domineered over her underling; "the mistress 
is right. Such flummery isn't becoming to girls ! I never 
wore a curl in my life." 
Indeed, it would have been a task to manufacture curia 
out of Mary's stiff", black locks. 
Then she turned sharply on Titania. 
" What are you going to do with that stuff?" 
" I was to put it in the fire," and the words came 
brokenly. 
" Best place for it, I'm sure. Well, I wouldn't be such a 
fool as to cry over it." 
Titania wiped her eyes, and left the kitchen, followed by 
Hannah's sympathetic looks, which were some comfort. 
" Why did you not stay all the afternoon ? " was Mrs- 
Winstead's greeting. " Now, go and make yourself decent, 
and hurry, too, or I'll know the reason." 
She bathed her eyes, and wept some bitter tears in the 
bowl of water. Then she summoned courage to glance at 
herself in the bit of glass over the washstand. 
Sheared close to her head, just a sort of golden fuzz, 
with here and there a little lock that had escaped the devas- 
tating hand. She shuddered, and her eyes filled with slow 
tears again. Hannah had said she was a fright. Oh, how 
horrible it was ! And if Mrs. Winstead would never let it 
grow again ! 
"Jane, are you coming?" was the sharp call; and hastily 
giving herself a brush, she ran down. 
"Take your work again. That dress must be finished by 
night. Stop crying instantly. Tears will ruin that silk. 
If you were as vain as that, it is high time some stop was 
put to your foolishness," and the severe eyes transfixed 
her. 
Every nerve quivered as if under torture. All her life, 
so far, she had been in some one's power. Dick Bridger 
had come to love her, the sweet reward she could never 
forget ; but this cold, haughty woman, was only a remove 
from Owen Thomas. And she had struck her a blow! 
Her cheek still tingled, and the print of the cruel fingers 
seemed burnt into it. Was she compelled to stay here ? 
Had those people any right to deliver her into a stranger's 
keeping? Oh, if Kate would but write! There was one 
week more before August ended, and it seemed to Titania 
that she must hear. The tears dried of their own accord, 
and a burning, fiery indignation took possession of her. 
When Kate sent, she would go off in triumph. She would 
show Mrs. Winstead that she was to be no one's servant. 
She finished her ripping, and then was summoned to 
wait upon the table. Miss Helena had been carried off 
to ride by a friend. Titania entered the dining-room with 
a shame-faced air, and stood behind the master while he 
carved. 
Mr. Winstead was not much more than the ornamental 
head of the house. He had long since ceased to be the 
ruling spirit. His library, and his books, and a few friends 
to discuss Utopian theories with, amply satisfied him. 
True, he attended his wife to evening parties or dinners, 
and occasionally drove out with her. His tall, rather spare, 
but undeniably aristocratic figure, answered the same pur- 
pose as a Sevres vase, in his wife's estimation. His family 
were among the oldest settlers in the town, and had always 
been gentlemen. 
So it came to pass that he troubled himself very little 
about his wife's arrangements. Servants might come and 
go, be dressed in velvet or sackcloth, and he would not 
have remarked it BO long as the meals were properly 
served, and no unusual disorder in the house. 
But Mr. Archie was of quite another stamp, and the 
child had an instinctive dread of him. Now he looked her 
all over, and then raised his eyes to his mother's face with 
an air of deliberate, but somewhat quizzical, questioning. 
Titania's brow flushed scarlet, and her hand trembled so 
that it took a most resolute endeavor to command herself, 
and keep from dropping the plate she held. It was such a 
bitterly cruel mortification, the more, perhaps, because so 
early in life she had come to understand the true value of 
beauty, and its wondrous power. A tear dropped quietly 
on the floor. Evade the insolent scrutiny she could not, 
but when the dessert had been brought on, and the 
serving ended, she turned to go down-stairs to her own 
meal. 
" Jane," said her mistress, peremptorily, " sit there by 
the window. You are to stay, hereafter, until the meal is 
finished." 
She crept to a corner instead, anywhere to be out of 
sight of the mocking eyes. 
" Jane ! " The tone was threatening. 
The child went to the window, and sat in the strong 
light of the brilliant sunset. An artist would have dis- 
cerned a picture in the poor, frightened face, beautiful in 
spite of its recent despoilment, with the peculiar infantile 
transparency of an invalid. Nothing could mar the pure 
oval contour, the softness of the cleft chin, with its dainty 
dimple ; the low, broad, full brow, the exquisitely carved 
ear, that looked like a bit of pearly sea-shell. 
Archibald gave a low chuckle, but his mother frowned 
sternly. When they rose from the table he lingered, going 
to the cigar tray for a match, and then wandering aimlessly 
about, with his eyes on Titania as she removed the dessert 
dishes. They went down on the dumb-waiter, afid a bowl 
of water was sent up to wash the silver. She could hide 
herself in the capacious pantry to do that, and she was so 
thankful to be out of sight. 
Mrs. Winstead came in to inspect the work, and found 
some trivial fault. She was in a most captious and exact- 
ing .mood ; but Titania went swiftly through her task, and 
when not another duty remained she was allowed to go 
down to the kitchen for her supper. 
Scarcely had she passed the door before Archie burst 
into a coarse laugh. 
"Well, you have done it this time, mother! In trying 
to disfigure a uymph you have given us a fright for a 
waiter. Was that Helena's petty spite? It was so like a 
plain woman." 
" Helena had nothing to do with it. The child's head 
was a great yellow mop, and a frowsy table-waitress is my 
abomination. Besides, it is a good thing for the child's 
foolish vanity, and she has enough of it." 
"For Heaven's sake don't have her around if there 
should happen to be any visitors. I should be mortified 
to death at the sight of such a brat.'' 
Mrs. Winstead bit her lip, and left her son to his reflec- 
tions. Thank heaven he would be away presently, and 
another summer but that was a long way off, and she 
would find some means of providing for it. 
Titania, meanwhile, was faring hardly in the kitchen, 
When the dinner was sent up Mary's work for the day 
was over, and she went home immediately, the remainder 
of the evening being her own, except upon state occasions. 
Hannah remained to wash the dishes and tidy the place, 
for the mistress' lynx-like eyes might descend upon the 
slightest omission. 
So now Hannah was cross at the delay, and the supper 
consisted of a few cold bits, that did not look very inviting 
even if the child had been hungry. But her inmost soul 
was filled with despairing anguish, and she could not have 
eaten even if it had been a royal banquet. 
"Hurry up," she said, snappishly. "I can't be waiting 
all night for dishes. Why didn't you come afore ?" 
"Mrs. Winstead kept me until they were all through. 
But, Hannah, I don't care for any supper, and I will help 
you dry the dishes." 
" No you won't, either. Mistress'll find it out some way, 
and make an nwful row. She's a sharp woman, she is ! 
If that's being a great lady, and having a pedigree hung 
up in a libery, why I don't know as it makes better tempers 
than common folks; and though she sows money broad-cast 
in the parlor, she'll skin a flint in the kitchen. You poor 
little thing!" and here Hannah's heart began to melt, 
" you look iust like a half-starved lamb, strayed away from 
its mother. Here, you shall have a bit of this custard, and 
a' peach. I smuggled it myself." 
"Oh, Hannah, you are so good I" and Titania's voice 
quivered with the effort she made to keep from crying. 
" No, I ain't. I'm cross as fury ! And I don't see what 
right she had to cut off your pretty hair ! I'd a scratched 
her eyes out." 
"Oh, I couldn't. She was so strong," said Titania, 
simply. " Do I look so very, very dreadful, Hannah ? " 
" Well, it's a shame, a burning and crying shame, you 
see," said Hannah, eying her with great deliberation, 
" but I can't say that it has altogether spoiled your beauty. 
An' then hair'll grow again that's its nature ; but she'll 
never let it curl, you mind that ! " and the girl gave an 
emphatic shake of the head. " I think you're a main pretty 
little creature, and look a thousand times more like a lady 
than the whole raft of them all. 'Pears to me tain't noth- 
ing but money and a fine house, and knowing how 'to 
play on the planner. Why, if you were dressed up fine, 
now, the great folks would go wild about you." 
A flush of pleasure transfigured Titania's face. She 
remembered when great folks had gone wild about her. 
There came over her an intense desire to impart to Han- 
nah some episode of that past wonderful life that looked 
now like fairy land. But a step was heard on the stair. 
" Put it in your pocket," and Hannah thrust the peach 
under the table, in the child's hand, while the surreptitious 
custard was whisked out of sight. 
"How slow you are with the dishes, Hannah !And do 
you mean to eat all night, Jane ? " 
' She hasn't eaten a bit," interrupted Hannah. 
Certainly the Madam's kitchen tone was very different 
from her drawing-room tone. 
" Get through with your meal as quickly as possible 
then, and go up-stairs. I am waiting to have the lamps 
lighted. And the gossipping of servants is a thing that I 
will not allow in my house, and you know it,- Hannah. 
It is your place to set an example." 
"I wasn't gossipping," returned Hannah, sulkily. 
Titania gave her a grateful look, and went quietly out 
of the room. Mrs. Winstead seized the opportunity to im- 
press upon Hannah the utter perverseness and intractability 
of Jane, and the trouble she was likely to have with hei 
" I should not wonder if I had to send her back," was hei 
concluding verdict ; but if she had known that it would 
prove a joy, and not a threat, to the child, she would hardly 
have uttered it. 
Titania was so weary with conflicting emotions that 
hardly had her head touched the pillow before she fell 
asleep, and forgot her woes. 
September came in, with no word from Kate. Mr 
Archie went off to college with an indifferent good-by, 
and the house was the more endurable for his absence. 
Helena was cold and supercilious, but she had not, as yet, 
the petty cruelty of her mother. 
Mrs. Winstead found that she was likely to have a 
treasure in her deft-hauded maiden. She would not have 
admitted the fact ; indeed, to her friends she bewailed the 
possession of that exceeding sympathy that was always 
leading her into such foolish experiments. 
" It will take two or three years to train the child into 
anything," she would say, " and you can never predict how 
a girl of that class will turn out. There is so much in 
birth. But when the world is filled with these homeless 
creatures we must all do a little toward raising them; 
and, in any case, I will have tried to save one poor soul 
from destruction." 
CHAPTER XIX. 
ON THE TBACK. 
MEANWHILE what had befallen Mrs. Chippenham. 
It must be admitted that Gilbert's usual luck followed 
him. He had never succeeded at anything, and never 
would. In poverty he lacked perseverance, and the reso- 
lute courage necessaiy to battle with adverse circum- 
stances, and in prosperity his overweening vanity led him 
astray. His winter in Paris was not a success. He spent 
a great deal of money in preparing his play for the stage, 
and suffered the bitter mortification of having it hissed. 
Then he quarrelled with the manager, and found himself 
a general laughing-stock. The keen wit of the Parisians 
stung him through his self-complacency. 
He had indulged in extravagant club-living and gaming, 
and found that here, too, the piper must be paid. So he 
took a sudden disgust to the dancing. 
It was plain that they would be compelled to economize. 
Kate must give up her hotel and her ponies, and perhaps 
they had better quit Paris. He had not been appreciated 
as his talents deserved. The managers and the clubs were 
a gigantic swindle. There was Rome, and Florence, and 
Vienna, and the German baths. They had done none of 
them. If they re-commenced their tour he need not go 
into any awkward explanations with Kate. 
His proposal to visit Italy was received with pleasure. 
Kate cheerfully disposed of the ponies, packed her trunks, 
and late in May they reached Florence. Here he met 
gome old friends, needy adventurers, who welcomed! him 
warmly. He would devote himself to writing a book ol 
travels that should distance everything. 
Kate demurred somewhat at her accommodations. 
" Everything is so fearfully expensive," said her lord and 
master ! " and, Kate, we are not nabobs. We really spent 
more in Paris than we should have done." 
"But I thought living in .Paris was so cheap, much 
cheaper than in America, And yet it seems as if my 
dresses cost more, and you couldn't stir without spending 
a handful of francs." 
" That was our bridal tour, and we won't begrudge the 
money," he replied, with a rather grandiose bearing. " In 
future we will try to be more economical." 
He meant that she should be. He could see where to 
deprive her of some needless luxury^ but for himself a cer- 
tain style was necessary. She was not the kind of woman 
to advance a man in society, and then she was so much 
older. He began to think, in a patronizing way, that he 
had been exceedingly foolish to marry her, to tie himself 
to a vulgar, commonplace person. 
And so poor Kate found it rather dull, alone among 
strangers, and poured out her heart again to Titania, in a 
letter the poor child never received. 
"Gilbert," she said, a month or so later, "have you 
written to Mr. Thomas that Titania will not enter into any 
new engagement ? I want her sent for, to come to us in 
the fall." 
" Oh, of course, of course," was Gilbert's impatient reply, 
scarcely heeding what she said. 
They went to Rome. Kate wandered about listlessly, 
and Gilbert did not find much to attract him ; so, after a 
brief sojourn, they went to Germany. Homburg opened 
hospitable doors. 
Mr. Chippenham began to be concerned about his remit- 
tance from Roberts, and wrote a sharp letter to the agent. 
Then he wondered if he could not manage to make Titania 
more profitable. She was worth more than Thomas paid 
for her. A pretty little thing perhaps he could create 
quite a sensation with her. Kate would make a fuss doubt- 
less, but she would see that it was best. 
Then came a letter that had followed him from point 
to point. It detailed Titania's mishap, and stated that 
Thomas had thrown up the engagement. Titania had 
been taken to a hospital her back was so injured by the 
fall that the probabilities were she would never do for a 
stage performer. Mr. Roberts suggested that she should 
be sent to Mrs. Chippenham as soon as she was able to 
travel. 
The innate selfishness of the man took alarm. Titania 
certainly had no legal claim upon Kate. If she were to be 
dependent helpless no, he could not think of having 
Kate bothered with her. It was another piece of bad luck, 
and he half believed the child had done it purposely. Let 
her suffer the consequences, then. 
So he replied immediately. They could do nothing for 
her. Mrs. Chippenham was travelling about, and really 
had no home. If Titania was injured beyond recovery the 
best plan would be to send her to some charitable in- 
stitution, or orphan asylum. 
In reply Chippenham received word that this had been 
done. 
Bitten by a mania for gambling, Chippenham was rapidly 
reducing Kate's once comfortable fortune. Moreover he 
was growing very morose, and Kate saw with dismay that 
much of the time he was under the influence of liquor. 
Remonstrating only drew upon her head a shower of 
abuse. 
Six months had now elapsed without any direct tidings 
from Titania, so Kate applied to Mr. Roberts with the ut- 
most urgency. 
Poor Kate had sown to the wind, like a foolish woman, 
and was now to reap the whirlwind. She found her dear 
 
Gilbert a harder master than Dick Bridger had ever been 
Indeed, he ceased to keep up the formula of love that had 
BO blinded her. She could get no satisfaction about busi- 
ness matters, and he doled her out her own money with 
grumbling and oaths. She began to fear she had been 
unwise in trusting him so implicitly. 
Mr. Roberts' brief note amazed her. He stated that he 
had kept Mr. Chippenham informed of all that had befallen 
Mam'selle Barrett! ; but he went over the details for her 
satisfaction. 
This sad news shocked first, then roused. She had 
fancied Titania well and happy, gaining triumphs and ap- 
plause, growing more enchantingly beautiful, and enjoying 
the excitements of the stage, that would have been such a 
delight to her vain, foolish soul. But if Dick's little 
Queenie was injured, a cripple for life, her duty was clear. 
Have her she must. No Hospital or Home should befriend 
the child while she had a penny. 
The womanly part of her soul was touched. The most 
unselfish love of Kate's whole life came to light now. She 
had always been interested in the small waif drifted to her 
keeping by the strange incidents of a peculiar fate. Shut 
out of other channels for affection this became more intense, 
and if it had not the noblest sentiment for a foundation its 
present kindly intention purified and ennobled. 
Unluckily Gilbert Chippenham sauntered into his wife's 
room at this juncture. She turned upon him with the 
letter, and in a passion that surprised even herself. Had 
he known all this time? Had he dared to leave Titania 
among strangers, an object of charity? 
It led, as may be supposed, to a desperate quarrel. 
Chippenham refused to send for Titania, to return to 
America, or even give his wife a dollar to spend on the 
beggar's brat. She was nothing to them. Let her live or 
die as she liked. Kate must understand once for all that 
she should never be an inmate of Ms house t 
" She shall be an inmate of mine, then," answered Kate, 
defiantly. " Either she shall come to me, or I will go to 
her." 
Darling Gilbert swore furiously. And then he asked 
Kate, sneeringly, where she would get her money from ? 
She could not touch a penny except as he gave it to her ; 
and she had been so extravagant ! He would have no 
more such waste and foolery. 
It was too true. Everything was in her husband's 
hands. That he had squandered nearly all of it never 
occurred to her. Her sanguine nature leaped over ob- 
stacles, and she made her plans directly. 
She would send for Titania. There surely could be 
found some trusty person captain of steamer, or stew- 
ardess, who, for proper compensation, would bring over the 
child. Then she would find a quiet, inexpensive home, or 
some simple school, perhaps, where she might be allowed 
to visit her frequently. But where was the money to come 
from? 
There was but one way. Kate's whole soul was enlisted, 
her sluggish nature roused to a height of self-sacrifice. 
She took out her jewel-case, and selected the diamonds 
that had been such a source of gratification to her, and 
went straightway to a jeweller's. She so seldom wore 
them now that they would hardly be missed. And for the 
first time remembering the freedom and delights of her 
brief widowhood Kate Chippenham regretted her haste 
and her folly in espousing Gilbert. If she were only free 
to-day, and mistress of her own fortune ! Into what mon- 
strous madness had she been betrayed ! 
She realized quite a handsome sum, and immediately 
forwarded it to Mr. Roberts, with all possible and impos- 
sible instructions. Titania was to be sent at the earliest 
opportunity. Then she busied herself inquiring about 
schools, and planning the life together. Mr. Roberts had 
said that Titania was in no way crippled or deformed, as 
he understood it, but left weak and ailing by the long 
sickness and possibly bad usage. She might get quite wet 
and beautiful again ; and a warm, motherly feeling sprang 
up in Kate's heart, the need of something to take Gilbert's 
place. 
Kate did not really understand how gradual the process 
of disenchantment had been. Neglect, indifference, and 
tyranny had sapped her regard by slow degrees. It makes 
little difference what shock sends the fruit to the ground, 
when for weeks the worm has lain at its heart. She 
thought it his cruelty and deception about Titania, she 
fancied she had forgiven his little daily sins. Like many 
another common-place, unreasoning woman, there was no 
long-suffering to her love. If she could have taken her 
money out of his hands she would have bidden him a joy- 
ful good-by. As it was, she resolved to set herself to 
manage against him, to outwit him, to master him by any 
strategy. 
It was the middle of December before her letter reached 
Mr. Roberts, and it found him so engrossed with various 
matters that he merely deputed a subordinate to make in- 
quiries, and answer the letter. Through a misunderstand- 
ing of names word was sent back that the child had died. 
A little later another actor appeared on the scene. Was 
Dick's little Queen ever to know how warm an interest she 
created and kept alive in the hearts of strangers ? 
Roger Lasselle had found many interests for his young 
manhood. Ambition to keep somewhere near his cousin 
Lawrence in scholarship, friendship, for he was of the 
kind who are always the centre of an admiring circle. He 
adored Aunt Alice with the passion of a boy who has 
never had mother or sister to love, and her influence over 
him was most refining, in his amusements as well as tastes. 
He and Lawrence were to go home for the Christmas 
holidays. An evening or two before, he sat lounging and 
smoking in the room of a classmate, who was tumbling out 
the contents of a trunk, and laughing at the carefulness 
with which various unimportant articles had been stored 
away, by an ever-watchful aunt, whose protege he was. 
"Women always put such a sight of useless, humbug- 
ging things among a fellow's traps," was his rather humor- 
ous comment. M These socks are wrapped in newspaper to 
keep out moths, and I told Aunt Lucy I should never wear 
them, woollen, think of it ! " and he laughingly tore 
off the paper. " Hello ! I wonder they were not demoral- 
ized ! here's a flaming advertisement of a grand show ! " 
" Let's have it ? " and Roger reached out his hand, lazily. 
" I remember when a circus used to set me wild, and some 
placard of a minstrel band posted on a dead wall stirred 
my young blood." 
