It is written Asioot, Asyoot, Asiüt, Ssout, Siôout, Osyoot, Osioot,
O’Sioôt, Siüt, Sioot, O’siout, Si-ôôt, Siout, Syouth, and so on,
indefinitely. People take the liberty to spell names as they sound to
them, and there is consequently a pleasing variety in the names of all
places, persons, and things in Egypt; and when we add to the many ways
of spelling an Arabic word, the French the German, and the English
translation or equivalent, you are in a hopeless jumble of nomenclature.
The only course is to strike out boldly and spell everything as it seems
good in your eyes, and differently in different moods. Even the name of
the Prophet takes on half a dozen forms; there are not only ninety-nine
names of the attributes of God, but I presume there are ninety-nine ways
of spelling each of them.
This Asioot has always been a place of importance. It was of old called
Lycopolis, its divinity being the wolf or the wolf-headed god; and in
a rock-mountain behind the town were not only cut the tombs of the
inhabitants, but there were deposited the mummies of the sacred wolves.
About these no one in Asioot knows or cares much, to day. It is a
city of twenty-five thousand people, with a good many thriving Copt
Christians; the terminus, to day, of the railway, and the point of
arrival and departure of the caravans to and from Darfoor—a desert march
of a month. Here are made the best clay pipe-bowls in Egypt, and a great
variety of ornamented dishes and vases in clay, which the traveler buys
and doesn’t know what to do with. The artisans also work up elephants’
tusks and ostrich feathers into a variety of “notions.”
Christmas day opens warm and with an air of festivity. Great
palm-branches are planted along the bank and form an arbor over the
gang-plank. The cabin is set with them, in gothic arches over windows
and doors, with yellow oranges at the apex. The forward and saloon
decks are completely embowered in palms, which also run up the masts and
spars. The crew have entered with zeal into the decoration, and in the
early morning transformed the boat into a floating bower of greenery;
the effect is Oriental, but it is difficult to believe that this is
really Christmas day. The weather is not right, for one thing. It is
singularly pleasant, in fact like summer. We miss the usual snow and ice
and the hurtling of savage winds that bring suffering to the poor and
make charity meritorious. Besides, the Moslems are celebrating the day
for us and, I fear, regarding it simply as an occasion of backsheesh.
The sailors are very quick to understand so much of our religion as is
profitable to themselves.
In such weather as this it would be possible for “shepherds to watch
their flocks by night.”
Early in the day we have a visit from Wasef el Khyat, the American
consul here for many years, a Copt and a native of Asioot, who speaks
only Arabic; he is accompanied by one of his sons, who was educated at
the American college in Beyrout. So far does that excellent institution
send its light; scattered rays to be sure, but it is from it and such
schools that the East is getting the real impetus of civilization.
I do not know what the consul at Asioot does for America, but our flag
is of great service to him, protecting his property from the exactions
of his own government. Wasef is consequently very polite to all
Americans, and while he sipped coffee and puffed cigars in our cabin he
smiled unutterable things. This is the pleasantest kind of intercourse
in a warm climate, where a puff and an occasional smile will pass for
profuse expressions of social enjoyment.
His excellency Shakirr Pasha, the governor of this large and rich
province, has sent word that he is about to put carriages and donkeys at
our disposal, but this probably meant that the consul would do it; and
the consul has done it. The carriage awaits us on the bank. It is a
high, paneled, venerable ark, that moves with trembling dignity; and
we choose the donkeys as less pretentious and less liable to come to
pieces. This is no doubt the only carriage between Cairo and Kartoom,
and its appearance is regarded as an event.
Our first visit is paid to the Pasha, who has been only a few days in
his province, and has not yet transferred his harem from Cairo. We are
received with distinguished ceremony, to the lively satisfaction of
Abd-el-Atti, whose face beams like the morning, in bringing together
such “distinguish” people as his friend the Pasha, and travelers in his
charge. The Pasha is a courtly Turk, of most elegant manners, and the
simplicity of high breeding, a man of the world and one of the ablest
governors in Egypt. The room into which we are ushered, through a dirty
alley and a mud-wall court is hardly in keeping with the social stilts
on which we are all walking. In our own less favored land, it would
answer very well for a shed or an out-house to store beans in, or for
a “reception room” for sheep; a narrow oblong apartment, covered with a
flat roof of palm logs, with a couple of dirty little windows high up,
the once whitewashed walls stained variously, the cheap divans soiled.
The hospitality of this gorgeous salon was offered us with effusion, and
we sat down and exchanged compliments as if we had been in a palace.
I am convinced that there is nothing like the Oriental imagination. An
attendant (and the servants were in keeping with the premises) brought
in fingans of coffee. The servant presents the cup in his right hand,
holding the bottom of the silver receptacle in his thumb and finger;
he takes it away empty with both hands, placing the left under and the
right on top of it. These formalities are universal and all-important.
Before taking it you ought to make the salutation, by touching breast,
lips, and forehead, with the right hand—an acknowledgment not to the
servant but to the master. Cigars are then handed round, for it is
getting to be considered on the Nile that cigars are more “swell” than
pipes; more’s the pity.
The exchange of compliments meantime went on, and on the part of
the Pasha with a fineness, adroitness, and readiness that showed the
practice of a lifetime in social fence. He surpassed our most daring
invention with a smiling ease, and topped all our extravagances with an
art that made our pool efforts appear clumsy. And what the effect would
have been if we could have understood the flowery Arabic I can only
guess; nor can we ever know how many flowers of his own the dragoman
cast in.
“His excellency say that he feel the honor of your visit.”
“Say to his excellency that although we are only spending one day in
his beautiful capital, we could not forego the-pleasure of paying our
respects to his excellency.” This sentence is built by the critic, and
strikes us all favorably.
“His excellency himself not been here many days, and sorry he not know
you coming, to make some preparations to receive you.”
“Thank his excellency for the palms that decorate our boat.”
“They are nothing, nothing, he say not mention it; the dahabeëh look
very different now if the Nile last summer had not wash away all his
flower-garden. His excellency say, how you enjoyed your voyage?”
“It has been very pleasant; only for a day or two we have wanted wind.”
“Your misfortune, his excellency say, his pleasure; it give him the
opportunity of your society. But he say if you want wind he sorry no
wind; it cause him to suffer that you not come here sooner.”
“Will his excellency dine with us to-day?”
“He say he think it too much honor.”
“Assure his excellency that we feel that the honor is conferred by him.”
And he consents to come. After we have taken our leave, the invitation
is extended to the consul, who is riding with us.
The way to the town is along a winding, shabby embankment, raised above
high water, and shaded with sycamore-trees. It is lively with people on
foot and on donkeys, in more colored and richer dress than that worn
by country-people; the fields are green, the clover is springing
luxuriantly, and spite of the wrecks of unburned-brick houses, left
gaping by the last flood, and spite of the general untidiness of
everything, the ride is enjoyable. I don’t know why it is that an
irrigated country never is pleasing on close inspection, neither is an
irrigated garden. Both need to be seen from a little distance, which
conceals the rawness of the alternately dry and soaked soil, the
frequent thinness of vegetation, the unkempt swampy appearance of the
lowest levels, and the painful whiteness of paths never wet and the
dustiness of trees unwashed by rain. There is no Egyptian landscape or
village that is neat, on near inspection.
Asioot has a better entrance than most towns, through an old gateway
into the square (which is the court of the palace); and the town has
extensive bazaars and some large dwellings. But as we ride through it,
we are always hemmed in by mud-walls, twisting through narrow alleys,
encountering dirt and poverty at every step. We pass through the quarter
of the Ghawâzees, who, since their banishment from Cairo, form little
colonies in all the large Nile towns. There are the dancing-women whom
travelers are so desirous of seeing; the finest-looking women and the
most abandoned courtesans, says Mr. Lane, in Egypt. In showy dresses
of bright yellow and red, adorned with a profusion of silver-gilt
necklaces, earrings, and bracelets, they sit at the doors of their
hovels in idle expectation. If these happen to be the finest-looking
women in Egypt, the others are wise in keeping their veils on.
Outside the town we find a very pretty cemetery of the Egyptian style,
staring white tombs, each dead person resting under his own private
little stucco oven. Near it is encamped a caravan just in from Darfoor,
bringing cinnamon, gum-arabic, tusks, and ostrich feathers. The camels
are worn with the journey; their drivers have a fierce and free air in
striking contrast with the bearing of the fellaheen. Their noses are
straight, their black hair is long and shaggy, their garment is a single
piece of coarse brown cloth; they have the wildness of the desert.
The soft limestone ledge back of the town is honeycombed with grottoes
and tombs; rising in tiers from the bottom to the top. Some of them have
merely square-cut entrances into a chamber of moderate size, in some
part of which, or in a passage beyond, is a pit cut ten or twenty
feet deep in the rock, like a grave, for the mummy. One of them has a
magnificent entrance through a doorway over thirty feet high and fifteen
deep; upon the jambs are gigantic figures cut in the rock. Some of
the chambers are vast and were once pillared, and may have served for
dwellings. These excavations are very old. The hieroglyphics and figures
on the walls are not in relief on the stone, but cut in at the outer
edge and left in a gradual swell in the center—an intaglio relievato.
The drawing is generally spirited, and the figures show knowledge of
form and artistic skill. It is wonderful that such purely conventional
figures, the head almost always in profile and the shoulders square
to the front, can be so expressive. On one wall is a body of infantry
marching, with the long pointed shields mentioned by Xenophon in
describing Egyptian troops. Everywhere are birds, gracefully drawn
and true to species, and upon some of them the blue color is fresh.
A ceiling of one grotto is wrought in ornamental squares—a “Greek
pattern,” executed long before the time of the Greeks. Here we find
two figures with the full face turned towards us, instead of the usual
profile.
These tombs have served for a variety of purposes. As long as the
original occupants rested here, no doubt their friends came and feasted
and were mournfully merry in these sightly chambers overlooking the
Nile. Long after they were turned out, Christian hermits nested in them,
during that extraordinary period of superstition when men thought they
could best secure their salvation by living like wild beasts in the
deserts of Africa. Here one John of Lycopolis had his den, in which he
stayed fifty years, without ever opening the door or seeing the face
of a woman. At least, he enjoyed that reputation. Later, persecuted
Christians dwelt in these tombs, and after them have come wanderers, and
jackals, and houseless Arabs. I think I should rather live here than in
Asioot; the tombs are cleaner and better built than the houses of the
town, and there is good air here and no danger of floods.
When we are on the top of the bluff, the desert in broken ridges is
behind us. The view is one of the best of the usual views from hills
near the Nile, the elements of which are similar; the spectator has
Egypt in all its variety at his feet. The valley here is broad, and we
look a long distance up and down the river. The Nile twists and turns in
its bed like one of the chimerical serpents sculptured in the chambers
of the dead; canals wander from it through the plain; and groves of
palms and lines of sycamores contrast their green with that of the
fields. All this level expanse is now covered with wheat, barley and
thick clover, and the green has a vividness that we have never seen in
vegetation before. This owes somewhat to the brown contrast near at hand
and something maybe to the atmosphere, but I think the growing grain has
a lustre unknown to other lands. This smiling picture is enclosed by
the savage frame of the desert, gaunt ridges of rocky hills, drifts of
stones, and yellow sand that sends its hot tongues in long darts into
the plain. At the foot of the mountain lies Asioot brown as the mud of
the Nile, a city built of sun-dried bricks, but presenting a singular
and not unpleasing appearance on account of the dozen white stone
minarets, some of them worked like lace, which spring out of it.
The consul’s home is one of the best in the city, but outside it shows
only a mud-wall like the meanest. Within is a paved court, and offices
about it; the rooms above are large, many-windowed, darkened with
blinds, and not unlike those of a plain house in America. The furniture
is European mainly, and ugly, and of course out of place in Africa. We
see only the male members of the family. Confectionery and coffee are
served and some champagne, that must have been made by the Peninsular
and Oriental Steamship Company; their champagne is well known in the
Levant, and there is no known decoction that is like it. In my judgment,
if it is proposed to introduce Christianity and that kind of wine into
Egypt, the country would better be left as it is.
During our call the consul presents us fly-whisks with ivory handles,
and gives the ladies beautiful fans of ostrich feathers mounted in
ivory. These presents may have been due to a broad hint from the Pasha,
who said to the consul at our interview in the morning:—
“I should not like to have these distinguished strangers go away without
some remembrance of Asioot. I have not been here long; what is there to
get for them?”
“O, your excellency, I will attend to that,” said the consul.
In the evening, with the dahabeëh beautifully decorated and hung with
colored lanterns, upon the deck, which, shut in with canvas and spread
with Turkish rugs, was a fine reception-room, we awaited our guests,
as if we had been accustomed to this sort of thing in America from our
infancy, and as if we usually celebrated Christmas outdoors, fans in
hand, with fire-works. A stand for the exhibition of fireworks had been
erected on shore. The Pasha was received as he stepped on board, with
three rockets, (that being, I suppose, the number of his official
“tails,”) which flew up into the sky and scattered their bursting bombs
of color amid the stars, announcing to the English dahabeëhs, the two
steamboats and the town of Asioot, that the governor of the richest
province in Egypt was about to eat his dinner.
The dinner was one of those perfections that one likes to speak of only
in confidential moments to dear friends. It wanted nothing either in
number of courses or in variety, in meats, in confections, in pyramids
of gorgeous construction, in fruits and flowers. There was something
touching about the lamb roasted whole, reclining his head on his own
shoulder. There was something tender about the turkey. There was a
terrible moment when the plum-pudding was borne in on fire, as if it
had been a present from the devil himself. The Pasha regarded it with
distrust, and declined, like a wise man, to eat flame. I fear that the
English have fairly introduced this dreadful dish into the Orient, and
that the natives have come to think that all foreigners are Molochs who
can best be pleased by offering up to them its indigestible ball set on
fire of H. It is a fearful spectacle to see this heathen people offering
this incense to a foreign idol, in the subserviency which will sacrifice
even religion to backsheesh.
The conversation during dinner is mostly an exchange of compliments,
in the art of which the Pasha is a master, displaying in it a wit,
a variety of resource and a courtliness that make the game a very
entertaining one. The Arabic language gives full play to this sort of
social espièglerie, and lends a delicacy to encounters of compliment
which the English language does not admit.
Coffee and pipes are served on deck, and the fire-works begin to
tear and astonish the night. The Khedive certainly employs very good
pyrotechnists, and the display by Abd-el-Atti and his equally excited
helpers although simple is brilliant. The intense delight that the
soaring and bursting of a rocket give to Abd-el-Atti is expressed in
unconscious and unrestrained demonstration. He might be himself in
flames but he would watch the flight of the rushing stream of fire,
jumping up and down in his anxiety for it to burst:—
“There! there! that’s—a he, hooray!”
Every time one bursts, scattering its colored stars, the crew, led by
the dragoman, cheer, “Heep, heep, hooray! heep, heep, hooray!”
A whirligig spins upon the river, spouting balls of fire, and the crew
come in with a “Heep, heep, hooray! heep, heep, hooray!”
The steamer, which has a Belgian prince on board, illuminates, and
salutes with shot-guns. In the midst of a fusillade of rockets and
Roman candles, the crew develop a new accomplishment. Drilled by the
indomitable master of ceremonies, they attempt the first line of that
distinctively American melody,
“We won’t go home till morning.”
They really catch the air, and make a bubble, bubble of sounds, like
automata, that somewhat resembles the words. Probably they think that
it is our national anthem, or perhaps a Christmas hymn. No doubt,
“won’t-go-home-till-morning” sort of Americans have been up the river
before us.
The show is not over when the Pasha pleads an engagement to take a
cup of tea with the Belgian prince, and asks permission to retire. He
expresses his anguish at leaving us, and he will not depart if we
say “no.” Of course, our anguish in letting the Pasha go exceeds his
suffering in going, but we sacrifice ourselves to the demand of his
station, and permit him to depart. At the foot of the cabin stairs he
begs us to go no further, insisting that we do him too much honor to
come so far.
The soft night grows more brilliant. Abd-el-Atti and his minions are
still blazing away. The consul declares that Asioot in all his life
has never experienced a night like this. We express ourselves as humbly
thankful in being the instruments of giving Asioot (which is asleep
there two miles off) such an “eye-opener.” (This remark has a finer
sound when translated into Arabic.)
The spectacle closes by a voyage out upon the swift river in the sandal.
We take Roman candles, blue, red, and green lights and floaters which
Abd-el-Atti lets off, while the crew hoarsely roar, “We won’t go home
till morning,” and mingle “Heep, heep, hooray,” with “Hà Yàlësah, hâ
Yâlësah.”
The long range of lights on the steamers, the flashing lines and
pyramids of colors on our own dahabeëh, the soft June-like night, the
moon coming up in fleecy clouds, the broad Nile sparkling under so many
fires, kindled on earth and in the sky, made a scene unique, and as
beautiful as any that the Arabian Nights suggest.
To end all, there was a hubbub on shore among the crew, caused by one of
them who was crazy with hasheesh, and threatened to murder the reïs
and dragoman, if he was not permitted to go on board. It could be
demonstrated that he was less likely to slay them if he did not come on
board, and he was therefore sent to the governor’s lock-up, with a fair
prospect of going into the Khedive’s army. We left him behind, and about
one o’clock in the morning stole away up the river with a gentle and
growing breeze.
Net result of pleasure:—one man in jail, and Abd-el-Atti’s wrist so
seriously burned by the fire-works, that he has no use of his arm for
weeks. But, “‘twas a glorious victory.” For a Christmas, however, it was
a little too much like the Fourth of July.
0177
0178
CHAPTER XIII.—SIGHTS AND SCENES ON THE RIVER.
AS WE sail down into the heart of Egypt and into the remote past,
living in fact, by books and by eye-sight, in eras so far-reaching that
centuries count only as years in them, the word “ancient” gets a new
signification. We pass every day ruins, ruins of the Old Empire, of the
Middle Empire, of the Ptolomies, of the Greeks, of the Romans, of the
Christians, of the Saracens; but nothing seems ancient to us any longer
except the remains of Old Egypt.
We have come to have a singular contempt for anything so modern as the
work of the Greeks, or Romans. Ruins pointed out on shore as Roman,
do not interest us enough to force us to raise the field-glass. Small
antiquities that are of the Roman period are not considered worth
examination. The natives have a depreciatory shrug when they say of an
idol or a brick-wall, “Roman!”
The Greeks and the Romans are moderns like ourselves. They are as
broadly separated in the spirit of their life and culture from those
ancients as we are; we can understand them; it is impossible for us
to enter into the habits of thought and of life of the early Pharaonic
times. When the variation of two thousand years in the assignment of a
dynasty seems to us a trifle, the two thousand years that divide us and
the Romans shrink into no importance.
In future ages the career of the United States and of Rome will be
reckoned in the same era; and children will be taught the story
of George Washington suckled by the wolf, and Romulus cutting the
cherry-tree with his little hatchet. We must have distance in order to
put things in their proper relations. In America, what have we that
will endure a thousand years? Even George Washington’s hatchet may be
forgotten sooner than the fiabellum of Pharaoh.
The day after Christmas we are going with a stiff wind, so fresh that we
can carry only the forward sail. The sky is cloudy and stormy-looking.
It is in fact as disagreeable and as sour a fall day as you can find
anywhere. We keep the cabin, except for a time in the afternoon, when
it is comfortable sitting on deck in an overcoat. We fly by Abooteeg;
Raâineli, a more picturesque village, the top of every house being a
pigeon-tower; Gow, with its remnants of old Antæopolis—it was in the
river here that Horus defeated Typhon in a great battle, as, thank God!
he is always doing in this flourishing world, with a good chance of
killing him outright some day, when Typhon will no more take the shape
of crocodile or other form of evil, war, or paper currency; Tahtah,
conspicuous by its vast mounds of an ancient city; and Gebel Sheykh
Hereédee, near the high cliffs of which we run, impressed by the grey
and frowning crags.
As we are passing these rocks a small boat dashes out to our side, with
a sail in tatters and the mast carrying a curiously embroidered flag,
the like of which is in no signal-book. In the stern of this fantastic
craft sits a young and very shabbily clad Sheykh, and demands
backsheesh, as if he had aright to demand toll of all who pass his
dominions. This right our reïs acknowledges and tosses him some paras
done up in a rag. I am sure I like this sort of custom-house better than
some I have seen.
We go on in the night past Soohag, the capital of the province of
Girgeh; and by other villages and spots of historic interest, where the
visitor will find only some~heaps of stones and rubbish to satisfy a
curiosity raised by reading of their former importance; by the White
Monastery and the Red Convent; and, coming round a bend, as we always
are coming round a bend, and bringing the wind ahead, the crew probably
asleep, we ignominiously run into the bank, and finally come to anchor
in mid-stream.
As if to crowd all weathers into twenty-four hours, it clears off cold
in the night; and in the morning when we are opposite the the pretty
town of Ekhmeem, a temperature of 51° makes it rather fresh for the
men who line the banks working the shadoofs, with no covering but
breech-cloths. The people here, when it is cold, bundle up about the
head and shoulders with thick wraps, and leave the feet and legs bare.
The natives are huddled in clusters on the bank, out of the shade of the
houses, in order to get the warmth of the sun; near one group a couple
of discontented camels kneel; and the naked boy, making no pretence of
a superfluous wardrobe by hanging his shirt on a bush while he goes to
bed, is holding it up to dry.
We skim along in almost a gale the whole day, passing, in the afternoon,
an American dahabeëh tied up, repairing a broken yard, and giving
Bellianeh the go-by as if it were of no importance. And yet this is the
landing for the great Abydus, a city once second only to Thebes, the
burial-place of Osiris himself, and still marked by one of the finest
temples in Egypt. But our business now is navigation, and we improve the
night as well as the day; much against the grain of the crew. There
is always more or less noise and row in a night-sail, going aground,
splashing, and boosting in the water to get off, shouting and chorusing
and tramping on deck, and when the thermometer is as low as 520 these
night-baths are not very welcome when followed by exposure to keen wind,
in a cotton shirt. And with the dragoman in bed, used up like one of his
burnt-out rockets, able only to grumble at “dese fellow care for nothing
but smoke hasheesh,” the crew are not very subordinate. They are liable
to go to sleep and let us run aground, or they are liable to run
aground in order that they may go to sleep. They seem to try both ways
alternately.
But moving or stranded, the night is brilliant all the same; the
night-skies are the more lustrous the farther we go from the moisture
of Lower Egypt, and the stars scintillate with splendor, and flash
deep colors like diamonds in sunlight. Late, the moon rises over the
mountains under which we are sailing, and the effect is magically
lovely. We are approaching Farshoot.
Farshoot is a market-town and has a large sugar-factory, the first set
up in Egypt, built by an uncle of the Khedive. It was the seat of power
of the Howara tribe of Arabs, and famous for its breed of Howara horses
and dogs, the latter bigger and fiercer than the little wolfish curs
with which Egypt swarms. It is much like other Egyptian towns now,
except that its inhabitants, like its dogs, are a little wilder and
more ragged than the fellaheen below. This whole district of Hamram is
exceedingly fertile and bursting with a tropical vegetation.
The Turkish governor pays a formal visit and we enjoy one of those
silent and impressive interviews over chibooks and coffee; in which
nothing is said that one can regret. We finally make the governor
a complimentary speech, which Hoseyn, who only knows a little
table-English, pretends to translate. The Bey replies, talking very
rapidly for two or three minutes. When we asked Hoseyn to translate, he
smiled and said—“Thank you”—which was no doubt the long palaver.
The governor conducts us through the sugar-factory, which is not on so
grand a scale as those we shall see later, but hot enough and sticky
enough, and then gives us the inevitable coffee in his office;
seemingly, if you clap your hands anywhere in Egypt, a polite and ragged
attendant will appear with a tiny cup of coffee.
The town is just such a collection of mud-hovels as the others, and we
learn nothing new in it. Yes, we do. We learn how to scour brass dishes.
We see at the doorway of a house where a group of women sit on the
ground waiting for their hair to grow, two boys actively engaged in this
scouring process. They stand in the dishes, which have sand in them,
and, supporting themselves by the side of the hut, whirl half-way round
and back. The soles of their feet must be like leather. This method of
scouring is worth recording, as it may furnish an occupation for boys at
an age when they are usually, and certainly here, useless.
The weekly market is held in the open air at the edge of the town. The
wares for sale are spread upon the ground, the people sitting behind
them in some sort of order, but the crowd surges everywhere and the
powdered dust rises in clouds. It is the most motley assembly we have
seen. The women are tattooed on the face and on the breast; they wear
anklets of bone and of silver, and are loaded with silver ornaments. As
at every other place where a fair, a wedding, or a funeral attracts
a crowd, there are some shanties of the Ghawazees, who are physically
superior to the other women, but more tattooed, their necks, bosoms and
waists covered with their whole fortune in silver, their eyelids heavily
stained with Kohl—bold-looking jades, who come out and stare at us with
a more than masculine impudence.
The market offers all sorts of green country produce, and eggs, corn,
donkeys, sheep, lentils, tobacco, pipe-stems, and cheap ornaments in
glass. The crowd hustles about us in a troublesome manner, showing
special curiosity about the ladies, as if they had rarely seen white
women. Ahmed and another sailor charge into them with their big sticks
to open a passage for us, but they follow us, commenting freely upon our
appearance. The sailors jabber at them and at us, and are anxious to get
us back to the boat; where we learn that the natives “not like you.” The
feeling is mutual, though it is discouraging to our pride to be despised
by such barbarous half-clad folk.
Beggars come to the boat continually for backsheesh; a tall juggler in a
white, dirty tunic, with a long snake coiled about his neck, will not go
away for less than half a piastre. One tariff piastre (five cents) buys
four eggs here, double the price of former years, but still discouraging
to a hen. However, the hens have learned to lay their eggs small. All
the morning we are trading in the desultory way in which everything is
done here, buying a handful of eggs at a time, and live chickens by the
single one.
In the afternoon the boat is tracked along through a land that is
bursting with richness, waving with vast fields of wheat, of lentils,
of sugar-cane, interspersed with melons and beans. The date-palms are
splendid in stature and mass of crown. We examine for the first time the
Dôm Palm, named from its shape, which will not flourish much lower
on the river than here. Its stem grows up a little distance and then
branches in two, and these two limbs each branch in two; always in
two. The leaves are shorter than those of the date-palm and the tree is
altogether more scraggy, but at a little distance it assumes the dome
form. The fruit, now green, hangs in large bunches a couple of feet
long; each fruit is the size of a large Flemish Beauty pear. It has a
thick rind, and a stone, like vegetable ivory, so hard that it is used
for drill-sockets. The fibrous rind is gnawed off by the natives when it
is ripe and is said to taste like gingerbread. These people live on gums
and watery vegetables and fibrous stuff that wouldn’t give a northern
man strength enough to gather them.
We find also the sont acacia here, and dig the gum-arabic from its
bark. In the midst of a great plain of wheat, intersected by ditches and
raised footways we come upon a Safciya, embowered in trees, which a long
distance off makes itself known by the most doleful squeaking. These
water-wheels, which are not unlike those used by the Persians, are
not often seen lower down the river, where the water is raised by the
shadoof. Here we find a well sunk to the depth of the Nile, and bricked
up. Over it is a wheel, upon which is hung an endless rope of palm
fibres and on its outer rim are tied earthen jars. As the wheel revolves
these jars dip into the well and coming up discharge the water into a
wooden trough, whence it flows into channels of earth. The cogs of this
wheel fit into another, and the motive power of the clumsy machine is
furnished by a couple of oxen or cows, hitched to a pole swinging
round an upright shaft. A little girl, seated on the end of the pole is
driving the oxen, whose slow hitching gait, sets the machine rattling
and squeaking as if in pain, Nothing is exactly in gear, the bearings
are never oiled; half the water is spilled before it gets to the trough;
but the thing keeps grinding on, night and day, and I suppose has not
been improved or changed in its construction for thousands of years.
During our walk we are attended by a friendly crowd of men and boys;
there are always plenty of them who are as idle as we are, and are
probably very much puzzled to know why we roam about in this way. I am
sure a New England farmer, if he saw a troop of these Arabs, strolling
through his corn-field, would set his dogs on them.
Both sides of the river are luxuriant here. The opposite bank, which is
high, is lined with shadoofs, generally in sets of three, in order
to raise the water to the required level. The view is one long to
remember:—the long curving shore, with the shadoofs and the workmen,
singing as they dip; people in flowing garments moving along the high
bank, and processions of donkeys and camels as well; rows of palms above
them, and beyond the purple Libyan hills, in relief against a rosy sky,
slightly clouded along the even mountain line. In the foreground the
Nile is placid and touched with a little color.
We feel more and more that the Nile is Egypt. Everything takes place on
its banks. From our boat we study its life at our leisure. The Nile
is always vocal with singing, or scolding, or calling to prayer; it is
always lively with boatmen or workmen, or picturesque groups, or
women filling their water-jars. It is the highway; it is a spectacle a
thousand miles long. It supplies everything. I only wonder at one thing.
Seeing that it is so swift, and knowing that it flows down and out into
a world whence so many wonders come, I marvel that its inhabitants
are contented to sit on its banks year after year, generation after
generation, shut in behind and before by desert hills, without any
desire to sail down the stream and get into a larger world. We meet
rather intelligent men who have never journeyed so far as the next large
town.
Thus far we have had only a few days of absolutely cloudless skies;
usually we have some clouds, generally at sunrise and sunset, and
occasionally an overcast day like this. But the cloudiness is merely a
sort of shade; there is no possibility of rain in it.
And sure of good weather, why should we hasten? In fact, we do not.
It is something to live a life that has in it neither worry nor
responsibility. We take an interest, however, in How and Disnah and
Fow, places where people have been living and dying now for a long time,
which we cannot expect you to share. In the night while we are anchored
a breeze springs up, and Abd-el-Atti roars at the sailors, to rouse
them, but unsuccessfully, until he cries, “Come to prayer!”
The sleepers, waking, answer, “God is great, and Mohammed is his
prophet.”
They then get up and set the sail. This is what it is to carry religion
into daily life.
To-day we have been going northward, for variety. Keneh, which is thirty
miles higher up the river than How, is nine minutes further north. The
Nile itself loiters through the land. As the crew are poling slowly
along this hot summer day, we have nothing to do but to enjoy the wide
and glassy Nile, its fertile banks vocal with varied life. The songs of
Nubian boatmen, rowing in measured stroke down the stream, come to us.
The round white wind-mills of Keneh are visible on the sand-hills above
the town. Children are bathing and cattle and donkeys wading in the
shallows, and the shrill chatter of women is heard on the shore. If this
is winter, I wonder what summer here is like.
0185
0186
CHAPTER XIV.—MIDWINTER IN EGYPT.
WHETHER we go north or south, or wait for some wandering, unemployed
wind to take us round the next bend, it is all the same to us. We have
ceased to care much for time, and I think we shall adopt the Assyrian
system of reckoning.
The period of the precession of the equinoxes was regarded as one day of
the life of the universe; and this day equals 43,200 of our years. This
day, of 43,200 years, the Assyrians divided into twelve cosmic hours or
“sars,” each one of 3,600 years; each of these hours into six “ners,”
of 600 years; and the “ner” into ten “sosses” or cosmic minutes, of 600
years. And thus, as we reckon sixty seconds to a minute, our ordinary
year was a second of the great chronological period. What then is the
value of a mere second of time? What if we do lie half a day at this
bank, in the sun, waiting for a lazy breeze? There certainly is time
enough, for we seem to have lived a cosmic hour since we landed in
Egypt.
One sees here what an exaggerated importance we are accustomed to attach
to the exact measurement of time. We constantly compare our watches, and
are anxious that they should not gain or lose a second. A person feels
his own importance somehow increased if he owns an accurate watch. There
is nothing that a man resents more than the disparagement of his watch.
(It occurs to me, by the way, that the superior attractiveness of women,
that quality of repose and rest which the world finds in them, springs
from the same amiable laisser aller that suffers their watches never
to be correct. When the day comes that women’s watches keep time, there
will be no peace in this world). When two men meet, one of the most
frequent interchanges of courtesies is to compare watches; certainly, if
the question of time is raised, as it is sure to be shortly among a knot
of men with us, every one pulls out his watch, and comparison is made.
We are, in fact, the slaves of time and of fixed times. We think it a
great loss and misfortune to be without the correct time; and if we are
away from the town-clock and the noon-gun, in some country place, we
importune the city stranger, who appears to have a good watch, for the
time; or we lie in wait for the magnificent conductor of the railway
express, who always has the air of getting the promptest time from
headquarters.
Here in Egypt we see how unnatural and unnecessary this anxiety is. Why
should we care to know the exact time? It is 12 o’clock, Arab time,
at sunset, and that shifts every evening, in order to wean us from the
rigidity of iron habits. Time is flexible, it waits on our moods and
we are not slaves to its accuracy. Watches here never agree, and no one
cares whether they do or not. My own, which was formerly as punctual
as the stars in their courses, loses on the Nile a half hour or three
quarters of an hour a day (speaking in our arbitrary, artificial
manner); so that, if I were good at figures, I could cypher out the
length of time, which would suffice by the loss of time by my watch, to
set me back into the age of Thothmes III.—a very good age to be in. We
are living now by great cosmic periods, and have little care for minute
divisions of time.
This morning we are at Balias, no one knows how, for we anchored three
times in the night. At Balias are made the big earthen jars which the
women carry on their heads, and which are sent from here the length
of Egypt. Immense numbers of them are stacked upon the banks, and
boat-loads of them are waiting for the wind. Rafts of these jars are
made and floated down to the Delta; a frail structure, one would say, in
the swift and shallow Nile, but below this place there are neither rocks
in the stream nor stones on the shore.
The sunrise is magnificent, opening a cloudless day, a day of hot sun,
in which the wheat on the banks and under the palm-groves, now knee-high
and a vivid green, sparkles as if it had dew on it. At night there are
colors of salmon and rose in the sky, and on the water; and the end of
the mountain, where Thebes lies, takes a hue of greyish or pearly pink.
Thebes! And we are really coming to Thebes! It is fit that it should lie
in such a bath of color. Very near to-night seems that great limestone
ledge in which the Thebans entombed their dead; but it is by the winding
river thirty miles distant.
The last day of the year 1874 finds us lounging about in this pleasant
Africa, very much after the leisurely manner of an ancient maritime
expedition, the sailors of which spent most of their time in marauding
on shore, watching for auguries, and sailing a little when the deities
favored. The attempts, the failures, the mismanagements of the day add
not a little to your entertainment on the Nile.
In the morning a light breeze springs up and we are slowly crawling
forward, when the wind expires, and we come to anchor in mid-stream. The
Nile here is wide and glassy, but it is swift, and full of eddies that
make this part of the river exceedingly difficult of navigation. We are
too far from the shore for tracking, and another resource is tried. The
sandal is sent ahead with an anchor and a cable, the intention being
to drop the anchor and then by the cable pull up to it, and repeat the
process until we get beyond these eddies and treacherous sand-bars.
Of course the sailors in the sandal, who never think of two things
at the same time, miscalculate the distance, and after they drop the
anchor, have not rope enough to get back to the dahabeëh. There they
are, just above us, and just out of reach, in a most helpless condition,
but quite resigned to it. After various futile experiments they make a
line with their tracking-cords and float an oar to us, and we send them
rope to lengthen their cable. Nearly an hour is consumed in this. When
the cable is attached, the crew begin slowly to haul it in through the
pullies, walking the short deck in a round and singing a chorus of, “O
Mohammed” to some catch-word or phrase of the leader. They like this, it
is the kind of work that boys prefer, a sort of frolic:—
“Allah, Allah!”
And in response,
“O Mohammed!”
“God forgive us!”
“O Mohammed!”
“God is most great!”
“O Mohammed!”
“El Hoseyn!”
“O Mohammed!”
And so they go round as hilarious as if they played at leapfrog, with
no limit of noise and shouting. They cannot haul a rope or pull an oar
without this vocal expression. When the anchor is reached it is time for
the crew to eat dinner.
We make not more than a mile all day, with hard work, but we reach the
shore. We have been two days in this broad, beautiful bend of the river,
surrounded by luxuriant fields and palm-groves, the picture framed in
rosy mountains of limestone, which glow in the clear sunshine. It is a
becalmment in an enchanted place, out of which there seems to be no way,
and if there were we are losing the desire to go. At night, as we lie at
the bank, a row of ragged fellaheen line the high shore, like buzzards,
looking down on us. There is something admirable in their patience, the
only virtue they seem to practice.
Later, Abd-el-Atti is thrown into a great excitement upon learning
that this is the last day of the year. He had set his heart on being at
Luxor, and celebrating the New Year with a grand illumination and burst
of fire-works. If he had his way we should go blazing up the river in
a perpetual fizz of pyrotechnic glory. At Luxor especially, where many
boats are usually gathered, and which is for many the end of the voyage,
the dragomans like to outshine each other in display. This is the
fashionable season at Thebes, and the harvest-time of its merchants of
antiquities; entertainments are given on shore, boats are illuminated,
and there is a general rivalry in gaiety. Not to be in Thebes on New
Year’s is a misfortune. Something must be done. The Sheykh of the
village of Tookh is sent for, in the hope that he can help us round
the bend. The Sheykh comes, and sits on the deck and smokes. Orion
also comes up the eastern sky, like a conqueror, blazing amid a blazing
heaven. But we don’t stir.
Upon the bank sits the guard of men from the village, to protect us;
the sight of the ragamuffins grouped round their lanterns is very
picturesque. Whenever we tie up at night we are obliged to procure from
the Sheykh of the nearest village a guard to keep thieves from robbing
us, for the thieves are not only numerous but expert all along the Nile.
No wonder. They have to steal their own crops, in order to get a fair
share of the produce of the land they cultivate under the exactions of
the government. The Sheykh would not dare to refuse the guard asked for.
The office of Sheykh is still hereditary from father to eldest son, and
the Sheykh has authority over his own village, according to the ancient
custom, but he is subject to a Bey, set by the government to rule a
district.
