interview with Carew, she adds, "It might have been. 
A friend was over from Cliff House?" 
"People of her temperament are always shocked at 
the idea of death. It would not do to inform her of her 
danger, so you must not even suggest it, for it would 
bring about the dreaded event. Be careful and cheerful, 
do not cross her in anything, and above all do not argue 
any point wilh her to excite her. So much depends upon 
tranquillity." 
"For how long?" Christmas asks in an awe-stricken 
tone. 
"I doubt if, with the best of care, she can last more 
than six months. She will be entirely worn out by that 
time. But any untoward incident may hasten her end.' 
"Could she — go abroad?" 
 
 
" My dear Miss Ormiston, no. In good truth, unless 
you have reasons for it, she had better remain here through 
the autumn at least. And now for a fortnight or so she 
must keep her bed. No hops nor picnics nor late hours, 
no dissipation of any kind, save a gentle drive out in the 
sunshine." 
"And now-" Christmas inquires looking at her in 
secret terror. 
" This is nature's method," replies Dr. Herrick. " It is 
like a sleep — it will be a sleep presently. I think she 
has been in the habit of taking an anodyne. When she 
wakes I wish to have some medicine given her every hour, 
but I will be in again presently. Meanwhile treat this 
matter with the utmost lightness. Call it a simple faint- 
ing fit." 
Mrs. Byrne comes in to sit at the bedside and receives 
directions. Christmas goes about her duties as if the 
whole world were unreal. There are letters to write, and 
she has to rouse herself sharply to consider what she 
must say. Miss Miller has invited some young people to 
luncheon and then they are to take a sail down the river, 
her last excursion, as to-morrow the two guests return 
home. 
Everything presents a weird and solemn aspect. The 
wind through the pines and cedars has a mournful metallic 
wail, as if haunted by troops of ghosts. The very sky 
has a far-off, indrawn look, and the sunshine lays in 
broad sheets instead of a thousand dancing motes. 
After an hour or two you can see Dolly's chest rise and 
fall with a faint motion, but she does not open her eyes 
until mid-afternoon, then with a strange, frightened grasp 
she seizes Mrs. Byrne's arm. 
"Where have I been?" she cries. "I thought—" 
" You have been in fairyland," replies the lady reas- 
suringly. " Some time you must tell us what you saw. 
It was quite a Journey, and you must lie still now and rest." 
 
 
"Where is Christmas? I most see her." And the tone 
has a wild, terrified sound. 
Miss Ormiston is summoned. Dolly gives her a long, 
piercing, questioning look, a leap to the very depths of 
her soul, if such a thing is possible. 
"OhT' she breathes in intense relief, and closes her 
eyes again. 
Dr. Herrick prescribes quiet and rest on his second 
call, and no exciting topics. " Let her sleep all she can, 
she will gain her strength that way. Dissipation wears 
out the higher classes as fast as work does the poorer 
people,'' he says. 
After he is gone, Mr. St. Greorge is announced. 
"I must get up and see him," Dolly exclaims, spring- 
ing partially up only to fall bact upon the pillow. "I 
am so weak ! '' And tears stand in her eyes, making the 
expression of her small face piteous in its entreaty. "I 
shall soon be better though. Tell him — give him my 
love, my very best love." 
Christmas goes down, still iu a dream. Mr. St. George 
is grave and quite concerned about Dolly's illness. He 
was to arrange about her going to the city to-morrow with 
Helen. 
"Mr. Verplank has telegraphed. The funeral will be 
at their house, which is the old Stannard mansion, you 
know. We are to start in the morning. Helen is much 
prostrated as well." 
It occurs to Miss Ormiston that she has made no call, 
sent no message of condolence, so she begs St. George to 
wait until she writes a brief note, which, after all, is prin- 
cipally about Dolly. 
"I will be over again early in the morning," he an- 
nounces, lingering as if loath to go, but Christmas makes 
no sign. 
The house is quiet enough after Miss Miller's return. 
Every one is tired and the bed is most welcome. 
 
 
Christmas takes a last look at Dolly, who sleeps tranquilly, 
and as Fanny really is pleased to attend upon her, she 
goes to her room, worn out by the day's excitements and 
tortured by a thousand fears. 
The latter part of the night Dolly is quite restless, but 
just after daybreak drops off to slumber again, so St. 
Greorge does not see her in his morning call. There would 
be no tune for confidence, even if Miss Ormiston had 
resolyed upon her course, but she is in a state of wildest 
irresolution, weighing duty against duty. 
" Telegraph to me night aad morning," he says with 
his good by. 
Does he really care so much about Dolly? With her 
strict sense of justice, Christmas cannot bear to have the 
deceitful, friyolous flirt the object of so much considera- 
tion. Is there any other reason? What is it that surges 
so hard against the defences of her soul? 
She drives her friends to the station, and goes around 
to the factory. For the first tune she has no heart in the 
prosperity, in the orders pouring in upon them, or in Mr. 
Donaldson's enthusiasm. She would like to go away from 
eyerything and shut herself in a conyent, until the storms 
were overpast. Why must these things come to her? she 
asks resentfully. 
Then follow several quiet days. Mrs. Brundage is 
over and appears greatly concerned for Dolly, who fiuctu- 
ates, and has two or three severe attacks of fainting when 
it seems as if she really might die. Mr. Jeffries has sent 
kindest messages. 
" Indeed, I begged him to come with me," she explains, 
"but he thought it would be intrusion. He is the most 
charmingly well-bred gentleman I ever met. Do you 
not think. Miss Ormiston, that two or three years abroad 
in first-class society improves our men very much? If 
I had children I should want to have their education 
finished in Europe. There is so much suavity, and none 
 
 
 
of the ill-bred curiosity that gives so many crumbs to 
gossips. I say to Mr. Brandage that Mr. St. Gkorge 
and Mr. Jeffries are the two most elegant men I have 
ever met. Sad about Mr. Stannard, was it not? But 
when he came, I said if death was ever written in any 
one's face it was in his, and I was right. If I had 
been in Mrs. Stannard's place, I should have been worried 
to death. How different she is from Miss Allaire ! I do 
hope Dolly will be happy in her marriage. Certainly she 
has waited long enough to be quite sure." And Mrs. 
Bmndage gives an odd, doubtful little laugh. 
" There is nothing to prevent her being happy," Miss 
Ormiston replies in a fine heat of indignation, and then 
she remembers. 
" So many marriages do not turn out well,'' says the 
visitor pointedly. 
She takes her leave at length with a profusion of mes- 
sages and love for Dolly, and proffers to take her to 
drive, and to have her over for a day, just for the 
change. 
The telegrams are sent. Letters come every day, sep- 
arate notes for Miss Ormiston and Miss Allaire, brief 
in both instances. Mr. Stannard is laid in the family 
vault with due ceremony ; there is the mourning to super- 
vise ; the Ward Allaires with child and nurse come to the 
city for a few days on their way to California, where Mrs. 
Allaire's father has large silver-mining interests at stake. 
Ward is growing stout, imposing, worldly, though the old 
indolence clings to him and sits jauntily. They express 
regrets about Dolly, and hope she will be quite recovered 
by their return. 
Mrs. Stannard lingers day after day. There are so 
many little matters to attend to. She stays with Mrs. 
Verplank, and St. George's services are in continual 
demand. 
Meanwhile Dolly improves slowly, fitfully one might 
 
 
Bay. There is a little fever one day, distressing headaches 
the next, palpitation and faintness, no appetite, and her 
poor hands look like bleached skeleton leaves. Her moods 
are so capricious sometimes no one but Christmas can con- 
trol her. The desperate weakness keeps her in bed fortu- 
nately, or on the sofa. When she essays sitting up, she 
melts away into a swoon that renders her more ghostly 
than ever. 
" It may go on so for a month," says Dr. Herrick. 
" Do not try to hurry her into getting well." 
 
 
Mrs. Stannabd retams ten days later, and since she 
cannot stay at the cottage alone, she accepts Miss Onnis- 
ton's hospitality that has been tendered from a double 
sense of duty, — duty to her neighbor and to herself. Dolly 
can be dressed now, will be rather, though she cannot yet 
walk across the room alone. Not a word has been uttered 
between Christmas and herself about Mr. Jeffries, who is 
still at CliflF House. 
The duty to herself, Miss Ormiston feels, is to know what 
disposition is to be made of Dolly. She does not grudge 
her house nor her servants, but she is weary of the dread- 
ful strain upon her own soul. If they would all go away 
and let her live her own upright, busy, kindly life again I 
But Mrs. Stannard takes Dolly's illness in a resigned 
sort of spirit, as if it was one of many vagaries. 
" I suppose Dolly will be considering the subject of her 
marriage as soon as she feels strong enough," Christmas 
begins one day, making a desperate plunge. 
" Indeed, has she said anything?" Helen's eyes have 
a curious trick of elongating when a subject is not agree- 
able, and their calm, incurious expression is rather dis- 
heartening. 
"No, not to me," returns Christmas, steadying her 
breath. 
"Mamma and I have long since decided that Dolly's 
ways were past finding out. Indeed Lucia wanted her 
to be married at Clenholme Grange and wait for Mr. St. 
Greorge to come over to her. I had no house, and now 
 
 
that I am alone, I think I ehall return. I wonder how 
soon Dolly will be able to take a sea voyage ?" 
MiBS Ormiston's heart sinks within her. 
"I wish you would ask Dr. Herrick's opinion," she 
says quietly. ' ' Or you might prefer some other physician." 
 ' Dolly had an attack like this last winter. She is rather 
hysterical, you know, and doesn't appear very strong. 
Indeed, it would seem a foolish freak to marry in this state 
of health. Truly I never had any faith in the engagement, 
since Dolly is flie most changeable of all mortals." 
Something in the tone startles Miss Ormiston. Helen 
clearly is not anxious for the marriage. 
" Dolly certainly has trespassed upon your hospitality 
long enough," says Mrs. Stannard, in the most exquisite 
of tones. " Indeed, my dear Christmas, it has been such 
a relief to me through this sad time, that I am largely 
your debtor, and scarcely know how to make amends, 
unless you will go with us to England." 
"Please do not feel under any obligation," entreats 
Christmas. "And, indeed, if Dolly wished to be mar- 
ried here — " 
"Do not think of such a thing," exclaims Mrs. Stan- 
nard, hastily. "Just now, in deep mourning, I could 
not go around buying bridal gear, and Dolly would have 
no idea. She is such a child ! " 
That very evening Dolly calls Christmas into her room, 
dismissing Fanny. 
"Do you know," she begins abruptly, "that Helen 
has taken a queer quirk in her head? She wants me to 
go back to England and put off all thought of marrying 
until I get strong and well. I shall never be that ; but I 
may live years, — the doctor said so." 
"Dr. Herrick?" ejaculates Christmas. 
" Oh, no, no I " with sudden petulance, " has he said 
anything?" 
" Helen is to see him to-morrow," evasively* 
"Well — this old framp — the Clenholme doctor in- 
formed me that I had a predisposition to some kind of 
heart disease with a long name, — the least dangerous 
kind, — and that people affected with it often lived to old 
age ; that I must sleep all I could and not dance too much, 
and give up riding and various other pleasures that I do 
not care for now — they tire me dreadfully. And I needed 
clear, dry, mountain air. I was better; I should have 
recovered wholly, I do believe, but for that wretch ! I 
want to talk about him, Christmas. What did he say 
that morning?" 
Her thin face is painfully eager. Before her friend can 
reply she goes on, — 
'' I 've been thinking it all over, Chris, and I 've been a 
fool to let him torment me. I 'm no more married to him 
than you are. He said he used to call you his little wife 
years ago, and that he was the only one in the house for 
whom you cared. And his calling me that doesn't make 
him any more my husband than yours.'' 
Miss Ormiston's face glooms over in passionate indig 
nation. She can hardly steady her voice. 
" He never had the slightest claim upon me," she de- 
clares. " Let my name alone, Dolly, and tell me whether 
you ever married him." 
Dolly is a little startled at the resolute manner. 
"It was only in fun. He said it was no more binding 
than an engagement. It was just before we went abroad 
— before I came up here the first time. We had been 
desperately in love. Christmas, can you imagine feeling 
old and weary, as if you had lived hundreds of years and 
the keen edge of everything was worn off? That is how 
I feel now most of the time, except when I am roused 
and excited by some delight, and I am almost afraid of 
excitements, they fatigue me so dreadfully. But that sum- 
mer at Newport I was fresh and keen for every bit of 
pleasure, and revelled in conquests. I met him, — no one 
 
 
knew him by any other name than Jeffries, — and we were 
maddeningly in loye. You wouldn't understand it. There 
is no fire or daring in your blood. Well, this night we 
had been playing some dramatic charades, and he was 
awfully jealous of a young man who had pretended to be 
my lover. We quarrelled, and then we made up, and 
afterward he begged me to go through the ceremony, so 
that he would always feel that I was true. A friend of 
his pronounced us husband and wife. I didn't see him 
but once after that before we sailed, and he promised to 
come to England when he had a lawsuit settled. After I 
had been in London awhile and met so many other people 
and had such grand times, I began to think I had been 
very foolish to engage myself to a man who might have 
very little beside his handsome face." 
Dolly pauses and pants for breath. 
" We met again at Paris," she says, presently. * ' Would 
you believe it, Christmas, he was as much disenchanted as 
I? In the beginning he fancied me much richer, I am 
quite sure, for he thought I had a fortune in my own 
right. But when I spoke of the marriage being in fun, 
he said his friend was a clergyman and had given him a 
certificate, and that some day when I wanted to marry a 
great lord, I could buy back my freedom. I was fright- 
ened at first ; but after I went back to London we ceased 
to correspond. I didn't care for any one, you know, but 
I liked fun and all that, and went on flirting until mamma 
and Lou made a dreadful fuss and wanted me to accept 
Lord Clenholme's cousin. Instead, I just made a bargain 
to suit myself. I knew mamma couldn't object to a good 
long engagement if it was with St. George, and he was 
going away. I really did make him say it " ; and Dolly 
laughs. " Still you know I always was fond of him, and 
I was getting tired of young men with their desperate 
loves. So he went away and I was free again." 
" Dolly ! Dolly!" Christmas cries, in a passion of 
anger, that so much shame should be put upon lore, 
upon womanhood. 
" I didn't do any dreadful flkting after that," Dolly 
interposes in a tone of extenuation. " I have been real 
true, except the little things that do not signify. Then I 
fell into this wretched wom-oufe way, and by accident I 
heard some one had met Mr. Jeffries in London. That, 
and the fact that Mr. St. George would be, in America, 
determined me to return with Helen. I know now that I 
had a glimpse of Mr. Jeffries in New York ; but it was so 
swift that I couldn't quite tell. He came to Glen Ormis- 
ton for your sake, not mine," ends Dolly, with a touch of 
triumph. 
" For mine ! " exclaims Christmas, with contemptuous 
incredulity. 
"Yes. He wanted to marry you. And he wanted me 
to — to help him," she declares desperately. "And he 
threatened — " 
" You consented to plot against me I " Trivial, deceit- 
ful, and selfish she has known Dolly to be, but this treach- 
ery goes beyond. 
"Don't be angry unless you want to kill me," almost 
shrieks Dolly. "What could I do? He loved you; he 
said you used to love him when you were a little girl, and 
I thought if you liked to marry him it would all be right. 
When you were engaged, he was to give me the certificate 
his friend had given him. I was only to make it pleasant 
for him to come, and say nice things about him when I 
could. He did not care for me, and I hate him. I know 
now there was no truth in the pretended marriage. I was 
a fool to believe it so long. And I shall marry Mr. St. 
George as soon as I am well enough, just to dare him. I 
used to feel horribly afraid of a scandal and all that, but 
I do not care now." 
"And Mr. St. George knows nothing of this ! Dolly, 
how dare you — " 
 
 
 
" Do you intend to break up my marriage?" cries the 
girl, passionately. " I love him now ; I mean to make 
him a good wife. But Mr. Jeffries said you would be my 
most dangerous rival — " 
"Hugh," Miss Ormiston commands, loftily. " Do not 
Judge me by the women of your world, Dolly Allaire." 
Dolly begins to sob hysterically. Christmas's first im- 
pulse is to march straight out of the room and send Helen 
thither, and let come what will of stormy anger. But the 
thin hands are stretched out to her, the large, entreating 
eyes pierce her to the very soul, the voice is one wail of 
pathetic supplication. 
" Christmas I Christmas ! fpr heayen's sake hare a little 
pity on me; don't ruin my lifel Why, you might as 
well murder me outright. You don't have to marry Mr. 
Jefbies. And you are so strong, so well, with everything 
in your hands. You might pity me a little. You are good 
to other people who go wrong, and mine hasn't been any 
real sin." 
Miss Ormiston stands silent. As well try to make 
headway against an incoming tide as with a nature like 
this. She remembers what Dr. Herrick has said. Some 
glimmers of higher endeavor float in upon her brain, bits 
of sermons she has listened to with a kind of complacent 
gratulation of well*doing. It is the seventy times seven, 
it is the bitterest enemy, it is the foes of one's household, 
the betrayer who broke bread and went out and sold his 
Saviour. The like forgiveness has come in her path, 
though a long way off the royal type. Shall she say she 
cannot do it? 
"' Dolly, hush I I shall not lay one straw in your path. 
Be happy if you can. You don't see, you never can 
see." 
" You will not tell him,— St. George?" 
a shall tell no one. O DoUy ! " she pleads, " get well 
M soon as possible." 
 
 
 
" Christmas, will you help me if Helen will not? She 
thinks because she is in mourning she couldn't look after 
a trousseau. I will not get much, there will be time 
enough afterward. I will make as little trouble as pos- 
sible." 
DoUy's voice sinks to a whisper, and she gasps for 
breath. 
"Be quiet now. Do not talk any more. Just try to 
get better." 
"I will, I will. It would be too horrible to die when 
one is so young and has so many bright promises of enjoy- 
ment. I suppose you think me weak and silly, Christmas, 
but after all, I have never done anything dreadfully wrong. 
I couldn't tell a man like Leighton all the foolishness, you 
see, and I mean to love him dearly ; why, I do love him." 
And she gives a soft little laugh. 
'' There, you must go to sleep, and we will see what to- 
morrow brings. Grood night, I am going away, for if I 
stay you vyiU talk." 
Dolly suddenly clasps her arms about her friend's neck, 
drawing the proud, cold face down to her level and kisses 
it with many grateful kisses. 
Christmas flies to her own room, and in some impulse 
of terror locks the door. How much responsibility has 
she in this matter? She has said to herself that she would 
stand aloof from the marriage, so repugnant to every ideal 
she has entertained of the sacred step. The world in 
which the Allaires have lived and moved has been wider 
than hers ; has it been higher, truer, or is she at fault in 
her strong, honest beliefs? The voice of society is on 
their side : it never was specially indulgent to her. Even 
this summer she has felt the*under-current of something ; 
not quite prejudice, perhaps, but certainly not approvaL 
She has tried not to make herself conspicuously singular, 
for she loves the delicate and cultured amenities of life. 
But in all that represents her interior self she must have 
 
 
 
trath, integrity, unflawed honor; she cannot accept the 
clouded atmosphere in which so many souls wrap them- 
selves, she cannot cordially take this lower standard that 
contents most women. That hers is really an exceptional 
nature she has not the arrogance to believe ; but she finds 
a wide discrepancy between herself and others. Even 
Mrs. Donaldson, pure and delicately noble, as she truly 
believes, lifts her pencilled brows in faint surprise tit some 
of Miss Ormiston's theories. Must she always live her 
life alone? Three months ago it did not in the least 
trouble her. How has this new, restless knowledge in- 
vaded her peace? 
According to accepted standards, Dolly has been fool- 
ish, indiscreet. But the world would have no word of 
condemnation for her marrying Mr. St. George ; indeed, 
will esteem her a fortunate girl. The flirtations are easily 
condoned. There will be no tender, remorseful upbraid- 
ings of conscience as she takes his kisses and looks into 
his eyes ; yes, even now she can look into them with the 
calmness of perfect innocence, while it is Christmas who 
suffers for her, as any idealist must suffer in such 
desecrations. 
If she did not need to help this marriage forward, if 
Dolly cotUd return to England, to her mother ! But some 
prescience warns her that Dolly Allaire will never cross 
the ocean, and yet she may live months. In a common- 
sense light, it is better for her to be the wife of Mr. 
St. George. She has a misgiving that Dolly has been 
wasting her small patrimony in trying to buy off Mr. 
Jeffries, though she has not suggested any such thing. 
Miss Ormiston cannot respect the Jeffries blood, and the 
Carew may not have been more wholesome. Mrs. Stan- 
nard does not incline toward a great deal of trouble and 
sacrifice as regards her sister ; indeed, in a cold, polished, 
lofty way, she is hardly less selfish than Dolly. 
Christmas paces the floor softly, trying to adjust all 
these confused threads* It is a daty throst upon her. It 
is truly a cross to be taken np. On the other side there 
lies a danger so snbtle she will not eyen glance at it, lest 
her soul may be stained. 
Pausing at the window presently, she sees Mrs. Stan- 
nard and St. George, who have been wandering around in 
the fragrant evening air. They linger now, listening to 
the mournful call of the distant whippoorwill. How won- 
derfully beautiful she is ! The weary, scornful expression 
is dying out of her face, her eyes are softening, even her 
mouth has s<»ne tender curves that were not there bef <»re. 
She is in soft, flowing white, with fine black lisse about 
her neck. Dolly hates mourning and is very exigent. 
Helen sees no visitors unless conventionally attired, so 
she can defer to Dolly's prejudices in this matter, since 
they harmonize with her own sense of becomingness. 
Something goes through Christmas Ormiston like a keen 
sword-point. When daisies begin to grow over Dolly, 
Helen Stannard will be the wife of Leighton St. Greorge. 
It seems so sure a thing that she wonders if they do not 
see it now. She clasps her hands in a sharp, strong 
agony. The knowledge that she shuts out as a tempta- 
tion, confronts her with awful vividness. The taunts of 
Jeffries Carew have not moved her, but she is shaken now 
like some slender young tree in a bitter blast. She has 
been learning many this this summer ; but if this knowl- 
edge could have been left out ! 
Some time afterward she goes down-stairs to see that all 
is right. Mrs. Stannard is saying a lingering good-night 
in tones that electrify Miss Ormistob, so subtly sweet is 
their cadence. He is grave, troubled, it seems to her, 
she has come to read the changes in his face so readily. 
There is a little talk, an inquiry about Dolly. 
"It does seem as if a sea voyage might be just the 
thing for her," Mrs. Stannard says. " I have been de- 
claring to Leighton that we have imposed ouradves upon 
 
 
 
you quite as if you were a sister, and you may be really 
glad to have your days for your own interests." 
" Treat me as if I were in reality a sister," Miss Ormis- 
ton answers. 
" You are very kind, I am sure." 
The house is silent and nearly dark ; the hall lamp is 
kept burning now, but it seems rather eerie. A little past 
midnight Fanny flies to her with wild, frightened eyes and 
a voice of terror. 
"O Miss Ormiston, come quick ! Miss Allaire is 
dying." 
Christmas hurries thither, and then sends Fanny for 
other help. When St. George hears the alarm, he insists 
upon summoning Dr. Herrick. Grave and anxious they 
all are, not only until dawn, but for many days, and Mrs. 
Stannard hears the fiat. It seems to Christmas that she 
bears it with great composure, though she insists upon a 
professional nurse. 
" For I really know nothing about dangerous illnesses," 
she says, in her lute-like voice that has been mysteriously 
humanized. " And I insist that you shall not be broken 
of your rest, Christmas, nor bear any weight of anxious 
care that can be prevented. It will be heavy enough at 
the best." 
There are several days when life flutters in the balance, 
and the hand of fate quivers about as if undecided where 
to settle, and then decisively points to improvement. Dolly 
surprises even Dr. Herrick, who watches her as if uncertain 
whether she is quite human or not. She begins to sit up, 
she indulges in a marvellous appetite, for her, and she is 
the old, vivacious, inconsequent Dolly. She even speaks 
of her marriage. 
'' As I said, she may live some months under favorable 
circumstances," comments the doctor cautiously. " If her 
lover desires the marriage, there can be no objection." 
Clearly Mrs. Stannard does not. She tries to persuade 
 
 
 
DoUy, and points out to St. Gkorge that all the excitement 
cannot bat shorten her days. But Dolly is insistent, per- 
suasive, pleading, and has some other rare charm that 
Christmas cannot fathom, the occult gift of fascination 
that disarms as well as attracts. She is gentler, more 
affectionate, she rules the staid nurse by some witchery, 
and Fanny is her willing slave. 
" If I covM get my letters," she says to Christmas one 
day; "yet I half believe he has not kept them. If he 
should send them to St. George after we are married — 
such things Jiave happened — I know he will bring them to 
me unread, he is so punctilious. That is the only wish I 
have ungratified, you are all so good to me." 
"Did you ever offer to buy them?" Christmas asks. 
She desires to know if Jeffries is incorruptible. 
" Oh, yes, long ago ! " and a scarlet flush lights up her 
wan face. "I had not money enough. You know most 
of the estate is kept together while manmia lives, and we 
only have a settled income. I suppose that was one rea- 
son why he didn't care about a real marriage. I wasn't 
rich enough for two." And Dolly laughs ironically. 
Christmas Ormiston resolves, and acts upon it immedi- 
ately. The summer is over and the sojourners at Cliff House 
are flitting city-ward, or beginning autumnal tours. Mr. 
Jeffries remains ; she passed him a day or two ago, hand- 
some still in his brave audacity. She must see him, but 
she shrinks from any clandestine appointment. He must 
be asked to the house ; but can she dare Mrs. Stannard's 
penetrating eyes ? 
Fortune favors her. Mrs. Stannard and Mr. St. Gkorge 
go to the city one morning. She despatches trusty Mrs. 
Byrne with a verbal message, for she will not even risk the 
signature of her name in Jeffries's possession. 
At the appointed hour he comes, and is shown into the 
drawing-room. The coolness of the day admits of the 
windows being down, and as she enters she closes the 
 
 
door behind her. Jeffries rises with graeeftd elegance, 
and proffers his hand ; but with an invincible air of reserve 
she simply motions him to a seat, and ends his profuse 
greeting by her clear, incisive tone. 
" I sent for you on a matter of business," she states 
briefly, and then she lays before him her proposal to 
purchase from him all of Dolly Allaire's letters. She will 
give him five hundred dollars for them. 
'' I cannot consider any such offer," he answers loftily, 
and with a gesture meant for contempt. 
"Very well." 
He is disconcerted by her coolness. Truth to tell, for a 
gentleman of luxurious habits, he is running short of 
money. 
"' This, I suppose, is Miss Allake's proposal*" he says 
suggestively. 
''On the contrary, she knows nothing about it. She 
can live but a little longer at the most. / should like to 
have the letters, though when she is gone they will be 
of small moment to you. Candidly, her family, knowing 
nothing of the episode, would deny their authenticity. The 
little circle in which she moved would not even believe it." 
" Will she marry Mr. St. George?" 
" I do not think she will live to marry any one," Miss 
Ormiston answers, gravely and truly. 
" The marriage certificate is worth that." 
"Very well, I will pay that for it, if your friend's name 
is on it. Should there be no such clergyman, you will be 
convicted of fraud." 
"My friend has died since then," he says with down- 
cast eyes. 
" He had some relatives doubtless, or some friends in 
the city who knew him." 
Carew Jeffries realizes that he is not dealing with weak, 
easily alarmed Dolly Allaire. He also knows that Miss 
Allaire has no fortune in her own right. If she cotild be- 
 
 
 
come the wife of a rich man like St. Crearge — but reaUy 
if she is dying, as every one admits, and he has heard 
the verdict of Dr. Herrick, a packet of love-letters signed 
Dolly, or even Dolly Jeffries, would be no great prize, since 
there might be hundreds of Dollies in the world. 
"We do nof believe in the marriage," Miss Ormiston 
says decisively, her lips wreathed in unutterable scorn, 
that cuts him like a knife. What a madman, nay worse, 
what a blind fool not to have managed the thing better 
and made himself master here ; for he flatters himself if 
he had come honestly as Wilfred Carew, he could have won 
her attention. But there are other rich women in the world, 
not as clear eyed as this one. Matrimony is his dernier 
resort, but he hates to feel himself irrevocably chained to 
some siUy vapid woman. Still, when all else fails -*- 
" The authenticity of the marriage," he corrects, with 
insolent grace. " Even Miss Allaire admits going through 
the ceremony before a witness, and that of itself would 
make a legal marriage." 
It is a thorny and difficult path. What if Mr. Jeffries 
should persecute Dolly after her marriage?— only, she will 
live such a very little while. 
" It cannot make much difference either way," sha says, 
rising with haughty dignity. " There is no need of fur- 
ther multiplying words." 
" You will give one thousand — " 
" I will give you five hundred dollars for all, or you can 
keep the certificate. That really does not matter. I wish 
her to die in peace ; after she dies, they will not be of the 
slightest value." 
" You are a sharp bargainer. Miss Ormiston," he says 
with a stinging infiection. 
"Well," she replies wijth ironical graciousness, "you 
can take or leave. I never use much persuasion in my 
bargain making." 
He knows that she despises him thoroughly, but he has 
 
 
one qaiver of arrows he can still fling that will grind her 
proud spirit between the upper and the nether millstone. 
She will hear of it in time, and that must be his revenge. 
He might talk the next hour and he would gain no advan- 
tage, and in truth, he has an uneasy feeling beneath her 
clear eyes; his self-complacency shrinks, his assurance 
is chilled by the oold breath of her utter sincerity. There is 
a cruel sense of mortification in taking this at her hands, 
yet there is seldom a time when he does not need money. 
He can trust her not to bruit the secret abroad. 
She takes two or three steps. "One cannot haggle 
with a woman," he exdaims airily. " Let it be as you 
wish ; take the letters on your own terms." 
" WXL you bring them to me, here, at two o'clock pre- 
cisely?" she returns, as coldly as if she felt no interest in 
it ; but it is rather an overwhelming wave of disgust. 
He rises and she merely bows. Once he gave orders 
here as if Glen Ormiston really belonged to him. After 
all, has the Treverton villany paid? 
 
 
CHAPTER XXV. 
WHEN HOPE HATH WUISPBBBD* 
Miss Oeimiston drives down to the factory. She has 
her own check book, but Mr. Donaldson has always 
made out those for Ormiston Mills as the duly accredited 
agent. He is a little puzzled when she applies to him for 
one of these. There is some purpose in her face that is 
meant to cover a secret, and he respects it. Their friend- 
ship has the fine adjustment of perfect trust. 
Jeffries is a little late and proceeds to business with an 
air of supreme elegance, as if this might be a choice pleas- 
