relation of these cold abstractions to the pleasure of 
sitting there with a pretty girl in that way. But he 
said nothing. 
"Do you know," she went on, turning her face 
prettily around toward him, but holding it a little 
way off, to secure attention as impersonal as might be 
under the circumstances, " what pleased me more 
than anything else you ever said to me ? " 
" No," answered Bartley. " Something you got out 
of me when you were trying to make rue tell you the 
difference between you and the other Equity girls ? " 
She laughed, in glad defiance of her own conscious 
ness. " Well, I was trying to make you compliment 
me ; I in not going to deny it. But I must say I got 
my come-uppance : you didn 't say a thing I cared for. 
But you did afterward. Doii t you remember ? " 
" No. When ? " 
She hesitated a moment. "When you told me 
that my influence had had made you better, you 
know " 
"Oh!" said Bartley. "That! Well," he added, 
carelessly, " it 's every word true. Didn 't you be 
lieve it ? " 
" I was just as glad as if I did ; and it made me 're 
solve never to do or say a thing that could lower your 
opinion of me ; and then, you know, there at the door 
it all seemed part of our trying to make each other 
better. But when father looked at me in that way, 
and asked me if we were engaged, I went down into 
the dust with shame. And it seemed to me that 
 
you had just been laughing at me, and amusing your 
self with me, and I was so furious I didn 't know 
what to do. Do you know what I wanted to do ? 
I wanted to run downstairs to father, and tell him 
what you had said, and ask him if he believed you 
had ever liked any other girl." She paused a little, 
but he did not answer, and she continued. " But now 
I in glad I didn 't. And I shall never ask you that, 
and I shall not care for anything that you that 's 
happened before to-day. It 's all right. And you do 
think I shall always try to make you good and happy, 
don 't you ? " 
" I don 't think you can make me much happier 
than I am at present, and I don 't believe anybody 
could make me feel better," answered Bartley. 
She gave a little laugh at his refusal to be serious, 
and let her head, for fondness, fall upon his shoulder, 
while he turned round and round a ring he found on 
her finger. 
" Ah, ha ! " he said, after a while. " Who gave you 
this ring, Miss Gaylord ? " 
"Father, Christmas before last," she promptly an 
swered, without moving. " I 'm glad you asked," she 
murmured, in a lower voice, full of pride in the 
maiden love she could give him. "There 's never 
been any one but you, or the thought of any one." 
She suddenly started away. 
"Now, let 's play we 're getting dinner." It was 
quite time ; in the next moment the coffee boiled up, 
and if she had not caught the lid off and stirred it 
down with her spoon, it would have been spoiled. 
The steam ascended to the ceiling, and filled the 
kitchen with the fragrant smell of the berry. 
" I 'm glad we 're going to have coffee," she said. 
" You 'll  have to put up with a cold dinner, except 
potatoes. But the coffee will make up, and I shall 
need a cup to keep me awake. I don 't believe I 
 
slept last night till nearly morning. Do you like 
coffee ? " 
" I d have given all I ever expect to be worth for 
a cup of it, last night, he said. " I was awfully 
hungry when I got back to the hotel, and I couldn 't 
find anything but a piece of mince-pie and some old 
cheese, and I had to be content with cold milk. I 
felt as if I had lost all my friends this morning 
when I woke up." 
A sense of remembered grievance trembled in his 
voice, and made her drop her head on his arm, in pity 
and derision of him. " Poor Bartley ! " she cried. 
" And you came up here for a little petting from me, 
didn 't you ? I 've noticed that in you ! Well, you 
didn 't get it, did you ? " 
" Well, not at first," he said. 
"Yes, you. can 't complain of any want of petting 
at last," she returned, delighted at his indirect recog 
nition of the difference. Then the daring, the arch 
ness, and caprice that make coquetry in some women, 
and lurk a divine possibility in all, came out in her ; 
the sweetness, kept back by the whole strength of 
her pride, overflowed that broken barrier now, and 
she seemed to lavish this revelation of herself upon 
him with a sort of tender joy in his bewilderment. 
She was not hurt when he crudely expressed the elu 
sive sense which has been in other men 's minds at 
such times : they cannot believe that this fascination 
is inspired, and not practised. 
" Well," he said, " I 'm glad you told me that I was 
the first. I should have thought you d had a good 
deal of experience in flirtation." 
" You wouldn 't have thought so if you hadn 't 
been a great flirt yourself," she answered, auda 
ciously. "Perhaps I have been engaged before !" 
Their talk was for the most part frivolous, and their 
thoughts ephemeral ; but again they were, with her 
 
at least, suddenly and deeply serious. Till then all 
things seemed to have been held in arrest, and im 
pressions, ideas, feelings, fears, desires, released them 
selves simultaneously, and sought expression with a 
rush that defied coherence. " Oh, why do we try to 
talk?" she asked, at last. "The more we say the 
more we leave unsaid. Let us keep still awhile ! " 
But she could not. " Hartley ! When did you first 
think you cared about me ? " 
" I don 't know," said Bartley, " I guess it must have 
been the first time I saw you." 
" Yes, that is when I first knew that I cared for 
you. But it seems to me that I must have always 
cared for you, and that I only found it out when I saw 
you going by the house that day." She mused a little 
time before she asked again, " Bartley ! " 
Well ? " 
" Did you ever use to be afraid Or, no ! Wait ! 
I 'll  tell you first, and then I 'll  ask you. I 'm not 
ashamed of it now, though once I thought I couldn 't 
bear to have any one find it out. I used to be aw 
fully afraid you didn 't care for me ! I would try to 
make out, from things you did and said, whether you 
did or not; but I never could be certain. I believe I 
used to find the most comfort in discouraging myself. 
I used to say to myself, Why, of course he doesn 't ! 
How can he ? He 's been everywhere, and he 's seen 
so many girls. He corresponds with lots of them. 
Altogether likely he 's engaged to some of the young 
ladies he 's met in Boston ; and he just goes with me 
here for a blind. And then when you would praise 
me, sometimes, I would just say, Oh, he 's compli 
mented plenty of girls. I know he 's thinking this 
instant of the young lady he 's engaged to in Boston
And it would almost kill me ; and when you did 
some little thing to show that you liked me, I would 
think, He doesn 't like me ! He hates, he despises 
 
me. He does, he does, he does ! And I would go 
on that way, with my teeth shut, and my breath held, 
I don 't know Iww long." Bartley broke out into a 
broad laugh at this image of desperation, but she 
added, tenderly, " I hope I never made you suffer in 
that way ? " " 
" What way ? " he asked. 
"That 's what I wanted you to tell me. Did you 
ever did y OU US e to be afraid sometimes that I
that you did you put off telling me that you cared 
for me so long because you thought, you dreaded 
Oh, I don 't see what I can ever do to make it up to 
you if you did ! Were you afraid I didn 't care for 
you ? " 
" No ! " shouted Bartley. She had risen and stood 
before him in the fervor of her entreaty, and he seized 
her arms, pinioning them to her side, and holding her 
helpless, while he laughed, and laughed again. " I 
knew you were dead in love with me from the first 
moment." 
" Bartley ! Bartley Hubbard ! " she exclaimed ; 
" let me go, let me go, this instant ! I never heard 
of such a shameless thing ! " 
But she really made no effort to escape. 
 
V. 
THE house seemed too little for Marcia 's happiness, 
and after dinner she did not let Bartley forget his last 
night 's engagement. She sent him off to get his horse 
at the hotel, and ran up to her room to put on her 
wraps for the drive. Her mother cleared away the 
dinner things ; she pushed the table to the side of the 
room, and then sat down in her feather-cushioned 
chair and waited her husband 's pleasure to speak. 
He ordinarily rose from the Sunday dinner and went 
back to his office ; to-day he had taken a chair before 
the stove. But he had mechanically put his hat on, 
and he wore it pushed off his forehead as he tilted 
his chair back on its hind legs, and braced himself 
against the hearth of the stove with his feet. 
A man is master in his own house generally 
through the exercise of a certain degree of brutality, 
but Squire Gaylord maintained his predominance by 
an enlightened absenteeism. No man living always 
at home was ever so little under his own roof. While 
he was in more active business life, he had kept an 
office in the heart of the village, where he spent all 
his days, and a great part of every night ; but after 
he had become rich enough to risk whatever loss of 
business the change might involve, he bought this 
large old square house on the border of the village, 
and thenceforth made  his home in the little detached 
office. 
If Mrs. Gaylord had dimly imagined that she 
should see something more of him, having him so near 
 
at hand, she really saw less : there was no weather, 
by day or night, in which he could not go to his office, 
now. He went no more than his wife into the village 
society ; she might have been glad now and then of a 
little glimpse of the world, but she never said so, and 
her social life had ceased, like her religious life. Their 
house was richly furnished according to the local 
taste of the time ; the parlor had a Brussels carpet, 
and heavy chairs of mahogany and hair- cloth; Marcia 
had a piano there, and since she had come home from 
school they had made company, as Mrs. Gaylord 
called it, two or three times for her ; but they had 
held aloof from the festivity, the Squire in his office, 
and Mrs. Gaylord in the family room where they now 
sat in unwonted companionship. 
" Well, Mr. Gaylord," said his wife, " I don 't know 
as you can say but what Marcia 's suited well 
enough." 
This was the first allusion they had made to the 
subject, but she let it take the argumentative form of 
her cogitations. 
" M-yes," sighed the Squire, in long, nasal assent, 
" most too well, if anything." He rasped first one 
unshaven cheek and then the other, with his thin, 
quivering hand. 
" He 's smart enough," said Mrs. Gaylord, as be 
fore. 
" M-yes, most too smart," replied her husband, a 
little more quickly than before. " He 's smart enough, 
even if she was n t, to see from the start that she was 
crazy to have him, and that isn 't the best way to 
begin life for a married couple, if I 'm a judge." 
" It would killed her if she hadn 't got him. I could 
see t was wearin on her every day, more and more. 
She used to fairly jump, every knock she d hear at 
the door ; and I know sometimes, when she was afraid 
he wan 't coming, she used to go out, in hopes t she 
 
sli d meet him : I don 't suppose she allowed to herself 
that she did it for that Marcia 's proud." 
" M-yes," said the Squire, " she 's proud. And 
when a proud girl makes a fool of herself ahout a 
fellow, it 's a matter of life and death with her. She 
can 't help herself. She lets go everything." 
" I declare," Mrs. Gaylord went on, " it worked me 
up considerable to have her come in some those times, 
and see by her face t she d seen him with some the 
other girls. She used to look so ! And then I d hear 
her up in her room, cryin and cryin . I shouldn 't 
cared so much, if Marcia d been like any other girl, 
kind of flirty, like, about it. But she wa n t. She 
was just bowed down before her idol." 
A final assent came from the Squire, as if wrung 
out of his heart, and he rose from his chair, and then 
sat down again. Marcia was his child, and he loved 
her with his whole soul. " M-well ! " he deeply 
sighed, " all that part 's over, anyway," but he tingled 
in an anguish of sympathy witli what she had suffered. 
" You see, Miranda, how she looked at me when she 
first came in with him, so proud and independ 
ent, poor girl ! and yet as if she was afraid I might nt 
like it ? " 
" Yes, I see it." 
He pulled his hat far down over his cavernous eyes, 
and worked his thin, rusty old jaws. 
" I hope t she 'll  be able to school herself, so 's t not 
show out her feelings so much," said Mrs. Gaylord. 
" I wish she could school herself so as to not have 
em so much ; but I guess she 'll  have em, and I 
guess she 'll  show em out." They were both silent ; 
after a while he added, throwing at the stove a minute 
fragment of the cane he had pulled off the seat of his 
chair : " Miranda, I 've expected something of this 
sort a good while, and I 've thought over what Bart- 
ley had better do." 
 
Mrs. Gaylord stooped forward and picked up the 
bit of wood which her husband had thrown down ; 
her vigilance was rewarded by finding a thread on the 
oil-cloth near where it lay ; she whipped this round 
her finger, and her husband continued : " He d better 
give up his paper and go into the law. He 's done 
well in the paper, and he 's a smart writer ; but edit 
ing a newspaper aint any work for a man. It 's all 
well enough as long as he 's single, but when he 's got 
a wife to look after, he d better get down to work. 
My business is in just such a shape now that I could 
hand it over to him in a lump ; but come to wait a 
year or two longer, and this young man and that one 'll  
eat into it, and it won 't be the same thing at all. 
I shall want Bartley to push right along, and get ad 
mitted at once. He can do it, fast enough. He 's 
bright enough," added the old man, with a certain 
grimness. "M-well!" he broke out, with a quick 
sigh, after a moment of musing ; " it hasn 't happened 
at any very bad time. I was just thinking, this 
morning, that I should like to have my whole time, 
pretty soon, to look after my property. I shan 't  want 
Bartley to do that for me. I 'll  give him a good start in 
money and in business ; but I 'll  look after my prop 
erty myself. I 'll  speak to him, the first chance I get." 
A light step sounded on the stairs, and Marcia 
burst into the room, ready for her drive. "I wanted 
to get a good warm before I started," she explained, 
stooping before the stove, and supporting herself with 
one hand on her father 's knee. There had been no 
formal congratulations upon her engagement from 
either of her parents ; but this was not requisite, and 
would have been a little affected ; they were perhaps 
now ashamed to mention it outright before her alone. 
The Squire, however, went so far" as to put his hand 
over the hand she had laid upon his knee, and to 
smooth it twice or thrice. 
 
" You going to ride after that sorrel colt of Bart- 
ley 's ? " he asked. 
" Of course ! " she answered, with playful pertness. 
" I guess Bartley can manage the sorrel colt ! He 's 
never had any trouble yet." 
" He 's always been able to give his whole mind to 
him before," said the Squire. He gave Marcia 's hand 
a significant squeeze, and let it go. 
She would not confess her consciousness of his 
meaning at once. She looked up at the clock, and 
then turned and pulled her father 's watch out of his 
waistcoat pocket, and compared the time. "Why, 
you 're both fast ! " 
" Perhaps Bartley 's slow," said the Squire ; and 
having gone as far as he intended in this direction, 
he permitted himself a low chuckle. 
The sleigh-bells jingled without, and she sprang 
lightly to her feet. " I guess you don 't think Bart 
ley 's slow," she exclaimed, and hung over her father 
long enough to rub her lips against his bristly cheek. 
" By, mother," she said, over her shoulder, and went 
out of the room. She let her muff hang as far down 
in front of her as her arms would reach, in a stylish 
way, and moved with a little rhythmical tilt, as if to 
some inner music. Even in her furs she was elegantly 
slender in shape. 
The old people remained silent and motionless till 
the clash of the bells died away. Then the Squire 
rose, and went to the wood-shed beyond the kitchen, 
whence he reappeared with an armful of wood. His 
wife started at the sight. " Mr. Gaylord, what be you 
doin ? " 
" Oh, I 'm going to make em up a little fire in the 
parlor stove. I guess they won 't want us round a 
great deal, when they come back." 
Mrs. Gaylord said, " Well, I never did ! " When 
her husband returned from the parlor, she added, " I 
 
suppose some folks d say it was rather of a strange 
way of spendin the Sabbath." 
" It 's a very good way of spending the Sabbath. 
You don 't suppose that any of the people in church 
are half as happy, do you ? Why, old Jonathan Ed 
wards himself used to allow all proper opportunity 
for the young fellows that come to see his girls, and 
a room and fire, if needed. His Life says so." 
" I guess he didn 't allow it on the Sabbath," 're 
torted Mrs. Gaylord. 
" Well, the Life don 't say," chuckled the Squire. 
" Why, Miranda, I do it for Marcia ! There 's never 
but one first day to an engagement. You know that 
as well as T do." In saying this, Squire Gaylord gave 
way to his repressed emotion in an extravagance. 
He suddenly stooped over and kissed his wife ; but 
he spared her confusion by going out to his office at 
once, where he stayed the whole afternoon. 
Bartley and Marcia took the " Long Drive," as it 
was called, at Equity. The road plunged into the 
darkly wooded gulch beyond the house, and then 
struck away eastward, crossing loop after loop of the 
river on the covered bridges, where the neighbors, 
who had broken it out with their ox-teams in the 
open, had thickly bedded it in snow. In the valleys 
and sheltered spots it remained free, and so wide that 
encountering teams could easily pass each other ; but 
where it climbed a hill, or crossed a treeless level, it 
was narrowed to a single track, with turn-outs at es 
tablished points, where the drivers of the sleighs 
waited to be sure that the stretch beyond was clear 
before going forward. In the country, the winter 
which held the village in such close siege was an 
occupation under which Nature seemed to cower help 
less, and men made a desperate and ineffectual 
struggle. The houses, banked up with snow almost 
to the sills of the windows that looked out, blind with 
 
frost, upon the lifeless world, were dwarfed in the 
drifts, and seemed to founder in a white sea blotched 
with strange bluish shadows under the slanting sun. 
Where they fronted close upon the road, it was evi 
dent that the fight with the snow was kept up un 
relentingly ; spaces were shovelled out, and paths were 
kept open to the middle of the highway, and to the 
barn ; but where they were somewhat removed, there 
was no visible trace of the conflict, and no sign of life 
except the faint, wreathed lines of smoke wavering- 
upward from the chimneys. 
In the hollows through which the road passed, the 
lower boughs of the pines and hemlocks were weighed 
down with the snow-fall till they lay half submerged 
in the drifts ; but wherever the wind could strike 
them, they swung free of this load and met in low, 
flat arches above the track. The river betrayed itself 
only when the swift current of a ripple broke through 
the white surface in long, irregular, grayish blurs. It 
was all wild and lonesome, but to the girl alone in it 
with her lover, the solitude was sweet, and she did 
not wish to speak even to him. His hands were both 
busy with the reins, but it was agreed between them 
that she might lock hers through his arm. Cowering 
close to him under the robes, she laid her head on his 
shoulder and looked out over the flying landscape in 
measureless content, and smiled, with filling eyes, 
when he bent over, and warmed his cold red cheek 
on the top of her fur cap. 
The moments of bliss that silence a woman rouse 
a man to make sure of his rapture. "How do you 
like it, Marsh ? " he asked, trying at one of these times 
to peer round into her face. " Are you afraid ? " 
" No, only of getting back too soon. " 
He made the shivering echoes answer with his 
delight in this, and chirruped to the colt, who pushed 
forward at a wilder speed, flinging his hoofs out 
 
before him with the straight thrust of the born trotter, 
and seeming to overtake them as they flew. " I 
should like this ride to last forever ! " 
" Forever ! " she repeated. " That would do for a 
beginning. " 
" Marsh ! What a girl you are ! I never supposed 
you would be so free to let a fellow know how much 
you cared for him." 
"Neither did I," she answered dreamily. "But 
now now the only trouble is that I don 't know 
how to let him know." She gave his arm to which 
she clung a little convulsive clutch, and pressed her 
head harder upon his shoulder. 
"Well, that 's pretty much my complaint, too," said 
Bartley, " though I couldn 't have expressed it so well." 
" Oh, you express ! " she murmured, with the pride 
in him which implied that there were no thoughts 
worth expressing to which he could not give a monu 
mental utterance. Her adoration flattered his self- 
love to the same passionate intensity, and to some 
thing like the generous complexion of her worship. 
" Marcia," he answered, " I am going to try to be 
all you expect of me. And I hope I shall never do 
anything unworthy of your ideal." 
She could only press his arm again in speechless 
joy, but she said to herself that she should always 
remember these words. 
The wind had been rising ever since they started, 
but they had not noticed it till now, when the woods 
began to thin away on either side, and he stopped 
before striking out over one of the naked stretches 
of the plain, a white waste swept by the blasts 
that sucked down through a gorge of the mountain, 
and flattened the snow-drifts as the tornado flattens 
the waves. Across this expanse ran the road, its stiff 
lines obliterated here and there, in the slight depres 
sions, and showing dark along the rest of the track. 
 
It was a good half-mile to the next body of woods, 
and midway there was one of those sidings where a 
sleigh approaching from the other quarter must turn 
out and yield the right of way. Bartley stopped his 
colt, and scanned the road. 
" Anybody coming ? " asked Marcia. 
" No, I don 't see any one. But if there 's any one 
in the woods yonder, they d better wait till I get 
across. No horse in Equity can beat this colt to the 
turn-out." 
" Oh, well, look carefully, Bartley. If we met 
any one beyond the turn-out, I don 't know what I 
should do," pleaded the girl. 
" I don 't know what they would do," said Bartley. 
" But it 's their lookout now, if they come. Wrap 
your face up well, or put your head under the robe. 
I 've got to hold my breath the next half-mile." He 
loosed the reins, and sped the colt out of the shel 
ter where he had halted. The wind struck them like 
an edge of steel, and, catching the powdery snow that 
their horse 's hoofs beat up, sent it spinning and swirl 
ing far along the glistening levels on their lee. They 
felt the thrill of the go as if they were in some light 
boat leaping over a swift current. Marcia disdained 
to cover her face, if he must confront the wind, but 
after a few gasps she was glad to bend forward, and 
bury it in the long hair of the bearskin robe. When 
she lifted it, they were already past the siding, and 
she saw a cutter dashing toward them from the 
cover of the woods. " Bartley ! " she screamed, " the 
sleigh ! " 
" Yes," he shouted. " Some fool ! There 's going to 
be trouble here," he added, checking his horse as he 
could. " They don 't seem to know how to manage 
It 's a couple of women ! Hold on ! hold on ! " he 
called. " Don 't try to turn out ! I 'll  turn out ! " 
The women pulled their horse 's head this way and 
 
that, in apparent confusion, and then began to turn 
out into the trackless snow at the roadside, in spite 
of Hartley 's frantic efforts to arrest them. They sank 
deeper and deeper into the drift ; their horse plunged 
and struggled, and then their cutter went over, amidst 
their shrieks and cries for help. 
Bartley drove up abreast of the wreck, and, saying, 
" Still, Jerry ! Don 't be afraid, Marcia," he put the 
reins into her hands, and sprang out to the rescue. 
One of the women had been flung out free of the 
sleigh, and had already gathered herself up, and stood 
crying and wringing her hands : " Oh, Mr. Hubbard, 
Mr. Hubbard ! Help Hannah ! she 's under there !" 
" All right ! Keep quiet, Mrs. Morrison ! Take hold 
of your horse 's head ! " Bartley had first of all seized 
him by the bit, and pulled him to his feet ; he was 
old and experienced in obedience, and he now stood 
waiting orders, patiently enough. Bartley seized the 
cutter and by an effort of all his strength righted it. 
The colt started and trembled, but Marcia called 
to him in Bartley 's tone, " Still, Jerry ! " and he 
obeyed her. 
The girl, who had been caught under the over 
turned cutter, escaped like a wild thing out of a trap, 
when it was lifted, and, plunging some paces away, 
faced round upon her rescuer with the hood pulled 
straight and set comely to her face again, almost 
before he could ask, " Any bones broken, Hannah ? " 
" No " she shouted. " Mother ! mother ! stop cry 
ing ! Don 't you see I 'm not dead?" She leaped 
about, catching up this wrap and that, shaking the 
dry snow out of them, and flinging them back into 
the cutter, while she laughed in the wild tumult of 
her spirits. Bartley helped her pick up the frag 
ments of the wreck, and joined her in making fun of 
the adventure. The wind hustled them, but they 
were warm in defiance of it with their jollity and 
their bustle. 
 
" Why didn 't you let me turn out ? " demanded 
Bartley, as he and the girl stood on opposite sides of 
the cutter, rearranging the robes in it. 
" Oh, I thought I could turn out well enough. You 
had a right to the road." 
" Well, the next time you see any one past the 
turn-out, you better not start from the woods." 
" Why, there 's no more room in the woods to get 
past than there is here," cried the girl. 
" There 's more shelter." 
" Oh, I 'm not cold ! " She flashed a look at him 
from her brilliant face, warm with all the glow of her 
young health, and laughed, and before she dropped 
her eyes, she included Marcia in her glance. They 
had already looked at each other without any sign of 
recognition. " Come, mother ! All right, now ! " 
Her mother left the horse 's head, and, heavily 
ploughing back to the cutter, tumbled herself in. The 
girl, from her side, began to climb in, but her weight 
made the sleigh careen, and she dropped down with 
a gay shriek. 
Bartley came round and lifted her in ; the girl 
called to her horse, and drove up into the road and 
away. 
Bartley looked after her a moment, and continued 
to glance in that direction when he stood stamping 
the snow off his feet, and brushing it from his legs 
and arms, before he remounted to Marcia 's side. He 
was excited, and talked rapidly and loudly, as he took 
the reins from Marcia 's passive hold, and let the colt 
out. " That girl is the pluckiest fool, yet ! Wouldn 't 
let me turn out because I had the right of way ! 
And she wasn 't going to let anybody else have a 
hand in getting that old ark of theirs afloat again. 
Good their horse wasn 't anything like Jerry ! How 
well Jerry behaved ! Were you frightened, Marsh ?" 
He bent over to see her face, but she had not her 
 
 
head on his shoulder, and she did not sit close to 
him, now. " Did you freeze ? " 
" Oh, no ! I got along very well," she answered, 
dryly, and edged away as far as the width of the seat 
would permit. " It would have been better for you 
to lead their horse up into the road, and then she 
could have got in without your help. Her mother 
got in alone." 
He took the reins into his left hand, and, passing 
his strong right around her, pulled her up to his 
side. She resisted, with diminishing force ; at last 
she ceased to resist, and her head fell passively to 
its former place on his shoulder. He did not try to 
speak any word of comfort ; he only held her close 
to him ; when she looked up, as they entered the vil 
lage, she confronted him with a brilliant smile that 
ignored her tears. 
But that night, when she followed him to the door, 
she looked him searchingly in the eyes. " I wonder 
if you really do despise me, Bartley ? " she asked. 
"Certainly," he answered, with a jesting smile. 
"What for?" 
" For showing out my feelings so. For not even 
trying to pretend not to care everything for you." 
"It wouldn 't be any use your trying: I should 
know that you did, anyway." 
" Oh, don 't laugh, Bartley, don 't laugh ! I don 't 
believe that I ought to. I\e heard that it makes 
people sick of you. But I can 't help it, I can 't help 
it ! And if if you think I 'm always going to be 
so, and that I 'm going to keep on getting worse 
and worse, and making you so unhappy, why, you d 
better break your engagement now while you have 
a chance." 
" What have you been making me unhappy about, I 
should like to know ? I thought I d been having a 
very good time." 
 
She hid her face against his breast. "It almost 
killed me to see you there with her. I was so cold, 
my hands were half frozen, holding the reins, 
and I was so afraid of the colt I didn 't know what to 
do ; and I had been keeping up my courage on your 
account ; and you seemed so long about it all ; and 
she could have got in perfectly well as well as her 
mother did without your help " Her voice 
broke in a miserable sob, and she clutched herself 
tighter to him. 
He smoothed down her hair with his hand. " Why, 
Marsh ! Did you think that made me unhappy ? 
I  didn 't mind it a bit. I knew what the trouble 
was, at the time ; but I wasn 't going to say anything. 
I knew you would be all right as soon as you could 
think it over. You don 't suppose I care anything 
for that girl ? " 
" No," answered a rueful sob. " But I wish you 
didn 't have anything to do with her. I know she 'll  
make trouble for you, somehow." 
" Well," said Bartley, " I can 't very well turn her 
off as long as she does her work. But you needn 't 
be worried about making me unhappy. If anything, 
I rather liked it. It showed iiow much you did care 
for me." He bent toward her, with a look of bright 
raillery, for the parting kiss. " Now then : once, 
twice, three times, and good night it is ! " 
 
VI. 
THE spectacle of a love affair in which the woman 
gives more of her heart than the man gives of his is 
so pitiable that we are apt to attribute a kind of 
merit to her, as if it were a voluntary self-sacrifice 
for her to love more than her share. Not only other 
men, but other women, look on with this canonizing 
compassion ; for women have a lively power of im 
agining themselves in the place of any sister who 
suffers in matters of sentiment, and are eager to 
espouse the common cause in commiserating her. 
Each of them pictures herself similarly wronged or 
slighted by the man she likes best, and feels how 
cruel it would be if he were to care less for her than 
she for him ; and for the time being, in order to real 
ize the situation, she loads him with all the sins of 
omission proper to the culprit in the alien case. 
But possibly there is a compensation in merely lov 
ing, even where the love given is out of all propor 
tion to the love received. 
If Bartley Hubbard 's sensations and impressions of 
the day had been at all reasoned, that night as he lay 
thinking it over, he could unquestionably have seen 
many advantages for Marcia in the affair, perhaps 
more than for himself. But to do him justice he did 
not formulate these now, or in any wise explicitly 
recognize the favors he was bestowing. At twenty- 
six one does not naturally compute them in musing 
upon the girl to whom one is just betrothed ; and 
Bartley 's mind was a confusion of pleasure. He liked 
 
so well to think how fond of him Marcia was, that it 
did not occur to him then to question whether lie 
were as fond of her. It is possible that as he drowsed, 
at last, there Hoated airily through the consciousness 
which was melting and dispersing itself before the 
approach of sleep, an intimation from somewhere to 
some one that perhaps the affair need not be consid 
ered too seriously. But in that mysterious limbo 
one cannot be sure of what is thought and what is 
dreamed ; and Bartley always acquitted himself, and 
probably with justice, of any want of seriousness. 
What he did make sure of when he woke was that 
he was still out of sorts, and that he had again that 
dull headache ; and his instant longing for sympathy 
did more than anything else to convince him that he 
really loved Marcia, and had never, in his obscurest 
or remotest feeling, swerved in his fealty to her. In 
the atmosphere of her devotion yesterday, he had so 
wholly forgotten his sufferings that he had imagined 
himself well ; but now he found that he was not well, 
