and by forcing them to work on an unnecessary pleasure-house for himself
in the woods. They were somewhat appeased by the good news of the
discovery, and in the belief that their bay stretched into the South
Sea; and submitted on condition that Ratclifte should be deposed and
Captain Smith take upon himself the government, “as by course it did
belong.” He consented, but substituted Mr. Scrivener, his dear friend,
in the presidency, distributed the provisions, appointed honest men
to assist Mr. Scrivener, and set out on the 24th, with twelve men, to
finish his discovery.

He passed by the Patowomek River and hasted to the River Bolus, which he
had before visited. In the bay they fell in with seven or eight canoes
full of the renowned Massawomeks, with whom they had a fight, but at
length these savages became friendly and gave them bows, arrows, and
skins. They were at war with the Tockwoghes. Proceeding up the River
Tockwogh, the latter Indians received them with friendship, because they
had the weapons which they supposed had been captured in a fight with
the Massawomeks. These Indians had hatchets, knives, pieces of iron and
brass, they reported came from the Susquesahanocks, a mighty people, the
enemies of the Massawomeks, living at the head of the bay. As Smith in
his barge could not ascend to them, he sent an interpreter to request a
visit from them. In three or four days sixty of these giant-like people
came down with presents of venison, tobacco-pipes three feet in length,
baskets, targets, and bows and arrows. Some further notice is necessary
of this first appearance of the Susquehannocks, who became afterwards
so well known, by reason of their great stature and their friendliness.
Portraits of these noble savages appeared in De Bry’s voyages, which
were used in Smith’s map, and also by Strachey. These beautiful
copperplate engravings spread through Europe most exaggerated ideas of
the American savages.

“Our order,” says Smith, “was daily to have prayers, with a psalm,
at which solemnity the poor savages wondered.” When it was over the
Susquesahanocks, in a fervent manner, held up their hands to the sun,
and then embracing the Captain, adored him in like manner. With a
furious manner and “a hellish voyce” they began an oration of their
loves, covered him with their painted bear-skins, hung a chain of white
beads about his neck, and hailed his creation as their governor and
protector, promising aid and victuals if he would stay and help them
fight the Massawomeks. Much they told him of the Atquanachuks, who live
on the Ocean Sea, the Massawomeks and other people living on a great
water beyond the mountain (which Smith understood to be some great lake
or the river of Canada), and that they received their hatchets and other
commodities from the French. They moumed greatly at Smith’s departure.
Of Powhatan they knew nothing but the name.

Strachey, who probably enlarges from Smith his account of the same
people, whom he calls Sasquesahanougs, says they were well-proportioned
giants, but of an honest and simple disposition. Their language well
beseemed their proportions, “sounding from them as it were a great voice
in a vault or cave, as an ecco.” The picture of one of these chiefs is
given in De Bry, and described by Strachey,” the calf of whose leg
was three-quarters of a yard about, and all the rest of his limbs so
answerable to the same proportions that he seemed the goodliest man they
ever saw.”

It would not entertain the reader to follow Smith in all the small
adventures of the exploration, during which he says he went about 3,000
miles (three thousand miles in three or four weeks in a rowboat is
nothing in Smith’s memory), “with such watery diet in these great
waters and barbarous countries.” Much hardship he endured, alternately
skirmishing and feasting with the Indians; many were the tribes he
struck an alliance with, and many valuable details he added to the
geographical knowledge of the region. In all this exploration Smith
showed himself skillful as he was vigorous and adventurous.

He returned to James River September 7th. Many had died, some were
sick, Ratcliffe, the late President, was a prisoner for mutiny,
Master Scrivener had diligently gathered the harvest, but much of the
provisions had been spoiled by rain. Thus the summer was consumed, and
nothing had been accomplished except Smith’s discovery.




XI. SMITH’S PRESIDENCY AND PROWESS

On the 10th of September, by the election of the Council and the request
of the company, Captain Smith received the letters-patent, and became
President. He stopped the building of Ratcliffe’s “palace,” repaired
the church and the storehouse, got ready the buildings for the supply
expected from England, reduced the fort to a “five square form,” set and
trained the watch and exercised the company every Saturday on a plain
called Smithfield, to the amazement of the on-looking Indians.

Captain Newport arrived with a new supply of seventy persons. Among
them were Captain Francis West, brother to Lord Delaware, Captain Peter
Winne, and Captain Peter Waldo, appointed on the Council, eight Dutchmen
and Poles, and Mistress Forest and Anne Burrows her maid, the first
white women in the colony.

Smith did not relish the arrival of Captain Newport nor the instructions
under which he returned. He came back commanded to discover the country
of Monacan (above the Falls) and to perform the ceremony of coronation
on the Emperor Powhatan.

How Newport got this private commission when he had returned to England
without a lump of gold, nor any certainty of the South Sea, or one of
the lost company sent out by Raleigh; and why he brought a “fine peeced
barge” which must be carried over unknown mountains before it reached
the South Sea, he could not understand. “As for the coronation of
Powhatan and his presents of basin and ewer, bed, bedding, clothes, and
such costly novelties, they had been much better well spared than so ill
spent, for we had his favor and better for a plain piece of copper, till
this stately kind of soliciting made him so much overvalue himself that
he respected us as much as nothing at all.” Smith evidently understood
the situation much better than the promoters in England; and we can
quite excuse him in his rage over the foolishness and greed of most of
his companions. There was little nonsense about Smith in action, though
he need not turn his hand on any man of that age as a boaster.

To send out Poles and Dutchmen to make pitch, tar, and glass would have
been well enough if the colony had been firmly established and supplied
with necessaries; and they might have sent two hundred colonists instead
of seventy, if they had ordered them to go to work collecting provisions
of the Indians for the winter, instead of attempting this strange
discovery of the South Sea, and wasting their time on a more strange
coronation. “Now was there no way,” asks Smith, “to make us miserable,”
 but by direction from England to perform this discovery and coronation,
“to take that time, spend what victuals we had, tire and starve our men,
having no means to carry victuals, ammunition, the hurt or the sick, but
on their own backs?”

Smith seems to have protested against all this nonsense, but though he
was governor, the Council overruled him. Captain Newport decided to take
one hundred and twenty men, fearing to go with a less number and journey
to Werowocomoco to crown Powhatan. In order to save time Smith offered
to take a message to Powhatan, and induce him to come to Jamestown and
receive the honor and the presents. Accompanied by only four men he
crossed by land to Werowocomoco, passed the Pamaunkee (York) River in
a canoe, and sent for Powhatan, who was thirty miles off. Meantime
Pocahontas, who by his own account was a mere child, and her women
entertained Smith in the following manner:

“In a fayre plaine they made a fire, before which, sitting upon a mat,
suddenly amongst the woods was heard such a hydeous noise and shreeking
that the English betook themselves to their armes, and seized upon two
or three old men, by them supposing Powhatan with all his power was come
to surprise them. But presently Pocahontas came, willing him to kill her
if any hurt were intended, and the beholders, which were men, women and
children, satisfied the Captaine that there was no such matter. Then
presently they were presented with this anticke: Thirty young women came
naked out of the woods, only covered behind and before with a few greene
leaves, their bodies all painted, some of one color, some of another,
but all differing; their leader had a fayre payre of Bucks hornes on
her head, and an Otters skinne at her girdle, and another at her arme,
a quiver of arrows at her backe, a bow and arrows in her hand; the
next had in her hand a sword, another a club, another a pot-sticke:
all horned alike; the rest every one with their several devises. These
fiends with most hellish shouts and cries, rushing from among the trees,
cast themselves in a ring about the fire, singing and dancing with most
excellent ill-varietie, oft falling into their infernal passions, and
solemnly again to sing and dance; having spent nearly an hour in this
Mascarado, as they entered, in like manner they departed.

“Having reaccommodated themselves, they solemnly invited him to their
lodgings, where he was no sooner within the house, but all these Nymphs
more tormented him than ever, with crowding, pressing, and hanging about
him, most tediously crying, ‘Love you not me? Love you not me?’ This
salutation ended, the feast was set, consisting of all the Salvage
dainties they could devise: some attending, others singing and dancing
about them: which mirth being ended, with fire brands instead of torches
they conducted him to his lodging.”

The next day Powhatan arrived. Smith delivered up the Indian Namontuck,
who had just returned from a voyage to England--whither it was suspected
the Emperor wished him to go to spy out the weakness of the English
tribe--and repeated Father Newport’s request that Powhatan would come to
Jamestown to receive the presents and join in an expedition against his
enemies, the Monacans.

Powhatan’s reply was worthy of his imperial highness, and has been
copied ever since in the speeches of the lords of the soil to the pale
faces: “If your king has sent me present, I also am a king, and this is
my land: eight days I will stay to receive them. Your father is to come
to me, not I to him, nor yet to your fort, neither will I bite at such a
bait; as for the Monacans, I can revenge my own injuries.”

This was the lofty potentate whom Smith, by his way of management,
could have tickled out of his senses with a glass bead, and who would
infinitely have preferred a big shining copper kettle to the misplaced
honor intended to be thrust upon him, but the offer of which puffed him
up beyond the reach of negotiation. Smith returned with his message.
Newport despatched the presents round by water a hundred miles, and the
Captains, with fifty soldiers, went over land to Werowocomoco, where
occurred the ridiculous ceremony of the coronation, which Smith
describes with much humor. “The next day,” he says, “was appointed for
the coronation. Then the presents were brought him, his bason and ewer,
bed and furniture set up, his scarlet cloke and apparel, with much adoe
put on him, being persuaded by Namontuck they would not hurt him. But a
foule trouble there was to make him kneel to receive his Crown; he not
knowing the majesty nor wearing of a Crown, nor bending of the knee,
endured so many persuasions, examples and instructions as tyred them
all. At last by bearing hard on his shoulders, he a little stooped, and
three having the crown in their hands put it on his head, when by the
warning of a pistoll the boats were prepared with such a volley of shot
that the king start up in a horrible feare, till he saw all was well.
Then remembering himself to congratulate their kindness he gave his old
shoes and his mantell to Captain Newport!”

The Monacan expedition the King discouraged, and refused to furnish
for it either guides or men. Besides his old shoes, the crowned monarch
charitably gave Newport a little heap of corn, only seven or eight
bushels, and with this little result the absurd expedition returned to
Jamestown.

Shortly after Captain Newport with a chosen company of one hundred
and twenty men (leaving eighty with President Smith in the fort) and
accompanied by Captain Waldo, Lieutenant Percy, Captain Winne, Mr.
West, and Mr. Scrivener, who was eager for adventure, set off for the
discovery of Monacan. The expedition, as Smith predicted, was fruitless:
the Indians deceived them and refused to trade, and the company got back
to Jamestown, half of them sick, all grumbling, and worn out with toil,
famine, and discontent.

Smith at once set the whole colony to work, some to make glass, tar,
pitch, and soap-ashes, and others he conducted five miles down the
river to learn to fell trees and make clapboards. In this company were
a couple of gallants, lately come over, Gabriel Beadle and John Russell,
proper gentlemen, but unused to hardships, whom Smith has immortalized
by his novel cure of their profanity. They took gayly to the rough life,
and entered into the attack on the forest so pleasantly that in a week
they were masters of chopping: “making it their delight to hear the
trees thunder as they fell, but the axes so often blistered their tender
fingers that many times every third blow had a loud othe to drown the
echo; for remedie of which sinne the President devised how to have every
man’s othes numbered, and at night for every othe to have a Canne of
water powred downe his sleeve, with which every offender was so washed
(himself and all), that a man would scarce hear an othe in a weake.” In
the clearing of our country since, this excellent plan has fallen into
desuetude, for want of any pious Captain Smith in the logging camps.

These gentlemen, says Smith, did not spend their time in wood-logging
like hirelings, but entered into it with such spirit that thirty of them
would accomplish more than a hundred of the sort that had to be driven
to work; yet, he sagaciously adds, “twenty good workmen had been better
than them all.”

Returning to the fort, Smith, as usual, found the time consumed and no
provisions got, and Newport’s ship lying idle at a great charge. With
Percy he set out on an expedition for corn to the Chickahominy, which
the insolent Indians, knowing their want, would not supply. Perceiving
that it was Powhatan’s policy to starve them (as if it was the business
of the Indians to support all the European vagabonds and adventurers who
came to dispossess them of their country), Smith gave out that he came
not so much for corn as to revenge his imprisonment and the death of his
men murdered by the Indians, and proceeded to make war. This high-handed
treatment made the savages sue for peace, and furnish, although they
complained of want themselves, owing to a bad harvest, a hundred bushels
of corn.

This supply contented the company, who feared nothing so much as
starving, and yet, says Smith, so envied him that they would rather
hazard starving than have him get reputation by his vigorous conduct.
There is no contemporary account of that period except this which Smith
indited. He says that Newport and Ratcliffe conspired not only to depose
him but to keep him out of the fort; since being President they could
not control his movements, but that their horns were much too short to
effect it.

At this time in the “old Taverne,” as Smith calls the fort, everybody
who had money or goods made all he could by trade; soldiers, sailors,
and savages were agreed to barter, and there was more care to maintain
their damnable and private trade than to provide the things necessary
for the colony. In a few weeks the whites had bartered away nearly all
the axes, chisels, hoes, and picks, and what powder, shot, and pikeheads
they could steal, in exchange for furs, baskets, young beasts and such
like commodities. Though the supply of furs was scanty in Virginia, one
master confessed he had got in one voyage by this private trade what he
sold in England for thirty pounds. “These are the Saint-seeming
Worthies of Virginia,” indignantly exclaims the President, “that have,
notwithstanding all this, meate, drinke, and wages.” But now they began
to get weary of the country, their trade being prevented. “The loss,
scorn, and misery was the poor officers, gentlemen and careless
governors, who were bought and sold.” The adventurers were cheated, and
all their actions overthrown by false information and unwise directions.

Master Scrivener was sent with the barges and pinnace to Werowocomoco,
where by the aid of Namontuck he procured a little corn, though the
savages were more ready to fight than to trade. At length Newport’s
ship was loaded with clapboards, pitch, tar, glass, frankincense (?) and
soapashes, and despatched to England. About two hundred men were left in
the colony. With Newport, Smith sent his famous letter to the Treasurer
and Council in England. It is so good a specimen of Smith’s ability with
the pen, reveals so well his sagacity and knowledge of what a colony
needed, and exposes so clearly the ill-management of the London
promoters, and the condition of the colony, that we copy it entire.
It appears by this letter that Smith’s “Map of Virginia,” and his
description of the country and its people, which were not published till
1612, were sent by this opportunity. Captain Newport sailed for England
late in the autumn of 1608. The letter reads:

RIGHT HONORABLE, ETC.:

I received your letter wherein you write that our minds are so set
upon faction, and idle conceits in dividing the country without your
consents, and that we feed you but with ifs and ands, hopes and some few
proofes; as if we would keepe the mystery of the businesse to ourselves:
and that we must expressly follow your instructions sent by Captain
Newport: the charge of whose voyage amounts to neare two thousand
pounds, the which if we cannot defray by the ships returne we are likely
to remain as banished men. To these particulars I humbly intreat your
pardons if I offend you with my rude answer.

For our factions, unless you would have me run away and leave the
country, I cannot prevent them; because I do make many stay that would
else fly away whither. For the Idle letter sent to my Lord of Salisbury,
by the President and his confederates, for dividing the country, &c.,
what it was I know not, for you saw no hand of mine to it; nor ever
dream’t I of any such matter. That we feed you with hopes, &c. Though
I be no scholar, I am past a schoolboy; and I desire but to know what
either you and these here doe know, but that I have learned to tell
you by the continuall hazard of my life. I have not concealed from you
anything I know; but I feare some cause you to believe much more than is
true.

Expressly to follow your directions by Captain Newport, though they be
performed, I was directly against it; but according to our commission,
I was content to be overouled by the major part of the Councill, I feare
to the hazard of us all; which now is generally confessed when it is
too late. Onely Captaine Winne and Captaine Walclo I have sworne of the
Councill, and crowned Powhattan according to your instructions.

For the charge of the voyage of two or three thousand pounds we have not
received the value of one hundred pounds, and for the quartered boat to
be borne by the souldiers over the falls. Newport had 120 of the best
men he could chuse. If he had burnt her to ashes, one might have carried
her in a bag, but as she is, five hundred cannot to a navigable place
above the falls. And for him at that time to find in the South Sea
a mine of gold; or any of them sent by Sir Walter Raleigh; at our
consultation I told them was as likely as the rest. But during this
great discovery of thirtie miles (which might as well have been done
by one man, and much more, for the value of a pound of copper at a
seasonable tyme), they had the pinnace and all the boats with them but
one that remained with me to serve the fort. In their absence I followed
the new begun works of Pitch and Tarre, Glasse, Sope-ashes, Clapboord,
whereof some small quantities we have sent you. But if you rightly
consider what an infinite toyle it is in Russia and Swethland, where the
woods are proper for naught els, and though there be the helpe both
of man and beast in those ancient commonwealths, which many an hundred
years have used it, yet thousands of those poor people can scarce get
necessaries to live, but from hand to mouth, and though your factors
there can buy as much in a week as will fraught you a ship, or as much
as you please, you must not expect from us any such matter, which are
but as many of ignorant, miserable soules, that are scarce able to get
wherewith to live, and defend ourselves against the inconstant Salvages:
finding but here and there a tree fit for the purpose, and want all
things else the Russians have. For the Coronation of Powhattan, by whose
advice you sent him such presents, I know not; but this give me leave to
tell you, I feare they will be the confusion of us all ere we heare
from you again. At your ships arrivall, the Salvages harvest was newly
gathered, and we going to buy it, our owne not being halve sufficient
for so great a number. As for the two ships loading of corne Newport
promised to provide us from Powhattan, he brought us but fourteen
bushels; and from the Monacans nothing, but the most of the men sicke
and neare famished. From your ship we had not provision in victuals
worth twenty pound, and we are more than two hundred to live upon
this, the one halfe sicke, the other little better. For the saylers (I
confesse), they daily make good cheare, but our dyet is a little meale
and water, and not sufficient of that. Though there be fish in the Sea,
fowles in the ayre, and beasts in the woods, their bounds are so large,
they so wilde, and we so weake and ignorant, we cannot much trouble
them. Captaine Newport we much suspect to be the Author of these
inventions. Now that you should know, I have made you as great a
discovery as he, for less charge than he spendeth you every meale; I had
sent you this mappe of the Countries and Nations that inhabit them, as
you may see at large. Also two barrels of stones, and such as I take to
be good. Iron ore at the least; so divided, as by their notes you may
see in what places I found them. The souldiers say many of your officers
maintaine their families out of that you sent us, and that Newport hath
an hundred pounds a year for carrying newes. For every master you have
yet sent can find the way as well as he, so that an hundred pounds might
be spared, which is more than we have all, that helps to pay him wages.
Cap. Ratliffe is now called Sicklemore, a poore counterfeited Imposture.
I have sent you him home least the Company should cut his throat. What
he is, now every one can tell you: if he and Archer returne againe, they
are sufficient to keep us always in factions. When you send againe I
entreat you rather send but thirty carpenters, husbandmen, gardiners,
fishermen, blacksmiths, masons, and diggers up of trees roots, well
provided, then a thousand of such as we have; for except wee be able
both to lodge them, and feed them, the most will consume with want
of necessaries before they can be made good for anything. Thus if you
please to consider this account, and the unnecessary wages to
Captaine Newport, or his ships so long lingering and staying here (for
notwithstanding his boasting to leave us victuals for 12 months, though
we had 89 by this discovery lame and sicke, and but a pinte of corne a
day for a man, we were constrained to give him three hogsheads of that
to victuall him homeward), or yet to send into Germany or Poleland
for glassemen and the rest, till we be able to sustaine ourselves, and
releeve them when they come. It were better to give five hundred pound a
ton for those grosse Commodities in Denmarke, then send for them hither,
till more necessary things be provided. For in over-toyling our weake
and unskilfull bodies, to satisfy this desire of present profit, we can
scarce ever recover ourselves from one supply to another. And I humbly
intreat you hereafter, let us have what we should receive, and not
stand to the Saylers courtesie to leave us what they please, els you
may charge us what you will, but we not you with anything. These are the
causes that have kept us in Virginia from laying such a foundation that
ere this might have given much better content and satisfaction, but as
yet you must not look for any profitable returning. So I humbly rest.

After the departure of Newport, Smith, with his accustomed resolution,
set to work to gather supplies for the winter. Corn had to be extorted
from the Indians by force. In one expedition to Nansemond, when the
Indians refused to trade, Smith fired upon them, and then landed and
burned one of their houses; whereupon they submitted and loaded his
three boats with corn. The ground was covered with ice and snow, and the
nights were bitterly cold. The device for sleeping warm in the open air
was to sweep the snow away from the ground and build a fire; the fire
was then raked off from the heated earth and a mat spread, upon which
the whites lay warm, sheltered by a mat hung up on the windward side,
until the ground got cold, when they builded a fire on another place.
Many a cold winter night did the explorers endure this hardship, yet
grew fat and lusty under it.

About this time was solemnized the marriage of John Laydon and Anne
Burrows, the first in Virginia. Anne was the maid of Mistress Forrest,
who had just come out to grow up with the country, and John was a
laborer who came with the first colony in 1607. This was actually the
“First Family of Virginia,” about which so much has been eloquently
said.

Provisions were still wanting. Mr. Scrivener and Mr. Percy returned from
an expedition with nothing. Smith proposed to surprise Powhatan, and
seize his store of corn, but he says he was hindered in this project by
Captain Winne and Mr. Scrivener (who had heretofore been considered
one of Smith’s friends), whom he now suspected of plotting his ruin in
England.

Powhatan on his part sent word to Smith to visit him, to send him men
to build a house, give him a grindstone, fifty swords, some big guns, a
cock and a hen, much copper and beads, in return for which he would load
his ship with corn. Without any confidence in the crafty savage, Smith
humored him by sending several workmen, including four Dutchmen,
to build him a house. Meantime with two barges and the pinnace and
forty-six men, including Lieutenant Percy, Captain Wirt, and Captain
William Phittiplace, on the 29th of December he set out on a journey to
the Pamaunky, or York, River.

The first night was spent at “Warraskogack,” the king of which warned
Smith that while Powhatan would receive him kindly he was only seeking
an opportunity to cut their throats and seize their arms. Christmas
was kept with extreme winds, rain, frost and snow among the savages at
Kecoughton, where before roaring fires they made merry with plenty of
oysters, fish, flesh, wild fowls and good bread. The President and
two others went gunning for birds, and brought down one hundred and
forty-eight fowls with three shots.

Ascending the river, on the 12th of January they reached Werowocomoco.
The river was frozen half a mile from the shore, and when the barge
could not come to land by reason of the ice and muddy shallows, they
effected a landing by wading. Powhatan at their request sent them
venison, turkeys, and bread; the next day he feasted them, and then
inquired when they were going, ignoring his invitation to them to come.
Hereupon followed a long game of fence between Powhatan and Captain
Smith, each trying to overreach the other, and each indulging profusely
in lies and pledges. Each professed the utmost love for the other.

Smith upbraided him with neglect of his promise to supply them with
corn, and told him, in reply to his demand for weapons, that he had no
arms to spare. Powhatan asked him, if he came on a peaceful errand, to
lay aside his weapons, for he had heard that the English came not so
much for trade as to invade his people and possess his country, and
the people did not dare to bring in their corn while the English were
around.

Powhatan seemed indifferent about the building. The Dutchmen who had
come to build Powhatan a house liked the Indian plenty better than the
risk of starvation with the colony, revealed to Powhatan the poverty
of the whites, and plotted to betray them, of which plot Smith was not
certain till six months later. Powhatan discoursed eloquently on the
advantage of peace over war: “I have seen the death of all my people
thrice,” he said, “and not any one living of those three generations
but myself; I know the difference of peace and war better than any in my
country. But I am now old and ere long must die.” He wanted to leave his
brothers and sisters in peace. He heard that Smith came to destroy
his country. He asked him what good it would do to destroy them that
provided his food, to drive them into the woods where they must feed on
roots and acorns; “and be so hunted by you that I can neither rest, eat
nor sleep, but my tired men must watch, and if a twig but break every
one crieth, there cometh Captain Smith!” They might live in peace, and
trade, if Smith would only lay aside his arms. Smith, in return,
boasted of his power to get provisions, and said that he had only been
restrained from violence by his love for Powhatan; that the Indians came
armed to Jamestown, and it was the habit of the whites to wear their
arms. Powhatan then contrasted the liberality of Newport, and told Smith
that while he had used him more kindly than any other chief, he had
received from him (Smith) the least kindness of any.

Believing that the palaver was only to get an opportunity to cut his
throat, Smith got the savages to break the ice in order to bring up the
barge and load it with corn, and gave orders for his soldiers to land
and surprise Powhatan; meantime, to allay his suspicions, telling him
the lie that next day he would lay aside his arms and trust Powhatan’s
promises. But Powhatan was not to be caught with such chaff. Leaving two
or three women to talk with the Captain he secretly fled away with his
women, children, and luggage. When Smith perceived this treachery he
fired into the “naked devils” who were in sight. The next day Powhatan
sent to excuse his flight, and presented him a bracelet and chain of
pearl and vowed eternal friendship.

With matchlocks lighted, Smith forced the Indians to load the boats; but
as they were aground, and could not be got off till high water, he was
compelled to spend the night on shore. Powhatan and the treacherous
Dutchmen are represented as plotting to kill Smith that night.
Provisions were to be brought him with professions of friendship, and
Smith was to be attacked while at supper. The Indians, with all the
merry sports they could devise, spent the time till night, and then
returned to Powhatan.

The plot was frustrated in the providence of God by a strange means.
“For Pocahuntas his dearest jewele and daughter in that dark night came
through the irksome woods, and told our Captaine good cheer should be
sent us by and by; but Powhatan and all the power he could make would
after come and kill us all, if they that brought it could not kill us
with our own weapons when we were at supper. Therefore if we would live
she wished us presently to be gone. Such things as she delighted in he
would have given her; but with the tears rolling down her cheeks she
said she durst not to be seen to have any; for if Powhatan should know
it, she were but dead, and so she ran away by herself as she came.”

[This instance of female devotion is exactly paralleled in D’Albertis’s
“New Guinea.” Abia, a pretty Biota girl of seventeen, made her way to
his solitary habitation at the peril of her life, to inform him that the
men of Rapa would shortly bring him insects and other presents, in order
to get near him without suspicion, and then kill him. He tried to reward
the brave girl by hanging a gold chain about her neck, but she refused
it, saying it would betray her. He could only reward her with a fervent
kiss, upon which she fled. Smith omits that part of the incident.]


In less than an hour ten burly fellows arrived with great platters of
victuals, and begged Smith to put out the matches (the smoke of which
made them sick) and sit down and eat. Smith, on his guard, compelled
them to taste each dish, and then sent them back to Powhatan. All night
the whites watched, but though the savages lurked about, no attack
was made. Leaving the four Dutchmen to build Powhatan’s house, and
an Englishman to shoot game for him, Smith next evening departed for
Pamaunky.

No sooner had he gone than two of the Dutchmen made their way overland
to Jamestown, and, pretending Smith had sent them, procured arms, tools,
and clothing. They induced also half a dozen sailors, “expert thieves,”
 to accompany them to live with Powhatan; and altogether they stole,
besides powder and shot, fifty swords, eight pieces, eight pistols, and
three hundred hatchets. Edward Boynton and Richard Savage, who had been
left with Powhatan, seeing the treachery, endeavored to escape, but were
apprehended by the Indians.

At Pamaunky there was the same sort of palaver with Opechancanough,
the king, to whom Smith the year before had expounded the mysteries of
history, geography, and astronomy. After much fencing in talk, Smith,
with fifteen companions, went up to the King’s house, where presently
he found himself betrayed and surrounded by seven hundred armed savages,
seeking his life. His company being dismayed, Smith restored their
courage by a speech, and then, boldly charging the King with intent to
murder him, he challenged him to a single combat on an island in the
river, each to use his own arms, but Smith to be as naked as the King.
The King still professed friendship, and laid a great present at the
door, about which the Indians lay in ambush to kill Smith. But this
hero, according to his own account, took prompt measures. He marched out
to the King where he stood guarded by fifty of his chiefs, seized him
by his long hair in the midst of his men, and pointing a pistol at
his breast led, him trembling and near dead with fear amongst all his
people. The King gave up his arms, and the savages, astonished that
any man dare treat their king thus, threw down their bows. Smith, still
holding the King by the hair, made them a bold address, offering peace
or war. They chose peace.

In the picture of this remarkable scene in the “General Historie,” the
savage is represented as gigantic in stature, big enough to crush
the little Smith in an instant if he had but chosen. Having given the
savages the choice to load his ship with corn or to load it himself with
their dead carcasses, the Indians so thronged in with their commodities
that Smith was tired of receiving them, and leaving his comrades to
trade, he lay down to rest. When he was asleep the Indians, armed some
with clubs, and some with old English swords, entered into the house.
Smith awoke in time, seized his arms, and others coming to his rescue,
they cleared the house.

While enduring these perils, sad news was brought from Jamestown. Mr.
Scrivener, who had letters from England (writes Smith) urging him to
make himself Caesar or nothing, declined in his affection for Smith, and
began to exercise extra authority. Against the advice of the others, he
needs must make a journey to the Isle of Hogs, taking with him in
the boat Captain Waldo, Anthony Gosnoll (or Gosnold, believed to be a
relative of Captain Bartholomew Gosnold), and eight others. The boat was
overwhelmed in a storm, and sunk, no one knows how or where. The savages
were the first to discover the bodies of the lost. News of this disaster
was brought to Captain Smith (who did not disturb the rest by making
it known) by Richard Wiffin, who encountered great dangers on the way.
Lodging overnight at Powhatan’s, he saw great preparations for war, and
found himself in peril. Pocahontas hid him for a time, and by her means,
and extraordinary bribes, in three days’ travel he reached Smith.

Powhatan, according to Smith, threatened death to his followers if
they did not kill Smith. At one time swarms of natives, unarmed, came
bringing great supplies of provisions; this was to put Smith off his
guard, surround him with hundreds of savages, and slay him by an ambush.
But he also laid in ambush and got the better of the crafty foe with
a superior craft. They sent him poisoned food, which made his company
sick, but was fatal to no one. Smith apologizes for temporizing with
the Indians at this time, by explaining that his purpose was to surprise
Powhatan and his store of provisions. But when they stealthily stole
up to the seat of that crafty chief, they found that those “damned
Dutchmen” had caused Powhatan to abandon his new house at Werowocomoco,
and to carry away all his corn and provisions.

The reward of this wearisome winter campaign was two hundred weight
of deer-suet and four hundred and seventy-nine bushels of corn for the
general store. They had not to show such murdering and destroying as the
Spaniards in their “relations,” nor heaps and mines of gold and silver;
the land of Virginia was barbarous and ill-planted, and without precious
jewels, but no Spanish relation could show, with such scant means, so
much country explored, so many natives reduced to obedience, with so
little bloodshed.




XII. TRIALS OF THE SETTLEMENT

Without entering at all into the consideration of the character of the
early settlers of Virginia and of Massachusetts, one contrast forces
itself upon the mind as we read the narratives of the different
plantations. In Massachusetts there was from the beginning a steady
purpose to make a permanent settlement and colony, and nearly all those
who came over worked, with more or less friction, with this end before
them. The attempt in Virginia partook more of the character of a
temporary adventure. In Massachusetts from the beginning a commonwealth
was in view. In Virginia, although the London promoters desired a colony
to be fixed that would be profitable to themselves, and many of the
adventurers, Captain Smith among them, desired a permanent planting, a
great majority of those who went thither had only in mind the advantages
of trade, the excitement of a free and licentious life, and the
adventure of something new and startling. It was long before the movers
in it gave up the notion of discovering precious metals or a short way
to the South Sea. The troubles the primitive colony endured resulted
quite as much from its own instability of purpose, recklessness, and
insubordination as from the hostility of the Indians. The majority spent
their time in idleness, quarreling, and plotting mutiny.

The ships departed for England in December, 1608. When Smith returned
from his expedition for food in the winter of 1609, he found that all
the provision except what he had gathered was so rotted from the rain,
and eaten by rats and worms, that the hogs would scarcely eat it. Yet
this had been the diet of the soldiers, who had consumed the victuals
and accomplished nothing except to let the savages have the most of the
tools and a good part of the arms.

Taking stock of what he brought in, Smith found food enough to last till
the next harvest, and at once organized the company into bands of ten or
fifteen, and compelled them to go to work. Six hours a day were devoted
to labor, and the remainder to rest and merry exercises. Even with this
liberal allowance of pastime a great part of the colony still
sulked. Smith made them a short address, exhibiting his power in the
letters-patent, and assuring them that he would enforce discipline and
punish the idle and froward; telling them that those that did not work
should not eat, and that the labor of forty or fifty industrious men
should not be consumed to maintain a hundred and fifty idle loiterers.
He made a public table of good and bad conduct; but even with this
inducement the worst had to be driven to work by punishment or the fear
of it.

The Dutchmen with Powhatan continued to make trouble, and confederates
in the camp supplied them with powder and shot, swords and tools.
Powhatan kept the whites who were with him to instruct the Indians in
the art of war. They expected other whites to join them, and those not
coming, they sent Francis, their companion, disguised as an Indian, to
find out the cause. He came to the Glass house in the woods a mile from
Jamestown, which was the rendezvous for all their villainy. Here they
laid an ambush of forty men for Smith, who hearing of the Dutchman, went
thither to apprehend him. The rascal had gone, and Smith, sending twenty
soldiers to follow and capture him, started alone from the Glass house
to return to the fort. And now occurred another of those personal
adventures which made Smith famous by his own narration.

On his way he encountered the King of Paspahegh, “a most strong, stout
savage,” who, seeing that Smith had only his falchion, attempted to
shoot him. Smith grappled him; the savage prevented his drawing his
blade, and bore him into the river to drown him. Long they struggled in
the water, when the President got the savage by the throat and nearly
strangled him, and drawing his weapon, was about to cut off his head,
when the King begged his life so pitifully, that Smith led him prisoner
to the fort and put him in chains.

In the pictures of this achievement, the savage is represented as about
twice the size and stature of Smith; another illustration that this
heroic soul was never contented to take one of his size.

The Dutchman was captured, who, notwithstanding his excuses that he had
escaped from Powhatan and did not intend to return, but was only walking
in the woods to gather walnuts, on the testimony of Paspahegh of his
treachery, was also “laid by the heels.” Smith now proposed to Paspahegh
to spare his life if he would induce Powhatan to send back the renegade
Dutchmen. The messengers for this purpose reported that the Dutchmen,
though not detained by Powhatan, would not come, and the Indians said
they could not bring them on their backs fifty miles through the woods.
Daily the King’s wives, children, and people came to visit him, and
brought presents to procure peace and his release. While this was going
