bend. A little point covered with trees a short distance below us
concealed the hull of the Sylvania, and I was satisfied that she could
not be seen by Cornwood before it would be too late to keep out of our
way.
"All hands on deck," I said to Washburn, as soon as Ben Bowman had
announced the approach of the runaway steamer.
"All on deck, sir, except Ben Bowman," returned the mate, as soon as he
had given the call.
The second engineer had returned to the point to observe and report
upon the movements of the Islander. He informed me that the steamer
seemed to be making the shortest course the bends of the stream would
permit, and she was headed for the point behind which the Sylvania was
concealed.
I had arranged my plan of operations. Our steamer was headed up the
stream, and held by a single hawser leading to the bowsprit-bitts. We
had passed the rope around the tree, and made the end fast on board, so
that we could let go without any one going on shore to do so. The
strong current of the river would carry the steamer's head away from
the shore, and we had only to dart out alongside the Islander, and make
fast to her. We had rigged out our fenders, so that neither steamer was
likely to be damaged by a collision.
Ben Bowman and Buck Lingley were to carry a line on board of the prize,
and make fast the instant we came alongside of her. Colonel Shepard was
to get on board of the Islander as quick as he could, and give his
orders to Captain Blastblow. I did not apprehend any difficulty in
carrying out the programme. I was confident that the captain of the
runaway vessel would respect the orders of his owner. We had banked our
fires in the morning, so that the noise of escaping steam need not warn
the Islander of the presence of another steamer. As soon as Ben
reported the runaway within four miles, Moses Brickland had caused the
fires to be replenished, and he calculated upon having a full head of
steam when we were ready to run out from our hiding-place.
In about half an hour from the time the Islander was discovered, Ben
Bowman came on board. We could hear the clang of her screw by this
time. I stationed Ben at the hawser, and directed him to let go and
haul in the rope as quickly as possible when I gave the word. Buck
Lingley and Landy Perkins were to help him make quick work of it.
Captain Cayo was stationed where he could make a sure thing of the
capture of Cornwood as soon as he leaped on board.
Nearer and nearer came the Islander to the point. As soon as she showed
her bowsprit beyond it, I was to give the word to cast off. I could see
nothing to prevent the success of the elaborate plan we had made, and I
was satisfied that Colonel Shepard would be in possession of his
steam-yacht within five minutes.
"Let go and haul in!" I called to Ben Bowman, at the hawser.
The assistant engineer did not permit an instant to elapse before he
and his two helpers were hauling on the rope with all their might.
The moment I saw that the hawser was running free, I rang the gong to
go ahead, with the helm hard a-starboard. I heard the screw turn a
couple of times, and then it stopped. I did not quite understand this.
The next thing I saw was Moses rushing on the forecastle.
"The propeller is fouled in a root or a rope, Alick!" exclaimed he.
"Back her a stroke or two, and it may clear itself."
I rang to back her as he rushed aft to the engine-room. By this time
the Islander was fairly abreast of us, and I feared that our elaborate
scheme had failed. But we were seventy-five miles from New Orleans, and
there was time enough for as lively a race as ever was seen on the
"Father of Waters."
I rang again to stop the engine, and then to start it. It went hard,
and I heard some snapping near the stern. It was evident that the screw
had been fouled in a root, and I was afraid it might have been twisted
into the propeller. I stopped the engine again. When I found the screw
did not move freely I ran aft, and found Hop Tossford had climbed over
the stern with a boat-hook in his hand, and was punching in the
direction of the propeller.
"It's a crocodile!" he exclaimed. "There it goes!"
I saw the creature rise to the top of the water. Hop was English, and
Englishmen are apt to call all saurians by this name. I should not have
expected to see the real alligator so near the salt water, for I had
heard that only crocodiles proper lived or thrived in salt water. It
may have been one washed out from some bayou by the high water, which
was prevailing at this time, or it may have been the real crocodile. I
did not stop then to reason about this case in natural history; but as
soon as I saw the mangled reptile, which was about ten feet long, on
the surface of the water, I hastened to the pilot-house, and started
the screw again. This time it moved freely, and I concluded that the
saurian had been resting on the blades of the propeller when it began
to turn.
By this time the Islander had made about a quarter of a mile, as I
judged, against the swift current. But there was now no chance for her
to dodge us. Our fires were in excellent condition, for the fireman had
been forcing them for twenty minutes.
"A miss hit," said Captain Cayo, coming into the pilot-house, when it
was clear that the capture would not come off immediately.
"I suppose that alligator went down to drink when we came up to the
bank of the river," I replied. "But he has the worst of it, for the
screw has smashed him."
I saw the saurian floating motionless down stream, and the screw had
evidently made short work of him.
"I am sorry the rascal interfered with our affair," added the pilot.
"The game is not up yet. We shall have an opportunity to learn which is
the faster steamer," I replied.
"The current must be running five or six miles an hour here," said
Captain Cayo.
"About five miles an hour is the usual rate of the Mississippi," I
answered. "But it runs just as fast for the Islander as it does for the
Sylvania."
"That's true; and I doubt if either steamer is making more than six or
seven knots an hour."
"The Islander is sheering off from us towards the middle of the river,
and that is where she is making her mistake."
"Why so?" asked the pilot.
"Because the current is swifter in the middle of the stream than near
the banks, for the friction of the shore has some effect on its flow."
"That is bringing it down to a fine point," said Captain Cayo,
laughing, for he was entirely unused to river navigation.
I kept the Sylvania as near the shore as I deemed it prudent to go,
while the Islander went in the middle of the river, as if her captain
desired to avoid falling into any possible trap. The wind was southerly
and quite fresh. I directed the mate to shake out the fore squaresail
and the fore topsail. In twenty minutes, by the clock in the
pilot-house, we were abreast of the Islander, but half a mile from her,
for she was still in the middle of the river. By this time, Captain
Blastblow evidently saw his mistake in not setting his squaresails, for
the wind was blowing about half a gale.
I put the helm about a half a point nearer to the course of the other
steamer. I immediately noticed that her pilot made a corresponding
change in her helm. Moses kept an eye on her, and understood the game
perfectly. I did not attempt to run any closer to her, for a turn in
the river would soon bring the Sylvania alongside of her. If the vessel
attempted to go any nearer the shore, she would have to stand out again
in order to pass the bend above. In a word, the Islander was cornered.
Captain Blastblow could not help realizing the situation of the steamer
he sailed. Too late he sent his men aloft to loose the squaresail.
Before they could get the gasket off, I had to port the helm to prevent
striking the other steamer. All our hands were in position to do the
parts before assigned to them.
I kept a sharp watch upon the actions of the Islander to meet any
change in her course. I saw Captain Blastblow in the pilot-house at the
wheel. He looked very nervous and disturbed, and I did not wonder at
it.
"Sheer off, or you will be afoul of us!" shouted the captain of the
runaway steamer.
At the same moment he rang his gong to stop her. I rang mine also the
moment I heard the other. Moses was standing by his lever and wheel,
and I think the Sylvania was stopped before the Islander. Of course we
continued to go ahead under the impulse of the momentum given the two
boats.
Very cautiously I put the helm to starboard, and in a moment the two
boats touched each other, but without any shock or crash. The two hands
assigned to the duty sprang upon the forecastle of the Islander, and
made fast the rope they carried to the bowsprit-bitts. At the same
instant, Captain Cayo and Buck Lingley leaped into the waist of the
steamer. I saw Cornwood and Nick on the hurricane-deck, though they
began to make their exit as soon as we came alongside. The pilot knew
his men well, and before the Floridian could leave the hurricane-deck,
he had taken him rather unceremoniously by the collar.
Buck did not know Nick Boomsby, but the simple fact that he was with
Cornwood satisfied him that he was the person he wanted. I saw that
Cornwood began to look magnificent, and to show fight, while Nick acted
like a sick kitten.
Colonel Shepard hastened to follow the pilot on board, and met Captain
Blastblow coming out of the pilot-house to ascertain what the matter
was.
CHAPTER XVIII.
HOW NICK BOOMSBY MANAGED HIS CASE.
We had hardly accomplished our introductory work before I saw that both
steamers, which we had secured together with a stern as well as a bow
line, had been set back by the rapid current, and had begun to drift
down the river. I rang for the Sylvania to go ahead, and then called
upon Hop Tossford to take the wheel. I did not care to tow the Islander
against the swift current. I satisfied myself that the bow and stern
lines were properly made fast, and then went on board of the other
steamer.
I found that Colonel Shepard was inclined to let his angry passions
rise, as he saw Captain Blastblow approaching him, for which I could
not very strongly blame him. I had called to him before I went on board
of the Islander, and he had come aft to meet me. I suggested that he
should put Washburn in charge of the vessel until matters had been
explained. He promptly acquiesced, and I sent the mate to the
pilot-house of the prize, with instructions to keep her as near the
right bank of the river as it was prudent to go, and to direct the
wheelman of the Sylvania at the same time.
"Do I understand you to take the command of the Islander out of my
hands, Colonel Shepard?" demanded Captain Blastblow, as he heard me
instruct Washburn what to do.
"For the present, yes," replied the colonel, decidedly and sternly, as
though he intended no more mistakes should be made.
"This is rather sudden, for I haven't the least idea that I have done
anything to displease you," replied the captain, struggling to keep his
temper.
"What have you been doing with this steamer? What induced you to run
away with her? Why have you taken so great pains to keep away from the
Sylvania?" asked Colonel Shepard, in a severe tone.
"I have tried to obey my instructions in every particular," replied
Captain Blastblow, apparently more in astonishment than in anger.
"Have you had any instruction to run away with my steam-yacht?"
"I certainly had no instructions to run away with her; and I am not
aware that I have done anything of that kind," answered the captain.
"There has been some mistake, Colonel Shepard," I interposed. "I think
we had better go into the pilot-house and talk it over."
Without making any reply, both of the belligerents followed me forward.
I was quite as anxious to ascertain what had become of Cornwood and
Nick Boomsby as I was to have Captain Blastblow explain his singular
conduct. I found Captain Cayo on the forecastle, holding his prisoner
by the collar of his coat, while Nick was in the care of Buck, on the
port side of the house on deck. The former seemed disposed to resist,
though he was not willing to risk a conflict with his swarthy captor.
"What do you mean by laying hands upon me, you rascal?" demanded
Cornwood.
"Don't use any hard words, Cornwood," added the pilot, coolly. "I obey
my orders, and don't answer any questions."
"I don't know anything about your orders; and no one had any right to
give you any orders to lay hands on me," foamed Cornwood.
The prisoner began to demonstrate rather violently; he made a spring at
the throat of the pilot; but the latter was too quick and too strong
for him. They clinched together, and then Cornwood went down upon the
deck. Captain Cayo put his foot on the chest of the prostrate
Floridian, and held him down.
"I think we had better put a rope around this man's arms," said the
pilot, without taking his eyes from his prisoner. "That would keep him
quiet and well-behaved."
I picked up a piece of line, and handed it to him. He tipped Cornwood
as carelessly as though he had been a shark, and proceeded to bind his
arms behind him. The Floridian attempted to resist again; but the foot
of the pilot pressed more heavily upon him as he did so, and he found
it impossible to get upon his feet again.
Captain Cayo drew the arms of the captive up behind him, and quickly
fastened them. Then he took him by the collar, and stood him up on his
feet. Cornwood looked unutterably scornful at me; and I doubt if he
would have made any trouble if I had not been present. Judging by his
looks, he appeared to regard me with intense hatred. I had interfered
with some of his schemes before, and from the particular attention he
bestowed upon me, I came to the conclusion that he considered me the
author of his present misfortune.
"Why am I treated in this brutal manner?" demanded Cornwood, turning
his gaze from me to Captain Blastblow.
"I don't know anything at all about it," replied the captain. "There
are several things I don't understand about this business; but I am
willing to be informed."
"I suppose I owe all this to you, Captain Garningham," added Cornwood,
giving me a savage look.
"On the contrary, I think you owe it all to yourself," I replied. "If I
remember rightly, you were to detain the Islander at Key West. Instead
of doing this, she runs out of the harbor as soon as the Sylvania comes
in sight."
"It's none of your business, Garningham. Do you own the Islander?"
"I think we had better go into the pilot-house and talk the case over,"
I added. "We shall soon find out what the matter is."
I led the way, and we seated ourselves in the pilot-house. I had
indicated this place because I wanted to hear the explanation of the
captain of the Islander.
"Captain Blastblow, your conduct has astonished me," said Colonel
Shepard, more calmly than he had spoken at first.
"I am sorry for it, sir, for I have tried to do just as I was
instructed," answered the captain, meekly, and apparently as much
astonished as his owner. "I know my place, and I always expect to do
just what my employer expects of me."
"I did not expect you to run away with my steam-yacht, when all my
family were waiting to go in her," added the colonel, becoming more
indignant as he rehearsed the incidents of the morning we left
Jacksonville.
"But your going in the Islander depended on your business; and when I
saw you the morning before we sailed, you could not tell what you would
do. You instructed me to water and provision the vessel, and wait for
further orders. Towards evening, you sent off a card by young Boomsby,
directing me to have steam up and be ready to sail early in the
morning. I was ready to go by six o'clock," answered the captain,
taking from his desk in the pilot-house a package of papers, from which
he selected the card sent off by Nick. "Is it all straight so far?"
"Entirely: it was just as you say. I received a letter by the afternoon
mail, which assured me a business matter would allow me to be absent
from New York a month or six weeks longer; and I decided to go up the
river with the Sylvania."
"I didn't ask questions, or inquire into your business. All I had to do
was to obey the orders of my owner," added Captain Blastblow. "I made
sure that everything on board was ready for the voyage before I turned
in that night. By half-past five in the morning we had steam enough on
to sail down the river. It was about half-past six when your friend,
Mr. Boomsby, came----"
"My friend, Mr. Boomsby!" exclaimed the colonel. "I never even saw my
friend, Mr. Boomsby, that I know of."
"I only know that you called him your friend yourself," replied Captain
Blastblow.
"I called him so! How could I call him so when I had no acquaintance
with him?" demanded the owner, with a smile of incredulity.
"I don't know anything about that," continued the captain, fumbling
over the papers he had taken from his desk. "I learned to read writing
when I was a boy; and that was what you wrote."
"I never wrote anything of the kind, Captain Blastblow. But never mind
that: go on with your story," added the colonel.
"I can prove all that I say, sir. Your friend, Mr. Boomsby, as you
called him in your letter, came on board about half-past six, and gave
me your instructions to proceed to New Orleans as soon as I got the
letter."
"I sent you no such letter, Captain Blastblow," protested Colonel
Shepard. "I never wrote any such letter; some one has been playing a
trick on you."
"But I have the letter in your own handwriting," pleaded the captain.
"I will read it to you. It is dated at the St. James Hotel, with a
picture of the house, and the heading printed upon it. Here is what it
says:--
    CAPTAIN BLASTBLOW:
    I have received a despatch which will prevent me from leaving
    Jacksonville for a few days. You will proceed to New Orleans as
    soon as you get this letter; and I will go there by land with my
    family. For reasons I will explain to you some other time, I want
    you to keep out of the way of the Sylvania. I have made a bet that
    the Islander will get to New Orleans first; and I expect, from what
    you said, you will win the bet for me. This letter will be
    delivered to you by my friend, Mr. Boomsby, who will take passage
    with you; and you will treat him as well as you would me."
    Yours truly,
    P. G. SHEPARD.
"If those instructions are not as plain talk as any shipmaster could
desire, I should like to know what would be plain," continued Captain
Blastblow, as he finished the reading of the letter. "I hove up the
anchor at once, and rang to go ahead. I was ordered to keep out of the
way of the Sylvania, and I have done my best to avoid her."
"But I did not write that letter, Captain Blastblow," repeated the
owner; and by this time we were all rather amused at the straightforward
earnestness of the captain of the Islander. "Let me see the letter,
if you please."
The captain handed him the letter. Colonel Shepard examined it
critically. He shook his head as he did so.
"I must acknowledge that the writing looks very much like mine," he
said, after he had read it through and examined it in every part. "Who
could have written it?"
"Nick Boomsby wrote it, without a doubt," I replied. "I went to school
with him, and he was a good penman, though that was about all he was as
a scholar."
"Is that my friend, Mr. Boomsby?" asked the colonel, laughing heartily.
"The same person; and he has become a swell of the first magnitude," I
replied. "If I had known, or suspected, before we got to Key West, that
Nick was on board of her, I could have explained the strange conduct of
the Islander, and why she so carefully kept out of our way."
I gave a full account of the robbery of the bank messenger in the
saloon of Nick's father, dwelling upon the efforts Nick had made to
arrest Buckner. I stated that he had tried to obtain a passage to New
Orleans in the Sylvania, that I had refused to let him go in her, and
had taken care that he did not become a stowaway on board of her. I
added that Nick told me of his intention to run away from his home, and
seek his fortune in some other part of the country.
"I have no doubt that Nick stole the four thousand dollars the
messenger laid on the counter, and resorted to the trick of forging a
letter to Captain Blastblow, so that he could get the Islander off
ahead of the Sylvania," I continued.
"But how is it that Cornwood did not stop the Islander at Key West, as
it appears he got on board of her there?" asked Colonel Shepard, deeply
interested in the narrative.
"I think you will have to ask Cornwood about that," I replied. "I am a
Yankee, and I can guess what he meant."
"I don't know that I care about any guessing, Captain Alick; but if you
have any theory with a base under it, I should like to hear it," said
Colonel Shepard.
"I think Cornwood was well assured that Nick was on board of the
Islander when you sent him to intercept the steamer at Key West," I
answered. "Cornwood would not have gone on such a wild-goose chase for
nothing. According to the testimony of Captain Cayo, Cornwood and Nick
had very earnest conversation at Key West."
"I don't think it's any use to speculate over the case," interposed
Captain Blastblow. "Let us search for the money."
We all agreed that this was the next thing to do.
CHAPTER XIX.
A SEARCH FOR THE LOST TREASURE.
The two steamers had passed the bend of the river, and we had gone by
forts Jackson and St. Philip without a word being said of the
historical events which were connected with them. We were too busy with
the inquiry before us to give any attention to the surroundings, though
I could see that our passengers on board the Sylvania were discussing
what they saw on the mighty river. But nothing could have been more
uninteresting than the banks of the river near its delta.
It was a season of high water, and the low lands beyond the levee on
either side were overflowed. Occasionally we passed a vessel going down
the stream, or a powerful skeleton-tug dragging a ship against the
rapid current. There was little to be seen besides the muddy flow of
the stream all around us, and the fringe of trees that grew on the
levee.
If the theory we had advanced, and supported by such evidence as we
had, was correct, the four thousand dollars the bank messenger had lost
were on board the Islander. If Nick had taken the package, he had not
left it behind him when he started out on his travels. We went down
into the after-cabin. The captain said Nick had occupied the large
state-room on the starboard side, while Cornwood had taken possession
of the corresponding one on the port side. We found enough of the
effects of each in his state-room to settle the question of his
occupancy of the room. Four thousand dollars was a large sum of money,
and we did not expect to find it lying around loosely in the room of
either.
Captain Blastblow volunteered to examine Cornwood's state-room, while I
rendered the same service in that of Nick Boomsby. I found a bundle
which contained the runaway's clothing. I searched it thoroughly, but
there was no package of any kind in it. I opened all the drawers and
lockers in the room with no better success. I tore the bed to pieces
and removed the berth sack. The latter was a hair mattress of the best
quality. I looked to see if it had been ripped open in any place, and
then felt of it in every part, but without discovering anything like a
foreign substance in it.
Under the berth, or rather bedstead, was a considerable space, where a
trunk or other package could be placed. I lighted the lamp in the
state-room, and took it from the gimbals, for it was dark under the
bed. I looked and felt in every part of the space, but I had no better
success. I examined every hole and corner in the state-room, but found
no such package as that for which I was looking.
"I find nothing that looks like money," I said to Colonel Shepard, who
was watching the operations with deep interest.
"Blastblow has no better luck in the other state-room. Do you conclude
from this fact that you have been mistaken?" inquired the owner of the
Islander.
"I do not; I feel morally sure that Nick took that money," I replied,
confidently.
"You may be mistaken, Captain Alick," added Colonel Shepard, with a
smile. "If he took the package we should be likely to find it in his
room."
"I grant that I expected to find it here; or a part of the money in
this room, and the rest of it in Cornwood's state-room," I added,
rather warmly. "There are other places where the package could have
been concealed."
"That is true; but Nick's room was the place where he was most likely
to put it."
"I think so myself; but Nick has had the advice of Cornwood since the
Islander reached Key West."
"Cornwood is a cunning rogue, I know."
"If we had suspected that Nick was on board the Islander, we might have
telegraphed to the police at Key West to arrest him and detain the
steamer," I continued. "I am satisfied that Cornwood would not have
gone to Key West if he had not expected to find Nick on board of the
Islander. At least, he would not have gone without the hundred dollars
he asked to pay his expenses in advance."
"Your logic seems to be entirely correct, but the facts so far do not
seem to bear out the theory," laughed the colonel. "But I have
recovered my steam-yacht, and I am entirely happy over the result so
far."
"I have no desire to prove that Nick Boomsby is a thief and a rascal;
on the contrary, I should be glad to have him relieved of the suspicion
that hangs to him just now. Cornwood may have considered that the
state-rooms were the most unsafe places on board of the vessel to
conceal the money, and even Nick himself may have come to this
conclusion before he had seen Cornwood."
"There is some reason in that," said the colonel. "Everybody in
Jacksonville knew that both yachts were bound to New Orleans. Nick may
have suspected that he would be charged with the robbery. He is old
enough to understand all about the telegraph, and he may have put the
money where it was not likely to be found, or if found, might not
appear to have any connection with him."
Captain Blastblow had made as thorough a search in the port as I had in
the starboard state-room, and had joined us in the cabin while we were
talking about the matter. He seemed to fall in with our reasoning, and
expressed his satisfaction that he had not been boarded by officers,
who might have suspected him of being concerned in the robbery of the
bank messenger.
"Cornwood has been on board of the Islander three days now," I said.
"Have you seen much of him, Captain Blastblow, during this time?"
"Very little indeed. From the time he came on board Sunday, I think I
hardly saw him at all until Monday afternoon. He was in close
conversation with Mr. Boomsby most of the time, the steward said to me.
The first night they sat up till after midnight; and Lonsdale says
there was a good deal of strong talk between them," replied the
captain.
"Do you know what it was about?" I asked.
"I haven't the least idea. I inquired how the passengers were getting
on, and Lonsdale told me he thought they were in some kind of a
quarrel."
"You don't spend any of your time in the cabin, do you, Captain
Blastblow?" asked the owner.
"I haven't had time even to come into it on this trip, though I intend
to go through it every day, to see that everything is in order. I have
had all I could do the last week to look out for the vessel, with two
heavy gales and plenty of fog," replied the captain. "I had to make a
harbor at Matanzas Inlet, and again at Tavernier's, for I was afraid
this little craft would roll her engine out of her."
"We kept on through the whole of it Friday night," I added.
"You were outside of the reef, and you could not make a harbor,"
retorted Captain Blastblow. "But I got to Key West two hours before you
did."
"You did not go to the assistance of a wrecked bark as I did, and land
her ship's company in Key West," I replied.
The captain of the Islander wanted to know about the wreck; and at
another time I told him all about it. We were too much concerned in
verifying our theory in relation to the robbery in Jacksonville to
agree to any long digression.
"Is the steward the only person who has been a constant visitor to the
cabin?" I asked.
"Gibbs, the waiter, did all the work in the cabin; and he must have
seen more of the passengers than even the steward," replied the
captain.
"Where is Gibbs?"
"Probably on deck, or asleep in some corner."
"Perhaps we had better call the steward and waiter," suggested Colonel
Shepard.
The captain went to the head of the companion-way, and called the
steward. Mr. Lonsdale had not spent much time in the cabin, though he
slept in one of the berths abaft the state-rooms. He confirmed the
statement of the captain that there had been a great deal of earnest
conversation between the Floridian and the "young swell." He never
listened to private conversation, and he had not the remotest idea what
they were talking about. Perhaps Gibbs, the waiter, might know more
about the matter than he did.
Gibbs was found to be fast asleep on a sofa in the after part of the
cabin. He knew nothing at all about what had happened since the
Islander came into the river, and appeared to be not a little surprised
when he saw the owner and myself. He was a light Mulatto, a very
good-looking fellow, and I judged that he was intelligent.
"Where are the passengers, Gibbs?" asked Captain Blastblow.
"I don't know, sir; somewhere about the vessel, I suppose; most likely
asleep in the staterooms," replied the waiter.
"Where do they spend their time when they are below?" continued the
captain, in an easy and indifferent tone.
Gibbs answered the question in a very indefinite manner. The passengers
were mostly in their state-rooms, on the sofa, or sitting in the
chairs.
"Have you noticed them in any particular place in the cabin, except in
their state-rooms, in the chairs, or on the sofas?" I asked, with
considerable energy, for the waiter seemed to be rather stupid and
bewildered, and I thought he needed something to wake him up.
"Yes, sir; I seen them both on the cabin floor this morning," answered
Gibbs, with more life in his tones and manner than I had seen before.
"On the floor!" exclaimed Colonel Shepard. "What were they doing on the
floor?"
"I don't know, sir. I had cleared away the breakfast-dishes, and went
on deck to smoke. I found it a little cool, and I came down again for
my coat," replied Gibbs, talking quite glibly now. "As soon as I came
down stairs, they got up."
"Where were they at the time?" I inquired.
"Right under the companion-way, sir."
"And you could not tell what they were doing on the floor?"
"No, sir; they were crawling out from under the companion-way when I
saw them."
We questioned the steward and the waiter for some time longer, but we
got nothing more out of them. We asked the captain to send them on
deck, and to direct Captain Cayo and Buck Lingley not to allow any
person to communicate with their prisoners.
The companion-way consisted of stairs with steps, but with no risers to
obstruct the light from the stern ports. It was not probable that the
passengers had secreted the bills forming the package in such a place
as this. But we carefully examined every foot of space under the
companion-way. We were about to give up the search in this part of the
cabin, when I felt something under the carpet, beneath the lower step.
I found that a portion of the carpet had been torn up, and I pulled it
over. Reaching it again, I felt the package more distinctly; but I was
disappointed because it seemed to be too small for the one that had
been lost. I drew it out.
"This can't be it," I said. "It is not more than half the size of the
one the messenger laid on the counter in the saloon."
"It ought not to be more than half as large," added the colonel. "It
appears that there has been some earnest talk among the passengers of
the Islander. What could this have been about except the division of
the spoils?"
While he was speaking, I had taken off the paper which inclosed the
package. It was the same color as that I had seen in the saloon. On
removing the covering, I came to the two tin plates, and saw a pile of
money, in bills, between them.
"Of course there is only one half of the plunder, and Boomsby divided
with Cornwood," said Colonel Shepard.
"Where is the other half?" I asked, blankly.
"I have no doubt this half belongs to my friend Mr. Boomsby; and I have
no more doubt Cornwood would have stolen it by the time they got to New
Orleans," added the colonel.
We concluded that it would not be as easy to find the second half of
the treasure as it had been the first.
CHAPTER XX.
THE THEORY AND THE FACTS.
We spent an hour in searching in every nook and corner of the cabin for
the other half of the lost treasure. Cornwood had not been stupid
enough to put it under the companion-way; and Nick had been stupid
enough to let his companion know where he had hidden his own share. As
Colonel Shepard had suggested, it was probable that the Floridian meant
to take it before he went on shore at New Orleans. Cornwood had not
concealed his share of the treasure in the cabin of the Islander, and
we could think of no other place where he was at all likely to deposit
it.
"I think he has too long a head to hide his money anywhere," interposed
Captain Blastblow. "I should say that any man was a natural fool to
hide his money in a vessel, under such circumstances as these fellows
came on board of the steamer. In my opinion, he has concealed the
money on his person, for you seem to have no doubt that he divided with
the young swell."
"That looks very reasonable," added Colonel Shepard. "I think if I had
a large sum on board of a vessel, I should provide myself with a
money-belt, and keep the treasure in it at all times."
"All we have to do is to search him," said Captain Blastblow. "We shall
soon find out whether or not he is a party to the robbery. I suppose
there isn't any doubt about the young swell, as the steward called him,
and which I think is the best description of him."
"The package, with the two tin plates, precisely answers the
description given of it by the man that lost it," I replied. "But I
doubt whether we have any right to search Cornwood. We are not
officers, and we are now in the State of Louisiana."
"We have as much right to search him as we had to lay hands on him when
we came alongside of the Islander," replied Colonel Shepard. "I think
we can get at the truth better than any court can. At any rate, he has
taken part in stealing my steam-yacht; and I think I have some hold on
him. If it turns out that he has not the money on him, I have no doubt
I can make it all right with him. I am willing to take the
responsibility."
"All right. I will help your man bring him down here, for I think we
had better not say anything to Mr. Boomsby until we have settled where
the other half of the money is," said Captain Blastblow.
"Bring him down here," replied the colonel.
The captain soon returned with the pilot, having Cornwood between them.
The prisoner seemed to be somewhat bewildered, for no charge had yet
been preferred against him.
"Mr. Cornwood, you seem to be acting in a different role than that for
which I engaged you at St. Augustine," said Colonel Shepard, when the
pilot had put his prisoner into a chair.
"It was my intention to place the steamer in your hands by the time you
arrived in Key West," replied Cornwood, with dignity.
"You gave me a letter when you came on board the Islander at Key West,"
said Captain Blastblow, savagely, to the prisoner.
"I gave you the owner's letter," added Cornwood.
"No, you didn't! you gave me this letter," continued the captain,
taking a paper from his pocket. "Is this your letter, Colonel Shepard?"
He gave the letter to his owner. The colonel looked at it and laughed.
"This is not so good an imitation of my handwriting as the other
letter," he added. "I never wrote a line of this letter. It favors the
theory we have adopted, and I will give it to you."
    CAPTAIN BLASTBLOW.
    DEAR SIR: This letter will be delivered to you by my excellent
    friend, Mr. Kirby Cornwood, who has been my companion during my
    trip to the interior of Florida, and I commend him to your
    acquaintance and good offices. You will give him a state-room on
    board of the Islander, for he will make the trip with you to New
    Orleans. You will continue to avoid the Sylvania, and in all
    matters relating to the steamer you will take the advice of Mr.
    Cornwood, in whose fidelity and good judgment I have entire
    confidence.
    Very truly yours,
    P. G. SHEPARD.
"My excellent friend, Mr. Kirby Cornwood!" exclaimed the colonel. "Did
you ever know a man to have so many excellent friends as I have? Why,
they are all willing to sacrifice themselves, and take my steam-yacht
and run her at my expense, and even without my knowledge."
"You did not write that letter, colonel?" asked Captain Blastblow.
"Of course I did not," replied the owner, warmly. "Why, the writing is
quite different from that given to you by my friend, Mr. Boomsby."
"I am afraid I shall not be willing to take any written orders after
this, unless the signature is witnessed by some one I know. I am sure I
did not think of such a thing as a counterfeit letter. But did you send
any letter to me by your excellent friend, Mr. Kirby Cornwood?" asked
Captain Blastblow.
"I did send a letter to you by him, instructing you to wait at Key West
till my arrival there," replied the colonel.
"Will you give me that letter, Mr. Kirby Cornwood?" demanded the
captain, addressing the prisoner in a very vigorous manner.
"I gave you the letter I received from Colonel Shepard. I have no
other," replied Cornwood, doggedly.
"I don't believe you, when Colonel Shepard says he did not write that
letter."
"Do you mean to tell me I lie?" cried Cornwood.
"That's the substance of what I mean," answered the captain, who seemed
to hold the prisoner in utter contempt.
"You are a coward, or you would not say that to a man with his arms
tied behind him," returned Cornwood, repressing his wrath.
"You invited me to say it, and I said it; and it wouldn't make any
difference to me whether your arms were tied or not. But I want the
other letter, and I am going to have it. Captain Cayo, we will search
him, and then we shall know whether he has it or not," added Captain
Blastblow.
The captain and the pilot proceeded at once to execute the threat.
Cornwood leaped from his chair, and began to kick at his two
persecutors. He was boiling with rage, or with some other passion. But
Captain Cayo seized him from behind by the shoulders, and threw him
down before he could do any harm. The captain took from his pocket a
strong cord he had evidently brought down for the purpose, and while
the pilot held him down, tied his ankles together. They then began the
search, examining all his pockets first. They found neither the money
nor the letter.
"We haven't gone deep enough," said Captain Blastblow, as he thrust his
hand into the inside of Cornwood's shirt. The latter seemed to
understand what this movement meant, and he renewed his struggles in
the most desperate manner.
Captain Cayo put his foot on Cornwood's chest, as he had done when he
captured the Floridian, and compelled him to lie quiet. Then he threw
up his manacled feet; but I took care of them by sitting down upon his
legs. Captain Blastblow then proceeded with his search. He removed a
portion of the prisoner's clothing above his trousers, and we could not
help seeing the wash-leather belt he wore around his waist. He
unbuckled it, and held it up before us.
"Now you may take Mr. Kirby Cornwood on deck," said the captain, in a
tone of triumph, as he felt the outside of the pocket-book attached to
the belt.
"Do you mean to rob me of my money? Have I fallen among thieves?"
demanded Cornwood.
"No; but we have," replied Captain Blastblow.
"This is an outrage, and----"
"Never mind that now; we will hear it another time," interposed the
captain.
"I protest against----"
"All right," added the captain, as he seated himself at the
cabin-table. "Go on deck, Mr. Kirby Cornwood, and take the air. It will
do you good."
The captain handed the money-belt to Colonel Shepard, who opened it,
and took from the pocket a large pile of bank-notes.
"That looks more like it," said the captain. "I don't believe that
fellow will prosecute us for anything we have done. He belongs in the
Florida state prison, if they have such an institution."
"I think we had better count the money," I suggested, as I took the
package we had found under the companion-way from my breast-pocket.
"Yes, count, and see if the rascals made a fair 'divvy' of it," added
the captain.
Colonel Shepard began to count the bills he had taken from the
money-belt, and I opened the package in my possession. As I did so, I
found the words, "First National Bank of Florida," as if impressed by a
stamp, on the wrapper. The two tin plates, by which I had been able to
recognize the package, were made by cutting off the round ends of a
pair of tins used for doubling papers and tearing off checks or other
papers. I concluded they were a device of the bank messenger, by which
he could square his package. When I had shown these things to the
captain, I proceeded to count the money.
"Just two thousand dollars," said the colonel, who finished his work
