     heavy-sterned fugitives, the Swedes pressing on their rear and
     applying their feet a parte poste of the Van Arsdales and the Van
     Bummels with a vigor that prodigiously accelerated their movements;
     nor did the renowned Michael Paw himself fail to receive divers
     grievous and dishonorable visitations of shoe-leather.

     "But what, oh Muse! was the rage of Peter Stuyvesant, when from
     afar he saw his army giving way! In the transports of his wrath he
     sent forth a roar, enough to shake the very hills. The men of the
     Manhattoes plucked up new courage at the sound, or, rather, they
     rallied at the voice of their leader, of whom they stood more in
     awe than of all the Swedes in Christendom. Without waiting for
     their aid, the daring Peter dashed, sword in hand, into the
     thickest of the foe. Then might be seen achievements worthy of the
     days of the giants. Wherever he went the enemy shrank before him;
     the Swedes fled to right and left, or were driven, like dogs, into
     their own ditch; but as he pushed forward, singly with headlong
     courage, the foe closed behind and hung upon his rear. One aimed a
     blow full at his heart; but the protecting power which watches over
     the great and good turned aside the hostile blade and directed it
     to a side-pocket, where reposed an enormous iron tobacco-box,
     endowed, like the shield of Achilles, with supernatural powers,
     doubtless from bearing the portrait of the blessed St. Nicholas.
     Peter Stuyvesant turned like an angry bear upon the foe, and
     seizing him, as he fled, by an immeasurable queue, 'Ah, whoreson
     caterpillar,' roared he, 'here's what shall make worms' meat of
     thee!' so saying he whirled his sword and dealt a blow that would
     have decapitated the varlet, but that the pitying steel struck
     short and shaved the queue forever from his crown. At this moment
     an arquebusier leveled his piece from a neighboring mound, with
     deadly aim; but the watchful Minerva, who had just stopped to tie
     up her garter, seeing the peril of her favorite hero, sent old
     Boreas with his bellows, who, as the match descended to the pan,
     gave a blast that blew the priming from the touch-hole.

     "Thus waged the fight, when the stout Risingh, surveying the field
     from the top of a little ravelin, perceived his troops banged,
     beaten, and kicked by the invincible Peter. Drawing his falchion,
     and uttering a thousand anathemas, he strode down to the scene of
     combat with some such thundering strides as Jupiter is said by
     Hesiod to have taken when he strode down the spheres to hurl his
     thunder-bolts at the Titans.

     "When the rival heroes came face to face, each made a prodigious
     start in the style of a veteran stage-champion. Then did they
     regard each other for a moment with the bitter aspect of two
     furious ram-cats on the point of a clapper-clawing. Then did they
     throw themselves into one attitude, then into another, striking
     their swords on the ground, first on the right side, then on the
     left: at last at it they went with incredible ferocity. Words
     cannot tell the prodigies of strength and valor displayed in this
     direful encounter,--an encounter compared to which the far-famed
     battles of Ajax with Hector, of Æneas with Turnus, Orlando with
     Rodomont, Guy of Warwick with Colbrand the Dane, or of that
     renowned Welsh knight, Sir Owen of the Mountains, with the giant
     Guylon, were all gentle sports and holiday recreations. At length
     the valiant Peter, watching his opportunity, aimed a blow enough to
     cleave his adversary to the very chine; but Risingh, nimbly raising
     his sword, warded it off so narrowly, that, glancing on one side,
     it shaved away a huge canteen in which he carried his
     liquor,--thence pursuing its trenchant course, it severed off a
     deep coat-pocket, stored with bread and cheese,--which provant,
     rolling among the armies, occasioned a fearful scrambling between
     the Swedes and Dutchmen, and made the general battle to wax more
     furious than ever.

     "Enraged to see his military stores laid waste, the stout Risingh,
     collecting all his forces, aimed a mighty blow full at the hero's
     crest. In vain did his fierce little cocked hat oppose its course.
     The biting steel clove through the stubborn ram beaver, and would
     have cracked the crown of any one not endowed with supernatural
     hardness of head; but the brittle weapon shivered in pieces on the
     skull of Hardkoppig Piet, shedding a thousand sparks, like beams of
     glory, round his grizzly visage.

     "The good Peter reeled with the blow, and turning up his eyes
     beheld a thousand suns, besides moons and stars, dancing about the
     firmament; at length, missing his footing, by reason of his wooden
     leg, down he came on his seat of honor with a crash which shook the
     surrounding hills, and might have wrecked his frame, had he not
     been received into a cushion softer than velvet, which Providence,
     or Minerva, or St. Nicholas, or some cow, had benevolently prepared
     for his reception.

     "The furious Risingh, in despite of the maxim, cherished by all
     true knights, that 'fair play is a jewel,' hastened to take
     advantage of the hero's fall; but, as he stooped to give a fatal
     blow, Peter Stuyvesant dealt him a thwack over the sconce with his
     wooden leg, which set a chime of bells ringing triple bob-majors in
     his cerebellum. The bewildered Swede staggered with the blow, and
     the wary Peter seizing a pocket-pistol, which lay hard by,
     discharged it full at the head of the reeling Risingh. Let not my
     reader mistake; it was not a murderous weapon loaded with powder
     and ball, but a little sturdy stone pottle charged to the muzzle
     with a double dram of true Dutch courage, which the knowing Antony
     Van Corlear carried about him by way of replenishing his valor, and
     which had dropped from his wallet during his furious encounter with
     the drummer. The hideous weapon sang through the air, and true to
     its course as was the fragment of a rock discharged at Hector by
     bully Ajax, encountered the head of the gigantic Swede with
     matchless violence.

     "This heaven-directed blow decided the battle. The ponderous
     pericranium of General Jan Risingh sank upon his breast; his knees
     tottered under him; a deathlike torpor seized upon his frame, and
     he tumbled to the earth with such violence that old Pluto started
     with affright, lest he should have broken through the roof of his
     infernal palace.

     "His fall was the signal of defeat and victory: the Swedes gave
     way, the Dutch pressed forward; the former took to their heels, the
     latter hotly pursued. Some entered with them, pell-mell, through
     the sally-port; others stormed the bastion, and others scrambled
     over the curtain. Thus in a little while the fortress of Fort
     Christina, which, like another Troy, had stood a siege of full ten
     hours, was carried by assault, without the loss of a single man on
     either side. Victory, in the likeness of a gigantic ox-fly, sat
     perched upon the cocked hat of the gallant Stuyvesant; and it was
     declared by all the writers whom he hired to write the history of
     his expedition that on this memorable day he gained a sufficient
     quantity of glory to immortalize a dozen of the greatest heroes in
     Christendom!"

In the "Sketch-Book," Irving set a kind of fashion in narrative essays,
in brief stories of mingled humor and pathos, which was followed for
half a century. He himself worked the same vein in "Bracebridge Hall,"
and "Tales of a Traveller." And there is no doubt that some of the most
fascinating of the minor sketches of Charles Dickens, such as the story
of the Bagman's Uncle, are lineal descendants of, if they were not
suggested by, Irving's "Adventure of My Uncle," and the "Bold Dragoon."

The taste for the leisurely description and reminiscent essay of the
"Sketch-Book" does not characterize the readers of this generation, and
we have discovered that the pathos of its elaborated scenes is somewhat
"literary." The sketches of "Little Britain," and "Westminster Abbey,"
and, indeed, that of "Stratford-on-Avon," will for a long time retain
their place in selections of "good reading;" but the "Sketch-Book" is
only floated, as an original work, by two papers, the "Rip Van Winkle"
and the "Legend of Sleepy Hollow;" that is to say by the use of the
Dutch material, and the elaboration of the "Knickerbocker Legend," which
was the great achievement of Irving's life. This was broadened and
deepened and illustrated by the several stories of the "Money Diggers,"
of "Wolfert Webber" and "Kidd the Pirate," in "The Tales of a
Traveller," and by "Dolph Heyliger" in "Bracebridge Hall." Irving was
never more successful than in painting the Dutch manners and habits of
the early time, and he returned again and again to the task until he not
only made the shores of the Hudson and the islands of New York harbor
and the East River classic ground, but until his conception of Dutch
life in the New World had assumed historical solidity and become a
tradition of the highest poetic value. If in the multiplicity of books
and the change of taste the bulk of Irving's works shall go out of
print, a volume made up of his Knickerbocker history and the legends
relating to the region of New York and the Hudson would survive as long
as anything that has been produced in this country.

The philosophical student of the origin of New World society may find
food for reflection in the "materiality" of the basis of the
civilization of New York. The picture of abundance and of enjoyment of
animal life is perhaps not overdrawn in Irving's sketch of the home of
the Van Tassels, in "The Legend of Sleepy Hollow." It is all the extract
we can make room for from that careful study:--

     "Among the musical disciples who assembled, one evening in each
     week, to receive his instructions in psalmody, was Katrina Van
     Tassel, the daughter and only child of a substantial Dutch farmer.
     She was a blooming lass of fresh eighteen; plump as a partridge;
     ripe and melting and rosy-cheeked as one of her father's peaches,
     and universally famed, not merely for her beauty, but her vast
     expectations. She was, withal, a little of a coquette, as might be
     perceived even in her dress, which was a mixture of ancient and
     modern fashions, as most suited to set off her charms. She wore the
     ornaments of pure yellow gold which her great-great-grandmother had
     brought over from Saardam; the tempting stomacher of the olden
     time; and withal a provokingly short petticoat, to display the
     prettiest foot and ankle in the country round.

     "Ichabod Crane had a soft and foolish heart towards the sex; and it
     is not to be wondered at that so tempting a morsel soon found favor
     in his eyes, more especially after he had visited her in her
     paternal mansion. Old Baltus Van Tassel was a perfect picture of a
     thriving, contented, liberal-hearted farmer. He seldom, it is true,
     sent either his eyes or his thoughts beyond the boundaries of his
     own farm; but within those everything was snug, happy, and
     well-conditioned. He was satisfied with his wealth, but not proud
     of it; and piqued himself upon the hearty abundance rather than the
     style in which he lived. His stronghold was situated on the banks
     of the Hudson, in one of those green, sheltered, fertile nooks in
     which the Dutch farmers are so fond of nestling. A great elm-tree
     spread its broad branches over it, at the foot of which bubbled up
     a spring of the softest and sweetest water, in a little well,
     formed of a barrel, and then stole sparkling away through the grass
     to a neighboring brook, that bubbled along among alders and dwarf
     willows. Hard by the farm-house was a vast barn, that might have
     served for a church, every window and crevice of which seemed
     bursting forth with the treasures of the farm. The flail was busily
     resounding within it from morning till night; swallows and martins
     skimmed twittering about the eaves; and rows of pigeons, some with
     one eye turned up, as if watching the weather, some with their
     heads under their wings, or buried in their bosoms, and others
     swelling and cooing and bowing about their dames, were enjoying the
     sunshine on the roof. Sleek, unwieldy porkers were grunting in the
     repose and abundance of their pens, whence sallied forth, now and
     then, troops of sucking pigs, as if to snuff the air. A stately
     squadron of snowy geese were riding in an adjoining pond, convoying
     whole fleets of ducks; regiments of turkeys were gobbling through
     the farm-yard, and guinea fowls fretting about it, like
     ill-tempered housewives, with their peevish, discontented cry.
     Before the barn door strutted the gallant cock, that pattern of a
     husband, a warrior, and a fine gentleman, clapping his burnished
     wings, and crowing in the pride and gladness of his
     heart--sometimes tearing up the earth with his feet, and then
     generously calling his ever-hungry family of wives and children to
     enjoy the rich morsel which he had discovered.

     "The pedagogue's mouth watered as he looked upon this sumptuous
     promise of luxurious winter fare. In his devouring mind's eye he
     pictured to himself every roasting-pig running about with a pudding
     in his belly, and an apple in his mouth; the pigeons were snugly
     put to bed in a comfortable pie, and tucked in with a coverlet of
     crust; the geese were swimming in their own gravy, and the ducks
     pairing cosily in dishes, like snug married couples, with a decent
     competency of onion-sauce. In the porkers he saw carved out the
     future sleek side of bacon, and juicy relishing ham; not a turkey
     but he beheld daintily trussed up, with its gizzard under its wing,
     and, peradventure, a necklace of savory sausages; and even bright
     chanticleer himself lay sprawling on his back, in a side-dish, with
     uplifted claws, as if craving that quarter which his chivalrous
     spirit disdained to ask while living.

     "As the enraptured Ichabod fancied all this, and as he rolled his
     great green eyes over the fat meadow-lands, the rich fields of
     wheat, of rye, of buckwheat, and Indian corn, and the orchard
     burdened with ruddy fruit, which surrounded the warm tenement of
     Van Tassel, his heart yearned after the damsel who was to inherit
     these domains, and his imagination expanded with the idea how they
     might be readily turned into cash, and the money invested in
     immense tracts of wild land and shingle palaces in the wilderness.
     Nay, his busy fancy already realized his hopes, and presented to
     him the blooming Katrina, with a whole family of children, mounted
     on the top of a wagon loaded with household trumpery, with pots and
     kettles dangling beneath; and he beheld himself bestriding a pacing
     mare, with a colt at her heels, setting out for Kentucky,
     Tennessee, or the Lord knows where.

     "When he entered the house, the conquest of his heart was complete.
     It was one of those spacious farm-houses, with high-ridged, but
     lowly-sloping roofs, built in the style handed down from the first
     Dutch settlers; the low projecting eaves forming a piazza along the
     front, capable of being closed up in bad weather. Under this were
     hung flails, harness, various utensils of husbandry, and nets for
     fishing in the neighboring river. Benches were built along the
     sides for summer use; and a great spinning-wheel at one end, and a
     churn at the other, showed the various uses to which this important
     porch might be devoted. From this piazza the wondering Ichabod
     entered the hall, which formed the centre of the mansion and the
     place of usual residence. Here, rows of resplendent pewter, ranged
     on a long dresser, dazzled his eyes. In one corner stood a huge bag
     of wool ready to be spun; in another a quantity of linsey-woolsey
     just from the loom; ears of Indian corn, and strings of dried
     apples and peaches, hung in gay festoons along the walls, mingled
     with the gaud of red peppers; and a door left ajar gave him a peep
     into the best parlor, where the claw-footed chairs and dark
     mahogany tables shone like mirrors; and irons, with their
     accompanying shovel and tongs, glistened from their covert of
     asparagus tops; mock-oranges and conch-shells decorated the
     mantelpiece; strings of various colored birds' eggs were suspended
     above it; a great ostrich egg was hung from the centre of the room,
     and a corner cupboard, knowingly left open, displayed immense
     treasures of old silver and well-mended china."

It is an abrupt transition from these homely scenes, which humor
commends to our liking, to the chivalrous pageant unrolled for us in the
"Conquest of Granada." The former are more characteristic and the more
enduring of Irving's writings, but as a literary artist his genius lent
itself just as readily to Oriental and mediæval romance as to the
Knickerbocker legend; and there is no doubt that the delicate perception
he had of chivalric achievements gave a refined tone to his mock
heroics, which greatly heightened their effect. It may almost be claimed
that Irving did for Granada and the Alhambra what he did, in a totally
different way, for New York and its vicinity.

The first passage I take from the "Conquest" is the description of the
advent at Cordova of the Lord Scales, Earl of Rivers, who was brother of
the queen of Henry VII., a soldier who had fought at Bosworth field, and
now volunteered to aid Ferdinand and Isabella in the extermination of
the Saracens. The description is put into the mouth of Fray Antonio
Agapida, a fictitious chronicler invented by Irving, an unfortunate
intervention which gives to the whole book an air of unveracity:--

     "'This cavalier [he observes] was from the far island of England,
     and brought with him a train of his vassals; men who had been
     hardened in certain civil wars which raged in their country. They
     were a comely race of men, but too fair and fresh for warriors, not
     having the sunburnt, warlike hue of our old Castilian soldiery.
     They were huge feeders also, and deep carousers, and could not
     accommodate themselves to the sober diet of our troops, but must
     fain eat and drink after the manner of their own country. They were
     often noisy and unruly, also, in their wassail; and their quarter
     of the camp was prone to be a scene of loud revel and sudden brawl.
     They were, withal, of great pride, yet it was not like our
     inflammable Spanish pride: they stood not much upon the pundonor,
     the high punctilio, and rarely drew the stiletto in their disputes;
     but their pride was silent and contumelious. Though from a remote
     and somewhat barbarous island, they believed themselves the most
     perfect men upon earth, and magnified their chieftain, the Lord
     Scales, beyond the greatest of their grandees. With all this, it
     must be said of them that they were marvelous good men in the
     field, dexterous archers, and powerful with the battle-axe. In
     their great pride and self-will, they always sought to press in the
     advance and take the post of danger, trying to outvie our Spanish
     chivalry. They did not rush on fiercely to the fight, nor make a
     brilliant onset like the Moorish and Spanish troops, but they went
     into the fight deliberately, and persisted obstinately, and were
     slow to find out when they were beaten. Withal they were much
     esteemed yet little liked by our soldiery, who considered them
     staunch companions in the field, yet coveted but little fellowship
     with them in the camp.

     "'Their commander, the Lord Scales, was an accomplished cavalier,
     of gracious and noble presence and fair speech; it was a marvel to
     see so much courtesy in a knight brought up so far from our
     Castilian court. He was much honored by the king and queen, and
     found great favor with the fair dames about the court, who indeed
     are rather prone to be pleased with foreign cavaliers. He went
     always in costly state, attended by pages and esquires, and
     accompanied by noble young cavaliers of his country, who had
     enrolled themselves under his banner, to learn the gentle exercise
     of arms. In all pageants and festivals, the eyes of the populace
     were attracted by the singular bearing and rich array of the
     English earl and his train, who prided themselves in always
     appearing in the garb and manner of their country--and were indeed
     something very magnificent delectable, and strange to behold.'

     "The worthy chronicler is no less elaborate in his description of
     the masters of Santiago, Calatrava, and Alcantara, and their
     valiant knights, armed at all points, and decorated with the badges
     of their orders. These, he affirms, were the flower of Christian
     chivalry; being constantly in service they became more steadfast
     and accomplished in discipline than the irregular and temporary
     levies of feudal nobles. Calm, solemn, and stately, they sat like
     towers upon their powerful chargers. On parades they manifested
     none of the show and ostentation of the other troops: neither, in
     battle, did they endeavor to signalize themselves by any fiery
     vivacity, or desperate and vainglorious exploit,--everything, with
     them, was measured and sedate; yet it was observed that none were
     more warlike in their appearance in the camp, or more terrible for
     their achievements in the field.

     "The gorgeous magnificence of the Spanish nobles found but little
     favor in the eyes of the sovereigns. They saw that it caused a
     competition in expense ruinous to cavaliers of moderate fortune;
     and they feared that a softness and effeminacy might thus be
     introduced, incompatible with the stern nature of the war. They
     signified their disapprobation to several of the principal
     noblemen, and recommended a more sober and soldier-like display
     while in actual service.

     "'These are rare troops for a tournay, my lord [said Ferdinand to
     the Duke of Infantado, as he beheld his retainers glittering in
     gold and embroidery]; but gold, though gorgeous, is soft and
     yielding: iron is the metal for the field.'

     "'Sire [replied the duke], if my men parade in gold, your majesty
     will find they fight with steel.' The king smiled, but shook his
     head, and the duke treasured up his speech in his heart."

Our author excels in such descriptions as that of the progress of
Isabella to the camp of Ferdinand after the capture of Loxa, and of the
picturesque pageantry which imparted something of gayety to the brutal
pastime of war:--

     "It was in the early part of June that the queen departed from
     Cordova, with the Princess Isabella and numerous ladies of her
     court. She had a glorious attendance of cavaliers and pages, with
     many guards and domestics. There were forty mules for the use of
     the queen, the princess and their train.

     "As this courtly cavalcade approached the Rock of the Lovers, on
     the banks of the river Yeguas, they beheld a splendid train of
     knights advancing to meet them. It was headed by that accomplished
     cavalier the Marques Duke de Cadiz, accompanied by the adelantado
     of Andalusia. He had left the camp the day after the capture of
     Illora, and advanced thus far to receive the queen and escort her
     over the borders. The queen received the marques with distinguished
     honor, for he was esteemed the mirror of chivalry. His actions in
     this war had become the theme of every tongue, and many hesitated
     not to compare him in prowess with the immortal Cid.

     "Thus gallantly attended, the queen entered the vanquished frontier
     of Granada, journeying securely along the pleasant banks of the
     Xenel, so lately subject to the scourings of the Moors. She stopped
     at Loxa, where she administered aid and consolation to the wounded,
     distributing money among them for their support, according to their
     rank.

     "The king, after the capture of Illora, had removed his camp before
     the fortress of Moclin, with an intention of besieging it. Thither
     the queen proceeded, still escorted through the mountain roads by
     the Marques of Cadiz. As Isabella drew near to the camp, the Duke
     del Infantado issued forth a league and a half to receive her,
     magnificently arrayed, and followed by all his chivalry in glorious
     attire. With him came the standard of Seville, borne by the
     men-at-arms of that renowned city, and the Prior of St. Juan, with
     his followers. They ranged themselves in order of battle, on the
     left of the road by which the queen was to pass.

     "The worthy Agapida is loyally minute in his description of the
     state and grandeur of the Catholic sovereigns. The queen rode a
     chestnut mule, seated in a magnificent saddle-chair, decorated with
     silver gilt. The housings of the mule were of fine crimson cloth;
     the borders embroidered with gold; the reins and head-piece were of
     satin, curiously embossed with needlework of silk, and wrought with
     golden letters. The queen wore a brial or regal skirt of velvet,
     under which were others of brocade; a scarlet mantle, ornamented in
     the Moresco fashion; and a black hat, embroidered round the crown
     and brim.

     "The infanta was likewise mounted on a chestnut mule, richly
     caparisoned. She wore a brial or skirt of black brocade, and a
     black mantle ornamented like that of the queen.

     "When the royal cavalcade passed by the chivalry of the Duke del
     Infantado, which was drawn out in battle array, the queen made a
     reverence to the standard of Seville, and ordered it to pass to the
     right hand. When she approached the camp, the multitude ran forth
     to meet her, with great demonstrations of joy; for she was
     universally beloved by her subjects. All the battalions sallied
     forth in military array, bearing the various standards and banners
     of the camp, which were lowered in salutation as she passed.

     "The king now came forth in royal state, mounted on a superb
     chestnut horse, and attended by many grandees of Castile. He wore a
     jubon or close vest of crimson cloth, with cuisses or short skirts
     of yellow satin, a loose cassock of brocade, a rich Moorish
     scimiter, and a hat with plumes. The grandees who attended him were
     arrayed with wonderful magnificence, each according to his taste
     and invention.

     "These high and mighty princes [says Antonio Agapida] regarded each
     other with great deference, as allied sovereigns rather than with
     connubial familiarity, as mere husband and wife. When they
     approached each other, therefore, before embracing, they made three
     profound reverences, the queen taking off her hat, and remaining in
     a silk net or cawl, with her face uncovered. The king then
     approached and embraced her, and kissed her respectfully on the
     cheek. He also embraced his daughter the princess; and, making the
     sign of the cross, he blessed her, and kissed her on the lips.

     "The good Agapida seems scarcely to have been more struck with the
     appearance of the sovereigns than with that of the English earl. He
     followed [says he] immediately after the king, with great pomp,
     and, in an extraordinary manner, taking precedence of all the rest.
     He was mounted 'a la guisa,' or with long stirrups, on a superb
     chestnut horse, with trappings of azure silk which reached to the
     ground. The housings were of mulberry, powdered with stars of gold.
     He was armed in proof, and wore over his armor a short French
     mantle of black brocade; he had a white French hat with plumes, and
     carried on his left arm a small round buckler, banded with gold.
     Five pages attended him, apparelled in silk and brocade, and
     mounted on horses sumptuously caparisoned; he had also a train of
     followers, bravely attired after the fashion of his country.

     "He advanced in a chivalrous and courteous manner, making his
     reverences first to the queen and infanta, and afterwards to the
     king. Queen Isabella received him graciously, complimenting him on
     his courageous conduct at Loxa, and condoling with him on the loss
     of his teeth. The earl, however, made light of his disfiguring
     wound, saying that 'our blessed Lord, who had built all that house,
     had opened a window there, that he might see more readily what
     passed within;' whereupon the worthy Fray Antonio Agapida is more
     than ever astonished at the pregnant wit of this island cavalier.
     The earl continued some little distance by the side of the royal
     family, complimenting them all with courteous speeches, his horse
     curveting and caracoling, but being managed with great grace and
     dexterity,--leaving the grandees and the people at large not more
     filled with admiration at the strangeness and magnificence of his
     state than at the excellence of his horsemanship.

     "To testify her sense of the gallantry and services of this noble
     English knight, who had come from so far to assist in their wars,
     the queen sent him the next day presents of twelve horses, with
     stately tents, fine linen, two beds with coverings of gold brocade,
     and many other articles of great value."

The protracted siege of the city of Granada was the occasion of feats of
arms and hostile courtesies which rival in brilliancy any in the
romances of chivalry. Irving's pen is never more congenially employed
than in describing these desperate but romantic encounters. One of the
most picturesque of these was known as "the queen's skirmish." The royal
encampment was situated so far from Granada that only the general aspect
of the city could be seen as it rose from the vega, covering the sides
of the hills with its palaces and towers. Queen Isabella expressed a
desire for a nearer view of the city, whose beauty was renowned
throughout the world, and the courteous Marques of Cadiz proposed to
give her this perilous gratification.

     "On the morning of June the 18th, a magnificent and powerful train
     issued from the Christian camp. The advanced guard was composed of
     legions of cavalry, heavily armed, looking like moving masses of
     polished steel. Then came the king and queen, with the prince and
     princesses, and the ladies of the court, surrounded by the royal
     body-guard, sumptuously arrayed, composed of the sons of the most
     illustrious houses of Spain; after these was the rear-guard, a
     powerful force of horse and foot; for the flower of the army
     sallied forth that day. The Moors gazed with fearful admiration at
     this glorious pageant, wherein the pomp of the court was mingled
     with the terrors of the camp. It moved along in radiant line,
     across the vega, to the melodious thunders of martial music, while
     banner and plume, and silken scarf, and rich brocade, gave a gay
     and gorgeous relief to the grim visage of iron war that lurked
     beneath.

     "The army moved towards the hamlet of Zubia, built on the skirts of
     the mountain to the left of Granada, and commanding a view of the
     Alhambra, and the most beautiful quarter of the city. As they
     approached the hamlet, the Marques of Villena, the Count Ureña, and
     Don Alonzo de Aguilar filed off with their battalions, and were
     soon seen glittering along the side of the mountain above the
     village. In the mean time the Marques of Cadiz, the Count de
     Tendilla, the Count de Cabra, and Don Alonzo Fernandez, senior of
     Alcaudrete and Montemayor, drew up their forces in battle array on
     the plain below the hamlet, presenting a living barrier of loyal
     chivalry between the sovereigns and the city.

     "Thus securely guarded, the royal party alighted, and, entering one
     of the houses of the hamlet, which had been prepared for their
     reception, enjoyed a full view of the city from its terraced roof.
     The ladies of the court gazed with delight at the red towers of the
     Alhambra, rising from amid shady groves, anticipating the time when
     the Catholic sovereigns should be enthroned within its walls, and
     its courts shine with the splendor of Spanish chivalry. 'The
     reverend prelates and holy friars, who always surrounded the queen,
     looked with serene satisfaction,' says Fray Antonio Agapida, 'at
     this modern Babylon, enjoying the triumph that awaited them, when
     those mosques and minarets should be converted into churches, and
     goodly priests and bishops should succeed to the infidel alfaquis.'

     "When the Moors beheld the Christians thus drawn forth in full
     array in the plain, they supposed it was to offer battle, and
     hesitated not to accept it. In a little while the queen beheld a
     body of Moorish cavalry pouring into the vega, the riders managing
     their fleet and fiery steeds with admirable address. They were
     richly armed, and clothed in the most brilliant colors, and the
     caparisons of their steeds flamed with gold and embroidery. This
     was the favorite squadron of Muza, composed of the flower of the
     youthful cavaliers of Granada. Others succeeded, some heavily
     armed, others à la gineta, with lance and buckler; and lastly
     came the legions of foot-soldiers, with arquebus and cross-bow, and
     spear and scimiter.

     "When the queen saw this army issuing from the city, she sent to
     the Marques of Cadiz, and forbade any attack upon the enemy, or the
     acceptance of any challenge to a skirmish; for she was loth that
     her curiosity should cost the life of a single human being.

     "The marques promised to obey, though sorely against his will; and
     it grieved the spirit of the Spanish cavaliers to be obliged to
     remain with sheathed swords while bearded by the foe. The Moors
     could not comprehend the meaning of this inaction of the
     Christians, after having apparently invited a battle. They sallied
     several times from their ranks, and approached near enough to
     discharge their arrows; but the Christians were immovable. Many of
     the Moorish horsemen galloped close to the Christian ranks,
     brandishing their lances and scimiters, and defying various
     cavaliers to single combat; but Ferdinand had rigorously prohibited
     all duels of this kind, and they dared not transgress his orders
     under his very eye.

     "Here, however, the worthy Fray Antonio Agapida, in his enthusiasm
     for the triumphs of the faith, records the following incident,
     which we fear is not sustained by any grave chronicler of the
     times, but rests merely on tradition, or the authority of certain
     poets and dramatic writers, who have perpetuated the tradition in
     their works. While this grim and reluctant tranquillity prevailed
     along the Christian line, says Agapida, there rose a mingled shout
     and sound of laughter near the gate of the city. A Moorish
     horseman, armed at all points, issued forth, followed by a rabble,
     who drew back as he approached the scene of danger. The Moor was
     more robust and brawny than was common with his countrymen. His
     visor was closed; he bore a huge buckler and a ponderous lance; his
     scimiter was of a Damascus blade, and his richly ornamented dagger
     was wrought by an artificer of Fez. He was known by his device to
     be Tarfe, the most insolent, yet valiant, of the Moslem
     warriors--the same who had hurled into the royal camp his lance,
     inscribed to the queen. As he rode slowly along in front of the
     army, his very steed, prancing with fiery eye and distended
     nostril, seemed to breathe defiance to the Christians.

     "But what were the feelings of the Spanish cavaliers when they
     beheld, tied to the tail of his steed, and dragged in the dust, the
     very inscription, 'AVE MARIA,' which Hernan Perez del Pulgar had
     affixed to the door of the mosque! A burst of horror and
     indignation broke forth from the army. Hernan was not at hand to
     maintain his previous achievement; but one of his young companions
     in arms, Garcilasso de la Vega by name, putting spurs to his horse,
     galloped to the hamlet of Zubia, threw himself on his knees before
     the king, and besought permission to accept the defiance of this
     insolent infidel, and to revenge the insult offered to our Blessed
     Lady. The request was too pious to be refused. Garcilasso remounted
     his steed, closed his helmet, graced by four sable plumes, grasped
     his buckler of Flemish workmanship, and his lance of matchless
     temper, and defied the haughty Moor in the midst of his career. A
     combat took place in view of the two armies and of the Castilian
     court. The Moor was powerful in wielding his weapons, and
     dexterous in managing his steed. He was of larger frame than
     Garcilasso, and more completely armed, and the Christians trembled
     for their champion. The shock of their encounter was dreadful;
     their lances were shivered and sent up splinters in the air.
     Garcilasso was thrown back in his saddle--his horse made a wide
     career before he could recover, gather up the reins, and return to
     the conflict. They now encountered each other with swords. The Moor
     circled round his opponent, as a hawk circles when about to make a
     swoop; his steed obeyed his rider with matchless quickness; at
     every attack of the infidel, it seemed as if the Christian knight
     must sink beneath his flashing scimiter. But if Garcilasso was
     inferior to him in power, he was superior in agility; many of his
     blows he parried; others he received upon his Flemish shield, which
     was proof against the Damascus blade. The blood streamed from
     numerous wounds received by either warrior. The Moor, seeing his
     antagonist exhausted, availed himself of his superior force, and,
     grappling, endeavored to wrest him from his saddle. They both fell
     to earth; the Moor placed his knee upon the breast of his victim,
     and, brandishing his dagger, aimed a blow at his throat. A cry of
     despair was uttered by the Christian warriors, when suddenly they
     beheld the Moor rolling lifeless in the dust. Garcilasso had
     shortened his sword, and, as his adversary raised his arm to
     strike, had pierced him to the heart. 'It was a singular and
     miraculous victory,' says Fray Antonio Agapida; 'but the Christian
     knight was armed by the sacred nature of his cause, and the Holy
     Virgin gave him strength, like another David, to slay this gigantic
     champion of the Gentiles.'

     "The laws of chivalry were observed throughout the combat--no one
     interfered on either side. Garcilasso now despoiled his adversary;
     then, rescuing the holy inscription of 'AVE MARIA' from its
     degrading situation, he elevated it on the point of his sword, and
     bore it off as a signal of triumph, amidst the rapturous shouts of
     the Christian army.

     "The sun had now reached the meridian, and the hot blood of the
     Moors was inflamed by its rays, and by the sight of the defeat of
     their champion. Muza ordered two pieces of ordnance to open a fire
     upon the Christians. A confusion was produced in one part of their
     ranks: Muza called to the chiefs of the army, 'Let us waste no more
     time in empty challenges--let us charge upon the enemy: he who
     assaults has always an advantage in the combat.' So saying, he
     rushed forward, followed by a large body of horse and foot, and
     charged so furiously upon the advance guard of the Christians, that
     he drove it in upon the battalion of the Marques of Cadiz.

     "The gallant marques now considered himself absolved from all
     further obedience to the queen's commands. He gave the signal to
     attack. 'Santiago!' was shouted along the line; and he pressed
     forward to the encounter, with his battalion of twelve hundred
     lances. The other cavaliers followed his example, and the battle
     instantly became general.

     "When the king and queen beheld the armies thus rushing to the
     combat, they threw themselves on their knees, and implored the Holy
     Virgin to protect her faithful warriors. The prince and princess,
     the ladies of the court, and the prelates and friars who were
     present, did the same; and the effect of the prayers of these
     illustrious and saintly persons was immediately apparent. The
     fierceness with which the Moors had rushed to the attack was
     suddenly cooled; they were bold and adroit for a skirmish, but
     unequal to the veteran Spaniards in the open field. A panic seized
     upon the foot-soldiers--they turned and took to flight. Muza and
     his cavaliers in vain endeavored to rally them. Some took refuge in
     the mountains; but the greater part fled to the city, in such
     confusion that they overturned and trampled upon each other. The
     Christians pursued them to the very gates. Upwards of two thousand
     were either killed, wounded, or taken prisoners; and the two pieces
     of ordnance were brought off as trophies of the victory. Not a
     Christian lance but was bathed that day in the blood of an infidel.

     "Such was the brief but bloody action which was known among the
     Christian warriors by the name of "The Queen's Skirmish;" for when
     the Marques of Cadiz waited upon her majesty to apologize for
     breaking her commands, he attributed the victory entirely to her
     presence. The queen, however, insisted that it was all owing to her
     troops being led on by so valiant a commander. Her majesty had not
     yet recovered from her agitation at beholding so terrible a scene
     of bloodshed, though certain veterans present pronounced it as gay
     and gentle a skirmish as they had ever witnessed."

The charm of "The Alhambra" is largely in the leisurely, loitering,
dreamy spirit in which the temporary American resident of the ancient
palace-fortress entered into its mouldering beauties and romantic
associations, and in the artistic skill with which he wove the
commonplace daily life of his attendants there into the more brilliant
woof of its past. The book abounds in delightful legends, and yet these
are all so touched with the author's airy humor that our credulity is
never overtaxed; we imbibe all the romantic interest of the place
without for a moment losing our hold upon reality. The enchantments of
this Moorish paradise become part of our mental possessions, without the
least shock to our common sense. After a few days of residence in the
part of the Alhambra occupied by Dame Tia Antonia and her family, of
which the handmaid Dolores was the most fascinating member, Irving
succeeded in establishing himself in a remote and vacant part of the
vast pile, in a suite of delicate and elegant chambers, with secluded
