pleasanter, than to have a good fairy come and visit you." 

"What do you mean?" 

"Just that. Good bye--the girls are going out to walk, and I must get 
ready to go along." 

She tripped up the stairs, leaving Antoinette mystified and crestfallen. 
Under pretence of collecting her books, she lingered in one of the class 
rooms in the lower story, waiting to see the girls pass out, which they 
always did, she knew, by the lower door. They came presently in long 
file. The families that sent their daughters to Mrs. Mowbray's were 
generally of the wealthier portions of society; and it was a well dressed 
set that defiled before Antoinette's eyes; too well, for many of them 
were unbecomingly fine. Antoinette did not recognize her cousin until she 
was quite out upon the street and turned her face casually to speak to 
some one behind her. The new cloak, of dark green stun 7, was as handsome 
as Antoinette's own; and there was no old grey plush hat above it. No 
such matter; a neat little green hat, perfectly simple, but new and well 
made and well fitting, shaded a face full of merry sparkle, totally 
unlike the depressed, cloudy expression Antoinette had been used to 
despise at home. She told her mother with an injured air what she had 
seen. Mrs. Busby said nothing. It was vexatious; at the same time she 
reflected that the credit of all this would redound to herself   Nobody 
but Mrs. Mowbray and Rotha herself knew whence came the dresses and 
bonnet, and they would not tell, naturally. On the whole the gain was as 
great as the loss. 

But to Rotha now-a-days it was all gain. That walk with the girls; how 
pleasant it was, to go with free step, conscious that there was nothing 
in her appearance to draw remark or provoke pity. At Rotha's age, perhaps 
as much as ever, such an immunity is prized and enjoyed. It was such a 
walk as till then she had never taken in the streets of New York; for 
even when, two or three years ago, she had gone with her mother, it was 
with a feeling of being classed with the multitude of the poor and 
struggling and ill-dressed. So the walking had been mainly in streets 
where such classes were lodged and at home. Now Rotha went where the 
buildings were fine and the ways broad, and where the passers-by were gay 
and splendid. Her breath came freer, her step grew more elastic, the 
colour rose in her cheeks; and when the little procession returned home, 
Miss Parsons, who had been in charge of it, remarked to Mrs. Mowbray that 
she had no idea before what a very handsome girl Miss Carpenter was. And 
Mrs. Mowbray, when they all gathered to dinner, cast a keen glance at the 
new member of the company. She was reassured; not a particle of self-
consciousness was to be traced in the fine, bright, spirited lace, though 
the beauty was unquestioned. 

That was the first time Rotha had met the family at table. It was a new 
and highly interesting experience for her. The table was very long; and 
the mere sight of so many fresh young faces together was inspiriting of 
itself; of greatest interest to Rotha because these were her companions, 
fellow pupils, sharers in work and play together. But apart from its 
living surroundings, the board excited Rotha's keenest attention. The 
delicacy and order of its arrangements, the beauty of its appointments, 
the abundance of the supply, the excellence of the material. Everything 
there was of the best; everything was well cooked and appetizing; it was 
a simple table, as it should be, but no provision for health or comfort 
was wanting. Rotha felt herself at home in surroundings that suited her. 

Then it was a lively meal; not a bit of stagnation. At Mrs. Busby's the 
talk at table was about nothing to stir the slightest interest, to any 
one whose soul was not in a condition to be fed with the very dryest of 
social husks; the only exceptions being when Mr. and Mrs. Busby got into 
a debate. A debate always has some elements of interest, if there is any 
wit on either side of it. Here, the first thing, after the carving was 
well begun, was the reciting of French anecdotes or sayings or 
quotations, by each of the scholars in turn; the exercise being 
superintended by the French teacher, a very imposing person in Rotha's 
eyes, to whom she had just that day been introduced. It was very amusing 
to her to hear the differing accent, the varying voices, and to watch the 
different air and manner of the girls, as Mme. Bonton's voice, uttering 
"Suivante"--"Suivante"--called them up one after another. She herself, of 
course, had no little speech prepared. Then the conversation became 
general, as the business of dining went on its way, and Mrs. Mowbray made 
part of it very interesting. Altogether, it was a time of delight to 
Rotha. 

Not less so were the hours of study that followed. It was one of her good 
properties, that she could easily concentrate all her attention on the 
one thing she happened to have in hand. So study was study to her; deep, 
absorbing, conquering, and of course triumphing. And when the bell 
summoned the family to tea, she came fresh for new pleasure to assemble 
with the rest. 

The parlours were cleared of the long table now; only enough of it being 
left to accommodate the younger scholars who might not be trusted to hold 
a cup of tea safely. The girls brought their various pieces of fancy 
work; the rooms were well lighted, well furnished, the walls hung with 
engravings and paintings, the mantelpieces full of pretty things; it was 
not like a school, but like a large, elegant family gathering. Here the 
tea was handed round, with rolls and excellent cake and biscuits. Mrs. 
Mowbray presently called Rotha to her side, by the big table; and held a 
little quiet talk with her about the course of the day, introducing her 
at the same time to several of her schoolmates. I can never tell how the 
girl's whole nature opened and expanded, like a suddenly blossoming rose, 
under the genial, kindly atmosphere and culture into which she now came. 

Study? She studied with a consuming kind of intensity. Not a teacher that 
she had to do with, but took delight in her. She gave them absolutely no 
trouble. She was not a timid girl; so was not, like some, hindered by 
nervousness from making a fair presentation of herself. Her mind was 
opening, greedy for the food it got, and taking it in rapidly. 

And happy? There was not seemingly a happier girl in the house. Crowding 
new interests had driven into the background, for the time, the demands 
of conscience; and Rotha was one of those people whose cup of life is a 
large one; capacities of heart and intellect alike wide in their 
possibilities, but if satisfied, making existence very rich. She was 
quiet enough in manner, never forgetting her beloved model; yet eye and 
lip and varying colour, and the involuntary movement of head and hand, 
and foot too, testified to the glad growing life of her soul. Mrs. 
Mowbray saw it with perpetual satisfaction; it got to be a habit with her 
that her eye sought and rested on that one unmistakeably honest and loyal 
member of her family. And Rotha's eye never met hers but there came a 
sparkle and a look of love into the young face. 

All day was a delight now to the girl; beginning with the morning 
prayers, which to be sure she loved mostly because she heard Mrs. 
Mowbray's voice in them. Then came breakfast; bright and cheery, with the 
hope and the work of the day in prospect, and a lively, pretty, pleasant 
table and company in possession. It was not like school; it was a large 
family; where all arrangements and supplies were as in the best appointed 
private house, and the only rules that reigned were the rules of good 
manners. Then came the brisk walk in the bracing morning air; and then, 
study. Some lesson hours were particularly interesting to Rotha. Latin 
she did not like, but French she took to kindly; and Madame Bonton told 
madame with a satisfied nod of her head, that Miss Carpenter was "not a 
soap bubble",--high praise, which only a few of the girls ever attained. 

Among her schoolmates Rotha made no particular friends. Some of them 
asked captiously who she was? others remarked critically that she thought 
herself too good looking; others declared enviously that she was a 
"favourite." Rotha did not take to any of them; made no confident of any 
of them; and was felt by most of them to be somehow uncongenial. Those 
who saw most of her felt this most decidedly. She presently was out of 
favour with all her roommates. 

It was a rule of the house that lights should be all out at ten o'clock. 
Then one of the under teachers made a progress through the rooms to see 
that this was done and everybody in bed. Rotha made one of four girls who 
occupied a large room on the third floor. Each young lady had her own 
bed, her own press and drawers, and everything comfort called for; of 
course absolute privacy could not be given. When Rotha had been in her 
new quarters two or three weeks, there came a collision between her and 
her fellows in that room. One night Miss Jewett had been round as usual 
and turned off the gas. As soon as her retreating foot-steps were heard 
to reenter her own room, at the further end of the passage, one of the 
girls sprang up and lit the gas again. The burner was near the head of 
her bed, so that she could see pretty well to read when she was lying 
down; which to Rotha's great surprise she went on to do for some time--
till Rotha fell asleep. The next night the same thing happened, and the 
next. Rotha became uneasy, and finally could bear it no longer. The 
fourth time this trick was played, she lifted her voice in protest. 

"Miss Entable," said she, "what you are doing is against the rules." 

She spoke clearly enough, though with a moderated voice; but not the 
least attention was paid to her remonstrance. One of her three companions 
was asleep; the second giggled; the reader took no notice. Rotha grew 
hot. What was she to do? Not give way. To give way in the face of 
opposition was never Rotha's manner. She slipped out of bed and came near 
the one where the reader lay. 

"Miss Entable, it is against rules, what you are doing." 

"Mind your own business," said the other shortly. 

"I am minding it," returned Rotha. "It is my business to keep Mrs. 
Mowbray's rules, and not to help break them; and I will not." 

"Will not what? You want to curry favour with old Mowbray--that's what 
you do. I have no patience with such meanness!" 

"You had better go and tell her what we are doing," said the third girl 
scornfully. 

"Miss Mc Pherson," said Rotha, her voice trembling a little with wrath, 
"I think Mrs. Mowbray trusts you. How can you bear to be false to trust?" 

"Stuff!" 

"Cant!" 

"Nobody asks your opinion about it. Who are you?" said the Mc Pherson, 
who in her own opinion was somebody. 

"Nor do I ask yours," said Rotha. "I will not help you break madame's 
rules. The light is one fourth part mine; and my part shall not burn 
after hours." 

With which deliverance she turned off the gas. Words of smothered rage 
and scorn followed her as she went back to bed; and the next day Rotha 
was plainly ostracised by a large part of her school-mates. 

The next evening the gas was lighted again after ten o'clock. 

"Now you Carpenter," said the reader, "I am not going to stand any of 
your ill manners. You will let the gas alone, if you please." 

"I cannot let it alone," said Rotha. "I should be a sharer in your 
dishonour." 

"Dishonour! well, let it alone, or I'll--" 

"What, Miss Entable?" 

"Mc Pherson and I will put you in bed and tie you there; and Jennings 
will help. We are three against one. So hold your tongue." 

Rotha reflected. It did not suit her feeling of self-respect to be 
concerned in a row. She raised herself on one elbow. 

"I do not choose to fight," she said; "that is not my way. But if you do 
not put the gas out, I shall tell Mrs. Mowbray that she must make 
somebody watch to see that her orders are observed." 

Now there arose a storm; rage and contempt and reviling were heaped on 
Rotha's head. "Informer!"--"Spy!"--"Mean tell tale!"--were some of the 
gentle marks of esteem bestowed on her. 

"I am not an informer," said Rotha, when she could be heard; "I am not 
going to mention any names. I will only tell Mrs. Mowbray that she must 
charge somebody to see that her orders are observed." 

"Orders! She is a mean, pinching, narrow-minded, low, school ma'am. You 
should see how it is at Mrs. De Joyce's. The girls have liberty--they 
receive their friends--they go to the opera--they have little dances--
they do just what they like. Mrs. De Joyce is such a lady! it is another 
thing. I am not going to stay in this mean house after this term is out." 

"Mary Entable!" said Rotha, rising up on her elbow and speaking with 
blazing eyes; "are you not ashamed of yourself? Mrs. Mowbray, who has 
just been so kind to you! so generous! so good! How long is it since she 
was nursing you through a terrible sickness--nursing you night and day--
entertaining your mother and your sister for ten days, in her crowded 
house. Do you dare call her narrow? Answer me one thing, if you can; did 
your mother and sister bear the expense of their stay here, or did she? 
Answer me, if you have a fraction of a soul in you!--Aren't you ashamed! 
I should think you would cover up your face in the bedclothes, and never 
look at anybody again!" 

Leaning on her elbow, raised so up in her bed, Rotha had delivered 
herself of the foregoing; in a moderated voice it is true, but with a 
cutting energy and directness. The other three girls were at first 
silent, partly with astonishment, Rotha's usual manner was so contained. 

"You may do as you like," she went on more composedly, "but help you I 
will not in your wrong ways. If the gas is lighted again after ten 
o'clock, I shall take my measures. I come of an honest family." 

That last cut was too much. The storm of abuse burst forth again; but 
Rotha wrapped herself in her coverlets and said no more. The gas was not 
relighted that evening. However, in the nature of the case it followed 
that lawless girls would not be long kept in check by the influence of 
one whom they regarded so lightly as these did Rotha. A fortnight later, 
the latter came to Mrs. Mowbray one day when she was alone in the 
library. 

"Well, my child--what is it?" said the kind voice she had learned to love 
devotedly. Mrs. Mowbray was arranging some of the displaced books in the 
bookcases, and spoke with only a fleeting glance at the person 
approaching her, to see who it was. 

"May I speak to you, madame?" 

"Yes--speak. What is it?" 

"I do not know how to say what I want to say." 

"Straight out, my child. Straight out is best. What is the matter?" 

"Nothing, with me, madame. But--if it would not give too much trouble--I 
thought I would like it very much if I could be put in another room." 

"Sleeping room?" 

"Yes, ma'am." 

"Why?"--Mrs. Mowbray's quick hands were busy all the while she was 
talking; putting up and pulling down. Rotha hesitated. 

"Madame, before I answer I should like to ask another question. What 
ought I to do if I see something done which you have forbidden?" 

A quick sharp glance came her way now. 

"What have you seen?" 

"That is just what I do not know whether I ought to tell you. I thought, 
perhaps it would be the best way for me to go where I could not see it." 

"Why?" said Mrs. Mowbray dryly. 

"Then I should not be sharing the wrong. I suppose, more than that is not 
my affair. I am afraid it would be troublesome to move me." 

"Any change is troublesome in a house like this," the lady answered; and 
Rotha stood still, not knowing how to go on. Mrs. Mowbray stepped up on 
the library steps to arrange some books on the upper shelves; and till 
she came down she did not speak again. 

"You are quite right to mention no names and give no stories," she said 
then. "I always doubt an informer. And you are quite right also in 
refusing to countenance what is wrong. I will give you another room, my 
dear." She took Rotha in her arms and kissed her repeatedly. "Have I 
found a friend?" she said. 

"You, madame?" said Rotha. "I cannot do anything for you; but you have 
done everything for me." 

"You can give me love and truth that is all we any of us can give to one 
another, isn't it? The ways of shewing may be different.--Where are you 
going to spend the holidays?" she said with a change of tone. 

"I don't know, madame. I have not thought about it." 

"Will you spend them with me?" 

Joy flamed up in Rotha's eyes and lips and cheeks. "O madame!--if I may." 

"I expect half a dozen of the young ladies will stay with me. Here is a 
note that came for you, from your aunt." 

She gave Rotha an open note to read. It contained the request that Rotha 
might spend the time between Christmas and New Year's Day at her house, 
but not those days. Rotha read and looked up. 

"Write," said Mrs. Mowbray, "and say to your aunt that I have invited you 
and that you have accepted the invitation, for the whole holidays." 

The smile and the glance of her sweet eye were bewitching. Rotha felt as 
if she could have stooped down and kissed her very garments. 


CHAPTER XVII. 


BAGS AND BIBLES. 


Those holidays were a never-to-be-forgotten time in Rotha's life. 
Christmas eve, and indeed a day before, there was a great bustle and rush 
of movement in the house, almost all the boarders sweeping away to their 
various homes. Their example was followed by the under teachers; only 
Miss Blodgett remained; and a sudden lull took place of the rush. A small 
table was drawn out in the middle room; and Mrs. Mowbray came to dinner 
with a face, tired indeed, but set for play. The days of the ordinary 
weeks were always thick set with business; the weight of business was 
upon every heart; now it was unmitigated holiday. Nobody knew better how 
to play than Mrs. Mowbray; it was in her very air and voice and words. 
Perhaps some of this was assumed for the sake of others; a large portion 
of it was unquestionably real. The table was festive, that Christmas eve; 
flowers dressed it; the dessert was gay with confections and bonbons, as 
well as ice cream; and there was a breath of promise and anticipation in 
Mrs. Mowbray's manner that infected the dullest spirits there. And some 
of the girls were very dull! But Rotha's sprang up as if she had been in 
paradise. 

"Are you going to hang up your stocking, Miss Blodgett?" 

Miss Blodgett bridled and smiled and was understood to express her 
opinion that she was "too old." 

"'Too old!' My dear Miss Blodgett! One is never too old to be happy. I 
intend to be as happy as ever I can. I shall hang up my stocking; and I 
expect everybody to put something in it." 

"You ought to have let us know that beforehand, madame," said Miss 
Blodgett. 

"Let you know beforehand!" said Mrs. Mowbray, while her eye twinkled 
mischievously: "My dear friend! I don't want any but free-will offerings. 
You didn't think I was going to levy black mail? did you? Miss Blodgett! 
I thought you knew me better." 

Whether she were in jest or in earnest, Rotha could not make up her mind. 
She was laughing at Miss Blodgett, that Rotha saw; but was it all 
nonsense about the stocking and the gifts? Mrs. Mowbray's sweet eyes were 
dancing with fun, her lips wreathed with the loveliest archness; whatever 
she meant, Rotha was utterly and wholly bewitched. She ran on for some 
little time, amusing herself and the girls, and putting slow Miss 
Blodgett in something of an embarrassment, she was so much too quick for 
her. 

"Are you going to hang up your stocking, Miss Emory?" 

Miss Emory in her turn smiled and bridled, and seemed at a loss how to 
answer. 

"Miss Eutable?" 

"Yes, ma'am." 

"Certainly. We will all hang up our stockings. Do you think by the 
chimney is the best place, Louisa?" 

The girl addressed was a little girl, left in Mrs. Mowbray's care while 
her parents were in Europe. She dimpled and declared she supposed one 
place was as good as another. 

"But you believe Santa Claus comes down the chimney?" 

"I always knew better, Mrs. Mowbray." 

"You did! You knew better! She knew better, Miss Blodgett. We are growing 
so wise in this generation. Here's little Miss Farrar does not believe in 
Santa Claus. I think that's a great loss. Miss Carpenter, what do you 
think about it? Do you think it is best to let the cold daylight in upon 
all our dreams?" 

"The sun is not cold, madame." 

"But the sun leaves no mystery." 

"I do not like mystery, madame?" 

"You don't? I think the charm of the stocking hung up, is the mystery. To 
listen for the sound of the reindeers' feet on the roof, to hear the 
rustle of the paper packages as Santa Claus comes down the chimney--there 
is nothing like that! I used to lie and listen and cover up my eyes for 
fear I should look, and be all in a tremble of delight and mystery." 

"I should have looked," said Rotha. 

"You must never look at Santa Claus. He don't like it." 

"But I always knew it was no Santa Claus." 

"Do you think you, and Miss Farrar here, are the happier for being so 
wise?" 

"I do not know," said Rotha laughing. "I cannot help it." 

"Mrs. Mowbray," said Miss Blodgett, "Miss Carpenter is the only young 
lady in the house who says 'do not' instead of don't; have you noticed?" 

"My dear Miss Blodgett! don't you go to preaching up preciseness. Life is 
too short to round all the corners; and there are too many corners. You 
must cut across sometimes. I say 'don't,' myself." 

She went now into a more business-like inquiry, how the several young 
ladies present expected to spend the next day; and as they rose from 
table, asked Rotha if she would like to drive out with her immediately. 
She had business to attend to. 

The drive, and the business, of that Christmas eve remained a vision of 
unalloyed pure delight in Rotha's memory for ever. The city was brightly 
lighted, at least where she and Mrs. Mowbray went; the streets were full 
of a gay crowd, gay as one sees it at no other time of all the year but 
around the holidays; everybody was buying or had bought, and was carrying 
bundles done up in brown paper, and packages of all sizes and shapes; and 
everybody's face looked as if there were a pleasant thought behind it, 
for everybody was preparing good for somebody else. Mrs. Mowbray was on 
such errands, Rotha immediately saw. And the shops were such scenes of 
happy bustle; happy to the owners, for they were driving a good trade; 
and happy to the customers, for every one was getting what he wanted. A 
large grocer's was the first place Mrs. Mowbray stopped at; and even here 
the scene was exceedingly attractive and interesting to Rotha. It was not 
much like the little corner grocery near Jane Street, where she once used 
to buy half pounds of tea and pecks of potatoes for her mother; although 
the mingled scents of spices and cheese did recall that to mind; the 
spices and the cheese here were better, and the odours correspondingly. 
Rotha never lost the remembrance, nor ever entered a large house of this 
kind again in her life without a sweeping impression of the mysterious 
bustle and joy of that Christmas eve. 

Mrs. Mowbray had various orders to give. Among them was one specially 
interesting to Rotha. She desired to have some twenty or thirty pounds of 
tea done up in half pound packages; also as many pounds of sugar; loaf 
sugar. As she and Rotha were driving off she explained what all this was 
for. "It is to go to my poor old people at the Coloured Home," she said. 
"Did you ever hear of the Old Coloured Home? I suppose not    That is an 
institution for the care of worn-out old coloured people, who have nobody 
to look after them. They expect to see me at Christmas. Would you like to 
go with me to-morrow, after church, when I go to take the tea to them?" 

Rotha answered, most sincerely, that she would like to go anywhere with 
Mrs. Mowbray. 

"They think all the world of tea, those poor old women; and they do not 
get it very good. The tea for them all is brewed in a great kettle and 
sweetened with molasses, without taking any account of differences of 
taste," Mrs. Mowbray added laughing; "and many of these old people know 
what is good as well as I do; and this common tea is dreadful to them. So 
at Christmas I always carry them a half pound of tea apiece and a pound 
of loaf sugar; and you have no idea how much they look forward to it." 

"Half a pound of tea will last quite a good while," said Rotha. 

"How do you know, my dear?" 

"I used to get half a pound at a time for mother, and then I used to make 
it for her always; so I know it will do for a long time, if one is 
careful." 

"So you have been a housekeeper!" 

"Not much.--I used to do things for mother." 

"Mrs. Busby is her sister?" 

"Yes, ma'am; but not like her. O not a bit like her." 

"Where was Mrs. Busby in those days?" 

"Here. Just where she is now." 

"Did she never come to see you?" 

"She did not know where we were. Mother never let her know." 

"Do you know why not, my dear?" 

"She had been so unkind--" Rotha answered in a low voice. 

Mrs. Mowbray thought to herself that probably there had been fault on 
both sides. 

"You must try and forget all that, my dear, if there were old grievances. 
It is best to forgive and forget, and Christmas is a capital time to do 
it. I never dare think of a grudge against anybody at Christmas. And your 
aunt seems disposed to be kind to you now." 

"No, ma'am, I do not think she does." 

"Don't you!" 

"No, ma'am. I do not" 

"Why, my dear, you must not bear malice." 

"What is 'malice'?" 

"Well,--ill-will." 

"Ill-will--I do not think I wish any harm to her," said Rotha slowly; 
"but I do not forgive her." 

"What do you want to do to her?" 

"I do not know. I should like to make her feel ashamed of herself--if I 
knew how." 

"I do not think that lies in your power, my dear; and I would not try. 
That is a sort of revenge-taking; and all sorts of revenge-taking are 
forbidden to us. 'Vengeance is mine,' saith the Lord." 

"I do not mean vengeance," said Rotha. "I mean, just punishment--a little 
bit." 

"That is the meaning of the word 'vengeance' in that place;--just 
punishment; but in your heart, Rotha, it is revenge. Put it away, my 
dear. It is not the spirit of Christ. You must forgive, if you would be 
forgiven." 

"I do not know how," said Rotha, low and steadily. 

"See how Jesus did. When they were nailing him to the cross, he said, 
'Father, forgive them.'" 

"Yes, but he said too, Mrs. Mowbray,--'they know not what they do.'" 

"My dear, nobody knows the evil he does. That does not excuse the evil, 
but it helps your charity for the sinner. Nobody knows the evil he does. 
I suppose Mrs. Busby has no notion how much she has hurt you." 

Rotha thought, her aunt had as little care; but she did not say it. She 
was silent a minute, and then asked if the poor people at the Old 
Coloured Home were all women? 

"O no!" Mrs. Mowbray answered. "There are a great many men. I give them  
a pound of tobacco each; but I prefer not to take that in the carriage  
with me. It is all up there now, I suppose, waiting for me and to-morrow." 

With which the carriage stopped again. 

Here it was a bookstore; a large and beautiful one. The light was 
brilliant; and on every counter and table lay spread about such treasures 
of printing, engraving, and the book-binder's art, as Rotha had never 
seen gathered together before. Mrs. Mowbray told her to amuse herself 
with looking at the books and pictures, while she attended to the 
business that brought her here; and so began a wonderful hour for Rotha. 
O the books! O the pictures! what pages of interest! what leaves of 
beauty! Her eyes were drunk with delight. From one thing to another, with 
careful fingers and dainty touch she went exploring; sometimes getting 
caught in the interest of an open page of letterpress, sometimes hanging 
over an engraving with wondering admiration and sympathy. It seemed any 
length of time, it was really not more than three quarters of an hour, 
when Mrs. Mowbray approached her again, having got through her errands. 
With cheeks red and eyes intent, Rotha was bending over something, the 
sense of hearing for the present gone into abeyance; Mrs. Mowbray was 
obliged to touch her. She smiled at Rotha's start. 

"What had you there, my dear?" 

"All sorts of things, Mrs. Mowbray! Just that minute, I was looking at an 
atlas." 

"An atlas!" 

"Yes, the most perfect I ever saw. O beautiful, and with so many things 
told and taught in it. A delightful atlas! And then, I was looking at the 
illustrations in the 'Arabian Nights'--I think that was the name." 

"You never read it?" 

"O no, ma'am. I never had many books to read;--until now." 

"Are you reading anything now, in course?" 

"I haven't much time, there is so much history to read. But I have begun 
'Waverley.'" 

"Do you like it?" 

"O, a great deal more than I can tell!" 

"Do not let it draw you away from your studies." 

"No, ma'am. There is no danger," said Rotha joyously. 

Mrs. Mowbray did not speak again till the carriage stopped at Stewart's. 
It was the first time Rotha had ever been inside of those white walls; 
and this visit finished the bewitchment of the evening. At first the size 
of the place and the numbers of people busy there engrossed her 
attention; nor did either thing cease to be a wonder; but by degrees one 
grows accustomed even to wonders. By degrees Rotha was able to look at 
what was on the counters, as well as what was before them; for a while 
she had followed Mrs. Mowbray without seeing what that lady was doing. 
Mrs. Mowbray had a good deal of business on hand. When Rotha began to 
attend to it, the two had come into the rotunda room and were standing at 
the great glove counter. Between what was going on there, and what was 
doing at the silk counters around her, Rotha was fully engaged, and was 
only recalled to herself by Mrs. Mowbray's voice asking, 

"What is your number, Rotha?" 

"Ma'am?" said the girl "I did not understand--" 

"What is the number of the size of glove you wear?" 

"I do not know, ma'am--O, I remember! six and a half." 

"Six and a half," Mrs. Mowbray repeated to the shopman; and then 
proceeded to pull out pairs of gloves from the packages handed her. 
"There's a dark green, my dear; that is near the shade of your cloak. 
There is a good colour" throwing down upon the green a dark grey; and a 
brown followed the green. "Now we want some lighter--do you like that?" 

"Yes, ma'am." 

More than the mere affirmative Rotha could not say; she looked on 
bewildered and confounded, as a pair of pearl grey gloves was laid upon 
the green, the dark, and the brown, and then came a tan-coloured pair, 
and then a soft ashes of roses. Half a dozen pair of kid gloves! Rotha 
had never even contemplated such profusion. She received the little 
packet with only a half-uttered, low, suppressed word of thanks. Then the 
two wandered away from that room, and found themselves among holiday 
varieties. Here Rotha was dazzled. Not indeed by glitter; but by the 
combinations of use and beauty that met her eyes, look where they would. 
Mrs. Mowbray was making purchases, Rotha did not know of what, it did not 
concern her; and she was never tempted by vulgar curiosity. She indulged 
her eyes with looking at everything else. What fans, and dressing boxes 
and work boxes, and fancy baskets, and hand mirrors, and combs and 
brushes, and vials of perfumes, and writing cases, and cigar cases, and 
Japan ware, and little clocks, and standishes, and glove boxes, and 
papetries, and desks, and jewel cases---- 

"Have you a handbag for travelling, Rotha?" 

The question made her start. 

"No, ma'am. I never go travelling." 

"You will, some time. How do you like that? Think it is too large?" 

Rotha was speechless. Could Mrs. Mowbray remember that she had given her 
half a dozen pair of gloves that evening already? 

"I always like a handbag that will carry something," Mrs. Mowbray went 
on. "You want room for a book, and room for writing materials; you should 
always have writing materials in your hand-bag, and stamps, and 
everything necessary. You never know what you may want in a hurry. I 
think that is about right; do you?" 

"That" was a beautiful brown bag of Russia leather, sweet with the 
pungent sweetness of birch bark, or of the peculiar process of curing 
with such bark; and with nickel plated lock and bolts. Rotha flushed 
high; to speak she was incompetent just then. 

"I think it will do then," said Mrs. Mowbray, herself in a high state of 
holiday glee; preparing, as she was, pleasure for a vast number of 
persons, rich and poor, young and old; she was running over with a sort 
of angel's pleasure in giving comfort or making glad. In Rotha's case she 
was doing both. 

"Don't you want to take it home with you, my dear?" she went on. "There 
will be so many things to send from the store to-night that they will 
never get to their destination; and I always like to make sure of a thing 
when I have got it. Though you rarely make a mistake here," she added 
