thought he felt guilty and was trying to fib out of it.”

“Will you let me help to undress you?” asked Grace gently. “Bella shall
be well taken care of, and I am going to nurse you myself, under Dr.
Mulbridge’s direction. And once for all, Louise, I wish to say that I
hold myself to blame for all”--

“Oh, yes! Much good that does now!” Being got into bed, with the sheet
smoothed under her chin, she said, with the effect of drawing a strictly
logical conclusion from the premises, “Well, I should think George
Maynard would want to be with his family!”

Spent with this ordeal, Grace left her at last, and went out on the
piazza, where she found Libby returned. In fact, he had, upon second
thoughts, driven back, and put up his horse at Jocelyn’s, that he might
be of service there in case he were needed. The ladies, with whom he had
been making friends, discreetly left him to Grace, when she appeared,
and she frankly walked apart with him, and asked him if he could go over
to New Leyden, and telegraph to Mr. Maynard.

“Has she asked for him?” he inquired, laughing. “I knew it would come to
that.”

“She has not asked; she has said that she thought he ought to be with
his family,” repeated Grace faithfully.

“Oh, I know how she said it: as if he had gone away wilfully, and
kept away against her wishes and all the claims of honor and duty. It
wouldn’t take her long to get round to that if she thought she was very
sick. Is she so bad?” he inquired, with light scepticism.

“She’s threatened with pneumonia. We can’t tell how bad she may be.”

“Why, of course I’ll telegraph. But I don’t think anything serious can
be the matter with Mrs. Maynard.”

“Dr. Mulbridge said that Mr. Maynard ought to know.”

“Is that so?” asked Libby, in quite a different tone. If she recognized
the difference, she was meekly far from resenting it; he, however, must
have wished to repair his blunder. “I think you need n’t have given up
the case to him. I think you’re too conscientious about it.”

“Please don’t speak of that now,” she interposed.

“Well, I won’t,” he consented. “Can I be of any use here to-night?”

“No, we shall need nothing more. The doctor will be here again in the
morning.”

“Libby did not come in the morning till after the doctor had gone, and
then he explained that he had waited to hear in reply to his telegram,
so that they might tell Mrs. Maynard her husband had started; and he had
only just now heard.

“And has he started?” Grace asked.

“I heard from his partner. Maynard was at the ranch. His partner had
gone for him.”

“Then he will soon be here,” she said.

“He will, if telegraphing can bring him. I sat up half the night with
the operator. She was very obliging when she understood the case.”

“She?” reputed Grace, with a slight frown.

“The operators are nearly all women in the country.”

“Oh!” She looked grave. “Can they trust young girls with such important
duties?”

“They did n’t in this instance,” relied Libby. “She was a pretty old
girl. What made you think she was young?”

“I don’t know. I thought you said she was young.” She blushed, and
seemed about to say more, but she did not.

He waited, and then he said, “You can tell Mrs. Maynard that I
telegraphed on my own responsibility, if you think it’s going to alarm
her.”

“Well,” said Grace, with a helpless sigh.

“You don’t like to tell her that,” he suggested, after a moment, in
which he had watched her.

“How do you know?”

“Oh, I know. And some day I will tell you how--if you will let me.”

It seemed a question; and she did not know what it was that kept
her--silent and breathless and hot in the throat. “I don’t like to do
it,” she said at last. “I hate myself whenever I have to feign anything.
I knew perfectly well that you did n’t say she was young,” she broke out
desperately.

“Say Mrs. Maynard was young?” he asked stupidly.

“No!” she cried. She rose hastily from the bench where she had been
sitting with him. “I must go back to her now.”

He mounted to his buggy, and drove thoughtfully away at a walk.

The ladies, whose excited sympathies for Mrs. Maynard had kept them from
the beach till now, watched him quite out of sight before they began to
talk of Grace.

“I hope Dr. Breen’s new patient will be more tractable,” said Mrs.
Merritt. “It would be a pity if she had to give him up, too, to Dr.
Mulbridge.”

Mrs. Scott failed of the point. “Why, is Mr. Libby sick?”

“Not very,” answered Mrs. Merritt, with a titter of self-applause.

“I should be sorry,” interposed Mrs. Alger authoritatively, “if we had
said anything to influence the poor thing in what she has done.”

“Oh, I don’t think we need distress ourselves about undue influence!”
 Mrs. Merritt exclaimed.

Mrs. Alger chose to ignore the suggestion. “She had a very difficult
part; and I think she has acted courageously. I always feel sorry for
girls who attempt anything of that kind. It’s a fearful ordeal.”

“But they say Miss Breen was n’t obliged to do it for a living,” Mrs.
Scott suggested.

“So much the worse,” said Mrs. Merritt.

“No, so much the better,” returned Mrs. Alger.

Mrs. Merritt, sitting on the edge of the piazza, stooped over with
difficulty and plucked a glass-straw, which she bit as she looked
rebelliously away.

Mrs. Frost had installed herself as favorite since Mrs. Alger had
praised her hair. She now came forward, and, dropping fondly at her
knee, looked up to her for instruction. “Don’t you think that she showed
her sense in giving up at the very beginning, if she found she was n’t
equal to it?” She gave her head a little movement from side to side, and
put the mass of her back hair more on show.

“Perhaps,” said Mrs. Alger, looking at the favorite not very favorably.

“Oh, I don’t think she’s given up,” Miss Gleason interposed, in her
breathless manner. She waited to be asked why, and then she added, “I
think she’s acting in consultation with Dr. Mulbridge. He may have a
certain influence over her,--I think he has; but I know they are acting
in unison.”

Mrs. Merritt flung her grass-straw away. “Perhaps it is to be Dr.
Mulbridge, after all, and not Mr. Libby.”

“I have thought of that,” Miss Gleason assented candidly. “Yes, I
have thought of that. I have thought of their being constantly thrown
together, in this way. It would not discourage me. She could be quite as
true to her vocation as if she remained single. Truer.”

“Talking of true,” said Mrs. Scott, “always does make me think of blue.
They say that yellow will be worn on everything this winter.”

“Old gold?” asked Mrs. Frost. “Yes, more than ever.”

“Dear!” cried the other lady. “I don’t know what I shall do. It
perfectly kills my hair.”

“Oh, Miss Gleason!” exclaimed the young girl.

“Do you believe in character coming out in color?”

“Yes, certainly. I have always believed that.”

“Well, I’ve got a friend, and she wouldn’t have anything to do with a
girl that wore magenta more than she would fly.”

“I should suppose,” explained Miss Gleason, “that all those aniline dyes
implied something coarse in people.”

“Is n’t it curious,” asked Mrs. Frost, “how red-haired people have come
in fashion? I can recollect, when I was a little girl, that everybody
laughed at red hair. There was one girl at the first school I ever went
to,--the boys used to pretend to burn their fingers at her hair.”

“I think Dr. Breen’s hair is a very pretty shade of brown,” said the
young girl.

Mrs. Merritt rose from the edge of the piazza. “I think that if she
hasn’t given up to him entirely she’s the most submissive consulting
physician I ever saw,” she said, and walked out over the grass towards
the cliff.

The ladies looked after her. “Is Mrs. Merritt more pudgy when she’s
sitting down or when she’s standing up?” asked Mrs. Scott.

Miss Gleason seized her first chance of speaking with Grace alone. “Oh,
do you know how much you are doing for us all?”

“Doing for you, all? How doing?” faltered Grace, whom she had
whisperingly halted in a corner of the hall leading from the
dining-room.

“By acting in unison,--by solving the most perplexing problem in women’s
practising your profession. She passed the edge of her fan over her lips
before letting it fall furled upon her left hand, and looked luminously
into Grace’s eyes.

“I don’t at all know what you mean, Miss Gleason,” said the other.

Miss Gleason kicked out the skirt of her dress, so as to leave herself
perfectly free for the explanation. “Practising in harmony with a
physician of the other sex. I have always felt that there was the great
difficulty,--how to bring that about. I have always felt that the TRUE
physician must be DUAL,--have both the woman’s nature and the man’s;
the woman’s tender touch, the man’s firm grasp. You have shown how
the medical education of women can meet this want. The physician can
actually be dual,--be two, in fact. Hereafter, I have no doubt we shall
always call a physician of each sex. But it’s wonderful how you could
ever bring it about, though you can do anything! Has n’t it worn upon
you?” Miss Gleason darted out her sentences in quick, short breaths,
fixing Grace with her eyes, and at each clause nervously tapping her
chest with her reopened fan.

“If you suppose,” said Grace, “that Dr. Mulbridge and I are acting
professionally in unison, as you call it, you are mistaken. He has
entire charge of the case; I gave it up to him, and I am merely nursing
Mrs. Maynard under his direction.”

“How splendid!” Miss Gleason exclaimed. “Do you know that I admire you
for giving up,--for knowing when to give up? So few women do that! Is
n’t he magnificent?”

“Magnificent?”

“I mean psychically. He is what I should call a strong soul You must
have felt his masterfulness; you must have enjoyed it! Don’t you like to
be dominated?”

“No,” said Grace, “I should n’t at all like it.”

“Oh, I do! I like to meet one of those forceful masculine natures that
simply bid you obey. It’s delicious. Such a sense of self-surrender,”
 Miss Gleason explained. “It is n’t because they are men,” she added. “I
have felt the same influence from some women. I felt it, in a certain
degree, on first meeting you.”

“I am very sorry,” said Grace coldly. “I should dislike being controlled
myself, and I should dislike still more to control others.”

“You’re doing it now!” cried Miss Gleason, with delight. “I could not
do a thing to resist your putting me down! Of course you don’t know that
you’re doing it; it’s purely involuntary. And you wouldn’t know that he
was dominating you. And he would n’t.”

Very probably Dr. Mulbridge would not have recognized himself in the
character of all-compelling lady’s-novel hero, which Miss Gleason
imagined for him. Life presented itself rather simply to him, as it does
to most men, and he easily dismissed its subtler problems from a mind
preoccupied with active cares. As far as Grace was concerned, she had
certainly roused in him an unusual curiosity; nothing less than her
homoeopathy would have made him withdraw his consent to a consultation
with her, and his fear had been that in his refusal she should escape
from his desire to know more about her, her motives, her purposes. He
had accepted without scruple the sacrifice of pride she had made to him;
but he had known how to appreciate her scientific training, which
he found as respectable as that of any clever, young man of their
profession. He praised, in his way, the perfection with which she
interpreted his actions and intentions in regard to the patient. “If
there were such nurses as you, Miss Breen, there would be very little
need of doctors,” he said, with a sort of interogative fashion of
laughing peculiar to him.

“I thought of being a nurse once;” she answered. “Perhaps I may still be
one. The scientific training won’t be lost.”

“Oh, no? It’s a pity that more of them have n’t it. But I suppose they
think nursing is rather too humble an ambition.”

“I don’t think it so,” said Grace briefly.

“Then you did n’t care for medical distinction.”

“No.”

He looked at her quizzically, as if this were much droller than if she
had cared. “I don’t understand why you should have gone into it. You
told me, I think, that it was repugnant to you; and it’s hard work for
a woman, and very uncertain work for anyone. You must have had a
tremendous desire to benefit your race.”

His characterization of her motive was so distasteful that she made
no reply, and left him to his conjectures, in which he did not appear
unhappy. “How do you find Mrs. Maynard to-day?” she asked.

He looked at her with an instant coldness, as if he did not like her
asking, and were hesitating whether to answer. But he said at last,
“She is no better. She will be worse before she is better. You see,”
 he added, “that I haven’t been able to arrest the disorder in its first
stage. We must hope for what can be done now, in the second.”

She had gathered from the half jocose ease with which he had listened
to Mrs. Maynard’s account of herself, and to her own report, an
encouragement which now fell to the ground “Yes,” she assented, in her
despair, “that is the only hope.”

He sat beside the table in the hotel parlor, where they found themselves
alone for the moment, and drubbed upon it with an absent look. “Have you
sent for her husband?” he inquired, returning to himself.

“Yes; Mr. Libby telegraphed the evening we saw you.”

“That’s good,” said Dr. Mulbridge, with comfortable approval; and he
rose to go away.

Grace impulsively detained him. “I--won’t--ask you whether you consider
Mrs. Maynard’s case a serious one, if you object to my doing so.”

“I don’t know that I object,” he said slowly, with a teasing smile, such
as one might use with a persistent child whom one chose to baffle in
that way.

She disdained to avail herself of the implied permission. “What I
mean--what I wish to tell you is--that I feel myself responsible for her
sickness, and that if she dies, I shall be guilty of her death.”

“Ah?” said Dr. Mulbridge, with more interest, but the same smile. “What
do you mean?”

“She didn’t wish to go that day when she was caught in the storm. But I
insisted; I forced her to go.” She stood panting with the intensity of
the feeling which had impelled her utterance.

“What do you mean by forcing her to go?”

“I don’t know. I--I--persuaded her.”

Dr. Mulbridge smiled, as if he perceived her intention not to tell him
something she wished to tell him. He looked down into his hat, which he
carried in his hand.

“Did you believe the storm was coming?”

“No!”

“And you did n’t make it come?”

“Of course not!”

He looked at her and laughed.

“Oh, you don’t at all understand!” she cried.

“I’m not a doctor of divinity,” he said. “Good morning.”

“Wait, wait!” she implored, “I’m afraid--I don’t know--Perhaps my being
near her is injurious to her; perhaps I ought to let some one else nurse
her. I wished to ask you this”--She stopped breathlessly.

“I don’t think you have done her any harm as yet,” he answered lightly.

“However,” he said, after a moment’s consideration, “why don’t you take
a holiday? Some of the other ladies might look after her a while.”

“Do you really think,” she palpitated, “that I might? Do you think I
ought? I’m afraid I ought n’t”--

“Not if your devotion is hurtful to her?” he asked. “Send some one else
to her for a while. Any one can take care of her for a few hours.”

“I couldn’t leave her--feeling as I do about her.”

“I don’t know how you feel about her,” said Dr. Mulbridge. “But you
can’t go on at this rate. I shall want your help by and by, and Mrs.
Maynard doesn’t need you now. Don’t go back to her.”

“But if she should get worse while I am away”--

“You think your staying and feeling bad would make her better? Don’t
go back,” he repeated; and he went out to his ugly rawboned horse, and,
mounting his shabby wagon, rattled away. She lingered, indescribably
put to shame by the brutal common sense which she could not impeach, but
which she still felt was no measure of the case. It was true that she
had not told him everything, and she could not complain that he had
mocked her appeal for sympathy if she had trifled with him by a partial
confession. But she indignantly denied to herself that she had wished to
appeal to him for sympathy.

She wandered out on the piazza, which she found empty, and stood gazing
at the sea in a revery of passionate humiliation. She was in that mood,
familiar to us all, when we long to be consoled and even flattered for
having been silly. In a woman this mood is near to tears; at a touch of
kindness the tears come, and momentous questions are decided. What was
perhaps uppermost in the girl’s heart was a detestation of the man to
whom she had seemed a simpleton; her thoughts pursued him, and divined
the contempt with which he must be thinking of her and her pretensions.
She heard steps on the sand, and Libby came round the corner of the
house from the stable.




VII.

Libby’s friends had broken up their camp on the beach, and had gone to
a lake in the heart of the woods for the fishing. He had taken a room at
the Long Beach House, but he spent most of his time at Jocelyn’s, where
he kept his mare for use in going upon errands for Mrs. Maynard. Grace
saw him constantly, and he was always doing little things for her with
a divination of her unexpressed desires which women find too rarely in
men. He brought her flowers, which, after refusing them for Mrs. Maynard
the first time, she accepted for herself. He sometimes brought her
books, the light sort which form the sentimental currency of young
people, and she lent them round among the other ladies, who were
insatiable of them. She took a pleasure in these attentions, as if they
had been for some one else. In this alien sense she liked to be followed
up with a chair to the point where she wished to sit; to have her hat
fetched, or her shawl; to drop her work or her handkerchief, secure that
it would be picked up for her.

It all interested her, and it was a relief from the circumstances that
would have forbidden her to recognize it as gallantry, even if her own
mind had not been so far from all thought of that. His kindness followed
often upon some application of hers for his advice or help, for she had
fallen into the habit of going to him with difficulties. He had a prompt
common sense that made him very useful in emergencies, and a sympathy
or an insight that was quick in suggestions and expedients. Perhaps
she overrated other qualities of his in her admiration of the practical
readiness which kept his amiability from seeming weak. But the practical
had so often been the unattainable with her that it was not strange she
should overrate it, and that she should rest upon it in him with a trust
that included all he chose to do in her behalf.

“What is the matter, Mr. Libby?” she asked, as he came toward her.

“Is anything the matter?” he demanded in turn.

“Yes; you are looking downcast,” she cried reproachfully.

“I didn’t know that I mustn’t look downcast. I did n’t suppose it would
be very polite, under the circumstances, to go round looking as bobbish
as I feel.”

“It’s the best thing you could possibly do. But you’re not feeling very
bobbish now.” A woman respects the word a man uses, not because she
would have chosen it, but because she thinks that he has an exact
intention in it, which could not be reconveyed in a more feminine
phrase. In this way slang arises. “Is n’t it time for Mr. Maynard to be
here?”

“Yes,” he answered. Then, “How did you know I was thinking of that?”

“I did n’t. I only happened to think it was time. What are you keeping
back, Mr. Libby?” she pursued tremulously.

“Nothing, upon my honor. I almost wish there were something to keep
back. But there is n’t anything. There have n’t been any accidents
reported. And I should n’t keep anything back from you.”

“Why?”

“Because you would be equal to it, whatever it was.”

“I don’t see why you say that.” She weakly found comfort in the praise
which she might once have resented as patronage.

“I don’t see why I should n’t,” he retorted:

“Because I am not fit to be trusted at all.”

“Do you mean”--

“Oh, I haven’t the strength, to mean anything,” she said. “But I thank
you, thank you very much,” she added. She turned her head away.

“Confound Maynard!” cried the young man. “I don’t see why he does n’t
come. He must have started four days ago. He ought to have’ had sense
enough to telegraph when he did start. I did n’t tell his partner to
ask him. You can’t think of everything. I’ve been trying to find out
something. I’m going over to Leyden, now, to try to wake up somebody in
Cheyenne who knows Maynard.” He looked ruefully at Grace, who listened
with anxious unintelligence. “You’re getting worn out, Miss Breen,” he
said. “I wish I could ask you to go with me to Leyden. It would do you
good. But my mare’s fallen lame; I’ve just been to see her. Is there
anything I can do for you over there?”

“Why, how are you going?” she asked.

“In my boat,” he answered consciously.

“The same boat?”

“Yes. I’ve had her put to rights. She was n’t much damaged.”

She was silent a moment, while he stood looking down at her in the chair
into which she had sunk. “Does it take you long?”

“Oh, no. It’s shorter than it is by land. I shall have the tide with me
both ways. I can make the run there and back in a couple of hours.”

“Two hours?”

“Yes.”

A sudden impulse, unreasoned and unreasonable, in which there seemed
hope of some such atonement, or expiation, as the same ascetic nature
would once have found in fasting or the scourge, prevailed with her. She
rose. “Mr. Libby,” she panted, “if you will let me, I should like to go
with you in your boat. Do you think it will be rough?”

“No, it’s a light breeze; just right. You need n’t be afraid.”

“I’m not afraid. I should not care if it were rough! I should not care
if it stormed! I hope it--I will ask mother to stay with Mrs. Maynard.”

Mrs. Breen had not been pleased to have her daughter in charge of Mrs.
Maynard’s case, but she had not liked her giving it up. She had said
more than once that she had no faith in Dr. Mulbridge. She willingly
consented to Grace’s prayer, and went down into Mrs. Maynard’s room, and
insinuated misgivings in which the sick woman found so much reason that
they began for the first time to recognize each other’s good qualities.
They decided that the treatment was not sufficiently active, and that
she should either have something that would be more loosening to the
cough, or some application--like mustard plasters--to her feet, so as to
take away that stuffed feeling about the head.

At that hour of the afternoon, when most of the ladies were lying down
in their rooms, Grace met no one on the beach but Miss Gleason and Mrs.
Alger, who rose from their beds of sand under the cliff at her passage
with Mr. Libby to his dory.

“Don’t you want to go to Leyden?” he asked jocosely over his shoulder.

“You don’t mean to say you’re going?” Miss Gleason demanded of Grace.

“Yes, certainly. Why not?”

“Well, you are brave!”

She shut her novel upon her thumb, that she might have nothing to do but
admire Grace’s courage, as the girl walked away.

“It will do her good, poor thing,” said the elder woman. “She looks
wretchedly.”

“I can understand just why she does it,” murmured Miss Gleason in
adoring rapture.

“I hope she does it for pleasure,” said Mrs. Alger.

“It is n’t that,” returned Miss Gleason mysteriously.

“At any rate, Mr. Libby seemed pleased.”

“Oh, she would never marry HIM!” said Miss Gleason.

The other laughed, and at that moment Grace also laughed. The strong
current of her purpose, the sense of escape from the bitter servitude of
the past week, and the wild hope of final expiation through the chances
she was tempting gave her a buoyancy long unfelt. She laughed in gayety
of heart as she helped the young man draw his dory down the sand, and
then took her place at one end while he gave it the last push and then
leaped in at the other. He pulled out to where the boat lay tilting at
anchor, and held the dory alongside by the gunwale that she might step
aboard. But after rising she faltered, looking intently at the boat as
if she missed something there.

“I thought you had a man to sail your boat”

“I had. But I let him go last week. Perhaps I ought to have told
you,” he said, looking up at her aslant. “Are you afraid to trust my
seamanship? Adams was a mere form. He behaved like a fool that day.”

“Oh, I’m not afraid,” said Grace. She stepped from the dory into the
boat, and he flung out the dory’s anchor and followed. The sail went up
with a pleasant clucking of the tackle, and the light wind filled it.
Libby made the sheet fast, and, sitting down in the stern on the other
side, took the tiller and headed the boat toward the town that shimmered
in the distance. The water hissed at the bow, and seethed and sparkled
from the stern; the land breeze that bent their sail blew cool upon her
cheek and freshened it with a tinge of color.

“This will do you good,” he said, looking into hers with his kind, gay
eyes.

The color in her cheeks deepened a little. “Oh, I am better than I look.
I did n’t come for”--

“For medicinal purposes. Well, I am glad of it. We’ve a good hour
between us and news or no news from Maynard, and I should like to think
we were out for pleasure. You don’t object?”

“No. You can even smoke, if that will heighten the illusion.”

“It will make it reality. But you don’t mean it?”

“Yes; why not?”

“I don’t know. But I could n’t have dreamt of smoking in your presence.
And we take the liberty to dream very strange things.”

“Yes,” she said, “it’s shocking what things we do dream of people. But
am I so forbidding?” she asked, a little sadly.

“Not now,” said Libby. He got out a pouch of tobacco and some cigarette
papers, and putting the tiller under his arm, he made himself a
cigarette.

“You seem interested,” he said, as he lifted his eyes from his work, on
which he found her intent, and struck his fusee.

“I was admiring your skill,” she answered.

“Do you think it was worth a voyage to South America?”

“I shouldn’t have thought the voyage was necessary.”

“Oh, perhaps you think you can do it,” he said, handing her the tobacco
and papers. She took them and made a cigarette. “It took me a whole
day to learn to make bad ones, and this, is beautiful. But I will never
smoke it. I will keep this always.”

“You had better smoke it, if you want more,” she said.

“Will you make some more? I can’t smoke the first one!”

“Then smoke the last,” she said, offering him the things back.

“No, go on. I’ll smoke it.”

She lent herself to the idle humor of the time, and went on making
cigarettes till there were no more papers. From time to time she looked
up from this labor, and scanned the beautiful bay, which they had almost
wholly to themselves. They passed a collier lagging in the deep channel,
and signalling for a pilot to take her up to the town. A yacht, trim and
swift, cut across their course; the ladies on board waved a salutation
with their handkerchiefs, and Libby responded.

“Do you know them?” asked Grace.

“No!” he laughed. “But ladies like to take these liberties at a safe
distance.”

“Yes, that’s a specimen of woman’s daring,” she said, with a
self-scornful curl of the lip, which presently softened into a wistful
smile. “How lovely it all is!” she sighed.

“Yes, there’s nothing better in all the world than a sail. It is all the
world while it lasts. A boat’s like your own fireside for snugness.”

A dreamier light came into her eye, which wandered, with a turn of the
head giving him the tender curve of her cheek, over the levels of the
bay, roughened everywhere by the breeze, but yellowish green in the
channels and dark with the thick growth of eel-grass in the shallows;
then she lifted her face to the pale blue heavens in an effort that
slanted towards him the soft round of her chin, and showed her full
throat.

“This is the kind of afternoon,” she said, still looking at the sky,
“that you think will never end.”

“I wish it would n’t,” he answered.

She lowered her eyes to his, and asked: “Do you have times when you are
sorry that you ever tried to do anything--when it seems foolish to have
tried?”

“I have the other kind of times,--when I wish that I had tried to do
something.”

“Oh yes, I have those, too. It’s wholesome to be ashamed of not having
tried to do anything; but to be ashamed of having tried--it’s like
death. There seems no recovery from that.”

He did not take advantage of her confession, or try to tempt her to
further confidence; and women like men who have this wisdom, or this
instinctive generosity, and trust them further.

“And the worst of it is that you can’t go back and be like those that
have never tried at all. If you could, that would be some consolation
for having failed. There is nothing left of you but your mistake.”

“Well,” he said, “some people are not even mistakes. I suppose that
almost any sort of success looks a good deal like failure from the
inside. It must be a poor creature that comes up to his own mark. The
best way is not to have any mark, and then you’re in no danger of not
coming up to it.” He laughed, but she smiled sadly.

“You don’t believe in thinking about yourself,” she said.

“Oh, I try a little introspection, now and then. But I soon get through:
there isn’t much of me to think about.”

“No, don’t talk in that way,” she pleaded, and she was very charming
in her earnestness: it was there that her charm lay. “I want you to be
serious with me, and tell me--tell me how men feel when.”--

A sudden splashing startled her, and looking round she saw a multitude
of curious, great-eyed, black heads, something like the heads of boys,
and something like the heads of dogs, thrusting from the water, and
