from continual lowness o' spirits, to judge by the way they don't get
fat. They're growing real long-legged and slab-sided--just the way I
hate to see pigs look. I don' know what's the matter with 'em."
"Where do you keep 'em?"
"Under the barn--just where they always be. Well, you've had a visitor?"
"Mrs. Barclay has."
"I understood 'twas her company; but you saw him?"
"We saw him as much as she did," put in Charity.
"What's he like?"
Nobody answered.
"Is he one of your high-flyers?"
"I don't know what you call high-flyers, aunt Anne," said Madge. "He
was a gentleman."
"What do you mean by that? I saw some 'gentlemen' last summer at
Appledore--and I don't want to see no more. Was he that kind?"
"I wasn't there," said Madge,  "and can't tell. I should have no
objection to see a good many of them, if he is."
"I heard he went to Sunday School with Lois, through the rain."
"How did you know?" said Lois.
"Why shouldn't I know?"
"I thought nobody was out but me."
"Do you think folks will see an umbrella walkin' up street in the rain,
and not look to see if there's somebody under it?"
"I shouldn't," said Lois. "When should an umbrella be out walking,
but in the rain?"
"Well, go along. What sort of a man is he? and what brings him to
Shampuashuh?"
"He came to see Mrs. Barclay," said Madge.
"He's a sort of man you are willin' to take trouble for," said Charity.
"Real nice, and considerate; and to hear him talk, it is as good as a
book; and he's awfully polite. You should have seen him marching in
here with Lois's wet cloak, out to the kitchen with it, and hangin' it
up. So to pay, I turned round and hung up his'n. One good turn deserves
another, I told him. But at first, I declare, I thought I couldn't keep
from laughin'."
Mrs. Marx laughed a little here. "I know the sort," she said. "Wears
kid gloves always and a little line of hair over his upper lip, and is
lazy like. I would lose all my patience to have one o' them round for
long, smokin' a cigar every other thing, and poisonin' all the air for
half a mile."
"I think he is sort o' lazy," said Charity.
"He don't smoke," said Lois.
"Yes he does," said Madge. "I found an end of cigar just down by the
front steps, when I was sweeping."
"I don't think he's a lazy man, either," said Lois. "That slow, easy
way does not mean laziness."
"What does it mean?" inquired Mrs. Marx sharply.
"It is nothing to us what it means," said Mrs. Armadale, speaking for
the first time. "We have no concern with this man. He came to see Mrs.
Barclay, his friend, and I suppose he'll never come again."
"Why shouldn't he come again, mother?" said Charity. "If she's his
friend, he might want to see her more than once, seems to me. And
what's more, he is coming again. I heard him askin' her if he might;
and then Mrs. Barclay asked me if it would be convenient, and I said it
would, of course. He said he would be comin' back from Boston in a few
weeks, and he would like to stop again as he went by. And do you know
I think she coloured. It was only a little, but she ain't a woman to
blush much; and I believe she knows why he wants to come, as well as
he does."
"Nonsense, Charity!" said Madge incredulously.
"Then half the world are busy with nonsense, that's all I have to say;
and I'm glad for my part I've somethin' better to do."
"Do you say he's comin' again?" inquired Mrs. Armadale.
"He says so, mother."
"What for?"
"Why, to visit his friend Mrs. Barclay, of course."
"She is our friend," said the old lady; "and her friends must be
entertained; but he is not our friend, children. We ain't of his
kind, and he ain't of our'n."
"What's the matter? Ain't he good?" asked Mrs. Marx.
"He's very good!" said Madge.
"Not in grandmother's way," said Lois softly.
"Mother," said Mrs. Marx, "you can't have everybody cut out on your
pattern."
Mrs. Armadale made no answer.
"And there ain't enough o' your pattern to keep one from bein'
lonesome, if we're to have nothin' to do with the rest."
"Better so," said the old lady. "I don't want no company for my chil'en
that won't help 'em on the road to heaven. They'll have company enough
when they get there."
"And how are you goin' to be the salt o' the earth, then, if you won't
touch nothin'?"
"How, if the salt loses its saltness, daughter?"
"Well, mother, it always puzzles me, that there's so much to be said on
both sides of things! I'll go home and think about it. Then he ain't
one o' your Appledore friends, Lois?"
"Not one of my friends at all, aunt Anne."
So the talk ended. There was a little private extension of it that
evening, when Lois and Madge went up to bed.
"It's a pity grandma is so sharp about things," the latter remarked to
her sister.
"Things?" said Lois. "What things?"
"Well--people. Don't you like that Mr. Dillwyn?"
"Yes."
"So do I. And she don't want us to have anything to do with him."
"But she is right," said Lois. "He is not a Christian."
"But one can't live only with Christians in this world. And, Lois, I'll
tell you what I think; he is a great deal pleasanter than a good many
Christians I know."
"He is good company," said Lois. "He has seen a great deal and read a
great deal, and he knows how to talk. That makes him pleasant."
"Well, he's a great deal more improving to be with than anybody I know
in Shampuashuh."
"In one way."
"Why shouldn't one have the pleasure, then, and the good, if he isn't a
Christian?"
"The pleasanter he is, I suppose the more danger, grandmother would
think."
"Danger of what?"
"You know, Madge, it is not my say-so, nor even grandmother's. You
know, Christians are not of the world."
"But they must see the world."
"If we were to see much of that sort of person, we might get to wishing
to see them always."
"By 'that sort of person' I suppose you mean Mr. Dillwyn? Well, I have
got so far as that already. I wish I could see such people always."
"I am sorry."
"Why? You ought to be glad at my good taste."
"I am sorry, because you are wishing for what you cannot have."
"How do you know that? You cannot tell what may happen."
"Madge, a man like Mr. Dillwyn would never think of a girl like you or
me."
"I am not wanting him to think of me," said Madge rather hotly. "But,
Lois, if you come to that, I think I--and you--are fit for anybody."
"Yes," said Lois quietly. "I think so too. But they do not take the
same view. And if they did, Madge, we could not think of them."
"Why not?--if they did. I do not hold quite such extreme rules as you
and grandmother do."
"And the Bible."--
"Other people do not think the Bible is so strict."
"You know what the words are, Madge."
"I don't know what the words mean."
Lois was brushing out the thick masses of her beautiful hair, which
floated about over her in waves of golden brown; and Madge had been
thinking, privately, that if anybody could have just that view of Lois,
his scruples--if he had any--would certainly give way. Now, at her
sister's last words, however, Lois laid down her brush, and, coming up,
laid hold of Madge by the shoulders and gave her a gentle shaking. It
ended in something of a romp, but Lois declared Madge should never say
such a thing again.
CHAPTER XXXVI.
TWO SUNDAY SCHOOLS.
Lois was inclined now to think it might be quite as well if something
hindered Mr. Dillwyn's second visit. She did not wonder at Madge's
evident fascination; she had felt the same herself long ago, and in
connection with other people; the charm of good breeding and gracious
manners, and the habit of the world, even apart from knowledge and
cultivation and the art of conversation. Yes, Mr. Dillwyn was a good
specimen of this sort of attraction; and for a moment Lois's
imagination recalled that day's two walks in the rain; then she shook
off the impression. Two poor Shampuashuh girls were not likely to have
much to do with that sort of society, and--it was best they should not.
It would be just as well if Mr. Dillwyn was hindered from coming again.
But he came. A month had passed; it was the beginning of December when
he knocked next at the door, and cold and grey and cloudy and windy as
it is December's character in certain moods to be. The reception he got
was hearty in proportion; fires were larger, the table even more
hospitably spread; Mrs. Barclay even more cordial, and the family
atmosphere not less genial. Nevertheless the visit, for Mr. Dillwyn's
special ends, was hardly satisfactory. He could get no private speech
with Lois. She was always "busy;" and at meal-times it was obviously
impossible, and would have been impolitic, to pay any particular
attention to her. Philip did not attempt it. He talked rather to every
one else; made himself delightful company; but groaned in secret.
"Cannot you make some excuse for getting her in here?" he asked Mrs.
Barclay at evening.
"Not without her sister."
"With her sister, then."
"They are very busy just now preparing some thing they call 'apple
butter.' It's unlucky, Philip. I am very sorry. I always told you your
way looked to me intricate."
Fortune favoured him, however, in an unexpected way. After a day passed
in much inward impatience, for he had not got a word with Lois, and he
had no excuse for prolonging his stay beyond the next day, as they sat
at supper, the door opened, and in came two ladies. Mr. Dillwyn was
formally presented to one of them as to "my aunt, Mrs. Marx;" the other
was named as "Mrs. Seelye." The latter was a neat, brisk little body,
with a capable air and a mien of business; all whose words came out as
if they had been nicely picked and squared, and sorted and packed, and
served in order.
"Sorry to interrupt, Mrs. Armadale" she began, in a chirruping little
voice. Indeed, her whole air was that of a notable little hen looking
after her chickens. Charity assured her it was no interruption.
"Mrs. Seelye and I had our tea hours ago," said Mrs. Marx. "I had
muffins for her, and we ate all we could then. We don't want no more
now. We're on business."
"Yes," said Mrs. Seelye. "Mrs. Marx and I, we've got to see everybody,
pretty much; and there ain't much time to do it in; so you see we can't
choose, and we just come here to see what you'll do for us."
"What do you want us to do for you, Mrs. Seelye?" Lois asked.
"Well, I don't know; only all you can. We want your counsel, and then
your help. Mr. Seelye he said, Go to the Lothrop girls first. I didn't
come first, 'cause there was somebody else on my way here; but this
is our fourth call, ain't it, Mrs. Marx?"
"I thought I'd never get you away from No. 3," was the answer.
"They were very much interested,--and I wanted to make them all
understand--it was important that they should all understand--"
"And there are different ways of understanin'," added Mrs. Marx; "and
there are a good many of 'em--the Hicks's, I mean; and so, when we
thought we'd got it all right with one, we found somebody else was in a
fog; and then he had to be fetched out."
"But we are all in a fog," said Madge, laughing. "What are you coming
to? and what are we to understand?"
"We have a little plan," said Mrs. Seelye.
"It'll be a big one, before we get through with it," added her
coadjutor. "Nobody'll be frightened here if you call it a big one to
start with, Mrs. Seelye. I like to look things in the face."
"So do we," said Mrs. Armadale, with a kind of grim humour,--"if you
will give us a chance."
"Well, it's about the children," said Mrs. Seelye.
"Christmas--" added Mrs. Marx.
"Be quiet, Anne," said her mother. "Go on, Mrs. Seelye. Whose children?"
"I might say, they are all Mr. Seelye's children," said the little
lady, laughing; "and so they are in a way, as they are all belonging to
his church. He feels he is responsible for the care of 'em, and he
don't want to lose 'em. And that's what it's all about, and how the
plan came up."
"How's he goin' to lose 'em?" Mrs. Armadale asked, beginning now to
knit again.
"Well, you see the other church is makin' great efforts; and they're
goin' to have a tree."
"What sort of a tree? and what do they want a tree for?"
"Why, a fir tree!"--and, "Why, a Christmas tree!" cried the two ladies
who advocated the "plan," both in a breath.
"Mother don't know about that," Mrs. Marx went on. "It's a new fashion,
mother,--come up since your day. They have a green tree, planted in a
tub, and hung with all sorts of things to make it look pretty; little
candles especially; and at night they light it up; and the children are
tickled to death with it."
"In-doors?"
"Why, of course in-doors. Couldn't be out-of-doors, in the snow."
"I didn't know," said the old lady; "I don't understand the new
fashions. I should think they would burn up the house, if it's
in-doors."
"O no, no danger," explained Mrs. Seelye. "They make them wonderfully
pretty, with the branches all hung full with glass balls, and candles,
and ribbands, and gilt toys, and papers of sugar plums--cornucopia, you
know; and dolls, and tops, and jacks, and trumpets, and whips, and
everything you can think of,--till it is as full as it can be, and the
branches hang down with the weight; and it looks like a fairy tree; and
then the heavy presents lie at the foot round about and cover the tub."
"I should think the children would be delighted," said Madge.
"I don't believe it's as much fun as Santa Claus and the stocking,"
said Lois.
"No, nor I," said Mrs. Barclay.
"But we have nothing to do with the children's stockings," said Mrs.
Seelye. "They may hang up as many as they like. That's at home. This is
in the church."
"O, in the church! I thought you said it was in the house--in people's
houses," said Charity.
"So it is; but this tree is to be in the church."
"What tree?"
"La! how stupid you are, Charity," exclaimed her aunt. "Didn't Mrs.
Seelye tell you?--the tree the other church are gettin' up."
"Oh--" said Charity. "Well, you can't hinder 'em, as I see."
"Don't want to hinder 'em! What should we hinder 'em for? But we don't
want 'em to get all our chil'en away; that's what we're lookin' at."
"Do you think they'd go?"
"Mr. Seelye's afraid it'll thin off the school dreadful," said Mr.
Seelye's helpmate.
"They're safe to go," added Mrs. Marx. "Ask children to step in and see
fairyland, and why shouldn't they go? I'd go if I was they. All the
rest of the year it ain't fairyland in Shampuashuh. I'd go fast enough."
"Then I don't see what you are goin' to do about it," said Charity,
"but to sit down and count your chickens that are left."
"That's what we came to tell you," said the minister's wife.
"Well, tell," said Charity. "You haven't told yet, only what the other
church is going to do."
"Well, we thought the only way was for us to do somethin' too."
"Only not another tree," said Lois. "Not that, for pity's sake."
"Why not?" asked the little minister's wife, with an air of being
somewhat taken aback. "Why haven't we as good a right to have a tree as
they have?"
"Right, if you like," said Lois; "but right isn't all."
"Go on, and let's hear your wisdom, Lois," said her aunt. "I s'pose
you'll say first, we can't do it."
"We can do it, perhaps," said Lois; "but, aunt Anne, it would make bad
feeling."
"That's not our look-out," rejoined Mrs. Marx. "We haven't any bad
feeling."
"No, not in the least," added Mrs. Seelye. "We only want to give our
children as good a time as the others have. That's right."
"'Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory,'" Mrs. Armadale's
voice was here heard to say.
"Yes, I know, mother, you have old-fashioned ideas," said Mrs. Marx;
"but the world ain't as it used to be when you was a girl. Now
everybody's puttin' steam on; and churches and Sunday schools as well
as all the rest. We have organs, and choirs, and concerts, and
celebrations, and fairs, and festivals; and if we don't go with the
crowd, they'll leave us behind, you see."
"I don't believe in it all!" said Mrs. Armadale.
"Well, mother, we've got to take the world as we find it. Now the
children all through the village are all agog with the story of what
the yellow church is goin' to do; and if the white church don't do
somethin', they'll all run t'other way--that you may depend on.
Children are children."
"I sometimes think the grown folks are children," said the old lady.
"Well, we ought to be children," said Mrs. Seelye; "I am sure we all
know that. But Mr. Seelye thought this was the only thing we could do."
"There comes in the second difficulty, Mrs. Seelye," said Lois. "We
cannot do it."
"I don't see why we cannot. We've as good a place for it, quite."
"I mean, we cannot do it satisfactorily. It will not be the same thing.
We cannot raise the money. Don't it take a good deal?"
"Well, it takes considerable. But I think, if we all try, we can scare
it up somehow."
Lois shook her head. "The other church is richer than we are," she said.
"That's a fact," said Charity.
Mrs. Seelye hesitated. "I don't know," she said,--"they have one or two
rich men. Mr. Georges--"
"O, and Mr. Flare," cried Madge, "and Buck, and Setterdown; and the
Ropers and the Magnuses."
"Yes," said Mrs. Seelye; "but we have more people, and there's none of
'em to call poor. If we get 'em interested--and those we have spoken to
are very much taken with the plan--very much; I think it would be a
great disappointment now if we were to stop; and the children have got
talking about it. I think we can do it; and it would be a very good
thing for the whole church, to get 'em interested."
"You can always get people interested in play," said Mrs. Armadale.
"What you want, is to get 'em interested in work."
"There'll be a good deal of work about this, before it's over," said
Mrs. Seelye, with a pleased chuckle. "And I think, when they get their
pride up, the money will be coming."
Mrs. Marx made a grimace, but said nothing.
"'When pride cometh, than cometh shame,'" said Mrs. Armadale quietly.
"O yes, some sorts of pride," said the little minister's wife briskly;
"but I mean a proper sort. We don't want to let our church go down, and
we don't want to have our Sunday school thinned out; and I can tell
you, where the children go, there the fathers and mothers will be
going, next thing."
"What do you propose to do?" said Lois. "We have not fairly heard yet."
"Well, we thought we'd have some sort of celebration, and give the
school a jolly time somehow. We'd dress up the church handsomely with
evergreens; and have it well lighted; and then, we would have a
Christmas tree if we could. Or, if we couldn't, then we'd have a real
good hot supper, and give the children presents. But I'm afraid, if we
don't have a tree, they'll all run off to the other church; and I think
they're going already, so as to get asked. Mr. Seelye said the
attendance was real thin last Sabbath."
There followed an animated discussion of the whole subject, with every
point brought up again, and again and again. The talkers were, for the
most part, Charity and Madge, with the two ladies who had come in; Mrs.
Armadale rarely throwing in a word, which always seemed to have a
disturbing power; and things were taken up and gone over anew to get
rid of the disturbance. Lois sat silent and played with her spoon. Mrs.
Barclay and Philip listened with grave amusement.
"Well, I can't sit here all night," said Charity at last, rising from
behind her tea-board. "Madge and Lois,--just jump up and put away the
things, won't you; and hand me up the knives and plates. Don't trouble
yourself, Mrs. Barclay. If other folks in the village are as busy as I
am, you'll come short home for your Christmas work, Mrs. Seelye."
"It's the busy people always that help," said the little lady
propitiatingly.
"That's a fact; but I don't see no end o' this to take hold of. You
hain't got the money; and if you had it, you don't know what you want;
and if you did know, it ain't in Shampuashuh; and I don't see who is to
go to New York or New Haven, shopping for you. And if you had it, who
knows how to fix a Christmas tree? Not a soul in our church."
Mrs. Barclay and her guest withdrew at this point of the discussion.
But later, when the visitors were gone, she opened the door of her
room, and said,
"Madge and Lois, can you come in here for a few minutes? It is
business."
The two girls came in, Madge a little eagerly; Lois, Mrs. Barclay
fancied, with a manner of some reserve.
"Mr. Dillwyn has something to suggest," she began, "about this plan we
have heard talked over; that is, if you care about it's being carried
into execution."
"I care, of course," said Madge. "If it is to be done, I think it will
be great fun."
"If it is to be done," Lois repeated. "Grandmother does not approve of
it; and I always think, what she does not like, I must not like."
"Always?" asked Mr. Dillwyn.
"I try to have it always. Grandmother thinks that the way--the best
way--to keep a Sunday school together, is to make the lessons
interesting."
"I am sure she is right!" said Mr. Dillwyn.
"But to the point," said Mrs. Barclay. "Lois, they will do this thing,
I can see. The question now is, do you care whether it is done ill or
well?"
"Certainly! If it is done, I should wish it to be as well done as
possible. Failure is more than failure."
"How about ways and means?"
"Money? O, if the people all set their hearts on it, they could do it
well enough. But they are slow to take hold of anything out of the
common run they are accustomed to. The wheels go in ruts at
Shampuashuh."
"Shampuashuh is not the only place," said Philip. "Then will you let an
outsider help?"
"Help? We would be very glad of help," said Madge; but Lois remarked,
"I think the church ought to do it themselves, if they want to do it."
"Well, hear my plan," said Mr. Dillwyn. "I think you objected to two
rival trees?"
"I object to rival anythings," said Lois; "in church matters
especially."
"Then I propose that no tree be set up, but instead, that you let Santa
Claus come in with his sledge."
"Santa Claus!" cried Lois. "Who would be Santa Claus?"
"An old man in a white mantle, his head and beard covered with snow and
fringed with icicles; his dress of fur; his sledge a large one, and
well heaped up with things to delight the children. What do you think?"
Madge's colour rose, and Lois's eye took a sparkle; both were silent.
Then Madge spoke.
"I don't see how that plan could be carried out, any more than the
other. It is a great deal better, it is magnificent; but it is a
great deal too magnificent for Shampuashuh."
"Why so?"
"Nobody here knows how to do it."
"I know how."
"You! O but,--that would be too much--"
"All you have to do is to get the other things ready, and let it be
known that at the proper time Santa Claus will appear, with a
well-furnished sled. Sharp on time."
"Well-furnished!--but there again--I don't believe we can raise money
enough for that."
"How much money?" asked Dillwyn, with an amused smile.
"O, I can't tell--I suppose a hundred dollars at least."
"I have as much as that lying useless--it may just as well do some
good. It never was heard that anybody but Santa Claus furnished his own
sled. If you will allow me, I will take care of that."
"How splendid!" cried Madge. "But it is too much; it wouldn't be right
for us to let you do all that for a church that is nothing to you."
"On the contrary, you ought to encourage me in my first endeavours to
make myself of some use in the world. Miss Madge, I have never, so far,
done a bit of good in my life."
"O, Mr. Dillwyn! I cannot believe that. People do not grow useful so
all of a sudden, without practice," said Madge, hitting a great general
truth.
"It is a fact, however," said he, half lightly, and yet evidently
meaning what he said. "I have lived thirty-two years in the
world--nearly thirty-three--without making my life of the least use to
anybody so far as I know. Do you wonder that I seize a chance?"
Lois's eyes were suddenly lifted, and then as suddenly lowered; she did
not speak.
"I can read that," he said laughingly, for his eyes had caught the
glance. "You mean, if I am so eager for chances, I might make them!
Miss Lois, I do not know how."
"Come, Philip," said Mrs. Barclay, "you are making your character
unnecessarily bad. I know you better than that. Think what you have
done for me."
"I beg your pardon," said he. "Think what you have done for me. That
score cannot be reckoned to my favour. Have no scruples, Miss Madge,
about employing me. Though I believe Miss Lois thinks the good of this
undertaking a doubtful one. How many children does your school number?"
"All together,--and they would be sure for once to be all
together!--there are a hundred and fifty."
"Have you the names?"
"O, certainly."
"And ages--proximately?"
"Yes, that too."
"And you know something, I suppose, about many of them; something about
their families and conditions?"
"About all of them?" said Madge. "Yes, indeed we do."
"Till Mrs. Barclay came, you must understand," put in Lois here, "we
had nothing, or not much, to study besides Shampuashuh; so we studied
that."
"And since Mrs. Barclay came?--" asked Philip.
"O, Mrs. Barclay has been opening one door after another of knowledge,
and we have been peeping in."
"And what special door offers most attraction to your view, of them
all?"
"I don't know. I think, perhaps, for me, geology and mineralogy; but
almost every one helps in the study of the Bible."
"O, do they!" said Dillwyn somewhat dryly.
"I like music best," said Madge.
"But that is not a door into knowledge," objected Lois.
"I meant, of all the doors Mrs. Barclay has opened to us."
"Mrs. Barclay is a favoured person."
"It is we that are favoured," said Madge. "Our life is a different
thing since she came. We hope she will never go away." Then Madge
coloured, with some sudden thought, and she went back to the former
subject. "Why do you ask about the children's ages and all that, Mr.
Dillwyn?"
"I was thinking-- When a thing is to be done, I like to do it well. It
occurred to me, that as Santa Claus must have something on his sledge
for each one, it might be good, if possible, to secure some adaptation
or fitness in the gift. Those who would like books should have books,
and the right books; and playthings had better not go astray, if we can
help it; and perhaps the poorer children would be better for articles
of clothing.--I am only throwing out hints."
"Capital hints!" said Lois. "You mean, if we can tell what would be
good for each one--I think we can, pretty nearly. But there are few
poor people in Shampuashuh, Mr. Dillwyn."
"Shampuashuh is a happy place."
"This plan will give you an immensity of work, Mr. Dillwyn."
"What then?"
"I have scruples. It is not fair to let you do it. What is Shampuashuh
to you?"
"It might be difficult to make that computation," said Mr. Dillwyn
dryly. "Have no scruples, Miss Lois. As I told you, I have nothing
better to do with myself. If you can make me useful, it will be a rare
chance."
"But there are plenty of other things to do, Mr. Dillwyn," said Lois.
He gave her only a glance and smile by way of answer, and plunged
immediately into the business question with Madge. Lois sat by, silent
and wondering, till all was settled that could be settled that evening,
and she and Madge went back to the other room.
CHAPTER XXXVII.
AN OYSTER SUPPER.
"Hurrah!" cried Madge, but softly--"Now it will go! Mother! what do you
think? Guess, Charity! Mr. Dillwyn is going to take our Sunday school
celebration on himself; he's going to do it; and we're to have, not a
stupid Christmas tree, but Santa Claus and his sled; and he'll be Santa
Claus! Won't it be fun?"
"Who'll be Santa Claus?" said Charity, looking stupefied.
"Mr. Dillwyn. In fact, he'll be Santa Claus and his sled too; he'll do
the whole thing. All we have got to do is to dress the children and
ourselves, and light up the church."
"Will the committees like that?"
"Like it? Of course they will! Like it, indeed! Don't you see it will
save them all expense? They'll have nothing to do but dress up and
light up."
"And warm up too, I hope. What makes Mr. Dillwyn do all that? I don't
just make out."
"I'll tell you," said Madge, shaking her finger at the others
impressively. "He's after Mrs. Barclay. So this gives him a chance to
come here again, don't you see?"
"After Mrs. Barclay?" repeated Charity. "I want to know!"
"I don't believe it," said Lois. "She is too old for him."
"She's not old," said Madge. "And he is no chicken, my dear. You'll
see. It's she he's after. He's coming next time as Santa Claus, that's
all. And we have got to make out a list of things--things for
presents,--for every individual girl and boy in the Sunday school;
there's a job for you. Santa Claus will want a big sled."
"Who is going to do what?" inquired Mrs. Armadale here. "I don't
understand, you speak so fast, children."
"Mother, instead of a Christmas tree, we are going to have Santa Claus
and his sled; and the sled is to be heaped full of presents for all the
children; and Mr. Dillwyn is going to do it, and get the presents, and
be Santa Claus himself."
"How, be Santa Claus?"
"Why, he will dress up like Santa Claus, and come in with his sled."
"Where?"
"In the church, grandmother; there is no other place. The other church
have their Sunday-school room you know; but we have none."
"They are going to have their tree in the church, though," said
Charity; "they reckon the Sunday-school room won't be big enough to
hold all the folks."
"Are they going to turn the church into a playhouse?" Mrs. Armadale
asked.
"It's for the sake of the church and the school, you know, mother.
Santa Claus will come in with his sled and give his presents,--that is
all. At least, that is all the play there will be."
"What else will there be?"
"O, there'll be singing, grandma," said Madge; "hymns and carols and
such things, that the children will sing; and speeches and prayers, I
suppose."
"The church used to be God's house, in my day," said the old lady, with
a concerned face, looking up from her knitting, while her fingers went
on with their work as busily as ever.
"They don't mean it for anything else, grandmother," said Madge. "It's
all for the sake of the school."
"Maybe they think so," the old lady answered.
"What else, mother? what else should it be?"
But this she did not answer.
"What's Mr. Dillwyn got to do with it?" she asked presently.
"He's going to help," said Madge. "It's nothing but kindness. He
supposes it is something good to do, and he says he'd like to be
useful."
"He hain't no idea how," said Mrs. Armadale, "Poor creatur'! You can
tell him, it ain't the Lord's work he's doin'."
"But we cannot tell him that, mother," said Lois.
"If the people want to have this celebration,--and they will,--hadn't
we better make it a good one? Is it really a bad thing?"
"The devil's ways never help no one to heaven, child, not if they go
singin' hymns all the way."
"But, mother!" cried Madge. "Mr. Dillwyn ain't a Christian, maybe, but
he ain't as bad as that."
"I didn't mean Mr. Dillwyn, dear, nor no one else. I meant theatre
work."
"Santa Claus, mother?"
"It's actin', ain't it?"
The girls looked at each other.
"There's very little of anything like acting about it," Lois said.
"'Make straight paths for your feet'!" said Mrs. Armadale, rising to go
to bed. "'Make straight paths for your feet,' children. Straight ways
is the shortest too. If the chil'en that don't love their teachers
wants to go to the yellow church, let 'em go. I'd rather have the Lord
in a little school, than Santa Claus in a big one."
She was leaving the room, but the girls stayed her and begged to know
what they should do in the matter of the lists they were engaged to
prepare for Mr. Dillwyn.
"You must do what you think best," she said. "Only don't be mixed up
with it all any more than you can help, Lois."
Why did the name of one child come to her lips and not the other? Did
the old lady's affection, or natural acuteness, discern that Mr.
Dillwyn was not drawn to Shampuashuh by any particular admiration of
his friend Mrs. Barclay? Had she some of that preternatural intuition,
plain old country woman though she was, which makes a woman see the
invisible and hear the inaudible? which serves as one of the natural
means of defence granted to the weaker creatures. I do not know; I do
not think she knew; however, the warning was given, and not on that
occasion alone. And as Lois heeded all her grandmother's admonitions,
although in this case without the most remote perception of this
possible ground to them, it followed that Mr. Dillwyn gained less by
his motion than he had hoped and anticipated.
The scheme went forward, hailed by the whole community belonging to the
white church, with the single exception of Mrs. Armadale. It went
forward and was brought to a successful termination. I might say, a
triumphant termination; only the triumph was not for Mr. Dillwyn, or
not in the line where he wanted it. He did his part admirably. A better
Santa Claus was never seen, nor a better filled sled. And genial
pleasantness, and wise management, and cool generalship, and fun and
kindness, were never better represented. So it was all through the
consultations and arrangements that preceded the festival, as well as
on the grand occasion itself; and Shampuashuh will long remember the
time with wonder and exultation; but it was Madge who was Mr. Dillwyn's
coadjutor and fellow-counsellor. It was Madge and Mrs. Barclay who
helped him in all the work of preparing and ticketing the parcels for
the sled; as well as in the prior deliberations as to what the parcels
should be. Madge seemed to be the one at hand always to answer a
question. Madge went with him to the church; and in general, Lois,
though sympathizing and curious, and interested and amused, was very
much out of the play. Not so entirely as to make the fact striking;
only enough to leave Mr. Dillwyn disappointed and tantalized.
I am not going into a description of the festival and the show. The
children sang; the minister made a speech to them, not ten consecutive
words of which were listened to by three-quarters of the people. The
church was filled with men, women, and children; the walls were hung
with festoons and wreaths, and emblazoned with mottoes; the anthems and
carols followed each other till the last thread of patience in the
waiting crowd gave way. And at last came what they were waiting
for--Santa Claus, all fur robes and snow and icicles, dragging after
him a sledge that looked like a small mountain with the heap of
articles piled and packed upon it. And then followed a very busy and
delightful hour and a half, during which the business was--the
distribution of pleasure. It was such warm work for Santa Claus, that
at the time he had no leisure for thinking. Naturally, the thinking
came afterwards.
He and Mrs. Barclay sat by her fire, resting, after coming home from
the church. Dillwyn was very silent and meditative.
"You must be glad it is done, Philip," said his friend, watching him,
and wishing to get at his thoughts.
"I have no particular reason to be glad."
"You have done a good thing."
"I am not sure if it is a good thing. Mrs. Armadale does not think so."
"Mrs. Armadale has rather narrow notions."
"I don't know. I should be glad to be sure she is not right. It's
discouraging," he added, with half a smile;--"for the first time in my
life I set myself to work; and now am not at all certain that I might
not just as well have been idle."
"Work is a good thing in itself," said Mrs. Barclay, smiling.
"Pardon me!--work for an end. Work without an end--or with the end not
attained--it is no better than a squirrel in a wheel."
"You have given a great deal of pleasure."
"To the children! For ought I know, they might have been just as well
without it. There will be a reaction to-morrow, very likely; and then
they will wish they had gone to see the Christmas tree at the other
church."
"But they were kept at their own church."
"How do I know that is any good? Perhaps the teaching at the other
school is the best."
"You are tired," said Mrs. Barclay sympathizingly.
"Not that. I have done nothing to tire me; but it strikes me it is very
difficult to see one's ends in doing good; much more difficult than to
see the way to the ends."
"You have partly missed your end, haven't you?" said Mrs. Barclay
softly.
He moved a little restlessly in his chair; then got up and began to
walk about the room; then came and sat down again.
"What are you going to do next?" she asked in the same way.
"Suppose you invite them--the two girls--or her alone--to make you a
visit in New York?"
"Where?"
"At any hotel you prefer; say, the Windsor."
"O Philip, Philip!"--
"What?--You could have pleasant rooms, and be quite private and
comfortable; as much as if you were in your own house."
"And what should we cost you?"
"You are not thinking of that?" said he. "I will get you a house, if
you like it better; but then you would have the trouble of a staff of
servants. I think the Windsor would be much the easiest plan."
"You are in earnest!"
"In earnest!" he repeated in surprise. "Have you ever questioned it?
You judge because you never saw me in earnest in anything before in my
life."
"No, indeed," said Mrs. Barclay. "I always knew it was in you. What you
wanted was only an object."
"What do you say to my plan?"
"I am afraid they would not come. There is the care of the old
grandmother; they would not leave everything to their sister alone."
"Tempt them with pictures and music, and the opera."
"The opera! Philip, she would not go to a theatre, or anything
theatrical, for any consideration. They are very strict on that point,
and Sunday-keeping, and dancing. Do not speak to her of the opera."
"They are not so far wrong. I never saw a decent opera yet in my life."
"Philip!" exclaimed Mrs. Barclay in the greatest surprise. "I never
heard you say anything like that before."
"I suppose it makes a difference," he said thoughtfully, "with what
eyes a man looks at a thing. And dancing--I don't think I care to see
her dance."
"Philip! You are extravagant."
"I believe I should be fit to commit murder if I saw her waltzing with
anybody."
"Jealous already?" said Mrs. Barclay slyly.
"If you like.--Do you see her as I see her?" he asked abruptly.
There was a tone in the last words which gave Mrs. Barclay's heart a
kind of constriction. She answered with gentle sympathy, "I think I do."
"I have seen handsomer women," he went on;--"Madge is handsomer, in a
way; you may see many women more beautiful, according to the rules; but
