"I don't expect to let her catch us; but it will depend upon how fast
that steamer can go," added Dory.
"But what does she want to catch us for, Dory?" persisted Corny,
repeating the question he had put before.
"I thought I told you about it. The man in the bow wanted to buy the
Goldwing. I bid over him, and got the boat. That made him mad. This is
all I know about the reason for his chasing us. He is a wicked fellow,
and I think he means to do me harm. All I want to do is to keep out of
his way," replied Dory. "I don't know what he wants of me, and you are
just as wise as I am. We won't say any thing more about that matter."
"Of course he will catch you," added Thad. "Who ever heard of such a
thing as a sailboat running away from a steamer?"
"No matter whether we ever heard of such a thing or not, we are going to
try it now," replied Dory. "But I can't have you fellows flying about
all over the boat any longer. Two of you sit on each side of me, and I
think there will be fun in this thing before we get through with it."
"All right, Dory: you are the captain of this ship, and we will do just
what you say," replied Corny.
The boys disposed of themselves as the skipper directed, and sat as
still as they could, which was not saying much. But Dory was satisfied
that they would keep still enough as soon as the boat got a little more
to the eastward, where she would feel the full force of the strong
breeze.
"She is gaining on us, Dory," said Thad; and he and his companions were
watching the Missisquoi all the time. They were beginning to get excited
over the race, though they seemed to be sure that it would soon come to
an end by the steamer overtaking the Goldwing.
"I expect her to gain on us while we are here in still water; but I
think she will roll a great deal more than the Goldwing when we get out
into the lake," replied Dory.
"Creation! didn't she roll coming over from Burlington?" exclaimed
Corny. "I thought she was going to roll clear over. Mr. Button the
engineer said Captain Vesey did not know how to handle her."
"Don't you expect that the Goldwing will roll in the big waves?" asked
Thad.
"Of course she will; but she sits lighter on the water than that
steamer, and she won't dive into the waves so deep. But wait, and we
shall soon see what we can do," replied Dory. "You fellows have eaten
all you can, and I have not had any thing since my breakfast early this
morning."
"I will steer for you, Dory, while you eat your dinner," proposed Corny.
"Did you ever steer a sailboat, Corny?" asked Dory with a smile.
"I never did; but I think I can do it," replied the volunteer.
"I would rather have you make a beginning when it don't blow quite so
hard. If the Goldwing is going to upset, I want to know how it is done."
No one in the party had ever sailed a boat, and the skipper was not
willing to resign the helm to any of them. At his request Corny brought
him something to eat, and he disposed of it while he kept his place at
the helm. By the time he had finished his first slice of ham, and a
corresponding portion of bread and cheese, the Goldwing was up with
Garden Island. The skipper, for his own purposes, had run to the west of
it. Although he felt like disposing of another slice of ham, he was too
much interested in his occupation to attend further to the question of
rations just then.
Dory did not tell his companions what he had been thinking about; but he
hoped to leave the Missisquoi at this point, or to get a better start of
her. He preferred to explain his plan after he had carried it out if it
were a success, or to keep silent if it were a failure. He watched the
Missisquoi very closely, for his own movements would depend upon hers.
There was plenty of water to the northward of the island, but there was
a shoal to the southward.
If the captain of the steamer had been wise, if he had had his eyes
open, he would have kept to the eastward; but he followed directly in
the wake of the Goldwing, and was within less than a quarter of a mile
of her.
"Do you know how much water the Missisquoi draws, Thad?" asked Dory, as
the Goldwing came up with the island.
"I heard Captain Vesey say that she drew six feet when she had her coal
in," replied Thad.
"I heard him say so when we were off Apple-Tree Shoal," added Corny. "I
asked him why he didn't go close up to the buoy; and he said there was
not more than six feet of water on the shoal, and the boat might touch
bottom."
"I thought she didn't draw over five feet. If she draws six, so much the
better," added Dory.
"Why is it so much the better, Dory?" asked Thad.
"Hold on all, and don't ask any more questions!" said Dory, laughing. "I
have business on my hands just now, and I will tell you all about it in
about ten minutes."
The skipper had gybed the boat under the lee of Valcour's; but the wind
was too fresh where he was now to repeat the manoeuvre. It was a gale
in this part of the lake, and the Goldwing worked very lively.
"Corny, I want you to handle that jib-sheet," said he when he was ready
for his next move.
"But I don't know how," pleaded Corny.
"Do what I tell you, and do it in a hurry when I give the word. This is
the jib-sheet, fast to this cleat. When I shift the helm, the jib will
shake. Haul in upon it as fast as you can, and get all you can, and keep
it when you get it. I shall do the same with the main-sheet."
The skipper put the helm down.
CHAPTER XII.
A ROUGH TIME OF IT.
The instant the helm was put down, the head of the boat promptly swung
up in the direction of the wind. Both of the sails began to flap and
bang in the fierce gale.
"Now haul in, Corny!" said Dory, as he did the same by the main-sheet.
"No, Thad! He don't want any help. Let him alone! Take a turn on the
cleat," added the skipper, when one of the party wanted to help.
It was necessary only to take in the slack line of the sheet, and no
hard pulling was required. The boat was now headed to the westward,
which was the opposite course from that which she had been sailing when
he headed her to the southward.
"Now we are on the wind, which is said to be the dangerous course in the
Goldwing's sailing," added the skipper; and this was the first time he
had her close-hauled.
He watched her with the most intense interest, but he had no fault to
find with the boat. It took all his strength at the long tiller to keep
her from coming up into the wind. There was no lee helm now, with only a
jib and mainsail; though she might exhibit this failing when she had all
sail on. In fact, she carried too much weather helm; for it impeded her
progress.
"She works like a lady!" exclaimed Dory with enthusiasm.
Having satisfied himself in regard to the working of the boat, he turned
his attention to the Missisquoi again. He saw that Pearl Hawlinshed was
at the wheel of the steamer. He had evidently learned wisdom from the
movements of the Goldwing. He had turned the helm of the steamer, so
that she was now headed to the westward.
Probably Pearl had begun to do some reasoning by this time. Instead of
running directly for the schooner, he had taken a course to intercept
her when she attempted to go to the northward, as he doubtless believed
she intended to do.
The Goldwing was now on the starboard tack; and the Missisquoi was
running abreast of her, towards the west shore of the lake. Dory
contrived to cramp her so that she did not make much headway, and the
steamer gained so rapidly on her that she was soon a considerable
distance ahead of her.
"Now, Dick Short, we are going about. When Corny lets go of the weather
jib-sheet, I want you to haul on the lee-sheet," said the skipper when
he was ready for the next move.
"Where are we going next, Dory?" asked Thad, confused by the many
movements of the skipper.
"No questions now, Thad. Keep your eyes wide open, and you will see for
yourself. Let go, and haul! Let go the sheet, Corny! Haul in, Dick! Be
lively about it! You must get the sheet in while the sail is shaking, or
you can't do it at all," said Dory sharply, as he put the helm down.
The Goldwing whirled around like a top, when her helm went down. The
hands in charge of the jib-sheets were zealous to do their duty
promptly, and in an instant the sails were drawing on the port tack.
But this did not give the course the skipper wanted. He handled the
boat very cautiously on account of her bad reputation.
Gradually he let off the main-sheet, while Dick was directed to do the
same with the jib-sheet. At the same time Dory kept the helm up, and the
boat fell off until she was headed for the southern side of Garden
Island. She took the wind over her port quarter. It came in heavy gusts,
the Goldwing careening until her gunwale went under at every flaw.
"I don't know about this," said Thad.
"About what, Thad?" asked Dory quietly.
"We are about half under water. This is shaky sailing, in my opinion,"
added Thad, as a wave broke against the side of the boat, and drenched
most of the members of the club to the skin.
"We may get wholly under water before we get through with this trip,"
replied Dory. "But she will come up every time she goes down. For my
part, I never saw a boat work any better than the Goldwing is doing."
"But you will drown the whole of us, Dory!" protested Thad.
"She is working first-rate, Thad; and this isn't more than half as
lively as it will be before we get across the lake."
"Are you going across the lake now, Dory?" asked Corny.
"Certainly I am. We are bound for Burlington, aren't we? Didn't you want
me to take you home?"
"But we don't want you to drown us, and this boat has a bad habit of not
keeping on the top of the water."
"She will keep on the top of the water most of the time, and the worst
you have to fear is a wet jacket."
Just as the schooner was going in under the lee of Garden Island,
another wave broke against her side, and about half a barrel of water
dropped into the standing-room.
"There it is again!" exclaimed Thad.
"That's all right," added Dory. "No boat can keep all the water on the
outside of her in such a sea as this. But she is working beautifully. Do
you see that rope, Thad?" continued the skipper, pointing to the line by
which the centre-board was handled.
"I see it, but I haven't the least idea what it is for."
"I want you and Nat to haul up the centre-board, for we don't need quite
so much of it while we are going free."
The two boys named cast off the line, and pulled with all their might;
but they could not start the board, as Dory did not suppose they could
while the whole force of the wind was acting against it. The two hands
at the line did not know what the centre-board was, or where it was; but
the skipper thought, as they seemed to be a little concerned about their
safety, that it was better for them to be employed.
"It's no use!" cried Thad. "I don't know what we are pulling at; but,
whatever it is, it won't come."
"What is there down there?" asked Nat Long, looking into the pump, which
was at the end of the centre-board casing.
"Now try it once more, fellows," said Dory, as he luffed the boat up,
and thus relieved the centre-board from the pressure.
"Now it comes," added Thad. "Shall we haul the thing through that hole?"
"No: that will do. Make the line fast to the cleat, as you found it."
"But what does all that mean? I never saw a boat that had a thing like
that in it," inquired Nat Long.
"You will learn all about it by and by. I have no time now to explain
any thing," answered Dory, looking behind him to ascertain the position
of the Missisquoi.
The steamer had come about. Pearl had found that he had been reckoning
wrong in regard to the movements of the Goldwing. Judging from his
present career, he was disgusted with strategy; for he was again running
directly for the schooner. The Missisquoi was laboring heavily in the
big waves, and her pilot did not appear to know how to favor her. At any
rate, he followed the schooner without regard to the wind or the waves.
"She is after us," said Corny, as the Goldwing went into the
comparatively smooth water under the lee of Garden Island. "She is going
to catch us, too, in the course of the next fifteen minutes."
"When she catches us, you tell me of it: will you, Corny?" added Dory.
"I think you will know it as well as I do, Dory. What's the use of
keeping this thing up? Let us hold on, and see what the fellow wants of
you," replied Corny.
"We will have the fun of the race if we don't have any thing more," said
Dory. "This is smooth sailing just here, but we shall have it rough
enough in about two minutes more. If any of you fellows don't want to go
back to Burlington, I will put you on shore at Garden Island."
"We might have to stay there a week," suggested Corny.
"I couldn't help that," answered Dory. "I told you not to come with me
if you were afraid of the boat."
"She is as safe for us as she is for Dory," added Dick Short.
"We shall get under the lee of Providence Island in about twenty
minutes. If you can stand it for that time, you will be all right,"
continued the skipper, who did not wish to waste his time, and lose the
race, by putting any of his crew on shore.
"I don't want to go ashore," said Nat Long. "I can stand it as long as
Dory can, and I shall not back out."
This exhibition of pluck had its effect on the others, and no one was
willing to admit that he wished to go ashore. But the appearance of the
lake ahead was appalling to most of them, though they had crossed it
that day in the little steamer. The bad reputation of the Goldwing was
what made it look so dubious. Dory had been as doubtful about crossing
as any of them; but he had tested the boat under her present sail, and
all his doubts had been removed. For a boy of his age he had had a great
deal of experience in sailing a boat; and he knew by the feeling, rather
than by any thing he could see, that the schooner was working well. He
believed that she was entirely safe.
He had ascertained the draught of the Goldwing at the wharf, and he was
perfectly familiar with every part of the lake. When the boat came up
with the island, he ran within a few rods of it. He looked astern at the
Missisquoi as he came into the still water under the lee of the island.
She had been gaining rapidly upon him; and, if his strategy failed,
Pearl Hawlinshed would soon be alongside of the Goldwing.
But he could hardly conceive of such a thing as its failing. He watched
the steamer with the most intense interest as he increased his distance
from the island. The schooner passed out into the open lake. The gusts
of wind increased in fury, and even the reefed mainsail seemed to be
more sail than she could carry.
More than once, under the pressure of the savage gusts, the boat heeled
down till the water rolled in over the lee gunwale. The heavy waves
broke continually over the other side; and, before the Goldwing was half
way across the open part of the lake, the water rose above her bottom
boards.
"This is awful, Dory," said Thad. "I don't believe we shall ever get to
the other side of the lake. If I had thought it was half as bad as this,
I wouldn't have come."
"It is very wet; and that is the worst you can say of it," replied Dory.
"We are going over all right, but we must keep more of this water on the
outside of the boat. Thad, you may man the pump; for it is getting
rather damp in the standing-room."
The members of the Goldwing Club looked decidedly shaky, with the
exception of the skipper. No one responded to the timid sentiment of
Thad; but probably all of them felt it, and wished they were on shore,
though that shore were the one they had just left.
"The Missisquoi has stopped!" cried Corny, when the Goldwing was about
half way over to Providence Island. "She has chosen a quiet place under
the lee of that little island."
"She has stopped, that's a fact," added Thad.
"I thought she would," replied Dory, as he let off the sheet when a
heavy gust struck the sails. "The Missisquoi is aground."
CHAPTER XIII.
SAFE UNDER A LEE.
"How do you know she is aground, Dory?" asked Corny, after a careful
examination of the position of the Missisquoi.
"She wouldn't have stopped there if she hadn't got aground. She has done
the very thing I wanted her to do, and the very thing I did my best to
have her do," replied Dory triumphantly.
"Do you mean to say that you did it, Dory?" asked Thad, still pumping
away with all his might.
"I don't mean to say that I got the steamer aground. I saw that neither
Captain Vesey nor the other fellow knew much about the lake; for the
Missisquoi followed the Goldwing wherever she went," Dory explained. "I
ran close to the island, hoping the steamer would follow me, as she has
been doing, because there is not more than four feet of water close up
to the land where I went. She had either to follow us in a straight
line, or to go to the southward of the shoal. I was sure to make
something in getting away from her."
"What will she do now?" inquired Dick Short.
"She must either work off the shoal, or stay there; and I am sure I
don't care what she does," added Dory, as he looked ahead at the savage
waves that were piling up in the path of the schooner.
The Goldwing was more than half way across the lake: and, the farther
she went, the rougher the lake was; for the longer was the sweep of the
wind. But Dory was not in a hurry when he found the steamer could no
longer follow him. He had been very careful not to lose any thing by
letting off the main-sheet, except when it was absolutely necessary to
do so in order to keep the boat right side up.
Going nearly before the wind, it took a long sweep to reduce the
pressure on the mainsail; and the water flowed in over the lee side
about as fast as Thad could pump it out. The boys looked at each other,
and there is no doubt that they all wished they were on shore. They kept
an eye on the skipper's face, to note any anxiety or alarm on his part.
Dory was confident the boat would not take in water enough to swamp her
while he could control her with the helm; but he felt that he had his
hands full, and that he should be very fortunate if nothing happened to
cripple the boat.
"I have got about enough of this thing," said Thad.
"Nat, you take Thad's place at the pump," interposed Dory. "One hand
needn't do all the hard work."
"All right! I am ready to do my share of the work," replied Nat, as he
took Thad's place at the pump.
"I didn't mean that. I am not tired," added Thad. "The farther we go the
worse it is, Dory; and I have had about enough of this sort of sailing."
"Well, what are you going to do about it?" asked Dory pleasantly. "Are
you going to get out, and walk the rest of the way? Or will you swim
ashore? I don't think you will find it is any easier walking or
swimming, or any safer."
"Can't we turn about and go back?" inquired Thad, looking with dismay
at the waves ahead, and at the water that poured in over both rails.
"We are more than half way over, and it is hardly worth while to go
about," replied Dory. "If we return, we shall have to beat back; but we
are in no hurry now, and perhaps we can ease off a little more."
"I don't see how you are going to ease off, Dory," said Thad. "Here we
are right in the thick of it; and we must take it as it comes, unless
you go back."
"Do you see those cleats on the mainmast, Thad?" asked Dory, making
ready to do something,--"one on each side of the mast, with a rope
leading up? Do you see them?"
"I don't know what cleats are," answered Thad.
"Those brass things, with ropes around them."
"I see them. These are what you hoist the sail with," added Thad, as he
grasped the ropes.
"Now let go both ropes together when I give the word. Not yet! All the
rest of you, grab the sail when it comes down, and mind the gaff don't
hit you in the head."
"What are you going to do, Dory?" asked Thad. "I have the ropes in my
hands."
"I am going to take in the mainsail. That will ease her off; and I can
work her before it with the jib alone."
At this moment a tremendous gust struck the mainsail, and Dory crowded
the helm down; but the schooner took in a large quantity of water over
the lee side as she careened.
"Let go the halyards, Thad!" shouted the skipper as the boat swept
around. "Look out for the sail, all of you!"
But the sail did not readily come down, the pressure upon it causing it
to bind. But Dory continued to luff until it was released.
"Haul down the sail lively!" called Dory with energy, when the canvas
began to thrash and beat about as though it was bound to tear itself
into shreds.
Under the direction of the skipper the sail was secured after a great
deal of difficulty. Dory let her off again under the jib alone. This
proved to be a decided change for the better. The Goldwing kept on a
tolerably even keel, and drove ahead almost as fast as she did before.
"She's doing a good deal better," said Thad, who began to breathe freer
than he had since the boat went into the worst of it. "Why didn't we do
that before?"
"Because we were trying to keep out of the way of the Missisquoi
before," replied Dory.
But it was not baby play, even with nothing but the jib set. The
mainsail had steadied the boat to some extent; but now she began to roll
tremendously, and was not so readily controlled by the helm. The waves
broke over her on the weather side, but she did not scoop up the water
on the lee side.
The Goldwing had taken in so much water that it was swashing about in
the standing-room. Dory directed Nat to keep pumping. Dick Short was
told to take a pail which belonged to the boat, and Corny was armed with
a tin dipper. The members of the club were glad to have something to do,
as almost any nervous person is; and they worked with tremendous zeal.
In a short time the pump sucked, and not another dipperful of water
could be taken up in the well.
"Now we are all right," said Dory. "We can take it easy now."
"We are almost over to Providence Island," added Corny.
"We shall be in smooth water in ten minutes more."
"But we are a long way from Burlington," suggested Thad.
"At least a dozen miles," said the skipper. "Of course you know that we
can't get there, fellows, without going outside of Colchester Point. All
the rest of the way is quite as bad as, if not worse than, we have been
having for the last twenty minutes."
"Are we going right along to Burlington, Dory?" asked Thad in dismay at
the information given by the skipper.
"I think not at present," replied Dory. "But you have been through this
once before to-day."
"It wasn't half so bad as it is now," protested Corny. "It didn't begin
to blow very hard until we got to Valcour's Island."
"Did the Missisquoi make better weather of it than the Goldwing?" asked
Dory.
"The lake didn't begin to be as rough as it was a little while ago,"
replied Corny. "The steamer pitched tremendously, and we all had to pump
after we got beyond Valcour's."
"Do you see any thing of the Missisquoi?" asked Dory, who had been too
busy to give any attention to the steamer.
"I can just see her at the south of the island. She has not got off
yet," replied Corny.
"She is under the lee of the two islands; and they can be very
comfortable on board of her for the rest of the day,--a great deal more
comfortable than they would be out in the lake where we have been,"
added Dory.
The Goldwing was abreast of Providence Island by this time. The waves
swept furiously along the south-west shore of the land.
As soon as she reached the south-east point, the skipper luffed up; but
the boat was not inclined to make any headway on the new course.
"Let off the centre-board, Thad," said the skipper, as the boat began to
make more leeway than headway.
Thad had got the hang of this rope; and, as the centre-board went down,
the boat came up to the work. With the help of an oar and a great deal
of coaxing, the skipper got her close up to the shore in seven feet of
water. He had instructed Corny how to get the anchor overboard. The boat
was entirely out of the heavy sea, though the water rose and fell under
the influence of the waves which were rolling along the other side of
the island.
"Here we are as safe as though we had the boat on the top of Mansfield
Mountain," said Dory, after he had secured the cable, and stowed the
jib.
"I never expected to come out of it alive," said Thad, as the skipper
seated himself in the standing-room to recover from the excitement of
the perilous run across the lake.
"Nor I either," added Nat Long.
"It looked very shaky," said Corny; "but I didn't give it up at any
time."
"Now, really, Dory, did you expect to get out of that scrape?" asked
Thad. "Be honest about it, and tell us what you actually thought."
"Of course I knew that something might break, just as I know that a
horse may run away with me when I'm out riding. The wagon or the harness
might break, and that would spoil the best calculation," replied Dory.
"But, without any thing breaking, didn't you expect the boat would go to
the bottom?" urged Thad.
"I didn't expect any thing of the kind. I have been out in a sailboat
when it was as bad or worse than it is to-day. If nothing broke, I knew
we should come out of it all right; and I never thought of such a thing
as going to the bottom. It looks a good deal worse to you fellows who
were never out in a sailboat when it blew hard than it really is. I
didn't think there was any great danger when we started out: if I had, I
shouldn't have come over," said Dory quietly.
The members of the Goldwing Club had the idea that they had had a narrow
escape, and the skipper was not inclined to allow them to make heroes of
themselves. The motion of a boat in a heavy sea seems terrible to those
who are not accustomed to it, and the boys were disposed to make the
worst of it.
"I wouldn't try it again if you would give me the Goldwing," said Thad
with emphasis.
"After you have been through that sort of thing a few times, you will
not mind it at all. It was what I call a lively time: that's all," added
Dory. "I went down to St. John with Bill Pitts in a sailboat, and we had
a rougher time than this all one day."
Dory thought he should like the rest of his dinner by this time.
CHAPTER XIV.
EARLY IN THE MORNING.
The skipper of the Goldwing had an excellent appetite, and the other
members of the club had regained theirs by this time.
Fortunately they had plenty of provisions, for there was nothing for
them to do but eat during the rest of the day. It continued to blow as
fresh as it had since the middle of the forenoon till dark.
Dory thought it would abate at night, but there were no signs of a
change. The party were pretty thoroughly tired out after the labor and
the excitement of the day. The boys gaped until they had nearly thrown
their jaws out of joint.
There was room enough in the cabin for four of the club,--two in the
berths, and two on the floor between them. Dory decided to sleep in the
standing-room, where he was most likely to be waked by any change in the
position of the schooner. By eight o'clock all hands were fast asleep.
Half of them had nothing better than "the soft side of a board" to sleep
on, but they were too tired to need beds of down.
The skipper was the most wakeful sleeper in the party, but he slept for
several hours without waking. When he did wake, he sprang to his feet as
if conscious that he had neglected his duty as a faithful skipper. He
had no idea of what time it was when he sprang to his feet. All was
still around him, and the Goldwing appeared to be in precisely the
position he had left her when he turned in.
He could no longer hear the roar of the big waves as they dashed against
the south side of the island. The violent wind had subsided, and the
lake seemed to be as calm as the dream of an infant.
He looked all about him in the darkness, but there was nothing to demand
his attention. His companions were all sleeping, and some of them were
snoring, on their hard beds. Dory began to gape when there proved to be
no grounds for excitement. He concluded that he could not do any better
than finish his night's rest. Taking the most comfortable position he
could find in the standing-room, he turned in again, and was soon fast
asleep.
When he woke in the morning, it was after sunrise. The rest of the club
were still fast asleep. The skipper felt like a new man after his long
rest. A gentle breeze was rippling the surface of the lake. It came from
the westward, and the promise was that the day would be fine. Without
calling his companions, he loosed the sails, and turned out the reefs
from the fore and main sails. He laced on the bonnet of the jib, and
shipped the short tiller, instead of the long one he had used the day
before.
So far he had not seen how the sails set when all spread, and he was
interested in his present operation. He hoisted the mainsail. It was not
so large but that he could handle the throat and peak halyards at the
same time. He was entirely satisfied with the set of this sail. The set
of the foresail pleased him equally well.
The anchor-rope was rove through a block made fast near the heel of the
bowsprit, so that the anchor could be weighed without any difficulty. He
succeeded in getting it up without waking his shipmates, though he took
no especial pains to avoid arousing them. They had got up at four
o'clock the morning before, and probably had not slept much lest they
should oversleep themselves, and lose the excursion to Plattsburgh.
Dory hoisted the jib. He was delighted with the appearance of the
Goldwing with all sail set. There was hardly a puff of air behind the
island, and it was some time before he got fairly under way. But he
enjoyed the sight of the boat so much, that he was in no haste to get
home. So far as he knew, his mother supposed that he was still waiting
on the table in the cabin of the steamer; and she could not be anxious
about him. He had not heard of the loss of the Au Sable, and he had no
suspicion that his father was not still piloting her up and down the
lake.
After a while he succeeded in getting to the southward of Providence
Island, so that he could catch the breeze from across the lake. He got
just enough to fill the sails; and this afforded him the opportunity to
test the working of the boat after he had shifted the ballast, and
changed the position of the foremast. There was hardly wind enough for
a fair test, but he was delighted to find that the boat carried a
weather helm.
As he went farther out from the land, he got more breeze; and the result
was entirely satisfactory. Indeed, he had been practically sure that he
could remedy the defect in the working of the Goldwing before he bought
her. If he failed to do so, he had thrown his money away; for parties
would not employ him if he had an unsafe boat. He intended to invite two
or three prominent boatmen to sail with him when he had put the boat in
first-rate condition, and get their opinion as to her safety and her
sailing qualities.
Dory was so much absorbed in the beautiful appearance of the Goldwing,
that he neglected to do what an old sailor is continually doing when
afloat. He had not looked about him to see what beside the Goldwing was
afloat on the lake. He had headed the boat to the south, so as to pass
to the west of Stave Island. He was looking ahead, and dreaming of the
future.
In the quiet of the still morning he heard a puffing sound at a
distance. He turned to see what it was, and discovered a small steamer
about a mile to the westward of him. He had seen a boat in that
direction when he came out from behind the island, but he took no notice
of her. He had forgotten all about the Missisquoi: he had not even
thought to look and see if she was still aground on the Garden Island
shoal.
The sight of the little steamer, like a dozen others on the lake,
reminded him of his pursuer of the day before. He looked with interest
in the direction of Garden Island. The Missisquoi was not there. She had
got out of that scrape. Then he noticed that the little steamer in the
middle of the lake was headed directly for the Goldwing. She looked just
like his late pursuer.
Dory was rather excited at the thought of a continuance of the chase;
for with the light breeze he had no chance at all, and he did not like
to come in collision with Pearl Hawlinshed. He looked the boat over very
carefully. He had often sailed in her, and steered her; but she was too
far off for him to be entirely sure in regard to her identity. But he
was confident that it was the Missisquoi.
Certainly Pearl Hawlinshed had some very strong motive for continuing
the chase a second day. What could he want of him? Dory concluded that
he either expected to recover the Goldwing, or that he connected him in
some manner with his father. Whatever his motive, Dory did not want to
see him.
He was confident that the steamer he saw was the Missisquoi, and that
Pearl was still in pursuit of him. He had led the steamer into a trap
the day before, and possibly he might do it again. He could at least run
into shoal-water, where the Missisquoi could not follow him. He was
familiar with the soundings in all parts of the lake, for his father had
instructed him in the navigation.
Dory was assured that the wind would freshen as the sun rose higher; but
it would make little difference to him how much wind there was by and
by, if the steamer overhauled him before it came. He thought he was
making about four miles an hour, but the steamer was good for at least
six. She had a mile to gain, and that would take her ten minutes.
Following out the calculation, Dory thought the steamer would overhaul
him in fifteen minutes. In that time he could make a mile.
"Hallo, Dory! You are up and dressed," exclaimed Thad Glovering,
thrusting his head out at the cabin-door.
"Dry up, Thad! I am busy now," replied Dory impatiently; for he was in
the midst of his calculation of what he should do to avoid the
Missisquoi.
"You don't seem to be doing any thing, Dory," added Thad, as his body
followed his head out at the door.
"Don't disturb me, please, but call the fellows. I want them in the
standing-room, so as to trim the boat, and make her sail better,"
answered the skipper, as he went on with his calculation.
He had time to make only a mile before the steamer would be down upon
him. He was about abreast of Stave Island now. Less than a mile south of
it were two ledges, on which the water was not more than six feet deep.
Going to the southward, vessels must keep Juniper Light open to the
westward of Colchester Reef Light, in order to avoid these reefs. There
were no buoys on them, for they lay outside of any usual course of
vessels bound up and down the lake.
The experience of the Missisquoi in getting aground the day before would
render her pilot wary about following the Goldwing. The two reefs were
half a mile apart; and the pursuer must either keep away from them, or
run the risk of getting aground on one of them. The Goldwing could go
over either of them in perfect safety, for she drew only three feet with
her board up.
Dory was satisfied with his calculation, and he was reasonably confident
that the Missisquoi would not get within a quarter of a mile of the
Goldwing; but, if this expedient failed, he had another to which he
intended to resort.
The other members of the club had come out into the standing-room, and
seated themselves as they had been required to do the day before. They
were all wide awake; but they had been cautioned by Thad not to disturb
the skipper, and they were silent till he spoke to them.
"You have come to life again, fellows," said he when he had fully
arranged his plan.
"So have you, Dory," replied Corny. "Thad said we were not to speak to
you, or we should bust your calculations. We all thought you had the
blues."
"I suppose you know the steamer that is following the Goldwing," replied
Dory. "It is the Missisquoi, and she is after us again to-day. I have
been thinking how we should keep out of her way."
"How are you going to do it?" asked Corny. "We may enjoy the fun if we
know something about it."
The skipper explained his plan in full, and his companions were quite
interested in it. There was no chance for a race while only a four-knot
breeze favored the Goldwing. With a good stiff breeze the skipper
believed he could beat the steamer; but, in the absence of such a wind,
he must resort to strategy. But strategy was quite as exciting to his
companions as a race. It afforded the opportunity for one craft to come
out better than the other.
The wind was sensibly freshening, but the Goldwing did not need any more
wind just then. She was almost up with Stave Island Ledge, and her
skipper was disposed to wait and see what his pursuer would do. As he
approached the dangerous reef,--dangerous to any craft drawing more than
five feet,--he started his sheets, and stood to the eastward of the
rocks.
The Missisquoi was within an eighth of a mile of the Goldwing, and the
skipper saw that Captain Vesey was at the wheel. He seemed to know about
the reef, and sheered off. Probably he had discovered by this time that
Pearl Hawlinshed knew even less than he did about the difficulties of
navigation in Lake Champlain.
CHAPTER XV.
THE STRATEGY OF THE CHASE.
Dory Dornwood had accomplished all that he intended by his plan. The
pilot of the Missisquoi would not dare to cross the ledges, and it would
be necessary for her to go nearly a mile to the southward to get around
them. Dory calculated that his manoeuvre had given him two miles the
start of the steamer.
Captain Vesey and Pearl Hawlinshed seemed to be holding a consultation.
Dory imagined that Pearl was trying to persuade the captain to venture
in among the rocks. If so, he was not successful; for the Missisquoi did
not come any nearer to the ledge.
"What is she going to do next, Dory?" asked Corny Minkfield, while the
boys were waiting for the next move of the steamer.
"That's more than I know," replied Dory, chuckling at the success of his
plan. "I think Captain Vesey had enough of getting aground yesterday,
and he don't want to spend the day laid up on one of these ledges. I
believe the steamer would go over Champion Rock all right; but her
captain is shy, and I don't think he will come any nearer than he is
now."
Dory had headed the Goldwing to the east. As he had predicted, the wind
was increasing, and the schooner carried quite a bone in her teeth. It
looked a little like a game of chess, where each player has to wait a
long time for the other to make his move. The captain and his passenger
appeared to be still engaged in the discussion in the bow of the boat.
Dory thought he could quicken their movements; and, hauling in his
sheets, he stood to the south.
"There she goes!" exclaimed Thad, as the steamer started her propeller
again.
"I think we can keep her moving," replied Dory. "She will go to the
southward as fast as we do, to head us off. We can play this game as
long as she can."
"But who wants to stay here all day fooling with that steamer?" said
Corny.
"I don't know that we have any thing better to do," added Dick Short.
"We have got enough to eat to last us all day."
"I think we shall have some variety in this thing. Captain Vesey has to
deliver the Missisquoi to her new owner to-night, and he can't stay here
much after noon," replied Dory.
In fifteen minutes the steamer was well to the southward of Champion
Rock, and began to turn to the eastward.
"She is coming around to pick us up on this side of the rocks," said
Thad.
"That's all right, but she won't pick us up," answered Dory. "I am
afraid it will get very monotonous before she overhauls us by her
present tactics."
Dory put the boat about, and stood to the north. He continued on this
tack until the Missisquoi was directly south of Stave Island, and of
both ledges, which were in a line with the island. She had gone half a
mile farther to the southward than was necessary to avoid Champion Rock;
but her pilots were not well posted, and they seemed to be determined to
keep on the safe side.
The skipper waited until the steamer was half a mile to the eastward of
the ledges, and then he proceeded to beat across the dangerous ground.
He took a southerly tack first, so as to bother the pilot of the steamer
as to his intentions. The Missisquoi kept on her course, and Pearl was
evidently bothered.
The pursuer had not thought there could be any difficulty in capturing
the owner of the Goldwing when he had a steamer to use in chasing her.
He had found out his mistake. The captain and engineer had not earned
their five dollars apiece yet, for they had not put the passenger on
board of the schooner. Doubtless they were continuing the chase for the
purpose of obtaining their money, for the boys were satisfied that
Captain Vesey had no other interest in the pursuit.
As the Missisquoi put her helm to starboard, in order to run to the
north, Dory tacked the schooner, and stood off to the north-east. This
course would carry him directly over Stave Island Ledge. The effect of
this move was soon apparent, for the steamer stopped her screw again.
Her pilots could see that it was useless to go any farther on her
present course. By the time she got a mile farther, the Goldwing would
be on the other side of the ledges. Another discussion seemed to be in
progress between the captain and the passenger. But it was not continued
long; for the Missisquoi put about, and stood to the westward.
"She has got enough of that," said Thad. "I don't believe she will keep
it up much longer."
"It is cool and comfortable here, and I think we can stand this sort of
thing as long as she can," added Dory.
"Of course we can; but the game is ended, and the Missisquoi is going
back to Plattsburgh," suggested Corny.
"The game is not ended yet," replied Dory: "in fact, it has but just
begun."
"What's the reason it isn't ended?" demanded Corny, who did not like to
have his conclusions disputed. "What is the steamer going off in that
direction for, if there is to be any more fun?"
"Is that the way to Plattsburgh, Corny?" asked Dory quietly.
