"Well, stranger, seein' I keep it myself, it mightn't be exactly the
thing for me to say much about it; but I reckon you won't complain of it
if you stop there."
"I'm glad to meet you," said Bill Mosely, grasping the landlord's hand
fervently. "I don't need to ask any more about it, seein' you're the
landlord. You look like a man that can keep a hotel--eh, Tom?"
"I should say so," returned Tom Hadley, making the answer that was
expected of him.
"You're a gentleman!" said Jim Brown, on whom this flattery had its
effect. "Just come along with me and I'll see that you are treated as
such."
"What are your terms, say, for supper and lodgin', landlord?" asked
Bill, with commendable caution.
"Five dollars," answered Brown.
Bill Mosely's jaw fell. He had hoped it would be less.
"And for supper alone?" he asked.
"Two dollars."
"We'll only take supper," said Mosely.
"Just as you say."
"We're so used to campin' out that we couldn't breathe in-doors--eh,
Tom?"
"I should say so, Bill."
"Suit yourselves, strangers. I reckon you'll want breakfast in the
mornin'."
"As likely as not." Then, turning his attention to the mustangs: "Are
them mustangs yours, landlord?"
"No; they belong to a party that's stoppin' with me."
"Will they sell?"
"I reckon not. There's a lame man in the party, and he can't walk much."
"A lame man? Who is with him?" asked Bill Mosely, with a sudden
suspicion of the truth.
"Well, there's another man and a boy and a heathen Chinee."
"Tom," said Bill Mosely, in excitement, "it's the party we left on the
mountain."
"I should say so, Bill."
"Do you know them, strangers?"
"Know them?" ejaculated Bill Mosely, who instantly formed a plan which
would gratify his love of vengeance and secure him the coveted horses at
one and the same time--"I reckon I know them only too well. They stole
those mustangs from me and my friend a week ago. I thought them animals
looked natural."
"Hoss-thieves!" said the landlord. "Well, I surmised there was something
wrong about them when they let that yaller heathen set down to the table
with them."
CHAPTER XVI.
A TRAVESTY OF JUSTICE.
It was speedily noised about in the mining-camp that a party of
horse-thieves had had the audacity to visit the settlement, and were
even now guests of the Golden Gulch Hotel.
Now, in the eyes of a miner a horse-thief was as bad as a murderer. He
was considered rather worse than an ordinary thief, since the character
of his theft gave him better facilities for getting away with his
plunder. He was looked upon by all as a common and dangerous enemy, on
whom any community was justified in visiting the most condign
punishment.
Bill Mosely knew very well the feeling he would rouse against the men
whom he hated, and, having started the movement, waited complacently for
the expected results to follow.
Jim Brown was by no means slow in spreading the alarm. True, these men
were his guests, and it might be considered that it was against his
interests to denounce them, but he knew his claim for entertainment
would be allowed him out of the funds found in possession of the party,
with probably a liberal addition as a compensation for revealing their
real character.
Horse-thieves! No sooner did the news spread than the miners, most of
whom were through work for the day, began to make their way to the
neighborhood of the hotel.
There hadn't been any excitement at Golden Gulch for some time, and this
promised a first-class sensation.
"Hang 'em up! That's what I say," suggested Brown the landlord.
"Where's the men that call 'em thieves?" asked one of the miners, a
middle-aged man, who was sober and slow-spoken, and did not look like a
man to be easily carried away by a storm of prejudice or a wave of
excitement.
"Here they be," said Brown, pointing to Bill Mosely and Tom Hadley, who
were speedily surrounded by an excited crowd.
"What have you say?" asked the first speaker of Mosely.
Bill Mosely repeated his story glibly. It was to this effect: They had
met the Chinaman, who induced them to accompany him to the cabin where
his master lay sick. From motives of compassion they assented. When they
reached the cabin they were set upon by the combined party, their horses
were taken from them, they were tied to trees, where they were kept in
great pain all night, and in the morning stripped of the greater part of
their money and sent adrift.
It will be seen that the story did not entirely deviate from fact, and
was very artfully framed to excite sympathy for the narrator and
indignation against the perpetrators of the supposed outrage. Tom
Hadley, who had not the prolific imagination of his comrade, listened in
open-mouthed wonder to the fanciful tale, but did not offer to
corroborate it in his usual manner.
The tale was so glibly told that it carried conviction to the minds of
most of those present, and a storm of indignation arose.
"Let's have 'em out! let's hang 'em up!" exclaimed one impetuous miner.
Others echoed the cry, and the company of miners in stern phalanx
marched to the hotel, where, unconscious of the impending peril, our
friends were resting after the day's fatigue.
We have already described the manner in which Jim Brown burst in upon
them with the startling charge that they were horse-thieves.
Of course all were startled except Ki Sing, who did not fully comprehend
the situation.
Richard Dewey was the first to speak. "What do you mean," he said,
sternly, "by this preposterous charge?"
"You'll find out soon enough," said the landlord, nodding significantly.
"Jest you file out of that door pretty quick. There's some of us want to
see you."
"What does all this mean?" asked Dewey, turning to Jake Bradley.
"I don't know," answered Bradley. "It looks like a conspiracy."
The party filed out, and were confronted by some thirty or forty
black-bearded, stern-faced men, who had tried and condemned them in
advance of their appearance.
Richard Dewey glanced at the faces before him, and his spirit sank
within him. He had been present at a similar scene before--a scene which
had terminated in a tragedy--and he knew how swift and relentless those
men could be. Who could have made such a charge he did not yet know,
but, innocent as he and his companions were, he knew that their word
would not be taken, and the mistake might lead to death. But he was not
a man to quail or blanch.
"Hoss-thieves! string 'em up!" was shouted from more than one throat.
Richard Dewey calmly surveyed the angry throng. "Gentlemen," he said, "I
am no more a horse-thief than any one of you."
There was a buzz of indignation, as if he had confessed his guilt and
implicated them in it.
"I demand to see and face my accusers," he said boldly. "What man has
dared to charge me and my friends with the mean and contemptible crime
of stealing horses?"
Jake Bradley had been looking about him too. Over the heads of the men,
who stood before them drawn up in a semicircle, he saw what had escaped
the notice of Richard Dewey, the faces and figures of Bill Mosely and
Tom Hadley.
"Dick," said he, suddenly, "I see it all. Look yonder! There are them
two mean skunks, Bill Mosely and Tom Hadley. It's they who have been
bringin' this false slander ag'in us."
Richard Dewey and Ben immediately looked in the direction indicated.
Bill Mosely eyed them with a glance of evil and exulting triumph, as
much as to say, "It's my turn now; I am having my revenge."
But Jim Brown, who seemed to be acting as prosecuting attorney, had
already summoned the two men to come forward and testify.
"Here's the men!" he said, exultingly. "Here's the men you robbed of
their horses and tied to trees.--Isn't it so, stranger?"
Bill Mosely inclined his head in the affirmative, and Tom Hadley, being
also asked, answered, but rather faintly, "I should say so."
Lying did not come as natural to him as to Bill.
Richard Dewey laughed scornfully.
"Are those the men," he asked, "who charge us with stealing their
horses?"
"In course they do."
"Then," burst forth Jake Bradley, impetuously, "of all the impudent and
lyin' scoundrels I ever met, they'll carry off the prize."
"Of course you deny it," said Bill Mosely, brazenly persisting in his
falsehood. "A man that'll steal will lie. Perhaps you will charge us
with stealin' the horses next."
"That's just what I do," said Bradley, in an excited tone. "You're not
only horse-thieves, but you'll take gold-dust an' anything else you can
lay your hands on."
"Gentlemen," said Bill Mosely, shrugging his shoulders, "you see how he
is tryin' to fasten his own guilt on me and my innocent pard here. It
isn't enough that he stole our horses and forced us to foot it over
them rough hills, but now he wants to steal away our reputation for
honor and honesty. He thinks you're easy to be imposed on, but I know
better. You won't see two innocent men lied about and charged with
disgraceful crimes?"
"I admire that fellow's cheek," said Bradley in an undertone to Richard
Dewey, but he soon found that the consequences were likely to be
disastrous to him and his party. The crowd were getting impatient, and
readily seconded the words of Jim Brown when he followed up Bill
Mosely's speech by a suggestion that they proceed at once to vindicate
justice by a summary execution.
They rushed forward and seized upon our four friends, Ki Sing included,
and hurried them off to a cluster of tall trees some twenty rods away.
CHAPTER XVII.
LYNCH LAW.
Nothing is so unreasoning as a crowd under excitement. The miners were
inflamed with fierce anger against men of whom they knew nothing, except
that they were accused of theft by two other men, of whom also they knew
nothing. Whether the charge was true or false they did not stop to
inquire. Apparently, they did not care. They only wanted revenge, and
that stern and immediate.
The moderate speaker, already referred to, tried to turn the tide by an
appeal for delay. "Wait till morning," he said. "This charge may not be
true. Let us not commit an injustice."
But his appeal was drowned in the cries of the excited crowd, "Hang the
horse-thieves! string 'em up."
Each of the four victims was dragged by a force which he couldn't
resist to the place of execution.
Richard Dewey was pale, but his expression was stern and contemptuous,
as if he regarded the party of miners as fools or lunatics.
"Was this to be the end?" he asked himself. "Just as the prospect of
happiness was opening before him, just as he was to be reunited to the
object of his affection, was he to fall a victim to the fury of a mob?"
Jake Bradley perhaps took the matter more philosophically than either of
the other three. He had less to live for, and his attachment to life was
not therefore so strong. Still, to be hanged as a thief was not a
pleasant way to leave life, and that was what he thought of most. Again,
his sympathy was excited in behalf of the boy Ben, whom he had come to
love as if he were his own son. He could not bear to think of the boy's
young life being extinguished in so shocking a manner.
"This is rough, Ben," he managed to say as the two, side by side, were
hurried along by the vindictive crowd.
Ben's face was pale and his heart was full of sorrow and awe with the
prospect of a shameful death rising before him. Life was sweet to him,
and it seemed hard to lose it.
"Yes it is," answered Ben, faltering. "Can't something be done?"
Jake Bradley shook his head mournfully. "I am afraid not," he said. "I'd
like to shoot one of those lyin' scoundrels" (referring to Bill Mosely
and his companion) "before I am swung off. To think their word should
cost us our lives! It's a burnin' shame!"
Ki Sing looked the image of terror as he too was forced forward by a
couple of strong miners. His feet refused to do their office, and he was
literally dragged forward, his feet trailing along the ground. He was
indeed a ludicrous figure, if anything connected with such a tragedy can
be considered ludicrous. Probably it was not so much death that Ki Sing
feared, for with his race life is held cheap, but Chinamen shrink from
violence, particularly that of a brutal character. They are ready with
their knives, but other violence is not common among them.
Bill Mosely and Tom Hadley followed in the rear of the crowd. They would
have liked to improve the time by stealing away with the mustangs which
they coveted, but even in this hour of public excitement they knew it
would not be safe, and the act might arouse suspicion.
While Mosely felt gratified that the men he hated were likely to be put
out of the way, there was in his heart a sensation of fear, and he
involuntarily shuddered when he reflected that if justice were done he
would he in the place of these men who were about to suffer a shameful
death. Moreover, he knew that some day it were far from improbable that
he himself would be figuring in a similar scene as a chief actor, or
rather chief victim. So, though he exulted, he also trembled.
Meanwhile the place of execution had been reached. Then it was
discovered that one important accessory to the contemplated tragedy was
lacking--a rope. So one of the party was sent to the hotel for a rope,
being instructed by Jim Brown where to find it.
It seemed the last chance for an appeal, and, hopeless as it seemed,
Richard Dewey resolved to improve it. "Gentlemen," he said in a solemn
tone, "I call God to witness that you are about to put to death four
innocent men."
"Enough of that!" said Jim Brown, roughly, "We don't want to hear any
more of your talk."
But Dewey did not stop. "You have condemned us," he proceeded, "on the
testimony of two as arrant scoundrels as can be found in California;"
and he pointed scornfully at Bill Mosely and his partner.
"Are you goin' to let him insult us?" asked Mosely in the tone of a
wronged man.
"That don't go down, stranger," said Jim Brown. "We know you're guilty,
and that's enough."
"You know it? How do you know it?" retorted Dewey. "What proof is there
except the word of two thieves and liars who deserve the fate which you
are preparing for us?"
"Hang 'em up!" shouted somebody; and the cry was taken up by the rest.
"If you won't believe me," continued Dewey, "I want to make one
appeal--to ask one last favor. Spare the life of that innocent boy, who
certainly has done no evil. If there are any fathers present I ask, Have
you the heart to take away the life of a child just entering upon life
and its enjoyments?"
He had touched the chord in the hearts of more than one.
"That's so!" cried the speaker who had tried to stem the popular
excitement. "It would be a crime and a disgrace, and I'll shoot the man
that puts the rope 'round the boy's neck."
"You're right," cried three others, who themselves had left children in
their distant homes. "The boy's life must be saved."
The two men who held Ben in their grasp released him, and our young hero
found himself free. There was a great rush of joy to his heart as he saw
the shadow of death lifted from him, but he was not satisfied that his
life alone should be spared. He resolved to make an appeal in turn.
"Gentlemen," he said, "I am only a boy, but I want to speak a few words,
and those words shall be true."
Ben had been a good speaker at school, and he had unconsciously assumed
the attitude with which he commenced declaiming upon the school-rostrum.
"Hear the boy!" shouted several; and there was a general silence. It was
a new thing to be addressed by a boy, and there was a feeling of
curiosity as to what he would say.
"I want to say this," continued Ben--"that what Mr. Dewey has said is
strictly true. Not one of us is guilty of the crime that has been
charged upon us. The men who have testified against us are thieves, and
robbed us of these very horses, which we finally recovered from them.
May I tell you how it all happened?"
Partly from curiosity, the permission was given, and Ben, in plain,
simple language, told the story of how they had received Mosely and
Hadley hospitably, and awoke in the morning to find that they had stolen
their horses. He also described the manner in which later they tried to
rob Dewey when confined to his bed by sickness. His words were frank and
sincere, and bore the impress of truth. Evidently a sentiment was being
created favorable to the prisoners, and Bill Mosely saw it and
trembled.
"Let us go," he whispered to Hadley.
"If you wish to know whether I speak the truth," Ben concluded, "look in
the faces of those two men who have accused us."
The terror in the face of Bill Mosely was plainly to be seen. Suddenly
the minds of the fickle multitude veered round to the two accusers, and
shouts arose: "The boy's right! Hang the thieves!"
Then Bill Mosely did perhaps the most unwise thing possible. His courage
fairly broke down, and he started to run. Immediately a dozen men were
on his track. He was brought back, moaning and begging for mercy, but
the crowd was in no merciful mood. Victims they demanded, and when the
rope was brought the two wretched men were summarily suspended to the
branches of two neighboring trees.
They had fallen into the pit which they had prepared for others.
As for Ben, he became the hero of the hour. The miners raised him on
their shoulders and bore him aloft in triumph to the hotel from which he
had so recently been dragged to execution.
CHAPTER XVIII.
AFTER THE EXECUTION.
While Ben rejoiced and lifted silent thanks to God for his narrow escape
from a shameful death, he felt no satisfaction in the knowledge that the
men who had basely conspired against them had suffered the like terrible
fate. He averted his head in horror from the sight, and, innocent as he
was of fault, he felt depressed to think that his words had resulted in
bringing this punishment upon them.
I have said that he was the hero of the hour. Boys were scarce in
California, and the hearts of the miners warmed to him on account of his
youth and the memories it called up of their own children far away.
A self-appointed committee waited upon him and asked him to stay with
them.
"We'll all help you along," they said. "We will make your share equal
to that of the luckiest miner among us. You're true grit, and we respect
you for it. What do you say?"
"What shall I do, Jake?" he asked of Bradley.
"It's a fair offer, Ben. Perhaps you'd best stay. I'd stay too, only I
want to see Dick Dewey safe in 'Frisco. When he and his gal are j'ined
I'll come back and try my luck here."
"I will do the same, Jake. I want to go to San Francisco and see the
lady who was so kind to me. I sha'n't feel that I've done all my duty
till I have seen her and Mr. Dewey united. Then I shall be ready to come
back."
"Tell 'em so, Ben."
Ben gave this answer to those who had asked him to stay, thanking them
gratefully for their kind offer. His answer gave general satisfaction.
Ben could hardly realize that these very men had been impatient to hang
him only an hour before. He was thankful for this change in their
sentiments, though he did not pretend to understand it.
Bradley and Dewey, knowing the fickleness of a mining-community, were a
little apprehensive that their original suspicions might again be
aroused, and that some among them might be led to think they had make a
mistake, after all, and hung the wrong men. That would be serious, and
perhaps dangerous to them. They reflected that only Ben's speech had
turned the tide of sentiment, and the two thieves had been hung on the
unsupported word of a boy. Might not this occur to some of the company
in some of their cooler moments? They decided in a secret conference
that it would be best for them to get away early the next morning--that
is, as early as practicable--before any change had come over the minds
of their new friends.
Later, however, they were relieved from their momentary apprehension.
Two men who had been out hunting did not return to the camp till an hour
after the execution had taken place.
"What's happened? they asked.
"We've only been hangin' a couple of hoss-thieves," was answered coolly
by one of their comrades. "We came near hangin' the wrong men, but we
found out our mistake."
The two hunters went to view the bodies of the malefactors, who were
still suspended from the extemporized gallows.
"I know them men," said one with sudden recognition.
"What do you know about them? Did you ever meet them?"
"I reckon I did. They camped with me one night, and in the morning they
were missing, and all my gold-dust too."
"Then it's true what the boy said? they're thieves, and no mistake?"
"You've made no mistake this time. You've hung the right men."
This fresh testimony was at once communicated to the miners, and
received with satisfaction, as one or two had been a little in doubt as
to whether the two men were really guilty. No one heard it with more
pleasure than Dewey and Bradley, who felt now that they were completely
exonerated.
CHAPTER XIX.
BEN WINS LAURELS AS A SINGER.
Our party had no further complaint to make of ill-treatment. During the
remainder of the evening they were treated with distinguished
consideration, and every effort was made to make their sojourn pleasant.
As the miners gathered round a blazing log-fire built out of doors,
which the cool air of evening made welcome, it was proposed that those
who had any vocal gifts should exert them for the benefit of the
company.
Three or four of those present had good voices, and sang such songs as
they knew.
Finally, one of the miners turned to Bradley. "Can't you sing us
something, friend?" he asked.
"You don't know what you're asking," said Bradley. "My voice sounds like
a rusty saw. If you enjoy the howlin' of wolves, mayhap you might like
my singin'."
"I reckon you're excused," said the questioner.
"My friend Dick Dewey will favor you, perhaps. I never heard him sing,
but I reckon he might if he tried."
"Won't you sing?" was asked of Dewey.
Richard Dewey would have preferred to remain silent, but his life had
been spared, and the men around him, though rough in manner, seemed to
mean kindly. He conquered his reluctance, therefore, and sang a couple
of ballads in a clear, musical voice with good effect.
"Now it's the boy's turn," said one.
Ben, was in fact, a good singer. He had attended a country
singing-school for two terms, and he was gifted with a strong and
melodious voice. Bradley had expected that he would decline bashfully,
but Ben had a fair share of self-possession, and felt there was no good
reason to decline.
"I don't know many songs," he said, "but I am ready to do my share."
The first song which occurred to him was "Annie Laurie," and he sang it
through with taste and effect. As his sweet, boyish notes fell on the
ears of the crowd they listened as if spellbound, and at the end gave
him a round of applause.
I don't wish to represent that Ben was a remarkable singer. His
knowledge of music was only moderate, but his voice was unusually strong
and sweet, and his audience were not disposed to be critical.
He sang one song after another, until at last he declared that he was
tired and would sing but one more. "What shall it be?" he asked.
"'Sweet Home,'" suggested one; and the rest took it up in chorus.
That is a song that appeals to the heart at all times and in all places,
but it may well be understood that among the California mountains,
before an audience every man of whom was far from home, it would have a
peculiar and striking effect. The singer, too, as he sang, had his
thoughts carried back to the home three thousand miles away where lived
all who were near and dear to him, and the thought lent new tenderness
and pathos to his song.
Tears came to the eyes of more than one rough miner as he listened to
the sweet strains, and there were few in whom home-memories were not
excited.
There was a moment's hush, and then a great roar of applause. Ben had
made a popular success of which a prima donna might have been proud.
One enthusiastic listener wanted to take up a contribution for the
singer, but Ben steadily declined it. "I am glad if I have given any one
pleasure," he said, "but I can't take money for that."
"Ben," said Jake Bradley, when the crowd had dispersed, "you've made two
ten-strikes to-day. You've carried off all the honors, both as an orator
and a singer."
"You saved all our lives by that speech of yours, Ben," said Dewey. "We
will not soon forget that."
"It was your plea for me that give me the chance, Mr. Dewey," said Ben.
"I owe my life, first of all to you."
"That does not affect my obligation to you. If I am ever in a situation
to befriend you, you may count with all confidence upon Richard Dewey."
"Thank you, Mr. Dewey. I would sooner apply to you than any man I
know--except Bradley," he added, noticing that his faithful comrade
seemed disturbed by what he said.
Jake Bradley brightened up and regarded Ben with a look of affection. He
had come to feel deeply attached to the boy who had shared his dangers
and privations, and in all proved himself a loyal friend.
The next morning the three friends set out for San Francisco, carrying
with them the hearty good wishes of the whole mining-settlement.
"You have promised to come back?" said more than one.
"Yes," said Bradley; "we'll come back if we ain't prevented, and I
reckon we won't be unless we get hanged for hoss-stealin' somewhere on
the road."
This sally called forth a hearty laugh from the miners, who appreciated
the joke.
"It's all very well for you to laugh," said Bradley, shaking his head,
"but I don't want to come any nearer hangin' than I was last night."
"All's well that ends well," said one of the miners lightly.
Neither Ben nor Richard Dewey could speak or think so lightly of the
narrow escape they had had from a shameful death, and though they
smiled, as was expected by the crowd, it was a grave smile, with no
mirth in it.
"You'll come back too, boy?" was said to Ben.
"Yes, I expect to."
"You won't be sorry for it.--Boys, let us stake out two claims for the
boy and his friend, and when they come back we'll help them work them
for a while."
"Agreed! agreed!" said all.
So with hearty manifestations of good-will the three friends rode on
their way.
"It's strange," observed Dewey, thoughtfully, "how this wild and lonely
life effects the character. Some of these men who were so near hanging
us on the unsupported accusation of two men of whom they knew nothing
were good, law-abiding citizens at home. There they would not have
dreamed of such summary proceedings."
"That's where it comes in," said Bradley. "It ain't here as it is there.
There's no time here to wait for courts and trials."
"So you too are in favor of Judge Lynch?"
"Judge Lynch didn't make any mistake when he swung off them two rascals,
Hadley and Bill Mosely."
"We might have been in their places, Jake," said Ben.
"That would have been a pretty bad mistake," said Bradley, shrugging his
shoulders.
CHAPTER XX.
A LITTLE RETROSPECT.
It will be remembered that a merchant in Albany, Mr. John Campbell, was
the guardian of Miss Florence Douglas, whom our hero, Ben, had escorted
from New York to San Francisco.
The disappearance of his ward was exceedingly annoying, since it
interfered with plans which he had very much at heart. He had an only
son, Orton Campbell, now a young man of twenty-eight. He was young in
years only, being a stiff, grave, wooden-faced man, who in his starched
manners was a close copy of his father. Both father and son were
excessively fond of money, and the large amount of the fortune of the
young lady, who stood to the father in the relation of ward, had excited
the covetousness of both. It was almost immediately arranged between
father and son that she should marry the latter, either of her own free
will or upon compulsion.
In pursuance of this agreement, Mr. Orton Campbell took advantage of the
ward's residence in his father's family to press upon her attentions
which clearly indicated his ultimate object.
Florence Douglas felt at first rather constrained to receive her
guardian's son with politeness, and this, being misinterpreted, led to
an avowal of love.
Orton Campbell made his proposal in a confident, matter-of-fact manner,
as if it were merely a matter of form, and the answer must necessarily
be favorable.
The young lady drew back in dignified surprise, hastily withdrawing the
hand which he had seized. "I cannot understand, Mr. Campbell," she said,
"what can have induced you to address me in this manner."
"I don't know why you should be surprised, Miss Douglas," returned Orton
Campbell, offended.
"I have never given you any reason to suppose that I regarded you with
favor."
"You have always seemed glad to see me, but perhaps that was only
coquetry," said Orton, in a disagreeable manner.
"I certainly have never treated you with more than ordinary politeness,
except, indeed, as my residence in your father's house has necessarily
brought us nearer together."
"I don't think, Miss Douglas, you would find me a bad match," said the
young man, condescending to drop his sneering tone and plead his cause.
"I am already worth a good sum of money. I am my father's partner, and I
shall become richer every year."
"It is not a matter of money with me, Mr. Campbell. When I marry, that
will be a minor consideration."
"Of course, because you have a fortune of your own."
"Yes," said Florence, regarding him significantly, for she suspected
that it was rather her fortune than herself that he desired, being no
stranger to his love of money.
Perhaps he understood her, for he continued: "Of course I don't care
for that, you know. I should offer myself to you if you had nothing."
This Florence Douglas thoroughly disbelieved. She answered coldly, "I
thank you for the compliment you pay me, but I beg you to drop the
subject."
"I will wait."
"You will wait in vain. I will look upon you as a friend if you desire
it, but there can be nothing more than friendship between us."
Orton Campbell was very much chagrined, and reported the result of his
suit to his father.
"I will speak to her myself," said the father. "As her guardian I ought
to have some influence with her."
He soon ascertained, however, that Florence Douglas had a will of her
own.
After a time he dropped persuasion and had recourse to threats. "Miss
Douglas," he said, "I shall have to remind you that I am your guardian."
"I am quite aware of that fact, sir."
"And I shall remain in that position till you have completed your
twenty-fifth year."
"That is quite true, sir."
"If you take any imprudent steps I shall think it necessary to
interfere."
"What do you mean, sir?"
"I shall not allow you to fall a prey to any designing fortune-hunter."
"You need not fear, sir: I am in no danger."
"I am of a different opinion. I am quite aware that Richard Dewey has
been seeking to ingratiate himself with you."
"Then," said his ward with dignity, "I have no hesitation in informing
you that he has succeeded."
"Ha! I thought so. That is why you rejected my son."
"Excuse me, sir: you are quite mistaken. I should refuse your son if
there were no other man in the world likely to marry me."
"And what is the matter with my son, Miss Douglas?" demanded her
guardian, stiffly.
Florence might have answered that he was too much like his father, but
she did not care to anger her guardian unnecessarily, and she simply
answered, "It would be quite impossible for me to regard him as I wish
to regard the man whom I hope to marry."
"But you could regard Richard Dewey in that way," sneered Campbell.
"Well, Miss Douglas, I may as well tell you that he asked my permission
yesterday to address you, and I ordered him out of my presence.
Moreover, I have charged the servants not to admit him into the house."
"So you have insulted him, Mr. Campbell?" said his ward, her eyes
flashing with resentment.
"It was the treatment which he deserved as an unscrupulous
fortune-hunter."
"That word will better apply to your son," said the young lady, coldly.
"I shall not remain here to have Mr. Dewey insulted."
"You will repent this, Miss Douglas," said her guardian, with an ugly
frown. "Mark my words: I will keep you and Dewey apart. I have the
power, and I will exert it."
Two weeks later Richard Dewey sailed for California in search of
fortune, and five months later Miss Douglas, fearing that her guardian
might imprison her in a mad-house, escaped from his residence, and,
aided by Ben, also managed to reach California. For a time Mr. Campbell
was entirely ignorant of her place of refuge. The next chapter will show
how he discovered it.
CHAPTER XXI.
MR. CAMPBELL RECEIVES TIDINGS OF HIS WARD.
"It is strange we can't find Florence," said Orton Campbell to his
father one morning some months after the young lady's departure. "Is
there no clue?"
"The detective I have employed has failed to trace her."
"Has he no theory?"
"He suggests that she may have gone to Europe," said Mr. Campbell, "but
I am not of that opinion."
"What do you think, then?"
"I suspect she has buried herself in some obscure country place under
some assumed name, there to remain till she has attained her
twenty-fifth year, when my guardianship ceases."
"When will that be?"
"Six months hence."
"It is very important, then, that we should find her before that time,"
said Orton Campbell, thoughtfully.
"That is true. After the time referred to my power ceases, and I shall
be unable to assist you in your plans."
"Her fortune amounts to one hundred and fifty thousand dollars, does it
not?"
"More than that. The interest has been accumulating till it amounts to
nearer one hundred and seventy thousand dollars."
Orton Campbell's eyes sparkled with covetous greed.
"That is a stake worth playing for," he said. "With what I have of my
own, it would make me independently rich."
"Just so, Orton," said his father.
"And nothing stands in the way but the caprice of a foolish girl! I
declare, father, it is too exasperating. Suppose we try another
detective? Your man can't be very sharp."
"I have no objection, Orton," said the merchant, "but as he would be
employed in your interest, it is only fair that you should pay the
expense incurred."
"I don't see that," said the son. "She is your ward, you know. It ought
to come out of her property."
"The item may not be allowed. In that case I should be responsible,"
said John Campbell, cautiously.
"I'll tell you what I will do, father: if she is found and I marry her,
I'll freely pay the whole expense."
"Suppose we find her, and she won't marry you: what then?" asked his
father, keenly.
The son looked nonplussed, but finally consented in that case to defray
the expense out of his private means--that is, if it could not be taken
out of the young lady's fortune.
The matter having been satisfactorily adjusted, they were discussing the
choice of a detective when a clerk came to the door of the private
counting-room in which father and son were seated and said, "There's a
man outside wants to speak to you, Mr. Campbell."
"Who is he, Saunders?"
"I think it's Jones, who used to be in your employ as light porter."
"How does he look? Well-to-do?"
"He is decidedly shabby," answered Saunders.
"Come to ask help, probably," muttered the merchant. "I think I won't
see him."
Saunders left the office, but presently returned.
"Well, has he gone?" asked the merchant.
"No; he says he wants to see you on business of importance."
"Of importance to himself, probably.--Shall I see him, Orton?"
"Yes, father. If he is humbugging us, we can send him off."
So permission was given, and almost immediately Saunders ushered into
the room a short, broad-shouldered fellow, who looked very much like a
professional tramp.
"Good-morning, Mr. Campbell," said he, deferentially.
"Humph, Jones, is it you? You don't look as if you had prospered."
"No more I have, sir."
"Don't come near me. Really, your appearance is very disreputable."
"I can't help that, sir. I've just come from California in the steerage,
and you can't keep very neat there."
"I believe you went to California to make your fortune, didn't you,
Jones?" said Orton Campbell, with a cynical smile.
"Yes, Mr. Orton, I did."
"And you didn't make it, I infer from your appearance."
"I haven't got much money about me now," said Jones, with a shrug and a
smile.
"You would have done better not to have left my employment, Jones," said
the merchant. "You wanted higher pay, I believe, and as I wouldn't give
it, you decided that you could better yourself at the mines."
"That is about so, sir."
"Well, and what luck did you have?"
"Good luck at first, sir. I made a thousand dollars at the mines in a
few months."
"Indeed!" said Orton, in surprise.
"I came with it to San Francisco, and gambled it away in one night. Then
I was on my beam-ends, as the sailors say."
"Did you go back?"
"No. I went to work in the city, and managed to get enough money to buy
a steerage passage, and here I am."
"I suppose you have come to ask me to take you back into my employ?
That, I take it, is your business with me."
"No, sir--not exactly."
"Then, what is it?" asked the merchant, looking a little puzzled. It
crossed his mind that Jones might so far have forgotten his rule never
to give away money for any purpose as to suppose there was a chance to
effect a loan.
"I thought you and Mr. Orton might be willing to pay my expenses back to
San Francisco," said Jones, coolly.
"Are you out of your head, Jones?" demanded Orton Campbell, amazed at
the man's effrontery.
"Not at all."
"If this is meant as a joke, Jones," said the merchant in a dignified
tone, "it is a very poor--and, I may add, a very impudent--one. What
possible claim have you on us, that you should expect such a favor?"
"Have you heard anything of your ward, Mr. Campbell?" asked Jones, not
in the least abashed.
"No. What has my ward to do with your concerns?"
"I have seen her," answered Jones, briefly.
"Where?" asked John Campbell and his son simultaneously.
"That information belongs to me," said Jones, quietly. "A detective
doesn't work without pay."
The two Campbells now began to see the point. This man had information
to sell, and would not give it up without what he considered suitable
compensation. They determined to drive the best possible bargain with
him. He was poor, and probably could be bought over for a small sum.
"Your information is worth something, Jones," said the merchant,
guardedly. "I will go so far as to give you twenty-five dollars cash for
it."
"That won't do," said Jones, shaking his head.
"Your information may be worth nothing," said Orton. "You may have seen
her, but that doesn't show where she is now."
"I know where she is now," said Jones.
"Is she in California?"
"I don't mind telling you as much as that, Mr. Orton."
"Then we can find her without your assistance."
"I don't think you can. At any rate, it will take time, especially as,
if you don't make a bargain with me, I shall write her that you are on
her track."
Father and son looked at each other.
It was evident that Jones was no fool, and they would be obliged to
submit to his terms or give up the search, which was not to be thought
of.
"What do you propose, Jones?" asked Mr. Campbell, a little less
haughtily.
