due of human conflict. 
He sought her in the evening, through the steady 
downfall of the storm. She had never invited him 
to make use of that other door, which connected 
her parlor with the body of the house. It was so 
wet that he ventured to go before the office hours 
were over, thinking that no one would be there. 
 
He found himself mistaken. A patient was in 
conference with her, and he waited awkwardly in 
the office till the woman had gone. 
This little misstep seemed, when they were left 
alone together, to give him an unnecessary disad 
vantage before her. He stood, embarrassed and 
savage, midway between the office and the lighted 
parlor. " I thought there was nobody here," he 
said confusedly. 
" And there is n t," she answered, smiling up 
at him as if nothing had happened. Her sweet 
womanly graciousness, which set him at ease again, 
seemed subtly to put her out of it, and to give him 
a vague sense of having gained a mastery of the 
moment, which he did not see his way to use. 
He did not try to use it, and followed her into 
the parlor, cursing his inadequacy. 
" Won't you take the lounge ? " she asked, 
wheeling it lightly towards him. 
"No. I must learn to sit up, if I am going 
Monday." 
" Monday ? " She could not, or did not control 
a slight movement of surprise. He tried in vain 
to interpret it as one of regret. 
" If I can. The sooner the better. You agree 
with me, I am sure." 
" As a person, yes. As a physician, no. It 
 
would be safer for you to wait till the next boat. 
You are hardly ready for the journey. You are 
living on nerve." 
" And shall till I get away from you," said 
Yorke bluntly. 
" Perhaps so," returned the doctor, sighing; " I 
am of course a little at sea in such a case as this. 
I wish to facilitate your departure as much and as 
fast as I can." She stiffened into her professional 
manner. He felt as if he had struck a glacier in a 
clover-field. 
" I want to talk this out before I go," proceeded 
Yorke doggedly. 
" It only wastes nerve-fibre," said the doctor in 
an undertone. 
" The physiological basis is not the only one on 
which life is to be taken, Doctor Zay. I have 
told you before, that I am a man as well as a 
patient. Try to remember it, if you can." 
" What is the use in remembering it ? " she said 
unexpectedly. He held his breath for a moment, 
scrutinizing her averted face. 
" Do you mind," he asked suddenly, " my ask 
ing whether I am so far too late in the declaration 
of my feeling for you, that some other man would 
have a right, or think he had, to " 
. " I am not going to marry Dr. Penhallow, if that 
is what you mean," she interrupted calmly. 
 
" Thank you," said Yorke, after what seemed to 
her a long silence. He could not keep the rebel 
lious hope out of his pale face. It dashed at her 
like a sunlit shower. 
She looked up, saw it, and shook her head at it, 
as if it had been a word or outcry. 
"It is not impossible, then," persisted he, 
" that you might some time begin to love me " 
" It is like the miracles," replied the doctor. 
" It is not logic to assume their impossibility. 
Their improbability is so great that it amounts 
to about the same thing. Put aside the thought 
of my loving you, Mr. Yorke, in justice and in 
mercy to yourself. I cannot demonstrate to you 
the futility of your hope. I can only state it. The 
sooner you accept it, the better for us both. Let 
us consider this a case of aphonia and aphasia, and 
be done with it." 
" Explain yourself to the ignorant, my learned 
physician." 
" Aphonia is inability to speak " 
" Oh yes ; my Greek might have stood me for 
that. And aphasia is " 
" Inability to say certain things. Or at least 
that will pass for a popular definition." 
" That is a scientific reply," said Yorke, 
regarding her keenly. " I am not sure that it is" He 
 
checked himself. She did not ask him to finish 
his sentence, but sat with downcast, troubled lids 
before him. 
" Suppose yon could love me," he urged, " in 
the course of time, after a good while ; suppose 
you did not thwart or deny the feeling of 
kindliness which I hope I may say you have for me ; 
suppose you reconsidered the reasonableness of the 
miracle." 
" It would make no difference ; none at all ! " 
She lifted her head, and her eyes, like sleepless 
sentinels, forced him off. All his manhood roused 
itself to defy them. He felt himself swept along 
by a power as mysterious to him as if he only out 
of the world had ever come into helpless and beau 
tiful contact with it. All his lot, like a Pagan 
fate, moved on in its destined way to its appointed 
end. He experienced the terrible acceleration of a 
passion, and found that neither nature nor obser 
vation had given him any more prevision of the 
force of the torrent than they had power where 
with to stay it. 
" I love you," he repeated, "I love you ! " 
as if the fact itself must be an appeal inexorable 
to her as the laws of light, or gravitation, or any 
natural code which she could not infringe without 
penalty. 
 
She made a slight gesture, which seemed one 
of entreaty rather than of impatience, rose, and 
walked over to the window, which she flung open. 
A dash of rain swept through. She stood in the 
gust for a moment. The light from the globed 
lamps struggled out against the darkness, and 
Yorke could see a wet honeysuckle staring in ; the 
yellow flower dripped and nodded at him. 
He got up and followed her, half unconsciously. 
" You would not want to give up your profes 
sion," he began. " You should not give it up ! I 
would not ask it " 
A slow, slight smile curled the delicate corners 
of her lips. 
" You will take cold," she said. She shut the 
window, and, turning, faced him. Her hair was 
wet with the rain, and glittered. 
" Have you nothing for me ? " he cried. 
" Nothing that you would care for. Men do 
not value a woman 's friendship. They do not 
understand it. They do not know what to do 
with it." 
" No ! I will not have your friendship ! " He 
turned his back to her, and stood, trembling. 
" It would be perfectly useless to you, if you 
would," said Doctor Zay, a little drearily. " You 
are not well enough to try difficult experiments. 
14 
 
Make up your mind to let them all alone, and 
me, too." 
" I will never let you alone ! " said the lover, 
under his breath. 
" Oh yes, you will," said the woman of science 
quietly. " In a few months you will find it easier 
to let me alone than to shatter your nervous sys 
tem over me in this way. Nothing could be 
worse," she added, " for those spinal symptoms." 
" I believe they are right," answered Yorke, 
with dull bitterness ; his imagination at that 
moment was denuded of hope. " A woman cannot 
follow a career without ruin to all that is noblest 
and sweetest and truest in her nature. Your heart 
is as hard as your lancet. Your instinct has be 
come as cruel. If I had a fair chance, it should 
not be so. I would compel you to feel my pres 
ence, to recognize my claim. You should be 
wounded by a bullet that you could not find, 
that slipped, and defied your probe, and rankled 
till you respected it." 
He had made his way back, weakly, as he spoke, 
to the sofa, upon which he sank, pale and pant 
ing. 
" The sick are at such horrible odds ! " he cried. 
" It must be bad enough for a woman, but for a 
man " 
 
He stopped, startled. She had floated to him 
with an impetuous motion. He saw her out 
stretched hands ; she leaned above him ; her 
resolute features broke. 
" Stop ! " she said. " Please stop ! " 
"What should I stop for?" He held up his 
arms. She retreated like a dream, and stood 
towering above him, like a statue. The agitation of 
her face contrasted singularly with the massive- 
ness of her attitude. He was sure that he saw 
tears before she dashed them away as if they had 
been ignoble impulses. 
" Mr. Yorke," she said, in a tone of infinite gen 
tleness, " the time will come when you will bless 
me for what I am doing now, for my heart- 
lessness, my cruelty, my unwomanliness. They 
are three words easy to remember. I shall not 
forget them at once. You will retract them 
some time. You will tell me that perhaps I de 
served a milder phrase. But never mind that ! 
It is not a question of what I deserve. It is a 
question of what you require. Beyond doubt, that 
is absolute separation from all this pathological 
sentiment, and the exciting cause of it. I insist 
upon this separation. I will not receive any move 
expressions of your supposed feeling for myself. 
Go home to your mother and your own people, 
 
to the kind of women you are used to, and under 
stand. As you grow physically stronger, you will 
rebound to your own environment as naturally as 
you will walk without crutches. I have been noth 
ing but a crutch to you, Mr. Yorke ! " 
He raised himself upon the pillows, leaning his 
head upon his hand and shading his eyes, watch 
ing her intently ; he did not interrupt her. She 
went on, in a low, controlled voice : 
" Take it away, and go alone, and you will learn 
what you would never learn as long as you de 
pended on it. I think you will always remember 
me gratefully and affectionately. I hope you will. 
Nothing is more valuable in life to a physician 
than the fidelity of a patient ; it is surprising how 
little there is of it, after all. They go their ways 
when they need us no longer, and drop us out of 
their thoughts. After all, it is a solemn tie to 
fight with death together, as you and I have done. 
We will not break it flippantly. Believe me, that 
I shall remember you. And some time, when 
you have righted all this little delusion about me, 
somewhere, perhaps, we may meet on fairer 
ground, when our views of one another would not, 
could not, be subject to this law of refraction 
which acts upon them now. You do not love me. 
You have needed me. I have been useful to you ; 
 
I have occupied your thoughts. You may miss 
me. But that is not love. Go home, and find it 
out. Get well, and find it out." 
While Doctor Zay was speaking, an increasing 
calmness had settled upon Yorke 's face. It seemed 
to her that she could see the tide, for whose ebb 
she had watched, turning in his soul. She felt 
that it was her duty to welcome it, as it had been 
her fate to foresee it. He still sat with his hand 
above his eyes, which he had not once removed 
from her. He roused himself, and confusedly 
said, 
" You may be right, for aught I know. I will 
go, as you bid me ; and thank you, as you sug 
gest, whenever I can. I am able even now to ap 
preciate your position. You are the only woman 
I ever saw who was able to save a man from him 
self ! " 
He took her hand with more self-control than 
he had shown for many days ; and they parted, 
heavily and silently. 
He went by the Monday 's boat. Mr. Butter- 
well drove him to Jonesboro on Sunday. Doctor 
Zay had been out all night, and most of the day. 
She was lying on the parlor sofa when he went to 
say good-by. She had flung herself down, 
exhausted, craving five minutes rest. She had on 
 
that white linen dress, and the vari-colored afghan 
over her feet. It was a sultry August day, but 
her hand was cold ; he had often noticed that it 
was so after she had been up all night. She rose 
when she saw him, and asked if he found the 
package of medicine, with the directions, and if 
he understood them all. He thanked her, and 
said they were quite clear. Her face had its 
stolid look. He searched in vain for its beautiful 
sensitiveness. 
" I shall write to you," he said, hesitating, " if 
I may." 
" Oh yes. Do, by all means. I shall wish, to 
hear all about the journey, and its effect on you. 
Tell your mother if I had had two weeks more I 
would have sent you back in better condition." 
" Or worse," he said, impetuously. She put her 
finger on her lips, and smiled. They shook hands. 
He pulled his hat over his eyes, and got away. 
He looked back through the little oval buggy 
window, as Mr. Butterwell drove him off. Mrs. 
Butterwell was wiping the tears off her black silk 
dress. Handy, by the wood-pile, very large as to 
his hat and bare as to his feet, eloquently confided 
his emotions to the sawdust heap. 
The phaeton and the gray pony stood at the 
doctor 's gate. She did not come out. The big 
 
sorrel turned the post-office corner, and Mr. But- 
terwell observed that there was a fine lobster 
factory on the road. They canned em. Which had 
the worst of it, the consumer or the lobster, Mr. 
Butterwell would not undertake to say. 
Half a mile down the Jonesboro road, Mr. But 
terwell reined up. 
" There ain't but one horse in these parts that 
can overtake the sorrel," he said, leisurely. " I 
hear the pony after us." 
Yorke looked back through the little buggy win 
dow. The gray mare, with a stiff head and clean 
step, was close behind them. Before he could turn 
his head, the doctor 's phaeton overtook the buggy. 
"Mr. Yorke has forgotten his brandy-flask," 
she called, cheerily. * Mrs. Butterwell found it 
out in the nick of time. You might have missed 
it on the boat." She stretched her hand over 
the wheel with the wicker traveling-flask, which 
Yorke took stupidly. He forgot to thank her. 
Their eyes met for a moment. She flung him a 
bright, light smile, turned dexterously in the nar 
row road, and whirled away. He leaned out of the 
buggy to look after her. All he saw distinctly 
was the Scotch plaid shawl folded on the empty 
seat beside her. 
XII. 
IT was an ill-tempered December day, gray 
from Passamaquoddy to Point Judith ; grimmer in 
the State of Maine than in any other privileged 
portion of the proud New England coast. 
" We allers do hev everything wuss than other 
folks," said a passenger in the Bangor mail-coach. 
" Freeze and Prohibition, mud and Fusion. We 've 
got one of the constitooshuns that take things. 
Like my boy. He 's had the measles n the 
chicken-porx and the mumps and the nettle-rash, 
and fell in love with his school-marm  got 
religion and lost the prize for elocootin all in one 
darned year." 
A passenger from Boston laughed at this. He 
had not laughed before since they left Bangor, at 
seven o clock in the morning, with the thermometer 
eight below, and the storm-signals flying from Kit- 
tery to Kitty Hawk. Of all places where it might 
be supposed that a man with a free will and fore 
knowledge absolute of his especial fate would not 
be on a December day, the Bangor and Sherman 
mail-stage was the most notable. The mud of for- 
 
gotten seasons and un mentioned regions, splashed, 
tormented, and congealed, adorned the rotund yel 
low body and black, loose-jointed top of the vehi 
cle. The high windows were opaque with the 
thick brown spatter. The laborious wheels, en 
crusted with frozen clay, had given place to gaunt 
runners, that "brought up" on the abundant in 
equalities of the road with a kind of moral ferocity, 
like unpleasant second thoughts or good resolutions 
after moral lapses. The driver swore at his horses, 
and insulted the passengers by looking perfectly 
comfortable in a new buffalo coat. Inside the 
stage, lunatic gloom and the chill of the Glacial 
Period descended upon the unfortunate travelers. 
The straw was cold and thin. The blankets- were 
icy and emaciated. The leather seats seemed to 
have absorbed and preserved the storms of winters, 
the rheumatism of the past, the sciatica of the fut 
ure. The Boston passenger, though protected by 
his individual traveling blanket and highly-becom 
ing seal-bound coat, expressed an opinion that he 
was freezing to the cushions, which the jocose pas 
senger honored by a stare and the comforting ob 
servation, 
" Why, we expect to." 
This pleasant person got out, about four o clock, 
at what he called his " store," a centre of trade 
 
at some uncertain remove from the metropolis of 
East Sherman, and the traveler from Boston 
had the impressive experience of finding himself . 
alone in the stage during its passage through that 
segment of the Black Forest which the Bangor and 
Sherman route embraced. 
He looked through the muddy windows upon 
the ghastly scenery with a sense of repulsion so 
active that it fairly kept him warm. The forest, 
through which the Machias stage-route ran nine 
awful miles unmet by a human habitation, turned 
its December expression upon him like a Medusa, 
before which the bravest pulse must petrify. Twi 
light and the storm were coming on. The runners 
made a fine, grating sound, like a badly-tuned 
stringed instrument, in the solidly-packed snow. 
Darkness already had its lair in the woods. Ice 
encrusted the trunks of the trees and the fallen 
logs. The stripped and tossing boughs moaned in 
the rising wind with an incredibly human cry. 
The leathery leaves that clung to the low oaks 
rustled as the stage crept by, as if they had been 
watching for it. It was too late to hear in the 
distant gloom the thud of the wood-chopper 's axe. 
One leisurely and lonely rabbit, white against the 
whiteness, crossed the way and disappeared in 
the thicket. All the shadows on the snowy road 
 
were blue. The light that struggled from the sky 
was gray. The drifts were freshly blown over 
and deep, and the horses plunged and struggled in 
them, and panted up the little hills. In the for 
est the snow lay on a level of five feet. The 
silence was profound; the desolation pathetic; the 
cold deadly. It was like the corpse of a world. 
The vivid face of the young man in the fur-trimmed 
coat disappeared, at the end of the first 
mile, from the mud-bespattered stage window. 
He rolled himself up to the throat in his travel 
ing-rug, pulled his hat over his eyes, and let the 
Black Forest severely alone. His whole soul sank 
before it. He thought of the lives barred in be 
hind it, bound to their frozen places like its icicles. 
He thought of the delicate nerve, the expectant 
possibility, the bourgeoning nature 
" Poor girl ! " he said aloud. " Poor girl ! " 
It seemed that he felt the necessity of com 
manding himself, or of defending himself from his 
own thoughts ; for after a few moments surrender 
to them he fumbled in his pockets for letters, and, 
selecting one, perused it with a studionsness devoid 
of curiosity, which implied that this was not the 
first or second reading. This done, he put the let 
ter out of sight, and, leaning forward with folded 
arms upon the slippery ledge of the stage window- 
 
sill, stared out once more at the icy forest, with 
the look of a man \vho stood readier to fight his 
Gorgons than to flee them. 
Ihis was the letter : 
SHERMAN, December 10th. 
MY DEAR ME. YOKKE, I suppose you 've for 
gotten us, but it don't follow. We talk a good 
deal about you, and should feel honored if yon 
would visit us. I should be pleased to see you 
some time in holidays, for it 's as much as your 
soul 's worth to stand holidays in Sherman. If the 
Lord had had to be born in Maine at this time of 
year But there ! Isaiah says I'm growing pro 
fane as I grow old, and I don't know as he 's far 
out. The Baptists are getting up a tree to head 
off ^purs. They are depending on a new recipe 
for a gingerbread donkey, and turkey-red candy- 
bags. Our committee have sent to Bangor for 
cheap bon-bons, to spite em. I 've bought some 
greens of a peddler, and Doctor asked me to find 
something suitable for her to give the cook. (I 've 
had three since you were here.) The peddler was 
drunk, and the cook is going to leave next week. 
This is the extent of our Christmas news. Doctor 
is very busy, and Isaiah isn't very well. He 's got 
sciatica. He talks a good deal about your uncle, 
 
and the estate, and you. The big sorrel is dead. 
This has been a great affliction to him. It would 
be a great pleasure to him to tell you about it. 
It is the only thing that has happened in Sherman 
since you left. I hope you are in improved health, 
and that I have not made too bold in writing you 
this letter. I never wrote to a gentleman before, 
unless he began the correspondence. I haven't  
mentioned it to Isaiah, nor to any of the folks. 
Wishing to be respectfully remembered to your 
mother, I am truly yours, 
SAEAH J. BUTTER WELL. 
P. S. Doctor has had the diphtheria. She 
caught it of Molly Paisley. She was sick enough 
for a week, and got out long before she was able. 
I look to see her down with something any day. 
It 's been an awfully sickly winter, and they vo 
worked her enough to kill five men and ten min 
isters. Dr. Penhallow 's been here, and he talked 
with me about it. He said she was carrying it 
too far. He was very anxious about her. But 
nobody can manage Doctor, any more than you 
can a blocking snow-storm. If Providence him 
self undertook to manage her, he 'd have his hands 
full. 
S. J. B. 
 
The stage had wrestled through its last import 
ant struggle, known to the passengers as the "long 
drift," more familiar to the profane driver as the 
" 'd d long drift," and the Black Forest lay at 
length behind the traveler. He let down the 
window to take a look at it, as they turned the famil 
iar corner at the cross-roads, made immortal by an 
apple-blossom. They were close upon the still un 
seen village, now, and the night came down fast. 
The forest rose, a tower of blackness, like a 
perplexity from which one had escaped. He could 
just see the narrow road, winding gray and snow- 
blown through ; it pierced the gloom for a space, 
and vanished with mysterious suddenness. There 
was one low streak of coppery yellow in the sky, 
upon which the storm was massing heavily in 
stratified clouds. The protest of tlie wind in the 
woocls was like the protest of the sea. A few 
steely flakes had already begun to fall ; they cut 
the faint light with meagre outlines, as if tho 
very snow were starved in this famishing place. 
They struck Yorke in the face ; he shivered, and 
put up the window impatiently. As he did so, he 
heard the sudden sound of sleigh-bells, and per 
ceived that some one was passing the stage, 
almost within his hand 's reach. The sleigh was a 
low cutter, overflowing with yellow fox-skins and 
 
bright woolen robes. The horse was a gray pony, 
closely blanketed. The driver was a lady, 
solitary and young. She wore a cap and coat of seal, 
trimmed with leopard 's fur. She had a fine, high 
color. Her strong profile was cut for an instant 
against that last dash of yellow in the sky, before 
she swept by and vanished in the now implacable 
twilight. She had nodded to the driver with a 
smile, as she passed him, one of those warm, 
brilliant, fatally generous smiles that an abundant 
feminine creature bestows anywhere, and takes no 
thought where they may strike, or how. The 
driver touched his cap with his whip. His pet 
oath stuck half-way in his throat, and gurgled 
away into " Evenin , Doctor ! " as he yielded the 
narrow road to the pony, and struggled on with 
unprecedented meekness into the silent, frozen 
village street. 
It occurred to Waldo Yorke, leaning back there 
in the stage, with his hand over his eyes, after she 
had swept by, that it was impossible for him to 
chatter with those people before he should see her. 
It was unbearable now that there should be any 
body in the world but herself and him. It was in 
credible. What man could have believed that one 
look would undo so much, would do so much ? 
She seemed to have sprung on him, like a 
leopardess indeed. He panted for breath, and thrust his 
hand out, alone there in the dark stage, with a 
motion as if he could have thrust her off for life 's 
sake. 
The driver reined up at the post-office, and the 
passenger got out. He walked over to the Sher 
man Hotel and called for supper, and tried to calm 
himself by a smoke in the dingy office. But his 
cigar disgusted him, and he threw it away. He 
got out into the freezing air again as soon as pos 
sible, and walked up and down, for a while, in the 
middle of the road. The sidewalks were not 
broken out ; the drifts lay even with the fences ; 
there were no street-lamps, and between the scat 
tered houses long wastes of blackness crouched. 
There were no pedestrians. Occasionally a sleigh 
tinkled up to the post-office ; the drivers clapped 
their ears with blue-mittened hands, and crouched 
under old buffaloes worn to the skin. 
He passed the town hall, where a sickly hand 
bill set forth that the celebrated Adonita Duella, 
the only female child drummer in the world, would 
perform that night, and could be seen and heard 
for the sum of twenty-five cents. 
He passed the Baptist church, where the vestry 
was lighted for a prayer-meeting, and a trustful 
choir were pathetically rehearsing Hold the Fort, 
 
with what they were pleased to call a cabinet or 
gan and a soprano who cultivated a cold upon the 
lungs. The frost was as thick as plush npon the 
windows of the vestry. 
It was too early for either of these sources of 
social diversion to be open to the public. Yorko 
met no one, and walked as slowly as he could 
without congealing, stumbling through the dark, 
over the drifted road, till he came in sight of Mr. 
Batter well 's familiar square house. He came first 
upon the doctor 's wing. Lights were in the office, 
and in her parlor. The reception-room was dark. 
Encouraged by this to think that the office hour 
was either over it used to be over by seven 
o clock or else that no one was there, he pushed 
on, and softly made his way up the walk and to 
the piazza, where he paused. It was now snowing 
fast, and he stood in the whirl and wet, over 
whelmed by a hesitation that he dared neither 
disregard nor obey. His thoughts at that moment, 
with a whimsical irrelevance, reverted to the let 
ter he wrote when he first got back to Nahant, in 
which he had asked for her bill. She sent it, after 
a scarcely perceptible delay. He thought it rather 
small, but dared not say so. She had not written 
since. Now, after a few moments reflection, he 
softly turned the handle of the door, without
ringing. There was no furnace in the house, and the 
entry was cold. The door of the reception-room 
was shut. He opened this, also, without knock 
ing, and, closing it quietly behind him, stood for 
a minute with his back to the door. She was not 
there, or she did not hear him. There was a soap- 
stone stove in the reception-room, in which a huge 
fire burned sturdily. Plants were blossoming some 
where, and he perceived that there must be carna 
tions among them. The office door and the door 
into the parlor were both open ; a delicious, even 
warmth, summer-like and scented, pervaded all the 
rooms. He stepped on into the office, and stood 
still. The snow was sprinkled on his fur collar 
and black hair and beard. 
" Handy ? " she called from the parlor, in that 
rapid way he had noticed when he first knew her, 
and which he had come to associate with her anx 
ious or wearied moods. " Handy, is that you ? 
Come here." 
Yorke made no answer, but advanced a step or 
two, and so met her for, startled by silence, she 
had risen immediately on the threshold of the 
inner room. 
His heart leaped to see that she lost her color. 
She did, indeed. A flash, like fear, vibrated across 
her figure and upraised face, then fell, and she had 
 
herself instantly. She held up both hands to him 
and drew him graciously into the bright warmth 
fo the room, led him to the lamp before she spoke, 
took off the yellow globe, and let the white 
radiance full on his face. 
" You are well ! " she said, exultantly. " You 
are a well man ! " 
" As well as I ever was in my life, Doctor Zay. 
And stronger, by far. Do you see ? " 
He squared his fine shoulders, and smiled. 
" Yes, I see." 
Her firm eyes lifted, looked at him piercingly, 
then wandered, wavered. A beautiful mistiness 
overswept them; her will, like a drowning thing, 
seemed to struggle with it ; she regarded him 
through it fixedly ; then her dark lashes dropped. 
She turned away, not without embarrassment, and 
motioned him to a chair. 
He forgot to take it, but stood looking at her 
dizzily. She wore something brown, a dress of 
heavy cloth, and it was trimmed with leopard fur, 
like that he saw in the sleigh. She did not 
recover her composure. She was like a beautiful 
wild creature. Her splendid color and fire mocked 
him. Who was he that he should think to tame 
her ? Yet, should a man let go his hold on a 
moment like this ? By the beating of his own 
 
beai t, he knew that life itself might never yield 
him such another. He flung his whole soul into 
one swift venture. 
" Dear," he said, " I am too strong, now, to be 
denied. I have come back for you." 
" Oh, hush ! " she cried. She had a tone of 
fathomless entreaty. She turned from him pas 
sionately, and began to pace the room. 
He saw how she tried to regain her poise, and 
he saw with exultance how she failed. 
"No, no," he said, with a low laugh. "That 
is not what I have traveled three hundred miles 
for. Oh, how glad I am I surprised you, that 
I took you off your guard ! Don't mind it ! Why 
should you care ? Why should you battle so ? 
Why should you fight me? Tell me why." 
He followed her with an imperious step. She 
came to a halt, midway in the bright room. She 
lowered her head and craned her neck, looking 
from him to the door, as if she would take flight, 
like a caged thing. He stretched his hand before 
her. 
" Why do you fear me so ? " 
" I fear you because you love me." 
" No, that is not it," he said, firmly. " You 
fear me because you love me" 
He thought, for the moment, that he had lost 
 
her forever by this bold detour. She seemed to 
double and wheel, and elude him. She drew her 
self up in her old way. 
"It is impossible ! " she said, haughtily. 
" It is natural," he said, gently. 
" You do not understand how to talk to a 
woman ! " blazed Doctor Zay. " It is 
presumptuous. It is unpardonable. You torture her. You 
;.re rough. You have no right " 
He advanced a step nearer to her. 
" How beautiful you are ! " he said, deliriously. 
She turned from him, and walked to the other 
end of the room. He looked across the warm, 
bright width. A high fire was flashing in the 
open hearth. She stopped, and held out her 
hands before it ; he could see that they shook. 
She stood with her back to him. He could hear 
the storm beating on the windows, as if it were 
mad to enter this sacred, sheltered place, where 
fate had thrown them together, they two out 
of the wintry world, for that one hour, alone. 
He advanced towards her, with resolute rever 
ence, and spoke her name. She looked over her 
shoulder. He felt that she defied him, soul and 
body. 
" I have assumed a great deal, I know," lie 
said, in a tone from which the last cadence of self- 
 
