"I tell you I love him, as he loves me," she con 
tinued, her voice trembling upon the rising cadence, 
" with all my whole being. Tell him so. Tell him 
he must save me, and that only he can : that for his 
sake I am tortured, and scorned, and disgraced, and 
sold; my body thrown to dogs, and worse than dogs; 
my soul given over to devils that tempt me to kill 
and be free, by my own father, for his sake. Tell 
him that these hands he kissed are wasted with wringing small pains from each other, but the greater pain 
drives them to do worse. Tell him, good sir, you 
are kind and love him, but not as I do, tell him 
that this golden hair of mine has streaks of white in 
these terrible two months ; that these eyes he loved 
are worn with weeping. Tell him " 



 

But her voice failed her, and she staggered against 
the wall, hiding her face in her hands. A trembling 
breath, a struggle, a great wild sob: the long-sealed 
tears were free, and flowed fast over her hands. 

"Oh, no, no," she moaned, "you must not tell 
him that. " Then choking down her agony she turned 
to me : " You will not you cannot tell him of this ? 
I am weak, ill, but I will bear everything for for 
him." 

The great effort had exhausted her, and I think 
that if I had not caught her she would have fallen, 
and she would have hurt herself very much on the 
stone floor. But she is young, and I am not very 
strong, and could not have held her up. So I knelt, 
letting her weight come on my shoulder. 

The fair head rested pathetically against my old 
coat, and I tried to wipe away her tears with her 
long, golden hair; for I had not any handkerchief. 
But very soon I could not see to do it. I was crying 
myself, for the pity of it all, and my tears trickled 
down and fell on her thin hands. And so I kneeled, 
and she half lay and half sat upon the floor, with her 
head resting on my shoulder. I was glad then to be 
old, for I felt that I had a right to comfort her. 

Presently she looked up into my face, and saw that 
I was weeping. She did not speak, but found her 
little lace handkerchief, and pressed it to my eyes, 
first to one, and then to the other; and the action 
brought a faint maidenly flush to her cheeks through 
all her own sorrow. A daughter could not have done 
it more kindly. 

"My child," I said at last, "be sure that your 



 

secret is safe with me. But there is one coming 
with whom it will be safer." 

"You are so good," she said, and her head sank 
once more, and nestled against my breast, so that I 
could just see the bright tresses through my grey 
beard. But in a moment she looked up again, and 
made as though she would rise ; and then I helped 
her, and we both stood on our feet. 

Poor, beautiful, tormented Hedwig ! I can remember it, and call up the whole picture to my mind. 
She still leaned on my arm, and looked up to me, 
her loosened hair all falling back upon her shoulders ; 
and the wonderful lines of her delicate face made 
ethereal and angelic by her sufferings. 

"My dear," I said at last, smoothing her golden 
hair with my hand, as I thought her mother would 
do, if she had a mother, " my dear, your interview 
with my boy may be a short one, and you may not 
have an opportunity to meet at all for days. If it 
does not pain you too much, will you tell me just 
what your troubles are, here ? I can then tell him, 
so that you can save the time when }*ou are together." 
She gazed into my eyes for some seconds, as though 
to prove me, whether I were a true man. 

"I think you are right," she answered, taking 
courage. " I will tell you in two words. My father 
treats me as though I had committed some unpardon 
able crime, which I do not at all understand. He 
says my reputation is ruined. Surely, that is not 
true?" 

She asked the question so innocently and simply 
that I smiled. 



 

"No, my dear, it is not true," I replied. 

"I am sure I cannot understand it," she continued; 
" but he says so, and insists that my only course is 
to accept what he calls the advantageous offer which 
has suddenly presented itself. He insists very 
roughly." She shuddered slightly. "He gives me 
no peace. It appears that this creature wrote to ask 
my father for my hand, when we left Rome, two 
months ago. The letter was forwarded, and my 
father began at once to tell me that I must make up 
my mind to the marriage. At first I used to be very 
angry; but seeing we were alone, I finally determined to seem indifferent, and not to answer him 
when he talked about it. Then he thought my spirit 
was broken, and he sent for Baron Benoni, who 
arrived a fortnight ago. Do you know him, Sign or 
Grandi? You came to see him, so I suppose you do." 

The same look of hatred and loathing came to her 
face which I had noticed when Benoni and I had met 
her in the hall. 

"Yes, I know him. He is a traitor, a villain," I 
said earnestly. 

"Yes, and more than that. But he is a great 
banker in Russia " 

"A banker?" I asked, in some astonishment. 

"Did you not know it? Yes; he is very rich, and 
has a great firm, if that is the name for it. But he 
wanders incessantly, and his partners take care of his 
affairs. My father says that I shall marry him, or 
end my days here." 

" Unless you end his for him! " I cried indignantly. 

"Hush!" said she, and trembled violently. "He 
is my father, you know," she added earnestly. 



 

" But you cannot consent " I began. 

"Consent!" she interrupted, with a bitter laugh. 
"I will die, rather than consent." 

" I mean, you cannot consent to be shut up in this 
valley for ever." 

"If need be, I will," she said, in a low voice. 

"There is no need," I whispered. 

"You do not know my father. He is a man of 
iron," she answered sorrowfully. 

" You do not know my boy. He is a man of his 
word," I replied. 

We were both silent, for we both knew very well 
what our words meant. From such a situation there 
could be but one escape. 

"I think you ought to go now," she said at last. 
" If I were missed it would all be over. But I am 
sorry to let you go, you are so kind. How can you 
let me know" She stopped, with a blush, and 
stooped to raise the lamp from the floor. 

"Can you not meet here to-morrow night, when 
they are asleep?" I suggested, knowing what her 
question would have been. 

" I will send the same man to you to-morrow evening, and let you know what is possible," she said. 
" And now I will show you the way out of my house," 
she added, with the first faint shadow of a smile. 
Taking the lamp in her hand, she went out of the 
little rock chamber, listened a moment, and began to 
descend the steps. 

"But the key?" I asked, following her light foot* 
steps with my heavier tread. 

"It is in the door," she answered, and went on. 



 

When we reached the bottom, we found it as she 
had said. The servant had left the key on the in 
side, and with some difficulty I turned the bolts. 
We stood for one moment in the narrow space, where 
the lowest step was set close against the door. Her 
eyes flashed strangely in the lamplight. 

" How easy it would be ! " I said, understanding 
her glance. She nodded, and pushed me gently out 
into the street; and I closed the door, and leaned 
against it as she locked it. 

"Good-night," she said from the other side, and I 
put my mouth to the keyhole. 

" Good-night. Courage ! " I answered. I could 
hear her lightly mounting the stone steps. It seemed 
wonderful to me that she should not be afraid to go 
back alone. But love makes people brave. 

The moon had risen higher during the time I had 
been within, and I strolled round the base of the 
rock, lighting a cigar as I went. The terrible adventure I had dreaded was now over, and I felt my 
self again. In truth, it was a curious thing to happen 
to a man of my years and my habits ; but the things 
I had heard had so much absorbed my attention that, 
while the interview lasted, I had forgotten the strange 
manner of the meeting. I was horrified at the extent 
of the girl's misery, more felt than understood from 
her brief description and passionate outbreaks. There 
is no mistaking the strength of a suffering that wastes 
and consumes the mortal part of us as wax melts at 
the fire. 

And Benoni the villain ! He had written to ask 
Hedwig in marriage before he came to see me in 



 

Rome. There was something fiendish in his almost 
inviting me to see his triumph, and I cursed him as 
I kicked the loose stones in the road with my heavy 
shoes. So he was a banker, as well as a musician 
and a wanderer. Who would have thought it? 

"One thing is clear," I said to myself, as I went 
to bed : " unless something is done immediately, that 
poor girl will consume herself and die." And all 
that night her poor thin face and staring eyes were 
in my dreams ; so that I woke up several times, thinking I was trying to comfort her and could not. But 
toward dawn I felt sure that Nino was coming, and 
that all would be well. 

I was chatting with my old landlady the next 
morning, and smoking to pass the time, when there 
was suddenly a commotion in the street. That is to 
say, some one was arriving, and all the little children turned out in a body to run after the stranger, 
while the old women came to their doors with their 
knitting, and squinted under the bright sunlight to 
see what was the matter. 

It was Nino, of course my own boy, riding on a 
stout mule, with a countryman by his side upon 
another. He was dressed in plain grey clothes, and 
wore high boots. His great felt hat drooped half 
across his face, and hid his eyes from me ; but there 
was no mistaking the stern, square jaw and the close, 
even lips. I ran toward him, and called him by 
name. In a moment he was off his beast, and we 
embraced tenderly. 

"Have you seen her?" 

Those were the first words he spoke. I nodded. 



 

and hurried him into the house Avhere I lived, fearful lest some mischance should bring the party from 
the castle riding by. He sent his man with the 
mules to the inn, and when we were at last alone 
together he threw himself into a chair, and took off 
his hat. 

Nino too was changed in the two months that had 
passed. He had traveled far, had sung lustily, and 
had been applauded to the skies ; and he had seen 
the great world. But there was more than all that 
in his face. There were lines of care and of thought 
that well became his masculine features. There was 
a something in his look that told of a set purpose, 
and there was a light in his dark eyes that spoke a 
world of warning to any one who might dare to 
thwart him. But he seemed thinner, and his cheeks 
were as white as the paper I write on. 

Some men are born masters, and never once relax 
the authority they exercise on those around them. 
Nino has always commanded me, as he seems to com 
mand everybody else, in the fewest words possible. 
But he is so true and honest and brave that all who 
know him love him; and that is more than can be 
said for most artists. As he sat in his chair, hesitating what question to ask first, or waiting for me 
to speak, I thought that if Hedwig von Lira had 
searched the whole world for a man able to deliver 
her from her cruel father and from her hated lover 
she could have chosen no better champion than Nino 
Cardegna, the singer. Of course you all say that I 
am infatuated with the boy, and that I helped him 
to do a reckless thing, simply because I was blinded 



 

by my fondness. But I maintain, and shall ever 
hold, that Nino did right in this matter, and I am 
telling my story merely in order that honest men may 
judge. 

He sat by the window, and the sun poured through 
the panes upon his curling hair, his traveling dress, 
and his dusty boots. The woman of the house brought 
in some wine and water; but he only sipped the 
water, and would not touch the wine. 

"You are a dear, kind father to me," he said, putting out his hand from where he sat, " and before we 
talk I must tell you how much I thank you." 

Simple words, as they look on paper; but another 
man could not have said so much in an hour, as his 
voice and look told me. 



 



CHAPTER XVI. 

"NiNO mio," I began, "I saw the contessina last 
night. She is in a very dramatic and desperate situation. But she greets you, and looks to you to save 
her from her troubles." Nino's face was calm, but 
his voice trembled a little as he answered. 

"Tell me quickly, please, what the troubles are." 

" Softly I will tell you all about it. You must 
know that your friend Benoni is a traitor to you, and 
is here. Do not look astonished. He has made up 
his mind to marry the contessina, and she says she 
will die rather than take him, which is quite right 
of her." 

At the latter piece of news, Nino sprang from his 
chair. 

" You do not seriously mean that her father is try 
ing to make her marry Benoni?" he cried. 

"It is infamous, my dear boy; but it is true." 

"Infamous! I should think you could find a 
stronger word. How did you learn this ? " 

I detailed the circumstances of our meeting on the 
previous night. While I talked, Nino listened with 
intense interest, and his face changed its look from 
anger to pity, and from pity to horror. When I had 
finished, he was silent. 

"You can see for yourself," I said, "that the case 
is urgent." 



 

" I will take her away, " said Nino, at last. " It will 
be very unpleasant for the count. He would have 
been wiser to allow her to have her own way." 

"Do nothing rash, Nino mio. Consider a little 
what the consequences would be if you were caught 
in the act of violently carrying off the daughter of a 
man as powerful as Von Lira. 

"Bah! You talk of his power as though we lived 
under the Colonnesi and the Orsini, instead of under 
a free monarchy. If I am once married to her, what 
have I to fear? Do you think the count would go 
to law about his daughter's reputation ? Or do you 
suppose he would try to murder me ? " 

"I would do both, in his place," I answered. 
" But perhaps you are right, and he will yield when he 
sees that he is outwitted. Think again, and suppose 
that the contessina herself objects to such a step." 

" That is a different matter. She shall do nothing 
save by her own free will. You do not imagine that 
I would try to take her away unless she were will 
ing?" He sat down again beside me, and affection 
ately laid one hand on my shoulder. 

"Women, Nino, are women," I remarked. 

"Unless they are angels," he assented. 

" Keep the angels for Paradise, and beware of tak 
ing them into consideration in this working-day 
world. I have often told you, my boy, that I am 
older than you." 

"As if I doubted that! " he laughed. 

" Very well. I know something about women. A 
hundred women will tell you that they are ready to 
run away with you ; but not more than one in the 



 

hundred will really leave everything and follow you 
to the end of the world, when the moment comes. 
They always make a fuss at the last, and say it is 
too dangerous, and you may be caught. That is the 
way of them. You will be quite ready with a ladder 
of ropes, like one of Boccaccio's men, and a roll of 
bank-notes for the journey, and smelling-salts, and a 
cushion for the puppy dog, and a separate conveyance 
for the maid, just according to the directions she has 
given you ; then, at the very last, she will perhaps 
say that she is afraid of hurting her father's feelings 
by leaving him without any warning. Be careful, 
Nino!" 

"As for that," he answered sullenly enough, "if 
she will not, she will not; and I would not attempt 
to persuade her against her inclination. But unless 
you have very much exaggerated what you saw in 
her face, she will be ready at five minutes notice. 
It must be very like hell, up there in that castle, I 
should think." 

" Messer Diavolo, who rules over the house, will 
not let his prey escape him so easily as you think." 

"Her father?" he asked. 

"No; Benoni. There is no creature so relentless 
as an old man in pursuit of a young woman." 

"I am not afraid of Benoni." 

"You need not be afraid of her father," said I, 
laughing. "He is lame, and cannot run after you." 

I do not know why it is that we Romans laugh at 
lame people ; we are sorry for them, of course, as we 
are for other cripples. 

" There is something more than fear in the matter,'



 

said Nino seriously. " It is a great thing to have 
upon one's soul." 

"What?" I asked. 

" To take a daughter away from her father without 
his consent, or at least without consulting him. I 
should not like to do it." 

" Do you mean to ask the old gentleman's consent 
before eloping with his daughter? You are a little 
donkey, Nino, upon my word." 

"Donkey, or anything else you like, but I will act 
like a galantuomo. I will see the count, and ask 
him once more whether he is willing to let his daughter marry me. If not, so much the worse ; he will be 
warned." 

"Look here, Nino," I said, astonished at the idea. 
" I have taught you a little logic. Suppose that you 
meant to steal a horse, instead of a woman. Would 
you go to the owner of the horse, with your hat in 
your hand, and say,  I trust your worship will not 
be offended if I steal this horse, which seems to be a 
good animal and pleases me ; and then would you 
expect him to allow you to steal his horse ? " 

" Sor Cornelio, the case is not the same. Women 
have a right to be free, and to marry whom they 
please ; but horses are slaves. However, as I am not 
a thief, I should certainly ask the man for the horse ; 
and if he refused it, and I conceived that I had a 
right to have it, I would take it by force, and not by 
stealth." 

" It appears to me that if you meant to get posses 
sion of what was not yours you might as well get it 
in the easiest possible way," I objected. "But we 



 

need not argue the case. There is a much better reason why you should not consult the count." 

"I do not believe it," said Nino stubbornly. 

"Nevertheless, it is so. The Contessina di Lira 
is desperately unhappy, and if nothing is done she 
may die. Young women have died of broken hearts 
before now. You have no right to endanger her life 
by risking failure. Answer me that, if you can, and 
I will grant you are a cunning sophist, but not a 
good lover." 

"There is reason in what you say now," he an 
swered. " I had not thought of that desperateness of 
the case which you speak of. You have seen her." 
He buried his face in his hand, and seemed to be 
thinking. 

" Yes, I have seen her, and I wish you had been in 
my place. You would think differently about asking 
her father's leave to rescue her." 

From having been anxious to prevent anything 
rash, it seemed that I was now urging him into the 
very jaws of danger. I think that Hedwig's face 
was before me, as it had been in reality on the previous evening. 

"As Curio said to Caesar," I continued, "delay is 
injurious to any one who is fully prepared for action. 
I remember also to have read somewhere that such 
waste of time in diplomacy and palavering is the 
favourite resource of feeble and timid minds, who 
regard the use of dilatory and ambiguous measures 
as an evidence of the most admirable and consummate 
prudence." 

" Oh, you need not use so much learning with me," 



 

said Nino. "I assure you that I shall be neither 
dilatory nor ambiguous. In fact, I will go at once, 
without even dusting my boots, and I will say, Give 
me your daughter, if you can ; and if you cannot, I 
will still hope to marry her. He will probably say 
' No, and then I will carry her off. It appears to me 
that is simple enough." 

" Take my advice, Nino. Carry her off first, and 
ask permission afterwards. It is much better. The 
real master up there is Benoni, I fancy, and not the 
count. Benoni is a gentleman who will give you 
much trouble. If you go now to see Hedwig's 
father, Benoni will be present at the interview." 
Nino was silent, and sat stretching his legs before 
him, his head on his breast. " Benoni," I continued, 
" has made up his mind to succeed. He has probably 
taken this fancy into his head out of pure wicked 
ness. Perhaps he is bored, and really wants a wife. 
But I believe he is a man who delights in cruelty 
and would as lief break the contessina's heart by 
getting rid of you as by marrying her." I saw that 
he was not listening. 

" I have an idea," he said at last. " You are not 
very wise, Messer Cornelio, and you counsel me to 
be prudent and to be rash in the same breath." 

" You make very pretty compliments, Sor Nino," 
I answered tartly. He put out his hand in depreca 
tion. 

" You are as wise as any man can be who is not in 
love," he said, looking at me with his great eyes. 
" But love is the best counselor." 

" What is your idea ? " I asked, somewhat pacified. 



 

" You say they ride together every day. Yes 
very good. The contessina will not ride to-day; 
partly because she will be worn out with fatigue 
from last night's interview, and partly because she 
will make an effort to discover whether I have ar 
rived to-day or not. You can count on that." 

" I imagine so." 

" Very well," he continued ; " in that case one of 
two things will happen : either the count will go out 
alone, or they will all stay at home." 

" Why will Benoni not go out with the count? " 

" Because Benoni will hope to see Hedwig alone, 
if he stays at home, and the count will be very glad 
to give him the opportunity." 

"I think you are right, Nino. You are not so 
stupid as I thought." 

" In war," continued the boy, " a general gains a 
great advantage by separating his adversary's forces. 
If the count goes out alone, I will present myself to 
him in the road, and tell him what I want." 

" Now you are foolish again. You should, on the 
contrary, enter the house when the count is away, 
and take the signorina with you then and there. 
Before he could return you could be many miles on 
the road to Rome." 

" In the first place, I tell you once and for all, Sor 
Cornelio," he said slowly, " that such an action would 
be dishonourable, and I will not do anything of the 
kind. Moreover, you forget that, if I followed your 
advice, I should find Benoni at home, the very 
man from whom you think I have everything to fear. 
No ; I must give the count one fair chance." 



 

I was silent, for I saw he was determined, and yet 
I would not let him think that I was satisfied. 

The idea of losing an advantage by giving an 
enemy any sort of warning before the attack seemed 
to me novel in the extreme ; but I comprehended 
that Nino saw in his scheme a satisfaction to his conscience, and smelled in it a musty odour of forgotten 
knight-errantry which he had probably learned to 
love in his theatrical experiences. I had certainly 
not expected that Nino Cardegna, the peasant child, 
would turn out to be the pink of chivalry and the 
mirror of honour. But I could not help admiring his 
courage, and wondering if it might not play him 
false at the perilous moment. I did not half know 
him then, though he had been with me for so many 
years. But I was very anxious to ascertain from him 
what he meant to do, for I feared that his bold action 
would make trouble, and I had visions of the count 
and Benoni together taking sudden and summary 
vengeance on myself. 

"Nino," I said, "I have made great sacrifices to 
help you in finding these people," I would not tell 
him I had sold my vineyard to make preparation for 
a longer journey, though he has since found it out, 
" but if you are going to do anything rash I will get 
on my little ass, and ride a few miles from the village until it is over." Nino laughed loud. 

" My dear professor," he said, " do not be afraid. 
I will give you plenty of time to get out of the way. 
Meanwhile, the contessina is certain to send the 
confidential servant of whom you speak, to give 
me instructions. If I am not here, you ought to 



 

be, in order to receive the message. Now listen 
to me." 

I prepared to be attentive and to listen to his scheme. 
I was by no means expecting the plan he proposed. 

" The count may take it into his head to ride at a 
different hour, if he rides alone," he began. "I will 
therefore have my mule saddled now, and will station 
my man a countryman from Subiaco and good for 
any devilry in some place where he can watch the 
entrance to the house, or the castle, or whatever you 
call this place. So soon as he sees the count come 
out he will call me. As a man can ride in only one 
of two directions in this valley, I shall have no trouble 
whatever in meeting the old gentleman, even if I 
cannot overtake him with my mule. 

" Have you any arms, Nino ? " 

" No. I do not need weapons to face an old man 
in broad daylight ; and he is too much of a soldier to 
