generalising of humanity into types, the torturing application of the
nineteenth century boot to the feet of all,--men, women, and children
alike. If men are only interesting for what they are, regardless of what
they may be, a day of any one's actual experience must be a thousand
times more interesting than all the fictions that ever were written. If
art consists in the accurate presentation of detail, then the highest
art is the petrifaction of nature, and the wax-works of an anatomical
museum are more artistically beautiful than all the marbles of Phidias
and Praxiteles. True art depends upon an a priori capacity for
distinguishing the beautiful from the ugly, and the grand from the
grotesque; and true knowledge of the world lies in the knowledge of good
and evil, not confounding the noble with the ignoble under one smearing
of mud, nor yet whitewashing the devil into an ill-gotten reputation for
cleanliness. The temptation of Saint Anthony may convey a righteous
moral lesson, but the temptation of Saint Anthony as described by his
namesake's pig would risk being too unsavoury to be wholesome.
But Marcantonio was young, and he troubled himself about none of these
things, supposing everything to be good, beautiful, and enduring,
excepting such things as were evidently bad, inasmuch as they were ugly
and disagreeable.
Now Miss Leonora Carnethy had long been given over to a sort of sleek,
cynic philosophy,--the kind of cynicism that uses lavender water in its
tub. Her dissatisfaction with the world was genuine, but she found means
to alleviate it in the small luxuries and amenities of her daily life.
She and her friends had talked the kernel out of life, or thought that
they had, but the shell was still fresh and well favoured. Leonora
herself was indeed subject to moods and fits of real unhappiness, for
she was far too intelligent a person not to long for something
beautiful, even when she was most convinced that life was ugly. There
were times when she dreamed of an ideal man who should win her, and love
her, and give her all the happiness she had missed. And again she would
dream of the freedom of the earth-bound soul from ills, and cares, and
thorns, and she would enter some silent Roman church and kneel for hours
before a dimly lighted altar, praying for rest, and peace, and
inspiration of holiness. But there was too much poetic feeling in her
religious outpourings. If religion is to be poetic, a very little thing
will destroy its harmony; some careless sacristan chatting with a crony
in the corner of the church, or a couple of thoughtless children
wrangling over a half-penny by the door, or any such little thing,
destroyed instantly the fair illusion that lay as balm upon her
unrestful soul. Religion must be real to every man if it is to stand the
test of reality.
Leonora's views of marriage were therefore more or less subject to her
moods. There were days, indeed, few and far between, when her better
intelligence got the upper hand of the fictitious fabric of so-called
philosophy which she had erected for herself. Then for a brief space she
thought of life very much as Marcantonio did, and she contemplated her
marriage as a noble and worthy career,--for marriage is a career to most
women of the world. But then, again, all her uncertainty returned
twofold upon her, and the only real thing was the dream of love, the
vision of a lover, and the hope of a realised passion. She was so strong
and radiantly human, that from the moment when her mind fell into
abeyance the material beauty of life sprang up in her heart, until,
being disappointed and cast down through not attaining the end of her
passionate dreams, she once more sank into a half-religious, half-poetic
melancholy. Nevertheless, the strongest element in her character was the
desire to be loved, not by every one, but by some one manly man, and
loved with all the strength he had, overwhelmingly. Her studies were a
refuge when she saw how improbable such a piece of sweet fortune was,
and, as might have been expected, they were far from regular and
systematic. She read a great deal, especially of such authors as had a
reputation for being profound rather than clear, and, as her mind had
received no kind of preliminary training, the result was eminently
unsatisfactory to herself. To Marcantonio, who knew more about the
opera than about philosophy, she seemed a miracle of learning, and she
loved to talk with him about theories, generally finding that, in spite
of his ignorance, he made extremely sensible remarks upon them. But he
always tried to lead her to different subjects, for, in spite of his
immense admiration for what he supposed to be her wisdom, he was aware
that it seemed very vague, and that it even occasionally bored him.
Leonora had acquired the unfortunate faculty of deceiving herself, and
when the fit was upon her she saw things obliquely. In spite of the
little prick of conscience that hurt her when she accepted Marcantonio's
offer, she had soon persuaded herself that she loved him, on the
principle that, since her "standard" was so very "high," she could not
possibly have demeaned herself to accepting a man she did not love. It
is a very fine thing to believe that we are so far removed from evil
that we cannot do wrong, and therefore that whatever we do is infallibly
right, no matter how our instincts may cry out against it. It is a most
comforting and comfortable vicious circle which we convert into a crown
of glory for ourselves on the smallest provocation. So when Leonora was
finally married to Marcantonio, she made herself believe that she loved
him, and all her vague theories were temporarily cast aside and trampled
upon in her determination to realise in him all the happiness she had
dreamed of in her ideal.
She had got a husband who did most truly love her, and whose one and
absorbing thought would be her happiness, but he was not exactly what
she had longed for. She mistook his courtesy for coldness, and his
deference for indifference, and since she had persuaded herself that she
loved him she wanted to find him a perfect fiery volcano of love and
jealousy. Marcantonio was nothing of the kind; he was calm, courteous,
and affectionate; he had not the slightest cause for jealousy, and, not
in the least understanding his wife, he was perfectly happy.
Of all tests of true love a honeymoon is the severest, and by every
right of sensible sequence ought to come last of all in the history of
married couples. It is the great destroyer of illusions, and the more
illusions there are the greater the destruction. Two people have seen
each other occasionally, perhaps for an hour every day,--and that is a
great deal in Europe,--during which meetings they have become more or
less deeply enamoured, each of the qualities of the other. People
notoriously behave very differently to the people they love and to the
world at large; but their behaviour to the world at large is the outcome
of their character, whereas their conduct to each other is the result,
or the concomitant, of a passion which may or may not be real, profound,
and good. But each has a great number of characteristics which
practically never appear during those hours of courtship. Suddenly the
two are married, and the lid of Pandora's box is hoisted high with a
vicious jerk that scares the little imps inside to the verge of
distraction, and they fly out incontinent, with an ill savour. If the
lid had been gently raised, the evil spirits would probably have issued
forth stealthily, and one at a time, without any great fuss, and might
not have been noticed. The two condemned ones travel together, eat
together, talk together, until in a single month they have exhausted a
list of bad qualities that should have lasted at least half a dozen
years under ordinary circumstances.
Marcantonio and Leonora travelled for a time, and at last agreed to
spend the remainder of the summer in some quiet seaside place in
Southern Italy. They soon discovered the fallacy of wandering about
Europe with a maid and a quantity of luggage, and they both hoped that
under the clear sky of the south they might find exactly what they
wanted. So they gravitated to Sorrento and hired a villa overhanging the
sea, and Marcantonio suggested vaguely that they might have some one to
stay with them if they found it dull. At this Leonora felt injured. The
idea of his finding life dull in her company!
"How can you possibly suggest such a thing?" she asked, in a hurt tone.
"Not for myself, my dear," said Marcantonio, with an affectionate smile.
"It struck me that you might not find it very amusing. I could never
find it dull where you are, ma bien aimée." And indeed he never did.
Leonora was pacified, as she almost always was when he was particularly
affectionate.
"But, of course," he continued, "you will enjoy the being able to read
and study your favourite books."
"I never want to read them now," said Leonora, who chanced that day to
be not very philosophically disposed. She had been perusing the latest
French impossibility,--she found it rather amusing to be allowed to have
what she liked now that she was married.
"I should be glad if you never read any more philosophy," said
Marcantonio, unwisely saying what was uppermost in his thoughts.
"Really, though," answered Leonora, "I know it all so very superficially
that I feel I must go back and be much more thorough. I think I shall
take a sound course of Voltaire and Hegel, and that sort of thing, this
summer."
Her husband was silent. He began to suspect his wife of being capable of
an occasional contradiction for the mere love of it. Besides, he saw no
particular connection between the two authors she named. But then he
knew very little about them. He looked at Leonora. There was not a trace
of unpleasant expression in her face, and she seemed to have merely made
the remark in the air, without the least intention of being
contradictory or captious. He liked to look at her, she was so fresh and
fair. Neither heat nor cold seemed to touch her delicate white
skin,--her hair was so thick and strong, and her blue eyes so bright.
She was the very incarnation of life. What if her features were not
quite classic in their proportion?
"I am not so beautiful as Diana," she said laughingly one day to
Marcantonio, "but I am sure I am much more alive than she is." He
laughed too, well pleased at the distinction drawn. He was glad that his
sister should be thought cold, and he believed that his wife loved him.
He kissed her hand tenderly.
They had been married two months when they came to stay in Sorrento. It
is a beautiful place. Perhaps in all the orange-scented south there is
none more perfect, more sweet with gardens and soft sea-breath, more
rich in ancient olive-groves, or more tenderly nestled in the breast of
a bountiful nature. A little place it is, backed and flanked by the
volcanic hills, but having before it the glory of the fairest water in
the world. Straight down from the orange gardens the cliffs fall to the
sea, and every villa and village has a descent, winding through caves
and by stairways to its own small sandy cove, where the boats lie in the
sun through the summer's noontide heat, to shoot out at morning and
evening into the coolness of the breezy bay. Among the warm, green fruit
trees the song-birds have their nests, and about the eaves of the
scattered houses the swallows wheel and race in quick, smooth circles.
Far along through the groves echoes the ancient song of the southern
peasant, older than the trees, older than the soil, older than poor old
Pompeii lying off there in the eternal ashes of her gorgeous sins. And
ever the sapphire sea kisses the feet of the cliffs as though wooing the
rocks to come down, and plunge in, and taste how good a thing it is to
be cool and wet all over.
To this place Marcantonio and his wife came at the beginning of July,
having picked up numerous possessions and a few servants in Rome. They
both had a taste for comfort, though they enjoyed the small privations
of travelling for a time. To luxurious people it is pleasant to be
uncomfortable when the fancy takes them, in order that they may the
better enjoy the tint of their purple and the softness of their fine
linen by the contrast. For contrast is the magnifying glass of the
senses.
At sunset they walked side by side in their terraced garden overlooking
the sea. They had travelled all night and had rested all day in
consequence, and now they were refreshed and alive to the magic things
about them.
"How green it is!" said Leonora, stopping to look at the thick trees.
"Yes," answered Marcantonio, "it is very green."
He was thinking of something else, and Leonora's very natural and simple
remark did not divert his thoughts. The cook had arrived with a touch of
the fever, and he was debating whether to send for the doctor at once or
to wait till the next day. For he was very good to his servants, and
took care of them. But Leonora wanted something more enthusiastic.
"But it is so very fresh and green!" she repeated. "Do you not see how
lovely it all is?" She laid her hand on his arm.
"Oui, chérie," said he, getting rid of the cook by an effort, "and green
is the colour of hope." Then it struck him that the saying was rather
commonplace, and he began to realise what she wanted. "It is a perfect
fairyland," he went on, "and we will enjoy it as long as we please. Are
you fond of sailing, my dear?"
"Oh, of all things!" exclaimed Leonora, enthusiastically. "I love the
sea and the beautiful colours, and everything"--
She stopped short and put her arm through his and made him walk again.
She was conscious, perhaps, that she was making an effort,--why, she
could not tell,--and that she had not much to say.
"Marcantoine"--she began. They spoke French together, though she knew
Italian better. She thought his name long, but had not yet decided how
to abbreviate it.
"Yes, what would you say, my dear?" he asked pleasantly.
"I think I could--no--Marcantoine, now that we are married, are you
quite sure that you love me--quite, quite?" Marcantonio's face turned
strangely earnest and quiet. He looked into her eyes as he answered.
"Yes, my very dear wife, I am quite sure. And you, are you sure,
Leonora?"
"How serious you are!" she exclaimed, laughingly. "Well, perhaps I am
not so sure as you are,--but I think I could." Somehow he did not smile;
he took some things so seriously.
Honeymoon conversations are insignificant enough, but it would be well
if they were still more so. They should be limited by an international
law to the phrases contained in the works of M. Ollendorff.
"Is it a fine day, sir?"
"Yes, madam, it is a very fine day, but the baker has the green hat of
the officer."
"Has the baker also the red cow of the general's wife?"
"No, madam, the baker has not the red cow of the general's wife, but the
undertaker has the penknife of the aunt of the good butcher."
It would be hard for the most ill-disposed couple to quarrel if confined
to this simple elegance of dialectics, where truths of the broadest kind
are clothed in the purest and most energetic words. Young married people
are allowed too much latitude when they are turned loose upon a whole
language with a sort of standing order to make conversation. When they
have exhausted a certain fund of stock poetry and enthusiasm, they have
very little to fall back upon, except their personal relation to each
other; and unless they are equally serious or equally frivolous, the
discussion of such matters is apt to get them into trouble.
Like most Italians Marcantonio had difficulty in understanding English
humour. When Leonora said she was not quite sure she loved him, she had
meant it for a jest, and if the jest had a deeper meaning and a
possibility of truth for herself, that was no reason, she thought, why
Marcantonio should consider it no jest at all. She was somewhat annoyed,
and she made up her mind that there must be an element of Philistinism
in his character. She hated and feared Philistines, partly because they
were bores, and partly because she had met one or two of them who had
known vastly more than she did, and who had not scrupled to show it.
But, after all, how could Marcantonio be really like them? He did not
know very much, nor did he pretend to, and he had very good taste and
was altogether very nice,--no, he was not a Philistine; he loved her,
and that was the reason he was serious. All this she thought, springing
from one idea to another, and ending by drawing her arm closer through
his and moving along the terrace by his side.
The sun had set over there in front of them, and the air was cool and
purple with the afterglow. They stood by the wall and looked out
silently, without any further effort at conversation. Talking had been a
failure, probably because they were tired, and for a brief space they
were content to watch the clouds, and to listen to the swift rush of the
swallows and the faint, soft fall of the small waves on the sand far
below them. There they were, linked together, for better for worse, to
meet the joys and the sorrows of life hand in hand; to stand before the
world as representatives of their class, to play a part in public, and
in their homes to be all in all to each other, man and wife.
Man and wife! Ah me! for the greatness and the littleness of the bonds
those names stand for! Is there a man so poor and thin-souled in the
world that he has not dreamed of calling some woman "wife"? Is there any
wretch so mean and miserable in spirit that he has not looked on some
maiden and said, "I would marry her, if I could"? Or has any woman,
beautiful or ugly, fair or dark, straight or crooked, not thought once,
and more than once, that a man would come, and love her, and take her,
and marry her?
But have all the woes and ills of humanity, massed together and piled up
in their dismal weight, ever called forth one half the sorrow that has
ensued from this wedding and being wedded? Alas and alack for the tears
that have fallen thick and fast from women's eyes,--and for the tears
that have stood and burned in the eyes of strong men, good and bad! Who
shall count them, or who shall measure them? Who shall ever tell the
griefs that are beyond words, the sorrows that all earthly language,
wielded by all earthly genius, cannot tell? Will any man make bold to
say that he can describe what pain his neighbour feels? He may tell us
what he does, for he can see it; he may tell us what he thinks, for
perhaps he can guess it; but he cannot tell us what he suffers. The most
he can do is to strike the sad minor chord that in every man's heart
leads to a dirge and a death-song of his own.
A man who tries to tell of great suffering is rebuked. "No human
creature," says the critic, "could suffer as this man describes, and
live. There can therefore be no such suffering in the world." But does
any critic or reader or other intelligent person say, when he reads
about great happiness, "This joy is too much for humanity; there is no
such joy in the world"?
We shrink from suffering, in others as in ourselves, and we turn to
happiness and cannot get enough of it, so that however the tale ends, we
would have made it end yet more joyfully; for so would we do with our
own lives if we could. The strength of half mankind is spent in trying
to remedy mistakes made at the outset, and I suppose that there is not
one man in ten millions who is not striving to make himself happier, in
his own fashion. A man is only happy when he believes himself to be so,
in whatever way the proposition be turned, and no man believes himself
so happy but what he might be happier.
Marcantonio Carantoni was in just such a position. He was more than
contented, for he looked forward to much in the future that he had not
yet attained, and he looked forward to it with certainty. His wife
Leonora was trying hard to be as happy as he, but there had been a
doubt--a cruel, hot little doubt--in her soul from the first. She had
deceived herself--with the best intention--until she could hardly ever
be sure that what she felt was genuine. She had asked questions of her
heart until it was weary of answering them, and would as soon speak
false to her as true.
And here ends the prologue of this story.
CHAPTER V.
A few days after the arrival of the Carantoni establishment in Sorrento,
Leonora was sitting alone on a terrace of the villa with a book and a
great variety of small possessions in the way of needle-work, shawls,
cushions, flowers, parasols, fans, and a white cat. Marcantonio was gone
to the town alone, intending to buy more possessions; for Sorrento is
famous for its silk-weaving and its exquisite carved work of olive wood,
and Leonora loved knickknacks.
"I would give anything in the world for a sensation," she thought, as
she looked out over the sea.
It was towards evening, and the water was as smooth as glass and tinged
with red.
Marcantonio was right after all. It was very dull in Sorrento, with no
one but one's husband to speak to,--and he had made such a fuss about
the cook's illness. Of course, it was very beautiful and all that; but
life with the beauties of nature is so very tiresome after a time. She
longed for some of her friends,--even her mother, she thought, would be
a relief. But no one had called, excepting some very proper people of
the Roman set, who all had gout and rheumatism and a dictionary-ful of
diseases, and were taking sulphur baths at Castellamare.
She was wishing with all her might that some amusing person would call,
when, as though in answer to her thoughts, a servant brought her a card.
Then she yawned slightly, supposing it to be some toothless old princess
of Rome or some other wearisome bore. But as she looked at the
name,--"Mr. Julius Batiscombe,"--she gave a little start and her light
fingers touched her lace and ribbons, and her thick hair, and she said
she would receive.
Mr. Julius Batiscombe was a man of five and thirty years of age, and a
person sure to attract attention anywhere. He was tall and looked
strong, but he trod as lightly as a woman; none of his movements were
clumsy or awkward. Not that he stepped daintily or affected any feminine
grace of movement; there was something in his build and proportion that
made it always seem easy for him to move, as though his strength were
perfectly under control.
People were divided in opinion concerning his appearance. Some said he
was handsome and some said he was coarse. Some said he was refined and
some said he looked ill-tempered. As a matter of fact he had a rather
small head, set upon a strong neck. His nose was large and broad, and
decidedly aquiline, and he had a remarkably clean-cut and determined
jaw. His mouth was comparatively too small for his face, but well
shaped and well closed, shaded by a black moustache of very moderate
dimensions. His blue eyes were set deep in his head and far apart. Of
hair he had an unusual quantity, of a blue black colour, and he brushed
it carefully. A single deep line scored its mark across, just above his
brows. He had an odd way of looking at things, hiding the half of the
iris under the upper lid, showing the white of the eye a little beneath
the coloured portion. His complexion was of that brilliant kind which
sometimes goes with black hair and blue eyes, and is known as an
especial characteristic of the Irish race. Moreover he was noticeably
well dressed, in a broad, neat fashion of quiet colour, and he wore no
jewelry nor ornament except an old seal ring.
Opinions varied almost as much about Mr. Julius Batiscombe's character
and reputation as about his claims to be thought good-looking. He had no
intimate friends, or was supposed to have none; and he never answered
many questions, because he asked none. It was known that he was an
Englishman or an Irishman by birth, but that he had never lived long in
his own country, whereas he seemed to have lived everywhere else under
the sun.
"I am so glad you came to-day, Mr. Batiscombe," said Leonora after he
was seated, and looking at him rather curiously.
He was the man who had stood in the doorway at the ball when Marcantonio
offered himself to her. She knew him as well as she knew most of the
stray foreigners who from time to time frequented Roman society. He had
been in Rome all that winter, and she had met him two years earlier,
when she first went out. He interested her, however, by a certain
reserve of manner and by an air of "having a story about him"--as young
ladies put it--which was unusual.
"I am very fortunate," he answered, with a slight inclination and a
polite smile. "I called entirely at random. Somebody said you were
coming here, and so I came to see if you had arrived."
"Yes," said Leonora, "we have been here several days, with all sorts of
troubles on our hands. It is such very hard work to settle down, you
know."
"What has been the trouble?" inquired Mr. Batiscombe, glancing at the
evidences of comfort that were scattered about.
"Oh--it is the cook," said Leonora with a little laugh; she was just
beginning to feel the novelty of housekeeping, and she laughed at the
mention of the cook, as though the idea amused her. "He has had a little
fever, and my husband was dreadfully anxious about him. But he is quite
recovered."
"I am very glad," said Mr. Batiscombe. "It must be a terrible bore to
have one's cook ill. Did you get anything to eat in the meanwhile?"
And so forth, and so on, through a few dozen inanities. He would not
make an original remark, being quite sure that Leonora would ultimately
turn the conversation to some congenial subject.
"Shall you be in Rome next winter, Mr. Batiscombe?" she asked at length
rather suddenly.
"It is rather doubtful," he answered slowly. "I am a great wanderer, you
know, Marchesa. I can never say with any certainty where I shall be
next."
He was looking at her and thinking what a splendid living thing she was,
with the evening sun on her red hair. That was all he thought, but it
gave him pleasure, and his glance lingered contentedly upon her, as upon
a picture or a statue. He supposed from her remark that she wanted him
to talk about himself, and he was willing to please her; but he was in
no hurry, for he feared she would move and show herself in a less
favourable light. She was so good to look at, that it was worth a visit
to see her; and yet she was not a great beauty.
"I was thinking a little of going to the East," he added presently.
"But you have been there, have you not?"
"Not for a long time; and it will bear revisiting often,--very often. I
mean to go there and study again as I did years ago. You have no idea
how interesting those things are." Mr. Batiscombe looked thoughtfully
out towards the sea.
"What are those things, as you call them?" asked Leonora.
"What many people call the 'wisdom of the East.' They make us the
compliment of implying that there is a 'wisdom of the West' also, which
seems unlikely."
"Dear me, what a sweeping remark!" exclaimed Leonora, rather startled.
"I will prove it," said Mr. Batiscombe. "It seems to me that in the West
no two wise men think alike; whereas in the East no two wise men think
differently. Is not that a kind of proof?"
"Not a very valuable proof," said the marchesa. "But I do not know much
about it."
"You have the reputation of knowing more about it than most people,
Marchesa," answered Batiscombe. "I have been told that you know
everything." Leonora blushed very slightly.
"What nonsense!" said she; "I might say the same of you."
"I observe that you do not, however," said he, laughing.
"I never flatter any one," she answered calmly.
"Obviously, there is but one thing for me to say," said Batiscombe still
smiling.
"What is that?"
"That no one could possibly flatter you, Marchesa,--since the truth is
no flattery."
"No, but imitation is," retorted Leonora, well pleased at having got a
small advantage of him.
"Very good," said Batiscombe; "but do you know who said so?"
"Shakespeare"--began Leonora, but she stopped. "No--I cannot tell."
"A man called Colton said it. He wrote a book called 'Lacon,' containing
innumerable reflections on things in general. He was a wandering
sea-parson and wrote books of travels. He died of a complication of
nautical and religious disorders--he confused the spirituous with the
spiritual--but he was a wise man for all that."
"I suppose you remembered all that for the sake of showing that you
really know everything," said Leonora, looking up from behind the fan
that shaded her eyes.
The last rays of the sun shone horizontally across the terrace. The book
she had been reading slipped from her lap. With a quick movement
Batiscombe caught it before it fell and laid it on the little table.
Leonora noticed the action and admired the ease of it. She was
altogether disposed to admire the man, though she would have confessed
that his conversation hitherto had not been at all remarkable. But there
was something in his manner that attracted her. He was quick and gentle,
and yet he looked so big and strong.
"Thanks," she said. "By the bye, are you going to spend the summer here,
or are you only passing?"
"I am only passing--literally passing, for I have come from the north,
and am going southward. I believe I am doing rather an original thing."
"You are generally supposed to be always doing original things," said
Leonora.
"At all events I am never bored," he answered, "which cannot be said of
most people. At present I am going round Italy in an open boat. It is
great fun. I started from Nice six weeks ago."
"How delightful! I should like it immensely!"
"Are you fond of sailing?"
"I enjoy it of all things," she answered. In spite of her remark to the
same effect made to Marcantonio on the day of their arrival, she had not
yet been on the water. He had been so anxious about the cook.
"There is a man-of-war to be launched at Castellamare the day after
to-morrow," said Batiscombe. "May I have the pleasure of taking you over
in my boat?"
At this moment Marcantonio appeared at the extremity of the terrace and
came towards them.
"Should you like to go?" asked Batiscombe quickly, in a lower voice. "If
so I will propose it at once." Leonora nodded, and her husband
approached.
"Marcantonio," she said, "you know Monsieur Batiscombe?"
"Mais certainement," cried Marcantonio cordially, and the two men shook
hands. Batiscombe was at least as much at home in French as his host,
and immediately attacked the subject.
"I came to propose to Madame la Marquise," he said, "that you should
come over to Castellamare in my boat the day after to-morrow to see the
launch. I trust the plan meets your approval?"
Marcantonio turned to his wife to inquire. She nodded to him; he nodded
to her.
"We should be charmed," said he.
And so the matter was arranged; they agreed about the hour, and Leonora
said she would bring the luncheon.
"Yes," said Marcantonio, "I am glad to say the cook"--
At this point Mr. Batiscombe rose to go, and the remark about the cook's
health was lost in the stir. Batiscombe bowed, smiled, bowed again, and
moved smoothly away across the terrace, disappearing with a final
inclination, and a sweep of his straw hat.
"He walks like a cat, that gentleman," said Marcantonio as he sat
himself down beside his wife.
"He is charming," said Leonora. "He has been so amusing." She looked at
her husband furtively to see how he took the remark.
"Perhaps," thought she, "he is one of those men who have to be managed
by being made jealous. I have read about them in novels."
But Marcantonio was very glad that she had been amused, and he merely
smiled pleasantly and said so. It never entered his head to suppose that
Leonora was not satisfied with his show of affection, because he knew in
himself that his love was perfectly real. There is a little vanity in
such men as Marcantonio, together with a great deal of honesty. Their
vanity makes them quite sure that the woman they love is satisfied, and
their honesty makes them think the woman would speak out if she were
not, just as they themselves would do.
Leonora had vanity enough of a certain kind, but it was not personal.
She doubted her own powers and gifts more than she need have done, and
there was enough uncertainty about her own affection to make her
uncertain of her husband's love. In the meanwhile she was bored since
Mr. Batiscombe had gone, and she wished Marcantonio would talk and amuse
her. But when he did begin to say something it was about local Roman
politics, and she understood nothing about that sort of thing. She
longed more and more for "a sensation." It would probably be different
to-morrow, for her moods seldom lasted long. But this evening it was
intolerable. She made the most absent-minded answers to her husband's
remarks, and seemed so impatient that he suggested she must be tired and
had better go to bed.
"But I am not tired at all--on the contrary," she objected. "There is
nothing to tire me here,--a little driving, a great deal of sitting on
the terrace, a great deal of reading, and very little conversation"--
"Very little conversation!" exclaimed Marcantonio. "Mais, ma chère, here
it is two hours we have been talking, without counting the visit of the
gentleman who walks like a cat--Bat--Botis--I cannot say his name, but I
know him."
"Ah, yes--Mr. Batiscombe. Yes," said Leonora languidly, "he was very
amusing. He talked about all sorts of things."
"Shall we ask him to pass a few days with us? I should be very glad, if
you like him."
Marcantonio was really delighted to do anything his wife might wish.
Leonora was touched. He was sitting beside her, and she put her arms
round his neck and laid her head on his shoulder.
"You are so good," she said in a low voice. "Oh, I do not want anybody
else here at all. I only want you--but all of you--and I feel as though
I had not all yet."
For the moment she really loved him. He gently smoothed her hair with
his delicate, olive-tinted hand.
Meanwhile Mr. Julius Batiscombe had gone to his hotel, and, having eaten
his dinner, was sitting on the tiled terrace over the sea, with a cup of
coffee at his elbow, and a cigarette in his mouth. There were lamps on
the terrace, and there was starlight on the water, and Mr. Batiscombe
was alone at his small table.
"I wish I had not gone there. I wish I had not asked them to go to
Castellamare. I wish I were at sea in my boat." He said these things
over and over to himself, and now and again he smiled a little
scornfully, and sipped his coffee.
Julius Batiscombe was generally in trouble. He was a strong man in all
respects save one. He had conquered many difficulties in his life, and
by sheer determination had turned evil fortune into good, winning
himself a name and a position, and such a proportion of wealth as he
needed. Of good family, and brought up in luxury and refinement, he had
been left at twenty years of age without parents, without much money,
and without a profession. He knew some half dozen languages, ancient and
modern, and he had a certain premature knowledge of the world. But that
was his whole stock-in-trade excepting an indomitable will and
perseverance, combined with exceedingly good health, and a great desire
for the luxuries of life. He had lived in all sorts of ways and places,
getting his pen under control by endless literary hack-work. By and by
he tried his hand at journalism, and was successively addicted to three
or four papers, published in three or four languages in three or four
countries. Last of all he wrote a book which unexpectedly succeeded.
Since then the aspect of life had changed for him, and though he still
wandered, from force of habit, so to say, he no longer wandered in
search of a fortune. A pen and a few sheets of paper can be got
anywhere, and Julius Batiscombe set up his itinerary literary forge
wherever it best pleased him to work. He had fought with ill-luck, and
had conquered it, and now he felt the confidence of a man who has swum
through rough water and feels at last the smooth, clean sand beneath his
feet. His success had not turned his head in the least; he was too much
of an artist for that, striving always in his work to attain something
that ever seemed to escape him. But he now felt that he might some day
get nearer to what he aimed at, and there were moments, brief moments,
of genuine happiness, when he believed that there was wrought by his pen
some stroke of worth that should not perish. Ten minutes later he was
dissatisfied with it all, and collected his strength for a new effort,
still hoping, and striving, and labouring on, with his whole soul in his
work.
Strong in body and strong in determination, he was yet very weak in one
respect. He was eternally falling in love, everlastingly throwing
himself at the feet of some woman and making mischief which he
afterwards bitterly regretted. It seemed as though it were impossible
for him to live six months without some affair of a more or less serious
character. It made no difference whether he wandered off into the
recesses of the Italian mountains, or went into hermitage in the Black
Forest, or steamed and sweltered under a tropical sun; there was always
a feminine element at hand to make trouble for him.
It was not only the universal woman calling to him to follow, it was the
universal woman seizing him and carrying him away by main force. For it
was no matter of inclination. He struggled hard enough to deserve
victory, but without any perceptible result.
What gave him most pain was the dreary consciousness of his own
insincerity in his love-making, the consciousness that came to him
after the affair was over. While it lasted he was carried away and
blinded by a sort of madness that took possession of him and allowed him
no time for thought. But when it was over he remembered, bitterly
enough, how untrue it had all been, to himself and to the one woman whom
he had loved, and whom, down in the depths of his turbulent heart, he
loved still. His other loves were like horrible creations of black
magic, bodies with no soul, when he looked back on them. And yet while
they lasted they seemed to him real, and high, and noble.
At first he fought against every new inclination, and cursed his folly
in advance; and sometimes he conquered, but not always. If once the
fatal point were passed there was no salvation, for then he deceived
himself and the deception was complete. It was no wonder people thought
so differently about him. He had been known to do brave and generous
things, and things that showed the utmost delicacy of feeling and
courtesy of temper; and he had been known to act with a sheer, massive,
selfish disregard of other people, that made cynics look grave and
mild-eyed society idiots stare with horror. The fact was that Julius
Batiscombe in love was one person, and Julius Batiscombe out of love,
repentant and trying to make up to the world for the mischief he had
done, was quite another; and he knew it himself. He was perfectly
conscious of his own duality, and liked the one state,--the state of no
love,--and he loathed and detested the other both before and after.
And now he sat over his coffee, and the prophetic warning of his soul
told him that he was in danger, so that he was angry at himself and
feared the future. He had known Miss Carnethy, as has been said, for
some time, and had danced with her and sat beside her at dinner more
than once, without giving her a thought; he therefore had found it
perfectly natural to call when he discovered that she was at Sorrento.
But his impression after his visit was very different. The Marchesa
Carantoni was not Miss Carnethy at all.
She had looked so magnificent as she sat in the evening sunshine, and he
had gazed contentedly at her with a sense of artistic satisfaction,
thinking no evil. But now he could think of nothing else. The sun seemed
to rise again out of the dark sea, turning back on its course till it
was just above the horizon, with a warm golden light; by his side sat
the figure of a woman with glorious red hair, and he was speaking to
her; the whole scene was present to him as he sat there, and he knew
very well what it was that he felt. Why had he not known it at first? He
would surely have had the sense not to propose such a thing as a day
together. "A day together" had so often entailed so much misery.
Nevertheless he would not invent an excuse, nor go away suddenly. It
would be quite possible, he knew, and perhaps also he knew in his heart
that it would be altogether right. But it seemed so uncourteous, he was
really anxious to see the launch of the great ship and--and--he would
not be such a fool as to fancy he could not look at a woman without
falling in love with her on the spot. At his age! Five and thirty--he
seemed so old when he thought of all he had done in that time. No. He
would not only go with them, but he would be as agreeable as he could,
if only to show himself that he was at last above that kind of thing.
Some human hearts are like a great ship that has no anchor, nor any
means of making fast to moorings. The brave vessel sails through the
stormy ocean, straining and struggling fiercely, till she lies at last
within a fair harbour. But she has no anchor, and by and by the soft,
smooth tide washes her out to sea, so gently and cruelly, out among the
crests and the squalls and the rushing currents, and she must fain beat
to windward again or perish on the grim lee shore.
Julius Batiscombe went to bed that night knowing that he was adrift, and
yet denying it to himself; knowing that in a month, a week perhaps, he
should be in trouble--in love--pah! how he hated the idea!
CHAPTER VI.
During the time that elapsed between Mr. Batiscombe's visit and the
expedition to see the launch, Leonora had an access of the religious
humour. The little scene with her husband had made a deep impression on
her mind, and as was usual when she received impressions, she tried to
explain it and understand it and reason about it, until there was little
of it left. That is generally the way with those people who make a study
of themselves; when they have a good thought or a good impulse, they
dissect the life out of it and crow over the empty shell.
It was clear, thought Leonora, that the sudden outburst of affection
which made her tell her husband that she wanted "all of him" was the
result of some sensation of dissatisfaction, of some unfulfilled
necessity for a greater sympathy. But, if at the very beginning she had
not the key to his heart, if he did not wholly love her now, it was
clear that he never would at all. Why was it clear? Oh! never mind the
"why,"--it was quite clear. Moreover, if he could never love her wholly
as she wished and desired, she was manifestly a misunderstood woman, a
most unhappy wife, a condemned existence,--loving and not being loved in
return. And he, the heartless wretch, was anxious about the cook! Good
heavens! the cook--when his wife's happiness was in danger! In this
frame of mind there was evidently nothing more appropriate for her to do
than to take a prayer-book and to hide her face in a veil, and slip away
to the little church on the road, a hundred yards from the house. For a
wrecked existence, thought Leonora, there is no refuge like the Church.
She was not a Catholic, but that made no difference; in great distress
like this, she could very well be comforted by any kind of religion
short of her father's, which latter, to her exalted view, consisted of
four walls and a bucket of whitewash, seasoned with pious discourses and
an occasional psalm-tune.
What she could not see, what was really at the bottom of the small
tempest she rashly whirled up in her over-sensitive soul, was her own
disillusionment. She had deceived herself into believing that she loved
her husband, and the deception had cost her an effort. She was beginning
to realise that the time was at hand when she might strive in vain to
believe in her own sincerity, when her heart would not submit to any
further equivocation, and when she should know in earnest what
hollowness and weariness meant. As yet this was half unconscious, for it
seemed so easy to make herself the injured party.
Poor Marcantonio was not to blame. He was the happiest of mortals, and
went calmly on his way, doubting nothing and thinking that he was of
all mortal men the most supremely fortunate.
Meanwhile Leonora kneeled in the rough little church, solacing herself
with the catalogue of those ills she thought she was suffering. The
stones were hard; there was a wretched little knot of country people,
squalid and ill-savoured, who stared at the great lady for a moment, and
then went on with their rosaries. A dirty little boy with a cane twenty
feet long was poking a taper about and lighting lamps, and he dropped
some of the wax on Leonora's gown. But she never shrank nor looked
