naturally to conflict."
He smiles at her conceit, but he has found it sadly true. There is a
touch of confident faith in her voice that is delicately encouraging.
He has had no sympathy for so long until the professor came, for it
would be simply foolish to expect it of his own household, who are not
even certain that they can confide in his sense of justice. He has
bidden adieu to the old friends and scenes, and is not quite fitted to
the new, hence the jarring.
A silvery-toned gong sounds for luncheon. Madame goes to meet her guest
and escorts her on the one side, while her son is on the other. It is a
charming and deferential attention, and Mrs. Grandon rises in her own
estimation, while the dreadful sacrifice her son has made looms dark by
contrast.
Afterward, going down the street, Floyd remembers with a twinge of
shame that Violet has not once been mentioned. It was his remissness,
of course. He could not expect madame to discuss his marriage as one of
the ordinary events of life, but he wishes now that he had taken the
honorable step. If he only understood the turns and tricks of
fashionable life. He has been in wilds and deserts so long, that he has
a curious nervous dread of blunders or those inopportune explanations
he has occasionally witnessed.
CHAPTER XIV.
To be wise is the first part of happiness.--ANTIGONE.
They are excellently served and complete order reigns at the great
house, yet Mrs. Grandon is missed, in ways not altogether complimentary
if one put it into words. Marcia delights in playing at mistress. She
asks in some of her neighbors to dinner, but Violet, excusing herself,
goes over to the cottage. Floyd is not at home to be consulted, and she
does not wish to blunder or to annoy him. She wins Marcia's favor to a
certain extent, but her favor is the most unreliable gift of the gods.
She has no mind of her own, but is continually picking up ready-made
characteristics of her neighbors and trying them on as one would a
bonnet, and with about the same success. While the rest of her small
world is painfully aware of her inconsistency, she prides herself upon
a wide range of mental acquirements. She generously allows Violet to
try driving Dolly, who is as gentle as a lamb.
Violet draws some delicious breaths, when she feels quite like a bird,
but she does not know that it is freedom. She hardly misses Mr.
Grandon, who seems to be up at the factory or down to the city nearly
all the time. The piano stands open, daring innovation, and she plays
for hours, to Cecil's entrancement, and inducts her in the steps of a
fascinating little dance. Cecil is growing quite wild and wilful at
times, but she is always charming.
They all go up to the cottage one day to a lunch of Denise's preparing.
While Gertrude rests, Marcia insists upon visiting the place where
Cecil was rescued.
"You dear, brave child!" she cries, kissing Violet with rapture, "I
don't wonder Floyd fell in love with you on the spot! If you could only
pose just that way to me, and I could paint it! What a picture it would
be for exhibition!"
Violet flushes warmly, but by this time she shares the family distrust
of Marcia's splendid endeavors.
"Oh," Cecil whispers, clinging tightly to her hand and shuddering with
awe, "if I had fallen down over all those jagged rocks! I shall always,
always love you dearly; papa said I must."
How like a dream that far-off day appears!
There is a bit of wood fire burning on the hearth when they return, for
Violet remembers that Gertrude is always cold. The table is simple and
yet exquisite. Marcia is crazed with the china and some silver spoons
that date to antiquity or the first silversmiths.
"If I had money," she begins, when her appetite is a little sated,--"if
I had money I should have a house of my own, kept just to my fancy,
with an old French servant like Denise, only"--glancing around--"it
must be severely artistic. It is so hard that women cannot make
fortunes!" with a long sigh.
"I should enjoy one made for me quite as well," rejoins Gertrude, who
is always annoyed by Marcia's assumptions of or longings for manhood.
"What a lucky girl you are, or will be if Floyd's plans come out
right," and Marcia nods to Violet. "Only I should hate all that
wretched waiting!"
"How long must I wait?" There is a lurking smile in Violet's brown
eyes.
"How long?--don't you know?" accenting the words with surprise. "Why
this is quite a mystery. I have heard of heiresses being kept in the
dark for evil purposes," and Marcia gives her head an airy toss. "Have
you never seen your father's will? Until you are twenty-five--but I
shouldn't feel at all obliged to Floyd for tying it up so securely. I
dare say he could have persuaded your father differently!"
Violet colors with a curious sense of displeasure. Gertrude gives a
warning look, and for fear of that failing in its mission, touches
Marcia's foot under the table.
"I suppose he--they both did what they thought best," Violet says, hurt
somehow at the signal and a consciousness of some secrecy.
"Oh, of course, of course! Men always do take their own way; they think
they are so much wiser than women, selfish beings!" exclaims Marcia, on
another tack. Gertrude bestirs herself to make a diversion, but a
latent wonder lingers in Violet's mind. She does not really care about
any knowledge being kept away from her, and she has known all along
that she was something of an heiress. Did not Mr. Grandon admit that
when they talked about the trousseau? A sense of mystery comes up about
her like a thick, gray mist, and she shivers. She cannot tell why, but
the joy of the day is over.
When they reach home there is company for Marcia, two especial guests,
that she takes up to her sanctum, and is seen no more until the
dinner-bell summons her. Eugene is in an uncomfortable mood and teases
Cecil. Violet seems always a little afraid of this handsome young man,
who has a way of making inscrutable remarks. Her music is melancholy
this evening, and Cecil is difficult to please, so she is glad when
bedtime comes and with it a résumé of the times of the wonderful
Haroun al Raschid. But when Cecil falls asleep an intense feeling of
loneliness seizes her. It seems as if she was somewhere in a wide
desert waste.
Mr. Grandon is to spend the night in the city. She wonders where he is!
There was the reception to the professor, there was a grand dinner for
gentlemen only, at the house of some famous person, there has been
business. She would like to imagine the scene for her own interest. How
strange, she thinks, to sit three or four hours over a dinner, and yet,
if the professor talked, she could listen forever. Does Mr. Grandon
ever talk in that manner? A fine thrill speeds along her nerves, a sort
of pride in him, a secret joy that he is hers.
Oh, it is only nine o'clock! Violet tries to interest herself in a
novel, but it is stupid work. There are voices down-stairs and she
catches Marcia's inane little laugh. They never ask her down, because
she is in deep mourning, and Gertrude has kindly told her that people
do not go in society for at least six months when they have lost a near
relative. She has been married only two months, and it has seemed as
long as any other six months in her whole life.
Then she wonders why the marriages of books are so different from
the marriages of real life. There was Linda Radford, one of her
schoolmates, who went away last year to be married to an Englishman and
live at Montreal. Linda had a fortune, and the gentleman was a distant
cousin. They had always been engaged. Linda had written two letters
afterward, about her handsome house and elegant clothes. Then little
Jeanne Davray had a lover come from France, who married her in the
convent chapel and took her away. Once she wrote back to Sister
Catharine. There was a bright, wilful girl, a Protestant, placed in
the convent, who ran away with a married man and shocked the small
community so much that the mention of her name was forbidden. Right
here are Laura and Mr. Delancy, who are not story-book lovers, either.
Oh, which is true? She hides a blushing longing face on Cecil's pillow,
and sighs softly, secretly, for what she has not. Denise would call
it a sin, for she thinks every word and act of Mr. Grandon's exactly
right. Then, somehow, she must be wrong. Are the books and poems all
wrong? She prays to be kept from all sin, not to desire or covet what
may not be meant for her. Oh, what a long, long evening!
Floyd Grandon is a guest at Madame Lepelletier's table. There are three
rooms, divided by silken portières, which are now partially swung
aside. The lamps in the other rooms are burning low, there is a sweet,
faint perfume, a lovely suggestiveness, a background fit for a picture,
and this cosey apartment, hung with shimmering silk, and lighted from a
cluster of intense, velvety tropical flowers, soften the glare and add
curious tints of their own, suggestive of sunlight through a garden. It
is not the dining-room proper. Madame has ways quite different from
other people, surprises, delicate, delicious, and dares to defy fashion
when she chooses, though most people would consider her a scrupulous
observer. The four would not be half so effective in the large
apartment. There is a handful of fire in the low grate, and the windows
are open to temper the air through the silken curtains. Mrs. Grandon is
looking her best, a handsome, middle-aged woman. Madame Lepelletier is
in an exquisite shade of bluish velvet that brings out every line and
tint in a sumptuous manner. The square-cut corsage and elbow sleeves
are trimmed with almost priceless ivory-tinted lace; and except the
solitaire diamonds in her ears, she wears no jewels. There are two or
three yellow rose-buds low down in her shining black hair, and two half
hidden in the lace on her bosom. The skirt of her dress is long and
plain, and makes crested billows about her as she sits there.
The dinner is over, and it was perfect; the dessert has been taken out,
the wine, fruit, and nuts remain; the waiter is dismissed, the chairs
are pushed back just to a degree of informality and comfort, and they
have reached that crowning delight, an after-dinner chat.
Madame has been posting herself on antiquities and discoveries. There
seems nothing particularly new about her knowledge; she is at home in
it, and in no haste to air it; she keeps pace with them in a leisurely
way, as if not straying out of her usual course. Floyd Grandon feels
conscience-smitten that he once believed her wholly immersed in
wedding-clothes and fashions. What a remarkable, many-sided woman she
is! a perfect queen of all society, and an admirable one at that.
Everything she says is fresh and crisp, and her little jest well told
and well chosen. The professor beams and smiles, though he is no great
lady's man. She might be a bon camarade, so free is she from the airy
little nothings of society that puzzle scholarly men. There is
something charming, too, in the way Mrs. Grandon is made one of the
circle,--a part of them, not merely an outside propriety. Every moment
she grudges that fascinating woman for her son; she is almost jealous
when the professor listens with such rapt deference and admiration.
That Floyd's own unwisdom should have placed the bar between himself
and this magnificent woman is almost more than she can endure.
He has dropped in one morning and accompanied them to a matinée. A
foreign friend has sent madame tickets, and he had an hour or two on
his hands while waiting for proofs. In all these interviews Violet's
name has not been mentioned. His marriage is a matter of course, he is
not sailing under any false colors, he has made no protestations of
friendship, still he has an uneasy feeling. If Violet only could go
into society, yet he knows intuitively the two women never could be
friends, though he has no great faith in the friendship of women for
women; it is seldom the sort of a stand-up affair for all time that
pins a man's faith to another. He wonders, too, what Violet is doing.
How she would enjoy these lovely rooms! She could not sit at the head
of a table a queen, but then she is young yet. Madame was not
perfection at seventeen, and he strongly suspects that he was a prig.
Could he take Violet to a matinée? If there was someone he dared ask.
It is midnight when the two men walk home to their hotel. Grandon feels
as if he has taken too much wine, though he is always extremely
moderate.
"She is perfection!" declares the professor, enthusiastically. "You
have many charming women, but I have seen none as superb as she. There
is an atmosphere of courts about her, and so well informed, so delicate
with her knowledge, not thrusting it at you with a shout. You have
given me the greatest of pleasure. If I were not an old tramp, with a
knapsack on my shoulder, I do not know what would happen! I might be
the fly in the flame!"
Floyd laughs amusedly. There is about as much danger of Freilgrath
falling in love with her as there is of himself. Would he have, he
wonders, if other events had not crowded in and almost taken the right
of choice from him? It would not have been a bad match if Cecil had
loved her, and she does love Violet. His heart gives a great throb as
he thinks of the two in each other's arms, sleeping sweetly. All the
passion of his soul is still centred in Cecil.
Yet he feels a trifle curious about himself. Is he stock or stone? He
has known of strong men being swept from their moorings when duty,
honor, and all that was most sacred held them elsewhere; nay, he has
even seen them throw away the world and consider it well lost for a
woman's love. If he should never see madame again he would not grieve
deeply, but being here he will see her often, and there is no danger.
By some curious cross-light of mental retrospect he also knows that if
Violet were the beloved wife of any other man--the large-hearted
professor, for instance--he could see her daily without one covetous
pang. He likes her very, very much, she is dear to him, but he is not
in love, and he rather exults in being so cool-headed. Is it anything
but a wild dream, soon burned out to ashes?
Madame Lepelletier, in the solitude of her room, studies her superb
figure, with its rich and affluent lines. No mere beauty of pink
cheeks, dimples, of seventeen, can compare with it, and she understands
the art of keeping it fresh and perfect for some years to come at
least. Floyd Grandon is just beginning a career that will delight and
satisfy him beyond anything he dreams of to-night. He is not in love
with his wife; he did not want her fortune, there were others already
made at hand. A foolish pity, the remnant of youth, moved him, and some
day he will look back in amazement at his folly. But all the same he
has put a slight upon her preference, shown to him, but not in any wise
confessed. She has no silly sentiment, neither would she cloud her
position for a prince of the blood royal, or what is saying more, for
the man she could love, but society has devious turns and varying
latitudes. One need not run squarely against the small fences it puts
up, to gain satisfaction.
Prof. Freilgrath comes up home with his friend the next morning. There
are some dates to verify, some designs to decide upon, but he will not
remain to luncheon. Grandon steps out to greet Denise, when the
opposite door opens, and two quaint laughing figures appear. Violet is
wrapped in her shepherd's plaid, the corner twisted into a bewitching
hood and surmounted by a cluster of black ribbon bows. She holds Cecil
by the hand, who looks a veritable Red Ridinghood, tempting enough to
ensnare any wolf. Both are bright and vivid, and have a fresh,
blown-about look that walking in the wind invariably imparts. Cecil
springs into his arms, and still holding her he bends to kiss Violet.
"You have not walked up?" he asks, in surprise.
"It was not very far, and it is such a lovely, glowing morning," Violet
says, with a touch of deprecation.
"We ran," cries Cecil, with her exuberant spirits in her tone. "We ran
races, and I beat! And we played a wolf was coming. Mamma has seen real
wolves in Canada. But if we had a pony carriage,--because Aunt Marcia
is stingy sometimes----"
"O Cecil!" interposes Violet, in distress.
"Would you like one, Violet? You could soon learn to drive," and he
glances into her deep, dewy eyes, her face that is a glow of delight.
"Marcia has been very kind, and has let me drive Dolly a little. I
should not be afraid, and it would be so delightful."
"You quite deserve it, I have to leave you so much to entertain
yourselves. Now rest a little and I will walk back with you."
The professor comes out. "They will stay for lunch, good Denise," he
announces, quite peremptorily. "Good morning, Mrs. Grandon; good
morning, little one! We have been sadly dissipated fellows, going
around on what you call 'larks,' and you ought to scold us both."
"I don't know why!" she rejoins, with a bright smile. She is suddenly
very happy; it tingles along every nerve.
"What a pretty--hood, do you call it?" says Grandon, rather awkwardly,
trying to unfasten Violet's wrap.
"And the little one is a picture!" adds the professor, glancing from
one to the other.
"Mamma made mine," cries Cecil. "She had one when she was a little
girl, and her papa brought it from Paris."
Grandon laughs. They go to look at the designs, and Violet makes
business-like little comments that surprise them both. She is so eager
to have the book done, to see it in proper shape with her own eyes. "I
shall really feel famous," she declares, with a pretty air of
consequence, archly assumed.
The lunch is delightful, and Violet confesses that yesterday they all
entered with felonious intent, and did eat and drink, and surreptitiously
waste and destroy.
"You didn't get Gertrude here?" asks Floyd. "What magic did you use?"
"And Denise made such a lovely fire for her," says Cecil. "She wasn't a
bit cold. I wish we could live here, it is so little and nice."
That seems to amuse the professor greatly. He feeds Cecil grapes, and
plans how it shall be. Grandon, too, seems in unusual spirits; and
presently they have an enchanting walk home. The October day is
gorgeous, and they find some chestnuts. The pony carriage is talked
over again, and Floyd promises to look it up immediately.
That evening at dinner Marcia says, suddenly, "Did you and the
professor dine with madame last night? Mother's letter came this
morning, in which she spoke of expecting you. Of course madame looked
like a queen in
    "'The folds of her wine-dark velvet dress.'"
"It was--blue or green or something, only not wine-color," says
Floyd.
"Was any one else there?"
"No, it was just for the professor."
"She might have had the goodness to remember there were more in the
family. Mrs. Grandon and myself," declares Eugene, almost in a tone of
vexation.
"What was the opera? I think you are getting very----"
"'Martha,'" he interrupts, quickly. "An acquaintance of madame's sang
as Plunkett, and did extremely well; a young Italian who only a year
or two ago lost his fortune."
"Brignoli used to be divine as Lionel," says Marcia. "I don't believe
I should like another person in that rôle. Of course madame is making
a great sensation in New York. What a wonderfully handsome woman she
is, and--do you remember, Gertrude, whether any one ever made any great
fuss about her in her youth?"
Gertrude colors at this thrust of ancient memory.
"She is the handsomest woman I ever saw," begins Eugene, and his glance
falls upon Violet. "Of course she was handsome always, and you need not
hint enviously of a lost youth, Marcia. She looks younger than any of
you girls to-day. There wasn't one at Newport who could hold a candle
to her. The men were mowed down 'n swaths. Not one could stand before
her."
"Then I say she is a coquette," is Marcia's decisive reply. "I dare
say there will be no end of dinners and Germans and lovers. It's
fearfully mean in Laura not to take a house for the winter and invite a
body down. It is horrid dull here! Floyd, do you mean to stay up all
winter?"
"Why not? I have not spent a winter here since I was a boy, in the old
farm-house with Aunt Marcia."
"What an awful place it was!" Marcia is quite forgetting her rôle of
severe high art. "I believe she always chose the coldest days in winter
and the warmest days in summer to invite us. I don't see how you
endured it!"
"I not only endured it," says Floyd, meditatively, "but I liked it."
"Well, one might like it with a fortune in the background," Eugene
rejoins, with covert insolence.
The dessert is being brought in, which causes a lull in the family
strictures. Floyd frowns and is silent. When they rise, Cecil runs to
the drawing-room, and the two follow her.
"Play a little," says her husband; and Violet sits down, thinking of
the handsome woman she has never yet seen, but who seems to have
bewitched all the family.
Floyd is down twice again before the day on which he escorts his mother
home. On one of these occasions he buys the pony. Violet and Cecil are
both filled with delight, and Floyd gives his wife a little driving
practice. He is so good to her, she thinks, but she sometimes wishes he
would talk to her about madame.
They are quite enthusiastic at Mrs. Grandon's return, but her distance
and elegance chill Violet to the very soul. She has no part in the
general cordiality, and Floyd finds himself helpless to mend matters.
For the first time since he has come home he regrets that this great
house is his portion, and that half, at least, had not gone to the
rest. He has a desperate desire to take Violet and live in the cottage,
as Cecil has proposed.
CHAPTER XV.
"The branches cross above our eyes,
  The skies are in a net."
The plans have been made without taking Violet into the slightest
account, or Floyd, as master of the house. Laura and madame are to come
up for a week, and there must be a dinner and an evening party. Laura
was compelled to have such a quiet wedding, and it was really shameful
to make so much use of madame and offer her so little in return.
"I really don't know what to do about the rooms," says Mrs. Grandon.
"It was absurd in Floyd to take that elegant spare chamber when he had
two rooms of his own and all the tower; and if one should say a word,
my lady would be in high dudgeon, no doubt."
"Mother," begins Gertrude in a calm tone,--and it seems as if Gertrude
had lost her sickly whine in this bracing autumn weather,--"you do
Violet great injustice. She will give up the room with pleasure the
moment she is asked."
"Oh, I dare say!" with a touch of scorn, meant to wither both speaker
and person spoken of, "if I were to go down on my knees, which I never
have done yet."
"You forget the house is Floyd's."
"No, I do not; I am not allowed to," with stately emphasis. "When
Floyd was down to the city he was the tenderest of sons to me. She is
a sly, treacherous little thing; you can see it in her face. I never
would trust a person with red hair, and she sets him up continually.
He is so different when he is away from her; Laura remarked it. How
he ever could have married her!"
"It would be the simplest act of courtesy to speak about the room; just
mention it to Floyd."
Mrs. Grandon draws a long, despairing sigh, as if she had been put upon
to the uttermost.
"We must invite the Brades and the Van Bergens to the dinner, though I
suppose Laura will choose the guests and divide them to her liking;
only at the dinner we shall have no dancing. Laura is to come up
to-morrow."
"If you would like me to speak about the room----" says Gertrude.
"I believe I am still capable of attending to my own affairs," is the
lofty rejoinder.
Marcia, with her head full of coming events, waylays Floyd on his
return that morning.
"I want some money," she says, with a kind of infantile gayety. "I have
bills and bills; their name is legion."
"How much?" he asks, briefly.
"I think--you may as well give me a thousand dollars," in a rather
slow, considering tone.
He looks at her in surprise.
"Well," and she tosses her head, setting the short curls in a flutter,
"is a thousand dollars so large a sum?"
"You had better think before spending it," he answers, gravely. "You
will then have four thousand left."
"It is my own money."
"I know it is. But, Marcia, you all act as if there was to be no end to
it. If you should get all your part, the ten thousand, it would be only
a small sum and easily spent. What do you want to do with so much just
now?"
"I told you I had bills to pay," she says, pettishly, "and dresses to
get." Then she lights upon what seems to her a withering sarcasm. "I
have no one to take me to Madame Vauban's and pay no end of bills. If I
bought dresses like that when I had no need of them and was not in
society----"
"Hush, Marcia!" he commands, "you shall have your money. Spend it as
you like," and he strides through the hall. He has been sorely tried
with Eugene, who will not interest himself in work, and has been
indulging in numerous extravagances; and business has not improved,
though everything in the factory goes smoothly.
Violet is in Cecil's room, teaching her some dainty bits of French. She
looks up with a bright smile and a blush, the color ripples over her
face so quickly. His is so grave. If she only had the courage to go and
put her arms about his neck and inquire into the trouble. She is so
intensely sympathetic, so generous in all her moods.
He has come home to take her to drive. It is such a soft,
Indian-summery day, with the air full of scents and sounds, but all the
pleasure has gone out of it now for him.
"Papa, listen to me," says Cecil, with her pretty imperiousness. "I can
talk to mamma in real French."
He smiles languidly and listens. If a man should lose his all, this
dainty, dimpled little creature playing at motherhood could set a
table, sweep a house, make her children's clothes and perhaps keep
cheerful through it. Was there ever any such woman, or is he dreaming?
He goes to hunt up Marcia's property, and is tempted to hand it over to
her and never trouble his head about it again. But that will not be the
part of prudence, any more than trusting their all to Eugene. Having
accepted the burthen, he must not lay it down at any chance
resting-place. So he hands it to her quietly at luncheon, and that
evening listens courteously to his mother's plans, offering no
objection.
"But he did not evince the slightest interest," she declares to Marcia.
"And you will see that every possible obstacle will be put in the way."
"And he can spend his money upon pony carriages for her!" retorts
Marcia, spitefully.
The pony carriage is indeed a grievance, and when Floyd teaches his
wife to ride, as her pony is accustomed to the saddle, the cup brims
over. He has announced the visitors to her, and she dreads, yet is most
anxious to see Madame Lepelletier.
"Was not this room hers when she was here in the summer?" asks Violet,
standing by the window.
"Yes," answers her husband, but he makes no further comment. It looks
like crowding Violet out, and he is not sure he wants that. He will
have her treated with the utmost respect during this visit, and it will
prove an opportunity to establish her in her proper standing as his
wife.
It all comes about quite differently. Violet is at the cottage, and has
gone up to take a look at papa's room and put some flowers on the
table. All is so lovely and peaceful. There is no place in the world
like it, for it is not the chamber of death, but rather that of
resurrection.
"Violet," calls her husband.
She turns to run down the stairs. It is a trifle dark, and how it
happens she cannot tell, but she lands on the floor almost at her
husband's feet, and one sharp little cry is all.
He picks her up and carries her to the kitchen, laying her on Denise's
cane-seat settee, where she shudders and opens her eyes, then faints
again.
"I wonder if any bones are broken!" And while Denise is bathing her
forehead, he tries her arms, which are safe. Then as he takes one small
foot in his hand she utters a piercing exclamation of pain. Prof.
Freilgrath is away; there is nothing but for Floyd to go for a
physician. He looks lingeringly, tenderly at the sweet child face, and
kisses the cold lips. Yes, she is very dear to him.
He brings back the doctor speedily. One ankle is badly sprained, and
there seems a wrench of some kind in her back. She must be undressed
and put to bed, and her ankle bandaged. He makes her draw a dozen long
respirations.
"I do not believe it can be anything serious," he says, kindly, "but we
will keep good watch. I will be in again early in the morning. There is
no present cause for anxiety," studying Grandon's perturbed face.
"I hope there is none at all," the husband responds, gravely.
"And--would it be possible to move her in a day or two?"
"She had better lie there on her back for the next week. You see, it is
a great shock to both nerves and muscles: we are not quite birds of the
air," and he laughs cheerily. "We will see how it goes with her
to-morrow."
Floyd returns to the chamber. Violet has a bright spot on either cheek,
and her eyes have a frightened, restless expression.
"It was so careless of me," she begins, in her soft tone that ought to
disarm and conquer any prejudice. "I should have looked, but I have
grown so used to running up and down."
"Accidents happen to the best of people." Then he has to laugh at the
platitude, and she laughs, too. "I mean--" he begins--"well, you are
not to worry or blame yourself, or to take the slightest trouble. I am
sorry it should happen just now, or at any time, for that matter, and
my only desire is that you shall get perfectly well and strong. It
might have been worse, my little darling," and he kisses her tenderly.
Then suddenly he realizes how very much worse it might have been, if
she had been left maimed and helpless; and bending over, folds her in
such an ardent embrace that every pulse quivers, and her first impulse
is to run away from something she cannot understand, yet is vaguely
delicious when the fear has ceased.
"I must go down to the park, but I will be back soon and stay all
night. Denise will bring you up a cup of tea." Then he kisses her again
and leaves her trembling with a strange, secret joy.
Rapidly as he drives home, he finds them all at dinner. "You are late,"
his mother exclaims sharply, but makes no further comment. Eugene
stares a little at the space behind him, and wonders momentarily. But
when he seats himself and is helped, he remarks that Cecil is not
present and inquires the reason.
"She was very naughty," explains Mrs. Grandon, severely. "Floyd, the
best thing you can do is to send that child back to England. She is
completely spoiled, and no one can manage her. If you keep on this way
she will become unendurable."
Floyd Grandon makes no answer. If Marcia and Eugene would not tease her
so continually, and laugh at the quick and sometimes insolent retorts!
"Where is Violet?" inquires Gertrude.
"She is at the cottage. She has met with an accident," he replies,
gravely.
"Oh!" Gertrude is really alarmed. The rest are curious, indifferent.
"What is it, what has happened?"
"She slipped and fell down-stairs, and has sprained her ankle; beside
the shock, we trust there are no more serious hurts."
"Those poky little stairs!" says Marcia. "I wonder some one's neck has
not been broken before this. Why do you not tear them out, Floyd, and
have the place altered. It has some extremely picturesque points and
would make over beautifully."
"It wouldn't be worth the expense," says Eugene, decisively, "on that
bit of cross road with no real street anywhere. I wonder at St. Vincent
putting money in such a cubby as that."
"The situation is exquisite," declares Marcia. "It seems to just hang
on the side of the cliff, and the terraced lawn and gardens would look
lovely in a sketch; on an autumn day it would be at its best, with the
trees in flaming gold and scarlet, and the intense green of the pines.
I really must undertake it before it is too late. Or as 'Desolation' in
midwinter it would be wonderfully effective."
"The most effective, I think."
Eugene is angry with Floyd for being the real master of the situation
and not allowing him to draw on the firm name for debts. He takes a
special delight in showing ill-temper to the elder.
"I am so glad," says Gertrude to Floyd, as soon as there is sufficient
lull to be heard. "Broken limbs are sometimes extremely troublesome.
But she will not be able to walk for some weeks if it is bad."
"It was dreadfully swollen by the time Dr. Hendricks came. I am very
thankful it was no worse, though that will be bad enough just when I
wanted her well," he says, with an energetic ring to his voice that
causes his mother to glance up.
"It is extremely unfortunate," she comments, with sympathy plainly
ironical. "What had we better do? Our dinner invitations are out."
"Everything will go on just the same," he answers, briefly, but he is
sick at heart. His life seems sacrificed to petty dissensions and the
selfish aims of others. The great, beautiful house is his, but he has
no home. The wife that should be a joy and pleasure is turned by them
into a thorn to prick him here and there. Even his little child--
"Jane, what was the trouble?" he asks, a few minutes later, as he
enters Cecil's room, where she is having a cosy dinner with her small
dishes.
"O papa--and I don't mind at all! It's just splendid up here."
"Hush, Cecil," rather peremptorily.
"Mrs. Grandon was--I do think she was cross," says Jane. "Miss Cecil
said she would wait for her mamma, and Mrs. Grandon said----" Jane
hesitates.
"Isn't it your house, papa? Grandmamma shook me because I said so," and
Cecil glances up defiantly.
"What did Mrs. Grandon say?" he asks, quietly, of Jane; for intensely
as he dislikes servants' gossip, he will know what provocation was
given to his child.
"She said that Miss Cecil wasn't mistress here nor any one else, and
that she would not have dinner kept waiting for people who chose to be
continually on the go. She took Miss Cecil's hand, and the child jerked
away, and she scolded, and Miss Cecil said that about the house."
"Very well, I understand all that is necessary." He has not the heart
to scold Cecil, the one being in the house devoted to Violet, and looks
at her with sad eyes as he says,--
"Mamma has had a bad fall, and is ill in bed. You must be a good girl
to-night and not make trouble for Jane."
"Oh, let me go to her!" Cecil is down from her dainty table, clinging
to her father. "Let me go, I will be so good and quiet, and not tease
her for stories, but just smooth her pretty hair as I did when her head
ached. Oh, you will let me go?"
He raises her in his arms and kisses the rosy, beseeching lips, while
the earnest heart beats against his own. "My darling," there is a
little tremble in his voice, "my dear darling, I cannot take you
to-night, but if you will be brave and quiet you shall go to-morrow.
See if you cannot earn the indulgence, and not give papa any trouble,
because you love him."
A long, quivering breath and dropping tears answer him. He is much
moved by her effort and comforts her, puts her back in her chair, and
utters a tender good night. Gertrude waylays him in the hall for a
second assurance that matters are not serious with Violet, and sends
her love. He sees no one else, and goes out in the darkness with a step
that rings on the walk. It seems to him that he has never been so angry
in all his life, and never so helpless.
"She has had her tea and fallen asleep," announces Denise, in a low
tone, as if loud talking was not permissible, even at the kitchen door.
"I think the powder was an anodyne. There is another for her in the
night if she is restless."
He goes up over the winding stairs with a curious sensation. She lies
there asleep, one arm thrown partly over her head, the soft white
sleeve framing in the fair hair that glitters as if powdered with
diamond-dust. The face is so piquant, so brave, daring, seductive, with
its dimples and its smiling mouth, albeit rather pale. His stern, tense
look softens. She is sweet enough for any man to love: she has ten
times the sense of Marcia, the strength and spirit of Gertrude, and
none of the selfishness of Laura. She is pretty, too, the kind of
prettiness that does not awe or stir deeply or command worship. What
is it--and an old couplet half evades him--
    "A creature not too bright and good
    For human nature's daily food."
That just expresses her. What with the writing and the business, he has
had so little time for her, but henceforth she shall be his delight. He
will devote himself to her pleasure. Proper or not, she shall go to the
city and see the gayety, hear concerts and operas and plays, even if
they have to go in disguise. But how to give her her true position at
home puzzles him sorely. He had meant to introduce her at these coming
parties, but of course that is quite out of the question.
Denise comes up presently, the kindly friend, the respectful domestic,
and takes a low seat when Mr. Grandon insists upon her remaining
awhile. Something in her curious Old World reverence always touches
him. He asks about Violet's childhood, whatever she remembers. The
mother she never saw; but she has been with the St. Vincents thirteen
years. They lived in Quebec for more than half that time; then Mr. St.
Vincent was abroad for two years, and Miss Violet went to the convent.
Denise is a faithful Romanist, but she has always honored her master's
faith,--perhaps because he has been so generous to hers.
There is some tea on the kitchen stove keeping warm, she tells him with
her good night, some biscuits and crackers, and a bottle of wine, if he
likes better. Then he is left alone, and presently the great clock in
the hall tells off slowly and reverently the midnight hour.
Violet stirs and opens her eyes. There is a light, and Mr. Grandon is
sitting here. What does it all mean? Her face flushes and she gives a
sudden start, half rising, and then drops back on the pillow, many
shades paler.
"I know now," she cries. "You came back to stay with me?"
There is a thrill of exultant joy in her tone. Does such a simple act
of duty give her pleasure, gratify her to the very soul? He is touched,
flattered, and then almost pained.
"You do not suppose I would leave you alone all night, my little
Violet?"
"It was good of you to come," she insists. "But are you going to sit
up? I am not really ill."
"Your back hurt you, though, when you stirred. I saw it in your face."
"It hurt only a little. I shall have to keep quiet, now," with a bright
smile.
"And your ankle must be bathed. I should have done it before but you
were sleeping so sweetly. Does your head ache, or is there any pain?"
"Only that in my back; but when I am still it goes away. My ankle feels
so tight. If the bandage could be loosened----"
"I think it best not." Then he bathes it with the gentlest handling,
until the thick layers have been penetrated. Will she have anything to
eat or to drink? Had she better take the second powder?
"Not unless I am restless, and I am not--very, am I?" with a soft
little inquiry.
"Not at all, I think," holding her wrist attentively.
"Are you going to sit up all night?" she asks.
"I am going to sit here awhile and put my head on your pillow, so,
unless you send me away."
"Send you away!" she echoes, in a tone that confesses unwittingly how
glad she is to have him.
Her hand is still in his, and he buries it in his soft beard, or bites
the fingers playfully. Her warm cheek is against his on the pillow, and
he can feel the flush come and go, the curious little heat that
bespeaks agitation. It is an odd, new knowledge, pleasing withal, and
though he is in some doubt about the wisdom, he hates even to move.
"You are quite sure you are comfortable?" he asks again.
"Oh, delightful!" There is a lingering cadence in her voice, as if
there might be more to say if she dared.
"You must go to sleep again, like a good child," he counsels, with a
sense of duty uppermost.
She breathes very regularly, but she is awake long after he fancies her
oblivious. She feels the kisses on her cheek and on her prisoned
fingers, and is very, very happy, so happy that the pain in her ankle
is as nothing to bear.
Dr. Hendricks makes a very good report in the morning. The patient's
back has been strained, and the ankle is bad enough, but good care will
soon overcome that. She must lie perfectly still for several days.
"When can she be moved?" Mr. Grandon asks.
"Moved? Why, she can't be moved at all! She is better off here than she
would be with a crowd around her bothering and wanting to wait on her,
as mothers and sisters invariably do," with a half-laughing nod at
Grandon. "Her back must get perfectly strong before she even sits up.
The diseases and accidents of life are not half as bad as the under or
over care, often most injudicious."
"Oh, do let me stay!" pleads Violet, with large, soft, beseeching eyes.
He has been planning how she shall be honored and cared for in her own
home, and does not like to yield. To have her out of the way here will
gratify all the others too much.
"Of course you will stay," the doctor says. "When a woman promises to
obey at the marriage altar, there is always an exception in the case of
that privileged and tyrannical person, the doctor."
Violet smiles, and is glad of the tyranny.
"She may see one or two guests and have a book to read, but she is not
to sit up."
The guest to-day is Cecil, but Denise makes the kitchen so altogether
attractive that Cecil's heart is very much divided. Mr. Grandon spends
part of the afternoon reading aloud, but his mellow, finely modulated
voice is so charming that Violet quite forgets the subject in the
delight of listening to him. Cecil would fain stay and wishes they
could all live with Denise.
Yes, there could be more real happiness in that little nest than in the
great house. Aunt Marcia's gift has not brought him very good luck,
even from the first.
CHAPTER XVI.
What is the use of so much talking? Is not the wild rose sweet without
a comment?--HAZZLIT.
Since there is no real alarm about Mrs. Floyd, arrangements go onward.
Madame Lepelletier and Mr. and Mrs. Delancy come up on the appointed
day, and madame is led to the lovely guest chamber where she reigned
