
Yes, the two years had cKrme a great deal for Sarah Strong. 
Kathie felt that she would hardly have known her the first 
momrnt, and yet it was more the inward, spiritual change 
manifest in every direction, than any purely outward alter- 
ation. She was of medium height and rather stout, but 
there was a compactness to her figure, a firmness and vigor 
to her step, a character in the poise of her head. Her 
hair had deepened in its color, though it was still red, but 
its tint and abundance rendered it really beautiful. Her 
clear, serious, gray eyes, her gracious expression and ten- 
der smile, made the face good looking in the truest sense. 

"Oh !" she exclaimed, then paused suddenly, as if half 
abashed. 

Kathie sprang out and clasped her arms about her old- 
time friend and admirer. 

"How good of you to come!" Sarah cried, with a 
long, struggling breath. " And oh, how how beautiful 
you have grown ! I must say it ; has nt she ? " turning to 
Mr. Conover. " I have thought so much about you, and 
wondered, and your letters were such treasures. But 
there is nothing like really having you. once again ; changed 
and yet not changed ; but I don't believe anything could 
spoil you." 

" I don't know," returned Kathie, archly. " Praioe 
might." 

" No, it wouldn't: you would know that the truth was 
true, and the rest you wouldn't care for; an I sometimes 
people cannot help speaking out what is in their hearts, 
sure that it will not be wrongly interpreted. But they are 
all so anxious to see you, and yet they are afraid that you 
are a great lady." 

Sarah laughed softly, with a mellow kind of cadence, 
and Kathie joined her, as the two walked across the porch 
and entered the parlor. 

Kathie recalled unconsciously her first introduction to it. 
That too had been gradually toned down. And what 





pleased Kathie the most was the utter absence of any 
sense of newness, though she realized that it was Sarah's 
parlor, for it had nearly all been refurnished. The carpet 
was a rich deep brown, with here and there a dash of 
crimson and olive green. A few easy-chairs and the sofa 
she had once been so proud of acquiring, a pretty home- 
made bookcase, with some jars and ornaments on the top, 
and getting to be quite well filled ; the melodeon, some 
well-chosen pictures, and soft, drapery curtains in ecru, 
that toned the white wall, which Mrs. Strong would retain 
as a point of cleanliness. A cheerful fire was burning in 
an open-front stove, and the air felt delightful after the 
ride. 

"No, I am not a great lady that any one might be 
afraid of," said Kathie, with some amusement. " I feel 
very natural in getting back to the old places ; sometimes 
it seems as if another Kathie had been abroad, until I 
count up the changes." 

' Mother ! " Sarah said ; " Cousin Ellen ! " 

Mrs. Strong entered, her own hearty self in spite of a 
certain diffidence ; and her delight was visible in every line 
of her face. Beside Cousin Ellen, Martha, a tall, bashful 
girl, seemed longing to hide herself, and jet a certain curi- 
osity conquered her shyness ; but in a few moments the 
group seemed increased indefinitely, with almost every 
child pushing forward, until Kathie stood in the midst, a 
little princess with her loyal retainers. 

Uncle Robert had driven down to the barn, as usual. To 
the thrift here had been added a kind of sensible orderli- 
ness. The farmers around rather sneered at the new-fan- 
gled notions of the Strongs, taken out of books and papers, 
but the result remained a source of astonishment, and not a 
little secret envy. There were better crops finer fruit, 
some successful ventures in new things ; and the money 
gain was the thing they could not well despise. Father 
and sous labored harmoniously together. James had his 




workshop and exercised his ingenuity on rainy days pro- 
ducing some creditable pieces of workmanship. He had 
decided not to go to the cityfor a trade, and add another 
to the stragglers. 

Within the house they talked and talked. Kathie in her 
refinement, breeding, and culture was the same marvel to 
them as heretofore. There was no condescension, no 
standing a little apart, and yet they, by a fine natural con- 
sent, set her above themselves. 

" Now, children," said Mrs. Strong, "come out in the 
kitchen and leave Sarah and Miss Kathie to themselves a 
little while." 

The children obeyed rather reluctantly, but the two were 
finally left for a girlish confidence. And there was so 
much to say, school, with its gradual advancement; 
church, with its music and its grand lessons, a little soci- 
ety, even in that country place, and the work to do. 

Sarah Strong said it with a glad, true ring. Work was 
the thorough comprehensiveness of living. A plain, nar- 
row place, but not small, only a little soul could contract 
it. Everything she touched came presently to have a vi- 
tality of its own. She was not a nurse, she could not 
pander to weakness ; her theory must stand alone, robust, 
far-reaching, and her practice must lead others to help 
themselves. Yet there was no rudeness in all this, rather 
a gentle firmness, that allowed no turning back, that pointed 
out mistakes clearly. 

As Kathie listened she wondered. What would Sarah 
do with this life presently ? Was she not needed out in the 
great world? And how would she get there? And then 
Kathie knew the God who had guided hitherto could not 
fail or go wrong. 'Perhaps it was just here the work was 
required. And she was holding herself steadfast, garner- 
ing up the true content, staying here, but learning all the 
time to go up higher when the true summons came, yet 
not hurrying nor dimming the grace of the present by any 
impatience. 




" What a grand thing," she said, presently, " to have 
been in all these places ; and the next best is to see through 
a friend's eyes. When I had your two or three letters 
from Rome, I knew you were looking at things for me. 
But further back, when you were in Moscow, you. spoke of 
Napoleon, and we found two or three histories and read 
them aloud. James was so interested. Then we wanted 
to know about Russia and Prussia, and all these quarrels 
with kings and emperors. I interested the school children, 
and they in turn roused their parents. It is always the 
little leaven. And how can people shut their eyes and 
care nothing about the events outside their little circle ? I 
always did want to know"; smiling. "When I find a 
child dull and ignorant, and am tempted to be impatient, 
I think of your goodness." 

"But you were not dull," said Kathie "Ask Uncle 
Robert. I believe his sympathy has brought about higher 
results than any act of mine." 

" There was a step on the porch and Sarah started. It 
was too dark to see the quick color mantle her face. 

" Kathie," she said, " I must beg your pardon for some- 
thing I have done. I hated to lose even a moment of 
your precious time, but I read one of your letters to our 
minister, and promised him if ever I could arrange it you 
should meet ; so father asked him down to tea. He 
is coming now. Don't feel annoyed, please." 

Then she began to light the lamp. Martha opened the 
door and announced Mr. Tmesdell. 

Kathie rose. A grave, rather careworn man, not much 
beyond thirty, but looking old for hisyears, yet with a cer- 
tain scholarly refinement and a gentle, almost entreating 
strand in his voice. 

The moment after the " men" came up from the barn, 
and Mrs. Strong announced supper, a generous country 
supper, with a table that would not have shamed more 
pretentious people. 




Mr. Truesdell and Uncle Robert were acquainted, it 
seemed. Mr. Strong and James were delighted to see 
Kathie, the young man somewhat shy at first. It certainty 
was a pleasant supper, and Mr. Truesdell proved himself 
very companionable. 

There was a bright moon, so the guests did not hasten 
away immediately. Sarah opened the melodeon and they 
sang a few grand old hymns. Some strange conscious- 
ness flashed across Kathie as they stood there, and it 
seemed as if her question about Sarah was answered. 

But they had to say good by presently. Kathie promised 
to come again, and Sarah was to have a whole Saturday at 
the Palace Beautiful, as she called it. 

"Well?" said Uncle Robert interrogatively, when they 
had ridden a long distance in silence. 

" Uncle Robert, who is Mr. Truesdell? and has he been 
long at Middleville?" 

" About a year, I think. He is an earnest worker, for all 
his quiet air, and a widower with two children." 

" Oh ! and Sarah will go to the very place she is so well 
fitted for. Did you guess or know " 

" I know that he cares a great deal for her, but Sarah is 
hardly conscious of its meaning. She likes him, but the 
cousin being there blinds her a little. How did you come 
to see such a thing ? I did not know your eyes were so 
sharp." 

" It was his tone when he spoke, and his look. I am so 
glad ! What a strange thing that all her improvement 
should tend to this point! And she is such a sincere 
believer, such a noble worker, I feel quite shamed beside 
her. The pupil far exceeds the desultory teacher." 

" I think it will be an excellent marriage. They are not 
the people to hurry Providence, but will go on tranquilly 
until some day when her eyes will see the truth and tender- 
ness awaiting her. But remember, Kitty, that you have 
surprised the knowledge." 




"Oh, I could never hint such a thing to her. Do not 
think that poorly of me. But you know " and he under- 
stood the kind of tender amusement in her voice " that 
I have been in the midst of a good many love affairs." 

" Yes. You deserve credit for the judgment evinced, 
and I know you will not fail in this." 

She was silent for a long time again, wondering, in an 
innocent, young-girl way, how this great mystery would 
come to her, if ever it came at all. 



CHAPTER VII. 

KATHIE was rather quiet and thoughtful after her visit 
to Sarah Strong. Was she really idling away too much of 
her time ? She could take up some study, a course of read- 
ing, or an accomplishment. She did practise her music, 
she was very fond of that ; and she dropped in now and 
then among the old friends she had known, who were 
always delighted to see her. The Morrisons were still at 
the Lodge, and another baby had been added to the group. 
She used to talk over old times with grandmother, who 
was still hearty and cheery. Far-away Ethel and her 
father were doing well ; and, thugh she realized more 
truly than ever that she had outgrown some of the girls, 
there was no need of any abrupt breaking off. As Uncle 
Robert said, these matters settled themselves. 

Mrs. Alston wanted to go to New York, and her brother 
proposed that they should take a real holiday with Kathie, 
go up to the city and board for a month or two, shop and 
see pictures, and attend some operas, as there were sev- 
eral noted singers announced. Hannah would look after 
the house and Fred, and Jane would be glad to go home 
for a few weeks, as this was always considered a great 
treat by the Mabeyond bin family. 

Kathie's new friends were in despair. 

" I don't believe you ever mean to stay at home !" de- 
clared Eugene Collamore. " Here we are just getting in 
nice train for in-door amusements, planning a series of 
amateur concerts and a Shakespeare reading club, and now 
away you go." 





" But I am only one." 

" Every one counts, especially in the winter. Girls, 
let us try to persuade her." 

There was such a very evident admiration in Eugene's 
glance that Eathie colored with a curious sensation not 
quite comfortable 

" I have expended all my eloquence and all my reasons," 
answered Lou, " but the stubborn fact remains ; and if I 
had so good an opportunity I should go. Perhaps we will 
for a week, Eathie ; wouldn't it be jolly?" 

"Oh do!" cried Eathie. 

"Worse and worse. You set a bad example, Miss Al- 
ston, and stir up disaffection. If you could plead duty now, 
but pure pleasure " 

"Let us seek pleasure while we may," carolled Lou, 

gayly. 

Eugene walked over home with Eathie ; they, too, had be- 
come great friends. 

" Eugene is regularly smitten with Eathie Alston," said 
Louise, after they had gone. "If they were older, one 
might wish " 

" But they are too young to wish about. I never saw a 
girl so innocent of love-making or marrying as she. I 
don't believe it ever enters her mind." 

So they made ready and went to the city. Mrs. Mere- 
dith would not hear of their staying at a hotel. She was 
just settled in her lovely new house, as Mr Meredith de- 
cided that now they might safely purchase. It was but a 
short distance from the Park, and in a very select neigh- 
borhood. The furnishing was elegant and artistic, and 
Mrs. Edward herself a stylish find fascinating woman, 
with her Paris culture and experience. Her sister-in-law 
was amazed and a trifle envious. Jessie would never be 
a purely fashionable leader, but one clique no longer ruled 
society : it was the thing now to have a specialty ; and 
Jessie chose hers among the pleasures she really enjoyed. 
Ada was glad to be drawn into this delightful circle. 





Kathie declared they did nothing but go and enjoy. 
Charlie Darrell was a frequent visitor at his sister's. Dick 
Grayson and some other student friends found a cordial 
welcome, and Kathie soon had a train of admirers. It 
troubled her mother a little at first. 

" We shall not always be able to keep her a child," said 
Uncle Robert, smilingly : ' ' young men will discover her 
charms." 

" But I should be sorry to see her flirting or making a 
bid for admiration." 

"She has little need for that. And you. know, Dora, 
she has been brought up with boys, as one may say, and 
is in a certain way used to their attentions. Think how 
Mr. Meredith and Mr. Langdon treated her two or three 
years ago, and she never overstepped the bounds of child- 
ish pleasure. "We will not trouble her with cautions until 
we see her on the verge of dangerous paths. There is 
nothing so lovely as the entire innocence of a young girl." 

"If young men do not mistake it. The most finished 
coquettes of the day assume it as their strongest ally." 

" There are no counterfeits on base metals," said 
Uncle Robert, with a pleasant laugh. 

Dr. Markham had not lost his olden fondness for his 
favorite. She took rides with him, and they had long 
talks about Ada. 

" She has awakened to the true sense of living," said 
the doctor, "but she is. grasping at too much. A man 
doesn't expect to master all the knowledge of a lifetime 
in a few years. You have to try things, to sift and win- 
now, to hold fast of some truths not altogether palatable, 
to let others go that may be charming, but have no real 
place in your manner of life. It is the fitness that makes 
symmetrical characters, not the many bits of knowledge 
pieced on. Some time I think she will get things un- 
tangled, and realize that of this great mystery, life, we 
can only have one small piece here. But she is making a 





better woman than I ever fancied she would. After all, I 
think it takes love and mothering to make true girls and 
women, and heaven knows she had little enough of 
that." 

"And I had so much," said Kathie, with a thrill of 
strange, secret joy. 

Beside the operas and dinner parties, Kathie went to 
some quite gay entertainments, where she danced to her 
heart's content. Weeks flew by rapidly. Gen. Mackenzie 
was up once on business, armed with entreaties that Mrs. 
Alston and Kathie would spend the remainder of the win- 
ter in Washington. 

"Well, why should you not?" asked Uncle Robert. 
" There is really nothing to confine you at home, and you 
are not so old as to have lost all zest for society. Ruth 
would be delighted, I know, and Kathie would have a 
glimpse of the most important men and women of her own 
country. Congress will be in session ; and so many ce- 
lebrities seek Washington in the winter to see and be 
seen." 

Kathie was enchanted with the idea, and so the elders 
laid their plans accordingly. The Collamores were to 
come up and keep Christmas with some cousins, and they 
hoped Kathie would stay. There was shopping and dress- 
making, and no diminution of enjoyments. Kathie was 
the same favorite here that she had been in childhood. 

" I will tell you what I want to do Christmas morning, 
Uncle Robert," she said, her eyes softened with emotion. 
" Let us go to some quiet church for morning service. I 
want to think of the winter when I was here with Aunt 
Ruth, while she was being cured. It was so hard to stay 
away from you all, and somehow she and I both fell into 
the Slough of Despond, I believe " ; and a soft, sad smile 
played over her face at the remembrance. " But Christ- 
mas morning brought great joy to our souls, and I would 
like to keep the feast reverently, thanking God for all the 
blessings." 





It surprised all her friends that Kathie resisted the grand 
music and elaborate decorations of the great churches, and 
went off with Uncle Robert to a plain church to celebrate her 
festival. They could not understand what it was to her, 
but Uncle Robert knew by that how little the child's 
heart had changed, that under all the lightness there 
were deep soundings to be touched by the greater hand, 
and to answer in kind. 

Eugene Collamore came up Christmas eve to stay over 
Sunday with his sisters, who were already very much at 
home at Mrs. Meredith's, and having no end of enjoyment 
with the young College Clan, as Lou called it. They were 
nice, jolly fellows, and Eugene had enjoyed Charlie and 
Dick wonderfully the summer before ; but he soon made 
the discovery that he had not come to see the boys, and as 
for Kathie, one could never get near her any more. When 
she was talking and laughing with Dick Grayson he was 
very sure she liked him best, and when Sunday evening 
they were all singing hymns, as Charlie played on the organ, 
there came a rapt, heavenly look in their faces that 
seemed to make them so of one kin, of one mind, that 
Eugene turned sorrowfully away with a pang he could not 
fathom, something beyond boyish perception, yet very 
real and keen. 

How often they said, u If Rob were here; if Bruce 
were here," and called up old and fond memories. Kathie 
wrote to them both, but she felt that letters were a poor 
substitute for this delight. 

Mrs. Alston went home for a week, and then the party 
started for Washington, where Aunt Ruth received them 
with unalloyed gladness. Kathie recalled her first visit to 
Washington, but oh, how different everything was now ! 
Aunt Ruth was the centre, one might say, of a very charm- 
ing circle. Her husband's position, her own culture and 
recent travel, and perhaps the indescribable charm that 
goes by the name of fascination, filled her rooms with choice 





friends. She still looked very young, and her slight lame- 
ness seemed to give a touch of romance, an excuse for her 
husband's devotion. 

Mrs. Alston awoke to a peculiar interest in it all. The 
war had not quite dropped out of everybody's mind, for 
the heroes were still honored, some of them showing scars 
or betraying the loss of a limb ; and with it had developed 
a wider national life ; denizens of other countries came to 
\Vashington to study and observe, and foreign ministers 
and their families added a piquant charm. 

" It is almost like being abroad again," said Kathie. 

There was this difference, she was regularly in society 
now. Young people were not long in finding her out. 
Her freshness and zest, her sunny temper and generous 
disposition, made her a favorite. Invitations piled up on 
her little table, and it was quite impossible to attend to 
them all. Uncle Robert was oftenest her escort ; indeed, 
he seemed never to tire of taking her about and showing 
her the things she hardly dreamed of in her former visit. 
They attended congressional debates, and her bright face 
and interested air caught more than one eye as she looked 
and listened. 

Of parties, dinners, dances, and drives she had a full 
share. Sometimes her mother became anxious lest she 
should injure her health or run into some danger. She was 
forced to admit that her little Kathie was a very attractive 
girl. 

Perhaps it was the fact that Kathie had grown accus- 
tomed to a certain degree of approval from her boyish 
friends as well as the elders that led her to accept atten- 
tions with a winning grace quite removed from coquetry. 
Young men observed that much sentiment or blandishment 
was lost upon her. She often checked a fulsome compli- 
ment by merely raising her eyes to the speaker ; and she kept 
her delicate manner of reserve about her like a fine foil. 
It was with her the simplest truth and honesty. 





On their return they made a short stay in Baltimore and 
in Philadelphia. It was quite a disappointment to Kathie 
that Bruce had not been able to make a flying trip to Wash- 
ington, but he consoled her with the thought that he might 
spend a few weeks during the summer at Cedarwood, which 
would be ever so much pleasanter. While they were in 
New York, Uncle Robert took a brief journey to Chicago, 
and found his nephew and namesake giving entire satisfac- 
tion in his position. 

Some great change had certainly come over gay, laugh- 
ing, fun-loving Rob Alston. He looked older, with a 
settled, determined expression, as if he had already begun 
to fight his battle of life and did not mean to be worsted. 
He explained to Uncle Robert that he was living very 
quietly in the suburbs, but the two nights he spent with 
him at a hotel. 

" Rob," his uncle said, " I do not like to see you taking 
life quite so hard, giving up the useful and innocent pleas- 
ures. There is only one youth after all, and if it is spent 
with a wise economy you lay up pleasant remembrances 
for middle life. Money is not quite all, my boy." 

" I have been a good deal engrossed mastering the in- 
tricacies of business. The other will all come in time." 
And he gave a kind of half-smile, that seemed to lack 
heart 

" You are going on very fast, Mr. Farwell informs me, 
and have learned more rapidly than any one he has had. 
It is high praise, Rob, but you must not neglect health, and 
some of the attainments acquired in the past. I think you 
do show your close confinement." 

" Then I must take a course at a gymnasium, and the 
fresh spring air will soon tone me up. You are very good 
to me, Uncle Robert, but you need not be afraid of a great 
strong fellow like me working too hard." 

It was a satisfactory visit in all respects save one. Was 
there not something kept back, some secret or perplexity ? 





All he could think of that seemed probable was that Rob 
had contracted a debt in the past and was working out of 
it himself, as a penance and a punishment. If so, it was 
brave and manly, and he would not interfere with the work 
of conscience. Yet it pained Uncle Robert to leave him 
toiling on alone, away from old friends, and making no 
new ones ; it seemed unnatural for youth. 

It was really delightful to get home once more and set- 
tle, Kathie thought. 

"Now, mamma," she declared, "we will not have any 
journeyings or wanderings about in strange places, but just 
a little bit of home life and home people. It will take me 
ever so long to get my mind untangled, and know what of 
the past I want to keep and what I shall throw away, 
dismiss and forget." 

' ' Then you think there will be some you shall not care 
to retain? " And her mother smiled. " It is a good thing 
to have a weeding-out process now and then." 

The house was to be cleaned, the garden put in order, 
and taking up her old interests engrossed Mrs. Alston con- 
siderably. Kathie carolled about the place, joyous as a 
bird, her smile as bright as when in the midst of gayety. 
Clearly she had not yet been spoiled. 

She stood by the open window one morning early in 
May. Oh, how fresh and fragrant it was with all this 
dewy sweetness ! Birds were singing and darting hither 
and thither. Yonder a hen was clucking to her brood of 
downy chicks, and the ducks were swimming about in the 
lake. How wide and inspiriting after the narrow in-doors 
of pleasure ! 

Uncle .Robert was sauntering slowly through the walks, 
surveying some improvements. The young girl tied back 
her beautiful flowing Locks and Tan down to iiim. 

' * Upon my word , Miss Kathie ! " And there was a merry 
twinkle of affected surprise in his eye. 

" You did not think I would be able to rise with 'the lark 





after a winter of dissipation, did you? " she asked, with be- 
witching archness. 

" Why, the lark has been up to heaven's gate and come 
back to her breakfast," he made answer, humorously. 

" I have been almost up to heaven's gate, too" ; and a 
sweet seriousness overspread her face. " I was glancing 
out over to the mountain, hill I suppose we ought to 
say now, and all the glory of the scene, the peace and 
brooding tenderness, filled me with gratitude. I have 
seen so much, Uncle Robert, and yet nothing seems bet- 
ter to me than Cedarwood, though many things are 
grander." 

li My little girl, I am glad, yes, thankful, that you can 
enjoy it thus heartily. It seems to me, a true appreciation 
of what is lofty and great ought never, would never, I 
should say , lead one to despise smaller phases of beauty 
and excellence." 

" I shouldn't want to dwell among the Alps," Kathie 
said slowly : ' ' they chill me and leave a kind of awe- 
some admiration. I do not think either that I would care 
to live at Rome, among ruins and old palaces and pictures ; 
yet I am very glad to have seen it all, and now I am con- 
tent and happy to be here and watch these lovely pictures 
that grow nearer perfection daily." 

" your winter's dissipation has not spoiled you? " 

She laughed brightly. 

'' I do suppose you sometimes thought I might dance 
away my senses. It was lovely, Uncle Robert, enchant- 
ing." And she gave a graceful pirouette on the gravel walk. 
" Am I queer and changeable? But it is so delightful to 
be alive, to enjoy everything. How would it feel, I wonder, 
to be languid and bored, and have no emotions ! " 

" O Miss Alston!" exclaimed a fresh, young voice; 
and Eugene Collamore reigned his horse up to the hedge. 
" Must I wish you joy, or shall you wish me ? It 's such a 
rare delight to see you. And I have stolen a march on the 





girls. They were talking of you last night and will call 
to-day." 

" I shall be glad to see them." And though the words 
were simply uttered, the earnest eyes she raised gave 
them meaning. 

How beautiful she was, he thought, standing there 
in the sunshine, the wind blowing lightty among her 
curls, stirring them so softly they looked like a shower 
of gold. 

" You have had a grand time at Washington, among the 
magnates and great people and everybody. I wonder if 
we shall not seem just a little commonplace, uninterest- 
ing?" 

" Why should you not make yourself interesting ? " And 
she glanced up archly. " You must not allow me to pine 
and waste away with ennui. 

"O Miss Kathie, I don't believe you know what ennui 
is!" 

She surely did not look as if it had depressed her seri- 
ously. He glanced her all over in a quick eager fashion, 
even to the dainty feet that still seemed to take dancing 
steps on the gravel walk. 

" No, I do not believe I ever suffered from it. I think it 
would be extremely ungrateful in me. What a pretty 
