Europe before, but I did not spend a winter in Rome. 
Every one assures me that this is a peculiar refinement 
of bliss ; most people talk about Rome in the same way. 
It is evidently only a sort of idealised form of loafing : 
a passive life in Rome, thanks to the number and the 
quality of one 's impressions, takes on a very respectable 
likeness to activity. It is still lotus-eating, only you sit 
down at table and the lotuses are served up on rococo 
china. It 's all very well, but I have a distinct prevision 
of this that if Roman life doesn't do something substan 
tial to make you happier, it increases tenfold your liability 
to moral misery. It seems to me a rash thing for a 
sensitive soul deliberately to cultivate its sensibilities by 
rambling too often among the ruins of the Palatine or 
riding too often in the shadow of the crumbling aqueducts. 
In such recreations the chords of feeling grow tense, and 
after-life, to spare your intellectual nerves, must play 
upon them with a touch as dainty as the tread of Mignon 
when she danced her egg-dance." 
" I should have said, my dear Rowland," said Cecilia, 
with a laugh, "that your nerves were tough that your 
eggs were hard ! " 
"That being stupid, you mean, I might be happy? 
Upon my word, I am not happy ! I am clever enough 
to want more than I have got. I am tired of myself, 
my own thoughts, my own affairs, my own eternal company. True happiness, we are told, consists in getting 
out of one 's self ; but the point is not only to get out 
you must stay out ; and to stay out you must have some 
absorbing errand. Unfortunately, I have no errand, and 
nobody will trust me with one. I want to care for some 
thing or for somebody. And I want to care with a 
certain ardour ; even, if you can Relieve it, with a certain 
passion. I can't just now feel ardent and passionate 
about a hospital or a dormitoiy. Do you know I some 
times think that I am a man of genius, half-finished ? 
The genius has been left out, the faculty of expression is 
wanting ; but the need for expression remains, and I 
spend my days groping for the latch of a closed door." 
" He had an immense number of words," said Cecilia 
after a pause, " to say you want to fall in love ! I have 
no doubt you have as good a genius for that as any one, 
if you would only trust it." 
" Of course I have thought of that, and I assure you 
I hold myself ready. But evidently I am not inflammable. Is there in Northampton some perfect epitome 
of the graces?" 
"Of the graces?" said Cecilia, raising her eyebrows- 
and suppressing too distinct a consciousness of being 
herself a rosy embodiment of several. " The household 
virtues are better represented. There are some excellent 
girls, and there are two or three very pretty ones. I will 
have them here one by one to tea, if you like. " 
I should particularly like it ; especially as I should 
give you a chance to see by the profundity of my attention that if I am not happy it 's not for want of taking 
pains. " 
Cecilia was silent a moment ; and then, "On the 
whole," she resumed, " I don't think there are any worth 
asking. There are none so very pretty, none so very 
pleasing. " 
"Are you very sure?" asked the young man, rising 
and throwing away his cigar-end. 
"Upon my word," cried Cecilia, "one would suppose 
I wished to keep you for myself ! Of course I am sure ! 
But as the penalty of your insinuations, I shall invite the 
plainest and prosiest damsel that can be found and leave 
you alone with her." 
Rowland smiled. "Even against her," he said, "I 
should be sorry to conclude until I had given her my 
respectful attention." 
This little profession of ideal chivalry (which closed 
the conversation) was not quite so fanciful on Mallet 's 
lips as it would have been on those of many another 
man ; as a rapid glance at his antecedents may help to 
make the reader perceive. His life had been a singular 
mixture of the rough and the smooth. He had sprung 
from a rigid Puritan stock, and had been brought up to 
think much more intently of the duties of this life than 
of its privileges and pleasures. His progenitors had submitted in the matter of dogmatic theology to the relaxing 
influences of recent years ; but if Rowland 's youthful 
consciousness was not chilled by the menace of long 
punishment for brief transgression, he had at least been 
made to feel that there ran through all things a strain of 
right and of wrong as different, after all, in their complexion as the texture to the spiritual sense of Sundays 
and week-days. His father was a chip of the primal 
Puritan block, a man with an icy smile and a stony frown. 
He had always bestowed on his son, on principle, more 
frowns than smiles, and if the lad had not been turned 
to stone himself it was because nature had blessed him 
inwardly with a well of vivifying waters. Mrs. Mallet 
had been a Miss Rowland, the daughter of a retired sea- 
captain once famous on the ships that sailed from Salem 
and Newburyport. He had brought to port many a 
cargo which crowned the edifice of fortunes already 
almost colossal, but he had also done a little sagacious 
trading on his own account, and he was able to retire, 
prematurely for so seaworthy a maritime organism, upon 
a pension of his own providing. He was to be seen for 
a year on the Salem wharves, smoking the best tobacco 
and contemplating the seaward horizon with an inveteracy 
which superficial minds interpreted as a sign of repentance. 
At last, one evening, he disappeared beneath it, as he 
had often done before ; this time, however, not as a com 
missioned navigator, but simply as an amateur of an 
observing turn likely to prove oppressive to the officer in 
command of the vessel. Five months later his place at 
home knew him again, and made the acquaintance also 
of a handsome, light-coloured young woman, of redundant contour, speaking a foreign tongue. The foreign tongue proved after much conflicting research to be the 
idiom of Amsterdam, and the young woman, which was 
stranger still, to be Captain Rowland 's wife. Why he 
had gone forth so suddenly across the seas to marry her, 
what had happened between them before, and whether 
though it was of questionable propriety for a good citizen 
to espouse a young person of mysterious origin who did 
her hair in fantastically elaborate plaits and in whose 
appearance " figure" enjoyed such striking predominance 
he would not have had a heavy weight on his conscience if he had remained an irresponsible bachelor ; 
these questions, and many others bearing with varying 
degrees of immediacy on the subject, were much pro 
pounded but scantily answered, and this history need not 
be charged with resolving them. Mrs. Rowland, for so 
handsome a woman, proved a tranquil neighbour and an 
excellent housewife. Her extremely fresh complexion, 
however, was always suffused with an air of apathetic 
homesickness, and she played her part in American 
society chiefly by having the little squares of brick pavement in front of her dwelling scoured and polished as 
nearly as possible into the likeness of Dutch tiles. Row 
land Mallet remembered having seen her as a child an 
immensely stout white-faced lady, wearing a high cap of 
very stiff tulle, speaking English with a formidable accent, 
and suffering from dropsy. Captain Rowland was a little 
bronzed and wizened man, with eccentric opinions. He 
advocated the creation of a public promenade along the 
sea, with arbours and little green tables for the consump 
tion of beer, and a platform, surrounded by Chinese 
lanterns, for dancing. He especially desired the town 
library to be opened on Sundays; though, as he never 
entered it on week-days, it was easy to turn the proposition into ridicule. Therefore, if Mrs. Mallet was a woman 
of an exquisite moral tone, it was not that she had inherited 
her temper from an ancestry with a turn for casuistry. 
Jonas Mallet at the time of his marriage was conducting 
with silent shrewdness a small unpromising business. 
Both his shrewdness and his silence increased with his 
years, and at the close of his life he was an extremely 
well-dressed, well-brushed gentleman with a frigid gray 
eye, who said little to anybody, but of whom everybody 
said that he had a very handsome fortune. He was not 
a sentimental father, and the roughness I just now spoke 
of in Rowland 's life dated from his early boyhood. 
Mr. Mallet, whenever he looked at his son, felt extreme 
compunction at having made a fortune. He remembered 
that the fruit had not dropped ripe from the tree into 
his own mouth, and he determined it should be no fault 
of his if the boy were corrupted by luxury. Rowland 
therefore, except for a good deal of expensive instruction 
in foreign tongues and abstruse sciences, received the 
education of a poor man 's son. His fare was plain, his 
temper familiar with the discipline of patched trousers, 
and his habits marked by an exaggerated simplicity which 
was kept up really at great expense. He was banished 
to the country for months together, in the midst of servants, 
who had strict injunctions to see that he suffered no serious harm, but were as strictly forbidden to wait upon 
him. As no school could be found conducted on prin 
ciples sufficiently rigorous, he was attended at home by a 
master who set a high price on the understanding that 
he was to illustrate the beauty of abstinence, not only by 
precept but by example. Rowland passed for a child of 
ordinary parts, and certainly, during his younger years, 
was an excellent imitation of a boy who had inherited 
nothing whatever that was to make life easy. He was 
passive, pliable, frank, extremely slow at his books, and 
inordinately fond of trout-fishing. His hair, a memento 
of his Dutch ancestry, was of the fairest shade of yellow, 
his complexion absurdly rosy, and the measurement of 
the waist, when he was about ten years old, quite alarmingly large. This, however, was but an episode in his 
growth ; he became afterwards a fresh-coloured, yellow- 
bearded man, but he was never accused of anything more 
awkward than a manly roundness. He emerged from 
childhood a simple, wholesome, round-eyed lad, with no 
suspicion that a less roundabout course might have been 
taken to make him happy, but with a vague sense that 
his young experience was not a fair sample of human 
freedom, and that he was to make a great many discoveries. When he was about fifteen he achieved a 
momentous one. He ascertained that his mother was a 
saint. She had always been a very vivid presence in his 
life, but so intensely gentle a one that his sense was fully 
opened to it only by the danger of losing her. She had 
an illness which for many months was liable at any 
moment to terminate fatally, and during her long-arrested 
convalescence she removed the mask which she had worn 
for years by her husband 's order. Rowland spent his days 
at her side, and felt before long as if he had made a new 
friend. All his impressions at this period were commented 
upon and interpreted at leisure in the future, and it was 
only then that he understood that his mother had been for 
fifteen years a singularly unhappy woman. Her marriage 
had been an immitigable error which she had spent her 
life in trying to look in the face. She found nothing to 
oppose to her husband 's rigid and consistent will but the 
appearance of absolute compliance ; her courage sank, 
and she lived for a while in a sort of spiritual torpor. 
But at last, as her child emerged from babyhood, she 
began to feel a certain charm in patience, to discover 
the uses of ingenuity, and to learn that somehow or other 
one can always arrange one 's life. She cultivated from 
this time forward a little private plot of sentiment, and 
it was of this secluded precinct that before her death she 
gave her son the key. Rowland 's allowance at college 
was barely sufficient to maintain him decently, and as 
soon as he graduated he was taken into his father 's 
counting-house to do small drudgery on a proportionate 
salary. For three years he earned his living as regularly 
as the obscure functionary in fustian who swept out the 
place. Mr. Mallet was consistent, but the perfection of 
his consistency w r as known only on his death. He left 
but a third of his property to his son, and devoted the 
remainder to various public institutions and local charities. 
 
Rowland 's third was a veiy easy competence, and he 
never felt a moment 's jealousy of his fellow-pensioners ; 
but when one of the establishments which had figured 
most advantageously in his father 's will bethought itself 
to affirm the existence of a later instrument in which it 
had been still more handsomely treated, the young man 
felt a sudden passionate need to repel the claim by process of law. There was a lively tussle, but he gained 
his case ; immediately after which he made in another 
quarter a donation of the contested sum. He cared 
nothing for the money, but he had felt an angry desire 
to protest against a destiny which seemed determined to 
be exclusively salutary. It seemed to him that he should 
bear a little spoiling. And yet he treated himself to a 
very modest quantity, and submitted without reserve to 
the great national discipline which began in. 
When the Civil War broke out he immediately obtained 
a commission, and he did his duty for three long years 
as a citizen soldier. His duty was obscure, but he never 
lost a certain private satisfaction in remembering that on 
two or three occasions it had been performed with something of an ideal precision. He had disentangled him 
self from business, and after the war he felt a profound 
disinclination to tie the knot again. He had no desire 
to make money, he had money enough ; and although 
he knew, and was frequently reminded, that a young 
man is the better for a fixed occupation, he could discover 
no moral advantage in driving a lucrative trade. Yet 
few young men of means and leisure ever made less of a 
parade of idleness, and indeed idleness in any degree 
could hardly be laid at the door of a young man who 
took life in the serious, attentive, reasoning fashion of 
our friend. It often seemed to Mallet that he wholly 
lacked the prime requisite of a graceful flaneur the 
simple, sensuous, confident relish of pleasure. He had 
frequent fits of extreme melancholy, in which he declared 
that he was neither fish nor flesh nor good red herring. 
His was neither an irresponsibly contemplative nature 
nor a sturdily practical one, and he was for ever looking 
in vain for the uses of the things that please and the 
charm of the things that sustain. He was an awkward 
mixture of moral and aesthetic curiosity, and yet he would 
have made an ineffective reformer and an indifferent 
artist. It seemed to him that the glow of happiness 
must be found either in action of some immensely solid 
kind on behalf of an idea, or in producing a masterpiece 
in one of the arts. Oftenest, perhaps, he wished he were 
a vigorous young man of genius without a penny. As it 
was, he could only buy pictures and not paint them ; 
and in the way of action he had to content himself with 
making a rule to render scrupulous justice to fine strokes 
of behaviour in others. On the whole, he had an incorruptible modesty. With his blooming complexion and 
his quiet gray eye, he felt the friction of existence more 
than was suspected ; but he asked no allowance on 
grounds of temper, he assumed that fate had treated him 
inordinately well, and that he had no excuse for taking 
an ill-natured view of life, and he undertook to believe 
that all women were fair, all men were brave, and the 
world was a delightful place of sojourn, until the contrary 
should be distinctly proved. 
Cecilia 's blooming garden and shady porch had 
seemed so friendly to repose and a cigar that she 
reproached him the next morning with indifference 
to her little parlour, not less in its way a monument 
to her ingenious taste. "And by the way," she 
added, as he followed her in, "if I refused last night 
to show you a pretty girl, I can at least show you a 
pretty boy." 
She threw open a window and pointed to a statuette 
which occupied a place of honour among the ornaments 
of the room. Rowland looked at it a moment and then 
turned to her with an exclamation of surprise. She gave 
him a rapid glance, perceived that her statuette was of 
 
altogether exceptional merit, and then smiled knowingly, 
as if this were a familiar idea. 
"Who did it? where did you get it?" Rowland 
demanded. 
"Oh," said Cecilia, adjusting the light, "it 's a little 
thing of Mr. Hudson s." 
"And who the deuce is Mr. Hudson?" asked Rowland. But he was absorbed ; he lost her immediate 
reply. The statuette, in bronze, something more than 
two feet high, represented a naked youth drinking from 
a gourd. The attitude was perfectly simple. The lad 
was squarely planted on his feet, with his legs a little 
apart ; his back was slightly hollowed, his head thrown 
back ; his hands were raised to support the rustic cup. 
There was a loosened fillet of wild flowers about his 
head, and his eyes, under their dropped lids, looked 
straight into the cup. On the base was scratched the 
Greek word At if/a, Thirst. The figure might have been 
some beautiful youth of ancient fable Hylas or Narcis 
sus, Paris or Endymion. Its beauty was the beauty of 
natural movement ; nothing had been sought to be re 
presented but the perfection of an attitude. This had 
been attentively studied it was exquisitely rendered. 
Rowland demanded more light, dropped his head on 
this side and that, uttered vague exclamations. He said 
to himself, as he had said more than once in the Louvre 
and the Vatican, "We ugly mortals, what beautiful 
creatures we are !" Nothing in a long time had given 
him so much pleasure. " Hudson Hudson," he asked 
again ; " who is Hudson ?" 
"A young man of this place," said Cecilia. 
"A young man? How old?" 
" I suppose he is three or four and twenty." 
"Of this place, you say of Northampton, Massachu 
setts ?" 
" He lives here, but he comes from Virginia." 
" Is he a sculptor by profession ?" 
 
" He is a law student." 
Rowland burst out laughing. " He has found something in Blackstone that I never did. He makes statues, 
then, simply for his pleasure?" 
Cecilia, with a smile, gave a little toss of her head. 
" For mine !" 
"I congratulate you," said Rowland. "I- wonder 
whether he could be induced to do anything for me?" 
"This was a matter of friendship. I saw the figure 
when he had modelled it in clay, and of course I greatly 
admired it. He said nothing at the time, but a week 
ago, on my birthday, he arrived in a buggy, with this 
affair. He had had it cast at the foundry at Chicopee ; 
I believe it 's a beautiful piece of bronze. He begged 
me to accept." 
"Upon my word," said Mallet, "he does things 
handsomely ! " and he fell to admiring the statue again. 
"So, then," said Cecilia, "it 's very remarkable?" 
"Why, my dear cousin," Rowland answered, "Mr. 
Hudson of Virginia is an extraordinary " Then sud 
denly stopping "Is he a great friend of yours?" he asked. 
"A great friend?" and Cecilia hesitated. "I regard 
him as a child !" 
"Well," said Rowland, "he 's a very clever child! 
Tell me something about him ; I should like to see him." 
Cecilia was obliged to go to her" daughter 's music 
lesson, but she assured Rowland that she would arrange 
for him a meeting with the young sculptor. He was a 
frequent visitor, and as he had not called for some days 
it was likely he would come that evening. Rowland, 
left alone, examined the statuette at his leisure, and 
returned more than once during the day to take another 
look at it. He discovered its weak points, but it wore 
well. It had the stamp of genius. Rowland envied the 
happy youth who, in a New England village, without 
aid or encouragement, without models or examples, had 
found it so easy to produce a lovely work. 
II. 
IN the evening, as he was smoking his cigar on the 
verandah, a light quick step pressed the gravel of the 
garden path, and in a moment a young man made his 
bow to Cecilia. It was rather a nod than a bow, and 
indicated either that he was an old friend or that he was 
scantily versed in the usual social forms. Cecilia, who 
was sitting near the steps, pointed to a neighbouring 
chair, but the young man seated himself abruptly on a 
step at her feet, and began to fan himself vigorously with 
his hat, breaking out into a lively objurgation upon the 
hot weather. "I m dripping wet!" he said, without 
ceremony. 
" You walk too fast," said Cecilia. "You do every 
thing too fast." 
"I know it, I know it !" he cried, passing his hand 
through his abundant dark hair and making it stand out 
in a picturesque shock. "I can't be slow if I try. 
There 's something inside of me that drives me. A restless fiend !" 
Cecilia gave a light laugh, and Rowland leaned for 
ward in his hammock. He had placed himself in it at 
Bessie 's request, and was playing that he was her baby 
and that she was rocking him to sleep. She sat beside 
him, swinging the hammock to and fro and singing a 
lullaby. When he raised himself she pushed him back 
and said that the baby must finish its nap. " But I want 
to see the gentleman with the fiend inside of him," said 
Rowland. 
"What is a fiend?" Bessie demanded. "It 's only 
Mr. Hudson." 
" Very well, I want to see him." 
" Oh, never mind him !" said Bessie, with the brevity 
of contempt. 
 
"You speak as if you didn't like him." 
"I don't !" Bessie affirmed, putting Rowland to bed 
again. 
The hammock was swung at the end of the verandah, 
in the thickest shade of the climbing plants, and this 
fragment of dialogue had passed unnoticed. Rowland 
submitted a while longer to be cradled, and contented 
himself with listening to Mr. Hudson 's voice. It was a 
soft and not altogether masculine organ, and was pitched 
on this occasion in a somewhat plaintive and pettish key. 
The young man 's mood seemed fretful ; he complained of 
the heat, of the dust, of a shoe that hurt him, of having 
gone on an errand a mile to the other side of the town 
and found the person he was in search of had left Northampton an hour before. 
"Won't you have a cup of tea?" Cecilia asked. 
" Perhaps that will restore your equanimity." 
"Ay, by keeping me awake all night !" said Hudson. 
"At the best, to go down to the office is like getting 
into a bath with the water frozen. With my nerves set 
on edge by a sleepless night I should sit and shiver at 
home. That 's always charming for my mother." 
" Your mother is well, I hope ?" 
"Oh, she 's as usual." 
"And Miss Garland?" 
"She 's as usual too. Every one, everything, is as 
usual. Nothing ever happens in this benighted town." 
"I beg your pardon ; things do happen sometimes," 
said Cecilia. "Here is a dear cousin of mine arrived 
on purpose to congratulate you on your statuette." And 
she called to Rowland to come and be introduced to Mr. 
Hudson. The young man sprang up with alacrity, and 
Rowland, coming forward to shake hands, had a good 
look at him in the light projected from the parlour window. Something seemed to shine out of Hudson 's face 
as a warning against a " compliment " of the idle unpondered sort. 
"Your statuette seems to me very good," Rowland 
said, gravely. " It has given me extreme pleasure." 
"And my cousin knows what is good," said Cecilia. 
" He is a connoisseur." 
Hudson smiled and stared. "A connoisseur?" he 
cried, laughing. " He is the first I have ever seen ! 
Let me see what they look like ;" and he drew Rowland 
nearer to the light. "Have they all such good heads 
as that ? I should like to model yours. " 
" Pray, do," said Cecilia. " It will keep him a while. 
He is running off to Europe." 
"Ah, to Europe !" Hudson exclaimed, with a melan 
choly cadence as they sat down. " Happy man !" 
But the note seemed to Rowland to be struck rather 
at random, for he perceived no echo of it in the boyish 
garrulity of his later talk. Hudson was a tall slender 
young fellow, with a singularly mobile and intelligent 
face. Rowland was struck at first only with its responsive vivacity, but in a short time he perceived it was 
remarkably handsome. The features were admirably 
chiselled and finished, and a frank smile played over 
them as gracefully as a breeze among flowers. The fault 
of the young man 's whole structure was an excessive 
want of breadth. The forehead, though it was high and 
rounded, was narrow ; the jaw and the shoulders were 
narrow, and the result was an air of insufficient physical 
substance. But Mallet afterwards learned that this fair 
slim youth could draw indefinitely upon a fund of nervous 
force which outlasted and outwearied the endurance of 
many a sturdier temperament. And certainly there was 
life enough in his eye to furnish an immortality ! It was 
a generous dark gray eye, in which there came and went 
a sort of kindling glow which would have made a ruder 
visage striking, and which gave at times to Hudson 's 
harmonious face an altogether extraordinary beauty. 
There was to Rowland 's sympathetic sense a slightly 
pitiful disparity between the young sculptor 's delicate 
 
countenance and the shabby gentility of his costume. 
He was dressed for a rural visit a visit to a pretty 
woman. He was clad from head to foot in a white linen 
suit, which had never been remarkable for the felicity of 
its cut, and had now quite lost its vivifying and redeeming 
crispness. He wore a bright red cravat, passed through 
a ring altogether too splendid to be valuable ; he pulled 
and twisted, as he sat, a pair of yellow kid gloves ; 
he emphasised his conversation with great dashes and 
flourishes of a light silver-tipped walking-stick, and he 
kept constantly taking off and putting on one of those 
slouched sombreros which are the traditional property of 
the Virginian or Carolinian of romance. When his hat 
was on he was veiy picturesque, in spite of his mock 
elegance ; and when it was off and he sat nursing it and 
turning it about and not knowing what to do with it, he 
could hardly be said to be awkward. He evidently had 
a natural relish for brilliant accessories, and he appropriated what came to his hand. This was visible in his 
talk, which abounded in the florid and sonorous. In 
conversation he was a colourist. 
Rowland, who was but a moderate talker, sat by in 
silence, while Cecilia, who had told him that she desired 
his opinion upon her friend, used a good deal of characteristic finesse in leading the young man to disclose him 
self. She perfectly succeeded, and Hudson rattled away 
for an hour with a volubility in which boyish unconsciousness and manly shrewdness were singularly combined. 
He gave his opinion on twenty topics, he opened up an 
endless budget of local gossip, he described his repulsive routine at the office of Messrs. Striker and Spooner, 
counsellors at law, and he gave with great felicity and 
gusto an account of the annual boat race between Harvard 
and Yale, which he had lately witnessed at Worcester. 
He had looked at the straining oarsmen and the swaying 
crowd with the eye of the sculptor. Rowland was a 
good deal amused, and not a little interested. Whenever Hudson uttered some peculiarly striking piece of 
youthful grandiloquence, Cecilia broke into a long, light, 
familiar laugh. 
"What are you laughing at?" the young man then 
demanded. " Have I said anything so ridiculous?" 
"Go on, go on," Cecilia replied. "You are too 
delicious ! Show Mr. Mallet how Mr. Striker read the 
Declaration of Independence on the 4th of July." 
Hudson, like most men with a turn for the plastic 
arts, was an excellent mimic, and he represented with a 
great deal of humour the accent and attitude of a pomp 
ous country lawyer sustaining the burden of this glorious 
episode of our national festival. The sonorous twang, 
the see-saw gestures, the patriotic pronunciation, were 
vividly reproduced. But Cecilia 's manner and the young 
man 's quick response ruffled a little poor Rowland 's 
paternal conscience. He wondered whether his cousin 
were not sacrificing the faculty of reverence in her clever 
protege to her need for amusement. Hudson made no 
serious rejoinder to Rowland 's compliment on his statuette 
until he rose to go. Rowland wondered whether he had 
forgotten it, and supposed that the oversight was a sign 
of the natural self-sufficiency of genius. But Hudson 
stood a moment before he said good -night, twirled his 
sombrero, and hesitated for the first time. He gave 
Rowland a clear penetrating glance, and then with a 
wonderfully frank appealing smile " You really meant," 
he asked, " what you said a while ago about that thing 
of mine ? It is good essentially good ?" 
"I really meant it," said Rowland, laying a kindly 
hand on his shoulder. "It is very good indeed. It 
is, as you say, essentially good. That is the beauty 
of it" 
Hudson 's eyes glowed and expanded ; he looked at 
Rowland for some time in silence. "I have a notion 
you really know," he said at last. " But if you don t, it 
doesn't much matter." 
 
" My cousin asked me to-day," said Cecilia, " whether 
I supposed you knew yourself how good it is." 
Hudson stared, blushing a little. "Perhaps not!" 
he cried. 
"Very likely," said Mallet. "I read in a book the 
other day that great talent in action in fact the book 
said genius is a kind of somnambulism. The artist 
performs great feats in a dream. We must not wake him 
up lest he should lose his balance." 
" Oh, when he 's back in bed again ! " Hudson 
answered with a laugh. "Yes, call it a dream. It was 
a very happy one !" 
"Tell me this," said Rowland. "Did you mean 
anything by your young Water-drinker ? Does he repre 
sent an idea ? Is he a symbol ?" 
Hudson raised his eyebrows and gently stroked his 
hair. " Why, he 's youth, you know ; he 's innocence, 
he 's health, he 's strength, he 's curiosity. Yes, he 's a 
good many things. 
"And is the cup also a symbol ?" 
"The cup is knowledge, pleasure, experience. Any 
thing of that kind !" 
" Well, he 's guzzling in earnest," said Rowland. 
Hudson gave a vigorous nod. "Ay, poor fellow, 
he 's thirsty !" And on this he cried good-night, and 
bounded down the garden path. 
"Well, what do you make of him?" asked Cecilia, 
returning a short time afterwards from a visit of investi 
gation as to the sufficiency of Bessie 's bedclothes. 
" I confess I like him," said Rowland. " He 's crude 
and immature but there 's stuff in him." 
" He 's a strange being," said Cecilia, musingly. 
"Who are his people ? what has been his education ?" 
Rowland asked. 
"He has had no education, beyond what he has 
picked up with little trouble for himself. His mother 
is a widow, of a Massachusetts country family, a little, 
timid, tremulous woman who is always on pins and 
needles about her son. She had some property herself, 
and married a Virginian gentleman an owner of lands 
and slaves. He turned out, I believe, a dreadful rake, 
and made great havoc in their fortune. Everything, or 
almost everything, melted away, including Mr. Hudson 
himself. This is literally true, for he drank himself to 
death. Ten years ago his wife was left a widow, with 
scanty means and a couple of growing boys. She paid 
her husband 's debts as best she could, and came to 
establish herself here, where, by the death of a charitable 
relative, she had inherited an old-fashioned, ruinous house. 
Roderick, our friend, was her pride and joy ; but Stephen, 
the elder, was her comfort and support. I remember 
him later ; he was a plain-faced, sturdy, practical lad, 
very different from his brother, and in his way, I imagine, 
a very fine fellow. When the war broke out he found 
that the New England blood ran thicker in his veins 
than the Virginian, and immediately obtained a com 
mission. He fell in some Western battle, and left his 
mother inconsolable. Roderick, however, has given her 
plenty to think about, and she has induced him by some 
mysterious art to take up a profession that he abhors, 
and for which he is about as fit as I am to drive a loco 
motive. He grew up ti la gr&ce de Dieu ; he was 
horribly spoiled. Three or four years ago he graduated 
at a small college in this neighbourhood, where, I am 
afraid, he had given a good deal more attention to novels 
and billiards than to mathematics and Greek. Since 
then he has been reading law at the rate of a page a 
day. If he is ever admitted to practice I am afraid my 
friendship will not avail to make me give him my business. Good, bad, or indifferent, the boy is an artist 
an artist to his fingers ends." 
"Why, then," asked Rowland, "doesn't he deliber 
ately take up the chisel?" 
For several reasons. In the first place, I don't 
 
think he more than half suspects his talent. The flame 
is smouldering, but it is never fanned by the breath of 
criticism. He sees nothing, hears nothing, to help him 
to self-knowledge. He is hopelessly discontented, but 
he doesn't know where to look for help. Then his 
mother, as she one day confessed to me, has a holy 
horror of a profession which consists exclusively, as she 
supposes, in making figures of people without their 
clothes on. Sculpture, to her mind, is an insidious form 
of immorality, and for a young man of a passionate 
disposition she considers the law a much safer specula 
tion. Her father was a judge, she has two brothers at 
the bar, and her elder son had made a very promising 
beginning in the same line. She wishes the tradition 
to be kept up. I am pretty sure the law won't make 
Roderick 's fortune, and I am afraid it will spoil his 
temper." 
"What sort of a temper is it ?" 
" One to be trusted, on the whole. It is quick, but 
it is generous. I have known it to breathe flame and 
fury at ten o clock in the evening, and soft, sweet music 
early on the morrow. It 's a very entertaining temper 
to observe. Fortunately, I can observe it dispassionately, for I am the only person in the place he has not 
quarrelled with." 
-"Has he, then, no society? Who is Miss Garland 
whom you asked about ?" 
"A young girl staying with his mother, a sort of far 
away cousin ; a good, plain girl, but not a person to 
delight a sculptor 's eye. Roderick has a good share of 
the old Southern arrogance ; he has the aristocratic 
temperament. He will have nothing to do with the 
small townspeople ; he says they are ignoble. He 
can't endure his mother 's friends the old ladies and 
the ministers and the tea-party people ; they bore him 
to death. So he comes and lounges here, and rails at 
everything and every one." 
 
This youthful scoffer reappeared a couple of evenings 
later, and confirmed the friendly feeling he had excited 
on Rowland 's part. He was in an easier mood than 
before, he chattered less extravagantly, and asked Row 
land a number of rather primitive questions about the 
condition of the fine arts in New York and Boston. 
Cecilia, when he had gone, said that this was the 
wholesome effect of Rowland 's eulogy of his statuette. 
Roderick was acutely sensitive, and Rowland 's intelligent 
praise had sobered him ; he was ruminating the full- 
flavoured verdict of culture. Rowland took a great fancy 
to him, to his personal charm and his probable genius. 
He had an indefinable attraction the something tender 
and divine of unspotted, exuberant, confident youth. 
The next day was Sunday, and Rowland proposed that 
they should take a long walk, and that Roderick should 
show him the country. The young man assented gleefully, and in the morning, as Rowland, at the garden 
gate, was giving his hostess God-speed on her way to 
church, he came striding along the grassy margin of the 
road, and out-whistling the music of the church bells. 
It was one of those lovely days of the last of August, 
when summer seems to balance in the scale with autumn. 
" Remember the day, and take care you rob no orchards," 
said Cecilia, as they separated. 
The young men walked away at a steady pace, over 
hill and dale, through woods and fields, and at last found 
themselves on a grassy elevation studded with mossy 
rocks and red cedars. Just beneath them, in a great 
shining curve, flowed the generous Connecticut. They 
flung themselves on the grass and tossed stones into the 
river ; they talked like old friends. Rowland lit a cigar, 
and Roderick refused one with a grimace of extravagant 
disgust. He thought them vile things ; he didn't see 
how decent people could tolerate them. Rowland was 
amused he wondered what it was that made this ill- 
mannered speech seem perfectly inoffensive on Roderick 's 
 
lips. He belonged to the race of mortals, to be pitied 
or envied according as we view the matter, who are not 
held to a strict account for their aggressions. Looking 
at him as he lay stretched in the shade, Rowland vaguely 
likened him to some beautiful, supple, restless, bright- 
eyed animal, whose motions should have no deeper 
warrant than the tremulous delicacy of its structure, and I 
seem graceful even when they were most inconvenient. M 
Rowland watched the shadows on Mount Holyoke, 
listened to the gurgle of the river, and sniffed the balsam 
of the pines. A gentle breeze had begun to tickle their 
summits, and brought the smell of the mown grass across 
from the elm-dotted river-meadows. He sat up beside 
his companion and looked away at the far - spreading 
view. It seemed to him beautiful, and suddenly a 
strange feeling of prospective regret took possession of 
