"for a young person who is going to become a princess." 
Christina shrugged her shoulders. "Every one ex 
pects me to go into ecstasies over that ! Could anything 
be more vulgar ? They may chuckle by themselves ! 
Will you let me stay to dinner?" 
" If you can dine on a risotto. But I imagine you are 
expected at home." 
"You are right. Prince Casamassima dines there 
en famille. But I am not in his family yet !" 
" Do you know you are very wicked ? I have half a 
mind not to keep you." 
Christina dropped her eyes reflectively. "I beg you 
will let me stay," she said. " If you wish to cure me of 
my wickedness you must be very patient and kind with 
me. It will be worth the trouble. You must show 
confidence in me." And she gave another glance at 
Rowland. Then suddenly, in a different tone, "I don 't 
know what I am saying !" she cried. "I am weary, I 
am more lonely than ever, I wish I were dead !" The 
tears rose to her eyes, she struggled with them an instant, 
and buried her face in her muff ; but at last she burst 
into uncontrollable sobs, and flung her arms upon Madame 
Grandoni 's neck. This shrewd woman gave Rowland a 
significant nod and a little shrug over the young girl 's 
beautiful bowed head, and then led Christina tenderly 
away into the adjoining room. Rowland, left alone, 
stood there for an instant, intolerably puzzled, face to 
face with Miss Light 's poodle, who had set up a sharp 
unearthly cry of sympathy with his mistress. Rowland 
vented his confusion in dealing a rap with his stick at 
the animal 's unmelodious muzzle, and then rapidly left 
the house. He saw Mrs. Light 's carriage waiting at 
the door, and heard afterwards that Christina went home 
to dinner. 
A couple of days later he went for a fortnight to 
Florence. He had twenty minds to leave Italy alto 
gether ; and at Florence he could at least more freely 
decide upon his future movements. He felt deeply, in 
curably disgusted. Reflective benevolence stood pru 
dently aside, and for the time touched the source of his 
irritation with no softening sidelights. 
It was the middle of March, and by the middle of 
March in Florence the spring is already warm and deep. 
He had an infinite relish for the place and the season, 
but as he strolled by the Arno and paused here and there 
in the great galleries they failed to soothe his irritation. 
He was sore at heart, and as the days went by the sore 
ness deepened rather than healed. He felt as if he had 
a complaint against fortune ; good-natured as he was, his 
good-nature this time quite declined to let it pass. He 
had tried to be wise, he had tried to be kind, he had 
engaged in an estimable enterprise ; but his wisdom, his 
kindness, his energy, had been thrown back in his face. 
He was disappointed, and his disappointment had an 
angry spark in it. The sense of wasted time, of wasted 
hope and faith, kept him constant company. There were 
 
times when the beautiful things about him only exasper 
ated his discontent. He went to the Pitti Palace, and 
Raphael 's Madonna of the Chair seemed in its soft 
serenity to mock him with the suggestion of unattainable 
repose. He lingered on the bridges at sunset, and knew 
that the light was enchanting and the mountains were 
divine, but there seemed to be something horribly invidi 
ous and unwelcome in the fact. He felt, in a word, 
like a man who has been cruelly defrauded, and who 
wishes to have his revenge. Life owed him, he thought, 
a compensation, and he should be restless and resentful 
until he found it. He knew or he seemed to know 
where he should find it ; but he hardly told himself, and 
thought of the thing under mental protest, as a man in 
want of money may think of certain funds that he holds 
in trust. In his melancholy meditations the idea of 
something better than all this, something that might 
softly, richly interpose, something that might reconcile 
him to the future, something that might make one 's tenure 
of life strong and zealous instead of mechanical and un 
certain the idea of concrete compensation, in a word 
shaped itself sooner or later into the image of Mary 
Garland. 
Very odd, you may say, that at this time of day Row 
land should still be brooding over a girl of no brilliancy, 
of whom he had had but the lightest of glimpses two 
years before ; very odd that so deep an impression should 
have been made by so lightly pressed an instrument. 
We must admit the oddity, and remark simply in ex 
planation that his sentiment apparently belonged to that 
species of emotion of which, by the testimony of the poets, 
the very name and essence are oddity. One night he 
slept but half an hour ; he found his thoughts taking a 
turn which excited him portentously. He walked up 
and down his room half the night. It looked out on 
the Arno ; the noise of the river came in at the open 
window ; he felt like dressing and going down into the 
 
streets. Towards morning he flung himself into a chair ; 
though he was wide awake he was less excited. It 
seemed to him that he saw his idea from the outside, 
that he judged it and condemned it ; yet it stood there 
before him, very distinct, and in a certain way imperious. 
During the day he tried to banish it and forget it ; but 
it fascinated, haunted, at moments frightened him. He 
tried to amuse himself, paid visits, resorted to several 
violent devices for diverting his thoughts. If on the 
morrow he had committed a crime, the persons whom he 
had seen that day would have testified that he had talked 
strangely and had not seemed like himself. He felt cer 
tainly very unlike himself ; long afterwards, in retrospect, 
lie used to reflect that during those days he had for a 
while been literally beside himself. His idea persisted ; 
it clung to him like a sturdy beggar. The sense of the 
matter, roughly expressed, was this. If Roderick were 
really going, as he himself had phrased it, to " fizzle out," 
one might help him on the way one might smooth the 
descensus Averni. For forty -eight hours there swam 
before Rowland 's eyes a vision of Roderick, graceful and 
beautiful as he passed, plunging like a diver into a misty 
gulf. The gulf was destruction, annihilation, death ; 
but if death were decreed, why should not the agony be 
brief? Beyond this vision there faintly glimmered 
another, as in the children 's game of the magic lantern 
a picture is superposed on the white wall before the last 
one has quite faded. It represented Mary Garland stand 
ing there with eyes in which the horror seemed slowly, 
slowly to expire, and hanging motionless hands which 
at last made no resistance when his own offered to take 
them. When of old a man was burnt at the stake it was 
cruel to have to be present ; but if one were present it 
was a charity to lend a hand to pile up the fuel and make 
the flames do their work quickly and the smoke muffle up 
the victim. With all deference to your charity, this was 
perhaps an obligation you would especially feel if you 
 
had a reversionary interest in something the victim was 
to leave behind him. 
One morning in the midst of all this Rowland walked 
heedlessly out of one of the city gates and found himself 
on the road to Fiesole. It was a completely lovely day ; 
the March sun felt like May, as the English poet of 
Florence says ; the thick - blossomed shrubs and vines 
that hung over the walls of villa and podere flung their 
odorous promise into the warm still air. Rowland fol 
lowed the winding climbing lanes ; lingered as he got 
higher beneath the rusty cypresses, beside the low para 
pets, where you look down on the charming city and 
sweep the vale of the Arno ; reached the little square 
before the cathedral, and rested a while in the massive, 
dusky church ; then climbed higher, to the Franciscan 
convent which is poised on the very apex of the great 
hill. He rang at the little gateway ; a shabby, senile, 
red-faced brother admitted him with almost maudlin 
friendliness. There was a dreary chill in the chapel and 
the corridors, and he passed rapidly through them into 
the delightfully steep and tangled old garden which runs 
wild over the forehead of the mountain. He had been 
in it before, and he was very fond of it. The garden 
hangs in the air, and you ramble from terrace to terrace, 
and wonder how it keeps from slipping down in full con 
summation of its dishonour and decay into the nakedly 
romantic gorge beneath. It was just noon when Rowland 
went in, and after roaming about a while he flung himself 
in the sun on a mossy stone bench, and pulled his hat 
over his eyes. The short shadows of the brown-coated 
cypresses above him had grown very long, and yet he 
had not passed back through the convent. One of the 
monks, in his faded snuff-coloured robe, came wandering 
out into the garden, reading his greasy little breviary. 
Suddenly he came towards the bench on which Rowland 
had stretched himself, and paused a moment attentively. 
Rowland was lingering there still ; he was sitting with 
 
his head in his hands and his elbows on his knees. He 
seemed not to have heard the sandalled tread of the good 
brother, but as the monk remained watching him he at 
last looked up. It was not the ignoble old man who had 
admitted him, but a pale gaunt personage, of a graver 
and more ascetic, and yet of a benignant aspect. Row 
land 's face bore the traces of extreme trouble. The f rate 
kept his finger in his little book, and folded his arms pic 
turesquely across his breast. It can hardly be determined 
whether his attitude, as he bent his sympathetic Italian 
eye upon Rowland, was a happy incident or the result of 
an exquisite spiritual discernment. To Rowland, at any 
rate, under the emotion of that moment, it seemed 
blessedly opportune. He rose and approached the 
monk, laying his hand on his arm. 
"My brother," he said, " did you ever see the Devil?" 
The f rate gazed gravely and crossed himself. " Heaven 
forbid !" 
"He was here," Rowland went on, "here in this 
lovely garden, as he was once in Paradise, half an hour 
ago. But have no fear ; I drove him out." And Row 
land stooped and picked up his hat, which had rolled 
away into a bed of cyclamen in vague symbolism of an 
actual physical tussle. 
"You have been tempted, my brother?" asked the 
friar, tenderly. 
" Hideously !" 
"And you have resisted and conquered!" 
"I believe I have conquered." 
" The blessed Saint Francis be praised ! It is well 
done. If you like we will offer a mass for you." 
" I am not a Catholic," said Rowland. 
Thefrate smiled with dignity. " That is a reason the 
more." 
" But it 's for you, then, to choose. Shake hands with 
me," Rowland added ; " that will do as well ; and suffer 
me as I go out to stop a moment in your chapel. " 
They shook hands and separated. The frate crossed 
himself, opened his book, and wandered away in relief 
against the western sky. Rowland passed back into the 
convent and paused long enough in the chapel to look 
for the alms-box. He had had what is vulgarly called a 
great scare ; he believed very poignantly for the time in 
the Devil, and he felt an irresistible need to subscribe 
to any institution which engaged to keep him at a dis 
tance. 
The next day he returned to Rome, and the day after 
that he went in search of Roderick. He found him on 
the Pincian, with his back turned to the crowd, looking at 
the sunset. "I went to Florence," Rowland said, "and 
I thought of going farther ; but I came back on purpose 
to give you another piece of advice. Decidedly, you 
won't leave Rome ?" 
"Never !" said Roderick. 
" The only chance that I see, then, of a revival of your 
sense of responsibility to to those various sacred things 
you have forgotten is in sending for your mother to join 
you here." 
Roderick stared. " For my mother ?" 
" For your mother and for Miss Garland." 
Roderick still stared ; and then, slowly and faintly, 
his face flushed. " For Mary Garland for my mother ?" 
he repeated. " Send for them ?" 
"Tell me this ; I have often wondered, but till now 
I have forborne to ask. You are still engaged to your 
cousin?" 
Roderick frowned darkly, but assented. 
" Wouldn 't it give you pleasure, then, to see her?" 
Roderick turned away, and for some moments answered 
nothing. " Pleasure !" he said at last, huskily. " Pain 
will do as well !" 
"I regard you as a sick man," Rowland continued. 
" In such a case Miss Garland would say that her place 
is at your side." 
 
Roderick looked at him some time askance, mistrust 
fully. "Is this a deep-laid snare?" he asked, slowly. 
Rowland had come back with all his patience re 
kindled, but these words gave it an almost fatal chill. 
"Heaven forgive you!" he cried, bitterly. "My idea 
has been simply this try in decency to understand it. 
I have tried to befriend you, to help you, to inspire you 
with confidence, and I have failed. I took you from the 
hands of your mother and that girl, and it seems to me 
my duty to restore you to their hands. That 's all I have 
to say." 
He was going, but Roderick forcibly detained him. 
It would have been but a rough way of expressing it to 
say that one could never know how Roderick would take 
a thing. It had happened more than once that when 
hit hard deservedly he had received the blow with touch 
ing gentleness. On the other hand, he had often resented 
the softest taps. The secondary effect of Rowland 's 
present admonition seemed reassuring. "I beg you to 
wait," he said, " to forgive that shabby speech, and to let 
me reflect." And he walked up and down a while re 
flecting. At last he stopped, with a look in his face that 
Rowland had not seen all the winter. It was strikingly 
beautiful. 
"How strange it is," he said, "that the simplest 
devices are the last that occur to one !" And he broke 
into a light laugh. To see Mary Garland is just what 
I want. And my mother my mother can't hurt me 
now !" 
"You will write, then?" 
I will telegraph. They must come at whatever 
cost. Striker can arrange it all for them." 
In a couple of days he told Rowland that he had 
received a telegraphic answer to his message, informing 
him that the two ladies were to sail immediately for Leg 
horn in one of the small steamers which ply between 
that port and New York. They would arrive, therefore, 
 
in less than a month. Rowland passed this month of 
expectation in no very serene frame of mind. His sug 
gestion had had its source in the deepest places of his 
agitated conscience ; but there was something intolerable 
in the thought of the suffering to which the event would 
probably subject those undefended women. They had 
scraped together their scanty funds, and embarked at 
twenty-four hours notice upon the dreadful sea to journey 
tremulously to shores darkened by the shadow of deeper 
alarms. He could only promise himself to be their de 
voted friend and servant. Preoccupied as he was, he 
was able to observe that expectation, with Roderick, 
took a form which seemed singular even among his char 
acteristic singularities. If redemption Roderick seemed 
to reason was to arrive with his mother and his affianced 
bride, these last moments of error should be doubly 
erratic. He did nothing ; but inaction, with him, took 
on an unwonted air of gentle gaiety. He laughed and 
whistled and went often to Mrs. Light 's ; though Row 
land failed to guess in what fashion present circumstances 
had modified his relations with Christina. The month 
ebbed away, and Rowland daily expected to hear from 
Roderick that he had gone to Leghorn to meet the ship. 
He heard nothing, and late one evening, not having seen 
his friend in three or four days, he stopped at Roderick 's 
lodging to assure himself that he had gone at last. A 
cab was standing in the street, but as it was a couple of 
doors off he hardly heeded it. The hall at the foot of 
the staircase was dark, like most Roman halls, and he 
paused in the open doorway on hearing the advancing 
footstep of a person with whom he wished to avoid com 
ing into collision. While he did so he heard another 
footstep behind him, and turning round found that 
Roderick himself had just overtaken him. At the same 
moment a woman 's figure advanced from within, into the 
light of the street lamp, and a face, half startled, glanced 
at him out of the darkness. He gave a cry it was the 
 
face of Mary Garland. Her glance flew past him to 
Roderick, and in a second a startled exclamation broke 
from her own lips. It made Rowland turn again. 
Roderick stood there, pale, apparently trying to speak, 
but saying nothing. His lips were parted, and he was 
wavering slightly with a strange movement the move 
ment of a man who has drunk too much. Then Row 
land 's eyes met Miss Garland 's again, and her own, 
which had rested a moment on Roderick s, were formid 
able. 
XVII. 
How it occurred that Roderick had failed to be at Leg 
horn at the moment of his mother 's arrival was never 
clearly ascertained ; for he undertook to give no elaborate 
explanation of his fault. He never indulged in pro 
fessions (touching personal conduct) as to the future, or 
in remorse as to the past, and as he would have asked 
no praise if he had travelled night and day to embrace 
Mrs. Hudson as she set foot on shore, he made (in 
Rowland 's presence at least) no apology for having left 
her to come in search of him. It was to be said that, 
thanks to an unprecedentedly fine season, the voyage of 
the two ladies had been surprisingly rapid, and that, 
according to common probabilities, if Roderick had left 
Rome on the morrow (as he declared that he had intended) 
he would still have had a day or two of waiting at Leg 
horn. Rowland 's silent inference was that Christina 
Light had beguiled him into letting the time slip, and it 
was accompanied with a silent inquiry whether she had 
done so unconsciously or maliciously. He had told her 
presumably that his mother and his cousin were about to 
arrive ; and it was pertinent to remember hereupon that 
she was a young lady of mysterious impulses. Rowland 
   
heard in due time the story of the adventures of the two 
ladies from Northampton. Mary Garland 's wish, at 
Leghorn, on finding they were left to their own devices, 
had been to telegraph to Roderick and await an answer ; 
for she knew that their arrival was a trifle premature. 
But Mrs. Hudson 's maternal heart had taken the alarm. 
Roderick 's sending for them was, to her imagination, a 
confession of illness, and his not being at Leghorn a 
proof of it ; an hour 's delay was therefore cruel both to 
herself and to him. She insisted on immediate departure ; 
and, unskilled as they were in the mysteries of foreign (or 
even of domestic) travel, they had hurried in trembling 
eagerness to Rome. They had arrived late in the even 
ing, and knowing nothing of inns, had got into a cab and 
proceeded to Roderick 's lodging. At the door poor 
Mrs. Hudson 's trepidation had overcome her, and she 
had sat quaking and crying in the vehicle. Mary had 
bravely gone in, groped her way up the dusky staircase, 
reached Roderick 's door and, with the assistance of such 
acquaintance with the Italian tongue as she had culled 
from a phrase-book during the calm hours of the voyage, 
had learned from the old woman who had her cousin 's 
household economy in charge, that he was in the best of 
health and spirits, and had gone forth a few hours before 
with his hat on his ear per divertirsi. 
These things Rowland learned during a visit he paid 
the two ladies the evening after their arrival. Mrs. 
Hudson spoke of them at great length, and with an 
air of clinging confidence in Rowland which told him 
that he was now enshrined in her innermost favour. 
But her fright was over, though she was still catching 
her breath a little, like a person dragged ashore out of 
waters uncomfortably deep. She was excessively be 
wildered and confused, and seemed more than ever to 
demand a tender handling from her friends. Before her 
companion Rowland was distinctly conscious that he 
trembled. He wondered extremely what was going on 
 
in this young lady 's mind j what was her silent com 
mentary on the incidents of the night before. He 
wondered all the more because he immediately perceived 
that she was now an altered woman, and that the differ 
ence was not an injury. She was older, easier, more 
free, she had more of the manner of society. She had 
more beauty as well, inasmuch as her beauty before had 
been the quality of her expression, and the sources 
from which this beauty was fed had in these two years 
evidently not wasted themselves. Rowland felt almost 
instantly he could hardly have said why ; it was in her 
voice, in her tone, in the air that a total change had 
passed over her attitude towards himself. She trusted 
him now absolutely ; whether or no she liked him, she 
believed in his solidity. He felt that during the coming 
weeks he should need to be solid. Mrs. Hudson was 
at one of the smaller hotels, and her sitting-room was 
frugally lighted by a couple of candles. Rowland made 
the most of this dim illumination to try to detect the 
afterglow of that frightened flash from Mary 's eyes the 
night before. It had been but a flash, for what pro 
voked it had instantly vanished. Rowland, on this 
occasion, seeing Roderick instantly perceive what had 
happened, had given him a silent blessing. If Roderick 
had been drinking, its gravity sobered him on the spot ; 
in a single moment he collected his wits. The next 
moment, with a ringing jovial cry, he was folding the 
young girl in his arms, and the next he was beside his 
mother 's carriage, half smothered in her sobs and caresses. 
Rowland had recommended an hotel close at hand, and 
had then discreetly retired. Roderick was at this time 
doing his part superbly, and Mary Garland 's brow was 
serene. It was serene now, twenty-four hours later; 
but nevertheless her alarm had lasted an appreciable 
moment. What had become of it? It had dropped 
down deep into her memory, and it was lying there for 
the present in the shade. But from one day to another, 
 
Rowland said to himself, it would hold up its head it 
would begin to watch and listen it would stand there 
confronting him. Meanwhile he made the most of the 
hours he passed them in the consciousness of being 
near her. The two ladies had spent the day within 
doors, resting from the fatigues of travel. The younger 
traveller, Rowland suspected, was not so fatigued as she 
suffered it to be assumed. She had remained with Mrs. 
Hudson to attend to her personal wants, which the latter 
seemed to think, now that she was in a foreign land with 
a southern climate and a Catholic religion, would forth 
with become very complex and formidable, though as yet 
they had simply resolved themselves into a desire for a 
great deal of tea, and for a certain extremely familiar old 
black and white shawl across her feet, as she lay on the 
sofa. But the sense of novelty was evidently strong 
upon Mary, and the light of expectation was in her eye. 
She was restless and excited ; she moved about the 
room and went often to the window ; she was observing 
keenly ; she watched the Italian servants as they came 
and went ; she had already had a long colloquy with the 
French chambermaid, who had expounded her views on 
the Roman question ; she noted the small differences in 
the furniture, in the cookery, in the sounds that came in 
from the street. Rowland was sure that she observed 
to good purpose, that she only needed opportunity, and 
that she would gather impressions as thickly clustered as 
the purple bunches of a vintage. He wished immensely 
he might have a hand in it ; he wished he might show 
her Rome. That, of course, would be Roderick 's office. 
But he promised himself at least to take advantage of 
off-hours. 
"It behoves you to appreciate your good fortune," he 
said to her. "To be young and elastic, and yet old 
enough and wise enough to discriminate and reflect, and 
to come to Italy for the first time that is one of the 
greatest pleasures that life has to offer us. It is but right 
 
to remind you of it, so that you may make the most of 
your chances and may not accuse yourself later of having 
wasted the precious season." 
Mary looked at him, smiling intently, and went to 
the window again. "I expect to enjoy it," she said. 
" don 't be afraid j I am not wasteful." 
"I am afraid we are not qualified, you know," said 
Mrs. Hudson. " We are told that you must know so 
much, that you must have read so many books. Our 
taste has not been cultivated. When I was a young lady 
at school I remember I had a medal with a pink ribbon 
for proficiency in ancient history the seven kings, or 
is it the seven hills? and Quintus Curtius and Julius 
Caesar, and and that period, you know. I believe I 
have my medal somewhere in a drawer now, but I have 
forgotten all about the kings. But after Roderick came 
to Italy we tried to learn something about it. Last 
winter Mary used to read Corinne to me in the evenings, 
and in the mornings she used to read another book to 
herself. What was it, Mary, that book that was so long, 
you know in fifteen volumes ? " 
"It was Sismondi 's Italian Repitblics" said Mary, 
simply. 
Rowland could not help laughing ; whereupon Mary 
blushed. " Did you finish it ?" he asked. 
"Yes, and began another a shorter one Roscoe 's 
Leo the Tenth" 
"Did you find them interesting?" 
"Oh yes." 
" Do you like history ?" 
"Some of it." 
" That 's a woman 's answer ! And do you like art ?" 
She paused a moment. " I have never seen it ! " 
"You have great advantages now, my dear, with 
Roderick and Mr. Mallet," said Mrs. Hudson. " I am 
sure no young lady ever had such advantages. You come 
straight to the highest p.uthorities. Roderick, I suppose, 
 
will show you the practice of art, and Mr. Mallet, perhaps, 
if he will be so good, will show you the theory. As an 
artist 's wife you ought to know something about it." 
" One learns a good deal about it here by simply living," 
said Rowland ; "by going and coming about one 's daily 
avocations." 
"Dear, dear, how wonderful that we should be here 
in the midst of it ! " murmured Mrs. Hudson. "To think 
of art being out there in the streets ! We didn 't see 
much of it last evening as we drove from the station. But 
the streets were so dark, and we were so frightened ! 
But we are very easy now ; are we not, Mary ?" 
"I am very happy," said Mary, gravely, wandering 
back to the window again. 
Roderick came in at this moment and kissed his mother, 
and then went over and joined his betrothed. Rowland 
sat with Mrs. Hudson, who evidently had a word which 
she deemed of some value for his private ear. She 
followed Roderick with intensely earnest eyes. 
" I wish to tell you, sir," she said, " how very grateful 
how very thankful what a happy mother I am ! I 
feel as if I owed it all to you. To find my poor boy so 
handsome, so prosperous, so elegant, so famous and 
ever to have doubted of you ! What must you think of 
me ? You are our guardian angel, sir. I often say so 
to Mary." 
Rowland wore in response to this speech a rather in 
scrutable countenance. He could only murmur that he 
was glad she found Roderick looking well. He had, of 
course, promptly asked himself whether it would be the 
best policy just to give her a word of warning turn the 
handle of the door through which, later, disappointment 
might enter. But he had determined to say nothing, and 
simply to wait for Roderick to find effective inspiration 
in those confidently expectant eyes. It was to be supposed 
that he was seeking for it now ; he remained some time 
at the window with his cousin. But at last he turned 
 
away and came over to the fireside with a contraction of 
the eyebrows which seemed to intimate that the young 
girl 's influence was, for the moment at least, not soothing. 
She presently followed him, and for an instant Rowland 
observed her watching him as if she thought him strange. 
" Strange enough," thought Rowland, "he may seem to 
her if he will !" Roderick directed his glance to his 
friend with a certain peremptory air which roughly in 
terpreted was equivalent to a request to share the intel 
lectual expense of entertaining the ladies. Heaven help 
us !" Rowland cried within himself; "is he already tired 
of them?" 
"To-morrow, of course, we must begin to put you 
through the mill," Roderick said to his mother. " And 
be it hereby known to Mallet that we count upon him to 
turn the wheel." 
" I will do as you please, my son," said Mrs. Hudson. 
So long as I have you with me I don 't care where 
I go. We must not take up too much of Mr. Mallet 's 
time. " 
" His time is inexhaustible ; he has nothing under the 
sun to do. Have you, Rowland ? If you had seen the 
big hole I have been making in it ! Where will you go 
first ? You have your choice from the Scala Santa to 
the Cloaca Maxima." 
" Let us take things in order," said Rowland. " We 
will go first to Saint Peter 's. Miss Garland, I hope you 
are impatient to see Saint Peter 's." 
" I should like to go first to Roderick 's studio," said 
Miss Garland. 
"It 's a veiy nasty place," said Roderick. "But do 
what you like." 
" Yes, we must see your beautiful things before we can 
look contentedly at anything else," said Mrs. Hudson. 
"I have no beautiful things," said Roderick. "You 
may see what there is ! What makes you look so odd ?" 
This inquiry was abruptly addressed to his mother, 
 
who in response glanced appealingly at Mary, and raised 
a startled hand to her smooth hair. 
"No, it 's your face," said Roderick. What has 
happened to it these two years? It has changed its 
expression." 
"Your mother has prayed a great deal," said Mary, 
simply. 
" I didn 't suppose, of course, it was from doing anything 
bad ! It makes you a very good face very interesting, 
very solemn. It has very fine lines in it ; something 
might be done with it." And Roderick held one of the 
candles near the poor lady 's head. 
She was covered with confusion. " My son, my son," 
she said, with dignity, "I don 't understand you." 
In a flash all his old alacrity had come to him. " I 
suppose a man may admire his own mother !" he cried. 
" If you please, madam, you will sit to me for that head. 
I see it, I see it ! I will make something that a queen 
can't get done for her." 
Rowland respectfully urged her to assent ; he saw 
Roderick was in the vein, and would probably do some 
thing eminently original. She gave her promise at last, 
after many soft inarticulate protests and a frightened 
petition that she might be allowed to keep her knitting. 
Rowland returned the next day, with plenty of zeal 
for the part Roderick had assigned to him. It had been 
arranged that they should go to Saint Peter 's. Roderick 
was in high good-humour, and in the carriage was watch 
ing his mother with a fine mixture of filial and profes 
sional interest. Mrs. Hudson looked up mistrustfully 
at the tall shabby houses, and grasped the side of the 
barouche in her hand, as if she were in a sail -boat in 
dangerous waters. Rowland sat opposite to Miss Gar 
land. She was totally oblivious of her companions ; 
from the moment the carriage left the hotel she sat 
gazing wide-eyed and absorbed at the objects about them. 
If Rowland had felt disposed he might have made a joke 
 
of her intense seriousness. From time to time he told 
her the name of a place or a building, and she nodded 
without looking at him. When they emerged into the 
great square between Bernini 's colonnades she laid her 
hand on Mrs. Hudson 's arm and sank back in the 
carriage, staring up at the vast yellow facade of the 
church. Inside the church Roderick gave his arm to 
his mother, and Rowland constituted himself the especial 
guide of the younger lady. He walked with her slowly 
everywhere, and made the entire circuit, telling her all 
he knew of the history of the building. This was a 
great deal, but she listened attentively, keeping her eyes 
fixed on the dome. To Rowland himself it had never 
seemed so radiantly sublime as at these moments ; he 
felt almost as if he had designed it himself, and had a 
right to be proud of it. He left Mary Garland a while 
on the steps of the choir, where she had seated herself 
to rest, and went to join their companions. Mrs. 
Hudson was watching a great circle of tattered contadini, 
who were kneeling before the image of Saint Peter. 
The fashion of their tatters fascinated her ; she stood 
gazing at them in a sort of terrified pity, and could not 
be induced to look at anything else. Rowland went 
back to Mary and sat down beside her. 
"Well, what do you think of Europe?" he asked, 
smiling. 
" I think it 's dreadful !" she said, abruptly. 
"Dreadful?" 
"I feel so strangely I could almost cry." 
" How is it that you feel ?" 
" So sorry for the poor past, that seems to have died 
here in my heart in an hour ! " 
"But, surely, you are pleased you are interested." 
" I am overwhelmed. Here in a single hour every 
thing is changed. It is as if a wall in my mind had 
been knocked down at a stroke. Before me lies an 
immense new world, and it makes the old one, the poor 
 
little narrow familiar one I have always known, seem 
pitiful. " 
"But you didn 't come to Rome to keep your eyes 
fastened on that narrow little world. Forget it, turn 
your back on it, and enjoy all this." 
"I want to enjoy it ; but as I sat here just now, 
looking up at that golden mist in the dome, I seemed to 
see in it the vague shapes of certain people and things 
at home. To enjoy, as you say, as these things demand 
of one to enjoy them, is to break with one 's past. And 
breaking is a pain !" 
"don 't mind the pain, and it will cease to trouble 
you. Enjoy, enjoy ; it is your duty. Yours especially !" 
" Why mine especially ?" 
" Because I am very sure that you have a mind 
formed to do justice to everything interesting and beauti 
ful. You are extremely intelligent." 
" You don 't know," said the girl, simply. 
" In that matter one feels. I really think that I know 
better than you. I don 't want to seem patronising, but 
I suspect that you are a capital subject for development. 
Give yourself the best company, trust yourself, let 
yourself go !" 
She looked away from him for some moments, down 
the gorgeous vista of the great church. " But what you 
say," she said at last, "means change!" 
" Change for the better !" cried Rowland. 
" How can one tell? As one stands one knows the 
worst. It seems to me very frightful to develop," she 
added, with her complete smile. 
" One is in for it in one way or another, and one might 
as well do it with a good grace as with a bad ! Since one 
can't escape life, it is better to take it by the hand." 
" Is this what you call life ?" she asked. 
" What do you mean by this ?" 
" Saint Peter 's all this splendour, all Rome pictures, 
ruins, statues, beggars, monks." 
 
"It is not all of it, but it is a large part of it. All 
these things are impregnated with life ; they are the 
