respects has never had its parallel. Commencing but a few weeks after
Mr. Lincoln’s administration began, it was at its last gasp when upon
the 4th of March, 1865, he was for the second time inaugurated.
If I were to write a full account of Mr. Lincoln’s administration, it
must include a history of the war. I propose to do neither. As my title
imports, I have aimed only to show by what steps a backwoods boy, born
and brought up on the Western prairies, with the smallest possible
advantages of education and fortune, came to stand in the foremost place
among his fellow-citizens. I might, therefore, consider my task
accomplished; but, if I should stop here, I should have failed to set
forth fully the character and traits of this remarkable man; for it was
only in the years of his Presidency that the world, and, I may add, his
friends, came to know him as he was. I doubt even if he knew himself
until the responsibilities of office fell upon him; and, under the
burden, he expanded to the full stature of a providential man. There are
some aspects in which I shall consider him, and, in the incidents and
anecdotes I may have to relate, I shall not attempt to preserve the
order of time.
First, then, the consciousness of official rank never appeared present
to Mr. Lincoln. In the White House, as in his modest Western home, he
was the same plain, unpretending Abraham Lincoln. Nor did he lose his
sympathy for the humble class from which he had himself sprung. Upon
this point I quote from Mr. F. B. Carpenter’s very interesting volume,
already referred to:
“The Hon. Mr. Odell gave me a deeply interesting incident which occurred
in the winter of 1864 at one of the most crowded of the Presidential
levees, illustrating very perfectly Mr. Lincoln’s true politeness and
delicacy of feeling.
“On the occasion referred to the pressure became so great that the usual
ceremony of hand-shaking was for once discontinued. The President had
been standing for some time, bowing his acknowledgments to the thronging
multitude, when his eye fell upon a couple who had entered unobserved--a
wounded soldier and his plainly-dressed mother. Before they could pass
out he made his way to where they stood, and, taking each of them by the
hand, with a delicacy and cordiality which brought tears to many eyes,
he assured them of his interest and welcome. Governors, Senators, and
diplomats passed with simply a nod; but that pale, young face he might
never see again. To him and to others like him did the nation owe his
life; and Abraham Lincoln was not the man to forget this, even in the
crowded and brilliant assembly of the distinguished of the land.”
“Mr. Lincoln’s heart was always open to children,” says the same writer.
“I shall never forget his coming into the studio one day and finding my
own little boy of two summers playing on the floor. A member of the
Cabinet was with him, but, laying aside all restraint, he took the
little fellow at once in his arms, and they were soon on the best of
terms.
“Old Daniel gave me a touching illustration of this element in his
character. A poor woman from Philadelphia had been waiting with a baby
in her arms for several days to see the President. It appeared by her
story that her husband had furnished a substitute for the army, but some
time afterward, in a state of intoxication, was induced to enlist. When
reaching the post assigned his regiment he deserted, thinking the
Government was not entitled to his services. Returning home he was
arrested, tried, convicted, and sentenced to be shot. The sentence was
to be executed on a Saturday. On Monday his wife left her home with her
baby to endeavor to see the President.
“Said Daniel, ‘She had been waiting here three days, and there was no
chance for her to get in. Late in the afternoon of the third day, the
President was going through the passage to his private room to get a cup
of tea. On the way he heard the baby cry. He instantly went back to his
office and rang the bell.
“’“Daniel,” said he, “is there a woman with a baby in the anteroom?”
“‘I said there was, and if he would allow me to say it, it was a case
he ought to see; for it was a matter of life and death.
“’“Send her to me at once,” said he.
“‘She went in, told her story, and the President pardoned her husband.
As the woman came out from his presence her eyes were lifted and her
lips moving in prayer, the tears streaming down her cheeks.’ Said
Daniel, ‘I went up to her, and, pulling her shawl, said, “Madam, it was
the baby that did it.”’”
It may readily be supposed that a man of Mr. Lincoln’s democratic tastes
and training might on some occasions act very unconventionally, and in a
way to shock those who are sticklers for etiquette. Certainly, he was
very far from aping royalty, as may be judged from the following
incident:
When the Prince of Wales was betrothed to the Princess Alexandra, Queen
Victoria announced the fact to each of the European sovereigns and to
the rulers of other countries by an autograph letter. Lord Lyons, the
British ambassador at Washington, who was a bachelor, called upon
President Lincoln to present this important document in person.
“May it please your Excellency,” said the ambassador, with formal
dignity, “I hold in my hand an autograph letter from my royal mistress,
Queen Victoria, which I have been commanded to present to your
Excellency. In it she informs your Excellency that her son, His Royal
Highness, the Prince of Wales, is about to contract a matrimonial
alliance with Her Royal Highness, the Princess Alexandra, of Denmark.”
The President’s eye twinkled as he answered, briefly, “Lord Lyons, go
thou and do likewise.”
Says Dr. Holland: “Mr. Lincoln’s habits at the White House were as
simple as they were at his old home in Illinois. He never alluded to
himself as ‘President,’ or as occupying ‘the Presidency.’ His office he
always designated as ‘this place.’ ‘Call me Lincoln,’ said he to a
friend. ‘Mr. President’ had become so very tiresome to him. ‘If you see
a newsboy down the street, send him up this way,’ said he to a passenger
as he stood waiting for the morning news at his gate.
“Friends cautioned him against exposing himself so openly in the midst
of enemies, but he never heeded them. He frequently walked the streets
at night entirely unprotected, and he felt any check upon his free
movements as a great annoyance. He delighted to see his familiar Western
friends, and he gave them always a cordial welcome. He met them on the
old footing, and fell at once into the accustomed habits of talking and
story-telling. An old acquaintance with his wife visited Washington. Mr.
and Mrs. Lincoln proposed to these friends a ride in the Presidential
carriage. It should be stated in advance that the two men had probably
never seen each other with gloves on in their lives, unless when they
were used as protection from the cold. The question of each--Mr. Lincoln
at the White House and his friend at the hotel--was whether he should
wear gloves. Of course, the ladies urged gloves; but Mr. Lincoln only
put his in his pocket, to be used or not, according to circumstances.
“When the Presidential party arrived at the hotel to take in their
friends, they found the gentleman, overcome by his wife’s persuasions,
very handsomely gloved. The moment he took his seat he began to draw off
the clinging kids, while Mr. Lincoln began to draw his on.
“‘No, no, no!’ protested his friend, tugging at his gloves; ‘it is none
of my doings. Put up your gloves, Mr. Lincoln.’
“So the two old friends were on even and easy terms, and had their ride
after their old fashion.”
The President of the United States can afford to be more unconventional
than kings and emperors, but I should not be surprised to learn that
they too, at times, would be glad to escape from the rigid rules of
etiquette and enjoy the freedom of a private citizen. Even Queen
Victoria, it is related, can unbend when she meets her early friends,
and forget for the time that she must maintain the dignity of a Queen.
CHAPTER XXV.
MR. LINCOLN AND THE LITTLE BOY--A GROUP OF ANECDOTES.
Ex-Governor Rice, of Massachusetts, tells a story of President Lincoln,
which will prove of especial interest to my young readers. I transcribe
it from the Union Signal:
On an occasion (while he was in Congress) he and Senator Wilson found it
necessary to visit the President on business, he says:
“We were obliged to wait some time in the anteroom before we could be
received; and, when at length the door was opened to us, a small lad,
perhaps ten or twelve years old, who had been waiting for admission
several days without success, slipped in between us, and approached the
President in advance.
“The latter gave the Senator and myself a cordial but brief salutation,
and turning immediately to the lad, said, ‘And who is the little boy?’
“During their conference the Senator and myself were apparently
forgotten. The boy soon told his story, which was in substance that he
had come to Washington seeking employment as a page in the House of
Representatives, and he wished the President to give him such an
appointment. To this the President replied that such appointments were
not at his disposal, and that application must be made to the
door-keeper of the House at the Capitol.
“‘But, sir,’ said the lad, still undaunted, ‘I am a good boy, and have a
letter from my mother, and one from the supervisors of my town, and one
from my Sunday-school teacher; they all told me that I could earn enough
in one session of Congress to keep my mother and the rest of us
comfortable all the remainder of the year.’
“The President took the lad’s papers and ran his eye over them with that
penetrating and absorbent look so familiar to all who knew him, and then
took his pen and wrote upon the back of one of them. ‘If Capt. Goodnow
can give a place to
[Illustration: ABRAHAM LINCOLN, SIGNING THE EMANCIPATION PROCLAMATION.
PAGE 267]
this good little boy, I shall be gratified,’ and signed it ‘A. Lincoln.’
“The boy’s face became radiant with hope, and he walked out of the room
with a step as light as though all the angels were whispering their
congratulations.
“Only after the lad had gone did the President seem to realize that a
Senator and another person had been for some time waiting to see him.
“Think for a moment of the President of a great nation, and that nation
engaged in one of the most terrible wars waged against men, himself worn
down with anxiety and labor, subjected to the alternations of success
and defeat, racked by complaints of the envious, the disloyal, and the
unreasonable, pressed to the decision of grave questions of public
policy, and encumbered by the numberless and nameless incidents of civil
and martial responsibility, yet able so far to forget them all as to
give himself up for the time being to the errand of a little boy, who
had braved an interview uninvited, and of whom he knew nothing, but that
he had a story to tell of his mother and of his ambition to serve her.”
Of a different character, but equally characteristic of Mr. Lincoln, is
a story told by General Charles G. Dahlgren, brother of Admiral
Dahlgren:
“As Mr. Lincoln and my brother were about to go to dinner, and while the
President was washing his hands, Secretary Stanton entered excitedly
with a telegram in his hand and said, ‘Mr. President, I have just
received a dispatch from Portland that Jake Thompson is there waiting to
take the steamer to England and I want to arrest him.’ Mr. Lincoln began
to wipe his hands on a towel, and said, in a long, drawling voice,
‘Better let him slide.’
“‘But, Mr. President,’ said Secretary Stanton, ‘this man is one of the
chief traitors--was one of Buchanan’s Cabinet, betrayed the country
then, and has fought against us ever since. He should be punished.’
“‘W-e-l-l,’ said the President, ‘if Jake Thompson is satisfied with the
issue of the war, I am. B-e-t-t-e-r let him slide.’
“‘Such men should be punished to the full extent of the law,’ said Mr.
Stanton. ‘Why, if we don’t punish the leaders of the rebellion, what
shall we say to their followers?’
“B-e-t-t-e-r let them slide, Stanton,” said the President, laying aside
his towel.
“Mr. Stanton went out, evidently annoyed, and Mr. Lincoln, turning to my
brother, said: ‘Dahl, that is one of the things I don’t intend to allow.
When the war is over, I want it to stop, and let both sides go to work
and heal the wounds, which, Heaven knows, are bad enough; but jogging
and pulling them is not the best way to heal a sore.’
“And the old General, turning to his work, said, with a sigh, ‘If that
policy had been carried out, the wounds would have healed long ago.’”
The following story, told by M. J. Ramsdell, shows that Mr. Lincoln
judged men sometimes by their spirit rather than their military
qualifications:
“A sergeant of infantry, whom I shall call Dick Gower, commanded his
company in a great many battles in the West in the early days of the
war. His company officers had all been killed, but right royally did
Dick handle his men. At the first lull in the campaign, the officers of
his regiment, of his brigade, and of his division, united in
recommending him for a lieutenancy in the regular army. The commanding
officer joined in the recommendation. Mr. Lincoln ordered the
appointment. Forthwith, Sergeant Dick was ordered before an examining
board here in Washington, for the regular army officers were tenacious
of what they thought their superiority. Dick presented himself in a
soiled and faded sergeant’s uniform, his face and hands bronzed and
cracked by the winds and suns of a hot campaign.
“The curled darling of Washington society, the perfumed graduates of
West Point, who had never seen a squadron set in the field, conducted
the examination to ascertain if Dick was fit to be an officer in the
regular army. They asked him questions as to engineering, mathematics,
philosophy, and ordnance, of harbor warfare, of field campaigns, and all
such stuff. Not a single question could Dick answer. ‘What is an
echelon?’ was asked. ‘I don’t know,’ answered Dick; ‘I never saw one.’
‘What is an abbattis?’ was the next question? Dick answered: ‘You’ve got
me again. We haven’t got ’em in the West.’ ‘Well, what is a hollow
square?’ continued his tormentors. ‘Don’t know,’ said Dick sorrowfully;
‘I never heard of one.’ ‘Well,’ finally said a young snip in
eye-glasses, ‘what would you do in command of a company if the cavalry
should charge on you?’ They had at last got down to Dick’s
comprehension, and he answered with a resolute face and a flashing eye,
‘I’d give them Jesse, that’s what I’d do, and I’d make a hollow square
in every mother’s son of them.’ A few more technical questions were
asked, but poor Dick was not able to answer them, and the examination
closed.
“The report was duly sent to the Secretary of War, who submitted it to
Mr. Lincoln, saying that evidently Dick would not do for an officer. Mr.
Lincoln, when through with the report, and found that Dick had not
answered a single question, but he came to where Dick said what he would
do if attacked by cavalry, and then he did what sensible Abe Lincoln did
in all such matters, he threw the report on his table and made a little
memorandum in pencil ordering the Secretary of War to appoint Dick Gower
a lieutenant in the regular army. Dick achieved distinction afterward,
and was everywhere known in the army as a man without fear, who never
made a mistake.”
A correspondent of the Boston Traveller furnishes a humorous story
told by President Lincoln, to show the embarrassment which he felt as to
the disposal of Jefferson Davis:
“A gentleman told me a story recently which well illustrates Lincoln’s
immense fund of anecdotes. Said he: ‘Just after Jeff Davis had been
captured I called over at the White House to see President Lincoln. I
was ushered in, and asked him: “Well, Mr. President, what are you going
to do with Jeff Davis?” Lincoln looked at me for a moment, and then
said, in his peculiar, humorous way: “That reminds me of a story. A boy
’way out West caught a coon and tamed it to a considerable extent, but
the animal created such mischief about the house that his mother ordered
him to take it away and not to come home until he could return without
his pet. The boy went down-town with the coon, secured with a strong
piece of twine, and in about an hour he was found sitting on the edge of
the curbstone, holding the coon with one hand and crying as though his
heart would break. A big-hearted gentleman, who was passing, stopped and
kindly inquired: ‘Say, little boy, what is the matter?’ The boy wiped a
tear from his eye with his sleeve, and in an injured tone, howled:
‘Matter! Ask me what’s the matter! You see that coon there? Well, I
don’t know what to do with the darn thing. I can’t sell it, I can’t kill
it, and ma won’t let me take it home.’ That,” continued Lincoln, “is
precisely my case. I am like the boy with the coon. I can’t sell him, I
can’t kill him, and I can’t take him home!”’”
I have already remarked that Mr. Lincoln was superstitious. He seemed to
be deeply impressed by dreams, and claimed to be notified in this way of
the approach of important events.
“On the Friday of his death he called his Cabinet together at noon, and
he seemed dispirited. He said: ‘I wish I could hear from Sherman.’
General Grant, who was present, said: ‘You will hear well from Sherman.’
He said: ‘I don’t know. I have had a dream, the same that I had before
the battles of Bull Run, of Chancellorsville, and of Swan River. It
has,’ he said, ‘always boded disaster.’ It made a great impression on
all of the Cabinet and on General Grant. Mr. Lincoln had been
remonstrated with for going about unattended, but he said: ‘What is the
use of precautions? If they want to kill me they will kill me.’ He was
killed, but history will place him next to Washington in the list of
beloved Presidents. The skill displayed by him in managing Chase,
Stanton, Sumner, Fessenden, Wade, Seward, and other candidates for the
Presidency, was wonderful, and when there was any hitch he was reminded
of a story, illustrating the situation. His stories were, in short,
‘parables.’”--Boston Budget.
Even in the hour of victory he was thoughtful, not jubilant.
“When General Weitzel escorted President Lincoln and his companions
through the Capitol at Richmond the day after the occupation, in April,
1865, they reached what the rebels called the Cabinet room of the great
President of the Southern Confederacy. General Weitzel said: ‘This, Mr.
President, is the chair which has been so long occupied by President
Davis.’ He pulled it from the table and motioned the President to sit
down. Mr. Lincoln’s face took an extra look of care and melancholy. The
narrator says ‘he looked at it a moment and slowly approached and
wearily sat down. It was an hour of exultation with the soldiers; we
felt that the war was ended, and we knew that all over the North bells
were pealing, cannon booming, and the people were delirious with joy
over the prospect of peace. I expected to see the President manifest
some spirit of triumph as he sat in the seat so long occupied by the
rebel Government; but his great head fell into his broad hand and a sigh
that seemed to come from the soul of a nation, escaped his lips and
saddened every man present. His mind seemed to be travelling back
through the dark years of the war, and he was counting the cost in
treasure, life, and blood that made it possible for him to sit there. As
he rose without a word and left the room slowly and sadly, tears
involuntarily came to the eyes of every man present, and we soldiers
realized that we had not done all the suffering nor made all the
sacrifices.’”
Where Abraham Lincoln obtained some of his anti-slavery ideas may be
learned from a recent article in the Century, by Leonard W. Bacon, who
describes the effects of his father’s writings upon this subject on the
mind of the future President:
“‘These essays’--from the preface to which I have just quoted--had been
written at divers times from 1833 onward, and were collected, in 1846,
into a volume which has had a history. It is a book of exact
definitions, just discriminations, lucid and tenacious arguments; and it
deals with certain obstinate and elusive sophistries in an effective
way. It is not to be wondered at that when it fell into the hands of a
young Western lawyer, Abraham Lincoln,--whose characteristic was ‘not to
be content with an idea until he could bound it north, east, south, and
west,’--it should prove to be a book exactly after his mind. It was to
him not only a study on slavery, but a model in the rhetoric of debate.
It is not difficult to trace the influence of it in that great
stump-debate with Douglas, in which Lincoln’s main strength lay in his
cautious wisdom in declining to take the extreme positions into which
his wily antagonist tried to provoke or entice him. When, many years
after the little book had been forgotten by the public, and after
slavery had fallen before the President’s proclamation, it appeared from
Lincoln’s own declaration to Dr. Joseph P. Thompson that he owed to that
book his definite, reasonable, and irrefragable views on the slavery
question, my father felt to sing the Nunc dimittis.”
CHAPTER XXVI.
MR. LINCOLN’S HUMANITY.
Martial law is severe, and, doubtless, not without reason. Desertion in
time of war is a capital offence, and many a poor fellow suffered the
penalty during the terrible four years of the civil war. Many more would
have suffered but for the humane interposition of the President, who was
glad to find the slightest excuse for saving the life of the unfortunate
offender. As Dr. Holland observes, he had the deepest sympathy for the
soldiers who were fighting the battles of their country. He knew
something of their trials and privations, their longing for home, and
the strength of the temptation which sometimes led them to lapse from
duty. There was infinite tenderness in the heart of this man which made
him hard to consent to extreme punishment.
I propose to cull from different sources illustrations of Mr. Lincoln’s
humanity. The first I find in a letter written to Dr. Holland by a
personal friend of the President:
“I called on him one day in the early part of the war. He had just
written a pardon for a young man who had been sentenced to be shot, for
sleeping at his post as a sentinel. He remarked as he read it to me, ‘I
could not think of going into eternity with the blood of the poor young
man on my skirts.’ Then he added, ‘It is not to be wondered at that a
boy, raised on a farm, probably in the habit of going to bed at dark,
should, when required to watch, fall asleep, and I can not consent to
shoot him for such an act.’”
Dr. Holland adds that Rev. Newman Hall, of London, in a sermon preached
upon and after Mr. Lincoln’s death, says that the dead body of this
youth was found among the slain on the field of Fredericksburg, wearing
next his heart the photograph of his preserver, beneath which he had
written, “God bless President Lincoln.” On another occasion, when Mr.
Lincoln was asked to assent to the capital punishment of twenty-four
deserters, sentenced to be shot for desertion, he said to the General
who pleaded the necessity of enforcing discipline, “No, General, there
are already too many weeping widows in the United States. For God’s
sake, don’t ask me to add to the number, for I won’t do it.”
From Mr. Carpenter’s “Six Months at the White House,” I make the
following extract:
“The Secretary of War and Generals in command were frequently much
annoyed at being overruled,--the discipline and efficiency of the
service being thereby, as they considered, greatly endangered. But there
was no going back of the simple signature, ‘A. Lincoln,’ attached to
proclamation or reprieve.
“My friend Kellogg, Representative from Essex County, New York, received
a dispatch one evening from the army, to the effect that a young
townsman who had been induced to enlist through his instrumentality,
had, for a serious misdemeanor, been convicted by a court-martial, and
was to be shot the next day. Greatly agitated, Mr. Kellogg went to the
Secretary of War, and urged in the strongest manner, a reprieve.
“Stanton was inexorable.
“‘Too many cases of the kind had been let off,’ he said; ‘and it was
time an example was made.’
“Exhausting his eloquence in vain, Mr. Kellogg said: ‘Well, Mr.
Secretary, the boy is not going to be shot--of that I give you fair
warning!’
“Leaving the War Department, he went directly to the White House,
although the hour was late. The sentinel on duty told him that special
orders had been issued to admit no one that night. After a long parley,
by pledging himself to assume the responsibility of the act, the
Congressman passed in. The President had retired; but, indifferent to
etiquette or ceremony, Judge Kellogg pressed his way through all
obstacles to his sleeping apartment. In an excited manner he stated that
the dispatch announcing the hour of execution had but just reached him.
“‘This man must not be shot, Mr. President,’ said he. ‘I can’t help what
he may have done. Why, he is an old neighbor of mine; I can’t allow him
to be shot!’
“Mr. Lincoln had remained in bed, quietly listening to the vehement
protestations of his old friend (they were in Congress together). He at
length said, ‘Well, I don’t believe shooting him will do him any
good. Give me that pen. And, so saying, ‘red tape’ was unceremoniously
cut, and another poor fellow’s lease of life was indefinitely extended.”
I continue to quote from Mr. Carpenter:
“One night Speaker Colfax left all other business to ask the President
to respite the son of a constituent who was sentenced to be shot at
Davenport for desertion. He heard the story with his usual patience,
though he was wearied out with incessant calls and anxious for rest, and
then replied, ‘Some of our generals complain that I impair discipline
and subordination in the army by my pardons and respites, but it makes
me rested after a hard day’s work if I can find some good excuse for
saving a man’s life, and I go to bed happy, as I think how joyous the
signing of my name will make him and his family and his friends.’
“The Hon. Thaddeus Stevens told me that on one occasion he called at the
White House with an elderly lady in great trouble, whose son had been in
the army, but for some offence had been court-martialed, and sentenced
either to death or imprisonment at hard labor for a long term. There
were some extenuating circumstances; and, after a full hearing, the
President turned to the Representative, and said:
“‘Mr. Stevens, do you think this is a case which will warrant my
interference?’
“‘With my knowledge of the facts and the parties,’ was the reply, ‘I
should have no hesitation in granting a pardon.’
“‘Then,’ returned Mr. Lincoln, ‘I will pardon him,’ and he proceeded
forthwith to execute the paper.
“The gratitude of the mother was too deep for expression, and not a word
was said between her and Mr. Stevens until they were half-way
down-stairs on their passage out, when she suddenly broke forth in an
excited manner with the words, ‘I knew it was a copperhead lie!’
“‘What do you refer to, madam?’ asked Mr. Stevens.
“‘Why, they told me he was an ugly-looking man!’ she replied with
vehemence. ‘He is the handsomest man I ever saw in my life!’
“Doubtless the grateful mother voiced the feeling of many another, who,
in the rugged and care-worn face had read the sympathy and goodness of
the inner nature.”
Another Case.
“A young man connected with a New York regiment had become to all
appearances a hardened criminal. He had deserted two or three times,
and, when at last detected and imprisoned, had attempted to poison his
guards, one of whom subsequently died from the effects of the poison
unconsciously taken. Of course, there seemed no defence possible in such
a case. But the fact came out that the boy had been of unsound mind.
“Some friends of his mother took up the matter, and an appeal was made
to the Secretary of War. He declined positively to listen to it,--the
case was too aggravating. The prisoner (scarcely more than a boy) was
confined at Elmira, N.Y. The day for the execution of his sentence had
nearly arrived, when his mother made her way to the President. He
listened to her story, examined the record, and said that his opinion
accorded with that of the Secretary of War; he could do nothing for her.
“Heart-broken, she was compelled to relinquish her last hope. One of the
friends who had become interested, upon learning the result of the
application, waited upon Senator Harris. That gentleman said that his
engagements utterly precluded his going to see the President upon the
subject, until twelve o’clock of the second night following. This
brought the time to Wednesday night, and the sentence was to be executed
on Thursday. Judge Harris, true to his word, called at the White House
at twelve o’clock on Wednesday night. The President had retired, but the
interview was granted. The point made was that the boy was insane,--thus
irresponsible, and his execution would be murder. Pardon was not asked,
but a reprieve, until a proper medical examination could be made.
“This was so reasonable that Mr. Lincoln acquiesced in its justice. He
immediately ordered a telegram sent to Elmira, delaying the execution of
the sentence. Early the next morning he sent another by a different
line, and, before the hour of execution had arrived, he had sent no less
than four different reprieves by different lines to different
individuals in Elmira, so fearful was he that the message would fail or
be too late.”
These are but a few of the stories that have been told in illustration
of President Lincoln’s humanity. Whatever may have been the opinion of
the generals in command, as to the expediency of his numerous pardons,
they throw a beautiful light upon his character, and will endear his
memory to all who can appreciate his tender sympathy for all, and his
genuine and unaffected goodness.
CHAPTER XXVII.
ANECDOTES OF MR. LINCOLN.
A man’s character often is best disclosed by trifling incidents, and it
is for this reason, perhaps, that the public is eager to read anecdotes
of its illustrious men. I shall devote the present chapter to anecdotes
of President Lincoln, gathered from various quarters. I shall not use
quotation-marks, but content myself with saying at the outset that they
are all borrowed.
At the reception at the President’s house one afternoon, many persons
present noticed three little girls poorly dressed, the children of some
mechanic or laboring man, who had followed the visitors fully into the
house to gratify their curiosity. They passed round from room to room,
and were hastening through the reception-room with some trepidation when
the President called to them, “Little girls, are you going to pass me
without shaking hands?”
Then he bent his tall, awkward form down, and shook each little girl
warmly by the hand. Everybody in the apartment was spell-bound by the
incident--so simple in itself, yet revealing so much of Mr. Lincoln’s
character.
The President and the Paymaster.
One of the numerous paymasters at Washington sought an introduction to
Mr. Lincoln. He arrived at the White House quite opportunely, and was
introduced to the President by the United States Marshal, with his
blandest smile. While shaking hands with the President the paymaster
remarked:
“I have no official business with you, Mr. President; I only called to
pay my compliments.”
“I understand,” was the reply, “and, from the complaints of the
soldiers, I think that is all you do pay.”
The Interviewer.
An interviewer, with the best intentions in the world, once went to Mr.
Lincoln’s room in the White House while he was President, and inquired:
“Mr. President, what do you think of the war and its end?”
To which Mr. Lincoln politely and laughingly replied:
“That question of yours puts me in mind of a story about something which
happened down in Egypt, in the southern part of Illinois.”
The point of it was that a man burned his fingers by being in too much
haste. Mr. Lincoln told the story admirably well, walking up and down
the room, and heartily laughing all the while. The interviewer was quick
to see the point. As a matter of course he was cut to the quick, and
quickly down-stairs he rushed, saying to himself:
“I’ll never interview that man again.”
How Mr. Lincoln secured a Ride.
When Abraham Lincoln was a poor lawyer, he found himself one cold day at
a village some distance from Springfield, and with no means of
conveyance.
Seeing a gentleman driving along the Springfield road in a carriage, he
ran up to him and politely said:
“Sir, will you have the goodness to take my overcoat to town for me?”
“With pleasure,” answered the gentleman. “But how will you get it
again?”
“Oh, very easily,” said Mr. Lincoln, “as I intend to remain in it.”
“Jump in,” said the gentleman laughing. And the future President had a
pleasant ride.
The President’s Influence.
Judge Baldwin, of California, an old and highly respectable and sedate
gentleman, called on General Halleck, and, presuming on a familiar
acquaintance in California a few years since, solicited a pass outside
of the lines to see a brother in Virginia, not thinking he would meet
with a refusal, as both his brother and himself were good Union men.
“We have been deceived too often,” said General Halleck, “and I regret I
can’t grant it.”
Judge B. then went to Stanton, and was very briefly disposed of with the
same result.
Finally he obtained an interview with Mr. Lincoln and stated his case.
“Have you applied to General Halleck?” said the President.
“And met with a flat refusal,” said Judge B.
“Then you must see Stanton,” continued the President.
“I have, and with the same result,” was the reply.
“Well, then,” said the President, with a smile of good humor, “I can do
nothing, for you must know that I have very little influence with this
administration.”
The German Lieutenant.
A lieutenant, whom debts compelled to leave his father-land, succeeded
in being admitted to President Lincoln, and, by reason of his
commendable and winning deportment and intelligent appearance, was
promised a lieutenant’s commission in a cavalry regiment.
He was so enraptured with his success, that he deemed it a duty to
inform the President that he belonged to one of the oldest noble houses
in Germany.
“Oh, never mind that,” said Mr. Lincoln, with a twinkle of the eye; “you
will not find that to be any obstacle to your advancement.”
A Pass for Richmond.
A gentleman called on the President, and solicited a pass for Richmond.
“Well,” said Mr. Lincoln, “I would be very happy to oblige you if my
passes were respected; but the fact is, sir, I have, within the last two
years, given passes to two hundred and fifty thousand men to go to
Richmond, and not one has got there yet.”
Mr. Lincoln and the Preacher.
An officer under the Government called at the Executive Mansion,
accompanied by a clerical friend.
“Mr. President,” said he, “allow me to present to you my friend, the
Rev. Mr. F., of ----. Mr. F. has expressed a desire to see you, and have
some conversation with you, and I am happy to be the means of
introducing him.”
The President shook hands with Mr. F., desired him to be seated, and
took a seat himself. Then--his countenance having assumed an expression
of patient waiting--he said: “I am now ready to hear what you have to
say.”
“Oh, bless you, sir,” said Mr. F., “I have nothing special to say. I
merely called to pay my respects to you, and, as one of the million, to
assure you of my hearty sympathy and support.”
“My dear sir,” said the President, rising promptly, his face showing
instant relief, and with both hands grasping that of his visitor, “I am
very glad to see you; I am very glad to see you, indeed. I thought you
had come to preach to me.”
Mr. Lincoln and his Advisers.
Some gentlemen from the West waited upon the President. They were in a
critical mood. They felt that things were not going on as they should,
and they wanted to give advice. The President heard them patiently, and
then replied:
“Gentlemen, suppose all the property you were worth was in gold, and you
had put it in the hands of Blondin to carry across the Niagara River on
a rope; would you shake the cable, or keep shouting out to
him--‘Blondin, stand up a little straighter!’ ‘Blondin, stoop a little
more!’ ‘Go a little faster!’ ‘Lean a little more to the North!’ ‘Lean a
little more to the South!’ No, you would hold your breath as well as
your tongue, and keep your hands off till he was safely over. The
Government is carrying an immense weight. Untold treasures are in its
hands. It is doing the best it can. Don’t badger it. Keep silence, and
we’ll get you safe across.”
This simple illustration answered the complaints of half an hour, and
not only silenced but charmed the audience.
Somewhat similar is the answer made to a Western farmer, who waited upon
Mr. Lincoln, with a plan for the successful prosecution of the war, to
which the President listened with as much patience as he could. When he
was through, he asked the opinion of the President upon his plan.
“Well,” said Mr. Lincoln, “I’ll answer by telling you a story. You have
heard of Mr. Blank, of Chicago? He was an immense loafer in his way--in
fact, never did anything in his life. One day he got crazy over a great
rise in the price of wheat, upon which many wheat speculators gained
large fortunes. Blank started off one morning to one of the most
successful of the wheat speculators, and, with much enthusiasm, laid
before him a plan by which he (the said Blank) was certain of becoming
independently rich. When he had finished he asked the opinion of his
hearer upon his plan of operations. The reply came as follows: ‘I advise
you to stick to your business.’ ‘But,’ asked Blank, ‘what is my
business?’ ‘I don’t know, I’m sure, what it is,’ said the merchant, ‘but
whatever it is, I advise you to stick to it.’
“And now,” said Mr. Lincoln, “I mean nothing offensive, for I know you
mean well, but I think you had better stick to your business, and leave
the war to those who have the responsibility of managing it.”
It is said that Mr. Gladstone, the English premier, is known for his
skill in chopping wood. The following anecdote shows that President
Lincoln also was not without experience in the same direction:
During one of the last visits that he made to James River, a short time
before the capture of Richmond, he spent some time in walking around
among the hospitals, and in visiting various fatigue parties at work in
putting up cabins and other buildings.
He came upon one squad who were cutting logs for a house; and chatting a
moment with the hardy woodsmen, asked one of them to let him take his
axe. Mr. Lincoln grasped the helve with the easy air of one perfectly
familiar with the tool, and remarked that he used to be “good on the
chop.”
The President then let in on a big log, making the chips fly, and making
as smooth a cut as the best lumberman in Maine could do.
Meantime, the men crowded round to see the work; and, as he handed back
the axe, and walked away with a pleasant joke, the choppers gave him
three as hearty cheers as he ever heard in the whole of his political
career.
CHAPTER XXVIII.
PRESIDENT LINCOLN AS A RELIGIOUS MAN.
Soon after the death of Mr. Lincoln, Mr. Noah Brooks published in
Harper’s Monthly an interesting article, devoted to reminiscences of
his dead friend. From this article, I make a few extracts, for which my
readers will thank me:
“Just after the last Presidential election, he said: ‘Being only mortal,
after all, I should have been a little mortified if I had been beaten in
this canvass; but that sting would have been more than compensated by
the thought that the people had notified me that all my official
responsibilities were soon to be lifted off my back.’ In reply to the
remark that in all these cares he was daily remembered by all who
prayed, not to be heard of men, as no man had ever before been
remembered, he caught at the homely phrase, and said, ‘Yes, I like that
phrase, “not to be heard of men,” and, again, it is generally true as
you say; at least I have been told so, and I have been a good deal
helped by just that thought.’ Then he solemnly and slowly added: ‘I
should be the most presumptuous blockhead upon this footstool, if I, for
one day, thought that I could discharge the duties which have come upon
me since I came into this place, without the aid and enlightenment of
One who is stronger and wiser than all others.’”
“At another time he said cheerfully, ‘I am very sure that if I do not go
away from here a wise man, I shall go away a better man, for having
learned here what a very poor sort of man I am.’ Afterward, referring to
what he called a change of heart, he said he did not remember any
precise time when he passed through any special change of purpose or
heart; but he would say, that his own election to office, and the crisis
immediately following, influentially determined him in what he called ‘a
process of crystallization’ then going on in his mind. Reticent as he
was, and shy of discoursing much of his own mental exercises, these few
utterances now have a value with those who knew him, which his dying
words would scarcely have possessed.”
“On Thursday of a certain week, two ladies from Tennessee came before
the President, asking the release of their husbands, held as prisoners
of war at Johnson’s Island. They were put off until Friday, when they
came again, and were again put off until Saturday. At each of the
interviews one of the ladies urged that her husband was a religious man.
On Saturday, when the President ordered the release of the prisoner, he
said to this lady: ‘You say your husband is a religious man: tell him,
when you meet him, that I say I am not much of a judge of religion, but
that, in my opinion, the religion which sets men to rebel and fight
against their Government, because, as they think, that Government does
not sufficiently help some men to eat their bread in the sweat of
other men’s faces, is not the sort of religion upon which people can get
to heaven.’”
“On an occasion I shall never forget,” says the Hon. H. C. Denning, of
Connecticut, “the conversation turned upon religious subjects, and Mr.
Lincoln made this impressive remark: ‘I have never united myself to any
church, because I have found difficulty in giving my assent, without
mental reservation, to the long, complicated statements of Christian
doctrine which characterize their Articles of Belief and Confessions of
Faith. When any church will inscribe over its altar, as its sole
qualification of membership, the Saviour’s condensed statement of the
substance of both Law and Gospel, “Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with
all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and thy neighbor as thyself,” that
church will I join with all my heart and with all my soul.’”
Though Mr. Lincoln never formally united himself with any church,
doubtless for the reason given above, because he knew of none broad and
tolerant enough for him, it is clear that his mind was much occupied
with matters connected with religion. No one could charge him with
scoffing at sacred things. Had he even been so inclined, the bereavement
which visited him in the death of his son Willie, who died February
20th, 1862, would assuredly have changed him. Devoted as he was to his
children, this loss affected him deeply, and it was not till several
weeks had passed that he was in any measure reconciled.
“Gentlemen,” said one of the guests at a dinner-party in Washington,
during which the President had been freely discussed, “you may talk as
you please about Mr. Lincoln’s capacity. I don’t believe him to be the
ablest statesman in America, by any means, and I voted against him on
both occasions of his candidacy. But I happened to see, or rather to
hear, something the other day that convinced me that, however deficient
he may be in the head, he is all right in the heart. I was up at the
White House, having called to see the President on business. I was shown
