me.' 
Mrs. Tyrrell made a few more equally important re- 
marks which, couched in exactly the right language, 
seemed the only perfect things to say. Then she 
gracefully added an ornamental flourish which she had 
not previously prepared. 
' How fine your husband's taste is, in flowers particularly ! 
He used to keep my little library I like the 
name, though there are no books there filled with 
very fragrant, heavy ones." 
" Did he ? " 
' Yes, he said they suited me. I never see tube- 
roses without thinking of him." 
She took her leave almost immediately, but Elizabeth 
did not return to the history. She felt slightly uneasy, 
as if life in general were more complicated than she 
had supposed. 
"Your friend Mrs. Tyrrell called to-day, Oswald," 
she said, when they were alone at night. With no idea 
that there was any thing to conceal in his acquaintance 
with her, she felt that it would not be a delicate thing 
to remind him, in the presence of any one else, of a 
woman who had received his gifts, and to whom a 
flower could recall him. 
' Did she ? I wonder why." 
' She spoke as if she knew you very well," said Eliz- 
abeth, her heart beating faster. 
' I dare say. Most women overrate an acquaintance. 
You don't ; you would know to a mathematical cer- 
tainty, exactly how many times you'd seen a man and 
what he said. You're a clear-headed, cool, little piece," 
dropping a kiss on her hair. This was one reason for 
his satisfaction in her. Independent complications of 
emotions, in others, tired him ; if they must exist, he 
wished to excite them himself and clear the sky when 
he pleased. Elizabeth was beginning to learn that her 
husband was absolutely inscrutable where that was 
concerned which he did not care to explain. She was 
never suspicious of him ; her faith was quite as abso- 
lute as before she had any reason for caring about his 
past ; but mysterious, non-committal innocence may be 
as exasperating as the secrecy of guilt. What placidly 
evades, gives one an irritated sense of being baffled. 
Perhaps one has never undertaken the solution in 
question, but he has the consciousness that some time 
he may wish to do it, and what then ? 
CHAPTER XXI. 
TO run forward some weeks from Victoria's en- 
gagement at the World will bring to light the 
fact that Oswald had seen her in her own home al- 
most immediately after she began playing. He went 
into the theater at rehearsal one day, ostensibly to see 
Rose, and walked away with her when it was over. 
The large mold in which her thoughts were cast com- 
manded his admiration. Evidently, he personally held 
no place in her consciousness, except as he was a man 
of trained intellect, and one who was liable to say 
something worth hearing of her profession. The sim- 
ple frankness with which she asked him to talk em- 
barrassed even him. This superb creature had the air 
of seating herself at your feet and saying, " I hear you 
have a theory of the way Rosalind should move and 
speak. Please tell me about it ! ' 
On that particular day, they walked to Tremont 
street, where, at the top of a building, were her two 
rooms. When they reached the entrance, he was say- 
ing : " I have the more faith in your talent because 
Rose tells me it is inherited." 
'Ah, then you know about Estelle ? " she said, turn- 
ing to him with an expression of frank pleasure. ' I 
am glad, because I want every body to be interested 
in her, and sometimes I can't drag her into the con- 
 
versation, though they say jsjtfj -was^but a slight body. 
Would you like to see her portrait ? ' 
"Very much." 
' Come now, if you will, and be inroduced. I am 
proud of Estelle." 
Up the various stairs, lined on either side with of- 
fices, to the very top, and there Victoria unlocked a 
door and led the way into a peculiarly furnished room. 
There were no little ornaments made by the fingers 
in womanly leisure, though an abundance of homely 
articles scattered about, here and there, gave evidence 
of housewifely use. A piano was in one corner, and 
over it the head of the one Apollo, in marble. On an 
easel in another corner stood the portrait of the great- 
est living actor, and beneath it lay a pile of books in 
careless order, all, as far as Oswald could see from a 
title page here and there, Shakespeare commentaries 
and dramatic criticism. A case, filled with books above 
and below, held a middle shelf of odd china and 
glasses. Victoria had excused herself and now reap- 
peared, without her hat. " I hoped you would make 
her acquaintance while I was gone," she said, turning 
merrily to a picture behind him, which Oswald had 
not noticed. 'Why didn't you introduce yourself, 
Estelle ? It would have been less embarrassing for the 
gentleman." 
Oswald turned, with a start which made her laugh ; 
the genuineness of her tone had made him expect to 
see the portrait flesh and blood. ' Lady Estelle Mr. 
Craig," said Victoria, with an air. The picture looked 
at him graciously. A young woman in a short-waisted 
black dress ; with its dark background, the picture de- 
Dended on her brilliant tints of face and hair for its 
only light. From the dusky shadows the face shone 
out victoriously ; not.a'handsome face, but one hold- 
ing a certain indomitable quality. The brown hair 
was in great soft curls over the head, surmounted by a 
piquant white muslin turban. The eyes were brown 
and laughing, and the full red lips satirical. 
" The Lady Estelle isn't easily deceived. She must 
be an excellent friend and adviser," said Oswald, 
gravely. 
"Yes, I talk to her a great deal. We are very in- 
timate. That is the reason she allows me to use her 
Christian name, in spite of her being my great-grand- 
mother. She led her husband's family a life of it, 
I've been told. Didn't you, Estelle ? " 
Oswald fancied the lips curved a little more. ' Will 
you tell me about her ? What did she do to shock 
them ? " 
' Nothing in the world ! ' said Victoria, laughing ; 
' only they were afraid she would. To be French 
was to be radically bad and to have drawn in with the 
very air the sins of court and people. So, whenever 
she took her walks abroad, they felt obliged to watch 
her and gossip about her. I like to think she looked 
at them with those great brown eyes and made them 
shiver for fear of what she might do next. But her 
husband loved her." 
' That probably added zest to her diablerie. She 
knew she couldn't go too far." 
[ Yes, but there was one difference between them. 
It was her great wish to go on the stage, and he 
wouldn't let her. She might have done it in spite of 
him ; she had daring enough, but unfortunately she 
loved him." 
When Oswald went away, he asked leave to bring in 
a collection of photographs, and Victoria gave a hearty 
assent. 
The American girl abroad, obtuse to social usage, is 
a type we are forced to acknowledge. The American 
girl not only unaccustomed to protection, but never 
needing it, is quite another person. She may make 
mistakes, and, in her frank dealing with the world, 
accept some very soiled cunning for truth equal to her 
own, but it will be done purely. Victoria liked and 
admired Oswald more than he guessed. Why should 
she not see him ? His social relations never caused 
her an instant's thought, partly because she was busy ; 
furthermore, because she had a theory that a friend's 
relations to other people did not affect those he bore 
to one's self. Inquisitiveness was a sort of indelicacy. 
Oswald made himself a part of the enjoyment of her 
little leisure. He was his brightest, most whimsical, 
and most intellectually earnest self all in one. He had 
no plan of action ; his mind had fixed on no definite 
result. As usual, the moment was all, and the moment 
favored him. Her only friend, the manager; was busy 
and preoccupied. He was about carrying out a project 
conceived years ago that of building up the best 
stock company to be had for money, and putting on a 
succession of Shakespeare's plays. If it should prove 
a losing investment, there were, to balance it, the pro- 
ceeds of the traveling companies, who were constantly 
on the road, giving some taking society dramas. 
Victoria was steadily drawing larger and larger 
houses. With the uncritical part of her audience she 
was immensely popular. They yielded to her beauty 
without a struggle, and thought they were in love with 
her art. The few men whose opinion was really worth 
hearing, paid her the compliment of consideration. 
She had such evident possibilities, said they, that it 
would be worth while to wait a couple of years before 
giving a verdict. If she could but gain the fire which 
it seemed she lacked, there would be no question of 
her greatness. 
Seeing her every day at the theater, Rose never 
came to her home now. Perhaps the absence of her 
mother, whom he had adored for years from a social 
distance, affected him too strongly. 
Oswald occasionally took Elizabeth and Philip to 
see Victoria play, always excusing himself under pre- 
tense of an engagement, and returning for them after 
the curtain was down. For, however indefinite his in- 
tentions might be, he preferred that the woman he 
admired most should not see him with any other, and 
draw inconvenient conclusions which might shake her 
interest in him. Philip continued his adoration and 
his sonnets, though none of the later verses found 
their way into print. But his star-worship was ideal, 
and easily satisfied. He only asked the privilege of 
making his lady the Helen of his tragedy and dream- 
ing of her, in the intervals of study. 
When Oswald gave a light reason for absence from 
home, Elizabeth schooled herself to accept it without 
a question. Having once said to her that a curious 
calling people to account was one of the forms of vul- 
garity, she was genuinely ashamed whenever such 
 
curiosity cropped out in her own mind, and made 
haste to kill it as if it were the rankest weed. She had 
many little confidences to give him which were never 
offered. Joyfully as she would have responded to in- 
terest, she felt that only her own inability to reach a 
high intellectual ground, like his, made her so pleased 
with the slight, every-day blossoms of love. 
Jack Perham, who, if he could have had his own 
way with fate, would have done no man harm but 
himself, was destined to become her guide into new 
regions. When Jack had taken a certain amount of 
wine, or kindred liquors, its effect was to rouse his 
moral nature, making him didactic and argumentative 
on the subject of right. One day, having spent 
a few hilarious hours with some friends, who 
coupled Oswald's name with Victoria's, already 
toasted and tossed about, he gravely conceived 
the idea of remonstrating with Oswald, and took his 
way there accordingly. Oswald and Elizabeth were 
together, he looking over papers impatiently, and oc- 
casionally at his watch. He meant to take Victoria 
some Jacqueminot roses, and it was too early by an 
hour. He had never offered her flowers. It was quite 
natural that he should be absorbed in wondering how 
she would receive them. Elizabeth held a book and 
pretended to read, to avoid disturbing him. She 
wished he would interrupt her, or even look up once 
to smile. 
Her reception of Jack was rather cool. She had not 
seen him often since the evening which she was unable 
to forget. In his present condition, Jack had no con- 
ception of the proper times and seasons for entering on 
his mission, but began, with pompous gravity, inter- 
rupted by intervals for rest : ' I've come to talk with 
you, Craig. Some of the fellows have been talking, and 
I thought I'd better come to you. About Victoria Lan- 
dor, you know. I'll say this for her, she encourages 
nobody but you." 
' Damn you," said Oswald, quietly, with the air of 
uttering an easy commonplace, but with very thin and 
firm lips, " will you be quiet ? ' 
Elizabeth looked up at her husband with a start, and 
then fixed her eyes on her book, not to take them away 
again, while her hands trembled violently. 
" No," said Jack, regretfully, but persistently. ' I 
can't be quiet. It's my duty to talk with you. You 
walk with her and you visit her. Very likely she's no 
better than the rest of them, though Rose says she is. 
And if she is, you've no business to compromise her." 
Oswald had thrown his head back, and resting it easily 
on the chair, continued to look at Jack. 
" Is that all ? " he asked, with an irony which did not 
conceal his annoyance. 
" No," said Jack, ' not yet. I never have talked 
with you before, seriously morally now, have I ? 
Well, that shows great self-control in me, for you 
know I've had an eye on all your love affairs. That 
was before you were married the devil ! you are 
married ! ' with a momentary glimpse of the truth 
arid a half-sobered look at Elizabeth, whose presence 
he began to realize. 
" I think," said Oswald, quietly, " that you'd better 
go." And Jack, retaining his dignity to the last, thought 
so too. 
 
Oswald came back and took up a paper without look- 
ing at his wife, but Elizabeth had lost her self-control. 
" How dare he say such things to you! ' She be- 
gan indignantly. Oswald laid down his paper, with 
resigned abandonment to an annoying situation. 
" To say nothing of his being drunk, you can ex- 
cuse him by remembering that he is one of the people 
who interpret everything vulgarly," he said, looking at 
his white hands, and then at her, rather indifferently. 
" But what does he mean? What is there to interpret, 
one way or the other ? ' cried Elizabeth, worried at the 
impossibility of seeing any clear way neither overhung 
by a mist of sophistry nor darkened with lies. She 
could only interpret what Jack said as the latter, 
spoken out of some inconceivably malicious motive. 
" Only that I have made a new friend in the person 
of a fascinating woman, and, as I said, it is the part of 
low minds to judge such a thing according to low 
standards." He looked at her now with a certain in- 
terest in seeing how she took it. An undercurrent in 
his thoughts was that of keen appreciation of one 
feature in his life the suddenness with which its de- 
velopments came. With some men, events seem to lead 
slowly and gradually up to tragic conclusions ; in his 
own case, accidents fell upon him without warning. 
" Do you need friends apart from me ? I thought " 
She was stung too deeply to dare go on. 
" I know what you thought," said Oswald, coolly. 
" You thought that, as my wife, your society would 
absolutely content me. Now, are you a woman intel- 
lectually gifted arid educated to such a point that a 
man need not look beyond you ? " 
Elizabeth looked at him with eyes that dilated as he 
went on. Her dry lips framed a ' No," which was 
not audible. 
" Certainly not. You know it as well as I do, and 
knowing it, you are selfish enough to covet the posi- 
tion of judge and jailer. You are not the first woman 
who has wanted to keep her husband on bread and 
water, however." 
Elizabeth rose and went blindly toward the door. 
Reaching it, she turned and said in a broken voice : 
" One thing I want to know. You saw me at Stratford, 
and I didn't try to deceive you. You knew me, and 
why did you marry me ? " 
" That's nonsense," said Oswald, his good humor re- 
turning, as he looked at his watch and found it time to 
go. "A shallow question, child ! Why, because I 
loved you, of course. And I do now ; only I can't 
consent to regard you as a universal genius, and ex- 
pect you to answer all my moods. Be sensible when 
I come back." He left a kiss on the hand which held 
the side of the door, and was gone. Elizabeth went 
slowly up to her room. There was no weeping to be 
done yet, though she felt oppressed by a great horror. 
One must in some measure realize a loss before he can 
actively despair over it. Her first conscious thought 
was spent in wondering what she should do how she 
could most nearly put on the appearance of her old 
self. She was like one who has received a tingling 
blow from a beloved hand, and longs only to conceal 
the bruise. 
When her husband came home to dinner he kissed 
her, as usual a caress she took passively. 
 
' Elizabeth, you are not going to be sulky," he said, 
looking at her keenly. 
;< I don't mean to be," she said, conscientiously mak- 
ing her words and tone void of offense. " But I 
don't understand you." 
" Why ? " 
;< Because either a thing is, or it isn't, to me. I don't 
understand the half-way sort of things you seem to 
bring into your life. I am afraid I don't understand 
just what I am to you, either. And I can't see things 
with any body's eyes but my own." Her lips quivered 
grievously. 
' Now listen," said Oswald, drawing her down 
beside him on the sofa, with not only a praiseworthy 
desire to see her mind at rest, but to provide against 
such scenes in the future. " You know I've told you, 
again and again, that you're a little Puritan. Now, that 
quality in you is charming, so long as it keeps you to 
simplicity and singularity. But when it tempts you to 
sit in judgment on others, you get every body into hot 
water." 
' But I don't mean to judge," said Elizabeth, 
struggling to be reasonable against her suffocating 
sense of an intangible wrong somewhere. "I only 
want to understand your life, Oswald, and how can I 
be your wife really, unless I am first in it ? ' 
' So you are first if any body can say that of any 
body else ! I choose you to hold a certain relation to 
me. Now, not being a narrow nature myself, I can't 
help demanding other friendships. Many a man 
would deceive you. I don't ; I take pains to tell you 
the truth, and if I didn't think you above taking 
coarse views, I should go to the point of assuring you 
that an intellectual friendship which you don't share 
may be, and is, perfectly justifiable." 
" But if it is only having a friend, why should it be 
a secret ? Why should it be kept from me ? " 
" I don't keep it from you. Haven't I told you all 
there is to know, as soon as there is the slightest 
necessity for it ? " 
" But if you admire any woman, why can't I admire 
her, too ; I'm not selfish enough to want to crowd 
your friends out, Oswald." 
" Because you wouldn't assimilate. You haven't 
a thing in common. Bringing you together would be 
a bore for us all. Elizabeth, you don't mean to say 
that you suspect me of any coarse sort of unfaithful- 
ness ! " 
" O Oswald, no ! no ! ' she cried, in genuine 
horror. 
" I thought you couldn't be so different from the 
pure-minded little girl I kissed, down in Stratford." 
How long ago that time seemed ! She drew a quick 
sigh that was like a sob over the days of fearless 
love. . 
' I am glad you are willing to talk it over with me," 
she said, with a hopeless sort of feeling that at least she 
need not fail in her duty through severity. She would 
meet kindness with kindness, though she understood 
her husband no better than before. '' I will try not to 
annoy you, Oswald." 
' Yes, that's the most welcome thing you can say. 
When people begin to nag and worry each other, they're 
much better apart." 
 
Nothing was explained, and she began to see that, 
where Oswald was concerned, nothing was ever likely 
to be. Perhaps it was better so, for she could set down 
her lack of sympathy with his hazy motives to her own 
ignorance. It was far better to suffer from a limitation 
in herself than in him ; this was as a woman of com- 
mon but generous fiber might feel in possessing a Goethe 
whom others appreciated, but for whom she could only 
cook. 
There had been an unwilling listener to a part of 
Jack's unlucky remonstrance. Felix had asked permis- 
sion to write a note in the library, across the hall, and had 
been forgotten. He could not help hearing a few senten- 
ces before he rose and closed the door. He knew Eliza- 
beth was there, and felt a quick rush of shame and in- 
dignation. The subject of Oswald's intimacy with 
Victoria was not a new one to him. Tim Ellin, who 
was really bitten deeply with admiration of her, and was 
Felix's pupil, with the help of that detective instinct 
which seems to be a lover's sixth sense, managed to 
keep track of all her movements. He sent her flowers and 
notes, of which not the slightest notice was ever taken. 
Poor Nellie, as the College men called him, could have 
borne disdain patiently, but in an evil moment for his 
peace of mind, he found out that she was receiving Os- 
wald's visits. Once, after that, he met them walking 
together, and went home to confide in Felix who laugh- 
ed him almost into tears, until he himself was suddenly 
sobered at hearing the rival lover's name. 
He and Oswald had conceived a dislike for each other, 
at their first meeting, a feeling which probably did not 
detract from his present cordial desire of exercising 
 
his muscular skill on a man who could compromise one 
woman's reputation in making another wretched. And 
yet it was not his business : there was a sort of indel- 
icacy in this meddlesome sort of thinking. So he told 
himself, and at the same time, he could not help long- 
ing to be Elizabeth's champion. 
CHAPTER XXII. 
THE spring found Felix undecided as to his next 
step, but June brought a resolution. He would 
go to Stratford for the summer. The desolation of the 
place and the spiritual poverty of the people had 
appealed to him and he felt a strong inclination to be- 
gin his ministry there. 
When he spoke of it, Elizabeth looked up in quick 
sympathy with any one who wanted the place. Dull 
and monotonous as life had been there, it still looked 
more like home from this distance than it had ever done 
nearer. 
She had been down several times for short visits, and 
felt her mother's need of her more keenly after each. 
The visits might have been longer if she had chosen, 
but absence invariably gave her a longing to be back 
before Oswald should become used to doing without her. 
' I suppose we shall go, soon," she said. ' There is 
nothing to keep us, and my husband is fond of the 
place." 
But Oswald proved not quite as desirous of it as she 
supposed. 
' I may run down for a few days, later," he said, 
when she opened the subject. : First I want to take a 
little trip to the north, with Canning. He is going to 
Grand Manan and says it's the quietest, most genuinely 
pastoral place ever seen." 
"O Oswald, I thought you cared for Stratford! 
Last summer was so beautiful," said Elizabeth, her 
eyes filling with tears. 
" So it was ; so will this be when I'm there. You'll 
be all the more glad to see me, for absence/ She 
had learned too well how annoyed he could be at re- 
monstrance, to say more. So the middle of June found 
her again in Stratford, sorely wanting some satisfactory 
ground-work for her coming life. 
Mrs. Nye cried gently,, when her two children came, 
thereby eliciting Grandmother's scornful disapproval, 
and making her severely indifferent in her own greet- 
ing, as a matter of example. 
" How do you do, Elizabeth," she said, giving her 
large hand stiffly. ' Is he coming ? ' 
" No," said Elizabeth, trying to make the excuse a 
matter of course. ' Oswald is at Grand Manan and 
wont come here till later in the summer." 
Grandmother shut her lips tightly, in a manner which 
implied that she saw the state of the case as plainly as 
any one, but she only turned to Philip, to say, " You'd 
better go right up-stairs and put some old clothes on. 
Your mother's mended up a suit for you." 
Felix was already settled at Mrs. Potter's, and came 
to call, in a few days. 
Abstractly, Grandmother had the strongest reasons 
for disapproving of him. He had preached a counter- 
blast to her own fundamental laws of faith, and she 
considered him a man not only bound to perdition but 
bent on drawing -others after him. But, to the general 
surprise, she liked him at once. 
" Are you down here to apply for the Academy 
 
t 
again r "' she asked, suddenly transfixing him with her 
keen eyes. 
" No," said Felix smiling, " I couldn't very well, 
you know, when I was asked to leave, before." 
Strange that there may be such phases of humor hid- 
den under stolid exteriors ! It had never been known 
that Madame Nye possessed any sense of the ludicrous, 
but her grim features suddenly developed a slight smile. 
' It seems as if that was a pretty sure sign that they 
didn't want you any more," she rejoined. 
' There were a good many that did," said peace- 
making Mrs. Nye. '' Some folks thought the commit- 
tee took too much into their hands." 
Felix smiled brightly at her with a look which said 
that, although he didn't in the least care about the 
public opinion, he was just as grateful for her support. 
He had an undertaking in mind which he wanted to 
talk over with Elizabeth, as being the most likely to 
understand it. She and Philip fell into the habit of 
taking a walk to the sea every night, and once he 
joined them. 
" I want to give a course of lectures here, Mrs. 
Craig," he said. "You see how I try to thrust myself 
before the public." 
" A very good thing for the public," said Elizabeth, 
smiling at him. :< And good for me as one of the pub- 
lic. I should like to hear them." 
" You are kind to say so. Here are my reasons. If 
I try to hold any sort of religious service, I shall be 
ostracized. I do feel I have something to say. Now, 
why shouldn't I give a series of talks on great men, 
some attempts at portraits of character ? " 
" It is a fine idea. You make me ashamed because 
you are always thinking of other people." 
"Thinking and talking, yes," said Felix. "Theo- 
ries have a fatal attraction for me. But here's the 
rub. I want to be both politic and successful, and 
I don't know how. If I ask for the hall, they'll 
refuse it." 
" That is true," said Elizabeth thoughtfully. " We 
must get into somebody's good graces. Here's Si, for 
instance," as they came in sight of his giant figure in 
bold contrast with Philip's slender one. ' He has a 
great deal of influence among the men." 
There was no time to say more, for Philip called out, 
ecstatically, ' Si says he will take us out in his boat, 
if we want to go." 
' No, not jestly thet," said Si, gravely, a twinkle in 
his keen eyes, ' I asked ef you wanted to go." 
' I am quite sure we shouldn't refuse, if you were to 
invite us," said Elizabeth, thinking this was their op- 
portunity. ' Do you think you will ? " 
p< I shouldn't wonder a mite. You're considerable 
of a stranger, 'Lizabeth. The schoolmaster, too ; I 
didn't think o' seein' him in these parts again." 
They pushed out into the calm sea. There was a 
gorgeous sunset, and a rising moon. 
' Lookin' 'round for a school ? " asked Si, managing 
his oars as if they were merely extended arms. 
' No. Your committee needn't be shy of me. But 
I do want to give a course of lectures. Do you think 
I could get the hall ? " 
' Could ef folks wanted to hear the lecters. What 
be they religious ? " 
 
"Not exactly. Historical." 
' I sh'd like it well enough myself. I s'pose you're 
doin' it for practice." 
Philip laughed at this juncture, and Elizabeth shook 
her head at him. 
" No. I'll tell you the real reason," she said. " Mr. 
Kewe thinks it will do us good to hear something be- 
sides town talk, and so do I. Do you think any 
body really would object to his giving them in the 
hall ? " 
' Like enuff," said Si, with large scorn. " Some of 
'em acted like a passel o' fools, year ago last fall. I'll 
see to 't myself, 'f you want me to." 
This was far more than Felix hoped, and he thanked 
Si warmly. 
' Somebody ought to sing," said Philip, who found 
the moonlight conducive to dreaming, and knew by 
experience how charming Fancy could make herself 
when Music was by. 
' Don't you sing ? " asked Si. " What, neither on 
you ? Wai, I'll sing myself." 
The proposition seemed to please him so that he 
stopped to look at them in sheer enjoyment of its 
startling nature. 
"All right, Si," said Philip, in high feather. "Go 
ahead." 
' Now, I aint sung a note for forty year," Si went 
on, in a gently explanatory manner. " My woman 
would laugh masterly, ef she sh'd get hold on't. Don't 
you never say a word." And thereupon he began the 
following song, in an ambitiously loud, but not un- 
musical tone : 
Gipsy come triplin' over the plain, 
Gipsy sung most nobly. 
Sung for to make the green-wood ring, 
For to charm the heart of his lady. 
"Go bring me out my red-roan steed, 
My black is not so speedy. 
I've rode all day and I'll ride all night 
Till I overtake my lady." 
He rode till he come to the broad water's side, 
The water so black and so rily. 
Tears came tricklin' down his cheeks 
When he beheld his lady. 
The effect of a chorus made up of syllables not to 
be expressed in print, and sung to a tune of rollicking 
ins and outs, was quite marvelous. 
" Splendid, Si ! " cried Philip, applauding. " But 
where was his lady ? " 
' Lord knows," said Si, briefly and conclusively. ' I 
never did." 
' In the water, of course," said Felix. ' Another 
gipsy had kidnapped her, and when they were cross- 
ing the broad water, the bridge broke, the current 
carried him and his horse down the stream, and she, 
falling into a particularly soft, muddy place, staid 
there." 
' Like enuff," said Si, gravely, not in the least re- 
senting their laughter, though he saw no occasion for 
joining it. 
He was as good as his word, for he engaged the hall 
on his own responsibility, and quietly constituted him- 
self Felix's manager. 
' It's spoke for," he said one night, suddenly ap- 
 
pearing at Mrs. Potter's kitchen window, near which 
she and Felix sat at the tea table. Felix had been taken 
up so quickly that he hardly knew, for the moment, 
what he had proposed doing. 
' When you goin' to begin ? " 
;< Any time ; next week, if you say so. What do you 
think of Mondays and Wednesdays ? ' 
" Thet'll do," said Si. " How much admission ? " 
" Nothing." 
' Lord, you must be green ! ' said Si, frankly. 
"Folks wont come 'thout payin'. Don't know 's they 
will then, but thet's the only way to make 'em think 
you 'mount to sumthin'." 
But Felix was firm, and Si yielded, with a respect 
for his generosity which left none for his judgment. 
The first lecture was upon Epictetus, and Elizabeth 
was a little afraid of its being far over the heads of the 
audience. But it was not ; I am quite sure you, dear 
sir, whatever your culture, might have found some- 
thing to inspire you in that homely talk about a great 
man. If you have any love for human faces, how- 
ever, you would have been far more absorbed in watch-- 
ing those listening ones than in the best lecture ever 
written. Si had talked the matter up at the Sea View, 
and to such purpose that his cronies laid their pipes 
on the shelf, put on their neckerchiefs, and, uncomfort- 
ably sacrificed to decorum, came to the hall. The 
lecture over, as Felix was going out, speaking to this 
one and that, Si stepped up to him and said, with a 
ponderous hand on his shoulder, ' I want to know one 
thing. How much truth is ther' in what you've said ? " 
" As far as we can find out, it's all true." 
"That's all. Le's have another Wednesday." 
That was worth a good deal. Felix's eyes met Eliz- 
abeth's and she smiled. Then he was satisfied, and 
mentally flagellated himself a little, on the way home, 
for caring more for her approbation than for that of 
the homely souls he wished to reach. 
Elizabeth could only wonder at Madam Nye's un- 
expected toleration of Felix, which continued like a 
protracted thaw. One day, Grandmother launched a 
sudden shot at him over her knitting. f You're an 
atheist, I understand." 
'No," said Felix, composedly. 'I don't consider 
myself so." 
' Hm ! " with a long drawn exclamation signifying a 
kind of satirical surprise. ' Well, most of 'em don't 
have the grace to deny it." And she never objected 
to the large attendance at his lectures, though it inva- 
riably included her own family. 
To understand the effect on Elizabeth of this con- 
tact with the greatest minds known to men, it is neces- 
sary to remember that she was wholly unsettled, trying 
in vain to reconcile her old conceptions of right with 
new, and what she could not choose but think, broader 
views. With all a woman's passion of earnestness 
where loyal affection is concerned, she was trying to 
cover the moral lack in her husband's character, which 
she could not help feeling, with the excuse that she 
was too narrow to understand him. She had to ac- 
knowledge that her married life had its vs and 
stains. Perfect happiness was shut out, but there was 
left the comfortable makeshift of declaring the fault 
hers. But Felix awoke in her a passion of longing 
 
toward a higher ideal than she had known. He came 
in one night, when she was alone in the sitting-room, 
and she said at once, " You have made me think a 
a good deal, lately, Mr. Kewe. Is it possible to be as 
great as your great men, now ? " 
" Yes, men are ; I have a very firm faith that they 
are. Do you doubt it ?" 
" I don't know," said Elizabeth, slowly, " It is so 
