in and laid a note upon the counter. 

" I will take it up stairs," said Miss Parker. 

How often some curious presentment shivers over us 
with no apparent result, and then we walk to the fiery 
brink at other times, unheeding, until the blinding flash 
leaves us stunned as by lightning. It was so with her. 
She opened and read : — 

"Eleanor, will you come to me? I am dying." 

She dropped into the nearest chair. It was from her 
mother that Celia had inherited her pure, fine courage. 
Eleanor Marshall did not shriek nor utter a moan, but it 
seemed as if she could never breathe again. 

Daisy had seen her father now and then, but reports 
had been encouraging. He was very thin and pale, but 
the cough was not nearly so troublesome. He went into 
some society, and there had been no word of warning. 

She rose presently, wrapped herself in her cloak, and 
put on her bonnet, and found the carriage waiting for 
her. Only one thought rang through her brain — dying ! 
Was this the answer to her prayer? 

The quiet waiter opened the door and bowed her up 
stairs. A woman in the hall motioned her with a slight 
gesture, and she went toward the room, entered, and the 
other shut the door. 





The room was the perfection of luxury. Bertie had not 
overpraised it. The lace and linen of the bed, with the 
heavily wrought initial, the small table with most exquisite 
appointments, passed before her eyes like a vision and 
remained there. Pillowed up in a reclining posture, so 
frail and wasted and old that it seemed at a glance as if 
it must be his mother, but for the manly token of snowy 
beard — sat Thomas Marshall. 

She came into the room like a radiant, intense, life- 
giving presence. Her cheek was a trifle flushed by the 
cold air, the sudden warmth, and the quick ascent. But 
the royal carriage, the superb health, the fine buoyancy, 
in part spiritual, the mobile mouth, with its soft, girlish lips 
that in any other woman might have been a snare, the mag- 
nificent eyes, though they had kept many a midnight vigil 
with tears, touched and stirred the man like an electric 
shock. He stretched out his wasted hands with the pas- 
sionate hunger of starvation, and his entreating cry pierced 
the far depths of her soul. 

" Eleanor ! Eleanor ! ' 

She came to him. The warm hands revivified all the 
chilling currents of his blood, the lips kissed new life into 
the others so wan and tremulous. He held her to his 
heart — was it minutes or hours ? 

It was not as he had meant to meet her. He had a 
grand forgiveness prepared. She would sit there by his 
bedside while he went over the old times, pointed out 
where she had failed in wifely duty, wifely affection — 
where her love had shown threadbare and snapped, where 
a little forbearance, a touch of wisdom, a comprehension 
of all the virtues, in short, might have changed both lives. 
His complacency had been so fostered by mother and sis- 
ter in their adverse views ; and his personal vanity, in its 
longing to whiten itself, had so glossed over its own sins, 
that they looked quite venial. There were so many mixed 
motives, so much vague, one-sided reasoning, and with it 



 

all a positive desire to have something to forgive, to offset 
any feeling she might have in regard to his delinquencies. 

In a moment all the subterfuges were swept away. In 
one blinding, dazzling, pitiless glare, like a broad sheet of 
lightning, the man saw his own life from the time of his 
business failure until now, the years when he had neither 
provided food nor shelter, when her hands had toiled not 
only for her children, but oh, shame! for money to be 
wasted in dens of drunkenness ! 

" I was naked and I was ashamed," pleaded the first 
transgressor. And looking at his naked soul in that awful 
moment of self-inspection with all the flimsy wrappings 
swept away, Thomas Marshall hid his face in shame. 
That she could forgive so grandly. That her warm, sweet 
lips could touch his soul with their own pure tenderness! 
A whole long year of joy wrenched out of his life by his 
own blindness, madness ! 

" Eleanor, my darling ! " 

She lifted her brave face full of anguish, full of tears, 
yet shining like that of an angel. Its beauty was like her 
affluent vitality, God-given. Now and then we meet a 
woman so superbly endowed, whose organization seems to 
comprehend a dozen lives in one. 

" Speak tome!" he cried entreatingly. " Let me hear 
your voice or I shall think it some mocking dream." 

" Tom ! Husband ! " She could not trust her voice any 
further. 

" O Eleanor, what a blind, insensate fool ! what a mad- 
man I have been ! " 

"Hush," she said softly. " You must not excite your- 
self or I may be blamed." 

"You have been blamed for enough, my poor darling, 
unjustly, cruelly ; wounded for the sins of others. O 
Eleanor one must believe in a God when human love so 
suffers, so forgives ! " 

She bent and kissed the forehead that looked like snow. 





" Stand up again and let me look at you. Were you 
always so beautiful, Eleanor? Or is there something — I 
can't remember — but it is about a life well used leaving 
its impress on the face. Hold my hands again. Yours 
are so warm. You look so strong — oh, it seems almost 
as if I might drink in strength watching you. Nelly, you 
were the prettiest of girls when I married you, but that is 
nothing to what you are now. The picture Bertie has 
does you no justice. It cannot give the radiant sense of 
outflowing life ! " 

" Oh," she cried, " you are so exhausted. What can I 
do?" 

" But I fed strong. You cannot think — O Nelly, keep 
me from dying. Hold me back in your arms, with your 
very souL Will me to live, that I may be with you a little 
while." 

"Is it — " and her voice broke. 

"It is the wages of sin," bitterly. "I had no need to 
die here just at middle life, with everything to enjoy. 
And I was told — last year in San Francisco. I did not 
believe it. Nelly — I have been worse than your knowl- 
edge of me even. And then, when I was warned, I went 
into the same old excess — a man worth nearly a million ! 
In the horror of that, an awful, clinging longing for life 
set in, and since then — but it was too late. My frame 
was shattered. Heart and lungs had been overtasked. 
All this year I have been trying to build myself up. Ah, 
if I had come to you ! The little remnant of life should 
have been yours. I did improve during the summer and 
coughed so much less, but I could not gain any strength. 
The poison had eaten into my very vitals. Yesterday I 
had a slight hemorrhage and a severe attack of the dread- 
ful pain, the gasping for breath, when one would pay for 
it with ounces of gold. Last evening the doctor kindly 
told me if there was anything left undone — " 

" Hush, dear, now you must rest. Are you comfort- 



 

able? Let us talk about the children. You have not 
seen Gelia. She is like me in so many ways, but Daisy 
has my height and coloring, yet I see more of you in her. 
She is so happy with her young husband. She has the 
old bright way that I always liked in you — " 

" Go on. Tell me what you did. I am hungry for it 
all." 

His eyes were filled with a feverish light, while the rest 
of his face was in deadly pallor. 

Her voice was of the electric kind that carried her audi- 
ence along with it; flexible, buoyant like her strength, 
but with a deep, underlying sweetness like the far note 
of a bird. She would fain have put her head down 
beside his and cried, but she sat there with the lights 
coming and going in her face, talking against time, that 
he might rest. Her story was simply, entrancingly told. 
How they had worked, how Celia had begun with a 
girl's unknown genius, and stepped higher and higher, of 
Stephen Archer and Paul Thierry, of the delightful friendly 
Van Cleves, of Mr. and Mrs. Howarth, and all Celia's pres- 
ent attainments, even to the new home they were plan- 
ning. 

" Eleanor," he cried in frightened tones, "you will 
never go away, you will never leave me?" 

" Not if you want me." She said it clearly. 

"Go on," he said, "I feel as if I could sleep. Do you 
remember how you used to say verses long ago-— some of 
the old things." 

He fell into a slumber. Even then she dared not cry. 
Oh, the poor pinched, pitiful face ! Fourteen of the best 
years of a man's life gone, wasted utterly, and for the 
others, who could tell. Had not a divine finger written 
in awful clearness — "The wicked shall not live out half 
his days." 

The nurse came in softly, and smiled. " He has slept 
so little," she said in her soft, trained tone. " You would 





be a tonic for any invalid," and she smiled again." Will 
you have some luncheon sent up?" 

"Not until be wakes." 

She heard Bertie's step and voice presently, and some 
band restrained him unwillingly. There were low voices 
and rustling movements, but no one came until the doctor's 
ring roused bim. 

He glanced at her in a startled manner. 

"Oh, I remember," with a gasping sort of breath that 
came only from his chest. " I have had such a delightful 
sleep. Oh, I feel as if I might get well. Don't you think 
I might? " with the pitiful entreaty of a child. 

The doctor entered and expressed much gratification. 
He talked awhile with the nurse, but kept glancing fur- 
tively at the sick man, and Eleanor knew his doom was 
sealed. 

They had some lunch afterward. Then he talked again 
hopefully. At least, he might live some time. He had a 
horrible shrinking from that last final step. 

"There is something else I must do. I made a will," 
and a faint color stained his face, " but even the lawyer 
had the grace to tell me it was unjust. O Nelly, can a 
man be forgiven — by such a wife ? " 

It was such an exceeding bitter cry. All the man's 
complacency and blinding selfishness had been swept 
away. 

Eleanor Marshall could endure no more. She dropped 
her head down on the pillow and sobbed. Ah, oould he 
guess all the wealth of love he had misused, despised? 

"Tom," she cried with passionate anguish, "tell me one 
thing — was there any time when I might have saved yon, 
when greater patience, greater faith, greater tender- 
ness—" 

" Nelly, you were an angel then, ever ! Some better man 
should have married you and not robbed you of fourteen 
years. Oh, my God, how shall I answer for it at the Isstl 



 

No, my darling, you did all a woman could. Let me tell 
the truth, and it may comfort you after I am gone. That 
cursed poison takes away a man's very soul, brutalizes 
every faculty, stupifies him. He may have moments of 
regret, but they are so weak, so faint, compared to the 
giant passion that enslaves him. To my lasting shame I 
confess that nothing made any impression. If health and 
strength had not given way utterly — nay, let me talk," 
as she glanced entreatingly at him. " In spite of what 
the doctor said — that my heart had been taxed to its last 
capacity, I made one more horrible plunge," — it was 
curious now to see the shivering disgust in every feature. 
"For weeks I lay at death's door, and some peculiar phy- 
sical change must have taken place. I could not bear the 
sight nor smell of the vile stuff. It sickens me now," 
with ineffable shrinking. "I have not even a man's 
triumph over a powerful temptation to offer you. I am 
abased above measure. Was it the hand of God? And 
in some dim way I came slowly back to my senses and 
remembered that I was a rich man and could be a decent 
man, but noble or honorable I have not been ! O Nelly, 
what utter madness, what blind self-complaoency kept me 
from you I What wretched, wretched vanity, because I 
knew my money would make me no hero in your eyes. 
No, my darling, you did more than a woman's duty, or a 
wife's duty. God will bear witness to that. And my 
will does not place you where you must be placed. Will 
you ring the bell ? " 

She stood there firm, tender, decided, yet with no 
aggressiveness. 

"Tom," she said softly, "you can give me a greater 
pain still. You can cause it to be said that in a few hours 
I persuaded you to change your mind to enrichen me, 
perhaps at the cost of some other," and her face flushed 
with pain. "Whatever it is, let it stand. I am in no 
need. I am no beggar, not even a suppliant for money." 





"But it may ruin the boy," he groaned. "Nelly, he 
has some of my qualities, I see them in him." 

"Never mind about it to-day. And whatever change 
you may make in regard to him, keep your bequest to 
your mother — to others." 

"You generous angel ! " 

He sank back on the pillow. Even now he could not 
wholly comprehend her, his nature was not grand enough, 
there were far-reaches in her that he must have always 
have passed by ; but with eyes suddenly opened he re- 
alized the nobility of the soul he had so slighted and 
wounded. 

She ministered to him gently. She had the rare 
faculty of not making any attention oppressive, of not 
thrusting any special personality before anyone, and all 
about her was so harmonious. She was generous of her 
powers without that intense shrinking from opposite 
temperaments which so strongly affects some sensitive 
natures. 

Presently he roused himself again. 

"Nelly," he said more feebly. "I want you to see 
mother and Kate. I had no right to come to them first, 
that was not their fault, my cowardice would not allow 
me to take the right step. And — you will never leave 
me again?" pleadingly. 

"No," with her cheerful bravery. 

The meeting was a little awkward with Mrs. Vanduyne, 
but Mrs. Marshall was so moved by the prospect of death 
that she felt like clinging to any sure support, and then 
she was not assured in her own soul that Tom's course 
had been entirely right. 

The next morning Thomas Marshall seemed really im- 
proved. His eyes were brighter, his voice stronger. 
Bertie was allowed a brief while in the sick room, and 
his mother was quite amused at the air of importance he 
assumed, which would have been unendurable but for his 



 

sunny, volatile nature, that brought so many changes and 
such bright moods. He could not seem to realize that 
his father's illness was at all serious. Spoiled in some 
respects he certainly was, but far from being disagree- 
able. 

Mr. Marshall insisted upon seeing his lawyer the follow- 
ing day, and was a long while in consultation with him. 
Eleanor made no further comment, though she felt that if 
it was possible she would like to refuse the greater por- 
tion of her husband's wealth. Being enriched by his 
death filled her whole soul with repugnance. 

But it seemed, indeed, as if she gave him life out of her 
own generous vitality. Dr. Brientnall was amazed. He 
had been greatly prejudiced against her, but seeing her 
here in the sick room disarmed him completely. 

"You are the best of medicines," he said with admira- 
tion. " I did not think Mr. Marshall could live ten hours 
when you were sent for, and now, to all appearances, he 
may live weeks." 

The nurse was equally charmed. She would not allow 
Eleanor to exhaust herself, but, indeed, there seemed no 
danger. If she was absent for a few hours Mr. Marshall 
drooped noticeably. His eyes followed her every motion 
with such a beseeching expression, that at times it was 
positively painful. And her task was far from being easy. 
There were hours when he was irritable and restless to 
such a degree that even Eleanor's large patience was 
severely taxed. He liked so to hear her talk. He was 
hungry now for all the little details of their life, and so 
interested in Celia's career. She had been sent for and 
was staying with Daisy. He was very proud of what she 
had achieved, and yet he did not get on with her as well 
as with Daisy. Curiously enough, she brought his past 
before him much more vividly. Her clear eyes seemed 
written full of remembrances from which he shrank, 
while Daisy's brightness was of the present moment. She 





had not learned from that large and sorrowful experience 
to be pitiful, and perhaps her own heart was too sore, as 
welL 

It would no longer do to ignore Mrs. Marshall. Friends 
sent in flowers and gifts of choice fruit, and when she 
went out for her daily drive, one and another gave her a 
deferential recognition. Mrs. Wilder called, and the two 
old ladies renewed their friendship that had been rather 
cool through these years of trouble. 

Eleanor Marshall could not deceive herself in regard to 
her affection for her husband. She had so far outgrown 
him, that in any case there must have been a continual 
struggle in her mind to keep herself on the level of her 
duty. She had seen so much larger hearted and higher 
toned men, and through these years she had reached a 
more elevated plane herself. 

"Eleanor," he said one day, "do you suppose Mr. How- 
arth would come over here ? I want to thank him for all 
he has done for Celia, and I have been thinking that I 
would like to ask a favor of him. I knew him a little, 
once, you remember. I should like to leave Bertie in just 
suoh hands — he will be hard for you to manage, my dar- 
ling, and I begin to realize that a man, to be any kind of 
power in the world, must have force of character, and 
staunch integrity. Bertie has some of my weak points. 
Would you like — would you feel it too much of an obli- 
gation." 

"I should like it," she replied frankly. a I think Mr. 
Howarth would not decline, though it is but fair to ask 
him." 

Eleanor invited them both, for she knew Mrs. Vanduyne 
would be glad to meet Mrs. Howarth. And that Tom 
should desire the very thing that she had thought over in 
quite a different fashion seemed marvellous. 

He was greatly pleased with the interview, and en- 
trusted some other business matters to Mr. Howarth's 



 

ear©. The two women had a sad, sweet confidence, and 
it strengthened Eleanor to go on with her duty. 

Mrs. Van Cleve was warmly sympathetic. Indeed it 
seemed to Eleanor as if friends conspired to uphold her 
with the utmost love, that her heart should not fail in the 
darkest hour. 

There were many that weighed heavily upon her in 
spite of her buoyant temperament. When she tried to 
lead the trembling, shrinking soul to the sure support 
that had been her stay in many a troublous hour, she 
found so few salient points in the man's character ; even 
now the soul appeared dulled by the past excesses and 
hardly capable of any vital belief for himself. He clung 
to her faith, as if in some way it would be strong enough 
for both. He was like a child in her hands in this respect, 
plastic, believing because she said it, and yet shrinking 
horribly from the thought of death. He even planned to 
live awhile. It seemed quite possible. 

" And we might go somewhere presently, Nelly," he 
said. "I think you would like Florida. When I can 
travel a little we might take it by easy stages, just you 
and I, a kind of wedding journey again. It is quite as if 
we had been remarried. If you could only forget all 
those wretched years." 

"You will not let me;" with tender reproach in her 
voice. " You keep going back to them." 

"Fourteen wasted years out of a man's life ! Oh, how 
could anyone be so weak and blind ! " 

How many times she had said it, but she did not echo 
it now. She comforted with caressing touches and tried 
to soothe with precious promises. 

The end came mercifully at last. It was one morning 
in March. He appeared quite bright, and they had taken 
some breakfast together in his room. She had been read- 
ing a book of poems to him, and he asked her to get it. 
Her voice always tranquillized and inspirited. 





He put out his hand presently and she took it. His 
hands were often so cold that it did not alarm her, bat 
now they grew cooler, it appeared to her. Then she 
looked at him in a vague, alarmed manner. 

"Nelly ! " A half smile parted his lips. There was a 
little flatter in the throat and the waxen eyelids drooped 
of their own accord. 

She bent over and kissed him and uttered a brief 
prayer. Her duty to Thomas Marshall had ended. He 
seemed almost like the little child she had kissed for the 
last time and laid away in silence. 

Thomas Marshall's funeral was a most honorable one. 
Many there were who never knew all the depths through 
which he had plunged, with no real desire to rise. Un- 
broken prosperity might have saved him from much of it, 
but he had not the vital pith that buffets adversity and 
gives back blow for blow. 

a How strange," said Miss Parker to Miss Allington, 
"that Mrs. Marshall's very first order here was for mourn- 
ing — there was a death at the Fairchilds', — and now I 
am making hers." 

Westwater could no longer afford to disdain Mrs. Mar- 
shall. It was sad that she should have so stepped out of 
her position, but now that she was wealthy it was looked 
upon as a kind of escapade. The mockery stung her. 
Was it indeed true that money bought everything ? 

The death of his father was a great shock to Bertie, 
and he clung passionately to his mother again. As she 
studied the entreating eyes and kissed the throbbing lips, 
she wondered a little what manner of man could be 
evolved from the boyish soul ; if he could be made strong 
enough to resist temptation when his trial hour came. 

She sorrowed more for Thomas Marshall's wasted years 
than for his untimely death ; yet she knew that it would 
not be well to brood exclusively over that. Both were in 
the keeping of a merciful God. 



 

For a while she and Celia remained with Daisy. Mr. 
and Mrs. Van Cleve were going abroad in the summer, 
and persuaded her to accompany them. Mrs. Linthorpe 
resolved to join the party. It seemed so strange after 
these years of penury and labor, not only to be free for 
leisure and cultivation, but to be rich beyond one's needs. 
Daisy and Celia were heiresses, and everybody admitted 
they always had thought that pretty Mrs. Galbraith 
charming. Even Mrs. Mountjoy extended a rather stiff 
cordiality to her cousin once more. 

Alice had at last achieved an engagement, though it 
was not to her mother's liking. A young lawyer with all 
his fortune yet to make, the son of a rather pretentious 
family, who were continually striving to keep a somewhat 
precarious footing on the higher rounds of society. 

Violet was in the depths of an intense friendship for a 
young lady who had taken a physician's degree abroad, 
and began to entertain serious thoughts of a career, to 
her mother's great disgust. 

"I suppose," said Mr. Van Cleve dryly, "if the Mar- 
shall girls had thrown themselves at Peroy's head, as the 
Mountjoy girls have done, we should call it the manners 
of the counter. I am really sorry to have Alice marry 
young Danforth and begin a life of pretence, but I am 
glad Percy did not select her." 

Mrs. Van Cleve smiled a little, a curious, indrawn 
smile. It seemed to her the hand of Providence had 
interposed in Celia's unfortunate engagement, that had 
taken her so by surprise. 

It might have forever remained known only to a few, 
but for an incident that occurred in the summer. Mrs. 
Sherrard died very suddenly. She had been out driving 
in the morning and after her luncheon settled herself in 
her high-backed chair to sleep, and there her maid found 
her dead two hours afterward. Whether it was that she 
could not wholly trust her son's word, or that she had 





simply delayed changing her will, her son was never to 
know, though he would have given worlds not to have 
offered such a document for probate. It was discovered 
in some way, and created no end of comment. 

"Did you know anything about it?'  some one asked 
of Mrs. Howarth, and that lady never before had gossiped 
with such a relish. 

"They were engaged before Miss Marshall visited me 
last summer at Newport," said she quietly. "It was not 
to be made public under a year or two, as she was very 
anxious to distinguish herself in her art." 

"And now she has a fortune, I understand, and will 
doubtless have a great deal more when her mother is done 
with it. She was a charming girl. What a pity it did not 
come a little sooner. Why he might marry her now I " 

" She would never have him relinquish his birthright, 
Sherrard House. When she found his mother was op- 
posed to it, she insisted upon giving him up, for she would 
never have been perfectly happy under the shadow of his 
mother's displeasure. She is so devoted to her own 
mother that she is fain to judge all others by herself." 

" It is not often," said one lady rather sharply, "that 
we see so much respect paid by children in this degenerate 
age, though I cannot consider Mrs. Sherrard worthy of it. 
Such people would soon narrow the world to absolutely 
nothing. I sometimes wonder why wealth is allowed to 
be kept in such channels, for it seems only an instrument 
of wrong and cruelty." 

In truth Mrs. Sherrard would have felt much mortified 
had she known the small esteem in which the world held 
her, and how ready it was to get along without her won- 
derful influence in upholding it. Even Thomas Marshall 
had more sincere mourners. 

The Marshall fortune had been a subject of much in- 
terest in Westwater. The children shared alike a hand- 
some amount upon reaching their majority, and provision 





was made for Bertie's education. With his mother Tom 
had dealt generously, and amply repaid his sister for any 
trouble. All the rest was left unconditionally "to my 
dear wife Eleanor Marshall," and was perhaps the highest 
justification he could have given her. 

Celia and her mother made their preparations to go 
abroad. Bertie was left in Mr. Howarth's care ; indeed, 
Mrs. Howarth proffered a mother's watchfulness to her 
friend. These children had come to have an especial near- 
ness for her. Indeed the brief parting with Celia gave 
her a severe wrench. 

"I am afraid you will find Bertie a good deal of 
trouble," Mrs. Marshall said. "Mr. Marshall did not 
count upon Mr. Howarth being so truly a father to him." 

"Yet Mr. Marshall could hardly have paid my hus- 
band a finer tribute than to have trusted his son with 
him," she answered proudly. 

What that year brought to Celia Marshall in depth and 
richness all her after-life betrayed. The beneficence of 
wealth in its highest and most generous aspects wrought 
something more truly perfect than the hardships of poverty 
could have done. Hers had never been a self-indulgent 
nature — its early cares and responsibilities had been too 
deeply taken to allow of that. But in this sunshine she 
expanded. The almost divine youthfulness of her 
mother's soul reacted upon hers ; that soul which has drank 
fromthe "living waters," through sorrow, trouble, and joy, 
and rejoices anew with every fresh day, not by forgetting 
the past, but making it indeed the stepping-stones to higher 
things. She seems, indeed, almost like one who has had 
no shadow in the past, but it is because she has so wrapped 
them around with the shining raiment of duty, so glorified 
them in the perfect trust with which she left all hard and 
unsolved problems in the hand of God, to be read and ex- 
plained in that other country, where one will see " face to 
face." 





• 
