apartment to their list. "The size and proportions will be left to your
own judgment, but I will add that you may want to use this hall in the
winter for exhibitions of declamation, dialogues, and concerts, to
which the people of Genverres may be invited. I give you the uses to
which the hall may be put, and it is for you to determine how large it
should be."
"Are we to make it big enough to accommodate the whole town?" inquired
Corny Minkfield.
"You must judge for yourself how many people the hall ought to hold; for
I have no clearer idea of the matter than you have, and I have no plan
for the winter entertainments," answered Captain Gildrock. "If there are
any exhibitions at all, they will be given at your request, and not at
my desire."
"Are we to decide now whether we will have exhibitions or not?" Steve
Baxter wanted to know.
"You are to decide for yourselves whether or not a large hall is likely
to be needed. I have nothing more to say on this subject. I have now
given you the essential points in the new building. In the matter of
halls, corridors, entrances, I shall say nothing. You need not confine
yourselves to the essentials I have mentioned. If you can add any
apartments that are worth having, you are at liberty to do so, and the
value of any such additions or improvements will be carried to your
credit on the total fitness of the plan. I hold the comfort and
recreation of the pupils of the school to be entitled to consideration
as well as usefulness in the narrower sense. I have said all I have to
say in regard to the boat-house, and after this I shall answer no
questions."
"Are the dressing-rooms to be on the lower story or the upper?" inquired
Matt Randolph.
"They will be just where you choose to put them," answered the
principal. "That is a question of convenience which each must decide for
himself."
"But we have the two docks for the boats, the forty dressing-rooms, the
four store-rooms, and the corridors and entries to put on the lower
story, with nothing but the hall on the second floor," persisted Matt.
"I did not stipulate that any of the apartments you mention should be on
the lower floor," said the principal, laughing. "If you think it best to
put the two docks for the barges on the second floor, of course you have
a perfect right to do so."
"A boat is a good thing to have, but it isn't particularly valuable on
the top of a mountain for sailing purposes, and I should rather have it
where there is a body of water," persisted Matt. "The docks will take up
about fifteen hundred square feet, and that is space enough for a hall
that will hold one hundred and fifty or two hundred people. It seems to
me that the parts don't balance well."
"It is for you to balance them, then. I have given you the essentials of
the boat-house, and I leave all the rest of it to you," replied Captain
Gildrock. "If you please, Randolph, we will not argue the matter, for
you are giving your associates points that I wish them to study out for
themselves. Now we will consider the location and the engineering work."
"I don't see why these are put together," said Oscar Chester.
"Because they are very closely connected," answered Captain Gildrock.
"If one of you decides that the boat-house ought to be built in the
middle of the lake, he ought to tell us how the foundation is to be
laid, and how we are to reach it."
"I see; and I understand it now," added Oscar.
"The location of the building, and of the wharf for the steamer or other
craft we may have, are included in the offer. The same student may
compete for both prizes, and plan both the building and the location. If
you locate the wharf where it cannot be conveniently reached by the
Sylph or the Goldwing, the site selected would have to be rejected."
"But perhaps the plan of the fellow who wins the prize for the
boat-house may not fit the location that gets the prize," suggested
Oscar Chester, who seemed to be taking the deepest interest in the
subject, though he had been the hardest boy in the whole before his
admission to the school.
"I have considered that difficulty, and the two plans which are the best
on the whole will be modified to adapt them to each other. Now, we will
see the map, Mr. Jepson," said the principal. The instructor in drawing
unrolled a chart on the wall behind the principal, and it proved to be
Beech Hill Lake, drawn after the manner of the chart of Lake Champlain,
with the compass, soundings, and character of the bottom upon it.
"This chart will be available for the inspection of all the students. It
shows Beech Hill Lake, which is about eighty rods long by forty wide. It
is simply an enlargement or basin of Meadow Creek. I own the land on
both sides of it down to Lake Champlain, and therefore we can do what we
please with it, even if we fill it up. When you locate the wharf you
must indicate how it is to be built, and how it is to be reached both on
the land and the water side."
"I suppose there is only one way to build a wharf, and that is by
driving piles," said Harry Franklin.
"The wharf may be of wood or of stone. If you look at the chart,
Franklin, you will see that the bottom on this side of the lake is
composed of rocks, into which no piles can be driven. Our present wharf
was built like a log house, by piling logs one upon another, and filling
in with earth. But the timbers are rotting, and it will soon need to be
rebuilt, and I don't care to have another of that kind. On the other
side of the lake the bottom is mud, brought in by the creek. That is all
we need say about the wharf and location."
But half a dozen of the boys who had ideas on the subject before the
school proceeded to ask questions, which the principal declined to
answer.
"The season is advancing, and I wish to have this building up and
covered in before the cold weather comes, and we want these plans at
once," continued the principal, after he had quieted the inquirers.
"After consultation with the instructors, I have decided to give you
three days vacation, at the end of which time the prizes will be
awarded. These three days are given you to study the subject and draw
the plans."
"That is a short time," said Matt Randolph.
"But it is just as much for one as for another. You must do the best you
can in that time. Fifty dollars is a considerable sum for a boy to have;
and I must say now that the winner will not be allowed to fool it away.
If they have no immediate use for it, the money will be placed to their
credit in the Genverres Savings Bank; but it may be used at once for any
proper purpose."
The students wondered, as they left the schoolroom, if the vacation had
not been given on account of the rebellion. But all of them hastened to
the lake to look for a site for the boat-house.
CHAPTER XI.
DORY DORNWOOD CONFRONTS THE TOPOVERS.
Several groups of the students had formed on the banks of Beech Hill
Lake, and were discussing the plans when the school-bell rang. They
obeyed the summons, and began to think this was a queer sort of a
vacation, when the principal informed them that he had forgotten
something. Seeing them talking together at the lake had reminded him of
the omission.
"I must exact a promise from each student that the plan he offers is
wholly his own work," said Captain Gildrock. "There must be no
conversation, conference, or comparison among you, and no student must
show his plan to another, or tell another what it is. All of you who
assent to this, and make this promise, will signify it by standing."
All the boys rose and remained standing. Some of them asked a lot of
questions as usual, but in a few minutes the whole matter was perfectly
understood.
"Under these conditions we shall have to stay in our rooms all the
time," said Dave Windsor; and the remark created a laugh, for it looked
as though the competitors for the prizes were to be prisoners as well as
the rebels.
"You can do your work where you please. The schoolroom, the workshop,
the grove, are open to you, as well as your rooms," replied the
principal. "I consider that each pupil is put on honor not to look at
the work of another. Before the prizes are awarded I shall ask each one
if the plan is wholly his own idea, and I shall be willing to take his
word for it."
"Then everything must be original, must it?" asked Bolly Millweed. "If
we have seen an arrangement of doors or windows we like in a hotel or
church, we must not use it."
"Not at all," answered Captain Gildrock, a little impatiently. "If you
have ideas, they belong to you though you did not originate them. I
simply insist that you shall not use one another's ideas. I don't expect
you to originate many if any new ideas in architecture and engineering;
only to combine old ones for the particular structure we have in view. I
only ask you to do what any old farmer would do if he wanted to put up
a set of farm buildings; and he would not go near an architect or civil
engineer, though it might pay him to do so."
"I understand it now," said Dave.
"I hope you all understand it; but if there are any questions to be
asked it must be done now, for not one will be considered after I
dismiss you this time. You may use any of the boats on Beech Hill Lake
during the next three days without further permission."
The boys were ashamed to ask any more questions, and they left the
schoolroom. They were not to talk together about the plans, and they
separated outside the door, each to make his examination of the shores
of the little lake by himself. In a few minutes they were scattered all
along the border of the lake and creek, each one carefully avoiding all
the others; for, under the skilful training of Captain Gildrock, each
one had come to regard his honor as the apple of his eye.
Of course there were some of the boys who had no more idea of the making
of a plan or the fitness of a locality for the boat-house than they had
of the erection of a Chinese pagoda; and the principal hardly expected
that more than half a dozen plans of the building and as many of the
location would be submitted. But he knew that the study given by the
pupils to the subject would be worth more than the prize to them.
It was rather amusing to see some of them making so serious a matter of
the plans, but probably every one of them thought he could select the
best location for the wharf and boat-house, even if he could not make a
mark towards the plan of the structure. Many of them seated themselves
under the trees in view of the lake, with paper and pencil in hand, as
though they had begun to make the rough sketches of the plan.
By the middle of the forenoon it was clear that some of the students had
got their ideas in working order, for they went to the schoolroom, and
began to make sketches on brown paper. But others were not satisfied
with the limited survey they had made of the lake, and wished to visit
the other side. Though the creek was narrow, there was no bridge on the
Beech Hill grounds, and it was too wide to be leaped over. Mat Randolph
proposed that they should go over in the barges. All hands were called,
and they assented to the plan.
When they were seated in the boats, with only nine oarsmen in each, it
was decided to make a trip around the lake, in order to examine the
shore from the water side. At the head of the lake, in the rear of the
shop and schoolroom, was a rocky hill rising to the height of about a
hundred feet in the loftiest place. The rocks rose perpendicularly from
the lake, and the water was four feet deep alongside of them.
Bolingbroke Millweed was earnest and critical in his survey of these
rocks, though hardly another of the party paid any attention to them.
Probably most of them thought it was the most unsuitable place on the
lake for the boat-house and wharf, though it was nearer to the mansion
and schoolroom than the present wharf, where the barges were moored.
The two boats pulled with a gentle stroke around the lake, stopping at
several points for a more careful survey. If any one had any brilliant
ideas he was as silent as Beech Hill itself, at the head of the lake.
This was the name of the elevation in the rear of the schoolroom, and
the estate, the lake, and the institution had been called after it.
Beech Hill Lake extended north and south within a quarter of a mile of
Porter's Bay, an inlet of Lake Champlain. Between the little lake and
the bay there was a beautiful grove, which was one of the most
delightful resorts on the shipmaster's estate. He had intended to build
a bridge across the creek, back of Beech Hill; but an attempt had been
made to rob his house by a couple of New York burglars, who had landed
at the head of the bay, and crossed the lake in a boat which had
formerly been kept on the other side.
The idea of constructing: a bridge had been given up after this attempt,
but a small pier had been built near the inlet of the creek, for
convenience in landing from boats at the grove. The barges went to this
little wharf, and the crews landed, and separated, each to pursue his
studies by himself. All of them made a careful examination of the west
shore of the lake.
When he had finished his survey, Dory Dornwood seated himself under a
tree not far from the pier. He did not seem to think he had any talent
for architecture or civil engineering, and he had not a very strong hope
of winning either of the prizes. The fact that he was the founder's
nephew would not affect the matter in any way, for each competitor was
to put only a word or character on his work, which was also to be
written on an envelope containing his name. The examiners, whoever they
were, were not to know whose plan they were considering.
While Dory was contemplating the shores of the lake, and making up his
mind in regard to the best place for the wharf, he heard voices in the
direction of the pier. Looking that way, he saw a squad of boys on the
little wharf. Their attention was fixed upon the two barges, which they
were examining with interest, not to say enthusiasm.
Genverres had its proportion of bad boys as well as good ones, and Dory
recognized these visitors to the grove as belonging to the former class.
He had not been in the town long enough to have any acquaintance with
them, and hardly knew them by sight; but his uncle had pointed out a
couple of them whom he suspected of stealing fruit from his garden. In
fact he had suffered so much from the depredations of fruit-thieves,
that he had taken extensive and expensive precautions to keep them out
of his grounds.
The captain had built a fence ten feet high from the main road to the
creek; the latter being considered a sufficient barrier on the west side
of the estate. The grove could easily be reached, but the grounds on the
east side of Beech Hill Lake were now well protected. Dory saw that the
leading spirit of the squad of visitors was Tom Topover, a reckless
young rascal of sixteen or seventeen, who had made himself a terror to
the farmers on the outskirts of the town, as well as to many peaceable
citizens in the village.
The presence of the "Topovers," as they had come to be called, after
their leader, boded no good to the boats, for the squad were
free-and-easy fellows, who had no more regard for the rights of property
than they had for the cleanliness of their faces and their garments.
Dory Dornwood knew how easy it was to get up a quarrel with this class
of young ruffians, and he did not think it was wise to go near them; but
he thought it was best to show himself, so that they might not be
tempted to meddle with the barges by the supposition that they were not
seen. He began to walk about where he could not fail to be observed by
the visitors.
Dory looked all around him through the grove, but he could see only a
few of the other students. Doubtless they were all absorbed in the study
of the plan and location, for not a sound could be heard except the
dashing of the water against the rocks in the creek above the lake.
He and Matt Randolph had each a boatswain's whistle, used in calling
the boats' crews when they were separated, as in the present instance.
Its shrill pipe could be heard at least half a mile in a still day; but
the coxswain of the Winooski hoped he should have no occasion to use it.
The Topovers had seen him, and probably some of the other students, and
must know that the crews of both boats were in the grove, or the barges
would not be at the wharf.
He watched the visitors very closely, but they manifested no
disposition, so far, to meddle with the boats. They were looking at
them, and made them the subject of a great deal of animated
conversation. Dory could not blame them for being delighted with the
barges, and the fact they were pleased was an evidence that they had
some good taste. But presently he saw four of them walking towards him.
They came in a direct line, and the coxswain had no doubt they had
something to say to him. One of them was Tom Topover; another was Kidd
Digfield; the two whom the captain had indicated as the plunderers of
his garden. He did not know the names of the other two.
"Hullo, Dory!" called Tom Topover, when the party came within hailing
distance of him, "Them's tip-top boats you've got down there."
"They are very fine boats," replied Dory.
"I s'pose you fellers have big times in 'em," continued Tom, as he and
his companions halted in front of the coxswain.
"We have first-rate times in them," answered Dory, with a pleasant
smile, for he was very careful that there should be nothing exasperating
in his conduct, and he had learned that one's manner of saying anything
could be very provoking, even when nothing offensive was uttered.
"You ain't usin' them boats now: won't you let me and the fellers take a
little turn in 'em on the pond?" Tom Topover proceeded with as much
assurance as though he was making only a reasonable request, as he
evidently believed it was.
Dory felt that he had no more right to lend one of the boats than he had
to loan one of his uncle's shirts; and he saw the beginning of trouble
in the request.
CHAPTER XII.
TOM TOPOVER HAS REASON TO BE ASTONISHED.
Tom Topover was a stout and wiry fellow, and he had the reputation of
being the greatest fighting character in Genverres. He made a quarrel
whenever he could, and he had proved a handful to several men who had
been called upon to tackle him in some of his marauding exploits. With
this reputation he was afraid of no one though a village policeman
declared that there was more bully than fight in him.
Dory Dornwood wondered that Tom had taken the trouble to ask permission
to use the boats; but as he had done so, and done it in a respectful
manner, it was his duty to answer him; and the circumstances made it a
very disagreeable duty. The coxswain was not a "bruiser," and he had no
taste for pugilism, though, if attacked or assaulted, he was a very
vigorous opponent.
"Those boats belong to Captain Gildrock," replied Dory to the request of
the Topover.
"I know that, but you fellers takes care on 'em, and we only want to
use 'em a few minutes while you ain't in 'em," continued Tom, in a very
pliable manner for him. "We won't hurt 'em a mite, and we'll fetch 'em
back jest as soon as you fellers want 'em!"
"The boats don't belong to me, and I have no right to lend them," added
Dory, with a pleasant smile to soften his refusal.
"The cap'n won't say nothin' if you just let us take one of the boats
for a few minutes," pleaded Tom. "You needn't tell him, and he won't
know nothin' about it."
"I have no right to lend the boat, and I can't do it," persisted Dory,
who had no confidence in the statements or the promises of the Topover.
"What's the reason you can't?" demanded Tom, with a little more vigor in
his tones.
"I have told you the reason: the boats don't belong to me. What would
you say if I should lend your hat to some fellow without your
permission?"
"I shouldn't say a word; just as lief you'd do it as not," promptly
returned the applicant. "I ain't stingy with what belongs to me. If them
boats was mine, I'd let you have 'em all day when I wa'n't usin' 'em."
Tom Topover made this display of liberality in a tone of triumph, and
he appeared to think it ought to settle the question at once. He looked
as complacent and self-satisfied as though he had actually loaned the
coxswain half a dozen barges every day for a week.
"I have ten dollars belonging to my uncle which he gave me to pay a bill
in Burlington when I go there to-morrow," said Dory, amused but not
convinced by the unselfish offer of Tom. "Do you think it would be right
for me to lend that money?"
"Right? Of course it would, if any good feller like me wanted to borry
it. Lend it to me, and I will pay it back next week when a man gives me
twenty dollars he owes me," answered Tom glibly.
"I don't think it would be right, and I can't lend the money or the
boats because they don't belong to me. You must go to Captain Gildrock
if you want to borrow the boats," replied Dory, finding it was useless
to argue the point with one who had no respect for the rights of
property.
"You'll let us take one of the boats, won't you? I hain't got no time to
go'n find Captain Gildrock," continued Tom.
"I will not let you take one of the boats," said Dory very decidedly.
"I have told you I could not."
"All right! The boats don't belong to you, and 'tain't none of your
business," chuckled Tom. "We'll take a little turn in the furder boat,
and I'll see the cap'n arter we come back, and make it all right with
him."
This seemed to be a satisfactory arrangement to Tom Topover, and he
started for the wharf, followed by his companions, with the evident
purpose of carrying out his idea at once.
"The boats don't belong to me, but, as you said, we have the care of
them, and we can't let any one take them without Captain Gildrock's
permission."
"What are you go'n to do about it?" demanded Tom, halting, and then
retracing his steps to the spot where the coxswain stood. "You don't
reckon I keer for you, do you?"
"I don't want to make any words about it, and I have said all I have to
say," replied Dory, and he still maintained his quiet demeanor, though
things began to look like an immediate battle.
"I don't want no words nuther. I'm go'n to take one of them boats, and
I want to know what you are go'n to do about it," blustered Tom.
"I don't want to do anything; but the boats are in the care of our
fellows, and we are responsible for them. If you meddle with them, I
shall be obliged to call the crews, who are here in the grove," replied
the coxswain.
"Call the crews, will you?" said Tom, clenching his fists and siding up
towards Dory.
"There's two or three fellers comin' down here," interposed Kidd
Digfield.
"You 'n' Nim Splugger look out for 'em, and I'll polish off this chap,"
replied Tom, as he glanced into the grove, where he saw Matt Randolph
and Oscar Chester approaching. "Them boats don't belong to you, and
'tain't none of your business who takes 'em. I'll bet you don't call no
crews nuther," continued Tom, assuming a decidedly belligerent attitude.
"I have nothing more to say," returned Dory, bracing himself up in
readiness to meet whatever might come.
"All right if you hain't; and I hain't got much more to say; only if you
try to call them crews, you'll wish you'd been born deef and dumb,"
added Tom, savagely, and enforcing his threat with a flourish of his
dirty fists. "Come back, Kid, and be in a hurry," he shouted to his
companions he had sent to look out for Matt and Oscar, who were still
too far off to see what was transpiring near the wharf.
Tom Topover started at a smart run for the wharf, closely followed by
his three companions. He had evidently changed his tactics all of a
sudden, and concluded not to fight any battle. The haste displayed
indicated that they were hurrying to get into the boats before any of
the crew could arrive. Dory comprehended the situation at once, and blew
a long pipe on the boatswain's whistle, which woke the echoes of the
quiet grove.
"Git into them boats!" shouted Tom Topover, to the companions he had
left at the wharf. "Untie 'em, and pick up the oars!"
The Topover intended to get possession of the boats while it was
possible to do so, and not lose any time in thrashing Dory, which he
regarded as an easy matter, a mere form. He had called his crew with the
whistle, and Matt, as soon as he heard it, had blown his own pipe. He
and Oscar had by this time got an idea that something was wrong, and
were running with all their speed towards the wharf.
Dory was not content with merely blowing his whistle, and, as soon as
he saw what Tom meant to do, he ran after him. There were about a dozen
Topovers, as nearly as he could judge, but he did not stop to ask
himself what he should do alone against such a host. The leader of the
young ruffians was not as fleet of foot as the three companions who had
attended him to the grove, and they reached the wharf when he had
accomplished about two thirds of the distance.
"Hurry up, Pell Sankland!" shouted Kidd when he came to the wharf,
though the one called was not far ahead of Tom.
Kidd Digfield appeared to be the second in power and influence of the
party, and he gave orders enough when he reached the vicinity of the
pier to confuse and confound those who had obtained a footing in the
boats. There were five in one barge and four in the other. They had
already cast off the painters, and hauled the boats up to the side of
the wharf.
"Let the boats alone!" shouted Dory, when he had nearly overtaken Tom
Topover.
"What are you go'n to do about it?" demanded Tom, halting, and facing
about.
"Those fellows must not meddle with the boats," answered the coxswain,
and he was not disposed to stop to parley with the chief ruffian.
"'Tain't none of your bread and butter; you said so yourself,"
interposed Tom, stepping in front of Dory with clenched fists to bar his
further advance.
The coxswain was not disposed to waste any time in words with Tom, and
he attempted to pass him by dodging to one side, but the ruffian threw
himself upon him, seizing him by his coat collar. This was an act of
violence, and it roused the lion in Dory's nature. He shook off the
grasp of his assailant without any difficulty, for if he was not as
quick as lightning, he was about as near it as a boy of his weight could
be. Once more he attempted to pass his assailant, but Tom got in front
of him again.
"If you want to fight, come on!" foamed the Topover, as he put himself
into the order of battle.
"I don't want to fight, but I shall defend myself," replied Dory. "Out
of my way!"
Instead of taking himself out of the coxswain's path, Tom aimed a blow
at Dory's head. The ruffian might as well have pitched into the
sea-serpent or a royal Bengal tiger as into Dory Dornwood. He was rather
smaller than his assailant, but he had learned the art of self-defence
of a Burlington barber, who had formerly been a teacher of the
"science." His frame seemed to be made of steel wire. He had brains and
great dexterity of movement. Abundant exercise in boats and other
training had fully developed his powers, and every student in the Beech
Hill Industrial School knew that he was a terribly "hard hitter."
The coxswain easily parried the blow aimed at him with his left hand,
and planted a sledgehammer hit with his right in Tom's face. The Topover
went just where Oscar Chester had gone on a similar occasion at
Plattsburg--on the ground, flat on his back. Doubtless the leader of the
young ruffians was greatly astonished, not to say confounded, at this
unexpected reception, for his historical studies had been neglected, and
he had never heard of the Battle of Plattsburg, at least the particular
one to which we refer.
Dory did not think it necessary to push the battle any farther at the
present moment, though Tom instantly sprang to his feet, in spite of
some confusion in his ideas. With one eye on his assailant, Dory
retreated a few steps, and then resumed his march on the wharf.
"Hold on! I hain't licked you yet, and I'm go'n to do it afore I get
through," said Tom, moving towards his intended victim.
"I can't wait for you to do it now," replied Dory, as he broke into a
run.
But Tom began to swear like a pirate, and rushed after Dory. The latter
had no difficulty in keeping out of his way, and he reached the wharf
just as the villains in the boats had shoved them clear of the pier.
Kidd had put six of the party in each barge, and they had manned the
oars. But they had been obliged to leave their leader behind.
Tom Topover now observed this bit of strategy, and he divided his vials
of wrath between the coxswain and his lieutenant.
CHAPTER XIII.
A VICTORY FOR THE TOPOVERS.
Dory Dornwood reached the wharf too late to prevent the ruffians from
getting off in the boats; and his failure filled him with consternation.
It was not for a few minutes, as Tom Topover had said, that the ruffians
wanted them, but for all day, or for a week or a month, if they were not
sooner taken from them. Living on the river and near the lake, such
fellows would naturally take to the water, and all or most of them knew
how to handle an oar, but not one of them could be called a skilful
boatman, though Kidd Digfield claimed to be a sailor on the ground that
he had made two trips in a lumber schooner.
Even if the Topovers were competent to handle a common row-boat, it was
quite another thing to manage a barge fifty feet long, pulled by twelve
oars. If they succeeded in getting the boats out of the river, they were
likely to swamp them in the waves, smash them on the rocks, or grind
their cedar bottoms on the gravelly beaches. Dory had a genuine
affection for the Winooski, and it grieved him sorely to see her in the
hands of such a villainous crew as the Topovers.
Of course there was nothing to be done at Beech Hill until the barges
were recovered. The wind was northwest and blowing fresh, as on the day
before, and it was dangerous for an unskilful crew to venture out on the
lake. The lives of the reckless party would be in peril as well as the
boats.
Dory had but a few moments to consider the matter. Matt Randolph and
Oscar Chester were near him, out of breath after the run they had made.
Tom Topover had retreated to the shore of the pond; and the coxswain of
the Winooski, not wishing to engage in a fight, had neglected to follow
him. Nim Splugger had taken command of the Gildrock, and Kidd Digfield
of the Winooski. They had made sure to put a couple of lengths between
the barges and the wharf, and in this position they were as safe from
any interference of the boys on shore as though they had been in the
middle of the lake.
There was no boat at the grove, and no means of pursuing the captors of
the barges. In fact, nothing at all could be done, and for the moment
the situation looked hopeless to the coxswains. Kidd proceeded to give
directions to his crew as soon as the immediate danger of capture was
passed. Taking the tiller-lines himself, he brought something like order
out of the confusion in his crew. After a great deal of sharp talk, he
succeeded in getting his fellows so that they could pull a stroke
together, and the Winooski slowly moved towards the lower end of the
lake.
Kidd could not help seeing the chief Topover on the shore, and as soon
as his crew were in working order, he headed to the point where he
stood. Dory immediately observed the change in the course of the
Winooski, and understood the purpose of her present coxswain, which was
to take Tom on board. By this time Matt and Oscar were as near the spot
where Tom was waiting for the boat as Dory was.
"Head them off!" shouted Dory, as he started at the top of his speed.
"Pull lively, fellers!" yelled Kidd Digfield, when he saw the three
students running towards his leader.
They did pull with all their might, and as the Winooski was bound to go
ahead when the oars crossed her gunwale, she was too much for the
runners on the shore. Dory hoped one of the clumsy oarsmen would "catch
a crab" at that important moment, but not one of them gratified his
desire. He was within a couple of rods of Tom, and was all ready to
pitch into him, when Kidd ordered his crew to stop rowing, and then to
back water.
The inexperienced coxswain had not calculated well, and the boat lost
her headway when her sharp bow was within ten feet of the shore. Dory's
hopes swelled when he saw the boat come to a stand, and he increased his
speed.
"Pull again!" shouted Kidd, almost crazy with excitement, when he
realized that he was losing the game.
But his undisciplined crew were in confusion, and only half of them
could bring their oars to bear. The barge went ahead again just as Dory
was about to pounce on Tom Topover. The leader of the ruffians saw his
peril, and he did not seem to be "spoiling for a fight" at just that
moment, perhaps because his late victim had been reinforced by a couple
of his companions. He had not another instant to spare, and Tom made a
vigorous leap for the bow of the Winooski.
The stem of the barge was not more than three or four feet distant when
the Topover made his leap, but the pointed bow was an ugly foundation to
strike upon. He could not throw his body into the fore sheets, but he
succeeded in grasping the gunwale with both hands, while the lower half
of his body went into the water. Unfortunately the force of his blow had
been imparted to the forward part of the barge, and it had been shoved
farther away from the shore.
Tom Topover dragged himself into the Winooski. Seizing a boathook, he
stood up in the bow of the boat, evidently intending to use it in case
of need in defending himself from an attack of his pursuers. The two
coxswains reached the shore with their wind about gone, to find that ten
feet of deep water lay between them and the nearest part of the
Winooski. They could leap into the water and swim to her, and Oscar
Chester proposed to do so; but this would have been folly, for the
ruffians could easily beat them off with their oars and the boathooks.
Nim Splugger, who had assumed the command of the Gildrock, did not claim
to be a sailor, though he had often pulled an oar. He lacked confidence
in his own ability, and was therefore not so imperative in his orders
as Kidd. The boat was clear of the wharf, and he took time to arrange
his crew at the oars. Before he could get them into working order, their
attention was attracted to Tom and the movements of the Winooski. They
rested on their oars, watching the issue of the affair near the shore.
"Now, back her, fellers!" yelled Kidd Digfield, as soon as he saw that
Tom was in the boat.
"No, you don't back her, Kidd!" roared Tom Topover. "That ain't no way
to do it! Pull on this side," and the leader pointed to the starboard
side; "back on t'other!"
Tom was right, if he did not claim to be a sailor, and Kidd was wrong,
for backing her would only have sent the barge along parallel with the
shore, with the chances of a deviation which would have thrown the stern
within reach of the students on shore. Tom called his disciples by name,
and told each one what to do. Kidd took in his captain's idea, and
helped him with his words. Under their united directions, the head of
the Winooski was thrown around, and she was forced out into the lake.
"I hain't done with you yet, Dory," yelled Tom, shaking his fist at the
proper coxswain of the barge. "Afore you are a week older I'll give you
the biggest lickin' you ever got in your life. I'll crack half the bones
in your body! I'll mash your head till you won't know it from a last
year's punkin!"
"You had better bring those boats back before you get into hot water,"
replied Dory, more in grief than in anger. "Let me tell you that you are
stealing them, and Captain Gildrock will haul you up before the court
for it."
"Shut up, you monkey milksop! When we've done with the boats we'll set
'em a-fire!" returned Tom.
"I can't stand this! I shall boil over!" exclaimed Oscar Chester. "I
should like to get near enough to that scallawag to pitch into him."
"Keep cool, Oscar," said Dory. "We can't do anything just now, and it's
no use to boil over."
"What makes that fellow so down on you, Dory?" asked Matt Randolph. "He
didn't say anything to Oscar and me."
"Perhaps I gave him reason to be down upon me, though I only defended
myself. I knocked him over when he tried to stop me from reaching the
wharf," answered the coxswain of the Winooski. "If I had only got among
those ruffians half a minute sooner, I might have saved the boats,
though I should have had to stand up against the whole of them."
Matt wanted to know more about the affair, and Dory told all that had
happened since he first saw the Topovers. By the time his fellow
coxswain had heard the story, the rest of the two crews began to arrive.
They could see for themselves why they had been summoned so soon. Tom
had taken possession of the stern-sheets of the Winooski, and sent Kidd
to one of the vacant thwarts to row. The ruffians were struggling with
the oars, for, though they had the strength, they were utterly lacking
in discipline and knowledge. But they pulled with some degree of
unanimity, and the Winooski went ahead at a very moderate rate. The
Gildrock was doing better than her consort, for Nim Splugger did not
confuse his crew with too many orders, and each one got the hang of the
oar in his own way.
Both boats were moving, and were headed towards the outlet of the lake.
Their regular crews at the grove could only look on, for they were
powerless to raise a finger to recover the boats at present. One after
another suggested various experiments for demolishing the Topovers, but
their schemes were either foolish or impracticable. Oscar Chester wanted
to run down to the narrowest place on the outlet, and make an attack on
the marauders; but both Matt and Dory were not in favor of such a plan.
"If we get desperate, and try to break things, those villains will smash
the boats rather than let us get them. That Tom Topover is as mad as a
March hare at the rap Dory gave him," said Matt.
"I think we had better report to Captain Gildrock, for I don't see that
we can do anything here," suggested Dory, as he gazed sadly at the
retreating barges.
"We can't even get over to Beech Hill," added Luke Bennington, as he
glanced across the lake at the school grounds.
"We must go around by the road, and it is over a mile," added Pemberton
Millweed.
"It seems to me that somebody on the other side must have seen what was
going on," said Matt.
"I don't think anyone has seen what was going on," replied Dory. "Bates
is on duty in the dormitory, the teachers are attending to their own
affairs, and probably Captain Gildrock is in the house. If any of them
saw the boats going down the lake, they were too far off to know who
were in them. If my uncle knew anything about this business, he would
have sent a boat over before this time."
"If we had been in any mischief, half a dozen of them would have seen
us," said Thad Glovering, with a laugh.
"It's no use to stay here, and we may as well walk around by the road
and report to Captain Gildrock," added Dory.
This was considered the best thing to do, and in half an hour they
arrived at the school grounds on the other side of the lake. No one knew
anything of what had happened on the other side of the water. They could
not find the principal about the place; and at last one of the stablemen
said he had gone to the village with Mrs. Dornwood in the buggy.
Mr. Jepson, the master machinist, was the only instructor they could
find about the premises, and he agreed with Dory and Matt that something
should be done at once.
CHAPTER XIV.
THE PURSUIT IN THE GOLDWING.
It was easier to decide that something should be done than it was to
determine what to do. Mr. Jepson suggested the Sylph, but it would take
some time to get up steam, and Dory thought she would not be the most
convenient craft in a conflict with the barges. He was decidedly in
favor of pursuing the marauders in the Goldwing.
In the smashing breeze on the lake she would sail nearly as fast as the
steamer, and he could have her under way in five minutes. The schooner
could follow the boats into shoal water, while the Sylph must have eight
or nine feet, and if Tom Topover was smart, she might not be able to go
within a mile of the barges.
"I am more afraid the rascals will smash the boats than that we shall
not get them again," said Matt Randolph. "They are reckless fellows, and
will run them on the rocks or shoals."
"We must look out for that," replied Dory. "If they go out on the lake
they are more likely to swamp them than they are to smash them. But we
are losing time, and I should like to catch the villains before they are
out of the river, for I think they won't hurry after they get out of
sight of Beech Hill."
"Goldwing it is!" exclaimed Luke Bennington.
"So say we all of us!" shouted the others, beginning to be somewhat
excited at the prospect of a lively time with the Topovers.
"Dory shall command the expedition," added Thad Glovering.
"Matt is a better skipper than I am," modestly added Dory.
"No, I am not," protested Matt. "And Dory is better acquainted with the
Goldwing than I am, and he shall conduct the affair."
"But you can't all go in the Goldwing," interposed Mr. Jepson. "There
are eighteen of you, and you will be so crowded that you will knock one
another overboard."
"Although the schooner will carry eighteen well enough, we can do
nothing on board with so many, and nine or ten are all we need," added
Dory.
"But there are fourteen of the ruffians," suggested Thad Glovering.
"They are used to fighting, and we want as many fellows as they have."
"I don't believe there will be much fighting," replied Dory, laughing;
"but if there should be, we can do better with ten than we can with
twice that number. With eighteen we should be in one another's way."
"Ten only will go," said Mr. Jepson decidedly.
"But who shall they be?" demanded Luke Bennington. "Every fellow wants
to go and have a hand in the fun."
"There is where the difficulty comes in," added Matt. "I think Dory had
better select his own crew; and for one, if I am elected to stay at
home, I won't complain."
"You know very well that you will be elected to go, Matt," said Will
Orwell.
"I don't like to select a crew; I wish all could go, and I shall be
satisfied with any nine," interposed Dory.
"Under these circumstances the best thing a fellow can do is to
volunteer to stay behind; and I volunteer not to go," said Oscar
Chester. "I should like to go as well as the next one, and I don't want
any fellow to think I am chickenish."
"We know you are not, Oscar," added Dave Windsor; and all the students
began to clap their hands at the self-sacrifice of the first volunteer.
Bolingbroke Millweed followed Oscar's example; then came Matt Randolph
and Luke Bennington. It was the unselfish and brave thing to volunteer
to stay at home, and no one was willing to stay behind in doing a good
deed. In a moment more the whole seventeen had volunteered to remain at
Beech Hill.
"I don't like to be alone, and I will join the crowd," exclaimed Dory,
greatly amused at the situation. "We are just as badly off as we were in
the beginning, and the Topovers are pulling down the river all the time.
I will tell you how to settle the matter so that it shall be fair for
all."
