Mrs. Lapham sat discomfited. All that she could 
say was, "Well, I want you should ask yourself 
whether Rogers would ever have gone wrong, or 
got into these ways of his, if it hadn't been for your 
forcing him out of the business when you did. I 
want you should think whether you 're not respon 
sible for everything he 's done since." 
" You go and get that bag of mine ready," said 
Lapham sullenly. "I guess I can take care of 
myself. And Milton K. Rogers too," he added. 
That evening Corey spent the time after dinner 
in his own room, with restless excursions to the 
library, where his mother sat with his father and 
sisters, and showed no signs of leaving them. At 
last, in coming down, he encountered her on the 
stairs, going up. They both stopped consciously. 
" I would like to speak with you, mother. I have 
been waiting to see you alone." 
" Come to my room," she said. 
"I have a feeling that you know what I want to 
say," he began there. 
She looked up at him where lie stood by the 
 
chimney-piece, and tried to put a cheerful note into 
her questioning " Yes ? " 
" Yes ; and I have a feeling that you won't like it 
that you won't approve of it. I wish you did 
I wish you could ! " 
"I'm used to liking and approving everything 
you do, Tom. If I don't like this at once, I shall 
try to like it you know that for your sake, what 
ever it is." 
" I 'd better be short," he said, with a quick sigh. 
"It's about Miss Lapham." He hastened to add, 
"I hope it isn't surprising to you. I'd have told 
you before, if I could." 
"No, it isn't surprising. I was afraid I sus 
pected something of the kind." 
They were both silent in a painful silence. 
" Well, mother ? " he asked at last. 
"If it's something you've quite made up your 
mind to " 
" It is !" 
" And if you Ve already spoken to her " 
" I had to do that first, of course." 
" There would be no use of my saying anything, 
even if I disliked it." 
" You do dislike it !" 
" No no ! I can't say that. Of course I should 
have preferred it if you had chosen some nice girl 
among those that you had been brought up with 
some friend or associate of your sisters, whose people 
we had known " 
" Yes, I understand that, and I can assure you 
 
that I haven't been indifferent to your feelings. I 
have tried to consider them from the first, and it 
kept me hesitating in a way that I 'm ashamed to 
think of ; for it wasn't quite right towards others. 
But your feelings and my sisters' have been in my 
mind, and if I couldn't yield to what I supposed 
they must be, entirely " 
Even so good a son and brother as this, when it 
came to his love affair, appeared to think that he 
had yielded much in considering the feelings of his 
family at all. 
His mother hastened to comfort him. " I know 
I know. I 've seen for some time that this might 
happen, Tom, and I have prepared myself for it. I 
have talked it over with your father, and 'we both 
agreed from the beginning that you were not to be 
hampered by our feeling. Still it is a surprise. 
It must be." 
" I know it I can understand your feeling. But 
I 'm sure that it 's one that will last only while you 
don't know her well." 
" Oh, I 'm sure of that, Tom. I 'm sure that we 
shall all be fond of her, for your sake at first, even 
and I hope she 'll like us." 
"I am quite certain of that," said Corey, with that 
confidence which experience does not always confirm 
in such cases. " And your taking it as you do lifts 
a tremendous load off me." 
But he sighed so heavily, and looked so troubled, 
that his mother said, " Well, now, you mustn't think 
of that any more. We wish what is for your happi- 
 
ness, my son, and we will gladly reconcile ourselves 
to anything that might have been disagreeable. I 
suppose we needn't speak of the family. We must 
both think alike about them. They have their 
drawbacks, but they are thoroughly good people, and 
I satisfied myself the other night that they were not 
to be dreaded." She rose, and put her arm round 
his neck. "And I wish you joy, Tom ! If she's 
half as good as you are, you will both be very 
happy." She was going to kiss him, but something 
in his looks stopped her an absence, a trouble, 
which broke out in his words. 
u I must tell you, mother ! There 's been a com 
plication a mistake that's a blight on me yet, 
and that it sometimes seems as if we couldn't escape 
from. I wonder if you can help us ! They all 
thought I meant the other sister." 
" Tom ! But how could they ? " 
" I don't know. It seemed so glaringly plain I 
was ashamed of making it so outright from the 
beginning. But they did. Even she did, her 
self ! " 
" But where could they have thought your eyes 
were your taste ? It wouldn't be surprising if 
any one were taken with that wonderful beauty ; 
and I 'm sure she 's good too. But I 'm astonished 
at them ! To think you could prefer that little, 
black, odd creature, with her joking and " 
" Mother ! " cried the young man, turning a ghastly 
face of warning upon her. 
" What do you mean, Tom ? " 
 
"Did you did did you think so too that it 
was Irene I meant ? " 
" Why, of course ! " 
He stared at her hopelessly. 
" my son ! " she said, for all comment on the 
situation. 
" Don't reproach me, mother ! I couldn't stand 
it" 
" No. I didn't mean to do that But how how 
could it happen ? " 
" I don't know. When she first told me that they 
had understood it so, I laughed almost it was so 
far from me. But now when you seem to have had 
the same idea Did you all think so ? " 
" Yes." 
They remained looking at each other. Then Mrs. 
Corey began : " It did pass through my mind once 
that day I went to call upon them that it might 
not be as we thought ; but I knew so little of 
of " 
" Penelope," Corey mechanically supplied. 
" Is that her name ? I forgot that I only 
thought of you in relation to her long enough to 
reject the idea ; and it was natural after our seeing 
something of the other one last year, that I might 
suppose you had formed some attachment " 
" Yes ; that 's what they thought too. But I 
never thought of her as anything but a pretty child. 
I was civil to her because you wished it ; and when 
I met her here again, I only tried to see her so that 
I could talk with her about her sister." 
 
" You needn't defend yourself to me, Tom," said 
his mother, proud to say it to him in his trouble. 
" It 's a terrible business for them, poor things," she 
added. " I don't know how they could get over it. 
But, of course, sensible people must see " 
"They haven't got over it. At least she hasn't. 
Since it 's happened, there 's been nothing that hasn't 
made me prouder and fonder of her ! At first I 
was charmed with her my fancy was taken ; she 
delighted me I don't know how ; but she was 
simply the most fascinating person I ever saw. 
Now I never think of that. I only think how good 
she is how patient she is with me, and how 
unsparing she is of herself. If she were concerned 
alone if I were not concerned too it would soon 
end. She 's never had a thought for anything but 
her sister's feeling and mine from the beginning. I 
go there, I know that I oughtn't, but I can't 
help it, and she suffers it, and tries not to let me 
see that she is suffering it. There never was any 
one like her so brave, so true, so noble. I won't 
give her up I can't. But it breaks my heart when 
she accuses herself of what was all my doing. We 
spend our time trying to reason out of it, but we 
always come back to it at last, and I have to hear 
her morbidly blaming herself. Oh ! " 
Doubtless Mrs. Corey imagined some reliefs to 
this suffering, some qualifications of this sublimity 
in a girl she had disliked so distinctly ; but she saw 
none in her son's behaviour, and she gave him her 
further sympathy. She tried to praise Penelope, 
 
and said that it was not to be expected that she 
could reconcile herself at once to everything. "I 
shouldn't have liked it in her if she had. But time 
will bring it all right And if she really cares for 
you " 
" I extorted that from her." 
" Well, then, you must look at it in the best light 
you can. There is no blame anywhere, and the 
mortification and pain is something that must be 
lived down. That's all. And don't let what I 
said grieve you, Tom. You know I scarcely knew 
her, and I I shall be sure to like any one you like, 
after all" 
" Yes, I know," said the young man drearily. 
" Will you tell father ?" 
" If you wish." 
" He must know. And I couldn't stand any more 
of this, just yet any more mistake." 
" I will tell him," said Mrs. Corey ; and it was 
naturally the next thing for a woman who dwelt so 
much on decencies to propose : " We must go to call 
on her your sisters and I. They have never seen 
her even ; and she mustn't be allowed to think we 're 
indifferent to her, especially under the circumstances." 
" Oh no ! Don't go not yet," cried Corey, with 
an instinctive perception that nothing could be worse 
for him. "We must wait we must be patient. 
I 'm afraid it would be painful to her now." 
He turned away without speaking further; and 
his mother's eyes followed him wistfully to the door. 
There were some questions that she would have liked 
 
to ask him ; but she had to content herself with try 
ing to answer them when her husband put them to 
her. 
There was this comfort for her always in Brom- 
field Corey, that he never was much surprised at any 
thing, however shocking or painful. His standpoint 
in regard to most matters was that of the Sympa 
thetic humorist who would be glad to have the victim 
of circumstance laugh with him, but was not too 
much vexed when the victim could not. He laughed 
now when his wife, with careful preparation, got 
the facts of his son's predicament fully under his eye. 
" Really, Bromfield," she said, " I don't see how 
you can laugh. Do you see any way out of it ? " 
" It seems to me that the way has been found 
already. Tom has told his love 'to the right one, 
and the wrong one knows it. Time will do the 
rest." 
" If I had so low an opinion of them all as that, 
it would make me very unhappy. It 's shocking to 
think of it." 
"It is upon the theory of ladies and all young 
people," said her husband, with a shrug, feeling his 
way to the matches on the mantel, and then drop 
ping them with a sigh, as if recollecting that he must 
not smoke there. " I 've no doubt Tom feels him 
self an awful sinner. But apparently he 's resigned 
to his sin ; he isn't going to give her up." 
" I 'm glad to say, for the sake of human nature, 
that she isn't resigned little as I like her," cried 
Mrs. Corey. 
 
Her husband shrugged again. " Oh, there mustn't 
be any indecent haste. She will instinctively observe 
the proprieties. But come, now, Anna ! you mustn't 
pretend to me here, in the sanctuary of home, that 
practically the human affections don't reconcile them 
selves to any situation that the human sentiments 
condemn. Suppose the wrong sister had died : 
would the right one have had any scruple in marry 
ing Tom, after they had both ' waited a proper time,' 
as the phrase is ? " 
" Bromfield, you 're shocking ! " 
" Not more shocking than reality. You may regard 
this as a second marriage." He looked at her with 
twinkling eyes, full of the triumph the spectator of 
his species feels in signal exhibitions of human 
nature. " Depend upon it, the right sister will be 
reconciled ; the wrong one will be consoled ; and all 
will go merry as a marriage bell a second marriage 
bell. Why, it 's quite like a romance ! " Here he 
laughed outright again. 
" Well," sighed the wife, " I could almost wish 
the right one, as you call her, would reject Tom, 
I dislike her so much." 
"Ah, now you're talking business, Anna," said 
her husband, with his hands spread behind the back 
he turned comfortably to the fire. " The whole 
Lapham tribe is distasteful to me. As I don't 
happen to have seen our daughter-in-law elect, I 
have still the hope which you 're disposed to forbid 
me that she may not be quite so unacceptable as 
the others." 
 
" Do you really feel so, Bromfield ? " anxiously 
inquired his wife. 
" Yes I think I do ; " and he sat down, and 
stretched out his long legs toward the fire. 
" But it 's very inconsistent of you to oppose the 
matter now, when you've shown so much indiffer 
ence up to this time. You've told me, all along, 
that it was of no use to oppose it." 
" So I have. I was convinced of that at the be 
ginning, or my reason was. You know very well 
that I am equal to any trial, any sacrifice, day after 
to-morrow; but when it comes to-day it's another 
thing. As long as this crisis decently kept its 
distance, I could look at it with an impartial eye ; 
but now that it seems at hand, I find that, while my 
reason is still acquiescent, my nerves are disposed to 
excuse the phrase kick. I ask myself, what 
have I done nothing for, all my life, and lived as a 
gentleman should, upon the earnings of somebody 
else, in the possession of every polite taste and feel 
ing that adorns leisure, if I'm to come to this at 
last ? And I find no satisfactory answer. I say to 
myself that I might as well have yielded to the 
pressure all round me, and gone to work, as Tom 
has." 
Mrs. Corey looked at him forlornly, divining the 
core of real repugnance that existed in his self-satire. 
" I assure you, my dear," he continued, " that the 
recollection of what I suffered from the Laphams at 
that dinner of yours is an anguish still. It wasn't 
their behaviour, they behaved well enough or ill 
enough ; but their conversation was terrible. Mrs. 
Lapham's range was strictly domestic ; and when 
the Colonel got me in the library, he poured mineral 
paint all over me, till I could have been safely 
warranted not to crack or scale in any climate. I 
suppose we shall have to see a good deal of them. 
They will probably come here every Sunday night 
to tea. It's a perspective without a vanishing- 
point." 
" It may not be so bad, after all," said his wife ; 
and she suggested for his consolation that he knew 
very little about the Laphams yet 
He assented to the fact. " I know very little 
about them, and about my other fellow-beings. I 
dare say that I should like the Laphams better if I 
knew them better. But in any case, I resign my 
self. And we must keep in view the fact that this 
is mainly Tom's affair, and if his affections have 
regulated it to his satisfaction, we must be content." 
" Oh yes," sighed Mrs. Corey. " And perhaps it 
won't turn out so badly. It's a great comfort to 
know that you feel just as I do about it." 
" I do," said her husband, " and more too." 
It was she and her daughters who would be 
chiefly annoyed by the Lapham connection ; she 
knew that. But she had to begin to bear the 
burden by helping her husband to bear his light 
share of it. To see him so depressed dismayed her, 
and she might well have reproached him more 
sharply than she did for showing so much indiffer 
ence, when she was so anxious, at first. But that 
 
would not have served any good end now. She 
even answered him patiently when he asked her, 
" What did you say to Tom when he told you it 
was the other one ? " 
" What could I say ? I could do nothing, but 
try to take back what I had said against her." 
" Yes, you had quite enough to do, I suppose. 
It 's an awkward business. If it had been the pretty 
one, her beauty would have been our excuse. But 
the plain one what do you suppose attracted him 
in her?" 
Mrs. Corey sighed at the futility of the question. 
" Perhaps I did her injustice. I only saw her a few 
moments. Perhaps I got a false impression. I 
don't think she 's lacking in sense, and that 's a great 
thing. She 'll be quick to see that we don't mean 
unkindness, and can't, by anything we say or do, 
when she 's Tom's wife." She pronounced the dis 
tasteful word with courage, and went on : " The 
pretty one might not have been able to see that. 
She might have got it into her head that we were 
looking down on her ; and those insipid people are 
terribly stubborn. We can come to some under 
standing with this one ; I 'm sure of that." She 
ended by declaring that it was now their duty to 
help Tom out of his terrible predicament. 
" Oh, even the Lapham cloud has a silver lining," 
said Corey. " In fact, it seems really to have all 
turned out for the best, Anna ; though it 's rather 
curious to find you the champion of the Lapham 
side, at last. Confess, now, that the right girl has 
secretly been your choice all along, and that while 
you sympathise with the wrong one, you rejoice in 
the tenacity with which the right one is clinging to 
her own ! " He added with final seriousness, " It 's 
just that she should, and, so far as I understand the 
case, I respect her for it." 
" Oh yes," sighed Mrs. Corey. " It 's natural, 
and it 's right." But she added, " I suppose they 're 
glad of him on any terms." 
" That is what I have been taught to believe," 
said her husband. " When shall we see our 
daughter-in-law elect ? I find myself rather im 
patient to have that part of it over." 
Mrs. Corey hesitated. " Tom thinks we had 
better not call, just yet." 
" She has told him of your terrible behaviour 
when you called before ? " 
" No, Bromfield ! She couldn't be so vulgar as 
that?" 
"But anything short of it?" 
XXI. 
LAPHAM was gone a fortnight. He was in a 
sullen humour when he came back, and kept him 
self shut close within his own den at the office the 
first day. He entered it in the morning without a 
word to his clerks as he passed through the outer 
room, and he made no sign throughout the forenoon, 
except to strike savagely on his desk-bell from time 
to time, and send out to Walker for some book of 
accounts or a letter-file. His boy confidentially 
reported to Walker that the old man seemed to 
have got a lot of papers round; and at lunch the 
book-keeper said to Corey, at the little table which 
they had taken in a corner together, in default of 
seats at the counter, "Well, sir, I guess there's a 
cold wave coming." 
Corey looked up innocently, and said, " I haven't 
read the weather report." 
"Yes, sir," Walker continued, "it's coming. 
Areas of rain along the whole coast, and increased 
pressure in the region of the private office. Storm- 
signals up at the old man's door now." 
Corey perceived that he was speaking figuratively, 
and that his meteorology was entirely personal to 
Lapham. " What do you mean ? " he asked, with 
out vivid interest in the allegory, his mind being 
full of his own tragi-comedy. 
" Why, just this : I guess the old man 's takin' in 
sail. And I guess he 's got to. As I told you the 
first time we talked about him, there don't any 
one know one-quarter as much about the old man's 
business as the old man does himself; and I ain't 
betraying any confidence when I say that I guess that 
old partner of his has got pretty deep into his books. 
I guess he 's over head and ears in 'em, and the old 
man 's gone in after him, and he 's got a drownin' 
man's grip round his neck. There seems to be a kind 
of a lull kind of a dead calm, I call it in the paint 
market just now; and then again a ten-huridred- 
thousand-dollar man don't build a hundred-thousand- 
dollar house without feeling the drain, unless there 's 
a regular boom. And just now there ain't any boom 
at all. Oh, I don't say but what the old man 's got 
anchors to windward ; guess he has ; but if he '& 
goin' to leave me his money, I wish he 'd left it six 
weeks ago. Yes, sir, I guess there 's a cold wave 
comin' ; but you can't generally 'most always tell, as a 
usual thing, where the old man 's concerned, and it 's 
only a guess." Walker began to feed in his breaded 
chop with the same nervous excitement with which 
he abandoned himself to the slangy and figurative 
excesses of his talks. Corey had listened with a 
miserable curiosity and compassion up to a certain 
moment, when a broad light of hope flashed upon 
him. It came from Lapham 's potential ruin ; and 
 
the way out of the labyrinth that had hitherto 
seemed so hopeless was clear enough, if another's 
disaster would befriend him, and give him the 
opportunity to prove the unselfishness of his con 
stancy. He thought of the sum of money that was 
his own, and that he might offer to lend, or practi 
cally give, if the time came ; and with his crude 
hopes and purposes formlessly exulting in his heart, 
he kept on listening with an unchanged countenance. 
Walker could not rest till he had developed the 
whole situation, so far as he knew it. " Look at the 
stock we 've got on hand. There 's going to be an 
awful shrinkage on that, now ! And when every 
body is shutting down, or running half-time, the 
works up at Lapham are going full chip, just the 
same as ever. Well, it 's his pride. I don't say but 
what it 's a good sort of pride, but he likes to make 
his brags that the fire 's never been out in the works 
since they started, and that no man's work or wages 
has ever been cut down yet at Lapham, it don't matter 
what the times are. Of course," explained Walker, 
" I shouldn't talk so to everybody ; don't know as I 
should talk so to anybody but you, Mr. Corey." 
" Of course," assented Corey. 
" Little off your feed to-day," said Walker, glanc 
ing at Corey's plate. 
" I got up with a headache." 
" Well, sir, if you 're like me you 'll carry it round 
all day, then. I don't know a much meaner thing 
than a headache unless it 's earache, or toothache, 
or some other kind of ache. I'm pretty hard to 
 
suit, when it comes to diseases. Notice how yellow 
the old man looked when he came in this morning ? 
I don't like to see a man of his build look yellow 
much." 
About the middle of the afternoon the dust- 
coloured face of Rogers, now familiar to Lapham's 
clerks, showed itself among them. "Has Colonel 
Lapham returned yet ?" he asked, in his dry, wooden 
tones, of Lapham's boy. 
" Yes, he 's in his office," said the boy ; and as 
Rogers advanced, he rose and added, " I don't know 
as you can see him to-day. His orders are not to 
let anybody in." 
" Oh, indeed ! " said Rogers ; " I think he will 
see me ! " and he pressed forward. 
" Well, I 'll have to ask," returned the boy ; and 
hastily preceding Rogers, he put his head in at 
Lapham's door, and then withdrew it. " Please to 
sit down," he said ; " he 'll see you pretty soon ;" and, 
with an air of some surprise, Rogers obeyed. His 
sere, dull-brown whiskers and the moustache clos 
ing over both lips were incongruously and illogically 
clerical in effect, and the effect was heightened for 
no reason by the parchment texture of his skin; 
the baldness extending to the crown of his head 
was like a baldness made up for the stage. What 
his face expressed chiefly was a bland and beneficent 
caution. Here, you must have said to yourself, is 
a man of just, sober, and prudent views, fixed pur 
poses, and the good citizenship that avoids debt 
and hazard of every kind. 
 
" What do you want ? " asked Lapham, wheeling 
round in his swivel-chair as Kogers entered his 
room, and pushing the door shut with his foot, 
without rising. 
Rogers took the chair that was not offered him, 
and sat with his hat-brim on his knees, and its 
crown pointed towards Lapham. " I want to know 
what you are going to do," he answered with suf 
ficient self-possession. 
" I 'll tell you, first, what I 've done" said Lapham. 
" I 've been to Dubuque, and I 've found out all 
about that milling property you turned in on me. 
Did you know that the G. L. & P. had leased the 
R Y. & X. ?" 
"I some suspected that it might." 
" Did you know it when you turned the property 
in on me ? Did you know that the G-. L. & P. 
wanted to buy the mills ? " 
" I presumed the road would give a fair price for 
them," said Rogers, winking his eyes in outward 
expression of inwardly blinking the point. 
" You lie," said Lapham, as quietly as if correct 
ing him in a slight error; and Rogers took the 
word with equal sang froid. " You knew the road 
wouldn't give a fair price for the mills. You knew 
it would give what it chose, and that I couldn't 
help myself, when you let me take them. You 're 
a thief, Milton K. Rogers, and you stole money I 
lent you." Rogers sat listening, as if respectfully 
considering the statements. "You knew how I 
felt about that old matter or my wife did ; and 
 
that I wanted to make it up to you, if you felt any 
way badly used. And you took advantage of it. 
You 've got money out of me, in the first place, on 
securities that wan't worth thirty-five cents on the 
dollar, and you 've let me in for this thing, and that 
thing, and you've bled me every time. And all 
I 've got to show for it is a milling property on a 
line of road that can squeeze me, whenever it wants 
to, as dry as it pleases. And you want to know 
what I 'm going to do ? I 'm going to squeeze you: 
I 'm going to sell these collaterals of yours," he 
touched a bundle of papers among others that lit 
tered his desk, " and I 'm going to let the mills go 
for what they 'll fetch. I ain't going to fight the 
G. L. & P." 
Lapham wheeled about in his chair and turned 
his burly back on his visitor, who sat wholly un 
moved. 
"There are some parties," he began, with a dry 
tranquillity ignoring Lapham's words, as if they had 
been an outburst against some third person, who 
probably merited them, but in whom he was so 
little interested that he had been obliged to use 
patience in listening to his condemnation, "there 
are some English parties who have been making 
inquiries in regard to those mills." 
"I guess you're lying, Rogers," said Lapham, 
without looking round. 
" Well, all that I have to ask is that you will not 
act hastily." 
"I see you don't think I'm in earnest!" 
 
cried Lapham, facing fiercely about, " You think 
I 'm fooling, do you ? " He struck his bell, and 
" William," he ordered the boy who answered it, 
and who stood waiting while he dashed off a note 
to the brokers and enclosed it with the bundle 
of securities in a large envelope, "take these 
down to Gallop & Paddock's, in State Street, 
right away. Now go ! " he said to Rogers, when 
the boy had closed the door after him; and he 
turned once more to his desk. 
Rogers rose from his chair, and stood with his 
hat in his hand. He was not merely dispassionate 
in his attitude and expression, he was impartial. 
He wore the air of a man who was ready to return 
to business whenever the wayward mood of his 
interlocutor permitted. "Then I understand," he 
said, " that you will take no action in regard to the 
mills till I have seen the parties I speak of." 
Lapham faced about once more, and sat looking 
up into the visage of Rogers in silence. " I wonder 
what you 're up to," he said at last ; "I should like 
to know." But as Rogers made no sign of gratify 
ing his curiosity, and treated this last remark of 
Lapham's as of the irrelevance of all the rest, he said, 
frowning, " You bring me a party that will give me 
enough for those mills to clear me of you, and I 'll 
talk to you. But don't you come here with any 
man of straw. And I'll give you just twenty-four 
hours to prove yourself a swindler again." 
Once more Lapham turned his back, and Rogers, 
after looking thoughtfully into his hat a moment, 
cleared his throat, and quietly withdrew, maintain 
ing to the last his unprejudiced demeanour. 
Lapham was not again heard from, as Walker 
phrased it, during the afternoon, except when the 
last mail was taken in to him ; then the sound of 
rending envelopes, mixed with that of what seemed 
suppressed swearing, penetrated to the outer office. 
Somewhat earlier than the usual hour for closing, he 
appeared there with his hat on and his overcoat 
buttoned about him. He said briefly to his boy, 
" William, I shan't be back again this afternoon," 
and then went to Miss Dewey and left a number 
of letters on her table to be copied, and went out. 
Nothing had been said, but a sense of trouble subtly 
diffused itself through those who saw him go out. 
That evening as he sat down with his wife alone 
at tea, he asked, " Ain't Pen coming to supper ? " 
" No, she ain't," said his wife. " I don't know as 
I like the way she 's going on, any too well. I 'm 
afraid, if she keeps on, she 'll be down sick. She 's 
got deeper feelings than Irene." 
Lapham said nothing, but having helped himself 
to the abundance of his table in his usual fashion, 
he sat and looked at his plate with an indifference 
that did not escape the notice of his wife. " What 's 
the matter with you ? " she asked. 
" Nothing. I haven't got any appetite." 
" What 's the matter ? " she persisted. 
" Trouble 's the matter ; bad luck and lots of it 's 
the matter," said Lapham. " I haven't ever hid 
anything from you, Persis, when you asked me, and 
it 's too late to begin now. I 'm in a fix. I 'll tell 
you what kind of a fix, if you think it 'll do you any 
good ; but I guess you 'll be satisfied to know that 
it's a fix." 
" How much of a one ? " she asked with a look of 
grave, steady courage in her eyes. 
" Well, I don't know as I can tell, just yet," said 
Lapham, avoiding this look. " Things have been 
dull all the fall, but I thought they 'd brisk up come 
winter. They haven't. There have been a lot of 
failures, and some of 'em owed me, and some of 'em 
had me on their paper ; and " Lapham stopped. 
" And what ? " prompted his wife. 
He hesitated before he added, " And then 
Rogers." 
" I 'm to blame for that," said Mrs. Lapham. " I 
forced you to it." 
" No ; I was as willing to go into it as what you 
were," answered Lapham. " I don't want to blame 
anybody." 
Mrs. Lapham had a woman's passion for fixing 
responsibility ; she could not help saying, as soon as 
acquitted, " I warned you against him, Silas. I told 
you not to let him get in any deeper with you." 
" Oh yes. I had to help him to try to get my 
money back. I might as well poured water into a 
sieve. And now " Lapham stopped. 
" Don't be afraid to speak out to me, Silas Lap- 
ham. If it comes to the worst, I want to know it 
I 've got to know it. What did I ever care for 
the money ? I 've had a happy home with you ever 
 
since we were married, and I guess I shall have as 
long as you live, whether we go on to the Back Bay, 
or go back to the old house at Lapham. I know 
who's to blame, and I blame myself. It was my 
forcing Rogers on to you." She came back to this, 
with her helpless longing, inbred in all Puritan souls, 
to have some one specifically suffer for the evil in 
the world, even if it must be herself. 
" It hasn't come to the worst yet, Persis," said 
her husband. " But I shall have to hold up on 
the new house a little while, till I can see where I 
am." 
" I shouldn't care if we had to sell it," cried his 
wife, in passionate self-condemnation. " I should 
be glad if we had to, as far as I 'm concerned." 
" I shouldn't," said Lapham. 
" I know ! " said his wife ; and she remembered 
ruefully how his heart was set on it. 
He sat musing. " Well, I guess it 's going to 
come out all right in the end. Or, if it ain't," he 
sighed, "we can't help it. May be Pen needn't 
worry so much about Corey, after all," he continued, 
with a bitter irony new to him. " It 's an ill wind 
that blows nobody good. And there's a chance," 
he ended, with a still bitterer laugh, " that Rogers 
will come to time, after all." 
" I don't believe it ! " exclaimed Mrs. Lapham, 
with a gleam of hope in her eyes. " What chance ? " 
" One in ten million," said Lapham ; and her face 
