had been almost solely with father and mother, and 
now only the father was left to her. She would 
have been in danger of growing morbid in her sorrow 
and loneliness, and her whole nature might have 
been permanently and without remedy dwarfed, if at 
this time of her life she had been left to grow like 
the wild things in the woods, without sympathy 
or care. For some human plants need a good 
deal of both to develop them to their full richness 
and fragrance; and Esther was one of these. The 
loss of her mother had threatened to be an irreparable injury to her. Col. Gainsborough was a ten 
derly affectionate father; still, like a good many 
men, he did not understand child nature, could not 
adapt himself to it, had no sort of notion of its 
wants, and no comprehension that it either needed 
or could receive and return his sympathy. So he 
did not give sympathy to his child, nor dreamed 
that she was in danger of starving for want of it. 
Indeed he had never in his life given much sympathy 
to anybody, except his wife; and in the loss of his 
wife Col. Gainsborough thought so much of himself 
was lost that the remainder probably would not 
last long. He thought himself wounded to death. 
That it might be desirable and that it might be 
duty to live for his daughter's sake, was an idea 
that had never entered his very masculine heart. 
Yet Col. Gainsborough was a good man, and even 
had the power of being a tender one; he had been 
that towards his wife; but when she died he felt 
that life had gone from him. 
All this, more or less, young Dallas came to discern and understand in the course of his associations with the father and daughter. And now it 
was with a little pardonable pride and a good deal 
 . 
of growing tenderness for the child, that he saw 
the change going on in Esther. She was always, 
now as before, quiet as a mouse in her father's 
presence; truly she was quiet as a monse every 
where; but under the outward quiet Dallas could 
see now the impulse and throb of the strong and 
sensitive life within ; the stir of interest and purpose and hope; the waking up of the whole na 
ture; and he saw that it was a nature of great 
power and beauty. It was no wonder that the face 
through which this nature shone was one of rare 
power and beauty too. Others could see that; be 
sides him. 
"What a handsome little girl that is," remarked the elder Dallas one evening. Esther 
had just left the house, and his son come into 
the room. 
" It seems to me she is here a great deal," 
Mrs. Dallas said, after a pause. The remark about 
Esther's good looks called forth no response. " I 
see her coming and going pretty nearly every 
day." 
" Quite every day," her son answered. 
" And you go there every day ! " 
"I do. About that." 
" Very warm intercourse ! " 
"I don't know; not necessarily," said young 
Dallas. " The classics are rather cool and Numismatics refreshing and composing." 
" Numismatics ! You are not teaching that child 
Numismatics, I suppose ? " 
" She is teaching me." 
Mrs. Dallas was silent now, with a dissatisfied 
expression. Her husband repeated his former 
remark. 
" She's a handsome little maid. Are you teaching her, Pitt?" 
"A little, sir." 
" What, pray? if I may ask." 
"Teaching her to support existence. It about 
comes to that." 
" I do not understand you, I confess. You are 
oracular." 
"I did not understand her, until lately. It is 
what nobody else does, by the way." 
" Why should not anybody else understand her ? " 
Mrs. Dallas asked. 
"Should, but they do not. That's a common 
case, you know, mother." 
She has her father; what's the matter with 
him ? " 
" He thinks a good deal is the matter with him." 
" Kegularly hipped," said the elder Dallas. " He 
has never held up his head since his wife died. 
He fancies he is going after her as fast as he 
can go. Perhaps he is; such fancies are often 
fatal." 
"It would do him good to look after his child," 
Mrs. Dallas said. 
" I wish you would put that in his head, mother." 
" Does he not look after her ? " 
" In a sort of way. He knows where she is and 
 
where she goes; he has a sort of outward care of 
her, and so far it is very particular care; but there 
it stops." 
" She ought to be sent to school." 
"There is no school here fit for her." 
" Then she should be sent away, where there is 
a school fit for her." 
" Tell the colonel so." 
" I shall not meddle in Col. Gainsborough's affairs," 
said Mrs. Dallas bridling a little; "he is able to 
manage them himself; or he thinks he is, which 
comes to the same thing. But I should say, that 
child might better be in any other hands than his." 
"Well, she is not shut up to them," said young 
Dallas; "since I have taken her in hand." 
He strolled out of the room as he spoke, and 
the two elder people were left together. Silence 
reigned between them till the sound of his steps 
had quite ceased to be heard. 
Mrs. Dallas was working at some wool embroid 
ery, and taking her stitches with a thoughtful 
brow ; her husband in his easy chair was carelessly 
turning over the pages of a newspaper. They 
were a contrast. She had a tall, commanding figure, a gracious but dignified manner, and a very 
handsome, stately face. There was nothing com 
manding, and nothing gracious, about Mr. Dallas. 
His figure was rather small, .and his manner insignificant. He was not a handsome man, either, 
although he may be said to have but just missed 
it, for his features were certainly good ; but he did 
miss it. Nobody spoke in praise of Mr. Dallas's 
appearance. Yet his face shewed sense; his eyes 
were shrewd, if they were also cold; and the 
mouth was good; but the man's whole air was 
unsympathetic. It was courteous enough ; and he 
was careful and particular in his dress. Indeed 
Mr. Dallas was careful of all that belonged to 
him. He wore long English whiskers of sandy 
hair; the head crop being very thin and kept 
very close. 
" Hildebrand," said Mrs. Dallas when the sound 
of her son's footsteps had died away, "when are 
you going to send Pitt to college? " 
Mr. Dallas turned another page of his newspaper, and did not hurry his answer. 
"Why?" 
"And ivhere are you going to send him ? " 
"Really," said Mr. Dallas, without ceasing his 
contemplation of the page before him, " I do not 
know. I have not considered the matter lately." 
"Do you remember he is eighteen?" 
"I thought you were not ready to let him go 
yet ? " 
Mrs. Dalla's stopped her embroidery and sighed. 
"But he must go, husband." 
Mr. Dallas made no answer. He seemed not to 
find the question pressing. Mrs. Dallas sat looking at him now, neglecting her work. 
" You have got to make up your mind to it, and 
so have I," she went on presently. " He is ready 
for college. All this pottering over the classics with 
 
Col. Gainsborough don't amount to anything. It 
keeps him out of idleness if Pitt ever could be 
idle but he has got to go to college after all, 
sooner or later. He must go ! " she repeated with 
another sigh. 
* No special hurry, that I see." 
"What's gained by delay? He's eighteen. That's 
long enough for him to have lived in a place like this. 
If I had my way, Hildebrand, I should send him 
to England." 
" England ! " Mr. Dallas put down his paper 
now and looked at his wife. What had got into 
her head ? 
" Oxford is better than the things they call colleges in this country." 
"Yes; but it is further off." 
"That's not a bad thing, in some respects. Hildebrand, you don't want Pitt to be formed upon 
the model of things in this country. You would 
not have him get radical ideas, or Puritanical." 
" Not much danger ! " 
"I don't know." 
"Who's to put them in his head? Gainsborough 
is not a bit of a radical." 
"He is not one of us," said Mrs. Dallas. "And 
Pitt is very independent and takes his own views, 
from nobody or from anybody. See his educating 
this girl, now ! " 
" Educating her ! " 
" Yes, he is with her and her father a great piece 
of every day ; reading and talking and walking and 
drying flowers and giving lessons. I don't know 
what all they are doing. But in my opinion Pitt 
might be better employed." 
"That won't last," said the father with a half 
laugh. 
" What ought not to last, had better not be begun," Mrs. Dallas said sententiously. 
There was a pause. 
" What are you afraid of, wife ? " 
" I am afraid of Pitt's wasting his time." 
"You have never been willing to have him go, 
until now. I thought you stood in the way." 
" He was not wasting his time, until lately. He 
was as well at home. But there must come an end 
to that," the mother said with another slight sigh. 
She was not a woman given to sighing; it meant 
much from her. 
"But England ? "said Mr. Dallas. "What's 
your notion about England ? Oxford is very well, 
but the ocean lies between." 
" Where would you send him ? " 
"I'd send him to the best there is on this side." 
" That's not Oxford. I believe it would be good 
for him to be out of this country for awhile ; forget 
some of his American notions and get right English 
ones. Pitt is a little too independent." 
The elder Dallas caressed his whiskers and pondered. If the truth were told, he had been about 
as unwilling to let his son go away from home as 
ever his mother could be. Pitt was simply the delight and pride of both theirvhearts; the one thing 
 
they lived for; the centre of all hopes, and the end 
of all undertakings. No doubt he must go to college ; but the evil day had been pushed far off, as 
far as possible. Pitt was a son for parents to be 
proud of. He had the good qualities of both father and mother, with some added of his own 
which they did not share, and which perhaps 
therefore increased their interest in him. 
" I expect he will have a word to say about the 
matter himself," the father remarked. " well ! 
there's no raging hurry, wife." 
" Husband, it would be a good thing for him to 
see the English church as it is in England, before 
he gets much older." 
" What then ? " 
" He would learn to value it. The cathedrals, 
and the noble services in them, and the bishops; 
and the feeling that everybody around him goes 
the same way; there's a great deal of power in 
that. Pitt would be impressed by it." 
" By the feeling that everybody around him goes 
that way ? Not he. That's quite as likely to stir 
him up to go another way." 
"It don't work so, Hildebrand." 
"You think he's a likely fellow to be talked over 
into anything ? " 
"No ; but he would be influenced. Nobody would 
try to talk him over, and without knowing it he 
would feel the influence. He couldn't help it. 
All the influence at Oxford would be the right 
way." 
"Afraid of the colonel? I don't think you need. 
He hasn't spirit enough left in him for proselyting." 
I am not speaking of anybody in particular. I 
am afraid of the air here." 
Mr. Dallas laughed a little, but his face took a 
shade of gravity it had not worn. Must he send 
his son away? What would the house be with 
out him ? 
CHAPTER VI. 
GOING TO COLLEGE. 
WHATEVER thoughts were harboured in the 
elder heads, nothing was spoken openly 
and no steps were taken for some time. All 
through the summer the pleasant intercourse went 
on, and the lessons, and the botanizing, and the 
study of coins. And much real work was done; 
but for Esther one invaluable and abiding effect of 
a more general character was gained. She was 
lifted out of her dull despondency, which had 
threatened to become stagnation, and restored to 
her natural life and energy and the fresh spring of 
youthful spirits. So when her friend really went 
away to college in the fall, Esther did not slip back 
to the condition from which he had delivered her. 
But the loss of him was a dreadful loss to the 
child, although Pitt was not going over the sea, 
and would be home at Christmas. He tried to comfort her with this prospect. Esther took no comfort. 
She sat silent, tearless, pale, in a kind of despair. 
Pitt looked at her, half amused, half deeply concerned. 
" And you must go on with all your studies, Esther, you know," he was saying. " I will shew you 
what to do; and when I come home I shall go into 
a very searching examination to see whether you 
have done it all thoroughly." 
" Will you ? " she said, lifting her eyes to him 
with a gleam of sudden hope. 
" Certainly ! I shall give you lessons just as 
usual whenever I come home; indeed I expect I 
shall do it all your life. I think I shall always be 
teaching and you always be learning. Don't you 
think that is how it will be, Queen Esther ? " he 
said kindly. 
"You cannot give me lessons when you are 
away." 
" But when I come back ! " 
There was a very faint yet distinct lightening of 
the gloom in her face. Yet it was plain Esther was 
not cheated out of her perception of the truth. She 
was going to lose her friend; and his absence would 
be very different from his presence ; and the bits 
of vacation time would not help, or help only by an 
ticipation, the long stretches of months in which 
there would be neither sight nor sound of him. 
Esther's looks had brightened for a moment, but 
then her countenance fell again and her face grew 
visibly pale. Pitt saw it with dismay. 
" But Esther ! " he said, " this is nothing. Every 
man must go to college, you know, just as he must 
learn swimming and boating; and so I must go; 
but it will not last forever." 
 
" How long ? " said she, lifting her eyes to him 
again, heavy with their burden of sorrow. 
" Well, perhaps three years; unless I enter Junior, 
and then it would be only two. That isn't much." 
" What will you do then ? " 
"Then? I don't know. Look after you, at any 
rate. Let us see. How old will you be in two 
years ? " 
"Almost fourteen." 
" Fourteen. Well, you see you will have a great 
deal to do, before you can afford to be fourteen years 
old; so much that you will not have time to miss 
me." 
Esther made no answer. 
"I'll be back at Christmas anyhow, you know; 
and that's only three months away, or a little more." 
"For how long?" 
" Never mind; we will make a little do the work 
of a great deal. It will seem a long time, it will 
be so good." 
"No," said Esther; "that will make it only the 
shorter." 
" Why Esther," said he half laughing, " I didn't 
know you cared so much about me. I don't deserve 
all that." 
" I am not crying," said the girl, rising with a 
sort of childish dignity; "but I shall be alone." 
They had been sitting on a rock, resting and 
talking, and now set out again to go home. Esther 
spoke no more ; and Pitt was silent, not knowing 
what to say; but he watched her, and saw that if 
she had not been crying at the time she had made 
that declaration, the tears had taken their revenge 
and were coming now. Yet only in a calm, repressed way; now and then he saw a drop fall, 
or caught a motion of Esther's hand which could 
only have been made to prevent a drop from fall 
ing. She walked along steadily, turning neither to 
the right hand or the left; she who ordinarily 
watched every hedgerow and ran to explore every 
group of plants in the corner of a field, and was 
keen to see everything that was to be seen in 
earth or heaven. Pitt walked along silently too. 
He was at a careless age, but he was a generous 
minded fellow; and to a mind of that sort there is 
something exceedingly attractive and an influence 
exceedingly powerful in the fact of being trusted 
and depended on. 
" Mother," he said when he got home, " I wish 
you would look after that little girl now and then." 
" What little girl V " 
"You must know whom I mean; the colonel's 
daughter." 
" The colonel is sufficient for that, I should say." 
" But you know what sort of a man he is. And 
she has no mother, nor anybody else, except 
servants." 
"Isn't he fond of her?" 
"Very fond; but then he isn't well, and he is a 
reserved, silent man; the child is left to herself in 
a way that is bad for her." 
" What do you suppose I can do ? " 
 
" A great deal ; if you once knew her and got 
fond of her, mother." 
Mrs. Dallas made no promise; however she did 
go to see Esther. It was about a week after Pitt's 
departure. She found father and daughter very 
much as her son had found them the day he was 
introduced to the box of coins. Esther was on the 
floor, beside the same box, and the colonel was on 
his sofa. Mrs. Dallas did take the effect of the 
picture for that moment before the colonel sprang 
up to receive her. Then she had to do with a 
somewhat formal but courtly host, and the picture 
was lost. The lady sat there, stately in her silks 
and laces, carrying on a stiff conversation ; for she 
and Col. Gainsborough had few points of sympathy 
or mutual understanding; and for awhile she forgot 
Esther. Then her eye again fell upon the child in 
her corner, sitting by her box with a sad, uninterested air. 
"And how is Esther?" she said, turning herself 
a little towards that end of the room. " Eeally I 
came to see Esther, colonel. How does she do ? " 
"She is much obliged to you, and quite well, 
madam, I believe." 
" But she must want playmates, colonel. Why 
don't you send her to school ? " 
" I would, if there were a good school at hand." 
"There are schools at New Haven, and Hartford, 
and Boston; plenty of schools, that would suit 
you." 
" Only, that, as you observe, they are at New 
Haven, and Hartford, and Boston; out of my 
reach." 
" You couldn't do without her for awhile ? " 
" I hardly think it; nor she without me. We are 
all, each of us, that the other has." 
" Pitt used to give you lessons, didn't he?" the 
lady went on, turning more decidedly to Esther. 
Esther rose and came near. 
"Yes, ma 'am." 
"What did he teach you?" 
Now Esther felt no more congeniality than her 
father did with this handsome, stately, command 
ing woman. Yet it would have been impossible to 
the girl to say why she had an instant unwilling 
ness to answer this simple question. She did not 
answer it, except under protest. 
"It began with the coins," she said vaguely. 
" He said we would study history with them." 
"And did you?" 
" Yes, ma 'am." 
"How did you manage it? or how did he? he 
has original ways of doing things." 
" Yes, ma 'am. We used to take only one or two 
of the coins at once, and then Pitt told me what to 
read." 
" What did he tell you to read ? " 
"A great many different books, at different 
times." 
"But tell Mrs. Dallas what books, Esther," her 
father put in. 
" There were so many, papa. Gibbon's history, 
 
and Plutarch's Lives, and Rollin, and Yertot 
and Hume, and I forget some of them." 
"How much of all these did you really read, 
Esther ? " 
"I don't know, ma 'am. I read what he told 
me." 
The lady turned to Col. Gainsborough with a peculiar smile. " Sounds rather heterogeneous ! " 
she said. 
It was on Esther's lips to justify her teacher, and 
say how far from heterogeneous, how connected, and 
how thorough, and how methodical, the reading 
and the study had been; and how enriched with 
talk and explanations and descriptions , and discussions. How delightful those conversations were, 
both to herself and Pitt; how living the truth had 
been made; how had names and facts taken on 
them the shape and colouring of nature and reality. It rushed back upon Esther, and her lips 
opened; and then, an inexplicable feeling of some 
thing like caution came down upon her, and she 
shut her lips again. 
"It was harmless amusement," remarked the 
colonel carelessly. 
Whether the mother thought that, may be questioned. She looked again at the child standing 
before her; a child truly, with childlike innocence 
and ignorance in her large eyes and pure lips. But 
the eyes were eyes of beauty; and the lips would 
soon and readily take to themselves the sweetness 
and the consciousness of womanhood, and a new 
bloom would come upon the cheek. The colonel 
had never yet looked forward to all that; but the 
wise eyes of the matron saw it as well as if already 
before her. This little girl might well by and by 
be dangerous. If Mrs. Dallas had come as a friend, 
she went away, in a sort, as an enemy. In so far 
at least as Esther's further and future relations with 
her son were concerned. 
The colonel went back to his sofa. Esther sat 
down again by the coins. She was not quite old 
enough to reflect much upon the developments of 
human nature as they came before her; but she 
was conscious of a disagreeable, troubled sensation 
left by this visit of Mrs. Dallas. It had not been 
pleasant. It ought to have been pleasant; she 
was Pitt's mother; she came on a kind errand; but 
Esther felt at once repelled and put at a distance. 
The child had not gone back to the dull despondency of the time before Pitt busied himself 
with her; she was striving to fulfil all his wishes, 
and working hard in order to accomplish more than 
he expected of her. With the cherished secret 
hope of doing this, Esther was driving at her books 
early and late. She went from the coins to the 
histories Pitt had told her would illustrate them ; 
she fagged away at the dry details of her Latin 
grammar; she even tried to push her knowledge 
of plants and see further into their relations with 
each other, though in this department she felt the 
want of her teacher particularly. From day to day 
it was the one pressing desire and purpose in 
 
Esther's mind, to do more and if possible much 
more than Pitt wanted her to do ; so that she might 
surprise him and win his respect and approbation. 
She thought, too, that she was in a fair way to do 
this, for she was gaining knowledge fast, she 
knew; and it was a great help towards keeping up 
spirit and hope and healthy action in her mind. 
Nevertheless she missed her companion and friend, 
with an intense longing want of him which no 
body even guessed. All the more keen it was, 
perhaps, because she could speak of it to nobody. 
It consumed the girl in secret, and was only saved 
from being disastrous to her by the transformation 
of it into working energy, which transformation 
daily went on anew. It did not help her much, or 
she thought so, to remember that Pitt was coming 
home at the end of December. He would not stay ; 
and Esther was one of those thoughtful natures 
that look all round a subject, and are not deceived 
by a first fair show. He could not stay; and what 
would his coming and the delight of it do, after 
all, but renew this terrible sense of want and make 
it worse than ever ? When he went away again, it 
would be for a long, long time; an absence of 
months; how was it going to be borne? 
The problem of life was beginning early for Esther. And the child was alone. Nobody knew 
what went on in her; she had nobody to whom she 
could open her heart and tell her trouble ; and the 
troubles we can tell to nobody else somehow weigh 
very heavy, especially in young years. The colonel 
loved his child with all of his heart that was not 
buried in his wife's grave ; still, he was a man, and 
like most men had little understanding of the 
workings of a child's mind, above all of a girl's, 
He saw Esther pale, thoughtful, silent, grave, for 
ever busy with her books; and it never crossed his 
thoughts that such is not the natural condition and 
wholesome manner of life for twelve years old. He 
knew nothing for himself so good as books; why 
should not the same be true for Esther ? She was 
a studious child ; he was glad to see her so sensible. 
As for Pitt, he had fallen upon a new world, and 
was busily finding his feet, as it were. Finding his 
own place, among all these other aspirants for human distinction; testing his own strength, among 
the combatants in this wrestling school of human 
life; earning his laurels in the race for learning, 
making good his standing and trying his power 
amid the waves and currents of human influence. 
Pitt found his standing good, and his strength 
quite equal to the call for it, and his power dominating. At least it would have been dominating, if 
he had cared to rule; all he cared for, as it hap 
pened, in that line, was to be independent and keep 
his own course. He had done that always at home, 
and he found no difficulty in doing it at college. 
For the rest, his abilities were unquestioned and 
put him at once at the head of his fellows. 
CHAPTER VII. 
COMING HOME. 
WITHOUT being at all an unfaithful friend, it 
must be confessed Pitt's mind during this 
time was full of the things pertaining to his own 
new life, and he thought little of Esther. He 
thought little of anybody; he was not at a sentimental age, nor at all of a sentimental disposition, 
and he had enough else to occupy him. It was not 
till he had put the college behind him and was on 
his journey home, that Esther's image rose before 
his mental vision ; the first time perhaps for months. 
It smote him then with a little feeling of compunction. He recollected the child's sensitive nature, 
her clinging to him, her lonely condition; and the 
grave, sad eyes seemed to reproach him with having forgotten her. He had not forgotten her; he 
had only not remembered. He might have taken 
time to write her one little letter; but he had not 
thought of it. Had she ceased to think of him, in 
any corresponding way? Pitt was very sure she 
had not. Somehow his fancy was very busy with 
Esther during this ride home. He was making 
amends for months of neglect. Her delicate, tender, faithful image seemed to stand before him ; 
forgetf ulness would never be charged upon Esther, 
nor carelessness, of anything she ought to care for; 
of that he was sure. He was quite ashamed of 
himself, that he had sent her never a little token 
of remembrance in all this time. He recalled the 
girl's eagerness in study, her delight in learning, 
her modest, well-bred manner; her evident though 
unconscious loving devotion to himself, and her 
profound grief at his going away. There were 
very noble qualities in that young girl, that would 
develop into what might they develop? and 
how would those beautiful thoughtful eyes look 
from a woman's soul by and by ? Had his mother 
complied with his request and shown any kindness 
to the child ? Pitt had no special encouragement 
to think so. And what a life it must be for such 
a creature, at twelve years old, to be alone with 
that.taciturn, reserved, hypochondriac colonel ! 
It was near evening when the stage coach brought 
Pitt to his native Tillage and set him down at 
home. There was no snow on the ground yet, and 
his steps rang on the hard frozen path, as he went 
up to the door, giving clear intimation of his 
approach. Within there was waiting. The mother 
and father were sitting at the two sides of the fire 
place, busy with keeping up the fire to an unmaintainable standard of brilliancy, and looking at the 
clock; now and then exchanging a remark about 
the weather, the way, the distance, and the proper 
 
time of the expected arrival. Till that sharp sound 
of a step on the gravel came to their ears, and both 
parents started up and rushed to the door. There 
was a general confusion of kisses and hand-clasps 
and embraces, from which Pitt at last emerged. 
" my boy, how late you are ! " 
" Not at all, mother; just right." 
" A tedious, cold ride, hadn't you ? " 
"No, mother, not at all. Koads in capital order; 
smooth as a plank floor; came along splendidly; 
but there'll be enow to-morrow." 
"I  hope not, till you get the greens ! " 
"0 I'll get the greens, never fear; and put them 
up too." 
Wherewith they entered the brilliantly lighted 
room, where the supper table stood ready; and all 
eyes could meet eyes and read tokens each of the 
other's condition. 
" He looks well " said Mrs. Dallas, regarding 
her son. 
"Why shouldn't I look well?" 
" Hard work ? " suggested the mother. 
" Work is good for a fellow. I never got hard 
work enough yet. But home is jolly, mother. 
That's the use of going away, I suppose," said the 
young man, drawing a chair comfortably in front 
of the fire ; while Mrs. Dallas rang for supper and 
gave orders, and then sat down to gaze at him 
with those mother's eyes that are like nothing else 
in the world. Searching, fond, proud, tender, devoted. Pitt met them and smiled. 
" I am all right," he said. 
" Looks so," said the father contentedly. " Hold 
your own, Pitt ? " 
"Yes, sir." 
" Ahead of everybody ? " 
"Yes, sir," said the young man a little more 
reservedly. 
" I knew it ! " said the elder man rubbing his 
hands; "I thought I knew it. I made sure you 
would." 
"He hasn't worked too hard, either," said the 
mother with a careful eye of examination. " He 
looks as he ought to look." 
A bright glance of the eye came to her. " I tell 
you, I never had enough to do yet," he said. 
"And Pitt, do you like it?" 
"Like what, mother?" 
" The place, and the work, and the people ; the 
students and the professors ? " 
" That's what I should call a comprehensive 
question ! You expect one yes or no to cover 
all that?" 
" Well, how do you like the people ? " 
" Mother, when you get a community like that 
of a college town, you have something of a variety 
of material, don't you see? The people are all 
sorts. But the faculty are very well, and some of 
them capital fellows." 
" Have you gone into society much ? " 
"No, mother. Had something else to do." 
"Time enough for that," said the elder Dallas 
 
contentedly. " When a man has the money you'll 
have, my boy, he may pretty much command 
society." 
" Some sorts," said Pitt. 
"All sorts." 
" Must be a poor kind of society, I should say, 
that makes money the first thing." 
" It's the best sort you can get in this world," 
said the elder man chuckling. "There's nothing 
but money that will buy bread and butter; and 
they all want bread and butter. You'll find they 
all want bread and butter, whatever else they want, 
or have." 
"Of course, they want it; but what has that to 
do with society." 
" You'll find out," said the other, with an unctuous kind of complacency. 
"But there's no society in this country," said 
Mrs. Dallas. "Now, Pitt, turn your chair round 
here's the supper if you want to sit by the fire, 
that is." 
The supper was a royal one, for Mrs. Dallas 
was a good housekeeper; and the tone of it was 
festive, for the spirits of them all were in a very 
gay and Christmas mood. So it was with a good 
deal of surprise as well as chagrin that Mrs. Dallas 
after supper saw her son handling his great coat 
in the hall. 
" Pitt ! you are not going out ? " 
" Yes, mother, for a little while." 
" Where can you be going ? " 
"I want to run over to Col. Gainsborough's for a 
minute or twoI  
"Col. Gainsborough! You don't want to see 
him to-night ? " 
"Neither to-night nor any time; at least I can 
live without it; but there's somebody else there 
that would like to see me. I'll be back soon, 
mother." 
" But Pitt ! that is quite absurd. That child can 
wait till morning, surely ; and I want you myself. 
I think I have a better claim." 
"You have had me a good while already, and 
shall have me again," said Pitt laughing. " I am 
just going to steal a little bit of the evening, mother. Be generous ! " 
And he opened the hall door and was off and 
the door closed behind him. Mrs. Dallas went 
back to the supper room with a very discomfited 
face. 
" Hildebrand," she said, in a tone that made her 
husband look up, "there is no help for it! We 
shall have to send him to England." 
What now ? " 
