her mother, wailing,--
"A bogie! a bogie!  I saw him, all black; and he snarled at me, and my
dolly is gone! What shall I do? oh, what shall I do?"
There was great confusion, for all the ladies talked at once; and it so
happened that none of them knew anything about the monkey, therefore
they all agreed that Nelly was a foolish child, and had made a fuss
about nothing. She cried dismally, and kept saying to her mother,--
"Go and see; it’s in my dolly’s bed,--I found it there, and darling
Maudie is gone."
"We will go and see," said Mrs. Moses Merryweather,--a stout old lady,
who kept her six girls in such good order that they would never have
dared to cry if ten monkeys had popped out at them.
Miss Hetty Bumpus, a tall thin maiden lady, with a sharp eye and pointed
nose, went with her; but at the door that led to the dining-room both
stopped short, and after one look came flying back, calling out
together,--
"Mrs. Brown, your supper is spoilt! a dreadful beast has ruined it all!"
Then twenty-five excited ladies flew across the hall to behold Jocko
sitting on the great cake in the middle of the table, his feet bathed in
cream from the overturned pitcher, while all around lay the ruins of
custards, tarts, biscuits, and sauce, not to mention nice napkins made
into hay-cocks, spoons, knives, and forks, on the floor, and the best
silver teapot in the fireplace.
While Nelly told her tale and the ladies questioned and comforted her,
this bad monkey had skipped downstairs and had a delightful party all by
himself.  He was just scraping the jelly out of a tart when they
disturbed him; and knowing that more slaps were in store for him if he
stayed, he at once walked calmly down the ravaged table, and vanished
out of the window carrying the silver tea-strainer with him to play
with.
The ladies had no supper that night; and poor Mrs. Brown sent a note to
Aunt Jane, telling her the sad story, and adding that Nelly was quite
ill with the fright and the loss of dear Maud Mabel Rose Matilda,
drowned in the water-pitcher and forever spoilt.
"John shall go after that man to-morrow, and bring him back to carry
this terrible monkey away.  I can’t live with him a week; he will cost
me a fortune, and wear us all out," said Aunt Jane, when Jocko was
safely shut up in the cellar, after six boys had chased him all over the
neighborhood before they caught him.
Neddy was quite willing to let him go; but John was saved his journey,
for in the morning poor Jocko was found dead in a trap, where his
inquisitive head had been poked to see what the cheese tasted like.
So he was buried by the river, and every one felt much relieved; for the
man never came back, thinking Jocko dead when he left him.  But he had
not lived in vain; for after this day of trial, mischievous Neddy
behaved much better, and Aunt Jane could always calm his prankish spirit
by saying, as her finger pointed to a little collar and chain hanging on
the wall,--
"If you want to act like naughty Jocko, say so, and I ’ll tie you up.
One monkey is enough for this family."
[Illustration: Kitty laughed, and began to dance...  Such twirlings and
stoppings as she made.--PAGE 85.]
                                  IV.
                          THE SKIPPING SHOES.
Once there was a little girl, named Kitty, who never wanted to do what
people asked her.  She said "I won’t" and "I can’t," and did not run at
once pleasantly, as obliging children do.
One day her mother gave her a pair of new shoes; and after a fuss about
putting them on, Kitty said, as she lay kicking on the floor,--
"I wish these were seven-leagued boots, like Jack the Giant Killer’s;
then it would be easy to run errands all the time.  Now, I hate to keep
trotting, and I don’t like new shoes, and I won’t stir a step."
Just as she said that, the shoes gave a skip, and set her on her feet so
suddenly that it scared all the naughtiness out of her.  She stood
looking at these curious shoes; and the bright buttons on them seemed to
wink at her like eyes, while the heels tapped on the floor a sort of
tune.  Before she dared to stir, her mother called from the next room,--
"Kitty, run and tell the cook to make a pie for dinner; I forgot it."
"I don’t want to," began Kitty, with a whine as usual.
But the words were hardly out of her mouth when the shoes gave one jump,
and took her downstairs, through the hall, and landed her at the kitchen
door.  Her breath was nearly gone; but she gave the message, and turned
round, trying to see if the shoes would let her walk at all.  They went
nicely till she wanted to turn into the china-closet where the cake was.
She was forbidden to touch it, but loved to take a bit when she could.
Now she found that her feet were fixed fast to the floor, and could not
be moved till her father said, as he passed the window close by,--
"You will have time to go to the post-office before school and get my
letters."
"I can’t," began Kitty; but she found she could, for away went the
shoes, out of the house at one bound, and trotted down the street so
fast that the maid who ran after her with her hat could not catch her.
"I can’t stop!" cried Kitty; and she did not till the shoes took her
straight into the office.
"What’s the hurry to-day?" asked the man, as he saw her without any hat,
all rosy and breathless, and her face puckered up as if she did not know
whether to laugh or to cry.
"I won’t tell any one about these dreadful shoes, and I ’ll take them
off as soon as I get home.  I hope they will go back slowly, or people
will think I ’m crazy," said Kitty to herself, as she took the letters
and went away.
The shoes walked nicely along till she came to the bridge; and there she
wanted to stop and watch some boys in a boat, forgetting school and her
father’s letters.  But the shoes would n’t stop, though she tried to
make them, and held on to the railing as hard as she could.  Her feet
went on; and when she sat down they still dragged her along so steadily
that she had to go, and she got up feeling that there was something very
strange about these shoes.  The minute she gave up, all went smoothly,
and she got home in good time.
"I won’t wear these horrid things another minute," said Kitty, sitting
on the doorstep and trying to unbutton the shoes.
But not a button could she stir, though she got red and angry struggling
to do it.
"Time for school; run away, little girl," called mamma from upstairs, as
the clock struck nine.
"I won’t!" said Kitty, crossly.
But she did; for those’ magic shoes danced her off, and landed her at
her desk in five minutes.
"Well, I ’m not late; that’s one comfort," she thought, wishing she had
come pleasantly, and not been whisked away without any luncheon.
Her legs were so tired with the long skips that she was glad to sit
still; and that pleased the teacher, for generally she was fussing about
all lesson time.  But at recess she got into trouble again; for one of
the children knocked down the house of corn-cobs she had built, and made
her angry.
"Now, I ’ll kick yours down, and see how you like it, Dolly."
Up went her foot, but it did n’t come down; it stayed in the air, and
there she stood looking as if she were going to dance.  The children
laughed to see her, and she could do nothing till she said to Dolly in a
great hurry,--
"Never mind; if you didn’t mean to, I’ll forgive you."
Then the foot went down, and Kitty felt so glad about it that she tried
to be pleasant, fearing some new caper of those dreadful shoes.  She
began to see how they worked, and thought she would try if she had any
power over them.  So, when one of the children wanted his ball, which
had bounced over the hedge, she said kindly,--
"Perhaps I can get it for you, Willy."
And over she jumped as lightly as if she too were an india-rubber ball.
"How could you do it?" cried the boys, much surprised; for not one of
them dared try such a high leap.
Kitty laughed, and began to dance, feeling pleased and proud to find
there was a good side to the shoes after all.  Such twirlings and
skippings as she made, such pretty steps and airy little bounds it was
pretty to see; for it seemed as if her feet were bewitched, and went of
themselves.  The little girls were charmed, and tried to imitate her;
but no one could, and they stood in a circle watching her dance till the
bell rang, then all rushed in to tell about it.
Kitty said it was her new shoes, and never told how queerly they acted,
hoping to have good times now.  But she was mistaken.
On the way home she wanted to stop and see her friend Bell’s new doll;
but at the gate her feet stuck fast, and she had to give up her wishes
and go straight on, as mamma had told her always to do.
"Run and pick a nice little dish of strawberries for dinner," said her
sister, as she went in.
"I ’m too ti--"  There was no time to finish, for the shoes landed her
in the middle of the strawberry bed at one jump.
"I might as well be a grasshopper if I ’m to skip round like this," she
said, forgetting to feel tired out there in the pleasant garden, with
the robins picking berries close by, and a cool wind lifting the leaves
to show where the reddest and ripest ones hid.
The little dish was soon filled, and she wanted to stay and eat a few,
warm and sweet from the vines; but the bell rang, and away she went,
over the wood-pile, across the piazza, and into the dining-room before
the berry in her mouth was half eaten.
"How this child does rush about to-day!" said her mother.  "It is so
delightful to have such a quick little errand-girl that I shall get her
to carry some bundles to my poor people this afternoon.
"Oh, dear me!  I do hate to lug those old clothes and bottles and
baskets of cold victuals round.  Must I do it?" sighed Kitty, dismally,
while the shoes tapped on the floor under the table, as if to remind her
that she must, whether she liked it or not.
"It would be right and kind, and would please me very much.  But you may
do as you choose about it.  I am very tired, and some one must go; for
the little Bryan baby is sick and needs what I send," said mamma,
looking disappointed.
Kitty sat very still and sober for some time, and no one spoke to her.
She was making up her mind whether she would go pleasantly or be whisked
about like a grasshopper against her will.  When dinner was over, she
said in a cheerful voice,--
"I ’ll go, mamma; and when all the errands are done, may I come back
through Fairyland, as we call the little grove where the tall ferns
grow?"
"Yes, dear; when you oblige me, I am happy to please you."
"I ’m glad I decided to be good; now I shall have a lovely time," said
Kitty to herself, as she trotted away with a basket in one hand, a
bundle in the other, and some money in her pocket for a poor old woman
who needed help.
The shoes went quietly along, and seemed to know just where to stop.
The sick baby’s mother thanked her for the soft little nightgowns; the
lame girl smiled when she saw the books; the hungry children gathered
round the basket of food, like young birds eager to be fed; and the old
woman gave her a beautiful pink shell that her sailor son brought home
from sea.
When all the errands were done Kitty skipped away to Fairyland, feeling
very happy, as people always do when they have done kind things.  It was
a lovely place; for the ferns made green arches tall enough for little
girls to sit under, and the ground was covered with pretty green moss
and wood-flowers.  Birds flew about in the pines, squirrels chattered in
the oaks, butterflies floated here and there, and from the pond near by
came the croak of frogs sunning their green backs on the mossy stones.
"I wonder if the shoes will let me stop and rest; it is so cool here,
and I ’m so tired," said Kitty, as she came to a cosey nook at the foot
of a tree.
The words were hardly out of her mouth when her feet folded under her,
and there she sat on a cushion of moss, like the queen of the wood on
her throne.  Something lighted with a bump close by her; and looking
down she saw a large black cricket with a stiff tail, staring at her
curiously.
"Bless my heart!  I thought you were some relation of my cousin
Grasshopper’s.  You came down the hill with long leaps just like him; so
I stopped to say, How d’ ye do," said the cricket, in its creaky voice.
"I ’m not a grasshopper; but I have on fairy shoes to-day, and so do
many things that I never did before," answered Kitty, much surprised to
be able to understand what the cricket said.
"It is midsummer day, and fairies can play whatever pranks they like.
If you did n’t have those shoes on, you could n’t understand what I say.
Hark, and hear those squirrels talk, and the birds, and the ants down
here.  Make the most of this chance; for at sunset your shoes will stop
skipping, and the fun all be over."
While the cricket talked Kitty did hear all sorts of little voices,
singing, laughing, chatting in the gayest way, and understood every word
they said.  The squirrels called to one another as they raced about,--
    "Here’s a nut, there’s a nut;
      Hide it quick away,
    In a hole, under leaves,
      To eat some winter day.
    Acorns sweet are plenty,
      We will have them all:
    Skip and scamper lively
      Till the last ones fall."
The birds were singing softly,--
    "Rock a bye, babies,
      Your cradle hangs high;
    Soft down your pillow,
      Your curtain the sky.
    Father will feed you,
      While mother will sing,
    And shelter our darlings
      With her warm wing."
And the ants were saying to one another as they hurried in and out of
their little houses,--
    "Work, neighbor, work!
      Do not stop to play;
    Wander far and wide,
      Gather all you may.
    We are never like
      Idle butterflies,
    But like the busy bees,
      Industrious and wise."
"Ants always were dreadfully good, but butterflies are ever so much
prettier," said Kitty, listening to the little voices with wonder and
pleasure.
    "Hollo! hollo!
    Come down below,--
    It’s lovely and cool
    Out here in the pool;
    On a lily-pad float
    For a nice green boat.
    Here we sit and sing
    In a pleasant ring;
    Or leap-frog play,
    In the jolliest way.
    Our games have begun,
    Come join in the fun."
"Dear me! what could I do over there in the mud with the queer green
frogs?" laughed Kitty, as this song was croaked at her.
    "No, no, come and fly
    Through the sunny sky,
    Or honey sip
    From the rose’s lip,
    Or dance in the air,
    Like spirits fair.
    Come away, come away;
    ’T is our holiday."
A cloud of lovely yellow butterflies flew up from a wild-rose bush, and
went dancing away higher and higher, till they vanished in the light
beyond the wood.
"That is better than leap-frog.  I wish my skipping shoes would let me
fly up somewhere, instead of carrying me on errands and where I ought to
go all the time," said Kitty, watching the pretty things glitter as they
flew.
Just at that minute a clock struck, and away went the shoes over the
pool, the hill, the road, till they pranced in at the gate as the
tea-bell rang.  Kitty amused the family by telling what she had done and
seen; but no one believed the Fairyland part, and her father said,
laughing,--
"Go on, my dear, making up little stories, and by and by you may be as
famous as Hans Christian Andersen, whose books you like so well."
"The sun will soon set, and then my fun will be over; so I must skip
while I can," thought Kitty, and went waltzing round the lawn so
prettily that all the family came to see her.
"She dances so well that she shall go to dancing-school," said her
mother, pleased with the pretty antics of her little girl.
Kitty was delighted to hear that; for she had longed to go, and went on
skipping as hard as she could, that she might learn some of the graceful
steps the shoes took before the day was done.
"Come, dear, stop now, and run up to your bath and bed.  It has been a
long hot day, and you are tired; so get to sleep early, for Nursey wants
to go out," said her mother, as the sun went down behind the hills with
a last bright glimmer, like the wink of a great sleepy eye.
"Oh, please, a few minutes more," began Kitty, but was off like a flash;
for the shoes trotted her upstairs so fast that she ran against old
Nursey, and down she went, splashing the water all over the floor, and
scolding in such a funny way that it made Kitty laugh so that she could
hardly pick her up again.
By the time she was ready to undress the sun was quite gone, and the
shoes she took off were common ones again, for midsummer day was over.
But Kitty never forgot the little lessons she had learned: she tried to
run willingly when spoken to; she remembered the pretty steps and danced
like a fairy; and best of all, she always loved the innocent and
interesting little creatures in the woods and fields, and whenever she
was told she might go to play with them, she hurried away almost as
quickly as if she still wore the skipping shoes.
                                   V.
                               COCKYLOO.
In the barnyard a gray hen sat on her nest, feeling very happy because
it was time for her eggs to hatch, and she hoped to have a fine brood of
chickens.  Presently crack, crack, went the shells; "Peep, peep!" cried
the chicks; "Cluck, cluck!" called the hen; and out came ten downy
little things one after the other, all ready to run and eat and
scratch,--for chickens are not like babies, and don’t have to be tended
at all.
There were eight little hens and two little cockerels, one black and one
as white as snow, with yellow legs, bright eyes, and a tiny red comb on
his head.  This was Cockyloo, the good chick; but the black one was
named Peck, and was a quarrelsome bad fowl, as we shall see.
Mrs. Partlet, the mamma, was very proud of her fine family; for the
eight little daughters were all white and very pretty.  She led them out
into the farmyard, clucking and scratching busily; for all were hungry,
and ran chirping round her to pick up the worms and seeds she found for
them.  Cocky soon began to help take care of his sisters; and when a
nice corn or a fat bug was found, he would step back and let little
Downy or Snowball have it.  But Peck would run and push them away, and
gobble up the food greedily.  He chased them away from the pan where the
meal was, and picked the down off their necks if they tried to get their
share.  His mother scolded him when the little ones ran to hide under
her wings; but he did n’t care, and was very naughty. Cocky began to
crow when he was very young, and had such a fine voice that people liked
to hear his loud, clear "Cock-a-doodle-doo!" early in the morning; for
he woke before the sun was up, and began his song.  Peck used to grumble
at being roused at dawn, for he was lazy; but the hens bustled up, and
were glad to get out of the hen-house.
The father cock had been killed by a dog; so they made Cocky king of the
farmyard, and Peck was very jealous of him.
"I came out of the shell first, and I am the oldest; so I ought to be
king," he said.
"But we don’t like you, because you are selfish, cross, and lazy.  We
want Cocky; he is so lively, kind, and brave.  He will make a splendid
bird, and he must be our king," answered the hens; and Peck had to mind,
or they would have pulled every feather out of his little tail.
He resolved to do some harm to his good brother, and plagued him all he
could.  One day, when Cocky was swinging with three of his sisters on a
bush that hung over the brook, Peck asked a stupid donkey feeding near
to come and put his heavy foot on the bush. He did it, and crack went
the branch, splash went the poor chicks into the water, and all were
drowned but Cocky, who flew across and was saved.  Poor little Hop,
Chirp, and Downy went floating down the brook like balls of white foam,
and were never seen again. All the hens mourned for them, and put a
black feather in their heads to show how sorry they were.  Mamma Partlet
was heart-broken to lose three darlings at once; but Cocky comforted
her, and never told how it happened, because he was ashamed to have
people know what a bad bird Peck was.
A butterfly saw it all, and he told Granny Cockletop about it; and the
hens were so angry that they turned Peck out of the barnyard, and he had
to go and live in the woods alone.  He said he did n’t care; but he did,
and was very unhappy, and used to go and peep into the pleasant field
where the fowls scratched and talked together.  He dared not show
himself, for they would have driven him out.  But kind Cocky saw him,
and would run with some nice bit and creep through the fence into the
wood, saying,--
"Poor brother, I’m sorry for you, and I’ll come and play with you, and
tell you the news."
Now in this wood lived a fox, and he had been planning to eat Peck as
soon as he was fat; for he missed the good corn and meal he used to
have, and grew very thin living on grasshoppers and berries.  While he
waited the sly fellow made friends with Peck, though the bird knew that
foxes ate hens.
"I ’m not afraid, and I don’t believe old Granny Cockletop’s tales.  I
can take care of myself, I guess," he said, and went on playing with the
fox, who got him to tell all about the hen-house,--how the door was
fastened, and where the plump chickens roosted, and what time they went
to bed,--so that he could creep in and steal a good supper by and by.
Silly Peck never guessed what harm he was doing, and only laughed when
Cocky said,--
"You will be sorry if you play with the fox.  He is a bad fellow; so be
careful and sleep on a high branch, and keep out of his way, as I do."
Cocky was fat and large, and the fox longed to eat him, but never could,
because he wisely ran home whenever he saw the rogue hiding in the wood.
This made Peck angry, for he wanted his brother to stay and play; and so
one day, when Cocky ran off in the midst of a nice game, Peck said to
the fox,--
"See here, if you want to catch that fellow, I ’ll tell you how to do
it.  He has promised to bring me some food to-night, when all the rest
are at roost.  He will hide and not get shut up; then, when those cross
old biddies are asleep, he will cluck softly, and I am to go in and eat
all I want out of the pan.  You hide on the top of the hen-house; and
while he talks to me, you can pounce on him.  Then I shall be the only
cock here, and they will have to make me king."
"All right," said the fox, much pleased with the plan, and very glad
that Peck had a chance to get fatter.
So when it was night, Peck crept through the broken paling and waited
till he heard the signal.  Now, good Cocky had saved up nice bits from
his own dinner, and put them in a paper hidden under a bush.  He spread
them all out in the barnyard and called; and Peck came in a great hurry
to eat them, never stopping to say, "Thank you."
Cocky stood by talking pleasantly till a little shower came up.
"Peck, dear, put this nice thick paper over you; then you will be dry,
and can go on eating. I’ll step under that burdock leaf and wait till
you are done," said Cocky; and Peck was too busy gobbling up the food to
remember anything else.
Now the fox had just crept up on the hen-house roof; and when he peeped
down, there was just light enough to see a white thing bobbing about.
"Ah, ha! that’s Cockyloo; now for a good supper!"  And with a jump he
seized Peck by the head before he could explain the mistake.
One squawk, and the naughty bird was dead; but though the paper fell
off, and the fox saw what he had done, it was too late, and he began to
eat Peck up, while Cocky flew into a tree and crowed so loud that the
farmer ran with his gun and shot the fox before he could squeeze through
the hole in the fence with the fowl in his mouth.
After that the hens felt safe, for there were no more foxes; and when
they heard about Peck they did not mourn at all, but liked Cocky better
than ever, and lived happily together, with nothing to trouble them.
King Cockyloo grew to be a splendid bird,--pure white, with a tall red
comb on his head, long spurs on his yellow legs, many fine feathers in
his tail, and eyes that shone like diamonds. His crow was so loud that
it could be heard all over the neighborhood, and people used to say,
"Hark! hear Farmer Hunt’s cock crow.  Is n’t it a sweet sound to wake us
in the dawn?"  All the other cocks used to answer him, and there was a
fine matinée concert every day.
He was a good brother, and led his five little sisters all about the
field, feeding, guarding, and amusing them; for mamma was lame now, and
could not stir far from the yard.  It was a pretty sight to see Cocky
run home with a worm in his bill or a nice berry, and give it to his
mother, who was very proud of her handsome son.  Even old Granny
Cockletop, who scolded about everything, liked him; and often said, as
the hens sat scuffling in the dust,--
"A fine bird, my dears, a very fine bird, and I know he will do
something remarkable before he dies."
She was right for once; and this is what he did.
One day the farmer had to go away and stay all night, leaving the old
lady alone with two boys.  They were not afraid; for they had a gun, and
quite longed for a chance to fire it. Now it happened that the farmer
had a good deal of money in the house, and some bad men knew it; so they
waited for him to go away that they might steal it.  Cocky was picking
about in the field when he heard voices behind the wall, and peeping
through a hole saw two shabby men hiding there.
"At twelve, to-night, when all are asleep, we will creep in at the
kitchen window and steal the money.  You shall watch on the outside and
whistle if any one comes along while I ’m looking for the box where the
farmer keeps it," said one man.
"You need n’t be afraid; there is no dog, and no one to wake the family,
so we are quite safe," said the other man; and then they both went to
sleep till night came.
Cocky was much troubled, and did n’t know what to do.  He could not tell
the old lady about it; for he could only cackle and crow, and she would
not understand that language.  So he went about all day looking very
sober, and would not chase grasshoppers, play hide-and-seek under the
big burdock leaves, or hunt the cricket with his sisters.  At sunset he
did not go into the hen-house with the rest, but flew up to the shed
roof over the kitchen, and sat there in the cold ready to scare the
robbers with a loud crow, as he could do nothing else.
At midnight the men came creeping along; one stopped outside, and the
other went in. Presently he handed a basket of silver out, and went back
for the money.  Just as he came creeping along with the box, Cocky gave
a loud, long crow, that frightened the robbers and woke the boys.  The
man with the basket ran away in such a hurry that he tumbled into a
well; the other was going to get out of the window, when Cocky flew down
and picked at his eyes and flapped his wings in his face, so that he
turned to run some other way, and met the boys, who fired at him and
shot him in the legs. The old lady popped her head out of the upper
window and rang the dinner-bell, and called "Fire! fire!" so loud that
it roused the neighbors, who came running to see what the trouble could
be.
They fished one man out of the well and picked up the wounded one, and
carried them both off to prison.
"Who caught them?" asked the people.
"We did," cried the boys, very proud of what they had done; "but we
should n’t have waked if our good Cocky had not crowed, and scared the
rascals.  He deserves half the praise, for this is the second time he
has caught a thief."
So Cocky was brought in, and petted, and called a fine fellow; and his
family were so proud of him they clucked about it for weeks afterward.
When the robbers were tried, it was found that they were the men who had
robbed the bank, and taken a great deal of money; so every one was glad
to have them shut up for twenty years.  It made a great stir, and people
would go to see Cocky and tell how he helped catch the men; and he was
so brave and handsome, they said at last,--
"We want a new weather-cock on our courthouse, and instead of an arrow
let us have a cock; and he shall look like this fine fellow."
"Yes, yes," cried the young folks, much pleased; for they thought Cocky
ought to be remembered in some way.
So a picture was taken, and Cocky stood very still, with his bright eye
on the man; then one like it was made of brass, and put high up on the
court-house, where all could see the splendid bird shining like gold,
and twirling about to tell which way the wind was.  The children were
never tired of admiring him; and all the hens and chickens went in a
procession one moonlight night to see it,--yes, even Mamma Partlet and
Granny Cockletop, though one was lame and the other very old, so full of
pride were they in the great honor done King Cockyloo.
This was not the end of his good deeds; and the last was the best of
all, though it cost him his life.  He ruled for some years, and kept his
kingdom in good order; for no one would kill him, when many of the other
fowls were taken for Thanksgiving and Christmas dinners.  But he did die
at last; and even then he was good and brave, as you shall hear.
One of the boys wanted to smoke a pipe, and went behind the hen-house,
so nobody should see him do such a silly thing.  He thought he heard his
father coming, and hid the pipe under the house.  Some straw and dry
leaves lay about, and took fire, setting the place in a blaze; for the
boy ran away when he saw the mischief he had done, and the fire got to
burning nicely before the cries of the poor hens called people to help.
The door was locked, and could not be opened, because the key was in the
pocket of the naughty boy; so the farmer got an axe and chopped down the
wall, letting the poor biddies fly out, squawking and smoking.
"Where is Cocky?" cried the other boy, as he counted the hens and missed
the king of the farmyard.
"Burnt up, I ’m afraid," said the farmer, who was throwing water on the
flames.
Alas! yes, he was; for when the fire was out they found good old Cocky
sitting on a nest, with his wide wings spread over some little chicks
whose mother had left them.  They were too small to run away, and sat
chirping sadly till Cocky covered and kept them safe, though the smoke
choked him to death.
Every one was very sorry; and the children gave the good bird a fine
funeral, and buried him in the middle of the field, with a green mound
over him, and a white stone, on which was written,--
    Here lies the bravest cock that ever crew:
    We mourn for him with sorrow true.
    Now nevermore at dawn his music shall we hear,
    Waking the world like trumpet shrill and clear.
    The hens all hang their heads, the chickens sadly peep;
    The boys look sober, and the girls all weep.
    Good-by, dear Cocky: sleep and rest.
    With grass and daisies on your faithful breast;
    And when you wake, brave bird, so good and true,
    Clap your white wings and crow, "Cock-a-doodle-doo."
                                  VI.
                            ROSY’S JOURNEY.
Rosy was a nice little girl who lived with her mother in a small house
in the woods. They were very poor, for the father had gone away to dig
gold, and did not come back; so they had to work hard to get food to eat
and clothes to wear.  The mother spun yarn when she was able, for she
was often sick, and Rosy did all she could to help.  She milked the red
cow and fed the hens; dug the garden, and went to town to sell the yarn
and the eggs.
She was very good and sweet, and every one loved her; but the neighbors
were all poor, and could do little to help the child.  So, when at last
the mother died, the cow and hens and house had to be sold to pay the
doctor and the debts.  Then Rosy was left all alone, with no mother, no
home, and no money to buy clothes and dinners with.
"What will you do?" said the people, who were very sorry for her.
"I will go and find my father," answered Rosy, bravely.
"But he is far away, and you don’t know just where he is, up among the
mountains.  Stay with us and spin on your little wheel, and we will buy
the yarn, and take care of you, dear little girl," said the kind people.
"No, I must go; for mother told me to, and my father will be glad to
have me.  I ’m not afraid, for every one is good to me," said Rosy,
gratefully.
Then the people gave her a warm red cloak, and a basket with a little
loaf and bottle of milk in it, and some pennies to buy more to eat when
the bread was gone.  They all kissed her, and wished her good luck; and
she trotted away through the wood to find her father.
For some days she got on very well; for the wood-cutters were kind, and
let her sleep in their huts, and gave her things to eat.  But by and by
she came to lonely places, where there were no houses; and then she was
afraid, and used to climb up in the trees to sleep, and had to eat
berries and leaves, like the Children in the Wood.
She made a fire at night, so wild beasts would not come near her; and if
she met other travellers, she was so young and innocent no one had the
heart to hurt her.  She was kind to everything she met; so all little
creatures were friends to her, as we shall see.
One day, as she was resting by a river, she saw a tiny fish on the bank,
nearly dead for want of water.
"Poor thing! go and be happy again," she said, softly taking him up, and
dropping him into the nice cool river.
"Thank you, dear child; I ’11 not forget, but will help you some day,"
said the fish, when he had taken a good drink, and felt better.
"Why, how can a tiny fish help such a great girl as I am?" laughed Rosy.
"Wait and see," answered the fish, as he swam away with a flap of his
little tail.
Rosy went on her way, and forgot all about it. But she never forgot to
be kind; and soon after, as she was looking in the grass for
strawberries, she found a field-mouse with a broken leg.
"Help me to my nest, or my babies will starve," cried the poor thing.
"Yes, I will; and bring these berries so that you can keep still till
your leg is better, and have something to eat."
Rosy took the mouse carefully in her little hand, and tied up the broken
leg with a leaf of spearmint and a blade of grass.  Then she carried her
to the nest under the roots of an old tree, where four baby mice were
squeaking sadly for their mother.  She made a bed of thistledown for the
sick mouse, and put close within reach all the berries and seeds she
could find, and brought an acorn-cup of water from the spring, so they
could be comfortable.
"Good little Rosy, I shall pay you for all this kindness some day," said
the mouse, when she was done.
"I ’m afraid you are not big enough to do much," answered Rosy, as she
ran off to go on her journey.
"Wait and see," called the mouse; and all the little ones squeaked, as
if they said the same.
Some time after, as Rosy lay up in a tree, waiting for the sun to rise,
she heard a great buzzing close by, and saw a fly caught in a cobweb
that went from one twig to another.  The big spider was trying to spin
him all up, and the poor fly was struggling to get away before his legs
and wings were helpless.
Rosy put up her finger and pulled down the web, and the spider ran away
at once to hide under the leaves.  But the happy fly sat on Rosy’s hand,
cleaning his wings, and buzzing so loud for joy that it sounded like a
little trumpet.
"You ’ve saved my life, and I ’ll save yours, if I can," said the fly,
twinkling his bright eye at Rosy.
"You silly thing, you can’t help me," answered Rosy, climbing down,
while the fly buzzed away, saying, like the mouse and fish,--
"Wait and see; wait and see."
Rosy trudged on and on, till at last she came to the sea.  The mountains
were on the other side; but how should she get over the wide water?  No
ships were there, and she had no money to hire one if there had been
any; so she sat on the shore, very tired and sad, and cried a few big
tears as salt as the sea.
"Hullo!" called a bubbly sort of voice close by; and the fish popped up
his head.
Rosy ran to see what he wanted.
"I ’ve come to help you over the water," said the fish.
"How can you, when I want a ship, and some one to show me the way?"
answered Rosy.
"I shall just call my friend the whale, and he will take you over better
than a ship, because he won’t get wrecked.  Don’t mind if he spouts and
flounces about a good deal, he is only playing; so you need n’t be
frightened."
Down dived the little fish, and Rosy waited to see what would happen;
for she did n’t believe such a tiny thing could really bring a whale to
help her.
Presently what looked like a small island came floating through the sea;
and turning round, so that its tail touched the shore, the whale said,
in a roaring voice that made her jump,--
"Come aboard, little girl, and hold on tight. I ’ll carry you wherever
you like."
It was rather a slippery bridge, and Rosy was rather scared at this big,
strange boat; but she got safely over, and held on fast; then, with a
roll and a plunge, off went the whale, spouting two fountains, while his
tail steered him like the rudder of a ship.
Rosy liked it, and looked down into the deep sea, where all sorts of
queer and lovely things were to be seen.  Great fishes came and looked
at her; dolphins played near to amuse her; the pretty nautilus sailed by
in its transparent boat; and porpoises made her laugh with their rough
play.  Mermaids brought her pearls and red coral to wear, sea-apples to
eat, and at night sung her to sleep with their sweet lullabies.
So she had a very pleasant voyage, and ran on shore with many thanks to
the good whale, who gave a splendid spout, and swam away.
Then Rosy travelled along till she came to a desert.  Hundreds of miles
of hot sand, with no trees or brooks or houses.
"I never can go that way," she said; "I should starve, and soon be worn
out walking in that hot sand.  What shall I do?"
      "Quee, quee!
      Wait and see:
    You were good to me;
      So here I come,
      From my little home,
    To help you willingly,"
said a friendly voice; and there was the mouse, looking at her with its
bright eyes full of gratitude.
"Why, you dear little thing, I ’m very glad to see you; but I ’m sure
you can’t help me across this desert," said Rosy, stroking its soft
back.
"That’s easy enough," answered the mouse, rubbing its paws briskly.  "I
’ll just call my friend the lion; he lives here, and he ’ll take you
across with pleasure."
"Oh, I ’m afraid he ’d rather eat me.  How dare you call that fierce
beast?" cried Rosy, much surprised.
"I gnawed him out of a net once, and he promised to help me.  He is a
noble animal, and he will keep his word."
Then the mouse sang, in its shrill little voice,--
      "O lion, grand,
      Come over the sand,
    And help me now, I pray!
      Here ’s a little lass,
      Who wants to pass;
    Please carry her on her way."
In a moment a loud roar was heard, and a splendid yellow lion, with
fiery eyes and a long mane, came bounding over the sand to meet them.
"What can I do for you, tiny friend?" he said, looking at the mouse, who
was not a bit frightened, though Rosy hid behind a rock, expecting every
moment to be eaten.
Mousie told him, and the good lion said pleasantly,--
"I ’ll take the child along.  Come on, my dear; sit on my back and hold
fast to my mane, for I ’m a swift horse, and you might fall off."
Then he crouched down like a great cat, and Rosy climbed up, for he was
so kind she could not fear him; and away they went, racing over the sand
till her hair whistled in the wind.  As soon as she got her breath, she
thought it great fun to go flying along, while other lions and tigers
rolled their fierce eyes at her, but dared not touch her; for this lion
was king of all, and she was quite safe.  They met a train of camels
with loads on their backs; and the people travelling with them wondered
what queer thing was riding that fine lion.  It looked like a very large
monkey in a red cloak, but went so fast they never saw that it was a
little girl.
"How glad I am that I was kind to the mouse; for if the good little
creature had not helped me, I never could have crossed this desert,"
said Rosy, as the lion walked awhile to rest himself.
"And if the mouse had not gnawed me out of the net I never should have
come at her call.  You see, little people can conquer big ones, and make
them gentle and friendly by kindness," answered the lion.
Then away they went again, faster than ever, till they came to the green
country.  Rosy thanked the good beast, and he ran back; for if any one
saw him, they would try to catch him.
"Now I have only to climb up these mountains and find father," thought
Rosy, as she saw the great hills before her, with many steep roads
winding up to the top; and far, far away rose the smoke from the huts
where the men lived and dug for gold.  She started off bravely, but took
the wrong road, and after climbing a long while found the path ended in
rocks over which she could not go.  She was very tired and hungry; for
her food was gone, and there were no houses in this wild place.  Night
