where two of her handmaids slept across the threshold, their white cloaks drawn over their heads 
against the chill air of the night. 
Then the trumpets rang out in long-drawn clang- 
ing rhythm through the morning air, and Nehushta 
heard the trampling of the beasts that were being got 
ready for the journey, in the court without, and the 
cries of the drivers and of the serving-men. She rose 
quickly from her bed — a lithe white-clad figure in 
the dawn light — and pushed the heavy curtains 
aside and looked out through the lattice; and she 
 
forgot her evil dream, for her heart leaped again at 
the thought that she should no more be shut up in 
Ecbatana, and that before another month was over 
she would be in Shushan, in the palace, where she 
longed to be. 
 
CHAPTER V. 
The sun was almost setting, and his light was 
already turning to a golden glow upon the vast plain 
of Shushan, as the caravan of travellers halted for 
the last time. A few stades away the two mounds 
rose above the royal city like two tables out of the 
flat country ; the lower one surmounted by the mar- 
ble columns, the towers and turrets and gleaming 
architraves of the palace ; and in front, upon the 
right, the higher elevation crowned by the dark and 
massive citadel of frowning walls and battlements. 
The place chosen for the halt was the point Avhere 
the road from Nineveh, into which they had turned 
when about half-way from Ecbatana, joined the broad 
road from Babylon, near to the bridge. For some 
time they had followed the quiet stream of the 
Choaspes, and, looking across it, had watched how 
the fortress seemed to come forward and overhang 
the river, while the mound of the palace fell away 
to the background. The city itself was, of course, 
completely hidden from their view by the steep 
mounds, that looked as inaccessible as though the;y 
had been built of solid masonry. 
Everything in the plain was green. Stade upon 
stade, and farsang upon farsang, the ploughed fur- 
rows stretched away to the west and south ; the corn 
standing already green and high, and the fig-trees 
 
putting out their broad green leaves. Here and there 
in the level expanse of country the rays of the declin- 
ing sun were reflected from the whitewashed walls 
of a farmhouse ; or in the farther distance lingered 
upon the burnt-brick buildings of an outlying village. 
Beyond the river, in the broad meadow beneath the 
turret-clad mound, half-naked, sunburnt boys drove 
iiome the small humped cows to the milking, scaring 
away, as they went, the troops of white horses that 
pastured in the same field, clapping their hands and 
crying out at the little black foals that ran and frisked 
by the side of their wliite dams. Here and there a 
broad-shouldered, bearded fisherman angled in the 
stream, or flung out a brown casting-net upon the 
placid waters, drawing it slowly back to the bank, 
with eyes intent upon the moving cords. 
The caravan halted on the turf by the side of the 
dusty road ; the mounted guards, threescore stalwart 
riders from the Median plains, fell back to make room 
for the travellers, and, springing to the ground, set 
about picketing and watering their horses — their 
brazen armour and scarlet and blue mantles blazing 
in a mass of rich colour in the evening sun ; while 
their wild white horses, untired by the day's march, 
plunged and snorted, and shook themselves, and bit 
each other in play by mane and tail, in the delight of 
being at least half free. 
Zoroaster himself — his purple mantle somewhat 
whitened with the dust, and his fair face a little 
browned by the three weeks' journey — threw the 
bridle of his horse to a soldier and ran quickly forward. A magnificent litter, closed all around with a 
 
gilded lattice, and roofed with three awnings of white 
linen, one upon the other, as a protection against the 
sun, was being carefully unyoked from the mules 
that had borne it. Tall Ethiopian slaves lifted it, 
and carried it to the greenest spot of the turf by the 
softly flowing river; and Zoroaster himself pushed 
back the lattice and spread a rich carpet before it. 
Nehushta took his proffered hand and stepped lightly 
out, and stood beside him in the red light. She was 
veiled, and her purple cloak fell in long folds to her 
feet, and she stood motionless, with her back to the 
city, looking towards the setting sun. 
" Why do we stop here ? " she asked suddenly. 
" The Great King, may he live for ever, is said not 
to be in the city," answered Zoroaster, " and it would 
ill become us to enter the palace before him." He 
spoke aloud in the Median language that the slaves 
might hear him ; then he added in Hebrew and in a 
lower voice, " It would be scarcely wise, or safe, to 
enter Shushan when the king is away. Who can tell 
what may have happened there in these days? Baby- 
lon has rebelled; the empire is far from settled. All 
Persia may be on the very point of a revolt." 
"A fitting time indeed for our journey — for me 
and my women to be travelling abroad with a score 
of horsemen for a guard! Why did you bring me 
here ? How long are we to remain encamped by 
the roadside, waiting the pleasure of the populace to 
let us in, or the convenience of this new king to 
return ? " 
Nehushta turned upon her companion as she spoke, 
and there was a ring of mingled scorn and disappointment in her voice. Her dark eyes stared coldly at 
Zoroaster from the straight opening between her 
veils, and before he could answer, she turned her 
back upon him and moved a few steps away, gazing 
out at the setting sun across the fertile meadows. 
The warrior stood still, and a dark flush overspread 
his face. Then he turned pale, but whatever were 
the words that rose to his lips, he did not speak 
them, but occupied himself with superintending the 
pitching of the women's tents. The other litters 
were brought, and set down with their occupants; 
the long file of camels, some laden with baggage and 
provisions, some bearing female slaves, kneeled down 
to be unloaded upon the grass, anxiously craning 
their long necks the while in the direction of the 
stream ; the tent-pitchers set to work ; and at the last 
another score of horsemen, who had formed the rear 
guard of the caravan, cantered up and joined their 
companions who had already dismounted. With the 
rapid skill of long practice, all did their share, and in 
a few minutes all the immense paraphernalia of a 
Persian encampment were spread out and disposed 
in place for the night. Contrary to the usual habit 
Zoroaster had not permitted the tent-pitchers and 
other slaves to pass on while he and his charges 
made their noonday halt ; for he feared some upris 
ing in the neighbourhood of the city in the absence 
of the king, and he wished to keep his whole company 
together as a measure of safety, even at the sacrifice 
of Nehushta's convenience. 
She herself still stood apart, and haughtily turned 
away from her serving-women, giving them no answer 
 
when they saluted her and offered her cushions and 
cooling drinks. She drew her cloak more closely 
about her and tightened her veil ujjon her face. She 
was weary, disappointed, almost angry. For days 
she had dreamed of the reception she would have at 
the palace, of the king and of the court ; of the luxury 
of rest after her long journey, and of the thousand 
diversions and excitements she would find in revisiting the scenes of her childhood. It was no small 
disappointment to find herself condemned to another 
night in camp ; and her first impulse was to blame 
Zoroaster. 
In spite of her love for him, her strong and dominating temper often chafed at his calmness, and resented the resolute superiority of his intelligence ; and 
then, being conscious that her own dignity suffered 
by the storms of her temper, she was even more angry 
than before, with herself, with him, with every one. 
But Zoroaster was as impassive as marble, saving that 
now and then his brow flushed, and paled quickly ; 
and his words, if he spoke at all, had a chilled icy 
ring in them. Sooner or later, Nehushta's passionate 
temper cooled, and she found him the same as ever, 
devoted and gentle and loving ; then her heart went 
out to him ancAv, and all her being was filled with the 
love of him, even to overflowing. 
She had been disappointed now, and would speak 
to no one. She moved still farther from the crowd 
of slaves and tent-pitchers, followed at a respectful 
distance by her handmaidens, who whispered together 
as they went; and again she stood still and looked 
westward. 
 
As the sun neared the horizon, his low rays caught 
upon a raising cloud of dust, small and distant as the 
smoke of a lire, in the plain towards Babylon, but 
whirling quickly upwards. Nehushta's eye rested on 
the far-off point, and she raised one hand to shade her 
sight. She remembered how, when she was a girl, 
she had watched the line of that very road from the 
palace above, and had seen a cloud of dust arise out 
of a mere speck, as a body of horsemen galloped into 
view. There was no mistaking what it was. A troop 
of horse were coming — perhaps the king himself. 
Instinctively she turned and looked for Zoroaster, and
started, as she saw him standing at a little distance 
from her, with folded arms, his eyes bent on the 
horizon. She moved towards him in sudden excitement. 
" What is it ? " she asked in low tones. 
"It is the Great King — may he live for ever!" 
answered Zoroaster. "None but he would ride so 
fast along the royal road." 
For a moment they stood side by side, watching 
the dust cloud ; and as they stood, Nehushta's hand 
stole out from her cloak and touched the warrior's 
arm, softly, with a trembling of the fingers, as though 
she timidly sought something she would not ask for. 
Zoroaster turned his head and saw that her eyes were 
moistened with tears ; he understood, but he would 
not take her hand, for there were many slaves near, 
besides Nehushta's kinsfolk, and he would not have 
had them see ; but he looked on her tenderly, and on 
a sudden, his eyes grew less sad, and the light returned in them. 
 
" My beloved ! " he said softly. 
"I was wrong, Zoroaster — forgive me," she mur- 
mured. She suffered him to lead her to her tent, 
which was already pitched ; and he left her there, 
sitting at the door and watching his movements, 
while he called together his men and drew them up 
in a compact ranli by the roadside, to be ready to 
salute the king. 
Nearer and nearer came the cloud; and the red 
glow turned to purple and the sun went out of sight; 
and still it came nearer, that whirling cloud-canopy 
of fine powdered dust, rising to right and left of the 
road in vast round puffs, and hanging overhead like 
the smoke from some great moving fire. Then, from 
beneath it, there seemed to come a distant'"oar like 
thunder, rising and falling on the silent air, but rising 
ever louder; and a dark gleam of polished bronze, 
with something more purple than the purple sunset, 
took shape slowly ; then with the low roar of sound, 
came now and then, and then more often, the clank 
of harness and arms ; till at last, the whole stamping, 
rushing, clanging crowd of galloping horsemen seemed 
to emerge suddenly from the dust in a thundering 
charge, the very earth shaking beneath their weight, 
and the whole air vibrating to the tremendous shock 
of pounding hoofs and the din of clashing brass. 
A few lengths before the serried ranks rode one 
man alone, — a square figure, wrapped in a cloak of 
deeper and richer purple than any worn by the ordinary 
nobles, sitting like a rock upon a great white horse. 
As he came up, Zoroaster and his fourscore men threw 
up their hands. 
 
" Hail, king of kings ! Hail, and live for ever ! " 
they cried, and as one man, they prostrated themselves npon their faces on the grass by the roadside. 
Darius drew rein suddenly, bringing his steed from 
his full gallop to his haunches in an instant. After 
him the rushing riders threw up their right hands as 
a signal to those behind ; and with a deafening concussion, as of the ocean breaking at once against a 
wall of rock, those matchless Persian horsemen halted 
in a body in the space of a few yards, their steeds 
plunging wildly, rearing to their height and struggling on the curb; but helpless to advance against 
the strong hands that held them. The blossom and 
flower o^i^all the Persian nobles rode there, — their 
purple niantles flying with the wild motion, their 
bronze cuirasses black in the gathering twilight, 
their bearded faces dark and square beneath their 
gilded helmets. 
" I am Darius, the king of kings, on whom ye call," 
cried the king, whose steed now stood like a marble 
statue, immovable in the middle of the road. " Rise, 
speak and fear nothing, — unless ye speak lies." 
Zoroaster rose to his feet, then bent low, and taking 
a few grains of dust from the roadside, touched his 
mouth with his hand and let the dust fall upon his 
forehead. 
" Hail, and hve for e-ver ! I am thy servant, Zoro- 
aster, who was captain over the fortress and treasury 
of Ecbatana. According to thy word I have brought 
the kinsfolk of Jehoiakim, king of Judah, — chief of 
whom is Nehushta, the princess. I heard that thou 
wast absent from Shushan, and here I have waited for 
 
thy coming. I also sent thee messengers to announce 
that Daniel, surnamed Belteshazzar, who was Satrap 
of Media from the time of Cambyses, is dead ; and I 
have buried him fittingly in a new tomb in the garden 
of the palace of Ecbatana." 
Darius, quick and impulsive in every thought and 
action, sprang to the ground as Zoroaster finished 
speaking, and coming to him, took both his hands 
and kissed him on both cheeks. 
" What thou hast done is well done, — I know thee 
of old. Auramazda is with thee. He is also with 
me. By his grace I have slain the rebels at Babylon. 
They spoke lies, so I slew them. Show me Nehushta, 
the daughter of the kings of Judah." 
" I am thy servant. The princess is at hand," an- 
swered Zoroaster ; but as he spoke, he turned pale to 
the lips. 
By this time it had grown dark, and the moon, just 
past the full, had not yet risen from behind the mound 
of the fortress. The slaves brought torches of mingled wax and fir-gum, and their black figures shone 
strangely in the red glare, as they pressed toward the 
door of Nehushta's tent, lighting the way for the king. 
Darius strode quickly forward, his gilded harness 
clanging as he walked, the strong flaring light illuminating his bold dark features. Under the striped 
curtain, drawn up to form the entrance of the tent, 
stood Nehushta. She had thrown aside her veil and 
her women had quickly placed upon her head the 
linen tiara, where a single jewel shown like a star in 
the white folds. Her thick black hair fell in masses 
upon her shoulders, and her mantle was thrown back, 
 
displaying the grand proportions of her figure, clad in 
tunic and close-fitting belt. As the king came near, 
she kneeled and prostrated herself before him, touching her forehead to the ground, and waiting for him 
to speak. 
He stood still a full minute and his eyes flashed 
fire, as he looked on her crouching figure, in very 
pride that so queenly a woman should be forced to 
kneel at his feet — but more in sudden admiration of 
her marvellous beauty. Then he bent down, and 
took her hand and raised her to her feet. She sprang 
up, and faced him with glowing cheeks and flashing 
eyes ; and as she stood she was nearly as tall as he. 
" I would not that a princess of thy line kneeled 
before me," said he ; and in his voice there was a 
strange touch of softness. " Wilt thou let me rest 
here awhile before I go up to Shushan ? I am weary 
of riding and thirsty from the road." 
"Hail, king of the world! I am thy servant, 
Rest thee and refresh thee here," answered Nehushta, 
drawing back into the tent. The king beckoned to 
Zoroaster to follow him and went in. 
Darius sat upon the carved folding-chair that stood 
in the midst of the tent by the main pole, and eagerly 
drained the huge golden goblet of Shiraz wine which 
Zoroaster poured for him. Then he took off his head- 
piece, and his thick, coarse hair fell in a mass of dark 
curls to his neck, like the mane of a black lion. He 
breathed a long breath as of relief and enjoyment of 
well-earned repose, and leaned back in his chair, letting 
his eyes rest on Nehushta's face as she stood before 
him looking down to the ground. Zoroaster remained 
 
on one side, holding the replenished goblet in his hand, 
in case the king's thirst were not assuaged by a single 
draught. 
" Thou art fair, daughter of Jerusalem," said the 
king presently. '' I remember thy beauty, for I saw 
thee in Ecbatana. I sent for thee and thy kinsfolk 
that I might do thee honour ; and I will also fulfil 
my words. I will take thee to be my Avife." 
Darius spoke quietly, in his usual tone of absolute 
determination. But if the concentrated fury of a 
thousand storms had suddenly broken loose in the 
very midst of the tent, the effect could not have been 
more terrible on his hearers. 
Nehushta's face flushed suddenly, and for a moment 
she trembled in every joint ; then she fell on her knees, 
prostrate before the king's feet, all the wealth of her 
splendid hair falling loose about her. Darius sat still, 
as though watching the result of his speech. He 
might have sat long, but in an instant, Zoroaster 
sprang between the king and the kneeling woman; 
and the golden goblet he had held rolled across the 
thick carpet on the ground, while the rich red wine 
ran in a slow stream towards the curtains of the door. 
His face was livid and his eyes like coals of blue fire, 
his fair locks and his long golden beard caught the 
torchlight and shone about him like a glory, as he 
stood up to his grand height and faced the king. 
Darius never quailed nor moved ; his look met Zoro- 
aster's with fearless boldness. Zoroaster spoke first, 
in low accents of concentrated fury : 
"Nehushta the princess is my betrothed bride. 
Though thou wert king of the stars as well as king of 
the earth, thou shalt not have her for thy wife." 
 
Darius smiled, not scornfully, an honest smile of 
amusement, as he stared at the wrathful figure of the 
northern man before him. 
" I am the king of kings," he answered. " I will 
marry this princess of Judah to-morrow, and thee I 
will crucify upon the highest turret of Shushan, because thou speakest lies when thou sayest I shall not 
marry her." 
"Fool! tempt not thy God! Threaten not him 
who is stronger than thou, lest he slay thee with his 
hands where thou sittest." Zoroaster's voice sounded 
low and distinct as the knell of relentless fate, and 
his hand went out towards the king's throat. 
Until this moment, Darius had sat in his indifferent 
attitude, smiling carelessly, though never taking his 
eye from his adversary. Brave as the bravest, he 
scorned to move until he was attacked, and he would 
have despised the thought of calling to his guards. 
But when Zoroaster's hand went out to seize him, he 
was ready. With a spring like a tiger, he flew at the 
strong man's throat, and sought to drag him down, 
striving to fasten his grip about the collar of his 
cuirass, but Zoroaster slipped his hand quickly under 
his adversary's, his sleeve went back and his long 
white arm ran like a fetter of steel about the king's 
neck, while his other hand gripped him by the middle ; so they held each other like wrestlers, one arm 
above the shoulder and one below, and strove with 
all their might. 
The king was short, but in his thick-set broad 
shoulders and knotted arms there lurked the strength 
of a bull and the quickness of a tiger. Zoroaster had 
 
the advantage, for his right arm was round Darius's 
neck, but while one might count a score, neither 
moved a hairbreadth, and the blue veins stood out 
like cords on the tall man's arm. The fiery might of 
the southern prince was matched against the stately 
strength of the fair northerner, whose face grew as 
white as death, while the king's brow was purple 
with the agony of effort. They both breathed hard 
between their clenched teeth, but neither uttered a 
word. 
Nehushta had leaped to her feet in terror at the 
first sign of the coming strife, but she did not cry 
out, nor call in the slaves or guards. She stood, 
holding the tent-pole with one hand, and gathering 
her mantle to her breast with the other, gazing in 
absolute fascination at the fearful life and death 
struggle, at the unspeakable and tremendous strength 
so silently exerted by the two men before her. 
Suddenly they moved and swayed. Darius had 
attempted to trip Zoroaster with one foot, but slipping on the carpet wet with wine, had been bent 
nearly double to the ground ; then by a violent effort, 
he regained his footing. But the great exertion had 
weakened his strength. Nehushta thought a smile 
flickered on Zoroaster's pale face and his flashing 
dark blue eyes met hers for a moment, and then the 
end began. Slowly, and by imperceptible degrees, 
Zoroaster forced the king down before him, doubling 
him backwards with irresistible strength, till it seemed 
as though bone and sinew and muscle must be broken 
and torn asunder in the desperate resistance. Then, 
at last, when his head almost touched the ground, 
Darius groaned and his limbs relaxed. Instantly 
Zoroaster threw him on his back and kneeled with 
his whole weight upon his chest, — the gilded scales 
of the corselet cracking beneath the burden, and he 
held the king's hands down on either side, pinioned 
to the floor. Darius struggled desperately twice and 
then lay quite still. Zoroaster gazed down upon 
him with blazing eyes. 
" Thou who wouldst crucify me upon Shushan," 
he said through his teeth. "I will slay thee here 
even as thou didst slay Smerdis. Hast thou anything to say ? Speak quickly, for thy hour is come." 
Even in the extremity of his agony, vanquished 
and at the point of death, Darius was brave, as brave 
men are, to the very last. He would indeed have 
called for help now, but there was no breath in him. 
He still gazed fearlessly into the eyes of his terrible 
conqueror. His voice came in a hoarse whisper. 
" I fear not death. Slay on if thou wilt — thou — 
hast — conquered." 
Nehushta had come near. She trembled now that 
the fight was over, and looked anxiously to the heavy 
curtains of the tent-door. 
" Tell him," she whispered to Zoroaster, " that you 
will spare him if he will do no harm to you, nor to 
me." 
" Spare him ! " echoed Zoroaster scornfully. " He 
is almost dead now — why should I spare him ? " 
" For my sake, beloved," answered Nehushta, with 
a sudden and passionate gesture of entreaty. " He is 
the king — he speaks truth: if he says he will not 
harm you, trust him." 
 
" If I slay thee not, swear thou wilt not harm me 
nor Nehushta," said Zoroaster, removing one knee 
from the chest of his adversary. 
" By the name of Auramazda," gasped Darius, " I 
will not harm thee nor her." 
" It is well," said Zoroaster. " I will let thee go. 
And as for taking her to be thy wife, thou mayest 
ask her if she will wed thee," he added. He rose 
and helped the king to his feet. Darius shook him- 
self and breathed hard for a few minutes. He felt 
his limbs as a man might do who had fallen from his 
horse, and then he sat down upon the chair, and 
broke into a loud laugh. 
Darius was well known to all Persia and Media 
before the events of the last two months, and such 
was his reputation for abiding by his promise that he 
was universally trusted by those about him. Zoroaster had known him also, and he remembered his easy 
familiarity and love of jesting, so that even when he 
held the king at such vantage that he might have 
killed him by a little additional pressure of his weight, 
he felt not the least hesitation in accepting his prom- 
ise of safety. But remembering what a stake had 
been played for in the desperate issue, he could not 
join in the king's laugh. He stood silently apart, and 
looked at Nehushta who leaned back against the tent- 
pole in violent agitation ; her hands wringing each 
other beneath her long sleeves, and her eyes turning 
from the king to Zoroaster, and back again to the 
king, in evident distress and fear. 
"Thou hast a mighty arm, Zoroaster," cried Da- 
rius, as his laughter subsided, " and thou hadst well- 
 
nigh made an end of the Great King and of Persia, 
Media, Babylon and Egypt in thy grip." 
'' Let the king pardon his servant," answered Zo- 
roaster, " if his knee was heavy and his hand strong. 
Had not the king slipped upon the spilt wine, his 
servant would have been thrown down." 
" And thou wouldst have been crucified at dawn," 
added Darius, laughing again. " It is well for thee 
that I am Darius and not Cambyses, or thou wouldst 
not be standing there before me while my guards are 
gossiping idly in the road. Give me a cup of wine 
since thou hast spared my life ! " Again the king 
laughed as though his sides would break. Zoroaster 
hastily filled another goblet and offered it, kneeling 
before the monarch. Darius paused before he took 
the cup, and looked at the kneeling warrior's pale 
proud face. Then he spoke and his voice dropped 
to a less mirthful key, as he laid his hand on Zo- 
roaster's shoulder. 
"I love thee, prince," he said, "because thou art 
stronger than I ; and as brave and more merciful. 
Therefore shalt thou stand ever at my right hand 
and I will trust thee with my life in thy hand. And 
in pledge hereunto I put my own chain of gold about 
thy neck, and I drink this cup to thee ; and whosoever shall harm a hair of thine head shall perish in 
torments." 
The king drank ; and Zoroaster, overcome with 
genuine admiration of the great soul that could so 
easily forgive so dire an offence, bent and embraced 
the king's knees in token of adherence, and as a seal 
of that friendship which was never to be broken until 
death parted the two men asunder. 
 
Then they arose, and at Zoroaster's order, the 
princess's litter was brought, and leaving the en- 
campment to follow after them, they went up to the 
palace. Nehushta was borne between the litters of 
her women and her slaves on foot, but Zoroaster 
mounted his horse and rode slowly and in silence by 
the right side of the Great King. 
 
CHAPTER VI. 
Athwart the gleaming colonnades of the eastern 
balcony, the early morning sun shone brightly, and 
all the shadows of the white marble cornices and 
capitals and jutting frieze work were blue with the 
reflection of the cloudless sky. The swallows now 
and then shot in under the overhanging roof and 
flew up and down the covered terrace ; then with a 
quick rush, they sped forth again into the dancing 
sunshine with clean sudden sweep, as when a sharp 
sword is whirled in the air. Far below, the soft mist 
of the dawn still lay upon the city, whence the distant cries of the water-carriers and fruitsellers came 
echoing up from the waking streets, the call of the 
women to one another from the housetops, and now 
and then the neighing of a horse far out upon the 
meadows ; while the fleet swallows circled over all in 
swift wide curves, with a silvery fresh stream of unceasing twittering music. 
Zoroaster paced the balcony alone. He was fully 
armed, with his helmet upon his head ; the crest of 
the winged wheels was replaced by the ensign Darius 
had chosen for himself, — the half-figure of a likeness 
of the king with long straight wings on either side, 
of w^rought gold and very fine workmanship. The 
long purple mantle hung to his heels and the royal 
chain of gold was about his neck. As he walked the 
 
gilded leather of liis shoes was reflected in the pol- 
ished marble pavement and he trod cautiously, for 
the clean surface was slippery as the face of a mirror. 
At one end of the terrace a stairway led down to the 
lower story of the palace, and at the other end a high 
square door was masked by a heavy curtain of rich 
purple and gold stuff, that fell in thick folds to the 
glassy floor. Each time his walk brought him to this 
end Zoroaster paused, as though expecting that some 
one should come out. But as it generally happens 
when a man is waiting for something or some one 
that the object or person appears unexpectedly, so it 
occurred that as he turned back from the staircase 
towards the curtain, he saw that some one had already 
advanced half the length of the balcony to meet 
him — and it was not the person for whom he was 
looking. 
At first, he was dazzled for a moment, but his 
memory served him instantly and he recognised the 
face and form of a woman he had known and often seen before. She was not tall, but so perfectly proportioned that it was impossible to wish that she were 
taller. Her close tunic of palest blue, bordered with 
a gold embroidery at the neck, betrayed the matchless 
symmetry of her figure, the unspeakable grace of de- 
velopment of a woman in the fullest bloom of beauty. 
From her knees to her feet, her under tunic showed 
the purple and white bands that none but the king 
might wear, and which even for the queen was an undue assumption of the royal insignia. But Zoroaster 
did not look at her dress, nor at her mantle of royal 
sea-purple, nor at the marvellous white hands that 
 
held together a written scroll. His eyes rested on 
her face, and he stood still where he was. 
He knew those straight and perfect features, not 
large nor heavy, but of such rare mould and faultless 
type as man has not seen since, neither will see. The 
perfect curve of the fresh mouth ; the white forward 
chin with its sunk depression in the midst ; the deep-set, blue eyes and the straight pencilled brows ; the 
broad smooth forehead and the tiny ear half hidden 
in the glory of sun-golden hair ; the milk-white skin 
just tinged with the faint rose-light that never 
changed or reddened in heat or cold, in anger or 
in joy — he knew them all ; the features of royal 
Cyrus made soft and womanly in substance, but 
unchanging still and faultlessly cold in his great 
daughter Atossa, the child of kings, the wife of 
kings, the mother of kings. 
The heavy curtains had fallen together behind her, 
aad she came forward alone. She had seen Zoroaster 
before he had seen her, and she moved on without 
showing any surprise, the heels of her small golden 
shoes clicking sharply on the polished floor. Zoroaster 
remained standing for a moment, and then, removing 
his helmet in salutation, went to one side of the head 
of the staircase and waited respectfully for the queen 
to pass. As she came on, passing alternately through 
the shadow cast by the columns, and the sunlight 
that blazed between, her advancing figure flashed 
with a new illumination at every step. She made as 
though she were going straight on, but as she passed 
over the threshold to the staircase, she suddenly 
stopped and turned half round, and looked straight 
at Zoroaster. 
 
"Thou art Zoroaster," she said in a smooth and 
musical voice, like the ripple of a clear stream flowing 
through summer meadows. 
" I am Zoroaster, thy servant," he answered, bowing 
his head. He spoke very coldly. 
" I remember thee well," said the queen, lingering 
by the head of the staircase. " Thou art little changed, 
saving that thou art stronger, I should think, and more 
of a soldier than formerly." 
Zoroaster stood turning his polished helmet in his 
hands, but he answered nothing ; he cared little for 
the queen's praises. But she, it seemed, was desirous 
of pleasing him in proportion as he was less anxious 
to be pleased, for she turned again and walked for- 
ward upon the terrace. 
" Come into the sunlight — the morning air is cold," 
she said, " I would speak with thee awhile." 
A carved chair stood in a corner of the balcony. 
Zoroaster moved it into the sunshine, and Atossa sat 
down, smiling her thanks to him, while he stood lean- 
ing against the balustrade, — a magnificent figure as 
the light caught his gilded harness and gold neck- 
chain, and played on his long fair beard and nestled 
in the folds of his purple mantle. 
" Tell me — you came last night ? " she asked, spreading her dainty hands in the sunshine as though to 
warm them. She never feared the sun, for he was 
friendly to her nativity and never seemed to scorch 
her fair skin like that of meaner women. 
"Thy servant came last night," answered the 
prince. 
"Bringing Nehushta and the other Hebrews?" 
added the queen. 
 
" Even so." 
"Tell me something of this Nehushta," said Atossa. 
She had dropped into a more familiar form of speech. 
But Zoroaster was careful of his words and never 
allowed his language to relapse from the distant form 
of address of a subject to his sovereign. 
" The queen knoweth her. She was here as a young 
child a few years since," he replied. He chose to 
let Atossa ask questions for all the information she 
needed. 
" It is so long ago," she said, with a little sigh. " Is 
she fair ? " 
"Nay, she is dark, after the manner of the 
Hebrews." 
" And the Persians too," she interrupted. 
" She is very beautiful," continued Zoroaster. " She 
is very tall." Atossa looked up quickly with a smile. 
She was not tall herself, with all her beauty. 
" You admire tall women ? " 
"Yes," said Zoroaster calmly — well knowing what 
he said. He did not wish to flatter the queen ; and 
besides he knew her too well to do so if he wished to 
please her. She was one of those women who are not 
accustomed to doubt their own superiority over the 
rest of their sex. 
"Then you admire this Hebrew princess?" said 
she, and paused for an answer. But her companion 
was as cold and calm as she. Seeing himself directly
pressed by a suspicion, he changed his tactics and 
flattered Atossa for the sake of putting a stop to her 
questions. 
" Height is not of itself beauty," he answered with 
 
a courteous smile. " There is a kind of beauty which 
no height can improve, — a perfection which needs 
not to be set high for all men to acknowledge it." 
The queen simply took no notice of the compliment, but it had its desired effect, for she changed 
the tone of her talk a little, speaking more seriously. 
" Where is she ? I will go and see her," she said. 
"She rested last night in the upper chambers in 
the southern part of the palace. Thy servant will 
bid her come if it be thy desire." 
" Presently, presently," answered the queen. " It 
is yet early, and she was doubtless weary of the 
journey." 
There was a pause. Zoroaster looked down at the 
beautiful queen as she sat beside him, and wondered 
whether she had changed ; and as he gazed, he fell to 
comparing her beauty with Nehushta's, and his glance 
