curiosity to come up to the Cite. There was something 
brilliant, certainly, in that. The gardien was an extra 
ordinarily typical little Frenchman, who struck me even 
more forcibly than the wonders of the inner enceinte; 
and as I am bound to assume, at whatever cost to my 
literary vanity, that there is not the slightest danger 
of his reading these remarks, I may treat him as public 
property. With his diminutive stature and his per 
pendicular spirit, his flushed face, expressive protuber 
ant eyes, high peremptory voice, extreme volubility, 
lucidity, and neatness of utterance, he reminded me of 
the gentry who figure in the revolutions of his native 
land. If he was not a fierce little Jacobin, he* ought 
to have been, for I am sure there were many men of 
his pattern on the Committee of Public Safety. He 
knew absolutely what he was about, understood the 
place thoroughly, and constantly reminded his audience 
of what he himself had done in the way of excavations 
and reparations. He described himself as the brother 
of the architect of the work actually going forward 
(that which has been done since the death of M. Viol- 
let-le-Duc, I suppose he meant), and this fact was more 
illustrative than all the others. It reminded me, as 
one is reminded at every turn , of the democratic con 
ditions of French life: a man of the people, with a 
wife en bonnet, extremely intelligent, full of special 
knowledge, and yet remaining essentially of the people, 
and showing his intelligence with a kind of ferocity, 
of defiance. Such a personage helps one to under 
stand the red radicalism of France, the revolutions, 
the barricades, the sinister passion for theories. (I do 
not, of course, take upon myself to say that the indi 
vidual I describe who can know nothing of the 
liberties I am taking with him is actually devoted to 
these ideals; I only mean that many such devotees 
must have his qualities.) In just the finance that I 
have tried to indicate here, it is a terrible pattern of 
man. Permeated in a high degree by civilization, it 
is yet untouched by the desire which one finds in the 
Englishman, in proportion as he rises in the world, to 
approximate to the figure of the gentleman. On the 
other hand, a nettete, a faculty of exposition, such as 
the English gentleman is rarely either blessed or cursed 
with. 
This brilliant, this suggestive warden of Carcas 
sonne marched us about for an hour, haranguing, ex 
plaining, illustrating, as he went; it was a complete 
little lecture, such as might have been delivered at 
the Lowell Institute, on the manner in which a first- 
rate place forte used to be attacked and defended. 
Our peregrinations made it very clear that Carcassone 
was impregnable; it is impossible to imagine, without 
having seen them, such refinements of immurement, 
such ingenuities of resistance. We passed along the 
battlements and chemins de ronde, ascended and de 
scended towers, crawled under arches, peered out of 
loop-holes, lowered ourselves into dungeons, halted in 
all sorts of tight places, while the purpose of some 
thing or other was described to us. It w r as very 
curious, very interesting; above all, it was very pic 
torial, and involved perpetual peeps into the little 
crooked, crumbling, sunny, grassy, empty Cite. In 
places, as you stand upon it, the great towered and 
embattled enceinte produces an illusion; it looks as 
if it were still equipped and defended. One vivid 
challenge, at any rate, it flings down before you; it 
calls upon you to make up your mind on the matter 
of restoration. For myself, I have no hesitation; I 
prefer in every case the ruined, however ruined, to 
the reconstructed, however splendid. What is left is 
more precious than what is added: the one is history, 
the other is fiction; and I like the former the better of 
the two, it is so much more romantic. One is posi 
tive, so far as it goes; the other fills up the void with 
things more dead than the void itself, inasmuch as 
they have never had life. After that I am free to 
say that the restoration of Carcassonne is a splendid 
achievement. The little custodian dismissed us at 
last, after having, as usual, inducted us into the inevi 
table repository of photographs. These photographs 
are a great nuisance, all over the Midi. They are 
exceedingly bad, for the most part; and the worst 
those in the form of the hideous little allum-pano- 
rama are thrust upon you at every turn. They 
are a kind of tax that you must pay; the best way is 
to pay to be let off. It was not to be denied that 
there was a relief in separating from our accomplished 
guide, whose manner of imparting information re 
minded me of the energetic process by which I have 
seen mineral waters bottled. All this while the after 
noon had grown more lovely; the sunset had deepened, 
the horizon of hills grown purple; the mass of the 
Canigou became more delicate, yet more distinct. The 
day had so far faded that the interior of the little 
cathedral was wrapped in twilight, into which the 
glowing windows projected something of their color. 
This church has high beauty and value, but I will 
spare the reader a presentation of details which I my 
self had no opportunity to master. It consists of a 
romanesque nave, of the end of the eleventh century, 
and a Gothic choir and transepts of the beginning of 
the fourteenth; and, shut up in its citadel like a precious 
casket in a cabinet, it seems or seemed at that hour 
to have a sort of double sanctity. After leaving it 
and passing out of the two circles of walls, I treated 
myself, in the most infatuated manner, to another walk 
round the Cite. It is certainly this general impression 
that is most striking, the impression from outside, 
where the whole place detaches itself at once from 
the landscape. In the warm southern dusk it looked 
more than ever like a city in a fairy-tale. To make 
the thing perfect, a white young moon, in its first 
quarter, came out and hung just over the dark sil 
houette. It was hard to come away, to incommode 
one 's self for anything so vulgar as a railway-train; I 
would gladly have spent the evening in revolving 
round the walls of Carcassonne. But I had in a 
measure engaged to proceed to Narbonne, and there 
was a certain magic in that name which gave me 
strength, Narbonne, the richest city in Roman Gaul. 
XXIV. 
AT Narbonne I took up my abode at the house of 
a serrurier mecanicien, and was very thankful for the 
accommodation. It was my misfortune to arrive at 
this ancient city late at night, on the eve of market- 
day; and market-day at Narbonne is a very serious 
affair. The inns, on this occasion, are stuffed with 
wine-dealers; for the country roundabout, dedicated 
almost exclusively to Bacchus, has hitherto escaped 
the phylloxera. This deadly enemy of the grape is 
encamped over the Midi in a hundred places; blighted 
vineyards and ruined proprietors being quite the order 
of the day. The signs of distress are more frequent 
as you advance into Provence, many of the vines being 
laid under water, in the hope of washing the plague 
away. There are healthy regions still, however, and 
the vintners find plenty to do at Narbonne. The 
traffic in wine appeared to be the sole thought of the 
Narbonnais; every one I spoke to had something to 
say about the harvest of gold that bloomed under its 
influence. "Cest inoui, monsieur, l'argent qu il y a 
dans ce pays. Des gens a qui la vente de leur vin 
rapporte jusqu a 500,000 francs par an." That little 
speech, addressed to me by a gentleman at the inn, 
gives the note of these revelations. It must be said 
that there was little in the appearance either of the 
town or of its population to suggest the possession of 
such treasures. Narbonne is a sale petite ville in all 
the force of the term, and my first impression on ar 
riving there was an extreme regret that I had not 
remained for the night at the lovely Carcassonne. My 
journey from that delectable spot lasted a couple of 
hours, and was performed in darkness, a darkness 
not so dense, however, but that I was able to make 
out, as we passed it, the great figure of Beziers, whose 
ancient roofs and towers, clustered on a goodly hill 
top, looked as fantastic as you please. I know not 
what appearance Beziers may present by day; but by 
night it has quite the grand air. On issuing from the 
station at Narbonne, I found that the only vehicle in 
waiting was a kind of bastard tramcar, a thing shaped 
as if it had been meant to go upon rails; that is, 
equipped with small wheels, placed beneath it, and 
with a platform at either end, but destined to rattle 
over the stones like the most vulgar of omnibuses. 
To complete the oddity of this conveyance, it was 
under the supervision, not of a conductor, but of a 
conductress. A fair young woman, with a pouch sus 
pended from her girdle, had command of the platform; 
and as soon as the car was full she jolted us into the 
town through clouds of the thickest dust I ever have 
swallowed. I have had occasion to speak of the activity 
of women in France , of the way they are always in 
the ascendant; and here was a signal example of their 
general utility. The young lady I have mentioned 
conveyed her whole company to the wretched little 
Hotel de France, where it is to be hoped that some 
of them found a lodging. For myself, I was informed 
that the place was crowded from cellar to attic, and 
that its inmates were sleeping three or four in a room. 
At Carcassonne I should have had a bad bed, but at 
Narbonne, apparently, I was to have no bed at all. I 
passed an hour or two of flat suspense, while fate 
settled the question of whether I should go on to 
Perpignan, return to Beziers, or still discover a modest 
couch at Narbonne. I shall not have suffered in vain, 
however, if my example serves to deter other travellers 
from alighting unannounced at that city on a Wednes 
day evening. The retreat to Beziers, not attempted 
in time, proved impossible, and I was assured that at 
Perpignan, which I should not reach till midnight, the 
affluence of wine-dealers was not less than at Nar 
bonne. I interviewed every hostess in the town, and 
got no satisfaction but distracted shrugs. Finally, at 
an advanced hour, one of the servants of the Hotel 
de France, where I had attempted to dine, came to 
me in triumph to proclaim that he had secured for 
me a charming apartment in a maison bourgeoise. I 
took possession of it gratefully, in spite of its having 
an entrance like a stable, and being pervaded by an 
odor compared with which that of a stable would 
have been delicious. As I have mentioned, my land 
lord was a locksmith, and he had strange machines 
which rumbled and whirred in the rooms below my 
own. Nevertheless, I slept, and I dreamed of Car 
cassonne. It was better to do that than to dream of 
the Hotel de France. 
I was obliged to cultivate relations with the cuisine 
of this establishment. Nothing could have been more 
meridional; indeed, both the dirty little inn and Nar- 
bonne at large seemed to me to have the infirmities 
of the south, without its usual graces. Narrow, noisy, 
shabby, belittered and encumbered, filled with clatter 
and chatter, the Hotel de France would have been 
described in perfection by Alphonse Daudet. For what 
struck. me above all in it was the note of the Midi, 
as he has represented it, the sound of universal talk. 
The landlord sat at supper with sundry friends, in a 
kind of glass cage, with a genial indifference to arriv 
ing guests; the waiters tumbled over the loose luggage 
in the hall; the travellers who had been turned away 
leaned gloomily against door-posts; and the landlady, 
surrounded by confusion, unconscious of responsibility, 
and animated only by the spirit of conversation, bandied 
high-voiced compliments with the voyageurs de com 
merce. At ten o clock in the morning there was a 
table d hote for breakfast, a wonderful repast, which 
overflowed into every room and pervaded the whole 
establishment. I sat down with a hundred hungry 
marketers, fat, brown, greasy men, with a good deal of 
the rich soil of Languedoc adhering to their hands 
and their boots. I mention the latter articles because 
they almost put them on the table. It was very hot, 
and there were swarms of flies; the viands had the 
strongest odor; there was in particular a horrible mix 
ture known as gr as-double, a light gray, glutinous, 
nauseating mess, which my companions devoured in 
large quantities. A man opposite to me had the dir 
tiest fingers I ever saw; a collection of fingers which 
in England would have excluded him from a farmers 
ordinary. The conversation was mainly bucolic; though 
a part of it, I remember, at the table at which I sat, 
consisted of a discussion as to whether or no the maid 
servant were sage, a discussion which went on under 
the nose of this young lady, as she carried about the 
dreadful gr as- double, and to which she contributed 
the most convincing blushes. It was thoroughly meri 
dional. 
In going to Narbonne I had of course counted upon 
Roman remains; but when I went forth in search of 
them I perceived that I had hoped too fondly. There 
is really nothing in the place to speak of; that is, on 
the day of my visit there was nothing but the market, 
which was in complete possession. "This intricate, 
curious, but lifeless town," Murray calls it; yet- to me 
it appeared overflowing with life. Its streets are mere 
crooked, dirty lanes, bordered with perfectly insignifi 
cant houses; but they were filled with the same clatter 
and chatter that I had found at the hotel. The market 
was held partly in the little square of the hotel de 
ville, a structure which a flattering wood-cut in the 
Guide- Joanne had given me a desire to behold. The 
reality was not impressive, the old color of the front 
having been completely restored away. Such interest 
as it superficially possesses it derives from a fine 
mediaeval tower which rises beside it, with turrets at 
the angles, always a picturesque thing. The rest of 
the market was held in another place, still shabbier 
than the first, which lies beyond the canal. The Canal 
du Midi flows through the town, and, spanned at this 
point by a small suspension-bridge, presented a cer 
tain sketchability. On the further side were the venders 
and chafferers, old women under awnings and big um 
brellas, rickety tables piled high with fruit, white caps 
and brown faces, blouses, sabots, donkeys. Beneath 
this picture was another, a long row of washerwomen, 
on their knees on the edge of the canal, pounding 
and wringing the dirty linen of Narbonne, no great 
quantity, to judge by the costume of the people. In 
numerable rusty men, scattered all over the place, 
were buying and selling wine, straddling about in 
pairs, in groups, with their hands in their pockets, and 
packed together at the doors of the cafes. They were 
mostly fat and brown and unshaven; they ground their 
teeth as they talked; they were very meridionaux. 
The only two lions at Narbonne are the cathedral 
and the museum, the latter of which is quartered in 
the hotel de ville. The cathedral, closely shut in by 
houses, and with the west front undergoing repairs, is 
singular in two respects. It consists exclusively of a. 
choir, which is of the end of the thirteenth century 
and the beginning of the next, and of great magnifi 
cence. There is absolutely nothing else. This choir, 
of extraordinary elevation, forms the whole church. I 
sat there a good while; there was no other visitor. I 
had taken a great dislike to poor little Narbonne, 
which struck me as sordid and overheated, and this 
place seemed to extend to me, as in the Middle Ages, 
the privilege of sanctuary. It is a very solemn corner. 
The other peculiarity of the cathedral is that, exter 
nally, it bristles with battlements, having anciently 
formed part of the defences of the archeveche, which 
is beside it and which connects it with the hotel de 
ville. This combination of the church and the for 
tress is very curious, and during the Middle Ages was 
not without its value. The palace of the former arch 
bishops of Narbonne (the hotel de ville of to-day 
forms part of it) was both an asylum and an arsenal 
during the hideous wars by which the Languedoc was 
ravaged in the thirteenth century. The whole mass 
of buildings is jammed together in a manner that 
from certain points of view makes it far from apparent 
which feature is which. The museum occupies several 
chambers at the top of the hotel de ville, and is not 
an imposing collection. It was closed, but I induced 
the portress to let me in, a silent, cadaverous person, 
in a black coif, like a btguine, who sat knitting in one 
of the windows while I went the rounds. The number 
of Roman fragments is small, and their quality is not 
  
the finest; I must add that this impression was hastily 
gathered. There is indeed a work of art in one of 
the rooms which creates a presumption in favor of the 
place, the portrait (rather a good one) of a citizen 
of Narbonne, whose name I forget, who is described 
as having devoted all his time and his intelligence to 
collecting the objects by which the visitor is sur 
rounded. This excellent man was a connoisseur, and 
the visitor is doubtless often an ignoramus. 
XXV. 
Cette, with its glistening houses white, 
Curves with the curving beach away 
To where the lighthouse beacons bright, 
Far in the bay." 
THAT stanza of Matthew Arnold s, which I hap 
pened to remember, gave a certain importance to the 
half-hour I spent in the buffet of the station at Cette 
while I waited for the train to Montpellier. I had left 
Narbonne in the afternoon, and by the time I reached 
Cette the darkness had descended. I therefore missed 
the sight of the glistening houses, and had to console 
myself with that of the beacon in the bay, as well as 
with a bouillon of which I partook at the buffet afore 
said; for, since the morning, I had not ventured to 
return to the table d hote at Narbonne. The Hotel 
Nevet, at Montpellier, which I reached an hour later, 
has an ancient renown all over the south of France, 
advertises itself, I believe, as h plus vaste du midi. It 
 
seemed to me the model of a good provincial inn; a 
big rambling, creaking establishment, with brown, 
labyrinthine corridors, a queer old open-air vestibule, 
into which the diligence, in the bon temps, used to 
penetrate, and an hospitality more expressive than 
that of the new caravansaries. It dates from the days 
when Montpellier was still accounted a fine winter re 
sidence for people with weak lungs; and this rather 
melancholy tradition, together with the former celebrity 
of the school of medicine still existing there, but from 
which the glory has departed, helps to account for its 
combination of high antiquity and vast proportions. 
The old hotels were usually more concentrated; but 
the school of medicine passed for one of the attrac 
tions of Montpellier. Long before Mentone was dis 
covered or Colorado invented, British invalids travelled 
down through France in the post-chaise or the public 
coach to spend their winters in the wonderful place 
which boasted both a climate and a faculty. The air 
is mild, no doubt, but there are refinements of mild 
ness which were not then suspected, and which in a 
more analytic age have carried the annual wave far 
beyond Montpellier. The place is charming, all the 
same; and it served the purpose of John Locke; who 
made a long stay there, between 1675 and 1679, and 
became acquainted with a noble fellow-visitor, Lord 
Pembroke, to whom he dedicated the famous Essay. 
There are places that please, without your being able 
to say wherefore, and Montpellier is one of the num 
ber. It has some charming views, from the great pro- 
  
menade of the Peyrou; but its position is not strikingly 
fair. Beyond this it contains a good museum and the 
long facades of its school, but these are its only de 
finite treasures. Its cathedral struck me as quite the 
weakest I had seen, and I remember no other monu 
ment that made up for it. The place has neither the 
gayety of a modern nor the solemnity of an ancient 
town, and it is agreeable as certain women are agree 
able who are neither beautiful nor clever. An Italian 
would remark that it is sympathetic; a German would 
admit that it is gemuthlich. I spent two days there, 
mostly in the rain, and even under these circum 
stances I carried, away a kindly impression. I think 
the Hotel Nevet had something to do with it, and the 
sentiment of relief with which, in a quiet, even a 
luxurious, room that looked out on a garden, I reflected 
that I had washed my hands of Narbonne. The phyl 
loxera has destroyed the vines in the country that sur 
rounds Montpellier, and at that moment I was capable 
of rejoicing in the thought that I should not breakfast 
with vintners. 
The gem of the place is the Musee Fabre, one of 
the best collections of paintings in a provincial city. 
Francois Fabre, a native of Montpellier, died there in 
1837, after having spent a considerable part of his 
life in Italy, where he had collected a good many 
valuable pictures and some very poor ones, the latter 
class including several from his own hand. He was 
the hero of a remarkable episode, having succeeded 
no less a person than Vittorio Alfieri in the affections 
of no less a person than Louise de Stolberg, Countess 
of Albany, widow of no less a person than Charles 
Edward Stuart, the second pretender to the British 
crown. Surely no woman ever was associated senti 
mentally with three figures more diverse, a disqualified 
sovereign, an Italian dramatist, and a bad French 
painter. The productions of M. Fabre, who followed 
in the steps of David, bear the stamp of a cold me 
diocrity; there is not much to be said even for the 
portrait of the genial countess (her life has been written 
by M. Saint-Rene-Taillandier, who depicts her as de 
lightful), which hangs in Florence, in the gallery of 
the Uffizzi, and makes a pendant to a likeness of 
Alfieri by the same author. Stendhal, in his "Me- 
moires d un Touriste," says that this work of art 
represents her as a cook who has pretty hands. I am 
delighted to have an opportunity of quoting Stendhal, 
whose two volumes of the "Memoires d un Touriste" 
every traveller in France should carry in his port 
manteau. I have had this opportunity more than once, 
for I have met him at Tours, at Nantes, at Bourges; 
and everywhere he is suggestive. But he has the de 
fect that he is never pictorial, that he never by any 
chance makes an image, and that his style is per 
versely colorless, for a man so fond of contemplation. 
His taste is often singularly false; it is the taste of the 
early years of the present century, the period that 
produced clocks surmounted with sentimental "sub 
jects." Stendhal does not admire these clocks, but 
he almost does. He admires Domenichino and Guer.- 
clno, and prizes the Bolognese school of painters be 
cause they " spoke to the soul." He is a votary of the 
new classic, is fond of tall, square, regular buildings, 
and thinks Nantes, for instance, full of the " air noble." 
It was a pleasure to me to reflect that five-and-forty 
years ago he had alighted in that city, at the very inn 
in which I spent a night, and which looks down on 
the Place Graslin and the theatre. The hotel that was 
the best in 1837 appears to be the best to-day. On 
the subject of Touraine, Stendhal is extremely refresh 
ing; he finds the scenery meagre and much overrated, 
and proclaims his opinion with perfect frankness. He 
does, however, scant justice to the banks of the Loire; 
his want of appreciation of the picturesque want of 
the sketcher 's sense causes him to miss half the 
charm of a landscape which is nothing if not "quiet," 
as a painter would say, and of which the felicities 
reveal themselves only to waiting eyes. He even 
despises the Indre, the river of Madame Sand. The 
"Memoires d un Touriste" are written in the character 
of a commercial traveller, and the author has nothing 
to say about Chenonceaux or Chambord, or indeed 
about any of the chateaux of that part of France; his 
system being to talk only of the large towns, where he 
may be supposed to find a market for his goods. It 
was his ambition to pass for an ironmonger. But in 
the large towns he is usually excellent company, though 
as discursive as Sterne, and strangely indifferent, for a 
man of imagination, to those superficial aspects of 
things which the poor pages now before the reader are 
mainly an attempt to render. It is his conviction that 
Alfieri, at Florence, bored the Countess of Albany ter 
ribly; and he adds that the famous Gallophobe died 
of jealousy of the little painter from Montpellier. The 
Countess of Albany left her property to Fabre; and I 
suppose some of the pieces in the museum of his 
native town used to hang in the sunny saloons of that 
fine old palace on the Arno which is still pointed out 
to the stranger in Florence as the residence of Alfieri. 
The institution has had other benefactors, notably 
a certain M. Bruyas, who has enriched it with an extra 
ordinary number of portraits of himself. As these, 
however, are by different hands, some of them distinguished, we may suppose that it was less the model 
than the artists to whom M. Bruyas wished to give 
publicity. Easily first are two large specimens of 
David Teniers, which are incomparable for brilliancy 
and a glowing perfection of execution. I have a weak 
ness for this singular genius, who combined the delicate 
with the grovelling, and I have rarely seen richer 
examples. Scarcely less valuable is a Gerard Dow 
which hangs near them, though it must rank lower as 
having kept less of its freshness. This Gerard Dow 
did me good; for a master is a master, whatever he 
may paint. It represents a woman paring carrots, 
while a boy before her exhibits a mouse-trap in which 
he has caught a frightened victim. The good-wife has 
spread a cloth on the top of a big barrel which serves 
her as a table, and on this brown, greasy napkin, of 
which the texture is wonderfully rendered, lie the raw 
  
vegetables she is preparing for domestic consumption. 
Beside the barrel is a large caldron lined with copper, 
with a rim of brass. The way these things are painted 
brings tears to the eyes; but they give the measure of 
the Musee Fabre, where two specimens of Teniers and 
a Gerard Dow are the jewels. The Italian pictures are 
of small value; but there is a work by Sir Joshua Rey 
nolds, said to be the only one in France, an infant 
Samuel in prayer, apparently a repetition of the pic 
ture in England which inspired the little plaster im 
age, disseminated in Protestant lands, that we used to 
admire in our childhood. Sir Joshua, somehow, was 
an eminently Protestant painter; no one can forget 
that, who in the National Gallery in London has looked 
at the picture in which he represents several young 
ladies as nymphs, voluminously draped, hanging gar 
lands over a statue, a picture suffused indefinably 
with the Anglican spirit, and exasperating to a mem 
ber of one of the Latin races. It is an odd chance, 
therefore, that has led him into that part of France 
where Protestants have been least bien vus. This is the 
country of the dragonnades of Louis XTV. and of the 
pastors of the desert. From the garden of the Peyrou, 
at Montpellier, you may see the hills of the Cevennes, 
to which they of the religion fled for safety, and out 
of which they were hunted and harried. 
I have only to add, in regard to the Musee Fabre, 
that it contains the portrait of its founder, a little, 
pursy, fat-faced, elderly man, whose countenance contains few indications of the power that makes distinguished victims. He is, however, just such a personage 
as the mind 's eye sees walking on the terrace of the 
Peyrou of an October afternoon in the early years of 
the century; a plump figure in a chocolate-colored coat 
and a culotte that exhibits a good leg, a culotte pro 
vided with a watch-fob from which a heavy seal is 
suspended. This Peyrou (to come to it at last) is a 
wonderful place, especially to be found in a little pro 
vincial city. France is certainly the country of towns 
that aim at completeness; more than in other lands, 
they contain stately features as a matter of course. We 
should never have ceased to hear about the Peyrou, if 
fortune had placed it at a Shrewsbury or a Buffalo. It 
is true that the place enjoys a certain celebrity at 
home, which it amply deserves, moreover; for nothing 
could be more impressive and monumental. It consists 
of an "elevated platform," as Murray says, an im 
mense terrace, laid out, in the highest part of the town, 
as a garden, and commanding in all directions a view 
which in clear weather must be of the finest. I strolled 
there in the intervals of showers, and saw only the 
nearer beauties, a great pompous arch of triumph in 
honor of Louis XIV. (which is not, properly speaking, 
in the garden, but faces it, straddling across the place 
by which you approach it from the town), an equestrian 
statue of that monarch set aloft in the middle of the 
terrace, and a very exalted and complicated fountain, 
which forms a background to the picture. This foun 
tain gushes from a kind of hydraulic temple, or cha 
teau d eau, to which you ascend by broad flights of 
  
steps, and which is fed by a splendid aqueduct, 
stretched in the most ornamental and unexpected 
manner across the neighboring valley. All this work 
dates from the middle of the last century. The com 
bination of features the triumphal arch, or gate; the 
wide, fair terrace, with its beautiful view; the statue 
of the grand monarch; the big architectural fountain, 
which would not surprise one at Rome, but does sur 
prise one at Montpellier; and to complete the effect, 
the extraordinary aqueduct, charmingly fore-shortened, 
all this is worthy of a capital, of a little court-city. 
The whole place, with its repeated steps, its balus 
trades, its massive and plentiful stone-work, is full of 
the air of the last century, sent lien son dix-huittime 
stick; none the less so, I am afraid, that, as I read in 
my faithful Murray, after the revocation of the Edict 
of Nantes, the block, the stake, the wheel, had been 
erected here for the benefit of the desperate Camisards. 
XXVI. 
IT was a pleasure to feel one 's self in Provence 
again, the land where the silver-gray earth is im 
pregnated with the light of the sky. To celebrate 
the event, as soon as I arrived at Nimes I engaged 
a caleche to convey me to the Pont du Gard. The 
day was yet young, and it was perfectly fair; it ap 
peared well, for a longish drive, to take advantage, 
without delay, of such security. After I had left the 
town I became more intimate with that Provencal 
charm which I had already enjoyed from the window 
of the train, and which glowed in the sweet sunshine 
and the white rocks, and lurked in the smoke-puffs 
of the little olives. The olive-trees in Provence are 
half the landscape. They are neither so tall, so stout, 
nor so richly contorted as I have seen them beyond 
the Alps; but this mild colorless bloom seems the 
very texture of the country. The road from Nimes, 
for a distance of fifteen miles, is superb; broad enough 
for an army, and as white and firm as a dinner-table. 
It stretches away over undulations which suggest a 
kind of harmony; and in the curves it makes through 
the wide, free country, where there is never a hedge 
or a wall, and the detail is always exquisite, there is 
something majestic, almost processional. Some twenty 
minutes before I reached the little inn that marks the 
termination of the drive, my vehicle met with an ac 
cident which just missed being serious, and which 
engaged the attention of a gentleman, who, followed 
by his groom and mounted on a strikingly ha*ndsome 
horse happened to ride up at the moment. This young 
man, who, with his good looks and charming manner, 
might have stepped out of a novel of Octave Feuillet, 
gave me some very intelligent advice in reference to 
one of my horses that had been injured , and was so 
good as to accompany me to the inn, with the re 
sources of which he was acquainted, to see that his 
recommendations were carried out. The result of our 
interview was that he invited me to come and look at 
  
a small but ancient chateau in the neighborhood, 
which he had the happiness not the greatest in the 
world, he intimated to inhabit, and at which I en 
gaged to present myself after I should have spent an 
hour at the Pont du Gard. For the moment, when 
we separated, I gave all my attention to that great 
structure. You are very near it before you see it; the 
ravine it spans suddenly opens and exhibits the 
picture. The scene at this point grows extremely 
beautiful, The ravine is the valley of the Gardon, 
which the road from Nlmes has followed some time 
without taking account of it, but which, exactly at the 
right distance from the aqueduct, deepens and ex 
pands, and puts on those characteristics which are best 
suited to give it effect. The gorge becomes romantic, 
still, and solitary, and, with its white rocks and wild 
shrubbery, hangs over the clear, colored river, in whose 
slow course there is here and there a deeper pool. 
Over the valley, from side to side, and ever so high 
in the air, stretch the three tiers of the tremendous 
bridge. They are unspeakably imposing, and nothing 
could well be more Roman. The hugeness, the soli 
dity, the unexpectedness, the monumental rectitude of 
the whole thing leave you nothing to say at the time 
and make you stand gazing. You simply feel that 
it is noble and perfect, that it has the quality of 
greatness. A road, branching from the highway, de 
scends to the level of the river and passes under one 
of the arches. This road has a wide margin of grass 
and loose stones, which slopes upward into the bank 
of the ravine. You may sit here as long as you please, 
staring up at the light, strong piers; the spot is ex 
tremely natural, though two or three stone benches 
have been erected on it. I remained there an hour 
and got a complete impression; the place was per 
fectly soundless, and for the time, at least, lonely; 
the splendid afternoon had begun to fade, and there 
was a fascination in the object I had come to see. It 
came to pass that at the same time I discovered in it 
a certain stupidity, a vague brutality. That element 
is rarely absent from great Roman work, which is 
wanting in the nice adaptation of the means to the 
end. The means are always exaggerated; the end is 
so much more than attained. The Roman rigidity 
was apt to overshoot the mark, and I suppose a race 
which could do nothing small is as defective as a race 
that can do nothing great. Of this Roman rigidity 
the Pont du Card is an admirable example. It would 
be a great injustice, however, not to insist upon its 
beauty, a kind of manly beauty, that of an object 
constructed not to please but to serve, and impressive 
simply from the scale on which it carries out this 
intention. The number of arches in each tier is dif 
ferent; they are smaller and more numerous as they 
ascend. The preservation of the thing is extra 
ordinary; nothing has crumbled or collapsed; every 
feature remains; and the huge blocks of stone, of a 
brownish-yellow (as if they had been baked by the 
Proven gal sun for eighteen centuries), pile themselves, 
without mortar or cement, as evenly as the day they 
were laid together. All this to carry the water of a 
couple of springs to a little provincial city! The con 
duit on the top has retained its shape and traces of 
the cement with which it was lined. When the vague 
twilight began to gather, the lonely valley seemed to 
fill itself with the shadow of the Roman name, as if 
the mighty empire were still as erect as the supports 
of the aqueduct; and it was open to a solitary tourist, 
sitting there sentimental, to believe that no people has 
ever been, or will ever be, as great as that, measured, 
as we measure the greatness of an individual, by the 
push they gave to what they undertook. The Pont du 
Gard is one of the three or four deepest impressions 
they have left; it speaks of them in a manner with 
which they might have been satisfied. 
I feel as if it were scarcely discreet to indicate the 
whereabouts of the chateau of the obliging young 
man I had met on the way from Nimes; I must con 
tent myself with saying that it nestled in an en 
chanting valley, dans le fond, as they say in France, 
and that I took my course thither on foot, after 
leaving the Pont du Gard. I find it noted in my 
journal as "an adorable little corner." The principal 
