The ruffians looked at the heavy tiller in the hand of Paul, and then
they looked at the long arms of the skipper. While they were gazing
there was a halt all along the line, which afforded an opportunity for
reflection. Some of them cast their eyes about them for something in the
shape of a weapon. The spare tiller seemed to be the only stick that
would answer the purpose of a club, except the crutch used to support
the boom when the sail was furled, and that was under the owner's seat.
Both Mad and Buck seemed to realize that they could do nothing without
bringing that tiller down upon their heads, and its descent was almost
sure to reduce them to the condition of Jeff Monroe, who was just
beginning to show some signs of life. While they were thinking about it,
the skipper came about, and headed the sloop towards the shore. When he
had done so, he picked up the crutch, and placed it on the seat, by his
side.
The Silver Moon was now headed in the direction of Sandy Point. The
Beech Hill barges were some distance astern of her, and the
Chesterfields at least a quarter of a mile farther to the westward.
"I don't think it is quite safe, Paul, to leave these fellows lying
round loose in the standing-room," said Bissell, when he had the boat
well in hand on the new tack. At the same time he drew out from the
locker under him the ropes from which he had selected the reef pendant.
"What do you mean by that?" demanded Mad Twinker, before Paul had time
to reply.
"I mean that I shall be under the disagreeable necessity of tying your
arms behind you, just as you had Paul when you brought him on board,"
replied Bissell; but his tone and manner did not indicate that the duty
was a very unpleasant one.
"But we won't stand it!" replied Mad angrily.
"Won't you?" continued Bissell, as he took the crutch in his hand.
"I protest against such an outrage!" exclaimed Ham Jackson.
"Oh, you protest, do you? And you really think it would be an outrage?"
said Bissell, in a mocking tone.
"We are students in the Chesterfield Collegiate Institute, and we are
the sons of gentlemen," returned Ham, with dignity. "Of course, it would
be an outrage to put us in bonds, like common felons."
"Precisely so; then we will tie your hands behind you like uncommon
felons. We won't quarrel about words, for you can beat me every time in
that line. I suppose it was not an outrage for you to attack Paul
Bristol, six to one, in the street, and tie his hands behind him,"
replied the skipper, with a very heavy sneer. "He don't happen to belong
to the Institute, but he is a member of the Beech Hill School."
"We don't care what he is," interposed Mad Twinker. "We won't submit to
be bound! We won't stand such an indignity!"
"You think you won't? I don't believe I shall have much trouble in tying
the hands behind him of that fellow on the floor," continues Bissell.
"It is for you to decide whether you will have your hands tied before or
after you are knocked stiff. I will begin with you, Mr. Twinker."
"No, you won't!" cried Mad, as he sprang from his seat, and rushed madly
upon the skipper.
Bissell was on his feet, and, reaching out his long arm, he took his
assailant by the throat, in spite of the wild blows he aimed at him.
This time he did not pitch him on the floor, but choked him till the
ruffian began to feel weak, and to relax his struggles.
"You take the tiller, Paul, but don't let go the spare one. If one of
them moves aft, knock him as you did the first fellow," said Bissell, as
he picked up the reef pendant he had cut off.
Paul took the helm. He had steered a sailboat before, though he knew
next to nothing about the general management of the craft, and kept her
as she was. By this time Mad was decidedly faint, and the owner had no
difficulty in tying his arms behind him. When he had done so, he picked
up the crutch again, and stepped forward. His next victim was Buck Lamb;
but as about all the vim had gone out of the bully, it was an easy job
to secure him. The other four ruffians made no resistance worth
mentioning, for the crutch in the hand of the skipper was an awful
weapon; so was the spare tiller which Paul wielded. If the ruffians
could have got hold of anything in the way of clubs, doubtless they
would have held out longer.
As it was, they were completely vanquished. Bissell had ranged them
three on a side as he bound them, and they had not been inclined to
move. Possibly they thought they were in a bad condition to save
themselves if the Silver Moon had taken it into her head to upset and
spill them into the angry lake.
"We are all right now, Paul. Don't you say so?" said the skipper, as he
seated himself on the weather side and took the helm.
"I should say that we were," replied the late prisoner heartily. "You
have saved me, Mr. Bissell, from an awful pounding at the hands of Major
Billcord and his son; and I owe you a thousand thanks. I shall never
forget what you have done for me to-day."
"I think I got saved myself this forenoon," added the skipper; "and I
guess I know how it feels. I think we should all have been drowned in
the Silver Moon if it hadn't been for the Beech Hillers; and I don't
feel as though I could ever do half enough for them. We are not square
yet, Paul, and you did your share."
"I didn't do much; it was Dory Dornwood who did it all," answered Paul
modestly.
"It cut me like a sharp razor to give in to a mere boy on sailing, but
Dory knows more about a boat with his eyes shut than I do with mine wide
open. He didn't put on any airs, either," continued Bissell, with
enthusiasm.
"By the big wooden spoon, there comes the Sylph!" exclaimed Paul, as the
steam yacht came out from behind Barber's Point. "Captain Gildrock is on
board of her, and you may be sure he will put things to rights in double
quick time."
"All right; I am glad he is coming, for I don't know what to do with
these fellows, now that we have them where they can't set the lake on
fire," added the skipper, as he glanced at the Sylph. "We will keep on
as we are, for I suppose she is going over to Beaver River."
"I think you have carried this thing about far enough, Mr. Bissell,"
said Mad Twinker, after he had taken a glance at the steam yacht.
"Not quite, Mr. Twinker," replied the skipper, with a smile. "I shall
carry it about as far as that steam yacht, and then I don't care a
button what becomes of it."
"You mean by that to hand us over to the principal of the Beech Hill
School?" inquired Ham Jackson.
"I reckon it amounts to that."
"If you settle the thing that way, you will have to answer to Colonel
Buckmill," added Mad Twinker.
"I am ready to answer to him. Do you think the principal of the
Chesterfield school will justify you in committing such an outrage as
you have put on Paul Bristol?" demanded Bissell indignantly.
"Then why don't you hand us over to Colonel Buckmill?"
"So I would if he happened along here at about this time. Perhaps the
other principal will pass you over to Colonel Buckmill," suggested the
skipper, with a sort of chuckle, as though he had his doubts on the
subject. "Six of you set upon Paul in the most cowardly manner, and--"
"Only two at a time," interposed Buck Lamb.
"How was it, Paul?" asked Bissell.
The intended victim of the ruffians told his story in full, not omitting
to mention the punishment he had bestowed upon his assailants. Bissell
expressed himself very emphatically in regard to the cowardly character
of the assault, and was glad Paul had defended himself till he was
overpowered by numbers. The faces of some of the ruffians bore the marks
of his hard fists, and they were probably booked for mourning eyes by
the next day.
By this time the Silver Moon was off Sandy Point. Paul had watched with
interest the movements of the Sylph. When first seen she was headed for
Scotch Bonnet, which was her direct course when homeward bound; but she
soon shifted her helm, as though she was going up to Westport.
"She is going to make a landing at the town," said Paul, when he noticed
the change of course.
"I am sorry for that, for I thought she was coming over this way,"
replied Bissell.
"Captain Gildrock must see all the barges, and I am sure he will run
over here as soon as he makes them out," added Paul.
The words were hardly out of his mouth before the head of the steamer
was turned in the direction of the Beech Hill barges, which were not
half a mile astern of the Silver Moon. The skipper decided to come
about, and stand back to the fleet. Before he could reach the boats, the
Sylph had stopped her screw, and was hailing the Gildrock. Oscar Chester
informed him that Paul Bristol had been taken a prisoner by six of the
Chesterfields, and that the skipper of the sloop was conveying him to
Sandy Point. This was all the commodore knew about the matter, but it
was enough for the captain. He started the screw again, and in a few
moments he had overhauled the Silver Moon.
From the pilot-house the principal could see the condition of things in
the standing-room of the sloop. Again Captain Gildrock rang one bell,
and then two. As the steamer lost her headway the Silver Moon rounded to
under her lee side, where she had still water.
CHAPTER XXII.
AN INVITATION TO SANDY POINT.
"I should like to hand these fellows over to you, Captain Gildrock,"
said Bissell, hailing the principal. "We have tied their hands behind
them, and they won't set the lake on fire just yet."
"I should like to know something more about the case. Will you send
Bristol on board to report to me?" replied Captain Gildrock. "Mr.
Wolfenden, of Westport, is on board, and will join you in the boat."
"Wolfenden! Why, he is the deputy sheriff!" exclaimed Bissell. "I guess
he is the very man we want."
"Mr. Bulfington is also on board," added the principal.
"Perhaps both of us had better go on board of the Silver Moon," said Mr.
Wolfenden, for both he and Bulfington, who was a constable, were in the
pilot-house.
"I should like to have one of you remain and hear the statement of
Bristol, upon whom this outrage has been perpetrated," added Captain
Gildrock. "As Bulfington is the constable, perhaps he had better
remain."
The deputy sheriff was satisfied to let it be so, and he went on board
of the sloop. The two officers had been down to Port Henry on official
business, and, manifesting quite an interest in the Sylph, the principal
had invited them to take passage to Westport in her. As the officer went
on board of the sloop, Paul left her, and hastened to the pilot-house.
"Well, Bristol, it seems that you did not see the last of the trouble at
Sandy Point yesterday," said the principal, bestowing a look of kindness
and sympathy upon the new pupil. "Your face looks as though you had had
a hard time of it to-day."
"The toughest time I have had yet, but not so tough as it would have
been if Mr. Bissell had not stood by me, and got me out of the scrape.
We did him a good turn this forenoon, and he did not forget it," replied
Paul.
"I am glad to see you, Paul," added Mr. Bulfington, taking him by the
hand. "It is about time the pranks of those students should come to an
end; and I think the people of Westport have had about enough of them."
"What service did you render to Mr. Bissell?" asked Captain Gildrock.
"It is rather a long story, sir;" but Paul proceeded to relate it in
full, and he soon found that both of his auditors were deeply interested
in it.
"My daughter was one of the six girls," said Mr. Bulfington, when the
spare hand had finished his narrative. "I am sure I owe the boys a debt
of gratitude which I shall never expect to discharge."
Paul then gave the particulars of the assault upon him very minutely,
and described the events which had followed his capture up to the
present moment.
"It would have gone terribly hard with you, Paul, if Major Billcord had
got you over to the point, for there is no more reason or mercy in him
than there is in a fighting bulldog," added the constable. "He has got
money enough to pay all damages, and he would not mind a thousand or two
if he got his revenge in full."
"These boys must have been employed to capture Bristol," said the
principal, whose face was flashed with indignation. "Mrs. Bristol this
morning gave her son into my charge, and he shall not be abused while he
is in my care."
"What do you intend to do about it, Captain Gildrock?" asked Mr.
Bulfington.
"I shall prosecute the ruffians first; and if I can prove that Major
Billcord employed them to assault my pupil, I will prosecute him,"
replied the captain.
The principal went to the side and had a brief talk with Bissell. It was
arranged that the skipper should convey the boys to Westport, the
constable going with him. Mr. Wolfenden returned to the steamer, and
instructed the captain in the proper method of procedure in the court.
Bissell lost no time in getting under way. The ruffians were utterly
crestfallen when they understood that they were to be prosecuted for the
outrage upon Paul. Very likely Colonel Buckmill and the magnate would
choose to regard it as a mere lark, a little wildness, on the part of
the students, which ought to be passed over without any appeal to the
courts.
Before this time the Beech Hill barges had come to the side of the
Sylph. The Chesterfield barges had given the steamer a wide berth. They
were close up to the shore, and were pulling in the direction of Sandy
Point. Major Billcord could not help seeing his minions on board of the
sailboat, and to suspect that they had come to grief; but he could not
prevail on the coxswains to go near any of the craft from the other side
of the lake.
Paul remained on board of the Sylph, for his evidence was needed in
Westport in getting out the warrant for the arrest of the ruffians. The
principal gave no orders of any kind to the commodore of the fleet, and
he was left to do as he pleased. The students were consulted in regard
to their wishes. Dory had gone on board of the Silver Moon as soon as
the Marian came alongside of the steamer, and had obtained from Bissell
all the details of the capture of Paul, and the subsequent events.
The Sylph stood over to the town, and the three boats locked together
for a conference. The first thing was to hear Dory's account of Paul's
adventures. Then they decided to wait until the Sylph started for home,
for they were filled with curiosity to know what might be done with the
ruffians.
Just then they discovered that the Chesterfield barges were lying on
their oars off the southern arm of Sandy Point. They had some curiosity,
and doubtless were more interested than their rivals. All the boats
retained their positions for over an hour, when the Sylph was seen to
leave the wharf. In a few minutes more she had crossed the bay, and
stopped her screw near the Marian. The eight-oar barge was ordered to
come alongside the steamer, and Paul was taken on board.
Of course they could not separate until the students had heard the news
from Westport. In a few words the spare hand informed them that a
warrant had been issued on the testimony of Paul and Bissell, and the
six ruffians had been committed to the lockup. They were to be examined
the next day, and the witnesses were duly summoned. In the presence of
the magistrate Buck Lamb had broken down, and he declared that they had
been employed by Major Billcord to capture Paul for the sum of
twenty-five dollars. Two of the others indorsed this statement, and the
principal had procured a warrant for his arrest, which was now in the
hands of the constable. Captain Gildrock had procured the services of
the best lawyer in the county of Essex to look after the business for
him.
The news from Westport was very satisfactory, and the question seemed
to be whether or not a man who had money enough to pay the bills could
outrage a poor boy with impunity. Captain Gildrock's blood boiled,
though it did not bubble, or otherwise manifest its condition.
The commodore gave the order for a start, and in a short time the barges
came up with the Chesterfields, though they were a quarter of a mile
farther out in the lake. The Sylph was hardly moving through the water,
the principal doubtless holding her back to see that no trouble arose
between the two schools. He took the precaution to run the steam yacht
between the two parties, and soon found himself within hailing distance
of the Dasher, with Major Billcord in the stern-sheets.
The two gentlemen were somewhat acquainted, and had occasionally met on
the lake and at the bank in Burlington. As the Sylph went lazily along,
the captain discovered a white handkerchief hoisted on a stick, and saw
that the Dasher was pulling towards the steamer. He rang his bell to
stop her, and she awaited the pleasure of the barge.
"Captain Gildrock, you and I have always been good neighbors, though we
don't live on the same side of the lake," said Major Billcord, standing
up in the stern-sheets of the barge. "I feel it my duty to give you a
friendly warning. I learn that a young scoundrel by the name of Paul
Bristol, whose family I have charitably harbored on my land without the
payment of rent, came over to Westport to-day with the students of your
school. He is a young villain, and I warn you not to trust him."
"I had come to the conclusion that he was a very good boy," replied the
captain.
"You are utterly mistaken, sir!" protested the major. "He assaulted both
my son and myself, for which I intend to punish him in the severest
manner. His mother and sister live on the point here, in a cottage owned
by the woman; and the boy lived here before he went to Genverres, if he
has gone over there. I warned the woman to move her house at once. She
has not done it, and I shall tumble the building into the lake. It will
make some sport for our boys, and I thought yours might like to see the
fun, and learn a good lesson in the administration of human justice. I
should be happy to have your steamer and your barges take position near
the point, where you can see the proceedings."
Captain Gildrock made no reply, and the Dasher pulled away without
waiting for any. The two Chesterfield barges ran their bows into the
sand in front of where the cottage had stood, and the Sylph, after
whistling for the Beech Hill barges to approach, followed the Dasher.
The barges from the other side pulled to the entrance of the bay, and
lay upon their oars.
"Now is the time for the fun to begin, and we are invited to see it,"
said Dick Short to Paul, who sat by his side.
"I think there will be some fun, though it will not be what Major
Billcord and his crowd came to see," added Dory.
On board of the Dasher, Jack Woodhorn had risen from his seat, after he
had given the order for the oarsmen to boat their oars. All the students
were busy attending to their blades. Woodhorn was evidently looking for
the cottage; but he did not see it. Then the magnate stood up; then all
the students in the two boats stood up, and then both barges were nearly
upset by this folly, and the coxswains ordered their crews to be seated.
"Did I understand you to say there was a cottage here to be tumbled into
the lake to illustrate the administration of human justice, Major
Billcord?" called Captain Gildrock, who had placed the bow of the Sylph
within a few feet of the stern of the Dasher.
"I don't understand this," replied the magnate. "The cottage was here
yesterday, and it was quite impossible for the woman to move it. Send
the young gentlemen ashore to see if they can find it."
The young gentlemen could not find it. The site where it had stood was
smoothed over as nicely as though the building had never been there. The
major said it was a great mystery.
"No human justice to-day, then?" queried the principal of the Beech Hill
school. "Perhaps divine justice had got ahead of human justice in this
instance, as it sometimes does."
"Do you know anything about it, sir?" demanded the major angrily.
"The cottage was removed to Genverres by the students of the Beech Hill
Industrial School last night," replied the captain.
CHAPTER XXIII.
THE PROCEEDINGS AT SANDY POINT.
It is to be regretted that Major Billcord set a very bad example to the
Chesterfield students by using profane language when the Beech Hill
principal "let the cat out of the bag." At first he was not inclined to
believe the statement, for it seemed incredible to him that any company
of boys should have been able to put the cottage on a boat and convey it
across the lake.
Captain Gildrock was obliged to explain how the work had been done,
before he would accept the solution of the mystery. The principal
offered to take him over to the school grounds and show him the cottage
if he had any doubts on the subject.
"It was a shabby trick on your part, after all," said Major Billcord,
when he had got the explanation through his head. "I don't interfere
with your affairs on the other side of the lake, and I don't know of any
reason why you should meddle with mine."
"As I understand the matter, major, you warned Mrs. Bristol to remove
her cottage within twenty-four hours, or you would tumble it into the
lake," replied the captain. "I simply allowed the students to assist the
good woman in doing what you required her to do."
"You knew very well that this was a case of discipline on this side of
the lake," replied the major, waxing exceedingly wrathy. "My son was
attacked in the most brutal manner by that woman's cub, and she upheld
the young villain, and would not allow him to be punished as he
deserved. Of course, I knew the woman could not remove the cottage, and
it would have been here now if you had not meddled with my business,
like a very bad neighbor."
"I don't care to discuss the assault, as you call it, with you, but I
think the boy and his mother were fully justified in their action,"
replied the principal, in firm but gentle tones.
"You do, do you?" demanded the major. "The young rascal abused my son.
Look at his face," and he pointed at the interesting features of Walk,
who sat in the boat listening to what his father said. "When I
interfered to save my son from serious injury, he flew at me like a
wildcat, and look at my eyes."
"Why didn't you prosecute the boy in the court, and have him properly
punished?" suggested the captain, looking rather sarcastically at the
magnate.
"I don't do business in that way," returned the major, boiling over with
anger. "I shall punish the young rascal myself! I shall do it here at
Sandy Point, where the outrage was committed. I have taken steps to have
him brought here for that purpose."
"Then you expect Paul to be brought here, do you?" asked Captain
Gildrock, astonished at the remarks of the magnate, for he had not a
doubt that he had seen what had transpired while the sailboat was
alongside the Sylph.
"I do expect him here very soon; and I shall tie him up to a tree and
give him such a thrashing that he won't get off his bed for one month
after it!" exclaimed Major Billcord, flourishing a rawhide in the air as
he spoke.
"This strikes me as rather brutal," added the principal.
"Brutal? Look in Walker's face! Look in my face! Were the blows that
made these marks brutal, or were they not? I shall have satisfaction for
them!"
Captain Gildrock was trying to explain to himself how it happened that
the magnate knew nothing of what had taken place alongside the steam
yacht. As he thought the matter over he understood it better. The Sylph
had been between the Silver Moon and the Chesterfield barges, so that
they could not see what took place on the lee side of her.
While Paul was telling his story in the pilot-house, the Chesterfields,
finding the Beech Hill boats gathering around the steamer, had pulled
close up to the shore, and continued on their way to Sandy Point.
Neither Major Billcord nor the students with him had been troubled with
a doubt in regard to the fidelity of Bissell to their interests. Even if
he was faithless, he had the six ruffians with him, and they would be
more than a match for a single man.
However it had happened, it appeared that the magnate and the crews with
him knew nothing at all about the capture of the ruffians. They had
waited off the point till the Beech Hill fleet came up, and they
concluded that the sloop was standing off towards Westport to avoid a
meeting with the "tinkers."
The magnate wished the visitors from the other side to see the
destruction of the cottage, and he had invited them to be spectators of
the expected frolic. He had decided to attend of the cottage first, so
that the Beech Hillers might see the fun, and to administer the
punishment to Paul Bristol after they had gone, for he did not care to
have them witness that spectacle.
"I am afraid you are laboring under a mistake, Major Billcord,"
continued Captain Gildrock. "Did I understand you to say that you
expected Paul here to be punished for his brutality?"
"That is precisely what I do expect; and he will be here in the course
of half an hour. But I need not detain you any longer, sir," replied the
magnate, with very ill grace. "There is no mistake about it, you may
depend upon it."
"If you will pardon me, there is some mistake, for Paul Bristol is here
now," added the captain. "Marian, ahoy! Back down this way," he shouted
to the barges, which were lying at the entrance to Sandy Bay.
The crews were lying on their oars, and Dick Short promptly gave the
order, "Stern all," and the Marian soon put her stern very near the bow
of the steamer.
"Stand up, Bristol, and show yourself," said the captain.
Paul stood up in the stern-sheets of the barge, and Major Billcord
looked at him as though he had been a spectre from some neighboring
graveyard. Then he had a moment's animated conversation with the
coxswain at his side. It was another mystery, and possibly the magnate
thought he was in the middle of the last chapter of a novel. How had it
been possible for him to get out of the clutches of the six ruffians?
But the mystery suddenly paled, and the major threw himself into a
towering passion. The object of his intended vengeance was before him.
Jack Woodhorn, at the request of the magnate, summoned his crews from
the shore. It looked as though the enraged major intended to attempt the
capture of his victim under the very eyes of the Beech Hillers.
"That is Paul Bristol, as you may see for yourself, Major Billcord,"
said Captain Gildrock, when he observed the preparations on the part of
the Chesterfields to do something. "He is now a student in the Beech
Hill Industrial School; and to him, for the time being, I stand in the
relation in loco parentis; I shall protect him to the fullest extent."
"Captain Gildrock, this is unfriendly to me, and--"
"But friendly to the boy and his mother, who need a friend more than
you do," interposed the principal. "The six ruffians you hired to
capture that poor boy have been arrested and committed to the lockup.
Some of them admitted that they were employed by you to do this piece of
villany, and there is a warrant out for your arrest. Doubtless, the
facts will all come out at the examination to-morrow forenoon; and if it
appears that I have done you any wrong, I shall be prepared to make you
abundant reparation."
"A warrant for my arrest!" exclaimed Major Billcord, sinking down into
his seat.
"I have employed the Hon. Richard Lawbrook to look after the case in my
absence, and I hope justice will be done," added the captain as he rang
two bells in the pilot-house.
At the same time the principal made a motion with his hand, in the
direction of home, to the boats ahead of the steamer. The barges backed
into position, and the commodore shouted the order to give way. In a
minute more they were in line, pulling down the lake, but keeping near
the shore.
Major Billcord did not utter a word to anyone. He was in deep thought.
Very likely his impulsive nature had led him to organize the plan for
the capture of Paul without any consideration of the possible
consequences. He was by far the richest man in that region, and owned no
end of shares in all the industrial and commercial enterprises of that
part of the State. He was a man of large influence, and was not
over-scrupulous in regard to the use of it. With such power, he was in
the habit of having his own way, though there were a few people in the
neighborhood who contrived to maintain their own independence, even at
the risk of quarrelling with the magnate.
Among the latter was the Hon. Richard Lawbrook, a prominent lawyer in
the county, who had been made a senator, though without pledges, in part
by the influence of the major. But when the legislator was requested and
pressed to promote by his eloquence a more than questionable enterprise,
his conscience revolted, and he refused his aid. This had produced a
bitter quarrel between himself and the magnate, though all the honest
people believed that the senator was an upright and just man.
Doubtless, the mention of the senator's name had produced a decided
effect upon the mind of the magnate. Mr. Lawbrook was a man of
influence, who believed that the laws should be impartially executed
upon the rich as well as the poor. The prospect ahead was not pleasant.
There was no "pile of fun" to be had at the point that day, and
Commodore Woodhorn backed away from the beach as soon as his crews were
in a condition to do so. Without asking the major any questions, he
conveyed his distinguished passenger over to the town, and landed him at
the steps. The procession was formed to escort him to his elegant
mansion when Mr. Bulfington appeared, and respectfully announced that he
had a warrant for the arrest of the object of the parade. The major was
impatient when the officer presented himself, and told him to call at
his house if he had any business with him.
The constable politely intimated that it was a criminal proceeding, and
that he was under the necessity of taking his prisoner wherever he could
find him. He treated the culprit just as though he had been a poor man,
which was a new experience to the magnate. He was taken to the lockup,
and confined in a cell. With the major behind the bars, Mr. Bulfington
was complaisant enough to do anything he required. A couple of wealthy
friends were sent for, and the major and the six ruffians were bailed
out in the course of an hour.
There had been some earnest talk between Captain Gildrock and Mr.
Lawbrook, for the former wished to know whether justice represented a
substantial idea in the State of New York. The senator was confident
that all men were equal before the law; and as he had more influence
with the constable than any other person had, Mr. Bulfington was
unwilling to assume any special responsibility in regard to his powerful
prisoner.
The Beech Hill fleet went home, and not only the students, but the
families at the mansion and at Hornet Point had enough to talk about for
the rest of the day. The next morning, when all the students except Paul
were at their studies in the school-room, the Sylph, with Mrs. Bristol
and Lily on board with Paul, sailed for Westport.
CHAPTER XXIV.
THE STUDENTS DECIDE "WHAT'S IN A NAME."
Major Billcord had the services of a distinguished lawyer from
Plattsburgh and of another from Elizabethtown to defend himself and the
six ruffians. They almost made a "celebrated case" of it. They got the
trial into the county court, and the six ruffians were sentenced to ten
days confinement in the county prison, and the major himself to thirty
days.
The assault and the conspiracy were too outrageous, in the opinion of
the justice, to be punished with a simple fine. The workingmen and the
farmers had got hold of the case and talked a great deal about it.
Against the advice of the eminent legal gentlemen he employed, Paul
Bristol was prosecuted for the first assault upon Walker Billcord, and
this brought in the testimony of Lily and her mother, which the lawyers
wanted to keep out. This evidence completed the history of the case by
filling in the beginning of the trouble.
Paul was fully justified and acquitted, and the people praised him for
his defence of his sister. Fathers and mothers were interested, for they
looked to the law for the protection of their children. Every effort was
made to save the magnate from the disgrace of being confined in a common
prison, but public sentiment would have been indignant, and he had to
serve out his time.
The farmers and mechanics were inclined to go as far the wrong way in
one direction as the major and his friends were in the other. The
magnate was a "soulless capitalist," a "bloated bondholder," and he
suffered, especially among the mill hands, for this senseless reason.
But the judge was even-handed between the two parties, and the major
learned a lesson which was worth half his fortune to him--that before
the law he was no more than the equal of the poor man.
Four of the six ruffians were taken from the institute by their parents,
who had sent them there to be fitted for college, and they were sure
that their sons had been led away by the influence of Major Billcord,
and by the lack of proper discipline in the school. Three others were
removed for the same reason. The loss of these pupils was a severe blow
to Colonel Buckmill, who had condemned the conduct of the major from
the first.
Though other students were soon obtained to take their places, and even
to increase the number of pupils in the school, the colonel realized
that he was not managing the institution on the right principle. The
magnate had lost much of his influence in the vicinity, and the
principal found that he could afford to be independent of him, for it
would pay better.
On the day of the examination, Captain Gildrock called the students of
Beech Hill together in the school-room in the afternoon, after the
studies had been finished. The model to which he had alluded at the time
of his lecture on shipbuilding was still on the table where it had been
placed on that occasion. The students had examined it with a great deal
of interest. They had read all they could find in the books in the
library on the subject, and studied the three plans on the wall.
They were very impatient, as young men always are, to begin the actual
work of building the boat. It was even more to their taste than erecting
a house, though many of them were now competent to frame a building from
the plans.
The subject of a name for the craft had engaged their attention, and
they had given a great deal of thought to it. They were all ambitious to
name the schooner, and a great variety of names was likely to be
presented. They had all been handed in; and when the principal announced
that the first business was to select one from them, Mr. Bentnick handed
him the envelope which contained them.
"Lily," said the captain, laughing, as he took the first paper from the
enclosure.
All the boys looked very good-natured, though something like
embarrassment appeared upon the faces of not a few of them.
"Lily," continued the captain, reading the second suggestion.
The good-natured looks expanded into smiles.
"Lily," the principal said again, as he drew out the third paper. The
smile became a little more intense.
"Lily," repeated the principal once more, and then he emptied all the
slips of paper from the envelope, and began to sort them over.
Principal, instructors and students were all laughing merrily by this
time. It was evident that the boys were very impressible fellows, and
had been captivated by the beauty of Miss Bristol. Possibly some of
them were disturbed because they found that others had made the same
selection as their own.
"They are not all alike," said Captain Gildrock, when he had finished
sorting the papers. "Only about two thirds of them are 'Lily.' It is
certainly a very pretty name, and there is no flower more pure and
beautiful than the lily. But the name is rather general and indefinite.
We have the tiger lily, the lily of the valley, the pond lily, and other
kinds. What do you say to calling the schooner the Pond Lily?"
"No, sir!" shouted a majority of the students, with one voice.
"The Tiger Lily, then?"
"No, sir," was the emphatic reply.
"Then Lily of the Valley?"
"No, sir!" again voted the majority.
"Perhaps I shall have to ask Miss Millweed for the names of other kinds
of lilies," added the principal, with a very pleasant smile.
"None of them!" exclaimed the crowd, encouraged by the cheerful
expression of the captain.
"None of them?"
"Lily Bristol!" called Luke Bennington. "I put in another name, but that
is what the fellows mean."
"Yes, sir!" cried the majority.
Captain Gildrock improved this opportunity to say something about the
influence of female society, and especially of young ladies. If Beech
Hill were not a school of mechanic arts, he should be in favor of having
as many young ladies as young gentlemen on its roll of pupils. He was in
favor of co-education, whereat Mr. Bentnick shook his head, and seemed
to be uneasy in his seat, though Mr. Darlingby showed a disposition to
clap his hands. The captain was an old-fashioned man, he said, but he
hoped he had modern and progressive ideas. He was not in favor of
"pretty girls."
At this point about half a dozen of the students gave something like a
suppressed groan. The principal paused, the dissentients wished they had
said nothing; but he did not add a word. He seemed to feel that they had
as much right to express themselves in this manner as to applaud, or
express themselves in other ways.
"I don't believe in pretty girls as such," he continued, "because they
monopolize the sole attention of young men, to the exclusion of others
even more worthy who are personally less attractive. But I hardly expect
young gentlemen to adopt my views on this subject before they have
lived to be as old as I am. When you have an opportunity, boys, bestow
some attention upon the 'wallflowers.'"
He had not intended to say so much on this part of the subject, and he
resumed the general topic. Ladies should be treated with the utmost
respect, whether attractive or not, and even if they did not conduct
themselves like ladies. He did not prohibit the students from
associating with the young ladies of Genverres and the neighboring
towns, under proper circumstances, and thought female society was
beneficial to them. But profound respect must be the basis of such
relations. There should be nothing like undue familiarity with them, and
a young lady, even if not more than fifteen, should not be addressed by
her Christian name except by her relatives. It must always be "Miss
Bristol," and not "Lily," or even "Miss Lily."
"Not Miss Lily?" said a puzzled student.
"That is a grade of familiarity between the surname and the given name,
proper enough for persons who are intimate enough to use it, but not
applicable in the present instance. Now, to return to the name of the
schooner, from which the papers withdrew my attention. I am entirely
willing that you should give her a name."
After what the principal had said about pretty girls, most of the
students concluded that any attempt to give the name of one of that
sisterhood to the craft would be vetoed. They were not quite satisfied
to have their wishes disregarded. His last words, however, gave them a
little encouragement. The principal picked up the slips of paper and
counted them, or a portion of them.
"Twenty-three have given in the name of 'Lily,'" said he, taking up
those which indicated some other name. "'Champlain,' 'Lake Bird,' 'Lake
Gem,' 'Saranac,' and the names of most of the lakes and rivers in
Vermont. Among them are 'Addison' (our county), 'Genverres,' either of
which would be a very good, and a very appropriate name. I don't like
the fancy names, such as 'Gem of the Lake,' as well as the more
substantial ones. Now you may vote on the question, and the name among
those I have read which has a majority shall be the one selected."
This announcement brought out some applause. Then the captain said it
would be in order for any student who wished to recommend any particular
name, to say what he pleased on the subject. This permission brought
Luke Bennington to his feet.
"I don't believe there is a craft on the lake now called the
'Champlain.' There has been a large steamer, but she is no longer in
existence," said the speaker, with considerable earnestness. "In my
opinion--and I have seen the lakes of Scotland and Switzerland--Lake
Champlain is the finest lake in the world."
"Oh! Oh! Oh!" murmured several listeners.
"Of course the size of the lake comes into the comparison, or Lake
George might be nothing by the side of a little pond between a couple of
hills. We have the Adirondacks on one side, and the Green Mountains on
the other; and, taking everything into consideration, I vote for Lake
Champlain as the finest. For this reason, and because it is the element
on which the schooner is to figure, I hope its name will be given to
her."
Another student spoke in favor of "Battenkill," but he proved to be the
only one who had ever heard the name. He explained that it was a river
which had its source in Vermont, though it soon wandered into New York.
A third student spoke for "Addison," and a fourth for "Genverres." The
advocates of "Lily" seemed to be conscious of their strength, and all
of them were too bashful to make a speech in its favor.
Mr. Darlingby passed around the box, and all voted. The ballots were
quickly counted by the instructors, who appeared to be quite as much
interested as the boys, and the principal read the result. It was
evident then that a few did not care a straw for the name, and voted for
the fun of it.
"Tiger Lily, 1; Pond Lily, 1; Lake Gem, 1; Genverres, 1; Addison, 1;
Battenkill, 1; Champlain, 2; Lily, 28," the principal read from the
paper made out by Mr. Bentnick.
The vote was received with tremendous applause, and the students
continued to clap their hands until the captain raised his linger as a
signal for them to cease.
"The schooner will be called the 'Lily,'" added the principal.
CHAPTER XXV.
BUILDING THE BOAT.
While the boys were getting over the excitement attending the vote on
the name of the unbuilt schooner, Captain Gildrock moved the table on
which the model of the craft stood to the front of the platform, where
all could see it. It was a very graceful form, and the nautical boys
were sure that the schooner would be a fast sailer.
"I told you before," said the principal, "that this model was
constructed on a new plan; but I have since learned that the idea is not
as original as I supposed it was, and that boats have been built by this
method. I supposed I should be the first to introduce it, but I find I
am not, though the model-maker had never made one before.
"The plans are drawn and the model made on the scale of one inch to a
foot. Whatever measures an inch in the plan or model measures a foot in
the boat. Every stick in the craft will therefore be twelve times the
size it is in this model. The Lily will have a beam of thirteen feet,
which is a little more than one-third of the length.
"This model is made of soft pine and mahogany. The ribs are to be
twenty-one inches from the centre of one to the centre of the next one.
What looks to you like the space between the timbers, or ribs, is pine.
The mahogany strips, which are comparatively narrow, represent the
timbers. The pieces are transverse sections of the hull, made separately
and put together.
"This is the stem," continued the principal, detaching the piece from
