and if the mothers were youngish, they threw off 
on him, and did not care for his talk. 
At one of the parties Imogene seemed to become 
aware for the first time that the lapels of his dress- 
coat were not faced with silk. 
" Why don't you have them so ? " she asked. 
" All the other young men have. And you ought 
to wear a houtonnihre." 
" Oh, I think a man looks rather silly in silk 
lapels at my " He arrested himself, and then 
continued : " I 'll see what the tailor can do for 
me. In the meantime, give me a bud out of your 
bouquet." 
" How sweet you are ! " she sighed. " You do the 
least thing so that it is ten times as good as if any 
one else did it." 
The same evening, as he stood leaning against a 
doorway, behind Imogene and a young fellow with 
whom she was beginning a quadrille, he heard her 
taking him to task. 
" Why do you say ' Sir ' to Mr. Colville ? " 
" Well, I know the English laugh at us for doing 
it, and say it 's like servants ; but I never feel quite 
right answering just ' Yes ' and ' No ' to a man of his 
age." 
This was one of the Inglehart boys, whom he met 
at nearly all of these parties, and not all of whom 
were so respectful. Some of them treated him upon 
 
an old-boy theory, joking him as freely as if he were 
one of themselves, laughing his antiquated notions of 
art to scorn, but condoning them because he was 
good-natured, and because a man could not help 
being of his own epoch anyway. They put a cari- 
cature of him among the rest on the walls of their 
trattoria, where he once dined with them. 
Mrs. Bowen did not often see him when he went 
to call upon Imogene, and she was not at more than 
two or three of the parties. Mrs. Amsden came to 
chaperon the girl, and apparently suffered an in- 
crease of unrequited curiosity in regard to his rela- 
tions to the Bowen household, and the extraordinary 
development of his social activity. Colville not 
only went to all those evening parties, but he was 
in continual movement during the afternoon at re- 
ceptions and at " days," of which he began to think 
each lady had two or three. Here he drank tea, cup 
after cup, in reckless excitement, and at night when 
he came home from the dancing parties, dropping 
with fatigue, he could not sleep till toward morning. 
He woke at the usual breakfast-hour, and then went 
about drowsing throughout the day till the tea began 
again in the afternoon. He fell asleep whenever he 
sat down, not only in the reading-room at Viesseux's, 
where he disturbed the people over their newspapers 
by his demonstrations of somnolence, but even at 
church, whither he went one Sunday to please Imo- 
gene, and started awake during the service witli the 
impression that the clergyman had been making a 
joke. Everybody but Imogene was smiling. At 
 
the cafe he slept without scruple, selecting a corner 
seat for the purpose, and proportioning his btwnamano 
to the indulgence of the giovane. He could not tell 
how long he slept at these places, but sometimes it 
seemed to him hours. 
One day he went to see Imogene, and while Effie 
Bowen stood prattling to him as he sat waiting for 
Imogene to come in, he faded light-headedly away 
from himself on the sofa, as if he had been in his 
corner at the cafe. Then he was aware of some one 
saying " 'Sh ! " and he saw Effie Bowen, with her 
finger on her lip, turned toward Imogene, a figure 
of beautiful despair in the doorway. He was all 
tucked up with sofa pillows, and made very comfort- 
able, by the child, no doubt. She slipped out, seeing 
him awake, so as to leave him and Imogene alone, 
as she had apparently been generally instructed to 
do, and Imogene came forward. 
" What is the matter, Theodore ? " she asked 
patiently. She had taken to calling him Theodore 
when they were alone. She owned that she did not 
like the name, but she said it was right she should 
call him by it, since it was his. She came and sat 
down beside him, where he had raised himself to a 
sitting posture, but she did not offer him any caress. 
"Nothing," he answered. "But this climate is 
making me insupportably drowsy; or else the 
spring weather.'' 
" Oh no ; it isn't that," she said, with a slight sigh. 
He had left her in the middle of a german at three 
o'clock in the morning, but she now looked as fresh 
 
and lambent as a star. "It's the late hours. 
They 're killing you." 
Colville tried to deny it; his incoherencies dis- 
solved themselves in a yawn, which he did not 
succeed in passing for a careless laugh. 
"It won't do," she said, as if speaking to herself; 
"no, it won't do." 
" Oh yes, it will," Colville protested. " I don't 
mind being up. I 've been used to it all my life on 
the paper. It's just some temporary thing. It'll 
come all right." 
" Well, no matter," said Imogene. " It makes 
you ridiculous, going to all those silly places, and 
I'd rather give it up." 
The tears began to steal down her cheeks, and 
Colville sighed. It seemed to him that somebody 
or other was always crying. A man never quite 
gets used to the tearfulness of women. 
" Oh, don't mind it," he said. " If you wish me 
to go, I will go ! Or die in the attempt,'' he added, 
with a smile. 
Imogene did not smile with him. " I don't wish 
you to go any more. It was a mistake ifi the first 
place, and from this out I will adapt myself to you.'' 
" And give up all your pleasures ? Do you think 
I would let you do that ? No, indeed ! Neither in 
this nor in anything else. I will not cut off your 
young life in any way, Imogene — not shorten it or 
diminish it. If I thought I should do that, or you 
would try to do it for me, I should wish I had 
never seen you." 
 
"It isn't that. I know how gooa you are, and 
that you would do anything for me.'' 
" Well, then, why don't you go to these fandan- 
goes alone ? I can see that you have me on your 
mind all the time, when I 'm with you." 
" Oughtn't I? " 
" Yes, up to a certain point, but not up to the 
point of spoiling your fun. I will drop in now and 
then, but I won't try to come to all of them, after 
this ; you 'll get along perfectly well with Mrs. 
Amsden, and I shall be safe from her for a while. 
That old lady has marked me for her prey : I can 
see it in her glittering eyeglass. I shall fall asleep 
some evening between dances, and then she will 
get it all out of me." 
Imogene still refused to smile. " No ; I shall 
give it up. I don't think it 's well, going so much 
without Mrs. Bowen. People will begin to talk.'' 
"Talk?" 
" Yes ; they will begin to say that I had better 
stay with her a little more, if she isn't well." 
"Why, isn't Mrs. Bowen well?" asked Colville, 
with trepfdation. 
" No ; she 's miserable. Haven't you noticed ? " 
" She sees me so seldom now. I thought it was 
only her headaches " 
" It 's much more than that. She seems to be 
failing every way. The doctor has told her she 
ought to get away from Florence." Colville could 
not speak ; Imogene went on. " She 's always deli- 
cate, you know. And I feel that all that 's keeping 
 
her here now is the news from home that I — we 're 
waiting for." 
Colville got up. " This is ghastly ! She mustn't 
doit!" 
"How can you help her doing it? If she thinks 
anything is right, she can't help doing it. Who 
could ? " 
Colville thought to himself that he could have 
said  but he was silent. At the moment he was 
not equal to so much joke or so much truth ; and 
Imogene went on — 
" She 'd be all the more strenuous about it if it 
were disagreeable, and rather than accept any re- 
lief from me she would die." 
" Is she — unkind to you ? " faltered Colville. 
" She is only too kind. You can feel that she 's 
determined to be so — that she 's said she will have 
nothing to reproach herself with, and she won't. 
You don't suppose Mrs. Bowen would be unkind to 
any one she disliked ? " 
"Ah, I didn't know," sighed Colville. 
" The more she disliked them, the better she would 
use them. It 's because our engagement is so dis- 
tasteful to her that she 's determined to feel that she 
did nothing to oppose it." 
" But how can you tell that it 's distasteful, then ?" 
" She lets you feel it by — not saying anything 
about it." 
" I can't see how " 
"She never speaks of you. I don't believe she 
 ever mentions your name. She asks me about the 
 
places where I 've been, and about the people — every 
one but you. It 's very uncomfortable." 
"Yes," said Colville, ''it's uncomfortable." 
" And if I allude to letters from home, she merely 
presses her lips together. It's perfectly wretched." 
" I see. It 's I whom she dislikes, and I would 
do anything to please her. She must know that," 
mused Colville aloud. " Imogene ! " he exclaimed, 
with a sudden inspiration. " Why shouldn't I go 
away ? " 
"Go away?" she palpitated. "What should I 
do?" 
The colours faded from his brilliant oroposal. 
" Oh, I only meant till something was settled — de- 
termined — concluded ; till this terrible suspense was 
over." He added hopelessly, " But nothing can be 
done !" 
" I proposed," said Imogene, " that we should all 
go away. " I suggested Via Reggio — the doctor 
said she ought to have sea air — or Venice ; but she 
wouldn't hear of it. No ; we must wait." 
" Yes, we must wait," repeated Colville hollowly. 
" Then nothing can be done ?" 
"Why, haven't you said it ?" 
" Oh yes — yes. I can't go away, and you can't. 
But couldn't we do something — get up some- 
thing ? " 
" I don't know what you mean." 
" I mean, couldn't we — amuse her somehow ? help 
her to take her mind off herself V 
Imogene stared at him rather a long time. Then, 
 
as if she had satisfied herself in her own mind, she 
shook her head. " She -wouldn't submit to it." 
" No ; she seems to take everything amiss that I 
do," said Colville. 
" She has no right to do that," cried Imogene. 
" I 'm sure that you 're always considering her, and 
proposing to do things for her. I won't let you 
humble yourself, as if you had wronged her.'' 
" Oh, I don't call it humbling. I — I should only 
be too happy if I could do anything that was agree- 
able to her." 
"Very well, I will tell her," said the girl 
haughtily. " Shall you object to my joining you 
in your amusements, whatever they are ? I assure 
you I will be very unobtrusive." 
"I don't understand all this," replied Colville. 
" Who has proposed to exclude you t Why did you 
tell me anything about Mrs. Bowen if you didn't 
want me to say or do something ? I supposed you 
did ; but I 'll withdraw the offensive proposition, 
whatever it was.'' 
" There was nothing offensive. But if you pity 
her so much, why can't you pity me a little ? " 
" I didn't know anything was the matter with 
you. I thought you were enjoying yourself " 
" Enjoying ? Keeping you up at dances till you 
drop asleep whenever you sit down? And then 
coming home and talking to a person who won't 
mention your name! Do you call that enjoying? 
I can't speak of you to any one ; and no one speaks 
to me " 
 
" If you like, I will talk to you on the subject," 
Colville essayed, in dreary jest. 
"Oh, don't joke about it ! This perpetual joking, 
I believe it 's that that 's -wearing me out. When I 
come to you for a little comfort in circumstances that 
drive me almost distracted, you want to amuse Mrs. 
Bowen, and when I ask to be allowed to share in the 
amusement, you laugh at me ! If you don't under- 
stand it all, I'm sure J don't.'' 
" Imogene ! " 
" No ! It 's very strange. There 's only one ex- 
planation. You don't care for me." 
"Not care for you!" cried Colville, thinking of 
his sufferings in the past fortnight. 
" And I would have made any — any sacrifice for 
you. At least I wouldn't have made you show your- 
self a mean and grudging person if you had come to 
me for a little sympathy." 
" poor child ! " he cried, ancLhjsheart ached 
with the sense that she really was nothing but an 
unhappy child . " i do sympathise witiryou, and I 
see how hard it is for you to manage with Mrs. 
Bowen's dislike for me. But you mustn't think of 
it. I dare say it will be different ; I 've no doubt 
we can get her to look at me in some brighter light. 
I " He did not know what he should urge next; 
but he goaded his invention, and was able to declare 
that if they loved each other they need not regard 
any one else. This flight, when accomplished, did 
not strike him as of very original effect, and it was 
with a dull surprise that he saw it sufficed for her. 
 
" No ; no one ! " she exclaimed, accepting the 
platitude as if it were now uttered for the first 
time. She dried her eyes and smiled. " I will tell 
Mrs. Bowen how you feel and what you 've said, and 
I know she will appreciate your generosity." 
" Yes," said Colville pensively ; " there 's nothing 
I won't propose doing for people." 
She suddenly clung to him, and would not let him 
go. " Oh, what is the matter ? " she moaned afresh. 
"I show out the worst that is in me, and only the 
worst. Do you think I shall always be so narrow- 
minded with you ? I thought I loved you enough 
to be magnanimous. You are. It seemed to me 
that our lives together would be grand and large ; 
and here I am, grovelling in the lowest selfishness ! 
I am worrying and scolding you because you wish 
to please some one that has been as good as my own 
mother to me. Do you call that noble ? " 
Colville did not venture any reply to a demand 
evidently addressed to her own conscience. 
But when she asked if he really thought he had 
better go away, he said, " Oh no ; that was a mis- 
take." 
"Because, if you do, you shall — to punish 
me." 
" My dearest girl, why should I wish to punish 
you ? " 
" Because I 've been low and mean. Now I want 
you to do something for Mrs. Bowen — something to 
amuse her ; to show that we appreciate her. And I 
don't want you to sympathise with me at all. When 
 
I ask for your sympathy, it 's a sign that I don't 
deserve it." 
" Is that so ? " 
"Oh, be serious with me. I mean it. And I 
want to beg your pardon for something." 
" Yes ; what 's that ? " 
" Can't you guess ? " 
"No." 
"You needn't have your lapels silk-lined. You 
needn't 'wea,rl)outonniires." 
" Oh, but I 've had the coat changed." 
" No matter ! Change it back ! It isn't for me 
to make you over. I must make myself over. It 's 
my right, it 's my sacred privilege to conform to you 
in every way, and I humble myself in the dust for 
having forgotten it at the very start. Oh, do you 
think I can ever be worthy of you ? I will try ; 
indeed I will ! I shall not wear my light dresses 
another time ! From this out, I shall dress more 
in keeping with you. I boasted that I should live 
to comfort and console you, to recompense you for 
the past, and what have I been doing ? Wearying 
and degrading you ! " 
" Oh no," pleaded Colville. " I am very comfort- 
able. I don't need any compensation for the past. 
I need — sleep. I 'm going to bed to-night at eight 
o'clock, and I am going to sleep twenty-four hours. 
Then I shall be fresh for Mrs. Fleming's ball" 
" I 'm not going," said Imogene briefly. 
"Oh yes, you are. I'll come round to-morrow 
evening and see." 
 
" No. There are to be no more parties." 
"Why?" 
" I can't endure them." 
She was looking at him and talking at him, but 
she seemed far aloof in the abstraction of a sublime 
regret ; she seemed puzzled, bewildered at herself.  
Colville got away. He felt the pathos of the con- 
fusion and question to which he left her, but he felt 
himself powerless against it. There was but one 
solution to it all, and that was impossible. He 
could only grieve over her trouble, and wait ; grieve 
for the irrevocable loss which made her trouble re- 
mote and impersonal to him, and submit. 
XVIII. 
The young clergyman whom Colville saw talking 
to Imogene on his first evening at Mrs. Bowen's had 
come back from Rome, where he had been spending 
a month or two, and they began to meet at Palazzo 
Pinti again. If they got on well enough together, 
they did not get on very far. The suave house-priest 
manners of the young clergyman offended Colville ; 
he could hardly keep from sneering at his taste in 
art and books, which in fact was rather conventional; 
and no doubt Mr. Morton had his own reserves, 
under which he was perfectly civil, and only too 
deferential to Colville, as to an older man. Since 
his return, Mrs. Bowen had come back to her salon. 
She looked haggard ; but she did what she could to 
look otherwise. She was always polite to Colville, 
and she was politely cordial with the clergjanan. 
Sometimes Colville saw her driving out with him 
and Effie; they appeared to make excursions, and 
he had an impression, very obscure, that Mrs. 
Bowen lent the young clergyman money ; that he 
was a superstition of hers, and she a patron of his ; 
 
he must have been ~ ten years younger than she ; 
not more than twenty-five. 
The first Sunday after his return, Colville walked 
home with Mr. Waters from hearing a sermon of 
Mr. Morton's, which they agreed was rather well 
judged, and simply and fitly expressed. 
" And he spoke with the authority of the priest," 
said the old minister. " His Church alone of all 
the Protestant Churches has preserved that to its 
ministers. Sometimes I have thought it was a 
great thing." 
" Not always ? " asked Colville, with a smile. 
" These things are matters of mood rather than 
conviction with me," returned Mr. Waters. " Once 
they affected me very deeply ; but now I shall so 
soon know all about it that they don't move me. 
But at times I think that if I were to live my lifei 
over again, I would prefer to be of some formal,, 
some inflexibly ritualised, religion. At solemnities 
— weddings and funerals — I have been impressed 
with the advantage of the Anglican rite : it is the 
Church speaking to and for humanity — or seems 
so," he added, with cheerful indifference. " Some- 
thing in its favour," he continued, after a while, " is 
the influence that every ritualised faith has with 
women. If they apprehend those mysteries more 
subtly than we, such a preference of theirs must 
mean a good deal. Yes; the other Protestant 
systems are men's systems. Women must have 
form. They don't care for freedom." 
"They appear to like. the formalist too, as well as 
u 
 
the form," said Colville, with scorn not obviously 
necessary. 
" Oh yes ; they must have everything in the 
concrete," said the old gentleman cheerfully. 
"I wonder where Mr. Morton met Mrs. Bowen 
first," said Colville. 
" Here, I think. I believe he had letters to her. 
Before you came I used often to meet him at her 
house. I think she has helped him with money at 
times." 
" Isn't that rather an unpleasant idea ? " 
" Yes ; it 's disagreeable. And it places the minis- 
try in a dependent attitude. But under our system 
it 's unavoidable. Youjig men devoting themselves 
to the ministry frequently receive gifts of money." 
" I don't like it," cried Colville. 
" They doh't feel it as others would. I didn't 
myself. Even at present I may be said to be living 
on charity. But sometimes I have fancied, that in 
Mr. Morton's case there might be peculiarly mitigat- 
ing circumstances-." 
" What do you mean ? " 
" When I met him first at Mrs. Bowen's I used to 
think that it was Miss Graham in whom he was 
interested " 
" I can assure you," interrupted Colville, " that 
she was never interested in him." 
" Oh no ; I didn't suppose that," returned the 
old man tranquilly. "And I've since had reason 
to revise my opinion. I think he is interested 
in Mrs. Bowen." 
 
" Mrs. Bowen ! And you think that would be a 
mitigating circumstance in his acceptance of money 
from her ? If he had the spirit of a man at 
all, it would make it all the more revolting." 
" Oh no, oh no," softly pleaded Mr. "Waters. 
" We must not look at these things too romanti- 
cally. He probably reasons that she would give 
him all her money if they were married." 
" But he has no right to reason in that way,'' re- 
torted Colville, with heat. " They are not married ; 
it 's ignoble and unmanly for him to count upon it. 
It 's preposterous. She must be ten years older 
than he." 
" Oh, I don't say that they're to be married," Mr. 
Waters replied. " But these disparities of age fre- 
quently occur in marriage. I don't like them, 
though sometimes I think the evil is less when it is 
the wife who is the elder. We look at youth and 
age in a gross, material way too often. Women re- 
main young longer than men. They keep their 
youthful sympathies ; an old woman understands a 
young girl. Do you — or do I — understand a young 
man ? " 
Colville laughed harshly. " It isn't quite the same 
thing, Mr. Waters. But yes; I'll admit, for the 
sake of argument, that I don't understand young 
men. I 'll go further, and say that I don't like them ; 
I 'm afraid of them. And you wouldn't think," he 
added abruptly, "that it would be well for me to 
marry a girl twenty years younger than myself." 
The old man glanced up at him with innocent sly- 
 
ness. " I prefer always to discuss these things m 
an impersonal way." 
"But you can't discuss them impersonally with 
me ; I 'm engaged to Miss Graham. Ever since you 
first found me here after I told you I was going 
away I have wished to tell you this, and this seems 
as good a time as any — or as bad." The defiance 
faded from his voice, which dropped to a note of 
weary sadness. " yes, we 're engaged — or shall be, 
as soon as she can hear from her family. I wanted 
to tell you because it seemed somehow your due, and 
because I fancied you had a friendly interest in us 
both." 
"Yes, that is true," returned Mr. Waters. "I 
wish you joy." He went through the form of ofTer- 
ing his hand to Colville, who pressed it with anxious 
fervour. 
" I confess," he said, " that I feel the risks of the 
affair. It 's not that I have any dread for my own 
part ; I have lived my life, such as it is. But the 
child is full of fancies about me that can't be fulfilled. 
She dreams of restoring my youth somehow, of re- 
trieving the past for me, of avenging me at her own 
cost for an unlucky love affair that I had here 
twenty years ago. It 's pretty of her, but it 's ter- 
ribly pathetic — it 's tragic. I know very well that 
I'm a middle-aged man, and that there's no more 
youth for me. I 'm getting grey, and I 'm getting 
fat ; I wouldn't be young if I could ; it 's a bore. I 
suppose I could keep up an illusion of youthfulness 
for five or six years more ; and then if I could be 
 
quietly chloroformed out of the way, perhaps it 
wouldn't have been so very bad." 
"I have always thought," said Mr. Waters 
dreamily, "that a good deal might be said for 
abbreviating hopeless suffering. I have known some 
very good people advocate its practice by science." 
"Yes," answered Colville. "Perhaps I've pre- 
sented that point too prominently. What I wished 
you to understand was that I don't care for myself ; 
that I consider only the happiness of this young girl 
that 's somehow — I hardly know how— been put in 
my keeping. I haven't forgotten the talks that 
we 've had heretofore on this subject, and it would 
be affectation and bad taste in me to ignore them. 
Don't be troubled at anything you 've said ; it was 
probably true, and I 'm sure it was sincere. Some- 
times I think that the kindest — the least cruel — 
thing I could do would be to break with her, to leave 
her. But I know that I shall do nothing of the 
kind ; I shall drift. The child is very dear to me. 
She has great and noble qualities ; she 's supremely 
unselfish ; she loves me through her mistaken pity, 
and because she thinks she can sacrifice herself to 
me. But she can't. Everything is against that ; she 
doesn't know how, and there is no reason why. I 
don't express it very well. I think nobody clearly 
understands it but Mrs. Bowen, and I 've somehow 
alienated her." 
He became aware that his self-abnegation was 
taking the character of self-pity, and he stopped. 
Mr. Waters seemed to be giving the subject serious 
 
attention in the silence that ensued. " There is this 
to be remembered," he began, " which we don't con- 
sider in our mere speculations upon any phase of 
human affairs ; and that is the wonderful degree of 
amelioration that any given difficulty finds in the 
realisation. It is the anticipation, not the experi- 
ence, that is the trial. In a case of this kind, facts 
of temperament, of mere association, of union, work 
unexpected mitigations ; they not only alleviate, they 
allay. You say that she cherishes an illusion con- 
cerning you : well, with women, nothing is so inde- 
structible as an illusion. Give them any chance at 
all, and all the forces of their nature combine to pre- 
serve it. And if, as you say, she is so dear to you, 
that in itself is almost sufficient. I can well under- 
stand your misgivings, springing as they do from a 
sensitive conscience ; but we may reasonably hope 
that they are exaggerated. Very probably there will 
not be the rapture for her that there would be if — if 
you were younger ; but the chances of final happi- 
ness are great — yes, very considerable. She will 
learn to appreciate what is really best in you, and 
you already understand her. Your love for her is 
the key to the future. Without that, of course " 
" Oh, of course," interrupted Colville hastily. 
Every touch of this comforter's hand had been a 
sting ; and he parted with him in that feeling of 
utter friendlessness involving a man who has taken 
counsel upon the confession of half his trouble. 
Something in Mrs. Bowen's manner when he met 
her next made him think that perhaps Imogene had 
 
been telling her of the sympathy he had expressed 
for her ill-health. It was in the evening, and 
Imogene and Mr. Morton were looking over a copy 
of The Marble Faun, which he had illustrated with 
photographs at Rome. Imogene asked Colville to 
look at it too, but he said he would examine it 
later ; he had his opinion of people who illustrated 
The Marble Faun with photographs ; it surprised 
him that she seemed to iind something novel and 
brilliant in the idea. 
Effie Bowen looked round where she was kneeling 
on a chair beside the couple with the book, and see- 
ing Colville wandering neglectedly about before he 
placed himself, she jumped down and ran and caught 
his hand. 
" Well, what now ? " he asked, with a dim smile, 
as she began to pull him toward the sofa. When 
he should be expelled from Palazzo Pinti he would 
really miss the worship of that little thing. He 
knew that her impulse had seen to console him for 
his exclusion from the pleasures that Imogene and 
Mr. Morton were enjoying. 
" Nothing. Just talk," she said, making him fast 
in a corner of the sofa by crouching tight against 
him. 
"What about? About which is the pleasantest 
season ? " 
" Oh no-; we 've talked about that so often. Be- 
sides, of course you 'd say spring, now that it 's 
coming on so nicely." 
"Do you think I 'm so changeable as that ? 
 
Haven't I always said winter when tliis question of 
the seasons was up ? And I say it now. Shan't 
you be awfully sorry when you can't have a pleasant 
little fire on the hearth like this any more ? " 
"Yes; I know. But it's very nice having the 
flowers, too. The grass was all full of daisies to-day 
— perfectly powdered with them." 
" To-day ? Where ? " 
" At the Cascine. And in under the trees there 
were millions of violets and crow's-feet. Mr. Morton 
helped me to get them for mamma and Imogene. 
And we stayed so long that when we drove home 
the daisies had all shut up, and the little pink leaves 
outside made it look like a field of red clover. Are 
you never going there any more ? " 
Mr?. Bowen came in. From the fact that there 
was no greeting between her and Mr. Morton, Col- 
ville inferred that she was returning to the room 
after having already been there. She stood a 
moment, with a little uncertainty, when she had 
shaken hands with him, and then dropped upon 
the sofa beyond Effie. The little girl ran one hand 
through Colville's arm, and the other through her 
mother's, and gripped them fast. " Now I have got 
you both," she triumphed, and smiled first into her 
face, and then into his. 
"Be quiet, Effie," said her mother, but she sub- 
mitted. 
" I hope you 're better for your drive to-day, Mrs. 
Bowen. Efi&e has been telling me about it." 
" We stayed out a long time. Yes, I think the 
 
air did me good ; but I 'm not an invalid, you 
know." 
"Oh no." 
"I'm feeling a little fagged. And the weather 
was tempting. I suppose you 've been taking one of 
your loiig walks." 
" No, I 've scarcely stirred out. I usually feel like 
going to meet the spring a little more than half-way; 
but this year I don't, somehow." 
"A good many people are feeling rather languid, 
I believe," said Mrs. Bowen. 
"I hope you'll get away from Florence," said 
Colville. 
"Oh," she returned, with a faint flush, "I'm 
afraid Imogene exaggerated that a little." She 
added, "You are very good." 
She was treating him more kindly than she had 
ever "done since that Sunday afternoon when he came 
in with Imogene to say that he was going to stay. 
It might be merely because she had worn out her 
mood of severity, as people do, returning in good- 
humour to those with whom they were offended, 
merely through the reconciling force of time. She 
did not look at him, but this was better than meet- 
ing his eye with that interceptive glance. A strange 
peace touched his heart. Imogene and the young 
clergyman at the table across the room were intent 
on the book still ; he was explaining and expatiat- 
ing, and she listening. Colville saw that he had a 
fine head, and an intelligent, handsome, gentle face. 
When he turned aE;ain to Mrs. Bowen it was with 
 
the illusion that she had been saying something ; 
but she was, in fact, sitting mute, and her face, 
with its bright colour, showed pathetically thin. 
" I should imagine that Venice would be good for 
you,'' he said. 
"It's still very harsh there, I hear. No; when 
we leave Florence, I think we will go to Switzer- 
land." 
" Oh, not to Madame Schebres's," pleaded the 
child, turning upon her. 
" No, not to Madame Schebres," consented the 
mother. She continued, addressing Colville : "I was 
thinking of Lausanne. Do you know Lausanne 
at all ? " 
" Only from Gibbon's report. It 's hardly up to 
date." 
" I thought of taking a house there for the 
summer," said Mrs. Bowen, playing with Effie's 
fingers. " It 's pleasant by the lake, I suppose." 
" It 's lovely by the lake ! " cried the child. " Oh, 
do go, mamma ! I could get a boat and learn to 
row. Here you can't row, the Arno's so swift." 
"The air would bring you up," said Colville to 
Mrs. Bowen. " Switzerland 's the only country where 
you 're perfectly sure of waking new every morning." 
This idea interested the child. " Waking new ! " 
