from the minds of those present in the circle; that this mentality is
clothed, by some mysterious process, with a force analogous to what it
possesses in the living organism, by which force it is enabled, under
certain conditions, to move physical bodies and write or otherwise
express its thoughts; and that in its expression of the combined
intelligence of the circle, it generally follows the strongest mind, or
the mind that is otherwise best qualified or conditioned to give current
to the thought. Although the writer of the interesting article, entitled
"Planchette in a New Character," in Putnam's Monthly for December,
1868, disclaims, at the commencement of his lucubration, all theories on
the subject, yet, after collating his facts, he shows a decided leaning
to the foregoing theory as the nearest approach to a satisfactory
explanation. "Floating, combined intelligence brought to bear upon
an inanimate object," "active intellectual principle afloat in the
circumambient air," are the expressions he uses as probably affording
some light on the subject. This is a thought on which, as concerns its
main features, many others have rested, not only in this country but in
Europe, especially in England, as I am told by a friend who recently
visited several sections of Great Britain where forms of these
mysterious phenomena prevail.
The first difficulty that stands in the way of this hypothesis is
that it supposes a thing which, if true, is quite as mysterious and
inexplicable as the mystery which it purports to explain. How is it
that an "intellectual principle" can detach itself from an intellectual
being, of whose personality it formed the chief ingredient, and become
an outside, objective, "floating," and "circumambient" entity, with a
capability of thinking, willing, acting, and expressing thought, in
which the original possessor of the emanated principle often has no
conscious participation? And after you have told us this, then tell us
how the "intellectual principle," not only of one, but of several
persons can emanate from them, become "floating" and "ambient," and
then, losing separate identity, conjoin and form one active
communicating agent with the powers aforesaid? And after you have
removed from these mere assumptions the aspect of physical and moral
impossibility, you will have another task to perform, and that is to
show us how this emanated, "combined," "floating," "circumambient"
intelligence can sometimes assume an individual and seemingly personal
character of its own, totally distinct from, and, in some features, even
antagonistic to, all the characters in the circle in which the
"emanation" is supposed to have its origin?
It is not denied now that the answers and communications of Planchette
(and of the influence acting through other channels) often do exhibit
a controlling influence of the mind of the medium or of other persons
in the circle. But no theory should ever be considered as explaining
a mystery unless it covers the whole ground of that mystery. Even,
therefore, should we consider the theory of the "floating intelligence"
of the circle reproducing itself in expression, as explaining that part
of the phenomenon which identifies itself with the minds of the circle
(which it does not), what shall be said of those cases in which the
phenomena exhibit characteristics which are sui generis, and can not
possibly have been derived from the minds of the circle?
That phenomena of the latter class are sometimes exhibited is not
only proved by many other facts that might be cited, but is clearly
exemplified by this same writer in Putnam's Magazine. The intelligence
whose performances and communications he relates seems to stand out with
a character and individuality as strongly marked and as distinct from
any and all in the circle as any one of them was distinct from another.
This individuality was first shown by giving its own pet names to the
different persons composing the circle--"Flirt," "Clarkey," "Hon.
Clarke," "The Angel," and "Sassiness." The young lady designated by the
last sobriquet, after it had been several times repeated, petitioned
to be indicated thereafter "only by the initial 'S,'" which the
impertinent scribbler accorded only so far as omitting all the letters
except the five S's, so that she was afterward recognized as
"S.S.S.S.S."
The writer further says:
  "It is always respectful to 'Hon. Clarke,' and when pressed to state
  what it thought of him, answered that he was 'a good skipper,' a
  reputation fairly earned by his capacity for managing a fleet of
  small boats. But we were not contented with so vague an answer, and
  our urgent demand for an analysis of his character produced the
  reply: 'A native crab apple, but spicy and sweet when ripe.' * * *
  When asked to go on, it wrote: 'Ask me Hon. Clarke's character
  again, and I will flee to the realms of imperishable woe; or, as
  Tabitha is here, say I'll pull your nose;' and on being taunted with
  its incapacity to fulfill the threat, it wrote: 'Metaphorically
  speaking, of course.' Not satisfied with this rebuff, on another
  occasion the subject was again pursued, and the answer elicited as
  follows: 'Yes, but you can't fool me. I said nay once, and when I
  says nay I means nay.' [A mind of its own, then.] More than once
  it has lapsed into the same misuse of the verb, as: 'I not only
  believes it, but I knows it;' and again: 'You asks and I answers,
  because I am here.' * * *
  "Again, on being remonstrated with for illiteracy, it defended
  itself by saying: 'I always was a bad speler' (sic); an
  orthographical blunder that no one in the room was capable of
  making. But on the whole, our Planchette is a scientific and
  cultivated intelligence, of more than average order, though it may
  be, at times, slightly inaccurate in orthography, and occasionally
  quote incorrectly; I must even confess that there are moments when
  its usual elegance of diction lapses into slang terms and abrupt
  contradictions. But, after all, though we flatter ourselves that as
  a family we contain rather more than ordinary intelligence, still it
  is more than a match for us."
Who can fail to perceive, from these quotations and admissions, the
marked and distinctive individuality of the intelligence that was
here manifested, as being of itself totally fatal to the idea of
derivation from the circle?
But not only was this intelligence distinctive, but in several
instances even antagonistic to that existing in the circle, as in the
case reported as follows:
  "Some one desiring to pose this ready writer, asked for its theory
  of the Gulf Stream; which it announced without hesitation to be
  'Turmoil in the water produced by conglomeration of icebergs.'
  Objection was made that the warmth of the waters of the natural
  phenomenon rather contradicted this original view of the subject;
  to which Planchette tritely responded: 'Friction produces heat.'
  'But how does friction produce heat in this case?' pursued the
  questioner. 'Light a match,' was the inconsequent answer--Planchette
  evidently believing that the pupil was ignorant of first principles.
  'But the Gulf Stream flows north; how, then, can the icebergs
  accumulate at its source?' was the next interrogation; which
  elicited the contemptuous reply: 'There is as much ice and snow at
  the south pole as at the north, ignorant Clarkey.' 'But it flows
  from the Gulf of Mexico?' pursued the undismayed. 'You've got me
  there, unless it flows underground,' was the cool and unexpected
  retort; and it wound up by declaring, sensibly, that, after all,
  'it is a meeting of the north and south Atlantic currents, which
  collide, and the eddie (sic) runs northward.' [At another time,]
  on being twice interrogated in regard to a subject, it replied
  tartly: 'I hate to be asked if I am sure of a fact.'"
Now, what could have been this intelligence which thus insisted upon
preserving and asserting its individuality so distinctly as to forbid
all reasonable hypothesis of a compounded derivation from the minds of
the circle, even were such a thing possible? A fairy, perhaps, snugly
cuddled up under the board so as to elude observation. Friend "Clarkey,"
try again, for surely this time you are a little befogged, or else the
present writer is more so.
"TO DAIMONION" (THE DEMON).
There was published, several years ago, by Gould & Lincoln, Boston,
a little work entitled: "TO DAIMONION, OR THE SPIRITUAL MEDIUM.
Its nature illustrated by the history of its uniform mysterious
manifestations when unduly excited. By TRAVERSE OLDFIELD." This author
deals largely in quotations from ancient writers in illustration of his
subject; and as an attempt to explain the mysteries of clairvoyance,
trance, second-sight, "spirit-knockings," intelligent movements of
physical bodies without hands, etc., his work has claims to our
attention which do not usually pertain to the class of works to which it
belongs. "To Daimonion" (the demon), or the "spiritual medium," he
supposes to be the spiritus mundi, or the spirit of the universe,
which formed so large an element in the cosmological theories of many
ancient philosophers; and this, "when unduly excited" (whatever that
may mean), he supposes to be the medium, not only of many psychic and
apparently preternatural phenomena described in the writings of all
previous ages, but also of the similar phenomena of modern times, of
which it is now admitted that Planchettism is only one of the more
recently developed phases. For some reason, which seemed satisfactory to
him, but which we fear he has not made clear or convincing to the mass
of his readers, this writer assumes it as more than probable that this
spiritus mundi--a living essence which surrounds and pervades the
world, and even the whole universe--is identical with the "nervous
principle" which connects the soul with the body,--in all this
unconsciously reaffirming nearly the exact theory first propounded by
Mesmer, in explanation of the phenomena of "animal magnetism," so
called. Quotations are given from Herodotus, Xenophon, Cicero, Pliny,
Galen, and many others, referring to phenomena well known in the times
in which these several writers lived, and which he supposes can be
explained only on the general hypothesis here set forth; and in the same
category of marvels, to be explained in the same way, he places the
performances of the snake-charmers, clairvoyants, thought-readers, etc.,
of modern Egypt and India.
This spiritus mundi, or "nervous principle," to which he supposes the
ancients referred when they spoke of "the demon," is, according to his
theory, the medium, or menstruum, by which, under certain conditions
of "excitement," the thoughts and potencies of one mind, with its
affections, emotions, volitions, etc., flow into another, giving rise to
reflex expressions, which, to persons ignorant of this principle, have
seemed possible only as the utterances of outside and supermundane
intelligences. And as this same spiritus mundi, or demon, pervades and
connects the mind equally with all physical bodies, in certain other
states of "excitement" it moves those physical bodies, or makes sounds
upon them, expressing intelligence--that intelligence always being a
reflex of the mind of the person who, consciously or unconsciously,
served as the exciting agent.
Whatever elements of truth this theory, in a different mode of
application, might be found to possess, in the form in which it is here
presented it is encumbered by two or three difficulties which altogether
seem fatal. In the first place, it wears upon its face the appearance of
a thing "fixed up" to meet an emergency, and which would never have been
thought of except by a mind pressed almost to a state of desperation by
the want of a theory to account for a class of facts. Look at it: "The
spirit of the world identical with the nervous principle"!--the same,
"when unduly excited," the medium by which a mind may unconsciously
move other minds and organisms, or even dead matter, in the expression
of its own thoughts! Where is the shadow of proof? Is it anything more
than the sheerest assumption?
Then again: even if this mere assumption were admitted for truth, it
would not account for that large class of facts referred to in the
course of our remarks on the "Electrical theory," unless this spiritus
mundi, demon, nervous principle, or spiritual medium, is made at once
not only the "medium," but the intelligent and designing source of
the communication; for, as we have said before, it would be perfectly
useless to deny that thoughts are sometimes communicated through the
Planchette and similar channels, which positively never had any
existence in the minds of any of the persons visibly present.
And then, too, in relation to the nature of the demon, or demons: the
theory of the ancients, from whose representative minds this writer has
quoted, was notoriously quite different from that which he has given.
The ancients recognized good demons and evil demons. The demon of
Socrates was regarded by him as an invisible, individual intelligence. A
legion of demons were in one instance cast out by Christ from the body
of a man whom they had infested; we can hardly suppose that these were
simply a legion of "nervous principles" or "souls of the world." What
those demons were really understood to be in those days, may be learned
from a passage in the address of Titus to his army, when encamped before
Jerusalem, in which, in order to remove from their minds the fear of
death in battle, he says:
  "For what man of virtue is there who does not know that those souls
  which are severed from their fleshy bodies in battles by the sword,
  are received by the ether, that purest of elements, and joined to
  that company which are placed among the stars; that they become
  good demons and propitious heroes, and show themselves as such to
  their posterity afterward?"--Josephus, Wars of the Jews, B. VI.,
  chap. 1, sec. 5.
Hesiod and many others might be quoted to the same purpose; but let
this suffice as to the character and origin of these demons; and it may
suffice also for the theory of To Daimonion, as to the particular
mystery here to be explained.
IT IS SOME PRINCIPLE OF NATURE AS YET UNKNOWN.
If there is any wisdom in this theory, it is so profound that we "don't
see it." It looks very much to us as though this amounted only to the
saying that "all we know about the mystery is, that it is unknown; all
the explanation that we can give of it is, that it is inexplicable; and
that the only theory of it is, that it has no theory." Thus it leaves
the matter just where it was before, and we should not have deemed this
saying worthy of the slightest notice had we not heard and read so much
grave discussion on the subject, criticising almost every other theory,
and then concluding with the complacent announcement of the writer's or
speaker's theory as superior to all others, that "it is some principle
or force of nature as yet unknown!"
THEORY OF THE AGENCY OF DEPARTED SPIRITS.
This theory apparently has both merits and difficulties, which at
present we can only briefly notice. Among the strong points in its
favor, the first and most conspicuous one is, that it accords with
what this mysterious intelligence, in all its numerous forms of
manifestation, has steadily, against all opposition, persisted in
claiming for itself, from its first appearance, over twenty years
ago, till this day. And singularly enough, it appears as a fact
which, perhaps, should be stated as a portion of the history of these
phenomena, that years before public attention and investigation were
challenged by the first physical manifestation that claimed a spiritual
origin, an approaching and general revisitation of departed human
spirits was, in several instances, the burden of remarkable
predictions. I have in my possession a little book, or bound pamphlet,
entitled, "A Return of Departed Spirits," and bearing the imprint,
"Philadelphia: Published by J. R. Colon, 203½ Chestnut Street, 1843,"
in which is contained an account of strange phenomena which occurred
among the Shakers at New Lebanon, N. Y., during the early part of that
year. In the language of the author: "Disembodied spirits began to take
possession of the bodies of the brethren and sisters; and thus, by using
them as instruments, made themselves known by speaking through the
individuals whom they had got into." The writer then goes on to describe
what purported to be the visitations of hundreds in that way, from
different nations and tribes that had lived on earth in different
ages--the consistency of the phenomena being maintained throughout. I
have conversed with leading men among the Shakers of the United States
concerning this affair, and they tell me that the visitation was not
confined to New Lebanon, but extended, more or less, to all the Shaker
communities in the United States--not spreading from one to another,
but appearing nearly simultaneously in all. They also tell me that the
phenomena ceased about as suddenly as they appeared; and that when the
brethren were assembled, by previous appointment, to take leave of their
spirit-guests, they were exhorted by the latter to treasure up these
things in their hearts; to say nothing about them to the world's people,
but to wait patiently, and soon they (the spirits) would return, and
make their presence known to the world generally.
During the interval between the autumn of 1845 and the spring of 1847,
a book, wonderful for its inculcations both of truth and error, was
dictated in the mesmeric state by an uneducated boy--A. J. Davis--in
which the following similar prediction occurs:
  "It is a truth that spirits commune with one another while one is in
  the body and the other in the higher spheres--and this, too, when
  the person in the body is unconscious of the influx, and hence can
  not be convinced of the fact; and this truth will ere long present
  itself in the form of a living demonstration. And the world will
  hail with delight the ushering in of that era when the interiors of
  men will be opened, and the spiritual communion will be established,
  such as is now being enjoyed by the inhabitants of Mars, Jupiter,
  and Saturn."--Nat. Div. Rev., pp. 675, 676.
Eight months after the book containing this passage was published, and
more than a year after the words here quoted were dictated and written,
strange rapping sounds were heard in an obscure family in an obscure
village in the western part of New York. On investigation, those sounds
were found to be connected with intelligence, which, rapping at certain
letters of the alphabet as it was called over, spelled sentences, and
claimed to be a spirit. The phenomena increased, assumed many other
forms, extended to other mediums, and rapidly spread, not only all
over this country, but over the civilized world. And wherever this
intelligence has been interrogated under conditions which itself
prescribes for proper answers, its great leading and persistent response
to the question, "What are you?" has been, "We are spirits!" Candor
also compels us to admit that this claim has been perseveringly
maintained against the combined opposition of the great mass of
intelligent and scientific minds to whom the world has looked for its
guidance; and so successfully has it been maintained, that its converts
are now numbered by millions, gathered, not from the ranks of the
ignorant and superstitious, but consisting mostly of the intelligent
and thinking middle classes, and of many persons occupying the highest
positions in civil and social life.
At first its opponents met it with expressions of utter contempt and
cries of "humbug." Many ingenious and scientific persons volunteered
their efforts to expose the "trick;" and if they seemed, in some
instances, to meet with momentary success in solving the mystery, the
next day would bring with it some new form of the phenomenon to
which none of their theories would apply. Being finally discouraged by
repeated failures to explain the hidden cause of these wonders, they
withdrew from the field, and for many years allowed the matter to go by
default; and only within the last twelvemonth has investigation of the
subject been re-aroused by the introduction into this country of the
little instrument called "the Planchette"--an instrument which, to our
certain knowledge, was used at least ten years ago in France, and that,
too, as a supposed means of communicating with departed spirits.
This little board has been welcomed as a "toy" or a "game" into
thousands of families, without suspicion of its having the remotest
connection with so-called "Spiritualism." The cry has been raised,
    "Quidquid id est, timeo Danaos et dona ferentes,"
but too late! The Trojan walls are everywhere down; the wooden horse is
already dragged into the city with all the armed heroes concealed in its
bowels; the battle has commenced, and must be fought out to the bitter
end, as best it may be; and in the numerous magazine and newspaper
articles that have lately appeared on the subject, we have probably
only the beginning of a clash of arms which must terminate one way or
another.
Should our grave and learned philosophers find themselves overcome by
this little three-legged spider, it will be mortifying; but in order to
avoid that result, we fear they will have to do better than they have
done yet.
On the other hand, before the Spiritualists can be allowed to claim the
final victory in this contest, they should, it seems to me, be required
to answer the following questions in a manner satisfactory to the
highest intelligence and the better moral and religious sense of the
community:
Why is it that "spirits" communicating through your mediums, by
Planchette or otherwise, can not relate, plainly and circumstantially,
any required incident of their lives, as a man would relate his
history to a friend, instead of dealing so much in vague and ambiguous
generalities, as they almost always do, and that, too, often in the bad
grammar or bad spelling of the medium? Or, as a question allied to this,
why is it that what purports to be the same spirit, generally, if not
always, fails, when trial is made, to identify himself in the same
manner through any two different mediums? Or, as another question still
allied to the above, why is it that your Websters, Clays, Calhouns, and
others, speaking through mediums, so universally give the idea that they
have deteriorated in intellect since they passed into the spirit-world?
And why is it that so little discourse or writing that possesses real
merit, and so much that is mere drivel, has come through your mediums,
if spirits are the authors? And why does it so often happen that the
spirits--if they are spirits--can not communicate anything except what
is already in the mind of the medium, or at least of some other person
present? It does not quite answer these questions to say that the
medium is "undeveloped" unless you explain to us precisely on what
principle the undevelopment affects the case. A speaking-trumpet may
be "undeveloped"--cracked or wanting in some of its parts, so as to
deteriorate the sound made through it; but we should at least expect
that a man speaking through it would speak his own thoughts, and not the
thoughts of the trumpet.
And then, looking at this subject in its moral and social aspects,
the question should be answered: Why, on the supposition that these
communications really come from immortal spirits, have they made so
little progress, during the twenty years that they have been with
us, in elevating the moral and social standard of human nature, in
making better husbands and wives, parents and children, citizens and
philanthropists, in drawing mankind together in harmony and charity, and
founding and endowing great institutions for the elevation of the race?
Rather may we not ask, in all kindness, why is it that the Spiritualist
community has been little more than a Babel from the beginning to the
present moment?
Or, ascending to the class of themes that come under the head of
Religion: Why is it that prayer is so generally ignored, and the worship
of God regarded as an unworthy superstition? Why is it that in the
diatribes, dissertations, and speeches of those who profess to act under
the sanction of the "spirits," we have a reproduction of so much of
the slang and ribaldry of the infidels of the last century, and of the
German Rationalism of the present, which is now being rejected by the
Germans themselves? And why is it that in their references to the great
lights of the world, we so often have Confucius, Jesus Christ, and
William Shakspeare jumbled up into indistinguishability?
I do not say that all these questions may not be answered consistently
with the claims of the spiritual hypothesis, but I do say that before
our Spiritualist friends can have a right to expect the better portion
of mankind to drink down this draft of philosophy which they have mixed,
they must at least satisfy them that there is no poison in it.
Having thus exhibited these several theories, and, to an extent,
discussed them pro et contra, it is but fair that we should now ask
Planchette--using that name in a liberal sense--what is her theory of
the whole matter? Perhaps it may be said that after raising this world
of curiosity and doubt in the public mind as to its own origin and
true nature, we have some semblance of a right to hold this mysterious
intelligence responsible for a solution of the difficulty it has
created; and perhaps if we are a little skillful in putting our
questions, and occasionally call in the aid of Planchette's brothers and
sisters, and other members of this mysterious family, we may obtain some
satisfactory results.
PLANCHETTE'S OWN THEORY.
Planchette is intelligent; she can answer questions, and often answer
them correctly, too. On what class of subjects, then, might she be
expected to give answers more generally correct than those which relate
to herself, especially if the questions be asked in a proper spirit,
and under such conditions as are claimed to be requisite for correct
responses? Following the suggestion of this thought, the original plan
of this essay has been somewhat modified, and a careful consultation
instituted, of which I here submit the results:
Inquirer. Planchette, excuse me if I now treat you as one on whom a
little responsibility is supposed to rest. An exciter of curiosity, if
as intelligent as you appear to be, should be able to satisfy curiosity;
and a creator of doubts may be presumed to have some ability to solve
doubts. May I not, then, expect from you a solution of the mysteries
which have thus far enveloped you?
Planchette. That will depend much upon the spirit in which you may
interrogate me, the pertinence of your questions, and your capacity to
interpret the answers. If you propose a serious and careful consultation
for really useful purposes, there is another thing which you should
understand in the commencement. It is that, owing to conditions and laws
which may yet be explained to you, I shall be compelled to use your own
mind as a scaffolding, so to speak, on which to stand to pass you down
the truths you may seek, and which are above the reach of your own mind
alone. Keep your mind unperturbed, then, as well as intent upon your
object, or I can do but little for you.
I. The question which stands as basic to all others which I wish to
ask is, What is the nature of this power, intelligence, and will that
communicates with us in this mysterious manner?
P. It is the reduplication of your own mental state; it is a spirit;
it is the whole spiritual world; it is God--one or all, according to
your condition and the form and aspect in which you are able to receive
the communication.
I. That is covering rather too much ground for a beginning. For
definiteness, suppose we take one of those points at a time. In
saying, "It is a spirit," do you mean that you yourself, the immediate
communicating agent, are an intelligence outside of, and separate from,
myself, and that that intelligence is the spirit or soul of a man who
once occupied a physical body, as I now do?
P. That is what I assert--only in reaffirmation of what the world, in
explanation of similar phenomena, has been told a thousand times before.
I. Excuse me if I should question you a little closely on this point.
There are grave difficulties in the way of an acceptance of this theory.
The first of these is the prima facie absurdity of the idea.
P. Absurdity! How so?
I. It is so contrary to our ordinary course of thought; contrary, I
may say, to our instincts; contrary to what the human faculties would
naturally expect; contrary to the general experience of the world up to
this time. In fact, the more highly educated minds of the world have
long agreed in classing the idea as among the grossest of superstitions.
P. If you would, in place of each one of these assertions, affirm
directly the contrary, you would come much nearer the truth. It is
certain that the highest minds, as well as the lowest, of all ages and
nations, with only such exceptions as prove rather than disprove the
rule, have confidently believed in the occasional interposition of
spirits in mundane affairs. True, there are in this age many of the
class which you call the "more highly educated minds," who, spoiled by
reasonings merely sensual, and hence necessarily sophistical, do not
admit such an idea; but do not even these generally admit that there is
an invisible world of spirits?
I. Most of them do; all professing Christians do. I do, certainly.
P. Let me test their consistency, and yours, then, by asking, Do they
and you hold that one and the same God made all worlds, both natural and
spiritual, and all things in them?
I. Of course they do; how otherwise?
P. Then, seeing that you acknowledge the unity of the Cause of all
worlds and all things in them, you must acknowledge a certain union of
all these in one universal system as the offspring of that one Cause,
must you not?
I. Yes; I suppose the totality of things, natural and spiritual, must
be acknowledged as forming, in some sense, one united system, of diverse
but mutually correlated parts.
P. Please tell me, then, how there can be any united system in which
the component parts, divisions, and subdivisions, down even to the most
minute, are not each, necessarily and always, in communication with all
the others, either immediately or mediately?
I. I see the point, and acknowledge it is ingeniously made; but do you
not see that the argument fails to meet the whole difficulty?
P. What I do see is, that in admitting a connection of any kind,
whether mediate or immediate, between the natural and spiritual worlds,
you admit that a communication between the two worlds--hence between all
things of one and all things of the other; hence between the intelligent
inhabitants of one and those of the other--is logically not only
possible but probable, not to say certain; and in this admission you
yield the point under immediate discussion, and virtually concede that
the idea of spirit-communication is not only not absurd, but is,
indeed, among the most reasonable of things, to which ignorance and
materialistic prejudice alone have given the aspect of absurdity.
I. Well, there is something in that which looks like argument, I must
admit.
P. Can you not go a little farther and admit for established fact,
proved by the testimony of the Book from which you derive your religious
faith, that communications between spirits and mortals have sometimes
taken place?
I. True, but the Bible calls the spirits thus communicating, "familiar
spirits," and those who have dealings with them, "witches" and
"wizards," and forbids the practice under severe penalties. How does
that sound to you, my ingenious friend?
P. The way you put it, it sounds as though you did not quite
understand the full scope of my question; but no matter, since it is
at once a proof and an acknowledgment on your part that spirits have
communicated with mortals--the essential point in dispute, which when
once admitted will render further reasonings more plain. Let me ask you,
however, was not the practice of consulting familiar spirits that is
forbidden in the Bible, a practice that was common among the heathen
nations of those times?
I. It was, and is spoken of as such in several passages.
P. Did not the heathens consult familiar spirits as petty divinities,
or gods, and as such, follow their sayings and commands implicitly? and
would not the Israelites to whom the Old Testament was addressed have
violated the first command in the decalogue by adopting this practice?
and was not that the reason, and the only reason, why the practice was
forbidden?
I. To each of those questions I answer, Yes, certainly.
P. Do the Old or New Testament writings anywhere command us to abstain
from all intercourse with spirits?--or from any intercourse which would
not be a violation of the command, "Thou shalt have no other Gods before
me?"
I. Really I do not know that the Bible contains any such command.
P. Do you not know, on the contrary, that spirits other than those
called "familiar spirits," often did communicate, and with apparently
good and legitimate purposes, too, with men whose names are mentioned in
the Bible?
I. Well, I must in candor say that there were some cases of that kind.
P. May you not, then, from all this learn a rule which will always
be a safe guide to you in respect to the matters under discussion? I
submit for your consideration, that that rule is, "Be not forgetful to
entertain strangers, for thereby some have entertained angels unawares."
But even if the "strangers" that may come to you, either of your own
world or the spirit-world, should prove to be "angels," do not follow
them implicitly, or in an unreasoning manner, nor worship them as gods,
for in so doing you would render yourself amenable to the law against
having dealings with "familiar spirits."
I. I must admit that your remarks throw a somewhat new light on the
subject, and I do not know that I can dispute what you say. But even
admitting all your strong points thus far, the spirit-theory of
Planchettism and other and kindred modern wonders remains encumbered
with a mass of difficulties which it seems to me must be removed before
it can be considered as having much claim to the credence of good and
rational minds. On some of these points I propose now to question you
somewhat closely, and shall hope that you will bear with me in the same
patience and candor which you have thus far manifested.
P. Ask your questions, and I shall answer them to the best of my
ability.
THE RATIONAL DIFFICULTY.
I. The difficulties, as they appear to me, are of a threefold
character--Rational, Moral, and Religious. I begin with the first,
the Rational Difficulty. And for a point to start from, let me ask,
Is it true, as generally held, that when a man becomes disencumbered
of the clogs and hinderances of the flesh, and passes into the
spirit-world--especially into the realms of the just--his intellect
becomes more clear and comprehensive?
P. That is true, as a general rule.
I. How is it, then, that in returning to communicate with us mortals,
the alleged spirits of men who were great and wise while living on the
earth, almost uniformly appear to have degenerated as to their mental
faculties, being seldom, if ever, able to produce anything above
mediocrity? And why is it that the speaking and writing purporting to
come from spirits, are so generally in the bad grammar, bad spelling,
and other distinctive peculiarities of the style of the medium, and so
often express precisely what the medium knows, imagines, or surmises,
and nothing more?
P. That your questions have a certain degree of pertinence, I must
admit; but in making this estimate of the intelligence purporting to
come from the spiritual world, have you not ignored some things which
candor should have compelled you to take into the account? Think for a
moment.
I. Well, perhaps I ought to have made an exception in your own
favor. Your communication with me thus far has, I must admit, been
characterized by a remarkable breadth and depth of intelligence, as well
as ingenuity of argument.
P. And what, too, of the style and merits of the communications
purporting to come from spirits to other persons and through other
channels--are they not, as an almost universal rule, decidedly superior
to anything the medium could produce, unaided by the influence, whatever
it may be, which acts upon him?
I. Perhaps they are; indeed, I must admit I have known many instances
of alleged spirit-communications which, though evidently stamped with
some of the characteristics of the medium, were quite above the normal
capacity of the latter; yet in themselves considered, they were
generally beneath the capacity of the living man from whose
disembodied spirit they purported to come.
P. By just so much, then, as the production given through a medium is
elevated above the medium's normal capacity, is the influence which acts
upon him to be credited with the character of that production. Please
make a note of this point gained. And now for the question why these
communications should be tinctured with the characteristics of the
medium at all; and why spirits can not, as a general rule, communicate
to mortals their own normal intelligence, freely and without
obstruction, as man communicates with man, or spirit with spirit. But
that we may be enabled to make this mystery more clear, we had better
attend first to another question which I see you have in your mind--the
question as to the potential agent used by spirits in making
communications.
THE MEDIUM--THE DOCTRINE OF SPHERES.
I. That is what we are anxious to understand; electricity, magnetism,
odylic force, or whatever you may know or believe it to be--give us all
the light you can on the subject.
P. Properly speaking, neither of these, or neither without important
qualifications. Preparatory to the true explanation, I will lay the
foundation of a new thought in your mind by asking, Do you know of any
body or organism in nature--unless, indeed, it be a dead body--which
has not something answering to an atmosphere?
I. It has been said by some astronomers that the moon has no
atmosphere; though others, again, have expressed the opinion that she
has, indeed, an atmosphere, but a very rare one.
P. Precisely so; and as might have been expected from the rarity
of her atmosphere, she has the smallest amount of cosmic life of
any planetary body in the solar system--only enough to admit of the
smallest development of vegetable and animal forms. Still, every sun,
planet, or other cosmic body in space is generally, and every regularly
constituted form connected with that body is specifically, surrounded,
and also pervaded, by its own peculiar and characteristic atmosphere;
and to this universal rule, minerals, plants, animals, man, and in their
own degree even the disembodied men whom you call "spirits," form no
exception.
I. Do you mean to say that man and spirits, and also the lower living
forms, are surrounded by a sphere of air or wind like the atmosphere of
the earth, but yet no part of that atmosphere?
P. The atmospheres of other bodies than planets are not air or wind,
but in their substances are so different from what you know as the
atmospheres of planets as not to have anything specifically in common
with them. The specific atmospheres of flowers, and when excited by
friction, those also of some metals, and even of stone crystals,
are often perceptible to the sense of smell, and are in that way
distinguishable not only from the atmosphere of the earth, but also from
the atmospheres of each other. But properly speaking, the psychic aura
surrounding man and spirits should no longer be called an atmosphere,
that is, an atom-sphere or sphere of atoms, but simply a "sphere;"
for it is not atomic, that is, material, in its constitution, but is
a spiritual substance, and as such extends indefinitely into space,
or rather has only an indirect relation to space at all. Nor is the
atmosphere, as popularly understood, the only enveloping sphere of the
earth, for beyond and pervading it, and pervading also even all solid
bodies, is a sublime interplanetary substance called "ether," the
vehicle of light, and next approach to spiritual substance; while all
bodies, solid, liquid, and gaseous, are also pervaded by electricity.
I. All that is interesting, but the subject is new to me, and I would
like to have some farther illustration. Can you cite me some familiar
fact to prove that man is actually surrounded and pervaded by a sphere
such as you describe?
P. I can only say that you are at times conscious of the fact
yourself, as all persons are who are possessed of an ordinary degree
of psychic sensitiveness. Does not even the silent presence of certain
persons, though entire strangers, affect you with an uncomfortable sense
of repulsion, perhaps embarrassing your thoughts and speech, while in
the presence of others you at once feel perfectly free, easy, at home,
and experience even a marked and mysterious sense of congeniality?
I. That is so; I have often noticed it, but never could account for
it.
P. Farther than this, have you not at times when free from external
disturbances, with the mind in a revery of loose thoughts, noticed the
abrupt intrusion of the thought of a person altogether out of the line
of your previous meditations, and then observed that the same person
would come bodily into your presence very shortly afterward?
I. I have, frequently; the same phenomenon appears to have been
noticed by others, and is so common an occurrence as to have given rise
to the well-known slang proverb, "Speak of the devil and he will always
appear."
P. Just so; but still further: Have you not personally known of
instances, or been credibly informed of them, in which mutually
sympathizing friends of highly sensitive organizations were mysteriously
and correctly impressed with each other's general conditions, even when
long distances apart, and without any external communication?
I. I have heard and read of many such cases, but could have scarcely
believed them had I not had some experience of the kind myself.
P. There must, then, be here some medium of communication; that medium
is evidently not anything cognizable to either of the five outer senses.
What, then, can it be but the co-related spheres of the two persons,
which I have already told you are not atomic--not material but
spiritual, and as such have little relation to space?
I. That idea, if true, looks to me to be of some importance, and I
would like you, if you can, to show me clearly what relation these
"spheres," as you call them, have to the spiritual nature of man.
P. Consider, then, the primal meaning of the word "spirit:" It is
derived from the Latin spiritus, the basic meaning of which is
breath, wind, air--nearly the same idea that you attach to the word
"atmosphere." So the Greek word pneuma, also translated "spirit,"
means precisely the same thing. The same meaning is likewise attached
to the Hebrew word ruach, also sometimes translated "spirit." Now,
carrying out this use of terms, the wind, air, or atmosphere of the
earth (including the ether, electricity, and other imponderable
elements) is the spirit of the earth;[2] the atmosphere of any other
body, great or small, is the spirit of that body; the atmosphere, or
rather sphere, being now without atoms, of a man, considered as an
intellectual and moral being, is the spirit of that man; the sphere of
a disembodied man or soul is the spirit of that man or soul; and so the
Infinite and Eternal Sphere of the Deity which pervades and controls all
creations both in the spiritual and natural universe, is the Spirit of
the Deity, which in the Bible is called the Holy Spirit.
      [2] Query: Have we here the spiritus mundi of the old
      philosophers?
I. Well, those ideas seem singularly consistent with themselves, to
say the least, however novel they may appear. But now another point: You
have said that atmospheres or spheres surround and pervade all bodies,
unless, indeed, they be dead bodies--attributing, as I understand you,
a kind of cosmic life to plants, and a mineral life to minerals, as
well as a vegetable and animal life respectively to vegetables and
animals; do you mean by that to intimate that the sphere is the effect
or the cause of the living body?
P. Of each living material form, the sphere, or at least some
sphere, was the cause. Matter, considered simply by itself, is dead, and
can only live by the influx of a surrounding sphere or spirit. It may
be said at the last synthesis, that the general sphere even of each
microscopic monad that is in process of becoming vitalized, as well as
of the great nebulous mass that is to form a universe, is the Spirit
of the Infinite Deity, which is present with atoms in the degree of
atoms, as well as with worlds in the degree of worlds. This Spirit,
