but he felt that it was of no use ; that the stain of 
servitude was indelible ; that if he were lifted to 
the highest station, it would not redeem him in 
Miss Carver 's eyes. All this time he had scarcely 
more than spoken with her, to return her good morn 
ings at the dining-room door, or to exchange greetings 
with her on the stairs, or to receive some charge from 
her in going out, or to answer some question of hers 
in coming in, as to whether any of the pupils who 
had lessons of her had been there in her absence. 
He made these interviews as brief as possible ; he 
was as stiff and cold as she. 
The law-student, whose full name was Alonzo 
W. Berry, had one joking manner for all manner 
of men and women, and Lemuel 's suspicion could 
 
not find any offensive distinction in it toward him 
self; but he disabled Berry 's own gentility for that 
reason, and easily learning much of the law-student 's 
wild past in the West from so eager an autobio- 
grapher, he could not comfort himself with his friend 
ship. While the student poured out his autobio 
graphy without stint upon Lemuel, his shyness only 
deepened upon the boy. There were things in his 
life for which he was in equal fear of discovery : 
his arrest and trial in the police court, his mother 's 
queerness, and his servile condition at Miss Vane 's. 
The thought that Mr. Sewell knew about them all 
made him sometimes hate the minister, till he 
reflected that he had evidently told no one of them. 
But he was al ways trembling lest they should some 
how become known at the St. Albans ; and when 
Berry was going on about himself, his exploits, his 
escapes, his loves, chiefly his loves, Lemuel 's soul 
was sealed within him ; a vision of his disgraces 
filled him with horror. 
But in the delight of talking about himself, Berry 
was apparently unaware that Lemuel had not 
reciprocated his confidences. He celebrated his 
familiarity with Miss Swan and her friend, though 
no doubt he had the greater share of the aquaint- 
ance, that was apt to be the case with him, and 
from time to time he urged Lemuel to come up and 
call on them with him. 
"I guess they don't want me to call," said Lemuel 
with feeble bitterness at last, one evening after an 
elaborate argument from Berry to prove that Lemuel 
 
had the time, and that he just knew they would 
be glad to see him. 
"Why?" demanded Berry, and he tried to get 
Lemuel 's reason ; but when Lemuel had stated that 
belief, he could not have given the reason for it on 
his death-bed. Berry gave the conundrum up for 
the time, but he did not give Lemuel up ; he had an 
increasing need of him as he advanced in a passion 
for Miss Swan, which, as he frankly prophesied, 
was bound to bring him to the popping- point sooner 
or later ; he debated with himself in Lemuel 's pre 
sence all the best forms of popping, and he said that 
it was simply worth a ranch to be able to sing to him, 
" She 's a darling, 
She 's a daisy, 
She 's a dumpling, 
She 's a lamb," 
and to feel that he knew who she was. He usually 
sang this refrain to Lemuel when he came in late at 
night after a little supper with some of the fellows 
that had left traces of its cheer on his bated breath. 
Once he came downstairs alone in the elevator, in 
his shirt-sleeves and stocking-feet, for the purpose of 
singing it after Lemuel had thought him in bed. 
Every Sunday afternoon during the winter 
Lemuel went to see Statira, and sometimes in the 
evening he took her to church. But she could not 
understand why he always wanted to go to a differ 
ent church ; she did not see why he should not pick 
out one church and stick to it : the ministers seemed 
to be all alike, and she guessed one was pretty near 
 
as good as another. Manda Grier said she guessed 
they were all Lemuel to her ; and Statira said well, 
she guessed that was pretty much so. She no longer 
pretended that he was not the whole world to her, 
either with him or with Manda Grier ; she was so 
happy from morning till night, day in and day out, 
that Manda Grier said if she were in her place she 
should be afraid something would happen. 
Statira worked in the box-factory now ; she liked 
it a great deal better than the store, and declared 
that she was ever so much stronger. The cough 
lingered still, but none of them noticed it much; she 
called it a cold, and said she kept catching more. 
Manda Grier told her that she could throw it oft 
soon enough if she would buy a few clothes for 
warmth and not so many for looks ; but they did 
not talk this over before Lemuel. Before he came 
Statira took a soothing mixture that she got of the 
apothecary, and then they were all as bright and gay 
as could be, and she looked so pretty that he said 
he could not get used to it. The housekeeping 
experiment was a great success; she and Manda 
Grier had two rooms now, arid they lived better than 
ever they had, for less money. Of course, Statira 
said, it was not up to the St. Albans, which Lemuel 
had told them of at first a little braggingly. In fact 
she liked to have him brag of it, and of the splendours 
of his position and surroundings. She was very 
curious, but not envious of anything, and it became 
a joke with her and Manda Grier, who pretended 
to despise the whole affair. 
 
At first it flattered Lemuel to have her admire 
his rise in life so simply and ardently; but after a while 
it became embarrassing, in proportion as it no longer 
seemed so superb to him. She was always wanting 
him to talk of it ; after a few Sundays, with the 
long hours they had passed in telling each other all 
they could think of about themselves, they had not 
much else to talk of. Now that she had him to employ 
her fancy, Statira no longer fed it on the novels she 
used to devour. He brought her books, but she did 
not read them; she said that she had been so busy with 
her sewing she had no time to read; and every week 
she showed him some pretty new thing she had been 
making, and tried it on for him to see how she looked 
in it. Often she seemed to care more to rest with 
her head on his shoulder, and not talk at all ; and for 
a while this was enough for him too, though sometimes 
he was disappointed that she did not even let him 
read to her out of the books she neglected. She 
would not talk over the sermons they heard together; 
but once when Mr. Evans offered him tickets for the 
theatre, and Lemuel had got the night off and taken 
Statira, it seemed as if she would be willing to sit 
up till morning and talk the play over. 
Nothing else ever interested her so much, except 
what one of the girls in the box-factory had told 
her about going down to the beach, summers, and 
waiting on table. This girl had been at Old Orchard, 
where they had splendid times, with one veranda all 
to themselves and the gentlemen-help ; and in the 
afternoon the girls got together on the beach or the 
R 
 
grass right in front of the hotel and sewed. They 
got nearly as much as they did in , the box-factory ; 
and then the boarders all gave you something extra ; 
some of them gave as much as a dollar a week apiece. 
The head-waiter was a college student, and a perfect 
gentleman ; he was always dressed up in a dress- 
suit and a white silk neck-tie. Statira said that 
next summer she wanted they should go off some 
where, she and Manda Grier, and wait on table 
together ; and she knew Lemuel could easily get the 
head-waiter 's place, after the St. Albans. She should 
not want he should be clerk, because then they could 
not have such good times, for they would be more 
separated. 
Lemuel heard her restively through, and then 
broke out fiercely and told her that he had seen 
enough of waiting on table at the St. Albans for 
him never to want her to do it ; and that the boarders 
who gave money to the waiters despised them for 
taking it. He said that he did not consider just 
helping Mrs. Harmon out the same as being head- 
waiter, and that he Avould not be a regular waiter for 
any money : he would rather starve. 
Statira did not understand ; she asked him meekly 
if he were mad at her, he seemed so ; and he had to 
do what he could to cheer her up. 
Manda Grier took Statira 's part pretty sharply. 
She said it was one thing to live out in a private 
family that icas a disgrace, if you could keep the 
breath of life in you any other way and it was 
quite another to wait in an hotel ; and she did not 
 
want to have any one hint round that she would let 
Statira demean herself. Lemuel was offended by her 
manner, and her assumption of owning Statira. She 
defended him, but he could not tell her how he had 
changed ; the influences were perhaps too obscure 
for him to have traced them all himself ; after the 
first time he had hardly mentioned the art-student 
girls to her. There were a great many things that 
Statira could not understand. She had been much 
longer in the city than Lemuel, but she did not seem 
to appreciate the difference between that and the 
country. She dressed very stylishly ; no one went 
beyond her in that ; but in many things he could see 
that she remained countrified. Once on a very mild 
April evening, when they were passing through the 
Public Garden, she wished him to sit on a vacant 
seat they came to. All the others were occupied 
by young couples who sat with their arms around 
each other. 
"No, no!" shuddered Lemuel, "I don't want 
people should take you for one of these servant-girls." 
" Why, Lem, how proud you're  getting ! " she 
cried with easy acquiescence. " You're  awfully stuck 
up ! Well, then, you've got to take a horse- car ; I 
can't walk any further." 
XIX. 
LEMUEL had found out about the art-students from 
Berry. He said they were no relation to each other, 
and had not even been acquainted before they met 
at the art-school ; he had first met them at the St. 
Albans. Miss Swan was from the western part of 
the State, and Miss Carver from down Plymouth 
way. The latter took pupils, and sometimes gave 
lessons at their houses ; she was, to Berry 's thinking, 
not half the genius and not half the duck that Miss 
Swan was, though she was a duck in her way too. 
Miss Swan, as nearly as he could explain, was study 
ing art for the fun of it, or the excitement, for she 
was well enough off; her father was a lawyer out 
there, and Berry believed that a rising son-in-law in 
his own profession would be just the thing for the 
old man 's declining years. He said he should not be 
very particular about settling down to practice at 
once; if his wife wanted to go to Europe a while, and 
kind of tender foot it round for a year or two in the 
art-centres over there, he would let the old man run 
the business a little longer ; sometimes it did an old 
man good. There was no hurry ; Berry 's own father 
 
 
was not excited about his going to work right away ; 
he had the money to run Berry and a wife too, if it 
came to that ; Miss Swan understood that. He 
had not told her so in just so many words, but he 
had let her know that Alonzo W. Berry, senior, 
was not borrowing money at two per cent, a month 
any more. He said he did not care to make much 
of a blow about that part of it till he was ready to 
act, and he was not going to act till he had a dead- 
sure thing of it ; he was having a very good time 
as it went along, and he guessed Miss Swan was 
too ; no use to hurry a girl, when she was on the 
right track. 
Berry invented these axioms apparently to put 
himself in heart; in the abstract he was already 
courageous enough. He said that these Eastern 
girls were not used to having any sort of attention ; 
that there was only about a tenth or fifteenth of a 
fellow to every girl, and that it tickled one of them 
to death to have a whole man around. He was not 
meanly exultant at their destitution. He said he 
just wished one of these pretty Boston girls nice, 
well dressed, cultured, and brought up to be snubbed 
and neglected by the tenths and fifteenths of men 
they had at home could be let loose in the West, 
and have a regular round-up of fellows. Or, no, he 
would like to have about five thousand fellows from 
out there, that never expected a woman to look at 
them, unloaded in Boston, and see them open their 
eyes. "Wouldn't one of. em get home alive, if 
kindness could kill em. I never saw such a place ! 
 
I can't gefc used to it ! It makes me tired. Any 
sort of fellow could get married in Boston !" 
Berry made no attempt to reconcile his uncertainty 
as to his own chances with this general theory, but 
he urged it to prove that Miss Swan and Miss Carver 
would like to have Lemuel call; he said they had both 
said they wished they could paint him. He had him 
self sustained various characters in costume for them, 
and one night he pretended that they had sent him 
down for Lemuel to help out with a certain group. 
But they received him with a sort of blankness which 
convinced him that Berry had exceeded his authority ; 
there was a helplessness at first, and then an indignant 
determination to save him from a false position even 
at their own cost, which JLemuel felt rather than saw. 
Miss Carver was foremost in his rescue ; she devoted 
herself to this, and left Miss Swan to punish Berry, 
who conveyed from time to time his sense that he 
fras " getting it," by a wink to Lemuel. 
An observer with more social light might have 
been more puzzled to account for Berry 's toleration 
by these girls, who apparently associated with him 
on equal terms. Since he was not a servant, he was 
their equal in Lemuel 's eyes ; perhaps his acceptance 
might otherwise be explained by the fact that he was 
very amusing, chivalrously harmless, and extremely 
kind-hearted and useful to them. One must 
not leave out of the reckoning his open devotion 
for Miss Swan, which in itself would do 
much to approve him to her, and commend him 
to Miss Carver, if she were a generous girl, and very 
 
fond of her friend. It is certain that they did tole 
rate Berry, who made them laugh even that night 
in spite of themselves, till Miss Swan said, " Well, 
what & the use ? " and stopped trying to discipline 
him. After that they had a very sociable evening, 
though Lemuel kept his distance, and would not let 
them include him, knowing what the two girls really 
thought of him. He would not take part in Berry 's 
buffooneries, but talked soberly and rather austerely 
with Miss Carver; and to show that he did not feel 
himself an inferior, whatever she might think, he was 
very sarcastic about some of the city ways and customs 
they spoke of. There were a good many books about 
novels mostly, but not the kind Statira used to 
read, and poems ; Miss Carver said she liked to take 
them up when she was nervous from her work; and if 
the weather was bad, and she could not get out for a 
walk, a book seemed to do her almost as much good. 
Nearly all the pictures about in the room seemed to 
be Miss Swan 's ; in fact, when Lemuel asked about 
them, and tried to praise them in such a way as not 
to show his ignorance, Miss Carver said she did very 
little in colour ; her lessons were all in black and 
white. He would not let her see that he did not 
know what this was, but he was ashamed, and he 
determined to find out; he determined to get a 
drawing-book, and learn something about it himself. 
To his thinking, the room was pretty harum-scarum. 
There were shawls hung upon the walls, and rugs, 
and pieces of cloth, which sometimes had half-finished 
paintings fastened to them ; there were paintings 
 
standing round the room on the floor, sometimes right 
side out, and sometimes faced to the walls; there were 
two or three fleeces and fox-pelts scattered about in 
stead of a carpet; and there were two easels, and 
stands with paints all twisted up in lead tubes on 
them. He compared the room with Statira s, and 
did not think much of it at first. 
Afterwards it did not seem so bad : he began to 
feel its picturesqueness, for he went there again, and 
let the girls sketch him. When Miss Swan asked 
him that night if he would let them he wished to 
refuse ; but she seemed so modest about it, and 
made it such a great favour on his part, that he con 
sented ; she said she merely wished to make a little 
sketch in colour, and Miss Carver a little study of his 
head in black and white ; and he imagined it a 
trifling affair that could be despatched "in a single 
night. They decided to treat his head as a Young 
Eoman head; and at the end of a long sitting, 
beguiled with talk and with thoughtful voluntaries 
from Berry on his banjo, he found that Miss Carver 
had rubbed her study nearly all out with a piece of 
bread, and Miss Swan said she should want to try 
a perfectly new sketch with the shoulders draped ; 
the coat had confused her ; she would not let any 
one see what she had done, though Berry tried to 
make her let him. 
Lemuel looked a little blank when she asked him 
for another sitting ; but Berry said, " Oh, you'll have 
to come, Barker. Penalty of greatness, you know. 
Have you in Williams & Everett 's window ; notices 
 
in all the papers. The exquisite studies, by Miss 
Swan and Miss Carver, of the head of the gentle 
manly and accommodating clerk of the St. Albans, 
as a Koman Youth. Chromoed as a Christmas card 
by Prang, and photograph copies everywhere. 
You're  all right, Barker." 
One night Miss Swan said, in rapture with some 
momentary success, " Oh, I' m perfectly in love with 
this head ! " 
Berry looked up from his banjo, which he ceased 
to strum. " Hello, hello, lael-lo / " 
Then the two broke into a laugh, in which 
Lemuel helplessly joined. 
" What what is it ? " asked Miss Carver, looking 
up absently from her work. 
" Nothing ; just a little outburst of passion from 
our young friend here," said Berry, nodding his head 
toward Miss Swan. 
" What does it mean, Mad ? " asked Miss Carver 
in the same dreamy way, continuing her work. 
"Yes, Madeline," said Berry, "explain your 
self." 
" Mr. Berry ! " cried Miss Swan warningly. 
" That 's me ; Alonzo W., Jr. Go on ! " 
" You forget yourself," said the girl, with imperfect 
severity. 
"Well, you forgot me first," said Berry, with 
affected injury. " Ain't it hard enough to sit here 
night after night, strumming on the old banjo, while 
another fellow is going down to posterity as a Roman 
Youth with & red shawl round his neck, without 
having to hear people say they're  in love with that 
head of his ? " 
Miss Carver now stopped her work, and looked 
from her friend, with her head bowed in laughter 
on the back of her hand, to that of Berry bent in 
burlesque reproach upon her, and then at Lemuel, 
who was trying to control himself. 
" But I can tell you what, Miss Swan ; you spoke 
too late, as the man said when he swallowed the 
chicken in the fresh egg. Mr. Barker has a previous 
engagement. That so, Barker ? " 
Lemuel turned fire-red, and looked round at Miss 
Carver, who met his glance with her clear gaze. 
She turned presently to make some comment on 
Miss Swan 's sketch, and then, after working a little 
while longer, she said she was tired, and was going 
to make some tea. 
The girls both pressed Lemuel to stay for a cup, 
but he would not ; and Berry followed him down 
stairs to explain and apologise. 
"It 's all right," said Lemuel. "What difference 
would it make to them whether I was engaged or 
not ? " 
" Well, I suppose as a general rule a girl would 
rather a fellow wasn t," philosophised Berry. He 
whistled ruefully, and Lemuel drawing a book 
toward him in continued silence, he rose from the 
seat he had taken on the desk in the little office, and 
said, " Well, I guess it'll all come out right. Come 
to think of it, / don't know anything about your 
affairs, and I can tell em so." 
 
"Oh, it don't matter." 
. He had pulled the book toward him as if he were 
going to read, but he could not read ; his head was 
in a whirl. After a first frenzy of resentment against 
Berry, he was now angry at himself for having been 
so embarrassed. He thought of a retort that would 
have passed it all off lightly ; then he reflected again 
that it was of no consequence to these young ladies 
whether he was engaged or not, and at any rate it 
was nobody 's business but his own. Of course he 
was engaged to Statira, but he had hardly thought of 
it in that way. Manda Grier had joked about the 
time when she supposed she should have to keep old 
maid 's hall alone ; when she first did this Lemuel 
thought it delightful, but afterwards he did not like 
it so much ; it began to annoy him that Manda Grier 
should mix herself up so much with Statira and 
himself. He believed, that Statira would be different, 
would be more like other ladies (he generalised it in 
this way, but he meant Miss Swan and Miss Carver), 
if she had not Manda Grier there all the time to 
keep her back. He convinced himself that if it were 
not for Manda Grier, he should have had no trouble 
in telling Statira that the art- students were sketch 
ing him ; and that he had not done so yet because 
he hated to have Manda ask her so much about them, 
and call them that Swan girl and that Carver girl, as 
she would be sure to do, and clip away the whole 
evening with her questions and her guesses. It was 
now nearly a fortnight since the sketching began, 
and he had let one Sunday night pass without 
 
mentioning it. He could not let another pass, and 
he knew Manda Grier would say they were a good- 
while about it, and would show her ignorance, and 
put Statira up to asking all sorts of things. He could 
not bear to think of it, and he let the next Sunday 
night pass without saying anything to Statira. The 
sittings continued ; but before the third Sunday came 
Miss Swan said she did not see how she could do 
anything more to her sketch, and Miss Carver had 
already completed her study. They criticised each 
other 's work with freedom and good humour, and 
agreed that the next thing was to paint it out and 
rub it out. 
" No, 5 said Berry ; " what you want is a fresh eye 
on it. I've worried over it as much as you have, 
suffered more, I believe, and Barker can't tell 
whether he looks like a Roman Youth or not. "Why 
don't you have up old Evans ? " 
Miss Swan took no apparent notice of this 
suggestion ; and Miss Carver, who left Berry 's 
snubbing entirely to her, said nothing. After a 
minute 's study of the pictures, Miss Swan sug 
gested, "If Mr. Barker had any friends he would 
like to show them to ? " 
"Oh no, thank you," returned Lemuel hastily, 
"there isn't anybody," and again he found himself 
turning very red. 
"Well, I don't know how we can thank you 
enough for your patience, Mr. Barker," said the girl. 
" Oh, don't mention it. I've I've  enjoyed it," 
said Lemuel. 
 
"Game every time," said Berry; and their 
evening broke up with a laugh. 
The next morning Lemuel stopped Miss Swan at 
the door of the breakfast room, and said, " I J've  been 
thinking over what you said last night, and I should 
like to bring some one a lady friend of mine to 
see the pictures." 
" Why, certainly, Mr. Barker. Any time. Some 
evening ? " she suggested. 
" Should you mind it if I came to-morrow night ? " 
be asked ; and he thought it right to remind her, 
" it 's Sunday night." 
" Oh, not at all ! To-morrow night, by all means ! 
We shall both be at home, and very glad to see you." 
She hurried after Miss Carver, loitering on her way 
to their table, and Lemuel saw them put their heads 
together, as if they were whispering. He knew 
they were whispering about him, but they did not 
laugh ; probably they kept themselves from laughing. 
In coming out from breakfast, Miss Swan said, "I 
hope your friend isn't very critical, Mr. Barker ? " 
and he answered confusedly, " Oh, not at all, thank 
you." But he said to himself that he did not care 
whether she was trying to make fun of him or 
not, he knew what he had made up his mind to 
do. 
Statira did not seem to care much about going 
to see the pictures, when he proposed it to her 
the next evening. She asked why he had been 
keeping it such a great secret, and he could not 
pretend, as he had once thought he could, that 
he was keeping it as a surprise for her. " Should 
you like to see em, Manda ? " she asked, with 
languid indifference. 
" I'd know as I care much about Lem 's picture, 
s long 's we've got him around," Manda Grier 
whipped out, " but I should like t see those celebrated 
girls t we've  heard 's much about." 
"Well," said Statira carelessly, and they went 
into the next room to put on their wraps. Lemuel, 
vexed to have Manda Grier made one of the party, 
and helpless to prevent her going, walked up and 
down, wondering what he should say when he 
arrived with this unexpected guest. 
But Miss Swan received both of the girls very 
politely, and chatted with Manda Grier, whose con 
versation, in defiance of any sense of superiority 
that the Swan girl or the Carver girl might feel, 
was a succession of laconic snaps, sometimes witty, 
but mostly rude and contradictory. 
Miss Carver made tea, and served it in some 
pretty cups which Lemuel hoped Statira might 
admire, but she took it without noticing, and in 
talking with Miss Carver she drawled, and said 
" N-y-e-e-e-s," and " I don't know as I d-o-o-o," and 
" Well, I should think as m-u-u-ch," with a prolonga 
tion of all the final syllables in her sentences which 
he had not observed in her before, and which she 
must have borrowed for the occasion for the gentil 
ity of the effect. She tried to refer everything to 
him, and she and Manda Grier talked together as 
much as they could, and when the others spoke of 
 
him as Mr. Barker, they called him Lem. They did 
not look at anything, or do anything to betray that 
they found the studio, on which Lemuel had 
once expatiated to them, different from other 
rooms. 
At last Miss Swan abruptly brought out the studies 
of Lemuel 's head, and put them in a good light ; 
Manda Grier and Statira got into the wrong place 
to see them. 
Manda blurted out, "Well, he looks 's if he'd 
had a fit of sickness in that one ; " and perhaps, in 
fact, Miss Carver had refined too much upon a deli 
cate ideal of Lemuel 's looks. 
" So he d-o-o-es ! " drawled Statira. " And how 
funny he looks with that red thing o-o-o-n ! " 
Miss Swan explained that she had thrown that in 
for the colour, and that they had been fancying him 
in the character of a young Roman. 
" You think he 's got a Roman n-o-o-se ? " asked 
Statira through her own. 
"I think Lem 's got a kind of a pug, m self," said 
Manda Grier. 
" Well, Manda Grier ! " said Statira. 
Lemuel could not look at Miss Carver, whom he 
knew to be gazing at the two girls from the little 
distance to which she had withdrawn ; Miss Swan 
was biting her lip. 
" So that 's the celebrated St. Albans, is it ? " said 
Manda Grier, when they got in the street. " Don't 
know 's I really ever expected to see the inside f it. 
 
You notice the kind of oilcloth they had on that 
upper entry, S tira ? " 
They did not mention Lemuel 's pictures, or the 
artists ; and he scarcely spoke on the way home. 
When they parted, Statira broke out crying, and 
would not let him kiss her. 
XX. 
" I M afraid your little friend at the St. Albans 
isn't altogether happy of late," said Evans toward 
the end of what he called one of his powwows with 
Sewell. Their talk had taken a vaster range than 
usual, and they both felt the need, that people know 
in dealing with abstractions, of finally getting the 
ground beneath their feet again. 
"Ah?" asked Sewell, with a twinge that allayed 
his satisfaction in this. " What 's the matter with 
him ? " 
" Oh, the knowledge of good and evil, I suspect." 
"I hope there 's nothing wrong," said Sewell 
anxiously. 
"Oh no. I used the phrase because it came 
easily. Just what I' mean is that I' m afraid his 
view of our social inequalities is widening and 
deepening, and that he experiences the dissatis 
faction of people who don't command that prospect 
from the summit. I told you of his censure of our 
aristocratic constitution ? " 
" Yes," said Sewell, with a smile. 
" Well, I' m afraid he feels it more and more. If 
I can judge from the occasional distance and hauteur 
 
with which he treats me, he is humiliated by it. 
Nothing makes a man so proud as humiliation, you 
know." 
" That 's true ! " 
"There are a couple of pretty girls at the St. 
Albans, art-students, who have been painting Barker. 
So I learn from a reformed cow-boy of the plains 
who is with us as a law-student and is about with 
one of the young ladies a good deal. They're  
rather nice girls ; quite nice, in fact ; and there 's no 
harm in the cow-boy, and a good deal of fun. But 
if Barker had conceived of being painted as a social 
inferior, and had been made to feel that he was 
merely a model ; and if he had become at all aware 
that one of the girls was rather pretty they both 
are " 
. "I see!" 
" I don't say it 's so. But he seems low-spirited. 
Why don't you come round and cheer him up get 
into his confidence " 
" Get into the centre of the earth ! " cried Sewell. 
" I never saw such an inapproachable creature ! " 
Evans laughed. " He is rather remote. The 
genuine American youth is apt to be so, especially 
if he thinks you mean him a kindness. But there 
ought to be some way of convincing him that he 
need not feel any ignominy in his employment. 
After so many centuries of Christianity and genera 
tions of Democracy, it ought to be very simple to 
convince him that there is nothing disgraceful in 
showing people to their places at table." 
 
" It isn t," said the minister soberly. 
" No, it isn t," said Evans. " I wonder," he added 
thoughtfully, " why we despise certain occupations!
We don't despise a man who hammers stone or saws 
boards ; why should we despise a barber ? Is the 
care of the human head intrinsically less honourable 
than the shaping of such rude material "? Why do we 
still contemn the tailor who clothes us, and honour 
the painter who portrays us in the same clothes ? 
Why do we despise waiters ? I tried to make 
Barker believe that I respected all kinds of honest 
work. But I lied ; I despised him for having waited 
on table. Why have all manner of domestics fallen 
under our scorn, and come to be stigmatised in a lump 
as servants ? " 
"Ah, I don't know," said the minister. " There is 
something in personal attendance upon us that dis 
honours ; but the reasons of it are very obscure ; / 
couldn't give them. Perhaps it 's because it 's work 
that in a simpler state of things each of us would do 
for himself, and in this state is too proud to do." 
" That doesn't cover the whole ground," said 
Evans. 
" And you think that poor boy is troubled is 
really suffering from a sense of inferiority to the 
other young people ? " 
" Oh, I don't say certainly. Perhaps not. But if 
he were, what should you say was the best thing for 
him to do ? Remain a servant ; cast his lot with 
these outcasts; or try to separate and distinguish 
himself from them, as we all do ! Come ; we live in 
 
the world, which isn't so bad, though it 's pretty 
stupid. He couldn't change it. Now, what ought 
he to do ? " 
Sewell mused a while without answering anything. 
Then he said with a smile, "It 's very much simpler 
to fit people for the other world than for this, don't 
you think ? " 
"Yes, it is. It was a cold day for the clergy 
when it was imagined that they ought to do both." 
" Well," said Sewell, rising to follow his friend to 
the door, " I will come to see Barker, and try to talk 
with him. He 's a very complicated problem. I 
supposed that I had merely his material prosperity to 
provide for, after getting him down here, but if I have 
to reconcile him to the constitution of society ! " 
" Yes," said Evans. " I wish you'd let me know 
the result of your labours. I think I could make a 
very incisive article on the subject. The topic is 
always an attractive one. There is nobody who 
doesn't feel that somebody else is taking on airs with 
him, and ought to have his comb cut. Or, if you 
should happen to prove to Barker that his ignominy 
is in accordance with the Development Theory, and 
is a necessary Survival, or something of that sort, 
don't you see what a card it would be for us with 
the better classes ? " 
They wenf downstairs together, and at the street 
door Evans stopped again. "Or, I'll tell you what. 
Make it a simple study of Barker 's mind a sort of 
