whatever it was, would be of a melodramatic character. She 
was very quiet now, at least (she had folded her big fan), 
and her father continued the mysterious process of calming 
her down. Ransom wondered whether he wouldn't put her 
to sleep ; for some minutes her eyes had remained closed ; 
he heard a lady near him, apparently familiar with pheno- 
mena of this class, remark that she was going off. As yet 
the exhibition was not exciting, though it was certainly 
pleasant to have such a pretty girl placed there before one, 
like a moving statue. Doctor Tarrant looked at no one 
as he stroked and soothed his daughter ; his eyes wandered 
round the cornice of the room, and he grinned upward, as 
if at an imaginary gallery. ' Quietly quietly/ he murmured, 
from time to time. '  It will come, my good child, it will 
come. Just let it work just let it gather. The spirit, you 
know; you've got to let the spirit come out when it will.' 
He threw up his arms at moments, to rid himself of the 
wings of his long waterproof, which fell forward over his 
hands. Basil Ransom noticed all these things, and noticed 
also, opposite, the waiting face of his cousin, fixed, from 
her sofa, upon the closed eyes of the young prophetess. 
He grew more impatient at last, not of the delay of the 
edifying voice (though some time had elapsed), but of 
Tarrant's grotesque manipulations, which he resented as 
much as if he himself had felt their touch, and which 
seemed a dishonour to the passive maiden. They made 
him nervous, they made him angry, and it was only after- 
wards that he asked himself wherein they concerned him, 
and whether even a carpet-bagger hadn't a right to do what 
he pleased with his daughter. It was a relief to him when 
Verena got up from her chair, with a movement which 
made Tarrant drop into the background as if his part were 
now over. She stood there with a quiet face, serious and 
sightless ; then, after a short further delay, she began to 
speak. 
She began incoherently, almost inaudibly, as if she were 
talking in a dream. Ransom could not understand her 
he thought it very queer, and wondered what Doctor 
Prance would have said. ' She's just arranging her ideas, 
and trying to get in report ; she'll come out all right.' 
60   VIIL 
This remark he heard dropped in a low tone by the 
mesmeric healer; 'in report' was apparently Tarrant's 
version of en rapport. His prophecy was verified, and 
Verena did come out, after a little ; she came out with a 
great deal of sweetness with a very quaint and peculiar 
effect. She proceeded slowly, cautiously, as if she were 
listening for the prompter, catching, one by one, certain 
phrases that were whispered to her a great distance off, 
behind the scenes of the world. Then memory, or inspira- 
tion, returned to her, and presently she was in possession 
of her part. She played it with extraordinary simplicity 
and grace ; at the end of ten minutes Ransom became 
aware that the whole audience Mrs. Farrinder, Miss 
Chancellor, and the tough subject from Mississippi were 
under the charm. I speak of ten minutes, but to tell the 
truth the young man lost all sense of time. He wondered 
afterwards how long she had spoken ; then he counted that 
her strange, sweet, crude, absurd, enchanting improvisation 
must have lasted half an hour. It was not what she said ; 
he didn't care for that, he scarcely understood it ; he could 
only see that it was all about the gentleness and goodness 
of women, and how, during the long ages of history, they 
had been trampled under the iron heel of man. It was 
about their equality perhaps even (he was not definitely 
conscious) about their superiority. It was about their day 
having come at last, about the universal sisterhood, about 
their duty to themselves and to each other. It was about 
such matters as these, and Basil Ransom was delighted to 
observe that such matters as these didn't spoil it. The 
effect was not in what she said, though she said some such 
pretty things, but in the picture and figure of the half- 
bedizened damsel (playing, now again, with her red fan), 
the visible freshness and purity of the little effort. When 
she had gained confidence she opened her eyes, and their 
shining softness was half the effect of her discourse. It 
was full of school-girl phrases, of patches of remembered 
eloquence, of childish lapses of logic, of flights of fancy 
which might indeed have had success at Topeka; but 
Ransom thought that if it had been much worse it would 
have been quite as good, for the argument, the doctrine, 
 
had absolutely nothing to do with it. It was simply an 
intensely personal exhibition, and the person making it 
happened to be fascinating. She might have offended the 
taste of certain people Ransom could imagine that there 
were other Boston circles in which she would be thought 
pert ; but for himself all he could feel was that to his starved 
senses she irresistibly appealed He was the stiffest of 
conservatives, and his mind was steeled against the inanities 
she uttered the rights and wrongs of women, the equality 
of the sexes, the hysterics of conventions, the further 
stultification of the suffrage, the prospect of conscript 
mothers in the national Senate. It made no difference ; 
she didn't mean it, she didn't know what she meant, she 
had been stuffed with this trash by her father, and she 
was neither more nor less willing to say it than to say 
anything else ; for the necessity of her nature was not to 
make converts to a ridiculous cause, but to emit those 
charming notes of her voice, to stand in those free young 
attitudes, to shake her braided locks like a naiad rising 
from the waves, to please every one who came near her, 
and to be happy that she pleased. I know not whether 
Ransom was aware of the bearings of this interpretation, 
which attributed to Miss Tarrant a singular hollowness of 
character ; he contented himself with believing that she was 
as innocent as she was lovely, and with regarding her as a 
vocalist of exquisite faculty, condemned to sing bad music. 
How prettily, indeed, she made some of it sound ! 
' Of course I only speak to women to my own dear 
sisters ; I don't speak to men, for I don't expect them to 
like what I say. They pretend to admire us very much, 
but I should like them to admire us a little less and to 
trust us a little more. I don't know what we have ever 
done to them that they should keep us out of everything. 
We have trusted them too much, and I think the time has 
come now for us to judge them, and say that by keeping 
us out we don't think they have done so well. When I 
look around me at the world, and at the state that men have 
brought it to, I confess I say to myself, "Well, if women 
had fixed it this way I should like to know what they would 
think of it !" When I see the dreadful misery of mankind 
62   
and think of the suffering of which at any hour, at any 
moment, the world is full, I say that if this is the best they 
can do by themselves, they had better let us come in a 
little and see what we can do. We couldn't possibly make 
it worse, could we ? If we had done only this, we shouldn't 
boast of it. Poverty, and ignorance, and crime ; disease, 
and wickedness, and wars ! Wars, always more wars, and 
always more and more. Blood, blood the world is 
drenched with blood ! To kill each other, with all sorts of 
expensive and perfected instruments, that is the most 
brilliant thing they have been able to invent. It seems to 
me that we might stop it, we might invent something better. 
The cruelty the cruelty ; there is so much, so much ! 
Why shouldn't tenderness come in ? Why should our 
woman's hearts be so full of it, and all so wasted and 
withered, while armies and prisons and helpless miseries 
grow greater all the while ? I am only a girl, a simple 
American girl, and of course I haven't seen much, and 
there is a great deal of life that I don't know anything 
about. But there are some things I feel it seems to me 
as if I had been born to feel them ; they are in my ears in 
the stillness of the night and before my face in the visions 
of the darkness. It is what the great sisterhood of women 
might do if they should all join hands, and lift up their 
voices above the brutal uproar of the world, in which it is 
so hard for the plea of mercy or of justice, the moan of 
weakness and suffering, to be heard. We should quench it, 
we should make it still, and the sound of our lips would 
become the voice of universal peace ! For this we must 
trust one another, we must be true and gentle and kind. 
We must remember that the world is ours too, ours little 
as we have ever had to say about anything ! and that the 
question is not yet definitely settled whether it shall be a 
place of injustice or a place of love !' 
It was with this that the young lady finished her har- 
angue, which was not followed by her sinking exhausted 
into her chair or by any of the traces of a laboured climax. 
She only turned away slowly towards her mother, smiling 
over her shoulder at the whole room, as if it had been a 
single person, without a flush in her whiteness, or the need 
 
of drawing a longer breath. The performance had evi- 
dently been very easy to her, and there might have been a 
kind of impertinence in her air of not having suffered from 
an exertion which had wrought so powerfully on every one 
else. Ransom broke into a genial laugh, which he instantly 
swallowed again, at the sweet grotesqueness of this virginal 
creature's standing up before a company of middle-aged 
people to talk to them about ( love,' the note on which she 
had closed her harangue. It was the most charming touch 
in the whole thing, and the most vivid proof of her in- 
nocence. She had had immense success, and Mrs. Tarrant, 
as she took her into her arms and kissed her, was certainly 
able to feel that the audience was not disappointed. They 
were exceedingly affected; they broke into exclamations 
and murmurs. Selah Tarrant went on conversing ostenta- 
tiously with his neighbours, slowly twirling his long thumbs 
and looking up at the cornice again, as if there could be 
nothing in the brilliant manner in which his daughter had 
acquitted herself to surprise him, who had heard her when 
she was still more remarkable, and who, moreover, re- 
membered that the affair was so impersonal. Miss Birdseye 
looked round at the company with dim exultation ; her 
large mild cheeks were shining with unwiped tears. 
Young Mr. Pardon remarked, in Ransom's hearing, that he 
knew parties who, if they had been present, would want to 
engage Miss Verena at a high figure for the winter 
campaign. And Ransom heard him add in a lower tone : 
' There's money for some one in that girl ; you see if she 
don't have quite a run ! ' As for our Mississippian he kept 
his agreeable sensation for himself, only wondering whether 
he might not ask Miss Birdseye to present him to the 
heroine of the evening. Not immediately, of course, for 
the young man mingled with his Southern pride a shyness 
which often served all the purpose of humility. He was 
aware how much he was an outsider in such a house as 
that, and he was ready to wait for his coveted satisfaction 
till the others, who all hung together, should have given her 
the assurance of an approval which she would value, natu- 
rally, more than anything he could say to her. This 
episode had imparted animation to the assembly ; a certain 
 
gaiety, even, expressed in a higher pitch of conversation, 
seemed to float in the heated air. People circulated more 
freely, and Verena Tarrant was presently hidden from 
Ransom's sight by the close -pressed ranks of the new 
friends she had made. 'Well, I never heard it put that 
way !' Ransom heard one of the ladies exclaim; to which 
another replied that she wondered one of their bright 
women hadn't thought of it before. ' Well, it is a gift, and 
no mistake,' and ' Well, they may call it what they please, 
it's a pleasure to listen to it ' these genial tributes fell from 
the lips of a pair of ruminating gentlemen. It was affirmed 
within Ransom's hearing that if they had a few more like 
that the matter would soon be fixed ; and it was rejoined 
that they couldn't expect to have a great many the style 
was so peculiar. It was generally admitted that the style 
was peculiar, but Miss Tarrant's peculiarity was the ex- 
planation of her success. 
IX. 
RANSOM approached Mrs. Farrinder again, who had 
remained on her sofa with Olive Chancellor ; and as she 
turned her face to him he saw that she had felt the universal 
contagion. Her keen eye sparkled, there was a flush on 
her matronly cheek, and she had evidently made up her 
mind what line to take. Olive Chancellor sat motionless ; 
her eyes were fixed on the floor with the rigid, alarmed 
expression of her moments of nervous diffidence ; she gave 
no sign of observing her kinsman's approach. He said 
something to Mrs. Farrinder, something that imperfectly 
represented his admiration of Verena ; and this lady replied 
with dignity that it was no wonder the girl spoke so well 
she spoke in such a good cause. ' She is very grace- 
ful, has a fine command of language ; her father says it's a 
natural gift.' Ransom saw that he should not in the least 
discover Mrs. Farrinder's real opinion, and her dissimula- 
tion added to his impression that she was a woman with a 
policy. It was none of his business whether in her heart 
she thought Verena a parrot or a genius ; it was perceptible 
to him that she saw she would be effective, would help the 
cause. He stood almost appalled for a moment, as he said 
to himself that she would take her up and the girl would 
be ruined, would force her note and become a screamer. 
But he quickly dodged this vision, taking refuge in a 
mechanical appeal to his cousin, of whom he inquired how 
she liked Miss Verena. Olive made no answer ; her head 
remained averted, she bored the carpet with her conscious 
eyes. Mrs. Farrinder glanced at her askance, and then 
said to Ransom serenely : 
' You praise the grace of your Southern ladies, but you 
have had to come North to see a human gazelle. Miss 
 
Tarrant is of the best New England stock what / call the 
best!' 
' Tm sure from what I have seen of the Boston ladies, 
no manifestation of grace can excite my surprise,' Ransom 
rejoined, looking, with his smile, at his cousin. 
'She has been powerfully affected,' Mrs. Farrinder 
explained, very slightly dropping her voice, as Olive, 
apparently, still remained deaf. 
Miss Birdseye drew near at this moment; she wanted 
to know if Mrs. Farrinder didn't want to express some 
acknowledgment, on the part of the company at large, for 
the real stimulus Miss Tarrant had given them. Mrs. 
Farrinder said : Oh yes, she would speak now with 
pleasure ; only she must have a glass of water first. Miss 
Birdseye replied that there was some coming in a moment; 
one of the ladies had asked for it, and Mr. Pardon had 
just stepped down to draw some. Basil took advantage of 
this intermission to ask Miss Birdseye if she would give 
him the great privilege of an introduction to Miss Verena. 
' Mrs. Farrinder will thank her for the company,' he said, 
laughing, 'bul she won't thank her for me.' 
Miss Birdseye manifested the greatest disposition to 
oblige him ; she was so glad he had been impressed. She 
was proceeding to lead him toward Miss Tarrant when 
Olive Chancellor rose abruptly from her chair and laid her 
hand, with an arresting movement, on the arm of her 
hostess. She explained to her that she must go, that she 
was not very well, that her carriage was there ; also that 
she hoped Miss Birdseye, if it was not asking too much, 
would accompany her to the door. 
' Well, you are impressed too,' said Miss Birdseye, 
looking at her philosophically. '  It seems as if no one 
had escaped.' 
Ransom was disappointed ; he saw he was going to be 
taken away, and, before he could suppress it, an exclama- 
tion burst from his lips the first exclamation he could 
think of that would perhaps check his cousin's retreat : 
' Ah, Miss Olive, are you going to give up Mrs. Farrinder?' 
At this Miss Olive looked at him, showed him an 
extraordinary face, a face he scarcely understood or even 
recognised. It was portentously grave, the eyes were 
enlarged, there was a red spot in each of the cheeks, and 
as directed to him, a quick, piercing question, a kind of 
leaping challenge, in the whole expression. He could only 
answer this sudden gleam with a stare, and wonder afresh 
what trick his Northern kinswoman was destined to play 
him. Impressed too ? He should think he had been ! 
Mrs. Farrinder, who was decidedly a woman of the world, 
came to his assistance, or to Miss Chancellor's, and said 
she hoped very much Olive wouldn't stay she felt these 
things too much. 'If you stay, I won't speak,' she 
added; 'I should upset you altogether.' And then she 
continued, tenderly, for so preponderantly intellectual a 
nature : ' When women feel as you do, how can I doubt 
that we shall come^put all right?' 
' Oh, we shall come out all right, I guess,' murmured 
Miss Birdseye. 
' But you must remember Beacon Street,' Mrs. Farrinder 
subjoined. ' You must take advantage of your position 
you must wake up the Back Bay ! ' 
' I'm sick of the Back Bay ! ' said Olive fiercely ; and 
she passed to the door with Miss Birdseye, bidding good- 
bye to no one. She was so agitated that, evidently, she 
could not trust herself, and there was nothing for Ransom 
but to follow. At the door of the room, however, he was 
checked by a sudden pause on the part of the two ladies : 
Olive stopped and stood there hesitating. She looked 
round the room and spied out Verena, where she sat with 
her mother, the centre of a gratified group ; then, throwing 
back her head with an air of decision, she crossed over to 
her. Ransom said to himself that now, perhaps, was his 
chance, and he quickly accompanied Miss Chancellor. 
The little knot of reformers watched her as she arrived ; 
their faces expressed a suspicion of her social importance, 
mingled with conscientious scruples as to whether it were 
right to recognise it. Verena Tarrant saw that she was 
the object of this manifestation, and she got up to meet 
the lady whose approach was so full of point. Ransom 
perceived, however, or thought he perceived, that she 
recognised nothing ; she had no suspicions of social import- 
 
ance. Yet she smiled with all her radiance, as she looked 
from Miss Chancellor to him; smiled because she liked 
to smile, to please, to feel her success or was it because 
she was a perfect little actress, and this was part of her 
training? She took the hand that Olive put out to her; 
the others, rather solemnly, sat looking up from their chairs. 
' You don't know me, but I want to know you,' Olive 
said. ' I can thank you now. Will you come and see me?' 
'Oh yes; where do you live?' Verena answered, in 
the tone of a girl for whom an invitation (she hadn't so 
many) was always an invitation. 
Miss Chancellor syllabled her address, and Mrs. Tarrant 
came forward, smiling. 'I know about you, Miss Chan- 
cellor. I guess your father knew my father Mr. Green- 
street. Verena will be very glad to visit you. We shall 
be very happy to see you in our home.' 
Basil Ransom, while the mother spoke, wanted to say 
something to the daughter, who stood there so near him, 
but he could think of nothing that would do; certain 
words that came to him, his Mississippi phrases, seemed 
patronising and ponderous. Besides, he didn't wish to 
assent to what she had said ; he wished simply to tell her 
she was delightful, and it was difficult to mark that differ- 
ence. So he only smiled at her in silence, and she smiled 
back at him a smile that seemed to him quite for himself. 
'  Where do you live?' Olive asked; and Mrs. Tarrant 
replied that they lived at Cambridge, and that the horse- 
cars passed just near their door. Whereupon Olive insisted 
' Will you come very soon ? ' and Verena said, Oh yes, she 
would come very soon, and repeated the number in Charles 
Street, to show that she had taken heed of it. This was 
done with childlike good faith. Ransom saw that she 
would come and see any one who would ask her like that, 
and he regretted for a minute that he was not a Boston 
lady, so that he might extend to her such an invitation. 
Olive Chancellor held her hand a moment longer, looked 
at her in farewell, and then, saying, ' Come, Mr. Ransom/ 
drew him out of the room. In the hall they met Mr. 
Pardon, coming up from the lower regions with a jug of 
water and a tumbler. Miss Chancellor's hackney-coach 
 
was there, and when Basil had put her into it she said to 
him that she wouldn't trouble him to drive with her his 
hotel was not near Charles Street. He had so little desire 
to sit by her side he wanted to smoke that it was only 
after the vehicle had rolled off that he reflected upon her 
coolness, and asked himself why the deuce she had brought 
him away. She was a very odd cousin, was this Boston 
cousin of his. He stood there a moment, looking at the 
light in Miss Birdseye's windows and greatly minded to 
re-enter the house, now he might speak to the girl. But 
he contented himself with the memory of her smile, and 
turned away with a sense of relief, after all, at having got 
out of such wild company, as well as with (in a different 
order) a vulgar consciousness of being very thirsty. 
X. 
VERENA TARRANT came in the very next day from Cam- 
bridge to Charles Street; that quarter of Boston is in 
direct communication with the academic suburb. It hardly 
seemed direct to poor Verena, perhaps, who, in the crowded 
street-car which deposited her finally at Miss Chancellor's 
door, had to stand up all the way, half suspended by a 
leathern strap from the glazed roof of the stifling vehicle, 
like some blooming cluster dangling in a hothouse. She 
was used, however, to these perpendicular journeys, and 
though, as we have seen, she was not inclined to accept 
without question the social arrangements of her time, it 
never would have occurred to her to criticise the railways 
of her native land. The promptness of her visit to Olive 
Chancellor had been an idea of her mother's, and Verena 
listened open-eyed while this lady, in the seclusion of the 
little house in Cambridge, while Selah Tarrant was ' off,' 
as they said, with his patients, sketched out a line of 
conduct for her. The girl was both submissive and un- 
worldly, and she listened to her mother's enumeration of 
the possible advantages of an intimacy with Miss Chancellor 
as she would have listened to any other fairy-tale. It was 
still a part of the fairy-tale when this zealous parent put 
on with her own hands Verena's smart hat and feather, 
buttoned her little jacket (the buttons were immense and 
gilt), and presented her with twenty cents to pay her car- 
fare. 
There was never any knowing in advance how Mrs. 
Tarrant would take a thing, and even Verena, who, filially, 
was much less argumentative than in her civic and, as it 
were, public capacity, had a perception that her mother 
was queer. She was queer, indeed a flaccid, relaxed, 
 
unhealthy, whimsical woman, who still had a capacity to 
cling. What she clung to was ' society,' and a position in 
the world which a secret whisper told her she had never 
had and a voice more audible reminded her she was 
in danger of losing. To keep it, to recover it, to recon- 
secrate it, was the ambition of her heart ; this was one of 
the many reasons why Providence had judged her worthy 
of having so wonderful a child. Verena was born not only 
to lead their common sex out of bondage, but to remodel 
a visiting-list which bulged and contracted in the wrong 
places, like a country-made garment. As the daughter of 
Abraham Greenstreet, Mrs. Tarrant had passed her youth 
in the first Abolitionist circles, and she was aware how 
much such a prospect was clouded by her union with a 
young man who had begun life as an itinerant vendor of 
lead-pencils (he had called at Mr. Greenstreet's door in the 
exercise of this function), had afterwards been for a while 
a member of the celebrated Cayuga community, where 
there were no wives, or no husbands, or something of that 
sort (Mrs. Tarrant could never remember), and had still 
later (though before the development of the healing 
faculty) achieved distinction in the spiritualistic world. 
(He was an extraordinarily favoured medium, only he had 
had to stop for reasons of which Mrs. Tarrant possessed 
her version.) Even in a society much occupied with the 
effacement of prejudice there had been certain dim pre- 
sumptions against this versatile being, who naturally had 
not wanted arts to ingratiate himself with Miss Greenstreet, 
her eyes, like his own, being fixed exclusively on the future. 
The young couple (he was considerably her elder) had 
gazed on the future together until they found that the past 
had completely forsaken them and that the present offered 
but a slender foothold. Mrs. Tarrant, in other words, in- 
curred the displeasure of her family, who gave her husband 
to understand that, much as they desired to remove the 
shackles from the slave, there were kinds of behaviour 
which struck them as too unfettered. These had prevailed, 
to their thinking, at Cayuga, and they naturally felt it was 
no use for him to say that his residence there had been 
(for him the community still existed) but a momentary 
 
episode, inasmuch as there was little more to be urged for 
the spiritual picnics and vegetarian camp-meetings in which 
the discountenanced pair now sought consolation. 
Such were the narrow views of people hitherto supposed 
capable of opening their hearts to all salutary novelties, but 
now put to a genuine test, as Mrs. Tarrant felt. Her 
husband's tastes rubbed off on her soft, moist moral surface, 
and the couple lived in an atmosphere of novelty, in which, 
occasionally, the accommodating wife encountered the fresh 
sensation of being in want of her dinner. Her father died, 
leaving, after all, very little money; he had spent his 
modest fortune upon the blacks. Selah Tarrant and his 
companion had strange adventures; she found herself 
completely enrolled in the great irregular army of nostrum- 
mongers, domiciled in humanitary Bohemia. It absorbed 
her like a social swamp ; she sank into it a little more every 
day, without measuring the inches of her descent. Now 
she stood there up to her chin ; it may probably be said of 
her that she had touched bottom. When she went to Miss 
Birdseye's it seemed to her that she re-entered society. 
The door that admitted her was not the door that admitted 
some of the others (she should never forget the tipped-up 
nose of Mrs. Farrinder), and the superior portal remained 
ajar, disclosing possible vistas. She had lived with long- 
haired men and short-haired women, she had contributed a 
flexible faith and an irremediable want of funds to a dozen 
social experiments, she had partaken of the comfort of a 
hundred religions, had followed innumerable dietary reforms, 
chiefly of the negative order, and had gone of an evening to 
a stance or a lecture as regularly as she had eaten her 
supper. Her husband always had tickets for lectures; in 
moments of irritation at the want of a certain sequence in 
their career, she had remarked to him that it was the only 
thing he did have. The memory of all the winter nights 
they had tramped through the slush (the tickets, alas ! were 
not car-tickets) to hear Mrs. Ada T. P. Foat discourse on 
the '  Summer-land,' came back to her with bitterness. 
Selah was quite enthusiastic at one time about Mrs. Foat, 
and it was his wife's belief that he had been ' associated ' 
with her (that was Selah's expression in referring to such 
 
episodes) at Cayuga. The poor woman, matrimonially, had 
a great deal to put up with ; it took, at moments, all her 
belief in his genius to sustain her. She knew that he was 
very magnetic (that, in fact, was his genius), and she felt 
that it was his magnetism that held her to him. He had 
carried her through things where she really didn't know 
what to think; there were moments when she suspected 
that she had lost the strong moral sense for which the 
Greenstreets were always so celebrated. 
Of course a woman who had had the bad taste to marry 
Selah Tarrant would not have been likely under any cir- 
cumstances to possess a very straight judgment ; but there 
is no doubt that this poor lady had grown dreadfully limp. 
She had blinked and. compromised and shuffled ; she asked 
herself whether, after all, it was any more than natural that 
she should have wanted to help her husband, in those 
exciting days of his mediumship, when the table, some- 
times, wouldn't rise from the ground, the sofa wouldn't float 
through the air, and the soft hand of a lost loved one was 
not so alert as it might have been to visit the circle. Mrs. 
Tarrant's hand was soft enough for the most supernatural 
effect, and she consoled her conscience on such occasions 
by reflecting that she ministered to a belief in immortality. 
She was glad, somehow, for Verena's sake, that they had 
emerged from the phase of spirit-intercourse ; her ambition 
for her daughter took another form than desiring that she, 
too, should minister to a belief in immortality. Yet among 
Mrs. Tarrant's multifarious memories these reminiscences of 
the darkened room, the waiting circle, the little taps on 
table and wall, the little touches on cheek and foot, the 
music in the air, the rain of flowers, the sense of something 
mysteriously flitting, were most tenderly cherished. She 
hated her husband for having magnetised her so that she 
consented to certain things, and even did them, the thought 
of which to-day would suddenly make her face burn ; hated 
him for the manner in which, somehow, as she felt, he had 
lowered her social tone ; yet at the same time she admired 
him for an impudence so consummate that it had ended (in 
the face of mortifications, exposures, failures, all the misery 
of a hand-to-mouth existence) by imposing itself on her as 
 
a kind of infallibility. She knew he was an awful humbug, 
and yet her knowledge had this imperfection, that he had 
never confessed it a fact that was really grand when one 
thought of his opportunities for doing so. He had never 
allowed that he wasn't straight ; the pair had so often been 
in the position of the two augurs behind the altar, and yet 
he had never given her a glance that the whole circle 
mightn't have observed. Even in the privacy of domestic 
intercourse he had phrases, excuses, explanations, ways of 
putting things, which, as she felt, were too sublime for just 
herself; they were pitched, as Selah's nature was pitched, 
altogether in the key of public life. 
So it had come to pass, in her distended and demoralised 
conscience, that with all the things she despised in her life 
and all the things she rather liked, between being worn out 
with her husband's inability to earn a living and a kind of 
terror of his consistency (he had a theory that they lived 
delightfully), it happened, I say, that the only very definite 
criticism she made of him to-day was that he didn't know 
how to speak. That was where the shoe pinched that 
was where Selah was slim. He couldn't hold the attention 
of an audience, he was not acceptable as a lecturer. He had 
plenty of thoughts, but it seemed as if he couldn't fit them 
into each other. Public speaking had been a Greenstreet 
tradition, and if Mrs. Tarrant had been asked whether in 
her younger years she had ever supposed she should marry 
a mesmeric healer, she would have replied : ' Well, I never 
thought I should marry a gentleman who would be silent 
on the platform !' This was her most general humiliation ; 
it included and exceeded every other, and it was a poor 
consolation that Selah possessed as a substitute his career 
as a healer, to speak of none other, was there to prove it 
the eloquence of the hand. The Greenstreets had never 
set much store on manual activity; they believed in the 
influence of the lips. It may be imagined, therefore, with 
what exultation, as time went on, Mrs. Tarrant found herself 
the mother of an inspired maiden, a young lady from whose 
lips eloquence flowed in streams. The Greenstreet tradi- 
tion would not perish, and the dry places of her life would, 
perhaps, be plentifully watered. It must be added that, of 
 
late, this sandy surface had been irrigated, in moderation, 
from another source. Since Selah had addicted himself to 
the mesmeric mystery, their home had been a little more 
what the home of a Greenstreet should be. He had ' con- 
siderable many ' patients, he got about two dollars a sitting, 
and he had effected some most gratifying cures. A lady 
in Cambridge had been so much indebted to him that she 
had recently persuaded them to take a house near her, in 
order that Doctor Tarrant might drop in at any time. He 
availed himself of this convenience they had taken so 
many houses that another, more or less, didn't matter and 
Mrs. Tarrant began to feel as if they really had '  struck ' 
something. 
Even to Verena, as we know, she was confused and 
confusing; the girl had not yet had an opportunity to 
ascertain the principles on which her mother's limpness 
was liable suddenly to become rigid. This phenomenon 
occurred when the vapours of social ambition mounted to 
her brain, when she extended an arm from which a 
crumpled dressing-gown fluttered back to seize the passing 
occasion. Then she surprised her daughter by a volubility 
of exhortation as to the duty of making acquaintances, and 
by the apparent wealth of her knowledge of the mysteries of 
good society. She had, in particular, a way of explaining 
confidentially and in her desire to be graphic she often 
made up the oddest faces the interpretation that you 
must sometimes give to the manners of the best people, 
and the delicate dignity with which you should meet them, 
which made Verena wonder what secret sources of informa- 
tion she possessed. Verena took life, as yet, very simply ; 
she was not conscious of so many differences of social com- 
plexion. She knew that some people were rich and others 
poor, and that her father's house had never been visited by 
such abundance as might make one ask one's self whether 
it were right, in a world so full of the disinherited, to roll 
in luxury. But except when her mother made her slightly 
dizzy by a resentment of some slight that she herself had 
never perceived, or a flutter over some opportunity that 
appeared already to have passed (while Mrs. Tarrant was 
looking for something to ' put on '), Verena had no vivid 
76   
sense that she was not as good as any one else, for no 
authority appealing really to her imagination had fixed the 
place of mesmeric healers in the scale of fashion. It was 
impossible to know in advance how Mrs. Tarrant would 
take things. Sometimes she was abjectly indifferent; at 
others she thought that every one who looked at her 
wished to insult her. At moments she was full of 
suspicion of the ladies (they were mainly ladies) whom 
Selah mesmerised ; then again she appeared to have given 
up everything but her slippers and the evening-paper (from 
this publication she derived inscrutable solace), so that if 
Mrs. Foat in person had returned from the summer-land (to 
which she had some time since taken her flight), she would not 
have disturbed Mrs. Tarrant's almost cynical equanimity. 
It was, however, in her social subtleties that she was 
most beyond her daughter; it was when she discovered 
extraordinary though latent longings on the part of people 
they met to make their acquaintance, that the girl became 
conscious of how much she herself had still to learn. All 
her desire was to learn, and it must be added that she 
regarded her mother, in perfect good faith, as a wonderful 
teacher. She was perplexed sometimes by her worldliness ; 
that, somehow, was not a part of the higher life which every 
one in such a house as theirs must wish above all things to 
lead ; and it was not involved in the reign of justice, which 
they were all trying to bring about, that such a strict account 
should be kept of every little snub. Her father seemed to 
Verena to move more consecutively on the high plane; 
though his indifference to old-fashioned standards, his 
perpetual invocation of the brighter day, had not yet led 
her to ask herself whether, after all, men are more dis- 
interested than women. Was it interest that prompted her 
mother to respond so warmly to Miss Chancellor, to say to 
Verena, with an air of knowingness, that the thing to do 
was to go in and see her immediately ? No italics can 
represent the earnestness of Mrs. Tarrant's emphasis. Why 
hadn't she said, as she had done in former cases, that if 
people wanted to see them they could come out to their 
home ; that she was not so low down in the world as not 
to know there was such a ceremony as leaving cards ? 
 
When Mrs. Tarrant began on the question of ceremonies 
she was apt to go far ; but she had waived it in this case ; it 
suited her more to hold that Miss Chancellor had been very 
gracious, that she was a most desirable friend, that she had 
been more affected than any one by Verena's beautiful out- 
pouring ; that she would open to her the best saloons in 
Boston ; that when she said ' Come soon ' she meant the 
very next day, that this was the way to take it, anyhow (one 
must know when to go forward gracefully); and that in 
short she, Mrs. Tarrant, knew what she was talking about. 
Verena accepted all this, for she was young enough to 
enjoy any journey in a horse-car, and she was ever-curious 
about the world ; she only wondered a little how her 
mother knew so much about Miss Chancellor just from 
looking at her once. What Verena had mainly observed in 
the young lady who came up to her that way the night 
before was that she was rather dolefully dressed, that she 
looked as if she had been crying (Verena recognised that 
look quickly, she had seen it so much), and that she was 
in a hurry to get away. However, if she was as remarkable 
as her mother said, one would very soon see it ; and mean- 
while there was nothing in the girl's feeling about herself, 
in her sense of her importance, to make it a painful effort 
for her to run the risk of a mistake. She had no particular 
feeling about herself; she only cared, as yet, for outside 
things. Even the development of her ' gift ' had not made 
her think herself too precious for mere experiments ; she 
had neither a particle of diffidence nor a particle of vanity. 
Though it would have seemed to you eminently natural 
that a daughter of Selah Tarrant and his wife should be an 
