'Well, I do, then,' said the Prince, subsiding a little. 
' Don't you know she has gone out to a house, in a horrible 
quarter, with a man ? ' 
'I think it highly probable, dear Prince.' 
' And who is he ? That's what I want to discover.' 
' How can I tell you ? I haven't seen him.' 
He looked at her a moment, with his distended eyes. 
' Dear lady, is that kind to me, when I have counted on 
you?' 
' Oh, I am not kind any more ; it's not a question of 
that. I am angry as angry, almost, as you.' 
 
' Then why don't you watch her, eh ? ' 
' It's not with her I am angry. It's with myself,' said 
Madame Grandoni, meditatively. 
' For becoming so indifferent, do you mean ? ' 
' On the contrary, for staying in the house.' 
' Thank God, you are still here, or I couldn't have come. 
But what a lodging for the Princess ! ' the visitor exclaimed. 
' She might at least live in a manner befitting.' 
' Eh, the last time you were in London you thought it 
was too costly ! ' she cried. 
He hesitated a moment. ' Whatever she does is 
wrong. Is it because it's so bad that you must go ? ' he 
went on. 
' It is foolish foolish foolish,' said Madame Grandoni, 
slowly, impressively. 
' Foolish, che, cht . He was in the house nearly an hour, 
this one.' 
' In the house ? In what house ? ' 
' Here, where you sit. I saw him go in, and when he 
came out it was after a long time, with her.' 
' And where were you, meanwhile ? ' 
Again Prince Casamassima hesitated. ' I was on the 
other side of the street. When they came out I followed 
them. It was more than an hour ago.' 
' Was it for that you came to London ? ' 
' Ah, what I came for ! To put myself in hell ! ' 
'You had better go back to Rome,' said Madame 
Grandoni. 
' Of course I will go back, but if you will tell me who 
this one is ! How can you be ignorant, dear friend, when 
he comes freely in and out of the house where I have to 
watch, at the door, for a moment that I can snatch ? He 
was not the same as the other.' 
' As the other ? ' 
' Doubtless there are fifty ! I mean the little one whom 
I met in the other house, that Sunday afternoon.' 
' I sit in my room almost always now,' said the old 
woman. ' I only come down to eat.' 
' Dear lady, it would be better if you would sit here,' 
the Prince remarked. 
' Better for whom ? ' 
' I mean that if you did not withdraw yourself you could 
at least answer my questions.' 
' Ah, but I have not the slightest desire to answer them,' 
Madame Grandoni replied. ' You must remember that I 
am not here as your spy.' 
' No,' said the Prince, in a tone of extreme and simple 
melancholy. ' If you had given me more information I 
should not have been obliged to come here myself. I 
arrived in London only this morning, and this evening I 
spent two hours walking up and down opposite the house, 
like a groom waiting for his master to come back from a 
ride. I wanted a personal impression. It was so that I 
saw him come in. He is not a gentleman not even like 
some of the strange ones here.' 
' I think he is Scotch,' remarked Madame Grandoni. 
' Ah, then, you have seen him ? ' 
' No, but I have heard him. He speaks very loud the 
floors of this house are not built as we build in Italy and 
his voice is the same that I have heard in the people of 
that country. Besides, she has told me some things. He 
is a chemist's assistant.' 
 
' A chemist's assistant? Santo Dio! And the other one, 
a year ago more than a year ago was a bookbinder.' 
' Oh, the bookbinder ! ' murmured Madame Grandoni. 
' And does she associate with no people of good ? Has 
she no other society ? ' 
' For me to tell you more, Prince, you must wait till I 
am free,' said the old lady. 
' How do you mean, free ? ' 
' I must choose. I must either go away and then I 
can tell you what I have seen or if I stay here I must 
hold my tongue.' 
' But if you go away you will have seen nothing,' the 
Prince objected. 
' Ah, plenty as it is more than I ever expected to ! ' 
The Prince clasped his hands together in tremulous 
suppliance ; but at the same time he smiled, as if to con- 
ciliate, to corrupt. ' Dearest friend, you torment my 
curiosity. If you will tell me this, I will never ask you 
anything more. Where did they go? For the love of 
God, what is that house ? ' 
' I know nothing of their houses,' she returned, with an 
impatient shrug. 
' Then there are others there are many ? ' She made 
no answer, but sat brooding, with her chin in her protrusive 
kerchief. Her visitor presently continued, in a soft, earnest 
tone, with his beautiful Italian distinctness, as if his lips 
cut -and carved the sound, while his fine fingers quivered 
into quick, emphasising gestures, ' The street is small and 
black, but it is like all the streets. It has no importance ; 
it is at the end of an endless imbroglio. They drove for 
twenty minutes ; then they stopped their cab and got out. 
They went together on foot some minutes more. There 
were many turns ; they seemed to know them well. For 
me it was very difficult of course I also got out ; I had to 
stay so far behind close against the houses. Chiffinch 
Street, N.E. that was the name,' the Prince continued, 
pronouncing the word with difficulty ; ' and the house is 
number 32 I looked at that after they went in. It's a 
very bad house worse than this ; but it has no sign of a 
chemist, and there are no shops in the street. They rang 
the bell only once, though they waited a long time ; it 
seemed to me, at least, that they did not touch it again. 
It was several minutes before the door was opened ; and 
that was a bad time for me, because as they stood there 
they looked up and down. Fortunately you know the air 
of this place ! I saw no light in the house not even after 
they went in. Who let them enter I couldn't tell. I 
waited nearly half an hour, to see how long they would 
stay and what they would do on coming out ; then, at last, 
my impatience brought me here, for to know she was 
absent made me hope I might see you. While I was 
there two persons went in two men, together, smoking, 
who looked like artisti (I didn't see them near), but no one 
came out. I could see they took their cigars and you can 
fancy what tobacco ! into the presence of the Princess. 
Formerly,' pursued Madame Grandoni's visitor, with a 
touching attempt at a jocular treatment of this point, 
' she never tolerated smoking never mine, at least. The 
street is very quiet very few people pass. Now what is 
the house ? Is it where that man lives ? ' he asked, almost 
in a whisper. 
He had been encouraged by her consenting, in spite of 
her first protests, to listen to him he could see she was 
listening ; and he was still more encouraged when, after a 
moment, she answered his question by a question of her 
own. ' Did you cross the river to go there ? I know that 
he lives over the water.' 
' Ah, no, it was not in that part. I tried to ask the 
cabman who brought me back to explain to me what it is 
called ; but I couldn't make him understand. They have 
heavy minds,' the Prince declared. Then he pursued, 
drawing a little closer to his hostess, ' But what were they 
doing there ? Why did she go with him ? ' 
' They are plotting. There ! ' said Madame Grandoni. 
' You mean a secret society, a band of revolutionists and 
murderers? Capisco bene that is not new to me. But 
perhaps they only pretend it's for that,' added the Prince. 
' Only pretend ? Why should they pretend ? That is 
not Christina's way.' 
' There are other possibilities,' the Prince observed. 
' Oh, of course, when your wife goes away with strange 
men, in the dark, to far-away houses, you can think any- 
thing you like, and I have nothing to say to your thoughts. 
I have my own, but they are my own affair, and I shall not 
undertake to defend Christina, for she is indefensible. 
When she does the things she does, she provokes, she 
invites, the worst construction ; there let it rest, save for 
this one remark, which I will content myself with making : 
if she were a licentious woman she would not behave as 
she does now, she would not expose herself to irresistible 
interpretations; the appearance of everything would be 
good and proper. I simply tell you what I believe. If I 
believed that what she is doing concerned you alone, I 
should say nothing about it at least sitting here. But it 
concerns others, it concerns every one, so I will open my 
mouth at last. She has gone to that house to break up 
society.' 
' To break it up, yes, as she has wanted before ? ' 
' Oh, more than before ! She is very much entangled. 
She has relations v with people who are watched by the 
police. She has not told me, but I have perceived it by 
simply living with her.' 
Prince Casamassima stared. 'And is she watched by 
the police ? ' 
' I can't tell you ; it is very possible except that the 
police here is not like that of other countries.' 
' It is more stupid,' said the Prince. He gazed at 
Madame Grandoni with a flush of shame on his face. 
' Will she bring us to that scandal ? It would be the worst 
of all.' 
' There is one chance the chance that she will get 
tired of it,' the old lady remarked. ' Only the scandal may 
come before that.' 
' Dear friend, she is the devil,' said the Prince, solemnly. 
'No, she is not the devil, because she wishes to do 
good.' 
' What good did she ever wish to do to me ? ' the Italian 
demanded, with glowing eyes. 
Madame Grandoni shook her head very sadly. 'You 
can do no good, of any kind, to each other. Each on your 
own side, you must be quiet.' 
'How can I be quiet when I hear of such infamies?' 
Prince Casamassima got up, in his violence, and, in a tone 
which caused his companion to burst into a short, incon- 
gruous laugh as soon as she heard the words, exclaimed, 
' She shall not break up society ! ' 
'No, she will bore herself before the trick is played. 
Make up your mind to that.' 
' That is what I expected to find that the caprice was 
over. She has passed through so many follies.' 
' Give her time give her time,' replied Madame 
Grandoni. 
' Time to drag my name into an assize-court ? Those 
people are robbers, incendiaries, murderers ! ' 
' You can say nothing to me about them that I haven't 
said to her.' 
'And how does she defend herself?' 
' Defend herself? Did you ever hear Christina do that ? ' 
Madame Grandoni asked. ' The only thing she says to me 
is, " Don't be afraid ; I promise you by all that's sacred that 
you shan't suffer." She speaks as if she had it all in her 
hands. That is very well. No doubt I'm a selfish old 
woman, but, after all, one has a heart for others.' 
' And so have I, I think I may pretend,' said the Prince. 
' You tell me to give her time, and it is certain that she will 
take it, whether I give it or not. But I can at least stop 
giving her money. By heaven, it's my duty, as an honest 
man.' 
' She tells me that as it is you don't give her much.' 
' Much, dear lady ? It depends on what you call so. 
It's enough to make all these scoundrels flock around 
her.' 
'They are not all scoundrels, any more than she is. 
That is the strange part of it,' said the old woman, with a 
weary sigh. 
' But this fellow, the chemist to-night what do you 
call him ? ' 
' She has spoken to me of him as a most estimable 
young man.' 
' But she thinks it's estimable to blow us all up,' the 
Prince returned. ' Doesn't he take her money?' 
'I don't know what he takes. But there are some 
things heaven forbid one should forget them ! The 
misery of London is something fearful.' 
' Che vuole ? There is misery everywhere,' returned the 
Prince. ' It is the will of God. Ci vuoV pazienza ! And 
in this country does no one give alms ? ' 
' Every one, I believe. But it appears that it is not 
enough.' 
The Prince said nothing for a moment ; this statement 
of Madame Grandoni's seemed to present difficulties. The 
solution, however, soon suggested itself; it was expressed 
in the inquiry, ' What will you have in a country which has 
not the true faith ? ' 
' Ah, the true faith is a great thing ; but there is suffering 
even in countries that have it.' 
4 Evident emente. But it helps suffering to be borne, and, 
later, it makes it up ; whereas here ! . . .' said the old 
lady's visitor, with a melancholy smile. ' If I may speak of 
myself, it is to me, in my circumstances, a support.' 
' That is good,' said Madame Grandoni. 
He stood before her, resting his eyes for a moment on 
the floor. 'And the famous Cholto Godfrey Gerald 
does he come no more ? ' 
' I haven't seen him for months, and know nothing about 
him.' 
 
' He doesn't like the chemists and the bookbinders, eh ? ' 
asked the Prince. 
' Ah, it was he who first brought them to gratify your 
wife. ' 
' If they have turned him out, then, that is very well. 
Now, if only some one could turn them out ! ' 
' Aspetta  aspetta ! ' said the old woman. 
' That is very good advice, but to follow it isn't amusing.' 
Then the Prince added, 'You alluded, just now, as to 
something particular, to quel giovane, the young artisan 
whom I met in the other house. Is he also estimable, or 
has he paid the penalty of his crimes ? ' 
' He has paid the penalty, but I don't know of what. I 
have nothing bad to tell you of him, except that I think 
his star is on the wane.' 
' Poverino ! ' the Prince exclaimed. 
' That is exactly the manner in which I addressed him 
the first time I saw him. I didn't know how it would 
happen, but I felt that it would happen somehow. It has 
happened through his changing his opinions. He has now 
the same idea as you ci vuoP pazienza? 
I The Prince listened with the same expression of 
wounded eagerness, the same parted lips and excited eyes, 
to every added fact that dropped from Madame Grandoni's 
lips. ' That, at least, is more honest. Then he doesn't go 
to Chiffinch Street ? ' 
'I  don't know about Chiffinch Street ; but it would be 
my impression that he doesn't go anywhere that Christina 
and the other one the Scotchman go together. But 
these are delicate matters,' the old woman pursued. 
They seemed much to interest her interlocutor. ' Do 
you mean that the Scotchman is what shall I call it ? his 
successor ? ' 
For a moment Madame Grandoni made no reply. ' I 
think that this case is different. But I don't understand ; 
it was the other, the little one, who helped her to know the 
Scotchman.' 
' And now they have quarrelled about my wife ? It is 
all tremendously edifying ! ' the Prince exclaimed. 
' I can't tell you, and shouldn't have attempted it, only 
that Assunta talks to me.' 
' I wish she would talk to me,' said the Prince, wistfully. 
' Ah, my friend, if Christina were to find you getting at 
her servants ! ' 
' How could it be worse for me than it is now ? How- 
ever, I don't know why I speak as if I cared, for I don't 
care any more. I have given her up. It is finished.' 
' I am glad to hear it,' said Madame Grandoni, gravely. 
' You yourself made the distinction, perfectly. So long 
as she endeavoured only to injure me, and in my private 
capacity, I could condone, I could wait, I could hope. 
But since she has so recklessly thrown herself into the most 
criminal undertakings, since she lifts her hand with a deter- 
mined purpose, as you tell me, against the most sacred 
institutions it is too much ; ah, yes, it is too much ! She 
may go her way; she is no wife of mine. Not another 
penny of mine shall go into her pocket, and into that of 
the wretches who prey upon her, who have corrupted her.' 
' Dear Prince, I think you are right. And yet I am 
sorry ! ' sighed the old woman, extending her hand for 
assistance to rise from her chair. ' If she becomes really 
poor, it will be much more difficult for me to leave her. 
 
This is not poverty, and not even a good imitation of it, as 
she would like it to be. But what will be said of me if 
having remained with her through so much of her splendour, 
I turn away from her the moment she begins to want ? ' 
' Dear lady, do you ask that to make me relent ? ' the 
Prince inquired, after an hesitation. 
' Not in the least ; for whatever is said and whatever 
you do, there is nothing for me in deceacy, at present, but 
to pack my trunk. Judge, by the way I have tattled.' 
' If you will stay on, she shall have everything.' The 
Prince spoke in a very low tone, with a manner that betrayed 
the shame he felt at his attempt at bribery. 
Madame Grandoni gave him an astonished glance and 
moved away from him. 'What does that mean? I 
thought you didn't care.' 
I know not what explanation of his inconsequence her 
companion would have given her if at that moment the 
door of the room had not been pushed open to permit the 
entrance of Hyacinth Robinson. He stopped short on 
perceiving that Madame Grandoni had a visitor, but before 
he had time to say anything the old lady addressed him 
with a certain curtness. 'Ah, you don't fall well; the 
Princess isn't at home.' 
' That was mentioned to me, but I ventured to come in 
to see you, as I have done before,' Hyacinth replied. Then 
he added, as if he were retreating, ' I beg many pardons. 
I was not told that you were not alone.' 
' My visitor is going, but I am going too,' said Madame 
Grandoni. 'I must take myself to my room I am all 
falling to pieces. Therefore kindly excuse me.' 
Hyacinth had had time to recognise the Prince, and this 
nobleman paid him the same compliment, as was proved 
by his asking of Madame Grandoni, in a rapid aside, in 
Italian, ' Isn't it the bookbinder ? ' 
' Sicuro- said the old lady ; while Hyacinth, murmuring 
a regret that he should find her indisposed, turned back to 
the door. 
'One moment one moment, I pray!' the Prince 
interposed, raising his hand persuasively and looking at 
him with an unexpected, exaggerated smile. ' Please intro- 
duce me to the gentleman,' he added, in English, to Madame 
Grandoni. 
She manifested no surprise at the request she had none 
left, apparently, for anything but pronounced the name of 
Prince Casamassima, and then added, for Hyacinth's benefit, 
' He knows who you are.' 
' Will you permit me to keep you a very little minute ? ' 
the Prince continued, addressing the other visitor; after 
which he remarked to Madame Grandoni, 'I will speak 
with him a little. It is perhaps not necessary that we 
should incommode you, if you do not wish to stay.' 
She had for a moment, as she tossed off a satirical little 
laugh, a return of her ancient drollery. ' Remember that if 
you talk long she may come back ! Yes, yes, I will go 
upstairs. Felicissima notte, signori  ' She took her way to 
the door, which Hyacinth, considerably bewildered, held 
open for her. 
The reasons for which Prince Casamassima wished to 
converse with him were mysterious; nevertheless, he was 
about to close the door behind Madame Grandoni, as a 
sign that he was at the service of her companion. At this 
moment the latter extended again a courteous, remonstrant 
 
hand. ' After all, as my visit is finished and as yours 
comes to nothing, might we not go out ? ' 
'Certainly, I will go with you,' said Hyacinth. He 
spoke with an instinctive stiffness, in spite of the Prince's 
queer affability, and in spite also of the fact that he felt 
sorry for the nobleman, to whose countenance Madame 
Grandoni's last injunction, uttered in English, had brought 
a deep and painful blush. It is needless to go into the 
question of what Hyacinth, face to face with an aggrieved 
husband, may have had on his conscience, but he assumed, 
naturally enough, that the situation might be grave, though 
indeed the Prince's manner was, for the moment, incongru- 
ously conciliatory. Hyacinth invited his new acquaintance 
to pass, and in a minute they were in the street together. 
'Do you go here do you go there?' the Prince in- 
quired, as they stood a moment before the house. ' If you 
will permit, I will take the same direction.' On Hyacinth's 
answering that it was indifferent to him the Prince said, 
turning to the right, 'Well, then, here, but slowly, if that 
pleases you, and only a little way.' His English was far 
from perfect, but his errors were mainly errors of pronuncia- 
tion, and Hyacinth was struck with his effort to express 
himself very distinctly, so that in intercourse with a little 
representative of the British populace his foreignness should 
not put him at a disadvantage. Quick as he was to per- 
ceive and appreciate, Hyacinth noted how a certain quality 
of breeding that was in his companion enabled him to com- 
pass that coolness, and he mentally applauded his success 
in a difficult feat. Difficult he judged it because it seemed 
to him that the purpose for which the Prince wished to 
speak to him was one which must require a deal of explana- 
tion, and it was a sign of training to explain adequately, in 
a foreign tongue, especially if one were agitated, to a person 
in a social position very different from one's own. Hya- 
cinth knew what the Prince's estimate of his importance 
must be (he could have no illusions as to the character of 
the people his wife received) ; but while he heard him care- 
fully put one word after the other he was able to smile to 
himself at his needless precautions. Hyacinth reflected 
that at a pinch he could have encountered him in his own 
tongue ; during his stay at Venice he had picked up an 
Italian vocabulary. ' With Madame Grandoni I spoke of 
you,' the Prince announced, dispassionately, as they walked 
along. ' She told me a thing that interested me,' he added ; 
'that is why I walk with you.' Hyacinth said nothing, 
deeming that better by silence than in any other fashion he 
held himself at the disposal of his interlocutor. ' She told 
me you have changed you have no more the same opinions.' 
' The same opinions ? ' 
'About the arrangement of society. You desire no 
more the assassination of the rich.' 
' I never desired any such thing ! ' said Hyacinth, in- 
dignantly. 
' Oh, if you have changed, you can confess,' the Prince 
rejoined, in an encouraging tone. ' It is very good for 
some people to be rich. It would not be right for all to be 
poor.' 
' It would be pleasant if all could be rich,' Hyacinth 
suggested. 
'Yes, but not by stealing and shooting.' 
' No, not by stealing and shooting. I never desired 
that.' 
 
' Ah, no doubt she was mistaken. But to-day you think 
we must have patience,' the Prince went on, as if he hoped 
very much that Hyacinth would allow this valuable convic- 
tion to be attributed to him. ' That is also my view.' 
' Oh, yes, we must have patience,' said Hyacinth, who 
was now smiling to himself in the dark. 
They had by this time reached the end of the little 
Crescent, where the Prince paused under the street-lamp. 
He considered Hyacinth's countenance for a moment by 
its help, and then he pronounced, ' If I am not mistaken, 
you know very well the Princess.' 
Hyacinth hesitated a moment. ' She has been very 
kind to me.' 
' She is my wife perhaps you know.' 
Again Hyacinth hesitated, but after a moment he 
replied, ' She has told me that she is married.' As soon 
as he had spoken these words he thought them idiotic. 
' You mean you would not know if she had not told 
you, I suppose. Evidently, there is nothing to show it. 
You can think if that is agreeable to me.' 
' Oh, I can't think, I can't judge,' said Hyacinth. 
' You are right that is impossible.' The Prince stood 
before his companion, and in the pale gaslight the latter 
saw more of his face. It had an unnatural expression, a 
look of wasted anxiety; the eyes seemed to glitter, and 
Hyacinth conceived the unfortunate nobleman to be 
feverish and ill. He continued in a moment : ' Of course 
you think it strange my conversation. I want you to tell 
me something.' 
' I am afraid you are very unwell,' said Hyacinth. 
' Yes, I am unwell ; but I shall be better if you will tell 
me. It is because you have come back to good ideas 
that is why I ask you.' 
A sense that the situation of the Princess's husband was 
really pitiful, that at any rate he suffered and was helpless, 
that he was a gentleman and even a person who would 
never have done any great harm a perception of these 
appealing truths came into Hyacinth's heart, and stirred 
there a desire to be kind to him, to render him any service 
that, in reason, he might ask. It appeared to Hyacinth 
that he must be pretty sick to ask any service at all, but 
that was his own affair. ' If you would like me to see you 
safely home, I will do that,' our young man remarked ; and 
even while he spoke he was struck with the oddity of his 
being already on such friendly terms with a person whom 
he had hitherto supposed to be the worst enemy of the 
rarest of women. He found himself unable to consider the 
Prince with resentment. 
This personage acknowledged the civility of his offer 
with a slight inclination of his high slimness. ' I am 
very much obliged to you, but I will not go home. 
I will not go home till I know this to what house she 
has gone. Will you tell me that ? ' 
' To what house ? ' Hyacinth repeated. 
' She has gone with a person whom you know. Madame 
Grandoni told me that. He is a Scotch chemist.' 
' A Scotch chemist ? ' Hyacinth stared. 
' I saw them myself two hours, three hours, ago. 
Listen, listen ; I will be very clear,' said the Prince, laying 
his forefinger on the other hand with an explanatory 
gesture. ' He came to that house this one, where we 
have been, I mean and stayed there a long time. I was 
 
here in the street I have passed my day in the street ! 
They came out together, and I watched them, I followed 
them.' 
Hyacinth had listened with wonder, and even with 
suspense ; the Prince's manner gave an air of such import- 
ance, such mystery, to what he had to relate. But at this 
he broke out : ' This is not my business I can't hear it ! 
I don't watch, I don't follow.' 
The Prince stared a moment, in surprise; then he 
rejoined, more quickly than he had spoken yet, ' But they 
went to a house where they conspire, where they prepare 
horrible acts. How can you like that ? ' 
' How do you know it, sir ? ' Hyacinth inquired, gravely. 
' It is Madame Grandoni who has told me.' 
' Why, then, do you ask me ? ' 
'Because I am not sure, I don't think she knows. 
I \vant to know more, to be sure of what is done in that 
house. Does she go there only for the revolution,' the 
Prince demanded, ' or does she go there to be alone with 
him?' 
' With him ? ' The Prince's tone and his excited eyes 
infused a kind of vividness into the suggestion. 
'With the tall man the chemist. They got into a 
hansom together; the house is far away, in the lost 
quarters.' 
Hyacinth drew himself together. 'I know nothing 
about the matter, and I don't care. If that is all you wish 
to ask me, we had better separate.' 
The Prince's face elongated ; it seemed to grow 
paler. ' Then it is not true that you hate those abomina- 
tions ! ' 
Hyacinth hesitated a moment. ' How can you know 
about my opinions ? How can they interest you ? ' 
The Prince looked at him with sick eyes ; he raised 
his arms a moment, a certain distance, and then let them 
drop at his sides. ' I hoped you would help me.' 
'When we are in trouble we can't help each other 
much ! ' our young man exclaimed. But this austere 
reflection was lost upon the Prince, who at the moment 
Hyacinth spoke had already turned to look in the direction 
from which they had proceeded, the other end of the 
Crescent, his attention apparently being called thither by 
the sound of a rapid hansom. The place was still and 
empty, and the wheels of this vehicle reverberated. The 
Prince peered at it through the darkness, and in an instant 
he cried, under his breath, excitedly, 'They have come 
back they have come back ! Now you can see yes, the 
two ! ' The hansom had slackened pace and pulled up ; 
the house before which it stopped was clearly the house 
the two men had lately quitted. Hyacinth felt his arm 
seized by the Prince, who, hastily, by a strong effort, drew 
him forward several yards. At this moment a part of the 
agitation that possessed the unhappy Italian seemed to 
pass into his own blood ; a wave of anxiety rushed through 
him anxiety as to the relations of the two persons who 
had descended from the cab ; he had, in short, for several 
instants, a very exact revelation of the state of feeling of a 
jealous husband. If he had been told, half an hour before, 
that he was capable of surreptitious peepings, in the interest 
of such jealousy, he would have resented the insult ; yet he 
allowed himself to be checked by his companion just at 
the nearest point at which they might safely consider the 
 
proceedings of the couple who alighted. It was in fact 
the Princess, accompanied by Paul Muniment. Hyacinth 
noticed that the latter paid the cabman, who immediately 
drove away, from his own pocket. He stood with the 
Princess for some minutes at the door of the house 
minutes during which Hyacinth felt his heart beat insanely, 
ignobly, he couldn't tell why. 
'What does he say? what does she say?' hissed the 
Prince ; and when he demanded, the next moment, ' Will 
he go in again, or will he go away ? ' our sensitive youth 
felt that a voice was given to his own most eager thought. 
The pair were talking together, with rapid sequences, and 
as the door had not yet been opened it was clear that, to 
prolong the conversation on the steps, the Princess delayed 
to ring. ' It will make three, four, hours he has been with 
her,' moaned the Prince. 
' He may be with her fifty hours ! ' Hyacinth answered, 
with a laugh, turning away, ashamed of himself. 
'He has gone in sangue di Dio!' cried the Prince, 
catching his companion again by the arm and making him 
look. All that Hyacinth saw was the door just closing ; 
the Princess and Muniment were on the other side of it. 
' Is that for the revolution ? ' the trembling nobleman 
panted. But Hyacinth made no answer ; he only gazed 
at the closed door an instant, and then, disengaging him- 
self, walked straight away, leaving the Italian, in the 
darkness, to direct a great helpless, futile shake of his stick 
at the indifferent house. 
XLI 
HYACINTH waited a long time, but when at last Millicent 
came to the door the splendour of her appearance did 
much to justify her delay. He heard an immense rustling 
on the staircase, accompanied by a creaking of that 
inexpensive structure, and then she brushed forward into 
the narrow, dusky passage where he had been standing for 
a quarter of an hour. She looked flushed ; she exhaled a 
strong, cheap perfume ; and she instantly thrust her muff, 
a tight, fat, beribboned receptacle, at him, to be held while 
she adjusted her gloves to her large vulgar hands. 
Hyacinth opened the door it was so natural an assump- 
tion that they would not be able to talk properly in the 
passage and they came out to the low steps, lingering 
there in the yellow Sunday sunshine. A loud ejaculation 
on the beauty of the day broke from Millicent, though, as 
we know, she was not addicted to facile admirations. The 
winter was not over, but the spring had begun, and the 
smoky London air allowed the baffled citizens, by way of a 
change, to see through it. The town could refresh its 
recollections of the sky, and the sky could ascertain the 
geographical position of the town. The essential dimness 
of the low perspectives had by no means disappeared, but 
it had loosened its folds; it lingered as a blur of mist, 
 
interwoven with pretty sun-tints and faint transparencies. 
There was warmth and there was light, and a view of the 
shutters of shops, and the church bells were ringing. Miss 
Henning remarked that it was a ' shime ' she couldn't have 
a place to ask a gentleman to sit down ; but what were 
you to do when you had such a grind for your living, and 
a room, to keep yourself tidy, no bigger than a pill-box ? 
She couldn't, herself, abide waiting outside; she knew 
something about it when she took things home to ladies to 
choose (the time they spent was long enough to choose a 
husband !) and it always made her feel quite miserable. 
It was something cruel. If she could have what she liked 
she knew what she would have ; and she hinted at a mystic 
bower where a visitor could sit and enjoy himself with 
the morning paper, or a nice view out of the window, or 
even a glass of sherry so that, in an adjacent apartment, 
she could dress without getting in a fidget, which always 
made her red in the face. 
' I don't know how I J ave pitched on my things,' she 
remarked, presenting her magnificence to Hyacinth, who 
became aware that she had put a small plump book into 
her muff. He explained that, the day being so fine, he 
had come to propose to her to take a walk with him, in 
the manner of ancient times. They might spend an hour 
or two in the Park and stroll beside the Serpentine, or even 
paddle about on it, if she liked, and watch the lambkins, or 
feed the ducks, if she would put a crust in her pocket. 
The prospect of paddling Miss Henning entirely declined ; 
she had no idea of wetting her flounces, and she left those 
rough pleasures, especially of a Sunday, to a lower class 
of young woman. But she didn't mind if she did go for 
a turn, though he didn't deserve any such favour, after 
the way he hadn't been near her, if she had died in her 
garret. She was not one that was to be dropped and 
taken up at any man's convenience she didn't keep 
one of those offices for servants out of place. Millicent 
expressed the belief that if the day had not been so lovely 
she would have sent Hyacinth about his business ; it was 
lucky for him that she was always forgiving (such was her 
sensitive, generous nature), when the sun was out. Only 
there was one thing she couldn't abide making no differ- 
ence for Sunday ; it was her personal habit to go to church, 
and she should have it on her conscience if she gave that 
up for a lark. Hyacinth had already been impressed, more 
than once, by the manner in which his blooming friend 
stickled for the religious observance : of all the queer 
disparities of her nature, her devotional turn struck him as 
perhaps the queerest. She held her head erect through 
the longest and dullest sermon, and came out of the place 
of worship with her fine face embellished by the publicity 
of her virtue. She was exasperated by the general 
secularity of Hyacinth's behaviour, especially taken in 
conjunction with his general straightness, and was only 
consoled a little by the fact that if he didn't drink, or fight, 
or steal, at least he indulged in unlimited wickedness of 
opinion theories as bad as anything that people got ten 
years for. Hyacinth had not yet revealed to her that his 
theories had somehow lately come to be held with less 
tension ; an instinct of kindness had forbidden him to 
deprive her of a grievance which ministered so much to 
sociability. He had not reflected that she would have 
been more aggrieved, and consequently more delightful, if 
her condemnation of his godlessness had been deprived of 
confirmatory indications. 
On the present occasion she let him know that she 
would go for a walk with him if he would first accompany 
her to church ; and it was in vain he represented to her 
that this proceeding would deprive them of their morning, 
inasmuch as after church she would have to dine, and in 
the interval there would be no time left. She replied, with 
