tile, unconscious grace. She leaned over a little to look 
at him, and a glad light seemed to flash into her eyes ; the 
lips wreathed themselves into a serious sweetness that 
was better than a smile. Yes, it needed only the purple- 
topped, feathery grasses, and white and gold of the daisies, 
to complete the vision he had studied with a rare inward 
sight. 
Martin arranged his master comfortably in the reclining- 
chair. 
" Look what time it is," he said. "Luncheon is at 
two. Go down and inquire if Mrs. Gilbert and her niece 
always come to table." 
Martin returned with an affirmative answer. 
Lloyd Wentworth closed his eyes. What had given him 
this idea of Olive ? How had he settled upon something 
so utterly dissimilar ? Mrs. Gilbert had never referred to 
her niece as being even pretty; did she fancy him an 
inflammable young man, who could not be civil without 
imagining himself in love ? It was right for her to be 
careful of Doris ; everybody complained of the young girls 
running wild. But a girl with that gravely sweet face 
could not be loud or assured. How slowly luncheon was 
in coming ! He sent Martin down again to beg madame 
to put him a plate beside Mrs. Gilbert, and that brought 
up madame to expostulate gently, but Wentworth carried 
his point. 
He came in late purposely, leaning on Martin's arm. 
Mrs. Gilbert's consternation was amusing, and he smiled 
at it. Doris Hawthorne raised her eyes, and for days 
afterward he declared them black, while the rarest and 
subtlest tint of color stole into her cheeks, and her lips 
gave not the smile, but the impression of pleasure. 
" Shall I scold you, or report you to the doctor?" 
inquired Mrs. Gilbert, gayly. " Two indulgences in one 
day are just one too many." 
" But I am on the high road to recovery, and have per- 
fection in the shape of service at my elbow. The role of 
an invalid may be interesting for a time ; but if you 
knew how much I enjoyed the slow drive through the 
balmy air, and how good it seems to mingle with my fel- 
low-creatures, you could not have the heart to forbid me." 
' ' I will wait until I see what effect it has upon your 
appetite." 
" Well, I am simply voracious." 
But he did not eat like a very hungry man. He was 
still alarmingly thin, and his height rendered this more 
noticeable ; but he was not so deadly pale as on the occa- 
sion when Doris had tried the charm of her voice in 
soothing the nervous restlessness. His sallies were so 
bright that she listened with interest, though her aunt's 
ample figure hid him mostly, save that he towered above 
her ; but Doris was too timid to glance up. 
After the meal, Mrs. Gilbert introduced them ; Doris 
bowed with quaint gravity, that it would have been im- 
possible to disconnect from her personality. She uttered 
a few words, and the tone made it a welcome back to life. 
He was glad now that he had lived. 
They went out on the larger vine-shaded balcony. 
There was a sudden slope below ; the balcony seemed 
hung out, as it were, on the wildest side of the place, with 
no approach save through a little salon. It was so deep 
in greenery that one would almost fancy one's self in the 
heart of a wilderness. A few birds chattered about ; all 
 
 
 
other sounds came from a distance, or at least gave you 
that impression. 
Mrs. Gilbert and the young man had all the conversa- 
tion. One or twice Doris was appealed to, and answered. 
She seemed to have no young-lady consciousness ; was 
indeed so different from the girls he had been accus- 
tomed to meet. Was it the restraint of foreign education ? 
And how had he ever dreamed or imagined her like 
Olive? 
" You are tired," said Mrs. Gilbert, presently. " You 
must go straight to your room and take a two hours' rest. 
I shall summon your man." 
There was something quite fascinating in the peremp- 
toriness that he could not gainsay. A mother might have 
done just that. 
" I do suppose I shall bore you to death, and you will 
be glad to see me off to Milan," he answered, as he 
accepted Martin's arm. 
Doris and her aunt sat in silence when he had gone. 
Mrs. Gilbert was rather annoyed. She did like better the 
chatty, piquant young girls, who have always some com- 
ment to make, who have opinions and desires. Doris was 
almost apathetic, she thought. How she could sit for 
hours and watch one bit of scenery, content herself with 
lace-making, and find enjoyment in walks with madame, 
passed her comprehension. Young Wentworth's illness 
had been quite a godsend of wild excitement, and 
what she was to do when he went away she could not 
divine. After all, had it been wise to take charge of 
Doris? But what could she have done, unless it was to 
fill the position of nursery governess? Mrs. Gilbert 
sighed. Her sympathetic good-nature had led her into 
more than one trouble, and these very events had brought 
about a disagreeable time with her husband. 
Why the fates had not made this young man marriage- 
able, when all other incidents were in the right process of 
 
 
 
development, she could not understand, unless it was a 
part of the ill luck that had more than once confronted 
her. She was a little cross to Doris, but the young girl 
took it very sweetly. '' She never will have any spirit," 
reflected her aunt. 
But when Doris accepted her aunt and the change to 
her life, the future was such an unknown quantity that 
she was still puzzling over it. Two or three brief and 
pithy sentences madame had let fall in her foreign frank- 
ness. 
" It is such a pity you have no dowry," she had said 
one day. "When you are tired of drifting about, there 
will be no convent to receive you ; you Protestants do not 
believe in them. My dear child, if a good man asks you 
in marriage, do not mind if he is a little older, or perhaps 
plain ; you cannot have your choice, and a great pity it 
is, too." 
Doris had studied her with wide eyes. 
" But do women — all women marry ? " 
''Those who are fortunate enough to have chances." 
And madame made a decisive gesture. 
The girls had talked of it at school, but even now 
marriage seems so far removed from her life ; and when 
her aunt is captious, a vague uneasiness pervades her 
soul. She begins to understand that she has no real 
right to her aunt's bounty ; perhaps, indeed, she is impov- 
erishing her. A certain dismay strikes hard into the 
young soul. She seems balancing herself upon some 
slender staff that bridges the past and the future, and 
sees no secure place on either side. 
Lloyd Wentworth is very careful of himself all the 
afternoon, but he comes down again in the evening ; and 
when the conversation flags, — that is, Doris has not 
talked at all, — he says something about the piano. 
''It pleases madame," she returns, simply. "I sup- 
pose it has the memory and the love of years ago, and 
 
 
 
she does not mind the thin quavering sound, — does not even 
hear it. But I should not want to play for any one else." 
"And you sing?" 
"Yes. Of course, there are much finer voices than 
mine," she replies, with gentle quietude. 
"I used to sing. They sing a great deal at home. I 
wish you could touch the grand piano there. My cousin 
Basil plays magnificently. I should like you to hear 
him. I know that Ave Maria you were singing the other 
evening. Let us try it." 
He hummed a line ; then began in a low tenor voice of 
great sweetness. Doris listens, entranced for the moment ; 
then conscience rouses her to her duty, and she joins him 
simply as a child might. Unworldly, that is the adjective 
which completely describes her. Some grace of nature 
or training will always keep the fine line of propriety 
present in her soul ; but she is just a little different, and 
always will be, from other girls and women. She is so 
utterly unlike Mrs. Gilbert. Wentworth is glad that she 
is, though he can give no good reason for it. 
How soft the voices rise and fall in the beautiful Italian 
tongue, that is melody itself ! That sweet, divine plaint 
to the mother of the Saviour touches them both, and the 
voices falter a little. There are some tears in her eyes, 
but in the odorous dusk they are hidden from sight. 
" You sing with a great deal of feeling," he says, when 
he can command his voice, for he, too, has been deeply 
moved. "It is just the voice for a home fireside." 
Doris is silent. 
" You read to me once ; I should like to hear you read 
again. Then you were charming an evil spirit that has 
left me now. Was I very bad ? " And there is a sound 
like a smile in his tone. 
"You were restless, — yes, it was quite dreadful, be- 
cause you must have suffered severely, and the doctor 
said if you did not sleep, you could not live." 
 
 
 
'' I shall know what to do in the next strait." 
Then he reflects a little. If he goes to Milan — if they 
go elsewhere — never until this moment has he felt utterly 
cut off from the hopes that render youth and life so blest. 
To know his days numbered! A year ago — two weeka 
ago — it had not cost him a pang. But the dread fact is 
there, and he must be brave to face it. Why should he 
want to live simply because he has seen Doris Hawthorne ? 
'' I heard you singing." For once Mrs. Gilbert's mellow 
voice falls discordantly on his soul. '' It sounded de- 
lightfully, for your voices blended so well. Sing some- 
thing for me. Doris knows no end of songs." 
" I believe I have done all I dare do to-night," he makes 
answer, in a quiet tone of authority. '' I was tempted to 
try with Miss Hawthorne, but it is one of the pleasures 
forbidden me." 
Mrs. Gilbert has been answering a letter received but 
not read before dinner. It has tried her sorely. Mr. Gil- 
bert proposes that she shall sell her diamonds to tide her 
over this emergency. '' Luck must change," he says. 
'' If she is living cheaply, she had better stay the remain- 
der of summer, but he advises her to hunt up a husband 
for her niece, or get rid of her in some fashion." 
She faces the fact, or rather the question, will Lloyd 
Wentworth do for a husband? Even a year would be 
something. He is lavish with his money ; he wastes 
enough probably to take care of a wife. She is in a des- 
perate strait, and she resolves to throw these young peo- 
ple together, knowing well that youth and kindred tastes 
are points of danger. 
 
 
CHAPTER ni. 
IN ARCADIB. 
Lloyd Wentworth is amused by, as well as interested in 
this simple, honest Doris Hawthorne. She has not learned 
any lessons of the great world. Her native delicacy is 
finer and more exquisite than any training of studied pro- 
priety. She is retiring, shy at times, but not bashful. 
She can defend herself, and the beliefs she holds sacred, 
in a quiet, heroic way, but she is never aggressive. Her 
aunt puzzles her, that he plainly sees ; for Mrs. Gilbert is 
a very worldly woman, whose great good, and also god I 
may add, is her present enjoyment and advancement. If 
she was in the position she would like, and had money 
enough not to be compelled to resort to all kinds of sub- 
terfuges, she would make a large circle happy. Happi- 
ness is indeed her sun, her light of life, and a very little 
exalts her. Her nature being diffusive, she would fain 
have all others happy as well. Anson Gilbert is a su- 
premely selfish man. He can stop to think when he is 
going to spend a dollar whether it will tend to his own 
advancement. Mrs. Gilbert would wonder whether she 
would make two people happy with it, and regret that it 
was so small she was compelled to spend it all upon her- 
self. But if Doris has not come to consider others, neither 
does she consider herself. 
" It is such a pity she should grow worldly and vain and 
selfish," he thinks. "She is pure as the inner leaf of a 
rose, and as close folded. No sun of friendship or affec- 
tion has even curled one leaf. She has simply liked. 
She has consented to harmonious preferences merely. But 
now she is slowly awaking, and there is a confused, 
 
 
 
troubled wonder. Some lovely wonuin could unfold this 
dormant nature until the rapt, slumbering sweetness, 
honor, and purity would transfigure it. 
He is a born dreamer, a helpless dreamer. There are 
splendid standards for men floating through his brain, for 
he has not yet outgrown the days of Arthur and Sir Gala- 
had. It is youth that fancies itself the hero of brave and 
trying events, who takes high and idealized views of life, 
who keeps honor, rectitude, and abnegation of self for later 
manhood. But somehow the real work of life has not 
come in his way. He is generous with his money ; he has 
had a few protegies who disappointed him, and came to 
grief  and his aunt and cousins smile in their serenely wise 
way. They are of the world, -— not quite so coarsely as 
many, but still the trail of the serpent can be found amid 
even their delicate refinements. 
If Doris were a young lad of seventeen, — her birthday 
was in June past, he has learned, — how much he could do 
for her. He would take her away from Mrs. Gilbert at 
once ; but then Mrs. Gilbert would not have her, and he 
smiles. He would like to do something for her, — he 
knows money is at the bottom of her aunt's disquietude. 
But one is so helpless with a young girl who must be 
shrouded in a delicate mystery, and kept from common 
beneficences. It would be queer even to leave her some- 
thing in his will. How people would wonder and ache to 
get at the secret, Vhen really there would be no secret at 
all ! He could not do that without calling attention to her 
in a way that gave his own fine soul a pang. 
They were much together. He came now to Mrs. Gil- 
bert's small sitting-room. Doris had already begun to 
give it an " air." Madame's stiffness was all taken out of 
it. She had bunches of grass-heads and sprays of leaves 
fastened here and there on the wall, and she had put up 
her two white holly brackets that had been a Christmas gift. 
On one there stood a Bohemian glass vase, slender, and red 
 
 
 
as a ruby, and the other held a lovely Easter card. And 
though a shawl thrown over a chair might seem careless, 
uhe arranged it with such grace that it was drapery. She 
had inherited this much of her father's artistic talent. 
Mrs. Gilbert was not a severe chaperon. She had her 
own plans, and her American ideas had not been altogether 
banished or eradicated by foreign ways. She made ex- 
cuses now and then to go down-stairs, or she retired to 
the privacy of the sleeping-room just beyond. That 
Wentworth was interested in Doris she could plainly see ; 
!)ut if she could have known how far from thoughts of 
love his ideas ran, she would have been bitterly chagrined. 
He leads Doris to talk of her school life, — it is simple 
to barrenness. The few books she had read, regulation 
poets and harmless novels, very few at that, and it was 
evident they had not roused any special enthusiasm. 
'' I have a number of papa's books," she confessed one 
morning, " chiefly poetry. His real library and portfolios 
of drawings and pictures were sold. Madame put them 
away for me ; she said they were not the proper thing for 
very young girls who were at their studies to be interested 
in. Aunt Gilbert had not room to bring them all, but 
Miss Fothergill selected several." 
" What were they?" he asks. 
'' Longfellow and Taylor and Browning and Miss Mu- 
loch. I can't quite remember all. Tennyson we were 
allowed in school." 
'' What did you read to me that night?" he questions, 
with sudden interest. 
'' ' In Memoriam.' The doctor said something quiet, 
monotonous ; and that you know, is all in the same soft 
rhythm. I began at one place I like so much, — 
' If one should bring me this report, 
That thou hadst touched the land to-day 
And I went down unto the quay, 
And found thee lying hi the port —  " 
There is no dramatic effort in her cool, simple voice. 
He can see her walking slowly down to the quay, and her 
look of wonder as the ship lies there, her heavenly expres- 
sion as the ^' sudden hand" strikes hers. It is not the 
poet, but golden-haired, tender-eyed Doris. 
"And I went to sleep," he says, with a long, sighing 
breath. 
" After a while. You were so restless and so weak that 
the doctor was afraid — " 
" Yes." He knows what the long pause means. 
" You could not understand, but you heard the sound. 
That was enough, ^f ter a little you became quieter, and 
then you fell asleep." 
" You and your aunt saved my life, no doubt ; gave me a 
longer respite. I shall have a new love for ' In Memoriam.' " 
Easily as she flushes, no unwonted color comes into her 
cheek as their eyes meet. He wonders how any girl 
could be so utterly without artifice. 
" Browning is a great favorite of mine," he says. '' I 
went to call on him, and was delighted. I have seen a 
number of our American poets." 
She gives a wistful glance. His speech has opened a 
new world to her ; he sees that in her eyes. Now they are 
as blue as heaven, and look like softly undulating lakes, 
just stirred by the faintest zephyr. 
He is in the midst of an animated description when 
Mrs. Gilbert enters. They have nothing to look conscious 
about, and Doris is gravely serene. Why, almost any girl 
she has ever seen would have a young man making love 
by this time. Doris is going to be a rather difficult young 
woman. How can she give her a hint ? The girls of the 
real world seldom need them. 
"Mrs. Gilbert," Wentworth says some fifteen minutes 
afterward, "have you decided upon anything — any 
movement, I mean ? You surely are not going to stay at 
Novara all summer?" 
 
 
 
" I have been awaiting Mr. Gilbert's plans," she replies, 
rather evasively ; " but I am afraid — indeed, we are quite 
at sea, Doris and I. That is an Irish bull," and she gives 
a constrained laugh, "or a figure of speech. What I am 
afraid of is that we may remain, much to my dissat- 
isfaction." 
'' Must you wait for Mr. Gilbert? Can he not meet 
you somewhere ? " 
"Well, it will be very stupid after you go," ignoring 
his question. " Are you in a hurry to get away ? " 
"The doctor proposes a change. I am quite strong 
now, and in some ways Martin is an improvement on 
Louis, poor lad ! And I 've thought out such a nice trip. 
Why cannot you go on to Venice ? You will not care to 
be regularly settled anywhere before winter." 
"Venice!" There is such a look of anticipation in 
Doris's eyes. 
. " Yes. There is Milan, for a first stage ; then Bergamo 
and the lakes, Peschiera, Verona, Padua, Venice. They 
are a little off of the crowded routes, but will be delight- 
ful. You read Shakespeare, Miss Hawthorne?" 
" No," Doris answers simply, but with that wondering 
look. How rich the world is ! How many treasures there 
are for her ; that they are not for every one, she cannot 
comprehend at this stage. 
"And you've never seen a play? I should like to be 
with you at your very first one. Verona, you know, is 
famed for Romeo and Juliet ; and Padua," — he laughs, 
— " the wise young lawyer came from Padua, who settled 
about the pound of flesh." 
Doris is mystified. Now her face is simply delicious. 
"Doris has not been outside of school walls, remem- 
ber," Mrs. Gilbert remarks, sharply. She is not certain 
of Wentworth's honesty; he may be thinking Doris 
shockingly ignorant. 
" And she has it all to see, all to learn. Mrs. Gilbert, 
you are to be envied." 
 
 
He can make himself Doris's instructor very easily. 
She is quite ready to resign her envied position. 
Madame sends up to know if the signorina is ready for 
her walk. 
"I ought to go," Doris admits, reluctantly. ''It 
pleases madame so much.'' But she looks inquiringly at 
her aunt. 
'' Yes, child," is the hasty response. 
Doris rises obediently and puts up her lace-work. She 
is just a very little near-sighted, and that adds to her 
piquant carefulness. 
Under other circumstances, Wentworth would be sorry 
to have her go. He has been revolving an idea in his 
mind. In some things, Mrs. Gilbert is a delightful com- 
panion ; in all positions, Doris would be charming. 
''Yes," he continues, when they are alone, " why not 
improve your summer, instruct your niece, and perform 
a kindly act for me ? Rambling about alone is not nearly 
so pleasant. Let us join forces ; and there will be Martin 
to take all the vexatious part off your shoulders." 
It is simply maddening. He will not speak to Doris 
before he goes. He is not in love with her, though 
pleased, interested ; but another month may bring it about, 
or there may be some one else ; and to stay cooped up 
here — 
"Have I offended you?" Lloyd Wentworth crosses 
the room and takes the end of the sofa, so he can face 
her where she has dropped into a chair, looking much 
annoyed over something. " You know it is not at all as 
if we were strangers. You have done rae the greatest of 
kindnesses ; as the doctor says, I owe ray life to you, and 
how can I repay the debt, — the generous sympathy? 
Then — I am still an invalid — there would be nothing 
improper — " he is about to say, "your niece is but a 
child," yet he refrains. 
" It is not that " Mrs. Gilbert has been in many straits 
 
 
 
in her life, and a door of extrication has always been 
opened. Perhaps she has aided somewhat to open it 
herself. "With the last effort of desperation, she con- 
tinues : " It is a humiliating confession, but Mr. Gilbert 
has been extremely unfortunate in some business transac- 
tions, — he does a little for one or two American houses 
in a confidential way. I think he was not quite pleased 
that I should so readily accept the care of my niece. 
Girls study so much for artists and doctors and every- 
thing. If he had been prosperous, you see he would not 
have thought of it. So now he feels that he can do no 
better than to keep us in this cheap little place all sum- 
mer ; but it will be so dreary for Doris." 
Mrs. Gilbert has not posed before the world for years 
not to know the most effective manner of telling a story. 
She goes to her point with dramatic rapidity, and when it 
does not need softening touches, she leaves it in its almost 
crude force. Now her face flushes ; her eyes are full of 
tears. 
" My dear Mrs. Gilbert ! " "Wentworth paces the room 
softly, down and up, then stops before her, and begins, 
in a pleading, persuasive manner : " Let me be like a son 
to you. Let me ask this as a favor to myself. Accept 
of me as a banker for the present. Take it as a loan, 
and don't worry about repayment. You can make that 
any time, at your leisure ; but you would please me better 
by not making it at all. I 've been studying what gift I 
could proffer, what kindness I could do." 
" But your own people — your — " 
" Let me tell you a little about myself." Wentworth is 
very much in earnest, and takes his seat on the sofa again. 
'' There is a large family fortune; it should have been 
divided, but it all came to me. My father was the favorite 
son, and my grandfather entailed it as far as American 
laws allow. My uncle died without heirs ; my aunt has 
quite a large family, but I have planned to make it aU 
 
 
 
right when I go. I do not begin to spend the income ; 
in fact, a certain part is set aside for my cousin to man- 
age the estate with. I shall need it only a brief while 
longer," and he sighs a little. " So, no one can be 
harmed by any extravagance of mine ; and they want 
me to take all the enjoyment I can. I wish you would 
consider me a son, with a son's rights, for the next month 
or two. Think how much pleasanter it will be for me ! " 
He smiles in a very winning manner. Ah, Lloyd Went- 
worth ! the wisdom of your less than a quarter of a cen- 
tury is not to be compared with what one gains in the 
next two or three decades, especially if one has had to 
depend largely upon one's wits. He is very much in earnest, 
and a good deal afraid there may be some hitch of im- 
propriety. But, then, who need know? 
'' It would be ever so much nicer for you to take it now 
than for me to add a bequest to my will ; and, of course, 
I should remember your goodness ; you couldn't prevent 
that. Dear Mrs. Gilbert, do be indulgent. It is only 
such a little while that I can enjoy all these delights." 
She is not silent so much from consideration, as amaze- 
ment that she should have been so simple as not to have 
questioned before concerning his prospects. He has in a 
manner signed his own warrant for the future. Hardly 
will she let him out of her sight now. 
But she allows herself to need considerable persuasion. 
She makes some faint objections, which are, of course, 
overruled ; and then she promises to take the matter into 
consideration, explicitly stipulating that it shall be a loan, 
and she allowed to repay it without the first demur on his 
part. Then Doris returns, and nothing more is said. 
In the evening they look up routes. Mrs. Gilbert is an 
old traveller, and makes many useful suggestions. Went- 
worth considers himself extremely lucky. Doris is puz- 
zled at her aunt's high spurits and tender demeanor toward 
herself. 
 
'' I have decided to make a change," she says to Doris, 
as they are about retiring. " I have had a little bit of good 
fortune to-day, and your uncle will send me some money 
shortly. So we may as well go on and see something of 
the world. We shall have Mr. Wentworth's man to look 
after us, and altogether it will be much pleasanter than 
travelling alone." 
Doris is glad with a child's delight, and she is really 
gratified that they are not to part from Lloyd Wentworth. 
'' You must make yourself as companionable as possi- 
ble, Doris," she suggests. " You must read up, — I wish 
I had a copy of Shakespeare for you. Everybody knows 
all about the plays." 
'' Mr. Wentworth promised to bring in his," she 
answers, quietly. 
To any other girl she would give advice ; but there is 
nothing that will meet the level of Doris's innocence, or is 
it obtuseness? Well, she will be right behind her in any 
emergency. And perhaps, if Doris thought of such a 
thing, she might turn cold and disagreeable, and show 
Wentworth how far matrimony was from her mind. No ; 
let them Just drift. But Mrs. Gilbert does so love talking 
over plans, and the best moves and probabilities of suc- 
cess. Lovers are to her what chess is to many people. 
Madame Cirrella is truly sorry to part with her guests. 
She brings out a small pearl brooch for Doris's accept- 
ance, and that last evening the two young people sing an 
''Ave Maria" without any accompaniment. It brings 
tears to madame's eyes. 
Mrs. Gilbert explains that they are to journey to Milan 
together. She feels her way cautiously with Doris, admit- 
ting to herself that, gentle as the girl is, she is difficult to 
manage. Indeed, Doris is much better without manage- 
ment. Her delicacy and unselfishness lead her invariably 
to do what others will prefer when it is any question of 
personal ease, desire, or pleasure. She finds enjoyment 
largely in making others happy ; but as yet Doris has not 
gone through the high experiences that make this a prin- 
ciple or an underlying strand in character. She does it 
as the bird sings, or the butterfly flits from flower to 
flower. It is one of the unconscious graces of her nature. 
But touch her on any fine moral point, and she could resist 
clearly and invincibly. 
So Mrs. Gilbert feels that she can only stand behind 
and pull the wires cautiously. Half the pleasure is gone ; 
but what she considers duty remains. She would never 
forgive herself if she let this prospect of a fortune for 
Doris slip through her fingers. She can even look forward 
complacently to the interesting widowhood of Doris Went- 
worth, who will still need a chaperon and companion. 
To Mr. Gilbert she writes briefly that she is going on to 
Milan. It will be less dull for Doris, who, like all young 
girls, is fond of change and pleasure ; and of course now 
is Doris's harvest time, when she is young and full of 
interest. 
The journey is not tiresome, and to Doris very delight- 
ful, with a companion like Lloyd Wentworth. She is 
beginning to discriminate ; she finds herself balancing and 
adjusting, evolving the many complexities of human souls, 
and comparing them. She does not say this to herself ; 
indeed, she does not understand the change going on so 
subtly within ; only she feels down to the depths of her 
honest nature that there is something in Aunt Gilbert that 
does not ring true, while in Mr. Wentworth it gives back 
the clear, decisive sound. It may be the difference be- 
tween men and women ; there may be an essential large- 
ness and nobleness in a man's nature. Then she shall copy 
that, she says to herself. More than once she has heard 
her aunt embellish some little incident very much for Lloyd 
Wentworth's hearing. 
When they reach their journey's end, Martin is 
despatched in search of apartments, and he finds them 
 
 
 
lodgings in a stately old sixteenth-century palace. The 
court-yard has a weed-grown, neglected look, and the gen- 
eral appearance is gloomy ; but it is so curious, with its 
high ceilings and carvings, its tapestries faded and worn, 
and its antique furniture. The sun shines brightly in 
Wentworth's room, and in the morning they will have it. 
Martin soon makes arrangements for meals. Mrs. Gilbert 
sighs a little as she thinks of the golden key that unlocks 
every store, and how most of her keys have turned out to 
be lead. But she accepts the goods the gods provide ; she 
will not refuse the richness of summer, because there may 
be a dreary winter. 
These two young people have fallen into an enchanted 
realm. It seems at first to Doris as if it must be wrong 
to plunge into the field of romance interdicted at school ; 
nay, to become a very part of it herself. Such wonderful 
lore as is poured out to her in extravagant measure ! Bits 
of history more thrilling than any story of the imagina- 
tion, men and women moving through incidents like veri- 
table characters of to-day, so strongly have they impressed 
their individuality at every step. Lives that wring tears 
from one's very soul, so deeply, bitterly sad are they; 
others that stalk on golden crowned, women who loved, 
suffered, and died, men who were alike villains and heroes. 
If she is absorbingly interested in them, Wentworth is 
fascinated by her. No travelling companion could be 
more delightful. Her freshness has a sparkle ; it is not 
the tame wonder of ignorance. She is so anxious to 
learn ; she feels that she has acquired next to nothing at 
school. 
There is the grand cathedral, the churches, the pic- 
tures, the palaces, and points o^ interest. They bore Mrs. 
Gilbert, but she falls in with some Florentine people who 
open to her the door of society in a small way. Doris, of 
course, would care nothing for a card party or a gossip- 
ing evening reception, and she is tired when night comes, 
 
 
 
glad to go to bed at the earliest moment. Wentworth 
makes no attempt at evening pleasures, for through the 
day he uses all his strength, and the nights are hardly 
long enough for recuperation. 
They journey on by easy stages. It is the perfection 
of summer weather. They pause awhile at the lovely, 
romantic lakes ; and in the quiet, with less to distract 
them, Wentworth brings out Shakespeare, whose magical 
hand has strung these places on a golden cord. The 
" Two Gentlemen of Verona" brings back Milan, and in 
imagination takes them farther on. They peruse the hates 
and rivalries of the Capulets and the Montagues, and 
Doris's sweet eyes grow enchanting in their tears, and her 
rose-hued lips quiver as she murmurs Juliet's name. 
Like two children they wander about Verona, lost in 
the faded glories of the place, and the romance the poet 
has cast around it. Was it at this high window Juliet 
said her lingering good-night, and summoned her lover 
back by girlish wiles? Did Romeo linger here in the 
sweet peril of her eyes? Were the stolen visits here and 
here ? They can almost see Friar Laurence in the cowled 
monk who passed them with downcast eyes. They find 
a ruinous old apothecary's shop ; they make a pilgrimage 
to the far-famed burial-place, and listen to old legends 
until their hearts are torn by woes as fresh to-day as the 
flowers about them. , Did the broken-hearted fathers, when 
their enmity was dashed to pieces by this cruel stroke, 
clasp hands here, and promise the " statue of pure gold," 
a poor sacrifice for the doom of two young souls ? 
'' It is too heart-breaking," Doris declares. " Oh ! why 
must it have ended thus ? Can people so hate each other ? " 
" Come," Wentworth says, huskily, and leads her 
away. Is there a sweet peril in her tender eyes when the 
lashes are threaded with pearls ? Ah ! was Romeo's the 
only unblessed lot? 
 
 
CHAPTER IV. 
THE CITY OF THE SEA. 
Lloyd "Wentworth has been so deeply moved that he 
lies awake a long while that night. He has accepted 
manfully the destiny an inscrutable Providence has dealt 
out to him. There has been in it one bright spot; his 
death will repair the wrong his grandfather's injustice 
committed. It is Basil Wentworth, and not himself, who 
should be master at Westwater, Basil whose sons and 
daughters should grow up there. He will not be for- 
gotten when his brief life is ended. He and Basil have 
been '' more than brothers." Basil is so much wiser and 
higher and grander, his splendid physique holds a strong 
and manly soul ; while his, Lloyd's, puny body, with its 
innumerable ills, it would be little short of a crime to 
perpetuate. No ; in the brief while that remains, let him 
emulate Sir Galahad rather. 
And certainly it would be a sin to lay so deep a sorrow 
on a bright young life like that of Doris Hawthorne's. 
She will marry some one young and strong, and together 
they will spend pleasant years. Perhaps some time, in 
her pretty serious fashion, she will tell him of her rambles 
about Verona, and of the young man who died years 
ago. '' I liked him so much," she will say, with no heat 
on her cheek, no shadow under her drooping lids. Yes, 
it is better. Love and marriage are not for him ; let him be 
brave to the end. 
He has a dull headache the next morning, and does not 
come down until the ladies are at luncheon. They have 
been to drive with the Florentine friend, and Doris's clear 
fijirrs face is full of sympathy, nothing more. She does 
 
