It is certainly not romantic."
"Not as you describe it. But I judged from the ease with which you made
the preparations for this expedition that you had done things of the
sort before."
My friend laughed again, but turned the subject.
"I hope that when we meet your friends to-morrow morning, we may have
something to show for our night's work," he said. "Fancy what an
excitement there would be if we brought Alexander Patoff back with us!
Not that it is at all probable. We may bring back nothing but broken
bones."
"I do not think Selim will hurt us much," I answered. "He is not exactly
an athlete. I would risk a fight with him."
"I dare say. But there may be plenty of strong fellows about the
premises. There are the four caïdjs, the boatmen, to begin with. There
is a coachman and probably two grooms. Very likely there are half a
dozen big hamáls about."
"That makes thirteen," I said. "Six and a half to one, or four and a
third to one, if we count upon our own driver."
"You may count upon him," replied Gregorios. "He is an old soldier, and
as strong as a lion. In case of necessity he will call the watch from
Yeni Köj. There is a small detachment of infantry there. But we shall
not have to resort to such measures. I believe that I can make the
Khanum confess. If so, I can make her order Selim to give up Patoff, if
he is alive."
"And if he is dead?"
"It will be the worse for the Khanum and her people. She is not in good
odor at the palace. It would not take much to have her exiled to Arabia,
even though she be dying, as they say she is. That is the question. Let
me only find her alive, and I will answer for the rest."
"She might very well refuse to confess, I fancy," I remarked, surprised
at my friend's tone of conviction.
"I believe not," he said shortly. Then he remained silent for some time.
My nerves are good; but I did not like the business, though I knew it
was undertaken for a good purpose, and that if we were successful we
should be conferring great and lasting happiness upon more than one of
my friends. I had heard many queer stories of wild deeds in the East,
and in my own experience had been concerned in at least one strange and
unhappy story, which had ended in my losing sight forever of a man who
was very dear to me. I do not think that the fact of having been in
danger necessarily brings with it a liking for dangerous adventures,
though it undoubtedly makes a man more fit to encounter perils of all
kinds. Few men are absolutely careless of life, and those who are, do
not of necessity court death. It is one thing to say that one would
readily die at any moment; it is quite another to seek risks and to
incur them voluntarily. The brave man, as a general rule, does not feel
a thrill of pleasure until the struggle has actually begun; when he is
expecting it he is grave and cautious, lest it should come upon him
unawares. This, at least, I believe to be the character of the Northern
man, and I think it constitutes one of his elements of superiority.
Balsamides is an Oriental, and looks at things very differently. In his
belief death will come at its appointed time, whether a man stay at home
and nurse his safety, or whether he lead the front in battle. The
essence of fatalism is the conviction that death must come at a certain
time, no matter what a man is doing, nor how he may try to protect
himself. This is the reason why the fanatic Mussulman is absolutely
indifferent to danger. He firmly believes that if he is to die, death
will overtake him at the plow as surely as in storming an enemy's
battery. But he believes also that if he dies fighting against
unbelievers his place in Paradise will be far higher than if he dies
upon his farm, his ambrosial refreshment more abundant, and the
dark-eyed houris who will soothe his eternal repose more beautiful and
more numerous. The low-born hamál in the street will march up to the
mouth of the guns without so much as a cup of coffee to animate him,
with an absolute courage not found in men who have not his unswerving
faith. To him Paradise is an almost visible reality, and the attainment
of it depends only on his individual exertions. But what is most strange
is the fact that this indifference to death is contagious, so that
Christians who live among Turks unconsciously acquire much of the Moslem
belief in fate. The Albanians, who are chiefly Christians, are among the
bravest officers in the Turkish army, as they are amongst the most
faithfully devoted to the Sultan and to the interests of the Empire.
Balsamides was in a mood which differed widely from mine. As we
clattered over the rough road in the face of the north wind, I was
thinking of what was before us, anticipating trouble, and determining
within myself what I would do. If I were ready to meet danger, it was
from an inward conviction of necessity which clearly presented itself to
me, and I consequently made the best of it. But Balsamides grew merry as
we proceeded. His spirits rose at the mere thought of a fight, until I
almost fancied that he would provoke an unnecessary struggle rather than
forego the pleasure of dealing a few blows. It was a new phase of his
character, and I watched him, or rather listened to him, with interest.
"This is positively delightful," he said in a cheerful voice.
"What?" I inquired, with pardonable curiosity.
"What? In an hour or two we may have strangled the Lala, have forced the
old Khanum to confess her iniquities, kicked the retainers into the
Bosphorus, and be on our way back, with Alexander Patoff in this very
carriage! I cannot imagine a more delightful prospect."
"It is certainly a lively entertainment for a cold night," I replied.
"But if you expect me to murder anybody in cold blood, I warn you that I
will not do it."
"No; but they may show fight," he said. "A little scuffle would be such
a rest after leading this monotonous life. I should think you would be
more enthusiastic."
"I shall reserve my enthusiasm until the fight is over."
"Then it will be of no use to you. Where is the pleasure in talking
about things when they are past? The real pleasure is in action."
"Action is not necessarily bloodshed," said I. "Active exercise is
undoubtedly good for mind and body, but when you take it by strangling
your fellow-creatures"----
"Rubbish!" exclaimed Balsamides. "What is the life of one Lala more or
less in this world? Besides, he will not be killed unless he deserves
it."
"With your ideas about the delight of such amusements, you will be
likely to find that he deserves it. I do not think he would be very safe
in your keeping."
"No, perhaps not," he answered, with a light laugh. "If he objects to
letting me in, I shall take great pleasure in making short work of him.
I am rather sorry you have put on that uniform. Your appearance will
probably inspire so much respect that they will all act like sheep in a
thunderstorm,--huddle together, and bleat or squeal. It is some
consolation to think that unless I appeared with an adjutant they would
not believe that I came from the palace."
"It is a consolation to me to think that my presence may render it
unnecessary for you to strangle, crucify, burn alive, and drown the
whole population of Yeni Köj," I answered. "I dare say you have done
most of those things at one time or another."
"In insurrections, such as we occasionally have in Albania and Crete, it
is imperative sometimes to make an example. But I am not bloodthirsty."
"No; from your conversation I should take you for a lamb," said I.
"I am not bloodthirsty," continued Gregorios. "I should not care to kill
a man who was quite defenseless, or who was innocent. Indeed, I would
not do such a thing on any account."
"You amaze me," I observed.
"No. But I like fighting. I enter into the spirit of the thing. There is
really nothing more exhilarating,--I even believe it is healthy."
"For the survivors it is good exercise. Those who do not survive are, of
course, no longer in a condition to appreciate the fun."
"Exactly; the fun consists in surviving."
"One does not always survive," I objected.
"What is the difference?" exclaimed Balsamides, who probably shrugged
his shoulders, in his dark corner of the carriage. "A man can die only
once, and then it is all over."
"A man can also live only once," said I. "A living dog is better than a
dead lion."
"Very little," answered Balsamides, with a laugh. "I would rather have
been a living lion for ever so short a time, and be dead, than be a Pera
dog forever. The Preacher would have been nearer to the truth if he had
said that a living man is better than a dead man. But the Preacher was
an Oriental, and naturally had to use a simile to express his meaning."
Suddenly the carriage stopped in the road. Then, after a moment's pause,
we turned to the right, and began to descend a steep hill, slowly and
cautiously, for the night was very dark and the road bad.
"We are going down to Yeni Köj," said Balsamides. "In twenty minutes we
shall be there. I will get out of the carriage first. Remember that,
once there, you must not speak a word of any language but Turkish."
Slowly we crept down the hill, the wheels grinding in the drag, and
jolting heavily from time to time. There were trees by the
roadside,--indeed, we were on the outskirts of the Belgrade forest. The
bare boughs swayed and creaked in the bitter March wind, and as I peered
out through the window the night seemed more hideous than ever.
"By the by," said I, suddenly, "we have no names. What am I to call you,
if I have to speak to you?"
"Anything," said Balsamides. "She does not know the name of the court
physician, I suppose. However, you had better call me by his name. She
might know, after all. Call me Kalopithaki Bey. You are Mehemet Bey.
That is simple enough. Here we are coming to the house; be ready, they
will open the door if they recognize the palace carriage through the
lattice. Of course every one will be up if the old lady is dying, and it
is not much past twelve. The man has driven fast."
The wheels rattled over the pavement, and we drew up before the door of
Laleli's house. We both descended quickly, and Balsamides went up the
broad steps which led to the door and knocked. Some one opened almost
immediately, and a harsh voice--not Selim's--called out,--
"Who is there?"
"From the palace, by order of his Majesty," answered Balsamides,
promptly. I showed myself by his side, and, as he had predicted, the
effect produced by the adjutant's uniform was instantaneous. The man
made a low salute, which we hastily returned, and held the door wide
open for us to pass; closing it and bolting it, however, when we had
entered. I noticed that the bolts slid easily and noiselessly in their
sockets. The man was a sturdy and military Turk, I observed, with
grizzled mustaches and a face deeply marked with small-pox.
We entered a lofty vestibule, lighted by two hanging lamps. The floor
was matted, but there was no furniture of any description. At the
opposite end a high doorway was closed by a heavy curtain. A large
Turkish mangál, or brazier, stood in the middle of the wide hall. The
man turned to the right and led us into a smaller apartment, of which
the walls were ornamented with mirrors in gilt frames. A low divan,
covered with satin of the disagreeable color known as magenta,
surrounded the room on all sides. Two small tables, inlaid with
tortoise-shell and mother-of-pearl, stood side by side in the middle of
the apartment.
"Buyurun, be seated, Effendimlir," said the man, who then left the room.
A moment later we heard his harsh voice at some distance:--
"Selim, Selim! There are two Effendilir from Yildiz-Kiöshk in the
selamlek!"
We sat down to wait.
"The porter is a genuine Turk, and not a Circassian. A Circassian would
have said 'Effendilir,' without the 'm,' in the vocative when he spoke
to us, as he did when he used it in the nominative to Selim."
I reflected that Balsamides had good nerves if he could notice
grammatical niceties at such a moment.
XVII.
In a few moments Selim, the hideous Lala, entered the room, making the
usual salutation as he advanced. He must have recognized Balsamides at
once, for he started and stood still when he saw him, and seemed about
to speak. But my appearance probably prevented him from saying what was
on his lips, and he stood motionless before us. Balsamides assumed a
suave manner, and informed him that he was sent by his Majesty to afford
relief, if possible, to Laleli Khanum Effendi. His Majesty, said
Gregorios, was deeply grieved at hearing of the Khanum's illness, and
desired that every means should be employed to alleviate her sufferings.
He begged that Selim would at once inform the Khanum of the physician's
presence, as every moment might be of importance at such a juncture.
Selim could hardly have guessed the truth. He did not know the court
doctor by sight, and Balsamides played his part with consummate
coolness. The negro could never have imagined that a Frank and a
foreigner would dare to assume the uniform of one of the Sultan's
adjutants,--a uniform which he knew very well, and which he knew that he
must respect. He was terrified when he recognized in the Sultan's
medical adviser the man who had scattered the crowd in the bazaar, and
who had so startled him by his references to the ring, the box, and the
chain. He was frightened, but he knew he could not attempt to resist the
imperial order, and after a moment's hesitation he answered.
"The Khanum Effendi," he said, "is indeed very ill. It is past midnight,
and no one in the harem thinks of sleep. I will prepare the Khanum for
the Effendi's visit."
Thereupon he withdrew, and we were once more left alone. I confess that
my courage rose as I grew more confident of the excellence of my
disguise. If the Lala himself had no doubts concerning me, it was not
likely that any one else would venture to question my identity. As for
Balsamides, he seemed as calm as though he were making an ordinary
visit.
"They will make us wait," he said. "It will take half an hour to prepare
the harem for my entrance. The old lady may be dying, but she will not
sacrifice the formalities. It is no light thing with such as she to
receive a visit from a Frank doctor."
He spoke in a low voice, lest the porter in the hall should hear us. But
he did not speak again. I fancied he was framing his speech to the
Khanum. The preparations within did not take so long as he had expected,
for scarcely ten minutes had elapsed when Selim returned.
"Buyurun," said the negro, shortly. The word is the universal formula in
Turkey for "walk in," "sit down," "make yourself comfortable," "help
yourself."
Balsamides glanced at me, as we both rose from our seats, and I saw that
he was perfectly calm and confident. A moment later I was alone.
Gregorios followed Selim into the hall; then, passing under the heavy
curtain and through a door which the Lala opened on the other side, he
found himself within the precincts of the harem, in a wide vestibule not
unlike the one he had just quitted, though more brilliantly lighted, and
furnished with low divans covered with pale blue satin. There was no one
to be seen, however, and Balsamides followed the negro, who entered a
door on the right-hand side, at the end of the hall. They passed through
a narrow passage, entirely hung with rose-colored silk and matted, but
devoid of furniture, and then Selim raised a curtain and admitted
Gregorios to the presence of the sick lady.
The apartment was vast and brilliantly illuminated with lamps. Huge
mirrors in gilt frames of the fashion of the last century filled the
panels from the ceiling to the wainscoting. In the corners, and in every
available space between the larger ones, small mirrors bearing branches
of lights were hung, and groups of lamps were suspended from the
ceiling. The whole effect was as though the room had been lighted for a
ball. The Khanum had always loved lights, and feeling her sight dimmed
by illness she had ordered every lamp in the house to be lighted,
producing a fictitious daylight, and perhaps in some measure the
exhilaration which daylight brings with it.
The floor of the hall was of highly polished wood, and the everlasting
divans of disagreeable magenta satin, so dear to the modern Turkish
woman, lined the walls on three sides. At the upper end, however, a dais
was raised about a foot from the floor. Here rich Siné and Giordès
carpets were spread, and a broad divan extended across the whole width
of the apartment, covered with silk of a very delicate hue, such as in
the last century was called "bloom" in England. The long stiff cushions,
of the same material, leaned stiffly against the wall at the back of the
low seat, in an even row. Several dwarf tables, of the inlaid sort,
stood within arm's-length of the divan, and on one of them lay a golden
salver, bearing a crystal jar of strawberry preserves, and a glass half
full of water, with a gold spoon in it. In the right-hand corner of the
divan was the Khanum herself.
The old lady's dress was in striking contrast to her surroundings. She
wore a shapeless, snuff-colored gown, very loose and only slightly
gathered at the waist. As she sat propped among her cushions, her feet
entirely concealed beneath her, she seemed to be inclosed in a brown
bag, from which emerged her head and hands. The latter were very small
and white, and might well have belonged to a young woman, but her head
was that of an aged crone. Balsamides was amazed at her ugliness and the
extraordinary expression of her features. She wore no head-dress, and
the bit of gauze about her throat, which properly speaking should have
concealed her face, did not even cover her chin. Her hair was perfectly
black in spite of her age, and being cut so short as only to reach the
collar of her gown, hung straight down like that of an American Indian,
brushed back from the high yellow forehead, and falling like stiff
horse-hair over her ears and cheeks when she bent forward. Her eyes,
too, were black, and were set so near together as to give her a very
disagreeable expression, while the heavy eyebrows rose slightly from the
nose towards the temples. The nose was long, straight, and pointed, but
very thin; and the nostrils, which had once been broad and sensitive,
were pinched and wrinkled by old age and the play of strong emotions.
Her cheeks were hollowed and yellow, as the warped parchment cover of an
old manuscript, seamed with furrows in all directions, so that the
slightest motion of her face destroyed one set of deep-traced lines only
to exhibit another new and unexpected network of wrinkles. The upper lip
was long and drawn down, while the thin mouth curved upwards at the
corners in a disagreeable smile, something like that which seems to play
about the long, slit lips of a dead viper. This unpleasant combination
of features was terminated by a short but prominent chin, indicating a
determined and undeviating will. The ghastly yellow color of her face
made the unnatural brightness of her beady eyes more extraordinary
still.
To judge from her appearance, she had not long to live, and Balsamides
realized the fact as soon as he was in her presence. It was not a fever;
it was no sudden illness which had attacked her, depriving her of
strength, speech, and consciousness. She was dying of a slow and
incurable disease, which fed upon the body without weakening the
energies of the brain, and which had now reached its last stage. She
might live a month, or she might die that very night, but her end was
close at hand. With the iron determination of a tyrannical old woman,
she kept up appearances to the last, and had insisted on being carried
to the great hall and set in the place of honor upon the divan to
receive the visit of the physician. Indeed, for many days she had given
the slaves of her harem no rest, causing herself to be carried from one
part of the house to another, in the vain hope of finding some relief
from the pain which devoured her. All night the great rooms were
illuminated. Day and night the slaves exhausted themselves in the
attempt to amuse her: the trained and educated Circassian girl
translated the newspapers to her, or read aloud whole chapters of Victor
Hugo's Misérables, one of the few foreign novels which have been
translated into Turkish; the almehs danced and sang to their small
lutes; the black slaves succeeded each other in bringing every kind of
refreshment which the ingenuity of the Dalmatian cook could devise; the
whole establishment was in perpetual motion, and had rarely in the last
few days snatched a few minutes of uneasy rest when the Khanum slept her
short and broken sleep. It chanced that Laleli had all her life detested
opium, and was so quick to detect its presence in a sweetmeat or in a
sherbet, that now, when its use might have soothed her agonies, no
member of her household had the courage to offer it to her. Her
sleepless days and nights passed in the perpetual effort to obtain some
diversion from her pain, and with every hour it became more difficult to
satisfy her craving for change and amusement.
Balsamides came forward, touching his hand to his mouth and forehead;
and then approaching nearer, he awaited her invitation to sit down. The
old woman made a feeble, almost palsied gesture with her thin white
hand, and Gregorios advanced and seated himself upon the divan at some
distance from his patient.
"His Majesty has sent you?" she inquired presently, slowly turning her
head and fixing her beady eyes upon his face. Her voice was weak and
hoarse, scarcely rising above a whisper.
"It is his Majesty's pleasure that I should use my art to stay the hand
of death," replied Balsamides. "His Majesty is deeply grieved to hear of
the Khanum Effendi's illness."
"My gratitude is profound as the sea," said Laleli Khanum, but as she
spoke the viper smile wreathed and curled upon her seamed lips. "I thank
his Majesty. My time is come,--it is my kadèr, my fate. Allah alone can
save. None else can help me."
"Nevertheless, though it be in vain, I must try my arts, Khanum
Effendim," said Balsamides.
"What are your arts?" asked the sick woman, scornfully. "Can you burn me
with fire, and make a new Laleli out of the ashes of my bones?"
"No," said Gregorios, "I cannot do that, but I can ease your pain, and
perhaps you may recover."
"If you can ease my pain, you shall be rich. But you can not. Only Allah
is great!"
"If the Khanum will permit her servant to approach her and to touch her
hand"--suggested Balsamides, humbly.
"Gelinis, come," muttered Laleli. But she drew the pale green veil that
was round her throat a little higher, so as to cover her mouth. "What is
this vile body that it should be any longer withheld from the touch of
the unbeliever? What is your medicine, Giaour? Shall the touch of your
unbelieving hand, wherewith you daily make signs before images, heal the
sickness of her who is a daughter of the prophet of the Most High?"
Balsamides rose from his seat and came to her side. She shrank together
in her snuff-colored, bag-shaped gown, and hesitated before she would
put out her small hand, and her eyes expressed ineffable disgust. But at
last she held out her fingers, and Gregorios succeeded in getting at her
wrist. The pulse was very quick, and fluttered and sank at every fourth
or fifth beat.
"The Khanum is in great pain," said Gregorios. He saw indeed that she
was in a very weak state, and he fancied she could not last long.
"Ay, the pains of Gehennam are upon me," she answered in her hoarse
whisper, and at the same time she trembled violently, while the
perspiration broke out in a clammy moisture on her yellow forehead.
Gregorios produced a small case from his pocket. It is the magical
transformer of the modern physician.
"The prick of a pin," said he, "and your pain will cease. If the Khanum
will consent?"
She was in an access of terrible agony, and could not speak. Gregorios
took from his case a tiny syringe and a small bottle containing a
colorless liquid. It was the work of an instant to puncture the skin of
Laleli's hand, and to inject a small dose of morphine,--a very small
dose indeed, for the solution was weak. But the effect was almost
instantaneous. The Khanum opened her small black eyes, the contortion of
her wrinkled face gave way to a more natural expression, and she
gradually assumed a look of peace and relief which told Gregorios that
the drug had done its work. Even her voice sounded less hoarse and
indistinct when she spoke again.
"I am cured!" she exclaimed in sudden delight. "The pain is gone,--Allah
be praised, the pain is gone, the fire is put out! I shall live! I shall
live!"
Not one word of thanks to Gregorios escaped her lips. It was
characteristic of the woman that she expressed only her own satisfaction
at the relief she experienced, feeling not the smallest gratitude
towards the physician. She clapped her thin hands, and a black slave
girl appeared, one of those called halaïk, or "creatures." The Khanum
ordered coffee and chibouques. She had never accepted the modern
cigarette.
"The relief is instantaneous," remarked Balsamides, carefully putting
back the syringe and the bottle in the little case, which he returned to
his pocket.
"Tell me," said the old woman, lowering her voice, "is it the magic of
the Franks?"
"It is, and it is not," answered Gregorios, willing to play upon her
superstition. "It is, truly, very mysterious, and a man who employs it
must have clean hands and a brave heart. And so, indeed, must the person
who benefits by the cure. Otherwise it cannot be permanent. The sins
which burden the soul have power to consume the body, and if there is no
repentance, no device to undo the harm done, the magic properties of the
fluid are soon destroyed by the more powerful arts of Satan."
The Khanum looked anxiously at Balsamides as he spoke. At that moment
the black slave girl returned, bearing two little cups of coffee, while
two other girls, exactly like the first, followed with two lighted
chibouques, a mangál filled with coals, two small brass dishes upon
which the bowls of the pipes were to rest, so as not to burn the carpet,
and a little pair of steel firetongs inlaid with gold. At a sign the
three slaves silently retired. The Khanum drank the hot coffee eagerly,
and, placing the huge amber mouthpiece against her lips, began to inhale
the smoke. Gregorios followed her example.
"What is this you say of Satan destroying the power of your medicine?"
asked Laleli, presently.
"It is the truth, Khanum Effendim," answered Balsamides, solemnly. "If,
therefore, you would be healed, repent of sin, and if you have done
anything that is sinful, command that it be undone, if possible. If not,
your pain will return, and I cannot save you."
"How do you, a Giaour, talk to me of repentance?" asked Laleli, in
scornful tones. "While you try to extract the eyelash from my eye, you
do not see the beam which has entered your own."
"Nevertheless, unless you repent my medicine will not heal you,"
returned Gregorios, calmly.
"What have I to repent? Shall you find out my sin?"
"That I be unable to find it out does not destroy the necessity for your
repenting it. The time is short. If your heart is not clean you will
soon be writhing in a worse agony than when I charmed away your pain."
"We shall see," retorted the Khanum, her features wrinkling in a
contemptuous smile. "I tell you I feel perfectly well. I have
recovered."
But she had hardly spoken, and puffed a great cloud of aromatic smoke
into the still air of the illuminated room, when the smile began to
fade. Balsamides watched her narrowly, and saw the former expression of
pain slowly returning to her face. He had not expected it so soon, but
in his fear of producing death he had administered a very small dose of
morphine, and the disease was far advanced. Laleli, however, though
terrified as she felt that the agony she had so long endured was
returning after so brief a respite, endeavored bravely to hide her
sufferings, lest she should seem to confess that the Giaour was right,
and that it was the presence of the devil in her heart which prevented
the medicine from having its full effect. Gradually, as she smoked on in
silence, Gregorios saw that the disease had got the mastery over her
again, and that she was struggling to control her features. He pretended
not to observe the change, and waited philosophically for the inevitable
result. At last the unfortunate woman could bear it no longer; the pipe
dropped from her trembling hand, and the sweat stood upon her brow.
"I wonder whether there is any truth in what you say!" she exclaimed, in
a voice broken with the pain she would not confess.
"It is useless to deny it," answered Balsamides. "The Khanum Effendim is
already suffering."
"No, I am not!" she said between her teeth. But the perspiration
trickled down her hollow cheeks. Suddenly, unable to hide the horrible
agony which was gnawing in her bosom, she uttered a short, harsh cry,
and rocked herself backwards and forwards.
"It is even so," said Balsamides, eying her coldly, and not moving from
his place as he blew the clouds of smoke into the warm air. "My medicine
is of no use when the soul is dark and diseased by a black deed."
"Where is the medicine?" cried the wretched woman, swaying from side to
side in her agony. "Where is it? Give it to me again, or I shall die!"
"It cannot help you unless you confess your sin," returned her torturer
indifferently.
"In the name of Allah! I will confess all, even to you an unbeliever, if
you will only give me rest again!" cried Laleli. From the momentary
respite the pain seemed far greater than before.
"If you will do that, I will try and save you," answered Balsamides,
producing the case from his pocket. He had been very far from expecting
the advantage he had obtained through the combination of the old woman's
credulity and extreme suffering; but in his usual cold fashion he now
resolved to use it to the utmost. Laleli saw him take the syringe from
the case, and her eyes glittered with the anticipation of immediate
relief.
"Speak," said Gregorios,--"confess your sin, and you shall have rest."
"What am I to confess?" asked the old woman, hungrily watching the tiny
instrument in his fingers.
"This," answered Balsamides, lowering his voice. "You must tell me what
became of a Russian Effendi, whose name was Alexander, whom you caused
to be seized one night in the last week of"----
Again Laleli cried out, and rocked her body, apparently suffering more
than ever.
"The medicine!" she whispered almost inaudibly.--"Quick--I cannot
speak---- am dying of the pain." The perspiration streamed down her
yellow wrinkled face, and Balsamides feared the end was come.
"You must tell me first, or it will be of no use," he said. But he
quickly filled the syringe, and prepared to repeat the former operation.
"I cannot," groaned Laleli. "I die!--quick! Then I will tell."
A physician might have known whether the woman were really dying or not,
but Balsamides' science did not go so far as that. Without further
hesitation he pricked the skin of her hand and injected a small
quantity, a very little more than the first time. The effect was not
quite so sudden as before, but it followed after a few seconds. The
signs of extreme suffering disappeared from the Khanum's face, and she
once more looked up.
"Your medicine is good, Giaour," she said, with the ghost of a
disdainful laugh. But her voice was still very weak and hoarse.
"It will not save you unless you confess what became of the Frank," said
Gregorios, again putting his instrument into the case, and the case into
his pocket.
"It is very easy for me to have you kept here, and to force you to cure
me," she answered with a wicked smile. "Do you think you can leave my
house without my permission?"
"Easily," returned Balsamides, coolly. "I have not come here
unprotected. His Majesty's adjutant is outside. You will not find it
easy to take him prisoner."
"Who knows?" exclaimed Laleli. "The only thing which prevents me from
keeping you is, that I see you have very little of your medicine. It is
a good medicine. But I do not believe your story about repentance. It
may serve for Franks; it is not enough for a daughter of the true
Prophet."
"You shall see. If you wish to avoid further suffering, I advise you to
tell me what became of Alexander Patoff, and to tell me quickly. I was
wrong to give you the medicine until you had confessed, but if you
refuse I have another medicine ready which may persuade you."
"What do I know of your unbelieving dogs of Russians?" retorted the old
woman, fiercely.
"You know the answer to my question well enough. If you do not tell me
within five minutes what I want to know, I will tell you what the other
medicine is."
Laleli relapsed into a scornful silence. She was better of her pain, but
she was angry at the physician's manner. Balsamides took out his watch,
and began to count the minutes. There was a dead silence in the spacious
hall, where the lights burned as brightly as ever, while the heavy
clouds of tobacco smoke slowly wreathed themselves around the
chandeliers and mirrors. The two sat watching each other. It seemed an
eternity to the old woman, but the dose had been stronger this time, and
she was free from pain. At last Balsamides shut his watch and returned
it to his pocket.
"Will you, or will you not, tell me what became of Alexander Patoff,
whom you caused to be seized in or near Agia Sophia, one night in the
last week of the month of Ramazán before the last?"
Laleli's beady eyes were fixed on his as he spoke, with an air of
surprise, not unmingled with curiosity, and strongly tinged with
contempt.
"I know nothing about him," she answered steadily. "I never caused him
to be seized. I never heard of him."
"Then here is my medicine," said Gregorios, coldly. "It is a terrible
medicine. Listen to the pleasure of his Majesty the Hunkyar." He rose,
and pressed the document to his lips and forehead.
"What!" cried Laleli, in sudden terror, her voice gathering strength
from her fright.
"It is an order, dated to-day, to arrest Laleli Khanum Effendi, and to
convey her to a place of safety, where she shall await the further
commands of his Majesty."
"It is false," murmured the Khanum. But her white fingers twisted each
other nervously. "It is a forgery."
"So false," replied Balsamides, with cold contempt, "that the adjutant
is waiting outside, and a troop of horse is stationed within call to
conduct you to the place of safety aforesaid. I can force you to lay his
Majesty's signature on your forehead and to follow me to my carriage, if
I please."
"Allah alone is great!" groaned the Khanum, her head sinking on her
breast in despair. "Kadèr,--it is my fate."
"But if you will deliver me this man alive, I will save you out of the
hands even of the Hunkyar. I will say that you are too ill to be removed
from your house,--unless I give you my medicine," he added, flattering
her hopes to the last.
"Give me time. I know nothing--what shall I say?" muttered Laleli
incoherently, her thin fingers twitching at the stuff of her
snuff-colored gown, while as she bent her head her short, coarse, black
hair fell over her yellow cheeks, and concealed her expression from
Gregorios.
"You have not much time," he answered. "The pain will soon seize you
more sharply than before. If I arrest you, your sentence will be
banishment to Arabia,--not for this crime, but for that other which you
thought was pardoned. If I leave you here without help, my sentence upon
you is pain, pain and agony until you die. It is already returning; I
can see it in your face."
"I must have time to consider," said Laleli, her old firmness returning,
as it generally did in moments of great difficulty. She looked up,
tossing back her hair. "How long will you give me?"
"Till the morning light is first gray in the sky above Beikos," replied
Gregorios, without hesitation. "But for your own sake you had better
decide sooner."
Laleli was silent. She must have had the strongest reasons for refusing
to tell the secret of Alexander's fate, for the penalty of silence was a
fearful one. She felt herself to be dying, but the morphine had revived
in her the hope of life, and she loved life yet. But to live and suffer,
to go through the horrors of an exile to Arabia, to drag her gnawing
pain through the sands of the desert, was a prospect too awful to be
contemplated. As the effects of the last dose administered began to
disappear, and her sufferings recommenced, she realized her situation
with frightful vividness. Still she strove to be calm and to baffle her
tormentor to the very end. If she had not felt the unspeakable relief
she had gained from his medicine, she would have wished to die, but she
had tasted of life again. The problem was how to preserve this new life
while refusing to answer the question Gregorios had asked of her. She
was so clever, so thoroughly able to deal with difficulties, that if she
could but have relief from her sufferings, so that her mind might be
free to work undisturbed, she still hoped to find the solution. But the
pain was already returning. In a few minutes she would be writhing in
agony again.
"I will wait until morning,--it is not many hours now," said Balsamides,
after a pause. "But I strongly advise you to decide at once. You are
beginning to suffer, and I warn you that unless you confess you shall
not have the medicine."
"I lived without it until you came," answered Laleli. "I can live
without it now, if it is my fate." Her voice trembled convulsively, but
she finished her sentence by a great effort.
"It is not your fate," returned Gregorios. "You can not live without
it."
"Then at least I shall die and escape you," she groaned; but even in her
groan there was a sort of scorn. On the last occasion she had indeed
exaggerated her sufferings, pretending that she was at the point of
death in order to get relief without telling her secret. She had always
believed that at the last minute Balsamides would relent, out of fear
lest she should die, and that she could thus obtain a series of
intervals of rest, during which she might think what was to be done. She
did not know the relentless character of the man with whom she had to
deal.
"You cannot escape me," said Balsamides, sternly. "But you can save me
trouble by deciding quickly."
"I have decided to die!" she cried at last, with a great effort. She
groaned again, and began to rock herself in her seat upon the divan.
"You will not die yet," observed Gregorios, contemptuously. He had
understood that he had been deceived the previous time, and had
determined to let her suffer.
Indeed, she was suffering, and very terribly. Her groans had a different
character now, and it was evident that she was not playing a comedy. A
livid hue overspread her face, and she gasped for breath.
"If you are really in pain," said Balsamides, "confess, and I will give
you relief."
But Laleli shook her head, and did not look up. He attributed her
constancy to an intention to impose upon him a second time by appearing
to suffer in silence rather than to sell her secret for the medicine. He
looked on, quite unmoved, for some minutes. At last she raised her head
and showed the deathly color of her face.
"Medicine!" she gasped.
"Not this time, unless you make a full confession," said Balsamides
calmly. "I will not be deceived again."
The wretched woman cast an imploring glance at him, and seemed trying to
speak. But he thought she was acting again, and did not move from his
seat.
"You understand the price," he said, slowly taking the case from his
pocket. "Tell what you know, and you shall have it all, if you like."
The old Khanum's eyes glittered as she saw the receptacle of the coveted
medicine. Her lips moved, producing only inarticulate sounds. Then, with
a convulsive movement, she suddenly began to try and drag herself along
the divan to the place where Gregorios sat. He gazed at her scornfully.
She was very weak, and painfully moved on her hands and knees, the
straight hair falling about her face, while her eyes gleamed and her
lips moved. Occasionally she paused as though exhausted, and groaned
heavily in her agony. But Balsamides believed it to be but a comedy to
frighten him into administering the dose, and he sat still in his place,
holding the case in his hand and keeping his eyes upon her.
"You cannot deceive me," he said coldly. "All these contortions will not
prevail upon me. You must tell your secret, or you will get nothing."
Still Laleli dragged herself along, apparently trying to speak, but
uttering only inarticulate sounds. As she got nearer to him, still on
her hands and knees, Gregorios thought he had never seen so awful a
sight. The straight black hair was matted in the moisture upon her
clammy face; a deathly, greenish livid hue had overspread her features;
her chin was extended forward hungrily and her eyes shone dangerously,
while her lips chattered perpetually. She was very near to Balsamides.
Had she had the strength to stretch out her hand she could almost have
touched the small black case he held. He thought she was too near, at
last, and his grip tightened on the little box.
"Confess," he said once more, "and you shall have it."
For one moment more she tried to struggle on, still not speaking.
Balsamides rose and quietly put the case into his pocket, anticipating a
struggle. He little knew what the result would be. The miserable
creature uttered a short cry, and a wild look of despair was in her
eyes. Suddenly, as she crawled upon the divan, she reared herself up on
her knees, stretching out her wasted hands towards him.
"Give--give"--she cried. "I will tell you all--he is alive--he is--a
wan--"
Her staring black eyes abruptly seemed to turn white, and instantly her
face became ashy pale. One last convulsive effort,--the jaw dropped, the
features relaxed, the limbs were unstrung, and Laleli Khanum fell
forward to her full length upon her face on the peach-colored satin of
the divan.
She was dead, and Gregorios Balsamides knew it, as he turned her limp
body so that she lay upon her back. She was quite dead, but he was
neither startled nor horrified; he was bitterly disappointed, and again
and again he ground his heel into the thick Siné carpet under his feet.
What was it to him whether this hideous old hag were dead in one way or
another? She had died with her secret. There she lay in her shapeless
bag-like gown of snuff-colored stuff, under the brilliant lights and the
gorgeous mirrors, upon the delicate satin cushions, her white eyes
staring wide, her hands clenched still in the death agony, the coarse
hair clinging to her wet temples.
Presently the body moved, and appeared to draw one--two--three
convulsive breaths. Gregorios was startled, and bent down. But it was
only the very end.
"Bah!" he exclaimed, half aloud, "they often do that." Indeed, he had
many times in his life seen men die, on the battlefield, on the hospital
pallet, in their beds at home. But he had never seen such a death as
this, and for a moment longer he gazed at the dead woman's face. Then
the whole sense of disappointment rushed back upon him, and he hastily
strode down the long hall, under the lamps, between the mirrors, without
once looking behind him.
XVIII.
Balsamides found Selim outside the door at the other end of the passage,
sitting disconsolately upon the divan. The Lala turned up his ugly face
as Gregorios entered, and then rose from his seat, reluctantly, as
though much exhausted. Balsamides laid his hand upon the fellow's arm
and looked into his small red eyes.
"The Khanum is dead," said the pretended physician.
