unexpurgated copy, and by it were the poems of Baudelaire’s decadent
descendants, Paul Verlaine and Mallarmé.
There were other book-cases, and of these there was one of which the
door was locked. In it were Justine and Juliette, by the Marquis de
Sade; the works of Piron; the works of Beroalde de Verville; a copy
of Mercius; a copy of Thérèse Philosophe; the De Arcanis Amoris;
Mirabeau’s Rideau levé; Gamaini, by Alfred de Musset and George Sand;
Boccaccio; the Heptameron; Paphian Days; Crébillon’s Sopha; the
Erotika Biblion; the Satyricon of Petronius; an illustrated catalogue
of the Naples Museum; Voltaire’s Pucelle; a work or two of Diderot’s;
Maiseroy’s Deux Amies; the Clouds; the Curée; everything, in fact, from
Aristophanes to Zola.
The collection was meaningless to Maida, and she turned aside and
went out on the verandah. Below, on the gravel walk, was a cat with
a tail like a banner, and a neck furred like a ruff. Maida crumpled a
bit of paper and threw it down. The cat jumped at it at once, toyed
with it for a moment, and then, sliding backwards with a crab-like
movement, its back arched, and its ears drawn down, it caught a glimpse
of Maida’s unfamiliar figure, and fled to the bushes with a shriek of
feigned terror. A servant passed, and ignorant of Maida’s presence,
apostrophized the retreating feline as a loafer and a liar.
A moment later Mr. Incoul and the marquis reappeared.
“I have been admiring your Angora,” Maida said, “but I fear I startled
it.”
The marquis rubbed his hands together thoughtfully. “It is a wonderful
animal,” he answered, “but it is not an Angora, it is a Thibetian cat,
and though it does not talk, at least it converses. It is so odd in its
ways that I called it Mistigris, as one might a familiar spirit, but
my children prefer Ti-Mi; they think it more Thibetian, I fancy.” He
coughed slightly and looking at the points of his fingers, he added, “I
will leave it with you of course.”
And then Maida understood that the matter was settled and that the
house was hers.
CHAPTER VII.
WHAT MAY BE SEEN FROM A PALCO.
The installation was accomplished without difficulty. The marquis
migrated to other shores and it took Maida but a short time to
discover the pleasures of being luxuriously housed. The apartment
which she selected for herself was composed of four rooms; there was a
sitting-room in an angle with windows overlooking the sea and others
that gave on a quiet street which skirted one wing of the villa. Next
to it was a bed-room also overlooking the street, while back of that,
on the garden side, was a bath and a dressing-room. A wide hall that
was like a haunt of echoes separated these rooms from those of her
husband.
Through the street, which was too steep to be much of a thoroughfare,
there came each morning the clinging strain of a pastoral melody, and
a pipe-playing goat-herd would pass leading his black, long-haired
flock to the doors of those who bought the milk. When he had gone the
silence was stirred by another sound, a call that rose and fell with
exquisite sweetness and died away in infinite vibrations: it came from
a little old woman, toothless and bent, who, with summer in her voice,
hawked crisp gold bread of crescent shape, vaunting its delicacy in
birdlike trills. There were other venders who announced their wares in
similar ways, and one, a fisher, chaunted a low and mournful measure
which he must have caught from the sea.
It was pleasant to be waked in this wise, Maida thought, and as she lay
in her great bed of odorous wood, she listened to the calls, and when
they had passed, the boom and retreating rustle of the waves occupied
and lulled her. In such moments the thoughts that visited her were
impermanent and fleeting. She made no effort to stay them, preferring
the vague to the outlined, watching the changes and transformations
of fancy as though her soul and she were separate, as were her mind a
landscape, some
                            Paysage choisi,
    Que vont charmant masques et bergamasques
    Jouant du luth et dansant et quasi
    Tristes sous leurs déguisements fantasques.
The room was an accomplice of her languor. The windows were curtained
with filmy yellow. Before them were miniature balconies filled with
flowers, and as the sun rose the light filtered through flesh-colored
awnings striated with ochre. The floor was a mosaic of variegated and
lacquered wood. On either side of the bed were silk rugs, sea green and
pink, seductive to the foot; the ceiling was a summer sky at dawn, a
fresco in cinnabar and smalt.
The Blydenburgs, less luxuriously inclined, remained at the hotel.
Mr. Blydenburg had not as yet enjoyed an opportunity of conversing in
Basque; he had indeed attempted to address a mildewed little girl whom
he encountered one day when loitering on the cliffs, but the child had
taken flight, and a mule that was pasturing on a bramble, threw back
its ears, elongated its tail and curving its lips, brayed with such
anguish that Mr. Blydenburg was fain to delay his studies until fortune
offered a more favorable opportunity.
It was at San Sebastian, he thought, that such an opportunity would be
found ready made, and on the morning of the projected excursion he was
in great and expectant spirits.
The morning itself was one of those delicious forenoons that reminded
one of Veronese. In the air was a caress and in the breeze an
exhilaration and a tonic. In the streets and about the squares there
was an unusual liveliness, much loud talking, a great many oaths, and
the irritation and excitement which is the prelude to a festival. The
entire summer colony seemed to be on its way to Spain.
In the court-yard of the Villa Zunzarraga four horses harnessed to a
landau stood in readiness. On the box the driver glistened with smart
buttons and silver braid. His coat was short, his culottes were white,
his waistcoat red, and he had made himself operatic with the galloons
and trappings of an eighteenth-century postilion. It was not every day
in the year that he drove to a corrida. By way of preparation for the
coming spectacle, Karl, who stood at the carriage door, had already
engaged a palco.
When Blydenburg and Milly arrived, and the party had entered the
landau, there was a brisk drive through the town and a long sweep down
the Route d’Espagne than which even the Corniche is not more lovely.
The vaporous Pyrenees seemed near enough to be in reach of the hand,
the elms that lined the roadside were monstrous, like the elms in a
Druid forest, the fields were as green as had they been painted. There
were pink villas with blinds of pale yellow, white houses roofed with
tiles of mottled red, gardens splendid with the scent of honeysuckle,
and children, bright-eyed, clear-featured, devoured by vermin and
greed, ran out in a bold, aggressive way and called for coin.
“Estamos en España!” The carriage had come to a sudden halt. In the
beauties of the landscape the journey had been forgotten. But at the
driver’s word there came to each of them that sudden thrill which
visits every one that crosses a new frontier. Blydenburg looked eagerly
about him. He had expected to be greeted by alcaldes and alguacils, he
had fancied that he would view a jota, or at the very least a roadside
bolero. “Are we really in Spain?” he wondered. In places of ladies in
mantillas and short skirts there was a group of mangy laborers, the
alcaldes and alguacils were represented by a sullen aduenaro, and the
only trace of local color was in a muttered “Coño de Dios” that came
wearily from a bystander. Certainly they were in Spain.
The custom-house officer made a motion, and the carriage swept on. To
the left was Fuenterrabia, dozing on its gulf of blue, and soon they
were in Irun. There was another halt for lunch and a change of horses,
and then, on again. The scenery grew wilder, and the carriage jolted,
for the road was poor. They passed the Jayzquibel, the Gaïnchurisqueta,
the hamlet of Lezo, Passaje, from whence Lafayette set sail; Renteria,
a city outside of the year of our Lord; they crossed the Oyarzun, they
passed Alza, another stream was bridged and at last the circus hove in
sight.
The bull-ring of San Sebastian is sufficiently vast for a battalion
to manœuvre in at its ease. It is circled by a barrier some five feet
high, back of which is another and a higher one. Between the two is
a narrow passage. Above the higher barrier rise the tendidos--the
stone benches of the amphitheatre--slanting upwards until they reach
a gallery, in which are the gradas--the wooden benches--and directly
over these, on the flooring above, are the palcos or boxes. Each box
holds twenty people. They are all alike save that of the President’s,
which is larger, decorated with hangings and furnished with chairs, the
other boxes having only seats of board. Under the President’s box, and
beneath the tendidos, is the toril from which the bulls are loosed.
Opposite, across the arena, is the matedero, the gateway through which
the horses enter and the dead are dragged out. In the passage between
the two barriers are stationed the “supes,” who cover up the blood,
unsaddle dead horses, and attend to other matters of a similar and
agreeable nature. There, too, the carpenters stand ready to repair any
injury to the woodwork, and among them is a man in black, who at times
issues furtively and gives a coup de grace to a writhing beast. There
also are usually a few privileged amateurs who seek that vantage ground
much as the dilettanti seek the side scenes of the theatre.
These arrangements, which it takes a paragraph to describe, are
absorbed at a glance, but with that glance there comes an aftershock--a
riot of color that would take a library to convey. For the moment the
eye is dazzled; a myriad of multicolored fans are fluttering like
fabulous butterflies; there are unimagined combinations of insolent
hues; a multitude of rainbows oscillating in a deluge of light. And
while the eye is dazzled the ear is bewildered, the pulse is stirred.
The excitement of ten thousand people is contagious; the uproar is
as deafening as the thunder of cannon. And then, at once, almost
without transition, a silence. The President has come, and the most
magnificent of modern spectacles is about to begin.
Almost simultaneously with the appearance of the chief magistrate of
the town, the Incouls and Blydenburgs entered their box. There was
a blast from a trumpet and an official in the costume known as that
of Henri IV. issued on horseback from the matedero. The ring which a
moment before had been peopled with amateurs was emptied in a trice.
The principal actor, the espada, Mazzantini, escorted by his cuadrilla
and followed by the picadors, advanced to the centre of the arena and
there amid an explosion of bravos, bowed with a grace like that which
Talma must have possessed, first to the President, who raised his high
hat in return, and then in circular wise to the spectators.
He was young and exceedingly handsome, blue of eye and clear-featured;
he smiled in the contented way of one who is sure of his own powers,
and the applause redoubled. The Basques have made a national idol of
him, for by birth he is one of them and very popular in Guipuzcoa.
He was dressed after the fashion of Figaro in the “Barbiere,” his
knee breeches were of vermilion silk seamed with a broad spangle, his
stockings were of flesh color, he wore a short, close-fitting jacket,
richly embroidered; the vest was very low but gorgeous with designs;
about his waist was a scarlet sash; his shoulders were heavy with
gold and on his head was a black pomponed turban, the torero variety
of the Tam O’Shanter. His costume had been imitated by the chulos and
banderilleros. Nothing more seductive could be imagined. They were all
of them slight, lithe and agile, and behind them the picadors in the
Moorish splendor of their dress looked like giants on horseback.
The President dropped from his box the key of the toril. The alguacil
is supposed to catch it in his hat, but in this instance he muffed
it; it was picked up by another; the alguacil fled from the ring, the
picadors stationed themselves lance in hand at equal distances about
the barrier, the chulos prepared their mantles, there was a ringing
fanfare, the doors of the toril flew open, and a black monster with the
colors of his ganaderia fastened to his neck shot into the arena.
If he hesitated no one knew it. There was a confused mass of horse,
bull and man, he was away again, another picador was down, and then
attracted by the waving cloak of a chulo he turned and chased it
across the ring. The chulo was over the fence in a second, and the
bull rose like a greyhound and crossed it, too. Truly a magnificent
beast. The supes and amateurs were in the ring in an instant and back
again when the bull had passed. A door was opened, and surging again
into the ring he swept like an avalanche on a picador, and raising him
horse and all into the air flung him down as it seemed into the very
pits of death. The picador was under the horse and the bull’s horns
were seeking him, but the brute reckoned without the espada. Mazzantini
had caught him by the tail, which he twisted in such exquisite fashion
that he was fain to turn, and as he turned the espada turned with
him. The chulos meanwhile raised the picador over the barrier, for
his legs and loins were so heavy with iron that once down he could
not rise unassisted. Across the arena a horse lay quivering in a bath
of gore, his feet entangled in his entrails, and another, unmounted,
staggered along dyeing the sand with zigzags of the blood that spouted,
fountain-like, from his breast. And over all was the tender blue of the
sky of Spain.
When Mazzantini loosed his hold, he stood a moment, folded his arms,
gave the bull a glance of contempt, turned on his heel and sauntered
away. The applause was such as no cabotin has ever received. It was
the delirious plaudits of ten thousand people drunk with the sun,
with excitement--intoxicated with blood. Mazzantini bowed as calmly
as were he a tenor, whose ut de poitrine had found appreciation in
the stalls. And while the applause still lasted, the bull caught the
staggering, blindfolded, unprotected horse and tossed him sheer over
the barrier, and would have jumped after him had he not perceived a
fourth picador ambling cautiously with pointed lance. At him he made
a fresh rush, but the picador’s lance was in his neck and held him
away. He broke loose, however, and with an under lunge disemboweled the
shuddering horse.
There was another blast of the trumpets, the signal for the
banderilleros whose office it is to plant barbs in the neck of the
bull--a delicate operation, for the banderillero must face the bull,
and should he trip he is dead. This ceremony is seldom performed until
the bull shows signs of weariness; then the barbs act like a tonic. In
this instance the bull seemed as fresh as were he on his native heath,
and the spectators were clamorous in their indignation. They called
for more horses; they accused the management of economy; men stood up
and shook their fists at the President; it was for him to order out
fresh steeds, and, as he sat impassible, pollice verso, as one may
say, they shouted “Fuego al presidente, perro de presidente”--dog of
a president; set him on fire. And there were cat-calls and the screech
of tin horns, and resounding and noisy insults, until the general
attention was diverted by the pose of the banderillas and the leaping
and kicking of the bull, seeking to free his neck from the torturing
barbs. At last, when he had been punctured eight times, he sought the
centre of the ring, and stood there almost motionless, his tufted tail
swaying nervously, his tongue lolling from his mouth, a mist of vapor
circling from his nostrils, seething about his splendid horns and
wrinkled neck, and in his great eyes a look of wonder, as though amazed
that men could be crueler than he.
Again the trumpets sounded. Mazzantini, with a sword concealed in
a muleta of bright scarlet silk, and accompanied by the chulos,
approached him. The chulos flaunted their vivid cloaks, and when the
bull, roused by the hated colors to new indignation, turned to chase
them, they slipped aside and in the centre of the ring stood a young
man dressed as airily as a dancer in a ballet, in a costume that a pin
would have perforated, and before him a maddened and a gigantic brute.
In a second the bull was on him, but in that second a tongue of steel
leaped from the muleta, glittered like a silver flash in the air, and
straight over the lowered horns it swept and then cleaved down through
the parting flesh and touched the spring of life. At the very feet of
the espada the bull fell; he had not lost a drop of blood; it was the
supreme expression of tauromaquia, the recognition that skill works
from force.
And then the applause! There was a whirl of hats and cigars and
cigarettes, and had San Sabastian been richer there would have been a
shower of coin. Women kissed their hands and men held out their arms
to embrace him. It was the delirium of appreciation. And Mazzantini
saluted and bowed and smiled. He was quite at home, and calmer and more
tranquil than any spectator. Suddenly there was a rush of caparisoned
mules, ropes were attached to the dead horses, the bull was dragged
out, the blood was concealed with sand, the toilet of the ring was
made, the trumpets sounded and the last act of the first of the
wonderful cycle of dramas was done.
There were five more bulls to be killed that day, but with their
killing the action with which these pages have to deal need not be
further delayed. From the box in the sombra Mr. Incoul had watched the
spectacle with unemotional curiosity. Blydenburg, who had fortified
himself with the contents of a pocket flask, manifested his earliest
delight by shouting Bravo, but with such a disregard of the first
syllable, and such an explosion of the second, that Mr. Incoul
mistaking the applause for an imitation of the bark of a dog had at
last begged him to desist.
The adjoining box was crowded, and among the occupants was a delicious
young girl, with the Orient in her eyes, and lips that said Drink me.
To her the spectacle was evidently one of alluring pathos. “Pobre
caballo,” she would murmur when a horse fell, and then with her fan
she would hide the bridge of her nose as though that were her organ
of vision. But no matter how high the fan might be raised she always
managed to see, and with the seeing there came from her compassionate
little noises, a mingling of “ay” and “Dios mio,” that was most
agreeable to listen to. Miss Blydenburg, who sat so near her that she
might have touched her elbow, took these little noises for signals and
according to their rise and fall learned when and when not to look down
into the terrible ring below.
In the momentary intermission that occurred after the duel between the
espada and the first bull, a mozo, guided by Karl, appeared in the box
bearing with him cool liquids from the caverns beneath. Blydenburg,
whose throat was parched with brandy and the strain of his incessant
shouts, swallowed a naranjada at a gulp. Mr. Incoul declined to take
anything, but the ladies found much refreshment in a concoction of
white almonds which affects the tonsils as music affects the ear.
It was not until this potion had been absorbed that Maida began to take
any noticeable interest. She had been fatigued by the drive, enervated
by the heat, and the noise and clamor was certainly not in the nature
of a sedative. But the almonds brought her comfort. She changed her
seat from the rear of the box to the front, and sat with one arm on
the balustrade, her hand supporting her delicate chin, and as her eyes
followed the prowess of the bull she looked like some fair Pasiphae in
modern guise.
It must have been the novelty of the scene that interested her.
The light, the unusual and brilliant costumes, the agility of the
actors, and the wonder of the sky, entered, probably, as component
parts into any pleasure that she experienced. Certainly it could have
been nothing else, for she was quick to avert her eyes whenever blood
seemed imminent. The second bull, however, was far less active than
the first. He had indeed accomplished a certain amount of destruction,
but his attacks were more perfunctory than angered, and it was not
until he had been irritated by the colored barbs that he displayed
any lively sense of resentment. Then one of the banderilleros showed
himself either awkward or timid; he may have been both; in any event
his success was slight, and as the Spanish audience is not indulgent,
he was hissed and hooted at. “Give him a pistol,” cried some--the acmé
of sarcasm--“Torero de las marinas,” cried others. He was offered a
safe seat in the tendidos. One group adjured the President to order his
instant imprisonment. One might have thought that the tortures of the
Inquisition could not be too severe for such a lout as he.
Maida, who was ignorant of the duties of a banderillero, looked down
curiously at the gesticulating crowd below. The cause of their
indignation she was unable to discover, and was about to turn to Mr.
Blydenburg for information, when there came a singing in her ears. The
question passed unuttered from her thoughts. The ring, the people, the
sky itself had vanished. Near the toril, on a bench of stone, was Lenox
Leigh.
CHAPTER VIII.
AN UNEXPECTED GUEST.
Gradually the whirling ceased, the singing left her ears. Leigh raised
his hat and Maida bowed in return. His eyes lingered on her a moment,
and then he turned and disappeared.
“A friend of mine, Mr. Leigh, is down there,” the girl announced. Her
husband looked over the rail. “He’s gone,” she added. “I fancy he is
coming up here.”
“Who’s coming?” Blydenburg inquired, for he had caught the words.
“A friend of my wife’s,” Mr. Incoul answered. “A man named Leigh--do
you know him?”
“Mrs. Manhattan’s brother, isn’t he? No, I don’t know him, but Milly
does, I think. Don’t you, Milly?”
Milly waved her head vaguely. She indeed knew the young man in
question, but she was not over-confident that he had ever been more
than transiently aware of her maidenly existence. She had, however, no
opportunity to formulate her uncertainty in words. There was a rap on
the door and Leigh entered.
Mr. Incoul rose as becomes a host. The young man bowed collectively
to him and the Blydenburgs. He touched Maida’s hand and found a seat
behind her. A bull-fight differs from an opera in many things, but
particularly in this, that there may be exclamations, but there is no
attempt at continuous conversation. Lenox Leigh, though not one to whom
custom is law, said little during the rest of the performance. Now
and then he bent forward to Maida, but whatever he may have said his
remarks were fragmentary and casual. This much Miss Blydenburg noticed,
and she noticed also that Maida appeared more interested in her glove
than in the spectacle in the ring.
When the sixth and last bull had been vanquished and the crowd was
leaving the circus, Mr. Incoul turned to his guest, “We are to dine at
the Inglaterra, will you not join us?”
“Thank you,” Lenox answered, “I shall be glad to. I came here in the
train and I have had nothing since morning. I have been ravenous for
hours, so much so,” he added lightly, “that I have been trying to
poison my hunger by thinking of the dishes that I dislike the most,
beer soup, for instance, stewed snails, carp cooked in sweetmeats or
unseasoned salads of cactus hearts.”
“I don’t know,” Mr. Incoul answered gravely. “I don’t know what we will
have to-night. The dinner was ordered last week. They may have cooked
it then.”
“Possibly they did. On a fiesta San Sebastian is impossible. There
are seven thousand strangers here to-day and the accommodations are
insufficient for a third of them.”
“I want to know--” exclaimed Blydenburg, always anxious for information.
They had moved out of the box and aided by the crowd were drifting
slowly down the stair.
At the salida Karl stood waiting to conduct them to the carriage.
“If you will get in with the ladies,” said Mr. Incoul, “Blydenburg and
myself will walk. The hotel can’t be far.”
To this proposal the young man objected. He had been sitting all day,
he explained, and preferred to stretch his legs. He may have had other
reasons, but if he had he said nothing of them. At once, then, it was
arranged that the ladies, under Karl’s protection, should drive to the
Inglaterra, and that the others should follow on foot.
Half an hour later the entire party were seated at a table overlooking
the Concha. The sun had sunk into the ocean as though it were imbibing
an immense blue syrup. On either side of the bay rose miniature
mountains, Orgullo and Igueldo tiara’d with fortresses and sloped with
green. To the right in the distance was a great unfinished casino, and
facing it, beneath Orgullo, was a cluster of white ascending villas.
The dusk was sudden. The sky after hesitating between salmon and
turquoise had chosen a lapis lazuli, which it changed to indigo, and
with that for flooring the stars came out and danced.
The dinner passed off very smoothly. In spite of his boasted hunger,
Lenox ate but sparingly. He was frugal as a Spaniard, and in the
expansion which the heavy wine of the country will sometimes cause, Mr.
Blydenburg declared that he looked like one. Each of the party had his
or her little say about the corrida and its emotions, and Blydenburg,
after discoursing with much learning on the subject, declared, to
whomsoever would listen, that for his part he regretted the gladiators
of Rome. As a topic, the bull fight was inexhaustible. Every thread
of conversation led back to it, and necessarily, in the course of the
meal, Lenox was asked how it was that he happened to be present.
“I arrived at Biarritz from Paris last night,” he explained, “and when
I learned this morning that there was to be a bull-fight, I was not in
a greater hurry to do anything else than to buy a ticket and take the
train.”
“Was it crowded?” Blydenburg asked in his florid way.
“Rather. It was comfortable enough till we reached Irun, but there
I got out for a Spanish cigar, and when I returned, the train was
so packed that I was obliged to utilize a first-class ticket in a
third-class car. None of the people who lunched at the buffet were
able to get back. I suppose three hundred were left. There was almost
a riot. The station-master said that Irun was the head of the line,
and to reserve a seat one must sit in it. Of course those who had
seats were hugely amused at those who had none. One man, a Frenchman,
bullied the station-master dreadfully. He said it was every kind of an
outrage; that he ought to put on more cars; that he was incompetent;
that he was imbecile; that he didn’t know his business. ‘It’s the
law,’ said the station-master. ‘I don’t care that for your law!’ cried
the Frenchman. ‘But the Préfet, sir.’ ‘To blazes with your Préfet!’ But
that was too strong. The Frenchman might abuse what he saw fit, but the
Préfet evidently was sacred. I suppose it was treasonable to speak of
him in that style. In any event, the station-master called up a file
of soldiers and had the Frenchman led away. The on-lookers were simply
frantic with delight. If the Frenchman had only been shot before their
eyes it would indeed have been a charming prelude to a bull fight.” And
then with an air that suggested retrospects of unexpressed regret, he
added pensively, “I have never seen a man shot.”
“No?” said Milly, boldly; “no more have I. Not that I want to, though,”
she hastened to explain. “It must be horrid.”
Lenox looked up at her and then his eyes wandered to Maida, and rested
caressingly in her own. But the caress was transient. Immediately he
turned and busied himself with his plate.
“Are you to be in Biarritz long?” Mr. Incoul asked. The tone was
perfectly courteous, friendly, even, but at the moment from the very
abruptness of the question Lenox feared that the caress had been
intercepted and something of the mute drama divined. Mentally he
arranged Mr. Incoul as one constantly occupied in repeating J’ai de
bon tabac, tu n’en auras pas, and it was his design to disarm that
gentleman of any suspicion he might harbor that his good tobacco, in
this instance at least, was an envied possession or one over which
he would be called to play the sentinel. The rôle of mari sage was
frequent enough on the Continent, but few knew better than Lenox Leigh
that it is rarely enacted in the States, and his intuitions had told
him long before that it was one for which Mr. Incoul was ill adapted.
Yet between the mari sage and the suspicionless husband there is
a margin, and it was on that margin that Lenox determined that Mr.
Incoul should tread. “No,” he answered at once, and without any visible
sign of preoccupation. “No, a day or two at most; I am on my way to
Andalucia.”
Blydenburg, as usual, was immediately interested. “It’s very far, isn’t
it?” he panted.
“Not so far as it used to be. Nowadays one can go all the way in a
sleeping car. Gautier, who discovered it, had to go in a stage-coach,
which must have been tedious. But in spite of the railways the place is
pretty much the same as it has been ever since the Middle Ages. Even
the cholera has been unable to banish the local color. There are trains
in Seville precisely as there are steamboats on the Grand Canal. But
the sky is the same, and in the Sierra Morena there are still Moors and
as yet no advertisements.”
“You have been there then?”
“Yes, I was there some years ago. You ought to go yourself. I know
of nothing so fabulous in its beauty. It is true I was there in the
spring, but the autumn ought not to be a bad time to go. The country is
parched perhaps, but then you would hardly camp out.”
“What do you say, Incoul?” Blydenburg asked. “Wouldn’t you like it?” he
inquired of Maida.
“I could tell better when we get there,” she answered; “but we might
go,” she added, looking at her husband.
“Why,” said Blydenburg, “we could see Madrid and Burgos and Valladolid.
It’s all in the way.”
Lenox interrupted him. “They are tiresome cities though, and gloomy to
a degree. Valladolid and Burgos are like congeries of deserted prisons,
Madrid is little different from any other large city. Fuenterrabia,
next door here, is a thousand times more interesting. It is Cordova
you should visit and Ronda and Granada and Sevilla and Cadix.” And, as
he uttered the names of these cities, he aromatized each of them with
an accent that threw Blydenburg into stupors of admiration. Pronounced
in that way they seemed worth visiting indeed.
“Which of them do you like the best?”
“I liked them all,” Lenox answered. “I liked each of them best.”
“But which is the most beautiful?”
“That depends on individual taste. I prefer Ronda, but Grenada, I
think, is most admired. If you will let me, I will quote a high
authority:
    “‘Grenade efface en tout ses rivales; Grenade
    Chante plus mollement la molle sérénade;
    Elle peint ses maisons des plus riches couleurs,
    Et l’on dit, que les vents suspendent leurs haleines,
    Quand, par un soir d’été, Grenade dans ses plaines,
          Répand ses femmes et ses fleurs.’”
In private life, verse is difficult of recitation, but Lenox recited
well. He made such music of the second line that there came with
his voice the sound of guitars; the others he delivered with the
vowels full as one hears them at the Comédie, and therewith was a
little pantomime so explanatory and suggestive that Blydenburg,
whose knowledge of French was of the most rudimentary description,
understood it all, and, in consequence, liked the young man the better.
The dinner was done, and they moved out on the terrace. The moon had
chased the stars, the Concha glittered with lights, and before the
hotel a crowd circled in indolent coils as though wearied with the
holiday. There were many people, too, on the terrace, and in passing
from the dining-room the little party, either by accident or design,
got cut in twain. For the first time since the spring evening, Maida
and Lenox were alone. Their solitude, it is true, was public, but that
mattered little.
Maida utilized the earliest moment by asking her companion how he got
there. “You should not have spoken to me,” she added, before he could
have answered.
“Maida!”
“No, you must go, you--”
“But I only came to find you,” he whispered.
“To find me? How did you know where I was?”
“The Morning News told me. I was in Paris, on my way to Baden, for I
heard you were there, and then, of course, when I saw in the paper that
you were here, I followed after.”
“Then you are not going to Andalucia?”
“No, not unless you do.”
The girl wrung her hand. “Oh, Lenox, do go away!”
“I can’t, nor do you wish it. You must let me see you. I will come to
you to-morrow--he has an excellent voice, not so full as Gayarré’s, but
his method is better.”
Mr. Incoul had suddenly approached them, and as suddenly Lenox’s tone
had changed. To all intents and purposes he was relating the merits of
a tenor.
“The carriage is here,” said Maida’s husband, “we must be going; I am
sorry we can’t offer you a seat, Mr. Leigh, we are a trifle crowded as
it is.”
“Thank you, you are very kind. The train will take me safely enough.”
He walked with them to the carriage, and aided Maida to enter it. Karl,
who had been standing at the door, mounted to the box. When all were
seated, Mr. Incoul added: “You must come and see us.”
“Yes, come and see us, too,” Blydenburg echoed. “By the way, where are
you stopping?”
“I shall be glad to do so,” Lenox answered; “I am at the Grand.” He
raised his hat and wished them a pleasant drive. The moon was shining
full in his face, and Miss Blydenburg thought him even handsomer than
Mazzantini. His good wishes were answered in chorus, Karl nudged the
driver, and in a moment the carriage swept by and left him standing in
the road.
“What a nice, frank fellow he is,” Blydenburg began; “so different
from the general run of young New Yorkers. There, I forgot to tell him
I knew his sister; I am sorry, it would have seemed sort of friendly,
made him feel more at home, don’t you think? Not but that he seemed
perfectly at his ease as it was. I wonder why he doesn’t marry? None
of those Leighs have money, have they? He could pick up an heiress,
though, in no time, if he wanted to. Perhaps he prefers to be a
bachelor. If he does I don’t blame him a bit, a good-looking young
fellow--”
And so the amiable gentleman rambled on. After a while finding that the
reins of conversation were solely in his own hands, he took the fullest
advantage of his position and discoursed at length on the bull fight,
its history, its possibilities, the games of the Romans, how they fared
under the Goths, what improvements came with the Moors, and wound up by
suggesting an immediate visit to Fuenterrabia.
For the moment no enthusiasm was manifested. Mr. Incoul admitted that
he would like to go, but the ladies said nothing, and presently the two
men planned a little excursion by themselves.
Miss Blydenburg had made herself comfortable and fallen into a
doze, but Maida sat watching the retreating uplands with unseeing
eyes. Her thoughts had wandered, the visible was lost to her. Who
knows what women see or the dreams and regrets that may come to the
most matter-of-fact? Not long ago at the opera, in a little Italian
town, the historian noticed an old lady, one who looked anything but
sentimental, for that matter rather fierce than otherwise, but who,
when Cherubino had sung his enchanting song, brushed away a furtive
and unexpected tear. Voi che sapete indeed! Perhaps to her own cost
she had learned and was grieving dumbly then over some ashes that the
strain had stirred, and it is not impossible that as Maida sat watching
the retreating uplands her own thoughts had circled back to an earlier
summer when first she learned what Love might be.
CHAPTER IX.
MR. INCOUL DINES IN SPAIN.
On the morrow Mr. Blydenburg consulted his guide-books. The descriptions
of Fuenterrabia were vague but alluring. The streets, he learned, were
narrow; the roofs met; the houses were black with age; the doors were
heavy with armorials; the windows barred--in short, a mediæval burg
that slept on a blue gulf and let Time limp by unmarked. Among the
inhabitants were some, he found, who accommodated travelers. The inns,
it is true, were unstarred, but the names were so rich in suggestion
that the neglect was not noticed. Mr. Blydenburg had never passed a
night in Spain, and he felt that he would like to do so. This desire he
succeeded in awakening in Mr. Incoul, and together they agreed to take
an afternoon train, explore the town, pass the evening at the Casino and
return to Biarritz the next morning. The programme thus arranged was put
into immediate execution; two days after the bull fight they were again
on their way to the frontier, and, as the train passed out of the
station on its southern journey, Maida and Lenox Leigh were preparing
for a stroll on the sands.
There is at Biarritz a division of the shore which, starting from
the ruins of a corsair’s castle, extends on to Saint-Jean-de-Luz. It
is known as the Côte des Basques. On one side are the cliffs, on the
other the sea, and between the two is a broad avenue which almost
disappears when the tide is high. The sand is fine as face powder,
nuance Rachel, packed hard. From the cliffs the view is delicious:
in the distance are the mountains curving and melting in the haze;
below, the ocean, spangled at the edges, is of a milky blue. Seen from
the shore, the sea has the color of absinthe, an opalescent green,
entangled and fringed with films of white; here the mountains escape in
the perspective, and as the sun sinks the cliffs glitter. At times the
sky is flecked with little clouds that dwindle and fade into spirals of
pink; at others great masses rise sheer against the horizon, as might
the bastions of Titan homes; and again are gigantic cathedrals, their
spires lost in azure, their turrets swooning in excesses of vermilion
grace. The only sound is from the waves, but few come to listen. The
Côte des Basques is not fashionable with the summer colony; it is
merely beautiful and solitary.
It was on the downs that Maida and Lenox first chose to walk, but
after a while a sloping descent invited them to the shore below. Soon
they rounded a projecting cliff, and Biarritz was hidden from them.
The background was chalk festooned with green; afar were the purple
outlines of the Pyrenees, and before them the ocean murmured its
temptations of couch and of tomb.
They had been talking earnestly with the egotism of people to whom
everything save self is landscape. The encircling beauty in which they
walked had not left them unimpressed, yet the influence had been remote
and undiscerned; the effect had been that of accessories. But now they
were silent, for the wonder of the scene was upon them.
Presently Maida, finding a stone conveniently placed, sat down on the
sand and used the stone for a back. Lenox threw himself at her feet.
From the downs above there came now and then the slumberous tinkle of
a bell, but so faintly that it fused with the rustle of the waves; no
one heard it save a little girl who was tending cattle and who knew by
the tinkle where each of her charges browsed. She was a ragged child,
barefooted and not very wise; she was afraid of strangers with the
vague fear that children have. And at times during the summer, when
tourists crossed the downs where her cattle were, she would hide till
they had passed.
On this afternoon she had been occupying herself with blades of grass,
which she threw in the air and watched float down to the shore below,
but at last she had wearied of this amusement and was about to turn and
bully the cows in the shrill little voice which was hers, when Maida
and her companion appeared on the scene. The child felt almost secure;
nothing but a bird could reach her from the shore and of birds she had
no fear, and so, being curious and not very much afraid, she watched
the couple with timid, inquisitive eyes.
For a long time she watched and for a long time they remained
motionless in the positions which they had first chosen. At times the
sound of their voices reached her. She wished she were a little nearer
that she might hear what they said. She had never seen people sit on
the beach before, though she had heard that people sometimes did so,
all night, too, and that they were called smugglers. But somehow the
people beneath her did not seem to belong to that category. For a
moment she thought that they might be guarding the coast, and at that
thought an inherent instinctive fear of officials beat in her small
breast. She had indeed heard of female smugglers; there was her own
aunt, for instance; but no, she had never heard of a coast-guard in
woman’s clothes. That idea had to be dismissed, and so she wondered and
watched until she forgot all about them, and turned her attention to a
white sail in the open.
The white sail fainted in sheets of cobalt. The sun which had neared
the horizon was dying in throes of crimson and gamboge. It was time she
knew to drive the cattle home. She stood up and brushed her hair aside,
and as she did so, her eyes fell again on the couple below. The man had
moved; he was not lying as he had been with his back to the bluff; he
was kneeling by his companion, her head was on his shoulder, her arms
were about his neck, and his mouth was close to hers. The little maid
smiled knowingly; she had seen others in much the same attitude; the
mystery was dissolved; they were neither guards nor smugglers--they
were lovers; and she ran on at once through the bramble and called
shrilly to the cows.
The excursionists, meanwhile, had reached Hendaye and had been ferried
across the stream that flows between it and Fuenterrabia. At the
landing they were met by a gentleman in green and red who muttered some
inquiry. The boatman undid the straps of the valise which they bore,
and this rite accomplished, the gentleman in green and red looked idly
in them and turned as idly away. The boatman shouldered the valises
again, and started for the inn.
Mr. Incoul and his friend were both men to whom the visible world
exists and they followed with lingering surprise. They ascended a
sudden slope, bordered on one side by a high white wall in which
lizards played, and which they assumed was the wall of some monastery,
but which they learned from the boatman concealed a gambling-house,
and soon entered a small grass-grown plaza. To the right was a church,
immense, austere; to the left were some mildewed dwellings; from an
upper window a man with a crimson turban looked down with indifferent
eyes and abruptly a bird sang.
From the plaza they entered the main street and soon were at the inn.
Mr. Incoul and Blydenburg were both men to whom the visible world
exists, but they were also men to whom the material world has much
significance. In the hall of the inn a chicken and two turkeys clucked
with fearless composure. The public room was small, close and full
of insects. At a rickety table an old man, puffy and scornful, was
quarreling with himself on the subject of a peseta which he held in
his hand. The inn-keeper, a frowsy female, emerged from some remoter
den, eyed them with unmollifiable suspicion and disappeared.
“We can’t stop here,” said Blydenburg with the air of a man denying the
feasibility of a trip to the moon.
On inquiry they learned that the town contained nothing better. At
the Casino there were roulette tables, but no beds. Travelers usually
stopped at Hendaye or at Irun.
“Then we will go back to Biarritz.”
They sent their valises on again to the landing place and then set out
in search of Objects of Interest. The palace of Charlemagne scowled at
them in a tottering, impotent way. When they attempted to enter the
church, a chill caught them neck and crop and forced them back. For
some time they wandered about in an aimless, unguided fashion, yet
whatever direction they chose that direction fed them firmly back to
the landing place. At last they entered the Casino.
