" I have been inclined to say so occasionally 
before — " 

" Becky, Weir Penrhyn is my — " And then he 
stopped. The ludicrous side of the matter had 
never appealed to him, but he was none the less 
conscious of how ridiculous the thing would 
appear to another. 

" Your what ? Your wife ? Are you married 
to her already, and do you want me to break it to 
the old gentleman ? What kind of a character is 
he ? Shall I go armed ? " 

" She is not my wife, thank God ! If she 
were—" 

" For heaven's sake, Harold, explain yourself. 
Can it be possible that Miss Penrhyn is like too 
many other women ? " 

Dartmouth sprang to his feet, his face white 
to the lips. 

"How dare you say such a thing?" he ex- 
claimed. " If it were any other man but you, 
I'd blow out his brains." 

Hollington got up from the chair he had taken 
and, grasping Dartmouth by the shoulders, threw 
him back into his chair. 

"Now look here, Harold," he said; "let us 
have no more damned nonsense. If you will 
indulge in lugubrious hints which have but one 
meaning, you must expect the consequences. I 
refuse to listen to another word unless you come 
out and speak plain English." 

He resumed his seat, and Dartmouth clasped 
his hands behind his head and stared moodily at 
the fire. In a few moments he turned his eyes 
and fixed them on Hollington. 

"Very well," he said, "I will tell you the 
whole story from beginning to end. Heaven 
knows it is a relief to speak; but if you laugh, I 
believe I shall kill you." 

"I will not laugh," said Hollington. "What- 
ever it is, I see it has gone hard with you." 

Dartmouth began with the night of the first 
attempt of his suppressed poetical genius to 
manifest itself, and gave Hollington a comprehensive 
account of each detail of his subsequent 
experiences, down to the reading of the letters and 
the spiritual retrospect they had induced. He 
did not tell the story dramatically; he had no fire 
left in him; he stated it in a matter-of-fact way, 
which was impressive because of the speaker's 
indisputable belief in his own words. Hollington 
felt no desire to laugh; on the contrary, he 
was seriously alarmed, and he determined to 
knock this insane freak of Harold's brain to 
atoms, if mortal power could do it, and regardless
of consequences to himself. 

When Dartmouth Iftd finished, Hollington lit 




a cigar and puffed at it for a moment,
meditatively regarding his friend meanwhile. Then he 
remarked, in a matter-of-fact tone : 

" So you are your own grandfather, and Miss 
Penrhyn is her own grandmother." 

Dartmouth moved uneasily. "It sounds ridiculous 
— but — don't chaff." 

" My dear boy, I was never more serious in 
my life. I merely wanted to be sure that I had 
got it straight. It is A. B. C. by this time to 
you, but it has exploded in my face like a keg 
of gunpowder, and I am a trifle dazed. But, to 
come down to deadly earnest, will you allow me 
to speak to you from the medical point of view ? 
You know I had some idea at one time of afflict- 
ing the community with one more physician, until 
we stumbled on those coal mines, and my pros- 
pective patients were spared premature acquaint- 
ance with the golden stairs. May I speak as an 
unfledged doctor, but still as one burdened with 
unused knowledge ? " 

"You can say what you like." 

" Very well, then. You may or may not be 
aware that what you are pleased to call the blues, 
or moods, are, in your case, nothing more or less 
than melancholia. When they are at their worst 
they are the form known as melancholia attonita. 
In other words, you are not only steeped in
melancholy, but your brain is in. a state of stupor: 
you are all but comatose. These attacks are 


 

not frequent, and are generally the result of a 
powerful mental shock or strain. I remember 
you had one once after you had crammed for two 
months for an examination and couldn't pull 
through. You scared the life out of the tutors 
and the boys, and it was not until I threatened 
to put you under the pump that you came to. 
Your ordinary attacks are not so alarming to 
your friends, but when indulged in too 
frequently, they are a good deal more dangerous." 

He paused a moment, but Dartmouth made no 
reply, and he went on. 

"Any man who yields habitually to melancholia 
may expect his brain, sooner or later, to 
degenerate from its original strength, and relax the 
toughness and compactness of its' fibre. Absolute 
dementia may not be the result for some 
years, but there will be occasional and painful 
indications of the end for a long space before it 
arrives. The indications, as a rule, will assume 
the form of visions and dreams and wild imagin- 
ings of various sorts. Now do you understand 
me?" 

" You mean," said Dartmouth, wheeling about 
and looking him directly in the eyes, " you mean 
that I am going mad ? " 

" I mean, my dear boy, that you will be a 
raving maniac inside of a month, unless you 
dislodge from your brain this horrible, unnatural, 
and ridiculous idea." 




" Do I look like a madman ? " demanded 
Dartmouth. 

" Not at the present moment, no. You look 
remarkably sane. A man with as good a brain 
as yours does not let it go all at once. It will 
slide from you imperceptibly, bit by bit, until 
one day there will be a climax." 

"lam not mad," said Dartmouth; "and if 
I were, my madness would be an effect, not a 
cause. What is more, I know enough about 
melancholia to know that it does not drift into 
dementia until middle age at least. Moreover, 
my brain is not relaxed in my ordinary attacks; 
my spirits are prostrate, and my disgust for life is 
absolute, but my brain — except when it has been 
over-exerted, as in one or two climaxes of this 
experience of mine — is as clear as a bell. I have 
done some of my best thinking with my hand on 
the butt of a pistol. But to return to the question
we are discussing. You have left one or 
two of the main facts unexplained. What caused 
Weir's vision ? She never had an attack of melancholia
in her life." 

" Telepathy, induction, but in the reverse 
order of your solution of the matter. Your calling 
her by her grandmother's name was natural 
enough in your condition — you have acknowledged 
that your melancholia had already taken 
possession of you. Miss Penrhyn had, for some 
reason best known to her sleeping self, got
herself up to look like her grandmother, and, she 
being young and pretty, her semi-lunatic 
observer addressed her as Sioned instead of heaven 
knows what jaw-breaking Welsh title. Then 
you went ahead and had the vision, which was 
quite in keeping with your general lunar condition.
I believe you said there was a moon." 

Dartmouth frowned. " I asked you not to 
chaff," he said. " What is more, I have had 
melancholia all my life, but delusion never before. 
But let that pass. The impulse to write — what 
do you say to that ? " 

"The impulse was due to the genius which 
you have undoubtedly inherited from your 
grandfather. The inability to put your ideas 
into verbal form is due to amnesic aphasia. The 
portion of your brain through which your genius 
should find speech is either temporarily paralyzed 
or else deficient in composition. You had 
better go up and see Jackson. He can cure you 
if anyone can." 

" Do you believe I can be cured ? " 
" You can certainly make the attempt.'' 
Dartmouth threw back his head and covered 
his face with his hands. "O God!" he
exclaimed, " if you knew the agony of the 
longing to feel the ecstasy of spiritual intoxication, 
and yet to feel as if your brain were a 
cloud-bank — of knowing that you are divinely 
gifted, that the world should be ringing with 




your name, and yet of being as mute as if 
screwed within a coffin!" 

" My dear boy, it will all come out right in the 
end. Science and your own will can do much, 
and as for the rest, perhaps Miss Penrhyn will 
do for you what those letters intimate Sioned 
did for your grandfather." 

Dartmouth got up and leaned his elbow on the 
mantelpiece. 

" I do not know that I shall marry Weir Pen- 
rhyn," he said. 

"Why not? Because your grandfather had 
an intrigue with her grandmother ? — which, by 
the way, is by no means clearly proved. That 
there was a plan on foot to that end the letters 
pretty well show, but — " 

"I don't care a hang about the sins of my 
ancestors, or of Weir's either — if that were all 
If I do not marry her it will be because I do not 
care to shatter an ideal into still smaller bits. I 
loved her with what little good was left in me. 
I placed her on a pedestal and rejoiced that I 
was able so to do. Now she is the woman whose 
guilty love sent us both to our death. I could 
never forget it. There would always be a spot 
on the sun." 

"My God, Harold," exclaimed Hollington, 
"you are mad. Of all the insane, ridiculous, 
idiotic speeches that ever came from man's lips, 
that is the worst." 



 

" I can't help it, Becky. The idea, the 
knowledge, is my very life and soul; and when you 
think it all over you will see that there are many 
things that cannot be explained — Weir's words 
in the gallery, for instance. They coincide 
exactly with the vision I had four nights later. 
And a dozen other things — you can think them 
out for yourself. When you do, you will 
understand that there is but one light in which to look 
at the question: Weir Penrhyn and I are Lionel 
Dartmouth and Sioned Penrhyn reborn, and that 
is the end of the matter." 

Hollington groaned, and threw himself back in 
his chair with an impatient gesture. 

"Well," he said, after a few moments' silence, 
"accepting your remarkable premisses for the 
sake of argument, will you kindly enlighten me 
as to since when you became so beautifully 
complete and altogether puerile a moralist ? Sup- 
pose you did sin with her some three-quarters of 
a century ago, have not time and suffering 
purified you both — or rather her ? I suppose it does 
not make so much difference about you." 

" It is not that. It is the idea that is revolting 
— that this girl should have been my mistress at 
any time — " 

"But, great heaven! Harold, such a sin is a 
thing of the fiesh, not of the spirit, and the 
physical part of Sioned Penrhyn has enriched 
the soil of Constantinople these sixty years. 





She has committed no sin in her present embodi- 
ment." 

"Sin is an impulse, a prompting, of the spirit," 
said Dartmouth. 

Hollington threw one leg over the arm of the 
chair, half turning his back upon Dartmouth. 

' Rot!" he said. 

" Not at all. Otherwise, the dead could sin." 

" I am gratified to perceive that you are still 
able to have the last word. All I can say is, that 
you have done what I thought no living man 
could do. I once read a novel by a famous 
American author in which one of the characters 
would not ask the heroine to marry him after 
her husband's death because he had been guilty 
of the indelicacy of loving her (although mutely, 
and by her unsuspected) while she was a married 
woman. I thought then that moral senility 
could go no further, but you have got ahead of 
the American. Allow me to congratulate you." 

" You can jibe all you like. I may be a fool, 
but I can't help it. I have got to that point 
where I am dominated by instinct, not by reason. 
The instincts may be wrong, because the out- 
growth of a false civilization, but there they are, 
nevertheless, and of them I am the product. 
So are you, and some day you will find it out. 
I do not say positively that I will not marry 
Weir Penrhyn. I will talk it over with her, and 
then we can decide." 
 

"A charming subject to discuss with a young 
girl. It would be kinder, and wiser, and more 
decent of you never to mention the matter to 
her. Of what use to make the poor girl miserable?" 

" She half suspects now, and it would come 
out sooner or later." 

" Then for heaven's sake do it at once, and 
have it over. Don't stay here by yourself any 
longer, whatever you do. Go to-morrow." 

"Yes," said Dartmouth, " I will go to-morrow." 

XIII. 

When Dartmouth entered the drawing-room 
at Rhyd-Alwyn the next evening, a half hour 
after his arrival, he found Sir Iltyd alone, and 
received a warm greeting. 

" My dear boy," the old gentleman exclaimed, 
" I am delighted to see you. It seems an age 
since you left, and your brief reports of your ill- 
health have worried me. As for poor Weir, she 
has been ill herself. She looks so wretched that 
I would have sent for a physician had she not, in 
her usual tyrannical fashion, forbidden me. I 
did not tell her you were expected to-night; I 
wanted to give her a pleasant surprise. Here 
she is now." 

The door was pushed open and Weir entered 
the room. Dartmouth checked an involuntary 
exclamation and went forward to meet her. She 




had on a long white gown hke that she had worn 
the morning he had asked her to marry him, but 
the similarity of dress only served to accentuate 
the change the intervening time had wrought. 
It was not merely that she had lost her color and 
that her face was haggard; it was an indefinable 
revolution in her personality, which made her 
look ten years older, and left her without a 
suggestion of girlishness. She still carried her head 
with her customary hauteur, but there was 
something in its poise which suggested defiance as 
well, and which was quite new. And the 
lanterns in her eyes had gone out; the storms had 
been too heavy for them. All she needed was 
the costume of the First Empire to look as if she 
had stepped out of the locket he had brought 
from Crumford Hall. 

As she saw Dartmouth, the blood rushed over 
her face, dyeing it to the roots of her hair, then 
receded, leaving it whiter than her gown. When 
he reached her side she drew back a little, but he 
made no attempt to kiss her; he merely raised 
her hand to his lips. As he did so he could 
have sworn he saw the sun flashing on the domes 
beneath the window; and over his senses stole 
the perfume of jasmine. The roar without was 
not that of the ocean, but of a vast city, and — 
hark ! — the cry of the muezzin. How weird the 
tapestry looked in the firelight, and how the 
figures danced! And he had always liked her to 



  

wear white, better even than yellow. He roused 
himself suddenly and offered her his arm. The 
butler was announcing dmner. 

They went into the dining-room, and Dart- 
mouth and Sir Iltyd talked about the change of 
ministry and the Gladstone attitude on the Irish 
question for an hour and a quarter. Weir 
neither talked nor ate, but sat with her hands 
clasped tightly in her lap. Dartmouth understood 
and sympathized. He felt as if his own 
nerves were on the rack, as if his brain had been 
rolled into a cord whose tension was so strained 
that it might snap at any moment. But Sir 
Iltyd was considerate. He excused himself as 
soon as dessert was removed, on the plea of 
finishing an important historical work just issued, 
and the young people went directly to the 
drawing-room. As Dartmouth closed the door Weir 
turned to him, the color springing into her face. 

"Tell me," she said, peremptorily; "have you 
discovered what it meant ? " 

He took her hand and led her over to the sofa. 
She sat down, but stood up again at once. " I 
cannot sit quietly," she said, " until I know. The 
enforced repression of the past week, the having 
no one to speak to, and the mystery of that 
dream have driven me nearly mad. It was cruel 
of you to stay away so long — but let that pass. 
There is only one thing I can think of now — do 
you know anything more than when you left ?" 



I 

He folded his arms and looked down. " Why 
should you think I could have learned anything 
at Crumford Hall?" he demanded, with 
apparent evasion. 

" Because of the restraint and sometimes 
incoherence of your letters. I knew that something 
had happened to you; you seemed hardly the 
same man. You seemed like— Oh, I do not 
know. For heaven's sake, tell me what it is." 

" Weir," he said, raising his head and looking 
at her, " what do you think it is ? " 

She put up her hands and covered her face. " I 
do not know," she said, uncertainly. -'If there 
is to be any explanation it must come from you. 
With me there is only the indefinable but 
persistent feeling that I am not Weir Penrhyn but 
the woman of that dream; that I have no right 
here in my father's castle, and no right to the 
position I hold in the world. To me sin has 
always seemed a horrible thing, and yet I feel 
as if my own soul were saturated with it; and 
what is worse, I feel no repentance. It is as if I 
were being punished by some external power, not 
by my own conscience. As if — Oh, it is all too 
vague to put into words — Harold, what is it ? " 

"Let us sit down," he said, " and talk it 
over." 

She allowed him to draw her down onto the 
sofa, and he looked at her for a moment. Then, 
suddenly, the purely human love triumphed. He 



 

forgot regret and disgust. He forgot the teach- 
ings of the world, and the ideal whose shattering 
he had mourned. He remembered nothing but 
that this woman so close to him was dearer than 
life or genius or ambition; that he loved her 
with all the strength and passion of which a 
man is capable. The past was gone, the future 
a blank; nothing remained but the glorious pres- 
ent, with its impulses which sprang straight from 
the heart of nature and which no creed could 
root out. He flung his arms about her, and the 
fierce joy of the moment thrilled and shook him 
as he kissed her. And for the moment she too 
forgot. 

Then his arms slowly relaxed and he leaned 
forward, placing his elbow on his knee and cov- 
ering his face with his hand. For a few mo- 
ments he thought without speaking. He decided 
that he would tell her something to-night, but 
not all. He would give her a clue, and when 
she was alone she might work the rest out for 
herself. Then, together, they would decide what 
would be best to do. He took her hand. 

" I have something to tell you, "he said. "I 
did not tell you before I left because I thought it 
best not, but things have occurred since which 
make it desirable you should know. You do not 
know, I suppose, that on the night of our dream 
you got up in your sleep and wandered about the 
castle." 



I 

She leaned suddenly forward. '' Yes ? " she said, 
breathlessly. " I walked in my sleep ? You saw 
me? Where?" 

" In the gallery that overhangs the sea. I had 
gone there to watch the storm, and was about to 
return to my room when I saw you coming tow- 
ard me. At first I thought you were the spirit of 
your grandmother — of Sioned Penrhyn. In your 
sleep you had dressed yourself like the picture in 
the gallery, and the resemblance was complete. 
Then, strangely enough, I walked up to you and 
took your hand and called you ' Sion&d ' " 

" Go on ! " 

" Then you told me that you were dead, and had 
been wandering in the hereafter and looking for 
me; that you could not find me there, and so had 
come back to earth and entered into the body of 
a dead child, and given it life, and grown to 
womanhood again, and found me at last. And 
then you put your cold arms about me and drew 
me down onto a seat. I suddenly lost all consciousness
of the present, and we were together 
in a scene which was like a page from a past 
existence. The page was that of the dream we 
have found so difficult a problem, and you read 
it with me, not alone in your room — Weir! 
What is the matter ? " 

She had pushed him violently from her and 
sprung to her feet, and she stood before him 
with wide-open, terror-stricken eyes, and
quivering in every limb. She tried to speak, but no 
words came; her lips were white and shrivelled, 
and her tongue clove to the roof of her mouth. 
Then she threw up her arms and fell heavily to 
the floor. 

XIV. 

After Weir had been carried up-stairs, and he 
had ascertained that she was again conscious, 
Dartmouth went to his own room, knowing he 
could not see her again that night. He did not 
go to bed; there was no possibility of sleep for 
hours, and he preferred the slight distraction of 
pacing up and down the room. After a time he 
paused in front of the fireplace, and mechanically 
straightened one of the andirons with his 
foot. What had affected Weir so strangely ? 
Had the whole thing burst suddenly upon her? 
He had hardly told her enough for that; but 
what else could it be? Poor child! And poor 
Sir Iltyd! How should he explain to him? What 
story could he concoct to satisfy him ? It would 
be absurd to attempt the truth; no human being 
but himself and Weir could comprehend it; Sir 
Iltyd would only think them both mad. He un- 
consciously drew in a long breath, expelling the 
air again with some violence, like a man whose 
chest is oppressed. And how his head ached! 
If he could only get a few hours sleep without 
that cursed laudanum. Hark! what was that? 



 

A storm was coming up. It almost shook the 
castle, solid and of stone as it was. But he was 
glad. A storm was more in tune with his mood 
than calm. He would go out into the gallery 
and watch it. 

He left his room and went to the gallery 
to which he had gone to watch a storm a little 
over a week ago. A week? It seemed so re- 
mote that for the moment he could not recall 
the events of that last visit; his head ached so 
that everything but physical suffering was tem- 
porarily insignificant. There was no moon to- 
night. The sky was covered with black, 
scurrying clouds, and he could only hear the angry, 
boiling waters, not see them. He felt suffocated. 
He had felt so all the evening. Besides the pain 
in his head there was a pressure on his brain; he 
must have air; and he pulled open one of the 
windows and stood within it. The wind beat 
about his head, the sea-gulls screamed in his 
ears, and the roar of the sea was deafening; but 
it exhilarated him and eased his head for the 
moment. What a poem it would make, that 
black, storm-swept sky, those mighty, thundering
waters, that granite, wind-torn coast! How 
he could have immortalized it once! And he 
had it in him to immortalize it now, only that 
mechanical defect in his brain, no — that cruel 
iron hand, would not let him tell the world that 
he was greater than any to whom its people bent 




their knees. Ah, there it was at last! It had 
reawakened, and it was battling and struggling 
for speech as before. Perhaps this time it would 
succeed! It was strong enough to conquer in 
the end, and why should not the end have come ? 
Surely the fire in his brain must have melted that 
iron hand. Surely, far away, they were singing 
again. Where were they ? Within his brain ? — or 
battling with the storm to reach him ? What 
were those wraith-like things — those tiny forms 
dancing weirdly on the roaring waters? Ah, 
he knew. They were the elfins of his brain that 
had tormented him with their music and fled at 
his approach. They had flown from their little 
cells, and were holding court on the storm-waves 
like fairies on the green. It was like them to 
love the danger and the tumult and the night. 
It was like them to shout and bound with the 
intoxication of the hour, to scream with the gale, 
and to kiss with frantic rapture the waves that 
threatened them. Each was a Thought mightier 
than any known to living man, and in the bosom 
of maddened nature it had found its element. 
And they had not deserted him — they had fled 
but for the hour — they had turned suddenly and 
were holding out their arms to him. Ah! he 
would meet them half-way — 

A pair of arms, strong with terror, were
suddenly thrown about him, and he was dragged to 
the other side of the gallery. 




"Harold!" cried Weir; "what is the matter 
with you ? Are you mad ? " 

" I believe I am," he cried. " Come to the 
light. I have something to tell you." 

He caught her by the wrists and pulled her 
down the gallery until they were under the
lantern which burned in one of the windows on 
nights like this as a warning to mariners. She 
gave a faint scream of terror, and struggled to 
release herself. 

"You look so strange," she cried. "Let me 
go." 

" Not any more strange than you do," he said, 
rapidly. " You, too, have changed since that 
night in here, when the truth was told to both of 
us. You did not understand then, nor did I; 
but I know all now, and I will tell you." 

And then, in a torrent of almost unintelligible 
words, he poured forth the tale of his discovery: 
what had come to him in the study at Crumford 
Hall, the locket he had found, the letters he had 
read, the episode of his past he had lived over, 
the poem which had swept him up among the 
gods in its reading — all the sequence of facts 
whose constant reiteration during every un- 
guarded moment had mechanically forced them- 
selves into lasting coherence. She listened with 
