ture and who therefore might have been expected 
not to notice it, had a fresh sense of it now : he 
reflected that manner might be a very misleading 
symbol, might cover pitfalls and bottomless gulfs, 
when it had attained that perfection and corre 
sponded so little to fact. What he had wanted 
was that his people should be very civil at the 
hotel ; but with such a high standard of compli- 
 Ill 
ment where after all was sincerity ? And without 
sincerity how could people get on together when 
it came to their settling down to common life ? 
Then the Dossons might have surprises, and the 
surprises would be painful in proportion as their 
present innocence was great. As to the high 
standard itself there was no manner of doubt ; it 
was magnificent in its way. 
VIII. 
WHEN, on coming home the evening after his 
father had made the acquaintance of the Dossons, 
Gaston went into the room in which the old man 
habitually sat, Mr. Probert said, laying down his 
book and keeping on his glasses : " Of course you 
will go on living with me. You must understand 
that I don 't consent to your going away. You 
will have to occupy the rooms that Susan and 
Alphonse had." 
Gaston observed with pleasure the transition 
from the conditional to the future and also the 
circumstance that his father was quietly reading, 
according to his custom when he sat at home of 
an evening. This proved he was not too much 
off the hinge. He read a great deal, and very 
serious books ; works about the origin of things 
of man, of institutions, of speech, of religion. 
This habit he had taken up more particularly 
since the circle of his social life had grown so 
much smaller. He sat there alone, turning his 
pages softly, contentedly, with the lamp-light 
shining on his refined old head and embroidered 
dressing-gown. Formerly he was out every night 
in the week Gaston was perfectly aware that to 
many dull people he must even have appeared a 
little frivolous. He was essentially a social 
animal, and indeed except perhaps poor Jane, 
in her damp old castle in Brittany they were 
all social animals. That was doubtless part of 
the reason why the family had acclimatised itself 
in France. They had affinities with a society of 
conversation; they liked general talk and old 
high salons, slightly tarnished and dim, containing 
precious relics, where there was a circle round the 
fire and winged words flew about and there was 
always some clever person before the chimney- 
piece, holding or challenging the rest. That 
figure, Gaston knew, especially in the days before 
he could see for himself, had very often been his 
father, the lightest and most amiable specimen of 
the type that liked to take possession of the 
hearthrug. People left it to him; he was so 
transparent, like a glass screen, and he never 
triumphed in argument. His word on most 
subjects was not felt to be the last (it was usually 
not more conclusive than a shrugging, inarticulate 
resignation, an "Ah, you know, what will you 
have ? ") ; but he had been none the less a part of 
the essence of some dozen good houses, most of 
them over the river, in the conservative faubourg, 
and several to-day emptied receptacles, extin 
guished fires. They made up Mr. Probert s world 
a world not too small for him and yet not too 
large, though some of them supposed themselves 
to be very great institutions. Gaston knew the 
succession of events that had helped to make a 
difference, the most salient of which were the 
death of his brother, the death of his mother and 
above all perhaps the extinction of Mme. de 
Marignac, to whom the old gentleman used still 
to go three or four evenings out of the seven 
and sometimes even in the morning besides. 
Gaston was well aware what a place she had held 
in his father s life and affection, how they had 
grown up together (her people had been friends 
of his grandfather when that fine old Southern 
worthy came, a widower with a young son and 
several negroes, to take his pleasure in Paris in 
the time of Louis Philippe), and how much she 
had had to do with marrying his sisters. He was 
not ignorant that her friendship and all its 
exertions were often mentioned as explaining 
their position, so remarkable in a society in which 
they had begun after all as outsiders. But he 
would have guessed, even if he had not been told, 
what his father said to that. To offer the Proberts 
a position was to carry water to the fountain ; they 
had not left their own behind them in Carolina ; 
it had been large enough to stretch across the 
sea. As to what it was in Carolina there was no 
need of being explicit. This adoptive Parisian was 
by nature presupposing, but he was admirably gentle 
(that was why they let him talk to them before 
the fire lie was such a sympathising oracle), and 
after the death of his wife and of Mme. de 
Marignac, who had been her friend too, he was 
gentler than before. Gaston had been able to see 
that it made him care less for everything (except 
indeed the true faith, to which he drew still closer), 
and this increase of indifference doubtless helped 
to explain his collapse in relation to common 
Americans. 
" We shall be thankful for any rooms you will 
give us," the young man said. " We shall fill 
out the house a little, and won 't that be rather 
an improvement, shrunken as you and I have 
become ? " 
" You will fill it out a good deal, I suppose, with 
Mr. Dossori and the other girl." 
"Ah, Francie won 't give up her father and 
sister, certainly; and what should you think of 
her if she did ? But they are not intrusive ; they 
are essentially modest people ; they won 't put 
themselves upon us. They have great natural 
discretion." 
" Do you answer for that ? Susan does ; she is 
always assuring one of it," Mr. Probert said. 
" The father has so much that he wouldn 't even 
speak to me." 
" He didn 't know what to say to you." 
" How then shall I know what to say to him ? " 
" Ah, you always know ! " Gaston exclaimed. 
"How will that help us if he doesn 't know 
what to answer ? " 
" You will draw him out he is full of bonhomie" 
" Well, I won 't quarrel with your lonlwmmc (if 
he s silent there are much worse faults), nor even 
with the fat young lady, though she is evidently 
vulgar. It is not for ourselves I am afraid ; it s 
for them. They will be very unhappy." 
" Never, never ! " said Gaston. " They are too 
simple. They are not morbid. And don 't you 
like Francie ? You haven 't told me so," he added 
in a moment. 
" She says Par us, my dear boy." 
"Ah, to Susan too that seemed the principal 
obstacle. But she has got over it. I mean Susan 
has got over the obstacle. We shall make her 
speak French; she has a capital disposition for 
it ; her French is already almost as good as her 
English." 
" That oughtn 't to be difficult. What will you 
have ? Of course she is very pretty and I'm sure 
she is good. But I won 't tell you she is a marvel, 
because you must remember (you young fellows 
think your own point of view and your own expe 
rience everything), that I have seen beauties with 
out number. I have known the most charming 
women of our time women of an order to which 
Miss Francie, con rispctto parlando, will never 
begin to belong. I'm difficult about women how 
can I help it ? Therefore when you pick up a little 
American girl at an inn and bring her to us as a 
miracle, I feel how standards alter. J ai vu mieux 
que $a, mon clier. However, I accept everything 
to-day, as you know ; when once one has lost one s 
enthusiasm everything is the same, and one might 
as well perish by the sword as by famine." 
" I hoped she would fascinate you on the spot," 
Gaston remarked, rather ruefully. 
" Fascinate the language you fellows use ! " 
" Well, she will yet." 
" She will never know at least that she doesn 't : 
I will promise you that," said Mr. Probert. 
"Ah, be sincere with her, father she s worth 
it ! " his son broke out. 
When the old gentleman took that tone, the 
tone of vast experience and a fastidiousness justi 
fied by ineffable recollections, Gaston was more 
provoked than he could say, though he was also 
considerably amused, for he had a good while since 
made up his mind that there was an element of 
stupidity in it. It was fatuous to square one s 
self so serenely in the absence of a sense : so far 
from being fine it was gross not to feel Francie 
Dosson. He thanked God he did. He didn 't 
know what old frumps his father might have fre 
quented (the style of 1830, with long curls in 
front, a vapid simper, a Scotch plaid dress and a 
body, in a point suggestive of twenty whalebones, 
coming down to the knees), but he could remem 
ber Mme, de Marignac s Tuesdays and Thursdays 
and Fridays, with Sundays and other days thrown 
in, and the taste that prevailed in that milieu : 
the books they admired, the verses they read and 
recited, the pictures, great heaven ! they thought 
good, and the three busts of the lady of the house, 
in different corners (as a Diana, a Druidess and a 
Croyante : her shoulders were supposed to make up 
for her head), effigies which to-day even the least 
bad, Canova s would draw down a public casti- 
gation upon their authors. 
" And what else is she worth ? " Mr. Probert 
asked, after a momentary hesitation. 
" How do you mean, what else ? " 
" Her immense prospects, that s what Susan has 
been putting forward. Susan s insistence on them 
was mainly what brought over Jane. Do you 
mind my speaking of them ? " 
Gaston was obliged to recognise, privately, the 
importance of Jane s having been brought over, 
but he hated to hear it spoken of as if he were 
under an obligation to it. " To whom, sir ? " he 
asked. 
" Oh, only to you." 
" You can 't do less than Mr. Dosson. As I told 
you, he waived the question of money and he was 
superb. We can 't be more mercenary than he." 
" He waived the question of his own, you mean ? : 
said Mr. Probert, 
"Yes, and of yours. But it will be all right 
The young man flattered himself that that was as 
far as he was willing to go, in the way of bribery. 
" Well, it s your affair or your sisters  his 
father returned. " It s their idea that it will be 
all right." 
" I should think they would be weary of chat 
tering ! " Gaston exclaimed, impatiently. 
Mr. Probert looked at him a moment with a 
vague surprise, but he only said, " I think they 
are. But the period of discussion is over. We 
have taken the jump." He added, in a moment, 
as if from the desire to say something more con 
ciliatory : " Alphonse and Maxime are quite of 
your opinion." 
" Of my opinion ? " 
" That she is charming." 
" Confound them, then, I'm not of theirs ! " 
The form of this rejoinder was childishly perverse, 
and it made Mr. Probert stare again ; but it be 
longed to one of the reasons for which his children 
regarded him as an old darling that Gaston could 
feel after an instant that he comprehended it. 
The old man said nothing, but took up his book, 
and his son, who had been standing before the fire, 
went out of the room. His abstention from pro 
test at Gaston s petulance was the more commend 
able as he was capable, for his part, of thinking it 
important that ccs messieurs should like the little 
girl at the hotel. Gaston was not, and it would 
have seemed to him a proof that he was in servi 
tude indeed if he had accepted such an assurance 
as that as if it mattered. This was especially the 
case as his father s mention of the approval of 
two of his brothers-in-law appeared to point to a 
possible disapproval on the part of the third. 
Francie s lover cared as little whether she dis 
pleased M. de Brecourt as he cared whether she 
displeased Maxime and Kaoul. The old gentleman 
continued to read, and in a few moments Gaston 
cam e back. He had expressed surprise, j ust before, 
that his sisters should have found so much to dis 
cuss in the idea of his marriage, but he looked at 
his father now with an air of having more to say 
an intimation that the subject must not be con 
sidered as exhausted. " It seems rather odd to 
me that you should all appear to accept the step 
I am about to take as a sort of disagreeable neces 
sity, when I myself hold that I have been so 
exceedingly fortunate." 
Mr. Probert lowered his book accommodatingly 
and rested his eyes upon the fire. "You won 't 
be content till we are enthusiastic. She seems a 
good girl certainly, and in that you are fortunate." 
" I don 't think you can tell me what would be 
better what you would have preferred," said the 
young man. 
" What I would have preferred ? In the first 
place you must remember that I was not madly 
impatient to see you married." 
" I can imagine that, and yet I can 't imagine 
that, as things have turned out, you shouldn 't be 
struck with the felicity. To get something so 
charming, and to get it of our own species." 
" Of our own species ? Tudieu ! " said Mr. 
Probert looking up. 
" Surely it is infinitely fresher and more amusing 
for me to marry an American. There s a dreari 
ness in the way we have Gallicised." 
"Against Americans I have nothing to say; 
some of them are the best thing the world contains. 
That s precisely why one can choose. They are 
far from being all like that." 
"Like what, dear father?" 
" Comma ces gens-Id. You know that if they 
were French, being otherwise what they are, 
one wouldn 't look at them." 
" Indeed one would ; they would be such 
curiosities." 
" Well, perhaps they are sufficiently so as it is," 
said Mr. Probert, with a little conclusive sigh. 
" Yes, let them pass for that. They will surprise 
you." 
" Not too much, I hope ! " cried the old man, 
opening his volume again. 
It will doubtless not startle the reader to learn 
that the complexity of things among the Proberts 
was such as to make it impossible for Gaston to 
proceed to the celebration of his nuptials, with 
all the needful circumstances of material preparation 
and social support, before some three months 
should have expired. He chafed however but 
moderately at the delay, for he reflected that it 
would give Francie time to endear herself to his 
whole circle. It would also have advantages for 
the Dossons; it would enable them to establish 
by simple but effective arts the modus mvendi 
with that rigid body. It would in short help 
every one to get used to everything. Mr. Dosson s 
designs and Delia s took no articulate form ; what 
was mainly clear to Gaston was that his future 
wife s relatives had as yet no sense of disconnec 
tion. He knew that Mr. Dosson would do what 
ever Delia liked and that Delia would like to 
" start " her sister. Whether or no she expected 
to be present at the finish, she had a definite 
purpose of seeing the beginning of the race. Mr. 
Probert notified Mr. Dosson of what he proposed 
to " do " for his son, and Mr. Dosson appeared 
more amused than anything else at the news. 
He announced, in return, no intentions in regard 
to Francie, and his queer silence was the cause 
of another convocation of the house of Probert. 
Here Mme. de Brecourt s valorous spirit won an 
other victory ; she maintained, as she informed her 
brother, that there was no possible policy but a 
policy of confidence. " Lord help us, is that what 
they call confidence ? " the young man exclaimed, 
o-uessing the way they all looked at each other; 
and he wondered how they would look next at 
poor Mr. Dosson. Fortunately he could always fall 
back, for reassurance, upon that revelation of their 
perfect manners ; though indeed he thoroughly 
knew that on the day they should really attempt 
interference make a row which might render 
him helpless and culminate in a rupture their 
courtesy would show its finest flower. 
Mr. Probert s property was altogether in the 
United States : he resembled various other persons 
to whom American impressions are mainly accept 
able in the form of dividends. The manner in 
which he desired to benefit his son on the occasion 
of the latter s marriage rendered certain visitations 
and reinvestments necessary in that country. It 
had long been his conviction that his affairs needed 
looking into; they had gone on for years and 
years without an overhauling. He had thought 
of going back to see, but now he was too old and 
too tired and the effort was impossible. There was 
nothing for it but for Gaston to go, and go quickly, 
though the moment was rather awkward. The idea 
was communicated to him and the necessity ac 
cepted ; then the plan was relinquished : it seemed 
such a pity he should not wait till after his marriage, 
when he would be able to take Francie with 
him. Francie would be such an introducer. This 
postponement would have taken effect had it not 
suddenly come out that Mr. Dosson himself wanted 
to go for a few weeks, in consequence of some 
news (it was a matter of business), that he had un- 
expectedly received. It was further revealed that 
that course presented difficulties, for he could not 
leave his daughters alone, especially in such a 
situation. Not only would such a proceeding 
have given scandal to the Proberts, but Gaston 
learned, with a good deal of surprise and not a 
little amusement, that Delia, in consequence of 
peculiar changes now wrought in her view of 
things, would have felt herself obliged to protest 
on the score of propriety. He called her 
attention to the fact that nothing would be more 
simple than, in the interval, for Francie to go 
and stay with Susan or Margaret ; Delia herself in 
that case would be free to accompany her father. 
But this young lady declared that nothing would 
induce her to quit the European continent until she 
had seen her sister through, and Gaston shrank 
from proposing that she too should spend five weeks 
in the Place Beauvau or the Rue de Lille. 
Moreover he was startled, he was a good deal 
mystified, by the perverse, unsociable way in which 
Francie asserted that, as yet, she would not lend 
herself to any staying. After, if he liked, but 
not till then. And she would not at the moment 
give the reasons of her refusal ; it was only very 
positive and even quite passionate. 
All this left her intended no alternative but 
to say to Mr. Dosson, " I am not such a fool as 
I look. If you will coach me properly, and trust 
me, I will rush across and transact your business 
as well as my father s." Strange as it appeared, 
Francie could resign herself to this separation 
from her lover it would last six or seven weeks 
rather than accept the hospitality of his 
sisters. Mr. Dosson trusted him; he said to him, 
&lt; Well, sir, you've  got a big brain," at the end of 
a morning they spent with papers and pencils; 
upon which Gaston made his preparations to sail. 
Before he left Paris Francie, to do her justice, 
confided to him that her objection to going in 
such an intimate way even to Mme. de Brecourt s 
had been founded on a fear that in close quarters 
she would do something that would make them 
all despise her. Gaston replied, in the first place, 
that this was gammon and in the second he wanted 
to know if she expected never to be in close 
quarters with her new kinsfolk. "Ah, yes, but 
then it will be safer we shall be married ! " she 
returned. This little incident occurred three days 
before the young man started ; but what happened 
just the evening previous was that, stopping 
for a last word at the Hotel dc I Univers et de 
Cheltenham on his way to take the night express 
to London (he was to sail from Liverpool), he 
found Mr. George Flack sitting in the red satin 
saloon. The correspondent of the Reverberator 
had come back. 
IX. 
ME. FLACK S relations with his old friends did 
not, after his appearance in Paris, take on that 
familiarity and frequency which had marked their 
intercourse a year before : he let them know 
frankly that he could easily see the situation was 
quite different. They had got into the high set 
and they didn 't care about the past : he alluded 
to the past as if it had been rich in mutual vows, 
in pledges now repudiated. " What s the matter ? 
Won 't you come round there with us some day ? " 
Mr. Dosson asked ; not having perceived for him 
self any reason why the young journalist should 
not be a welcome and congruous figure in the 
Cours la Heine. 
Delia wanted to know what Mr. Flack was 
talking about : didn 't he know a lot of people 
that they didn 't know and wasn 't it natural they 
should have their own society ? The young man s 
treatment of the question was humorous, and it 
was with Delia that the discussion mainly went 
forward. When he maintained that the Dossons 
had " shed " him, Mr. Dosson exclaimed, " Well, I 
guess you 'll grow again ! " And Francie observed 
that it was no use for him to pose as a martyr, in 
asmuch as he knew perfectly well that with all 
the celebrated people he saw and the way he flew 
round he had the most enchanting time. She was 
aware she was a good deal less accessible than she 
had been the previous spring, for Mesdames do 
Brecourt and de Cliche (the former much more 
than the latter) took a considerable number of her 
hours. In spite of her protest to Gaston against 
a premature intimacy with his sisters, she spent 
whole days in their company (they had so much 
to tell her about what her new life would be, and 
it was generally very pleasant), and she thought it 
would be nice if in these intervals he should give 
himself to her father and even to Delia as he used 
to do. 
But the flaw of a certain insincerity in Mr. 
Flack s nature seemed to be established by his 
present tendency to rare visits. He evidently 
did not care for her father for himself, and though 
Mr. Dosson was the least querulous of men she 
divined that he suspected their old companion 
had fallen away. There were no more wanderings 
in public places, no more tryings of new cafes. 
Mr. Dosson used to look sometimes as he had 
looked of old when George Flack " located " them 
somewhere ; as if he expected to see their sharp 
cicerone rushing back to them, with his drab over 
coat flying in the wind; but this expectation 
usually died away. He missed Gaston because 
Gaston this winter had so often ordered his dinner 
for him, and his society was not sought by the count 
and the marquis, whose mastery of English was 
small and their other distractions great. Mr. Pro- 
bert, it was true, had shown something of a frater 
nising spirit ; he had come twice to the hotel, since 
his son s departure, and he had said, smiling and 
reproachful, " You neglect us, you neglect us ! " 
Mr. Dosson had not understood what he meant 
by this till Delia explained after the visitor with 
drew, and even then the remedy for the neglect, 
administered two or three days later, had not 
borne any particular fruit. Mr. Dosson called 
alone, instructed by his daughter, in the Cours la 
Reine, but Mr. Probert was not at home. He only 
left a card, on which Delia had superscribed in 
advance the words " So sorry ! " Her father had 
told her he would give the card if she wanted, but 
he would have nothing to do with the writing. 
There was a discussion as to whether Mr. Probert s 
remark was an allusion to a deficiency of polite 
ness on the article of his sons-in-law. Ought not 
Mr. Dosson perhaps to call personally, and not 
simply through the medium of the visits paid by 
his daughters to their wives, on Messieurs de 
Brecourt and de Cliche ? Once, when this sub 
ject came up in George Flack s presence, the old 
man said he would go round if Mr. Flack would 
accompany him. " All right ! " said Mr. Flack, 
and this conception became a reality, with the 
accidental abatement that the objects of the de 
monstration were absent. " Suppose they get in ? " 
Delia had said lugubriously to her sister. 
".Well, what if they do ? " Francie asked. 
" Why, the count and the marquis won 't be 
interested in Mr. Flack." 
"Well then, perhaps he will be interested in 
them. He can write something about them. 
They will like that." 
" Do you think they would ? " Delia demanded, 
in solemn dubiousness. 
" Why, yes, if he should say fine things." 
" They do like fine things," said Delia. " They 
get off so many themselves. Only the way Mr. 
Flack does it it s a different style." 
t( Well, people like to be praised in any style." 
" That s so," Delia rejoined, musingly. 
One afternoon, coming in about three o clock, 
Mr. Flack found Francie alone. She had ex 
pressed a wish, after luncheon, for a couple of 
hours of independence : she intended to write to 
Gaston, and having accidentally missed a post 
promised herself that her letter should be of 
double its usual length. Her companions respected her desire for solicitude, Mr. Dosson taking 
himself off to his daily session in the reading-room 
of the American bank and Delia (the girls had 
now a luxurious coach at their command) driving 
away to the dressmaker s, a frequent errand, to 
superintend and urge forward the progress of her 
sister s wedding-clothes. Francie was not skilled 
in composition ; she wrote slowly and in addressing her lover had a painful sense of literary responsibility. Her father and Delia had a theory 
that when she shut herself up that way she poured 
forth wonderful pages it was part of her high 
cultivation. At any rate, when George Flack was 
ushered in she was still bending over her blotting- 
book on one of the gilded tables and there was an 
inkstain on her pointed forefinger. It was no dis 
loyalty to Gaston but only at the most a sense of 
weariness in regard to the epistolary form that 
made her glad to see her visitor. She didn 't know 
how to finish her letter ; but Mr. Flack seemed in 
a manner to terminate it. 
" I wouldn 't have ventured to propose this, but I 
guess I can do with it, now it s come," the young 
man announced. 
" What can you do with ? " she asked, wiping 
her pen. 
"Well this happy chance. Just you and me 
together." 
" I don 't know what it s a chance for." 
" Well, for me to be a little less miserable for a 
quarter of an hour. It makes me so to see you 
look so happy." 
" It makes you miserable ? " 
" You ought to understand, when I say some 
thing magnanimous." And settling himself on 
the sofa Mr. Flack continued, " Well, how do you 
get on without Mr. Probert ? " 
Very well indeed, thank you." 
The tone in which the girl spoke was not an en 
couragement to free pleasantry, so that if Mr. Flack 
continued his inquiries it was in a guarded and 
respectful manner. He was eminently capable of 
reflecting that it was not in his interest to strike 
her as indiscreet and profane , he only wanted to 
appear friendly, worthy of confidence. At the 
same time he was not averse to the idea that she 
should still perceive in him a certain sense of in 
jury, and that could be indicated only by a touch 
of bitterness here and there. The injury, the 
bitterness might make her pity him. " Well, you 
are in the grand monde, I suppose he resumed at 
last, not with an air of derision but resignedly, 
sympathetically. 
" Oh, I'm not in anything ; I'm just where I've  
always been." 
" I'm sorry ; I hoped you would tell me about 
it," said Mr. Flack, gravely. 
" You think too much of that. What do you 
want to know about it for ? " 
" Dear Miss Francie, a poor devil of a journalist 
who has to get his living by studying up things, 
he has to think too much, sometimes, in order to 
think, or at any rate to do, enough. We find out 
what we can as we can." 
Francie listened to this as if it had had 
the note of pathos. "What do you want to 
study up ? " 
" Everything ! I take in everything. It all 
depends on my opportunity. I try and learn I 
try and improve. Every one has something to 
tell, and I listen and watch and make my profit 
of it. I hoped you would have something to tell. 
I don 't believe but what you've  seen a good deal 
of new life. You won 't pretend they haven 't 
roped you in, charming as you are." 
" Do you mean if they've  been kind to me ? 
They've  been very kind," Francie said. " They 
want to do even more than I 'll let them." 
"Ah, why won 't you let them?" George Flack 
asked, almost coaxingly. 
" Well, I do," the girl went on. " You can 't 
resist them, really ; they have such lovely ways." 
"I should like to hear you talk about their 
ways," her companion observed, after a silence. 
"Oh, I could talk enough if once I were to 
begin. But I don 't see why it should interest 
you." 
" Don 't I care immensely for everything that 
concerns you ? Didn 't I tell you that once ? " 
" You're foolish if you do, and you would be 
foolish to say it again," Francie replied. 
" Oh, I don 't want to say anything, I've  had my 
lesson. But I could listen to you all day." Francie 
gave an exclamation of impatience and incredulity 
and Mr. Flack pursued : " Don 't you remember 
what you told me that time we had that talk at 
Saint-Germain, on the terrace ? You said I might 
remain your friend." 
" Well, that s all right," said the girl. 
"Then ain 't we interested in the development 
of our friends in their impressions, their trans 
formations, their adventures ? Especially a person 
like me, who has got to know life who has got 
to know the world." 
" Do you mean to say I could teach you about 
life ? " Francie demanded. 
" About some kinds, certainly. You know a 
lot of people whom it s difficult to get at unless 
one takes some extraordinary measures, as you 
have done." 
" What do you mean ? What measures have I 
taken ? " 
" Well, they have to get hold of you and it s 
the same thing. Pouncing on you, to secure you ; 
I call that energetic, and don 't you think I ought 
to know ? " asked Mr. Flack, smiling. " I thought 
I was energetic, but they got ahead of me. 
They're a society apart, and they must be very 
curious." 
" Yes, they're curious," Francie admitted, with a 
little sigh. Then she inquired : " Do you want to 
put them in the paper ? " 
George Flack hesitated a moment ; the air of 
the question was so candid, suggested so complete 
an exemption from prejudice. "Oh, I'm very 
careful about what I put in the paper. I want 
everything, as I told you : don 'tyou remember 
the sketch I gave you of my ideals ? But I want 
it in a certain particular way. If I can 'tget it in 
the shape I like it I don 'twant it at all ; genuine, 
first-hand information, straight from the tap, is 
what I'm after. I don 'twant to hear what some 
one or other thinks that some one or other was 
told that some one or other repeated ; and above 
all I don 'twant to print it. There s plenty of 
that flowing in, and the best part of the job is to 
keep it out. People just yearn to come in; they're 
dying to, all over the place ; there s the biggest 
crowd at the door. But I say to them : You've  
got to do something first, then I 'll see ; or at any 
rate you've  got to le something ! " 
" We sometimes see the Reverberator ; you have 
some fine pieces," Francie replied. 
" Sometimes, only ? Don 'tthey send it to your 
father the weekly edition? I thought I had 
fixed that," said George Flack. 
" I don 't know ; it s usually lying round. But 
Delia reads it more than I ; she reads pieces 
aloud. I like to read books ; I read as many as 
I can." 
" Well, it s all literature," said Mr. Flack ; " it s 
all the press, the great institution of our time. 
Some of the finest books have come out first in 
the papers. It s the history of the age." 
" I see you've  got the same aspirations," Francie 
remarked, kindly. 
" The same aspirations ? " 
" Those you told me about that day at Saint- 
Germain." 
" Oh, I keep forgetting that I ever broke out to 
you that way ; everything is so changed." 
"Are you the proprietor of the paper now ? " 
the girl went on, determined not to notice this 
sentimental allusion. 
" What do you care ? It wouldn 't even be 
delicate in me to tell you ; for I do remember the 
way you said you would try and get your father to 
help me. Don 't say you've  forgotten it, because 
you almost made me cry. Any way, that isn 't the 
sort of help I want now and it wasn 't the sort of 
