during the day he was seldom so far under the power of either 
as not to suffer from his own hideous imaginings. One day, 
as he dragged his slow pace along a narrow street near the 
fountain of Trevi, his eyes were arrested by an armourer's 
window. It suddenly struck him that he had no weapon 
of defence in case San Giacinto or his agents came upon him 
unawares. And yet a bullet well placed would make an 
end even of such a Hercules as the man he feared. He 
paused and looked anxiously up and down the street. It 
was a dark day and a fine rain was falling. There was 
nobody about who could recognise him, and he might not 
have another such opportunity of providing himself unob 
served with what he wanted. He entered the shop and 
bought himself a revolver. The man showed him how to 
load it and sold him a box of cartridges. He dropped the 
firearm into one of the pockets of his coat, and smiled as he 
felt how comfortably it balanced the bottle he carried in the 
other. Then he slunk out of the shop and pursued his walk. 
 
The idea of making capital out of the original deeds con 
cerning the Saracinesca, which had presented itself to him 
soon after the murder recurred frequently to his mind ; but 
he felt that he was in no condition to elaborate it, and 
promised himself to attend to the matter when he was better. 
For he fancied that he was ill and that his state would soon 
begin to improve. To go to San Giacinto now was out of 
the question. It would have been easier for him to climb 
the cross on the summit of St. Peter's, with his shaken 
nerves and trembling limbs, than to face the man who in 
spired in him such untold dread. He could, of course, take 
the alternative which was open to him, and go to old Sara 
cinesca. Indeed, there were moments when he could almost 
have screwed his courage to the point of making such an 
attempt, but his natural prudence made him draw back from 
an interview in which he must incur a desperate risk unless 
he had a perfect command of his faculties. To write what 
he had to say would be merely to give a weapon against 
himself, since he could not treat the matter by letter without 
acknowledging his share in the forgeries. The only way to 
accomplish his purpose would be to extract a solemn promise 
of secrecy from Saracinesca, together with a guarantee for 
his own safety, and to obtain these conditions would need 
all the diplomacy he possessed. Bad as he was, he had no 
experience of practical blackmailing, and he would be obliged 
to compose his speeches beforehand with scrupulous care, 
and with the wisest forethought. For the present, such 
work was beyond his power, but when he was half drunk 
he loved to look at the ancient parchments and build golden 
palaces in the future. When he was strong again, and calm, 
he would realise all his dreams, and that time, he felt sure, 
could not be far removed. 
Nevertheless the days succeeded each other with appalling 
swiftness, and nothing was done. By imperceptible degrees 
his horror of San Giacinto began to invade his mind even 
when it was most deadened by drink So long as an idea 
is new and has not really become a habit of the brain, brandy 
will drive it away, but the moment must inevitably come 
when the stimulant loses its power to obscure the memory 
xxvm SANT 7 ILARIO 407 
of the thing dreaded. Opium will do it more effectually, 
but even that does not continue to act for ever. The time 
comes when the predominant thought of the waking hours 
reproduces itself during the artificial sleep with fearful force, 
so that the mind at last obtains no rest at all. That is the 
dangerous period, preceding the decay and total collapse of 
the intellect under what is commonly called the fixed idea. 
In certain conditions of mind, and notably with criminals 
who fear discovery, the effects of opium change very 
quickly ; the downward steps through which it would take 
months for an ordinary individual to pass are descended 
with alarming rapidity, and the end is a thousand times 
more horrible. Meschini could not have taken the doses 
which a confirmed opium-eater swallows with indifference, 
but the result produced was far greater in proportion to the 
amount of the narcotic he consumed. Before the week which 
followed the deed was ended, he began to see visions when 
he was apparently awake. Shapeless, slimy things crawled 
about the floor of his room, upon his table, even upon the 
sheets of his bed. Dark shadows confronted him, and 
changed their outlines unexpectedly. Forms rose out of the 
earth at his feet and towered all at once to the top of the 
room, taking the appearance of San Giacinto and vanishing 
suddenly into the air. The things he saw came like instan 
taneous flashes from another and even more terrible world, dis 
appearing at first so quickly as to make him believe them 
only the effects of the light and darkness, like the ghost he 
had seen in his coat. In the beginning there was scarcely 
anything alarming in them, but as he started whenever they 
came, he generally tool^ them as a warning that he needed 
more brandy to keep him up. In the course of a day or 
two, however, these visions assumed more awful proportions, 
and he found it impossible to escape from them except in 
absolute stupor. It would have been clear to any one that 
this state of things could not last long. There was scarcely 
an hour in which he knew exactly what he was doing, and 
if his strange behaviour escaped observation this was due to 
his solitary way of living. He did not keep away from the 
palace during the whole day, from a vague idea that his 
absence might be thought suspicious. He spent a certain 
number of hours in the library, doing nothing, although he 
carefully spread out a number of books before him and 
dipped his pen into the ink from time to time, stupidly, 
mechanically, as though his fingers could not forget the 
habit so long familiar to them. His eyes, which had 
formerly been unusually bright, had grown dull and 
almost bleared, though they glanced at times very quickly 
from one part of the room to another. That was when he 
saw strange things moving in the vast hall, between him and 
the bookcases. When they had disappeared, his glassy look 
returned, so that his eyeballs seemed merely to reflect the 
light, as inanimate objects do, without absorbing it, and 
conveying it to the seat of vision. His face grew daily 
more thin and ghastly. It was by force of custom that he 
stayed so long in the place where he had spent so much of 
his life. The intervals of semi-lucidity seemed terribly 
long, though they were in reality short enough, and the 
effort to engage his attention in work helped him to live 
through them. He had never gone down to the apartments 
where the family lived, since he had knelt before the cata 
falque on the day after the murder. Indeed, there was no 
reason why he should go there, and no one noticed his 
absence. He was a very insignificant person in the palace. 
As for any one coming to find him among the books, nothing 
seemed more improbable. The library was swept out in the 
early morning and no one entered it again during the 
twenty-four hours. He never went out into the corridor, 
now, but left his coat upon a chair near him, when he remem 
bered to bring it. As a sort of precautionary measure 
against fear, he locked the door which opened upon the 
passage when he came in the morning, unlocking it again 
when he went away in order that the servant who did the 
sweeping might be able to get in. 
The Princess Montevarchi was still dangerously ill, and 
Faustina had not been willing to leave her. San Giacinto 
and Flavia were not living in the house, but they spent a 
good deal of time there, because San Giacinto had ideas of 
his own about duty, to which his wife was obliged to submit 
xxvni  409 
even if she did not like them. Faustina was neither nervous 
nor afraid of solitude, and was by no means in need of her 
sister's company, so that when the two were together their 
conversation was not always of the most affectionate kind. 
The consequence was that the young girl tried to be alone 
as much as possible when she was not at her mother's bed 
side. One day, having absolutely nothing to do, she grew 
desperate. It was very hard not to think of Anastase, when 
she was in the solitude of her own room, with no occupation 
to direct her mind. A week earlier she had been only too 
glad to have the opportunity of dreaming away the short after 
noon undisturbed, letting her girlish thoughts wander among 
the rose gardens of the future with the image of the man she 
loved so dearly, and who was yet so far removed from her. 
Now she could not think of him without reflecting that her 
father's death had removed one very great obstacle to her 
marriage. She was by no means of a very devout or 
saintly character, but, on the other hand, she had a great 
deal of what is called heart, and to be heartless seemed to 
her almost worse than to be bad. In excuse of such very 
untheological doctrines it must be allowed that her ideas 
concerning wickedness in general were very limited indeed, 
if not altogether childish in their extreme simplicity. It is 
certain, however, that she would have thought it far less 
wrong to run away with Gouache in spite of her family than 
to entertain any thought which could place her father's 
tragic death in the light of a personal advantage. If she 
had nothing to do she could not help thinking of Anastase, 
and if she thought of him, she could not escape the con 
clusion that it would be far easier for her to marry him, now 
that the old prince was out of the way. It was therefore 
absolutely necessary to find some occupation. 
At first she wandered aimlessly about the house until she 
was struck, almost for the first time, by the antiquated stiff 
ness of the arrangement, and began to ask herself whether 
it would be respectful to the memory of her father, and to 
her mother, to try and make a few changes. Corona's home 
was very different. She would like to take that for a model. 
But one or two attempts showed her the magnitude of the 
task she had undertaken. She was ashamed to call the 
servants to help her it would look as though there were 
to be a reception in the house. Her ideas of what could 
take place in the Palazzo Montevarchi did not go beyond 
that staid form of diversion. She was ashamed, however, 
and reflected, besides, that she was only the youngest of the 
family and had no right to take the initiative in the matter 
of improvements. The time hung very heavily upon her 
hands. She tried to teach herself something about painting 
by looking at the pictures on the walls, spending a quarter 
of an hour before each with conscientious assiduity. But 
this did not succeed either. The men in the pictures all 
took the shape of Monsieur Gouache in his smartest uniform 
and the women all looked disagreeably like Flavia. Then 
she thought of the library, which was the only place of im 
portance in the house which she had not lately visited. 
She hesitated a moment only, considering how she could 
best reach it without passing through the study, and without 
going up the grand staircase to the outer door. A very 
little reflection showed her that she could get into the 
corridor from a passage near her own room. In a few 
minutes she was at the entrance to the great hall, trying to 
turn the heavy carved brass handle of the latch. To her 
surprise she could not open the door, which was evidently 
fastened from within. Then as she shook it in the hope that 
some one would hear her, a strange cry reached her ears, 
like that of a startled animal, accompanied by the shuffling 
of feet. She remembered Meschini's walk, and understood 
that it was he. 
' Please let me in ! ' she called out in her clear 
young voice, that echoed back to her from the vaulted 
chamber. 
Again she heard the shuffling footsteps, which this time 
came towards her, and a moment afterwards the door opened 
and the librarian's ghastly face was close before her. She 
drew back a little. She had forgotten that he was so ugly, 
she thought, or perhaps she would not have cared to see 
him. It would have been foolish, moreover, to go away after 
coming thus far. 
' I want to see the library,' she said quietly, after she had 
made up her mind. ' Will you show it to me ? ' 
' Favorisca, Excellency,' replied Meschini in a broken 
voice. He had been frightened by the noise at the door, 
and the contortion of his face as he tried to smile was 
hideous to see. He bowed low, however, and closed the 
door after she had entered. Scarcely knowing what he did, 
he shuffled along by her side while she looked about the 
library, gazing at the long rows of books, bound all alike, 
that stretched from end to end of many of the shelves. The 
place was new to her, for she had not been in it more than 
two or three times in her life, and she felt a sort of unex 
plained awe in the presence of so many thousands of volumes, 
of so much written and printed wisdom which she could 
never hope to understand. She had come with a vague 
idea that she should find something to read that should be 
different from the novels she was not allowed to touch. 
She realised all at once that she knew nothing of what had 
been written in all the centuries whose literature was 
represented in the vast collection. She hardly knew the 
names of twenty books out of the hundreds of millions that 
the world contained. But she could ask Meschini. She 
looked at him again, and his face repelled her. Neverthe 
less, she was too kindhearted not to enter into conversation 
with the lonely man whom she had so rarely seen, but who 
was one of the oldest members of her father's household. 
'You have spent your life here, have you not?' she 
asked, for the sake of saying something. 
' Nearly thirty years of it,' answered Meschini in a 
muffled voice. Her presence tortured him beyond expres 
sion. ' That is a long time, and I am not an old man.' 
' And are you always alone here ? Do you never go out ? 
What do you do all day ? ' 
' I work among the books, Excellency. There are twenty 
thousand volumes here, enough to occupy a man's time.' 
' Yes but how ? Do you have to read them all V asked 
Faustina innocently. ' Is that your work ? ' 
' I have read many more than would be believed, for my 
own pleasure. But my work is to keep them in order, to 
see that there is no variation from the catalogue, so that 
when learned men come to make inquiries they may find 
what they want. I have also to take care of all the books, 
to see that they do not suffer in any way. They are very 
valuable. There is a fortune here.' 
Somehow he felt less nervous when he began to speak of 
the library and its contents and the words came more easily 
to him. With a little encouragement he might even become 
loquacious. In spite of his face, Faustina began to feel an 
interest in him. 
' It must be very hard work,' she remarked. ' Do you 
like it? Did you never want to do anything else? I 
should think you would grow tired of being always alone.' 
' I am very patient,' answered Meschini humbly. ' And 
I am used to it. I grew accustomed to the life when I was 
young.' 
' You say the collection is valuable. Are there any very 
beautiful books ? I would like to see some of them.' 
The fair young creature sat down upon one of the high 
carved chairs at the end of a table. Meschini went to the 
other side of the hall and unlocked one of the drawers which 
lined the lower part of the bookcases to the height of three 
or four feet. Each was heavily carved with the Montevarchi 
arms in high relief. It was in these receptacles that the 
precious manuscripts were kept in their cases. He returned 
bringing a small square volume of bound manuscript, and 
laid it before Faustina. 
"This is worth an enormous sum,' he said. 'It is the 
only complete one in the world. There is an imperfect 
copy in the library of the Vatican.' 
'What is it?' 
' It is the Montevarchi Dante, the oldest in existence.' 
Faustina turned over the leaves curiously, and admired 
the even writing though she could not read many of the 
words, for the ancient characters were strange to her. It was 
a wonderful picture that the couple made in the great hall 
On every side the huge carved bookcases of walnut, black 
with age, rose from the floor to the spring of the vault, their 
dark faces reflected in the highly-polished floor of coloured 
marble. Across the ancient tables a ray of sunlight fell from 
the high clere-story window. In the centre, the two figures 
with the old manuscript between them ; Faustina's angel 
head in a high light against the dusky background, as she 
bent forward a little, turning the yellow pages with her 
slender, transparent fingers, the black folds of her full gown 
making heavy lines of drapery, graceful by her grace, and 
rendered less severe by a sort of youthfulness that seemed 
to pervade them, and that emanated from herself. Beside 
her, the bent frame of the broken down librarian, in a 
humble and respectful attitude, his long arms hanging down 
by his sides, his shabby black coat almost dragging to his 
heels, his head bent forward as he looked at the pages. All 
his features seemed to have grown more sharp and yellow 
and pointed, and there was now a deep red flush in the 
upper part of his cheeks. A momentary light shone in his 
gray eyes, from beneath the bushy brows, a light of intelli 
gence such as had formerly characterised them especially, 
brought back now perhaps by the effort to fix his attention 
upon the precious book. His large, coarse ears appeared to 
point themselves forward like those of an animal, following 
the direction of his sight. In outward appearance he 
presented a strange mixture of dilapidation, keenness, and 
brutality. A week had changed him very much. A few 
days ago most people would have looked at him with a sort 
of careless compassion. Now, there was about him some 
thing distinctly repulsive. Beside Faustina's youth and 
delicacy, and freshness, he hardly seemed like a human 
being. 
' I suppose it is a very wonderful thing,' said the young 
girl at last, ' but I do not know enough to understand its 
value. Do my brothers ever come to the library?' She 
leaned back from the volume and glanced at Meschini's 
face, wondering how heaven could have made anything so 
' No. They never come,' replied the librarian, drawing 
the book towards him instinctively, as he would have done 
if his visitor had been a stranger, who might try to steal a 
page or two unless he were watched. 
'But my poor father was very fond of the books, was he 
not ? Did he not often come to see you here ? ' 
She was thinking so little of Meschini that she did not 
see that he turned suddenly white and shook like a man in 
an ague. It was what he had feared all along, ever since 
she had entered the room. She suspected him and had come, 
or had perhaps been sent by San Giacinto to draw him into 
conversation and to catch him in something which could be 
interpreted to be a confession of his crime. Had that been her 
intention, his behaviour would have left little doubt in her 
mind as to the truth of the accusation. His face betrayed 
him, his uncontrollable fear, his frightened eyes and tremb 
ling limbs. But she had only glanced at him, and her sight 
wandered to the bookcases for a moment. When she looked 
again he was moving away from her, along the table. She 
was surprised to see that his step was uncertain, and that he 
reeled against the heavy piece of furniture and grasped it for 
support. She started a little but did not rise. 
' Are you ill ? ' she asked. ' Shall I call some one ? ' 
He made no answer, but seemed to recover himself at 
the sound of her voice, for he shuffled away and disappeared 
behind the high carved desk on which lay the open 
catalogue. She thought she saw a flash of light reflected 
from some smooth surface, and immediately afterwards she 
heard a gurgling sound, which she did not understand. 
Meschini was fortifying himself with a draught. Then he 
reappeared, walking more steadily. He had received a 
severe shock, but, as usual, he had not the courage to run 
away, conceiving that flight would inevitably be regarded as 
a proof of guilt. 
' I am not well,' he said in explanation as he returned. 
' I am obliged to take medicine continually. I beg your 
Excellency to forgive me.' 
'I am sorry to hear that,' answered Faustina kindly. 
' Can we do nothing for you ? Have you all you need ? ' 
' Everything, thank you. I shall soon be well.' 
'I hope so, I am sure. What was I saying? Oh I 
was asking whether my poor father came often to the library. 
Was he fond of the books ? ' 
'His Excellency Heaven give him glory! he was a 
learned man. Yes, he came now and then.' Meschini 
took possession of the manuscript and carried it off rather 
suddenly to its place in the drawer. He was a long time in 
locking it up. Faustina watched him with some curiosity. 
' You were here that day, were you not ? ' she asked, as 
he turned towards her once more. The question was a 
natural one, considering the circumstances. 
' I think your Excellency was present when I was 
examined by the prefect,' answered Meschini in a curiously 
disagreeable tone. 
' True,' said Faustina. ' You said you had been here all 
day as usual. I had forgotten. How horrible it was. And 
you saw nobody, you heard nothing ? But I suppose it is 
too far from the study.' 
The librarian did not answer, but it was evident from 
his manner that he was very much disturbed. Indeed, he 
fancied that his worst fears were realised, and that Faustina 
was really trying to extract information from him for his 
own conviction. Her thoughts were actually very far from 
any such idea. She would have considered it quite as 
absurd to accuse the poor wretch before her as she had 
thought it outrageous that she herself should be suspected. 
Her father had always seemed to her a very imposing 
personage, and she could not conceive that he should have 
met his death at the hands of such a miserable creature as 
Arnoldo Meschini, who certainly had not the outward signs 
of physical strength or boldness. He, however, understood 
her words very differently and stood still, half way between 
her and the bookcases, asking himself whether it would not 
be better to take immediate steps for his "safety. His hand 
was behind him, feeling for the revolver in the pocket of his 
long coat. Faustina was singularly fearless, by nature, but 
if she had guessed the danger of her position she would 
probably have effected her escape very quickly, instead of 
continuing the conversation. 
' It is a very dreadful mystery,' she said, rising from her 
chair and walking slowly across the polished marble floor 
until she stood before a row of great volumes of which the 
colour had attracted her eye. ' It is the duty of us all to 
try and explain it. . Of course we shall know all about it 
some day, but it is very hard to be patient. Do you know ?' 
she turned suddenly and faced Meschini, speaking with a 
vehemence not usual for her. ' They suspected me, as if I 
could have done it, I, a weak girl ! And yet if I had the 
man before me the man who murdered him I believe I 
would kill him with my hands ! ' 
She moved forward a little, as she spoke, and tapped her 
small foot upon the pavement, as though to emphasise her 
words. Her soft brown eyes flashed with righteous anger, 
and her cheek grew pale at the thought of avenging her 
father. There must have been something very fierce in her 
young face, for Meschini's heart failed him, and his nerves 
seemed to collapse all at once. He tried to draw back from 
her, slipped and fell upon his knees with a sharp cry of fear. 
Even then, Faustina did not suspect the cause of his weak 
ness, but attributed it to the illness of which he had spoken. 
She sprang forward and attempted to help the poor creature 
to his feet, but instead of making an effort to rise, he seemed 
to be grovelling before her, uttering incoherent exclamations 
of terror. 
' Lean on me ! ' said Faustina, putting out her hand. 
' What is the matter ? Oh ! Are you going to die ! ' 
' Oh ! oh ! Do not hurt me pray in God's name ! ' 
cried Meschini, raising his eyes timidly. 
' Hurt you ? No ! Why should I hurt you ? You are 
ill we will have the doctor. Try and get up try and get 
to a chair.' 
Her tone reassured him a little, and her touch also, as 
she did her best to raise him to his feet. He struggled a 
little and at last stood up, leaning upon the bookcase, and 
panting with fright. 
' It is nothing,' he tried to say, catching his breath at 
every syllable. ' I am better my nerves your Excellency 
ugh ! what a coward I am ! ' 
The last exclamation, uttered in profound disgust of his 
own weakness, struck Faustina as very strange. 
' Did I frighten you ? ' she asked in surprise. ' I am 
very sorry. Now sit down and I will call some one to come 
to you.' 
' No, no ! Please I would rather be alone ! I can 
walk quite well now. If if your Excellency will excuse 
me, I will go to my room. I have more medicine I will 
take it and I shall be better.' 
' Can you go alone ? Are you sure ? ' asked Faustina 
anxiously. But even while she spoke he was moving 
towards the door, slowly and painfully at first, as it seemed, 
though possibly a lingering thought of propriety kept him 
from appearing to run away. The young girl walked a few 
steps after him, half fearing that he might fall again. But 
he kept his feet and reached the threshold. Then he made 
a queer attempt at a bow, and mumbled some words that 
Faustina could not hear. In another moment he had 
disappeared, and she was alone. 
For some minutes she looked at the closed door through 
which he had gone out. Then she shook her head a little 
sadly, and slowly went back to her room by the way she 
had come. It was all very strange, she thought, but his illness 
might account for it. She would have liked to consult San 
Giacinto, but though she was outwardly on good terms with 
him, and could not help feeling a sort of respect for his 
manly character, the part he had played in attempting to 
separate her from Gouache had prevented the two from 
becoming intimate. She said nothing to any one about her 
interview with Meschini in the library, and no one even 
guessed that she had been there. 
CHAPTER XXIX 
IN spite of his haste to settle all that remained to be settled 
with regard to the restitution of the property to San Giacinto, 
Saracinesca found it impossible to wind up the affair in a 
week as he had intended. It was a very complicated matter 
to separate from his present fortune that part of it which his 
cousin would have inherited from his great-grandfather. A 
great deal of wealth had come into the family since that time 
by successive marriages, and the management of the original 
estate had not been kept separate from the administration of 
the dowries which had from time to time been absorbed 
into it. The Saracinesca, however, were orderly people, and 
the books had been kept for generations with that astonish 
ing precision of detail which is found in the great Roman 
houses, and which surpasses, perhaps, anything analogous 
which is to be found in modern business. By dint of per 
severance and by employing a great number of persons in 
making the calculations, the notaries had succeeded in pre 
paring a tolerably satisfactory schedule in the course of a 
fortnight, which both the principal parties agreed to accept 
as final The day fixed for the meeting and liquidation of 
the accounts was a Saturday, a fortnight and two days after 
the murder of Prince Montevarchi. A question arose con 
cerning the place of meeting. 
Saracinesca proposed that San Giacinto and the notaries 
should come to the Palazzo Saracinesca. He was ready to 
brave out the situation to the end, to face his fate until it 
held nothing more in store for him, even to handing over 
the inventory of all that was no longer his in the house where 
he had been born. His boundless courage and almost brutal 
frankness would doubtless have supported him to the last, 
even through such a trial to his feelings, but San Giacinto 
refused to agree to the proposal He repeatedly stated that 
he wished the old prince to inhabit the palace through his 
lifetime, and that he should even make every effort to induce 
him to retain the title. Both of these offers were rejected 
courteously, but firmly. In the matter of holding the de 
cisive meeting in the palace, however, San Giacinto made a 
determined stand. He would not on any account appear in 
the light of the conqueror coming to take possession of the 
spoil. His wife had no share in this generous sentiment. 
She would have liked to enjoy her triumph to the full, for 
she was exceedingly ambitious, and was, moreover, not very 
fond of the Saracinesca. As she expressed it, she felt when 
she was with any of them, from the old prince to Corona, 
that they must be thinking all the time that she was a very 
foolish young person. San Giacinto's action was therefore 
spontaneous, and if it needs explanation it may be ascribed 
to an inherited magnanimity, to a certain dignity which had 
distinguished him even as a young man from the low class 
in which he had grown up. He was, indeed, by no means 
a type of the perfect nobleman ; his conduct in the affair 
between Faustina and Gouache had shown that. He acted 
according to his lights, and was not ashamed to do things 
which his cousin Giovanni would have called mean. But 
he was manly, for all that, and if he owed some of his 
dignity to great stature and to his indomitable will, it was also 
in a measure the outward sign of a good heart and of an 
innate sense of justice. There had as yet been nothing dis 
honest in his dealings since he had come to Rome. He had 
acquired a fortune which enabled him to take the position 
that was lawfully his. He liked Flavia, and had bargained 
for her with her father, afterwards scrupulously fulfilling the 
terms of the contract. He had not represented himself to 
be what he was not, and he had taken no unfair advantage 
of any one for his own advancement. In the matter of the 
suit he was the dupe of old Montevarchi, so far as the deeds 
were concerned, but he was perfectly aware that he actually 
represented the elder branch of his family. It is hard to 
imagine how any man in his position could have done less 
than he did ; and now that it had come to a final settlement 
he was really anxious to cause his vanquished relations as 
little humiliation as possible. To go to their house was like 
playing the part of a bailiff. To allow them to come to his 
dwelling suggested the journey to Canossa. The Palazzo 
Montevarchi was neutral ground, and he proposed that the 
formalities should be fulfilled there. Saracinesca consented 
readily enough and the day was fixed. 
The notaries arrived at ten o'clock in the morning, 
accompanied by clerks who were laden with books, inven 
tories and rolls of manuscript. The study had been selected 
for the meeting, both on account of its seclusion from the 
rest of the house and because it contained an immense table 
which would serve for the voluminous documents, all of 
which must be examined and verified. San Giacinto him 
self awaited the arrival of the Saracinesca in the great reception-room. He had sent his wife away, for he was in reality 
by no means so calm as he appeared to be, and her constant 
talk disturbed him. He paced the long room with regular 
steps, his head erect, his hands behind him, stopping from 
time to time to listen for the footsteps of those he expected. 
It was the great day of his life. Before night, he was to 
be Prince Saracinesca. 
The moments that precede a great triumph are very pain 
ful, especially if a man has looked forward to the event for 
a long time. No matter how sure he is of the result, some 
thing tells him that it is uncertain. A question may arise, 
he cannot guess whence, by which all may be changed. He 
repeats to himself a hundred times that failure is impossible, 
but he is not at rest. The uncertainty of all things, even of 
his own life, appears very clearly before his eyes. His heart 
beats fast and slow from one minute to another. At the 
very instant when he is dreaming of the future, the possi 
bility of disappointment breaks in upon his thoughts. He 
cannot explain it, but he longs to be beyond the decisive 
hour. In San Giacinto's existence, the steps from obscurity 
to importance and fortune had, of late, been so rapidly 
ascended that he was almost giddy with success. For the 
first time since he had left his old home in Aquila, he felt 
as though he had been changed from his own self to some 
other person. 
At last the door opened, and Saracinesca, Giovanni, and 
Corona entered the room. San Giacinto was surprised to 
see Giovanni's wife on an occasion when the men alone of 
the family were concerned, but she explained that she had 
come to spend the morning with Faustina, and would wait 
till everything was finished. The meeting was not a cor 
dial one, though both parties regarded it as inevitable. If 
Saracinesca felt any personal resentment against San Giacinto 
he knew that it was unreasonable and he had not the bad taste 
to show it. He was silent, but courteous in his manner. 
Giovanni, strange to say, seemed wholly indifferent to what 
was about to take place. 
' I hope,' said San Giacinto, when all four were seated, 
' that you will consen f to consider this as a mere formality. 
I have said as much through my lawyers, but I wish to repeat 
it myself in better words than they used.' 
I Pardon me,' answered Saracinesca, 'if I suggest that we 
should not discuss that matter. We are sensible of your 
generosity in making such offers, but we do not consider it 
possible to accept them.' 
' I must ask your indulgence if I do not act upon your 
suggestion,' returned San Giacinto. 'Even if there is no 
discussion I cannot consent to proceed to business until I 
have explained what I mean. If the suit has been settled 
justly by the courts, it has not been decided with perfect 
justice as regards its consequences. I do not deny, and I 
understand that you do not expect me to act otherwise, that 
it has been my intention to secure for myself and for my 
children the property and the personal position abandoned 
by my ancestor. I have obtained what I wanted and what 
was my right, and I have to thank you for the magnanimity 
you have displayed in not attempting to contest a claim 
against which you might have brought many arguments, if 
not much evidence. The affair having been legally settled, 
it is for us to make whatever use of it seems better in our 
own eyes. To deprive you of your name and of the house 
in which you were born and bred, would be to offer you an 
indignity such as I never contemplated.' 
' You cannot be said to deprive us of what is not ours, 
by any interpretation of the word with which I am acquainted,' 
said Saracinesca in a tone which showed that he was deter 
mined to receive nothing. 
' I am a poor grammarian,' answered San Giacinto gravely, 
and without the slightest affectation of humility. ' I was 
brought up a farmer, and was only an innkeeper until lately. 
I cannot discuss with you the subtle meanings of words. 
To my mind it is I who am taking from you that which, if 
not really yours, you have hitherto had every right to own 
and to make use of. I do not attempt to explain my thought. 
I only say that I will neither take your name nor live in 
your house while you are alive. I propose a compromise 
which I hope you will be willing to accept.' 
' I fear that will be impossible. My mind is made up.' 
'I propose,' continued San Giacinto, 'that you remain 
Prince Saracinesca, that you keep Saracinesca itself, and the 
palace here in Rome during your lifetime, which I trust maj 
be a long one. After your death everything returns to us. 
My cousin Giovanni and the Princess Sant' Ilario ' 
' You may call me Corona, if you please,' said the princess 
suddenly. Her eyes were fixed on his face, and she was 
smiling. 
Eoth Saracinesca and Giovanni looked at her in surprise. 
It seemed strange to them that she should choose such a 
moment for admitting San Giacinto to a familiarity he had 
never before enjoyed. But for some time she had felt a 
growing respect for the ex-innkeeper, which was quickened 
by his present generosity. San Giacinto's swarthy face grew 
a shade darker as the blood mounted to his lean cheeks. 
Corona had given him one of the first sensations of genuine 
pleasure he had ever experienced in his rough life. 
' Thank you,' he said simply. ' You two, I was going to 
say, have palaces of your own and cannot have such close 
associations with the old places as one who has owned them 
during so many years. You,' he continued, turning to the 
old prince, 'will, I hope, accept an arrangement which 
cannot affect your dignity and which will give me the 
greatest satisfaction.' 
' I am very much obliged to you,' answered Saracinesca 
promptly. ' You are very generous, but I cannot take what 
you offer.' 
' If you feel that you would be taking anything from me, 
look at it from a different point of view. You would be 
conferring a favour instead of accepting one. Consider my 
position, when I have taken your place. It will not be a 
pleasant one. The world will abuse me roundly, and will 
say I have behaved abominably towards you. Do you fancy 
that I shall be received as a substitute for the Prince Sara 
cinesca your friends have known so long ? Do you suppose 
that the vicissitudes of my life are unknown, and that no 
one will laugh behind my back and point at me as the new, 
upstart prince? Few people know me in Rome, and if 
I have any friends besides you, I have not been made 
 
aware of the fact. Pray consider that in doing what I 
ask, you would be saving me from very unpleasant social 
consequences.' 
'I should be doing so at the cost of my self-respect,' 
replied the old man firmly. ' Whatever the consequences 
are to you, the means of bearing them will be in your hands. 
You will have no lack of friends to-morrow, or at least of 
amiable persons anxious to call themselves by that name. 
They will multiply this very night, like mushrooms, and 
will come about you freshly shaved and smiling to-morrow 
morning.' 
' I am afraid you do not understand me,' said San Giacinto. 
' I can leave you the title and yet take one which will serve 
as well. You would call yourself Prince Saracinesca and 
I should be Saracinesca di San Giacinto. As for the palace 
and the place in the mountains, they are so insignificant as 
compared with the rest that it could not hurt your self-respect 
to live in them. Can you not persuade your father ? ' He 
turned to Giovanni who had not spoken yet. 
' You are very good to make the proposal,' he answered. 
