the joy is at his downfall. And according to the canons we have made for
ourselves, Justine, in listening to the dictates of her heart instead of
to those of her father, had sinned, so grievously even that that father
had bid her begone from his sight. She was aware of this, and in
consequence felt it needful to hold her head the higher. And so for a
while she made pride serve as fig-leaf to her nakedness. If abashed at
heart, at least the world should be uninformed of that abashment.
This effort on her part Mistrial hindered to the best of his ability.
Whether or not he loved her, whether save himself he was capable of
loving anyone, who shall say? Men too are difficult to decipher. There
were hours when after some écart he would come to her so penitent, so
pleasant to the eye, and seemingly so afflicted at his own misconduct,
that Justine found the strength--or the weakness, was it?--to forgive
and to forget anew.
During this period they lived not sumptuously, perhaps, but in that
large and liberal fashion which requires a ponderable rent-roll to
support; and at that time, however Mistrial comported himself elsewhere,
in her presence he had the decency to seem considerate, and affectionate
as well. But meanwhile, through constant demands, the value of the
letter of credit into which he had converted the better part of her
mother's estate became impaired. Retrenchment was necessary, and that is
never a pleasant thing. The man that passes out of poverty into wealth
finds the passage so easy, so Lethean even, that he is apt to forget
what poverty was; but when, as sometimes happens, he is obliged to
retrace his steps, he walks bare of foot through a path of thorns. To
count gold, instead of strewing it, is irritating to anyone not a sage,
and Mistrial, who was not a sage, was irritated; and having, a wife
within beck and call he vented that irritation on her.
It was at this time that Justine began to feel the full force of the
banishment. That her husband was, and in all probability would continue
to be, unfaithful to her, was a matter which she ended by accepting with
a degree of good sense which is more common than is generally supposed.
At first she had been indeed indignant, and when in that indignation her
anger developed into a heat that was white and sentiable, Mistrial
experienced no remorse whatever, only a desire to applaud. He liked the
force and splendor of her arraignment; it took him out of himself; it
made him feel that he was appreciated--feared even; that a word from
him, and a tempest was loosened or enchained.
But what is there to which we cannot accustom ourselves? Justine ended,
not by a full understanding of the fact that man is naturally
polygamous; but little by little, through channels undiscerned even by
herself, the idea came to her that, if the man she loved could find
pleasure in the society of other women, it was because she was less
attractive than they. It was this that brought her patience, the more
readily even in that, at her first paroxysm, Mistrial, a trifle alarmed
lest she might leave him, had caught her in his arms, and sworn in a
whisper breathed in her ear, that of all the world he loved her best.
Madam, you who do the present writer the honor to read this page are
convinced, he is sure, that your husband would rather his tongue cleaved
to the roof of his mouth than break the vow which bound you to him. But
you, madam, have married a man faithful and tried. You know very well
with what dismay he tells you of Robinson's scandalous conduct, and you
know also how he pities Robinson's poor little wife; yet when, in your
sorrow at what that poor little woman has to put up with, you are
tempted to go and condole with her, pause, madam--Mrs. Robinson may be
equally tempted to condole with You.
There are--in Brooklyn, in Boston, and in other recondite regions--a
number of clever people who have been brought up with the idea that
Divorce was instituted for just such a thing as this. Yet in one hundred
cases out of a hundred-and-one a woman who appeals to the law never does
so because her husband has broken a certain commandment. If his
derelictions are confined to that particular offence she may bewail,
and we all bewail with her; but if she wants the sympathy of judge, of
jury, and of newspaper-public too, she must be prepared to allege other
grievances. She must show that her husband is unkind, that he is
sarcastic, that he is given to big words and short sentences; in brief,
that he has developed traits which render life in common no longer to be
endured.
It was traits of this description that Mistrial unexpectedly developed,
and it was during their development that the sense of banishment visited
Justine. She was unable to make further transference of her affections;
the lover had disappeared; the husband she had tried to love in his
place had gone as well. For sole companion she had a man who had worn a
mask and dropped it; where he had been considerate, he was selfish; when
he spoke, it was to find fault; now that he could no longer throw her
money out of the windows, he threw his amiability in its stead. By day
he was taciturn, insultingly dumb; at night he was drunk.
Mistrial had served his novitiate where the pochard is rare. It is we
that drink, and with us the English, the Slavs, and Teutons; but in the
East and among the Latins sobriety is less a matter of habit than of
instinct. And in lands where man prefers to keep his head clear,
Mistrial, at that age, which is one of the most impressionable of all,
had seen no reason to lose his own. But presently the small irritations
of enforced economy affected his manners, and his habits as well. He
took to absinthe in the morning, and, as he happened to be in France, he
drank at night that brutal brandy they give you there. Not continuously,
it is true. There were days when the man for whom Justine had forsaken
her home returned so completely she could almost fancy he had never
gone. Then, without a word of warning, at the very moment when Faith was
gaining fresh foothold, the tragi-comedy would be renewed; he was off
again, no one knew whither, returning only when the candle had been
utterly consumed.
Such things are enough to affect any woman's patience, and Justine's
became wholly warped. It was unaccountable to her that he could treat
her as he did. She watched the gradual transformation of the perfect
lover into the perfect beast with a species of sorrow--a dual sorrow in
whose component parts there was pity for herself and for him as well.
The idea that he had married her uniquely because of her father's
wealth, that he was impatient to get it, and that when he got it he
would squander all he could on other women, occurred to her only in the
remotest ways, and then only through some expression which, in his
exasperation of the diminishing bank account and the unreasonable time
which it took her father to forgive her, fell from him now and then by
chance. For Mistrial had indeed counted on that forgiveness. He had even
counted on receiving it by cable, of finding that it had preceded and
awaited them before their ship reached France. And when, to use an idiom
of that land, it made itself expected, he was confident that the longer
it delayed the completer it would be. At the utmost he had not dreamed
that the old man would detain it more than a few months; but when
twenty-four went by, and not only no forgiveness was manifest, but
through his own improvidence the funds ran low,--so low, in fact, that
unless forgiveness were presently forthcoming they would be in straits
indeed,--he dictated a letter, penitent and humble, one in which
impending poverty stood out as clearly as though it had been engraved,
and which it revolted her to send. Its inspiration, however, must have
been patent to Mr. Dunellen, for that gentlemen's reply, expressed in
the third person, was to the effect that if his daughter returned to him
he would provide for her as he had always done, but in no other
circumstances could he assist.
Had Justine been anyone but herself she might have acted on the
invitation: but the tone of it hurt her; she was annoyed at having
permitted herself to send the letter Mistrial had dictated, and to which
this was the reply. Her pride was up--all the more surely because she
knew her father had been right; and there is just this about pride--as a
matter of penitence it forces us to suffer those consequences of our own
wrongdoing which through a simple confession it were easy to escape. To
Justine such confession was impossible. She had left her father in the
full certainty that he was wrong, and when she found he was not, death
to her were preferable to any admission of the grievousness of her own
mistake.
At this juncture Mistrial's aunt assisted at the funeral of a sister
spinster, sat in a draught, caught cold in her throat, and, the glottis
enlarging, strangled one night in her bed. By her will the St. Nicholas
Hospital received the bulk of her property. The rest of her estate was
divided among relatives; to her nephew Roland Mistrial--3d no
longer--was bequeathed the princely sum of ten thousand dollars in cash.
At the news of this munificence Roland swore and grit his teeth. Had his
circumstances been different it is probable that the ten thousand,
together with some enduring insult, he would have flung after her to the
eternal purgatory where he prayed she had gone. As it was, the modicity
of the bequest sobered him. Through some impalpable logic he had counted
but little on any inheritance at all; he had indeed hoped vaguely that
she might die and leave him what she had; and it may even be that, had
he learned that her will was in his favor, and had a suitable
opportunity presented itself, in some perfectly decorous manner he would
have hastened his aunt's demise. But concerning her will he had no
information; moreover, during his visit to the States the old lady saw
as little of him as she could help; and when she did see him, in spite
of gout and the ailments of advancing years there was such a rigidity in
her manner that the nephew told himself she might live long enough to
see him hanged. As a consequence he had expected nothing. But when the
news of her death reached him, together with the intelligence that
instead of the competence he might possibly have had he was mentioned
merely to the tune of ten thousand dollars,--this outrage, in
conjunction with Dunellen's relentlessness, sobered him to that degree,
that for a day and a night he gave himself to a debauch of thought. From
this orgy he issued with clearer mind. It may be--though the idea
advanced is one that can only be hazarded--it may be that had his aunt
disposed of her estate in his favor he would there and then have washed
his hands of the job he had undertaken, and left his wife to her own
devices. As it was, he saw that, to keep his head above water, the only
possible plank was one that Mr. Dunellen might send in his reach; and it
was with the knowledge that before the present scanty windfall
disappeared some conquest of Honest Paul's affection should be attempted
that he determined to return to New York. Once there again, who knew
what might happen? Surely, if the preceding year Mr. Dunellen had
strength for violence, to the naked eye he was even then manifestly
infirm. There was no gainsaying the matter--he at least would not live
very long. As to the disposition of his property after death Mistrial
was still assured. Whatever his attitude might be for the present, in
the end he could not wholly disinherit Justine--at least one-half the
property must come to her. On that fact Mistrial would have staked his
life; after all, it was the one hope he had left; and an ultimate hope,
we all know, is the thing we part with last.
Thereupon he recovered himself. He became amiable and considerate--a
change of demeanor which gave Justine a chill. She consented
nevertheless to the return trip, and the day after arriving called at
her father's house. When she got back to the hotel where they had put up
Mistrial was waiting for her. In answer to his questions she told him
that her father was willing to receive her, but her alone. "You must
take your choice," he had said, she repeated--"You must take your
choice."
"And what is that choice?" Mistrial had asked.
"I have made it," she answered, "and by it I will abide."
But at this he had expostulated; and when, seeing at last what he
meant--understanding that he would have her feign a compliance for the
sake of coin which at her father's death she could come back and share
with him--when, divining the infamy of his thought, she refused, he had
struck her in the face.
Because a man is not Chesterfield, it does not follow he is Sykes.
Mistrial had never struck a woman before, and in this initial assault it
is probable that he was actuated less by a desire to punish than by that
force which overmasters him who has ceased to be master of himself. By
instinct he was not a gentleman; for some time past he had not even
taken the trouble to appear one; yet at that moment, dancing in derision
before him, he saw the letters that form the monosyllable Cad. The sense
of abasement he displayed was so immediate and sincere, that Justine,
who, trembling with anger and disgust, stood staring in his face, read
it there and understood. Instead of separating them forever, the blow
reunited their hands. During the week that followed they were nearer to
each other than they had been for months before. The reconciliation was
seemingly complete. Mistrial made himself the lover again, and Justine
permitted herself to be wooed. They left their hotel and found a
flat--a furnished apartment in the neighborhood of Central Park; and
there the storm departing placed a rainbow in its stead.
A rainbow, however, is not a fixture, and this one went its way. While
Justine closed her eyes Mistrial's were alert. He had no intention of
suffering her to be disinherited, and though it was well enough to rely
on the courts it was better still not to be forced to do so. Rather than
run an avoidable risk he would have abandoned his wife, and forced her
through that abandonment to return to her father's house, convinced that
afterwards he could win her together with the estate back again to him.
Meanwhile another interview could not in any way jeopardize the chances
to which he clung. On the contrary, it might be highly serviceable. Mr.
Dunellen, he had learned, was much broken; he had given up his practice,
the the world even, everything in fact save perhaps the devil that was
in him, and sat uncompanioned in the desolate and spacious emptiness of
his house. It was only natural that he should wish to coerce his
daughter into obedience; yet now that he saw she was steadfast, her
pride unhumbled still, it was not improbable that he would yield; it was
presumable even that he was then waiting, weak of heart, prepared at her
next advance to welcome and forgive.
Of these things Mistrial made his wife aware, and it was then that the
rainbow departed. His arguments were as revolting as the cynicism they
exhaled. But she made no attempt to combat them. Since she had seen her
father she had felt a sorrow for him that Mistrial's altered demeanor
had given her time to heed. She knew that his attitude was due to her
defiance of his express commands, but she had no reason to suppose that
he had any other objection to her husband than such as his poverty might
have caused or instinctive antipathy might bring. But now, her own
experience aiding, she knew that he had been right; and, as he seemed
feeble and dispassionate, in answer to Mistrial's arguments she tied her
bonnet-strings and went. It was early in the afternoon when she started,
it was night when she returned.
Mistrial had been waiting for her, and when she entered the room in
which he sat he rose eagerly and aided her with her wrap. He was
impatient, she could see; and she was impatient also.
"Why did you not tell me of Guy's sister?" she began, at once.
And as he answered nothing she continued: "Years ago I knew of what she
died; it was only to-day I learned that it was you who murdered her."
"It is a lie."
"Oh, protest. I knew you would."
"From whom is it you heard this thing? Not from your father, I am sure."
As Mistrial spoke he gazed at her inquisitorially with shrewd,
perplexing eyes.
"What does it matter?" she answered. Her head was thrown back, her lips
compressed. "What does it matter since the charge is true?"
"But it is false," he cried; "it is a wanton lie. Your father never
could have stated it."
"Ah, but he did, though; and Guy was there to substantiate what he
said."
"Guy!" As he pronounced her cousin's name there came into his face an
expression which she knew and which she had learned to dread. "Madam,
you mean your lover, I suppose. And it is his ipse dixit you accept in
preference to mine?"
"Mistrial, you know he is not my lover."
"I know he was in love with you, and you with him."
"So he was; so he is, I think; and it was not until this night I saw my
own mistake."
"Voilà!" said Roland, suddenly calmed. He paused a second, and after
eying the polish of his finger-nails, affected to flick a speck of dust
from his sleeve. "Your cousin is mad," he added.
"He is sane as--" and Justine hesitated for a simile.
"His mother, you mean. Were you never aware that insanity is hereditary?
If his sister--presupposing that the accusation which he formulates
against me was originally advanced by her--if his sister--whom, by the
way, I never saw but once--if his sister accused me of complicity, then
she suffered from the hereditary taint as well. If I was guilty of what
your cousin charges, why was I not arrested, tried, and sentenced? But
are you such a dolt you cannot see that Guy is mad--mad not only by
nature, but crazed by jealousy as well. You say you know he loves you.
You have even the candor to admit that you love him! Now ask yourself
what would any impartial hearer deduce from statements such as yours?"
"My father was an impartial hearer, and he--"
"But how is it possible to be so blind? Can you not see that your cousin
has prejudiced him against me? I said, impartial hearer. But let the
matter drop. I tell you the charge is false; believe it or not, as you
prefer. There is, however, just this in the matter: if the charge is
made again, I will have your cousin under arrest. You forget that there
is such a thing as libel still."
Again he paused, and strove to collect himself; there was a design in
the carpet which appeared to interest him very much, but presently he
looked up again.
"Now tell me," he said, "what did your father say?"
"Nothing, save what he said before."
"Nothing?"
"Nothing that you would care to hear." Her eyes roamed from the
neighbourly ceiling over to him and back again. "He said," she added,
"that if I persisted in living with you his money would go to my child,
if I had one; if I had none, then to Guy."
"Were you alone with him when he said this, or was Guy, as you call him,
there?"
"No, I was alone with him; Guy came later."
"And is he aware of this provision?"
For all response Justine shrugged her shoulders.
"Does he know it, I ask you?"
"He does not," she answered. "Father told me that he never would, until
the will was read."
"H'm." And for a moment Mistrial mused. Then presently he smiled--yet
was it a smile?--a look that an hallucinated monk in a medieval abbey
might have seen on that imaginary demon who, flitting by him, the
forefinger outstretched, whispered as he vanished through the wall,
"Thou art damned, dear friend! thou art damned!" "H'm," he repeated;
"and in view of the provisions of your father's will, will you tell me
why is it that you are without a child?"
As he spoke he had arisen, and, smiling still, though now as were he
questioning her in regard to the state of the weather, he looked into
her eyes. She had drawn yet further back into the chair in which she
sat; a deadly sickness overcame her; to her head there mounted the
nausea of each one of his many misdeeds. The memory of the blow of the
week before, one which, despite her seeming forbearance, had not ceased
to rankle, returned to her; and with it, one after another in swift
succession, she rememorated the offences of the past. But soon she too
was on her feet and fronted him. "Why is it I am without a child?" she
repeated. Her voice was low and clear, and between each word she
permitted a little pause to intervene. "Why is it?"
The subtlety of his reproach battening on nerves already overwrought was
exciting her as nothing had done before. "It is you," she cried, "who
are to blame. What have you done with your youth? What have you done
with your manhood? Look at me, Roland Mistrial! If I have borne you no
child it is because monsters never engender." As she spoke, with one
gesture she tore her bodice down. Her breast, palpitant with health and
anger too, heaving at the sheer injustice of his reproach, confronted
and confuted him. "It is there that women have their strength; tell me,
if you can, what have you done with yours?"
And thereat, with a look a princess might give to a lackey who had dared
to question her, she turned and left him where he stood.
The next day he tried to make his peace with her. In this he succeeded,
or flattered himself he had, for subsequently she consented to accompany
him to the play. And as she sat in the stalls it was of these things
that she thought.
II.
The information which Mistrial gleaned concerning the provisions of his
father-in-law's will was bitter in his mouth. On the morrow he gave some
time to thought--he read too a little. The taunt which Justine had flung
at him, bit; and with the idea of dulling the hurt and of ministering
also to his own refreshment, he consulted a book which treated of
certain conditions of the nervous system, and a work on medical
jurisprudence as well. But literature of that kind is notoriously
unsatisfactory. It may suggest, yet the questions which it prompts
remain unanswered. Roland put the volumes down: they were productions of
genius, no doubt, but to him they were nothing more. From the pursuit of
exact knowledge he turned and looked out into the street.
The hour then was midway in one of those green afternoons which we are
apt to fancy the adjunct of lands we never see, and as he looked he saw
astride a bay hunter a man ambling cautiously over the stones. From the
roofs opposite a breath of lilacs came, and a breeze that was neither
cool nor warm loitered on its way from the river beyond. Mistrial let
the breeze, the fragrance, the fulfilment of spring, pass unnoticed. The
bay hunter had caught his eye: it seemed to him that an argument with an
imperative horse was just the thing he needed most, and a little later
he secured a cob from a stable on the street above.
The cob was docile enough, affecting once only to regard a sewer-grating
in the bridle-path as a strange, unhallowed thing which it was needful
to avoid. But the initial shy was the last. The spur gave him such a nip
that during the remainder of the ride, whatever distasteful object he
may have encountered, he gave no outward evidence of abhorrence. He had
an easy canter, a long and swinging trot; and now on one, now on the
other, they passed through and out of the Park, and on beyond the
brand-new edifices that line Seventh Avenue, to that scantier outlying
district where the Harlem begins and the city ends. And here as he was
about to turn he noticed a gig such as physicians affect. In it was a
negro driving, and at his side sat Justine's cousin, Guy.
"H'm!" mused Mistrial; "judging by the locality, his patients must be
the last people in the city." At the moment the feebleness of the jest
pleasured him; then simultaneously the unforgotten hatred crackled in
his breast. At each one of the important epochs of his life that man had
stood in his way. It was he that had forced him from college at the
moment when honors were within his reach. It was he that had kept him
from his father's side at the time when he might have saved his father's
estate. It was he that had come between Dunellen and himself at the
hour when he could have persuaded Justine's father to give him Justine's
hand. It was he that had forced him to elope with her. It was because of
him that he was now enjoying the small miseries of the shabby genteel.
It was he, unless Providence now intervened, who would inherit the
wealth he had toiled to make his own. And it was he who the day before
had again crossed and halted in his path.
These premises, however colored, were logical enough in this--the
natural deduction sprang out and greeted the eye. And, as they flashed
before him, Mistrial saw himself rinsing out each one in blood squeezed
from Thorold's throat. In the fury which suddenly beset him he could
have found the strength, the courage it may be, to have torn him from
the gig in which he sat, to have trampled on him with horse's hoofs,
bent over and beat him as he writhed on the ground, and exulted and
jubilated in the doing of it. Then indeed, though he swung for it, the
ultimate victory would be his. If he stamped Thorold out of existence,
though his own went with it, he would not have suffered wholly in vain;
in facing the gallows he would have the joy of knowing that even were he
prevented from bathing in the Dunellen millions, so was Thorold too.
But when he looked out from himself his enemy had disappeared. A woman
in an open landau passed and bowed. Mechanically Mistrial raised his
hat. To every intent and purpose he was self-possessed--occupied, if at
all, but with those threads of fancy that float in and out the mind. As
he raised his hat, he smiled; the woman might have thought herself the
one it gave him the greatest pleasure to salute. Her carriage had not
advanced the jump of a cat before he had forgotten that she lived. But
no one can turn his brain into a stage, create for it, and feel a drama
such as he had without some outward manifestation, be it merely a
strangled oath. On the horse he rode his knees had tightened, he gave a
dig with the spur, and went careering down the street. In that part of
New York you are at liberty to cover a mile in two minutes. Roland
covered thirty squares at breakneck speed.
Presently he drew the animal in and suffered him to walk. During the run
he had had no time to think; he had been occupied only in keeping the
horse he rode out of the way of vehicles, and in preventing that
possible cropper which comes when we expect it least. But as the cob
began to walk, the present returned to him with a rush. About the
animal's neck the fretting of the reins had produced a lather; the
breeze had died away. Mistrial felt overheated too, and he drew out a
handkerchief and wiped his face. Even while he drew it from his pocket
an idea came to him, fluttered for a second as ideas will, and before he
got the handkerchief back it had gone, leaving him just a trifled
dazed. But in a moment he called to it, and at his bidding it returned.
It was minute, barely fledged as yet; but as the horse jogged on, little
by little it expanded, and to such an extent that before he reached the
park its pinions stretched from earth to sky. Whoso is visited with
inspirations knows with what diabolical swiftness they can enlarge and
grow. When Mistrial put the horse back in the stable the idea which at
first he had but dimly intercepted possessed him utterly. It succeeded
even in detaining his step: he walked up the street instead of down; at
a crossing he hesitated; night had come, and as he loitered there,
suddenly the whole avenue was bright as day. The vengeance which not an
hour before he could have wreaked on Thorold seemed now remote and
paltry too. There need be no shedding of blood, no scandal, no newspaper
notoriety, no police, no coroner to sit upon a corpse, no jury to bring
a verdict in. There need be nothing of this: a revenge of that order
was in bad taste, ill-judged as well. To make a man really suffer,
sudden death was as a balm in comparison to some subtle torment that
should gnaw at the springs of life, retreat a moment, and then returning
make them ache again, and still again, forever his whole life through.
The French woman is not so ill-advised when she pitches a cup of vitriol
in her betrayer's face. In Spain, in Italy even, they stab; the deed is
done; the culprit has had no chance to experience anger, pain even, or
remorse. He is dead. The curtain falls. But a revenge that blasts and
corrodes, one that leaves the victim living, sound in body and in limb,
and yet consumed by an inextinguishable regret, burning with tortures
from which he can never escape--a thing like that is the work, not of an
apprentice, but of a master in crime. Yet when the victim receives that
cup of vitriol, not from another's hands, but from his own; when he has
been lured into devastating his own self;--it is no longer a question of
either apprentice or of master: it is the artist that has been at work.
To gain the Dunellen millions was to Mistrial a matter of paramount
importance; but to gain them through the instrumentality of the man whom
he hated as no one ever hates to-day, particularly when that man was the
one to whom those millions were provisionally bequeathed, when he was
one whom Mistrial--justly or unjustly, it matters not--fancied and
believed was plotting for them; to gain them, not only through him, but
through his unwitting, unintentional agency, through an act which, so
soon as he learned its purport, all his life through he would regret and
curse;--no, that were indeed a revenge and a reparation too. And as he
thought of it there entered his eyes a look perplexing and
enervating--that look which demons share with sphinxes and the damned.
III.
During the two years which Mistrial had passed in the society of his
wife, opportunities of studying her there had been in plenty. He knew
her to be docile and headstrong; weak, if at all, but with that weakness
that comes of lassitude; violent when provoked, prone to forgive,
sensitive, impulsive, yet obdurate; in brief, the type of woman that may
be entreated, but never coerced. He knew her faults so well he could
have enumerated them one after the other on his finger-tips: her
qualities, however, had impressed him less; it may be that he had
accepted them as a matter of course. He was aware that she was honest;
he had noticed that she was capable of much self-sacrifice; of other
characteristics he had given little heed. It goes without the telling,
that in regard to what is known as jealousy he had not suffered even an
evanescent disquietude. And that night and during the morning that
followed, as he occupied himself in nursing the idea which had visited
him on horseback, that particular fact occurred to him more than once.
But one does not need to be a conspirator to understand that the
steadiest virtue is as susceptible of vice as iron is of rust.
Justine had announced that her cousin was still in love with her; she
had announced with equal distinctness that she recognized her own
mistake; while for himself he was convinced that she no longer cared. To
these things he added certain deductions which his experience of men and
women permitted him to draw; and had the result they presented been made
to order, it could not have fitted more perfectly into the scheme which
he had devised.
It was then high noon. Through the window came the irresistible breath
of a rose in bloom. As he left the house it surrounded him in the
street. He smiled a greeting at it. "I have spring in my favor," he
mused, and presently boarded a car.
The principles of successful enterprise may be summarized as consisting
of a minute regard for details, and an apparent absence of zeal.
Mistrial's many mistakes had taught him the one and trained him in the
other. When the car he had taken reached the Gilsey House, he alighted,
hailed a four-wheeler, stationed it in such a manner that it commanded a
view of the adjacent street, coached the driver in regard to a signal he
might give, entered the cab, lit a cigarette, and prepared to wait.
In that neighborhood there are four or five basement houses of the style
that is affectioned by milliners, dentists, and physicians. One of these
particularly claimed Mistrial's attention. He saw a woman in gray enter
it, and almost simultaneously a woman come out; then a man leading a
child went in; and in a little while the first woman reappeared.
Mistrial glanced at his watch; it lacked a minute of one. "He has a
larger practice than I thought," he reflected. The woman in gray had now
nearly reached the cab in which he sat, and from sheer force of habit he
was preparing to scrutinize her as she passed, when the door of the
house reopened and Thorold appeared on the step. He looked up the
street, then down. He had his hat on, and his every-day air. In a second
Mistrial had drawn the curtain and was peering through the opening at
the side. He saw Thorold leave the step and turn toward Fifth Avenue; he
signalled to the driver, and the cab moved on.
At the corner Thorold turned again, the cab at his heels, and Mistrial
saw that the physician was moving in the direction of Madison Square. It
occurred to him that Thorold might be going to Mr. Dunellen's, and on
the block below, as the latter crossed the asphalt, he made sure of it.
But opposite the Brunswick the cab stopped; Thorold was entering the
restaurant.
Cold chicken looks attractive in print. A minute or two later, as
Mistrial examined the bill of fare, he ordered some for himself; he
ordered also a Demidorf salad,--a compound of artichokes' hearts and
truffles, familiarly known as Half-Mourning,--and until the waiter
returned hid himself behind a paper. Thorold meanwhile, who was seated
at an adjoining table, must have ordered something which required longer
preparation, for Mistrial finished the salad before the physician was
served. But Mistrial was in no hurry; he had a pint of claret brought
him, and sipped it leisurely. Now and then he glanced over at Thorold,
and twice he caught his eye. At last Thorold called for his bill.
Mistrial paid his own, and presently followed him out into the street.
When both reached the sidewalk, Mistrial, who was a trifle in the rear,
touched him on the arm.
"Thorold," he said; and the physician turned, but there was nothing
engaging in his attitude: he held his head to one side, about his lips
was a compression, a contraction in his eyes; one arm was pendent, the
other pressed to his waistcoat, and the shoulder of that arm was
slightly raised. He looked querulous and annoyed--a trifle startled,
too.
"Thorold," Mistrial repeated, "give me a moment, will you?"
The physician raised the arm that he had pressed against his waistcoat,
and, with four fingers straightened and the fifth askew, stroked an
imaginary whisker.
"It is about Justine," Mistrial continued. "She is out of sorts; I want
you to see her."
"Ah!" And Thorold looked down and away.
"Yes, I had intended to speak to Dr. McMasters; but when by the merest
chance I saw you in there I told myself that, whatever our differences
might be, there was no one who would understand the case more readily
than you."
As Mistrial spoke he imitated the discretion of his enemy; he looked
down and away. The next moment, however, both were gazing into each
other's face.
"H'm." Thorold, as he stared, seemed to muse. "I saw her the other day,"
he said, at last; "she looked well enough then."
"But can't a person look well and yet be out of sorts?"
Mistrial was becoming angry, and he showed it. It was evident, however,
that his irritation was caused less by the man to whom he spoke than by
the physician whom he was seeking to consult. This Thorold seemed to
grasp, for he answered perplexedly:
"After what has happened I don't see very well how I can go to your
house."
"Look here, Thorold: the past is over and done with--ill done, you will
say, and I admit it. Be that as it may, it has gone. At the same time
there is no reason why any shadow of it should fall on Justine. She is
really in need of some one's advice. Can you not give it to her?"
"Certainly," Thorold answered, "I can do that;" and he looked very
sturdy as he said it. "Only--"
"Only what? If you can't go as a friend, at least you might go as a
physician."
Thorold's hand had slid from his cheek to his chin, and he nibbled
reflectively at a finger-nail.
"Very good," he said; "I will go to her. Is she to be at home this
afternoon?"
"The evening would be better, I think. Unless, of course--" and Mistrial
made a gesture as though to imply that, if Thorold's evening were
engaged, a visit in the afternoon might be attempted.
But the suggestion presumably was acceptable. Thorold drew out a
note-book, at which he glanced.
"And I say," Mistrial continued, "I wish--you see, it is a delicate
matter; Justine is very sensitive--I wish you wouldn't say you met me.
Just act as though--"
"Give yourself no uneasiness, sir." Thorold had replaced the note-book
and looked up again in Mistrial's face. "I never mention your name." And
thereat, with a toss of the head, he dodged an omnibus and crossed the
street.
For a moment Mistrial gazed after him, then he turned, and presently he
was ordering a glass of brandy at the Brunswick bar.
It was late that night when he reached his home. During the days that
followed he had no fixed hours at all. Several times he entered the
apartment with the smallest amount of noise that was possible, and
listened at the sitting-room door. At last he must have heard something
that pleased him, for as he sought his own room he smiled. "Maintenant,
mon cher, je te tiens."
The next day he surprised Justine by informing her that he intended to
pay a visit to a relative. He was gone a week.
IV.
That night the stars, dim and distant, were scattered like specks of
frost on some wide, blue window-pane. At intervals a shiver of wheels
crunching the resistant snow stirred the lethargy of the street, and at
times a rumble accentuated by the chill of winter mounted gradually, and
passed on in diminishing vibrations. Within, a single light, burning
scantily, diffused through the room the drowsiness of a spell. In the
bed was Justine, her eyes dilated, her face attenuated and pinched. One
hand that lay on the coverlid was clinched so tightly that the nails
must have entered the flesh. Presently she moaned, and a trim little
woman issued from a corner with the noiseless wariness of a rat. As she
passed before the night-light, the silhouette of a giantess, fabulously
obese, jumped out and vanished from the wall. For a moment she
scrutinized her charge, burrowing into her, as it were, with shrewd yet
kindly eyes. Again a moan escaped the sufferer, the wail of one whose
agony is lancinating--one that ascended in crescendos and terminated in
a cry of such utter helplessness, and therewith of such insistent pain,
that the nurse caught the hand that lay on the coverlid, and unlocking
the fingers stroked and held it in her own. "There, dear heart--there, I
know."
Ah, yes, she knew very well. She had not passed ten years of her
existence tending women in travail for the fun of it. And as she took
Justine's hand and stroked it, she knew that in a little while the
agony, acuter still, would lower her charge into that vestibule of death
where Life appears. Whether or not Justine was to cross that silent
threshold, whether happily she would find it barred, whether it would
greet and keep her and hold her there, whether indeed it would let the
child go free, an hour would tell, or two at most.
But there were preparations to be made. The nurse left the bed and moved
out into the hall. In a room near by, Mistrial, occupied with some
advertisements in the Post, sat companioned by a physician who was
reading a book which he had written himself. At the footfall of the
nurse the latter left the room. Presently he returned. "Everything is
going nicely," he announced, and placidly resumed his seat.
It was the fourth time in two hours that he had made that same remark.
Mistrial said nothing. He was gazing through the paper he held at the
wall opposite, and out of it into the future beyond.
Since that day, the previous spring, on which he had set out to visit a
relative, many things had happened, yet but few that were of importance
to him. On his return from the trip, during one fleeting second, for the
first time since he had known Justine, it seemed to him that she avoided
his eyes. To this, in other circumstances, he would have given no
thought whatever; as matters were, it made him feel that his excursion
should not be regarded as time ill-spent. Whether it had been wholly
serviceable to his project, he could not at the time decide. He waited,
however, very patiently, but he seldom waited within the apartment
walls. At that period he developed a curious facility for renewing
relations with former friends. Once he took a run to Chicago with an
Englishman he had known in Japan; and once, with the brother of a lady
who had married into the Baxter branch of the house of Mistrial, he went
on a fishing trip to Canada. These people he did not bring to call on
his wife. He seemed to act as though solitude were grateful to her. Save
Mrs. Metuchen, Thorold at that time was her only visitor, and the visits
of that gentleman Mistrial encouraged in every way that he could devise.
Through meetings that, parenthetically, were more frequent on the stair
or in the hallway than anywhere else, the two men, through sheer force
of circumstances, dropped into an exchange of salutations--remarks about
the weather, reciprocal inquiries on the subject of each other's health,
which, wholly formal on Thorold's part, were from Mistrial always civil
and aptly put. After all, was he not the host? and was it not for him to
show particular courtesy to anyone whom his wife received?
To her, meanwhile, his attitude was little short of perfection itself.
He was considerate, foresighted, and unobtrusive--a course of conduct
which frightened her a little. Two or three months after he had struck
her in the face she made--à propos of nothing at all--an announcement
which brought a trace of color to her cheeks.
The following afternoon he happened to be entering the house as Dr.
Thorold was leaving it. Instead of greeting him in the nice and amiable
fashion which he had adopted, and which Thorold had ended by accepting
as a matter of course, he halted and looked at the physician through
half-closed eyes. Thorold nodded, cavalierly enough it is true, and was
about to pass on; but this Mistrial prevented. He planted himself
squarely in his way, and stuck his hands in his pockets.
"Mrs. Mistrial has no further need of you," he said. "Send your bill to
me."
He spoke from the tips of his lips, with the air and manner of one
dismissing a lackey. At the moment nothing pertinent could have occurred
to Thorold. He stared at Mistrial, dumbly perplexed, and plucked at his
cuff. Mistrial nodded as who should say, "Put that in your pipe;" and
before Thorold recovered his self-possession he had passed up the stairs
and on and out of sight.
It was then that season in which July has come and is going. The city
was hot; torrid at noonday, sultry and enervating at night. Fifth Avenue
and the adjacent precincts were empty. Each one of the brown-stone
houses had a Leah-like air of desertion. The neighborhood of Madison
and of Union Squares was peopled by men with large eyes and small feet,
by women so deftly painted that, like Correggio, they could have
exclaimed, "Anch' io son pittore." In brief, the Southern invasion had
begun, and New York had ceased to be habitable.
But Newport has charms of its own; and to that lovely city by the water
Mistrial induced his wife; and there, until summer had departed, and
autumn too, they rested and waited. During those months he was careful
of her: so pleasantly so, so studious of what she did and of what she
ate, that for the first time since the honeymoon she might have, had she
tried, felt at ease with him again. But there were things that prevented
this--faith destroyed and the regret of it. Oh, indeed she had regrets
in plenty; some even for her father; and, unknown to Mistrial, once or
twice she wrote him such letters as a daughter may write. She had never
been in sympathy with him; as a child he had coerced her needlessly;
when she was older he had preached; later, divining that lack of
sympathy, he had striven through kindlier ways to counteract it. But he
had failed; and Justine, aiding in the endeavor, had failed as well.
When father and child do not stand hand-in-hand a fibre is wanting that
should be there.
In December Mistrial and his wife returned to town. A date was
approaching, and there was the layette to be prepared. Hour after hour
Justine's fingers sped. The apartment became a magazine of
swaddling-clothes. One costume in particular, a worsted sack that was
not much larger than a coachman's glove, duplicated and repeated itself
in varying and tender hues. Occasionally Mistrial would pick one up and
examine it furtively. To his vagabond fancy it suggested a bag in which
gold would be.
But now the hour was reached. And as Mistrial sat staring into the
future, the goal to which he had striven kept looming nearer and ever
nearer yet. Only the day before he had learned that Dunellen was
failing. And what a luxury it would be to him when the old man died and
