know, when one of them has hysteria."
"Hysteria! Is that what you called it?" said the judge.
"Of course. And it's natural," Paul went on:--"poor little girl, coming
to herself suddenly here in the woods, only to realize that her husband
is dead. We shall have to be doubly tender with her, now that she is
beginning to be herself again."
"You didn't mind it, then?" pursued the judge. He was relieved, of
course--glad. Still it began to seem almost an impertinence that Paul
should have paid so little attention to what had been to the rest of
them so terrible.
"Mind? Do you mean what she was saying? I didn't half hear it, I was
thinking how I could get up that bank. And that reminds me there's
something wrong with Porley; she's at the big pine. I am going out there
to see. Cicely told me that she had tied her in some way."
"If she did, the wench richly deserved it," said the judge, going
towards his lodge, his step stiff and slow.
"He came mighty near a stroke," said Hollis to Paul in an undertone.
"Hadn't you better go with him, then?"
"Oh yes; I'll go." He went towards the judge's lodge. "You go right
into that lodge, fool Hollis, and stay there,--stay with that
unreasonable, vituperative, cantankerous old Bourbon of a judge,
and--judge of Bourbon! You smooth him down, and you hearten him up, you
agree with him every time; you tuck him in, you hang his old clothes
over a chair, you take his shoes out, and black 'em; and you conduct
yourself generally like one of his own nigs in the glorious old days of
slavery--Maryland, my Maryland!" He lifted the latch of the door, and
went in.
Paul, meanwhile, had gone to the big pine; when he reached it, the
twilight had darkened into night. A crouching figure stood close to the
trunk--Porley; she was tied by a small rope to the tree, the firm
ligatures encircling her in three places--at the throat, the waist, and
the ankles; in addition, her hands were tied behind her.
"Well, Porley, a good joke, isn't it?" Paul said, as he cut the knots of
the rope with his knife.
"Ah-hoo!" sobbed the girl, her fright breaking into audible expression
now that aid was near.
"Mrs. Morrison thought she would see how brave you were."
"Ah-hoo! Ah-hoo-hoo-hoo!" roared Porley, in a paroxysm of frantic
weeping.
"If you are so frightened as that, what did you let her do it for? You
are five times as strong as she is."
"I coulden tech her, marse--I coulden! Says she, 'A-follerin' an'
spyin', Porley? Take dat rope an' come wid me.' So I come. She's cunjud
me, marse; I is done fer."
"Nonsense! Where's the nurse?"
"I doan know--I doan know. Says she, 'We'll take a walk, Miss Mile.' An'
off dey went, 'way ober dat way. Reckon Miss Mile's dead!"
"No more dead than you are. Go back to the camp and un-cunjer yourself;
there's a dollar to help it along."
He went off in the direction she had indicated. After a while he began
to call at intervals; there was a distant answer, and he called again.
And then gradually, nearer and nearer, came the self-respecting voice of
Mary Ann Mile. Each time he shouted, "Hello there!" her answer was,
"Yes, sir; present-lée," in a very well-educated tone.
"What is this, Mrs. Mile?"
"You may well ask, sir. Such an incident has never happened to me
before. Mrs. Morrison remarked that she should enjoy a walk, and I
therefore went with her; after we had proceeded some distance, suddenly
she darted off. I followed her, and kept her in sight for a while, or
rather she kept me in sight; then she disappeared, and I perceived not
only that I had lost her, but that I myself was lost. It is a curious
thing, sir,--the cleverness of people whose minds are disordered!"
"Her mind is no longer disordered, Mrs. Mile; she has got back her
senses."
"Do you consider this an instance of it?" asked the nurse, doubtfully.
When Paul left Cicely's lodge, Eve closed the door. "Cicely, I have
something to tell you. Listen."
"It is a pity you like that man--that Paul Tennant," Cicely answered.
"If I do like him, I can never be anything to him. This is what I
wanted to tell you: that I shot his brother."
"Well, if his brother was like him--"
"Oh, Cicely, it was Ferdie--your Ferdie."
"What do you know about Ferdie?" demanded Cicely, coldly. "He never
liked you in the least."
"Don't you know, Cicely, that Ferdie is dead?"
"Oh, yes, I know it. Paul would not let me go to him, and he died all
alone."
"And do you know what was the cause of his death?"
"Yes; he was shot; there were some negroes, they got away in a boat."
"No, there were no negroes; I shot him. I took a pistol on purpose."
"It seems to be very hard work for you to tell me this, you are crying
dreadfully," remarked Cicely, looking at her. "Why do you tell?"
"Because I am the one you must curse. Not Paul."
"It's all for Paul, then."
"But it was for you in the first place, Cicely. Don't you remember that
we escaped?--that we went through the wood to the north point?--that you
tried to push the boat off, and couldn't? Baby climbed up by one of the
seats, and Ferdie saw him, and made a dash after him; then it was that I
fired. I did it, Cicely. Nobody else."
"Oh," said Cicely, slowly, "you did it, did you?" She rose. "And Paul
kept me from going to him! It was all you two." She went to the crib,
and lifted Jack from his nest. He stirred drowsily; then fell asleep
again. (Poor little Jack, what journeys!)
"Open that door; and go," Cicely commanded.
Eve hesitated a moment. Then she obeyed.
Cicely wrapped a shawl about Jack, and laid him down; she set to work
and made two packets of clothing--one for herself, and one for the
child--slinging them upon her arm; she put on her straw hat, took Jack,
and went out, closing the door behind her. Eve, who was waiting outside
in the darkness, followed her. She dared not call for help; she hoped
that they might meet Paul coming back, or Porley, or the nurse. But they
met no one, Paul was still at the big pine. Cicely turned down to the
beach, and began to walk westward. Eve followed, moving as noiselessly
as possible; but Cicely must have heard her, though she gave no sign of
it, for, upon passing a point, Eve found that she had lost her, there
was no one in sight. She ran forward, she called her name entreatingly;
she stood by the edge of the water, fearing to see something dark
floating there. She called again, she pleaded. No answer from the dusky
night. She turned and ran back to the camp.
At its edge she met Paul. "You promised me that you would not leave the
lodge," he said.
"Oh, Paul, I don't know where she is. Oh, come--hurry, hurry!"
They went together. She was so tired, so breathless, that he put his arm
round her as a support.
"Oh, do not."
"This is where you ought always to be when you are tired--in my arms."
"Don't let us talk. She may be dead."
"Poor little Cicely! But you are more to me."
His tones thrilled her, she felt faint with happiness. Suddenly came the
thought: "When we find her, she will tell him! She will tell him all I
said."
"Don't believe her; don't believe anything she may tell you," she
entreated, passionately. A fierce feeling took possession of her; she
would fight for her happiness. "Am I nothing to you?" she said, pausing;
"my wish nothing? Promise me not to believe anything Cicely says against
me,--anything! It's all an hallucination."
Paul had not paid much heed to her exclamations, he thought all women
incoherent; but he perceived that she was excited, exhausted, and he
laid his hand protectingly on her hair, smoothing it with tender touch.
"Why should I mind what she says? It would be impossible for her to say
anything that could injure you in my eyes, Eve."
Beyond the next point they saw a light; it came from a little fire of
twigs on the beach. Beside the fire was Jack; he was carefully wrapped
in the shawl, the two poor little packets of clothing were arranged
under him as a bed; Cicely's straw hat was under his head, and her
handkerchief covered his feet. But there was no Cicely. They went up and
down the beach, and into the wood behind; again Eve looked fearfully at
the water.
"She isn't far from Jack," said Paul. "We shall find her in a moment or
two."
Eve's search stopped. "In a moment or two he will know!"
"Here she is!" cried Paul.
And there was Cicely, sitting close under the bank in the deepest
shadow. She did not move; Paul lifted her in his arms.
"The moon is under a cloud now," she explained, in a whispering voice;
"as soon as it comes out, I shall see Ferdie over there on the opposite
shore, and I shall call to him. "Don't let that fire go out, I haven't
another match; he will need the light as a guide."
"She thinks she is on Singleton Island!" said Eve;--"the night we got
away."
Her tone was joyous.
XXVI.
PAUL AND EVE took Cicely back to the camp. And almost immediately,
before Mrs. Mile could undress her, she had fallen asleep. It was the
still slumber of exhaustion, but it seemed also to be a rest; she lay
without moving all that night, and the next day, and the night
following. As she slumbered, gradually the tenseness of her face was
relaxed, the lines grew lighter, disappeared; then slowly a pink colored
her cheeks, restoring her beauty.
They all came softly in from time to time to stand beside her for a
moment. The nurse was sure that the sleep was nature's medicine, and
that it was remedial; and when at last, on the second day, the dark eyes
opened, it could be seen that physically the poor child was well.
She laughed with Jack, she greeted her grandfather, and talked to him;
she called Porley "Dilsey," and told her that she was much improved. "I
will give you a pair of silver ear-rings, Dilsey, when we get home." For
she seemed to comprehend that they were not at home, but on a journey of
some sort. The memory of everything that had happened since Ferdie's
arrival at Romney had been taken from her; she spoke of her husband as
in South America. But she did not talk long on any subject. She wished
to have Jack always with her, she felt a tranquil interest in her
grandfather, and this was all. With the others she was distant. Her
manner to Eve was exactly the manner of those first weeks after Eve's
arrival at Romney. She spoke of Paul and Hollis to her grandfather as
"your friends."
She gathered flowers; she talked to the Indians, who looked at her with
awe; she wandered up and down the beach, singing little songs, and she
spent hours afloat. Mrs. Mile, who, like the well-trained nurse that she
was, had no likes or dislikes as regarded her patients, and who
therefore cherished no resentment as to the manner in which she had been
befooled in the forest--Mrs. Mile thoroughly enjoyed "turning out" her
charge each morning in a better condition than that of the day before.
Cicely went willingly to bed at eight every evening, and she did not
wake until eight the next morning; when she came out of her lodge after
the bath, the careful rubbing, and the nourishing breakfast which formed
part of Mrs. Mile's excellent system, from the crisp edges of her hair
down to her quick-stepping little feet, she looked high-spirited,
high-bred, and fresh as an opening rose. Mrs. Mile would follow,
bringing her straw hat, her satisfaction expressed by a tightening of
her long upper lip that seemed preliminary to a smile (though the smile
never came), and by the quiet pride visible in her well-poised back.
When, as generally happened, Cicely went out on the lake, Mrs. Mile,
after over-seeing with her own eyes the preparations for lunch, would
retire to a certain bench, whence she could watch for the returning
boats, and devote herself to literature for a while, always reading one
book, the History of Windham, Connecticut, Windham being her native
place. As she sat there, with her plain broad-cheeked face and smooth
scanty hair, her stiff white cuffs, her neat boots, size number seven,
neatly crossed before the short skirt of her brown gown, she made a
picture of a sensible, useful person (without one grain of what a man
would call feminine attractiveness). But no one cared to have her
attractive at Jupiter Light; they were grateful for her devotion to
Cicely, and did not study her features. They all clustered round Cicely
more constantly than ever now, this strange little companion, so fair
and fresh, so happily unconscious, by God's act, of the sorrows that had
crushed her.
Paul was back and forth, now at the camp for a day or two, now at Port
aux Pins. One afternoon, when he was absent, Eve went to the little
forest burying-ground belonging to Jupiter Light. On the way she met
Cicely, accompanied by Mrs. Mile.
"Where are you going? I will go with you, I think," Cicely remarked. "It
can't be so tiresome as this."
Mrs. Mile went intelligently away.
"I am very tired of her," Cicely continued; "she looks like the Mad
Hatter at the tea-party: this style ten-and-six. Why are you turning
off?"
"This path is prettier."
"No; I want to go where you were going first."
"Perhaps she won't mind," thought Eve.
When they came to the little enclosure, Cicely looked at it calmly. "Is
this a garden?" she asked. She began to gather wild flowers outside.
Eve went within; she cleared the fallen leaves from the grave of the
little girl. While she was thus occupied, steps came up the path, and
Hollis appeared; making a sign to Eve, he offered his arm quickly to
Cicely. "Mrs. Morrison, the judge is in a great hurry to have you come
back."
"Grandpa?" said Cicely. "Is he ill?"
"Yes, he is very ill indeed," replied Hollis, decidedly.
"Poor grandpa!" said Cicely. "Let us hurry."
They went back to the camp. Reaching it, he took her with rapid step to
her lodge, where the judge and Mrs. Mile were waiting. "You are ill,
grandpa?" said Cicely, going to him.
"I am already better."
"But not by any means well yet," interposed Mrs. Mile; "he must stay
here in this lodge, and you shouldn't leave him for one moment, Mrs.
Morrison."
Porley and Jack were also present; every now and then Mrs. Mile would
give Porley a peremptory sign.
Hollis and Eve stood together near the door talking in low tones. "A
muss among the Indians," Hollis explained. "Those we brought along are
peaceful enough if left to themselves; in fact, they are cowards. But a
dangerous fellow, a very dangerous scamp, joined them this morning on
the sly, and they've got hold of some whiskey; I guess he brought it. I
thought I'd better tell you; the cook is staying with them to keep
watch, and the judge and I are on the lookout here; I don't think there
is the least real danger; still you'd better keep under cover. If Paul
comes, we shall be all right."
"Do you expect him to-day?"
"Sorter; but I'm not sure."
A drunken shout sounded through the forest.
"An Indian spree is worse than a white man's," remarked Hollis. "But you
ain't afraid, I see that!" He looked at her admiringly.
"I'm only afraid of one thing in the world," replied Eve, taking,
woman-like, the comfort of a confession which no one could understand.
"Can you shoot?" Hollis went on.--"Fire a pistol?"
She blanched.
"There, now, never mind. 'Twas only a chance question."
"No, tell me. I can shoot perfectly well; as well as a man."
"Then I'll give you my pistol. You'll have no occasion to use it, not
the least in the world; but still you'll be armed."
"Put it on the table. I can get it if necessary."
"Well, I'll go outside. I'm to stroll about where I can see the cook;
that's my cue; and you can stay near the door, where you can see me;
that's yours. And the judge, he has the back window, one of the guns is
there. All right? Bon-sor, then." He went out.
Eve sat down by the door. The judge kept up a conversation with Cicely,
and anxiously played quiet games with little Jack, until both fell
asleep; Cicely fell asleep very easily now, like a child. Mrs. Mile
lifted her in her strong arms and laid her on the bed, while Porley took
Jack; poor Porley was terribly frightened, but rather more afraid of
Mrs. Mile, on the whole, than of the savages.
By-and-by a red light flashed through the trees outside; the Indians had
kindled a fire.
Twenty minutes later Hollis paused at the door. "Paul's coming, I guess;
I hear paddles."
"Of course you'll go down and meet him?" said Eve.
"No, I can't leave the beat."
"I can take your place for that short time."
"Don't you show your head outside--don't you!" said Hollis, quickly.
Eve looked at him. "I shall go down to the beach myself, if you don't."
Her eyes were inflexible.
All Hollis's determination left him. "The judge can take this beat,
then; you can guard his window," he said, in a lifeless tone. He went
down to the beach.
All of them--the judge, Mrs. Mile, and Porley, as well as Eve--could
hear the paddles now; the night, save for the occasional shouts, was
very still. Eve stood at the window. "Will the Indians hear him, and go
down?"
But they did not hear him. In another five minutes Paul had joined them.
Hollis, who was with him, gave a hurried explanation. "We're all right,
now that you are here," he concluded; "we are more than a match for the
drunken scamps if they should come prowling up this way. When the
whiskey's out of 'em to-morrow, we can reduce 'em to reason."
"Why wait till to-morrow?" said Paul.
"No use getting into a fight unnecessarily."
"I don't propose to fight," Paul answered.
"They're eleven, Tennant," said the judge; "you wouldn't have time to
shoot them all down."
"I'm not going to shoot," Paul responded. He went towards the door.
"Don't go," pleaded Eve, interposing.
He went straight on, as though he had not heard her.
"I can't move him," she thought, triumphantly. "I can no more move him
than I could move a mountain!"
Paul was gone. Hollis followed him to the door. "We two must stay here
and protect the women, you know," said the judge, warningly.
"Why, certainly," said Hollis; "of course,--the ladies." He came back.
Suddenly Eve hurried out.
Paul reached the Indian quarters, and walked up to the fire. He gave a
look round the circle.
The newly arrived man, the one whom Hollis had called dangerous, sprang
to his feet.
Paul took him by the throat and shook the breath out of him.
When Hollis came hurrying up, the thing was done; the other Indians,
abject and terrified, were helping to bind the interloper.
"The cook can watch them now," said Paul. "I suppose there's no supper,
with all this row?"
Hollis gave a grim laugh. "At a pinch--like this, I don't mind cooking
one."
Paul turned. And then he saw Eve behind him.
Hollis had gone to the kitchen; he did not wish to see them meet.
"You did absurdly wrong to come, Eve," said Paul, going to her. "What
possible good was it? And if there had been real danger, you would have
been in the way."
"You are trembling; are you so frightened, then?" he went on, his voice
growing softer.
"I am not frightened now."
They went towards the lodge.
"It's a desolate life you've arranged for me, Eve," he said, going back
to his subject, the Indians already forgotten. "I'm not to say anything
to you; I'm to have nothing; and so we're to go on apparently forever.
What is it you are planning for? I am sure I don't know. I know you care
for me, and I don't believe that you'll find anything sweeter than the
love I could give you,--if you would let me."
"There is nothing sweeter," Eve answered.
"Have you given up keeping me off?" He drew her towards him. She did not
resist.
In her heart rose the cry, "For one day, for one hour, let me have it,
have it all! Then--"
XXVII.
On the second day after the alarm, Paul took the Indians back to Port
aux Pins, and dismissed them, after handing the ringleader to the proper
authorities; the others slunk away with their long black hair hanging
down below their white man's hats, their eagle profiles, in spite of
fierceness of outline, entirely unalarming. Paul then selected half a
dozen Irishmen, the least dilapidated he could find (the choice lay
between Indians and Irishmen), and brought them to Jupiter Light to take
the place of the crestfallen aborigines. He remained there a few days to
see that all went well; then he returned to Port aux Pins for a week's
stay. "Come a little way up the lake to meet me," he said to Eve, as he
bade her good-by; "I shall be along about four o'clock next Wednesday
afternoon."
His manner still remained a little despotic. But to women of strong will
despotism is attractive; when a despotism of love, it is enchanting.
Eve's feeling was, "Oh, to have at last found some one who is stronger
than I!"
Even now not for a moment did she bend her opinions, her decisions, to
his, of her own accord; each time it was simply that she was conquered;
after contesting the point as strongly as she could, how she gloried in
feeling herself overridden at last! She would look at Paul with
delighted eyes, and laugh in triumph. To have yielded because she loved
him, would have had a certain sweetness; but to be conquered unyielding,
that was a satisfaction whose intensity could go no further.
Since that walk in the darkness from the Indian quarters to Cicely's
lodge, when, suddenly, she had let her love have its way, she had
allowed herself to be carried along by chance events whithersoever they
pleased; she had defied conscience, she had accepted the bliss that hung
temptingly before her; she did not think, she only enjoyed. Once or
twice she had sent forth mentally this defiance,--"If you feel as I do,
then you may judge me!" To whom was this said? To Fate? To the world
at large? In reality it was said to all women who in that summer of 1869
were young enough to love: "If you can feel as I do, then you may
judge me." But it was only once or twice that this mood had come to her,
only once or twice that she thought of anything but Paul; his offered
hand taken, her acceptance of it was at least superb in its
completeness; there was no looking back, no fear, no regret; nothing
but the fulness of joy.
Still sweeter was it to feel that, deeply as she loved, she was loved as
deeply. Paul might be imperious, he might be negligent in explaining
things, and in other small ways; but there was nothing negligent in his
passion. His genius for directness, which puzzled Hollis in other
matters, showed itself also here; he had little to say--that was
possible--but no woman could have misunderstood the language of his eyes
or of the touch of his hand; or fail to be thrilled by it. The feeling
that possessed him went straight to its end, namely, Eve Bruce for his
wife; the same Eve whom he had not liked at all at first; to whom he had
found it difficult only a few weeks before to write a short letter. This
inconsistency did not trouble him; love had arrived, had descended upon
him in some way, he knew not how, had taken possession of him by force
and forever--he recognized that, and did not contest it. Women are only
women: this had been one of the settled convictions in the depths of his
mind, and it was a conviction not much changed even now; yet this same
Paul, with his mediæval creed, made a lover much more invincible than a
hundred, a thousand other men, who would have said, perhaps, that they
revered women more. "Revered?" Paul would have answered, "I don't revere
Eve, I love her!"
Whatever name he gave it, she knew that she held the joy of his life in
her hands, that he would come to her for this--had already come; and
that it always would be so. This was happiness enough for her.
This happiness had existed but ten days. But these days had seemed like
months of joy, she had lived each moment so fully. "Sejed, Prince of
Ethiopia, vowed to have three days of uninterrupted happiness--" she
might have remembered the old fable and its ending. But she remembered
nothing, she scorned to remember; let the unhappy, the unloved, think of
the past; she would drink in all the sunshine of the present, she would
live, live!
"Row a little way up the lake to meet me," Paul had said. At half-past
three of the afternoon he had indicated, she went to the beach; one of
the Irishmen, under her direction, began to push down a canoe. The open
way in which she did this--in which she had done everything since that
night--was in itself an effectual disguise; no one thought it remarkable
that she should be going to meet Paul. As she was about to take her
place in the canoe, Hollis appeared.
"Going far? We don't know much about that Paddy," he said, in an
undertone.
"Only to meet Paul."
"If he's late, you may have to go a good way."
"He won't be late."
"Well, he may be," answered Hollis, patiently. "I guess I'll take you,
if you'll let me; and then, when we meet, I'll come back with his man in
the other canoe."
"Very well," Eve responded. She did not comment upon the terms of his
offer, she did not care what he thought. She took her place, and he
paddled westward.
It was a beautiful afternoon; a slight coolness, which made itself felt
through the sunshine, showed that the short Northern summer was
approaching its end. As she sat with her back to the prow, she was
obliged to turn her head to look for the other canoe; and this she did
many times. After one of these quests, she saw that Hollis's eyes were
upon her.
"Is there any change in me?" she asked, laughing.
"Rather!"
"What is it?"
But poor Hollis did not know how to say, "You are so much more
beautiful."
"It's my white dress," Eve suggested, in a somewhat troubled voice. "I
had it made in Port aux Pins. It's only piqué." She smoothed the folds
of the skirt for a moment, doubtfully.
"I guess white favors you," answered Hollis, with what he would have
called a festive wave of his hand.
Her mood had now changed. "It's no matter, I'm not afraid!" She was
speaking her thoughts aloud, sure that he would not understand. But he
did understand.
The other canoe came into sight after a while, shooting round a point;
Eve waved her handkerchief in answer to Paul's hail; the two boats met.
"Mr. Hollis knows that you are to take me back," said Eve, as eagerly as
a child.
Paul glanced at Hollis. But the other man bore the look bravely. "Proud
to be of service," he answered, waving his hand again, with two fingers
extended lightly. He changed places with Paul; Paul and Eve, in their
canoe, glided away.
It was at this moment that Cicely, who had been asleep, opened her eyes.
Her lodge was quiet; Mrs. Mile was reading near the window, her seat
carefully placed so that the light should fall over her left shoulder
upon the page.
Cicely gazed at her for some time; then she jumped from the couch with a
quick bound. "It's impossible to lie here another instant and see that
History of Windham! The next thing, you'll be proposing to read it aloud
to me; you look exactly like a woman who loves to read aloud." She began
to put on her shoes.
"You are going for a walk? I shall be glad to go too," answered Mrs.
Mile promptly, putting a marker in her book, and rising.
"No," responded Cicely; "I can't have those boots of yours pounding
along beside me to-day, Priscilla Jane. Impossible."
"Well, I do declare!" said Mrs. Mile, reduced in her surprise to the
language of her youth. "They can't pound much, Mrs. Morrison, in the
sand; and there's nothing but sand here."
"They grind it down!" answered Cicely. "You can call grandpa, if you
don't want me to go alone; but come with me to-day you shall not, you
clean, broad-faced, turn-out-your-toes, do-your-duty old relict of Abner
Whittredge Mile." She looked at Mrs. Mile consideringly as she said
this, bringing out each word in a soft, clear tone.
The judge was listlessly roving about the beach. Mrs. Mile gave him
Cicely's request. "She is saying very odd things to-day, sir," she
added, impersonally.
The judge, alarmed, hurried to the lodge; Mrs. Mile could not keep up
with him.
"Priscilla Jane is short-winded, isn't she?" remarked Cicely, at the
lodge door, as he joined her. "Whenever she comes uphill, she always
stops, and pretends to admire the view, while she pants, 'What a
beautiful scene! What a privilege to see it!'"
The judge grinned; he too had heard Mrs. Mile speak of "privileges."
"Come for a walk, grandpa," Cicely went on. She took his arm and they
went away together, followed by the careful eyes of the nurse, who had
paused at the top of the ascent.
"This is a ruse, grandpa," Cicely said, after a while. "I wanted to take
a walk alone, and she wouldn't let me; but you will."
"Why alone, my child?"
"Because I'm always being watched; I'm just like a person in a cell,
don't you know, with one of those little windows cut in the door,
through which the sentinel outside can always look in; I am never
alone."
"It must be dreadful," the judge answered, with conviction.
"Wait till you have seen Priscilla Jane in her night-gown," said Cicely,
with equal conclusiveness.
"Heaven forbid!" said the judge, with a shrill little chuckle. Then he
turned and looked at her; she seemed so much like her old self.
"You will let me go, grandpa?" She put up her face and kissed him.
"If you will promise to come back soon."
"Of course I will."
He let her go on alone. She looked back and smiled once or twice; then
he lost sight of her; he returned to the beach by a roundabout way, in
order to deceive Priscilla Jane; he was almost as much pleased as Cicely
to outwit her.
Cicely went on through the forest; she walked slowly, not stopping to
gather flowers as usual. After a while her vague glance rested upon two
figures in the distance. She stopped, and as, by chance, she was
standing close beside the trunk of a large tree, her own person was
concealed. The two figures were coming in her direction, they drew
nearer, they paused; and then there followed a picture as old as Paris
and Helen, as old as Tristram and Isolde: a lover taking in his arms the
woman he adores. And it was Paul Tennant who was the lover; it was Eve
who looked up at him with all her heart in her eyes.
A shock passed over Cicely, the expression of her face changed rapidly
as her gaze remained fixed upon Eve: first, surprise; then a strange
quick anger; then perplexity. She left her place, and went rapidly
forward.
Eve saw her first, she drew herself away from Paul; but immediately she
came back to him, laying her hand on his shoulder as if to hold him, to
keep him by her side.
"Paul," said Cicely, still looking at Eve, "something has come to me;
Eve told me that she did a dreadful thing." And now she transferred her
gaze to Paul, looking at him with earnestness, as if appealing to him to
lighten her perplexity.
"Yes, dear; let us go back to the camp," said Paul, soothingly.
"Wait till I have told you all. She came to me, and asked--I don't know
where it was exactly?" And now she looked at Eve, inquiringly.
Eve's eyes met hers, and the deep antagonism of the expression roused
the dulled intelligence. "How you do hate me, Eve! It's because you love
Paul. I don't see how Paul can like you, when you were always so hard
to Ferdie; for from the first she was hard to him, Paul; from the very
first. I remember--"
Eve, terrified, turned away, thus releasing Cicely from the spell of her
menacing glance.
Cicely paused; and then went back to her former narrative confusedly,
speaking with interruptions, with pauses. "She came to me, Paul, and she
asked, 'Cicely, do you know how he died?' And I said, 'Yes; there were
two negroes.' And she answered me, 'No; there were no negroes--'"
"Dreams, Cicely," said Paul, kindly. "Every one has dreams like that."
"No. I have a great many dreams, but this was not one of them,"
responded Cicely. "Wait; it will come to me."
"Take her back to the camp; carry her," said Eve, in a sharp voice.
"Oh, she'll come without that," Paul answered, smiling at the peremptory
tone.
"You go first, then. I will bring her."
"Don't leave me alone with Eve," pleaded Cicely, shrinking close to
Paul.
"Take her back," said Eve. And her voice expressed such acute suffering
that Paul did his best to content her.
"Come," he said, gently, taking Cicely's hand.
"A moment," answered Cicely, putting her other hand on Paul's arm, as if
to hold his attention. "And then she said: 'Don't you remember that we
escaped through the woods to the north point, and that you tried to push
off the boat, and couldn't. Don't you remember that gleam of the candle
down the dark road?'"
Eve made an involuntary movement.
"I wonder what candle she could have been thinking of!" pursued Cicely,
in a musing voice. "There are a great many candles in the Catholic
churches, that I know."
Eve looked across at Paul with triumph in her eyes.
"And she said that a baby climbed up by one of the seats," Cicely went
on. "And that this man--I don't know who he was, exactly--made a dash
forward--" Here she lost the thread, and stopped. Then she began again:
"She took me away ever so far--we went in a steamboat; and Ferdie died
all alone! You can't like her for that, Paul; you can't!" Her face
altered. "Why don't I see him over there on the other beach?" she asked,
quickly.
"You see?" said Eve, with trembling lips.
"Yes," answered Paul, watching the quivering motion. "We haven't had our
walk, Eve; remember that."
"I can come out again. After we have got her back."
Cicely had ceased speaking. She turned and searched Eve's face with eyes
that dwelt and lingered. "How happy you look, Eve! And yet I am sure you
have no right to be happy, I am sure there is some reason--The trouble
is that I can't remember what it is! Perhaps it will come to me yet,"
she added, threateningly.
Paul, drew her away; he took her back to the camp.
That evening, Eve came to him on the beach.
"Do you love me? Do you love me the same as ever?" she said.
He could scarcely hear her.
"Do you think I have had time to change since afternoon?" he asked,
laughing.
And then life came back to the woman by his side, came in the red that
flushed her cheeks and her white throat, in her revived breath.
"Paul," she said, after a while, "send Cicely home; send her home with
her grandfather, she can travel now without danger."
"I can't desert Cicely," said Paul, surprised.
"It wouldn't be desertion; you can always help her. And she would be
much happier there than here."
"She's not going to be very happy anywhere, I am afraid."
"The judge would be happier, too," said Eve, shifting her ground.
"I dare say. Poor old man!"
"A winter in Port aux Pins would kill him," Eve continued.
"I intended to take them south before the real winter, the deep snow."
"Mrs. Mile could go now. And--and perhaps Mr. Hollis."
"Kit? What could Kit do down there?"
"Marry Miss Sabrina," suggested Eve, with a sudden burst of wild
laughter, in which Paul joined.
"They are all to go, are they? But you and I are not to go; is that your
plan?" he went on.
"Yes."
He kissed her. "Paul Tennant and his wife will take Cicely south
themselves," he said, stroking her hair caressingly. "It's always
braided so closely, Eve; how long is it when down?"
But she did not hear these whispered words; she drew herself away from
him with passionate strength. "No, she must go with some one else; she
can go with any one you please; we can have two nurses, instead of one.
But you--you must not go; you must stay with me."
"Why, Eve, I hardly know you! Why do you feel so about poor little
Cicely? Why strike a person who's down?"
"Oh, yes--down; that is what you all say. Yet she has had everything,
even if she has lost it now; and some people go through all their lives
without one single thing they really care for. She shall not rob me of
this, I will not let her. I defy her; I defy her!"
"She shall go back to Romney," said Paul. What these disagreements
between the two women were about, he did not know. His idea was that he
would marry Eve as soon as possible--within the next ten days; and then,
after they were married, he would tell her that it was best that they
should take Cicely south themselves. She would see the good sense of his
decision, she would not dispute his judgment when once she was his wife;
she could not have any real dislike for poor little Cicely, that was
impossible.
Eve came back to him humbly enough. "I am afraid you do not like my
interfering with your plans?" she said.
"You may interfere as much as you like," answered Paul, smiling.
XXVIII.
The next day Paul started at dawn for Port aux Pins, he wished to make
the house ready for his wife; he had not much money, but there was one
room in the plain cottage which should be beautiful. No suspicion came
to him that there would be any difficulty in making it beautiful; his
idea was simply that it was a matter of new furniture.
He reached Port aux Pins at night, and let himself into his cottage with
his key; lighting a candle, he went to his room. He had never been
dissatisfied with this simple apartment, he was not dissatisfied now;
there was a good closet, where he could hang up his clothes; there was a
broad shelf, where he could put his hand in the dark upon anything which
he might want; there was his iron bedstead, and there was his white-pine
bureau; two wooden chairs; a wash-hand stand, with a large bowl; a huge
tin pail for water, a flat bath-tub in position on the floor, and plenty
of towels and sponges--what could man want more?
But a woman would want more; and he gave a little laugh, which had a
thrill in it, as he thought of Eve standing there, and looking about her
at his plain masculine arrangements. The bare floor would not please
her, perhaps; he must order a carpet. "Turkey," he thought, vaguely; he
had heard the word, and supposed that it signified something very light
in color, with a great many brilliant roses. "Perhaps there ought to be
a few more little things," he said to himself, doubtfully. Then, after
another moment's survey: "But I needn't be disturbed, she'll soon fill
it full of tottlish little tables and dimity; she'll flounce everything
with white muslin, and tie everything with blue ribbons; she'll overflow
into the next room too, this won't be enough for her. Perhaps I'd better
throw the two into one, with a big fireplace--I know she likes big
fireplaces; if it's as large as that, I sha'n't be suffocated, even with
all her muslin." And, with another fond laugh, he turned in.
The morning after Paul's departure, Eve did not go near Cicely; she
asked Mrs. Mile, in a tone which even that unimaginative woman found
haughty, how Mrs. Morrison was. (In reality the haughtiness hid a
trembling fear.)
"She seems better, Miss Bruce, as regards her physical state. Truth
compels me to add, however, that she says extremely irrational things."
"What things?" asked Eve, with a pang of dread. For the things which
Mrs. Mile would call irrational might indicate that Cicely was herself
again, Mrs. Mile's idea of the rational being always the commonplace.
"When she first woke, ma'am, she said, 'Oh, what a splendid wind!--how
it does blow! I must go out and run and run. Can you run, Priscilla
Jane?'--when my name, ma'am, is Priscilla Ann. Seeing that she was so
lively, I began to tell her a dream which I had had. She interrupted me:
'Dreams are the reflections of our thoughts by day, Priscilla Jane. I
know your thoughts by day; they are wearing. I don't want repetitions of
them by night, I should be ground to powder.' Now, ma'am, could anything
be more irrational?"
"She is herself again!" thought Eve. She went off into the forest, and
did not return until the noon meal was over. Going to the kitchen, she
ate some bread, she was fond of dry bread; coming back after this frugal
repast, she still avoided Cicely's lodge, she went down to the beach.
Here her restlessness ceased for the moment; she sat looking over the
water, her eyes not seeing it, seeing only Paul. After half an hour,
Hollis, with simulated carelessness, passed that way and stopped. As
soon as he saw her face he said to himself, "They are to be married
immediately!"
"We sha'n't be staying much longer at Jupiter Light, I guess," he said
aloud, in a jocular tone.
"No," Eve answered. "The summer is really over," she added, as if in
explanation.
"Don't look much like it to-day."
She made no reply.
"Paul went back to Potterpins rather in a hurry, didn't he?" pursued
Hollis, playing with his misery.
"Yes.--He has a good deal to do," she continued. If he could not resist
playing with his misery, neither could she help exulting in her
happiness, parading it for her own joy in spoken words; it made it more
real.
"Good deal to do? He didn't tell me about it; perhaps I could have
helped him," Hollis went on awkwardly, but looking at her with all his
heart in his eyes--his poor, hungry, unsatisfied old heart.
"You could be of use to us," said Eve, suddenly; ("Us!" thought
Hollis.)--"the very greatest, Mr. Hollis. If you would go south with
Judge Abercrombie and Mrs. Morrison it would be everything. They will
probably go in a week or ten days, and Mrs. Mile accompanies them; but
if you could go too, it would be much safer."
"And you to stay in Port aux Pins with Paul," thought Hollis. "I don't
