spoke. At last he turned away from her and began to talk, look- 
ing at the window to avoid her eyes. 
' Hilda, a very terrible thing has happened, and I must explain 
it to you, in order that you may comprehend what I must do. 
Will you promise me to listen patiently and to forgive me before- 
hand for all I am going to say 2 ' 
'Yes,' answered the young girl rather faintly. The strong 
presentiment of evil had come upon her again, as it had come that 
day when he was leaving Greifenstein. She bent her head and 
covered her eyes with her hand, as though not to see the blow that 
was to descend, though she must feel its weight. It was all 
instinctive, for not the faintest thought of what he was going to 
say could ever have suggested itself to her mind. 
' Yes,' said Greif, ' it is very terrible. But I have come here 
to say it and I must say it all. You know what has happened. 
My poor mother is dead, and those who murdered her, have killed 
themselves my father and his half-brother. You did not know 
that I had an uncle ? ' 
Hilda shook her head, looking up for a moment. 
' He was a bad man, too,' continued Greif. * He had been an 
officer and had betrayed his trust in the times of revolution, 
was sentenced and imprisoned ; he escaped from the fortress, made 
his way to South America, and lived there for forty years in 
exile, until the amnesty was proclaimed. He was not Greifenstein, 
he was Rieseneck, half-brother to my father by the mother's side 
and younger than he. That was bad enough, however. It was 
the reason why my father lived here in the forest so quietly. He 
was afraid that people would remember he was Rieseneck's brother. 
You see, the affair made a great noise at the time. Your mother 
knows all about it. Well, it was hard enough, as I say, to have 
such a disgrace in the family. We did not know that Rieseneck 
had a son I found that my best friend his name is Rex is he.' 
' How strange ! ' exclaimed Hilda. ' Why is his name Rex ? ' 
' It is not, exactly. He and his father called themselves so in 
 
order not to be identified. It was almost necessary for them as 
it may be for me now.' 
' For you ? ' asked Hilda in the utmost astonishment. ' You 
would change your name why ? ' 
Greif stared at her. She seemed not to understand at all, and 
yet he had gone into Rieseneck's story merely to make his own 
seem more terrible by comparison. 
' You must know that, in the world, such calamities as have 
befallen me leave a mark, a stain even upon the innocent,' said 
Greif. ' The world looks askance at the sons of murderers.' 
' And are you afraid of the world, Greif,' asked Hilda. ' That 
is not like you. For the Riesenecks, well, I understand he 
was disgraced, condemned, imprisoned. But you ! It is like a 
dreadful story of the dark ages, but there is no shame in it, 
nothing to be ashamed of. It is terrible, awful, appalling, but 
you can hold your head as high as any one. Do you suppose it is 
the first tragedy that ever occurred in your family or in mine ? 
Did not old Sigmund strangle his own brother with his hands, 
here in this house, seven hundred years ago, and am I ashamed to 
call him my forefather ? ' 
'That is very different from what has happened to me,' 
answered Greif. ' You cannot understand, but the world judges 
according to its light. If I, the son of a man who murdered his 
wife and killed himself, were to present myself to any man of my 
own rank and ask him for his daughter in marriage I should 
receive a refusal, and perhaps an indignant one. I am not considered 
a fit person to marry an innocent girl of my class, I am stamped with 
a stained name, branded with the sign of others' crimes, ruined 
before my life is begun, cut off from happiness, from ambition, 
from you Hilda ! that is what I came to tell you I have 
spoken very badly it is best to say it clearly. My beloved, this 
has taken you from me, and me from you, and has cast me adrift 
from all that remained, from the greatest and best of all. If I 
could dare to marry you now, to give you my miserable name, to 
take you to the home that is darkened by so many deaths I 
should be the last and lowest of men ! It is of no use, for I feel 
it the only honourable thing left for me to do, in so much 
dishonour, is to leave you for ever and at once. If I were willing 
still to make you my wife you ought to despise me, and trample 
the memory of my love under foot as a vile thing. Hilda, 
Hilda ! it is death to me, but it is best for you.' 
The blow had fallen, and Hilda sat quite still in her place, 
covering her eyes with one hand, as she had done at first. All 
 
through his long preamble, she had felt that there was something 
dreadful to come, and now it had come indeed, in the shape she 
least expected, in the shape which of all others she would most 
have feared. She did not move, but the soft, fresh colour faded 
from her face, till it was whiter than the white hand she held 
before it. Greif looked at her, and his head swam. He thought 
neither of her suffering nor of his own, as the words came fast and 
incoherent from his pale lips. He went on, insisting, repeating, 
lamenting with the vehemence of a passionate man who has over- 
come all that is gentlest in himself and takes a savage delight in 
rending his own wounds. 
' It is done, and you know, now/ he cried bitterly. ' I have 
fought against myself, against every one, to do this thing do you 
think it is easy to give up such a love as you have been to me ? 
And yet, I would not take you, no, not if you pursued me across 
the world what right have I to you ? The right of loving better 
than anything God has made was ever loved before ? It is gone, 
that right, gone with my name, gone with all I once was, buried 
with my father and my mother in the old place beyond Greifenstein. 
Right ? I have no rights any longer neither to love, nor to hate, 
nor to be happy in the thought of love, nor of Hilda. And yet, 
in all the years to come, you will be with me. I cannot give up 
the right to remember you, and to think of your dear eyes. Ah, 
if it were but my own fault, how easy it would be to bear ! I 
wish I had wronged you you would thrust me from you it 
would help me at least, if I had done you harm, I could die for 
it, and that would be so easy arid simple, and would end all so well. 
I wish I had done some hideous, nameless deed with my own hands, 
that I might be driven out by men, and forced to leave you by 
others stronger than I ! Anything, anything, anything but this ! ' 
He bent his head against the cold stones of the high chimney- 
piece, and beat his brow against the hewn carvings of it, closing 
his eyelids over his dry and smarting eyes, wishing that every 
moment might be the last of his wretched existence, and at the 
same time miserably conscious that his strength would outlast all 
his sufferings. He had meant to be so calm and gentle, he had 
planned how he would gradually explain all to Hilda and break 
the shock for her, he had thought that when it was over, he could 
firmly say one solemn good-bye, and go back to his home alone. 
He had not known what love could do, nor how he should be 
tortured and wounded and bruised in the conflict. But yet he was 
strong and victorious. His dignity and self-respect had been sorely 
shaken in the fight, and he had not found the calm and tactful 
 
speeches he had planned before j but in spite of every one, and 
chiefly in spite of his own heart, he had bravely done what he had 
come to do. The victory was more agonising than any defeat 
could have been, but it was victory, notwithstanding. 
Manlike, in his utmost distress, he had forgotten Hilda's self 
in the overwhelming thoughts of her that rushed through his 
confused brain. Her hands had fallen upon her knee and she sat 
like a statue in the deep old chair, whiter than any marble, her 
colourless lips parted, her wonderful eyes fixed upon him in a 
glassy stare. Even her hair seemed to have lost its golden sheen, 
as though it were suddenly dead or turning into stone. And yet 
she was not unconscious. A very strong and perfect organisation 
rarely breaks down under the first shock it receives, no matter 
how violent. Hilda was not only conscious, she was even able to 
speak. 
' Greif ! ' She spoke his name clearly, in a low voice. 
He started, for he had almost forgotten her presence. He lifted 
his haggard face and turned towards her, supporting himself with 
one hand on the chimney-piece. 
' Do you mean all you have said ? ' she asked very slowly, as 
though each word cost her an effort. 
' I mean it all, Hilda,' he answered, his tones still trembling 
with the violence of the storm that had passed through him. 
'You mean that because your father did this deed, you are 
ashamed to marry me ?' 
' More than ashamed ' 
' And you will go away and leave me for ever, for the sake of 
this idea alone ? ' 
' Ah, Hilda you have not understood ' 
' I have understood all, because I love you, and now I know 
that you love me with all your heart 
' Oh, thank you, my beloved ! God bless you for seeing the 
truth 
' Do not thank me ' 
She caught her breath, then with a swift movement she was 
on her feet, standing beside him. The glassy stare was gone from 
her eyes, and they shone with a blue light like fire. Her strong 
white hands suddenly laid hold of his wrists and held him firmly. 
' Do not thank me, Greif or thank me, if you will as you 
please. I will not let you go.' 
There was a power in her tone which struck him with amaze- 
ment, a concentrated, unrelenting, almost furious energy that 
startled him. He had expected tears, protestations, laments ; 
 
he had thought that she might faint away, that the sight of her 
sufferings would treble his own. But he had not expected the 
short sharp outburst of a passion as strong as his, or stronger, he 
had not foreseen or guessed that this simple girl, brought up so far 
from the world, would take him by the hands and hold him, and 
tell him that she would not let him go, with an accent of determin- 
ation that might have staggered the strongest man. 
' You will not ?' he exclaimed, aghast at the prospect of a battle 
worse than the first. 
' No,' she answered, still grasping his wrists and gazing into 
his face with her fiery eyes. ' I will not, and I know that I am 
strong. I feel it.' 
During nearly a minute neither spoke, but Hilda's hold did 
not relax for a second, and her lids did not once veil the intensity 
of her look. Even if Greif had possessed a wider experience of 
women than he had, it would not have helped him much. He was 
utterly at a loss. His manly nature would have provided him 
with weapons to rid himself of a woman of coarser instincts, even 
if he had loved her to distraction, provided he had felt that he 
must part from her. He would have felt that he could dominate 
a baser affection and force it down to his will, by sheer strength 
of purpose, no matter at what cost ; but he was met here by some- 
thing he had never understood, and he did not know what to do. 
The childlike innocence of Hilda's maiden love gave an extraordi- 
nary character to her passion. The absence of anything like the 
common expressions of love made the transcendent power of what 
moved her stand out in magnificent grandeur. Never in his 
life had he dreamt that her quiet and undemonstrative affection 
was capable of anything but a calm and beautiful development. 
He had not guessed the existence of such resistless force as blazed 
from her eyes, he had believed her only capable of receiving, he 
had not imagined that she was strong enough to take boldly what 
was refused her. The radiance of a spotless soul, burning in the 
white -heat of a passion as pure as itself, dazzled and awed him. 
As he looked, he felt as though he were held in the grasp of a 
splendid, wrathful angel, who disputed the possession of him, not 
with himself, but with the opposing powers of evil. 
It is amazing that in such a case he should still have found 
strength and courage to resist this last great trial of his sincerity. 
Most men would have yielded and would have accepted their fate. 
But though Greif was young, and not very wise, he had stern and 
obstinate blood in his veins, and he was acting under the strongest 
conviction that had ever possessed him. Knowing her only as he 
 
had known her before, the fair and innocent idol of his boyish heart, 
he had felt that he could never allow her to take his darkened 
name. In the beginning his intention had been very honourable, 
in his struggle with himself it had grown high and chivalrous, 
but in the face of such opposition as he met from her mother and 
now from herself, it had assumed proportions that bordered upon 
the grotesque. And yet as he looked now upon her noble face, 
illuminated and radiant with a beauty almost too pure for him to 
understand, he felt even more than before that such a creature 
could never be allowed to ally herself with one whose name was 
a reproach among men. He did not know how to oppose her, 
but he knew that she must be opposed, at any cost, for her own 
sake. 
His eyes fell before her gaze, and his hands trembled nervously 
in her grasp, so that she began to think that he was yielding, 
whereas he was in reality making a supreme effort to concentrate 
his courage and to keep the mastery of himself. While he seemed 
to be sinking to her will, he was gathering his strength, saying 
in his heart that if he lost this battle he should never hold up his 
head again. 
The sun streamed broadly through the diamond panes of the 
casement upon the patched and faded carpet, creeping slowly along 
his accustomed path in which the hours were marked, as on a dial, 
by threadbare seams and the leaves and flowers of a half-obliterated 
design. In the huge chimney the logs burned steadily with a 
low, roaring sound, and the shabby furniture of the place seemed 
to doze lazily in the warmth, as old men do whose strength is far 
spent. And in the midst of the commonplace scene a drama was 
being enacted, less horrible in outward appearance than the tragedy 
of Greifenstein, but scarcely less fearful to the two young hearts 
that beat so fiercely and full of life. 
The sunlight moved but a very little, as far as would show the 
passing of a minute, perhaps, and then Greif looked up once more 
and again met the gaze of Hilda's eyes. 
CHAPTER XIX 
' HILDA, I will die for you, but I cannot marry you.' Greif spoke 
quietly, but with the utmost decision. 
' I have said that I will not let you go,' she answered, 'and I 
will not. You are my life, and I will not die I should if you 
left me.' 
' You will forget me,' he said. 
' Forget you ! ' Her voice rang through the room. She dropped 
his hands with a passionate gesture and turned away from him, 
making one or two steps towards the window. Then she came 
back and stood before him. 
' Forget you ! ' she exclaimed again. ' You do not know what 
you are saying. You do not know me, if you can say it. Do you 
think, because I am a girl, that I am weak ? I tell you I am 
stronger than you, and I tell you that you are mad. Do you 
think that if I would have shed the last drop of my blood to save 
you from pain yesterday, I love you less to-day ? I love you a 
thousand times more for what you would do, but you shall not do 
it. I love you as no woman can love, who has not lived long 
life. And you say that you can go away, and that I shall forget 
you ! As I am a Christian woman, if I forget you, may God 
forget me, now and in the hour of death ! I could not if I would. 
And you say that you will leave me for what ? Because your 
father has done a terrible deed, and has taken his own life. For a 
name for a nothing else ! What is a name to me, compared 
with you yourself? I love you so, that if you had yourself done the 
most monstrous crime, I would not leave you, not if we were to 
die a shameful death together. And you would leave me, for my 
own good ! For my advantage oh, I would not have heaven 
itself without you. Forget ! What would there be left to 
remember, if you were taken ? The emptiness of the place where 
you were, the wide emptiness that all heaven could never fill ! 
 
Your name do you love it better than me ? But I know that 
you love me, though you are mad. Then put your name away, 
cast it from you to whomsoever will have it. Do you think 
that Hilda von Sigmundskron cares for names, or wants new ones ? 
Am I a peasant's child, to sigh for a coronet and to give you up 
because you have put it off ? Be what you will, you are only 
Greif to me, and Greif, only, means more to me than heaven or 
earth and all that are in them. You shake your head what 
would you say ? That it is not true ? My love needs no oaths to 
bind it, nor to prove it. You can see it in my face, for I know 
that it is there. Yes you cannot meet my eyes honest as you 
are, and good, and noble, and true-hearted as any man that ever 
drew breath. Do you know why ? You dare not you who dare 
anything else. I love you the more for having dared this but 
you shall not do it. I will not let you go, I will not, never, 
never ! ' 
Greif had turned his head away and stood leaning against the 
chimney almost in the same attitude he had taken from the first. 
She had spoken quickly and passionately and he had not been able 
to answer anything she said, for she did not pause, replying her- 
self to the questions she asked and giving him no time to oppose 
her. 
' I was wrong,' he said, half bitterly, half tenderly. ' You will 
not forget me any more than I can forget you. It will make it 
harder to say good-bye.' 
' It shall never be said, until one of us two is dying, Greif.' 
' We cannot change our fate, though we love ever so dearly,' he 
answered. 'Think, Hilda, if you took me as I am, what you 
might suffer in after years, what our children would surely suffer 
when they went out into the world, and the world began to whisper 
that they were the grandsons of that Greifenstein ' 
' What is the world to us, dear ? And as for our sons, if God 
sends us any, I know that if they grow up to be brave gentlemen, 
loyal and true, the world will leave them in peace.' 
' The world is a hard place 
' Then why have anything to do with it ? I have been happy, 
here in the forest, for so many years could you not be happy here 
with me ? ' 
'I should still be my father's son I should still be Greif- 
enstein.' 
' Would I have you anything else ? ' 
' Hilda, it is impossible ! ' cried Greif with suddenly renewed 
energy. ' I have said all. Must I say it again ? ' 
 
' If you were to say it a thousand times, it would not make it 
more true. But I will listen to all you tell me, if you like.' 
With a calmness that showed how certain she felt of her victory, 
Hilda resumed her seat at the opposite side of the fireplace, folded 
her hands together, and leaning her head against the back of the 
easy-chair, watched him with half-closed eyes. She was not tired, 
and would very probably be able to sustain the contest longer than 
he. After the first shock of the announcement was over, under 
which she had suffered more in one moment than would have 
sufficed to fill a week with agonising pain, the strong impulse to 
hold him had come upon her and her elastic strength had been 
roused to its fullest energy. But the memory of that one moment 
of agony was enough to make her guess what she would feel if he 
left her. 
Arguments repeated a second time rarely seem so forcible as 
when they are first heard. Painfully and conscientiously Greif 
recapitulated his reasons, trying to speak coldly and concisely, 
exerting himself to the utmost and summoning all the skill he could 
command in order to state his case convincingly. Hilda could not 
have put the idea that possessed him to a more cruel test than this. 
It began to dawn even upon himself that he was in pursuit of a 
chimera, and the necessity for the enormous self-sacrifice, upon 
which he insisted, was breaking down in the face of such a 
determined opposition on the part of those who were more interested 
than himself. Doggedly and persistently he continued, neverthe- 
less, fighting his love as though it had been a devil, thrusting 
Hilda's from his thoughts as though it had been an evil temptation, 
savagely determined not to part with his belief in what he took for 
his duty. It was a strange sight, and would have afforded material 
for reflexion to an older and wiser person than Hilda. 
' That is all I have to say,' he concluded. ' It seems to me 
that I cannot say it more clearly. You know what it costs me to 
repeat it all.' 
An expression of intense pain passed over his face, and he turned 
away in order to hide it from Hilda. He was hardly able to 
make his strained lips pronounce the last words. 
'I am not convinced,' said Hilda after a moment's pause. 'No 
eloquence in the world would convince me that you and I should 
sacrifice our lives for an idea, merely to save ourselves from the 
possibility of a few ill-natured remarks hereafter. That is all it 
comes to in the end. I will tell you the history of this idea.' 
She seemed calmer than ever, but the light had not faded from 
her eyes, and Greif felt that she was ready to spring upon him in 
 
an instant, to grasp his hands in hers and to say again that she 
would not let him go. He glanced nervously towards her, and the 
look of suffering returned to his face. 
'The history is this,' she said. 'When the dreadful thing 
happened, you thought of me. Then it seemed to you that you 
should free me from our engagement. That seemed hard to you, 
because you love me so much it was so hard that it took all your 
strength to make the resolution. You have spoken to my mother 
and to me. Now, I ask you whether my mother, at least, is not 
old enough to judge what is right ? Did she agree with you, and 
tell you that you should give me up ? ' 
' No she did all she could to persuade me ' 
'Of course,' interrupted Hilda. 'Of course she did. Now 
shall I tell you why you will not allow yourself to be persuaded, 
and why you insist on ruining your life as well as mine ? ' 
She rose again, gently this time, and came and stood beside 
him. He turned his head away as though it hurt him, and as she 
spoke she could see only his short, bright curling hair. 
' You will not be persuaded, because it was so hard for you to 
make the resolution at first, that you believe it must be right in 
spite of every other right, and you would sacrifice yourself and me 
for an idea which is strong only because it hurt you to accept it 
at first. Everything you have done and said is brave, noble, 
generous but you have gone too far you have lost sight of the 
true truth in pursuing a truth that was true yesterday. It never 
was your duty to do more than offer to set me free. And as for 
the name, Greif dear, I have heard that such things are done 
would you, if it pleases you that is, if it would help you to forget 
would you take mine, darling, instead of letting me take yours ? 
Perhaps it would make it easier you are only Greif to me, but 
perhaps if you could be Greif Sigmundskron to yourself, and live 
here, and never go to Greifenstein nor think of it again perhaps, 
my beloved, I could help you to forget it all, to the very name 
that pains you so.' 
She laid her hand upon his shoulder and pressed her cheek softly 
against his curls as she spoke the last words, though she could not 
see his face. The accents were so .low and tender that her voice 
sounded like soft music breathed into his ear. 
' No no ! I must never do it !' he tried to say, but the words 
were very indistinct. 
Hilda felt him move nervously, and she saw that he was 
grasping the chimney-piece with*both hands as though to support 
himself by it. In another moment his broad shoulders seemed to 
 
heave and then shrink together. He staggered and almost fell to 
the ground, though Hilda did her best to hold him. With a great 
effort he gained the chair in which she had sat and fell back in it. 
His eyes were closed and the lids were blue, while his tightly 
compressed lips moved as though he were biting them. 
Hilda knelt beside him and took his cold hands. The colour 
was all gone from her face, for she was terribly frightened. 
' Greif, Greif ! ' she cried in anguish. ' What is it, my beloved ? 
Speak, darling do not look like that ! ' 
'I am in great pain,' he answered, not opening his eyes, but 
faintly trying to press her fingers. 
She saw that he was ill, and that his suffering had nothing to 
do with his previous emotion. She opened the door quickly and 
called for help. Her mother's room was very near and Frau von 
Sigmundskron appeared immediately. 
'Greif is ill dying perhaps !' exclaimed Hilda dragging her 
into the little sitting-room to the young man's side. 
The baroness leaned over him anxiously, and at the touch of a 
strange hand his purple lids opened slowly and he looked up into 
her face. 
' It is in my head in the back,' he succeeded in saying. 
Greif had fallen in harness, fighting his battle with the morbid 
energy of a man already ill. To the very end he had held his 
position, resisting even that last tender appeal Hilda had made to 
him, but the strain upon his nerves had been too great. He was 
strong, indeed, but he was young and not yet toughened into that 
strange material of which men of the world are made. The loss 
of sleep, the deadly impression made upon him by the death of his 
father and mother, the terrible struggle he had sustained with 
himself, all had combined together to bring about the crisis. At 
first it was but a shooting pain in the head, so sharp as to make 
his features contract. Then it came again and again, till it left 
him no breathing space, and he sank down overcome by physical 
torture, but firm in his intention as he had been in the beginning. 
It was all over, and he would not argue his case again for many a 
long day. 
' Take me home I am very ill,' he gasped, as the baroness 
tried to feel his pulse. 
But she shook her head, for it seemed to her that it was too 
late. 
' You must stay here until you are better,' she answered softly. 
'The jolting of the carriage would hurt you.' 
He closed his eyes again, unable to speak, far less to discuss 
 
the matter. The mother and daughter whispered together and 
then both left the room, casting a last anxious glance at Greif as 
he lay almost unconscious with pain. 
Great was the consternation of Berbel when she heard that the 
young lord of Greifenstein had suddenly fallen ill in the house, but 
she was not a woman to waste words when time pressed. There 
was but one thing to be done. Greif must have Hilda's room and 
Hilda must take up her quarters with her mother. His carriage 
must fetch the physician from the nearest town, and bring such 
things as might be necessary. To Berbel's mind everything 
seemed already organised, and before any one had time to make a 
remark she had set about arranging matters to her own satisfac- 
tion. There was only one difficulty in the way, and that was 
Greif himself, who, in spite of his acute suffering had not the 
slightest intention of submitting to an illness at Sigmundskron. 
In the first moment the pain had altogether overcome him, but 
he gradually became so much accustomed to it as to be able to 
think more connectedly. The idea of remaining where he was 
seemed intolerable. To be taken care of by Frau von Sigmund- 
skron, to be under the same roof with Hilda, would be to give up 
the contest for which he had sacrificed so much. He did not 
understand that his mind would act very differently when he had 
recovered, and that much which seemed disagreeable at present, 
might be attractive then. 
He rose to his feet without assistance, and he saw that he was 
alone. Hilda had gone in one direction and her mother in another 
in search of something to alleviate his suffering. To get out of 
the house was the work of a moment. In the court there was the 
groom who had driven him, still rubbing down his horses and 
setting things to rights be-fore going inside to warm himself. The 
man was the same who had brought Greif the news at Schwarz- 
burg, a devoted fellow, born and bred on the estate, unlike the 
house servants who had been changed so often. 
'Karl,' said Greif, going up to him, 'you must harness and 
drive me back to Greifenstein at once. I am sorry for you, but I 
am too ill to stay here. I will walk down the road come after 
me as soon as you can.' 
There was nothing to be done but to obey the simple order. 
Karl looked surprised but lost no time, especially as Greif was 
already going out of the gate. In a trice the collars were on the 
horses again, the traces hitched, the reins unwound, and Karl was 
seated upon the box. He was glad for himself, though he thought 
it a very long pull for the horses. The road went downhill over 
 
most of the way, however, and Karl reflected that when his 
master was once in the carriage behind him, he could drive as 
slowly as he pleased. Just as he was ready, Frau von Sigmund- 
skron and Hilda appeared upon the threshold of the hall, both 
looking pale and anxious. They had found Greif gone from 
the sitting-room and had at first imagined that he had lost his 
way in the house ; but Hilda's quick ears caught the sounds that 
came from the court and she knew that the groom was putting 
the horses in. 
'What is that ?' asked Hilda, addressing the groom. 'Why 
have you harnessed again ? ' 
' The merciful lord has ordered it,' returned Karl, lifting his 
military cap with one hand while he held the reins with the 
other. ' The merciful lord has walked down the road, and I am 
to overtake him.' 
Therewith Karl turned his pair neatly and the horses trotted 
slowly towards the gate. 
' Stop, stop ! ' cried Hilda, running down the steps and following 
him, while her mother came after her more slowly. 
Karl drew up and looked back. 
' Herr von Greifenstein is very ill,' the girl said. ' He will 
never be able to drive alone so far indeed he ought to stay here 
and you should go for the doctor.' 
She was so much confused that she hardly knew what to say, 
when her mother joined her, calmer and more sensible. 
'You say that he went out of the gate. How long ago?' 
inquired the elder lady. 
' It may be five minutes.' 
' Did he say anything besides ordering the carriage ? ' 
' He said he was ill and must go home at once, and that he 
was sorry for me.' 
Frau von Sigmundskron hesitated. It was clear that Greif had 
not been so ill as she had at first supposed, or he could not have 
walked out alone, ordered the carriage and gone on without sup- 
port. Karl interrupted her meditations. 
' Merciful ladyships forgive me,' he observed, ' but if he walks 
farther he will be more ill.' He gathered the reins and prepared 
to move on. 
' Go, Karl,' said the baroness, and in a moment he was gone. 
' Mother you ought to have gone, too Hilda began, 
looking into her face with an expression of mingled anxiety and 
disappointment. 
I do not see how I could, my child,' answered the baroness. 
 
' If Greif was strong enough to go it was best that he should do 
so. It would be hard for us to take care of him. He has his 
cousin at Greifenstein, and they can send for me if he is worse. 
Besides ' She hesitated and stopped. 
' What ? ' asked Hilda anxiously. 
' He showed good sense, since he was able to go. It is not the 
custom in the world for young men to make long visits in such 
cases.' 
' The world, the world ! ' exclaimed Hilda wearily. ' I have 
heard so much of the world this morning. Mother He 
will not send for you. We shall not know how he is 
' I will take care that we may know,' answered the baroness 
quietly. ' He is young and very strong. Perhaps it is only fatigue 
after all, and we shall hear that he is well to-morrow.' 
Hilda's instinct told her to slip from her mother's side, to pass 
the gate and run down by the short and steep descent to the foot 
of the hill. The road made a wide sweep before passing this 
point and she would have been certain to reach it long before the 
carriage. But she knew that such wildness could produce no good 
result. She would stand there waiting for the carriage, it would 
come, Greif would tell Karl to stop, and then what could happen? 
There would be a sort of momentary renewal of the scene which 
had ended a quarter of an hour ago, with the unpleasant addition 
of the driver as a witness. She could not get in and drive with 
him, and so the situation would have to end abruptly, perhaps in 
another attack of that pain which had so suddenly prostrated Greif. 
It was very hard that he should have escaped in this way, and 
nothing but his suffering could excuse his conduct ; but to have 
him return now would be almost worse. After all, Hilda was 
woman enough to know that she had got the best of the argument 
at the last, and that Greif 's abrupt departure looked very much 
like a precipitate flight. She knew also that he loved her, and 
that it would be impossible for him to leave the country without 
seeing her again. No woman would believe the man she loves 
capable of that. It was therefore madness to think of intercepting 
him upon the road, in order to exchange another word. With 
hands loosely joined together and hanging down, Hilda stood 
gazing at the vacant gateway. The happiness she had anticipated 
an hour earlier, when she had descried the distant carriage that 
brought Greif to her, had been strangely interrupted, and yet she 
was not altogether unhappy now, though she was very sad and 
silent. For all the world she would not have unlived that hour, 
nor unsaid the words that had passed her lips. The time had been 
Q 
 
very short, and yet it had sufficed to show her what Greif 's love 
for her really was, and what he was willing to suffer for her sake. 
She had, too, the satisfaction of feeling that this suffering had not 
been brought upon him by herself, and that she had used all 
her strength to relieve him of it. He had indeed refused to give 
up the burden to the very end, but Hilda did not believe that he 
would bear it many days longer after what she had said. Her 
youth and strength refused to accept such an evil destiny, and her 
keen feminine perception told her that more than half of his 
obstinacy had been morbid and unnatural, and would disappear 
with the change wrought in him by rest and quiet. Her anxiety 
now was for him, and did not concern herself any longer. She 
knew nothing of illness save as a sort of vague misfortune, a state of 
undefined pain during which people stayed in bed and were visited 
by physicians. Never during her lifetime had any one of the three 
women who composed the little household been ailing even for a 
day, and though Hilda had sometimes been told, when she was 
visiting at Greifenstein, that Clara was not well enough to appear, 
she had only fancied how the poor lady would look when she was 
not painted and her hair was all out of curl. That did not help 
her to realise what an illness meant. She could only recall the 
look on Greif 's face when he had reeled to the chair and then 
thrown his head back, while his closed lids turned purple. For a 
long time that was the only picture evoked in her mind when 
sickness was spoken of. 
Frau von Sigmundskron looked at her daughter, without under- 
standing her thoughts. She guessed what the nature of the 
interview had probably been, but she had no means of knowing 
how it had ended. Nevertheless she was willing to wait until 
Hilda chose to speak, and she knew that she would not wait long. 
Presently she passed her arm through her daughter's and led her 
gently back towards the house. The latter made no resistance, 
but walked quietly beside her across the sunny court. When they 
reached the door of the hall Hilda turned and looked again towards 
the gate. 
' I wonder how it will be when he comes in by that way again ! ' 
she said. 
Then she went in with her mother and entered the sitting- 
room, and sat down in her old place, in the chair into which Greif 
had fallen. She was left alone for a few minutes, while Frau 
von Sigmundskron went to tell Berbel that Greif was gone after 
all, and that there was no need to upset all the household 
arrangements. 
 
The fire was still burning brightly, though one of the logs had 
fallen into two pieces, making a great cave of coals and flames in 
the midst. The slow sun had not crept as far as the next thread- 
bare seam upon the faded carpet. The room was the same as it 
had been a quarter of an hour earlier. Hilda thought of all that 
had happened while that log was being burned through, and while 
the bright sunlight had moved across that narrow space. She 
spread her white hands to the blaze, and looked at the red glare 
between her fingers. 
She was not altogether as calm as she looked, but she was 
certainly far less moved than might have been expected. There 
was a solidity about her nerves that would have driven to despair 
the morbid worshippers of the decadent school of romance, a 
natural force which made it very hard to understand her. 
Womanly she undoubtedly was, but of that type in woman which 
is rarely seen in cities and not often in the country. There is a 
hopefulness inherent in perfect physical organisations that have 
never been strained by unnatural means, which makes them seem 
hard and unfeeling to weaker natures. They have a way of sitting 
still without betraying their thoughts, when they are not called 
upon to act, which produces the impression that they feel nothing, 
and care for nothing but themselves. It is only in great moments 
that they are seen at their best, and that their overpowering 
strength in action excites wonder. They show none of those 
constant changes that belong to very nervous people, and make 
them interesting as studies of sensibility. Their faces do not 
reflect the light and shade of every passing circumstance, their 
voices are not full of quickly contrasted intonations which tell 
more than words themselves, they do not blush and turn pale at 
every suggestion of happiness or unhappiness to themselves, every- 
day speeches do not raise in their minds quick trains of association, 
linked and running on like an ascending scale in music, to culminate 
in a little moment of emotion, in a little flutter of the heart, half 
pleasant, half painful. Their strong pulses beat quietly, in an 
unvarying rhythm, the full and even flow of blood maintains a soft 
colour in their fresh faces ; when they are tired they sleep, when 
they are awake they are rarely tired ; what they could do yester- 
day, they can do as well to-day, and they feel that they will be 
able to do the same to-morrow. They never feel those sharp 
thrusts close to the heart that tell us how quickly one thrust a 
little sharper than the others would end all. They do not lie 
awake in the hours of the night counting the blows of the cruel 
little hammer that beats its prison to pieces at last and is broken 
 
in the ruin of the breast that confined it. And the world 
counts it all to them for dulness and lack of delicate feeling, 
with little discernment and less justice, until the day when 
it sees them roused by such passions as alone can rouse them, 
or suffering such deadly pain as only the strongest can live to 
suffer. 
The baroness came back in a few minutes and stood beside 
Hilda, laying her hand upon her daughter's forehead, and bending 
down. 
' What did he say to you, child ? ' she asked. 
' He said that he would not marry me because it would be a 
shame that I should be called Greifenstein after what has hap- 
pened.' 
' That was what he told me,' replied her mother, leaving her 
and taking up a piece of needlework that lay on the table. She 
could not be idle. 'That was what he told me,' she repeated 
thoughtfully. 'And I answered that he was mistaken.' 
' He said you had done your best to persuade him,' said Hilda, 
and then relapsed into silence. 
' Do you know what I did ? ' she asked presently. 
' I suppose you told him that you did not care for such things 
as names.' 
' Yes I said that. But I took his hands, and I told him that 
I would not let him go. I think I was very angry at something, 
but not at him.' 
