indifference of his son to the interests that could alone 
make a man of him. He did not know whether his 
daughters were in society or not ; with people coming 
and going in the house he would have supposed they 
must be so, no matter who the people were ; in some 
vague way he felt that he had hired society in Mrs. 
Mandel, at so much a year. He never met a superior 
himself- except now and then a man of twenty or 
  
thirty millions to his ono or two, and then he felt 
his soul creep within him, without a sense of social 
inferiority ; it was a question of financial inferiority ; 
and though Dryfoos's soul bowed itself and crawled, 
it was with a gambler's admiration of wonderful luck. 
Other men said these many-millioned millionaires 
were smart, and got their money by sharp practices 
to which lesser men could not attain ; but Dryfoos 
believed that he could compass the same ends, by the 
same means, with the same chances ; he respected 
their money, not them. 
When he now heard Mrs. Mandel and his daughters 
talking of that person, whoever she was, that Mrs. 
Mandel seemed to think had honoured his girls by 
coming to see them, his curiosity was pricked as 
much as his pride was galled. 
" Well, anyway," said Mela, " I don't care whether 
Christine's goun' or not ; I am. And you got to go 
with me, Mrs. Mandel." 
"Well, there's a little difficulty," said Mrs. 
Mandel, with her unfailing dignity and politeness. 
" I haven't been asked, you know." 
" Then what are we goun' to do ? " demanded 
Mela, almost crossly. She was physically too amiable, 
she felt too well corporeally, ever to be quite cross. 
"She might 'a' knowed — well knoicn — we couldn't 
'a' come alone, in New York. I don't see why we 
couldn't. I don't call it much of an invitation." 
'• I suppose she thought you could come with your 
mother," Mrs. Mandel suggested. 
** She didn't say anything about mother. Did she, 
  
Christine ? Or, yes, she did, too. And I told her 
she couldn't git mother out. Don't you remember'?" 
" I didn't pay much attention," said Christine. "I 
wasn't certain we wanted to go." 
" I reckon you wasn't goun' to let her see that we 
cared much," said Mela, half reproachful, half proud 
of this attitude of Christine, " Well, I don't see but 
what we got to stay at home." She laughed at this 
lame conclusion of the matter. 
" Perhaps Mr. Conrad — you could Aery properly 
take him without an express invitation " Mrs. 
Mandel began. 
Conrad looked up in alarm and protest. " I — I 
don't think I could go that eA' ening " 
"What's the reason f his father broke in harshly. 
"You're not such a sheep that you're afraid to go 
into company with your sisters ? Or are you too 
good to go with them ? " 
" If it 's to be anything like that night when them 
hussies come out and danced that way," said Mrs. 
Dryfoos, " I don't blame Coonrod for not wantun' to 
go. I neA'er saw the beat of it." 
Mela sent a yelling laugh across the table to her 
mother. "Well, I wish Miss Vance could 'a' heard 
that ! Why, mother, did you think it was like the 
ballet ? " 
" Well, I didn't know, Mely, child," said the old 
woman. " I didn't know ichat it was like. I hain't 
never been to one, and you can't be too keerful where 
you go, in a place like New York." 
" What 's the reason you can't go ? " Dryfoos 
  
ignored the jassage between his wife and daughter in 
making tliis demand of his son, with a sour face. 
"I have an engagement that night — it's one of 
our meetincs " 
"I reckon you can let your meeting go for one 
night," said Di-yfoos. " It can't be so important as 
all that, that you must disappoint your sisters." 
'* I don't like to disappoint those poor creatures. 
They depend so much upon the meetings " 
" I reckon they can stand it for one night," said 
the old man. He added, " The poor ye have with 
you always." 
" That 's so, Coonrod," said his mother. "It 's the 
Saviour's own words." 
" Yes, mother. But they 're not meant just as 
father used them." 
" How do you know how they were meant ? Or 
how I used them ? " cried the father. " Now you 
just make your plans to go with the girls, Tuesday 
night. They can't go alone, and Mrs. IMandel can't 
go with them." 
" Pshaw ! " said Mela. " We don't want to take 
Conrad away from his meetun', do we, Chris ? " 
" I don't know," said Christine, in her high, fine 
voice. " They could get along without him for one 
night, as father says." 
" Well, I 'm not agoun' to take him," said Mela. 
" Now, Mrs. Mandel, just think out some other way. 
Say ! What 's the reason we couldn't get somebody 
else to take us just as well ? Ain't that rulable ?" 
" It would be allowable " 
  
" Allowable, I mean," Mela corrected herself. 
" But it might look a little significant, unless it 
was some old family friend." 
" "Well, let 's get Mr. Fulkerson to take us. He 's 
the oldest family friend loe got." 
"I won't go with Mr. Fulkerson," said Christine 
serenely. 
" Why, I 'm sure, Christine," her mother pleaded, 
" Mr. Fulkerson is a very good young man, and very 
nice appearun'." 
Mela shouted, " He 's ten times as pleasant as that 
old Mr. Beaton of Christine's ! " 
Christine made no effort to break the constraint 
that fell upon the table at this sally, but her father 
said, " Christine is right, Mela. It wouldn't do for 
you to go with any other young man. Conrad will 
go with you." 
" I 'm not certain I want to go, yet," said Chris- 
tine. 
" Well, settle that among yourselves. But if you 
want to go, your brother will go with you." 
"Of course, Coonrod'U go, if his sisters wants 
him to," the old woman pleaded. " I reckon it ain't 
agoun' to be anything very bad ; and if it is. Coon- 
rod, why you can just git right up and come out." 
" It will be all right, mother. And I will go, of 
course." 
''There, now, I knowed you would, Coonrod. 
Now, father ! " This appeal was to make the old 
man say something in recognition of Conrad's sacri- 
fice. 
  
" You'll always find," he said, "that it's those of 
your ovm household that have the first claim on 
you." 
" That 's so, Coonrod", urged his mother. " It 's 
Bible truth. Your father ain't a perfesser, but ho 
always read his Bible. Search the Scriptures. 
That 's what it means." 
"Laws!" cried Mely, "a body can see, easy 
enough from mother, where Conrad's wantun' to be 
a preacher comes from. I should 'a' thought she 'd 
'a' wanted to been one herself." 
" Let your women keep silence in the churches," 
said the old won' an solemnly. 
" There you go again, mother ! I guess if you 
was to say that to some of the lady ministers nowa- 
days, you'd git yourself into trouble." Mela looked 
round for approval, and gurgled out a hoarse laugh. 
IX. 
The Dryfooses went late to Mrs. Horn's musicale 
in spite of Mrs. Mandel's advice. Christine made 
the delay, both because she wished to show Miss 
Vance that she was not anxious, and because she 
had some vague notion of the distinction of arriving 
late at any sort of entertainment. Mrs. Mandel 
insisted upon the difference between this musicale 
and an ordinary reception ; but Christine rather 
fancied disturbing a company that had got seated, 
and perhaps making people rise and stand, while 
she found her way to her place, as she had seen 
them do for a tardy comer at the theatre. 
Mela, whom she did not admit to her reasons or 
feelings always, followed her with the servile 
admiration she had for all that Christine did ; and 
she took on trust as somehow successful the result 
of Christine's obstinacy, when they were allowed 
to stand against the wall at the back of the room 
through the whole of the long piece begun just 
before they came in. There had been no one to 
receive them ; a few people, in the rear rows of 
chairs near them, turned their heads to glance at 
them, and then looked away again. Mela had her 
misgivings ; but at the end of the piece Miss Vance 
came up to them at once, and then Mela knew that 
slie had her eyes on them all the time, and that 
Christine must have been riglit. Christine said 
nothing alvout their coming late, and so Mela did 
not make any excuse, and Miss Vance seemed to 
expect none. She glanced with a sort of surprise at 
Conrad, when Christine introduced him ; Mela did 
not know whether she liked  the ir bringing him, till 
she shook hands with him, and said, " Oh, I am 
very glad indeed ! Mr. Dryfoos and I have met 
before." Without explaining where or when, she 
led them to her aunt and presented them, and then 
said, "I'm going to put you with some friends of 
yours," and quickly seated them next the Marches. 
Mela liked that well enough ; she thought she 
might have some joking with Mr. March, for all his 
wife was so stiff; but the look which Christine 
•wore seemed to forbid, provisionally at least, any 
such recreation. On her part, Christine was cool 
with the Marches. It went through her mind that 
they must have told Miss Vance they knew her; 
and perhaps they had boasted of her intimacy. 
She relaxed a little toward them when she saw 
Beaton leaning against the wall at the end of the 
row next Mrs. March. Then she conjectured that 
he might have told Miss Vance of her acquaintance 
with the Marches, and she bent forward and nodded 
to Mrs. March across Conrad, Meln, and Mr. March. 
She conceived of him as a sort of hand of her 
father's, but she was willing to take them at their 
  
apparent social valuation for the time. She leaned 
back in her chair, and did not look up at Beaton 
after the first furtive glance, though she felt his 
eyes on her. 
The music began again almost at once, before 
Mela had time to make Conrad tell her where Miss 
Vance had met him before. She would not have 
minded interrupting the music ; but every one else 
seemed so attentive, even Christine that she had 
not the courage. 
The concert went on to an end witliout realising 
for her the ideal of pleasure which one ought to 
find in society. She was not exacting, but it seemed 
to her there were very few young men, and when 
the music was over, and their opportunity came to 
be sociable, they were not very sociable. They 
were not introduced, for one thing ; but it appeared 
to Mela that they might have got introduced, if 
they had any sense ; she saw them looking at her, 
and she was glad she had dressed so much ; she was 
dressed more than any other lady there, and either 
because she was the most dressed of any person 
there, or because it had got around who her father 
was, she felt that she had made an impression on the 
young men. In her satisfaction with this, and from 
her good nature, she was contented to be served 
with her refreshments after the concert by Mr. 
March, and to remain joking with him. She was at 
her ease ; she let her hoarse voice out in her largest 
laugh ; she accused him, to the admiration of those 
near, of getting her into a perfect gale. It appeared 
  
to her, in her own pleasure, her mission to illustrate 
to the rather subdued people about her what a good 
time really "vvas, so that they could have it if they 
wanted it. Her joy was crowned when March 
modestly professed himself unworthy to monopolise 
her, and explained how selfish he felt in talking to a 
young lady when there were so many young men 
dying to do so. 
" Oh, pshaw dyun', yes ! " cried Mela, tasting the 
irony, "I guess I see them ! '"' 
He asked if he might really introduce a friend 
of his to her, and she said, Well, yes, if he thought 
he could live to get to her ; and March brought up 
a man whom he thought very young and Mela 
thought very old. He was a contributor to Every 
Other JFeeJc, and so March knew him ; he believed 
himself a student of human nature in behalf of 
literature, and he now set about studying Mela. 
He tempted her to express her opinion on all points, 
and he laughed so amiably at the boldness and 
humorous vigour of her ideas that she was delighted 
with him. She asked him if he was a New-Yorker 
by birth ; and she told him she pitied him, when he 
said he had never been West, She professed her- 
self perfectly sick of New York, and urged him to 
go to Moffitt if he wanted to see a real li\e town. 
He wondered if it would do to put her into literature 
just as she was, with all her slang and brag, but he 
decided that he would have to subdue her a great 
deal : he did not see how he could reconcile the facts 
of her conversation with the facts of her appearance : 
  
her beauty, her splendour of dress, her apparent 
right to be where she was. These things perplexed 
him ; he was afraid the great American novel, if 
true, must be incredible. Mela said he ought to 
hear her sister go on about New York when they 
first came ; but she reckoned that Christine was 
getting so she could put up with it a little better, 
now. She looked significantly across the room to 
the place where Christine was now talking with 
Beaton ; and the student of human nature a.sked, 
Was she here ? and, "Would she introduce him ? 
Mela said she would, the first chance she got ; and 
she added. They would be much pleased to have 
him call. She felt herself to be having a beautiful 
time, and she got directly upon such intimate terms 
with the student of human nature that she laughed 
with him about some peciiliarities of his, such as his 
going so far about to ask things he wanted to know 
from her ; she said she never did believe in beating 
about the bush much. She had noticed the same 
thing in Miss Vance when she came to call that 
day ', and when the young man Owned that he came 
rather a good deal to Mrs. Horn's house, she asked 
him, "Well, what sort of a girl was Miss Vance, any- 
way, and where did he suppose she had met her 
brother ? The student of human nature could not 
say as to this, and as to Miss Vance he judged it 
safest to treat of the non-society side of her chai'- 
acter, her activity in charity, her special devotion to 
the work among the poor on the East Side, which 
she personally engaged in. 
  
" Oh, that 's where Conrad goes, too ! " Mela inter- 
rupted. "I'll bet anything that's where she met 
him. I loisJit I could tell Christine ! But I suppose 
she would want to kill me, if I was to speak to her 
now." 
The student of human nature said politely, " Oh, 
shall I take you to her ? " 
Mela answered, " I guess you better yiot ! " with 
a laugh so significant that he could not help his 
inferences concerning both Christine's absorption in 
the person she was talking with, and the habitual 
Auolence of her temper. He made note of how Mela 
helplessly spoke of all her family by their names, as 
if he were already intimate with them ; he fancied 
that if he could get that in skilfully, it would be a 
valuable colour in his study ; the English lord whom 
she should astonish with it, began to form himself 
out of the dramatic nebulosity in his mind, and to 
whirl on a definite orbit in American society. But 
he was puzzled to decide whether Mela's willingness 
to take him into her confidence on short notice was 
typical or personal : the trait of a daughter of the 
natural-gas millionaire, or a foible of her own. 
Beaton talked with Christine the greater part of 
the evening that was left after the concert. He was 
very grave, and took the tone of a fatherly friend ; 
he spoke guardedly of the people present, and mode- 
rated the severity of some of Christine's judgments 
of their looks and costumes. He did this out of 
a sort of unreasoned allegiance to Margaret, whom 
he was in the mood of wishing to please by being 
very kind and good, as she always was. He had 
the sense also of atoning by this behaviour for some 
reckless things he had said before that to Christine ; 
he put on a sad, reproving air with her, and gave 
her the feeling of being held in check. 
She chafed at it, and said, glancing at Margaret 
in talk with her brother, " I don't think Miss Vance 
is so very pretty, do you ? " 
" I never think whether she 's pretty or not," 
said Beaton, with dreamy affectation. " She is 
merely perfect. Does she know your brother ? " 
" So she says. I didn't suppose Conrad ever went 
anywhere, except to tenement-houses." 
" It might have been there," Beaton suggested. 
" She goes among friendless people everywhere." 
" May bo that 's the reason she came to see us ! " 
said Christine. 
Beaton looked at her with his smouldering eyes, 
and felt the wish to say, " Yes, it was exactly that," 
but he only allowed himself to deny the possibility 
of any such motive in that case. He added, "I am 
so glad you know her, Miss Dryfoos. I never met 
Miss Vance without feeling myself better and truer, 
somehow ; or the wish to be so." 
"And you think we might be improved too?" 
Christine retorted. "Well, I must say you're not 
very flattering, Mr. Beaton, anyway." 
Beaton would have liked to answer her ac- 
cording to her cattishness, with a good clawing 
sarcasm that would leave its smart in her pride ; 
but he was being good, and he could not change all 
  
at once. Besides, the girl's attitude under the 
social honour done her interested him. He was sure 
she had never been in such good company before, 
but he could see that she was not in the least 
affected by the experience. He had told her who 
this person and that was ; and he saw she had 
understood that the names were of consequence ; 
but she seemed to feel her c(;[uality with them all. 
Her serenity was not obviously akin to the savage 
stoicism in which Beaton hid his own consciousness 
of social inferiority ; but having won his way in the 
world so far by his talent, his personal quality, he 
did not conceive the simple fact in her case. 
Christine was self-possessed because she felt that a 
knowledge of her father's fortune had got around, 
and she had the peace which money gives to 
ignorance ; but Beaton attributed her poise to 
indifference to social values. This, while he in- 
wardly sneered at it, avenged him upon his own 
too keen sense of them, and, together with his 
temporary allegiance to Margaret's goodness, kept 
him from retaliating Christine's vulgaritj'. He said, 
"I don't see how that could be," and left the 
question of flattery to settle itself. 
The people began to go away, following each other 
up to take leave of Mrs. Horn. Christine watched 
them witli unconcern, and cither because she would 
not be governed by the general movement, or be- 
cause she liked being with Beaton, gave no sign 
of going. Mela was still talking to the student of 
human nature, sending out her laugh in deep gurgles 
  
amidst the unimaginable confidences she was making 
him about herself, her family, the staff of Every 
Other Week, Mrs. Mandel, and the kind of life they 
had all led before she came to them. He was not a 
blind devotee of art for art's sake, and though he 
felt that if one could portray Mela just as she was 
she would be the richest possible material, he was 
rather ashamed to know some of the things she told 
him; and he kept looking anxiously about for a 
chance of escape. The company had reduced itself to 
the Dryfoos groups and some friends of Mrs. Horn's 
who had the right to linger, when Margaret crossed 
the room with Conrad to Christine and Beaton. 
" I 'm so glad, Miss Dryfoos, to find that I was not 
quite a stranger to you all when I ventured to call, 
the other day. Your brother and I are rather old ac- 
quaintances, though I never knew who he was before. 
I don't know just how to say we met where he is 
valued so much. I suppose I mustn't try to say how 
much," she added with a look of deep regard at him. 
Conrad blushed and stood folding his arms tight 
over his breast, while his sister received Margaret's 
confession with the suspicion which was her first 
feeling in regard to any new thing. What she 
concluded was that this girl was trying to get in 
with them, for reasons of her own. She said : 
" Yes ; it 's the first I ever heard of his knowing 
you. He 's so much taken up with his meetings, he 
didn't want to come to-night." 
Margaret drew in her lip before she answered, 
without apparent resentment of the awkwardness or 
  
ungraciousness, wliichever she found it, " I don't 
wonder ! Yon become so absorbed in such work 
that you think nothing else is worth while. But 
I 'm glad Mr. Dryfoos could come with you ; I 'm so 
glad you could all come ; I knew you would enjoy 
the music. Do sit down " 
" No," said Christine bluntly ; " we must be going. 
Mela ! " she called out, " come ! " 
The last group about Mrs. Horn looked round, 
but Christine advanced upon them undismayed, and 
took the hand Mrs. Horn promptly gave her. " Well, 
I must bid you good night." 
" Oh, good night," murmured the elder lady. " So 
very kind of you to come." 
" I 've had the best kind of a time," said Mela 
cordially. " I hain't laughed so much, I don't know 
when." 
" Oh, I 'm glad you enjoyed ir," said Mrs. Horn 
in the same polite murmur she had used with 
Christine ; but she said nothing to either sister 
about any future meeting. 
They were apparently not troubled. Mela said 
over her shoulder to the student of human nature, 
" The next time I see you I 'll give it to you for 
what you said about MofEtt." 
Margaret made some entreating paces after them, 
but she did not succeed in covering the retreat of 
the sisters against critical conjecture. She could 
only say to Conrad, as if recurring to the subject, " I 
hope we can get our friends to play for us some night. 
I know it isn't any real help, but such things take 
the poor creatures out of themselves for the time 
being, don't you think ? " 
" Oh yes," he answered. " They 're good in that 
way." He turned back hesitatingly to Mrs. Horn, 
and said, with a blush, " I thank you for a happy 
evening." 
" Oh, I am very glad," she replied in her murmur. 
One of the old friends of the house arched her 
eyebrows in saying good night, and offered the two 
young men remaining seats home in her carriage. 
Beaton gloomily refused, and she kept herself from 
asking the student of human nature, till she had got 
him into her carriage, "What is Moffitt, and what 
did you say about it ? " 
" Now you see, Margaret," said Mrs. Horn, with 
bated triumph, when the people were all gone. 
"Yes, I see," the girl consented. "From one 
point of view, of course it's been a failure. I don't 
think we've given liss Dryfoos a pleasure, but 
perhaps nobody could. And at least we 've given 
her the opportunity of enjoying herself." 
"Such people," said Mrs Horn philosophically, 
"people with their money must of course be re- 
ceived sooner or later. You can't keep them out. 
Only, I believe I would rather let some one else 
begin with them. The Leightons didn't come ? " 
" I sent them cards. I couldn't call again." 
Mrs. Horn sighed a little. "I suppose Mr. 
Dryfoos is one of your fellow-philanthropists ? " 
" He 's one of the workers," said Margaret. " I 
met him several times at the Hall, but I only knew 
his first name. I think he 's a great friend of Father 
Benedict ; he seems devoted to the -work. Don't 
you think he looks rjood ? " 
"Very," said Mrs, Horn,  with a colour of censure 
in her assent. "The younger girl seemed more 
amiable than her sister. But what manners ! " 
"Dreadful !" said Margaret, witli knit brows, and 
a pursed mouth of humorous suffering. "But she 
appeared to feel very much at home." 
"Oh, as to that, neither of them was much 
abashed. Do you suppose Mr. Beaton gave the 
other one some hints for that quaint dress of hers ? 
I don't imagine that black and lace is her own 
invention. She seems to have some sort of strange 
fascination for him. ' 
"She's very picturesque," Margaret explained. 
" And artists see points in people that the rest of 
las don't." 
"Could it be her money ?" Mrs. Horn insinuated. 
" He must be very poor." 
"But he isn't base," retorted the girl with a 
generous indignation that made her aunt smile. 
" Oh no ; but if he fancies her so picturesque, it 
doesn't follow that he would object to her being rich." 
" It would with a man like Mr. Beaton ! " 
" You are an idealist, Margaret. I suppose your 
Mr. March has some disinterested motive in paying 
court to Miss Mela — Pamela, I suppose, is her name. 
He talked to her longer than her literature would 
have lasted." 
  
"He seems a very kind person," said Margaret. 
" And Mr. Dryfoos pays his salary ? " 
"I don't know anything about that. But that 
wouldn't make any difference with him." 
Mrs, Horn laughed out at this security ; but she 
was not displeased by the nobleness which it came 
from. She liked Margaret to be high-minded, and 
was really not distressed by any good that was in 
her. 
The Marches walked home, both because it was 
not far, and because they must spare in carriage hire 
at any rate. As soon as they were out of the house, 
she applied a point of conscience to him. 
"I don't see how you could talk to that girl so 
long, Basil, and make her laugh so." 
" Why, there seemed no one else to do it, till I 
thought of Kendricks." 
" Yes, but I kept thinking, Now he 's pleasant to 
her because he thinks it 's to his interest. If she 
had no relation to Every Other Week, he wouldn't 
waste his time on her." 
" Isabel," March complained, " I wish you wouldn't 
think of me in he, hini, and his : I never personalise 
you in my thoughts : you remain always a vague 
unindividualised essence, not quite without form and 
void, but nounloss and pronounless. I call that a 
much more beautiful mental attitude toward the 
object of one's affections. But if you must he and 
him and his me in your thoughts, I wish you 'd have 
more kindly thoughts of me." 
  
" Do you deny that it 's true, Basil ? " 
" Do you believe that it 's true, Isabel ? " 
" No matter. But could you excuse it if it were ? " 
" Ah, I see you 'd have been capable of it in my 
place, and you're ashamed." 
" Yes," sighed the wife, " I 'm afraid that I should. 
But tell me that yoii, wouldn't, Basil ! " 
" I can tell you that I wasn't. But I suppose that 
in a real exigency, I could truckle to the proprietary 
Dryfooses as well as you." 
" Oh no ; you mustn't, dear ! I 'm a woman, and 
I 'm dreadfully afraid. But you must always be a 
man, especially with that horrid old Mr. Dryfoos. 
Promise me that you 'll never yield the least point 
to him in a matter of right and wrong ! " 
" Not, if he 's right and I 'm wrong ? " 
" Don't trifle, dear ! You know what I mean. 
AYill you promise ? " 
" I 'll promise to submit the point to you, and let 
you do the yielding. As for me, I shall be adamant. 
Nothing I like better." 
"They're dreadful, even that poor, good young 
fellow, who 's so different from all the rest ; he 's 
awfid, too, because you feel that he 's a martyr to 
them." 
"And I never did like martyrs a great deal," 
March interposed. 
"I wonder how they came to be there," Mrs. 
March pursued, unmindful of his joke. 
"That is exactly what seemed to be puzzling 
Miss Mela about us. She asked, and I explained 
  
as well as I could ; and then she told me that 
Miss Vance had come to call on them and invited 
them ; and first they didn't know how they could 
come till they thought of making Conrad bring 
them. But she didn't say why Miss Vance called 
on them. Mr. Dryfoos doesn't employ her on Every 
Other JFcck. But I suppose she has her own A'ile 
little motive." 
" It can't be their money ; it canH be ! " sighed 
Mrs. March. 
"Well, I don't know. We all respect money." 
" Yes, but Miss Vance's position is so secure. She 
needn't pay court to those stupid, vulgar people." 
" Well, let 's console ourselves with the belief that 
she would, if she needed. Such people as the 
Dryfooses are the raw material of good society. It 
isn't made up of refined or meritorious people — 
professors and litterateurs, ministers and musicians, 
and their families. All the fashionable people there 
to-night were like the Dryfooses a generation or 
two ago. I dare say the material works up faster 
now, and in a season or two you won't know the 
Dryfooses from the other plutocrats. They will — 
a little better than they do now ; they 'll see a 
difference, but nothing radical, nothing painful. 
People who get up in the world by service to others 
— through letters, or art, or science — may have 
their modest little misgivings as to their social value, 
but people that rise by money — especially if their 
gains are sudden — never have. And that 's the kind 
of people that form our nobility ; there 's no use 
  
pretending that we liavcn't a nobility ;  we miglit 
as well pretend we haven't first-class cars in the 
presence of a vestibuled Pullman. Those girls had 
no more doubt of their right to be there than if 
they had been duchesses : zee thought it was very 
nice of Miss Vance to come and ask us, but ikey 
didn't ; they weren't afraid, or the least embarrassed ; 
they were perfectly natural — like born aristocrats. 
And you may be sure that if the plutocracy that 
now owns the country ever sees fit to take on 
the outward signs of an aristocracy — titles, and 
arms, and ancestors — it won't falter from any 
inherent question of its worth. Money prizes and 
honours itself, and if there is anything it hasn't got, 
it believes it can buy it." 
"Well, Basil," said his wife, "I hope you won't 
get infected witli Lindau's ideas of rich pooj)le. 
Some of them are very good and kind," 
" Who denies that ? Not even Lindau himself. 
It's all right. And the great thing is that the 
evening's enjoyment is over. I 've got my society 
smile off, and I 'm radiantly happy. Go on with 
your little pessimistic diatribes, Isabel ; you can't 
spoil my pleasure." 
" I could see," said Mela, as she and Christine 
drove home together, "that she was as jealous as 
she could be, all the time you was talkun' to Mr. 
Beaton. She pretended to be talkun' to Conrad, 
but she kep' her eye on you pretty close, I can tell 
you. I bet she just got us there to see how him 
  
and you would act together. And I reckon she 
was satisfied. He 's dead gone on you, Chris." 
Christine listened with a dreamy pleasure to the 
flatteries with which Mela plied her in the hope of 
some return in kind, and not at all because she felt 
spitefully toward Miss Vance, or in anywise wished 
her ill. " Who was that fellow with you so long ? " 
asked Christine. " I suppose you turned yourself 
inside out to him, like you always do." 
Mela was transported by the cruel ingratitude. 
" It 's a lie ! I didn't tell him a single thing." 
Conrad walked home, choosing to do so because 
he did not wish to hear his sisters' talk of the even- 
ing, and because there was a tumult in his spirit 
which he wished to let have its way. In his life 
with its single purpose, defeated by stronger wills 
than his own, and now struggling partially to fulfil 
itself in acts of devotion to others, the thought of 
women had entered scarcely more than in that of 
a child. His ideals were of a virginal A'agueness ; 
faces, A'oices, gestures had filled his fancy at times, 
but almost passionlessly ; and the sensation that he 
now indulged was a kind of worship, ardent, but 
reverent and exalted. The brutal experiences of the 
world make us forget that there are such natures in 
it, and that they seem to come up out of the lowly 
earth as well as clown from the high heaven. In the 
heart of this man well on toward thirty there had 
never been left the stain of a base thought ; not that 
suggestion and conjecture had not visited him, but 
  
that he had not entertained them, or in anywise 
made them his. In a Catholic age and country, he 
would have been one of those monks who are 
sainted after death for the angelic purity of their 
lives, and whose names are invoked by believers 
in moments of trial, like San Luigi Gonzaga. As 
he now walked along thinking, with a lover's beati- 
fied smile on his face, of how Margaret Vance had 
spoken and looked, he dramatised scenes in which 
he approved himself to her by acts of goodness and 
unselfishness, and died to please her for the sake of 
others. He made her praise him for them, to his 
face, when he disclaimed their merit, and after his 
death, when he could not. All the time he was 
poignantly sensible of her grace, her elegance, her 
style ; they seemed to intoxicate him ; some tones 
of her voice thrilled through his nerves, and some 
