in their light, literary way, made this mem- 
orable concession to Christianity : " What 
might not this religion do, if it relied on char- 
ity, not on creed ? " The worst of it is, that 
the progress of time, which, after all, does 
something for most of us in most respects, 
does not seem to have advanced us radically 
in this. The Inquisition changes its basis, 
that is all. A child inquired with terror, 
on first hearing of the Andover controversy, 
" Are they heretics, Mamma ? Will they be 
burned ? " For the rack and the molten Vir- 
gin, we have the ordination service and the 
examination before the Board of Commis- 
sioners for Foreign Missions. The torture by 
 
insomnia has only taken on a finer phase. A 
good man who is not sure that the Bible in- 
sists upon belief in everlasting damnation as a 
condition of reliable character, is pronounced 
unfit to teach to cannibals the elements of 
Christian courtesy. There is no doubt that 
young men of the finest dedication and most 
original disposition of thought are warned out 
of our pulpits to-day by the theological tor- 
ture-chamber through which a virile conscience 
must pass before the authority of the church 
is laid upon the longing to preach the gospel 
of love to men. Robert Ingersoll is the direct 
descendant of the Westminster Confession. 
" Brethren," cried Cromwell to the framers of 
that moral rack, " I beseech you in the bowels 
of the Lord, believe it possible that you may 
be mistaken ! " 
In a Southern town known to the writer, 
seven churches of different sects exist. Not 
one is able to support a pastor. Itinerants of 
different denominations visit this interesting 
and typical place by turns. One Sunday you 
have Hobson's choice of your Methodist ; the 
next you must play Lutheran; and so on. 
The whole village turns out, and prays ac- 
cordingly. The days of worship are known 
as Baptist Sunday, or Orthodox Sunday, or 
Universalist Sunday, or whatever it may be. 
" But when," asked a visitor to this extraor- 
dinary people, " when is the Lord's Day ? " 
A stranger happening in at Dean Stanley's 
service came away once saying: "I went to 
learn the way to heaven ; I was told the way 
to Palestine." The case is similar with us in 
this wise. Many and dreary are the times 
that we go to the religion of our day to learn 
the way to heaven, and we are taught the way 
to a creed. We go panting with spiritual 
thirst and aching with spiritual hunger ; we 
are fed with theological stones. We go long- 
ing for peace ; we find a sword. We go in 
search of a divine Master ; we get the evan- 
gelical council. We seek the holy and the 
humble instruction that trains a soul for the 
sacred diploma of the religious teacher ; we 
find a lawsuit. We seek the cross of Christ ; 
we find the Supreme Court. 
It is a well-known fact that ardent workers 
in the temperance movement find the grog- 
shops and the churches their chief obstacles. 
You soon learn to count the liquor-dealer and 
 
the communicant almost equally out of rank 
with you in your solitary battle. You must 
bring your drunkard to the vestry, or he may 
as well go drink. You must save your " re- 
formed man " in the denomination, or you 
may collect your library and piano for the 
club-room — as very likely you will — from 
the impenitent world. I was once present at 
a touching scene where the sacrament of the 
Lord's Supper was administered in the pres- 
ence of a crowd of fallen men, struggling for 
a new life. These poor fellows could not have 
borne so much as the odor of the sacred wine ; 
it would have set their bodies and souls on 
fire. Pure water filled the nicked-plated tank- 
ard of the communion service. The bread 
and the water of life were blessed before the 
wistful gaze of these reverent castaways. The 
clergyman officiating, an old man who had 
dedicated his age to the temperance work, and 
a dozen poor, obscure, unflocked church-mem- 
bers in the communicants' seats, were the only 
representatives of the church of Christ pres- 
ent at a scene which was a matter of intense 
public interest in the city, and of severe eccle- 
siastical blame to the temperance people. 
It is amazing that we should even have to 
remind ourselves that with all this dead-line 
of religious respectability the Founder of our 
faith had no more to do than he had with 
the moral example of Herod. Christ was the 
come-outer of the day. He was the Protest- 
ant ; he was the Liberal ; he was the victim 
of spiritual independence. His was the faith 
that rises 
" Just to scorn the consequence, 
And just to do the thing." 
His teaching was one thrilling protest against 
ecclesiasticism. His life was one pathetic plea 
for religious freedom. Love thy God and thy 
neighbor, and follow me; his command and 
our duty are in those few and simple words. 
He cut down doctrinism and dogmatism as a 
mower cuts down thistles. In his insistence 
on practical holiness there was no room for 
chatter about creeds. He gave himself to God 
and to miserable men. This fervent young 
rabbi had no time to formulate a " Shorter 
Catechism." 
Fancy, for the nonce, our Lord appointed 
chairman of the examining committee of a 
heresy-hunting church to-day. One imagines 
the eloquent silence with which he would sit 
out the accepted tests of fitness for member- 
ship in his visible church. What does the 
candidate believe concerning the total deprav- 
ity of all mankind ? Is he aware that he com- 
mitted the sin of Adam ? What are his views 
upon the eternal damnation of the finally im- 
penitent ? Has he faith in the sanctity of im- 
mersion? Does he accept the sacrament of 
infant sprinkling? Test his knowledge of the 
Trinity. Try his theory of the nature and 
office of the Holy Ghost. Is he sound upon 
the doctrine of election ? Does he totter upon 
justification by faith ? 
Now conceive it to be the turn of the mute 
presiding Officer to put questions to the can- 
didate. One may imagine that the test-ques- 
tions for religious character would now take a 
surprising turn. Have you a pure heart ? 
Do you love the Lord your God with the 
whole of it ? Explain to us your relation with 
your neighbors. Are you beloved in your 
home? Can you control your temper? Do 
you talk scandal? Are you familiar with 
the condition of the poor ? What are your 
methods of relieving it? Can you happily 
give disagreeable service to the sick? How 
do you bear physical suffering when it falls 
to your own lot ? How many drunkards have 
you tried to reform ? What outcasts have you 
sought to save ? What mourners have you 
comforted ? On what social theory do you in- 
vite guests to your house ? What proportion 
of your income do you give to the needs of 
others ? What do you understand by prayer 
to God ? What is your idea of a Christ-like 
life? 
The third vital characteristic of the Chris- 
tianity of Christ plainly consists in his unspar- 
ing and unswerving democracy. It is not pos- 
sible to put too great an emphasis upon this 
fixed and terribly-neglected truth. We say 
in glib familiar phrase that the basis of Chris- 
tianity is the brotherhood of humanity — what 
has been usefully called the " enthusiasm of hu- 
manity." Not one in twenty of us realizes that 
this means an ideal of daily life as far above 
our own as the centre of the solar system is 
above the level of the sea. Which of us gives 
the recognition of imitation to the astonishing 
example of Jesus in this regard? Christ was 
the educated and sanctified socialist. He was 
the consistent democrat. He was the conse- 
crated agitator. Social rank simply did not 
exist for him. Caste he scorned. A fisherman 
was his most intimate friend. He accepted 
the hospitality of an ostracized man. He con- 
versed fearlessly and naturally with abandoned 
women. He did not refuse to penitent out- 
casts the preciousness of his personal friend- 
ship. He was never known to shrink from 
foul diseases. Vulgar natures he treated with 
the patience of high refinement. The " com- 
mon people " loved him. He denounced the 
fashionable shams of his times with the non- 
chalance of an emperor and the intelligence 
of an artisan. He scathed the petty preten- 
sions of the leaders of society with that in- 
difference to criticism characteristic of high 
birth, and that sympathy with what we call 
the " lower classes " incident to a personal ex- 
perience of poverty. His social theories held 
the relentlessness of love. There is no polite 
way of evading them. There is no well-bred 
opportunity of ignoring them. The Chris- 
tianity of Christ must meet them point-blank. 
They are its essential test. They are its first 
and final demand. Malthus has reminded us 
that the histories of mankind which we possess 
are, in general, only histories of the higher 
classes. Authentic Christianity must be a 
history of the masses. Socially considered, a 
Christian must be, in a sense, interestingly 
varied from the old theological one, " born 
again." He has new kin, he makes new neigh- 
bors, he incurs new social obligations, he read- 
justs his position in human society, or he 
might as well go call himself a Druid. 
The fashionable church has received its full 
share of derision, from critics who may not be 
worthy of a back seat iu it ; but that does not 
affect the fact that it deserves all it gets. The 
recent popular attack upon the pew-rental sys- 
tem may not be made altogether from a de- 
vout point of view ; none the less it will do 
good. Sexton Williams has let fly a fiery- 
winged truth ; and the girl - reporter who 
found herself welcomed by only five New York 
churches, although employed in the service of 
the newspapers rather than of the Lord, has 
put her shabbily-gloved finger upon the spot 
where the tuberculosis of our religious system 
sets in. It is the undecorated fact, that if 
 
Jesus Christ were to enter almost any of our 
influential churches to-day he would be shown 
into the back gallery ; and he could not obtain 
admission to our parlors without a letter of 
introduction from some person in our " set." 
" You will find," says a nice observer, "that 
so far as people are reached by religious wor- 
ship outside of their especial religious belief, 
it is the social recognition which has won 
them." 
In a luxurious home, whose invitations are 
not declined, whose hospitality is familiar to 
many distinguished men and women of our 
land, there may be found, any day, mingled 
with the most gifted guests, plain, poor, ob- 
scure people, quite unknown in " society." I 
once saw, at a breakfast at this house, the 
foremost poet in the country seated beside a 
massage rubber, a poor girl training herself 
for the practice of medicine, and in need of 
two things — a good breakfast and a glimpse 
into the cultivated world. She had both, in 
the Lord's name, in that Christian home. Yet 
the spirit of that ideal hospitality is so rare 
that we tell of it as we do of heroic deeds. 
The Christianity of Christ would make it so 
common that we should notice it only as we do 
the sunrise. 
There does not exist outside of the New 
Testament such a conception of the Christian 
spirit as the great Frenchman (not distin- 
guished for ecclesiastical views of God, but ex- 
iled for his practical love of man) gave us in 
the greatest work of fiction since Shakespeare. 
Who forgets the Bishop in " Les Miserables," 
immortal because he acted like Christ? His 
palace was converted into a hospital, his in- 
come expended for the suffering. Out of the 
luxuries of his highly civilized past, the " spir- 
itual man of the world " (as Margaret Fuller 
would put it) had saved an elegant toilet-case, 
a few silver plates, and silver candlesticks. 
" Knock there" said the citizen to the ex- 
galley-slave whom no other roof would shelter. 
" The Bishop touched his hand gently, and 
said : — 
" ' You need not tell me who you are. This is 
not my house ; it is the house of Christ. It does 
not ask any comer whether he has a name, but 
whether he has an affliction.' " 
In all uninspired literature what is finer 
 
than the scene between the Bishop and Val- 
jean, when the gendarmes bring the arrested 
guest and silver back to this threshold of su- 
perhuman hospitality. 
" ' Ah, there you are ! ' said Monseigneur ; " I am 
glad to see you. But I gave you the candlesticks 
also, which are silver like the rest and would bring 
you two hundred francs. Why did you not take 
them along with your plate ? ? " 
Left alone with the astounded thief, the 
Christian idealist grew stern and solemn : — 
" ' Never forget that you have promised me to 
use this silver to become an honest man. . . . Jean 
Valjean, my brother, you belong no longer to evil 
but to good. It is your soul that I am buying for 
you. I withdraw it from dark thoughts and from 
the spirit of perdition, and I give it to God ! ' " 
The child of such a spiritual god-father, 
who wonders that Jean Valjean, the galley 
slave, becomes Mayor Madeleine, the saint of 
a district, and the protector of every despised 
and rejected creature in it ? It is thus that 
the Christianity of Christ ought to be spir- 
itually inherited. The idea cultivated by the 
liturgic church, that the laying-on of apostolic 
hands creates an ancestry of priestly power, 
is a pleasant fancy, pale beside what might be 
the tremendous facts of moral heredity in the 
Christian life. The possibilities of culture in 
this direction are unfathomed. Said Daniel 
Webster, in his private confession of faith : — 
" I believe that the experiments and subtleties of 
human wisdom are more likely to obscure than to 
enlighten the revealed will of God, and that he is 
the most accomplished scholar who has been edu- 
cated at the feet of Jesus, and in the College of 
Fishermen." 
When all is said, it comes to this : Type, 
not argument, governs men ; and the Christ- 
type will control the world just as soon as and 
no sooner than it is consistent, simple, ardent, 
and sincere. Christianity cannot expect to 
become a science on inattention which would 
destroy the perfection of a phonograph, nor 
to conquer society by a series of " bolting " 
experiments which would defeat any political 
party known to civilized nations. Common 
sense holds the balance of power in religion as 
much as it does in affairs. There is what we 
may call a common spirituality, to which hu- 
man respect always defers. The Christianity 
 
of Christ necessitates a personal consecration 
fanned to a white-heat that burns to ashes all 
the ordinary standards of conduct ; involves a 
religious toleration " all love, and of love all 
worthy ; " requires an estimate of social val- 
ues absolutely revolutionary to our accepted 
models. 
The time can come, and if it can, it must, 
when the New Testament shall be intelligently 
adapted to the twentieth century. The time 
must come, and if it must, it can, when spir- 
itual caste shall be the only basis of social 
rank. If Christ's life means anything, this 
is inevitable. The imagination falters before 
the progress of a consecrated sociology. It 
would be an interesting science to a cynic, and 
fascinating to an enthusiast. " The night is 
far spent, O householders," said Gautama; 
" it is time for you to do what you deem 
most fit." 
It has been well said that all problems re- 
solve themselves into the problem of personal 
righteousness. The key to our perplexities 
lies no further than a devout and dedicated 
heart. The life of the Nazarene will bewilder 
society with astigmatic optical interpretations 
not an hour beyond the time when we bring 
to bear upon it the lens of a public purity that 
shuts out private difference or default ; as for- 
eign war called from the bickering Hellenes 
" Greek curses to Persia 59 and " Greek tears 
to Athens." 
Outside of touching individual exceptions, 
which prove the rule with a kind of divine 
silence and shame like that in which our 
Master wrote with his finger on the ground in 
the presence of the erring woman, the Chris- 
tianity of Christ is an unachieved ideal ; but 
it is as practicable as that of truth or honor. 
And, after all, it is one of our " literary 
class " who has put the whole argument for 
us in these reverberating words : — 
" If Jesus Christ is a man, 
And only a man, I say 
That of all mankind I cleave to him ? 
And to him will cleave alway. 
" If Jesus Christ is a God, 
And the only God, I swear 
I will follow Him through heaven and hell, 
The earth, the sea, and the air ! " 
In February, 1882, there was organized in 
London a society which had what one is half 
tempted to call the opportunity of the cen- 
tury in its hands. In these days, — when the 
multiple power of the unit has reached a point 
of social infliction which makes every fresh 
combination of human beings an object of 
dread, if not of suspicion ; when the well-in- 
structed citizen adds to his litany : " Deliver 
us from associations, and lead us not into 
committees ! " when people who draw up a 
constitution and by-laws, for any purpose 
whatever, must show their charter, or stand 
back in the name of over-organized humanity, 
— it is much to say of any newly associated 
effort that its final cause seems so adequate as 
that of the Society for Psychical Research. 
The prospectus of this society says : — 
" It has been widely felt that the present is an 
opportune time for making an organized and sys- 
tematic attempt to investigate that large group of 
debatable phenomena designated by such terms as 
mesmeric, psychical, and spiritualistic. From the re- 
corded testimony of many competent witnesses, past 
and present, including observations recently made 
by scientific men of eminence in various countries, 
there appears to be, amidst much illusion and de- 
ception, an important body of remarkable phe- 
nomena, which are primd facie inexplicable on 
any generally recognized hypothesis, and which, if 
incontestably established, would be of the highest 
possible value." 
It is not necessary to quarrel with the as- 
sertion of the well-known and well-informed 
gentlemen who stand sponsors for this society, 
when they proceed to say that 
" The task of examining such residual phenom- 
ena has often been undertaken by individual effort, 
but never hitherto by a scientific society organized 
on a sufficiently broad basis." 
When the greatest intellectual discovery of 
our times was made, it was wrought out of the 
inductive method, inch by inch, laboriously, 
consistently, and triumphantly. The theory 
of evolution was a masterpiece of loving toil, 
and of relentless logic. Darwin  was twenty- 
two years in collecting and controlling the ma- 
terial for the " Origin of Species " and the 
"Descent of Man." Wallace, who competed 
with him for the formulation of the evolu- 
tionary law, was submerged like one of their 
own shells in the waves that beat upon the 
shores of the Malay archipelago. These men 
gave their souls and bodies to become students 
of the habits of a mollusk or a monkey, the 
family peculiarities of a bug or a bird, the 
private biographies of a mastodon or a polyp, 
the measurable but imperceptible movement 
of a glacier, the ancestry of a parasite, the 
vanity of a butterfly, the digestion of a fly- 
catcher, the moral nature of a climbing plant, 
or the journey of an insect from one desert 
island to another upon a floating bough. 
Induction, which is as familiar as Bacon, 
and as old as philosophy, became, in the 
hands of the " Greatest since Newton," an ap- 
 "It occurred to me," lie says, "in 1837, that some- 
thing might perhaps be made out on this question by pa- 
tiently accumulating and reflecting. . . . After five years' 
work, I allowed myself to speculate on the subject . . . from that 
period to the present day, I have steadily pursued the same 
object." — Introduction to Origin of Species, published in 
1859. 
plied force which has taught the century — 
nay, which has taught all time and all truth 
— a solemn lesson. Two things are needed 
to the discovery of a great principle : the 
power to attend, and the power to infer. We 
might add a third, the power to imagine, 
which may be overlooked in the construction 
of important theory ; but, whatever may be 
said of that, the power to attend, coming first 
in order, must be first considered. Darwin's 
colossal success was owing, to an extent which 
it is impossible for a lesser mind to measure, to 
his almost supernatural power of attention to 
the natural ; his superhuman patience of ob- 
servation and record. He observed and re- 
corded as no other man of our day has done ; 
his power of inference proved equal to his ob- 
serving and recording power ; and we have the 
doctrine of evolution by which physical science 
has been the first, but will not be the last, may 
even prove to be the least of human interests 
yet to profit unspeakably. 
It would seem that the trained minds called 
to the leadership of the new psychical move- 
ment have been prompt to turn the geist of 
the century in the last direction in which we 
 
should have looked for it. The current that 
wrought marvels out of stocks and stones they 
propose to pour upon air and essence. What 
conquered matter shall assail mind. What 
ordered order shall dominate the disorderly. 
The scientific method shall now rule the un- 
scientific madness, and we shall see what we 
shall see. 
In the metaphysical and in the physical 
worlds the legal fibre is essentially the same* 
The material differs more than the method* 
In this case there exists one distinction : that 
it is in a peculiar sense to the help of the un- 
learned that the learned have appealed in the 
work of the psychical organizations. Here is 
a mass of, let us say, asserted but unverified 
fact, which, if true, is of immeasurable im- 
portance to the interests of the human race. 
Such verification is not, as yet, to be found 
in libraries or in laboratories. Telescope and 
microscope, chip-hammer and retort, do not 
serve the case. The literature of the subject 
is, in great part, untested, illegal, whimsical, 
prehistoric to the spirit of the scientific era, 
and to the spirit in which, if at all, such a 
subject must now be approached. Here we 
have to deal with an inchoate accumulation 
of mind-facts or soul-facts, of which the mind 
or the soul must be clerk, witness, judge, and 
juror. Here, especially, we have to do with 
confused freshets and land-slides of material 
which, preeminently above other material that 
science has sought to arrange and label, de- 
pends upon the intelligence and veracity of 
human beings for its classification. Here, in 
short, we come yesterday, to-day, and forever, 
jaggedly against the supreme difficulties at- 
taching to the validity and credibility of tes- 
timony. Here, because of the supremacy of 
these difficulties, superstition and science must 
not shoot, but grapple. 
Hence, we see, with a keen sense of their 
wisdom, the officers of the psychical societies 
appealing, at the outset, to the public for co- 
operation in the work of investigating that 
which is hidden, not in desert islands, or in 
glaciers, or in craters, or in crucibles, or in 
cuneiform inscriptions, but in human experi- 
ence. On human intelligence and veracity 
the test must strike ; it would seem that the 
electric light of science blazes white enough 
now, if ever, to try them. Did it seem a du- 
 
bious experiment to flood the English-reading 
world with little circulars asking for authentic 
cases of mind-reading, or visions, as reported 
at first-hand by reporters willing to be per- 
sonally investigated ? Was it with amusement 
that we first saw these dignified gentlemen 
subpoena apparitions from the most intelli- 
gent families ? Did we fall into the automatic 
attitudes of perplexity when English science 
solemnly sent social cards to haunted houses ? 
Did we ask why this precious ointment was 
not sold to the poor, when we saw learned 
men playing the " Willing Game " in country- 
houses to find out whether the human mind 
can get through sealed walls ? And when one 
of the most important philosophical chairs in 
this country is represented on the committee 
inviting spiritualistic mediums to " demon- 
strate to us experimentally their possession of 
peculiar powers," do we sneer or smile? 
If we are wise, we shall do neither. It may 
not be too much to say that the greatest phys- 
ical and metaphysical scholars of our day can 
do no belter thing with their gifts, or their 
greatness, than to apply to the psychical facts 
the sheer force which has conquered the phys- 
ical — the force that adequately observes and 
records before inferring ; or, as Darwin puts 
it, that " accumulates " before " reflecting." 
As the apostle of evolution collected, collated, 
colligated his enormous array of facts before 
theorizing, they who undertake this other task 
would collect, collate, and colligate the dis- 
array of their facts before they theorize. 
Men have dedicated their lives to the classi- 
fication of an insect, or the cultivation of an ac- 
cent. Why not study the power which makes 
one man able to make another say Peter Piper, 
across the width of the house, with the doors 
shut ? The spirit which gave to the world her 
great scientific gospel devoured itself till it 
knew why the flesh of a creature invisible with- 
out the miscroscope, was of the color of the leaf 
on which it lived and died. Why, then, should 
not a man keep tally of the relative number 
of times that a blindfold subject will select the 
right card from a pack ? " High authorities " 
have wearied themselves to account for the 
difference in the molars and premolars within 
the jaws of the dog and the Tasmanian wolf. 
May not a scientist eat mustard, to see if his 
mesmeric recipient will say that his mouth is 
 
burnt ? Or even ask why a valuable piece of 
property stands unrented for a generation, 
because a dead woman is said to be heard sob- 
bing in it? In brief, are not the methods 
which overcome the mysteries of matter en- 
titled to the same exercise and to the same 
respect that they have had, when they are ap- 
plied to the mysteries of mind ? Here, we 
say, are the facts. Hundreds of people, whose 
word of honor is as good intellectual coin as 
that of the reader of this page or the writer 
of this paper have testified to the conveyance 
of thought, without visible or audible or tan- 
gible media, from embodied mind to embodied 
mind ; to the tragic or the trivial incidents of 
mesmerism ; to the coincidence of dreams ; to 
the prophecy of mental convictions ; to the 
visual appearance of the distant living ; to 
the sight or sign of what is thought to be the 
more distant dead. 
Thousands of sensible and reliable men and 
women to - day believe these things on the 
strength of personal experience ; and, believ- 
ing, accept them with such explanation of their 
own as they may, in default of any from silent 
science. It would seem as if these circum- 
stances were of as much importance to science 
as the transverse lamellae in the beak of a 
shoveler duck, or the climate of the lowlands 
under the equator during the severe part of 
the glacial period. 
A cautious Spiritualist, prominently identi- 
fied with the movements of his sect, in reply to 
inquiries made for use in this paper writes : — 
" I think it would be within bounds to say, that in 
this country, the number who have by personal inves- 
tigation come into what they believe to be a knowl- 
edge of spirit return and manifestation is not less 
than 2,000,000, and that a still larger number have 
experienced enough to satisfy them that there 4 is 
something in it,' but how much they don't know.'' 
Estimates two or three times as large are 
made by less careful zealots. The writer of 
the article on Spiritualism in the " American 
Encyclopaedia," says : — 
"As the organized bodies of Spiritualists include 
but a small proportion of those who wholly or par- 
tially accept these phenomena, it is impossible to 
make even an approximate estimate of their num- 
ber." 
In Great Britain, the number is supposed 
to be larger than among ourselves. Here, let 
 
us say, to take the most modest figures, are 
two millions of our people, intelligent enough 
to conduct the affairs and obey the laws of 
average civilized society, who habitually and 
confidently approach the awful verities of 
death through the unexplained trance which 
we content ourselves with calling a morbid 
nervous condition ; people whose main reli- 
gious faith is formulated — God help them ! — 
in the columns of papers most of which we 
never read if we can help it, or in the pages 
of what they are pleased to call a New Bible, 
spiritually communicated through mediums of 
the sect. Say what we may (and we ought to 
say it) of the nonsense, say what we may of 
the fraud, of the jugglery, the hysteria, the 
blasphemy mixed to a mush with the whole 
matter, the significant fact remains, that here 
is a huge class not of the lowest or most illit- 
erate, while not yet, to any marked extent, of 
the wisest or highest, who believe themselves, 
in our highly-illuminated times, to have found 
some means of access to the consciousness of 
their dead. Here is the massive bulwark of 
the mystery — be it from within or from with- 
out ; were it from above or from below ; call it 
a base trick or a glorious possibility — where 
the Prince of the Power of the Air intrenches 
himself ; that he gives or assumes to give, or 
is believed to give to the starving human heart, 
bereaved of its bread of life, the crumbs from 
the table of Love and Death. Were it not as 
great a deed, is it not as large a duty, to hunt 
down the facts behind this faith, to grip the 
truth from out this error, to have this law that 
lies between the body and the soul, as it were 
to discover the link between a monkey and a 
man ? 
Modern science is systematically severe in 
the conditions which she lays upon the spirit 
of inquiry. The spirit of inquiry may, in 
turn, demand something of her. We say a 
great deal in these days about the scientific 
basis of thought and action. What do we 
mean by it ? We suppose ourselves to mean 
that a subject shall be approached with two 
qualifications : equipment and candor ; the 
presence of equivalent ability, and the absence 
of nullifying prejudice. These two endow- 
ments we have the right to expect of any in- 
vestigators who penetrate the unexplored upon 
the map of Truth. We may assume that the 
eminent officers and members of the psychical 
societies represent a wide enough range of 
training, psychological and physiological, re- 
ligious and skeptical, to deprive us of all ne- 
cessity to question their possession of the first 
of these conditions. As to the latter, we have 
read of the chemist who said to a philosopher : 
"But the chemical facts, my dear sir, are 
precisely the reverse of what you suppose." 
" Have the goodness, then," was the instanta- 
