But when we study a State at its centre, its political action, its
organization, its spirit, the management of its institutions of
learning and of charity, the tendencies, restrictive or liberal, of its
legislation, even the tone of social life and the code of manners, we
discover distinctions, individualities, almost as many differences as
resemblances. And we see—the saving truth in our national life—that each
State is a well-nigh indestructible entity, an empire in itself, proud
and conscious of its peculiarities, and jealous of its rights. We see
that State boundaries are not imaginary lines, made by the geographers,
which could be easily altered by the central power. Nothing, indeed, in
our whole national development, considering the common influences that
have made us, is so remarkable as the difference of the several States.
Even on the lines of a common settlement, say from New England and New
York, note the differences between northern Ohio, northern Indiana,
northern Illinois, Wisconsin, and Minnesota. Or take another line, and
see the differences between southern Ohio, southern Indiana, southern
Illinois, and northern Missouri. But each State, with its diverse
population, has a certain homogeneity and character of its own. We can
understand this where there are great differences of climate, or when
one is mountainous and the other flat. But why should Indiana be
so totally unlike the two States that flank it, in so many of the
developments of civilized life or in retarded action; and why should
Iowa, in its entire temper and spirit, be so unlike Illinois? One State
copies the institutions of another, but there is always something in
its life that it does not copy from any other. And the perpetuity of the
Union rests upon the separateness and integrity of this State life. I
confess that I am not so much impressed by the magnitude of our country
as I am by the wonderful system of our complex government in unity,
which permits the freest development of human nature, and the most
perfect adaptability to local conditions. I can conceive of no
greater enemy to the Union than he who would by any attempt at further
centralization weaken the self-dependence, pride, and dignity of a
single State. It seems to me that one travels in vain over the United
States if he does not learn that lesson.
The State of Illinois is geographically much favored both for
agriculture and commerce. With access to the Gulf by two great rivers
that bound it on two sides, and communicating with the Atlantic by Lake
Michigan, enterprise has aided these commercial advantages by covering
it with railways. Stretching from Galena to Cairo, it has a great
variety of climate; it is well watered by many noble streams, and
contains in its great area scarcely any waste land. It has its contrasts
of civilization. In the northern half are the thriving cities; the
extreme southern portion, owing in part to a more debilitating, less
wholesome climate, and in part to a less virile, ambitious population,
still keeps its “Egyptian” reputation. But the railways have already
made a great change in southern Illinois, and education is transforming
it. The establishment of a normal school at Carbondale in 1874-75
has changed the aspect of a great region. I am told by the State
Superintendent of Education that the contrast in dress, manners,
cultivation, of the country crowd which came to witness the dedication
of the first building, and those who came to see the inauguration of the
new school, twelve years later, was something astonishing.
Passing through the central portion of the State to Springfield, after
an interval of many years, let us say a generation, I was impressed with
the transformation the country had undergone by tree-planting and
the growth of considerable patches of forest. The State is generally
prosperous. The farmers have money, some surplus to spend in luxuries,
in the education of their children, in musical instruments, in the
adornment of their homes. This is the universal report of the commercial
travellers, those modern couriers of business and information, who
run in swarms to and fro over the whole land. To them it is
significant—their opinion can go for what it is worth—that Illinois has
not tried the restrictive and prohibitory legislation of its western
neighbor, Iowa, which, with its rolling prairies and park-like timber,
loved in the season of birds and flowers, is one of the most fertile and
lovely States in the West.
Springfield, which spreads its 30,000 people extensively over a plain on
the Sangamon River, is prosperous, and in the season when any place can
be agreeable, a beautiful city. The elm grows well in the rich soil,
and its many broad, well-shaded streets, with pretty detached houses and
lawns, make it very attractive, a delightful rural capital. The large
Illinois towns are slowly lifting themselves out of the slough of rich
streets, better adapted to crops than to trade; though good material
for pavement is nowhere abundant. Springfield has recently improved
its condition by paving, mostly with cedar blocks, twenty-five miles
of streets. I notice that in some of the Western towns tile pavement
is being tried. Manufacturing is increasing—there is a prosperous
rolling-mill and a successful watch factory—but the overwhelming
interest of the city is that it is the centre of the political and
educational institutions—of the life emanating from the State-honse.
The State-house is, I believe, famous. It is a big building, a great
deal has been spent on it in the way of ornamentation, and it enjoys the
distinction of the highest State-honse dome in the country—350 feet. It
has the merit also of being well placed on an elevation, and its
rooms are spacious and very well planned. It is an incongruous pile
externally, mixing many styles of architecture, placing Corinthian
capitals on Doric columns, and generally losing the impression of a
dignified mass in details. Within, it is especially rich in wall-casings
of beautiful and variegated marbles, each panel exquisite, but all
together tending to dissipate any idea of unity of design or simplicity.
Nothing whatever can be said for many of the scenes in relief, or the
mural paintings (except that they illustrate the history of the State),
nor for most of the statues in the corridors, but the decoration of the
chief rooms, in mingling of colors and material, is frankly barbarous.
Illinois has the reputation of being slow in matters of education and
reform. A day in the State offices, however, will give the visitor an
impression of intelligence and vigor in these directions. The office of
the State Board of Pharmacy in the Capitol shows a strict enforcement of
the law in the supervision of drugs and druggists. Prison management has
also most intelligent consideration. The two great penitentiaries, the
Southern, at Chester (with about 800 convicts), and the Northern, at
Joliet (with about 1600 convicts), call for no special comment. The
one at Joliet is a model of its kind, with a large library, and such
schooling as is practicable in the system, and is well administered;
and I am glad to see that Mr. McClaughry, the warden, believes that
incorrigibles should be permanently held, and that grading, the
discipline of labor and education, with a parole system, can make
law-abiding citizens of many convicts.
In school education the State is certainly not supine in efforts. Out
of a State population of about 8,500,000, there were, in 1887, 1,627,841
under twenty-one years, and 1,096,464 between the ages of six
and twenty-one. The school age for free attendance is from six to
twenty-one; for compulsory attendance, from eight to fourteen. There
were 749,994 children enrolled, and 500,197 in daily attendance. Those
enrolled in private schools numbered 87,725. There were 2258 teachers in
private schools, and 22,925 in public schools; of this latter, 7402 were
men and 15,403 women. The average monthly salary of men was $51.48,
and of women $42.17. The sum available for school purposes in 1887 was
$12,890,515, in an assessed value of taxable property of $797,752,888.
These figures are from Dr. X. W. Edwards, Superintendent of Public
Instruction, whose energy is felt In every part of the State.
The State prides itself on its institutions of charity. I saw some of
them at Jacksonville, an hour’s ride west of Springfield. Jacksonville
is a very pretty city of some 15,000, with elm-shaded avenues that crest
but do not rival New Haven—one of those intellectual centres that are
a continual surprise to our English friends in their bewildered
exploration of our monotonous land. In being the Western centre of
Platonic philosophy, it is more like Concord than like New Haven. It
is the home of a large number of people who have travelled, who give
intelligent attention to art, to literary study in small societies and
clubs—its Monday Evening Club of men long antedated most of the similar
institutions at the East—and to social problems. I certainly did not
expect to find, as I did, water-colors by Turner in Jacksonville,
besides many other evidences of a culture that must modify many Eastern
ideas of what the West is and is getting to be.
The Illinois College is at Jacksonville. It is one of twenty-five small
colleges in the State, and I believe the only one that adheres to the
old curriculum, and does not adopt co-education. It has about sixty
students in the college proper, and about one hundred and thirty in
the preparatory academy. Most of the Illinois colleges have preparatory
departments, and so long as they do, and the various sects scatter their
energies among so many institutions, the youth of the State who wish a
higher education will be obliged to go East. The school perhaps the most
vigorous just now is the University of Illinois, at Urbana, a school
of agriculture and applied science mainly. The Central Hospital for the
Insane (one of three in the State), under the superintendence of Dr.
Henry F. Carriel, is a fine establishment, a model of neatness and good
management, with over nine hundred patients, about a third of whom do
some light work on the farm or in the house. A large conservatory of
plants and flowers is rightly regarded as a remedial agency in the
treatment of the patients. Here also is a fine school for the education
of the blind.
The Institution for the Education of Deaf-Mutes, Dr. Philip H. Gillette,
superintendent, is, I believe, the largest in the world, and certainly
one of the most thoroughly equipped and successful in its purposes. It
has between five hundred and six hundred pupils. All the departments
found in many other institutions are united here. The school has a
manual training department; articulation is taught; the art school
exhibits surprising results in aptitude for both drawing and painting;
and industries are taught to the extent of giving every pupil a trade
or some means of support—shoemaking, cabinet-making, printing, sewing,
gardening, and baking.
Such an institution as this raises many interesting questions. It is
at once evident that the loss of the sense of hearing has an effect on
character, moral and intellectual. Whatever may be the education of
the deaf-mute, he will remain, in some essential and not easily to be
characterized respects, different from other people. It is exceedingly
hard to cultivate in them a spirit of self-dependence, or eradicate the
notion that society owes them perpetual care and support. The education
of deaf-mutes, and the teaching them trades, so that they become
intelligent and productive members of society, of course induce
marriages among them. Is not this calculated to increase the number
of deaf-mutes? Dr. Gillette thinks not. The vital statistics show that
consanguineous marriages are a large factor in deaf-muteism; about
ten per cent., it is estimated, of the deaf-mutes are the offspring of
parents related by blood. Ancestral defects are not always perpetuated
in kind; they may descend in physical deformity, in deafness, in
imbecility. Deafness is more apt to descend in collateral branches than
in a straight line. It is a striking fact in a table of relationships
prepared by Dr. Gillette that, while the 450 deaf-mutes enumerated had
770 relationships to other deaf-mutes, making a total of 1220, only
twelve of them had deaf-mute parents, and only two of them one deaf-mute
parent, the mother of these having been able to hear, and that in no
case was the mother alone a deaf-mute. Of the pupils who have left this
institution, 251 have married deaf-mutes, and 19 hearing persons. These
marriages have been as fruitful as the average, and among them all only
sixteen have deaf-mute children; in some of the families having a deaf
child there are other children who hear. These facts, says the report,
clearly indicate that the probability of deaf offspring from deaf
parentage is remote, while other facts may clearly indicate that a deaf
person probably has or will have a deaf relation other than a child.
Springfield is old enough to have a historic flavor and social
traditions; perhaps it might be called a Kentucky flavor, so largely did
settlers from Kentucky determine it. There was a leisurely element in
it, and it produced a large number of men prominent in politics and in
the law, and women celebrated for beauty and spirit. It was a hospitable
society, with a certain tone of “family” that distinguished it from
other frontier places, a great liking for the telling of racy stories,
and a hearty enjoyment of life. The State has provided a Gubernatorial
residence which is at once spacious and pleasant, and is a mansion, with
its present occupants, typical in a way of the old regime and of modern
culture.
To the country at large Springfield is distinguished as the home of
Abraham Lincoln to an extent perhaps not fully realized by the residents
of the growing capital, with its ever new interests. And I was perhaps
unreasonably disappointed in not finding that sense of his personality
that I expected. It is, indeed, emphasized by statues in the Capitol and
by the great mausoleum in the cemetery—an imposing structure, with an
excellent statue in bronze, and four groups, relating to the civil war,
of uncommon merit. But this great monumental show does not satisfy the
personal longing of which I speak. Nor is the Lincoln residence much
more satisfactory in this respect. The plain two-story wooden house has
been presented to the State by his son Robert, and is in charge of
a custodian. And although the parlor is made a show-room and full of
memorials, there is no atmosphere of the man about it. On Lincoln’s
departure for Washington the furniture was sold and the house rented,
never to be again occupied by him. There is here nothing of that
personal presence that clings to the Hermitage, to Marshfield, to Mount
Vernon, to Monticello. Lincoln was given to the nation, and—a frequent
occurrence in our uprooting business life—the home disappeared. Lincoln
was honored and beloved in Springfield as a man, but perhaps some of
the feeling towards him as a party leader still lingers, although it has
disappeared almost everywhere else in the country. Nowhere else was the
personal partisanship hotter than in this city, and it is hardly to be
expected that political foes in this generation should quite comprehend
the elevation of Lincoln, in the consenting opinion of the world, among
the greatest characters of all ages. It has happened to Lincoln that
every year and a more intimate knowledge of his character have added
to his fame and to the appreciation of his moral grandeur. There is
a natural desire to go to some spot pre-eminently sacred to his
personality. This may be his birthplace. At any rate, it is likely that
before many years Kentucky will be proud to distinguish in some way
the spot where the life began of the most illustrious man born in its
borders.
When we come to the capital of Indiana we have, in official language,
to report progress. One reason assigned for the passing of emigrants
through Indiana to Illinois was that the latter was a prairie country,
more easily subdued than the more wooded region of Indiana. But it is
also true that the sluggish, illiterate character of its early occupants
turned aside the stream of Western emigration from its borders. There
has been a great deal of philosophic speculation upon the acknowledged
backwardness of civilization in Indiana, its slow development in
institutions of education, and its slow change in rural life, compared
with its sister States. But this concerns us less now than the awakening
which is visible at the capital and in some of the northern towns.
The forests of hard timber which were an early disadvantage are now an
important element in the State industry and wealth. Recent developments
of coal-fields and the discovery of natural gas have given an impetus to
manufacturing, which will powerfully stimulate agriculture and traffic,
and open a new career to the State.
Indianapolis, which stood still for some years in a reaction from
real-estate speculation, is now a rapidly improving city, with a
population of about 125,000. It is on the natural highway of the old
National Turnpike, and its central location in the State, in the midst
of a rich agricultural district, has made it the centre of fifteen
railway lines, and of active freight and passenger traffic. These lines
are all connected for freight purposes by a belt road, over which pass
about 5000 freight cars daily. This belt road also does an enormous
business for the stock-yards, and its convenient line is rapidly
filling up with manufacturing establishments. As a consequence of these
facilities the trade of the city in both wholesale and retail houses is
good and increasing. With this increase of business there has been an
accession of banking capital. The four national and two private
banks have an aggregate capital of about three millions, and the
Clearing-house report of 1887 showed a business of about one hundred
millions, an increase of nearly fifty per cent, over the preceding year.
But the individual prosperity is largely due to the building and loan
associations, of which there are nearly one hundred, with an aggregate
capital of seven millions, the loans of which exceed those of the
banks. These take the place of savings-banks, encourage the purchase
of homesteads, and are preventives of strikes and labor troubles in the
factories.
The people of Indianapolis call their town a Park City. Occupying a
level plain, its streets (the principal ones with a noble width of
ninety feet) intersect each other at right angles; but in the centre of
the city is a Circle Park of several acres, from which radiate to the
four quarters of the town avenues ninety feet broad that relieve the
monotony of the right lines. These streets are for the most part well
shaded, and getting to be well paved, lined with pleasant but not
ambitious residences, so that the whole aspect of the city is open and
agreeable. The best residences are within a few squares of the most
active business streets, and if the city has not the distinction of
palaces, it has fewer poor and shabby quarters than most other towns
of its size. In the Circle Park, Here now stands a statue of Governor
Morton, is to be erected immediately the Soldiers’ Monument, at a cost
of $250,000.
The city is fortunate in its public buildings. The County Court-house
(which cost $1,000,000) and City Hall are both fine buildings; in the
latter are the city markets, and above, a noble auditorium with seats
for 4000 people. But the State Capitol, just finished within the
appropriation of $2,000,000, is pre-eminent among State Capitols in
many respects. It is built of the Bedford limestone, one of the best
materials both for color and endurance found in the country. It
follows the American plan of two wings and a dome; but it is finely
proportioned; and the exterior, with rows of graceful Corinthian columns
above the basement story, is altogether pleasing. The interior is
spacious and impressive, the Chambers fine, the furnishing solid and in
good taste, with nowhere any over-ornamentation or petty details to
mar the general noble effect. The State Library contains, besides the
law-books, about 20,000 miscellaneous volumes.
When Matthew Arnold first came to New York the place in the West about
which he expressed the most curiosity was Indianapolis; that he said he
must see, if no other city. He had no knowledge of the place, and could
give no reason for his preference except that the name had always had
a fascination for him. He found there, however, a very extensive
book-store, where his own works were sold in numbers that pleased and
surprised him. The shop has a large miscellaneous stock, and does a
large jobbing and retail business, but the miscellaneous books dealt
in are mostly cheap reprints of English works, with very few American
copyright books. This is a significant comment on the languishing
state of the market for works of American authors in the absence of an
international copyright law.
The city is not behind any other in educational efforts. In its five
free public libraries are over 70,000 volumes. The city has a hundred
churches and a vigorous Young Men’s Christian Association, which cost
$75,000. Its private schools have an excellent reputation. There are
20,000 children registered of school age, and 11,000 in daily attendance
in twenty-eight free-school houses. In methods of efficacy these are
equal to any in the Union, as is shown by the fact that there are
reported in the city only 325 persons between the ages of six and
twenty-one unable to read and write. The average cost of instruction for
each pupil is $19.04 a year. In regard to advanced methods and manual
training, Indianapolis schools claim to be pioneers.
The latest reports show educational activity in the State as well as in
the capital. In 1880 the revenues expended in public schools were about
$5,000,000. The State supports the Indiana University at Bloomington,
with about 300 students, the Agricultural College at Lafayette, with
over 300, and a normal school at Terre Haute, with an attendance of
about 500. There are, besides, seventeen private colleges and several
other normal schools. In 1886 the number of school-children enrolled
in the State was 500,000, of whom 340,000 were in daily attendance.
To those familiar with Indiana these figures show a greatly increased
interest in education.
Several of the State benevolent institutions are in Indianapolis: a
hospital for the insane, which cost $1,200,000, and accommodates 1000
patients; an asylum for the blind, which has 132 pupils; and a school
for deaf-mutes which cost $500,000, and has about 400 scholars. The
novel institution, however, that I saw at Indianapolis is a reformatory
for women and girls, controlled entirely by women. The board of trustees
are women, the superintendent, physician, and keepers are women. In one
building, but in separate departments, were the female convicts, 42 in
number, several of them respectable-looking elderly women who had
killed their husbands, and about 150 young girls. The convicts and the
girls—who are committed for restraint and reform—never meet except in
chapel, but it is more than doubtful if it is wise for the State to
subject girls to even this sort of contiguity with convicts, and to the
degradation of penitentiary suggestions. The establishment is very neat
and well ordered and well administered. The work of the prison is done
by the convicts, who are besides kept employed at sewing and in the
laundry. The girls in the reformatory work half a day, and are in school
the other half.
This experiment of the control of a State-prison by women is regarded as
doubtful by some critics, who say that women will obey a man when they
will not obey a woman. Female convicts, because they have fallen lower
than men, or by reason of their more nervous organization, are commonly
not so easily controlled as male convicts, and it is insisted that they
indulge in less “tantrums” under male than under female authority.
This is denied by the superintendent of this prison, though she has
incorrigible cases who can only be controlled by solitary confinement.
She has daily religious exercises, Bible reading and exposition, and a
Sunday-school; and she doubts if she could control the convicts without
this religious influence. It not only has a daily quieting effect,
but has resulted in several cases in “conversion.” There are in
the institution several girls and women of color, and I asked the
superintendent if the white inmates exhibited any prejudice against
them on account of their color. To my surprise, the answer was that the
contrary is the case. The whites look up to the colored girls, and seem
either to have a respect for them or to be fascinated by them. This
surprising statement was supplemented by another, that the influence of
the colored girls on the whites is not good; the white girl who seeks
the company of the colored girl deteriorates, and the colored girl does
not change.
Indianapolis, which is attractive by reason of a climate that avoids
extremes, bases its manufacturing and its business prosperity upon the
large coal-beds lying to the west and south of it, the splendid and very
extensive quarries of Bedford limestone contiguous to the coal-fields,
the abundant supply of various sorts of hard-wood for the making of
furniture, and the recent discovery of natural gas. The gas-field
region, which is said to be very much larger than any other in the
country, lies to the north-west, and comes within eight miles of the
city. Pipes are already laid to the city limits, and the whole heating
and manufacturing of the city will soon be done by the gas. I saw this
fuel in use in a large and successful pottery, where are made superior
glazed and encaustic tiles, and nothing could be better for the purpose.
The heat in the kilns is intense; it can be perfectly regulated; as fuel
the gas is free from smoke and smut, and its cost is merely nominal. The
excitement over this new agent is at present extraordinary. The field
where it has been found is so extensive as to make the supply seem
inexhaustible. It was first discovered in Indiana at Eaton, in Delaware
County, in 1880. From January 1, 1887, to February, 1888, it is reported
that 1000 wells were opened in the gas territory, and that 245 companies
were organized for various manufactures, with an aggregate capital
of $25,000,000. Whatever the figures may he, there are the highest
expectations of immense increase of manufactures in Indianapolis and in
all the gas region. Of some effects of this revolution in fuel we may
speak when we come to the gas wells of Ohio.
I had conceived of Columbus as a rural capital, pleasant and slow,
rather a village than a city. I was surprised to find a city of 80,000
people, growing with a rapidity astonishing even for a Western town,
with miles of prosperous business blocks (High Street is four miles
long), and wide avenues of residences extending to suburban parks. Broad
Street, with its four rows of trees and fine houses and beautiful lawns,
is one of the handsomest avenues in the country, and it is only one
of many that are attractive. The Capitol Square, with several good
buildings about it, makes an agreeable centre of the city. Of the
Capitol building not much is to be said. The exterior is not wholly bad,
but it is surmounted by a truncated something that is neither a dome nor
a revolving turret, and the interior is badly arranged for room, light,
and ventilation. Space is wasted, and many of the rooms, among them the
relic-room and the flag-room, are inconvenient and almost inaccessible.
The best is the room of the Supreme Court, which has attached a large
law library. The general State Library contains about 54,000 volumes,
with a fair but not large proportion of Western history.
Columbus is a city of churches, of very fine public schools, of
many clubs, literary and social, in which the intellectual element
predominates, and of an intelligent, refined, and most hospitable
society. Here one may study the educational and charitable institutions
of the State, many of the more important of which are in the city,
and also the politics. It was Ohio’s hard fate to be for many years
an “October State,” and the battle-field and corruption-field of many
outside influences. This no doubt demoralized the politics of the State,
and lowered the tone of public morality. With the removal of the cause
of this decline, I believe the tone is being raised. Recent trials for
election frauds, and the rehabilitation of the Cincinnati police, show
that a better spirit prevails.
Ohio is growing in wealth as it is in population, and is in many
directions an ambitious and progressive State. Judged by its
institutions of benevolence and of economies, it is a leading State. No
other State provides more liberally for its unfortunates, in asylums for
the insane, the blind, the deaf-mutes, the idiotic, the young waifs and
strays, nor shows a more intelligent comprehension of the legitimate
functions of a great commonwealth, in the creation of boards of
education and of charities and of health, in a State inspection of
workshops and factories, in establishing bureaus of meteorology and of
forestry, a fish commission, and an agricultural experiment station. The
State has thirty-four colleges and universities, a public-school system
which has abolished distinctions of color, and which by the reports is
as efficient as any in the Union. Cincinnati, the moral tone of which,
the Ohio people say, is not fairly represented by its newspapers, is
famous the world over for its cultivation in music and its progress in
the fine and industrial arts. It would be possible for a State to have
and be all this and yet rise in the general scale of civilization
only to a splendid mediocrity, without the higher institutions of pure
learning, and without a very high standard of public morality. Ohio is
in no less danger of materialism, with all its diffused intelligence,
than other States. There is a recognizable limit to what a diffused
level of education, say in thirty-four colleges, can do for the higher
life of a State. I heard an address in the Capitol by ex-President Hayes
on the expediency of adding a manual-training school to the Ohio State
University at Columbus. The comment of some of the legislators on it
was that we have altogether too much book-learning; what we need is
workshops in our schools and colleges. It seems to a stranger that
whatever first-class industrial and technical schools Ohio needs, it
needs more the higher education, and the teaching of philosophy, logic,
and ethics. In 1886 Governor Foraker sent a special message to the
Legislature pointing out the fact that notwithstanding the increase
of wealth in the State, the revenue was inadequate to the expenditure,
principally by reason of the undervaluation of taxable property (there
being a yearly decline in the reported value of personal property), and
a fraudulent evasion of taxes. There must have been a wide insensibility
to the wrong of cheating the State to have produced this state of
things, and one cannot but think that it went along with the low
political tone before mentioned. Of course Ohio is not a solitary sinner
among States in this evasion of duty, but she helps to point the moral
that the higher life of a State needs a great deal of education that is
neither commercial nor industrial nor simply philanthropic.
It is impossible and unnecessary for the purposes of this paper to speak
of many of the public institutions of the State, even of those in the
city. But educators everywhere may study with profit the management of
the public schools under the City Board of Education, of which Mr. R.
W. Stevenson is superintendent. The High-school, of over 600 pupils, is
especially to be commended. Manual training is not introduced into
the schools, and the present better sentiment is against it; but its
foundation, drawing, is thoroughly taught from the primaries up to the
High-school, and the exhibits of the work of the schools of all grades
in modelling, drawing, and form and color studies, which were made last
year in New York and Chicago, gave these Columbus schools a very high
rank in the country. Any visitor to them must be impressed with the
intelligence of the methods employed, the apprehension of modern
notions, and also the conservative spirit of common-sense.
The Ohio State University has an endowment from the State of over half
a million dollars, and a source of ultimate wealth in its great farm and
grounds, which must Increase in value as the city extends. It is a very
well equipped institution for the study of the natural sciences and
agriculture, and might easily be built up into a university in all
departments, worthy of the State. At present it has 335 students,
of whom 150 are in the academic department, 41 in special practical
courses, and 143 in the preparatory school. All the students are
organized in companies, under an officer of the United States, for
military discipline; the uniform, the drill, the lessons of order and
obedience, are invaluable in the transforming of carriage and manners.
The University has a museum of geology which ranks among the important
ones of the country. It is a pity that a consolidation of other State
institutions with this cannot be brought about.
The Ohio Penitentiary at Columbus is an old building, not in keeping
with the modern notions of prison construction. In 1887 it had about
1300 convicts, some 100 less than in the preceding year. The management
is subject to political changes, and its officers have to be taken from
various parts of the State at the dictation of political workers. Under
this system the best management is liable to be upset by an election.
The special interest in the prison at this time was in the observation
of the working of the Parole Law. Since the passage of the Act in May,
1885, 283 prisoners have been paroled, and while several of the convicts
have been returned for a violation of parole, nearly the whole number
are reported as law-abiding citizens. The managers are exceedingly
pleased with the working of the law; it promotes good conduct in the
prison, and reduces the number in confinement. The reduction of the
number of convicts in 1887 from the former year was ascribed partially
to the passage of the General Sentence Law in 1884, and the Habitual
Crimes Act in 1885. The criminals dread these laws, the first because
it gives no fixed time to build their hopes upon, but all depends upon
their previous record and good conduct in prison, while the latter
affects the incorrigible, who are careful to shun the State after being
convicted twice, and avoid imprisonment for life. The success of these
laws and the condition of the State finances delay the work on
the Intermediate Prison, or Reformatory, begun at Mansfield. This
Reformatory is intended for first offenders, and has the distinct
purpose of prevention of further deterioration, and of reformation
by means of the discipline of education and labor. The success of the
tentative laws in this direction, as applied to the general prisons, is,
in fact, a strong argument for the carrying out of the Mansfield scheme.
There cannot be a more interesting study of the “misfits” of humanity
than that offered in the Institution for Feeble-minded Youth, under the
superintendence of Dr. G. A. Doren. Here are 715 imbeciles in all stages
of development from absolute mental and physical incapacity. There is
scarcely a problem that exists in education, in the relation of the body
and mind, in the inheritance of mental and physical traits, in regard to
the responsibility for crime, in psychology or physiology, that is not
here illustrated. It is the intention of the school to teach the idiot
child some trade or occupation that will make him to some degree useful,
and to carry him no further than the common branches in learning. The
first impression, I think, made upon a visitor is the almost invariable
physical deformity that attends imbecility—ill-proportioned, distorted
bodies, dwarfed, misshapen gelatinoids, with bones that have no
stiffness. The next impression is the preponderance of the animal
nature, the persistence of the lower passions, and the absence of moral
qualities in the general immaturity. And perhaps the next impression is
of the extraordinary effect that physical training has in awakening the
mind, and how soon the discipline of the institution creates the
power of self-control. From almost blank imbecility and utter lack of
self-restraint the majority of these children, as we saw them in
their schoolrooms and workshops, exhibited a sense of order, of entire
decency, and very considerable intelligence. It was demonstrated that
most imbeciles are capable of acquiring the rudiments of an education
and of learning some useful occupation. Some of the boys work on the
farm, others learn trades. The boys in the shoe-shop were making shoes
of excellent finish. The girls do plain sewing and house-work apparently
almost as well as girls of their age outside. Two or three things that
we saw may be mentioned to show the scope of the very able management
and the capacities of the pupils. There was a drill of half a hundred
boys and girls in the dumb-bell exercise, to music, under the leadership
of a pupil, which in time, grace, and exact execution of complicated
movements would have done credit to any school. The institution has two
bands, one of brass and one of strings, which perform very well. The
string band played for dancing in the large amusement hall. Several
hundred children were on the floor dancing cotillons, and they went
through the variety of changes not only in perfect time and decorum, but
without any leader to call the figures. It would have been a remarkable
performance for any children. There were many individual cases of great
and deplorable interest. Cretins, it was formerly supposed, were only
born in mountainous regions. There are three here born in Ohio. There
were five imbeciles of what I should call the ape type, all of one Ohio
family. Two of them were the boys exhibited some years ago by Barnum as
the Aztec children—the last of an extinct race. He exhibited them as
a boy and a girl. When they had grown a little too large to show as
children, or the public curiosity was satisfied about the extinct race,
he exhibited them as wild Australians.
The humanity of so training these imbeciles that they can have some
enjoyment of life, and be occasionally of some use to their relations,
is undeniable. But since the State makes this effort in the survival of
the unfittest, it must go further and provide a permanent home for them.
The girls who have learned to read and write and sew and do house-work,
and are of decent appearance, as many of them are, are apt to marry when
they leave the institution. Their offspring are invariably idiots. I saw
in this school the children of mothers who had been trained here. It is
no more the intention of the State to increase the number of imbeciles
than it is the number of criminals. Many of our charitable and penal
institutions at present do both.
I should like to approach the subject of Natural Gas in a proper spirit,
but I have neither the imagination nor the rhetoric to do justice to
the expectations formed of it. In the restrained language of one of the
inhabitants of Findlay, its people “have, caught the divine afflatus
which came with the discovery of natural gas.” If Findlay had only
natural gas, “she would be the peer, if not the superior, of any
municipality on earth;” but she has much more, “and in all things has no
equal or superior between the oceans and the lakes and the gulf, and is
marching on to the grandest destiny ever prepared for any people, in any
land, or in any period, since the morning stars first sang together,
and the flowers in the garden of Eden budded and blossomed for man.” In
fact, “this she has been doing in the past two years in the grandest
and most satisfactory way, and that she will continue to progress is as
certain as the stars that hold their midnight revel around the throne of
Omnipotence.”
Notwithstanding this guarded announcement, it is evident that the
discovery of natural gas has begun a revolution in fuel, which will have
permanent and far-reaching economic and social consequences, whether the
supply of gas is limited or inexhaustible.
Those who have once used fuel in this form are not likely to return to
the crude and wasteful heating by coal. All the cities and large towns
west of the Alleghanies are made disagreeable by bituminous coal smoke.
The extent of this annoyance and its detraction from the pleasure of
daily living cannot be exaggerated. The atmosphere is more or less
vitiated, and the sky obscured, houses, furniture, clothing, are dirty,
and clean linen and clean hands and face are not expected. All this is
changed where gas is used for fuel. The city becomes cheerful, and the
people can see each other. But this is not all. One of the great burdens
of our Northern life, fire building and replenishing, disappears,
house-keeping is simplified, the expense of servants reduced,
cleanliness restored. Add to this that in the gas regions the cost of
fuel is merely nominal, and in towns distant some thirty or forty miles
it is not half that of coal. It is easy to see that this revolution in
fuel will make as great a change in social life as in manufacturing,
and that all the change may not be agreeable. This natural gas is a very
subtle fluid, somewhat difficult to control, though I have no doubt that
invention will make it as safe in our houses as illuminating gas is. So
far as I have seen its use, the heat from it is intense and withering.
In a closed stove it is intolerable; in an open grate, with a simulated
pile of hard coal or logs, it is better, but much less agreeable than
soft coal or wood. It does not, as at present used, promote a good
air in the room, and its intense dryness ruins the furniture. But its
cheapness, convenience, and neatness will no doubt prevail; and we are
entering upon a gas age, in which, for the sake of progress, we shall
doubtless surrender something that will cause us to look back to the
more primitive time with regret. If the gas-wells fail, artificial gas
for fuel will doubtless be manufactured.
I went up to the gas-fields of northern Ohio in company with Prof.
Edward Orton, the State Geologist, who has made a study of the subject,
and pretty well defined the fields of Indiana and Ohio. The gas is found
at a depth of between 1100 and 1200 feet, after passing through a
great body of shale and encountering salt-water, in a porous Trenton
limestone. The drilling and tubing enter this limestone several feet to
get a good holding. This porous limestone holds the gas like a sponge,
and it rushes forth with tremendous force when released. It is now
well settled that these are reservoirs of gas that are tapped, and
not sources of perpetual supply by constant manufacture. How large the
supply may be in any case cannot be told, but there is a limit to it. It
can be exhausted, like a vein of coal. But the fields are so large, both
in Indiana and Ohio, that it seems probable that by sinking new wells
the supply will be continued for a long time. The evidence that it is
not inexhaustible in any one well is that in all in which the flow
of gas has been tested at intervals the force of pressure is found to
diminish. For months after the discovery the wells were allowed to run
to waste, and billions of feet of gas were lost. A better economy now
prevails, and this wastefulness is stopped. The wells are all under
control, and large groups of them are connected by common service-pipes.
The region about Fostoria is organized under the North-western Gas
Company, and controls a large territory. It supplies the city of Toledo,
which uses no other fuel, through pipes thirty miles long, Fremont,
and other towns. The loss per mile in transit through the pipes is now
known, so that the distance can be calculated at which it will pay to
send it. I believe that this is about fifty to sixty miles. The gas when
it comes from the well is about the temperature of 32° Fahr., and the
common pressure is 400 pounds to the square inch. The velocity with
which it rushes, unchecked, from the pipe at the mouth of the well may
be said to be about that of a minie-ball from an ordinary rifle. The
Ohio area of gas is between 2000 and 3000 square miles. The claim for
the Indiana area is that it is 20,000 square miles, but the geologists
make it much less.
The speculation in real estate caused by this discovery has been perhaps
without parallel in the history of the State, and, as is usual in such
cases, it is now in a lull, waiting for the promised developments. But
these have been almost as marvellous as the speculation. Findlay was
a sleepy little village in the black swamp district, one of the
most backward regions of Ohio. For many years there had been surface
indications of gas, and there is now a house standing in the city which
used gas for fuel forty years ago. When the first gas-well was opened,
ten years ago, the village had about 4500 inhabitants. It has now
probably 15,-. 000, it is a city, and its limits have been extended to
cover an area six miles long by four miles wide. This is dotted
over with hastily built houses, and is rapidly being occupied by
manufacturing establishments. The city owns all the gas-wells, and
supplies fuel to factories and private houses at the simple cost of
maintaining the service-pipes. So rapid has been the growth and the
demand for gas that there has not been time to put all the pipes
underground, and they are encountered on the surface all over the
region. The town is pervaded by the odor of the gas, which is like that
of petroleum, and the traveller is notified of his nearness to the town
by the smell before he can see the houses. The surface pipes, hastily
laid, occasionally leak, and at these weak places the gas is generally
ignited in order to prevent its tainting the atmosphere. This immediate
neighborhood has an oil-field contiguous to the gas, plenty of limestone
(the kilns are burned by gas), good building stone, clay fit for making
bricks and tiles, and superior hard-wood forests. The cheap fuel has
already attracted here manufacturing industries of all sorts, and new
plants are continually made.
I have a list of over thirty different mills and factories which
are either in full operation or getting under way. Among the most
interesting of these are the works for making window-glass and table
glass. The superiority of this fuel for the glass-furnaces seems to be
admitted.
Although the wells about Findlay are under control, the tubing is
anchored, and the awful force is held under by gates and levers of
steel, it is impossible to escape a feeling of awe in this region at
the subterranean energies which seem adequate to blow the whole country
heavenward. Some of the wells were opened for us. Opening a well is
unscrewing the service-pipe and letting the full force of the gas issue
from the pipe at the mouth of the well. When one of these wells is thus
opened the whole town is aware of it by the roaring and the quaking of
the air. The first one exhibited was in a field a mile and a half from
the city. At the first freedom from the screws and clamps the gas rushed
