for the sins that were dragging him down ; but he 
was right in the midst of them, and it was so hard 
to swim against the current. How much of virtue 
and goodness consists in surroundings, I think the 
great world little realizes. 
The poor lad had lost two places through the 
winter from drink and neglecting his business. I 
drew from him the fact that he had been drinking 
with Turner, who then procured a pass, and sent 
him farther down the road. Who would employ him 
in such disreputable attire ? A friend in Jersey City 
had written to him that there would be a vacancy 
about the 1st of May ; and on this slender hope he 
was going there, into new temptations and pitfalls 
Could anybody save him? Would not the evil 
forces so in the ascendency sweep him to destruction 
in the end ? 
We made him a bed down-stairs on the lounge. 
The next morning he looked like a new creature. 
He was so simply grateful, and he followed Eve about 
with such adoring eyes, that I was fain to smile. 
"Why couldn't you keep him for a few days?" 
said she. "He might help you clear up the place. 
You know you were talking of hiring some one for 
a while." 
The same thought had entered my mind the even 
ing before. The poor lad was homeless and without 
 
a penny. And I might hear of something for him 
that would be less dangerous than the great vortex 
of the city. 
I suggested the plan to Joe, and he caught at it 
eagerly. 
" I'd do any thing for you, Thurston. I'd like to 
pay back a little of your kindness. Yes, I'll work at 
any thing. And I know a good deal about such 
work too. Oh, how lucky you are ! I wonder 
but I don't suppose I shall ever have a home of my 
own," and he sighed. " I've often thought how nice 
it would be." 
" I was no nearer it at twenty than you are now," 
I made answer. " And there is a long stretch before 
me ere I can call the home really mine." 
"And you have your sister. My sister was so 
much older than I, and married, and somehow never 
took much interest in me. I'd like to marry " 
" Do not marry until you can care properly for a 
wife," I said, almost sharply I am afraid. " It is 
a shame to drag any woman through want and hard 
work." 
" I wasn't thinking of such a thing until I could 
afford it, Thurston," he answered humbly. 
" And until you can love and honor her, and en 
dow her with all your earnings, which will be little 
enough." 
 
Joe hung his head in abasement, and I felt sorry. 
Then I added in a cordial tone, " What is the de 
cision ? Will you stay? I can't afford to pay much 
besides the living." 
" I'll stay gladly, and do my best. I have been 
paid beforehand." 
Certainly Joe did his best. He had an aptitude 
for this kind of work. He was cheery and obliging, 
and he followed Eve about with the devotion of a 
true knight. Our garden flourished under his minis 
tration. We went at the famous blackberry tangle, 
armed with old gloves, and old clothes and sickles, 
and cut a long, straight path through. Then we dug 
up the roots, trimmed the dead branches out of the 
rows, and made it look quite business-like. It seemed 
as if Joe improved every day. Regular sleep and 
nourishing food took the haggard lines out of his 
face, his weak and bloodshot eyes cleared up, they 
were a soft hazel as to color, and his voice grew 
strong and ringing. He could sing well, and we 
passed some entertaining evenings. 
After the berry patch, we cleaned out our cistern, 
and then we felt that we could move in almost any 
time. We had tried our heater, and found it excel 
lent. There was a good deal of garden to make, 
for I had put in only pease and potatoes, and the 
chicken-house to remodel, for Eve had the poultry 
 
fever. She had already bought two dozen eggs, and 
had two hens sitting in the barn. 
" I'll get you some fancy ones," said Gordon Pryor 
one evening when we had been discussing the busi 
ness from the amusing as well as the profitable point. 
" I have a friend up on the other side of the river, 
who makes money out of it, does it with an eye to 
profit. I should like you to go up there sometime, 
Thurston. I'll get a horse and carriage some day, 
and we'll go. Crawford can keep the shop?" 
Joe nodded. 
" Westfield, you know .the station, Thurston, 
though this is a mile or two from the railroad. 
Vanduyne is my friend's name. He was very much 
out of health some years ago, and went to Florida, 
meaning to stay, but didn't like it. Then he started 
a chicken ranch. He keeps all of the fancy kinds, 
and sells eggs for hatching, raises prize birds, and all 
that. It is a sight, I tell you. But he is the most 
discouraging fellow to talk business that I ever 
heard. According to him, you want a fortune to 
start, and you want knowledge enough to run the 
Government of the United States, or settle the 
Indian question. Now, it never struck me that a 
hen was such a very abstruse subject." 
" Unless you had her for dinner at a boarding- 
house," said Joe dryly; and Pryor threw back his 
head and laughed. 
 
" I'll get you some white Leghorn eggs : they are 
all the rage. And the hens are warranted to lay two 
eggs a day." 
" Oh, dear ! what will I do with the eggs ? " said 
Eve in comic dismay. 
"Sell them at a dollar a dozen for hatching; and 
drop four out of every dozen in boiling water." 
" But why ? " 
" To keep the species from increasing too rapidly. 
Eight chickens are about as much as one can reason 
ably expect out of a dozen eggs." 
"-Yes," replied Eve soberly. "I'll remember that." 
Joe giggled. 
"Then, when your hens are laying bountifully, 
and eggs are cheap, you pack them in lime and some 
thing, and bring them out as fresh eggs when the 
price goes up to sixty cents." 
" Is that the way your friend does ? " 
"His methods are past finding out; but he has 
loads of eggs when prices are high, and hatches 
chickens in an incubator, to put on the market about 
the middle of February. But, as I said, he will talk 
you into believing the thing impossible before you 
have listened five minutes. Still, I have an old lady 
friend at Springdale, who doesn't keep a very large 
flock, from fifty to a hundred, and makes a clear 
hundred dollars every year." 
 
" I should like to see her" 
"But she hasn't any method. And she thinks any 
one can do it." 
" I have often wondered," I said, " why people in 
general advise you against the business they are in. 
Mr. Montgomery insists that no kind of farming or 
gardening pays ; people who try poultry, for the most 
part pronounce that a failure ; and so with many 
other things. Then, Watson told me the other day 
that I'd be sick of my house in a year or two ; that 
I could rent for half the sum interest and repairs 
would amount to." 
" Half the world is very depressing, the other half 
over-sanguine," commented Pryor dryly. 
" And the medium class go on and succeed," said 
Eve. "I have often heard people argue that real 
estate did not pay but Mrs. Harwood at thirty-five 
was left a widow with two small houses in New York, 
and now is a rich woman. She has bought and sold, 
owns considerable property, and has money out on 
mortgages. Everybody cannot work on a large 
scale ; but a good many can do their best in a small 
way, if they will." 
"You will do it, Miss Thurston," Pryor said 
admiringly. 
If Eve ever thought of failure, she did not allow 
it to herself a moment, I am sure. I used to stand 
 
still with a sudden fear, but I meant to do my best. 
Her efforts, I resolved, should not shame mine. 
And, as spring advanced, I came to the conclusion 
that there were few places more beautiful than 
Athens. The long, gradual swell of land up to the 
highest point, broken here and there abruptly, as 
well as in a picturesque manner, clothed with 
verdure in the innumerable shades of tender green. 
The river winding along, a blue ribbon under the 
skies of faultless blue. The ascent on the other side 
dotted with little hamlets, for they could hardly 
be called towns, and here and there a handsome 
residence perched on some eminence like a castle. 
The fresh, balmy air, the grassy fragrance, the twit 
ter of birds, the long, tender notes of the wood-robin, 
filled my soul with a peaceful exaltation. It was as if 
I had come out of a confused, hurrying struggle, and 
just begun to live. Indeed, I had secured time to live. 
It might be dull if one had no resource but a small rail 
road station, and no companion : I had both. What 
wonderful pictures Eve and I studied in our walks, 
what tones of color, what tenderness and breadth ! 
"It makes me wild to paint something higher than 
flowers," said Eve longingly. "I wish I had some 
friend who was a true artist, who could feel and see 
and worship ; and I should ask her to come and stay 
weeks with me." 
 
CHAPTER VII 
JOE'S FALL FKOM GRACE 
EVE went to New York for the day. Joe and 
I worked steadily all the morning ; and after lunch, I 
sent him down-town, as the business part of Athens 
was called. He was to leave a message with Pryor 
also. 
After an hour or so I began to wonder why he did 
not return. I went up to the house, but he was not 
there ; busied myself a while, then came down at four, 
as an up and a down train passed about that time. 
No Joe yet. It seemed odd: then I bethought 
myself that he might have gone riding with Pryor. 
At five he came sauntering up on the platform. I 
knew in a moment what had happened. I was hurt 
and mortified. I had made no comments on Joe's 
unfortunate weakness; and it seemed unpardonable 
in him, under the circumstances, to drink at some 
other person's expense, to bruit abroad the secret I 
had kept. 
He delivered his message in a voice that was a 
little thick, and his eyes avoided mine. 
 
"Joe," I said, "you have been drinking. How 
could you?" 
He turned and straightened himself, as if to brave 
it out, then suddenly collapsed. 
" O Thurston ! " he cried, " I'm a fool, a beast ! 
And when you've been so kind, and I resolved I'd 
never touch another drop ! Shake me off, and let 
me go to ruin ! I'm not worth saving." 
Those few words, "let me go to ruin," pierced 
me to the quick, though he had not uttered them 
upbraidingly. In that great bond of human brother 
hood I was in some degree answerable for him. I 
went and put my arm over his shoulder, and drew 
him into the office. Then he broke down and cried, 
as a half-drunken man is very apt to do. 
"I shall not shake you off without another 
chance," I said quietly. " But I am so hurt ! You 
might have cared more for me and my sister." 
He started up. " Let me go somewhere and hide. 
I'm not fit to meet her sweet eyes. O Thurston ! 
what devil did possess me ? I'm fated. There's no 
use trying. I've signed the pledge three times, and 
that doesn't help." 
" No," I said, " nothing will help until you resolve 
to help yourself. Now I am going to make you a 
cup of good strong coffee, and that will sober you up 
some. Miss Thurston can not be home until six. 
 
Come up-stairs," for I did not want to leave him 
alone. 
He stumbled along. " I'm a miserable wretch to 
treat the best friend a fellow ever had in this world 
in this manner. You had better cut me adrift. I 
shall never be good for any thing- Thurston, you 
don't know the awful temptation, the want that is so 
much stronger than yourself ! I have tried over and 
over again. No, I never can ! I'm a weak, miserable 
idiot!" 
I had put the kettle over the fire, and it was sing 
ing already; and in a few minutes more I poured 
a little water on the coffee. 
" Will you tell me whom you have been drinking 
with?" I asked. 
"No one. At least, this is the solemn truth, 
Thurston. While I was in Pryor's, he had a bottle 
of lager, and I took a glass. It stirred up all the 
devil of longing in me. I started to come home, 
then I went down the street to a saloon ; but I said 
I wouldn't go in, and I went past it, and on down 
to the boat-house. There is a little place below 
there " 
" Yes." A low den it was too. There had been 
strenuous objections to having the man's license 
renewed, but somehow it had worked through. 
" I went in, and had a drink of whiskey, and then 
 
my brain was all on fire. And I took another drink. 
I had only a quarter." 
" Where did you get it, Joe ? " I had been very 
careful not to give him any spending-money, and a 
horrible reflection on his honesty flashed through my 
mind. 
" Miss Thurston gave it to me. Oh, what a vile, 
thankless creature I have been ! I've carried that 
quarter since last Friday. Kick me out, Ad, dear 
old chap ! I'm not worthy of shelter and kindness." 
He began to cry again, and sprang up as if to go. 
I forced him back into his chair, and poured the 
coffee, which was black. 
" Here, drink it ! " I exclaimed. " Then lie down 
on my cot, and take a nap." 
" I will never touch another drop, I swear I will 
not, Thurston ! That is the last of the devilish stuff. 
Oh, what a good, good friend you are ! Do believe 
me, do ! " he entreated: 
"We will talk it over to-morrow. Now lie down." 
I led him to my bed, over which I had thrown a 
blanket, and went down-stairs. Eve did not arrive 
in that train ; but there were several of the business 
men I had come to know pretty well, and we chatted 
a bit. The next one was in at six-forty. I gave out 
some express parcels, looked over my accounts, and 
whiled away the time, half expecting a telegram, 
 
though none came. But she stepped out of the 
next train, and gave a careless nod to the polite 
conductor. 
"I am quite late," she began eagerly. "I hope 
you did not worry, and that you and Joe have had 
some supper. I have done such lots of things, and 
seen such crowds of people ! and, oh, it is so lovely 
to get back, even to a railroad station ! " 
We were in the waiting-room by this time. I had 
her satchel and parcel in one hand ; and the other 
arm I put around her, drawing her to me in a tender 
embrace, as I kissed her. She seemed so especially 
dear. 
" O Adam ! we might pass for lovers ! " with a 
curious little thrill in her voice. 
We went up-stairs, she talking rapidly; and then 
she threw her hat and mantle on the bed. I had set 
the dishes on the table, and the kettle was again 
boiling. 
" Where's Joe ? " she asked, as she lighted the lamp. 
" We had some coffee a while ago, and, as he was 
rather used up, I sent him to bed." 
"He is not ill?" 
" Oh, no ! rather tired out," I replied carelessly. 
I had resolved that I would not let Joe Crawford 
go ; and this secret, if kept between us two, might 
prove a bond. 
 
" I have had two dinners, or luncheons, or whatever 
they may be," she said gayly, " and a treat of cream, 
and some bananas; but I brought the last home 
to you and Joe. And now you must have some 
supper." 
I went out, and found Joe sleeping heavily as I 
expected. 
Eve poured my tea, and sliced the cold meat, 
dished out some jelly, and then leaned back in her 
chair. 
" You will laugh when I tell you all," and her face 
was radiant with mischief. " I have nearly furnished 
my house, and I have boarders and boarders ! " 
" O Eve ! " I exclaimed reproachfully. 
" I will begin at the very first. I went in to see 
Mrs. Harwood ; and she grows sweeter and sweeter, 
with just spice enou'gh to keep her from spoiling. 
She proposes to come over the first two weeks in 
June, and stipulated that she should be received as a 
boarder. She wants to go out driving every day, 
and it will be your business to hunt up the quadru 
ped and the vehicle. Then I went to the Browers's, 
for she told me they were going away. O Ad ! some 
people do have a lovely side to their misfortunes, after 
all. You know Mr. Brower failed in February ; and 
of course he gave up every thing, but that only paid 
thirty per cent. And now, through some friend, he 
 
has a situation to go out to a great fruit-importing 
house, at Zante I think it is, and he will take the 
family. Living is very cheap, and he has a good 
salary. Mrs. Brower is just wild with delight. Of 
course, she is charming any way ; but I couldn't help 
thinking that they never really suffered in any 
misfortune. They are selling off their furniture at 
private sale : that was hers, and the really valuable 
has all gone at a fairly good price. Next week they 
break up. Mrs. West will go to Tennessee to her 
other daughter's to live. That lady is coming on 
just after Fourth of July, when they will go to 
Saratoga, and up to Canada. Meanwhile Mrs. West 
must board somewhere, and she is very fond of the 
country. I don't know just who proposed this ; but 
I am going to have some household goods, and Mrs. 
West will take it out in board. She is the dearest, 
sweetest old lady, and will make very little trouble." 
" Upon my word," I said laughingly, " it is a 
clear case of barter! Eve, you are setting the 
improvements of political economy at defiance. It 
is only in the early stages of civilization that people 
trade in this manner." 
"I always get tangled up on political economy, 
but I can make bargains. She pays eight dollars a 
week, a pretty good price, I think ; and there will 
be eight weeks, sixty-four dollars. For that I get 
 
a really pretty cottage suite, springs and mattress, 
lots of odds and ends of carpets that will make over 
into rugs, and some beautiful glass and china, odd 
pieces that are not salable. In fact, I think I shall 
have a good deal for my trouble and small ex 
pense." 
" But and you are to teach music and painting, 
and keep house, and every thing ! You will wear 
yourself out." 
"I shall have a handmaiden. I had partly bar 
gained for her. Then, in July, six girls are coming 
over for a week. I am so afraid I shall get lonesome 
in the country," and she made an amusing face. 
"What makes you look so grave? does the prospect 
frighten you ? " 
I smiled then. "It is not the girls," I said, "but 
the one girl dearest to me. You seem to be doing 
every thing ; and I cannot make a dollar more, try 
my very best." 
" But you save it, you see," with her bright look, 
which certainly is inspiriting. " Do you not remem 
ber several of the neighbors said it would cost at 
least one hundred dollars to put that place in order ? 
We have only had it a month yet, and see what has 
been done at a trifling cost. And next week we 
must move in. The goods will be up on Tuesday, 
and on Friday Mrs. West is coming over. I am so 
 
glad Joe is still here, though I suppose it is not very 
profitable for him. But he is so handy and willing." 
We had finished our supper by this time, or rather 
I had. Joe was still asleep. Eve stood the tea on 
the back of the stove, and deftly put away the dishes. 
I sat there, growing angrier at myself that I was not 
in some business where I could keep her a lady. I 
hated to have her always planning how she could 
make a little money. Yet, with all the incidents of 
the day, she had been to look at a new picture that 
was creating unusual interest, and her vivid descrip 
tion seemed to place it before my very eyes. She 
was fitted to adorn some higher station. How 
could she be so delightfully content! 
I roused Joe presently, and sent him to his own 
bed. But afterward I lay awake a long while, pon 
dering the grave question of another's moral salva 
tion. I should have been glad to go to Mr. Bradford, 
and ask his help ; but I could see that there would 
be no sympathy between the two. Joe would shrink 
into himself, and seem ungracious, stolid; and Mr. 
Bradford would drop into platitudes. They would 
not meet at any vital point. Yet why should not 
the salvation of any soul be an important matter 
with him ? 
Eve was bright and stirring the next morning : I 
was about to say bustling, but that word never 
 
applied to her. She always moved with such grace 
and ease, and looked so truly the lady. Joe was up 
early, swept the office and waiting-room, and was out 
on the platform before I came down. He looked 
rather shamefaced, but his dissipation had left no 
other trace. 
" Did you tell her ? " he asked in a whisper. 
" No," I answered ; and he wrung my hand. 
We decided at breakfast that it would be best to 
take every thing we could spare, and let Joe sleep in 
the new house. The piano had been there several 
days ; but it was still boxed, and no one knew it had 
come. We packed baskets and boxes, and Joe moved 
on a wheelbarrow, making a good deal of amusement 
out of it. They put up window-curtains and lam 
brequins, hung pictures and brackets, and placed 
some pretty vases and ornaments around. My cot 
was put in one of the small rooms, and a rug laid in 
front of it. There was a pretty curtain at the win 
dow, bordered with a soft, dull red ; a wall-pocket 
we had manufactured to hold odd papers ; two book 
shelves arranged bracket- wise ; and when the chairs 
and washing-stand came up, it would look cosey 
enough. 
Joe and I had no chance for a talk all day ; but 
Eve went down to the choir-practice with Ruth 
Montgomery. She had been asked to join them ; 
 
but for various sensible reasons had declined, though 
her voice never failed in the congregation. 
"Thurston," Joe said, after a long silence, "you 
are the best fellow I ever knew. I acted like a fiend 
'yesterday, didn't I? Was I very much" and 
the poor lad faltered with shame. 
" You were not quite out of your senses, I am 
thankful to say. But, O Joe ! how could you ? " 
"I don't know. I'll take the pledge again." 
" What good will that do, if you do not mean to 
keep it?" 
"But I do mean when I sign it. Only I'm so 
awfully weak when the temptation comes. And the 
desire is so strong you don't know, Thurston. 
You've never been there." 
" Joe," I said slowly, " I have been there : to my 
shame and sorrow I confess it. Yet it was not from 
any real love for liquor, but rather the jolly com 
panionship, and the most horrible indifference. I 
can't say that I ever longed for it. And to burn up 
one's blood and brain and health, to throw away 
character and capability, does seem so senseless." 
"What did you do?" 
"I resolved, and then I kept steadfastly to my 
resolve. I said my strength should be stronger than 
the temptation." 
" I have tried," he returned complainingly. " I 
 
thought the pledge would help me, give me some 
strength ; but it did not," and he sighed. 
"No," I said, "you do not try to the extent of 
your strength. You rather try the extent of the 
temptation. You keep looking at it, and longing 
for it ; and you take yourself to the door of the 
saloon, and then you topple over, and' say you can't 
help yourself. Suppose yesterday you had come 
directly up here, and not tempted yourself further? 
Suppose you had said, ' I will not do this thing,' and 
walked resolutely away. Then } T OU would have 
tried your own strength. I do not believe God ever 
made any soul so weak but that it could put forth 
some strength. You and I, who were born of sober, 
health}' parents, cannot plead the excuse of the poor 
wretches who have been born of generations of 
drunkards. So God has already helped you in that 
way." 
"Ad," he said, in a low, awed voice, "are you 
religious ? " 
It was not the first time in my life that I had 
wished I dared say boldly and bravely that I was. 
I did not understand the great and awful mystery 
that some can make so simple, and others so com 
plicated and well-nigh impossible. 
" I have never quite decided the matter for my 
self," I answered slowly ; " but if I cannot do all the 
 
things I consider right, I can at least refrain from 
some I know to be deadly wrong. And this matter 
of drinking is one. If the taste of it fills you with 
desire, then you must not drink at all. I think I 
would make a resolve for six months, at least. It 
has been the cause of all your troubles so far. It 
keeps you at poverty's door, it throws you out of 
situations, it loses friends and trust and respect. 
It may not kill you speedily, but you might better 
a thousand times be dead. And your example acts 
upon others. You encourage them every time you 
drink. Some younger lad may lay his sin and 
weakness at your door." 
"I never thought of it in that light. Oh, I 
wish I could stop ! God knows I wish I could 
stop ! " 
He was walking up and down, his voice in a 
great tremble, that meant earnestness now, even if 
evanescent. 
" You raw, Joe. Just think as strongly and 
surely that you can, as that the temptation has so 
much more power than your own will and your own 
soul. What you want is real backbone. All the 
resolves in the world will not save you. It is a 
great fight with the powers of evil, and God will 
help you ; but he doesn't keep you in spite of your 
self. You must act. Nothing saves you against 
 
your own self. If you are looking for that, you may 
as well hurry to a drunkard's grave at once." 
" But, oh ! what am I to do ? " he pleaded. 
" You are to begin in good earnest. See here, you 
are not quite twenty-one yet. I suppose you have 
been drinking three years or so. How many situations 
have you lost in the last year? What have you 
gained except to add to the prosperity of the liquor 
interest? You have gone in rags, you have suffered 
with hunger and cold, and the man who sells you rum 
laughs to himself to think what a silly fool you are." 
Joe's face flushed deeply. 
" It is idiotic when you come to think of it in that 
light. It is shameful all around. See here, Ad 
Thurston, I will never drink another drop as long as 
I live, so help me God ! " 
He stopped right before me, and put out both 
hands. I took them in a strong grasp. 
" Make that promise solemnly to God," I said ; 
" but give me your faithful word, that, for the next 
six months, you will neither buy it for yourself, nor 
allow any one to treat you. Tell me this every 
Saturday night. When you are away from me, send 
a postal or telegram. Giving an account so often 
will keep it fresh in your mind. And never think 
you cannot do it ; always believe that you can by going 
away from the temptation, not looking and longing 
 
after it. And now," I continued, " I am going to 
give you Miss Eve's quarter back again. Think 
that you spent my money, not hers. You see, it isn't 
any trust when you know a fellow can't do a certain 
thing. I know you have the money to get a drink, 
but I trust you wholly for my own and my sister's 
sake. I know you mean to keep your word this time." 
"Yes," he said just under his breath, and began 
to walk up and down again. 
I had learned before this that long sermons were 
useless. There was such a thing as talking away 
the strength of an argument in cases like these. 
One's own reflection and resolves must count for a 
factor, or the work is in vain. 
After the train came in, we went down for Eve. 
Pryor was there ; and we all walked back together, 
and had a pleasant little chat about our moving. 
" Do you know," said he, " that I am half sorry ? 
What jolly evenings we have had in this little office, 
and what famous talks about every thing ! I never en 
joyed a winter more in my life, though of course I've 
had gayer ones. I can just imagine, though, what a 
paradise you will make of that place up there. You 
have taken hold of the right end, and you'll succeed 
too." 
" If we shouldn't stumble over an apple," returned 
Eve, her eyes alight with humor. 
 
" An apple ! " he exclaimed in amaze ; but Joe 
caught at the joke, and giggled. 
" Oh ! " and he laughed. " It will be Adam and 
Eve in a garden. And who is to play serpent ? " 
" Some designing Lilith, who will set her cap for 
Adam. But we have made a league, offensive and 
defensive ; and we shall allow of no third person 
until Paradise has been paid for in hard cash ! " Eve 
exclaimed resolutely. 
" O Miss Thurston ! " 
Pryor looked at her so steadily that he almost had 
his heart in his eyes. 
" Yes," she resumed, in a tone that was friendly to 
a point of frank meaning. " It is hard, I know, for 
the girls. Ad is nice." 
"But you" 
" Well, I've brought him into this trouble, almost 
against his will, and it would be cruel not to see him 
through. So I shall have to put up a card over the 
hall-door, ' All hope abandon, ye who enter here.' " 
" You are cruel," he said. " That was not the way 
the flaming sword was used." 
" But, you see, we do not mean to have any falls 
from grace until the five years are ended." 
" Pryor is more than half in love with your sister," 
Joe Crawford said that night. 
 
CHAPTER VIII 
ON Monday morning we began to pack up our 
bulky articles. The smaller ones had gone in the 
manner in which Pip was brought up, " by hand." 
I had hired a wagon of a neighbor ; and after break 
fast, we made ready, and moved. Joe and I put the 
kitchen-stove in place, and the fire was kindled. Joe 
and Eve put the matting down in the two chambers, 
and the furniture was placed in proper position after 
some moving about. Eve had chosen the room with 
the bay-window, and it furnished very prettily. 
Indeed, the bedroom suite had never looked half so 
pretty in the big room over the station. Then she 
prepared the dinner ; but we were compelled to have 
it in the kitchen, as our conveniences were of that 
sort, and extremely limited. 
" The first thing to-morrow morning we must go 
down to Northwood, and buy some more matting, a 
dining-table, and chairs. When we get rich, we can 
have some carpets. I have just fifty dollars." 
" Which you ought to spend on yourself." 
 
" As I mean to ; " and Eve nodded complacently. 
" The 1st of June I shall have ten dollars more. 
The 1st of July thirty dollars ; and if the class in 
painting gets together, I have offered to give a 
class of ten girls twelve lessons for five dollars 
apiece, just half price ; but having them all at once 
makes the difference. That will be fifty dollars, you 
see," triumphantly. 
" You seem to coin money," I said jocosely. " I 
shall have to look well to my ways." 
" Oh ! this is a sort of summer harvest," she laughed. 
" But I do hope to go on with the music ; and now I 
have my own dear piano for aid and comfort. For 
fifty dollars we must furnish our dining-room, and 
cover our parlor-floor." 
" Well, you know how to work miracles," I replied. 
Then we went out in the garden. The grass was 
looking green and lovely : there were some daffodils 
in bloom, and here and there a crocus. The rose 
bushes had been trimmed : there were indications of 
tulips, and great mounds of day-lilies. We could 
think how lovely it would be when the fruit-trees 
came out : the cherries were showing white, and the 
peaches were in a haze of pink, but nothing really 
open. We had discovered a great lilac, and several 
bushes of syringa. 
" I can hardly wait," she declared ; " and yet I wish 
 
the days were twice as long, there is so much to do. 
Why, I never knew time to go so fast." 
We were to sleep in our own house that night, and 
Joe was to take the lounge down at the office. He 
insisted that I should not come down for the first 
train but I knew I should be awake. I spent the 
evening taking the piano out of its coffin, as Eve called 
it. The packing had been well done, and it had not 
suffered a scratch; but it needed polishing, and, no 
doubt, tuning. We decided where it should stand ; 
and, as soon as we had the matting down, I would 
