sleep there that night, and he had come in to wait, he was so 
eager to congratulate him. Nick submitted with a good grace 
to his society he was tired enough to go to bed, but he was 
restless too in spite of feeling now, oddly enough, that Nash's 
congratulations could add little to his fortitude. He had felt 
a good deal, before, as if he were in Nash's hands ; but now 
that he had made his final choice he seemed to himself to be 
altogether in his own. Gabriel was wonderful, but no Gabriel 
could assist him much henceforth. 
Gabriel was indeed more wonderful than ever, while he 
lolled on a divan and emitted a series of reflections which 
were even more ingenious than opportune. Nick walked up 
and down the room, and it might have been supposed from 
his manner that he was impatient for his visitor to withdraw. 
This idea would have been contradicted however by the fact 
that subsequently, after Nash had taken leave, he continued 
to perambulate. He had grown used to Nash had a sense 
that he had heard all he had to say. That was one's penalty 
with persons whose main gift was for talk, however irrigating ; 
talk engendered a sense of sameness much sooner than action. 
The things a man did were necessarily more different from 
each other than the things he said, even if he went in for 
surprising you. Nick felt Nash could never surprise him any 
more save by doing something. 
He talked of his host's future, he talked of Miriam Rooth 
and of Peter Sherringham, whom he had seen at Miriam 
Rooth's and whom he described as in a predicament delightful 
to behold. Nick asked a question or two about Peter's pre- 
dicament and learned rather to his disappointment that it 
consisted only of the fact that he was in love with Miriam. 
He requested his visitor to do better than this ; whereupon 
Nash added the touch that Sherringham wouldn't be able to 
have her. " Oh, they have ideas ! " he said, when Nick asked 
him why. 
" What ideas ? So has he, I suppose." 
" Yes, but they're not the same." 
" Oh well, they'll arrange something," said Nick. 
" You'll have to help them a bit. She's in love with 
another man," Nash returned. 
" Do you mean with you ? " 
" Oh, I'm never another man," said Nash ; " I'm more the 
wrong one than the man himself. It's you she's after." And 
upon Nick's asking him what he meant by this he added : 
" "While you were engaged in transferring her image to your 
sensorium you stamped your own upon hers." 
Nick stopped in his walk, staring. " Ah, what a bore ! " 
" A bore ? Don't you think she's agreeable ? " 
Nick hesitated. " I wanted to go on with her now I can't." 
" My dear fellow, it only makes her handsomer : I wondered 
what was the matter with her." 
" Oh, that's twaddle," said Nick, turning away. " Besides, 
has she told you? " 
" No, but her mother has." 
" Has she told her mother ? " 
" Mrs. Rooth says not. But I have known Mrs. Rooth to 
say that which isn't." 
" Apply that rule then to the information you speak of." 
" Well, since you press me, I know more," said Nash. 
" Miriam knows you are engaged to a certain lady ; she told 
me as much, told me she had seen her here. That was enough 
to set Miriam off she likes forbidden fruit." 
" I'm not engaged to any lady. I was, but we've altered 
our minds." 
" Ah, what a pity ! " sighed Nash. 
" Mephistopheles ! " Nick rejoined, stopping again and 
looking at his visitor gravely. 
" Pray, whom do you call Margaret ? May I ask if your 
failure of interest in the political situation is the cause of this 
change in your personal one ? " Nash went on. Nick signified 
to him that he might not; whereupon Gabriel added : " I am 
not in the least devilish I only mean it's a pity you've altered 
your minds, because now perhaps Miriam will alter hers. She 
goes from one thing to another. However, I won't tell her." 
" I will, then," said Nick, between jest and earnest. 
" Would that really be prudent ? " Nash asked, with an 
intonation that made hilarity prevail. 
" At any rate," Nick resumed, " nothing would induce me 
to interfere with Peter Sherringham. That sounds fatuous, 
but to you I don't mind appearing an ass." 
" The thing would be to get Sherringham out of spite to 
entangle himself with another woman." 
" What good would that do ? " 
" Oh, Miriam would begin to fancy him then." 
" Spite surely isn't a conceivable motive for a healthy man." 
" Ah, Sherringham isn't a healthy man. He's too much in 
love." 
"Then he won't care for another woman." 
" He would try to, and that would produce its effect its 
effect on Miriam." 
" You talk like an American novel. Let him try, and God 
keep us all straight." Nick thought, in extreme silence, of 
his poor little Biddy and hoped he would have to see to it a 
little that Peter wouldn't " try " on her. He changed the 
subject and before Nash went away took occasion to remark 
to him the occasion was offered by some new allusion of the 
visitor's to the sport he hoped to extract from seeing Nick 
carry out everything to which he stood committed that the 
great comedy would fall very flat, the great incident would 
pass unnoticed. 
" Oh, if you'll simply do your part I'll take care of the rest," 
said Nash. 
" If you mean by doing my part working like a beaver, it's 
all right," Nick replied. 
"Ah, you reprobate, you'll become a fashionable painter, a 
P. E.. A. ! " his companion groaned, getting up to go. 
When he had gone Nick threw himself back on the cushions 
of the divan and, with his hands locked above his head, sat a 
long time lost in thought. He had sent his servant to bed ; 
he was unmolested. . He gazed before him into the gloom 
produced by the unheeded burning out of the last candle. The 
vague outer light came in through the tall studio window, and 
the painted images, ranged about, looked confused in the dusk. 
If his mother had seen him she might have thought he was 
staring at his father's ghost. 
XXXYI. 
THE night Peter Sherringham walked away from Balaklava 
Place with Gabriel Nash the talk of the two men directed 
itself, as was natural under the circumstances, to the question 
of Miriam's future renown and the pace, as Nash called it, at 
which she would go. Critical spirits as they both were, and 
one of them as dissimulative in passion as the other was para- 
doxical in the absence of it, they yet took this renown for 
granted as completely as the simple-minded, a pair of hot spec- 
tators in the pit, might have done, and exchanged observations 
on the assumption that the only uncertain element would be 
the pace. This was a proof of general subjugation. Peter 
wished not to show, but he wished to know ; and in the rest- 
lessness of his anxiety he was ready even to risk exposure, 
great as the sacrifice might be of the imperturbable, urbane 
scepticism most appropriate to a secretary of embassy. He 
was unable to rid himself of the sense that Gabriel Nash had 
got up earlier than he, had had opportunities in days already 
distant, the days of Mrs. Rooth's hungry foreign rambles. 
Something of authority and privilege stuck to him from this, 
and it made Sherringham still more uncomfortable when he 
was most conscious that at the best even the trained diplo- 
matic mind would never get a grasp of Miriam as a whole. 
She was constructed to revolve like the terrestrial globe ; some 
part or other of her was always out of sight or in shadow. 
Sherringham talked to conceal his feelings and, like every 
man doing a thing from that sort of intention, did it perhaps 
too much. They agreed that, putting strange accidents aside, 
Miriam would go further than any one had gone, in England 
at least and within the memory of man ; and that it was a 
pity, as regards marking the comparison, that for so long no 
one had gone any distance worth speaking of. They further 
agreed that it would naturally seem absurd to any one who 
didn't know, their prophesying such big things on such small 
evidence; and they agreed lastly that the absurdity quite 
vanished as soon as the prophets knew as they knew. Their 
knowledge (they quite recognized this) was simply confidence 
raised to a high point the communication of the girl's own 
confidence. The conditions were enormously to make, but it 
was of the very essence of Miriam's confidence that she would 
make them. The parts, the plays, the theatres, the " support," 
the audiences, the critics, the money were all to be found, but 
she cast a spell which prevented that from seeming a serious 
hitch. One might not see from one day to the other what she 
would do or how she would do it, but she would none the less 
go on. She would have to construct her own road, as it were, 
but at the worst there would only be delays in making it. 
These delays would depend on the hardness of the stones she 
had to break. 
As Sherringham had perceived, you never knew where to 
" have " Gabriel Nash ; a truth exemplified in his unexpected 
delight at the prospect of Miriam's drawing forth the modern- 
ness of the age. You might have thought he would loathe 
that modernness ; but he had a brilliant, amused, amusing 
vision of it, saw it as something huge and ornamentally vulgar. 
Its vulgarity would rise to the grand style, like that of a 
London railway station, and Miriam's publicity would be as 
big as the globe itself. All the machinery was ready, the 
platform laid ; the facilities, the wires and bells and trumpets, 
the colossal, deafening newspaperism of the period its most 
distinctive sign were waiting for her, their predestined mis- 
tress, to press her foot on the spring and set them all in motion. 
Gabriel brushed in a large bright picture of her progress 
through the time and round the world, round it and round it 
again, from continent to continent and clime to clime ; with 
populations and deputations, reporters and photographers, 
placards and interviews and banquets, steamers, railways, 
dollars, diamonds, speeches and artistic ruin all jumbled into 
her train. Regardless of expense the spectacle would be and 
thrilling, though somewhat monotonous, the drama a drama 
more bustling than any she would put on the stage and a 
spectacle that would beat everything for scenery. In the end 
her divine voice would crack, screaming to foreign ears and 
antipodal barbarians, and her clever manner would lose all 
quality, simplified to a few unmistakable knock-down dodges. 
Then she would be at the fine climax of life and glory, still 
young and insatiate, but already coarse, hard and raddled, 
with nothing left to do and nothing left to do it with, the 
remaining years all before her and the raison d'etre all behind. 
It would be curious and magnificent and grotesque. 
" Oh, she'll have some good years they'll be worth having," 
Sherringham insisted, as they went. " Besides, you see her 
too much as a humbug and too little as a real producer. She 
has ideas great ones ; she loves the thing for itself. That 
may keep a woman serious." 
" Her greatest idea must always be to show herself ; and 
fortunately she has a splendid self to show. I think of her 
absolutely as a real producer, but as a producer whose produc- 
tion is her own person. No ' person even as fine a one as 
hers, will stand that for more than an hour, so that hum- 
buggery has very soon to lend a hand. However," Nash 
continued, " if she's a fine humbug it will do as well, and 
perfectly suit the time. We can all be saved by vulgarity ; 
that's the solvent of all difficulties and the blessing of this 
delightful age. Let no man despair; a new hope has dawned." 
" She'll do her work like any other worker, with the ad- 
vantage over many that her talent is rare," Peter replied. 
" Compared with the life of many women, that's security and 
sanity of the highest order. Then she can't help her beauty. 
You can't vulgarize that." 
" Oh, can't you? " exclaimed Gabriel Nash. 
" It will abide with her till the day of her death. It isn't 
a mere superficial freshness. She's very noble." 
" Yes, that's the pity of it," said Nash. " She's a capital 
girl, and I quite admit that she'll do for a while a lot of good. 
She will have brightened up the world for a great many 
people ; she will have brought the ideal nearer to them, held 
it fast for an hour, with its feet on earth and its great wings 
trembling. That's always something, for blessed is he who 
has dropped even the smallest coin into the little iron box 
that contains the precious savings of mankind. Miriam will 
doubtless have dropped a big gold piece. It will be found, in 
the general scramble, on the day the race goes bankrupt. And 
then, for herself, she will have had a great go at life." 
" Oh, yes, she'll have got out of her hole ; she won't have 
vegetated," said Sherringham. "That makes her touching to 
me ; it adds to the many good reasons for which one may 
want to help her. She's tackling a big job, and tackling it 
by herself ; throwing herself upon the world, in good faith, 
and dealing with it as she can ; meeting alone, in her youth, 
her beauty and her generosity all the embarrassments of 
notoriety and all the difficulties of a profession of which, if 
one half is what's called brilliant, the other half is odious." 
" She has great courage, but should you speak of her as 
solitary, with such a lot of us all round her? " Gabriel asked. 
" She's a great thing for you and me, but we're a small 
thing for her." 
Well, a good many small things may make up a consider- 
able one," Nnsh returned. " There must always be the man ; 
he's the indispensable element in such a life, and he'll be the 
last thing she'll ever want for." 
" What man are you talking about ? " Sherringham asked, 
rather confusedly. 
"The man of the hour, whoever he is. She'll inspire 
innumerable devotions." 
" Of course she will, and they will be precisely a part of the 
insufferable side of her life." 
" Insufferable to whom ? " Nash inquired. " Don't forget 
that the insufferable side of her life will be just the side she'll 
thrive on. You can't eat your cake and have it, and you can't 
make omelettes without breaking eggs. You can't at once sit 
by the fire and fly about the world, and you can't go round 
and round the globe without having adventures. You can't 
be a great actress without quivering nerves. If you haven't 
them you'll only be a small one. If you have them, your 
friends will be pretty sure to hear of them. Your nerves and 
your adventures, your eggs and your cake, are part of the cost 
of the most expensive of professions. If you do your business 
at all you should do it handsomely, so that the costs may run 
up tremendously. You play with human passions, with exalt- 
ations and ecstasies and terrors, and if you trade on the fury 
of the elements you must know how to ride the storm." 
" Those are the fine old commonplaces about the artistic 
temperament, but I usually find the artist a very meek, decent 
little person," said Sherringham. 
" You never find the artist you only find his work, and 
that's all you need find. When the artist's a woman and 
the woman's an actress, meekness and decency will doubtless 
be there in the right proportions," Nash went on. " Miriam 
will represent them for you, if you give her her starting- 
point, with the utmost charm." 
" Of course she'll have devotions that's all right," said 
Sherringham, impatiently. 
" And don't you see ? they'll mitigate her solitude, they'll 
even enliven it," Nash remarked. 
" She'll probably box a good many ears : that'll te lively," 
Peter rejoined, with some grimness. 
" Oh, magnificent ! it will be a merry life. Yet with its 
tragic passages, its distracted or its pathetic hours," Nash 
continued. " In short a little of everything." 
The two men walked on without further speech, till at last 
Sherringham said : " The best thing for a woman in her 
situation is to marry some good fellow." 
" Oh, I dare say she'll do that too ! " ISTash laughed ; a 
remark in consequence of which Peter again lapsed into 
silence. Gabriel left him to enjoy his silence for some 
minutes ; after which he added : " There's a good fellow she'd 
marry to-morrow." 
Peter hesitated. "Do you mean her friend Dashwood?" 
" No, no, I mean Nick Dormer." 
" She'd marry him ? " Sherringham. asked. 
" I mean her head's full of him. But she'll hardly get the 
chance." 
" Does she like him so much as that ? " Sherringham 
went on. 
" I don't know quite how much you mean, but enough for 
all practical ends." 
" Marrying a fashionable actress that's hardly a practical 
end." 
" Certainly not, but I'm not speaking from his point of 
view. Moreover I thought you just now said it would be 
such a good thing for her." 
" To marry Nick Dormer ? " 
" You said a good fellow, and he's the very best." 
" I wasn't thinking of the man, but of the marriage. It 
would protect her, make things safe and comfortable for her 
and keep a lot of cads and blackguards away." 
" She ought to marry the prompter or the box-keeper," said 
Nash. " Then it would be all right. I think indeed they 
generally do, don't they ? " 
Sherringham felt for a moment a strong disposition to 
drop his companion on the spot to cross to the other side 
of the street and walk away without him. But there was a 
different impulse which struggled with this one and, after a 
minute, overcame it the impulse which led to his saying 
presently : " Has she told you that that she's in love with 
Nick?" 
." No, no that's not the way I know it." 
" Has Nick told you, then ? " 
" On the contrary, I've told him." 
" You've rendered him a questionable service if you've no 
proof," said Peter. 
" My proof is only that I've seen her with him. She's 
charming, poor thing." 
" But surely she isn't in love with every man she's charm- 
ing to." 
" I mean she's charming to me," Nash replied. " I see her 
that way. But judge for yourself the first time you get a 
chance." 
" When shall I get a chance? Nick doesn't come near her." 
" Oh, he'll come, he'll come ; his picture isn't finished." 
" You mean hell be the box-keeper then ? " 
" My dear fellow, I shall never allow it," said Gabriel Nash. 
" It would be idiotic and quite unnecessary. He's beauti- 
fully arranged, in quite a different line. Fancy his taking 
that sort of job on his hands ! Besides, she would never 
expect it ; she's not such a goose. They're very good friends 
it will go on that way. She's an excellent sort of woman 
for him to know ; she'll give him lots of ideas of the plastic 
kind. He would have been up there before this, but he has 
been absorbed in this delightful squabble with his constituents. 
That of course is pure amusement ; but when once it's well 
launched he'll get back to business and his business will be a 
very different matter from Miriam's. Imagine him writing 
her advertisements, living on her money, adding up her profits, 
having rows and recriminations with her agent, carrying her 
shawl, spending his days in her rouge-pot. The right man for 
that, if she must have one, will turn up. ' Pour le mariage, 
non.' Miriam isn't an idiot ; she really, for a woman, quite 
sees things as they are." 
As Sherringham had not crossed the street and left Gabriel 
planted, he was obliged to brave the torment of this sugges- 
tive flow. But descrying in the dusky vista of the Edgware 
Road a vague and vigilant hansom, he waved his stick with 
eagerness and with the abrupt declaration that he was tired, 
must drive the rest of the way. He offered Nash, as he 
entered the vehicle, no seat, but this coldness was not reflected 
in the lucidity with which that master of every subject went 
on to affirm that there was, of course, a danger the danger 
that in given circumstances Miriam would leave the stage. 
" Leave it you mean for some man? " 
" For the man we're talking about." 
''For Nick Dormer ?" Peter asked from his place in the 
cab, his paleness lighted by its lamps. 
" If he should make it a condition. But why should he 
why should he make any conditions ? He's not an ass either. 
You see it would be a bore," Nash continued while the han- 
som waited, " because if she were to do anything of that sort 
she would make him pay for the sacrifice." 
"Oh yes, she'd make him pay for the sacrifice," Sherringham 
repeated. 
" And then, when he had paid, she'd go back to her foot- 
lights," Gabriel added, explicatively, from the curbstone, as 
Sherringham closed the apron of the cab. 
" I see she'd go back good-night," Peter replied. " Phase 
go on ! " he cried to the driver through the hole in the roof. 
And when the vehicle rolled away he subjoined to himself : 
" Of course she would and quite right ! " 
XXXVII. 
" JUDGE for yourself when you get a chance," Nash had said ; 
and as it turned out Sherringham was able to judge two days 
later, for he found his cousin in Balaklava Place on the 
Tuesday following his walk with Gabriel. He had not only 
stayed away from the theatre on the Monday evening (he 
regarded this as an achievement of some importance), but had 
not been near Miriam during the day. He had meant to 
absent himself from her company on Tuesday as well ; a 
determination confirmed by the fact that the afternoon turned 
out wet. But when, at ten minutes to five o'clock, he jumped 
into a hansom and directed its course to St. John's Wood, it 
was precisely upon the weather that he shifted the responsibility 
of his behaviour. 
Miriam had dined when he reached the villa, but she was 
lying down she was tired before going to the theatre. 
Mrs. Booth was however in the drawing-room with three 
gentlemen, in two of whom the fourth visitor was not startled 
to recognize Basil Dashwood and Gabriel Nash. Dashwood 
appeared to have become Miriam's brother-in-arms and a 
second child a fonder one to Mrs. Booth ; it had come to 
Sherringham' s knowledge the last time he was in Balaklava 
Place that the young actor had finally moved his lodgings 
into the quarter, making himself a near neighbour for all sorts 
of convenience. " Hang his convenience ! " Peter thought, 
perceiving that Mrs. Lovick's " Arty " was now altogether one 
of the family. Oh, the family it was a queer one to be con- 
nected with ; that consciousness was acute in Sherringham's 
breast to-day as he entered Mrs. Booth's little circle. The 
room was filled with cigarette-smoke and there was a messy 
coffee-service on the piano, whose keys Basil Dashwood lightly 
touched for his own diversion. Nash, addressing the room, 
of course, was at one end of a little sofa, with his nose in the 
air, and Nick Dormer was at the other end, seated much at his 
ease, with a certain privileged appearance of having been 
there often before, though Sherringham knew he had not. 
He looked uncritical and very young, as rosy as a school- boy 
on a half-holiday. It was past five o'clock in the day, but 
Mrs. Rooth was not dressed ; there was however no want of 
finish in her elegant attitude the same relaxed grandeur 
(she seemed to let you understand) for which she used to be 
distinguished at Castle Nugent when the house was full. She 
toyed incongruously, in her unbuttoned wrapper, with a large 
tinsel fan which resembled a theatrical property. 
It was one of the discomforts of Sherringham's situation 
that many of those minor matters which are, superficially at 
least, most characteristic of the histrionic life had power to 
displease him, so that he was obliged to make the effort of 
indulgence. He disliked besmoked drawing-rooms and irregular 
meals and untidy arrangements ; he could suffer from the 
vulgarity of Mrs. Booth's apartments, the importunate photo- 
graphs (they gave on his nerves), the barbarous absence of 
signs of an orderly domestic life, the odd volumes from the 
circulating library (you could see what they were the very 
covers told you at a glance) tumbled about with cups or 
glasses on them. He had not waited till now to make the 
reflection that it was a strange thing fate should have goaded 
him into that sort of contact ; but as he stood before Mrs. 
Eooth and her companions he made it perhaps more 
pointedly than ever. Her companions, somehow, who were 
not responsible, didn't keep him from making it ; which was 
particularly odd, as they were not, superficially, in the least 
of Bohemian type. Almost the first thing that struck him, 
as it happened, in coming into the room, was the essential 
good looks of his cousin, who was a gentleman to the eye in 
a different degree from the high-collared Dashwood. Peter 
didn't hate him for being such a pleasant young Englishman ; 
his consciousness was traversed rather by a fresh wave of 
annoyance at Julia's failure to get on with him on that 
substantial basis. 
It was Sherringham's first encounter with Nick since his 
arrival in London : they had been, on one side and the other, 
so much taken up with their own affairs. Since their last 
meeting Nick had, as we know, to his kinsman's perception, 
really taken on a new character : he had done a fine stroke of 
business in a quiet way. This made him a figure to be counted 
with, and in just the sense in which Peter desired least to 
count with him. Poor Sherringham, after his summersault in 
the blue, was much troubled these last days ; he was ravaged 
by contending passions ; he paid, every hour, in a torment of 
unrest, for what was false in his position, the impossibility of 
being consistent, the opposition of interest and desire. Nick, 
his junior and a lighter weight, had settled his problem and 
showed no wounds : there was something impertinent and 
mystifying in it. He looked too innocently young and happy 
there, and too careless and modest and amateurish for a rival 
or for the genius that he was apparently going to try to be 
the genius that, the other day in the studio with Biddy, 
Peter had got a startled glimpse of his capacity for being. 
Sherringham would have liked to feel that he had grounds of 
resentment, that Julia had been badly treated or that Nick 
was fatuous, for in that case he might have regarded him as 
offensive. But where was the offence of his merely being 
liked by a woman in respect to whom Peter had definitely 
denied himself the luxury of pretensions, especially if the 
offender had taken no action in the matter ? It could scarcely 
be called culpable action to call, casually, on an afternoon 
when the lady was invisible. Peter, at any rate, was distinctly 
glad Miriam was invisible ; and he proposed to himself to 
suggest to Nick after a little that they should adjourn 
together they had such interesting things to talk about. 
Meanwhile Nick greeted him with candid tones and pleasant 
eyes, in which he could read neither confusion nor defiance. 
Sherringham was reassured against a danger he believed he 
didn't recognize and puzzled by a mystery he flattered him- 
self he didn't mind. And he was still more ashamed of 
being reassured than of being puzzled. 
It must be recorded that Miriam remained invisible only a 
few minutes longer. Nick, as Sherringham gathered, had 
been about a quarter of an hour in the house, which would 
have given the girl, aroused from her repose, about time to 
array herself to come down to him. At all events she was in 
the room, prepared apparently to go to the theatre, very 
shortly after Sherringham had become sensible of how glad he 
was she was out of it. Familiarity had never yet cured him 
of a certain tremor of expectation and even of suspense in 
regard to her entrances ; a flutter caused by the simple cir- 
cumstance of her infinite variety. To say she was always 
acting suggests too much that she was often fatiguing ; for 
her changing face affected this particular admirer at least not 
as a series of masks, but as a response to perceived differences, 
an intensity of sensibility, or still more as something cleverly 
constructive, like the shifting of the scene in a play or a room 
with many windows. Her incarnations were incalculable, but 
if her present denied her past and declined responsibility for 
her future, it made a good thing of the hour and kept the 
actual very actual. This time the actual was a bright, gentle, 
graceful, smiling young woman in a new dress, eager to go out, 
drawing on fresh gloves, who looked as if she were about to 
step into a carriage and (it was Gabriel Nash who thus 
formulated her physiognomy) do a lot of London things. 
The young woman had time to spare however, and she sat 
down and talked and laughed and presently gave, as it seemed 
to Sherringham, a finer character to the tawdry little room. 
It was honourable enough if it belonged to her. She described 
herself as in a state of nervous bewilderment exhausted, 
stupefied, blinded with the rehearsals of the forthcoming piece 
(the first night was close at hand and it was going to be d'un 
mauvais they would all see !), but there was no corre- 
spondence between this account of the matter and her present 
kindly gaiety. She sent her mother away to " put on some 
clothes or something " and, left alone with the visitors, went 
to a long glass between the windows, talking always to Nick 
Dormer, and revised and rearranged a little her own attire. 
She talked to Nick over her shoulder, and to Nick only, as if 
he were the guest to recognize and the others didn't count. 
She broke out immediately about his having thrown up his 
seat, wished to know if the strange story told her by Mr. Nash 
were true that he had knocked all the hopes of his party 
into pie. 
Nick took it in this way and gave a jocular picture of his 
party's ruin, the critical condition of public affairs : evidently 
as yet he remained inaccessible to shame or repentance. 
Sherringham, before Miriam's entrance, had not, in shaking 
hands with Nick, made even a roundabout allusion to his odd 
" game : " there seemed a sort of muddled good taste in being 
silent about it. He winced a little on seeing how his scruples 
had been wasted, and was struck with the fine, jocose, direct 
turn of his kinsman's conversation with the young actress. 
It was a part of her unexpectedness that she took the heavy 
literal view of Nick's behaviour; declared frankly, though 
without ill-nature, that she had no patience with his folly. 
She was horribly disappointed she had set her heart on his 
being a great statesman, one of the rulers of the people and 
the glories of England. What was so useful, what was so 
noble ? how it belittled everything else ! She had expected 
him to wear a cordon and a star some day (and to get them 
very soon), and to come and see her in her loge : it would 
look so well. She talked like a lovely Philistine, except 
perhaps when she expressed surprise at hearing she heard 
it from Gabriel Nash that in England gentlemen accoutred 
with those emblems of their sovereign's esteem didn't so far 
forget themselves as to stray into the dressing-rooms of 
actresses. She admitted, after a moment, that they were 
quite right the dressing-rooms of actresses were nasty 
places ; but she was sorry, for that was the sort of thing she 
had always figured, in a corner a distinguished man, slightly 
bald, in evening dress, with orders, admiring the smallness 
of a satin shoe and saying witty things. Gabriel Nash was 
convulsed with hilarity at this such a vision of the British 
political hero. Coming back from the glass and making him 
give her his place on the sofa, she seated herself near Nick 
and continued to express her regret at his perversity. 
"They all say that all the charming women, but I 
shouldn't have looked for it from you," Nick replied. "I've 
given you such an example of what I can do in another 
line." 
"Do you mean my portrait? Oh, I've got it, with your 
name and 'M.P.' in the corner, and that's precisely why I'm 
content. 'M.P.' in the corner of a picture is delightful, but 
I want to break the mould : I don't in the least insist on 
your giving specimens to others. And the artistic life, when 
you can lead another if you have any alternative, however 
modest is a very poor business. It comes last in dignity 
after everything else. Ain't I up to my eyes in it and don't 
I know?" 
" You talk like my broken-hearted mother," said Nick. 
"Does she hate it so intensely?" 
"She has the darkest ideas about it the wildest theories. 
I can't imagine where she gets them ; partly, I think, from 
a general conviction that the ' aesthetic ' a horrible insidious 
foreign disease is eating the healthy core out of English 
life (dear old English life !) and partly from the charming 
drawings in Punch and the clever satirical articles, pointing 
at mysterious depths of contamination, in the other weekly 
papers. She believes there's a dreadful coterie of uncannily 
clever and desperately refined people, who wear a kind of 
loose, faded uniform and worship only beauty which is a 
fearful thing that Nash has introduced me to it, that I now 
spend all my time in it, and that for its sweet sake I have 
repudiated the most sacred engagements. Poor Nash, who, 
so far as I can make out, isn't in any sort of society, however 
bad ! " 
" But I'm uncannily clever," Nash interposed, " and though 
I can't afford the uniform (I believe you get it best some- 
where in South Audley Street), I do worship beauty. I really 
think it's me the weekly paper means." 
" Oh, I've read the articles I know the sort ! " said Basil 
Dashwood. 
Miriam looked at him. " Go and see if the brougham's 
there I ordered it early." 
Dashwood, without moving, consulted his watch. " It isn't 
time yet I know more about the brougham than you. I've 
made a rattling good arrangement for her it really costs 
her nothing," the young actor continued confidentially to 
Sherringham, near whom he had placed himself. 
" Your mother's quite right to be broken-hearted," Miriam 
declared, "and I can imagine exactly what she has been 
through. I should like to talk with her I should like to see 
her." Nick broke into ringing laughter, reminding her that 
she had talked to him, while she sat for her portrait, in 
directly the opposite sense, most suggestively and inspiringly ; 
and Nash explained that she was studying the part of a 
political duchess and wished to take observations for it, to 
work herself into the character. Miriam might in fact have 
been a political duchess as she sat with her head erect and 
her gloved hands folded, smiling with aristocratic dimness at 
Nick. She shook her head with stately sadness ; she might 
have been representing Mary Stuart in Schiller's play. " I've 
changed since that. I want you to be the grandest thing 
there is the counsellor of kings." 
Peter Sherringham wondered if possibly it were not since 
she had met his sister in Nick's studio that she had changed, 
if perhaps it had not occurred to her that it would give Julia 
the sense of being more effectually routed to know that the 
woman who had thrown the bomb was one who also tried to 
keep Nick in the straight path. This indeed would involve 
an assumption that Julia might know, whereas it was perfectly 
possible that she mightn't and more than possible that if she 
should she wouldn't care. Miriam's essential fondness for 
trying different ways was always there as an adequate reason 
for any particular way ; a truth which however sometimes 
only half prevented the particular way from being vexatious 
to Sherringham. 
"Yet after all who is more aesthetic than you and who 
goes in more for the beautiful ? " Nick asked. " You're never 
so beautiful as when you pitch into it." 
"Oh, I'm an inferior creature, of an inferior sex, and I 
have to earn my bread as I can. I'd give it all up in a 
moment, my odious trade for an inducement." 
" And pray what do you mean by an inducement ? " Nick 
demanded. 
"My dear fellow, she means you if you'll give her a 
permanent engagement to sit for you ! " exclaimed Gabriel 
Nash. "What crude questions you ask!" 
" I like the way she talks," Basil Dashwood broke in, 
" when I gave up the most brilliant prospects, of very much 
the same kind as Mr. Dormer's, expressly to go on the stage." 
"You're an inferior creature too," said Miriam. 
" Miss Rooth is very hard to satisfy," Sherringham observed. 
" A man of distinction, slightly bald, in evening dress, with 
orders, in the corner of her loge she has such a personage 
ready made to her hand and she doesn't so much as look at 
him. Am I not an inducement ? Have I not offered you a 
permanent engagement?" 
" Your orders where are your orders ? " Miriam inquired 
with a sweet smile, getting up. 
" I shall be a minister next year and an ambassador before 
you know it. Then I shall stick on everything that can be 
had." 
" And they call us mountebanks ! " cried the girl. " I've 
been so glad to see you again do you want another sitting ? " 
she went on, to Nick, as if to take leave of him. 
" As many as you'll give me I shall be grateful for all," 
Nick answered. "I should like to do you as you are at 
present. You're totally different from the woman I painted 
you're wonderful." 
"The Comic Muse!" laughed Miriam. "Well, you must 
wait till our first nights are over I'm sur les dents till then. 
There's everything to do, and I have to do it all. That 
fellow's good for nothing for nothing but domestic life," and 
she glanced at Basil Dashwood. " He hasn't an idea not one 
that you'd willingly tell of him, though he's rather useful for 
the stables. We've got stables now or we try to look as if 
we had : Dashwood's ideas are de cette force. In ten days I 
shall have more time." 
"The Comic Muse? Never, never," Sherringham protested. 
"You're not to go smirking through the age and down 
to posterity I'd rather see you as Medusa crowned with 
serpents. That's what you look like when you look best." 
" That's consoling when I've just bought a new bonnet ! 
I forgot to tell you just now that when you're an ambassador 
you may propose anything you like," Miriam went on. " But 
excuse me if I make that condition. Seriously speaking, come 
to me glittering with orders and I shall probably succumb. I 
can't resist stars and garters. Only you must, as you say, 
have them all. I don't like to hear Mr. Dormer talk the 
slang of the studio like that phrase just now : it is a fall to 
a lower state. However, when one is low one must crawl, and 
I'm crawling down to the Strand. Dash wood, see if mamma's 
ready. If she isn't I decline to wait ; you must bring her in 
a hansom. I'll take Mr. Dormer in the brougham ; I want to 
talk with Mr. Dormer ; he must drive with me to the theatre. 
His situation is full of interest." Miriam led the way out of 
the room as she continued to chatter, and when she reached 
the house-door, with the four men in her train, the carriage 
had just drawn up at the garden-gate. It appeared that Mrs. 
Rooth was not ready, and the girl, in spite of a remonstrance 
