the new crew, came at the call and was introduced to the late officers
of the prize. The understanding which had just been reached in regard to
them was repeated for the benefit of the new captain. He was quite as
pliable as his superior had always been, and there was no indication
that any friction would result from their presence on board of the
prize, now temporarily put into the service of the navy.
"Have you made all your arrangements, Captain Flint?" asked Christy when
he was all ready to return to the Bronx.
"I have very nearly completed them, Captain Passford; and I can easily
finish them after we get under way," replied Flint. "All I need before
we part is my orders."
"From all that I can learn, the Arran must be to the eastward of the
Ocklockonee," said Christy, who had given this subject all the thought
his time would permit. "The officers of the prize hailed the Bronx
coming from that direction, and that indicates that she was expected
from that quarter. Our coming from that way seems to have made Captain
Dinsmore confident that the Bronx was the Arran. I shall lay the course
of my ship to the northeast, while you will proceed to the southwest.
After you have gone fifty miles in that direction, you will make a
course due east, as I shall also after I have made the same distance.
Having run due east twenty miles, you will run to the northeast, as I
shall to the southwest. If you discover the Arran fire your midship gun,
and I will do the same."
Christy shook hands with Flint, and went on board of the Bronx. The
order was given on board of both vessels to cast off the grapnels; the
gong bell sounded in each engine room, and both vessels went ahead, the
Bronx coming about to her new course.
CHAPTER XVII
A COUPLE OF ASTONISHED CONSPIRATORS
The fog had been very variable in its density, and had been lifting and
settling at times during the day of the capture. By the time the two
vessels were ready to get under way, it had become more solid than
before. The night had come, and the darkness with it, at about the same
time. The lookouts were still in their places; but so far as seeing
anything was concerned they might as well have been in the hold. If the
Arran was still in the vicinity, as no doubt she was, the Bronx might
run into her. Wherever she was, it was well assured that her officers
knew nothing of the capture of the Ocklockonee, for not a great gun had
been discharged, and the combat had been so quickly decided that there
had been very little noise of any kind.
Everything worked without friction on board of the Bronx; and Captain
Passford felt even more elastic than usual. Doubtless the capture he had
just made afforded him a good deal of inspiration; but the fact that the
mystery of the deaf mute and the second lieutenant had been solved, and
the unfathomable catastrophe which their presence on board threatened
had been escaped was a great source of relief.
The two conspirators were disabled and confined to the sick bay, and
they were not likely to make any trouble at present. If they had had any
definite plan on which they intended to act, they had certainly lost
their opportunities, for the visit of Hungerford to the engine room of
the Bronx, no doubt for the purpose of disabling the machinery, and the
effort of Pawcett to warn the officers of the prize, had been simply
acts of desperation, adopted after they had evidently failed in every
other direction.
Pawcett was not really a loyal officer, and his expression and
manners had attracted the attention of both the captain and the first
lieutenant. The deaf mute had been brought on board in order to obtain
information, and he had been very diligent in carrying out his part of
the programme. As Christy thought the matter over, seated at his supper
in his cabin, he thought he owed more to the advice of his father at
their parting than to anything else. He had kept his own counsel in
spite of the difficulties, and had done more to blind the actors in the
conspiracy than to enlighten them. He had hoped before he parted with
the prize for the present to obtain some information in regard to the
Arran; but he had too much self-respect to ask the officers of the
Ocklockonee in regard to such matters.
The seamen who had been spotted as adherents of the late second
lieutenant had done nothing, for there had been nothing that they could
do under the circumstances. Spoors and two others of them had been
drafted into the other vessel, while the other three remained on board
of the Bronx. They were not regarded as very dangerous enemies, and they
were not in condition to undertake anything in the absence of their
leaders.
Christy had inquired in regard to the condition of Pawcett and
Hungerford before he went to his cabin, and Dr. Spokeley informed him
that neither of them would be in condition to do duty on either side for
a considerable period. They were in no danger under careful treatment,
but both of them were too seriously injured to trouble their heads with
any exciting subjects.
"Good evening, Captain Dinsmore," Christy said, when he went into his
cabin, after he had attended to all the duties that required present
attention. "I hope you are feeling better this evening."
"Hardly better, Captain Passford, though I am trying to reconcile myself
to my situation," replied the late captain of the Ocklockonee.
"Supper is all ready, sir," interposed Dave, as he passed by the
captain, after he had brought in the dishes from the galley.
"Take a seat at the table, Captain Dinsmore," continued Christy, placing
a chair for him, and looking over the table to see what cheer he had to
offer to his guest.
It looked as though the cook, aware that the commander had a guest, or
thinking that he deserved a better supper than usual after the capture
of a prize, had done his best in honor of the occasion. The broiled
chickens looked especially inviting, and other dishes were quite
tempting to a man who was two hours late at the meal.
"Thank you, captain," replied the guest, as he took the seat assigned
to him. "I can't say that I have a very fierce appetite after the
misfortune that has befallen me; but I am none the less indebted to
you for your courtesy and kindness."
"I acknowledge that I am in condition to be very happy this evening,
Captain Dinsmore, and I can hardly expect to be an agreeable companion
to one with a burden on his mind; but I can assure you of my personal
sympathy."
"You are very kind, captain. I should like to ask if many of the
officers of the old navy are young gentlemen like yourself?" inquired
the guest, looking at his host very curiously.
"There are a great many young officers in the navy at the present time,
for the exigency has pushed forward the older ones, and there are not
enough of them to take all the positions. But we shall all of us grow
older," replied Christy good-naturedly, as he helped the officer to a
piece of the chicken, which had just come from the galley fire.
"Perhaps you are older than you appear to be," suggested the guest.
"I should judge that you were not over twenty, or at least not much
more."
"I am eighteen, sir, though, unlike a lady, I try to make myself as old
as I can."
"Eighteen!" exclaimed Captain Dinsmore.
But Christy told something of his experience on board of the Bellevite
which had prepared him for his duties, and his case was rather
exceptional.
"You have physique enough for a man of twenty-five," added the guest.
"And you have been more fortunate than I have."
"And I have been as unfortunate as you are, for I have seen the inside
of a Confederate prison, though I concluded not to remain there for any
length of time," added Christy, laughing.
"You are a fortunate young man, and I do not belong to that class,"
said Captain Dinsmore, shaking his head. "I have lost my steamer, and
I suppose that will finish my career."
"Perhaps not;" but Christy was satisfied that he had lost his vessel by
a want of care, and he could not waste any compliments upon him, though
he had profited by the other's carelessness.
"I was confident when the Bronx approached the Ocklockonee that she was
another vessel," continued the guest.
"What vessel did you take her to be?"
"You will excuse me if I decline to go into particulars. I can only say
that I was sure your steamer was another, and I had no suspicion that I
was wrong till that man mounted the rail of the Bronx, and began to tell
us to the contrary," replied Captain Dinsmore. "A bolt in the engine was
broken, and the engineer could not find another on board. We expected to
obtain one when the Bronx approached us. I was deceived; and that is the
reason why I am here instead of in the cabin of my own ship."
The guest seemed to feel a little better after he had made this
explanation, though it contained nothing new to the commander of the
Bronx. Possibly the excellent supper, of which he had partaken heartily
in spite of his want of appetite, had influenced his mind through the
body. He had certainly become more cheerful, though his burden was no
lighter than when he came on board of the Bronx. Christy was also
light-hearted, not alone because he had been so successful, but because
he felt that he was no longer compelled to watch the conspirators.
"I am sorry to be obliged to impose any restrictions upon you, Captain
Dinsmore," said Christy, as he rose from the supper table. "The
circumstances compel me to request you to remain in my cabin."
"Of course I am subject to your will and pleasure, Captain Passford,"
replied the guest.
"You are a gentleman, sir, and if you will simply give me your word to
remain here, there will be no occasion for any unpleasantness. It is
possible that we may go into action at any time; and in that case you
can remain where you please below."
"I give you my word that I will remain below until I notify you of
my intention to do otherwise," replied the prisoner, though Christy
preferred to regard him as his guest.
"I am entirely satisfied. I shall be obliged to berth you in the ward
room, and you are at liberty to pass your time as you please in these
two apartments. I shall be happy to introduce you to the first
lieutenant," added the captain, as he led the way to the ward room.
Mr. Baskirk received the prisoner very politely, a berth was assigned
to him, and Christy went on deck. It was as dark as Egypt there, but Mr.
Amblen, the new acting second lieutenant, on the bridge, said the wind
was hauling to the westward, and he thought there would be a change of
weather before morning. Mr. Baskirk had made all his appointments of
petty officers rendered necessary by sending a portion of the seamen to
the Ocklockonee. Everything was in good order on deck, and Christy next
went down to the sick bay, where Hungerford and Pawcett were the only
occupants. He found Dr. Spokeley there, and inquired in regard to the
condition of the wounded men. The surgeon described the wounds of his
patients, and pointed them out to the captain.
"Does Mr. Hungerford talk any now?" asked Christy.
"Who is Mr. Hungerford?" asked the doctor.
"He is the deaf mute. He was the first officer of the Confederate
steamer Yazoo when we captured her in the Bellevite last year," replied
the captain, upon whom the eyes of the wounded man were fixed all the
time.
"He has not spoken yet in my hearing, though I have thought that he
could hear."
"His duty on board of the Bronx was to obtain information, and he
procured a good deal of it, though not all of it was as reliable as
it might have been."
"Indeed! Then he was a traitor," added the surgeon.
"He is a gentleman in spite of the role he has been playing, and I am
sorry he has been injured, though Mr. Sampson obeyed my order when he
struck him down in the engine room."
"Struck me from behind like an assassin," added Hungerford feebly.
"Did you expect to arrange a duel with him at such a time, Mr.
Hungerford?" asked Christy. "You went into the engine room to disable
the machine when you found you could do nothing else. If you had
returned to the deck when the engineer told you to do so, he would not
have disabled you. You crowded past him, and then he did his duty."
"I have been in the habit of serving with men who were square and above
board," muttered Hungerford.
"Was that where you learned to listen at my cabin door, and to conceal
yourself under the berth in my state room?" asked Christy, rather
sharply for him. "Is that the reason why Mr. Pawcett wished to have
you do the copying of my papers?"
"I can only say that I tried to do my duty to my country and I have
failed," added Hungerford, as he turned over in his berth, and showed
his back to the captain.
"May I ask, Captain Passford, who told you my name?" asked the late
second lieutenant, who seemed to be confounded by what he had heard.
"You called Mr. Hungerford by his real name, and he called you by yours,
in the interview you had with him the first night out from New York.
I have known you from the first," replied Christy.
Pawcett was as disgusted as the other had been, and he turned his face
to the ceiling of his berth. Christy was satisfied that these men would
give him no more trouble at present.
CHAPTER XVIII
A TRIANGULAR ACTION WITH GREAT GUNS
When Mr. Baskirk went on deck to take his watch at midnight, the fog
had disappeared, and a fresh breeze was blowing from the westward. This
change was reported to the captain, and he went on deck. No sail had
been seen since the fog cleared off, and Christy returned to his state
room, where he was soon asleep again. He was called, as he had directed,
at four in the morning, but no change in the weather was reported, and
no sail had been seen.
At four bells in the morning watch two sails were reported to him, one
dead ahead, and the other on the port beam. He hastened to the deck, and
found Mr. Amblen using his spyglass, and trying to make out the distant
sails. The one at the northeast of the Bronx was making a long streak of
black smoke on the sky, and there was no such appearance over the other.
Both were steamers.
"The one ahead of us is the Ocklockonee," said Captain Passford, after
he had used the spyglass. "I have no doubt the other is the Arran.
Probably she has a new name by this time, but I have not heard it yet.
Pass the word for Mr. Ambleton."
This was the gunner, and he was directed to fire a single shot, blank,
from the midship gun. This was immediately done, and was the signal
agreed upon with Flint if either discovered the Arran. It was promptly
answered by a similar discharge on board of the Ocklockonee, indicating
that she had seen the steamer in question.
"Now, make her course southeast, Mr. Amblen," said Christy, after the
two signals had been made.
"Southeast, sir," responded the second lieutenant, giving the course to
the quartermaster at the wheel.
The commander of the Ocklockonee changed his course as soon as the Bronx
had done so. Both steamers were headed directly towards the sail in the
southeast, and both were running for the apex of the triangle where the
third steamer was located.
The captain visited every part of the vessel, and gave orders to have
breakfast served at once, for he expected there would be lively times
before many hours. Everything was overhauled, and put in order. At eight
bells, when Mr. Baskirk took the deck, the captain did not care how soon
the battle began. Everything was ready and waiting, and he went below
for his breakfast.
From delicacy or some other motive Captain Dinsmore spent most of
his time in the ward room; but he was called to breakfast with the
commander. Both captains were as polite to each other as they had been
the evening before, but it was evident to Christy that his guest was
quite uneasy, as though he had discovered what had transpired on deck;
and the movements there were quite enough to inform him without a word
from any one. He had not asked a question of any person on board; and it
was impossible for him to know that a sail supposed to be the Arran was
in sight.
"I have heard some firing this morning, Captain Passford," said he as he
seated himself at the table, and watched the expression of his host's
countenance.
"Merely a couple of signals; the distant shot came from the
Ocklockonee," replied Christy lightly.
"I thought it possible that you had fallen in with another steamer,"
added the guest.
"I have considered it more than possible, and within the limits of
probability, that we should fall in with another steamer ever since we
ran so opportunely upon the Scotian, as she was formerly called."
"Opportunely for you, but very inopportunely for me," added Captain
Dinsmore with a faint smile.
"I am happy to inform you that we have passed beyond both possibility
and probability, and come into the region of fact," continued Christy.
"Then you have made out a sail?" asked the guest anxiously.
"We have; a steamer on our port beam; and I am reasonably confident it
is the vessel you supposed was coming alongside the Ocklockonee last
evening."
"Indeed?" added the guest, as though he did not know just what to say,
and did not mean to commit himself.
"In other words, I am almost sure this steamer is the Arran, though
doubtless you have changed her name," said Christy, as he helped the
other from the choicest dish on the table.
"The Arran?" repeated Captain Dinsmore, manifesting but not expressing
his surprise that his companion in a different service from his own knew
this name.
"Perhaps you can give me her later name, as I have no doubt she is or
will be called after some southern river, which is quite proper, and
entirely patriotic. Perhaps she is called the Perdido, which is not
very far from Perdition, where I shall do my best to send her unless she
surrenders within a reasonable time, or runs away from me," said Captain
Passford lightly. "Is your coffee quite right, Captain Dinsmore?"
"It is very good indeed, captain, thank you."
"Perhaps it is too strong for you, like the United States Navy, and you
would prefer it weaker," suggested Christy.
"It is quite right as it is, and, like the United States Navy of which
you speak, it will be used up in a short time," replied the guest as
pleasantly as the captain of the Bronx.
"That is yet to be settled," laughed Christy.
"Well, captain, the coffee is settled, and that is more than can be said
of our navy, which will be as clear as this in due time."
"I thought it best to inform you that we might be in action in the
course of a couple of hours, and you were to notify me in case you
wished to change your status on board," added Christy more seriously.
"I am much obliged to you, Captain Passford, for your courtesy and
kindness, but I see no reason to change my position. I will still
confine myself to the cabin and ward room. I cannot wish you success in
the action in which you are about to engage, for it would break my heart
to have the Arran, as you call her, captured," added the guest.
"I think you may fairly count upon such a result," replied Christy
confidently.
"You must excuse me, Captain Passford, but I think you are reckoning
without your host, and therein your youth makes its only manifestation,"
said the guest, shaking his head. "I can only say that, when you are a
prisoner on board of the Escambia, I shall do my best to have you as
handsomely treated as I have been in your cabin."
"Thank you, captain; I assure you I shall appreciate any courtesy and
kindness extended to me. The Escambia is her name then. That is not so
near Perdition as the word I suggested, and I am glad it is not so long
as the name you gave the Scotian. I shall expect to come across an
Apalachicola in due time. They are all very good names, but we shall be
compelled to change them when they fall into our hands," said Christy.
"I have plenty of spare time on my hands just now, and perhaps I had
better think up a new name for the Bronx; and Apalachicola would be as
good as any other. I wonder you did not call her the Nutcracker, for her
present name rather suggests that idea."
"I have heard a similar remark before; but she is not big enough for
such a long name as the one you suggest, and you would have to begin
to pronounce it before breakfast in order to get it out before the dog
watches," said Christy, as he rose from the table and went on deck.
The first thing he noticed when he came on the bridge was that the
Ocklockonee was headed to intercept the Bronx. Captain Flint signalled
that he wished to speak to him, and he changed his course to comply with
the request. At the end of another hour they came together, the Arran
being still at least four miles distant, going very slowly if she was
moving at all.
Christy had written out his orders for Captain Flint in full. So far
as he had been able to judge of the speed of the other steamer, it
appeared to be about the same as that of the Bronx. He had directed the
Ocklockonee to get to the southward of the Arran. A boat was sent to her
with the orders, and Flint immediately proceeded to obey them. The Bronx
slowed down her engines to enable the other to gain her position; but
the Arran did not seem to be willing to permit her to do this, and gave
chase to her at once.
The commander of the Bronx met this change by one on his own part, and
went ahead with all the speed he could get out of her. The Confederate
steamer was farther to the eastward than either of the other two, and
after the changes of position which Christy had brought about in
speaking the Ocklockonee, the Arran was nearly southeast of both of the
others. Flint went directly to the south, and Christy ran for the enemy.
All hands had been beaten to quarters on board of the Bronx, and the
captain was on the bridge, watching with the most intense interest the
progress of the other two vessels. It was soon apparent to him that
the Ocklockonee could not get into the position to which she had been
ordered under present circumstances, for the enemy was giving his whole
attention to her.
"There goes a gun from the enemy!" exclaimed Mr. Amblen, as a puff of
smoke rose from the forward deck of the Arran.
"The shot struck in the water," added Christy a moment later; "but the
two vessels are within range. There is the first shot from the
Ocklockonee! Captain Flint is not asleep."
The firing was done on both vessels with the heavy midship guns, and
doubtless the calibre of the pieces was the same; but Flint was the more
fortunate of the two, for his shot struck the smokestack of the enemy,
or partly upset it. Christy thought it was time for him to take a hand
in the game, and he ordered the midship gun to be fired, charged as it
was with a solid shot. The gunner aimed the piece himself, and the shot
was seen to tear up the water alongside of the enemy. He discharged the
piece four times more with no better result. Evidently he had not got
the hang of the gun, though he was improving at every trial.
Three steamers were rushing towards each other with all the fury steam
could give them, for the overthrow of the funnel of the enemy did not
disable her, though it probably diminished the draught of her furnaces.
Through the glass it could be seen that they were making an effort to
restore the fallen smokestack to its position. All three of the steamers
were delivering the fire of their midship guns very regularly, though
with little effect, the distance was so great. The gunner of the Bronx
was evidently greatly nettled at the number of solid shots he had
wasted, though the gun of the Ocklockonee had done little better so far
as could be seen. The three vessels were not much more than half a mile
from each other, and the enemy had begun to use his broadside guns.
"Good!" shouted Mr. Amblen suddenly after the gunner had just let off
the great gun. "That shot overturned the midship piece of the Arran.
Ambleton has fully redeemed himself." The announcement of the effect of
this last shot sent up a volley of cheers from the crew.
The Bronx and her consort had set the American flag at the beginning of
the action, and the Confederate had promptly displayed her ensign, as
though she scorned to go into action without having it fully understood
what she was. She did not claim to be a blockade runner, and do her best
to escape, but "faced the music," even when she realized that she had
two enemies instead of one.
Christy had evidently inherited some of the naval blood on his mother's
side, and he was not satisfied with the slow progress of the action, for
the shots from the broadside guns of the enemy were beginning to tell
upon the Bronx, though she had received no serious injury. He caused the
signal to prepare to board to be set as agreed upon with Captain Flint.
The orders already given were to be carried out, and both vessels bore
down on the Arran with all speed.
CHAPTER XIX
ON THE DECK OF THE ARRAN
Captain Passford had carried out the programme agreed upon with Captain
Flint, and the latter had been working to the southward since the Bronx
came into the action, and as soon as the order to get ready to board
was given, the Ocklockonee went ahead at full speed, headed in that
direction. She had reached a position dead ahead of the Arran, so that
she no longer suffered from the shots of the latter's broadside guns,
and the Bronx was getting the entire benefit of them.
Both vessels had kept up a full head of steam, and the coal passers
were kept very busy at just this time. The Arran's midship gun had been
disabled so that she could not make any very telling shots, but her crew
had succeeded in righting her funnel, which had not gone entirely over,
but had been held by the stays. Yet it could be seen that there was a
big opening near the deck, for the smoke did not all pass through the
smokestack.
The broadside guns of the Arran were well served, and they were doing
considerable mischief on board of the Bronx. Christy was obliged to hold
back until her consort was in position to board the Arran on the port
hand, and he manoeuvred the steamer so as to receive as little damage
as possible from her guns. He was to board on the starboard hand of the
enemy, and he was working nearer to her all the time. Mr. Ambleton the
gunner had greatly improved his practice, and the commander was obliged
to check his enthusiasm, or there would have been nothing left of the
Arran in half an hour more. Christy considered the final result as fully
assured, for he did not believe the present enemy was any more heavily
manned than her consort had been, and he could throw double her force
upon her deck as soon as the two steamers were in position to do so.
"Are you doing all you can in the engine room, Mr. Sampson?" asked
Christy, pausing at the engine hatch.
"Everything, Captain Passford, and I think we must be making sixteen
knots," replied the chief engineer.
"Is Mr. Bockburn on duty?"
"He is, sir; and if he were a Connecticut Yankee he could not do any
better, or appear to be any more interested."
"He seems to be entirely impartial; all he wants is his pay, and he is
as willing to be on one side as the other if he only gets it," said
Christy. "Has any damage been done to the engine?"
"None at all, sir; a shot from one of those broadside guns went through
the side, and passed just over the top of one of the boilers," replied
the engineer. "Bockburn plugged the shot hole very skilfully, and said
it would not be possible for a shot to come in low enough to hit the
boilers. He knows all about the other two vessels, and has served as an
engineer on board of the Arran on the other side of the Atlantic."
Just at that moment a shot from the Arran struck the bridge and a
splinter from the structure knocked two men over. One of them picked
himself up, but said he was not much hurt, and refused to be sent below.
The other man was Veering; he seemed to be unable to get up, and was
carried down by order of the boatswain. This man was one of the
adherents of Hungerford and Pawcett, though so far he had been of no
service to them.
Christy hastened forward to ascertain the extent of the damage done to
the bridge. It was completely wrecked, and was no longer in condition to
be occupied by an officer. But the pilot house was still in serviceable
repair, and the quartermaster had not been disturbed. By this time, the
Ocklockonee had obtained a position on the port bow of the Arran, and
the commander directed the quartermaster at the wheel to run directly
for the other side of the enemy.
The time for decisive and final action had come. Mr. Baskirk placed
the boarders in position to be thrown on board of the Arran. He was
to command the first division himself, and Mr. Amblen the second. The
Ocklockonee was rushing at all the speed she could command to the work
before her.
  [Illustration: The captain of the Arran.]
For some reason not apparent the Arran had stopped her screw, though she
had kept in motion till now, doing her best to secure the most favorable
position for action. Possibly her commander believed a collision between
the vessels at a high rate of speed would be more fatal to him than
anything that could result from being boarded. It was soon discovered
that she was backing, and it was evident then that her captain had some
manoeuvre of his own in mind, though it was possible that he was only
doing something to counteract the effect of a collision. Doubtless he
thought the two vessels approaching him at such a rapid rate intended to
crush the Arran between them, and that they desired only to sink him.
He was not allowed many minutes more to carry out his policy, whatever
it was, for the Ocklockonee came up alongside of the Arran, the grapnels
were thrown out, and the whole boarding force of the steamer was hurled
upon her decks. But the commander was a plucky man, however he regarded
the chances for or against him, and his crew proceeded vigorously to
repel boarders. Christy had timed the movements of the Bronx very
carefully, and the Ocklockonee had hardly fastened to the Arran on
one side before he had his steamer grappled on the other.
"Boarders, away!" he shouted at the top of his lungs, and flourishing
his sword over his head, not however with the intention of going into
the fight himself, but as a demonstration to inspire the men.
Baskirk and Amblen rushed forward with cutlasses in their hands, leaping
upon the deck of the enemy. The crew was found to equal in numbers about
the force that the Ocklockonee had brought to bear upon them. The
boarders from the Bronx attacked them in the rear while they were fully
occupied with the boarders in front of them. The officers of the enemy
behaved with distinguished gallantry, and urged their men forward with
the most desperate enthusiasm. They struck hard blows, and several of
the boarders belonging to the consort had fallen, to say nothing of
wounds that did not entirely disable others. Some of the men belonging
to the Arran, doubtless shipped on the other side of the ocean or at the
Bermudas, were disposed to shirk their duty, though their officers held
them well up to the work.
One of the brave officers who had done the boarders a good deal of
mischief fell at a pistol shot from Mr. Amblen; this loss of his
leadership caused a sensible giving way on the part of his division, and
his men began to fall back. The other officers, including the captain,
who fought with a heavy cutlass, held out for a short time longer; but
Christy saw that it was slaughter.
The captain of the Arran was the next to go down, though he was not
killed. This event practically ended the contest for the deck of the
steamer. The boarders crowded upon the crew and drove them to the bow of
the vessel, where they yielded the deck, and submitted to the excess of
numbers.
"Don't butcher my men!" cried the captain of the Arran, raising himself
partially from his place where he had fallen. "I surrender, for we are
outnumbered two to one."
But the fighting had ceased forward. Mr. Baskirk was as earnest to save
any further slaughter as he had been to win the fight. Christy came on
board of the prize, not greatly elated at the victory, for it had been a
very unequal affair as to numbers. The Arran was captured; that was all
that could be said of it. She had been bravely defended; and the "honors
were even," though the fortunes of the day were against the Arran and
her ship's company.
"Allow me to introduce myself as the commander of the United States
steamer Bronx," said Christy, approaching the fallen captain of the
Arran. "I sincerely hope that you are not seriously injured, sir."
"Who under the canopy are you?" demanded the commander of the prize,
as he looked at the young officer with something like contempt in his
expression.
"I have just informed you who under the canopy I am," replied Christy,
not pleased with the manner of the other. "To be a little more definite,
I am Captain Christopher Passford, commander of the United States
steamer Bronx, of which the Arran appears to be a prize."
"The captain!" exclaimed the fallen man. "You are nothing but a boy!"
"But I am old enough to try to be a gentleman. You are evidently old
enough to be my father, though I have no comments to make," added
Christy.
"I beg your pardon, Captain Passford," said the captain of the Arran,
attempting to rise from the deck, in which he was assisted by Christy
and by Mr. Baskirk, who had just come aft. "I beg your pardon, Captain
Passford, for I did not understand what you said at first, and I did not
suspect that you were the captain."
"I hope you are not seriously injured, sir," added Christy.
"I don't know how seriously, but I have a cut on the hip, for which I
exchanged one on the head, parrying the stroke so that it took me below
the belt."
"Have you a surgeon on board, Captain ---- I have not the pleasure of
knowing your name, sir."
"Captain Richfield, lieutenant in the Confederate Navy. We have a
surgeon on board, and he is below attending to the wounded," replied
the captain.
"Allow me to assist you to your cabin, Captain Richfield," continued
Christy, as he and Baskirk each took one of the wounded officer's arms.
"Thank you, sir. I see that you have been doubly fortunate, Captain
Passford, and you have both the Escambia and the Ocklockonee. I did the
best I could to save my ship, but the day has gone against me."
"And no one could have done any more than you have done. Your ship has
been ably and bravely defended; but it was my good fortune to be able to
outnumber you both in ships and in men."
Captain Richfield was taken to his state room, and assisted into his
berth. A steward was sent for the surgeon, and Christy and his first
lieutenant retired from the cabin. The captured seamen of the Arran were
all sent below, and everything was done that the occasion required.
Christy asked Captain Flint to meet him in the cabin of the Bronx for a
consultation over the situation, for the sealed orders of the commander
had been carried out to the letter so far as the two expected steamers
were concerned, and it only remained to report to the flag officer of
the Eastern Gulf squadron. But with two prizes, and a considerable
number of prisoners, the situation was not without its difficulties.
"I hope you are quite comfortable, Captain Dinsmore," said Christy as he
entered his cabin, and found his guest reading at the table.
"Quite so, Captain Passford. I have heard a great deal of firing in the
last hour, and I am rather surprised to find that you are not a prisoner
on board of the Escambia, or perhaps you have come to your cabin for
your clothes," replied the guest cheerfully.
"I have not come on any such mission; and I have the pleasure of
informing you that the Confederate steamer Escambia is a prize to the
Bronx," replied Christy quite as cheerfully. "I am sorry to add that
Captain Richfield was wounded in the hip, and that Mr. Berwick, the
first lieutenant, was killed."
The Confederate officer leaped out of his chair astonished at the news.
He declared that he had confidently expected to be released by the
capture of the Bronx. Christy gave a brief review of the action; and
Captain Dinsmore was not surprised at the result when informed that the
Ocklockonee had taken part in the capture. The commander then requested
him to retire to the ward room, and Flint came in. They seated
themselves at the table, and proceeded to figure up their resources and
consider what was to be done. Mr. Baskirk was then sent for to assist in
the conference.
CHAPTER XX
THE NEW COMMANDER OF THE BRONX
"Captain Flint, the first question to be settled is in regard to the
engineer force," said Christy, as the three officers seated themselves
at the table.
"I think we shall have no difficulty on that score, Captain Passford,
for I have already sounded those on board of the Arran, or the Escambia,
as her officers call her. As long as their wages are paid, they don't
care which side they serve. Mr. Pivotte is the chief, and he is as
willing to go one way as the other."
"Very well; then he shall retain his present position, and Bockburn
shall be restored to the Ocklockonee. Of course the arrangements made
after the capture of the first vessel were only temporary, and I propose
to report to the flag officer with everything as nearly as possible in
the condition in which we left New York," continued Christy.
"Of course I expected to resume my former position on board of the Bronx
as soon as we had disposed of the two steamers; and I can say that I
shall not be sorry to do so," said Flint with a pleasant smile, as
though he did not intend to grieve over the loss of his command.
"In a few days more, we shall move down a peg, and I shall cease to have
a command as well as yourself," added Christy.
"And I suppose I shall be relegated to my position as a quartermaster,"
said Baskirk; "but I shall be satisfied. I don't care to wear any spurs
that I have not won, though I shall be glad to have a higher rank when I
deserve it."
"You deserve it now, Mr. Baskirk, and if you don't receive it, it will
not be on account of any weakness in my report of the events of the last
twenty-four hours," added Christy heartily.
"Thank you, captain; I suppose I could have procured a better position
than that of able seaman, but I preferred to work my way up."
"It was wise not to begin too high up, and you have already won your
spurs. Now, Mr. Baskirk, I shall ask you to take the deck, relieving Mr.
Amblen," added Christy, who wished to talk with Flint alone.
"I shall be really glad to get back into the Bronx, for I feel at home
here with you, captain," said Flint.
"You will be back to your berth here very soon. Now we have to send
these two steamers to New York. They are fine vessels, and will be
needed. We want two prize masters, and we must have able men. Have you
any suggestion to make, Mr. Flint? I first thought of sending you as the
principal one; but I cannot spare you, and the service in the Gulf needs
you."
"I am entirely willing to go where my duty calls me, without regard to
personal preferences," replied Flint. "I have a suggestion to make:
which is that Baskirk take one of the steamers."
"That is exactly my own idea; from what I have seen of him, there is no
more devoted officer in the service."
"I have known him for many years, and I believe in him. McSpindle is
almost as good, and has had a better education than Baskirk. I don't
think you could find two better men in the navy for this duty."
"Very well; then I will appoint them both."
Flint was instructed to communicate their appointment to Baskirk and
McSpindle, and make all the preparations for the departure of the
Escambia and the Ocklockonee. Christy went to his state room, and wrote
his report of the capture of the two steamers, in which he commended the
two officers who were to go as prize masters, and then wrote a letter to
his father, with a strong appeal in their favor. Then he wrote very
careful instructions for the government of the officers to be sent away,
in which he directed them to use all necessary precautions in regard to
the prisoners. In a couple of hours after the capture of the Escambia,
the two prizes sailed for New York. Captain Dinsmore expressed his
thanks very warmly to Captain Passford for his courtesy and kindness
at parting.
Christy had visited every part of the two steamers, and talked with the
officers and men, and especially with the engineers, and he discovered
no elements of discord on board of either. Hungerford and Pawcett were
transferred to the Escambia, and committed to the care of the surgeon
of the ship. Both of them were suffering from fever, and they were not
likely to give the prize master any trouble during the passage, which
could only be three or four days in duration. Baskirk and McSpindle were
required to make all the speed they could consistent with safety, though
Christy hardly thought they would encounter any Confederate rover on the
voyage, for they were not very plenty at this stage of the war.
It seemed a little lonesome on board of the Bronx after the two steamers
had disappeared in the distance, and the number of the crew had been
so largely reduced by the drafts for the prizes. The steamer was hardly
in condition to engage an enemy of any considerable force, and Sampson
was directed to hurry as much as possible. Christy had heard of the
Bellevite twice since he left her off Pensacola Bay. She had been sent
to other stations on duty, and had captured two schooners loaded with
cotton as prizes; but at the last accounts she had returned to the
station where the Bronx had left her.
Christy was not so anxious as he had been before the recent captures
to fall in with an enemy, for with less than twenty seamen it would not
be prudent to attack such a steamer as either of those he had captured,
though he would not have objected to chase a blockade runner if he had
discovered one pursued by the gunboats.
It was a quiet time on board of the Bronx compared with the excitement
of the earlier days of the voyage. In the very beginning of the trip,
he had discovered the deaf mute at the cabin door, and his thought,
his inquiries, and his action in defeating the treachery of the second
lieutenant had kept him busy night and day. Now the weather was fine
most of the time, and he had little to do beyond his routine duties. But
he did a great deal of thinking in his cabin, though most of it was in
relation to the events which had transpired on board of the Bronx.
He had captured two valuable prizes; but he could not feel that he was
entitled to any great credit for the achievements of his vessel, since
he had been warned in the beginning to look out for the Scotian and the
Arran. He had taken the first by surprise, and the result was due to the
carelessness of her commander rather than to any great merit on his own
part. The second he had taken with double the force of the enemy in
ships and men; and the latter was not precisely the kind of a victory
he was ambitious to win.
At the same time, his self-respect assured him that he had done his duty
faithfully, and that it had been possible for him to throw away his
advantage by carelessness. If he had fallen in with both the Scotian and
the Arran at the same time, the result might have been different, though
he was sure that he should have fought his ship as long as there was
anything left of her. In that case there would have been more room for
manoeuvring and strategy, for he did not admit to himself that he
should have been beaten.
Amblen continued to hold his place as second lieutenant, and McLinn was
appointed acting third lieutenant. The carpenter repaired the bridge,
though Christy would not have been very sorry if it had been so
thoroughly smashed as to be beyond restoration, for it was hardly a
naval institution. The men who had been only slightly wounded in the
action with the Escambia were progressing finely under the care of Dr.
Spokeley, and when the Bronx was off the southern cape of Florida, they
were able to return to duty. The latest information located the flag
