Joshua was quite elated at the thought that he might in some way be
related to the mayor of New York without knowing it, and he resolved to
expatiate on that subject when he went back to Barton. He decided that
his new acquaintance must be rich, for he was dressed in showy style
and had a violet in his buttonhole.
"Be you in business, Mr Morris?" he asked.
"Well, ahem! I am afraid that I am rather an idler. My father left me a
quarter of a million, and so I don't feel the need of working."
"Quarter of a million!" ejaculated Joshua. "Why, that's two hundred and
fifty thousand dollars."
"Just so," said Morris, smiling.
"That's an awful pile of money! Why, dad's been workin' all his life,
and he isn't wuth more'n three thousand dollars at the outside."
"I am afraid three thousand dollars wouldn't last me a very long time,"
said Morris, with an amused smile.
"Gosh! Where can anybody get such a pile of money? That's what beats
me!"
"Business, my young friend, business! Why I've made that amount of
money in one day."
"You don't say!"
"Yes, by speculating in Wall Street."
"You must be smart!"
"My teachers didn't seem to think so. But life in the city is very
different from life in the country."
"I wish I could make some money."
"A man must have money to make money. If now you had a little money----"
"I've got ten dollars to pay my expenses."
"Is that all?"
"No; I've got fifteen dollars to buy a shawl and dress for marm, and
some shirts for dad. He thought he'd like some boughten shirts. The
last marm made for him didn't fit very well."
"You must take good care of your money, Mr. Bascom. I regret to say
that we have a great many pickpockets in New York."
"So I've heerd. That's what Jim Duffy told me. He went to York last
spring. But I guess Jim was keerless or he wouldn't have been robbed.
It would take a smart pickpocket to rob me."
"Then you keep your money in a safe place?"
"Yes, I keep my wallet in my breeches pocket;" and Joshua slapped the
right leg of his trousers in a well satisfied way.
"You are right! I see you are a man of the world. You are a sharp one."
Joshua laughed gleefully. He felt pleased at the compliment.
"Yes," he chuckled, "I ain't easy taken in, I tell you, ef I was born
in the woods."
"It is easy to see that. You can take care of yourself."
"So I can."
"That comes of being a Bascom. I am glad to know that we are related.
You must call on me in New York."
"Where do you live?"
"At the Fifth Avenue Hotel. Just ask for Ferdinand Morris. They all
know me there."
"Is that a good place to stop?"
"Yes, if you've got money enough. I pay five dollars a day for my
board, and some extras carry it up to fifty dollars a week."
"Gosh all hemlock!" ejaculated Joshua, "I don't want to pay no more'n
five dollars a week."
"You can perhaps find a cheap boarding-house for that sum--with plain
board, of course."
"That's what I'm used to. I'm willin' to get along without pie."
"You like pie, then?"
"We ginerally have it on the table at every meal, but I can wait till I
get home."
"I will see what I can do for you. In fact, all you've got to do is to
buy a morning paper, and pick out a boarding-house where the price will
suit you. You must come and dine with me some day at the Fifth Avenue
Hotel."
"Thank you! You're awful kind, but I'm afraid I ain't dressed up enough
for such a stylish place."
"Well, perhaps not, but I might lend you a suit to go to the table in.
We are about the same build."
"If you've got an extra suit----"
"An extra suit? Mr. Bascom, I have at least twenty extra suits."
"Gee-whillikens! What do you want with so many clothes?"
"I never wear the same suit two days in succession. But I must bid you
good morning, Mr. Bascom. I have a friend in the next car."
Morris rose, and Joshua, feeling much flattered with his polite
attentions, resumed his glances out of the window.
"Apples, oranges, bananas!" called the train boy, entering the car with
a basket of fruit.
"How much do you charge?" asked Joshua. "I feel kind of hungry, and I
haven't ate an orange for an age. Last time I bought one was at the
grocery up to hum."
"The large oranges are five cents apiece," said Fred. "I can give you
two small ones for the same price."
"I'll take two small ones. It seems a great deal of money, but I'm
traveling and that makes a difference."
"Here are two good ones!" said Fred, picking out a couple.
"All right! I'll take 'em!"
Joshua Bascom thrust his hand into his pocket, and then a wild spasm
contracted his features. He explored it with growing excitement, and a
sickly pallor overspread his face.
"What's the matter?" asked Fred.
"I've been robbed. My wallet's gone!" groaned Joshua in a husky voice.
CHAPTER II.
A FAIR EXCHANGE.
"Who can have robbed you?" asked the train boy, sympathetically.
"I dunno," answered Joshua sadly.
"How much have you lost?"
"Twenty-five dollars. No," continued Mr. Bascom with a shade of relief.
"I put dad's fifteen dollars in my inside vest pocket."
"That is lucky. So you've only lost ten."
"It was all I had to spend in York. I guess I'll have to turn round and
go back."
"But who could have taken it? Who has been with you?"
"Only Mr. Morris, a rich young man. He is nephew to the mayor of New
York."
"Who said so?"
"He told me so himself."
"How was he dressed?" asked Fred, whose suspicions were aroused. "Did
he wear a white hat?"
"Yes."
"And looked like a swell?"
"Yes."
"He got off at the last station. It is he that robbed you."
"But it can't be," said Joshua earnestly. "He told me he was worth
quarter of a million dollars, and boarded at the Fifth Avenue Hotel."
"And was nephew of the mayor?"
"Yes."
Fred laughed.
"He is no more the mayor's nephew than I am," he said. "He is a
confidence man."
"How do you know?' asked Joshua, perplexed.
"That is the way they all act. He saw you were a countryman, and made
up his mind to rob you. Did you tell him where you kept your money?"
"Yes, I did. He told me there was lots of pickpockets in New York, and
said I ought to be keerful."
"He ought to know."
"Can't I get my money back?" asked Mr. Bascom anxiously.
"I don't think there's much chance. Even if you should see him some
time, you couldn't prove that he robbed you."
"I'd like to see him--for five minutes," said the young farmer, with a
vengeful light in his eyes.
"What would you do?"
"I'd give him an all-fired shakin' up, that's what I'd do."
Looking at Mr. Bascom's broad shoulders and muscular arms, Fred felt
that he would be likely to keep his word in a most effectual manner.
"I don't know what to do," groaned Joshua, relapsing into gloom.
As he spoke he slid his hand into his pocket once more, and quickly
drew it out with an expression of surprise. He held between two fingers
a handsome gold ring set with a neat stone.
"Where did that come from?" he asked.
"Didn't you ever see it before?" inquired the train boy.
"Never set eyes on it in my life."
"That's a joke!" exclaimed Fred with a laugh.
"What's a joke?
"Why, the thief in drawing your wallet from your pocket dropped his
ring. You've made an exchange, that is all."
"What is it worth?" asked Joshua, eagerly. "Permit me, my friend," said
a gentleman sitting just behind, as he extended his hand for the ring.
"I am a jeweler and can probably give you an idea of the value of the
ring."
Joshua handed it over readily.
The jeweler eyed it carefully, and after a pause, handed it back.
"My friend," he said, "that ring is worth fifty dollars!"
"Fifty dollars!" ejaculated Joshua, his eyes distended with surprise.
"I can't understand it. Cousin Sue has got a gold ring as big as this
that only cost three dollars and a half."
"Very likely, but the stone of this is valuable. You've made money out
of your pickpocket, if he only took ten dollars from you."
"But he'll come back for it."
The jeweler laughed.
"If he does, tell him where you found it, and ask how it came in your
pocket. He won't dare to call for it."
"I'd rather have the ten dollars than the ring."
"I'll tell you what I'll do. I'll advance you twenty-five dollars on
the ring, and agree to give it back to you any time within a year on
payment of that sum, and suitable interest."
"You can have it, mister," said Joshua promptly.
As he pocketed the roll of bills given him in exchange, his face glowed
with returning sunshine.
"By gosh!" he said, "I've made fifteen dollars."
"That' isn't a bad day's work!" said Fred.
"It's more'n I ever earned in a month before," said the young farmer.
"I declare it's paid me to come to the city."
"You are lucky! Look out for pickpockets, as they don't always give
anything in exchange. Now you can afford to buy some oranges."
"Give me two five-cent oranges and a banana," said Mr. Bascom with
reckless extravagance. "I guess I can afford it, now I've made fifteen
dollars."
"I wish that pickpocket would rob me," said Fred smiling. "Fifteen
dollars would come in handy just now," and his smile was succeeded by a
grave look, for money was scarce with the little household of which he
was a member.
It is time to speak more particularly of Fred, who is the hero of this
story. He was a pleasant-looking, but resolute and manly boy of
seventeen, who had now been for some months employed on the Erie road.
He had lost a place which he formerly occupied in a store, on account
of the failure of the man whom he served, and after some weeks of
enforced leisure had obtained his present position. Train boys are
required to deposit with the company ten dollars to protect their
employer from possible loss, this sum to be returned at the end of
their term of service. They are, besides, obliged to buy an official
cap, such as those of my readers who have traveled on any line of
railroad are familiar with. Fred had been prevented for some weeks from
taking the place because he had not the money required as a deposit. At
length a gentleman who had confidence in him went with him to the
superintendent and supplied the sum, and this removing the last
obstacle, Fred Fenton began his daily runs. He was paid by a twenty per
cent, commission on sales. It was necessary, therefore, for him to take
in five dollars in order to make one for himself. He had thus far
managed to average about a dollar a day, and this, though small, was an
essential help to his widowed mother with whom he lived.
Just before reaching Jersey City, Joshua Bascom appealed to Fred.
"Could you tell me where to stop in York?" he asked. "Some nice cheap
place?"
"I know a plain boarding-house kept by a policeman's wife, who lives
near us," said Fred. "She would probably board you for five dollars a
week."
"By hokey, that's just the place." said Joshua. "If you do it, I'll
make it right with you."
"Never mind about that!" said Fred. "All you've got to do is to come
with me. It will be no trouble."
CHAPTER III.
FRED'S RICH RELATION.
It was seven o'clock when Fred reached home. He and his mother occupied
three rooms in a tenement house, at a rental of ten dollars a month. It
was a small sum for the city, but as Fred was the chief contributor to
the family funds, rent day was always one of anxiety. It so happened
that this very day rent was due, and Fred felt anxious, for his mother,
when he left home, had but seven dollars towards it.
He opened the door of their humble home, and received a welcoming smile
from Mrs. Fenton, a pleasant-looking woman of middle age.
"I am glad to see you back, Fred," she said. "The days seem long
without you."
"Have you brought me a picture book, Fred?" asked his little brother.
"No, Bertie, I can't bring you picture books every day. I wish I
could."
"Albert has been drawing from his last book," said Mrs. Fenton. "He
really has quite a taste for it."
"We must send him to the Cooper Institute Drawing School when he gets
older. Did the landlord come, mother?"
"Yes," answered Mrs. Fenton, a shade passing over her face.
"What did he say? Did he make any fuss?"
"He was rough and unpleasant. He said he mast have his money promptly
or we must vacate the rooms."
"Did he take the seven dollars?"
"Yes, he took it and gave me a receipt on account. He said he must have
the balance to-morrow."
"I don't see how we can pay it. The company owes me more, but I shan't
get paid till Saturday night."
"Don't they advance it to you?"
"It is against the rule. Besides I couldn't get it in time."
"There is a lady in Lexington Avenue owing me four dollars for sewing,
but when I went there today I heard that she was out of town."
"It is very provoking to be kept out of your money when you need it so
much. If we only had a little money ahead, we could get along well.
Something must be done, but I don't know what."
"You might go round to Cousin Ferguson."
"I hate to ask a favor of that man, mother."
"You remember that your poor father owned a small tract of land in
Colorado. When Robert Ferguson went out three months since I asked him
to look after it, and ascertain whether it was of any value. As I have
heard nothing from him, I am afraid it is worthless."
"I will go and ask him, mother. That is a matter of business, and I
don't mind speaking to him on that subject. I will go at once."
"Perhaps he may be willing to advance a few dollars on it."
"At any rate I will go."
Robert Ferguson lived in a plain brick house on East Thirty-Ninth
Street. He was a down-town merchant, and in possession of a snug
competence. Mrs. Fenton was his own cousin, but he had never offered to
help her in any way, though he was quite aware of the fact that she was
struggling hard to support her little family. He had a son Raymond who
was by no means as plain in his tastes as his father, but had developed
a tendency to extravagance which augured ill for his future. He had
never cared to cultivate the acquaintance of his poor cousins, and
whenever he met Fred treated him with ill-concealed contempt.
It so happened that he was just leaving the house as Fred ascended the
steps.
"Good morning, Raymond," said Fred politely.
"Oh, it's you, is it?"
"Yes," answered Fred briefly, for he did not like the style in which
his cousin addressed him.
"What do you want round here?"
"I want to see your father."
"I guess he's busy."
"I want to see him on business," said Fred, pulling the bell.
"If you want to borrow any money it's no use. I struck him for ten
dollars just now, and he only gave me two."
"Did I say I wanted to borrow any money?"
"No, you didn't say so, but I couldn't think of any other business you
could have."
Fred did not have occasion to answer, for here the door opened, and the
servant stood on the threshold.
"Is Mr. Ferguson at home?" he asked.
"Yes; will you come in?"
Fred followed the girl into the back parlor where Robert Ferguson sat
reading the evening paper.
He looked up as Fred entered.
"Good evening, Mr. Ferguson," he said.
"Good evening, Frederick," said his relative coldly.
"My mother asked me to call and inquire whether you heard anything of
father's land in Colorado."
"Ahem!" coughed Mr. Ferguson. "I hope she built no day dreams on its
possible value."
"No sir; but she hoped it might be worth something--even a small sum
would be of value to us."
"The fact is, these Western lands are worth little or nothing."
"Father used to say that some time or other the land would be worth a
good sum."
"Then I don't think much of your father's judgment. Why, I don't
believe you could give it away. Let me see, how much was there?"
"A hundred and twenty-five acres."
"How did you father get possession of it?"
"There was a man he took care of in his sickness, who gave it to him
out of gratitude."
Robert Ferguson shrugged his shoulders.
"It would have been better if he had given him the same number of
dollars," he said.
"Then you don't think it worth as much as that?"
"No, I don't."
Fred looked disappointed. In their darkest days, he and his mother had
always thought of this land as likely some time to bring them
handsomely out of their troubles, and make a modest provision for their
comfort. Now there seemed to be an end to this hope.
"I would have sent your mother word before," said Robert Ferguson, "but
as the news was bad I thought it would keep. I don't see what possessed
your father to go out to Colorado."
"He was doing poorly here, and some one recommended him to try his
chances at the West."
"Well, he did a foolish thing. If a man improves his opportunities here
he needn't wander away from home to earn a living. That's my view."
"Then," said Fred slowly, "you don't think the land of any value?"
"No, I don't. Of course I am sorry for your disappointment, and I am
going to show it. Let your mother make over to me all claim to this
land, and I will give her twenty-five dollars."
"That isn't much," said Fred soberly.
"No, it isn't much, but it's better than nothing, and I shall lose by
my bargain."
Fred sat in silence thinking over this proposal. The land was the only
property his poor father had left, and to sell it for twenty-five
dollars seemed like parting with a birthright for a mess of pottage.
On the other hand twenty-five dollars would be of great service to them
under present circumstances.
"I don't know what to say," he answered slowly.
"Oh, well, it is your lookout. I only made the offer as a personal
favor."
Mr. Ferguson resumed the perusal of his paper, and thus implied that
the interview was over.
"Cousin Ferguson," said Fred, with an effort, "our rent is due to-day,
and we are a little short of the money to meet it. Could you lend me
three dollars till Saturday night?"
"No," answered Robert Ferguson coldly. "I don't approve of borrowing
money. As a matter of principle I decline to lend. But if your mother
agrees to sell the land she shall have twenty-five dollars at once."
Fred rose with a heavy heart.
"I will tell mother what you propose," he said. "Good evening!"
"Good evening!" rejoined Mr. Ferguson without raising his eyes from the
paper.
"Twenty-five dollars would be very acceptable just now," said Mrs.
Fenton thoughtfully, when Fred reported the offer of his rich relative.
"But it wouldn't last long, mother."
"It would do us good while it lasted."
"You are right there, mother, but I have no doubt the land is worth a
good deal more."
"What makes you think so? Cousin Ferguson----"
"Wouldn't have made the offer he did if he hadn't thought so, too."
"He might have done it to help us."
"He isn't that kind of a man. No, mother, it is for our interest to
hold on to the land till we know more about it."
"How shall we manage about the rent?"
Fred looked troubled.
"Something may turn up to-morrow. When the landlord comes, ask him to
come again at eight o'clock, when I shall be home."
"Very well, Fred."
Mrs. Fenton was so much in the habit of trusting to her son that she
dismissed the matter with less anxiety than Fred felt. He knew very
well that trusting for something to turn up is a precarious dependence,
but there seemed nothing better to do.
CHAPTER IV.
ZEBULON MACK.
At twelve that day the landlord, Zebulon Mack, presented himself
promptly at the door of Mrs. Fenton's room.
He was a small, thin, wrinkled man, whose suit would have been refused
as a gift by the average tramp, yet he had an income of four thousand
dollars a year from rents. He was now sixty years of age. At twenty-one
he was working for eight dollars a week, and saving three-fifths of
that. By slow degrees he had made himself rich, but in so doing he had
denied himself all but the barest necessaries. What he expected to do
with his money, as he was a bachelor with no near relatives, was a
mystery, and he had probably formed no definite ideas himself. But it
was his great enjoyment to see his hoards annually increasing, and he
had no mercy for needy or unfortunate tenants who found themselves
unable to pay their rent promptly.
Mrs. Fenton opened the door with a troubled look.
"I've come for that other three dollars, ma'am," said Zebulon Mack,
standing on the threshold.
"I'm very sorry, sir----" began the widow.
"What! haven't you got the money?" snarled Mack, screwing up his
features into a frown that made him look even more unprepossessing.
"My son Fred will be paid on Saturday night, and then----"
"Saturday night won't do. Didn't you promise it to-day?"
"Yes; and Fred tried to get an advance, but could not."
"Where is he working?"
"On the Erie road."
"Most likely he spends all his money for beer and cigarettes. I know
him. He looks like it."
"You are very much mistaken, sir," said Mrs. Fenton, indignantly.
"Oh, you think so, of course," sneered the landlord. "Mothers don't
know much about their boys, nor fathers either. I am glad I haven't a
son."
"I wouldn't be your son for a million dollars," said little Albert, who
resented the allusion to his big brother.
"Hey?" snarled Mack, opening his mouth and showing his tobacco-stained
tusks. "What business has a whipper-snapper like you to put in your
oar?"
"I ain't a whipper-snapper!" retorted Albert, who did not know the
meaning of the word, but concluded that it was not complimentary.
"Well, ma'am, what are you going to do? I can't stay here all day."
"Fred thought he would have the money by to-night. He asked if you
would call round after he got home."
"When is that?"
"He generally gets home at seven o'clock."
"Then I'll be here at seven, but if you haven't the money, then out you
go! Do you hear?"
"Yes, sir."
"Then mind you remember it. With so many swindling tenants a landlord
has a hard time."
He shambled off, and Mrs. Fenton breathed a sigh of temporary relief.
All the afternoon she felt troubled and anxious, and her anxiety
increased as the hours wore away.
"If Fred should be late as he sometimes is," she said to Bertie about
six o'clock, "I am afraid Mr. Mack will carry out his threat and turn
us out on the street."
"I won't let him," said Albert manfully.
"We can't help it," said Mrs. Fenton. "Do you think you could find your
way to the depot to meet Fred and hurry him home?"
"Oh, yes," answered the little boy. "I went there with Fred last week."
"You are sure you won't get lost?"
"What do you take me for, mother? I'd be ashamed to get lost anywhere
round the city."
"Then go, and tell Fred to hurry up. Mr. Mack is so strict and severe
that I am sure he won't wait a minute."
At seven o'clock precisely Mr. Mack returned and, looking at his watch,
said, "Time's up, ma'am."
"Wait just a few minutes!" pleaded Mrs. Fenton. "I expect Fred home
every minute."
"My time's valuable, ma'am. It is not likely the boy will have the
money any way.
"Won't you wait, then?
"Do you take me for a fool, ma'am? Here, Finnegan."
He had brought with him a man in his employ who for starvation wages
helped him move out tenants, and made himself useful in a general way.
"Here I am, Mr. Mack," said Finnegan.
"Just give me a hand with this bureau. We'll take that first."
"Oh, sir," pleaded Mrs. Fenton, "how can you be so merciless? In a few
minutes Fred will be here."
"I'm not a fool, ma'am. I told you I'd move you at seven o'clock, and
I'm a man of my word."
"Wait a minute and I'll see if I can borrow the money of Mrs. Sheehan."
"You ought to have thought of that before. I'll give you two minutes."
Mrs. Fenton sped down lo the rooms of Mrs. Sheehan on the next lower
floor.
"Can you lend me three dollars, Mrs. Sheehan?" asked Mrs. Fenton,
breathless. "Mr. Mack threatens to turn us out on the sidewalk."
"I wish I could, Mrs. Fenton," said Mrs. Sheehan heartily, "but I
bought my John a suit yesterday, and it's taken all my money except
seventy-five cents. I'd be glad to oblige you, indeed I would."
"I've no doubt of it," sighed the widow, for it was her last hope.
"Well, have you got the money?" asked Zebulon Mack, as she reappeared.
"No, sir."
"Just what I thought. Go ahead, Finnegan."
They took up the bureau and slowly moved to the door, and down the
staircase with it.
"It's a shame!" said Mrs. Sheehan, standing at her door.
"You'd better look out, ma'am! It may be your turn next," said the
landlord with a scowl. "If it is I won't wait for you a minute."
"It's a hard man, you are, Mr. Mack."
"I need to be," said Zebulon Mack grimly. "If I wasn't it's precious
little rent I'd get in."
The outlook for the Fentons was dark indeed.
CHAPTER V.
AN ADVENTURE ON THE TRAIN.
Fred was on board his regular train that same morning at the usual
hour, and started on his round of duty. He sold four morning papers,
but trade seemed rather dull. About eleven o'clock he went through the
first car distributing some packages of candy to the various
passengers. On reaching the end of the car he returned, collecting the
money for those purchased, and reclaiming those not wanted.
About midway of the car was a man of middle age, with small,
insignificant features, and a mean look. He seemed very much absorbed
in reading a penny paper when the train boy came up.
"Will you buy the package of candy?" asked Fred.
"What package?" asked the passenger, looking up.
"The one I left with you when I passed through the car."
"I don't know what you mean. You left no package with me."
"I remember distinctly leaving you a package."
"You are thinking of some other man."
"No, I am not."
"You are mistaken!" said the passenger, frowning.
"Will you be kind enough to get up and let me see if it is on the seat,
or has fallen underneath?"
"No, I won't."
Fred was convinced that the passenger had secreted the package, and was
scheming to cheat him out of the dime. He was a boy of spirit, and he
did not propose to be swindled.
"Sir," he said in a louder tone, "I am a poor boy trying to earn an
honest living. If you don't pay for this package I shall have to."
"That is none of my business. I shall not pay for what I haven't got.
Boy, you are very impertinent. I shall report you to the president of
the road."
"You may do so if you want to. I can't afford to give away my stock in
trade."
"Boy," interposed a pompous gentleman sitting opposite, "I quite agree
with this gentleman. You are not employed to insult passengers."
"Or to be cheated by them," said Fred hotly.
"If you treated me in this way, I would make it my business to have you
discharged."
"Even if I was right?"
"Of course you are not right. This gentleman's word outweighs yours."
"Why should it?"
"He is a respectable gentleman, and you are only a poor train boy."
"That may be, sir, but I always tell the truth."
"Like George Washington," sneered the stout gentleman.
Fred felt that he was losing his case, and the mean passenger smiled
with satisfaction. But his triumph was short-lived. The train boy found
an unexpected defender.
"The boy is right," said a young lady sitting directly behind the
passenger with whom Fred had his difficulty. "I saw this man take the
package and put it in his pocket. I have waited with some curiosity to
see whether he would persist in his attempt to cheat the boy out of his
money."
There was an instant revulsion of feeling. The attempted swindler
looked as if a bombshell had exploded at his feet.
"There is some error," he stammered. "The young lady is mistaken."
"I am not mistaken," said the young lady positively "If this man will
allow his pockets to be examined, the package will be found."
The man rose from his seat and prepared to leave the car.
"I ain't used to being insulted," he said.
"Gentlemen," said the young lady, "you have only to look at this man's
side-pocket to see that it contains the package."
The passenger wore a sack coat, and it was plain to all that the young
lady was right.
"I will pay for the package if the passenger is not honest enough to do
it himself."
"No, miss," said a rough-looking man who looked like a western miner.
"This man must pay, or I'll pitch him out of the car myself."
"I think you had better pay, sir," said the pompous looking man with an
air of disgust. "I took your part, because I supposed you were a
gentleman."
The other, without a word, drew out a dime from his pocket and handed
it to Fred. Then, looking very ill at ease, he left the car hurriedly,
and went as far forward as possible.
"Do you have many experiences like this?" asked the young lady, with a
smile.
"Yes, miss, quite frequently," aid Fred, "and it isn't the poor
passengers that try to cheat me. Sometimes I travel on emigrant trains,
but I never lost a cent by an emigrant. It is those who are able to
pay, like this man, who try to take advantage of me."
"Do you make good pay?"
"I average about a dollar a day."
"I suppose that is fair pay for a boy of your age."
"Yes, it is; but I need it all. I have a mother and brother to
support."
"Have you, indeed?" said the young lady sympathetically. "You can't all
three live on six dollars a week."
"Mother earns a little by sewing, but that isn't paid very well."
"Very true. So you sometimes get into difficulties?"
"We are in difficulties now. The rent is due, and we lack three dollars
to make it up."
"That is easily remedied," said the young lady. "It is my birthday
to-day, and I shall allow myself the luxury of doing good. Here are five
dollars which you will use to pay the landlord."
"Thank you, miss," said Fred gladly. "You have lifted a weight from my
mind. Our landlord is a strict man, and I was afraid we would be turned
out on the street."
"Miss, will you let me shake hands with you? You're a trump!"
It was the western miner who spoke, and he had come forward impulsively
from his seat, and was extending a rough, sunburned hand to the young
lady.
She did not hesitate a moment, but with a pleasant smile placed her
hand in his.
"I wish all high-toned gals was like you, miss," said the miner, as he
shook her hand heartily.
"I am sure you would do the same, sir," said Isabel Archer.
"Yes, I would, and I meant to if you hadn't got the start of me. You'll
excuse the liberty I took," said the miner.
"Oh, yes, certainly."
"I'm a rough miner, but----"
"You are a kind-hearted man. You may hereafter have it in your power to
help the boy."
"So I can," and the miner retreated to his seat.
Arrived at the Erie depot, Fred found his little brother waiting for
him.
"Oh, Fred," he said, "I hope you've got money for the rent. The
landlord said he would turn us out at seven o'clock if we didn't pay."
"And I am a little late," said Fred, anxiously.
"Let me go with you!" said the miner, "I want to see what sort of a
critter your landlord is. The mean scoundrel! It would do me good to
shake him out of his boots."
Zebulon Mack and his assistant had just succeeded in placing the bureau
on the sidewalk when Fred and his mining friend turned the corner of
the street.
"There's mother's bureau!" exclaimed Fred in excitement. "He's begun to
move us out."
"He has, hey?" said Sloan the miner. "We'll soon stop that."
"What are you doing here?" demanded Fred, hurrying up.
Zebulon Mack turned round, and eyed the boy with an ugly frown.
"I told your mother I'd move her out, and I've done it."
"Why didn't you wait for me? I've got the money."
"You have?"
"Yes, I have."
"Pay it over, then."
Fred was about to do so when the miner interposed.
"Don't pay him till he carries back the bureau!" said Sloan.
"You and your friend can do that!" said the landlord.
"If you don't catch hold of that bureau and take it back I'll wring
your neck, you mean scoundrel!" said the miner sternly.
Zebulon Mack looked into the miner's face and thought it wisest to
obey.
"Here, Finnegan!" he said sullenly. "Take hold, and don't be all night
about it."
When the bureau was in place, Fred, who had changed the five-dollar
bill, handed Mr. Mack the three dollars.
"Now, my friend," said the miner, "you can reckon up how much you made
by your meanness. You and that understrapper of yours must enjoy moving
bureaus. I only wish you'd got down the rest of the furniture, so that
I might have the satisfaction of seeing you carry it back."
The landlord glared at Tom Sloan as if he would like to tear him to
pieces. But he took it out in looks.
"Good night, sir," said the miner, "we don't care to have the pleasure
of your company any longer."
"I'll be even with you for all this," growled Mack.
"Don't feel bad, squire. You've got your money."
"Mother," said Fred, "this is my friend, Mr. Sloan."
"I am glad to see any friend of my boy," said Mrs. Fenton. "Won't you
stay and take supper with Fred?"
"I'd like to, ma'am, if it won't be intruding."
"Not at all," said Fred cordially. "I've had luck to-day, mother. A
beautiful young lady gave me five dollars."
"God bless her!" said Mrs. Fenton. "She couldn't have given it at a
better time."
CHAPTER VI.
MR. BASCOM'S PERIL.
Tom Sloan made himself very much at home with the Fentons. The widow
sent out for a steak, and this, with a cup of tea and some fresh rolls,
furnished a plain but excellent repast.
"I haven't eaten so good a supper for a long time," said the miner. "It
seems just like the suppers I used to get at home in Vermont."
"It was very plain," said Mrs. Fenton, "but probably you had a good
appetite."
"You are right there, ma'am."
Mr. Sloan remained chatting for a couple of hours. He told his new
friends that he had been away two years, spending the time in Nevada
and California.
"I hope you have had good luck, Mr. Sloan," said Fred.
"Yes, I've made a few thousand dollars, but I'm going back again next
month."
"To California?"
"No, to Colorado."
Fred and his mother exchanged looks.
"My father left us some land in Colorado," said the train boy--"a
hundred and twenty-five acres--but we can't find out whether it has any
value or not."
"Let me know where it is," said the miner, "and I'll find out and send
you word."
"Thank you! It will be a great favor," said Mrs. Fenton warmly. "A
cousin of my husband went out there three months since, and visited the
land. He reports that it is of no value, but offers to buy it for
twenty-five dollars. Fred thinks he wouldn't make the offer if it was
not worth a good deal more."
"That's where Fred's head is level. Depend upon it your cousin is foxy
and wants to take you in. I'll tell you just how the matter stands."
Mrs. Fenton produced her husband's papers, and Mr. Sloan made an entry
of the location in a small note-book which he carried.
"Don't worry about it any more, ma'am,'" he said. "I'll do all I can
for you, and I hope for your sake there's a gold mine on the land."
Mrs. Fenton smiled.
"I shall be satisfied with less than that," she answered.
"How long are you going to stay in New York?" asked Fred.
"I am going to Vermont to-morrow, and, likely as not I shan't come back
this way, but go West from Boston. Anyway you'll hear from me
occasionally. I ain't much of a writer, but I guess you can make out my
pot-hooks."
"I'll take the risk, Mr. Sloan," said Fred, "I am no writing master
myself, but my little brother Albert can draw nicely, and writes a
handsome hand. Bertie, bring your last writing-book."
The little boy did so, and exhibited it to the miner.
"Why, the kid beats my old teacher all hollow," said Sloan. "I've a
great mind to take him with me to Vermont, and have him start a writing
school."
"I'm afraid Albert couldn't keep order among the big boys."
"Well, there might be some trouble that way. How much do you weigh,
kid?"
"Ninety pounds," answered Albert.
"Well, that isn't exactly a heavy weight. But, Fred, I must be going
out and finding a room somewhere. Do you know of any good place?"
"There's a hotel close by. I'll go with you."
"Good evening, ma'am," said the miner, as he rose to go. "I may not see
you again just at present, but I'll look after that business of yourn.
Come here, kid, you ought to get a prize for your writing. Here's
something for you," and he handed the delighted boy a five-dollar gold
piece.
"Oh, ma, now may I have a new suit?" asked Albert.
"If you want a new suit," said the miner, "I haven't given you enough.
Here's another five to help along."
"You are very kind, sir," said Mrs. Fenton. "Albert is really in need
of clothes, and this will buy him something more than a suit."
"All the better, ma'am. I'm glad to have the chance of doing a little
good with my money."
"I wish all who have money were like you. I wish you health and good
fortune, and a safe return to your friends."
