life which was calculated to kill; for it had consisted in regularly
alternating days of brilliant hope and black disappointment. The
brilliant hopes were created by the magician Sellers, and they always
promised that now he had got the trick, sure, and would effectively
influence that materialized cowboy to call at the Towers before night.
The black disappointments consisted in the persistent and monotonous
failure of these prophecies.
At the date which this history has now reached, Sellers was appalled
to find that the usual remedy was inoperative, and that Hawkins’s
low spirits refused absolutely to lift. Something must be done, he
reflected; it was heart-breaking, this woe, this smileless misery, this
dull despair that looked out from his poor friend’s face. Yes, he must
be cheered up. He mused a while, then he saw his way. He said in his
most conspicuously casual vein:
“Er--uh--by the way, Hawkins, we are feeling disappointed about this
thing--the way the materializee is acting, I mean--we are disappointed;
you concede that?”
“Concede it? Why, yes, if you like the term.”
“Very well; so far, so good. Now for the basis of the feeling. It is not
that your heart, your affections are concerned; that is to say, it is
not that you want the materializee Itself. You concede that?”
“Yes, I concede that, too--cordially.”
“Very well, again; we are making progress. To sum up: The feeling, it is
conceded, is not engendered by the mere conduct of the materializee; it
is conceded that it does not arise from any pang which the personality
of the materializee could assuage. Now then,” said the earl, with the
light of triumph in his eye, “the inexorable logic of the situation
narrows us down to this: our feeling has its source in the money-loss
involved. Come--isn’t that so?”
“Goodness knows I concede that, with all my heart.”
“Very well. When you’ve found out the source of a disease, you’ve also
found out what remedy is required--just as in this case. In this case
money is required. And only money.”
The old, old seduction was in that airy, confident tone and those
significant words--usually called pregnant words in books. The old
answering signs of faith and hope showed up in Hawkins’s countenance,
and he said:
“Only money? Do you mean that you know a way to--”
“Washington, have you the impression that I have no resources but those
I allow the public and my intimate friends to know about?”
“Well, I--er--”
“Is it likely, do you think, that a man moved by nature and taught by
experience to keep his affairs to himself and a cautious and reluctant
tongue in his head, wouldn’t be thoughtful enough to keep a few
resources in reserve for a rainy day, when he’s got as many as I have to
select from?”
“Oh, you make me feel so much better already, Colonel!”
“Have you ever been in my laboratory?”
“Why, no.”
“That’s it. You see you didn’t even know that I had one. Come along.
I’ve got a little trick there that I want to show you. I’ve kept it
perfectly quiet, not fifty people know anything about it. But that’s my
way, always been my way. Wait till you’re ready, that’s the idea; and
when you’re ready, zzip!--let her go!”
“Well, Colonel, I’ve never seen a man that I’ve had such unbounded
confidence in as you. When you say a thing right out, I always feel
as if that ends it; as if that is evidence, and proof, and everything
else.”
The old earl was profoundly pleased and touched.
“I’m glad you believe in me, Washington; not everybody is so just.”
“I always have believed in you; and I always shall as long as I live.”
“Thank you, my boy. You shan’t repent it. And you can’t.” Arrived in
the “laboratory,” the earl continued, “Now, cast your eye around this
room--what do you see? Apparently a junk-shop; apparently a hospital
connected with a patent office--in reality, the mines of Golconda in
disguise! Look at that thing there. Now what would you take that thing
to be?”
“I don’t believe I could ever imagine.”
“Of course you couldn’t. It’s my grand adaptation of the phonograph to
the marine service. You store up profanity in it for use at sea. You
know that sailors don’t fly around worth a cent unless you swear at
them--so the mate that can do the best job of swearing is the most
valuable man. In great emergencies his talent saves the ship. But a ship
is a large thing, and he can’t be everywhere at once; so there have been
times when one mate has lost a ship which could have been saved if
they had had a hundred. Prodigious storms, you know. Well, a ship
can’t afford a hundred mates; but she can afford a hundred Cursing
Phonographs, and distribute them all over the vessel--and there, you
see, she’s armed at every point. Imagine a big storm, and a hundred of
my machines all cursing away at once--splendid spectacle, splendid!--you
couldn’t hear yourself think. Ship goes through that storm perfectly
serene--she’s just as safe as she’d be on shore.”
“It’s a wonderful idea. How do you prepare the thing?”
“Load it--simply load it.”
“How?”
“Why you just stand over it and swear into it.”
“That loads it, does it?”
“Yes--because every word it collars, it keeps--keeps it forever. Never
wears out. Any time you turn the crank, out it’ll come. In times of
great peril, you can reverse it, and it’ll swear backwards. That makes a
sailor hump himself!”
“O, I see. Who loads them?--the mate?”
“Yes, if he chooses. Or I’ll furnish them already loaded. I can hire an
expert for $75 a month who will load a hundred and fifty phonographs in
150 hours, and do it easy. And an expert can furnish a stronger article,
of course, than the mere average uncultivated mate could. Then you see,
all the ships of the world will buy them ready loaded--for I shall have
them loaded in any language a customer wants. Hawkins, it will work the
grandest moral reform of the 19th century. Five years from now, all the
swearing will be done by machinery--you won’t ever hear a profane word
come from human lips on a ship. Millions of dollars have been spent
by the churches, in the effort to abolish profanity in the commercial
marine. Think of it--my name will live forever in the affections of good
men as the man, who, solitary and alone, accomplished this noble and
elevating reform.”
“O, it is grand and beneficent and beautiful. How did you ever come to
think of it? You have a wonderful mind. How did you say you loaded the
machine?”
“O, it’s no trouble--perfectly simple. If you want to load it up loud
and strong, you stand right over it and shout. But if you leave it open
and all set, it’ll eavesdrop, so to speak--that is to say, it will load
itself up with any sounds that are made within six feet of it. Now
I’ll show you how it works. I had an expert come and load this one up
yesterday. Hello, it’s been left open--it’s too bad--still I reckon it
hasn’t had much chance to collect irrelevant stuff. All you do is to
press this button in the floor--so.”
The phonograph began to sing in a plaintive voice:
There is a boarding-house, far far away, Where they have ham and eggs,
3 times a day. “Hang it, that ain’t it. Somebody’s been singing around
here.”
The plaintive song began again, mingled with a low, gradually rising
wail of cats slowly warming up toward a fight;
O, how the boarders yell, When they hear that dinner bell They give that
landlord-- (momentary outburst of terrific catfight which drowns out one
word.)
Three times a day. (Renewal of furious catfight for a moment. The
plaintive voice on a high fierce key, “Scat, you devils”--and a racket
as of flying missiles.)
“Well, never mind--let it go. I’ve got some sailor-profanity down in
there somewhere, if I could get to it. But it isn’t any matter; you see
how the machine works.”
Hawkins responded with enthusiasm:
“O, it works admirably! I know there’s a hundred fortunes in it.”
“And mind, the Hawkins family get their share, Washington.”
“O, thanks, thanks; you are just as generous as ever. Ah, it’s the
grandest invention of the age!”
“Ah, well; we live in wonderful times. The elements are crowded full of
beneficent forces--always have been--and ours is the first generation to
turn them to account and make them work for us. Why Hawkins, everything
is useful--nothing ought ever to be wasted. Now look at sewer gas, for
instance. Sewer gas has always been wasted, heretofore; nobody tried
to save up sewer-gas--you can’t name me a man. Ain’t that so? you know
perfectly well it’s so.”
“Yes it is so--but I never--er--I don’t quite see why a body--”
“Should want to save it up? Well, I’ll tell you. Do you see this little
invention here?--it’s a decomposer--I call it a decomposer. I give
you my word of honor that if you show me a house that produces a given
quantity of sewer-gas in a day, I’ll engage to set up my decomposer
there and make that house produce a hundred times that quantity of
sewer-gas in less than half an hour.”
“Dear me, but why should you want to?”
“Want to? Listen, and you’ll see. My boy, for illuminating purposes
and economy combined, there’s nothing in the world that begins with
sewer-gas. And really, it don’t cost a cent. You put in a good
inferior article of plumbing,--such as you find everywhere--and add
my decomposer, and there you are. Just use the ordinary gas pipes--and
there your expense ends. Think of it. Why, Major, in five years from
now you won’t see a house lighted with anything but sewer-gas. Every
physician I talk to, recommends it; and every plumber.”
“But isn’t it dangerous?”
“O, yes, more or less, but everything is--coal gas, candles, electricity
--there isn’t anything that ain’t.”
“It lights up well, does it?”
“O, magnificently.”
“Have you given it a good trial?”
“Well, no, not a first rate one. Polly’s prejudiced, and she won’t let
me put it in here; but I’m playing my cards to get it adopted in the
President’s house, and then it’ll go--don’t you doubt it. I shall not
need this one for the present, Washington; you may take it down to some
boarding-house and give it a trial if you like.”
CHAPTER XVIII.
Washington shuddered slightly at the suggestion, then his face took on
a dreamy look and he dropped into a trance of thought. After a little,
Sellers asked him what he was grinding in his mental mill.
“Well, this. Have you got some secret project in your head which
requires a Bank of England back of it to make it succeed?”
The Colonel showed lively astonishment, and said:
“Why, Hawkins, are you a mind-reader?”
“I? I never thought of such a thing.”
“Well, then how did you happen to drop onto that idea in this curious
fashion? It’s just mind-reading, that’s what it is, though you may not
know it. Because I have got a private project that requires a Bank of
England at its back. How could you divine that? What was the process?
This is interesting.”
“There wasn’t any process. A thought like this happened to slip through
my head by accident: How much would make you or me comfortable?
A hundred thousand. Yet you are expecting two or three of--these
inventions of yours to turn out some billions of money--and you are
wanting them to do that. If you wanted ten millions, I could understand
that--it’s inside the human limits. But billions! That’s clear outside
the limits. There must be a definite project back of that somewhere.”
The earl’s interest and surprise augmented with every word, and when
Hawkins finished, he said with strong admiration:
“It’s wonderfully reasoned out, Washington, it certainly is. It shows
what I think is quite extraordinary penetration. For you’ve hit it;
you’ve driven the centre, you’ve plugged the bulls-eye of my dream. Now
I’ll tell you the whole thing, and you’ll understand it. I don’t need to
ask you to keep it to yourself, because you’ll see that the project will
prosper all the better for being kept in the background till the right
time. Have you noticed how many pamphlets and books I’ve got lying
around relating to Russia?”
“Yes, I think most anybody would notice that--anybody who wasn’t dead.”
“Well, I’ve been posting myself a good while. That’s a great and,
splendid nation, and deserves to be set free.” He paused, then added in
a quite matter-of-fact way, “When I get this money I’m going to set it
free.”
“Great guns!”
“Why, what makes you jump like that?”
“Dear me, when you are going to drop a remark under a man’s chair that
is likely to blow him out through the roof, why don’t you put some
expression, some force, some noise into it that will prepare him? You
shouldn’t flip out such a gigantic thing as this in that colorless kind
of a way. You do jolt a person up, so. Go on, now, I am all right again.
Tell me all about it. I’m all interest--yes, and sympathy, too.”
“Well, I’ve looked the ground over, and concluded that the methods of
the Russian patriots, while good enough considering the way the boys are
hampered, are not the best; at least not the quickest. They are trying
to revolutionize Russia from within; that’s pretty slow, you know,
and liable to interruption all the time, and is full of perils for the
workers. Do you know how Peter the Great started his army? He didn’t
start it on the family premises under the noses of the Strelitzes; no,
he started it away off yonder, privately,--only just one regiment, you
know, and he built to that. The first thing the Strelitzes knew, the
regiment was an army, their position was turned, and they had to take
a walk. Just that little idea made the biggest and worst of all the
despotisms the world has seen. The same idea can unmake it. I’m going
to prove it. I’m going to get out to one side and work my scheme the way
Peter did.”
“This is mighty interesting, Rossmore. What is it you are going to do?”
“I am going to buy Siberia and start a republic.”
“There,--bang you go again, without giving any notice! Going to buy it?”
“Yes, as soon as I get the money. I don’t care what the price is, I
shall take it. I can afford it, and I will. Now then, consider this--and
you’ve never thought of it, I’ll warrant. Where is the place where there
is twenty-five times more manhood, pluck, true heroism, unselfishness,
devotion to high and noble ideals, adoration of liberty, wide education,
and brains, per thousand of population, than any other domain in the
whole world can show?”
“Siberia!”
“Right.”
“It is true; it certainly is true, but I never thought of it before.”
“Nobody ever thinks of it. But it’s so, just the same. In those mines
and prisons are gathered together the very finest and noblest and
capablest multitude of human beings that God is able to create. Now
if you had that kind of a population to sell, would you offer it to a
despotism? No, the despotism has no use for it; you would lose money. A
despotism has no use for anything but human cattle. But suppose you want
to start a republic?”
“Yes, I see. It’s just the material for it.”
“Well, I should say so! There’s Siberia with just the very finest and
choicest material on the globe for a republic, and more coming--more
coming all the time, don’t you see! It is being daily, weekly, monthly
recruited by the most perfectly devised system that has ever been
invented, perhaps. By this system the whole of the hundred millions of
Russia are being constantly and patiently sifted, sifted, sifted, by
myriads of trained experts, spies appointed by the Emperor personally;
and whenever they catch a man, woman or child that has got any brains or
education or character, they ship that person straight to Siberia. It is
admirable, it is wonderful. It is so searching and so effective that it
keeps the general level of Russian intellect and education down to that
of the Czar.”
“Come, that sounds like exaggeration.”
“Well, it’s what they say anyway. But I think, myself, it’s a lie. And
it doesn’t seem right to slander a whole nation that way, anyhow. Now,
then, you see what the material is, there in Siberia, for a republic.”
 He paused, and his breast began to heave and his eye to burn, under the
impulse of strong emotion. Then his words began to stream forth, with
constantly increasing energy and fire, and he rose to his feet as if to
give himself larger freedom. “The minute I organize that republic, the
light of liberty, intelligence, justice, humanity, bursting from it,
flooding from it, flaming from it, will concentrate the gaze of the
whole astonished world as upon the miracle of a new sun; Russia’s
countless multitudes of slaves will rise up and march, march!--eastward,
with that great light transfiguring their faces as they come, and far
back of them you will see-what will you see?--a vacant throne in an
empty land! It can be done, and by God I will do it!”
He stood a moment bereft of earthly consciousness by his exaltation;
then consciousness returned, bringing him a slight shock, and he said
with grave earnestness:
“I must ask you to pardon me, Major Hawkins. I have never used that
expression before, and I beg you will forgive it this time.”
Hawkins was quite willing.
“You see, Washington, it is an error which I am by nature not liable
to. Only excitable people, impulsive people, are exposed to it. But
the circumstances of the present case--I being a democrat by birth and
preference, and an aristocrat by inheritance and relish--”
The earl stopped suddenly, his frame stiffened, and he began to stare
speechless through the curtainless window. Then he pointed, and gasped
out a single rapturous word:
“Look!”
“What is it, Colonel?”
“IT!”
“No!”
“Sure as you’re born. Keep perfectly still. I’ll apply the
influence--I’ll turn on all my force. I’ve brought It thus far--I’ll
fetch It right into the house. You’ll see.”
He was making all sorts of passes in the air with his hands.
“There! Look at that. I’ve made It smile! See?”
Quite true. Tracy, out for an afternoon stroll, had come unexpectantly
upon his family arms displayed upon this shabby house-front. The
hatchments made him smile; which was nothing, they had made the
neighborhood cats do that.
“Look, Hawkins, look! I’m drawing It over!”
“You’re drawing it sure, Rossmore. If I ever had any doubts about
materialization, they’re gone, now, and gone for good. Oh, this is a
joyful day!”
Tracy was sauntering over to read the door-plate. Before he was half way
over he was saying to himself, “Why, manifestly these are the American
Claimant’s quarters.”
“It’s coming--coming right along. I’ll slide, down and pull It in. You
follow after me.”
Sellers, pale and a good deal agitated, opened the door and confronted
Tracy. The old man could not at once get his voice: then he pumped out a
scattering and hardly coherent salutation, and followed it with--
“Walk in, walk right in, Mr.--er--”
“Tracy--Howard Tracy.”
“Tracy--thanks--walk right in, you’re expected.”
Tracy entered, considerably puzzled, and said:
“Expected? I think there must be some mistake.”
“Oh, I judge not,” said Sellers, who--noticing that Hawkins had arrived,
gave him a sidewise glance intended to call his close attention to a
dramatic effect which he was proposing to produce by his next remark.
Then he said, slowly and impressively--“I am--YOU KNOW WHO.”
To the astonishment of both conspirators the remark produced no dramatic
effect at all; for the new-comer responded with a quite innocent and
unembarrassed air--
“No, pardon me. I don’t know who you are. I only suppose--but no doubt
correctly--that you are the gentleman whose title is on the doorplate.”
“Right, quite right--sit down, pray sit down.” The earl was rattled,
thrown off his bearings, his head was in a whirl. Then he noticed
Hawkins standing apart and staring idiotically at what to him was the
apparition of a defunct man, and a new idea was born to him. He said to
Tracy briskly:
“But a thousand pardons, dear sir, I am forgetting courtesies due to a
guest and stranger. Let me introduce my friend General Hawkins--General
Hawkins, our new Senator--Senator from the latest and grandest addition
to the radiant galaxy of sovereign States, Cherokee Strip”--(to himself,
“that name will shrivel him up!”--but it didn’t, in the least, and
the Colonel resumed the introduction piteously disheartened and
amazed),--“Senator Hawkins, Mr. Howard Tracy, of--er--”
“England.”
“England!--Why that’s im--”
“England, yes, native of England.”
“Recently from there?”
“Yes, quite recently.”
Said the Colonel to himself, “This phantom lies like an expert.
Purifying this kind by fire don’t work. I’ll sound him a little further,
give him another chance or two to work his gift.” Then aloud--with deep
irony--
“Visiting our great country for recreation and amusement, no doubt. I
suppose you find that traveling in the majestic expanses of our Far West
is--”
“I haven’t been West, and haven’t been devoting myself to amusement with
any sort of exclusiveness, I assure you. In fact, to merely live, an
artist has got to work, not play.”
“Artist!” said Hawkins to himself, thinking of the rifled bank; “that is
a name for it!”
“Are you an artist?” asked the colonel; and added to himself, “now I’m
going to catch him.”
“In a humble way, yes.”
“What line?” pursued the sly veteran.
“Oils.”
“I’ve got him!” said Sellers to himself. Then aloud, “This is fortunate.
Could I engage you to restore some of my paintings that need that
attention?”
“I shall be very glad. Pray let me see them.”
No shuffling, no evasion, no embarrassment, even under this crucial
test. The Colonel was nonplussed. He led Tracy to a chromo which had
suffered damage in a former owner’s hands through being used as a lamp
mat, and said, with a flourish of his hand toward the picture--
“This del Sarto--”
“Is that a del Sarto?”
The colonel bent a look of reproach upon Tracy, allowed it to sink home,
then resumed as if there had been no interruption--
“This del Sarto is perhaps the only original of that sublime master
in our country. You see, yourself, that the work is of such exceeding
delicacy that the risk--could--er--would you mind giving me a little
example of what you can do before we--”
“Cheerfully, cheerfully. I will copy one of these marvels.”
Water-color materials--relics of Miss Sally’s college life--were
brought. Tracy said he was better in oils, but would take a chance with
these. So he was left alone. He began his work, but the attractions
of the place were too strong for him, and he got up and went drifting
about, fascinated; also amazed.
CHAPTER XIX.
Meantime the earl and Hawkins were holding a troubled and anxious
private consultation. The earl said:
“The mystery that bothers me, is, where did It get its other arm?”
“Yes--it worries me, too. And another thing troubles me--the apparition
is English. How do you account for that, Colonel?”
“Honestly, I don’t know, Hawkins, I don’t really know. It is very
confusing and awful.”
“Don’t you think maybe we’ve waked up the wrong one?”
“The wrong one? How do you account for the clothes?”
“The clothes are right, there’s no getting around it. What are we
going to do? We can’t collect, as I see. The reward is for a one-armed
American. This is a two-armed Englishman.”
“Well, it may be that that is not objectionable. You see it isn’t less
than is called for, it is more, and so,--”
But he saw that this argument was weak, and dropped it. The friends
sat brooding over their perplexities some time in silence. Finally
the earl’s face began to glow with an inspiration, and he said,
impressively:
“Hawkins, this materialization is a grander and nobler science than we
have dreamed of. We have little imagined what a solemn and stupendous
thing we have done. The whole secret is perfectly clear to me, now,
clear as day. Every man is made up of heredities, long-descended
atoms and particles of his ancestors. This present materialization is
incomplete. We have only brought it down to perhaps the beginning of
this century.”
“What do you mean, Colonel!” cried Hawkins, filled with vague alarms by
the old man’s awe-compelling words and manner.
“This. We’ve materialized this burglar’s ancestor!”
“Oh, don’t--don’t say that. It’s hideous.”
“But it’s true, Hawkins, I know it. Look at the facts. This apparition
is distinctly English--note that. It uses good grammar--note that. It
is an Artist--note that. It has the manners and carriage of a
gentleman--note that. Where’s your cow-boy? Answer me that.”
“Rossmore, this is dreadful--it’s too dreadful to think of!”
“Never resurrected a rag of that burglar but the clothes, not a solitary
rag of him but the clothes.”
“Colonel, do you really mean--”
The Colonel brought his fist down with emphasis and said:
“I mean exactly this. This materialization was immature, the burglar has
evaded us, this is nothing but a damned ancestor!”
He rose and walked the floor in great excitement.
Hawkins said plaintively:
“It’s a bitter disappointment--bitter.”
“I know it. I know it, Senator; I feel it as deeply as anybody could.
But we’ve got to submit--on moral grounds. I need money, but God knows I
am not poor enough or shabby enough to be an accessory to the punishing
of a man’s ancestor for crimes committed by that ancestor’s posterity.”
“But Colonel!” implored Hawkins; “stop and think; don’t be rash; you
know it’s the only chance we’ve got to get the money; and besides, the
Bible itself says posterity to the fourth generation shall be punished
for the sins and crimes committed by ancestors four generations back
that hadn’t anything to do with them; and so it’s only fair to turn the
rule around and make it work both ways.”
The Colonel was struck with the strong logic of this position. He strode
up and down, and thought it painfully over. Finally he said:
“There’s reason in it; yes, there’s reason in it. And so, although it
seems a piteous thing to sweat this poor ancient devil for a burglary he
hadn’t the least hand in, still if duty commands I suppose we must give
him up to the authorities.”
“I would,” said Hawkins, cheered and relieved, “I’d give him up if he
was a thousand ancestors compacted into one.”
“Lord bless me, that’s just what he is,” said Sellers, with something
like a groan, “it’s exactly what he is; there’s a contribution in
him from every ancestor he ever had. In him there’s atoms of priests,
soldiers, crusaders, poets, and sweet and gracious women--all kinds
and conditions of folk who trod this earth in old, old centuries, and
vanished out of it ages ago, and now by act of ours they are summoned
from their holy peace to answer for gutting a one-horse bank away out on
the borders of Cherokee Strip, and it’s just a howling outrage!”
“Oh, don’t talk like that, Colonel; it takes the heart all out of me,
and makes me ashamed of the part I am proposing to--”
“Wait--I’ve got it!”
“A saving hope? Shout it out, I am perishing.”
“It’s perfectly simple; a child would have thought of it. He is all
right, not a flaw in him, as far as I have carried the work. If I’ve
been able to bring him as far as the beginning of this century, what’s
to stop me now? I’ll go on and materialize him down to date.”
“Land, I never thought of that!” said Hawkins all ablaze with joy again.
“It’s the very thing. What a brain you have got! And will he shed the
superfluous arm?”
“He will.”
“And lose his English accent?”
“It will wholly disappear. He will speak Cherokee Strip--and other forms
of profanity.”
“Colonel, maybe he’ll confess!”
“Confess? Merely that bank robbery?”
“Merely? Yes, but why ‘merely’?”
The Colonel said in his most impressive manner: “Hawkins, he will be
wholly under my command. I will make him confess every crime he ever
committed. There must be a thousand. Do you get the idea?”
“Well--not quite.”
“The rewards will come to us.”
“Prodigious conception! I never saw such a head for seeing with a
lightning glance all the outlying ramifications and possibilities of a
central idea.”
“It is nothing; it comes natural to me. When his time is out in one jail
he goes to the next and the next, and we shall have nothing to do but
collect the rewards as he goes along. It is a perfectly steady income
as long as we live, Hawkins. And much better than other kinds of
investments, because he is indestructible.”
“It looks--it really does look the way you say; it does indeed.”
“Look?--why it is. It will not be denied that I have had a pretty wide
and comprehensive financial experience, and I do not hesitate to say
that I consider this one of the most valuable properties I have ever
controlled.”
“Do you really think so?”
“I do, indeed.”
“O, Colonel, the wasting grind and grief of poverty! If we could realize
immediately. I don’t mean sell it all, but sell part--enough, you know,
to--”
“See how you tremble with excitement. That comes of lack of experience.
My boy, when you have been familiar with vast operations as long as I
have, you’ll be different. Look at me; is my eye dilated? do you notice
a quiver anywhere? Feel my pulse: plunk-plunk-plunk--same as if I were
asleep. And yet, what is passing through my calm cold mind? A procession
of figures which would make a financial novice drunk just the sight of
them. Now it is by keeping cool, and looking at a thing all around,
that a man sees what’s really in it, and saves himself from the novice’s
unfailing mistake--the one you’ve just suggested--eagerness to realize.
Listen to me. Your idea is to sell a part of him for ready cash. Now
mine is--guess.”
“I haven’t an idea. What is it?”
“Stock him--of course.”
“Well, I should never have thought of that.”
“Because you are not a financier. Say he has committed a thousand
crimes. Certainly that’s a low estimate. By the look of him, even in
his unfinished condition, he has committed all of a million. But call it
only a thousand to be perfectly safe; five thousand reward, multiplied
by a thousand, gives us a dead sure cash basis of--what? Five million
dollars!”
“Wait--let me get my breath.”
“And the property indestructible. Perpetually fruitful--perpetually; for
a property with his disposition will go on committing crimes and winning
rewards.”
“You daze me, you make my head whirl!”
“Let it whirl, it won’t do it any harm. Now that matter is all
fixed--leave it alone. I’ll get up the company and issue the stock,
all in good time. Just leave it in my hands. I judge you don’t doubt my
ability to work it up for all it is worth.”
“Indeed I don’t. I can say that with truth.”
“All right, then. That’s disposed of. Everything in its turn. We old
operators, go by order and system--no helter-skelter business with
us. What’s the next thing on the docket? The carrying on of the
materialization--the bringing it down to date. I will begin on that at
once. I think--
“Look here, Rossmore. You didn’t lock It in. A hundred to one it has
escaped!”
“Calm yourself, as to that; don’t give yourself any uneasiness.”
“But why shouldn’t it escape?”
“Let it, if it wants to. What of it?”
“Well, I should consider it a pretty serious calamity.”
“Why, my dear boy, once in my power, always in my power. It may go
and come freely. I can produce it here whenever I want it, just by the
exercise of my will.”
“Well, I am truly glad to hear that, I do assure you.”
“Yes, I shall give it all the painting it wants to do, and we and the
family will make it as comfortable and contented as we can. No occasion
to restrain its movements. I hope to persuade it to remain pretty
quiet, though, because a materialization which is in a state of
arrested development must of necessity be pretty soft and flabby and
substanceless, and--er--by the way, I wonder where It comes from?”
“How? What do you mean?”
The earl pointed significantly--and interrogatively toward the sky.
Hawkins started; then settled into deep reflection; finally shook his
head sorrowfully and pointed downwards.
“What makes you think so, Washington?”
“Well, I hardly know, but really you can see, yourself, that he doesn’t
seem to be pining for his last place.”
“It’s well thought! Soundly deduced. We’ve done that Thing a favor. But
I believe I will pump it a little, in a quiet way, and find out if we
are right.”
“How long is it going to take to finish him off and fetch him down to
date, Colonel?”
“I wish I knew, but I don’t. I am clear knocked out by this new
detail--this unforeseen necessity of working a subject down gradually
from his condition of ancestor to his ultimate result as posterity. But
I’ll make him hump himself, anyway.”
“Rossmore!”
“Yes, dear. We’re in the laboratory. Come--Hawkins is here. Mind, now
Hawkins--he’s a sound, living, human being to all the family--don’t
forget that. Here she comes.”
“Keep your seats, I’m not coming in. I just wanted to ask, who is it
that’s painting down there?”
“That? Oh, that’s a young artist; young Englishman, named Tracy; very
promising--favorite pupil of Hans Christian Andersen or one of the other
old masters--Andersen I’m pretty sure it is; he’s going to half-sole
some of our old Italian masterpieces. Been talking to him?”
“Well, only a word. I stumbled right in on him without expecting anybody
was there. I tried to be polite to him; offered him a snack”--(Sellers
delivered a large wink to Hawkins from behind his hand), “but he
declined, and said he wasn’t hungry” (another sarcastic wink); “so I
brought some apples” (doublewink), “and he ate a couple of--”
“What!” and the colonel sprang some yards toward the ceiling and came
down quaking with astonishment.
Lady Rossmore was smitten dumb with amazement. She gazed at the sheepish
relic of Cherokee Strip, then at her husband, and then at the guest
again. Finally she said:
“What is the matter with you, Mulberry?”
He did not answer immediately. His back was turned; he was bending over
his chair, feeling the seat of it. But he answered next moment, and
said:
“Ah, there it is; it was a tack.”
The lady contemplated him doubtfully a moment, then said, pretty
snappishly:
“All that for a tack! Praise goodness it wasn’t a shingle nail, it would
have landed you in the Milky Way. I do hate to have my nerves shook up
so.” And she turned on her heel and went her way.
As soon as she was safely out, the Colonel said, in a suppressed voice:
“Come--we must see for ourselves. It must be a mistake.”
They hurried softly down and peeped in. Sellers whispered, in a sort of
despair--
It is eating! What a grisly spectacle! Hawkins it’s horrible! Take me
away--I can’t stand it.
They tottered back to the laboratory.
CHAPTER XX.
Tracy made slow progress with his work, for his mind wandered a good
deal. Many things were puzzling him. Finally a light burst upon him all
of a sudden--seemed to, at any rate--and he said to himself, “I’ve got
the clew at last--this man’s mind is off its balance; I don’t know how
much, but it’s off a point or two, sure; off enough to explain this mess
of perplexities, anyway. These dreadful chromos which he takes for old
masters; these villainous portraits--which to his frantic mind represent
Rossmores; the hatchments; the pompous name of this ramshackle old
crib--Rossmore Towers; and that odd assertion of his, that I was
expected. How could I be expected? that is, Lord Berkeley. He knows by
the papers that that person was burned up in the New Gadsby. Why, hang
it, he really doesn’t know who he was expecting; for his talk showed
that he was not expecting an Englishman, or yet an artist, yet I answer
his requirements notwithstanding. He seems sufficiently satisfied with
me. Yes, he is a little off; in fact I am afraid he is a good deal
off, poor old gentleman. But he’s interesting--all people in about his
condition are, I suppose. I hope he’ll like my work; I would like to
come every day and study him. And when I write my father--ah, that
hurts! I mustn’t get on that subject; it isn’t good for my spirits.
Somebody coming--I must get to work. It’s the old gentleman again. He
looks bothered. Maybe my clothes are suspicious; and they are--for an
artist. If my conscience would allow me to make a change, but that is
out of the question. I wonder what he’s making those passes in the air
for, with his hands. I seem to be the object of them. Can he be trying
to mesmerize me? I don’t quite like it. There’s something uncanny about
it.”
The colonel muttered to himself, “It has an effect on him, I can see it
myself. That’s enough for one time, I reckon. He’s not very solid, yet,
I suppose, and I might disintegrate him. I’ll just put a sly question
or two at him, now, and see if I can find out what his condition is, and
where he’s from.”
He approached and said affably:
“Don’t let me disturb you, Mr. Tracy; I only want to take a little
glimpse of your work. Ah, that’s fine--that’s very fine indeed. You are
doing it elegantly. My daughter will be charmed with this. May I sit
down by you?”
“Oh, do; I shall be glad.”
“It won’t disturb you? I mean, won’t dissipate your inspirations?”
Tracy laughed and said they were not ethereal enough to be very easily
discommoded.
The colonel asked a number of cautious and well-considered
questions--questions which seemed pretty odd and flighty to Tracy--but
the answers conveyed the information desired, apparently, for the
colonel said to himself, with mixed pride and gratification:
“It’s a good job as far as I’ve got with it. He’s solid. Solid and going
to last, solid as the real thing.”
“It’s wonderful--wonderful. I believe I could--petrify him.” After a
little he asked, warily “Do you prefer being here, or--or there?”
“There? Where?”
“Why--er--where you’ve been?”
Tracy’s thought flew to his boarding-house, and he answered with
decision.
“Oh, here, much!”
The colonel was startled, and said to himself, “There’s no uncertain
ring about that. It indicates where he’s been to, poor fellow. Well, I
am satisfied, now. I’m glad I got him out.”
He sat thinking, and thinking, and watching the brush go. At length he
said to himself, “Yes, it certainly seems to account for the failure of
my endeavors in poor Berkeley’s case. He went in the other direction.
Well, it’s all right. He’s better off.”
Sally Sellers entered from the street, now, looking her divinest, and
the artist was introduced to her. It was a violent case of mutual love
at first sight, though neither party was entirely aware of the fact,
perhaps. The Englishman made this irrelevant remark to himself, “Perhaps
he is not insane, after all.” Sally sat down, and showed an interest in
Tracy’s work which greatly pleased him, and a benevolent forgiveness of
it which convinced him that the girl’s nature was cast in a large mould.
Sellers was anxious to report his discoveries to Hawkins; so he took
his leave, saying that if the two “young devotees of the colored Muse”
 thought they could manage without him, he would go and look after his
affairs. The artist said to himself, “I think he is a little eccentric,
perhaps, but that is all.” He reproached himself for having injuriously
judged a man without giving him any fair chance to show what he really
was.
Of course the stranger was very soon at his ease and chatting along
comfortably. The average American girl possesses the valuable qualities
of naturalness, honesty, and inoffensive straightforwardness; she
is nearly barren of troublesome conventions and artificialities,
consequently her presence and her ways are unembarrassing, and one is
acquainted with her and on the pleasantest terms with her before
he knows how it came about. This new acquaintanceship--friendship,
indeed--progressed swiftly; and the unusual swiftness of it, and the
thoroughness of it are sufficiently evidenced and established by one
noteworthy fact--that within the first half hour both parties had
ceased to be conscious of Tracy’s clothes. Later this consciousness
was re-awakened; it was then apparent to Gwendolen that she was almost
reconciled to them, and it was apparent to Tracy that he wasn’t. The
re-awakening was brought about by Gwendolen’s inviting the artist to
stay to dinner. He had to decline, because he wanted to live, now--that
is, now that there was something to live for--and he could not survive
in those clothes at a gentleman’s table. He thought he knew that. But he
went away happy, for he saw that Gwendolen was disappointed.
And whither did he go? He went straight to a slopshop and bought as neat
and reasonably well-fitting a suit of clothes as an Englishman could be
persuaded to wear. He said--to himself, but at his conscience--“I know
it’s wrong; but it would be wrong not to do it; and two wrongs do not
make a right.”
This satisfied him, and made his heart light. Perhaps it will also
satisfy the reader--if he can make out what it means.
The old people were troubled about Gwendolen at dinner, because she was
