of the tribune in which he sat one foot was visible, shod with badger’s
skin, dyed blood-red. He was superb, but his eyelids drooped. He had a
straight nose and a retreating forehead, a physiognomy that was at once
weak and vicious. He looked melancholy; it may be that he was bored. At
the salutation, however, he affected a smile, and motioned that the games
should continue. And as the signals, the dolphins and the seven balls,
appeared again, his thoughts, forsaking the circus, went back to Rome.
Insecure in the hearts of his people, uncertain even of the continued
favor of the volatile monster who was lounging then in his Caprian
retreat, it was with the idea of pleasing the one, of flattering the
other, that he had instituted the games. For here in his brand-new
Tiberias, a city which he had built in a minute, whose colonnades and
porticoes he had bought ready-made in Rome, and had erected by means of
that magic which only the Romans possessed—in this capital of a parvenu
was a mongrel rabble of Greeks, Cypriotes, Egyptians, Cappadocians,
Syrians, and Jews, whose temper was uncertain, and whose rebellion to be
feared.
Annonâ et spectaculis indeed! Antipas knew the dictum well; and with an
uprising in the yonderland, and a sedition under his feet, what more could
he do than quell the first with his mercenaries, and disarm the second
with his games? Tiberius, whom he emulated, never deigned to appear at the
hippodrome; it was a way he had of showing his contempt for a nation.
Antipas might have imitated his sovereign in that, only he was not sure
that Tiberius would take the compliment as it was meant. He might view
such abstention as the airs of a trumpery tetrarch, and depose him there
and then. He was irascible, and when displeased there were dungeons at his
command which reopened with difficulty, and where existence was not
secure. Ah, that sausage of blood and mud, how he feared and envied him!
An emperor now, a god hereafter, truly the dominion of this world and a
part of the next was a matter concerning which fear and envy well might
be.
And as Antipas’ vagabond fancy roamed in and out through the possibilities
of the Caesar’s sway, unconsciously he thought of another monster, the son
of a priest of Ascalon, who had defied the Sanhedrim, won Cleopatra,
murdered the woman he loved the most, conquered Judæa and found it too
small for his magnificence—of that Herod in fact, his own father, who gave
to Jerusalem her masterpiece of marble and gold, and meanwhile, drunk with
the dream of empire, had made himself successor of Solomon, Sultan of
Israel, King of the Jews, and who, even as he died, had vomited death and
crowns, diadems and crucifixions.
It was through his legacy that Antipas ruled. The kingdom had been sliced
into three parts, of one of which Augustus had made a province; over
another a brother whom he hated ruled; and he had but this third part, the
smallest yet surely the most fair. Its unparalleled garden surrounded him,
and its eye, the lake, was just beyond. In the amphitheatre the hills
formed was a city of pink and blue marble, of cupolas, porticoes, volutes,
bronze doors, and copper roofs. Along the fringe of the shore were
Choraizin and Bethsaïda, purple with pomegranates, Capharnahum, beloved
for its honey, and Magdala, scented with spice. The slopes and intervales
were very green where they were not yellow, and there were terraces of
grape, glittering cliffs, and a sky of troubled blue, wadded with little
gold-edged clouds.
Yes, it was paradise, but it was not monarchy. It was to that he aspired.
As he mused, a rancid-faced woman decked with paint and ostrich-plumes
snarled in his ear:
“What have you heard of Iohanan?”
And as with a gesture he signified that he had heard nothing, she snarled
again.
Antipas turned to her reflectively, but it was of another that he
thought—the brown-eyed bride that Arabia had given him, the lithe-limbed
princess of the desert whose heart had beaten on his own, whom he had
loved with all the strength of youth and weakness, and whom he had
deserted while at Rome for his brother’s wife, his own niece, Herodias,
who snarled at his side.
Behind her were her women, and among them was one who, as the cars swept
by, turned her head with that movement a flower has which a breeze has
stirred. Her eyes were sultry, darkened with stibium; on her cheek was the
pink of the sea-shell, and her lips made one vermilion rhyme. The face was
oval and rather small; and though it was beautiful as victory, the wonder
of her eyes, which looked the haunts of hope fulfilled, the wonder of her
mouth, which seemed to promise more than any mortal mouth could give, were
forgotten in her hair, which was not orange nor flame, but a blending of
both. And now, as the cars passed, her thin nostrils quivered, her hand
rose as a bird does and fluttered with delight.
On the adjacent tiers were Greeks, fat-calved Cypriotes, Cappadocians with
flowers painted on their skin, red Egyptians, Thracian mercenaries,
Galilean fishermen, and a group of Lydians in women’s clothes.
On the tier just beyond was a man gazing wistfully at the woman that sat
behind Herodias. He was tall and sinewy, handsome with the comeliness of
the East. His beard was full, unmarred at the corners; his name was Judas.
Now and then he moistened his under lip, and a Thracian who sat at his
side heard him murmur “Mary” and some words of Syro-Chaldaic which the
Thracian did not understand.
To him Mary paid no attention. She had turned from the track. An officer
had entered the tetrarch’s tribune and addressed the prince. Antipas
started; Herodias colored through her paint. The latter evidently was
pleased.
“Iohanan!” she exclaimed. “To Machærus with him! You may believe in fate
and mathematics; I believe in the axe.”
And questioningly Herodias looked at her husband, who avoided her look,
yet signified his assent to the command she had given.
The din continued. From the tier beyond, Judas still gazed into the perils
of Mary’s eyes.
“Dear God,” he muttered, in answer to an anterior thought, “it would be
the birthday of my life.”
                               CHAPTER II.
                                   II.
“O Prophet Iohanan, how fair you are!”
Iohanan was hideous. His ankles were in stocks, a chain about his waist
was looped in a ring that hung from the wall. About his body were tattered
furs, his hair was tangled, the face drawn and yellow. Vermin were visible
on his person. His lips twitched, and his gums, discolored, were as those
of a camel that has journeyed too far. A tooth projected, green as a fresh
almond is; the chin projected too, and from it on one side a rill of
saliva dripped upon the naked breast. On the terrace he was a blur, a
nightmare in a garden.
“Ah, how fair!”
Tantalizing as temptation, Mary stood just beyond his reach. Her eyes were
full of compliments, her body was bent, and, the folds of her gown held
back, she swayed a little, in the attitude of one cajoling a tiger. She
was quite at home and at her ease, and yet prepared for instant flight.
Iohanan, or John—surnamed, because of practices of his, the
Baptist—beckoned her to approach. In his eyes was the innocence that oxen
have.
“My body is chained, but my soul is free!”
Mary made a pirouette, and through the terrace of the citadel the rattles
on her ankles rang.
It was appalling, this citadel; it dominated the entire land. Perched on a
peak of basalt, it overhung an abyss in which Asphalitis, the Bitter Sea,
lay, a stretch of sapphire to the sun. In the distance were the heights of
Abraham, the crests of Gilead. Before it was the infinite, behind it the
desert. At its base a hamlet crouched, and a path hewn in the rock crawled
in zigzags to its gates. Irregular walls surrounded it, in some places a
hundred cubits high, and in each of the many angles was a turret. Seen
from below it was a threat in stone, but within was a caress, one of those
rapturous palaces that only the Orientals build. It was called Machærus.
Peopled with slaves and legends, it was a haunt of ghosts and fierce
delights.
And now as Mary tripped before the prophet the walls alone repelled. The
terrace was a garden in which were lilies and sentries. For entrance there
was a portal of red porphyry, above which was a balcony hemmed by a
balustrade of yellow Numidian stone.
Against it Antipas leaned. He had been eyeing the desert in tremulous
surmise. The day before, he had caught the glitter of lances, therewith
spirals of distant smoke, and he had become fearful lest Aretas, that king
of Arabia Petræa whose daughter he had deserted, might be meditating
attack. But now there was nothing, at most a triangular mass speeding
westwards, of which only the edges moved, and which he knew to be a flight
of cranes.
He took heart again and gazed in the valley below. It was the anniversary
of his birth. To celebrate it he had invited the stewards of his lands,
the notables of Galilee, the elect of Jerusalem, the procurator of Judæa,
the emir of Tadmor, mountaineers and Pharisees, Scribes and herdsmen.
But in the valley only a few shepherds were visible. Along the ramparts
soldiers paced. At the further end of the terrace a group of domestics was
busy with hampers and luggage. The day was solemnly still, exquisitely
clear; and between two hills came a glare of gold projected from the
Temple of Jerusalem.
Through the silence rang the tinkle of the rattles that Mary wore. The
prophet was beckoning her.
“And Martha?” the tetrarch heard him ask.
The pirouette ceased awkwardly. Mary’s eyes forgot their compliments. Her
brows contracted, and, as though perplexed, she held her head a little to
one side.
“There,” he added, “there, I know you well. It was at Bethany I saw you
first. Yes, yes, I remember perfectly; you were leaving, and Martha was in
tears. Only a little since I had speech with her. She spoke of you; she
knew you were called the Magdalen. No,” he continued, for Mary had shrunk
back, “no, I will not curse. There is another by whom you will be
blessed.”
Mary laughed. “I am going to Rome. Tiberius will give me a palace. I shall
sleep on the down the Teutons bring. I shall drink pearls dissolved in
falernian. I shall sup on peacocks’ tongues.”
“No, Mary, Rome you will never see. The Eternal has you in His charge.
Your shame will be washed away.”
“Shame to you,” she interrupted. “Shame and starvation too.” She made as
though she were about to pirouette again. “Whom are you talking of?”
“One whose shoes I am unworthy to bear.”
For a moment he seemed to meditate; then, with the melancholy of one
renounceing some immense ambition, he murmured, half to himself, half to
the sky, “For him to increase I must diminish.”
“As for that, you are not much to look at now. I must go. I must braid my
hair; the emir’s eyes are eager.”
“Mary,” he hissed, and the sudden asperity of his voice coerced her as a
bit might do, “you will go to Capharnahum, you will seek him, you will say
Iohanan is descended into the tombs to announce the Son of David.”
Through the lateral entrance to the terrace a number of guests had
entered. From the balcony above, Antipas leaned and listened. Some one
touched him; it was Herodias.
“The procurator is coming,” she announced. “You should be at the gate.”
“Ah!”
He seemed indifferent. What Iohanan had said concerning the Son of David
stirred him like the point of a sword. He felt that there could be no such
person; his father had put a stop to all that. And yet, if there were!
His indifference surprised Herodias.
“What are you staring at?” she asked; and to assure herself she looked
over the balustrade. “That carrion? You should——”
Her hand drawn across her throat completed the sentence.
The tetrarch shook his head. There was no hurry. Then, too, the prophet
was useful. He reviled Jerusalem, and that flattered Galilee. But there
was another reason, which he kept to himself. Iohanan affected him as no
one had done before.
He feared him, chained though he was, and into that fear something akin to
admiration entered. In his heart he wished he had let him alone. No, there
was no hurry. As he assured her of that the prophet looked up.
“Jezebel!”
The guests approached. Their number had increased. There were Greek
merchants from Hippos and Sepphoris, Pharisees from Jericho, and Scribes
from Jerusalem. Herodias clapped her hands. A negro, naked to the waist,
appeared.
“Take him below.”
But the guests surrounded Iohanan. The Pharisees recognized him at once.
He was the terror of the hierarchs.
As he cried out at Herodias he seemed as though he would rise and wrench
his bonds and mount to where she was. His eyes had lost their pathos; they
blazed.
“Woe unto you!” he shouted, “and woe unto your barren bed! Though you hid
in the bowels of the earth, in the uttermost depths of a jungle, the
stench of your incest would betray you. Woe unto you, I say; the swine
will turn from you, the Eternal will rend you, and the heart of hell will
vomit you back!”
Herodias shook with anger. She was livid. Murmurs circulated through the
increasing throng.
The Pharisees edged nearer. On their foreheads were slips of vellum on
which passages of the Law had been inscribed. About their left arms other
slips extended spiralwise from the elbow to the end of the third finger.
They were in white; where their garments had become soiled, the spots had
been chalked.
To them the prophet showed his teeth. “And woe unto you too, race of
vipers, bladders of wind! As the fire devours the stubble, and the flame
consumes the chaff, so your root will be rottenness and your seed go up as
dust. Fear will engulf you like a torrent. The high peaks will be broken,
the mountains will sever, and night be upon all. The valleys and hills
will be strewn with your corpses, the rocks will run with your blood, the
plain will drink it, and the vultures feast on your flesh. Woe unto you
all, I say, that call good evil, and evil good!”
The invective continued. It enveloped the world. Everything was to be
destroyed. Presently it subsided; the voice of the prophet sank lower; his
eyes sought the sky, the pupils dilated; and the dream of his nation, the
triumphant future, the sanctification of the faithful, the magnificence
that was to be, poured rapturously from his lips.
“The whole land will glow with glory. The sky will be a rose in bloom. The
meadows will rejoice, and the earth will be filled with men and maidens
singing and kneeling to Thee, Immanuel, whom I await.”
The vision would have expanded, perhaps, but the chain that bound him was
loosed, sinewy arms were dragging him away. As he went, he glared up again
at Herodias. His face had lost its beatitude.
“You will be stripped of your purple, Jezebel; your diadem will be trodden
under foot. The pains of a woman in travail will be as joys unto yours.
There will be not enough stones to throw at you, and the abomination of
your lust will bellow, Accursed, even beyond the tomb.”
The anathema fainted in the distance. The Scribes consulted between their
teeth. By the Pharisees Antipas was blamed. A merchant from Hippos did not
understand, and the Law was explained. That a man should marry his
brother’s wife was a duty, only in this instance it had not occurred to
the brother to die beforehand. Then, again, by her first husband Herodias
had a child, and in that was the abomination.
The merchant did not wholly grasp the distinction, but he nodded as though
he had.
“There was a child, was there?”
A captain of the garrison answered: “A girl, Salomè.”
He said nothing further, but the merchant could see that his mouth watered
at the thought of her.
The crowd had become very dense. Suddenly a trumpet blared. At the gate
was Pontius Pilate. On his head was a high and dazzling helmet. His tunic
was short, open at the neck. His legs were bare. He was shod with shoes
that left the toes exposed. From his cuirass a gorgon’s head had, in
deference to local prejudice, been effaced; in its stead were scrolls and
thunderbolts. From the belt rows of straps, embroidered and fringed, fell
nearly to the knee. He held his head in the air. His features were
excellent, and his beard hung in rows of short overlapping curls.
Behind him was his body-guard. Before him Antipas stood, welcoming the
Roman in Greek.
In the sky now were the advancing steps of night; in crevices of the
basalt the leaves of the baaras weed had begun to flicker. It was time for
the festival to begin; and, preceding the guests, Antipas passed into a
hall beyond.
It was oblong, curved at the ends, and so vast that the roof was vague. On
the walls were slabs of different colors, marble spotted like the skin of
serpents, and onyx flecked with violet. On two sides were galleries
supported by columns of sandstone. A third gallery formed a semicircle.
Opposite, at the further end, on a dais, was the table of the tetrarch.
Antipas faced the assemblage. At his left was the procurator, at his right
the emir of Tadmor. Curtains were looped on either side. Above were
panels; they separated, and flowers fell. On a little stool next to the
couch on which the emir lay was a beautiful boy with curly hair. The couch
of the procurator was covered with a dim Babylonian shawl. That of the
tetrarch was of ivory incrusted with gold. All three were cushioned.
As the guests entered they were sprinkled with perfume. Throughout the
length of the hall other tables extended, and at these they found seats
and food: Syrian radishes, melons from the oases near the Oxus, white
olives from Bethany, honey from Capharnahum, and the little onions of
Ascalon. There were candelabra everywhere, liquids cooled with snow,
cheeses big as millstones, chunks of fat in wooden bowls, and behind the
tables, slaves with copper platters. On the platters were quarters of red
beef, breams swimming in grease, and sunbirds with their plumage on. In
the semicircular gallery musicians played, three notes, constantly
repeated.
The tetrarch’s table was spread with a cloth of byssus striped with
Laconian green. On it were jars of murrha filled with balsam, Sidonian
goblets of colored glass, jasper amphoræ, and water-melons from Egypt.
Before the procurator was a dish of oysters, lampreys, and boned barbels,
mixed well together, flavored with cinnamon and assafœtida; mashed
grasshoppers baked in saffron; and a roasted boar, the legs curled inward,
the eyes half-closed. The emir ate abundantly of heron’s eggs whipped with
wine into an amber foam. When his fingers were soiled, he wiped them in
the curls of the beautiful boy who sat near by.
The smell of food filled the hall, mounted to the roof. The atmosphere was
that of a bath, and the wines were heady. Already discussions had arisen.
A mountaineer and a Galilean skiffsman had been dragged away, the one
senseless, the other with features indistinguishable and masked in blood.
It was a great festival, and the tetrarch was entertaining, as only he
could, his friends, his enemies, and whoever chanced that way.
“As a child he rubbed his body with the leaves of the cnyza, which is a
preservative of chastity.” It was a little man with restless eyes and a
very long white beard detailing the virtues of Iohanan. “But,” he added,
“he must have found cold water better.”
His neighbors laughed. One pounded the table.
“Jeshua—” he began, but everyone was talking at once.
“Jeshua—” he continued; yet, as no one would listen, he turned to a
passing eunuch and caught him by the arm—“Jeshua does more; he works
miracles, and not with the cnyza either.”
The eunuch eluded him and escaped. However, he would not be balked; he
stood up and, through the din, he shouted at the little man:
“Baba Barbulah, I tell you he is the Messiah!”
His voice was so loud it dominated the hubbub, and suddenly the hubbub
ceased.
From the dais Pontius Pilate listened indifferently. Antipas held his
hands behind his ears that he might hear the better. The emir paid no
attention at all. On his head was a conical turban; about it were loops of
sapphire and coils of pearl. He wore a vest with scant sleeves that
reached to the knuckles, and trousers that overhung the instep and fell in
wide wrinkles on his feet; both were of leopard-skin. Over the vest was a
sleeveless tunic, clasped at the shoulders and girt at the waist. His hair
was long, plentifully oiled; his beard was bushy, blue-black, and specked
with silver.
Mary had approached. From the lessening waist to the slender feet her
dress opened at either side. Beneath was a chemise of transparent
Bactrianian tissue. From girdle to armpits were little clasps; on her
ankles, bands; and above the elbow, on her bare white arm, two circlets of
emeralds from the mines of Djebel Zabur.
The emir spoke to her. She listened with a glimpse of the most beautiful
teeth in the world. He put out a hand tentatively and touched her: the
tissue of her garment crackled and emitted sparks. He raised a goblet to
her. The wine it held was yellower than the marigold. She brushed it with
her lips; he drank it off, then, refreshed, he looked her up and down.
In one hand she held a cup of horn, narrower at the top than at the end;
in it were dice made of the knee-joints of gazelles, and these she rattled
in his beard.
“That beautiful Sultan, will he play?”
With an ochre-tipped finger she pointed at the turban on his head. The
eyes of the emir vacillated. He undid a string of gems and placed them on
the table’s edge. Mary unclasped a coil of emeralds and rattled the dice
again. She held the cup high up, then spilled the contents out.
“Ashtaroth!” the emir cried. He had won.
Mary leaned forward, fawned upon his breast, and gazed into his face. Her
breath had the fragrance of his own oasis, her lips were moist as the
pomegranate’s pulp, her teeth as keen as his own desire.
“No, beautiful Sultan, it is I.” With the back of her hand she disturbed
the dice. “I am Ashtaroth, am I not?”
Questioningly the emir explored the unfathomable eyes that gazed into his.
On their surface floated an acquiescence to the tacit offer of his own.
Then he nodded, and Mary turned and gathered the jewels from the cloth of
byssus where they lay.
“I tell you he is the Messiah!” It was the angry disputant shouting at the
little man.
“Who is? What are you talking about?”
Though the hubbub had ceased, throughout the hall were the mutterings of
dogs disturbed.
“Jeshua,” the disputant answered; “Jeshua the Nazarene.”
A Pharisee, very vexed, his bonnet tottering, gnashed back: “The Messiah
will uphold the law; this Nazarene attacks it.”
A Scribe interrupted: “Many things are to distinguish his advent. The
light of the sun will be increased a hundredfold, the orchards will bear
fruit a thousand times more abundantly. Death will be forgotten, joy will
be universal, Elijah will return.”
“But he has!”
Antipas started. The Scribe trembled with rage. But the throng had caught
the name of Elijah, and knew to whom the disputant referred—a man in
tattered furs whom a few hours before they had seen dragged away by a
negro naked to the waist, and some one shouted:
“Iohanan is Elijah.”
Baba Barbulah stood up and turned to whence the voice had come:
“In the footprints of the Anointed impudence shall increase, and the face
of the generation shall be as the face of a dog. It may be,” he added,
significantly—“it may be that you speak the truth.”
The sarcasm was lost. The musicians in the gallery, who had been playing
on flute and timbrel, began now on the psalteron and the native sambuca.
Behind was a row of lute-players; but most in view was a trignon, an
immense Egyptian harp, at which with nimble fingers a fair girl plucked.
In the shadow Herodias leaned. At a signal from her the musicians attacked
the prelude of a Syrian dance, and in the midst of the assemblage a figure
veiled from head to foot suddenly appeared. For a moment it stood very
still; then the veil fell of itself, and from the garrison a shout went
up:
“Salomè! Salomè!”
Her hair, after an archaic Chanaanite fashion, was arranged in the form of
a tower. Her high bosom was wound about with protecting bands. Her waist
was bare. She wore long pink drawers of silk, and for girdle she had the
blue buds of the lotus, which are symbols of virginity. She was young and
exquisitely formed. In her face you read strange records, and on her lips
were promises as rare. Her eyes were tortoise-shell, her hair was black as
guilt.
The prelude had ceased, the movement quickened. With a gesture of
abandonment the girl threw her head back, and, her arms extended, she
fluttered like a butterfly on a rose. She ran forward. The sambuca rang
quicker, the harp quicker yet. She threw herself to one side, then to the
other, her hips swaying as she moved. The buds at her girdle fell one by
one; she was dancing on flowers, her hips still swaying, her waist
advancing and retreating to the shiver of the harp. She was elusive as
dream, subtle as love; she intoxicated and entranced; and finally, as she
threw herself on her hands, her feet, first in the air and then slowly
descending, touched the ground, while her body straightened like a reed,
there was a long growl of unsatisfied content.
She was kneeling now before the dais. Pilate compared her to Bathylle, a
mime whom he had applauded at Rome. The tetrarch was purple; he gnawed his
under lip. For the moment he forgot everything he should have
remembered—the presence of his guests, the stains of his household, his
wife even, whose daughter this girl was—and in a gust of passion he half
rose from his couch.
“Come to me,” he cried. “But come to me, and ask whatever you will.”
Salomè hesitated and pouted, the point of her tongue protruding between
her lips.
“Come to me,” he pleaded; “you shall have slaves and palaces and cities;
you shall have hills and intervales. I will give you anything; half my
kingdom if you wish.”
There was a tinkle of feet; the girl had gone. In a moment she returned,
and balancing herself on one foot, she lisped very sweetly: “I should like
by and by to have you give me the head of Iohanan—” she looked about; in
the distance a eunuch was passing, a dish in his hand, and she added, “on
a platter.”
Antipas jumped as though a hound under the table had bitten him on the
leg. He turned to the procurator, who regarded him indifferently, and to
the emir, who was toying with Mary’s agate-nailed hand. He had given his
word, however; the people had heard. About his ears the perspiration
started; from purple he had grown very gray.
Salomè still stood, balancing herself on one foot, the point of her tongue
just visible, while from the gallery beyond, in whose shadows he divined
the instigating presence of Herodias, came the grave music of an Hebraic
hymn.
“So be it,” he groaned.
The order was given, and a tear trickled down through the paint and
furrows of his cheek. On the hall a silence had descended. The guests were
waiting, and the throb of the harp accentuated the suspense. Presently
there was the clatter of men-at-arms, and a negro, naked to the waist,
appeared, an axe in one hand, the head of the prophet in the other.
He presented it deferentially to Antipas, who motioned it away, his face
averted. Salomè smiled. She took it, and then, while she resumed her veil,
she put it down before the emir, who eyed it with the air of one that has
seen many another object such as that.
But in a moment the veil was adjusted, and with the trophy the girl
disappeared.
The harp meanwhile had ceased to sob, the guests were departing; already
the procurator had gone. The emir looked about for Mary, but she also had
departed; and, with the expectation, perhaps, of finding her without, he
too got up and left the hall.
Antipas was alone. Through the lattice at his side he could see the baaras
in the basalt emitting its firefly sparks of flame. From an adjacent
corridor came the discreet click-clack of a sandal, and in a moment the
head of the prophet was placed on the table at which he lay. The tetrarch
leaned over and gazed into the unclosed eyes. They were haggard and
dilated, and they seemed to curse.
He put his hand to his face and tried to think—to forget rather, and not
to remember; but his ears were charged with rustlings that extended
indefinitely and lost themselves in the future; his mind peopled itself
with phantoms of the past. Perhaps he dozed a little. When he looked up
again the head was no longer there, and he told himself that Herodias had
thrown it to the swine.
                               CHAPTER III.
                                   III.
In the distance the white and yellow limestone of the mountains rose. Near
by was a laughter of flowers, a tumult of green. Just beyond, in a border
of sedge and rushes, a lake lay, a mirror to the sky. In the background
were the blue and white terraces of Magdala, and about a speaker were
clustered a handful of people, a group of laborers and of fishermen.
He was dressed as a rabbi, but he looked like a seer. In his face was the
youth of the world, in his eyes the infinite. As he spoke, his words
thrilled and his presence allured. “Repent,” he was saying; “the kingdom
of heaven is at hand.” And as the resplendent prophecy continued, you
would have said that a bird in his heart had burst into song.
A little to one side, in an attitude of amused contempt, a few of the
tetrarch’s courtiers stood; they were dressed in the Roman fashion, and
one, Pandera, a captain of the guard, wore a cuirass that glittered as he
laughed. He was young and very handsome. He had white teeth, red lips, a
fair skin, a dark beard, and, as he happened to be stationed in the
provinces, an acquired sneer. Dear old Rome, how vague it was! And as he
jested with his comrades he thought of its delights, and wished himself
either back again in the haunts he loved, or else, if he must be separated
from them, then, instead of vegetating in a tiresome tetrarchy, he felt
that it would be pleasant to be far off somewhere, where the uncouth
Britons were, a land which it took a year of adventures to reach; on the
banks of the Betis, whence the girls came that charmed the lupanars; in
Numidia, where the hunting was good; or in Thrace, where there was blood
in plenty—anywhere, in fact, save on the borders of the beautiful lake
where he happened to be.
It was but the restlessness of youth, perhaps, that disturbed him so, for
in Galilee there were oafs as awkward as any that Britannia could show;
there was game in abundance; blood, too, was not as infrequent as it might
have been; and as for women, there at his side stood one as appetizing as
Rome, Spain even, had produced. He turned to her now, and plucked at his
dark beard and showed his white teeth; he had caught a phrase of the rabbi
in which the latter had mentioned the kingdoms of the earth, and the
phrase amused him.
“I like that,” he said. “What does he know about the kingdoms of the
earth? Mary, I wager what you will that he has never been two leagues from
where he stands. Let’s ask and see.”
But Mary did not seem to hear. She was engrossed in the rabbi, and Pandera
had to tug at her sleeve before she consented to return to a life in which
he seemingly had a part.
“What do you say?” he asked.
Mary shook her head. She had the air of one whose mind is elsewhere. Into
her face a vacancy had come; she seemed incapable of reply; and as the
guardsman scrutinized her it occurred to him that she might be on the
point of having an attack of that catalepsy to which he knew her to be
subject. But immediately she reassured him.
“Come, let us go.”
And, the guardsman at her side, the others in her train, she ascended the
little hill on which her castle was, and where the midday meal awaited.
It was a charming residence. Built quadrangularwise, the court held a
fountain which was serviceable to those that wished to bathe. The roof was
a garden. The interior façade was of teak wood, carved and colored; the
frontal was of stone. Seen from the exterior it looked the fortress of
some umbrageous prince, but in the courtyard reigned the seduction of a
woman in love. From without it menaced, within it soothed.
Her title to it was a matter of doubt. According to Pandera, who at the
mess-table at Tiberias had boasted his possession of her confidence, it
was a heritage from her father. Others declared that it had been given her
by her earliest lover, an old man who since had passed away. Yet, after
all, no one cared. She kept open house; the tetrarch held her in high
esteem; she was attached to the person of the tetrarch’s wife; only a
little before, the emir of Tadmor had made a circuitous journey to visit
her; Vitellius, the governor of the province, had stopped time and again
beneath her roof; and—and here was the point—to see her was to acquire a
new conception of beauty. Of human flowers she was the most fair.
Yet now, during the meal that followed, Mary, the toast of the tetrarchy,
she whose wit and brilliance had been echoed even in Rome, wrapped herself
in a mantle of silence. The guardsman jested in vain. To the others she
paid as much attention as the sun does to a torch; and when at last
Pandera, annoyed, perhaps, at her disregard of a quip of his, attempted to
whisper in her ear, she left the room.
The nausea of the hour may have affected her, for presently, as she threw
herself on her great couch, her thoughts forsook the present and went back
into the past, her childhood returned, and faces that she had loved
reappeared and smiled. Her father, for instance, Theudas, who had been
satrap of Syria, and her mother, Eucharia, a descendant of former kings.
But of these her memories were slight—they had died when she was still
very young—and in their place came her sister, Martha, kind of heart and
quick of temper, obdurate, indulgent, and continually perplexed; Simon,
Martha’s husband, a Libyan, born in Cyrene, called by many the Leper
because of a former whiteness of his skin, a whiteness which had long
since vanished, for he was brown as a date; Eleazer, her brother, younger
than herself, a delicate boy with blue pathetic eyes; and with them came
the delight of Bethany, that lovely village on the oriental slope of the
Mount of Olives, where the rich of Jerusalem had their villas, and where
her girlhood had been passed.
From the lattice at which she used to sit she could see the wide white
road begin its descent to the Jordan, a stretch of almond trees and
oleanders; and just beyond, in a woody hollow, a little house in which
Sephôrah lived—a woman who came from no one knew where, and to whom Martha
had forbidden her to speak.
She could see her still, a gaunt, gray creature, with projecting
cheek-bones, a skin of brick, and a low, insinuating voice. The
fascination which she had exercised over her partook both of wonder and of
fear, for it was rumored that she was a sorceress, and as old as the
world. To Mary, who was then barely nubile, and inquisitive as only
fanciful children are, she manifested a great affection, enticing her to
her dwelling with little cakes that were sweet to the tooth and fabulous
tales that stirred the heart: the story of Stratonice and Combabus, for
instance, which Mary did not in the least understand, but which seemed to
her intensely sad.
“And then what?” she would ask when the tale was done; and the woman would
tell her of Ninus and Semiramis, of Sennachereb, of Sardanapalus,
Belsarazzur, of Dagon, the fish-god of Philistia, by whom Goliath swore
and in whose temple Samson died, or of Sargon, who, placed by his mother
in an ark of rushes, was set adrift in the Euphrates, yet, happily
discovered by a water-carrier, afterwards became a leader of men.
“Why, that was Moses!” the child would exclaim.
“No, no,” the woman invariably answered, “it was Sargon.”
But that which pleasured Mary more highly even than these tales were the
legends of Hither Asia, the wonderlands of Babylon, and particularly the
story of the creation, for always the human mind has wished to read the
book of God.
“Where did they say the world came from?” she would ask.
And Sephôrah, drawing a long breath, would answer: “Once all was darkness
and water. In this chaos lived strange animals, and men with two wings,
and others with four wings and two faces. Some had the thighs of goats,
some had horns, and some had horses’ feet, or were formed behind like a
horse and in front like a man; there were bulls with human faces, and men
with the heads of dogs, and other animals of human shape with fins like
fishes, and fishes like sirens, and dragons, and creeping things, and
serpents, and fierce creatures, the images of which are preserved in the
temple of Bel.
“Over all these ruled the great mother, Um Uruk. But Bel, whom your people
call Baal, divided the darkness and clove the woman asunder. Of one part
he made the earth, and of the other the sun, the moon, the planets. He
drew off the water, apportioned it to the land, and prepared and arranged
the world. The creatures on it could not endure the light of day and
became extinct.
“Now when Bel saw the land fruitful yet uninhabited, he cut off his head
and made one of the gods mingle the blood which flowed from it with earth
and form therewith men and animals that could endure the sun. Presently
Chaldæa was plentifully populated, but the inhabitants lived like animals,
without order or rule. Then there appeared to them from the sea a monster
of the name of Yan. Its body was that of a fish, but under its head
another head was attached, and on its fins were feet, and its voice was
that of a man. Its image is still preserved. It came at morning, passed
the day, and taught language and science, the harvesting of seeds and of
fruits, the rules for the boundaries of land, the mode of building cities
and temples, arts and writing and all that pertains to civilized life, and
for four hundred and thirty-two thousand years the world went very well.
“Then in a dream Bel revealed to Xisuthrus that there would be a great
storm, and men would be destroyed. He bade him bury in Sepharvaim, the
city of the sun, all the ancient, mediæval, and modern records, and build
a ship and embark in it with his kindred and his nearest friends. He was
also to take food and drink into the ship, and pairs of all creatures
winged and four-footed.
“Xisuthrus did as he was bidden, and from the ends of heaven the storm
began to blow. Bin thundered; Nebo, the Revealer, came forth; Nergal, the
Destroyer, overthrew; and Adar, the Sublime, swept in his brightness
across the earth. The storm devoured the nations, it lapped the sky,
turned the land into an ocean, and destroyed everything that lived. Even
the gods were afraid. They sought refuge in the heaven of Anu, sovereign
of the upper realms. As hounds draw in their tails, they seated themselves
on their thrones, and to them Mylitta, the great goddess, spake: ‘The
world has turned from me, and ruin I have proclaimed.’ She wept, and the
gods on their thrones wept with her.
“On the seventh day Xisuthrus perceived that the storm had abated and that
the sea had begun to fall. He sent out a dove, it returned; next, a
swallow, which also returned, but with mud on its feet; and again, a
raven, which saw the corpses in the water and ate them, and returned no
more. Then the boat was stayed and settled upon Mount Nasir. Xisuthrus
went out and worshipped the recovered earth. When his companions went in
search of him he had disappeared, but his voice called to them saying that
for his piety he had been carried away; that he was dwelling among the
gods; and that they were to return to Sepharvaim and dig up the books and
give them to mankind. Which they did, and erected many cities and temples,
and rebuilt Babylon and Mylitta’s shrine.”
“It is simpler in Genesis,” Mary said, the first time she heard this
marvellous tale. For to her, as to Martha and Eleazer, the khazzan, the
teacher of the synagogue, had read from the great square letters in which
the Pentateuch was written another account of the commingling of Chaos and
of Light.
At the mention of the sacred canon, Sephôrah would smile with that
indulgence which wisdom brings, and smooth her scanty plaits, and draw the
back of her hand across her mouth.
“Burned on tiles in the land of the magi are the records of a million
years. In the unpolluted tombs of Osorapi the history of life and of time
is written on the cerements of kings. Where the bells ring at the neck of
the camels of Iran is a stretch of columns on which are inscribed the
words of those that lived in Paradise. On a wall of the temple of Bel are
the chronicles of creation; in the palace of Assurbanipal, the narrative
of the flood. It is from these lands and monuments the Thorah comes; its
verses are made of their memories; it gathered whatever it found, and
overlooked the essential, immortal life.”
And Sephôrah added in a whisper, “For we are descended from gods, and
immortal as they.”
The khazzan had disclosed to Mary no such prospect as that. To him as to
all orthodox expounders of the Law man was essentially evanescent; he
lived his little day and disappeared forever. God alone was immortal, and
an immortal being would be God. The contrary beliefs of the Egyptians and
the Aryans were to them abominations, and the spiritualistic doctrine
inaugurated by Juda Maccabæus and accepted by the Pharisees, an impiety.
The Pentateuch had not a word on the subject. Moses had expressly declared
that secret things belong to the Lord, and only visible things to man. The
prophets had indeed foretold a terrestrial immortality, but that
immortality was the immortality of a nation; and the realization of their
prophecy the entire people awaited. Apart from that there was only Sheol,
a sombre region of the under-earth, to which the dead descended, and there
remained without consciousness, abandoned by God.
“Immortal!” Mary, with great wondering eyes, would echo. “Immortal!”
“Yes; but to become so,” Sephôrah replied, “you must worship at another
shrine.”
“Where is it?”
Sephôrah answered evasively. Mary would find it in time—when the spring
came, perhaps; and meanwhile she had a word or two to say of Baal to such
effect even that Mary questioned the khazzan.
“However great the god of the Gentiles has been imagined,” the khazzan
announced, “he is bounded by the earth and the sky. His feet may touch the
one, his head the other, but of nature he is a part, and, to the Eternal,
nature is not even a garment, it is a substance He made, and which He can
remould at will. It is not in nature, it is in light, He is: in the
burning bush in which He revealed Himself; in the stake at which Isaac
would have died; in the lightning in which the Law was declared, the
column of fire, the flame of the sacrifices, and the gleaming throne in
which Isaiah saw Him sit—it is there that He is, and His shadow is the
sun.”
Of this Mary repeated the substance to her friend, and Sephôrah mused.
“No,” she said at last—“no, he is not in light, but in the desert where
nature is absent, and where the world has ceased to be. The threats of a
land that never smiled are reflected in his face. The sight of him is
death. No, Baal is the sun-god. His eyes fecundate.”
And during the succeeding months Sephôrah entertained Mary with Assyrian
annals and Egyptian lore. She told her more of Baal, whose temple was in
Babylon, and of Baaltis, who reigned at Ascalon. She told her of the women
who wept for Tammuz, and explained the reason of their tears. She told her
of the union of Ptah, the unbegotten begetter of the first beginning, and
of Neith, mother of the sun; of the holy incest of Isis and Osiris; and of
Luz, called by the patriarchs Bethel, the House of God, the foothold of a
straight stairway which messengers ceaselessly ascended and descended, and
at whose summit the Elohim sat.
She told her of these things, of others as well; and now and then in the
telling of them a fat little man with beady eyes would wander in, the
smell of garlic about him, and stare at Mary’s lips. His name was Pappus;
by Sephôrah he was treated with great respect, and Mary learned that he
was rich and knew that Sephôrah was poor.
When the Passover had come and gone, Sephôrah detected that Mary had
ceased to be a child; and of the gods and goddesses with whose adventures
she was wont to entertain her, gradually she confined herself to Mylitta;
and in describing the wonderlands which she knew so well, she spoke now
only of Babylon, where the great tower was, and the gardens that hung in
