Rome, one's first view of Jerusalem. But these emotions are produced by
association, by the sudden standing face to face with the scenes most
wrought into our whole life and education by tradition and religion.
This was without association, as it was without parallel. It was a shock
so novel that the mind, dazed, quite failed to comprehend it. All that
we could grasp was a vast confusion of amphitheatres and strange
architectural forms resplendent with color. The vastness of the view
amazed us quite as much as its transcendent beauty.
We had expected a cañon--two lines of perpendicular walls 6000 feet
high, with the ribbon of a river at the bottom; but the reader may
dismiss all his notions of a cañon, indeed of any sort of mountain or
gorge scenery with which he is familiar. We had come into a new world.
What we saw was not a cañon, or a chasm, or a gorge, but a vast area
which is a break in the plateau. From where we stood it was twelve miles
across to the opposite walls--a level line of mesa on the Utah side. We
looked up and down for twenty to thirty miles. This great space is
filled with gigantic architectural constructions, with amphitheatres,
gorges, precipices, walls of masonry, fortresses terraced up to the
level of the eye, temples mountain size, all brilliant with horizontal
lines of color--streaks of solid hues a few feet in width, streaks a
thousand feet in width--yellows, mingled white and gray, orange, dull
red, brown, blue, carmine, green, all blending in the sunlight into one
transcendent suffusion of splendor. Afar off we saw the river in two
places, a mere thread, as motionless and smooth as a strip of mirror,
only we knew it was a turbid, boiling torrent, 6000 feet below us.
Directly opposite the overhanging ledge on which we stood was a
mountain, the sloping base of which was ashy gray and bluish; it rose in
a series of terraces to a thousand-feet wall of dark red sandstone,
receding upward, with ranges of columns and many fantastic sculptures,
to a finial row of gigantic opera-glasses 6000 feet above the river. The
great San Francisco Mountain, with its snowy crater, which we had passed
on the way, might have been set down in the place of this one, and it
would have been only one in a multitude of such forms that met the eye
whichever way we looked. Indeed, all the vast mountains in this region
might be hidden in this cañon.
Wandering a little away from the group and out of sight, and turning
suddenly to the scene from another point of view, I experienced for a
moment an indescribable terror of nature, a confusion of mind, a fear to
be alone in such a presence. With all this grotesqueness and majesty of
form and radiance of color, creation seemed in a whirl. With our
education in scenery of a totally different kind, I suppose it would
need long acquaintance with this to familiarize one with it to the
extent of perfect mental comprehension.
The vast abyss has an atmosphere of its own, one always changing and
producing new effects, an atmosphere and shadows and tones of its
own--golden, rosy, gray, brilliant, and sombre, and playing a thousand
fantastic tricks to the vision. The rich and wonderful color effects,
says Captain Dutton, "are due to the inherent colors of the rocks,
modified by the atmosphere. Like any other great series of strata in the
plateau province, the carboniferous has its own range of colors, which
might serve to distinguish it, even if we had no other criterion. The
summit strata are pale gray, with a faint yellowish cast. Beneath them
the cross-bedded sandstone appears, showing a mottled surface of pale
pinkish hue. Underneath this member are nearly 1000 feet of the lower
Aubrey sandstones, displaying an intensely brilliant red, which is
somewhat marked by the talus shot down from the gray cherty limestone at
the summit. Beneath the lower Aubrey is the face of the Red Wall
limestone, from 2000 to 3000 feet high. It has a strong red tone, but a
very peculiar one. Most of the red strata of the West have the brownish
or vermilion tones, but these are rather purplish red, as if the pigment
had been treated to a dash of blue. It is not quite certain that this
may not arise in part from the intervention of the blue haze, and
probably it is rendered more conspicuous by this cause; but, on the
whole, the purplish cast seems to be inherent. This is the dominant
color of the cañon, for the expanse of the rock surface displayed is
more than half in the Red Wall group."
I was continually likening this to a vast city rather than a landscape,
but it was a city of no man's creation nor of any man's conception. In
the visions which inspired or crazy painters have had of the New
Jerusalem, of Babylon the Great, of a heaven in the atmosphere, with
endless perspective of towers and steeps that hang in the twilight sky,
the imagination has tried to reach this reality. But here are effects
beyond the artist, forms the architect has not hinted at; and yet
everything reminds us of man's work. And the explorers have tried by the
use of Oriental nomenclature to bring it within our comprehension, the
East being the land of the imagination. There is the Hindoo
Amphitheatre, the Bright Angel Amphitheatre, the Ottoman Amphitheatre,
Shiva's Temple, Vishnu's Temple, Vulcan's Throne. And here, indeed, is
the idea of the pagoda architecture, of the terrace architecture, of the
bizarre constructions which rise with projecting buttresses, rows of
pillars, recesses, battlements, esplanades, and low walls, hanging
gardens, and truncated pinnacles. It is a city, but a city of the
imagination. In many pages I could tell what I saw in one day's lounging
for a mile or so along the edge of the precipice. The view changed at
every step, and was never half an hour the same in one place. Nor did it
need much fancy to create illusions or pictures of unearthly beauty.
There was a castle, terraced up with columns, plain enough, and below it
a parade-ground; at any moment the knights in armor and with banners
might emerge from the red gates and deploy there, while the ladies
looked down from the balconies. But there were many castles and
fortresses and barracks and noble mansions. And the rich sculpture in
this brilliant color! In time I began to see queer details: a Richardson
house, with low portals and round arches, surmounted by a Nuremberg
gable; perfect panels, 600 feet high, for the setting of pictures; a
train of cars partly derailed at the door of a long, low warehouse, with
a garden in front of it. There was no end to such devices.
It was long before I could comprehend the vastness of the view, see the
enormous chasms and rents and seams, and the many architectural ranges
separated by great gulfs, between me and the wall of the mesa twelve
miles distant. Away to the north-east was the blue Navajo Mountain, the
lone peak in the horizon; but on the southern side of it lay a desert
level, which in the afternoon light took on the exact appearance of a
blue lake; its edge this side was a wall thousands of feet high, many
miles in length, and straightly horizontal; over this seemed to fall
water. I could see the foam of it at the foot of the cliff; and below
that was a lake of shimmering silver, in which the giant precipice and
the fall and their color were mirrored. Of course there was no silver
lake, and the reflection that simulated it was only the sun on the lower
part of the immense wall.
Some one said that all that was needed to perfect this scene was a
Niagara Falls. I thought what figure a fall 150 feet high and 3000 long
would make in this arena. It would need a spy-glass to discover it. An
adequate Niagara here should be at least three miles in breadth, and
fall 2000 feet over one of these walls. And the Yosemite--ah! the lovely
Yosemite! Dumped down into this wilderness of gorges and mountains, it
would take a guide who knew of its existence a long time to find it.
The process of creation is here laid bare through the geologic periods.
The strata of rock, deposited or upheaved, preserve their horizontal and
parallel courses. If we imagine a river flowing on a plain, it would
wear for itself a deeper and deeper channel. The walls of this channel
would recede irregularly by weathering and by the coming in of other
streams. The channel would go on deepening, and the outer walls would
again recede. If the rocks were of different material and degrees of
hardness, the forms would be carved in the fantastic and architectural
manner we find them here. The Colorado flows through the tortuous inner
chasm, and where we see it, it is 6000 feet below the surface where we
stand, and below the towers of the terraced forms nearer it. The
splendid views of the cañon at this point given in Captain Dutton's
report are from Point Sublime, on the north side. There seems to have
been no way of reaching the river from that point. From the south side
the descent, though wearisome, is feasible. It reverses mountaineering
to descend 6000 feet for a view, and there is a certain pleasure in
standing on a mountain summit without the trouble of climbing it. Hance,
the guide, who has charge of the well, has made a path to the bottom.
The route is seven miles long. Half-way down he has a house by a spring.
At the bottom, somewhere in those depths, is a sort of farm, grass
capable of sustaining horses and cattle, and ground where fruit-trees
can grow. Horses are actually living there, and parties descend there
with tents, and camp for days at a time. It is a world of its own. Some
of the photographic views presented here, all inadequate, are taken from
points on Hance's trail. But no camera or pen can convey an adequate
conception of what Captain Dutton happily calls a great innovation in
the modern ideas of scenery. To the eye educated to any other, it may be
shocking, grotesque, incomprehensible; but "those who have long and
carefully studied the Grand Cañon of the Colorado do not hesitate for a
moment to pronounce it by far the most sublime of all earthly
spectacles."
I have space only to refer to the geologic history in Captain Dutton's
report of 1882, of which there should be a popular edition. The waters
of the Atlantic once overflowed this region, and were separated from the
Pacific, if at all, only by a ridge. The story is of long eras of
deposits, of removal, of upheaval, and of volcanic action. It is
estimated that in one period the thickness of strata removed and
transported away was 10,000 feet. Long after the Colorado began its work
of corrosion there was a mighty upheaval. The reader will find the story
of the making of the Grand Cañon more fascinating than any romance.
Without knowing this story the impression that one has in looking on
this scene is that of immense antiquity, hardly anywhere else on earth
so overwhelming as here. It has been here in all its lonely grandeur and
transcendent beauty, exactly as it is, for what to us is an eternity,
unknown, unseen by human eye. To the recent Indian, who roved along its
brink or descended to its recesses, it was not strange, because he had
known no other than the plateau scenery. It is only within a quarter of
a century that the Grand Cañon has been known to the civilized world. It
is scarcely known now. It is a world largely unexplored. Those who best
know it are most sensitive to its awe and splendor. It is never twice
the same, for, as I said, it has an atmosphere of its own. I was told by
Hance that he once saw a thunder-storm in it. He described the chaos of
clouds in the pit, the roar of the tempest, the reverberations of
thunder, the inconceivable splendor of the rainbows mingled with the
colors of the towers and terraces. It was as if the world were breaking
up. He fled away to his hut in terror.
The day is near when this scenery must be made accessible. A railway can
easily be built from Flagstaff. The projected road from Utah, crossing
the Colorado at Lee's Ferry, would come within twenty miles of the
Grand Cañon, and a branch to it could be built. The region is arid, and
in the "sight-seeing" part of the year the few surface wells and springs
are likely to go dry. The greatest difficulty would be in procuring
water for railway service or for such houses of entertainment as are
necessary. It could, no doubt, be piped from the San Francisco Mountain.
At any rate, ingenuity will overcome the difficulties, and travellers
from the wide world will flock thither, for there is revealed the
long-kept secret, the unique achievement of nature.
APPENDIX.
A CLIMATE FOR INVALIDS.
The following notes on the climate of Southern California, written by
Dr. H. A. Johnson, of Chicago, at the solicitation of the writer of this
volume and for his information, I print with his permission, because the
testimony of a physician who has made a special study of climatology in
Europe and America, and is a recognized authority, belongs of right to
the public:
     The choice of a climate for invalids or semi-invalids involves
     the consideration of: First, the invalid, his physical
     condition (that is, disease), his peculiarities (mental and
     emotional), his social habits, and his natural and artificial
     needs. Second, the elements of climate, such as temperature,
     moisture, direction and force of winds, the averages of the
     elements, the extremes of variation, and the rapidity of
     change.
     The climates of the western and south-western portions of the
     United States are well suited to a variety of morbid
     conditions, especially those pertaining to the pulmonary organs
     and the nervous system. Very few localities, however, are
     equally well adapted to diseases of innervation of circulation
     and respiration. For the first and second, as a rule, high
     altitudes are not advisable; for the third, altitudes of from
     two thousand to six thousand feet are not only admissible but
     by many thought to be desirable. It seems, however, probable
     that it is to the dryness of the air and the general
     antagonisms to vegetable growths, rather than to altitude
     alone, that the benefits derived in these regions by persons
     suffering from consumption and kindred diseases should be
     credited.
     Proximity to large bodies of water, river valleys, and damp
     plateaus are undesirable as places of residence for invalids
     with lung troubles. There are exceptions to this rule.
     Localities near the sea with a climate subject to slight
     variations in temperature, a dry atmosphere, little rainfall,
     much sunshine, not so cold in winter as to prevent much
     out-door life and not so hot in summer as to make out-door
     exercise exhausting, are well adapted not only to troubles of
     the nervous and circulatory systems, but also to those of the
     respiratory organs.
     Such a climate is found in the extreme southern portions of
     California. At San Diego the rainfall is much less, the air is
     drier, and the number of sunshiny days very much larger than on
     our Atlantic seaboard, or in Central and Northern California.
     The winters are not cold; flowers bloom in the open air all the
     year round; the summers are not hot. The mountains and sea
     combine to give to this region a climate with few sudden
     changes, and with a comfortable range of all essential
     elements.
     A residence during a part of the winter of 1889-90 at Coronado
     Beach, and a somewhat careful study of the comparative
     climatology of the south-western portions of the United States,
     leads me to think that we have few localities where the
     comforts of life can be secured, and which at the same time are
     so well adapted to the needs of a variety of invalids, as San
     Diego and its surroundings. In saying this I do not wish to be
     understood as preferring it to all others for some one
     condition or disease, but only that for weak hearts, disabled
     lungs, and worn-out nerves it seems to me to be unsurpassed.
                                    CHICAGO, July 12, 1890.
THE COMING OF WINTER IN SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA.
From Mr. Theodore S. Van Dyke's altogether admirable book on Southern
California I have permission to quote the following exquisite
description of the floral procession from December to March, when the
Land of the Sun is awakened by the first winter rain:
     Sometimes this season commences with a fair rain in November,
     after a light shower or two in October, but some of the very
     best seasons begin about the time that all begin to lose hope.
     November adds its full tribute to the stream of sunshine that
     for months has poured along the land; and, perhaps, December
     closes the long file of cloudless days with banners of blue and
     gold. The plains and slopes lie bare and brown; the low hills
     that break away from them are yellow with dead foxtail or wild
     oats, gray with mustard-stalks, or ashy green with chemisal or
     sage. Even the chaparral, that robes the higher hills in living
     green, has a tired air, and the long timber-line that marks
     the cañon winding up the mountain-slopes is decidedly paler.
     The sea-breeze has fallen off to a faint breath of air; the
     land lies silent and dreamy with golden haze; the air grows
     drier, the sun hotter, and the shade cooler; the smoke of
     brush-fires hangs at times along the sky; the water has risen
     in the springs and sloughs as if to meet the coming rain, but
     it has never looked less like rain than it now does.
     Suddenly a new wind arises from the vast watery plains upon the
     south-west; long, fleecy streams of cloud reach out along the
     sky; the distant mountain-tops seem swimming in a film of haze,
     and the great California weather prophet--a creature upon whom
     the storms of adverse experience have beaten for years without
     making even a weather crack in the smooth cheek of his
     conceit--lavishes his wisdom as confidently as if he had never
     made a false prediction. After a large amount of fuss, and
     enough preliminary skirmishing over the sky for a dozen storms
     in any Eastern State, the clouds at last get ready, and a soft
     pattering is heard upon the roof--the sweetest music that ever
     cheers a Californian ear, and one which the author of "The Rain
     upon the Roof" should have heard before writing his poem.
     When the sun again appears it is with a softer, milder beam
     than before. The land looks bright and refreshed, like a tired
     and dirty boy who has had a good bath and a nap, and already
     the lately bare plains and hill-sides show a greenish tinge.
     Fine little leaves of various kinds are springing from the
     ground, but nearly all are lost in a general profusion of dark
     green ones, of such shape and delicacy of texture that a
     careless eye might readily take them for ferns. This is the
     alfileria, the prevailing flower of the land. The rain may
     continue at intervals. Daily the land grows greener, while the
     shades of green, varied by the play of sunlight on the slopes
     and rolling hills, increase in number and intensity. Here the
     color is soft, and there bright; yonder it rolls in wavy
     alternations, and yonder it reaches in an unbroken shade where
     the plain sweeps broad and free. For many weeks green is the
     only color, though cold nights may perhaps tinge it with a
     rusty red. About the first of February a little starlike flower
     of bluish pink begins to shine along the ground. This is the
     bloom of the alfileria, and swiftly it spreads from the
     southern slopes, where it begins, and runs from meadow to
     hill-top. Soon after a cream-colored bell-flower begins to nod
     from a tall, slender stalk; another of sky-blue soon opens
     beside it; beneath these a little five-petaled flower of deep
     pink tries to outshine the blossoms of the alfileria; and above
     them soon stands the radiant shooting-star, with reflexed
     petals of white, yellow, and pink shining behind its purplish
     ovaries. On every side violets, here of the purest golden hue
     and overpowering fragrance, appear in numbers beyond all
     conception. And soon six or seven varieties of clover, all with
     fine, delicate leaves, unfold flowers of yellow, red, and pink.
     Delicate little crucifers of white and yellow shine modestly
     below all these; little cream-colored flowers on slender scapes
     look skyward on every side; while others of purer white, with
     every variety of petal, crowd up among them. Standing now upon
     some hill-side that commands miles of landscape, one is dazzled
     with a blaze of color, from acres and acres of pink, great
     fields of violets, vast reaches of blue, endless sweeps of
     white.
     Upon this--merely the warp of the carpet about to cover the
     land--the sun fast weaves a woof of splendor. Along the
     southern slopes of the lower hills soon beams the orange light
     of the poppy, which swiftly kindles the adjacent slopes, then
     flames along the meadow, and blazes upon the northern
     hill-sides. Spires of green, mounting on every side, soon open
     upon the top into lilies of deep lavender, and the scarlet
     bracts of the painted-cup glow side by side with the crimson of
     the cardinal-flower. And soon comes the iris, with its broad
     golden eye fringed with rays of lavender blue; and five
     varieties of phacelia overwhelm some places with waves of
     purple, blue, indigo, and whitish pink. The evening primrose
     covers the lower slopes with long sheets of brightest yellow,
     and from the hills above the rock-rose adds its golden bloom to
     that of the sorrel and the wild alfalfa, until the hills almost
     outshine the bright light from the slopes and plains. And
     through all this nods a tulip of most delicate lavender;
     vetches, lupins, and all the members of the wild-pea family are
     pushing and winding their way everywhere in every shade of
     crimson, purple, and white; along the ground crowfoot weaves a
     mantle of white, through which, amid a thousand comrades, the
     orthocarpus rears its tufted head of pink. Among all these are
     mixed a thousand other flowers, plenty enough as plenty would
     be accounted in other countries, but here mere pin-points on a
     great map of colors.
     As the stranger gazes upon this carpet that now covers hill and
     dale, undulates over the table-lands, and robes even the
     mountain with a brilliancy and breadth of color that strikes
     the eye from miles away, he exhausts his vocabulary of
     superlatives, and goes away imagining he has seen it all. Yet
     he has seen only the background of an embroidery more varied,
     more curious and splendid, than the carpet upon which it is
     wrought. Asters bright with centre of gold and lavender rays
     soon shine high above the iris, and a new and larger tulip of
     deepest yellow nods where its lavender cousin is drooping its
     lately proud head. New bell-flowers of white and blue and
     indigo rise above the first, which served merely as ushers to
     the display, and whole acres ablaze with the orange of the
     poppy are fast turning with the indigo of the larkspur. Where
     the ground was lately aglow with the marigold and the
     four-o'clock the tall penstemon now reaches out a hundred arms
     full-hung with trumpets of purple and pink. Here the silene
     rears high its head with fringed corolla of scarlet; and there
     the wild gooseberry dazzles the eye with a perfect shower of
     tubular flowers of the same bright color. The mimulus alone is
     almost enough to color the hills. Half a dozen varieties, some
     with long, narrow, trumpet-shaped flowers, others with broad
     flaring mouths; some of them tall herbs, and others large
     shrubs, with varying shades of dark red, light red, orange,
     cream-color, and yellow, spangle hill-side, rock-pile, and
     ravine. Among them the morning-glory twines with flowers of
     purest white, new lupins climb over the old ones, and the
     trailing vetch festoons rock and shrub and tree with long
     garlands of crimson, purple, and pink. Over the scarlet of the
     gooseberry or the gold of the high-bush mimulus along the
     hills, the honeysuckle hangs its tubes of richest cream-color,
     and the wild cucumber pours a shower of white over the green
     leaves of the sumach or sage. Snap-dragons of blue and white,
     dandelions that you must look at three or four times to be
     certain what they are, thistles that are soft and tender with
     flowers too pretty for the thistle family, orchids that you may
     try in vain to classify, and sages and mints of which you can
     barely recognize the genera, with cruciferæ, compositæ, and
     what-not, add to the glare and confusion.
     Meanwhile, the chaparral, which during the long dry season has
     robed the hills in sombre green, begins to brighten with new
     life; new leaves adorn the ragged red arms of the manzanita,
     and among them blow thousands of little urn-shaped flowers of
     rose-color and white. The bright green of one lilac is almost
     lost in a luxuriance of sky-blue blossoms, and the white lilac
     looks at a distance as if drifted over with snow. The
     cercocarpus almost rivals the lilac in its display of white and
     blue, and the dark, forbidding adenostoma now showers forth
     dense panicles of little white flowers. Here, too, a new
     mimulus pours floods of yellow light, and high above them all
     the yucca rears its great plume of purple and white.
     Thus marches on for weeks the floral procession, new turns
     bringing new banners into view, or casting on old ones a
     brighter light, but ever showing a riotous profusion of
     splendor until member after member drops gradually out of the
     ranks, and only a band of stragglers is left marching away into
     the summer. But myriads of ferns, twenty-one varieties of which
     are quite common, and of a fineness and delicacy rarely seen
     elsewhere, still stand green in the shade of the rocks and
     trees along the hills, and many a flower lingers in the timber
     or cañons long after its friends on the open hills or plains
     have faded away. In the cañons and timber are also many flowers
     that are not found in the open ground, and as late as the
     middle of September, only twenty miles from the sea, and at an
     elevation of but fifteen hundred feet, I have gathered bouquets
     that would attract immediate attention anywhere. The whole land
     abounds with flowers both curious and lovely; but those only
     have been mentioned which force themselves upon one's
     attention. Where the sheep have not ruined all beauty, and the
     rains have been sufficient, they take as full possession of the
     land as the daisy and wild carrot do of some Eastern meadows.
     There are thousands of others, which it would be a hopeless
     task to enumerate, which are even more numerous than most of
     the favorite wild flowers are in the East, yet they are not
     abundant enough to give character to the country. For instance,
     there is a great larkspur, six feet high, with a score of
     branching arms, all studded with spurred flowers of such
     brilliant red that it looks like a fountain of strontium fire;
     but you will not see it every time you turn around. A tall lily
     grows in the same way, with a hundred golden flowers shining on
     its many arms, but it must be sought in certain places. So the
     tiger-lily and the columbine must be sought in the mountains,
     the rose and sweetbrier on low ground, the night-shades and the
     helianthus in the timbered cañons and gulches.
     Delicacy and brilliancy characterize nearly all the California
     flowers, and nearly all are so strange, so different from the
     other members of their families, that they would be an ornament
     to any greenhouse. The alfileria, for instance, is the richest
     and strongest fodder in the world. It is the main-stay of the
     stock-grower, and when raked up after drying makes excellent
     hay; yet it is a geranium, delicate and pretty, when not too
     rank.
     But suddenly the full blaze of color is gone, and the summer is
     at hand. Brown tints begin to creep over the plains; the wild
     oats no longer ripple in silvery waves beneath the sun and
     wind; and the foxtail, that shone so brightly green along the
     hill-side, takes on a golden hue. The light lavender tint of
     the chorizanthe now spreads along the hills where the poppy so
     lately flamed, and over the dead morning-glory the dodder
     weaves its orange floss. A vast army of cruciferæ and compositæ
     soon overruns the land with bright yellow, and numerous
     varieties of mint tinge it with blue or purple; but the greater
     portion of the annual vegetation is dead or dying. The distant
     peaks of granite now begin to glow at evening with a soft
     purple hue; the light poured into the deep ravines towards
     sundown floods them with a crimson mist; on the shady
     hill-sides the chaparral looks bluer, and on the sunny
     hill-sides is a brighter green than before.
COMPARATIVE TEMPERATURE AROUND THE WORLD.
The following table, published by the Pasadena Board of Trade, shows the
comparative temperature of well-known places in various parts of the
world, arranged according to the difference between their average winter
and average summer:
CALIFORNIA AND ITALY.
The Los Angeles Chamber of Commerce, in its pamphlet describing that
city and county, gives a letter from the Signal Service Observer at
Sacramento, comparing the temperature of places in California and Italy.
He writes:
     To prove to your many and intelligent readers the equability
     and uniformity Of the climate of Santa Barbara, San Diego, and
     Los Angeles, as compared with Mentone and San Remo, of the
     Riviera of Italy and of Corfu, I append the monthly temperature
     for each place. Please notice a much warmer temperature in
     winter at the California stations, and also a much cooler
     summer temperature at the same places than at any of the
     foreign places, except Corfu. The table speaks with more
     emphasis and certainty than I can, and is as follows:
The table on pages 210 and 211, "Extremes of Heat and Cold," is
published by the San Diego Land and Farm Company, whose pamphlet says:
     The United States records at San Diego Signal Station show that
     in ten years there were but 120 days on which the mercury
     passed 80°. Of these 120 there were but 41 on which it passed
     85°, but 22 when it passed 90°, but four over 95°, and only one
     over 100°; to wit, 101°, the highest ever recorded here. During
     all this time there was not a day on which the mercury did not
     fall to at least 70° during the night, and there were but five
     days on which it did not fall even lower. During the same ten
     years there were but six days on which the mercury fell below
     35°. This low temperature comes only in extremely dry weather
     in winter, and lasts but a few minutes, happening just before
     sunrise. On two of these six days it fell to 32° at daylight,
     the lowest point ever registered here. The lowest mid-day
     temperature is 52°, occurring only four times in these ten
     years. From 65° to 70° is the average temperature of noonday
     throughout the greater part of the year.
FIVE YEARS IN SANTA BARBARA.
[Transcriber's note: Table has been turned from original to fit, along
with using abbreviations for the months and a legend.]
The following table, from the self-registering thermometer in the
observatory of Mr. Hugh D. Vail, shows the mean temperature of each
month in the years 1885 to 1889 at Santa Barbara, and also the mean
temperature of the warmest and coldest days in each month:
The following statements of crops on small pieces of ground, mostly in
Los Angeles County, in 1890, were furnished to the Chamber of Commerce
in Los Angeles, and are entirely trustworthy. Nearly all of them bear
date August 1st. This is a fair sample from all Southern California:
     PEACHES.
     Ernest Dewey, Pomona--Golden Cling Peaches, 10 acres, 7 years
     old, produced 47 tons green; sold dried for $4800; cost of
     production, $243.70; net profit, $4556.30. Soil, sandy loam;
     not irrigated. Amount of rain, 28 inches, winter of 1889-90.
     H. H. Rose, Santa Anita Township (3/4 of a mile from Lamanda
     Park)--2-6/7 acres; produced 47,543 pounds; sold for $863.46;
     cost of production, $104; net profit, $759.46. Soil, light
     sandy loam; not irrigated. Produced in 1889 12,000 pounds,
     which sold at $1.70 per 100 pounds.
     E. R. Thompson, Azusa (2 miles south of depot)--2-1/6 acres,
     233 trees, produced 57,655 pounds; sold for $864.82-1/2; cost
     of production, $140; net profit, $724.82-1/2. Soil, sandy loam;
     irrigated three times in summer, 1 inch to 7 acres. Trees 7
     years old, not more than two-thirds grown.
     P. O'Connor, Downey--20 trees produced 4000 pounds; sold for
     $60; cost of production $5; net profit, $55. Soil, sandy loam;
     not irrigated. Crop sold on the ground.
     H. Hood, Downey City (1/4 of a mile from depot)--1/4 of an acre
     produced 7-1/2 tons; sold for $150; cost of production, $10;
     net profit, $140. Damp sandy soil; not irrigated.
     F. D. Smith (between Azusa and Glendora, 1-1/4 miles from
     depot)--1 acre produced 14,361 pounds; sold for $252.51; cost
     of production, $20; net profit, $232.51. Dark sandy loam;
     irrigated once. Trees 5 and 6 years old.
     P. O. Johnson, Ranchito--17 trees, 10 years old, produced 4-3/4
     tons; sold 4-1/4 tons for $120; cost of production, $10; net
     profit, $110; very little irrigation. Sales were 1/2c. per
     pound under market rate.
     PRUNES.
     E. P. Naylor (3 miles from Pomona)--15 acres produced 149 tons;
     sold for $7450; cost of production, $527; net profit, $6923.
     Soil, loam, with some sand; irrigated, 1 inch per 10 acres.
     W. H. Baker, Downey (1/2 a mile from depot)--1-1/2 acres
     produced 12,529 pounds; sold for $551.90; cost of production,
     $50; net profit, $501.90. Soil, sandy loam; not irrigated.
     Howe Bros. (2 miles from Lordsburg)--800 trees, which had
     received no care for 2 years, produced 28 tons; sold for $1400;
     cost of production, $200; net profit, $1200. Soil, gravelly
     loam, red; partially irrigated. Messrs. Howe state that they
     came into possession of this place in March, 1890. The weeds
     were as high as the trees and the ground was very hard. Only
     about 500 of the trees had a fair crop on them.
     W. A. Spalding, Azusa--1/3 of an acre produced 10,404 pounds;
     sold for $156.06; cost of production, $10; net profit, $146.06.
     Soil, sandy loam.
     E. A. Hubbard, Pomona (1-1/2 miles from depot)--4-1/2 acres
     produced 24 tons; sold green for $1080; cost of production,
     $280; net profit, $800. Soil, dark sandy loam; irrigated. This
     entire ranch of 9 acres was bought in 1884 for $1575.
     F. M. Smith (1-1/4 miles east of Azusa)--3/5 of an acre
     produced 17,174 pounds; sold for $315.84; cost of production,
     $25; net profit, $290. Soil, deep, dark sandy loam; irrigated
     once in the spring. Trees 5 years old.
     George Rhorer (1/2 of a mile east of North Pomona)--13 acres
     produced 88 tons; sold for $4400 on the trees; cost of
     production, $260; net profit, $4140. Soil, gravelly loam;
     irrigated, 1 inch to 8 acres. Trees planted 5 years ago last
     spring.
     J. S. Flory (between the Big and Little Tejunga rivers)--1-1/3
     acres or 135 trees 20 feet apart each way; 100 of the trees 4
     years old, the balance of the trees 5 years old; produced 5230
     pounds dried; sold for $523; cost of production, $18; net
     profit, $505. Soil, light loam, with some sand; not irrigated.
     W. Caruthers (2 miles north of Downey)--3/4 of an acre produced
     5 tons; sold for $222; cost of production, $7.50; net profit,
     $215. Soil, sandy loam; not irrigated. Trees 4 years old.
     James Loney, Pomona--2 acres; product sold for $1150; cost of
     production, $50; net profit, $1100. Soil, sandy loam.
     I. W. Lord, Eswena--5 acres produced 40 tons; sold for $2000;
     cost of production, $300; net profit, $1700. Soil, sandy loam.
     M. B. Moulton, Pomona--3 acres; sold for $1873; cost of
     production, $215; net profit, $1658. Soil, deep sandy loam.
     Trees 9 years old.
     Ernest Dewey, Pomona--6 acres produced 38 tons green; dried, at
     10 cents a pound, $3147; cost of production, $403; profit,
     $2734. Soil, sandy loam; irrigated one inch to 10 acres. Sixty
     per cent. increase over former year.
     C. S. Ambrose, Pomona--12 acres produced 77 tons; $50 per ton
     gross, $3850; labor of one hand one year, $150; profit, $3700.
     Soil, gravelly; very little irrigation. Prunes sold on trees.
     ORANGES.
     Joachim F. Jarchow, San Gabriel--2-1/2 acres; 10-year trees;
     product sold for $1650; cost of production $100, including
     cultivation of 7-1/2 acres, not bearing; net profit, $1550.
     F. D. Smith, Azusa--6-1/2 acres produced 600 boxes; sold for
     $1200; cost of production, $130; net profit, $1070. Soil, dark
     sandy loam; irrigated three times. Trees 4 years old.
     George Lightfoot, South Pasadena--5-1/2 acres produced 700
     boxes; sold for $1100; cost of production, $50; net profit,
     $1050. Soil, rich, sandy loam; irrigated once a year.
     H. Hood, Downey--1/2 of an acre produced 275 boxes; sold for
     $275; cost of production, $25; net profit, $250. Soil, damp,
     sandy; not irrigated.
     W. G. Earle, Azusa--1 acre produced 210 boxes; sold for $262;
     cost of production, $15; net profit, $247. Soil, sandy loam;
     irrigated four times.
     Nathaniel Hayden, Vernon--4 acres; 986 boxes at $1.20 per box;
     sales, $1182; cost of production, $50; net profit, $1132. Loam;
     irrigated. Other products on the 4 acres.
     H. O. Fosdick, Santa Ana--1 acre; 6 years old; 350 boxes;
     sales, $700; cost of production and packing, $50; net profit,
     $650. Loam; irrigated.
     J. H. Isbell, Rivera--1 acre, 82 trees; 16 years old; sales,
     $600; cost of production, $25; profit, $575. Irrigated. $1.10
     per box for early delivery, $1.65 for later.
     GRAPES.
     William Bernhard, Monte Vista--10 acres produced 25 tons; sold
     for $750; cost of production, $70; net profit, $680. Soil,
     heavy loam; not irrigated. Vines 5 years old.
     Dillon, Kennealy & McClure, Burbank (1 mile from Roscoe
     Station)--200 acres produced 90,000 gallons of wine; cost of
     production, $5000; net profit, about $30,000. Soil, sandy loam;
     not irrigated; vineyard in very healthy condition.
     P. O'Connor (2-1/2 miles south of Downey)--12 acres produced
     100 tons; sold for $1500; cost of production, $360; net profit,
     $1140. Soil, sandy loam; not irrigated. Vines planted in 1884,
     when the land would not sell for $100 per acre.
     J. K. Banks (1-3/4 miles from Downey)--40 acres produced 250
     tons; sold for $3900; cost of production, $1300; net profit,
     $2600. Soil, sandy loam.
     BERRIES.
     W. Y. Earle (2-1/2 miles from Azusa)--Strawberries, 2-1/2 acres
     produced 15,000 boxes; sold for $750; cost of production, $225;
     net profit, $525. Soil, sandy loam; irrigated. Shipped 3000
     boxes to Ogden, Utah, and 6000 boxes to Albuquerque and El
     Paso.
     Benjamin Norris, Pomona--Blackberries, 1/4 of an acre produced
     2500 pounds; sold for $100; cost of production, $5; net profit,
     $95. Soil, light sandy; irrigated.
     S. H. Eye, Covina--Raspberries, 5/9 of an acre produced 1800
     pounds; sold for $195; cost of production, $85; net profit,
     $110. Soil, sandy loam; irrigated.
     J. O. Houser, Covina--Blackberries, 1/4 of an acre produced 648
     pounds; sold for $71.28; cost of production, $18; net profit,
     $53.28. Soil, sandy loam; irrigated. First year's crop.
     APRICOTS.
     T. D. Leslie (1 mile from Pomona)--1 acre produced 10 tons;
     sold for $250; cost of production, $60; net profit, $190. Soil,
     loose, gravelly; irrigated; 1 inch to 10 acres. First crop.
     George Lightfoot, South Pasadena--2 acres produced 11 tons;
     sold for $260; cost of production, $20; net profit, $240. Soil,
     sandy loam; not irrigated.
     T. D. Smith, Azusa--1 acre produced 13,555 pounds; sold for
     $169.44; cost of production, $25; net profit, $144.44. Soil,
     sandy loam; irrigated once. Trees 5 years old.
     W. Y. Earle (2-1/2 miles from Azusa)--6 acres produced 6 tons;
     sold for $350; cost of production, $25; net profit, $325. Soil,
     sandy loam; not irrigated. Trees 3 years old.
     W. A. Spalding, Azusa--335 trees produced 15,478 pounds; sold
     for $647.43; cost of production, $50; net profit, $597.43.
     Soil, sandy loam.
     Mrs. Winkler, Pomona--3/4 of an acre, 90 trees; product sold
     for $381; cost of production, $28.40; net profit, $352.60.
     Soil, sandy loam; not irrigated. Only help, small boys and
     girls.
     MISCELLANEOUS FRUITS.
     E. A. Bonine, Lamanda Park--Apricots, nectarines, prunes,
     peaches, and lemons, 30 acres produced 160 tons; sold for
     $8000; cost of production, $1500; net profit, $6500. No
     irrigation.
     J. P. Fleming (1-1/2 miles from Rivera)--Walnuts, 40 acres
     produced 12-1/2 tons; sold for $2120; cost of production, $120;
     net profit, $2000. Soil, sandy loam; not irrigated.
     George Lightfoot, South Pasadena--Lemons, 2 acres produced 500
     boxes; sold for $720; cost of production, $20; net profit,
     $700. Soil, rich sandy loam; not irrigated. Trees 10 years old.
     W. A. Spalding, Azusa--Nectarines, 96 trees produced 19,378
     pounds; sold for $242.22; cost of production, $35; net profit,
     $207.22. Soil, sandy loam.
     F. D. Smith, Azusa--Nectarines, 1-2/5 acres produced 36,350
     pounds; sold for $363.50; cost of production, $35; net profit,
     $318.50. Soil, deep dark sandy loam; irrigated once in spring.
     Trees 5 and 6 years old.
     C. D. Ambrose (4 miles north of Pomona)--Pears, 3 acres
     produced 33,422 pounds; sold green for $1092.66; cost of
     production, $57; net profit, $1035.66. Soil, foot-hill loam;
     partly irrigated.
     N. Hayden--Statement of amount of fruit taken from 4 acres for
     one season at Vernon District: 985 boxes oranges, 15 boxes
     lemons, 8000 pounds apricots, 2200 pounds peaches, 200 pounds
     loquats, 2500 pounds nectarines, 4000 pounds apples, 1000
     pounds plums, 1000 pounds prunes, 1000 pounds figs, 150 pounds
     walnuts, 500 pounds pears. Proceeds, $1650. A family of five
     were supplied with all the fruit they wanted besides the above.
     POTATOES.
     O. Bullis, Compton--28-3/4 acres produced 3000 sacks; sold for
     $3000; cost of production, $500; net profit, $2500. Soil, peat;
     not irrigated. This land has been in potatoes 3 years, and will
     be sown to cabbages, thus producing two crops this year.
     P. F. Cogswell, El Monte--25 acres produced 150 tons; sold for
     $3400; cost of production, $450; net profit, $2950. Soil,
     sediment; not irrigated.
     M. Metcalf, El Monte--8 acres produced 64 tons; sold for $900;
     cost of production, $50; net profit, $850. Soil, sandy loam;
     not irrigated.
     Jacob Vernon (1-1/2 miles from Covina)--3 acres produced 400
     sacks; sold for $405.88; cost of production, $5; net profit,
     $400.88. Soil, sandy loam; irrigated one acre. Two-thirds of
     crop was volunteer.
     H. Hood, Downey--Sweet potatoes, 1 acre produced 300 sacks;
     sold for $300; cost of production, $30; net profit, $270. Soil,
