must come and visit ine sometime, Miss Cynthia, when we 
can light out some of these queer questions, and try to get 
at the larger one, — what one is to do. I don't half know 
niyselT. And I shall not allow you to traduce Beverly until 
I have seen it. Norman thinks it a picture of what the 
garden of Eden might liavie been." 
"It is one of the most beautiful of places," interposes 
Eegina. " Cynthia is given to irjoods of exaggeration, which 
are not exactly discontejjt, after all. And she does enjoy 
life, but she has yet to learn that it is not all amusement." 
" A tremendous amusement might satisfy me. It is the 
little dawdling things I complain of that ruffle me up the 
wrong way." 
Perdita, meanwhile, has been leaning over the railing 
talking to Winterburne, who is amused at this rippling 
tirade of Cynthia's that reminds him of the brook rushing 
over its pebbly way, gathering up straws and bits of dead 
grass as if it had hardly another moment before it must 
bring in its harvest of something, and then reaching the 
open, the sunny, biroad space, all is let go, and the little rill 
rests as if it had never known huriy. But he can see that 
Eegina is a trifle annoyed, and 'makes a diversion, for he 
knows Alice is not quite ready to talk of herself, the sub- 
ject that would interest Cynthia most. 
"Do you care to know what I did think of the first 
time I was in Beverly ? " he says, turning his eyes to Mrs. 
Halford. " ' And they came to Elim, where there were wells 
of water and trees of palm,' " shortening the quotation a bit. 
" Regina loves better the ' Coming to the land where it 
seemed always afternoon,' " said Cynthia mischievously. 
" ' Only to see and hear the far off sparkling brine; 
Only to hear were sweet, stretched out beneath the pine,' " 
repeats Winterburne in a slow monotone. 
Eegina suddenly compresses her nether lip. It is one 
 
of her favorite poems, and that he should be able to quote 
it at random, the one line that has so often lingered in her 
memory, stings her with a kind of resentment. 
" Oh, if you are going to quote poetry," laughs Perdita, 
" let it be something else. We have exliausted the Lotus 
Eaters. There was a time when we had it almost for daily 
bread." 
"I have not gone so far as that," interposes Miss 
Hilliard. "I have it for dessert. And that leads me to 
a question : does any one go out boating on the river ? 
We rowed up to Gilsey's Oove a few evenings ago; half 
way to Beverly, Norman said. It is a beautiful dreamy 
river in the twiliglit, with the purple crags and peaks 
over opposite." 
Eegina kindles a little. Being rowed up or down the 
river is one of her most beguiling enjoyments. She ex- 
plainsth at they not only go out evenings, but have pienics 
up the river, taking some lunch and building fires in true 
gypsy style. 
" I like a river so much. If I were an artist I should 
always be painting scenes with some bit of a winding river 
in them. It is the first time I have had a river for a near 
neighbor. I wish, indeed, it were nearer. I should like to 
look out of my window at it." 
" We can see it from some points because we are so 
high," explains Mrs. Halford. " It brings back pictures 
that my mother used to describe, though I think people 
have learned to love nature more than they did in the past 
years. And I hope we shall be able to persuade you to 
come and view it with us." 
"It will not take much persuading," Miss Hilliard 
declares with her charming smile that wins the mother's 
sympathetic heart. 
Presently they walk around in the shade and take a 
view of the great gray peak that seems to shut Warwick 
off from the towns above. The rocky, and in me places 
wooded ridge is the boundary line of the town, as if nature 
meant that most of her debris should be together. Miss 
Hilliard walks beside Kegina and makes an effort to draw 
her out. She has an odd little swing, a picturesque motion 
that one might consider- an affectation until they knew its 
cause. Winterburne follows her with his eyes, but is en- 
grossed in parrying the assaults of the younger girls and 
playing host to Mrs. Halford. They come in through a 
side entrance, catching a glimpse of Mrs. Prall sitting 
under her own hop- vine and pear-tree, shelling pease. And 
in this sort of hallway, sitting by the window sewing, is 
Miss Strong who, by one of those rare occurrences, has 
rightly inherited her name. She is not aggressive, but 
every line in her face is to some purpose and has a definite 
meaning. It is a rather narrow face, intensified by having 
the hair brushed plainly back ; light brown hair, thin and 
threaded at the temples with shining silver. The' features 
are of the aquiline east, resolute, but not impatient, biding 
times and seasons. The figure is firm, well knit, but with 
no superfluous flesh. You cannot imagine a superfluous 
sentiment, even. She has a grave dignity, and greets the 
visitors from her own vantage ground. 
"This is my den," announces Miss Hilliard, leading 
them onward. The room is off the parloi proper, made 
of the two small rooms. Even Regina, who has been culti- 
'vating strictly artistic tastes with a view to sometime 
remodelling their own home, for she has a presentiment 
that when matters are fully settled they will not remain at 
Bradley House, has to admit a certain indescribable har- 
mony in the blending tones of the unpretentious appoint- 
ments. There is an evi'dent idealism about it that touches 
her, and an air of comfort in the using that stamps Miss 
Hilliard as a person of taste. If her world has been nar- 
row, there certainly were outlooks, the young girl decides. 
She is somewhat surprised, perhaps annoyed, at her own 
mistaken conclusions respecting Miss Hilliard. With the 
insistence of youth and inexperience she is quite sure con- 
clusions are the correct thing for the training of one's 
mind, and slie is rather amazed when they do not fit. 
She glances critically at the books. Poets and poets, 
 
ancient and modern, very recent ones indeed. Some well 
chosen and well read novels, that if you took them in your 
hand would open at familiar places. A shelf of tine trans- 
lations, some classics, magazines, and papers filling up the 
bottom shelf, and one table strewn with them, at which 
two chairs still stand cosily, — was she sitting there last 
night with her brother ? There is an odd, very convenient 
desk with drawers and pigeon-holes and papers scattered 
about, a high easy-chair and a low one beside the window. 
There is a mannish desk over in the corner with a bracket 
lamp to light it. A few fine engravings and photographs 
are on the walls, and two small water colors. 
They accept their hostess' invitation, and are seated. 
Certainly there is enough here to entertain one not too 
exigent in the books of photographs and portfolios of en- 
gravings. While Eegina is considering the exact shade of 
interest that is the proper thing for a leading comment, 
Cynthia has rushed in as usual. 
" Mr. Winterburne was telling us of some of your artistic 
fancies," she says. " What I meant about genius a while 
ago was this gift, this capacity to do something ordinary 
people cannot do. And he said " — 
" She is a very modest genius, and rather disclaims that 
high appellation," remarks her brother, who has come in 
the room at that moment. " But when one has entered on 
public life, one must expect to bear part of its penalties." 
" I have one gift," Miss Hilliard confesses with a touch 
of rising color but no embarrassment. " I ought to have 
at least one," and she smiles. " It is this." 
She reaches over and takes up two books. One is square 
and flat, and in elegant holiday binding ; the other, not so 
ornate. The first goes to Regina. Perdita kneels by her 
when she opens the title-page. It is one of the lovely 
stories for children done in verse, by a skilful pen, and ac- 
companied with full-page illustrations, exquisitely colored. 
The faces and poses are admirable. Perdita utters com- 
ment after comment with unalloyed delight, and unstinted 
admiration. A curious emotion steals over Kegina, — a- 
kind of dull envy ; a feeling, too, that they have in some 
mysterious fashion been set astray by Wiuterburne. Why 
has he never spoken of his sister before, never enthusi- 
astically praised her ? Perhaps he thinks — she suddenly 
remem-bers that in the old time he used to sit silent, listen- 
ing to the chatter of the girls, or at best, making brief 
replies, and talking kindly commonplaces with her mother. 
The Bowens never left the safe shore of ordinary passing 
events, and were niucli occupied with their own experiences, 
and the wonderful baby. She, too, was a sort of looker- 
on, — her true life never came up to the surface. Was 
it so with him ? Did he tliink it was hardly worth while 
to waste that higher interest on an unappreciative au- 
dience ? 
There have been a great many events and small matters 
to stir up Regina's resentinent. Before one has finished 
seething and settled, another ingredient has been thrown 
in. The utter surprise of having hini one of the Bradley 
heirs, the fear of his stepping at once into dominant lover- 
like relations, the contrast between him and Jasper Bradley 
provoked a kind of strenuous protest, the more earnest 
because there was a suspicion of its unreason. The talk 
about the piece of land at Hazens recurs, — she can recall 
how half angrily Jasper returned. She was sitting there 
on the porch, at her easel, and had glanced up with a faint 
smile of inquiry. 
"There's something about Winterburne's eagerness to get 
that mineral property that I'd like to fathom," he had said, 
sitting down on the step and fanning himself with his hat, 
making a beguiling picture with all his golden tintg in the 
soft green shading. " He's looked about until he's found 
out its true value. He would never offer a thousand dol- 
lars more unless he had known its real worth to him. I 
saw him pick up something — a stone to me," Jasper 
had laughed with a flavor of irony, " but I have no doubt 
he understood it at a glance. He brought it home to 
make sure. Do you think Sayre can be in collusion with 
him ? " 
 
" Mr. Sayre ? Collusion ? " Eegina was startled at Jas- 
per's questions. " I should trust Mr. Sayre in any case, in 
all things," she had answered decisively. 
" There's something. If I knew anything about min- 
erals or iron " — he had shrugged his shoulders in distaste. 
" He has a way of making it look very fair, but we haven't 
sold yet." 
" He has one-quarter share in it, you know." 
" That does not add a straw's weight to his honesty or 
fair dealing." 
Regina turned to her painting with a touch of self- 
condemnation that she did not stand up — not exactly in 
his defence, but for kindlier judgment. She could see 
Winterburne examining his find, and bringing it home for 
further consideration. But if it had not met his expecta- 
tion, and he had receded from his proffer, would they have 
thought this fair ? 
What Regina does not know is, that Jasper has satisiied 
himself to some extent through a third party, who agrees 
with the general estimate. 
The point that touches Regina the most keenly now is, 
that she has made a mistake all along concerning this 
young man, the mortification of not having discerned any- 
thing unusual in him at first. Is there anything unusual 
in him ? There are many common, almost vulgar org ui- 
izations that do blunder upon success, that accumulate 
fortunes, and yet never raise themselves above the ranks, 
are quite content with the surroundings to which they 
have been accustomed, who would not enjoy being lifted up 
to the higher plane. Of course, she has theories that a 
certain degree of energy and ambition follows in the wake 
of intellectual gifts, and she translates this into the de- 
sire to rise in one's social position. He has not shown 
this; he has settled himself on the outskirts of this 
wretched little town, where there can be no companion- 
ship, no advancement. Miss Hilliard could help him to 
make an attractive home anywhere. Can he not see ? 
It is the one side of her hiding, the disappointed dualitv 
that stirs this inward stream to a rushing and turbid 
current in which nothing can be clearly discerned. Why- 
she should be disappointed in him when she has in no 
degree idealized him or counted on any promise of his 
manhood, she does not pause to consider. The other part, 
the appreciative sense of beauty, is taking in the simple 
sweetness and decided character of the work before her. 
It is a high gift to put souls in these pretty children's 
faces, to make them express almost every emotion in a 
childish, eager manner. Her bits of scenery copying, well 
and faithfully done though they may be, are not in any 
sense creations, she reflects. 
Cynthia is immensely amused by her book. It is. one of 
those brochures, meant merely for entertainment and laugh- 
ter, that tells a story from the comic side of nature. Mrs. 
Halford exclaims in gentle wonder, and glances up every 
few moments to see if this, to her, marvellous power, is not 
written in Miss Hilliard's face ; but this is one of the in- 
stances where the sign manual is not stamped on the 
exterior. All her tenderness is aroused by the children's 
book ; she takes the girl to her motherly heart at once. 
" Re," cries Cynthia in her enthusiasm, " if you could 
paint like this ! " 
Eegina colors at the unconscious stab. 
" Then you paint ? " inquires Miss Hilliard with interest. 
" I paint after the manner of an accomplishment," returns 
Regina, with a touch of rather haughty self-depreciation. 
"I copy the prettiness of nature. I have no genius, only a 
little imitation." 
" Ah, but you should see my attempt at trees in oil ! " 
says Miss Hilliard. "They rival those that come out of 
the Noah's arks, fresh from the iron hand of machinery. I 
have just the one gift for faces, and those exaggerated 
things bordering on caricature. I can't even draw a decent 
likeness of my best friend. I tried nearly everything to en- 
tertain myself, once, when I thought I might be au invalid 
for life. This came to me quite by accident when all else 
failed. But something ahvays has to furnish me the cen- 
 
tral idea. When I am once started I can go on ; " and she 
smiles cheerfully. 
Cynthia has fallen in love with her on a very short 
notice. When the pictures have exhausted their stock of 
adjectives, they bethink themselves of their main idea, and 
beseech her to set a time for her visit, the sooner the bett-u- 
for them, since they will still have a few days of solitude. 
But they want her to see the Bradleys, and hear Jasper's 
wonderful violin music, so a week will be the very shortest 
period in which she can accomplish all this. 
Winterburne is anxious to have her accept, and play- 
fully traverses all her excuses. He can take her any day ; 
he will run up frequently ; Lois will look after him, and 
she finds herself without any valid objections, since she is 
well enough to really enjoy going about. She has taken a 
fancy to these friendly cousins, and motherly Mrs. Halford 
recalls something she has so long missed and mourned, that 
she is induced to appoint the day. 
They cannot remain to supper, but Lois brings them a 
dish of berries and ice-cold custard, makes a cup of tea 
that refreshes Mrs. Halford, and with the most cordial 
sincerity they express their pleasure at the friendship so 
agreeably begun. 
That evening, over their dainty tea-table, when Winter- 
burne has been silent a long while, Alice says, — 
"They are delightful, all but Miss Halford. I don't 
wonder you have not been enthusiastic about her. A 
handsome face and fine figure are her greatest attractions. 
We shall agree about her, I foresee." 
CHAPTEE XI 
CONFIDENCES 
Ask tne not what. I will tell you everything as it fell out. 
Midsummer Night's Dream. 
Miss Hilliakd is quite in love with the old Bradley- 
House, and charmed with Beverly. The walks have to be 
moderate, but the drives in the early morning and late 
afternoon are all revelations of beauty such as haunt one's 
dreams. There is a very attractive side to the social qual- 
ities of the town as well. The few hotels are filling with 
summer visitors, and the promenades are bright with sum- 
mer gowns in which a wider latitude is allowed than in the 
larger cities. The station presents an unwonted scene of 
activity, and the road to Mount Sardis during the late 
afternoon is quite a procession. The Halfords drive up 
one day and take dinner at the Glenloch. Miss Hilliard is 
delighted with this odd eyry as it seems, perched upon the 
foundation of three mountainous peaks that some convul- 
sion of nature appears to have united. 
They are asked out to tea and to several " evenings," 
which means some music, a little dancing for those so 
inclined, and a good share of talking. Conversation has 
not gone out of date here. There is something fresh and 
piquant about Miss Hilliard, but it is a delicate piquancy 
that allures rather than startles. She betrays a wide ac- 
quaintance with the best authors; her opinions are trench- 
ant, and carry with them the impress of sound thinking. 
Of the real world of fashion she knows but little: she has 
a convent-like simplicity, an honesty far removed from 
rudeness. She has not dallied with her subjects, but mas- 
tered them. They have served to entertain her in many 
d,ii hour that would otherwise have been dreary. So she 
 
proves attractive to the older men, to the -women who have 
intellectual proclivities. There are subjects on which she 
could never agree with her hostesses, and she has too large 
a soul to requite their kindly efforts with carping criticism, 
or attack their pretty theories with the battle-axe of un- 
compromising truth. Even in her own quiet home she has 
learned that the world is wide, that the uses of all things 
are infinite, that a butterfly may give pleasure where an 
industrious bee would only inspire terror. 
Norman Winterburne has fallen upon a kind of flattering 
appreciation as well. He is of the old Bradley stock, he 
has a fine business-like presence, he is one of the partners 
in a promising concern, and holds in his hands a secret of 
his own inventing that gives him a rather mysterious pres- 
tige. Certainly he has Mr. Saj'-re's esteem. So, if he 
chose to come in and reap a harvest of appreciation, the 
golden grain is ripe for the social sickle. Indeed, he makes 
a venture or two rather against his will, for he would 
enjoy an evening on the porch at Bradley House better, 
but he will not be churlish. 
The Bradleys remain away two days beyond their time, 
and Miss Hilliavd defers her departure, really nothing loath, 
for these people interest her very much. She has so few 
family relatives within visiting distance that her experi- 
ences of women have been gathered chiefly at hotels. She 
has made no really intimate friends — her illness and her 
misfortune happening at a time when youthful interest is 
at its most ardent stage. A few correspondences that have 
come through her work, and Winterburne's descriptions, 
when he has been in a talkative mood, which was a much 
more general occurrence than it is now. For this last year 
he has been so engrossed with business projects, with an 
absolute desire to make money. Hitherto, they have been 
good comrades, both earnest and eager to take a hand iu 
the world's reformation. The fortune has come to him as 
unexpectedly as her capacity came to light with her. 
It is a little strange to return to the rather unattractive 
spot they have elected to make their present home. Lois 
gives Mi.is Hilliurd a quiet but fervent welcome. 
" Why, you don't look fagged out," she says on strict 
examination. " When I heard of so much junketing round 
and out half the night, I just said to myself the best of 
""em haven't any sense to spare. She'll throw away all 
she's gained, and it'll take weeks to set her on her feet 
again stiddy as she was before. For it almost seemed to 
me as if in a little while you'd take to going round like 
ord'nery folks, without even a little speck of a halt." 
Alice laughs. The pain and sensitiveness about the 
halt died out long ago. When she could first discard her 
crutch for short intervals she considered herself a fortu- 
nate being, and now she is quite happy since she need not 
use it scarcely at all if she is careful. 
"I am afraid the 'little speck' will always remain. I 
have junketed round, I must confess. My dear Lois, I've 
been having just a lovely time ! I felt quite like a real 
young girl — like the Halfords. Do you know what I shall 
do when I settle to spinsterliood in good earnest ? Of 
course I must make a fortune — I've learned that nothing 
can be done in this world without money " — 
" The cup of cold water," interrupts Lois with a kindly 
severe air. 
" We will have a well and station some one at the gate 
with a tin dipper. No one shall depart thirsty or hungry 
or cold. But inside, in the house beautiful, I shall gather 
young girls, pretty, dainty, delicate girls, poorly equipped 
for the battle of life, and make a real home, a real family, 
care for them, educate them, and train them to some of the 
finer uses of life. Girls like Cynthia and Perdita Halford 
give me a hungry feeling — as if I were tired of being alone 
and wanted sisters. Only there's so much to do, so many 
plans, and the fortune to make and all — that I'll have to 
wait for some of the things." 
"Hmf !" Miss Strong makes this exclamation with a 
decisive down breath like the hard stroke of a pen, but 
does not open her mouth. If the sound were given full 
play, it would become a word, an ordinary expletive, but 
she does not allow it the chance. It is cut off short, sharp. 
"Well, you must have been in the air-castle business to 
think up all that ! " with an expression of disdain. '•' And 
they'll all marry and go off and leave you, and you'll be 
ten times lonelier than if you'd never had 'em," says Miss 
Strong triumphantly, yet with a tint of jealousy in the 
depths of her soul. 
Miss Hilliard stands up straight and resolute with a 
kind of tender defiance in her eyes, and a smile on her 
lips. The eyes are bright and soft with no purple shadows 
under them, and there is a tint of bloom in her cheeks. 
" Well, I'm thankful to the Lord that you haven't come 
home sick, as I made sure you would." There are some 
lines in her face that savor of regret and amuse Miss 
Hilliard. " Or maybe, I said to myself, she won't come at 
all, but'll want the whole caravan moved over to Beverly, 
just as she's got it all straightened out here." 
"It has a kind of homey look. And it's more convenient 
for Iforman. But it isn't as beautiful as Beverly." 
" That Mr. Armitage has been here twice. Yesterday — 
thinking you would be home " — 
" Yes," Miss Hilliard says musingly. She has asked 
him to come and talk over some of the best methods for 
the enlightenment of Warwick. It seems so strange to 
take up the old trains of thought after all this pleasurable 
confusion. Has she been sojourning in Vanity Fair ? 
She changes her travelling gear and puts on a soft, white 
gown with some clinging laces. She has all a woman's fond- 
ness for dainty attire, be it ever so simple. Then she peers 
into all the rooms, takes a rather longing look at the shaded 
porch, comes in reluctantly and sits down to her desk to 
answer some business letters and look over her neglected 
belongings. When she feels in a mood for work there is 
some awaiting her, not quite the kind in which she revels, 
but that seems better appreciated. 
Winterburne has met her at the station, put her in the 
hack with her baggage, and gone back to the works. It is 
nearly seven when he. comes in to supper, and he looks 
tired, a little bit dispirited. Does she know the reason ? 
But he is full of interest as to her impressions and enjoy- 
ment. 
Afterward — Lois is in the kitchen washing dishes, then 
she will sit out on the back porch in friendly gossip with 
Mrs. Prall, who is quite a study to the clean-cut, well-de- 
fined Eastern woman with her industries that always have 
some definite end in view, even to the stocking that she is 
knitting. 
The brother and sister saunter through the front door. 
Winterburne seats himself on the wooden bench at the end of 
the porch, stretches out his long limbs comfortably, crosses 
his feet, and lights his cigar. The innumerable insects 
are chorusing in different keys, sometimes a strident 
melody, then falling into a discord that is not inharmonious 
after all. Alice disposes herself in the hammock. When 
she swings a little it brings her so close to Norman that 
she can touch his shoulder. 
" You enjoyed it all," he begins. "I was a little afraid 
at first — but you had a chance to get quite at home before 
the return of the Bradleys." 
" You do not like them," she says in a definite tone. 
"And you" — 
"Perhaps we ought not criticise Mr. Bradley. He has 
a curious uncertainty about him — or did it ever strike you 
as acting ? " 
"Acting!" Winterburne exclaims in surprise. "No, I 
confess it has not. He would naturally be a little — well, 
\inusual. Very few recover entirely from an attack of 
insanity at his time of life. And — the son ? " 
" He is unreal, artificial. I can't tell why, but he seems 
a curious compound. He has great apparent frankness : 
you feel that he is sometimes on the verge of an impru» 
dence, but he never commits himself. He never even shows 
you any of his hopes or desires, and I think he has no aims, 
no real purpose to life, but a sensuous, prodigal enjoyment 
of the present. He seems to me a joyous, utterly uncon- 
cerned heathen on one side of his nature ; on the other, 
dangerous. He is handsome, winning, persuasive, without 
 
any real arguments he brings others to his way of think- 
ing. He is very interesting as a study. I shouhl like to 
know what his life has been, that part touched by outside 
conditions, for we can hardly call them influences. And 
they are all wild not to see that the child, that pretty, 
eager, little Perdita, adores him. Why, last night it was 
just like drawing a bird into a fowler's snare. I wanted to 
break the charm." 
" Perdita ! Well, he may fancy her. The relationship 
is not so near as to be objectionable." 
Winterburne utters this with a kind of feverish eager- 
ness, as if he was in haste to bring it to pass. 
" And he cares for Regina as much as he can care for 
any one." 
"No — notEegina!" Winterburne cries suddenly, with 
the tense beseechingness in his tone that pleads with, the 
speaker to unsay his or her words. 
" My poor Norman ! " She reaches out her hand through 
the perfumed dusk, and stops her soft swaying to clasp his, 
that trembles with intense emotion. She can even feel the 
dampness that follows the sudden heat. 
He makes no comment. 
" It came to me in a vague way at first, as one tries to 
recall a dream. Then I would not believe it. I thrust 
it out " — he can feel the corresponding motion of her 
hand, of which she is unaware. '•' But last night " — 
" Yes," he responds, rising suddenly, and beginning to 
pace the porch. He felt it last night. -He was torn with a 
demon of jealousy. Even now his soul seems to writhe as 
it did then, when a consciousness came over him, not that 
Jasper cared for her, — a hundred men might care ; but that 
she inclined in some intangible manner to him. 
"I can't understand" — Alice says it almost piteously, 
the confirmation of her fear is so hard to bear. "If it were 
some different kind of woman, noble, sweet, and tender, 
and with the irresistible grace that some are dowered with 
who are remarkable for nothing else, but — what have you 
seen in her, Norman, besides the stately beauty, and — yes, 
a kind of elegance, a pretence at things, not tke real quali- 
ties themselves." 
" Don't," he cries hoarsely, pausing at that end of his 
march. " You are unjust. You do not understand her." 
There is a pang transfixing Alice Hilllard's soul. It has 
come suddenly, like so much, rending knowledge. She has 
never questioned how long she should reign supreme in his 
generous soul. She has expected him to marry sometime. 
She has dreamed of children growing up, nurtured by the 
affection of one of the best and kindliest of parents. His 
wife was not so clearly defined, but she was to be brave, 
sweet, adoring, everything it seems to her that Kegina 
Halford is not. 
He takes another turn and comes back to where she sits 
f; motionless. 
" I was hasty," he says in an entreating tone. " But you 
know so little about her." 
" How long have you been studying her, Norman ? " 
She asks the question in a sympathetic manner. 
" Back in that old time. Ah, she was heroic then." 
" And you have loved her all this while ? Norman, you 
should have tried then, — if you cared so much." 
"Just when I cared the most this fortune came to her." 
It is a paltry evasion in that it does not tell the whole 
truth. He is not in the habit of misleading, but how can 
lie have her blamed for what she did innocently ? 
 " I see," Alice begins presently. " It is you who are 
, heroic, Norman." 
' "No ; I hoped sometime to meet her again. I wanted to 
make myself" — he would say worthy, but Alice will
resent this. " I had ambitious dreams of a fortune, you 
see," with, a weak, forced laugh, used only to point the sen- 
fence. " And I was very much engrossed, going hither and 
yon, and trying experiments." 
" You have the fortune now. You need not wait for 
that," she says with a bitterness new to her. 
" You think — I might try ? " He catches at the straw. 
"If you will have my honest opinion, I do not think she 
 
cares for any one. She has been setting her life in a pretty 
parterre, hedging herself about with forms and limitations, 
with certain suggestions that she takes for ideas, certain 
beliefs she has moulded into the kind of truths that are 
pleasant to entertain, that never cut deep into one's vanity. 
Whether she can be roused to a grand, central, vivifying aim 
is a question. She impresses me as a person whom the 
mint, anise, and cumin will satisfy; a woman who can 
adorn an elegant home in a dignified and correct manner, 
who will feast herself and offer to those about her the 
dainty perfumes of the garden of culture, who will hover 
around the great truths, but never dip deep into them if 
they have rough edges or present an unpleasant front. 
She should be a rich man's wife, a society woman in a little 
larger circle than Beverly, yet not so large that she can- 
not be its centre. She is shaping her life to this end. She_ 
may be intense under certain circumstances, but she knows 
nothing of that larger, finer diffusiveness that sheds around 
rays of blessed happiness. Norman, what could you do 
with " — yes, let her say it — " such a wife ? " 
" Why" — with a tremulous, feverish laugh that. is neither 
pleasure nor amusement — "/may be a rich man some 
day." 
" If you desire to be taken at that estimate ! " Is he 
indeed so beguiled with her that merely to know that she 
was his would satisfy him ? He is much too dear for her 
to despise ; he is under some mysterious spell that must 
lift presently. " And what of the old plans and hopes '/ " 
she cries feverishly, a pathos of disappointment in her 
tones. " We were to try a little of the lifting up of the 
great shadow that darkens so much of the world." 
He pauses abruptly, resumes his seat, draws her close 
enough to take both hands and clasps them tightly. 
"ISTo," he returns; "I have not forgotten any aims or 
plans. I have talked some of them over with Armitage,. 
and he thinks I'm too radical, so it's not likely that I have 
been turned from my purpose;" and he gives a cheerful 
laugh. " There's enough to do here, Heaven knows, and 
when I've been wishing to have my little tug at the worlc, 
I should be an ingrate to creep away at the outset. If I 
have prosperity here, some of it belongs naturally to the 
place, the sort of tithing the old Jews made so much of. 
In a big city we would hardly count. No, you will have 
no chance to accuse me of apostasy." 
,It comforts her a little. Still, how he is to reconcile the 
two lives — 
"I had no idea she was there," he resumes, nodding 
his head toward the distant town. " I should have had a 
presentiment if clairvoyant tales were true. Remember, 
you had a hand in it, for hunting up the fortune brought 
me to her sooner than I should have gone myself." 
She remembers that he quite derided the idea at first, 
having a sturdy desire to work out his own fortune. If 
she had not insisted ! Were all these events arranged from 
the beginning ? 
She cannot bring herself to an harmonious accord with 
the outlook. Yet she has resolved that whenever she 
should come into contact with the wider world, to recognize 
at once the infinite variety of character and capability, and 
accommodate herself to the fact that all cannot be meas- 
ured by the one standard. Eegina is a beautiful and stately 
palm in the select garden of girls, but one cannot reason- 
ably look for the fragrance of violets. Her ambitions will 
lead her up to serene heights, but will Winterburne thrive 
in that artificial atmosphere ? Her soul cries out in 
protest. 
"I hoped," he begins, "I made sure you would admire 
her; that somehow you would feel at home with them " — 
She crushes down a sisterly jealousy, the sudden protest 
affection always makes at being superseded, then a torrent 
of tenderest pity sweeps over her. He will not win this 
prize for which his ardent soul longs. She has discerned 
no mysterious softening in Regina Halford's eyes. 
" I do like them. I should be ungrateful if I did not 
appreciate the kindly manner in which they have taken 
me to their hearts. And you know, you must know, Nor- 
 
man, that your happiness is my first desire. I have always 
hoped you would marry, and if it is to be in this way, I 
shall even wish you Godspeed." 
He has a fancy that women's differences of opinion 
seethe and settle if one gives them time, but he is touched 
by her yielding so unexpectedly. 
" You are the most generous of women," and he kisses 
her fondly. " I am glad to have you know it. Yet I haven't 
much hope to go upon. I have never studied the mysterious 
power that attracts women. I suppose Jasper Bradley has 
it " — admitting this somewhat reluctantly. 
"Jasper Bradley does attract. He is a curious study. 
He has a passion for admiration, — the desire women are 
credited with to be approved, to be offered an incense of 
delicate flattery. There is nothing vulgar or crude about 
it. Prom oldest to youngest, from beauty to plainness, he 
seems to gather sweetness as a bee does honey. And it is 
this quality that makes him dangerous. I suppose he 
would please most women by that charming deference, the 
assumption of frankness that seems to say, ' If I had a 
secret, you would be the depositary, you alone.' It to- 
flattering. " 
" And you think Perdita " — 
" It is dangerous to any impressionable girl. Her love 
for music amounts to a passion, though she doesn't seem 
to care for performing herself. But when he plays she 
retires into a rapt world of her own, and enjoys it quite 
to herself. She does not understand it. I do not be- 
lieve she even dreams of love. But it will conquer her 
in an evil moment. She is a sweet, impulsive child ; her 
very gayety gives her a superficial air. Do you imagine 
they will go on staying at Bradley House ? When is that 
to be settled ? " 
" Whenever Jasper Bradley chooses, or the heirs demand 
their share. I could not very well, you see, without appear- 
ing in an unenviable light. And there is no real necessity." 
They lapse into silence. They are quite used to silence 
as well as conversation. I'otb liiive many subjects to think 
of, one all-absorbing. Winterburue soon wanders off into 
it. There has been the past ten days a mysterious grace 
about Eegina, not softness, not any neurer encouragement, 
still it has encouraged him. It may be possible to win her 
if — Oh, no, he cannot imagine her marrying Jasper Brad- 
ley. She may have a quick appreciation of his grace and 
manifold charms, his numerous gifts, and that wide acquaint- 
ance with certain phases of the world. It is a kind of out- 
side knowledge ; why, one could gain as much from books. 
The real vital culture of study is lacking. She is young 
and ambitious, full of theories too. He can see that. 
Well, he has ambitions and theories, so why should he 
cavil. Down at the bottom of all the fascinating disquiet 
and passionate aims lies the soul of the real woman. For 
at twenty, one has not sounded the whole octave. And 
Winterburne has the incomprehensible faith of a high and 
pure love, with a large, serene awaiting. 
Alice meanwhile is thinking of his awakening, which 
will be very slow, but when the blow does come, his very 
soul will stagger under its travail. If she felt certain 
Regina would never be won to look upon him with the 
semblance of love, she could be content. Then he would 
be convinced of his mistake. But Eegina may be won by 
the attractions he will be able to offer presentlj', for she 
can foresee that he will become a rich man. It is the slow, 
cruel process of disillusion brought into one's daily life 
