presto ! the queen went home, the 
dancers disappeared, the debauches 
ceased, and a ruler appeared who declared he had lost a day that a good action had not marked; a ruler who 
could announce that no one should 
leave his presence depressed. 

Though Vespasian had gone, his 
reign continued. Not long, it is true, 
and punctuated by a spectacle of which 
Caligula, for all his poetry, had not 
dreamed— the burial of Pompeii. But 
a reign which, while it lasted, was 
fastidious and refined, and during 
which, again and again, Titus, who 
commanded death and whom death 
obeyed, besought Domitian, the tears 
in his eyes, to be to him a brother. 

Domitian had no such intention. 




He had a party behind him, one made 
up of old Neronians, the army of the 
discontented, who wanted a change, 
and greatly admired this charming 
young prince whose hours were passed 
in killing flies and making love to 
married women. The pretorians too 
had been seduced. Domitian could 
make captivating promises when he 
chose. 

As a consequence Titus, like Ves- 
pasian, was uneasy, and with cause. 
Dion Cassius, or rather that brute 
Xiphilin, his abbreviator, mentions the 
fever that overtook him, the same his 
father had met. It was mortal, of 
course, and the pui"ple was Domitian 's. 

For a year and a day thereafter you 
would have thought Titus still at the 
helm. There was the same clem- 
ency, the same regard for justice, the 
same refinement and fastidiousness. 
The morgse young poet had developed 



 



into ;i model monarch. The old 
Neronians were perplexed, irritated 
too; they had expected other things. 
Domitian was merely feeling the way; 
the hand that held the sceptre was not 
quite sure of its strength, and, tentatively almost, this Prince of Virtue 
began to scrutinize the morals of 
Rome. For the first time he noticed 
that the cocottes took their airing in 
litters. But litters were not for them! 
That abuse he put a stop to at once. 
A senator "manifested an interest in 
ballet-girls; he was disgraced. The 
vestals, to whose indiscretions no one 
had paid much attention, learned the 
statutes of an archaic law, and were 
buried alive. The early distaste for 
blood was diminishing. Domitian had 
the purple, but it was not bright 
enough; he wanted it red, and what 
Domitian wanted he got. Your god 
and master orders it, was the formula 


 

he began to use when addressing 
the Senate and People of Rome. 

To that the people were indifferent. 
The spectacles he gave in the Flavian 
amphitheatre were too magnificently 
atrocious not to be a compensation in 
full for any eccentricity in which he 
might indulge. Besides, under Nero, 
Claud, Caligula, Ofi en avail vu bien 
eTat/fres. And at those spectacles 
where he presided, crowned with a 
tiara, on which were the images of 
Jupiter, Juno and Minerva, while 
grouped about him the college of Fla- 
vian flamens wore tiaras that differed 
therefrom merely in this, that they 
bore his image too, the people right 
royally applauded their master and 
their god. 

And it was just as welt they did; 
Domitian was quite capable of ordering everybody into thearena. Asyet, 
however, he had appeared little different from any other prince. That 
Rome might understand that there was 
a difference, and also in what that difference consisted, he gave a supper. 
The flower of fashion was invited, the 
magnates of the senate, everyone 
worth knowing was bidden, and, as is 
usual in state functions, everyone that 
was bidden came. 

The guests assembled. There was 
Domitian, gracious, suave, urbane. 
Enchantment was visible on every 
countenance. Presently enchantment 
changed to nervousness, and down the 
-backs of the invited little shivers ran. 
The supper hall wasdraped with black; 
the ceiling, the walls, the floors every- 
thing was basaltic. The couches were 
black, the linen was black, the slaves 
were black. Behind each guest wasa 
broken column, his name inscribed 
thereon. The food was such as is prepared when death has come. The 






silence was that of the tomb. The only 
audible voice was Domitian's. He 
was talking very wittily and charmingly about murder, about proscriptions, the good informers do, the utility of the headsman, the majesty of 
the law. The guests, a trifle ill at ease, 
wished their host sweet dreams. "The 
same to you," he answered, and de- 
plored that they must go. 

On the morrow informers and 
headsmen were at work. Any pre- 
text was sufficient. Birth, wealth, 
fame, or the lack of them — anything 
whatever — and there the culprit stood
charged not with treason to an em- 
peror, but with impiety to a god. 
On the judgment seat Domitian sat. 
Before him the accused passed, 
and under his eyes they were 
questioned, tortured, condemned and 
killed. At once their property 
passed into the keeping of the prince. 



 







Of that he seems to have had much 
need. The arena was expensive, but 
the drain was elsewhere. A little 
before, a quarrelsome people, the 
Dacians, whom it took a Trajan to 
subdue, had overrun the Danube, and 
were marching down to Rome. Domit- 
ian set out to meet them. The 
Dacians retreated, not at all because 
they were repulsed, but because Domitian thought it better warfare to pay 
them to do so. On his return after 
that victory he enjoyed a triumph as 
fair as that of Caesar. And each year 
since then the emperor of Rome had 
paid tribute to a nation of mongrel 
oafs. 

Of course he needed money. The 
informers were there and he got it, 
and with it that spectacle of torture 
and of blood which he needed too. 
Curiously, his melancholy increased; 
his good looks had gone; Psyche was 



 



no longer amorous of his eyes. The 
poet that had invoked the moon passed 
hour after hour killing not flies, but 
beasts that were driven before him, 
and at which he shot arrows, seated 
on a stool. 

But his nights were terrible. It was 
no longer the purple that haunted 
him, it was something he could not 
define; the past, perhaps, perhaps the 
future. To his ears came strange 
sounds, the murmur of his own name, 
and suddenly silence. Then, too, 
there always seemed to be something 
behind him; something that when he 
turned disappeared. The room in which 
he slept he had covered with a polished 
metal that reflected everything, yet 
still the intangible was there. Once 
Pallas came in her chariot, waved him 
farewell, and disappeared, borne by 
black horses across the black night. 

The astrologers consulted had nothing pleasant to say. They knew, as 
Domitian knew, that the end was near. 
So was theirs. To one of them, who 
predicted his immediate death, he en- 
quired, "What will your end be?" 
"I," answered the astrologer, "I shall 
be torn by dogs." "To the stake with 
him!" cried Domitian; "let him be 
burned alive!" Suetonius says that 
a storm put out the flames, and dogs 
devoured the flesh. Another astrologer predicted that Domitian would die 
before noon on the morrow. In order 
to convince him of his error, Domitian 
ordered him to be executed the subsequent night. Before noon on the 
morrow Domitian was dead. 

Philostratus and Dion Cassius both 
unite in saying that at that hour 
Apollonius was at Ephesus, preaching 
to the multitude. In the middle of the 
sermon he hesitated, as though the 
thread of his discourse had escaped 





him, but in a moment he began anew. 
Again he hesitated, his eyes on the 
distant horizon; then suddenly he 
shouted, ''Strike him! Strike him once 
more!" And immediately to his 
startled audience he related a scene 
that was occurring at Rome, the attack 
on Domitian, his struggle with his assailant, his effort to tear out his eyes, 
the rush of conspirators, and finally 
the fall of the emperor, pierced by 
seven knives. 

The story may not be true, and yet 
if it were! 




Rome never was healthy. The 
tramontana visited it then as now, 
fever too, and sudden death. To emperors it was fatal. Since Ctcsar a 
malaria had battened on them all. 
Nerva escaped, but only through 
abdication. The mantle that fell from 
Domitian's shoulders on to his was so 
dangerous in its splendor, that, fearing 
the infection, he passed it to Ulpius 
Trajanus, the lustre undimmcd. 

Ulpius Trajanus, Trajan for brevity, 
a Spaniard by birth, a soldier by 
choice; one who had fought against 
Parthian and Jew, who had tramped 
through Pannonia and made it his own; 
a general whose hair had whitened on 



 



the field; a consul who had frightened 
nations, was afraid of the sheen of that 
purple which dazzled, corroded and 
killed. He bore it, indeed, but at 
arms-length. He kept himself free 
from the subtlety of its poison, from 
the microbes of Rome as well. 

He was in Cologne when Domitian 
died and Nerva accepted and renounced 
the throne. It was a year before he 
ventured among the seven hills. When 
he arrived you would have said another Augustus, not the real Augustus, 
but the Augustus of legend, and the 
late Mr. Gibbon. When he girt the new 
prefect of the pretorium with the immemorial sword, he addrt-ssed him in 
copy-book phrases — "If I rule wisely, 
use it for me; unwisely, against me." 

Rome listened open-mouthed. The 
change from Domitian's formula, 
"Your god and master orders It,"was'
too abrupt to be immediately understood. Before it was grasped Trajan 
was off again ; this time to the Danube 
and beyond it, to Dacia and her fens. 

Many years later — a century ortwo, 
to be exact — a Persian satrap loitered 
in a forum of Rome. "It is here," he 
declared, "I am tempted to forget that 
man is mortal." 

He had passed beneath a triumphal 
arch; before him was a glittering 
square, grandiose, yet severe; stretch 
of temples and basilicas, in which masterpieces felt at home — the Forum of 
Trajan, the compliment of a nation to 
a prince. Dominating it was a col- 
umn, in whose thick spirals you read 
to-day the one reliable chronicle of the 
Dacian campaign. Was not Gautier 
well advised when he said only art 
endures .'' 

There were other chronicles in 
plenty ; there were the histories of 
Hus Maurus, of Marius Maximus, 
and that of Spartian, but they arelost. 
There is a page or two in the abbreviation which Xiphilin made of Dion; 
Aurelius Victor has a little to add, so 
also has Eutropus, but practically 
speaking, there is, apart from that col- 
umn, nothing save conjecture. 

Campaigns are wearisome reading, 
but not the one that is pictured there. 
You ask a curve a question, and in the 
next you find the reply. There is a 
point, however, on which it is dumb — 
the origin of the war. But if you wish 
to know the result, not the momentary 
and transient result, but the sequel 
which futurity held, look at the ruins 
at that column's base. 

The origin of the war was Doniitian's 
diplomacy. The chieftain whom he 
had made king, and who had-been sur- 
prised enough at receiving a diadem 
instead of the point of a sword, fancied, 
and not unreasonably, that the annuity 
which Rome paid him was to continue 
forever. ButDomitian, though agod, 
was not otherwise immortal. When 
he died abruptly the annuity ceased. 
The Dacian king sent word that hewas 
surprised at the delay, but he must 
have been far more so at the promptness with which he got Trajan's reply. It was a blare of bugles, which 
he thought forever dumb; a flight of 
eagles, which he thought were winged. 
In the spirals of the column you see 
the advancing army, the retreating 
foe; then the Dacian dragon saluting 
the standards of Rome; peace de- 
clared, and an army, whose very re- 
pose is menacing, standing there to 
see that peace is kept. And was it? 
In the ascending spiral is the new revolt, the attempt to assassinate Trajan, the capture of the conspirators, 
the advance of the legions, the retreat 
of the Dacians, burning their cities as 
they go, carrying their wounded and 
their women with them, and at last 
pressing about a huge cauldron that is 
filled with poison, fighting among themselves for a cup of the brew, and rolling on the ground in the convulsions 
of death. Further on is the treasure 
of the king. To hide it he had turned 
a river from its source, sunk the gold 
in a vault beneath, and killed the 
workmen that had labored there. Beyond is the capture of the capital, the 
suicide of the chief, a troop of soldiers 
driving captives and cattle before 
them, the death of a nation and the 
end of war. 

The subsequent triumph does not 
appear on the column. It is said that 
ten thousand beasts were slaughtered 
in the arenas, slaughtering, as they 
fell, a thousand of their slaughterers. 
But the spectacle, however fair, was 
not of a nature to detain Trajan long 
in Rome. The air there had not improved in the least, and presently he 
was off again, this time on the banks 
of the Euphrates, arguing with the 
Parthians, avoiding danger in the 
only way he knew, by facing it. 

It was then that the sheen of the 
purple glowed. If lusterless at home, 
'it was royally red abroad. In a campaign that was little more than a 
triumphant promenade he doubled the 
empire. To the world of Cfesar he 
added that of Alexander. Allies he 
turned into subjects, vassals into slaves. 
Armenia, Mesopotamia, Assyria, were 
added to the realm. Trajan's foot- 
stools were diadems. He had moved 
back one frontier, he moved another. From Great Britain to the 
Indus, Rome was mistress of the earth. 
Had Trajan been younger, China, 
whose very name was unknown, would 
have y'clded to him her corruption, her 
printing press, her powder and her tea. 
That he would have enjoyed these 
things is not at all conjectural. He 
was then an old man, but he was not 
a good one — at least not in the sense 
we use the term to-day. He had 
habits which are regarded now less 
as vices than perversions, hut which at 
that time were taken as a matter of 
course and accepted by every one, 
even by the stoics, very calmly, with 
a grain of Attic salt at that. Men 
were regarded as virtuous when they 
were braVe, when they were honest; 
the idea of using the expression in its 
later sense occurred, if at all, in jest 
merely, as a synonym for the eunuch. 
It was the matron and the vestal who 
were supposed to be virtuous, never 
the man; and that femininevirtue was 
wholly suppositious, no one who has 
sauntered through the catacombs of 
the classics preserves so much as a 
lingering doubt. The ceremonies connected with the phallus, and those 
observed in the worship of the Bona 
Dea, were of a nature that no virtue 
could withstand. Every altar, Juvenal 
said, had its Clodius, and even in 
Clodius' absence there were always 
those breaths of Sapphic song that 
blew through Mitylene. 
It is just that absence of a quality 
which we regard as an added grace; 
one, parenthetically, which dowered 
the world with nothing less than a 
new conception of beauty that makes 
it difficult to picture Rome. Modern 
ink has acquired Nero's blush ; it 
comes very readily, 3"et, however sensitive a writer may be, once Roman 
history is before him, he may violate 
it if he choose; he may even give it a 
child, but never can he make it immacculate. He may skip, indeed, if he 
wish; and it is because he has skipped.




SO often that hats are removed when 
Augustus is mentioned. The rain of 
fire which fell on the cities that mirrored their towers in the Bitter Sea, 
might just as well have fallen on him 
on Vergil, too, on Caligula, Claud 
Nero, Otho, Vitellius, Titus, Domittian, and particularly on Trajan. 

As lieutenant in the latter's triumphant promenade, was a nephew, 
x lius Hadrianus, a young man for 
whom Trajan's wife is rumored to have 
had more than a platonic affection, 
and who in younger days was num- 
bered among Trajan's mignons. Dur- 
ing the progress of that promenade 
Trajan fell ill. The command of the 
troops was left to Hadrian, and Trajan 
started for Rome. On the way he 
died. In what manner is not known; 
his wife, however, was with him, and 
it was in her hand that a letter went 
to the senate stating that Trajan had 
adopted Hadrian as his heir. Trajan 
had done nothing of the sort. The 
idea had indeed occurred to him, but 
long since it had been abandoned. 
He had even formally selected someone else, but his wife was with him, 
and her lover commanded the troops. 
The lustre of the purple, always dazzling, had fascinated Hadrian's eyes. 
Did he steal it? One may conjecture, 
yet never know. In any event it was 
his, and he folded it very magnificently about him. 

Still young, a trifle over thirty, 
handsome, unusually accomplished, 
grand seigneur to his finger-tips, endowed with a manner which is 
rumored to have been one of great 
charm, possessed of the amplest appreciation of the elegancies of life, he 
had precisely the figure which purple 
adorns. But, though the lustre had 
fascinated, he too knew its spell 
and presently he started off on a jour 
ney about the world, which lasted 
fifteen years, and which, when ended, 
left the world the richer for his passing, decorated with the monuments 
he had strewn. Before that journey 
began, at the earliest rumor of Trajan's death, the Euphrates and Tigris 
awoke, the cinders of Nineveh flamed. 
The rivers and land that lay between 
knew that their conqueror had gone. 
Hadrian knew it also, and knew too 
that, though he might occupy the 
warrior's throne, he never could fill 
the warrior's place. To Armenia, 
Mesopotamia, Assyria, freedom was 
restored. Dacia could have had it for 
the asking. But oer Dacia the toga 
had been thrown; it was as Roman as 
Gaul. A corner of it is Roman still; 
the Roumanians are there. But 
though Dacia was quiet, in its neighborhood the restless Sarmatians 
prowled and threatened. Hadrian, 
who had already written a book on 
tactics, knew at once how to act, 
Domitian's policy was before him; he 
followed the precedent, and paid the 
Sarmatians to be still. It requires 
little acumen to see that when Rome 
permitted herself to be blackmailed 
the end was near. 

For the time being, however, there 
was peace, and in its interest Hadrian 
set out on that unequalled journey 
over a land that was his. Had fate 
relented, Trajan could have made a 
wider one still. But in Trajan was 
the soldier merely; when he journeyed 
it was with the sword. In Hadrian 
was the dilettante, the erudite too; 
he traveled not to conquer, but to 
learn, to satisfy an insatiable curiosity, 
for self-improvement, for glory too. 
Behind him was an army, not of sol- 
diers, but of masons, captained by 
architects, artists and engineers. Did 
a site please him, there was a temple 
at once, or if not that, then a bridge, 
an aqueduct, a library, anew fashion, 
sovereignty even, but everywhere the 
spectacle of an emperor in flesh and 
blood. For the first time the provinces were able to understand that a 
CfEsar was not necessarily a brute, a 
phantom and a god. 

It would have been interesting to 
have made one of that court of poets 
and savants that surrounded him; to 
have dined with him in Paris, eaten 
oysters in London; sat with him while 
he watched that wall go up before the 
Scots, and then to have passed down 
again through a world still young — a 
world beautiful, ornate, unutilitarian; 
a world to which trams, advertise- 
ments and telegraph poles had not yet 
come; a world that still had illusions, myths and mysteries ; one 
which religion and poetry went hand 
hand in hand — a world without news- 
papers, hypocrisy and cam. 

Hadrian, doubtless, enjoyed it. Me 
was young enough to have enthusi- 
asms and to show them ; he was one 
of the best read men of the day ; he was 
poet, painter, sculptor, musician, erudite and emperor in one. Of course 
he enjoyed It. The world, over which 
he traveled, was his, not by virtue of 
the purple alone, but because of his 
knowledge of it. The prince is not 
necessarily cosmopolitan; the historian 
and antiquarian are. Hadrian was an 
early Quinct, an earlier Cliampollion; 
always the thinker, sometimes the 
cook. And to those in his suite it 
must have been a sight very unique to 
see a Caesar who had published his 
volume of erotic verse, just as you or 
I might do; who had hunted hons, not 
in the arena, but in Africa, make researches on the plain where.Troy had 
been, and a supreme of sow's breast, 
peacock, pheasant, ham and boar, 
which he called Pentapharmarch, and 
which he offered as he had his Catacriani — the erotic verse — as something 
original and nice. 

Insatiably inquisitive, verifying a 
history that he was preparing in the 
lands which gave that history birth, 
he passed through Egypt and Asia, 
questioning sphinxes, the cerements 
of kings, the arcana of the temples; 
deciphering the sacred books, arguing 
with magi, interrogating the stars. 
For the thinker, after the fashion of 
the hour, was astrologer too, and one 
of the few anecdotes current concern- 
ing him is in regard to a habit he had 
of drawing up on the 31st of December the events of the coming year. 
After consulting the s.ars on that 31st 
of December which occurred in the 
twenty-second year of his reign, he 
prepared a ca!triid;ir which extended 
only to the loth of July. On that day 
he died. 

The calendar does not seem to have 
been otherwise serviceable. It was in 
Bithynia he found a shepherd of such 
beauty that no one who has looked at 
his bust has looked unmoved. It is 
unearthly, a perfection of feature which 
suggests neither heaven nor hell, but 
some planet where the atmosphere differs from ours; where it is pink, perhaps, or faintly ochre ; where birth and 
death have forms higher than our own. 

Hadrian, captivated, led the lad in 
leash. The facts concerning that episode have been so frequently given 
that the repetition is needless here. 
Besides, the point is elsewhere. Pres- 
ently the lad fell overboard. Hadrian 
lost a valet, Rome an emperor, and 
Olympus a god. But in attempting 
to deify the lost lackey, the grief of 
Hadrian was so spontaneous, so sin- 
cere, that it is permissible to fancy 
that the lad's death was not one of 
those events which the emperor-astrologer noted beforehand on his calendar. 
The lad was decently buried, the Nile 
gave up her dead, and on the banks a 
fair city rose, one that had its temples, 
priests, altars and shrines; a city that 
worshipped a star, and called that star 
Antinous. Hadrian then could have 
congratulated himself. Even Caligula 
would have envied him. He had done 
his worst; he had deitied not a lad, but 
a lust. And not for the moment alone. 
A half century later Tertullian noted 
that the worship still endured, and subsequently the Alexandrine Clement 
discovered consciences that Antinous 
had reproached. 

Antinous, deified, was presently forgot. A young Roman, wonderfully 



 



beautiful, Dion says, yet singularly 
effeminate; a youth who could barely 
carry a shield ; who slept between rose- 
leaves and lilies; who was an artist 
withal; a poet who had written lines 
that Martial might have mistaken for 
, his own, Cejonius Verus by name, succeeded thcBithynian shepherd. Hadrian, who would have adopted Antin- 
I ous, adopted Verus in his stead. But 
Hadrian was not happy in his choice. 
 Verus died, and singularly enough, 
Hadrian selected as future emperor. 
 the one ruler against whom history has 
 not a reproach, Pius Antonin. 

Meanwhile the journey continued.  The Thousand and One N ights were re- 
I alized then if ever. The beauty of the 
 world was at its apogee, the glory of 
Rome as well ; and through secrets and 
 marvels Hadrian strolled, note-book in 
 hand, his eyes unwearied, his curiosity 
 unsatiated still. To pleasure him the 



 



intervales took on a fairer glow; cities 
decked themselves anew, the temples 
unveiled their mysteries; and when he 
passed to the intervales liberty came ; 
to the cities, sovereignty ; to the temples, shrines. The world rose to him 
as a woman greets her lover. His 
