"No doubt!"
Ghisleri suddenly grew thoughtful and a distant look came into his eyes,
while the shadows seemed to deepen under them, till they were almost
black. He had eaten hardly anything, and now, regardless of the fact
that the meal was not half over, he lit a cigarette and leaned back in
his chair as though he had finished.
"You are not looking well, Arden," he said at last. "You must take care
of yourself. Take my advice. We will go somewhere together for a couple
of months."
"There is nothing I should like better, but not just at present. I will
stay in Rome until the weather is a little warmer."
Arden was not in the least conscious that his expression changed as he
thought of the reason which kept him in the city and which might keep
him long. But Ghisleri, who had been watching for that particular
hesitation of manner and for that almost imperceptible darkening of the
eyes, knew exactly what both meant.
"Oh, very well," he answered indifferently. "We can go later. People
always invent absurd stories if one goes away in the middle of the
season without any apparent object."
The remark was a little less than general, and Arden was at once
confirmed in his suspicion that something unpleasant had happened in
Ghisleri's life, most probably in connection with the Contessa dell'
Armi. His friend was in such a savage humour that he might almost become
communicative. Arden was a very keen-sighted man, and not without tact,
and he thought the opportunity a good one for approaching a subject
which had long been in his mind. But he had been in earnest when he had
told Laura that he knew Ghisleri's character to be what he called
complicated, and he was aware that Pietro's intelligence was even more
penetrating than his own. He was therefore very cautious.
"You say that Rome is such a great place for gossip," he began, in
answer to Ghisleri's last observation. "I suppose you know it by
experience, but I cannot say that we strangers hear much of it."
"Perhaps not," admitted Ghisleri, rather absently.
"No, we do not hear much scandal. For instance, I go rather often to the
Gerano's. I do not remember to have heard there a single spiteful story,
except, perhaps,"--Arden stopped cautiously.
"Precisely," said Pietro, "the exceptions are rare in that house. But
then, the Prince is generally away, and both the Princess and her
daughter are English, and especially nice people."
Arden helped himself to something that chanced to be near him, and
glanced at his companion's rather impenetrable face. He knew that at the
present moment the latter was perfectly sincere in what he said, but he
knew also that Ghisleri spoke of most people in very much the same tone.
It was something which Arden could never quite understand.
"Do you think," he began presently, "that the fact of their being
English has anything to do with Miss Carlyon's unpopularity here?"
"My dear fellow, how should I know?" asked Ghisleri, with something
almost like a laugh.
"You do know, of course. I wish you would tell me. As an Englishman, the
mother interests me."
"From the point of view of our international relations, I see,
collecting information for an article in the Nineteenth Century, or else
your brother is going to speak on the subject in the Lords. What do you
think about the matter yourself? If I can put you right, I will."
"What an extraordinary man you are!" exclaimed Arden. "You always insist
upon answering one question by another."
"It gives one time to think," retorted Ghisleri. "These cigarettes are
distinctly bad; give me one of yours, please. I never can understand why
the government monopoly here should exist, and if it does why they
should not give us Russian--"
"My dear Ghisleri," said Arden, interrupting him, "we were talking about
the Princess Gerano."
"Were we? Oh, yes, and Miss Carlyon, too, I remember. Do you like them?"
"Very much; and I think every one should. That is the reason why I am
surprised that Miss Carlyon should not receive much more attention than
she does. I fancy it is because she is English. Do you think I am
right?"
"No," said Ghisleri, slowly, at last answering the direct question, "I
do not think you are."
"Then what in the world is the reason? The fact is clear enough. She
knows it herself."
"Probably some absurd bit of gossip. Who cares? I am sorry for her,
though."
"How can there be any scandal about a young girl of her age?" asked
Arden, incredulously.
"In this place you can start a story about a baby a year old," answered
Ghisleri. "It will be remembered, repeated, and properly adorned, and
will ultimately ruin the innocent woman when she is grown up. Nobody
seems to care for chronology here--anachronism is so much more
convenient."
"Why are you so absurdly reticent with me, Ghisleri?" asked Arden, with
some impatience. "You talk as though we had not known each other ten
years."
"On the contrary," answered Pietro, "if we were acquaintances of
yesterday, I would not talk at all. That is just the difference. As it
is, and because we are rather good friends, I tell you what I believe to
be the truth. I believe--well, I will allow that I know, that there is a
story about Miss Carlyon, which is commonly credited, and which is a
down-right lie. I will not tell you what it is. It does not, strictly
speaking, affect her reputation, but it has made her unpopular--since
you have used that word. Ask any of the gossips, if you care enough--I
am not going to repeat such nonsense. It never does any good to repeat
other peoples' lies."
Arden was silent, and his long white fingers played uneasily upon the
edge of the table. It had been a hard matter to extract the information,
but such as it was he knew that it was absolutely reliable. When
Ghisleri spoke at all about such things, he spoke the truth, and when he
said that he would positively say no more, his decision was always
final. Arden had discovered that in the early days of their
acquaintance. Perhaps Pietro went to absurd lengths in this direction,
and there were people who called it affectation and made him out to be
an even worse man than he was, but his friend knew that it was genuine
in its way. He was all the more disturbed by what he had heard, and it
was a long time before he spoke again.
Ghisleri smoked in silence and drank three cups of coffee while Arden
was drinking one. He looked at that time like a man who was living upon
his nerves, so to say, instead of upon proper nourishment.
An hour later the two men went out together, Arden taking Pietro with
him in his carriage. The air was bright and keen and the afternoon
sunlight was already turning yellow with the gold of the coming evening.
The carriage was momentarily blocked at the corner of the Pincio near
the entrance, by one that was turning out of the enclosure opposite the
band stand. It chanced to be the Princess of Gerano's landau, and she
and her daughter were seated in it, closely wrapped in their furs. It
was Arden's victoria that had to pull up to let the Princess drive
across, and by a coincidence the Savelli couple were in the one which
hers would have to follow in the descending line after crossing the
road.
Francesco Savelli bowed, smiled, and waved his hat, evidently to Laura
rather than to her mother. With a rather forced smile Adele slowly bent
her head. Arden bowed at the same moment, and looked from one carriage
to the other. Ghisleri followed his example, and there was the very
faintest expression of amusement on his face, which Arden of course
could not see. A number of men on foot lined the side of the road close
to the carriage.
"People always come back to their first loves!" said a low voice at
Arden's elbow.
He turned quickly and saw several men watching the Savelli across his
victoria. He knew none of them, and it was impossible to guess which had
spoken. Ghisleri, being on the right side, as Arden's guest, could not
have heard the words. Having just noticed the rather striking contrast
between Francesco Savelli's demonstrative greeting and his wife's almost
indifferent nod, it naturally struck the Englishman that the remark he
had overheard might refer to the person he was himself watching at that
moment. Donna Adele Savelli's expression might very well be taken for
one of jealousy, but her husband's behaviour was assuredly too marked
for anything more than friendship. Arden coupled the words with the
facts and concluded that he had discovered the story of which Ghisleri
had spoken. Francesco Savelli was said to be in love with Laura Carlyon.
That was evidently the gossip; but he had seen Laura's face, too, and it
was quite plain that she was wholly indifferent. On the whole, though
the tale reflected little credit on Savelli, it was not at all clear why
it should make Laura unpopular, unless people said that she encouraged
the man, which they probably did, thought Lord Herbert Arden, who was a
man of the world.
The more he considered the matter the more convinced he became that he
was right, and the conviction was on the whole a relief. He had been
uneasy for some time, and Ghisleri's guarded words had not satisfied
him; chance, however, had done what Ghisleri would not do, and the
mystery was solved. The Princess of Gerano was at home that evening, and
Arden of course went to the palace early, and was the last to leave.
Three times between half-past ten and half-past two o'clock Laura and he
installed themselves side by side at some distance from the
drawing-room, and each time their conversation lasted over half an hour.
It was not a set ball, but one of the regular weekly informal dances of
which there are so many in Rome during the season. The first
interruption of Arden's talk appeared in the shape of Don Francesco
Savelli, who asked Laura for a turn. Oddly enough she glanced at Lord
Herbert's face before accepting, and the action sent a strange thrill to
his heart. He struggled to his feet as she rose to go away with Savelli,
and then sank back again and remained some time where he was, absently
watching the people who passed. His face was very pale and weary now
that the excitement of conversation had subsided, and he felt that if he
was not positively ill, he was losing the little strength he had with
every day that passed. Late hours, heated rooms, and strong emotions
were not the best tonics for his feeble physical organisation, and he
knew it. At last he made an effort, got up, and moved about in the
crowd, exchanging a few words now and then with a passing acquaintance,
but too preoccupied and perhaps too tired to talk long with indifferent
people. He nodded as Ghisleri passed him with the Contessa dell' Armi on
his arm, and he thought there was a bad light in his friend's eyes,
though Pietro was looking better than in the afternoon. The two had
evidently been dancing together, for the Contessa's white neck heaved a
little, as though she were still out of breath. She was a short, slight
woman of exquisite figure, very fair, with deep violet eyes and small
classic features, almost hard in their regularity; evidently wilful and
dominant in character. Arden watched the pair as they went on in search
of a vacant sofa just big enough for two.
They had scarcely sat down and he could see that Ghisleri was beginning
to talk, when Anastase Gouache appeared and stood still before them. To
Arden's surprise the Contessa welcomed him with a bright smile and
pointed to a chair at her side of the sofa. Anastase Gouache was a
celebrated painter who had married a Roman lady of high birth, and was a
very agreeable man, but Arden had not expected that he would be invited
so readily to interrupt so promising a conversation. Ghisleri's face
expressed nothing. He appeared to join in the talk for a few minutes and
then rose and left the Contessa with Gouache. She looked after him, and
Arden thought she grew a shade paler and frowned. A faint smile appeared
on the Englishman's face and was gone again in an instant as Ghisleri
came near him, returning again to the ball-room. Ghisleri had glanced at
him as he passed and had seen that he was not talking to a lady.
"May I have the next dance, Miss Carlyon?" asked Pietro, when he found
Laura in a corner with Francesco Savelli. "Thanks," he said, as she
nodded graciously, and he passed on.
"Will you give me the dance after the next?" he inquired a few minutes
later, coming up with Donna Adele, who was moving away on young
Frangipani's arm.
"Certainly, caro Ghisleri," she answered, with alacrity, "as many as you
please."
"You are very good," he said, with a slight bow, and withdrew to a
window near Laura to wait until the waltz began. He could see Arden
through the open door from the place where he stood.
When the dance was over he led Laura out and took one turn through the
rooms, making a few commonplace remarks on the way. Coming back, he
stopped as though by accident close to Lord Herbert.
"I am afraid you will think me very rude if I ask you to let me leave
you," he said. "I am engaged for the next dance--it is a quadrille--and
I must find a vis-à-vis."
Arden of course heard and presented himself immediately in Ghisleri's
place. Laura was quite ready to go back with him to the sofa in the
corner, and they resumed their conversation almost at the point at which
it had been interrupted by Francesco Savelli. Neither of them ever knew
that Ghisleri had brought them together again by a little social skill,
just beyond what most people possess. Arden looked after him, half
believing that he had only given Laura an excuse for leaving her in
order to return to the Contessa dell' Armi, who was now surrounded by
half a dozen men, beginning with old Spicca, who, as has been said, was
still alive in those days, and ending with the little Vicomte de
Bompierre, a young French attaché with a pleasant voice, a bright smile,
and an incipient black moustache. But to Arden's surprise Ghisleri took
quite a different direction, and began to speak to one man after
another, evidently trying to secure a vis-à-vis for the square dance.
"You must not let me bore you, or rather you must not bore yourself with
me," said Arden to Laura, after a short pause in the conversation. "You
are altogether much too good to me."
"You never bore me," answered the young girl. "You are one of the few
people who do not."
Arden smiled a little sadly.
"I am glad to be one of the 'few people,'" he said, "even if I am the
last."
"You are too modest." She tried to laugh, but the effort was not very
successful.
"No, I am not. I have much more vanity than you would suppose, or think
possible, considering how little I have to be vain of."
"Opinions may differ about that," answered Laura, looking into his eyes.
"You have much that many men might envy, and probably do."
"What, for instance?"
Laura hesitated, and then smiled, without effort this time.
"You are very good looking," she said after a moment.
"No one has ever told me that before," he answered. A very slight flush
rose in his pale face.
"It is not of much importance, either. Would you like me to enumerate
your good qualities?"
"Of all things!"
"You are honest and kind, and you are very clever, I think, though I am
not clever enough to be sure. You have no right to be unhappy, and you
would not be if you were not so sensitive about--about not being so
strong and big as some men are. What difference does it make?"
"You will almost tempt me to think that it makes none, if you talk in
that way," said Arden.
"Do you mean to say that you would really and truly change places with
any one? With Signor Ghisleri, for instance?"
"Indeed I would, with him, and very gladly. I would rather be Ghisleri
than any man I know."
"I cannot understand that," answered Laura, thoughtfully. "If I were a
man, I would much rather be like you. Besides, they say Signor Ghisleri
has been dreadfully wild, and is anything but angelic now. You used that
very word about him the first evening we met; do you remember?"
"Of course I do; but what has that to do with it? Must I necessarily
choose a saint for my friend, and pick out one to exchange places with
me if it were possible? A woman saint may be lovable, too lovable
perhaps, but a man saint about town is like a fish out of water. But you
are right about Ghisleri, up to a certain point, only you do not
understand him. He is an exceedingly righteous sinner, but a sinner he
is."
"What do you mean by a righteous sinner?" asked Laura, gravely.
"Do not bring me down to definitions. I have not at all a logical mind.
I mean Ghisleri--that is all I can say. I would much rather talk about
you."
"No, I object to that. Tell me, since you wish so much to be Signor
Ghisleri, what do you think you would feel if you were?"
"What he feels--everything that a man can feel!" answered Arden, with a
sudden change of tone. "To be straight and strong and a match for other
men. Half the happiness of life lies there."
His voice shook a little, and Laura felt that the tears were almost in
her eyes as she looked earnestly into his.
"You see what I am," he continued, more and more bitterly, "I am a
cripple. There is no denying it--why should I even try to hide it a
little? Nature, or Heaven, or what you please to call it, has been good
enough to make concealment impossible. If I am not quite a hunchback, I
am very near it, and I can hardly walk even with a stick. And look at
yourself, straight and graceful and beautiful--well, you pity me, at
least. Why should I make a fool of myself? It is the first time I ever
spoke like this to any one."
"You are quite wrong," answered Laura, in a tone of conviction. "I do
not pity you--indeed I do not think you are the least to be pitied. I
see it quite differently. It hardly ever strikes me that you are not
just the same as other people, and when it does--I do not know--I mean
to say that when it does, it makes no painful impression upon me. You
see I am quite frank."
While she was speaking the colour rose in two bright spots on Arden's
pale cheeks, and his bright eyes softened with a look of wonderful
happiness.
"Are you quite in earnest, Miss Carlyon?" he asked, in a low voice.
"Quite, quite in earnest. Please believe me when I say that it would
hurt me dreadfully if I thought you doubted it."
"Hurt you? Why?"
She turned her deep, sad eyes to him, and looked at him without
speaking. He was on the point of telling her that he loved her--then he
saw how beautiful she was, and he felt his withered knee under his hand,
and he was ashamed to speak. It was a cruel moment, and his nerves were
already overstrained by perpetual emotion, as well as tired from late
hours and lack of sleep. He hesitated a moment. Then bent his head and
covered his eyes with his hand. Laura said nothing for several moments,
but seeing that he did not move, she touched his sleeve.
"Dear Lord Herbert, do not be so unhappy," she said softly. "You really
have no right to be, you know."
"No right?" He looked up suddenly. "If you knew, you would not say
that."
"I should always say it. As long as you have friends--friends who love
you, and would do anything for you, why should you make yourself so
miserable?"
"I want more than a friend--even than friendship."
"What?"
"I want love."
Again she gazed into his eyes and paused. Her face was very
white--whiter than his. Then she spoke.
"Are you so sure you have not got that love?" she asked. Her own voice
trembled now.
Arden started and a look of something almost like fear came into his
face. He could hardly speak.
"Love?" he repeated, and he felt he could say nothing more.
"Yes, I mean it." So she chose her fate.
She thought there was a touch of the divine in poor Arden's expression
as he heard the words. Then his face grew pale, the light faded from his
eyes, and his head sank on his breast. Laura did not at first realise
what had happened. She felt so strongly herself, that nothing in his
manner would have surprised her. She heard nothing of the hum of the
voices in the room, or if she did, she heard the harmony of a happy
hymn, and the great branches of candles were the tapers upon an altar in
some sacred place.
Still Arden did not move. Laura bent down and looked at his face.
"Lord Herbert!" She called him softly. "Herbert, what is the matter?"
No answer came. She looked round wildly for help. At that moment the
dance was just over and Ghisleri passed near her with Donna Adele on his
arm. Laura rose and overtook him swiftly, touching his arm in her
excitement.
"Lord Herbert has fainted--for heaven's sake, help him!" she cried, in a
low voice.
Pietro Ghisleri glanced at the sofa.
"Excuse me," he said hastily to Donna Adele, and left her standing in
the middle of the room. He bent down and felt Arden's forehead and
hands.
"Yes, he has fainted," he said to Laura. "Show me the way to a quiet
place."
Thereupon he took his unconscious friend in his arms and followed Laura
quickly through the surging crowd that already filled the room, escaping
in haste from the heat as soon as the dance was over in the ball-room
beyond.
For a few seconds one of those total silences fell upon the party which
always follow an accident. Then, as Ghisleri disappeared with his
burden, every one began to talk at once, speculating upon the nature of
Lord Herbert Arden's indisposition. Heart disease--epilepsy--nervous
prostration--most things were suggested.
"Probably too much champagne," laughed Donna Adele in the ear of the
lady nearest to her.
CHAPTER III.
It is perhaps useless to attempt to trace and recapitulate the causes
which had led Laura Carlyon to the state of mind in which she had found
courage to tell Arden that she loved him. There might be harder moments
in store for her, but this had been the hardest she had known hitherto.
Nothing short of a real and great love, she believed, could have carried
her through it, and she had been conscious for some days that if the
opportunity came she meant to do what she had done. In other words, she
had been quite sure that Arden loved her and that she loved him. This
being granted, it was in accordance with her character to take the
initiative. With far less sympathy than she felt in all her thoughts,
she would have understood that a man of his instincts would never speak
of his love to her unless almost directly bidden to do so. Laura was
slow to make up her mind, sure of her decision when reached, and
determined to act upon it without consulting any one. Many people said
later that she had sacrificed herself for Lord Herbert's expected
fortune, or for his position. A few said that she was a very good woman
and that, finding herself neglected, she had decided to devote her life
to the happiness of a very unhappy man for whom she felt a sincere
friendship. That was at least the more charitable view. But neither was
at all the right one. She honestly and really believed that she loved
the man: she saw beyond a doubt that he loved her, and she took the
shortest and most direct way of ending all doubts on the subject. On
that same night when Arden had quite recovered and had gone home with
Ghisleri, she spoke to her mother and told her exactly what had
happened.
The Princess of Gerano opened her quiet brown eyes very wide when she
heard the news. She was handsome still at five and forty, a little
stout, perhaps, but well proportioned. Her light brown hair was turning
grey at the temples, but there were few lines in her smooth, calm face,
and her complexion was still almost youthful, though with little
colouring. She looked what she was, a woman of the world, very far from
worldly, not conscious of half the evil that went on around her, and
much given to inward contemplation of a religious kind when not actively
engaged in social duty. She had seen Laura's growing appreciation of
Arden and had noticed the frequency of the latter's visits to the house.
But she had herself learned to like him very much during the last month,
and it never suggested itself to her that he could wish to marry Laura
nor that Laura could care for him, considering that he was undeniably a
cripple. It was no wonder that she was surprised.
"Dear child," she said, "I do not know what to say. Of course I have
found out what a really good man he is, though he is so fond of that
wild Ghisleri--they are always together. I have a great admiration for
Lord Herbert. As far as position goes, there is nothing better, and I
suppose he is rich enough to support you, though I do not know. You see,
darling, you have nothing but the little I can give you. But never mind
that--there is only that one other thing--I wish he were not--"
She checked herself, far too delicate to hurt her daughter by too direct
a reference to Arden's physical shortcomings. But Laura, strange to say,
was not sensitive on that point.
"I know, mother," she said, "he is deformed. It is of no use denying it,
as he says himself. But if I do not mind that--if I do not think of it
at all when I am with him, why should any one else care? After all, if I
marry him, it is to please myself, and not the people who will ask us to
dinner."
The young girl laughed happily as she thought of the new life before
her, and of how she would make everything easy for poor Arden, and make
him quite forget that he could hardly walk. Her mother looked at her
with quiet wonder.
"Think well before you act, dear," she said. "Marriage is a very serious
thing. There is no drawing back afterwards, and if you were to be at all
unkind after you are married--"
"O mother, how can you think that of me?"
"No--at least, you would never mean it. You are too good for that. But
it would break the poor man's heart. He is very sensitive, it is not
every man who faints when he finds out that a young girl loves
him--fortunately, not every man," she added with a smile.
"If every one loved as we do, the world would be much happier," said
Laura, kissing her mother. "Do not be afraid, I will not break his
heart."
"God grant you may not break your own, dear!" The Princess spoke in a
lower voice, and turned away her face to hide the tears that stood in
her eyes.
"Mine, mother!" Laura bent over her as she sat in her dressing-chair.
"What is it?" she asked anxiously, as she saw that her mother's cheek
was wet.
"You are very dear to me, child," murmured the Princess, drawing the
young head down to her breast, and kissing the thick black hair.
So the matter was settled, and Laura had her way. It is not easy to say
how most mothers would have behaved under the circumstances. There are
worldly ones enough who would have received the news far more gladly
than the Princess of Gerano did; and there are doubtless many who would
refuse a cripple for a son-in-law on any condition whatever. Laura's
mother did what she thought right, which is more than most of us can say
of our actions.
The Prince was almost as much surprised as his wife when he learned the
news, but he was convinced that he had nothing to say in the matter.
Laura was quite free to do as she pleased, and, moreover, it was a good
thing that she should marry a man of her own faith, and ultimately live
among her own people, since nothing could make either a Catholic or a
Roman of her. But he was not altogether pleased with her choice. He had
an Italian's exaggerated horror of deformity, and though he liked Lord
Herbert, he could never quite overcome his repulsion for his outward
defects. There was nothing to be done, however, and on the whole the
marriage had much in its favour in his eyes.
The engagement was accordingly announced with due formality, and the
wedding day was fixed for the Saturday after Easter, which fell early in
that year. Not until the day before the Princess told the news to every
one did Arden communicate it to Ghisleri. He had perfect confidence in
his friend's discretion, but having said that he would not speak of the
engagement to any one until the Princess wished it, he kept his word to
the letter. He asked Pietro to drive with him, far out upon the
campagna. When they had passed the last houses and were in the open
country he spoke.
"I am going to marry Miss Carlyon," he said simply, but he glanced at
Ghisleri's face to see the look of surprise he expected.
"Since you announce it, my dear friend, I congratulate you with all my
heart," answered Pietro. "Of course I knew it some time ago."
"You knew it?" Arden was very much astonished.
"It was not very hard to guess. You loved each other, you went
constantly to the house and you spent your evenings with her in other
people's houses, there was no reason why you should not
marry--accordingly, I took it for granted that you would be married. You
see that I was right. I am delighted. Ask me to the wedding."
Arden laughed.
"I thought you would never enter one of our churches!" he exclaimed.
"I did not know that I had such a reputation for devout obedience to
general rules," answered Ghisleri.
"As for your reputation, my dear fellow, it is not that of a saint. But
I once saw you saying your prayers."
"I dare say," replied Pietro, indifferently. "I sometimes do, but not
generally in the Corso, nor on the Pincio. How long ago was that? Do you
happen to remember?"
"Six or seven years, I fancy--oh, yes! It was in that little church in
Dieppe, just before you went off on that long cruise--you remember it,
too, I fancy."
"I suppose I thought I was going to be drowned, and was seized with a
passing ague of premature repentance," said Ghisleri, lighting a
cigarette.
"What a queer fellow you are!" observed Arden, striking a light in his
turn. "I was talking with Miss Carlyon about you some time ago, and I
told her you were a sinner, but a righteous one."
"A shade worse than others, perhaps, because I know a little better what
I am doing," answered Ghisleri, with a sneer, evidently intended for
himself.
He was looking at the tomb of Cecilia Metella, as it rose in sight above
the horses' heads at the turn of the road, and he thought of what had
happened to him there years ago, and of the consequences. Arden knew
nothing of the associations the ruin had for his friend, and laughed
again. He was in a very happy humour on that day, as he was for many
days afterwards.
"I can never quite make you out," he said. "Are you good, bad, or a
humbug? You cannot be both good and bad at once, you know."
"No. But one may be often bad, and sometimes do decently good deeds,"
observed Ghisleri, with a dry laugh. "Let us talk of your marriage
instead of speculating on my salvation, or more probable perdition, if
there really is such a thing. When is the wedding day?"
Arden was full of plans for the future, and they drove far out, talking
of all that was before the young couple.
On the following day the news was announced to the city and the world.
The world held up its hands in wonder, and its tongue wagged for a whole
week and a few days more. Laura Carlyon was to marry a penniless cripple
of the most dissipated habits. How shocking! Of course every one knew
that Lord Herbert had not fainted at all on that night at the Palazzo
Braccio, but had succumbed, in the natural course of events, to the
effects of the champagne he had taken at dinner. That was now quite
certain. And the whole world was well aware that his father had cut him
off with a pittance on account of his evil ways, and that his brother
had twice paid his gambling debts to save the family name from disgrace.
Englishmen as a race, and English cripples in particular, were given to
drink and high play. The man had actually been the worse for wine when
talking to Laura Carlyon in her mother's house, and Ghisleri had been
obliged to carry him out for decency's sake before anything worse
happened. Scandalous! It was a wonder that Ghisleri, who, after all, was
a gentleman, could associate with such a fellow. After all, nobody ever
liked Laura Carlyon since she had first appeared in society, soon after
dear Donna Adele's marriage. It was as well that she should go to
England and live with her tipsy cripple. She was good-looking, as some
people admitted. She might win the heart of her brother-in-law and
induce him to pay her husband's debts a third time. They were said to be
enormous.
The men were, on the whole, more charitable. Conscious of their own
shortcomings, they did not blame Lord Herbert very severely for taking a
little too much "extra dry." They did, however, abuse him somewhat
roundly at the club, for having gone to the Gerano party at all when he
should have known that he was not steady. Of the facts themselves they
had not the slightest doubt. Unfortunately for one of them who happened
to be declaiming on the subject, but who was really by no means a bad
fellow, he did not notice that Ghisleri had entered the room before he
had finished his speech. When he had quite done, Ghisleri came forward.
"Arden is my old friend," he said quietly. "He never drinks. He has a
disease of the heart and he fainted from the heat. The doctor and I took
him home together. I hope that none of you will take up this disgusting
story, which was started by the women. And I hope Pietrasanta, there,
will do me the honour to believe what I say, and to tell you that he was
mistaken."
Ghisleri was not a pleasant person to quarrel with, and moreover had the
reputation of being truthful. His story, too, was quite as probable as
the other, to say the least of it. Don Gianbattista Pietrasanta glanced
quickly from one to the other of the men who were seated around him as
though to ask their advice in the matter. Several of them nodded almost
imperceptibly, as though counselling him to do as Ghisleri requested.
There was nothing at all aggressive in the latter's manner, either, as
he quietly lit a cigarette while waiting for the other's answer.
Suddenly a deep voice was heard from another corner of the room. The
Marchese di San Giacinto, giant in body and fortune, had been reading
the paper with the utmost indifference during all the previous
conversation. All at once he spoke, deliberately and to the point.
"It is no business of mine," he said, "as I do not know Lord Herbert
Arden except by sight. But I was at the dance the other night, and half
an hour before the occurrence you are discussing, Lord Herbert was
standing beside me, talking of the Egyptian difficulty with the French
ambassador. I have often seen men drunk. Lord Herbert Arden was, in my
opinion, perfectly sober."
Having delivered himself of this statement, San Giacinto put his very
black cigar between his teeth again and took up the evening paper he had
been reading.
In the face of such men as Ghisleri and the Marchese, it would have been
the merest folly to continue any opposition. Moreover, Pietrasanta was
neither stupid nor bad, and he was not a coward.
"I do not know Lord Herbert Arden myself," he said without affectation.
"What I said I got on hearsay, and the whole story is evidently a
fabrication which we ought to deny. For the rest, Ghisleri, if you are
not quite satisfied--" He stopped and looked at Pietro.
"My dear fellow," said the latter, "what more could I have to say about
the affair? You all seemed to be in the dark, and I wanted to clear the
matter up for the sake of my old friend. That is all. I am very much
obliged to you."
After this incident there was less talk at the clubs, and in a few days
the subject dropped. But the world said, as usual, that all the men were
afraid of Ghisleri, who was a duellist, and of San Giacinto, who was a
giant, and who had taken the trouble to learn to fence when he first
came to Rome, and that they had basely eaten their words. Men were such
cowards, said the world.
Lord Herbert and Laura lived in blissful ignorance of what was said
about them. The preparations for the wedding were already begun, and
Laura's modest trousseau was almost all ordered. She and Arden had
discussed their future, and having realised that they must live in a
very economical fashion for the present and so long as it pleased Heaven
to preserve Arden's maternal uncle among the living, they decided that
the wedding should be as quiet and unostentatious as possible. The old
Prince, however, though far too conscientious to have settled a penny of
his inherited fortune upon Laura, even if she had chosen to marry a
pauper, was not ungenerous in other ways, and considered himself at
liberty to offer the pair some very magnificent silver, which he was
able to pay for out of his private economies. As for Donna Adele, she
presented them with a couple of handsome wine-coolers--doubtless in
delicate allusion to the fictitious story about the champagne Lord
Herbert was supposed to have taken. The implied insult, if there was
any, was not at all noticed by those who had never heard the tale,
however, and Adele had to bide her time for the present.
Meanwhile the season tore along at a break-neck pace, and Lent was fast
approaching. Everybody saw and danced with almost everybody else every
night, and some of them supped afterwards and gambled till midday, and
were surprised to find that their nerves were shaky, and their livers
slightly eccentric, and their eyes anything but limpid. But they all
knew that the quiet time was coming, the Lent wherein no man can dance,
nor woman either, and they amused themselves with a contempt for human
life which would have amounted to heroism if displayed in a good cause.
"They" of course means the gay set of that particular year. As the
Princess of Gerano gave regular informal dances, and two balls at the
end of Carnival, she and her daughter were considered to belong more or
less to the company of the chief merry-makers. The Savelli couple were
in it, also, as a matter of course. Gouache was in it when he pleased, a
dozen or fifteen young members of the diplomatic corps, old Spicca, who
always went everywhere, the Contessa dell' Armi, whose husband was in
parliament and rarely went into society, Ghisleri and twenty or thirty
others, men and women who were young or thought themselves so.
About three weeks before Ash Wednesday, Anastase Gouache, the
perennially young, had a brilliant inspiration. His studio was in an
historical palace, and consisted of three halls which might have passed
for churches in any other country, so far as their size was concerned.
He determined to give a Shrove Tuesday supper to the gay set, with a
tableau, and a long final waltz afterwards, by way of interring the
mangled remains of the season, as he expressed it. The supper should be
at the usual dinner hour instead of at one o'clock, because the gay set
was not altogether as scarlet as it was painted, and did not, as a
whole, care to dance into the morning of Ash Wednesday. The tableau
should represent Carnival meeting Lent. The Contessa dell' Armi should
be in it, and Ghisleri, and Donna Adele, and possibly San Giacinto might
be induced to appear as a mask. His enormous stature would be very
imposing. The Contessa, with her classic features and violet eyes, would
make an admirable nun, and there would be no difficulty in getting
together a train of revellers. Ghisleri, lean, straight, and tall, would
do for a Satanic being of some kind, and could head the Carnival
procession. The whole thing would not last five minutes and the dancing
should begin at once.
"Could you not say something, my friend?" asked Gouache, as he talked
the matter over with Ghisleri.
"I could, if you could find something for me to say," answered the
latter. "But of what use would it be?"
"The density of the public," replied the great painter, "is, to use the
jargon of science, as cotton wool multiplied into cast iron. You either
sink into it and make no noise at all, or you knock your head against
and cannot get through it. You have never sent a picture to the Salon
without naming it, or you would understand exactly what I mean. They
took a picture I once painted, as an altar piece, for a scene from the
Decameron, I believe--but that was when I was young and had illusions.
On the whole, you had better find something to say, and say it--verse,
if possible. They say you have a knack at verses."
"Carnival meeting Lent," said Ghisleri, thoughtfully. Then he laughed.
"I will try--though I am no poet. I will trust a little to my acting to
help my lame feet."
Ghisleri laughed again, as though an amusing idea had struck him. That
night he went home early, and as very often happened, in a bad humour
with himself and with most things. He was a very unhappy man, who felt
himself to be always the centre of a conflict between opposing passions,
and he had long been in the habit of throwing into a rough, impersonal
shape, the thoughts that crossed his mind about himself and others, when
he was alone at night. Being, as he very truly said, no poet, he quickly
tore up such odds and ends of halting rhyme or stumbling prose, either
as soon as they were written, or the next morning. Whatever the form of
these productions might be, the ideas they expressed were rarely feeble
and were indeed sometimes so strong that they might have even shocked
some unusually sensitive person in the gay set.
Being, as has been said, in a bad humour on that particular evening, he
naturally had something to say to himself on paper, and as he took his
pencil he thought of Gouache's suggestion. In a couple of hours he had
got what he wanted and went to sleep. The great artist liked the verses
when Ghisleri read them to him on the following day, the Contessa
consented to act the part of the nun, and the affair was settled.
It was a great success. Gouache's wife, Donna Faustina, had entered into
her husband's plans with all her heart. She was of the Montevarchi
family, sister to the Marchesa di San Giacinto, the latter's husband
being a Saracinesca, as every Italian knows. Gouache did things in a
princely fashion, and sixty people, including all the gay set and a few
others, sat down to the dinner which Anastase was pleased to call a
supper. Every one was very gay. Almost every one was in some fancy dress
or mask, there was no order of precedence, and all were placed where
they would have the best chance of amusing themselves. The halls of the
studio, with their magnificent tapestries and almost priceless objects
of art, were wonderful to see in the bright light. Many of the costumes
were really superb and all were brilliant. No one knew what was to take
place after supper, but every one was sure there was to be dancing, and
all were aware that it was the last dance before Easter, and that the
best dancers in Rome were all present.
One of the halls had been hastily fitted up as a theatre, with a little
stage, a row of footlights, and a background representing a dark wall,
with a deep archway in the middle, like the door of a church. When every
one was seated, a deep, clear voice spoke out a little prologue from
behind the scenes, and the figures, as they were described, moved out
from opposite sides of the stage to meet and group themselves before the
painted doorway. Let prologue and verse speak for themselves.
"It was nearly midnight--the midnight that ends Shrove Tuesday and
begins Ash Wednesday, dividing Carnival from Lent. I left the tables,
where all the world of Rome was feasting, and pretending that the feast
was the last of the year. The brilliant light flashed upon silver and
gold, dyed itself in amber and purple wine, ran riot amongst jewels, and
blazed upon many a fair face and snowy neck. The clocks were all
stopped, lest some tinkling bell should warn men and women that the day
of laughter was over, and that the hour of tears had struck. But I,
broken-hearted, sick in soul and weary of the two months' struggle with
evil fate, turned away from them and left them to all they loved, and to
all that I could never love again.
