The door-bell rang, and after some parley at the threshold, Patrick came
up to say, "The gentleman that was just here thinks he left his
note-book, he--"
Hilary did not let him get the words out; "Oh, yes, show him up! Here it
is." He ran half down the stairs himself to meet Maxwell.
XVI.
Louise stole a glance at herself across the room in the little triptych
mirror against one of the shelves. Her hair was not tumbled, and she
completed her toilet to the eye by dropping her shoes and extending the
edge of her skirt over them where she stood.
Her father brought Maxwell in by the door, and she smiled a fresh
greeting to him. "We--I had just picked your note-book up. I--I'm glad
you came back, I--was a little short with you a moment ago. I--I--Mayn't
I offer you a cigar?"
"No, thanks. I don't smoke," said Maxwell.
"Then a glass of--It's pretty cold out!"
"Thank you; I never drink."
"Well, that's good! That's--sit down; sit down!--that's a very good
thing. I assure you, I don't think it's the least use, though I do both.
My boy doesn't, he's a pattern to his father."
In spite of Hilary's invitation Maxwell remained on foot, with the
effect of merely hearing him out as he went on.
"I--I'm sorry I haven't anything to tell about that accident. I've been
telegraphing all day, without finding out anything beyond the fact as
first reported; and now my son's gone up to Wellwater, to look it up on
the ground. It may have been our Mr. Northwick, or it may not. May I ask
how much you know?"
"I don't know that I'm quite free to say," answered Maxwell.
"Oh!"
"And I didn't expect you to say anything unless you wished to make
something known. It's a matter of business."
"Exactly," said Hilary. "But I think I might been a little civiller in
saying what I did. The rumor's been a great annoyance to me; and I like
to share my annoyances with other people. I suppose your business often
brings you in contact with men of that friendly disposition? Heigh?"
Hilary rolled the cigar he was about to light between his lips.
"We see the average man," said Maxwell, not at all flattered from his
poise by Hilary's apologies. "It's a bore to be interviewed; I know that
from the bore it is to interview."
"I dare say that's often the worst part of it," said Hilary, lighting
his cigar, and puffing out the first great clouds. "Well, then, I may
congratulate myself on sparing you an unpleasant duty. I didn't know I
should come off so handsomely."
There seemed nothing more to say, and Maxwell did not attempt to make
conversation. Hilary offered him his hand, and he said, as if to relieve
the parting of abruptness, "If you care to look in on me again, later
on, perhaps--"
"Thank you," said Maxwell, and he turned to go. Then he turned back, and
after a moment's hesitation, bowed to Louise, and said very stiffly,
"Good-evening!" and went out.
Louise fetched a deep breath. "Why didn't you keep him longer, papa, and
find out all about him?"
"I think we know all that's necessary," said her father, dryly. "At
least he isn't on my conscience any longer; and now I hope you're
satisfied."
"Yes--yes," she hesitated. "You don't think you were too patronizing in
your reparation, papa?"
"Patronizing?" Hilary's crest began to rise.
"Oh, I don't mean that; but I wish you hadn't let him see that you
expected him to leap for joy when you stooped to excuse yourself."
Hilary delayed, for want of adequate terms, the violence he was about to
permit himself. "The next time, if you don't like my manner with people,
don't stay, Louise."
"I knew you wanted me to stay, papa, to see how beautifully you could do
it; and you did do it beautifully. It was magnificent--perhaps too
magnificent." She began to laugh and to kiss away the vexation from her
father's face, keeping her hands behind her with her shoes she had
picked up again, in them, as she came and leaned over him, where he sat.
"And did I want you to stay and entertain him here till I came in?" he
demanded, to keep from being mollified too soon.
"No," she faltered. "That was a work of necessity. He looked so sick
and sad, that he appealed to my sympathy, and besides--Do you think I
could trust you with a secret, papa?"
"What are you talking about?"
"Why, you see I thought he was a walking-delegate at first."
"And was that the reason you stayed?"
"No. That was what frightened me, and then interested me. I wanted to
find out what they were like. But that isn't the secret."
"It's probably quite as important," Hilary growled.
"Well, you see it's such a good lesson to me! I had slipped off my shoes
when I was lying down, and I couldn't get away, he came in so suddenly."
"And do you mean to tell me, Louise, that you were talking to that
reporter all the time in--"
"How should he know it? You didn't know it yourself, papa. I couldn't
get my shoes on after he came, of course!" She brought them round before
her in evidence.
"Well, it's scandalous, Louise, simply scandalous! I never come in after
you've been here without finding some part of your gear lying
round--hair-pins, or gloves, or ribbons, or belts, or handkerchiefs, or
something--and I won't have it. I want you to understand that I think
it's disgraceful. I'm ashamed of you."
"Oh, no! Not ashamed, papa!"
"Yes, I am!" said her father; but he had to relent under her look of
meek imploring, and say, "or I ought to be. I don't see how you could
hold up your head."
"I held it very high up. When you haven't got your shoes on--in
company--it gives you a sort of--internal majesty; and I behaved very
loftily. But it's been a fearful lesson to me, papa!" She made her
father laugh, and then she flung herself upon him, and kissed him for
his amiability.
She said at the end of this rite, "He didn't seem much impressed even
after you had apologized, do you think, papa?"
"No, he didn't," Hilary grumbled. "He's as stiff-necked as need be."
"Yes," said Louise, thoughtfully. "He must be proud. How funny proud
people are, papa! I can't understand them. That was what always
fascinated me with Suzette."
Hilary's face saddened as it softened. "Ah, poor thing! She'll have need
of all her pride, now."
"You mean about her father," said Louise, sobered too. "Don't you hope
he's got away?"
"What do you mean, child? That would be a very rascally wish in me."
"Well, you'd rather he had got away than been killed?"
"Why, of course, of course," Hilary ruefully assented. "But if Matt
finds he wasn't--in the accident, it's my business to do all I can to
bring him to justice. The man's a thief."
"Well, then, I hope he's got away."
"You mustn't say such things, Louise."
"Oh, no, papa! Only think them."
XVII.
Hilary had to yield to the pressure on him and send detectives to look
into the question of Northwick's fate at the scene of the accident. It
was a formal violation of his promise to Northwick that he should have
three days unmolested; but perhaps the circumstances would have
justified Hilary to any business man, and it could really matter nothing
to the defaulter dead or alive. In either case he was out of harm's way.
Matt, all the same, felt the ghastliness of being there on the same
errand with these agents of his father, and reaching the same facts with
them. At moments it seemed to him as if he were tacitly working in
agreement with them, for the same purpose as well as to the same end;
but he would not let this illusion fasten upon him; and he kept faith
with Suzette in the last degree. He left nothing undone which she could
have asked if he had done; he invented some quite useless things to do,
and did them, to give his conscience no cause against him afterwards.
The fire had left nothing but a few charred fragments of the wreck.
There had been no means of stopping it, and it had almost completely
swept away the cars in which it had broken out. Certain of the cars to
the windward were not burnt; these lay capsized beside the track, bent
and twisted, and burst athwart, fantastically like the pictures of
derailed cars as Matt had seen them in the illustrated papers; the
locomotive, pitched into a heavy drift, was like some dead monster that
had struggled hard for its life. Where the fire had raged, there was a
wide black patch in the whiteness glistening everywhere else; there were
ashes, and writhen iron-work; and bits of charred wood-work; but nothing
to tell who or how many had died there. It was certain that the porter
and the parlor-car conductor were among the lost; and his list of
passengers had perished with the conductor; there was only left with the
operator the original of that telegram, asking to have a chair reserved
in the Pullman from Wellwater, and signed with Northwick's name, but
those different initials, which had given rise to the report of his
death.
This was the definite fact which Matt could carry back with him to
Northwick's family, and this they knew already. It settled nothing; it
left the question of his death just where it was before. But Matt
struggled with it as if it were some quite new thing, and spent himself
in trying to determine how he should present it to them. In his own mind
he had very great doubt whether Northwick was in the accident, and
whether that dispatch was not a trick, a ruse to cover up the real
course of his flight. But then there was no sense in his trying to hide
his track, for he must have known that as yet there was no pursuit. If
the telegram was a ruse, it was a ruse to conceal the fact that
Northwick was still in the country, and had not gone to Canada at all.
But Matt could not imagine any reason for such a ruse; the motive must
be one of those illogical impulses which sometimes govern criminals. In
any case, Matt could not impart his conjectures to the poor women who
must be awaiting his return with such cruel anxiety. If the man were
really dead, it would simplify the matter beyond the power of any other
fact; Matt perceived how it would mitigate the situation for his family;
he could understand how people should hold that suicide was the only
thing left for a man in Northwick's strait. He blamed himself for coming
a moment to that ground, and owned the shame of his interested motive;
but it was, nevertheless, a relief which he did not know how to refuse
when Suzette Northwick took what he had to tell as final proof that her
father was dead.
She said that she had been talking it all over with her sister, and they
were sure of it; they were prepared for it; they expected him to tell
them so.
Matt tried to have her realize that he had not told her so; and he
urged, as far as he could, the grounds for hoping that her father was
not in the accident.
She put them all aside. The difference in the initials was really no
difference; and besides, and above all, there was the fact that if her
father were anywhere alive, he must have seen the report of his death by
this time, and sent some word, made some sign for their relief. She was
doubly sure of this, because he was so anxiously thoughtful of them when
they were separated. He expected them to notify him of every slight
change in their plans when they were away, and always telegraphed as to
his own. The only mystery was his going to Canada without letting them
know his plans before or afterwards. It must have been upon some very
suddenly urgent business that took his mind off everything else.
Matt silently hung his head, dreading lest she should ask him what he
thought, and wondering how he must answer if she did. He perceived that
he had no choice but to lie, if she asked him; but when he volunteered
nothing, she did not ask him.
It was the second morning after he had left her; but he could see that
she had lived long since their parting. He thought, "That is the way she
will look as she grows old." The delicate outline of her cheeks showed a
slight straightening of its curve; her lips were pinched; the aquiline
jut of her nose was sharpened. There was no sign of tears in her eyes;
but Adeline wept, and constantly dried her tears with her handkerchief.
She accepted her affliction meekly, as Suzette accepted it proudly, and
she seemed to leave all the conjectures and conclusions to her sister.
Suzette was in the exaltation which death first brings to the bereaved,
when people say that they do not realize it yet, and that they will feel
it later. Then they go about, especially if they are women, in a sort of
hysterical strength; they speak calmly of what has happened; they help
those beyond the immediate circle of their loss to bear up against it;
these look to see them break suddenly under the stress of their
bereavement, and wonder at their impassioned fortitude.
Matt knew neither how to stay nor to get away; it seemed intrusive to
linger, and inhuman to go when he had told the little he had to tell.
Suzette had been so still, so cold, in receiving him, that he was
astonished at her intensity when he rose to leave her at last.
"I shall never forget what you have done for us, Mr. Hilary. Never!
Don't belittle it, or try to make it seem nothing! It was everything! I
wonder you could do it!"
"Yes!" Adeline put in, as if they had been talking his kindness over, as
well as their loss, and were of one mind about it.
"Oh, indeed!" he began. "Any one would have done it--"
"Don't say so!" cried Suzette. "You think that because you would have
done it for any one! But you have done it for us; and as long as I
live I shall remember that! Oh"--She broke off; and dropped her face
with a pathetic, childlike helplessness on her lifted arm; and now he
was less than ever able to leave her. They all sat down again, after
they had risen to part; Matt felt the imperative necessity of
encouraging them; of rescuing her from the conjecture which she had
accepted as certainty. He was one of those men in whom passion can be
born only of some form of unselfish kindness; and who alone can make
women happy. If it was love that was now stirring so strangely at his
heart, he did not know it was love; he thought it was still the pity
that he had felt for the girl's immense calamity. He knew that from
every phase of it he could not save her, but he tried to save her from
that which now confronted them, and from which he saw her suffering. He
went over all the facts again with the hapless creatures, and reasoned
from them the probability that their father was still alive. It was
respite from sorrow which misery must follow; it was insane, it was
foolish, it was even guilty, but he could not help trying to win it for
them; and when he left them at last, they were bright with the hope he
had given them, and which the event, whether it was death or whether it
was disgrace, must quench in a blacker despair.
The truth of this rushed upon him when he found himself staggering away
from the doomed house which cast its light gayly out upon the snow, and
followed him with a perverse sense of its warmth and luxury into the
night. But a strange joy mixed with the trouble in his soul; and for all
that sleepless night, the conflict of these emotions seemed to toss him
to and fro as if he were something alien and exterior to them. Northwick
was now dead, and his death had averted the disgrace which overhung his
name; now he was still alive, and his escape from death had righted all
the wrong he had done. Then his escape had only deepened the shame he
had fled from; his death had fixed a stain of a blood-guiltiness on his
misdeeds, and was no caprice of fate, but a judgment of the eternal
justice. Against this savage conclusion Matt rebelled, and made his
stand.
XVIII.
For forty-eight hours longer the fact of the defalcation was kept back;
but then, in view of the legal action urged by those who did not accept
the theory of Northwick's death, it had to come out, and it broke all
bounds in overwhelming floods of publicity.
Day after day the papers were full of the facts, and it was weeks before
the editorial homilies ceased. From time to time, fresh details and
unexpected revelations, wise guesses and shameless fakes, renewed the
interest of the original fact. There were days when there was nothing
about it in the papers, and then days when it broke out in vivid
paragraphs and whole lurid columns again. It was not that the fraud was
singular in its features; these were common to most of the defalcations,
great and small, which were of daily fame in the newspapers. But the
doubt as to the man's fate, and the enduring mystery of his whereabouts,
if he were still alive, were qualities that gave peculiar poignancy to
Northwick's case. Its results in the failure of people not directly
involved, were greater than could have been expected; and the sum of his
peculations mounted under investigation. It was all much worse than had
been imagined, and in most of the editorial sermons upon it the moral
gravity of the offence was measured by the amounts stolen and indirectly
lost by it. There was a great deal of mere astonishment, as usual, that
the crime should have been that of a man whom no one would have dreamed
of suspecting, and there was some sufficiently ridiculous consternation
at the presence of such moral decay in the very heart of the commercial
life of Boston.
In the Events, Pinney made his report of the affair the work of art
which he boasted should come from his hand. It was really a space-man's
masterpiece; and it appealed to every nerve in the reader's body, with
its sensations repeated through many columns, and continued from page to
page with a recurrent efflorescence of scare-heads and catch-lines. In
the ardor of production, all scruples and reluctances became fused in a
devotion to the interests of the Events and its readers. With every
hour the painful impressions of his interview with Miss Northwick grew
fainter, and the desire to use it stronger, and he ended by sparing no
color of it. But he compromised with his sympathy for her, by deepening
the shadows in the behavior of the man who could bring all this sorrow
upon those dearest to him. He dwelt upon the unconsciousness of the
family, the ignorance of the whole household, in which life ran smoothly
on, while the head of both was a fugitive from justice, if not the
victim of a swift retribution. He worked in all the pathos which the
facts were capable of holding, and at certain points he enlarged the
capacity of the facts. He described with a good deal of graphic force
the Northwick interior. Under his touch the hall expanded, the staircase
widened and curved, the carpets thickened, the servants multiplied, the
library into which "the Events' representative was politely ushered,"
was furnished with "all the appliances of a cultured taste." The works
of the standard authors in costly bindings graced its shelves;
magnificent paintings and groups of statuary adorned its walls and
alcoves. The dress of the lady who courteously received the Events'
reporter, was suitably enriched; her years were discounted, and her
beauty approached to the patrician cast. There was nothing mean about
Pinney, and while he was at it he lavished a manorial grandeur upon the
Northwick place, outside as well as inside. He imparted a romantic
consequence to Hatboro' itself: "A thriving New England town, proud of
its historic past, and rejoicing in its modern prosperity, with a
population of some five or six thousand souls, among whose working men
and women modern ideas of the most advanced character had been realized
in the well-known Peck Social Union, with its co-operative kitchen and
its clientèle of intelligent members and patrons."
People of all occupations became leading residents in virtue of taking
Pinney into their confidence, and "A Prominent Proletarian" achieved the
distinction of a catch-line by freely imparting the impressions of J. M.
Northwick's character among the working-classes. "The Consensus of
Public Feeling," in portraying which Pinney did not fail to exploit the
proprietary word he had seized, formed the subject of some dramatic
paragraphs; and the whole formed a rich and fit setting for the main
facts of Northwick's undoubted fraud and flight, and for the conjectures
which Pinney indulged in concerning his fate.
Pinney's masterpiece was, in fine, such as he could write only at that
moment of his evolution as a man, and such as the Events could publish
only at that period of its development as a newspaper. The report was
flashy and vulgar and unscrupulous, but it was not brutal, except by
accident, and not unkind except through the necessities of the case. But
it was helplessly and thoroughly personal, and it was no more
philosophized than a monkish chronicle of the Middle Ages.
The Abstract addressed a different class of readers, and aimed at a
different effect in its treatment of public affairs. We look upon
newspapers as having a sort of composite temperament, formed from the
temperaments of all the different men employed on them; but, as a matter
of fact, they each express the disposition and reflect the temperament
of one controlling spirit, which all the other dispositions and
temperaments yield to. This is so much the case that it is hard to
efface the influence of a strong mind from the journal it has shaped,
even when it is no longer actively present in it. A good many years
before the time of the Northwick defalcation, the Events had been in
the management of a journalist, once well-known in Boston, a certain
Bartley Hubbard, who had risen from the ranks of the reporters, and who
had thoroughly reporterized it in the worst sense. After he left it, the
owner tried several devices for elevating and reforming it, but failed,
partly because he was himself a man of no ideals but those of the
counting-room, and largely because the paper could not recover from the
strong slant given it without self-destruction. So the Events
continued what Bartley Hubbard had made it, and what the readers he had
called about it liked it to be: a journal without principles and without
convictions, but with interests only; a map of busy life, indeed, but
glaringly colored, with crude endeavors at picturesqueness, and with no
more truth to life than those railroad maps where the important centres
converge upon the broad black level of the line advertised, and leave
rival roads wriggling faintly about in uninhabited solitudes. In
Hubbard's time the Abstract, then the Chronicle-Abstract, was in
charge of the editor who had been his first friend on the Boston press,
and whom he finally quarreled with on a point which this friend
considered dishonorable to Hubbard. Ricker had not since left the paper,
and though he was called a crank by some of the more progressive and
reckless of the young men, he clung to his ideal of a conscience in
journalism; he gave the Abstract a fixed character and it could no more
have changed than the Events, without self-destruction. The men under
him were not so many as Cæsar's soldiers, and that, perhaps, was the
reason why he knew not only their names but their qualities. When
Maxwell came with the fact of the defalcation which the detectives had
entrusted to him for provisional use, and asked to be assigned to the
business of working it up, Kicker consented, but he consented
reluctantly. He thought Maxwell was better for better things; he knew he
was a ravenous reader of philosophy and sociology, and he had been early
in the secret of his being a poet; it had since become an open secret
among his fellow-reporters, for which he suffered both honor and
dishonor.
"I shouldn't think you'd like to do it, Maxwell," said Ricker, kindly.
"It isn't in your line, is it? Better give it to some of the other
fellows."
"It's more in my line than you suppose, Mr. Ricker," said the young
fellow. "It's a subject I've looked up a great deal lately. I once
thought"--he looked down bashfully--"of trying to write a play about a
defaulter, and I got together a good many facts about defalcation.
You've no idea how common it is; it's about the commonest fact of our
civilization."
"Ah! Is that so?" asked Ricker with ironical deference to the bold
generalizer. "Who else is 'onto' this thing?"
"Pinney, of the Events."
"Well, he's a dangerous rival, in some ways," said Ricker. "When it
comes to slush and a whitewash brush, I don't think you're a match for
him. But perhaps you don't intend to choose the same weapons." Ricker
pulled down the green-lined pasteboard peak that he wore over his
forehead by gaslight, and hitched his chair round to his desk again, and
Maxwell knew that he was authorized to do the work.
He got no word from the detective, who had given him a hint of the
affair, to go ahead the night after his return from Hatboro', as he had
expected, but he knew that the fact could not be kept back, and he
worked as hard at his report as Pinney and Pinney's wife had worked at
theirs. He waited till the next morning to begin, however, for he was
too fagged after he came home from the Hilarys'; he rose early and got
himself a cup of tea over the gas-burner; before the house was awake he
was well on in his report. By nightfall he had finished it, and then he
carried it to Ricker. The editor had not gone to dinner yet, and he gave
Maxwell's work the critical censure of a hungry man. It was in two
separate parts: one, a careful and lucid statement of all the facts
which had come to Maxwell's knowledge, in his quality of reporter, set
down without sensation, and in that self-respectful decency of tone
which the Abstract affected; the other, an editorial comment upon the
facts. Ricker read the first through without saying anything; when he
saw what the second was, he pushed up his green-lined peak, and said,
"Hello, young man! Who invited you to take the floor?"
"Nobody. I found I couldn't embody my general knowledge of defalcation
in the report without impertinence, and as I had to get my wisdom off my
mind somehow, I put it in editorial shape. I don't expect you to take
it. Perhaps I can sell it somewhere."
Ricker seemed to pay no attention to his explanation. He went on reading
the manuscript, and when he ended, he took up the report again, and
compared it with the editorial in length. "If we printed these things as
they stand it would look like a case of the tail wagging the dog."
Maxwell began again, "Oh, I didn't expect--"
"Oh, yes, you did," said Ricker. "Of course, you felt that the report
was at least physically inadequate."
"I made as much as I honestly could of it. I knew you didn't like
padding or faking, and I don't myself."
Ricker was still holding the two manuscripts up before him. He now
handed them over his shoulder to Maxwell, where he stood beside him. "Do
you think you could weld these two things together?"
"I don't know."
"Suppose you try."
"As editorial, or--"
"Either. I'll decide after you're done. Do it here."
He pushed some papers off the long table beside him, and Maxwell sat
down to his task. It was not difficult. The material was really of
kindred character throughout. He had merely to write a few prefatory
sentences, in the editorial attitude, to his report, and then append the
editorial, with certain changes, again. It did not take him long; in
half an hour he handed the result to Ricker.
"Yes," said Ricker, and he began to read it anew, with his blue pencil
in his hand.
Maxwell had come with nerves steeled to bear the rejection of his
article entire, but he was not prepared to suffer the erasure of all his
pet phrases and favorite sentences, sometimes running to entire
paragraphs.
When Ricker handed it back to him at last with "What do you think of it
now?" Maxwell had the boldness to answer, "Well, Mr. Ricker, if I must
say, I think you've taken all the bones and blood out of it."
Ricker laughed. "Oh, no! Merely the fangs and poison-sacks. Look here,
young man! Did you believe all those cynical things when you were saying
them?"
"I don't know--"
"I know. I know you didn't. Every one of them rang false. They were
there for literary effect, and for the pleasure of the groundlings. But
by and by, if you keep on saying those things, you'll get to thinking
them, and what a man thinks a man is. There are things there that you
ought to be ashamed of, if you really thought them, but I know you
didn't, so I made free to strike them all out." Maxwell looked foolish;
he wished to assert himself, but he did not know how. Ricker went on:
"Those charming little sarcasms and innuendoes of yours would have
killed your article for really intelligent readers. They would have
suspected a young fellow having his fling, or an old fool speaking out
of the emptiness of his heart. As it is, we have got something unique,
and I don't mind telling you I'm very glad to have it. I've never made
any secret of my belief that you have talent."
"You've been very good," said Maxwell, a little rueful still. The
surgeon's knife hurts though it cures.
When Maxwell went home, he met his mother. "Why, mother," said the
young fellow, "old Ricker is going to print my report as editorial; and
we're not going to have any report."
"I told you it was good!"
Maxwell felt it was due to himself to keep some grudge, and he said,
"Yes; but he's taken all the life out of it with his confounded blue
pencil. It's perfectly dead."
It did not seem so when he saw it in proof at the office later, and it
did not seem so when he got it in the paper. He had not slept well; he
was excited by several things; by the use Ricker had made of his work,
and by the hopes of advancement which this use quickened in him. He was
not ashamed of it; he was very proud of it; and he wondered at its
symmetry and force, as he read and read it again.
He had taken very high philosophical ground in his view of the matter,
and had accused the structure of society. There must be something
rotten, he said, at the core of our civilization, when every morning
brought the story of a defalcation, great or small, in some part of our
country: not the peculations of such poor clerks and messengers as their
employers could be insured against, but of officials, public and
corporate, for whom we had no guaranty but the average morality of our
commercial life. How low this was might be inferred from the fact that
while such a defalcation as that of J. M. Northwick created dismay in
business and social circles, it could not fairly be said to create
surprise. It was, most unhappily, a thing to be expected, in proof of
which no stronger evidence need be alleged than that patent to the
Abstract reporter in the community where the defaulter had his home,
and where, in spite of his reputation for the strictest probity, it was
universally believed that he had run away with other people's money
merely because he had been absent twenty-four hours without accounting
for his whereabouts.
At this point Maxwell wove in the material he had gathered on his visit
to Hatboro', and without using names or persons contrived to give a
vivid impression of the situation and the local feeling. He aimed at the
historical attitude, and with some imitation of Taino's method and
manner, he achieved it. His whole account of the defalcation had a
closeness of texture which involved every significant detail, from the
first chance suspicion of the defaulter's honesty, to the final opinions
and conjectures of his fate. At the same time the right relation and
proportion of the main facts were kept, and the statement was throughout
so dignified and dispassionate that it had the grace of something remote
in time and place. It was when the narrative ended and the critical
comment began that the artistic values made themselves felt. Ricker had
been free in his recognition of the excellence of Maxwell's work, and
quick to appreciate its importance to the paper. He made the young
fellow disjointed compliments and recurrent predictions concerning it
when they were together, but there were qualities in it that he felt
afterwards he had not been just to. Of course it owed much to the mere
accident of Maxwell's accumulation of material about defalcations for
his play; but he had known men break down under the mass of their
material, and it surprised and delighted him to see how easily and
strongly Maxwell handled his. That sick little youngster carried it all
off with an air of robust maturity that amused as well as surprised
Ricker. He saw where the fellow had helped himself out, consciously or
unconsciously, with the style and method of his favorite authors; and he
admired the philosophic poise he had studied from them; but no one
except Maxwell himself was in the secret of the forbearance, the humane
temperance with which Northwick was treated. This was a color from the
play which had gone to pieces in his hands; he simply adapted the
conception of a typical defaulter, as he had evolved it from a hundred
instances, to the case of the defaulter in hand, and it fitted
perfectly. He had meant his imaginary defaulter to appeal rather to the
compassion than the justice of the theatre, and he presented to the
reader the almost fatal aspect of the offence. He dwelt upon the fact
that the case, so far from being isolated or exceptional, was without
peculiarities, was quite normal. He drew upon his accumulated facts for
the proof of this, and with a rapid array of defaulting treasurers,
cashiers, superintendents, and presidents, he imparted a sense of the
uniformity in their malfeasance which is so evident to the student. They
were all comfortably placed and in the way to prosperity if not fortune;
they were all tempted by the possession of means to immediate wealth;
they all yielded so far as to speculate with the money that did not
belong to them; they were all easily able to replace the first loans
they made themselves; they all borrowed again and then could not replace
the loans; they were all found out, and all were given a certain time to
make up their shortage. After that a certain diversity appeared: some
shot themselves, and some hanged themselves, others decided to stand
their trial; the vastly greater number ran away to Canada.
In this presentation of the subject, Maxwell had hardly to do more than
to copy the words of a certain character in his play: one of those
cynical personages, well-known to the drama, whose function is to
observe the course of the action, and to make good-humored sarcasms upon
the conduct and motives of the other characters. It was here that Ricker
employed his blue pencil the most freely, and struck out passages of
almost diabolical persiflage, and touched the colors of the black
pessimism with a few rays of hope. The final summing up, again, was
adapted from a drama that had been rejected by several purveyors of the
leg-burlesque as immoral. In a soliloquy intended to draw tears from the
listener, the hero of Maxwell's play, when he parted from his young wife
and children, before taking poison, made some apposite reflections on
his case, in which he regarded himself as the victim of conditions, and
in prophetic perspective beheld an interminable line of defaulters to
come, who should encounter the same temptations and commit the same
crimes under the same circumstances. Maxwell simply recast this
soliloquy in editorial terms; and maintained that not only was there
nothing exceptional in Northwick's case, but that it might be expected
to repeat itself indefinitely. On one hand, you had men educated to
business methods which permitted this form of dishonesty and condemned
that; their moral fibre was strained, if not weakened, by the struggle
for money going on all around us; on the other hand, you had
opportunity, the fascination of chance, the uncertainty of punishment.
The causes would continue the same, and the effects would continue the
same. He declared that no good citizen could wish a defaulter to escape
the penalty of his offence against society; but it behooved society to
consider how far it was itself responsible, which it might well do
without ignoring the responsibility of the criminal. He ended with a
paragraph in which he forecast a future without such causes and without
such effects; but Ricker would not let this pass, even in the
semi-ironical temper Maxwell had given it. He said it was rank
socialism, and he cut it out in the proof, where he gave the closing
sentences of the article an interrogative instead of an affirmative
shape.
XIX.
The Hilarys always straggled down to breakfast as they chose. When Matt
was at home, his mother and he were usually first; then his father came,
and Louise last. They took the Events, as many other people did,
because with all its faults it was a thorough newspaper; and they
maintained their self-respect by taking the Abstract. The morning that
the defalcation came out, Matt sent and got all the other papers, which
he had glanced through and talked over with his mother before his father
joined them at nine o'clock.
Several of them had illustrations: likenesses of Northwick, and views of
his house in Boston, and his house in Hatboro'; views of the company's
Mills at Ponkwasset; views of the railroad wreck at Wellwater; but it
was Pinney's masterpiece which really made Hilary sick. All the papers
were atrocious, but that was loathsome. Yet there was really nothing
more to blame in the attitude of the papers than in that of the
directors, who gave the case to the detectives, and set the machinery of
publicity at work. Both were acting quite within their rights, both were
fulfilling an official duty. Hilary, however, had been forced against
his grain into the position, almost, of Northwick's protector; he had
suffered keenly from the falsity of this position, for no one despised
the sort of man Northwick was more than he; but when you have suffered,
even for a rogue, you begin to feel some kindness for him. All these
blows fell upon his growing sympathy for the poor devil, as he called
him. He got through the various accounts in the various papers, by
broken efforts, taking them as if in successive shocks from these
terrible particulars, which seemed to shower themselves upon him when he
came in range of them, till he felt bruised and beaten all over.
"Well, at least, it's out, my dear," said his wife, who noted the final
effect of his sufferings across the table, and saw him pause bewildered
from the last paper he had dropped. "There's that comfort."
"Is that a comfort?" he asked, huskily.
"Why, yes, I think it is. The suspense is over, and now you can begin to
pick yourself up."
"I suppose there's something in that." He kept looking at Matt, or
rather, at the copy of the Abstract which Matt was hiding behind, and
he said, "What have you got there, Matt?"
"Perhaps I'd better read it out," said Matt. "It seems to me most
uncommonly good. I wonder who could have done it!"
"Suppose you do your wondering afterwards," said his father impatiently;
and Matt began to read. The positions of the article were not such as
Hilary could have taken, probably, if he had been in a different mood;
its implications were, some of them, such as he must have decidedly
refused; but the temper of the whole was so humane, so forbearing, so
enlightened, that Hilary was in a glow of personal gratitude to the
writer, for what he called his common decency, by the time the reading
was over. "That is a very extraordinary article," he said, and he joined
Matt in wondering who could have done it, with the usual effect in such
cases.
"I wish," said Mrs. Hilary, "that every other newspaper could be kept
from those poor things." She meant Northwick's daughters, and she added,
"If they must know the facts, they couldn't be more mercifully told
them."
"Why, that was what I was thinking, mother," said Matt. "But they can't
be kept to this version, unhappily. The misery will have to come on them
shapelessly, as all our miseries do. I don't know that the other papers
are so bad--"
"Not bad!" cried his father.
"No. They're not unkind to them, except as they are just to him. They
probably represent fairly enough the average thinking and feeling about
the matter; the thing they'll have to meet all their lives and get used
to. But I wish I knew who did this Abstract article; I should like to
thank him."
"The question is, now," said Mrs. Hilary, "What can we do for them
there? Are you sure you made it clear to them, Matt, that we were
willing to have them come to us, no matter what happened?"
"Louise and I both tried to do that," said her son, "when we were there
together; and when I reported to them after Wellwater, I told them again
and again what our wish was."
"Well," said Mrs. Hilary, "I am glad we have done everything we could.
At first I doubted the wisdom of your taking Louise to see them; but now
I'm satisfied that it was right. And I'm satisfied that your father did
right in getting that wretched creature the chance he abused."
"Oh, yes," said Matt. "That was right. And I'm thoroughly glad he's out
of it. If he's still alive, I'm glad he's out of it."
Hilary had kept silent, miserably involved in his various remorses and
misgivings, but now he broke out. "And I think you're talking abominable
nonsense, Matt. I didn't get Northwick given that chance to enable him
to escape the consequences of his rascality. Why shouldn't he be
punished for it?"
"Because it wouldn't do the least good, to him or to any one else. It
wouldn't reform him, it wouldn't reform anything. Northwick isn't the
disease; he's merely the symptom. You can suppress him; but that won't
cure the disease. It's the whole social body that's sick, as this
article in the Abstract implies."
"I don't see any such implication in it," his father angrily retorted.
"Your theory would form an excuse for the scoundrelism of every
scoundrel unhung. Where is the cure of the social body to begin if it
doesn't begin at home, with every man in it? I tell you, it would be a
very good thing for Northwick, and every rogue like him, if he could be
made serve his term in State's prison."
The controversy raged a long time without departing from these lines of
argument on either side. Mrs. Hilary listened with the impatience women
feel at every absence from the personal ground, the only ground of
reality. When Matt had got so far from it as to be saying to his father,
"Then I understand you to maintain that if A is properly punished for
his sins, B will practice virtue in the same circumstances and under the
same temptations that were too much for A," his mother tried to break in
upon them. She did not know much about the metaphysical rights and
wrongs of the question; she only felt that Matt was getting his father,
who loved him so proudly and indulgently, into a corner, and she saw
that this was unseemly. Besides, when anything wrong happens, a woman
always wants some one punished; some woman, first, or then some other
woman's men kindred. Every woman is a conservative in this, and Mrs.
Hilary made up her mind to stop the talk between her son and husband,
because she felt Matt to be doubly wrong.
But when she spoke, her husband roared at her, "Don't interrupt, Sarah!"
and then he roared at Matt, "I tell you that the individual is not
concerned in the matter! I tell you that it is the interest, the
necessity of the community to punish A for his sins without regard to B,
and for my part, I shall leave no stone unturned till we have found
Northwick, dead or alive; and if he is alive, I shall spare no effort to
have him brought to trial, conviction and punishment." He shouted these
words out, and thumped the breakfast table so that the spoons clattered
in the cups, and Mrs. Hilary could hardly hear what Patrick was saying
just inside the door.
"To see Mr. Hilary? A lady? Did she send her card?"
"She wouldn't give her name, ma'am; she said she didn't wish to, ma'am.
She wished to see Mr. Hilary just a moment in the reception-room."
Hilary was leaning forward to give the table another bang with his fist,
but his wife succeeded in stopping him, with a repetition of Patrick's
message.
"I won't see her," he answered. "It's probably a woman reporter. They're
in our very bread trough. I tell you," he went on to Matt, "there are
claims upon you as a citizen, as a social factor, which annul all your
sentimental obligations to B as a brother. God bless my soul! Isn't C a
brother, too, and all the rest of the alphabet? If A robs the other
letters, then let B take a lesson from the wholesome fact that A's
little game has landed him in jail."
"Oh, I admit that the A's had better suffer for their sins; but I doubt
if the punishment which a man gets against his will is the right kind of
suffering. If this man had come forward voluntarily, and offered to bear
