“What will become of Mrs. Jones and her young children?” asked Mrs.
Tarbox, in a tone of pity.
“That aint my lookout,” said Seth Tarbox, in a hard tone.
“But surely you wouldn’t turn the poor woman out into the street.”
“It aint for me to look out for another man’s wife and children, Mrs.
T.,” returned the farmer.
“But the farm must be worth a good deal more than the amount of your
mortgage!”
“Yes,” chuckled the farmer, “it’s well worth three thousand dollars. So
much the better for me!”
“You wouldn’t take possession of it, and take such an advantage of the
family!”
“Mrs. T., you don’t understand business. When you talk in that way you
only make yourself ridiculous. You’d better leave me to attend to
business, and you look after the housekeeping,” and he turned to his
daughter for approval.
“You are right, pa,” said Sophia, “and Mrs. Tarbox, though she means
well, shows that she doesn’t understand business.”
Mrs. Tarbox bit her lip, but did not reply. She had made the discovery
long since that the daughter was as cold and selfish as the father, and
probably even more so.
“Mrs. Tarbox, have you got Grant’s last letter?” asked Rodney.
“Yes.”
“Would you mind letting me read it?”
Mrs. Tarbox hesitated a moment, and then replied: “A part of it is
private, but I will read you the part in which he speaks of his position
and prospects.”
“Thank you. I would like to hear it.”
Mrs. Tarbox took from her pocket a letter which she had perused half a
dozen times already, and read as follows:
“Well, mother, I have at last reached California. It is a long and
tiresome journey across the plains. I hope, when I go back, I shall be
able to go by steamer to New York. However, I made some pleasant friends
on the way, and I have good courage, though my money is nearly out.”
“Humph!” interrupted Seth Tarbox; “just as I expected.”
“Grant didn’t take a fortune with him,” said his mother. “How could you
expect he would have much money left when he reached the end of his
journey?”
“I didn’t, Mrs. T. That is what I said. Read on.”
“I haven’t decided yet what I will do first. I expect sometime to go to
the gold fields, but I may get a position first and earn some money to
buy my outfit. I am well and strong, and I am sure I can make a living
some way.”
“Mark my words,” said Sophia Bartlett, “the time will come when your son
will wish he had never left the farm.”
“I don’t feel sure of that,” said Mrs. Tarbox. “Grant is a manly boy,
and he can work in California just as well as here, and will be paid
better than here.”
“Do you mean to say that I didn’t pay the boy enough for his work, Mrs.
T.?”
“I will express no opinion on that subject. California is a new country,
where labor is naturally more highly compensated than here.”
“I am glad I am not in Grant’s place,” said Rodney.
“So am I,” added his mother; “but you always had good judgment, Rodney.”
“I hope so. When I am a man I may go to California, just to see the
country, but I prefer to stay at home now.”
“He has an old head on young shoulders,” said his mother complacently.
“It’s my birthday to-morrow, grandpa,” observed Rodney significantly.
“Is it?” asked Seth Tarbox. “How old are you?”
“Sixteen.”
“Well, well, I didn’t know you were getting on so fast. There’s a
quarter for a birthday present.”
Rodney accepted the coin, but turned up his nose at his grandfather’s
niggardliness, and expressed himself freely on the subject to his mother
on the way home.
“What a mean old skinflint grandfather is!” he exclaimed. “Twenty-five
cents, and he a rich man!”
“Hush, Rodney, don’t let any one hear you speak in that way!”
“But he is mean! you can’t deny it!”
“He is close,” said Mrs. Bartlett cautiously. “Most farmers are, I
believe; but just wait patiently, and the money which he has saved by
his economy will come to us. You must seem grateful, or he may take a
notion to leave his property to Mrs. Tarbox and Grant.”
“Oh, I’ll be careful, ma, never fear! I hope Grant Colburn won’t get a
cent.”
“I don’t think he will. In fact, I feel sure of it.”
“Do you think Mrs. Tarbox will get much?”
“Not if I can prevent it!” said his mother, closing her lips firmly.
“I expect she only married the old man for his money.”
“I suppose she wanted a home for herself and Grant.”
“Will the law give her anything?”
“Yes; but I’ve thought of a way to get over that.”
“What is it, ma?”
“If I can induce your grandfather to make a deed of gift to me of his
property before he dies, on condition of my supporting him the rest of
his life, that will evade the law.”
“That will be a good idea. I shouldn’t wonder if Grant and his mother
had to go to the poorhouse at last. He’d come down off his high horse
then.”
“I hope not. Mrs. Tarbox can get employment as a housekeeper probably,
and Grant ought to be able to support himself. Of course they must look
out for themselves.”
Not long afterward, unfortunately for Mrs. Tarbox, her husband lost
fifty dollars. He had sold a horse to a man in a neighboring town for an
excessive price, and fifty dollars remained due on the purchase money.
This the purchaser refused to pay, and as his property was all in his
wife’s name, Seth Tarbox was unable to collect it, although, as may be
imagined, he moved heaven and earth to accomplish it.
This made him feel very poor, and he determined to make it up by
retrenchment in his personal expenses. Had the economy fallen upon
himself he might have been justified, but as it occurred to him that by
dismissing the woman who helped his wife on washing day he could save
seventy-five cents a week, he was mean enough to make this proposal.
Mrs. Tarbox could hardly believe him in earnest, for she saw only too
clearly at what he was aiming.
                            CHAPTER XXXVII.
                     MRS. BARTLETT’S LITTLE SCHEME.
“Do you mean that I am to get along without Nancy, Mr. Tarbox?” Mrs.
Tarbox said quickly.
“I’ve met with losses, Mrs. T.,” replied Seth, “and I don’t feel as if I
could afford to pay out seventy-five cents every Monday for work that
might as well be done in the family.”
“Does that mean that you expect me to do it, Mr. Tarbox?”
“Ahem!” said Tarbox, a little embarrassed. “It’s your duty to help bear
my burden.”
“I think I do that. I am sure that I work beyond my strength.”
“We all have to work. Don’t I work in the fields, Mrs. Tarbox?”
“You choose to do it. You are able to lead an easier life.”
“Who says I am?”
“Everybody in the village knows that you are well to do, and have a
large sum in the savings-bank.”
Seth Tarbox frowned.
“If I have got a little money ahead,” he said, “I don’t mean to squander
it in extravagant living.”
“I don’t think you are in any danger of it,” remarked Mrs. Tarbox dryly.
Mr. Tarbox left the house, and made it in his way to call at the home of
Nancy Stokes and give her notice that her services would not be needed
on the coming Monday.
Nancy opened her eyes in surprise.
“Why, Mr. Tarbox,” she said, “I’ve been goin’ to your house for ten
years. Have you got any other woman in my place?”
“No, Miss Stokes; but I’ve been thinkin’ that I can’t afford to pay
seventy-five cents a week for washin’.”
“Why, you haven’t failed, have you, Mr. Tarbox?”
“No; but I’ve met with losses,” answered Seth vaguely.
“They must be big losses if you can’t afford the little money you’ve
paid me.”
“You may call it little, Nancy, but seventy-five cents a week amounts in
a year to thirty-nine dollars.”
“It’ll take more‘n one thirty-nine dollars to break you, Mr. Tarbox.”
“You seem to know a good deal about my affairs, Nancy. I’m the best
judge of that.”
“Who’s goin’ to do the washin’, then?”
“Mrs. Tarbox will do it.”
“The whole of it?”
“Yes; my first wife used to do it.”
“And died of broken health at forty.”
Seth Tarbox did not relish the plain speaking of Miss Stokes, and
turning on his heel, walked away.
Nancy made it a point to call at the farm during the day.
“I hear, Mrs. Tarbox,” she said, “that you are going to do all the
washing hereafter.”
“Who told you?” asked Mrs. Tarbox quickly.
“Mr. Tarbox.”
“He is mistaken,” said Mrs. Tarbox calmly. “I shall do nothing of the
kind.”
“He expects it.”
“I can’t help that.”
“Good for you, Mrs. Tarbox. Don’t let him impose upon you. He’s too mean
to live.”
The next Monday Seth Tarbox went out to his farm work in a complacent
frame of mind. His wife had said nothing of the washing, and he
concluded that when she found Nancy absent, she would turn to and do the
whole herself. But when he returned to dinner he looked in vain for the
clothes line.
“You’re late about your washin’, Mrs. T.,” he said, as he entered the
kitchen.
“I am not going to wash, Mr. Tarbox.”
“How’s that? You can’t get along without having the clothes washed.”
“I intend to wash my own, but I don’t propose to do the rest.”
“Wh-what?” ejaculated Seth, in dismay.
“You have taken it upon yourself to discharge Nancy. If the clothes
remain unwashed, you are responsible.”
“But, Mrs. T., my first wife used to do all the washing. She didn’t have
Nancy to help her.”
“What your first wife did does not concern me. I do not propose to
follow in her footsteps and die of overwork, as she did.”
“It seems to me, Mrs. T., you don’t realize your duty as helpmeet to
your husband.”
“And I don’t propose to, if it requires me to work beyond my strength.”
“If you do all the washing this week, Nancy may come to your assistance
next Monday as usual.”
“I decline to do it.”
Seth Tarbox found that he was checkmated, and was obliged to make a
second call upon Miss Stokes and countermand his first notice. But he
felt very much dissatisfied, and the next day called on his daughter and
laid the matter before her.
“I am not surprised,” said Sophia. “Of course Mrs. Tarbox married you
for your money. She expects you will leave her a good slice of your
estate.”
“She’ll be disappointed,” said Seth angrily.
“I don’t know about that. Have you made a will?”
“No; why should I? You don’t expect I’m going to die right off, do you?”
“No; but still, life is uncertain. If you don’t leave a will, the law
will give her something.”
“Perhaps I shall live longer than she does.”
“Perhaps so, but she is twenty years younger than you. When she gets
your money, she and her boy will have fine times.”
“Can’t that be prevented?” asked Seth.
“There is one way.”
“What is that?”
“I hardly like to tell.”
“Out with it, Sophia!”
“If you should make me a deed of gift of the property—at any rate, of
the real estate—she couldn’t do anything.”
“But I don’t want to give the farm away.”
“Oh, it would only be a mere form. Things would go on just the same as
before. But it would put a spoke in your wife’s wheel. Of course, pa,
you know that I wouldn’t take any advantage of what you did. It makes me
laugh, though, to think how you would come up with that mercenary
woman.”
“Just so,” chuckled Seth. “Well, I’ll think of it.”
“That’s the first step,” reflected Mrs. Bartlett. “Now I know how to
work on pa’s feelings, it won’t be long before he’ll adopt my plan.”
From that time Sophia lost no opportunity to enlarge to her father on
his wife’s expectations of profiting by his death, till at last she
accomplished her purpose. One day she and her father called at a
lawyer’s office, and the deed of gift was made out, and Mrs. Bartlett
took charge of the document.
“Mrs. Tarbox won’t know anything of this,” she said. “We’ll keep it
secret, pa.”
“Yes, we’ll keep it secret.”
“If she knew, you’d find it hard to get as much work out of her.”
“That’s so!” chuckled Seth.
He would not have felt as well pleased had he known what a power he had
put into the hands of his daughter.
We will now reproduce the letter which Grant received from his mother.
After expressing the hope that he was in good health, and had something
to do, she went on:
I am very unpleasantly situated at present. Grant. A week ago Mr. Tarbox
fell from a scaffold in the barn, and broke his leg. His daughter, Mrs.
Bartlett, on hearing of it, came to the house with Rodney, and has taken
possession of the sick chamber. I am kept out of it, though his wife. I
won’t pretend that it hurts my feelings, but I don’t like to be treated
as a servant in the house of which I ought to be the mistress. Mrs.
Bartlett treats me with very little respect, and I have reason to think
that she means to influence Mr. Tarbox to leave all his property to her.
This would be a very poor return for all I have done since I married
him. As you know, it was chiefly on your account that I did so. If you
were doing well, I would not mind so much, but I can hardly hope that a
boy like you can earn much among strangers.
Grant showed this letter to Mr. Crosmont.
“Write to your mother,” said the Englishman, “that she need feel no
anxiety about you or herself. I will see that neither of you is in
want.”
Grant accordingly wrote a letter to his mother that raised her spirits
and gave her hope for the future.
                            CHAPTER XXXVIII.
                         FINDING THE PRODIGAL.
“Now,” said Mr. Crosmont on the morning after Grant’s arrival, “I have
some work for you to do.”
“I am glad of it, sir,” replied Grant. “I should be homesick if I were
idle.”
“I have great faith in the future of San Francisco,” continued the
Englishman. “Real estate is sure to make rapid advances, and I am
investing in lots all over the city. By the way, you are the owner of
two lots on this street.”
“You are very kind, Mr. Crosmont,” said Grant gratefully.
“I mean to be. The lots are of large size, and only cost fifty dollars
apiece. I could sell them for double that sum to-day, though I bought
them only two months since. How much money have you belonging to Cooper
and yourself?”
“Fifteen hundred dollars.”
“I advise you to invest a thousand in lots, under my direction.”
“You can invest the whole, sir. Tom Cooper has seven hundred dollars
left in gold-dust, and that will be all the reserve we need.”
“Very well! For every dollar you invest, I feel sure that you can get
five within a comparatively short time.”
“I will be guided by your judgment, sir.”
Grant succeeded in getting twenty lots for his money, half of which were
entered in the name of Tom Cooper. When he had in his possession the
deeds for all his property he began to feel like a capitalist.
“I wonder what Mr. Tarbox would say if he knew how I was fixed,” thought
Grant. “He would want to be my guardian. I shall be glad when I can buy
a nice home for my mother away from the whole Tarbox tribe. She works
altogether too hard. If things go well she shall have an easier time
henceforth.”
Mr. Crosmont opened a real estate office and put Grant in charge. Though
he was the responsible head, he left the principal work, including the
bookkeeping, in the hands of his protégé.
“You must have a regular salary, Grant,” he said. “Now, what shall it
be?”
“Anything you like, Mr. Crosmont.”
“That isn’t business-like. The laborer is worthy of his hire.”
“Would ten dollars a week be too much? Then I could pay you my board.”
Mr. Crosmont smiled.
“I see, Grant,” he said, “you have no idea of the value of your
services. You will have nothing to pay for board, for I consider your
society sufficient compensation. I will, besides that, pay you a fixed
salary of one hundred and fifty dollars a month.”
Grant opened his eyes in amazement.
“But, sir, you forget that I am only sixteen.”
“No, I don’t. In London or New York I should be unable to pay you
anything like that sum, but here the case is different. Your salary,
however, will be small compared with the profits you will realize on
your lots.”
“I won’t count my chickens before they are hatched, Mr. Crosmont,” said
Grant, smiling.
“That is usually the prudent course, but you are sure to gain a good
profit on your land investment.”
Of this belief Grant had a very speedy confirmation, for within a week
he was waited upon by a gentleman who wished to erect a hotel, on a site
a part of which was owned by Grant and the balance by Mr. Crosmont. Mr.
Crosmont managed the negotiations, and in the end Grant received two
thousand dollars for his two lots.
“I should like to keep that money,” said Grant, “as I may have a use for
it at home.”
“Very well. You can let it out on call at three per cent. a month. That
won’t pay as well as real estate, but you will have it when you need
it.”
A month later Grant received a letter from Tom Cooper. The important
part of the communication was the following paragraph:
Somehow it has leaked out, I don’t know how, that our claim is unusually
rich, and I have been waited upon by a couple of New York men who have
offered me five thousand dollars for it. I think it will be well to
accept, especially as I am now alone. I have on hand now about twelve
hundred dollars in gold-dust, which I mean to take to San Francisco
myself. I shall make arrangements to receive the money in a draft on a
San Francisco banker, and will pay you your share when we meet. Perhaps
I might make more money by retaining the claim, but it is dull work
living here alone, though I have a good home with the Crambos. You may
expect to see me in a short time.
“I congratulate you, Grant,” said Mr. Crosmont. “You seem to be a
favorite of fortune.”
About this time an event occurred which calls for special mention. One
evening Grant was walking through Montgomery Street, in the neighborhood
of Telegraph Hill, when his attention was called to a young man who was
walking in advance of him with unsteady steps. Something in his manner
led Grant to think he was in trouble. After some hesitation, he hastened
his steps and touched the stranger on the shoulder.
The other turned, and revealed the face of a young man of perhaps
twenty-seven. His expression was troubled, almost despairing.
“Can I be of any assistance to you?” asked Grant gently.
“I have eaten nothing for forty-eight hours,” said the other, in a
hopeless tone. “I am without money and without hope.”
“Will you allow me to help you?” repeated Grant.
“You have spoken the first kind words I have listened to for weeks,”
said the other. “I should enjoy a cup of coffee and a plate of meat.”
“Come with me, then,” said Grant.
He led the way to a restaurant near by, and ordered a plain but
substantial meal. The young man’s face brightened, as a plate of
beef-steak and a cup of coffee were placed before him. He ate with
avidity and evident appetite.
When the meal was finished, he said: “You seem to be only a boy. What
brought you to this city?”
“I was poor and wanted to earn a living.”
“Have you prospects?”
“Beyond my expectations.”
“I, too, came here to earn a living. I had some money with me when I
arrived, but it is all gone now. Nothing that I took hold of prospered.
When you spoke to me I was in despair. I was making up my mind to commit
suicide.”
“That would be very foolish—and wicked.”
“Perhaps so, but consider my situation. I had no prospects and no money.
I have none now, but somehow when a man has filled his stomach he feels
less despondent.”
“I may be able to put something in your way. I came here a poor boy, but
I am not poor now.”
“And I—would you be surprised to hear that I am the son of a rich man
and the heir of a large estate?”
“Yes,” answered Grant, “I am surprised. You don’t look much like it. In
that case I don’t understand why you should be in this condition.”
“I can explain easily. I have been a prodigal son. I have wasted money
in folly and dissipation, and alienated my father’s affections.”
“Have you seen or heard from him lately?”
“No.”
“Then how do you know that he is estranged?”
“It can hardly be otherwise. He is an honorable man, and my conduct has
shamed and humiliated him.”
“It is not too late to repent and turn over a new leaf.”
“I fear it is. At any rate, I never expect to be reinstated in my
father’s favor.”
“You can at any rate work for an honest living.”
“Yes, I am ready to do that, if the chance is offered me.”
“I am quite sure that you will have the chance. I could give it to you
myself, but I have a friend here who is much better able than I.”
“You give me new hope. What is your friend’s name?”
“Giles Crosmont.”
The young man started as if he had been shot. He showed signs of
excitement.
“What name did you say?” he asked. “Repeat it.”
“Giles Crosmont.”
“Is he an Englishman?”
“Yes; he has a large estate in Devonshire.”
“Great Heavens!” exclaimed the young man; “Giles Crosmont is my father.”
“Your father? Come, then, let me lead you to him at once.”
“No, no,” said the young man, hanging back. “He would not receive me.”
“Would not receive you? He is in California for the express purpose of
hunting you up.”
“Are you sure of that?” asked the young man eagerly.
“Yes; he told me so himself.”
“That is the best news I have heard for many a day. Take me to him,
then, at once.”
The surprise and deep thankfulness of Mr. Crosmont when Grant arrived
with his son may be imagined. He held out his arms without a word, and
folded the young man in his embrace.
“I am ashamed to come back to you, father,” said young Crosmont, “after
the way I have behaved.”
“Let us forget the past, my son,” responded the father. “Let us look
forward to a bright future!” Then, turning to Grant, he said: “In
restoring my son to me, Grant, you have fully paid me for all I have
done for you. You have placed me under the deepest obligations.”
“And I, too, look upon you as my guardian angel,” added young Crosmont,
as he grasped the boy’s hand in his.
“It was a mere chance,” said Grant modestly.
“Say, rather, it was a providence,” corrected Giles Crosmont reverently.
                             CHAPTER XXXIX.
                         GRANT HEARS FROM HOME.
Tom Cooper reached San Francisco two weeks after his letter. “I stopped
at Sacramento to see father,” he said. “I found the old gentleman doing
well, and fully persuaded that I had made a mistake in not staying with
him. He offered me four dollars a day to work in the shop. When I told
him that I owned ten lots in San Francisco, was entitled to two thousand
five hundred dollars for my share of the claim, and had considerable
loose money besides, you ought to have seen him open his eyes. He was
speechless for a minute; then he said: ‘You’re smarter than I thought,
Tom. I guess you’d better go your own way, and I will look after the
shop. I’m too old to dig for gold, but I am making a good living at my
trade.’”
Tom cashed a check for five thousand dollars, and made over half to
Grant.
“There’s some more money due you, Grant,” he said, “from the gold-dust I
have brought with me.”
“Keep it all, Tom,” rejoined Grant. “I am rich enough without it, and
you deserve some commission for selling the claim.”
Tom objected to this at first, but Grant insisted upon it. Tom took
possession of his lots, and sold three on very advantageous terms within
a month.
“I think you brought me luck, Grant,” he said. “Till you joined me I was
plodding along comfortably, but making little more than I could have
done at my trade. But after you and I began to work together in double
harness, everything has prospered with me.”
“Not just at first, Tom. You remember our small earnings at Howe’s
Gulch.”
“That’s true, but prosperity came afterward. It was your meeting old Mr.
Gilbert that set us on our feet.”
“How is he? Did you call on him?”
“Yes. He is pretty well for him, but what a forlorn life he leads! Do
you know he thinks a great deal of you?”
“I thought he did.”
“He inquired particularly after you, and said you were a fine boy.”
“It is well to have one admiring friend,” said Grant, smiling.
“You have many friends who are attached to you,” returned Tom.
“I have certainly received much kindness,” said Grant. “I seem to be
appreciated considerably more here than at home.”
“How are things going on at home?”
“Not very well. Mr. Tarbox is sick, and his daughter has installed
herself in his chamber, and is not willing that my mother should see
him.”
“Does that trouble you?”
“No, for I am able to provide for mother better than her husband. When I
go back I shall establish her in a home of her own.”
The very next day Grant received a letter from his mother, the contents
of which were most important.
We reproduce it here:
DEAR GRANT:
Mr. Tarbox died last week. No one anticipated that his sickness would
end fatally, but I attribute it to worry of mind. It appears that his
daughter, Mrs. Bartlett, succeeded some time since in inducing him to
deed the farm to her. I believe the argument she used was, that should
he die, I would claim a good share of it as his widow. The law would no
doubt have given me a claim to some portion of it.
Mr. Tarbox had scarcely given away the property than he repented it, and
tried to persuade Sophia to give it back. She didn’t exactly refuse, for
she knew that he had considerable other property which he could leave
her at his death. But she made delays, and raised objections, till he
saw that there was no hope of recovering the farm. You know how fond he
was of money, and the fact that he had alienated so large a share of his
property preyed upon his mind and actually made him sick. Then his
daughter came and established herself in his room.
“Give me back the farm, Sophia,” I overheard him say one day. “It’ll be
yours some day, but I want to keep it while I live.”
“Wait till you get well, pa,” she answered. “You are too sick to trouble
yourself about business now.”
“I shall be sick till I get the farm back,” he answered.
“It’ll be all right. Don’t worry yourself.”
But he continued to worry, and the doctor says he fretted himself to
death. It may be uncharitable in me, but I don’t think Sophia grieved
very much over her father’s taking away, though she put on a suit of
deep black at the funeral.
Well, the will was read the next day, and all the property outside of
the farm goes to Sophia and Rodney. The farm being already hers, of
course there is nothing left for me. My friends are very indignant, and
Mr Tower, the lawyer, tells me that I have good reason to contest it. I
am certainly very poorly paid for all I’ve done in the five years since
we were married.
I remained at the farm for a day or two, but I found it so disagreeable,
as Mrs. Bartlett evidently wished me out of the way, that I took board
temporarily with Mrs. Draper in the village. You know I have some money
remaining from what you left with me. Before that is gone I think I can
get a chance to act as housekeeper for Mr. John Wilkins, whose wife
recently died.
I feel quite lonely, and wish you were at home, but I am afraid you
could not get any work that would pay you, and I am glad to hear that
you are doing well in California. Write soon to your affectionate
mother,
                                                       HELEN TARBOX.
“Tom, I must go home,” said Grant. “My mother needs me.”
“But, Grant, won’t you come back again?”
“Yes. I have too many interests in San Francisco to keep away. I want to
go home and establish my mother comfortably. Then I can return with a
cheerful heart.”
“How will you go back—over the plains?”
“No, once is enough for me. I will go to New York by steamer, and then
take the railroad to Iowa.”
The next day, and before Grant could get ready to start, he received
another letter.
This was from Tom Childs, a schoolfellow and intimate friend. Here it
is:
DEAR GRANT:
I got your address from your mother, and I am going to write you a short
letter. I wish I could see you, for you were one of my most intimate
friends. I hope you are doing well, and so do all the boys wish you well
except one. That one is Rodney Bartlett, who is now living here in
Woodburn. He and his mother are up at the old farm, and your mother has
been turned out. It is a great shame, I think, and so does the whole
village. Mr. Tarbox’s death seemed very sudden, but people think he
worried to death. Anyhow, Mrs. Bartlett has got the whole property,
except a thousand dollars, which were left to Rodney.
You ought to see that boy strut ’round. He ‘feels his oats’ as father
says. He’s got a gold watch, a very showy one, and takes it out every
five minutes to look at it. You would think he was a millionnaire by the
airs he puts on. The other day he asked me: “Do you ever hear from Grant
Colburn?”
I answered that I was going to write you.
“He was a great fool to go to California,” said Rodney.
“What was there to stay for here?” I asked. “His mother has been turned
out of the house without a cent, and you and your mother have taken
everything.”
“That’s perfectly proper,” said Rodney. “We are blood relations to Mr.
Tarbox.”
“And she was his wife,” I told him.
“Oh, well, she had her living for five years,” said Rodney. “She’ll get
along well enough. She can hire out in some family. She’s strong enough
to work.”
“She’s been treated mighty mean,” I said indignantly.
“Ma offered her twenty-five dollars,” replied Rodney, “but she was too
proud to take it. I s’pose she wanted more.”
“Well, it was a pretty mean sum to give your grandfather’s widow,” I
remarked.
“My mother understands what’s proper,” said Rodney stiffly. “Have you
seen my new watch?”
“Where did you buy it?”
“Ma sent to New York for it. It cost sixty dollars. I guess it’s as good
a watch as anybody carries in Woodburn.”
I wish, Grant, you could come home, and bring a better watch. How it
would take down the pride of that young snob!
Oh, I mustn’t forget to tell you that Mr. Jones—Abner Jones—is in
trouble. It seems that your step-father held a mortgage of a thousand
dollars on his farm, and it comes due in two or three months. Mrs.
Bartlett threatens to foreclose, and unless he can get some one else to
assume the mortgage, I am afraid the farm will be sold for much less
than its value. It is worth three thousand dollars, but father says it
won’t fetch, at a forced sale, much over two thousand, perhaps only that
sum. I pity Mrs. Jones. I was speaking to Arthur Jones yesterday. He
feels very bad about it.
But I have written you a long letter. Let me hear from you soon.
                                 Your true friend,
                                                         TOM CHILDS.
“There’s another reason for going home,” observed Grant, as he folded up
the letter. “I shall start by the next steamer.”
“I will expect you back in three months,” said Mr. Crosmont. “While you
are away my son will take your place in the office, but I shall miss you
very much.”
                              CHAPTER XL.
                              CONCLUSION.
Grant did not write his mother that he was coming home; he wanted to
surprise her. He landed in New York and took the train the same day for
Woodburn. He arrived early one morning and went at once to the house
where his mother was boarding.
Mrs. Tarbox’s face lighted up with amazement and joy when she saw Grant.
“O Grant, can it really be you!” she exclaimed, as she embraced him.
“I don’t think it is anybody else, mother,” returned Grant, with a
smile.
“How you have grown!”
“Yes, mother; I am three inches taller than when I went away.”
“I have good news for you, Grant. Mr. Wilkins has engaged me as
housekeeper, with a good salary.”
“How much is he going to pay you?”
“Three dollars a week.”
“You can’t go, mother. I want you for my housekeeper, and will pay you
five dollars a week.”
“I wish you could afford to do it, Grant.”
“I can, mother. As near as I can figure it out, I am worth about eight
thousand dollars, and expect to be worth a good deal more within a
year.”
“This can’t be possible! How could you—a boy of sixteen—gain so much
money?”
“Partly at the mines, partly by speculating in real estate in San
Francisco. But I will give you particulars hereafter. Are the Bartletts
living at the farm?”
“Yes; but I hear Mrs. Bartlett wants to sell it. She and Rodney want to
go to a city to live.”
“And you didn’t get a cent from the estate?”
“No; Mrs. Bartlett offered me twenty-five dollars.”
“Which you very properly refused. No matter! You won’t need to depend on
that family for anything. You’ve got a rich son.”
At this moment a buggy drove into the yard.
“That’s Mr. Wilkins come for me,” said Mrs. Tarbox. “Don’t you think it
will be best for me to accept the engagement?”
“No, mother: I shall provide you with a home of your own, and give you
enough to keep it up. I will buy back the house that used to be ours
when father was alive.”
“O Grant, if you can!”
“I can. I shall be able to buy it for two thousand dollars.”
“It has been offered for eighteen hundred.”
“So much the better.”
Here Mr. Wilkins entered the house. He was a pleasant looking elderly
gentleman, with white hair.
“Well, Mrs. Tarbox, are you ready?” he asked.
“I am very sorry to disappoint you, Mr. Wilkins; but my son Grant, who
has just returned from California, wants me to have a home of my own.”
“Why, why; so Grant is back—and looking stout and rugged. Have you done
well, Grant?”
“Yes, Mr. Wilkins; far better than I expected. I am able to provide my
mother with a home of her own, and while we appreciate your kind offer,
she will be happier and more independent living so.”
“I won’t say a word against it, though I am disappointed. Your father
was an old friend of mine, and I would like to have had his widow in my
home. But I am pleased with her better prospects.”
“Please don’t mention my plan for her. I want to take some people by
surprise.”
“I’ll be mum, Grant.”
“Now, mother, I think I’ll take a walk. I’ll be back soon.”
Out in the street Grant fell in with Tom Childs.
“I am delighted to see you, Grant,” said Tom, grasping his hand. “Have
you just arrived?”
“Yes, Tom.”
“Were you lucky?”
Grant smiled, and pulled out an elegant gold watch.
“You wrote me to get a watch that would, beat Rodney’s. Here it is!”
“What a beauty! What did you pay for it?”
“I bought it at Tiffany’s for one hundred and twenty-five dollars.”
Tom opened wide his eyes in amazement.
“A hundred and twenty-five dollars!” he ejaculated. “Then you must be
rich!”
“I’ve got a little money.”
“As much as a thousand dollars?”
“A good deal more.”
“Then you’ve beaten Rodney both in money and a watch. I am awfully
glad.”
“What news is there, Tom?”
“Some bad news. You know, I told you about Abner Jones and the mortgage
on his farm. It comes due in three days, and Mrs. Bartlett is going to
foreclose and take possession of the farm.”
“What’s the amount of the mortgage?”
“A thousand dollars.”
“Then she won’t do it! I’ll advance the money and assume the mortgage
myself.”
“Bully for you, Grant! Here’s Mr. Jones himself coming. Tell him, and
put him out of his anxiety.”
Abner Jones approached with downcast eyes and sad face. He saw no way of
saving the farm, and it would doubtless be sold far below its value.
When he saw Grant his face brightened, for he had always liked the boy.
“Welcome home, Grant!” he said heartily. “When did you come?”
“I have just arrived.”
“Did you do well?”
“Finely. How is it with you?”
“I am about to lose my home, Grant,” he said sadly. “There’s a mortgage
on it, held by Mrs. Bartlett, that I can’t pay.”
“And won’t she extend it?”
“No; she wants to get possession of it.”
“Can’t you get anybody to advance the money?”
“No; we have no capitalist in Woodburn that can command that sum in
ready money.”
“You forget me, Mr. Jones.”
“What do you mean, Grant?” asked the farmer quickly.
“I mean that I will advance the money, Mr. Jones.”
“It isn’t possible that you’ve got so much as that, Grant?”
“I assure you that it is.”
“But you’ll straiten yourself.”
“No; I have brought double that sum with me, and have more in
California.”
“Then I am saved! You have made me very happy, Grant.”
“It’s all right, Mr. Jones. I am making a business investment.”
A few minutes later Grant met Rodney Bartlett walking with a slow
dignified step, swinging a light bamboo cane.
“Good-morning, Rodney!” he said, touching his hat with a smile.
“What! have you come back, Grant Colburn?” cried Rodney, in surprise.
“Yes, I arrived this morning.”
“Grandpa’s dead, and ma and I have got the property.”
“So I hear.”
“I suppose you hurried home to see if you couldn’t get some of it,”
sneered Rodney.
“I think my mother could get a share if she went to law.”
“That’s where you are mistaken. You have come on a fool’s errand.”
“That isn’t what brought me.”
“If you want a place, perhaps ma will have you for a farm boy.”
Grant smiled.
“As she has you, I don’t think she will need me,” he said.
“Do you think I would soil my hands by farm work? I am a gentleman.”
“I am glad to hear it.”
“What do you say to that watch?” and Rodney complacently produced his
gold chronometer.
“It is a fair watch,” said Grant, examining it.
“I should say it was! It cost sixty dollars.”
“Suppose you look at mine;” and Grant produced his. Rodney had not
noticed that he had one.
Rodney looked paralyzed, for he saw that it was a much finer one than
his.
