Passford, senior; for the young man had held a command, and was entitled
to the same honorary title as his father.

"These doctors sometimes make you think you are sicker than you really
are," said Christy with a laugh.

"But your doctor did not do so, for your mother and I both thought you
were rather run out by your labors in the Gulf."

"If I was, I am all right now. Do I look like a sick one? I weigh more
than I ever did before in my life."

"Your mother has taken excellent care of you, and you certainly look
larger and stronger than when you went to sea in the Bronx."

"But I am very tired of this inactive life. I have been assigned to the
Bellevite as second lieutenant, a position I prefer to a command, for
the reasons I have several times given you, father."

"I am certainly very glad to have you returned to the Bellevite, though
the honors will be easier with you than they were when you were the
commander of the Bronx."

"But I shall escape the responsibility of the command, and avoid being
pointed at as one who commands by official influence," said Christy,
rather warmly; for he felt that he had done his duty with the utmost
fidelity, and it was not pleasant to have his hard-earned honors
discounted by flings at his father's influence with the government.

"It is impossible to escape the sneers of the discontented, and there
are always plenty of such in the navy and the army. But, Christy, you
wrong yourself in taking any notice of such flings, for they have never
been thrown directly at you, if at all. You are over-sensitive, and you
have not correctly interpreted what your superiors have said to you,"
said Captain Passford seriously.

His father recalled some of the conversations between the young officer
and Captain Blowitt and others, reported to him before. He insisted that
the remarks of his superiors were highly complimentary to him, and that
he had no right to take offence at them.

"I dare say I am entirely wrong, father; but it will do me no harm to
serve in a subordinate capacity," added Christy.

"I agree with you here; but I must tell you again, as I have half a
dozen times before, that I never asked a position or promotion for you
at the Navy Department. You have won your honors and your advancement
yourself," continued the father.

"Well, it was all the same, father; you have used your time and your
money very freely in the service of the government, as you could not
help doing. I know that I did my duty, and the department promoted me
because I was your son," said Christy, laughing.

"Not at all, my son; you deserved your promotion every time, and if you
had been the son of a wood-chopper in the State of Maine, you would have
been promoted just the same," argued Captain Passford.

"Perhaps I should," answered the young officer rather doubtfully.

"After what you did in your last cruise with the Bronx, a larger and
finer vessel would have been given to you in recognition of the
brilliant service you had rendered," added the father. "I prevented this
from being done simply because you wished to take the position of second
lieutenant on board of the Bellevite."

"Then I thank you for it, father," replied Christy heartily.

"But the department thinks it has lost an able commander," continued the
captain with a smile.

"I am willing to let the department think so, father. All I really ask
of the officials now is to send me back to the Gulf, and to the
Bellevite. I believe you said that I was to go as a passenger in the
Chateaugay."

"I did; and she has been ready for over a week."

"Why don't she go, then?" asked Christy impatiently.

"On her way to the Gulf she is to engage in some special service,"
replied Captain Passford, as he took some letters from his pocket.

"Letters!" exclaimed the young lieutenant, laughing as he recalled some
such missives on two former occasions. "Do you still keep your three
agents in the island of Great Britain?"

"I don't keep them, for they are now in the employ of the government,
though they still report to me, and we use the system adopted some two
years ago."

"What is it this time, father?" asked Christy, his curiosity as well as
his patriotism excited by this time at the prospect of capturing a
Confederate man-of-war, or even a blockade-runner.

"There are traitors in and about the city of New York," answered Captain
Passford, as he returned the letters to his pocket. "We had a rebel in
the house here at one time, you remember, and it is not quite prudent
just now to explain the contents of the letters."

"All right, father; but I suppose you will read them to me before I sail
for the South."

"I will talk to you about it another time," added the captain, as a
knock was heard at the door. "Come in!"

It was the man-servant of the house, and he brought in a tray on which
there was a card, which Captain Passford took.

"Captain Wilford Chantor," the captain read from the card. "Show him in,
Gates. Lieutenant Chantor is appointed to the command of the Chateaugay,
Christy, in which you take passage to the Gulf; but she will not go
there directly."

"Captain Chantor," said Gates, as he opened the door for the visitor.

"I am happy to see you, Captain Chantor, though I have not had the
pleasure of meeting you before," said the captain, as he rose from his
chair, and bowed to the gentleman, who was in the uniform of a
lieutenant.

"I presume I have the honor to address Captain Horatio Passford," said
the visitor, as he took a letter from his pocket, bowing very
respectfully at the same time, and delivering the letter.

"I am very glad to meet you, Captain Chantor," continued Captain
Passford, taking the hand of the visitor. "Allow me to introduce to you
my son, Lieutenant Passford, who will be a passenger on your ship to the
Gulf."

"I am very happy to make your acquaintance, Mr. Passford, for I need
hardly say that I have heard a great deal about you before, and this is
a very unexpected pleasure," replied Captain Chantor.

"Thank you, Captain, and I am equally happy to meet you, as I am to be a
passenger on your ship," added Christy, as they shook hands very
cordially.

"I had three other passengers on board, but they have been transferred
to the store-ship, which sails to-day, and you will be my only
passenger."

"At my suggestion," said Captain Passford smiling, doubtless at the
puzzled expression of the captain of the Chateaugay at his statement.

"I am to attend to some special service on my voyage to the Gulf, and I
am ordered to take my instructions from you," added Captain Chantor.

"Precisely so; but I hold no official position, and your orders will be
put in proper form before you sail," replied Christy's father. "Now, if
you will be patient for a little while, I will explain the nature of the
special service."

"I shall be very glad to understand the subject, and I am confident my
patience will hold out to any extent you may require."

The conversation so far had taken place in the library. The owner of
Bonnydale rose from his arm-chair, opened the door into the hall, and
looked about him very cautiously. Then he closed a window which the
unusual warmth of an April day had rendered it necessary to open. He
conducted his companions to the part of the room farthest from the door,
and seated them on a sofa, while he placed his arm-chair in front of
them. Even Christy thought his father was taking extraordinary
precautions, and the visitor could make nothing of it.

"As I have had occasion to remark before to-day, there are traitors in
and about New York," the captain began.

"If you have any private business with Captain Chantor, father, I am
perfectly willing to retire," suggested Christy.

"No; I wish you to understand this special service, for you may be
called upon to take a hand in it," replied Captain Passford; and the
son seated himself again. "There are traitors in and about New York,
I repeat. I think we need not greatly wonder that some of the English
people persist in attempting to run the blockade at the South, when some
of our own citizens are indirectly concerned in the same occupation."

This seemed to the captain of the Chateaugay an astounding statement,
and not less so to Christy, and neither of them could make anything of
it; but they were silent, concluding that the special service related to
this matter.

"In what I am about to say to you, Captain Chantor, I understand that I
am talking to an officer of the utmost discretion," continued Captain
Passford, "and not a word of it must be repeated to any person on board
of the Chateaugay, and certainly not to any other person whatever."

"I understand you perfectly, sir," replied the officer. "My lips shall
be sealed to all."

"I wish to say that the command of the Chateaugay would have been
offered to my son, but I objected for the reason that he prefers not to
have a command at present," said the captain.

"That makes it very fortunate for me."

"Very true, though the change was not made for your sake. You were
selected for this command as much on account of your discretion as for
your skill and bravery as an officer."

"I consider myself very highly complimented by the selection."

"Now to the point: I have information that a fast steamer, intended to
carry eight guns, called the Ovidio, sailed from the other side of the
ocean some time since, and she is to be a vessel in the Confederate
navy. Her first port will be Nassau, New Providence."

"Does that prove that any Americans are traitors in and about New York,
father?" asked Christy.

"She is to run the blockade with a cargo consisting in part of American
goods."

Captain Passford took a file of papers from his pocket.




CHAPTER II

A COMPLICATED CASE


Captain Passford looked over his papers for a moment; but it was soon
evident from his manner that he had secrets which he would not intrust
even to his son, unless it was necessary to do so. He seemed to be armed
with documentary evidence upon which to act, but he did not read any of
his papers, and soon returned them to his pocket.

"The American goods of which I speak are certain pieces of machinery to
be used in the manufacture of arms," continued the captain. "They cannot
be obtained in England, and the traitors have decided to send them
direct, rather than across the ocean in the first instance. These will
form the principal and most important part of the cargo of a steamer now
loaded, though she will carry other goods, such as the enemy need most
at the present time."

"I did not suppose any Americans were wicked enough to engage in such an
enterprise for the sake of making money," said Christy indignantly.

"The steamer of which you speak is already loaded, is she?" asked
Captain Chantor.

"She is; and now I wish both of you to go with me, and I will point out
the vessel to you, and you must mark her so well that you can identify
her when occasion requires."

The trio left the house and took the train together. They went to New
York, and in an out-of-the-way locality they went down to a wharf; but
there was no steamer or vessel of any kind there, and the pier was
falling to pieces from decay. Captain Passford stopped short, and seemed
to be confounded when he found the dock was not occupied.

"I am afraid we are too late, and that the steamer has sailed on her
mission of destruction," said he, almost overcome by the discovery. "She
was here last night, and was watched till this morning. She has already
cleared, bound to Wilmington, Delaware, with a cargo of old iron."

"Do you know her name, Captain Passford?" asked the commander of the
Chateaugay.

"She was a screw steamer of about six hundred tons, and was called the
Ionian, but she is American."

It was useless to remain there any longer, for the steamer certainly was
not there. Captain Passford hailed a passing-tug-boat, and they were
taken on board. The master of the boat was instructed to steam down the
East River, and the party examined every steamer at anchor or under way.
The tug had nearly reached the Battery before the leader of the trio saw
any vessel that looked like the Ionian. The tug went around this craft,
for she resembled the one which had been in the dock, and the name
indicated was found on her stern.

"I breathe easier, for I was afraid she had given us the slip," said
Captain Passford. "She is evidently all ready to sail."

"The Chateaugay is in commission, and ready to sail at a moment's
notice," added her commander.

"But you are not ready to leave at once, Christy," suggested Captain
Passford, with some anxiety in his expression.

"Yes, I am, father; I put my valises on board yesterday, and when mother
and Florry went down to Mr. Pembroke's I bade them both good-by, for
after I have waited so long for my passage, I felt that the call would
come in a hurry," replied Christy. "I am all ready to go on board of the
Chateaugay at this moment."

"And so am I," added Captain Chantor.

"But I am not ready with your orders in full, though they are duly
signed," said Captain Passford. "I will put you on shore at the foot of
Atlantic Avenue in Brooklyn, Captain Chantor, and you will hasten to
your ship, get up steam, and move down to this vicinity. I will put my
son on board as soon as I can have your papers completed."

The order necessary to carry out this procedure was given to the captain
of the tug, and the commander of the Chateaugay was landed at the place
indicated. The tug started for the other side of the river.

"It seems to me this is very strange business, father," said Christy,
as he and his father seated themselves at the stern of the boat.

"Traitors do not work in the daylight, my son, as you have learned
before this time," replied Captain Passford.

"If you know the men who are engaged in supplying the enemy with
machinery, why do you not have them arrested and put in Fort Lafayette?"
asked Christy, in a very low tone, after he had assured himself that no
person was within possible hearing distance. "It looks as though the
case might be settled here, without going to sea to do it."

"We have not sufficient evidence to convict them; and to make arrests
without the means of conviction would be worse than doing nothing. The
Ionian has cleared for Wilmington with a cargo of old iron. Everything
looks regular in regard to her, and I have no doubt there is some party
who would claim the castings if occasion required. The first thing to be
ascertained is whether or not the steamer goes to Wilmington."

"Then we can make short work of her."

"My information in regard to this treason comes from Warnock--you know
who he is?"

"Captain Barnes," replied Christy promptly, for the names of all the
agents of his father in England and Scotland had been given to him on a
former occasion, when the information received from one of the three had
resulted in the capture of the Scotian and the Arran.

"Barnes is a very shrewd man. He does not inform me yet in what manner
he obtained the information that the Ovidio was to carry this machinery
from Nassau into a rebel port; but I shall get it later in a letter. He
gave me the name of the party who was to furnish the machinery; and one
of his agents obtained this from the direction of a letter to New York.
I placed four skilful detectives around this man, who stands well in the
community. They have worked the case admirably, and spotted the Ionian.
I have aided them in all possible ways; but the evidence is not
complete. If this steamer proceeds beyond Wilmington, Captain Chantor
will be instructed to capture her and send her back to New York."

"Then this business will soon be settled," added Christy.

"Perhaps not; the government official, with authority to act, is in New
York. I shall see him at once. I have no doubt the detectives have
already reported that the Ionian has moved down the river," said Captain
Passford, as the tug came up to a pier, where father and son landed.

They went to an office in Battery Place, where the captain was informed
that a special messenger had been sent to Bonnydale to acquaint him with
the fact that the Ionian had moved down the river. Files of documents,
containing reports of detectives and other papers, were examined and
compared, and then the government official proceeded to finish the
filling out of Captain Chantor's orders. The paper was given to Christy,
with an order to deliver it to the commander of the Chateaugay. The tug
had been detained for them, and they hastened on board of her.

They found the suspected steamer at her moorings still; but it was
evident that she was preparing to weigh her anchor. The tug continued on
her course towards the Navy Yard, and the Chateaugay was discovered in
the berth she had occupied for the last two weeks. Everything looked
lively on board of her, as though she were getting ready to heave up her
anchor.

"Christy, you will find on board of your steamer a man by the name of
Gilfleur," said Captain Passford, as the tug approached the man-of-war.

"That sounds like a French name," interposed Christy.

"It is a French name, and the owner of it is a Frenchman who has been a
detective in Paris. He has accomplished more in this matter than all the
others put together, and he will go with you, for you will find in the
commander's instructions that you have more than one thing to do on your
way to the Gulf. I gave him a letter to you."

"I shall be glad to see him."

"Now, my son, we must part, for I have business on shore, and you may
have to sail at any moment," said Captain Passford, as he took the two
hands of his son. "I have no advice to give you except to be prudent,
and on this duty to be especially discreet. That's all--good-by."

They parted, after wringing each other's hands, as they had parted
several times before. They might never meet again in this world, but
both of them subdued their emotion, for they were obeying the high and
solemn call of duty; both of them were fighting for the right, and the
civilian as well as the naval officer felt that it was his duty to lay
down his life for his suffering country. Christy mounted the gangway,
and was received by Captain Chantor on the quarter-deck. He had been on
board before, and had taken possession of his stateroom.

The passenger took from his pocket the files of papers given him by the
official on shore; and then he noticed for the first time an envelope
addressed to him. The commander retired to his cabin to read his
instructions, and Christy went to his stateroom in the ward room to open
the envelope directed to him. As soon as he broke the seal he realized
that his father had done a great deal of writing, and he had no doubt
the paper contained full instructions for him, as well as a history of
the difficult case in which he was to take a part. A paper signed by the
official informed him that he was expected to occupy a sort of advisory
position near the commander of the Chateaugay, though of course he was
in no manner to control him in regard to the management of the ship.

Christy read his father's letter through. The government was exceedingly
anxious to obtain accurate information in regard to the state of affairs
at Nassau, that hot-bed for blockade-runners. The Chateaugay was to look
out for the Ovidio, whose ultimate destination was Mobile, where she was
to convey the gun-making machinery, and such other merchandise as the
traitorous merchant of New York wished to send into the Confederacy. The
name of this man was given to him, and it was believed that papers
signed by him would be found on board of the Ionian.

A knock at the door of his room disturbed his examination of the
documents, and he found the commander of the steamer there. After
looking about the ward room, and into the adjoining staterooms, he came
in without ceremony.

"Here is my hand, Mr. Passford," said he, suiting the action to the
word. "I find after reading my instructions that I am expected to
consult with you, and as I have the very highest respect and regard for
you after the brilliant record you have made"--

"Don't you believe that I won my promotion to my present rank through
the influence of my father?" demanded Christy, laughing pleasantly, as
he took the offered hand and warmly pressed it.

"If you did, your father did the very best thing in the world for his
country, and has given it one of the bravest and best officers in the
service," replied Captain Chantor, still wringing the hand of his
passenger. "But I don't believe anything of the kind; and no officer who
knows you, even if he is thirsting for promotion, believes it. I have
heard a great many of higher rank than either of us speak of you, and if
you had been present your ears would have tingled; but I never heard a
single officer of any rank suggest that you owed your rapid advancement
to anything but your professional skill and your unflinching bravery, as
well as to your absolute and hearty devotion to your country. I rank you
in date, Mr. Passford, but I would give a great deal to have your record
written against my name."

"Your praise is exceedingly profuse, Captain Chantor, but I must believe
you are honest, however unworthy I may be of your unstinted laudation,"
said Christy with his eyes fixed on the floor, and blushing like a
school-girl.

"I hope and believe there will be no discount on our fellowship. A man
came on board this afternoon, and gives me a letter from the proper
authority, referring me to you in regard to his mission."

Christy decided to see this person at once.




CHAPTER III

THE DEPARTURE OF THE CHATEAUGAY


The commander told Christy that he would probably find the person who
had brought the letter to him in the waist, for he knew nothing of his
quality, position, or anything else about him, and he did not know where
to berth him, though there was room enough in the ward room or the
steerage. He was dressed like a gentleman, and brought two very handsome
valises on board with him.

"For all that, I did not know but that he might be a French cook, a
steward, or something of that sort," added Captain Chantor, laughing.

"He is a man who is said to be a Napoleon in his profession; but I will
tell you all about him after we get under way, for I am in a hurry to
speak with him," replied Christy.

"He is evidently a Frenchman," continued the captain.

"He is; but I never saw him in my life, and know nothing about him
except what I have learned from a long letter my father gave me when I
was coming on board."

"I have been told that you speak French like a native of Paris, Mr.
Passford," suggested the commander.

"Not so bad as that; I have studied the language a great deal under
competent instructors from Paris, but I am not so proficient as you may
think, though I can make my way with those who speak it," replied the
passenger, as he moved towards the door of the stateroom.

"And I can't speak the first word of it, for I have been a sailor all my
life, though I went through the naval academy somewhat hurriedly,"
continued the commander.

"Fortunately you don't need French on the quarter-deck;" and Christy
left the stateroom.

The captain went into his cabin, but came out before the passenger could
reach the deck. He informed Christy that he was directed to heave short
on the anchor and watch for a signal mentioned, which was to be hoisted
near the Battery. He might get under way at any minute.

Christy found the person of whom the captain had spoken in the waist.
He was dressed in a black suit, and looked more like a dandy than a
detective. He was apparently about forty years of age, rather slenderly
built, but with a graceful form. He wore a long black mustache, but no
other beard. He was pacing the deck, and seemed to be very uneasy,
possibly because he was all alone, for no one took any notice of him,
though the captain had received him very politely.

"Monsieur Gilfleur?" said Christy, walking up to him, and bowing as
politely as a Parisian.

"I am Mr. Gilfleur; have I the honor to address Lieutenant Passford?"
replied the Frenchman.

"I am Lieutenant Passford, though I have no official position on board
of this steamer."

"I am aware of it," added Mr. Gilfleur, as he chose to call himself,
taking a letter from the breast pocket of his coat, and handing it very
gracefully to Christy.

"Pardon me," added the young officer, as he opened the missive.

It was simply a letter of introduction from Captain Passford, intended
to assure him of the identity of the French detective. Mr. Gilfleur
evidently prided himself on his knowledge of the English language, for
he certainly spoke it fluently and correctly, though with a little of
the accent of his native tongue.

"I am very happy to meet you, Mr. Gilfleur," said Christy in French, as
he extended his hand to the other, who promptly took it, and from that
moment seemed to lose all his embarrassment.

"I thank you, Mr. Passford, for this pleasant reception, for it is
possible that we may have a great deal of business together, and I hope
you have confidence in me."

"Unlimited confidence, sir, since my father heartily indorses you."

"I thank you, sir, and I am sure we shall be good friends, though I am
not a gentleman like you, Mr. Passford."

"You are my equal in every respect, for though my father is a very rich
man, I am not. But we are all equals in this country."

"I don't know about that," said the Frenchman, with a Parisian shrug of
the shoulders. "Your father has treated me very kindly, and I have heard
a great deal about his brave and accomplished son," said Mr. Gilfleur,
with a very deferential bow.

"Spare me!" pleaded Christy, with a deprecatory smile and a shake of the
head.

"You are very modest, Mr. Passford, and I will not offend you. I am not
to speak of our mission before the Chateaugay is out of sight of land,"
said the detective, looking into the eyes of the young man with a gaze
which seemed to reach the soul, for he was doubtless measuring the
quality and calibre of his associate in the mission, as he called it,
in which both were engaged. "I knew your father very well in Paris,"
he added, withdrawing his piercing gaze.

"Then you are the gentleman who found the stewardess of the Bellevite
when she ran away with a bag of French gold at Havre?" said Christy,
opening his eyes.

"I have the honor to be that person," replied Mr. Gilfleur, with one of
his graceful bows. "It was a difficult case, for the woman was
associated with one of the worst thieves of Paris, and it took me a
month to run them down."

"Though I was a small boy, I remember it very well, for I was on board
of the Bellevite at the time," replied Christy. "I know that he was very
enthusiastic in his praise of the wonderful skill of the person who
recovered the money and sent the two thieves to prison. I understand now
why my father sent to Paris for you when he needed a very skilful person
of your profession."

"Thank you, Mr. Passford; you know me now, and we shall be good
friends."

"No doubt of it; but here comes the captain, and I have a word to say to
him," added Christy, as he touched his naval cap to the commander.
"Allow me to introduce to you my friend Mr. Gilfleur, whom my father
employed in Havre six years ago."

The captain was as polite as the Frenchman, and gave him a hearty
reception. Christy then suggested that his friend should be berthed in
the ward room. The ship's steward was called, and directed to give Mr.
Gilfleur a room next to the other passenger. As they were likely to have
many conferences together in regard to the business on their hands, they
were both particular in regard to the location of their rooms; and the
chief steward suited them as well as he could.

The detective spoke to him in French, but the steward could not
understand a word he said. Christy inquired if any of the ward-room
officers spoke the polite language, for his friend might sometimes wish
to converse in his own tongue.

"I don't believe they do, for they all got into the ward room through
the hawse-hole," replied the steward, laughing at the very idea.

When the passengers went on deck, the commander introduced them both to
the officers of the ship. To each in turn, at the request of Christy, he
put the question as to whether or not he could speak French; and they
all replied promptly in the negative, and laughed at the inquiry.

"Have you no one on board who speaks French, Captain Chantor?" asked
Christy.

"I don't know anything about it, but as it seems to be of some
importance to you and your friend, I will ascertain at once. Mr.
Suppleton, will you overhaul the ship's company, and see if you can find
any one that speaks French," continued the commander, addressing the
chief steward.

In about half an hour he returned, and reported that he was unable to
find a single person who could speak a word of French. Doubtless many of
the officers, who were of higher grade than any on board of the
Chateaugay, were fluent enough in the language, but they were not to be
found in the smaller vessels of the navy; for, whatever their rank
before the war, they had all been advanced to the higher positions.
Every one of the officers on board of this steamer had been the captain
of a vessel, and had been instructed in the profession after the war
began. Though substantially educated, they were not to be compared in
this respect with the original officers.

"We can talk as much as we please of our mission after we get out of
sight of land; and as long as we do it in French, no one will understand
us," said Christy to his fellow-passenger.

"As soon as we are permitted by my orders to do so, I shall have much to
say to you, Mr. Passford," replied Mr. Gilfleur.

"On deck!" shouted a man in the mizzen-top.

"Aloft!" returned Mr. Birdwing, the first lieutenant.

"Signal over the boarding-station, sir!" reported the quartermaster in
the top. "It is a number--'Get under way!'"

The executive officer reported the signal to the commander, though he
was on deck, and had heard the words of the quartermaster.

"Get under way at once, Mr. Birdwing," said the captain.

"Boatswain, all hands up anchor!" said the first lieutenant to this
officer; and in a moment the call rang through the ship.

Every officer and seaman was promptly in his station, for it was a
welcome call. The ship's company were dreaming of prize-money, for
officers had made fabulous sums from this source. In one instance a
lieutenant received for his share nearly forty thousand dollars; and
even an ordinary seaman pocketed seventeen hundred from a single
capture. The Chateaugayans were anxious to engage in this harvest, and
in a hurry to be on their way to the field of fortune.

In a short time the steamer was standing down East River at moderate
speed. The Ionian could not be seen yet, and nothing in regard to her
was known to any one on board except the captain and his two passengers.
As the ship approached the battery, a tug, which Christy recognized as
the one his father had employed, came off and hailed the Chateaugay. The
screw was stopped, and Captain Passford was discovered at her bow. He
waved his hat to his son, saluted the commander in the same manner, and
then passed up an envelope.

The tug sheered off, and the ship continued on her course, with a pilot
at the wheel. The missive from the shore was addressed to Captain
Chantor. He opened it at once, and then ordered one bell to be rung to
stop her. A few moments later a heavy tug came off, and twelve men were
put on board, with an order signed by the government official for the
commander to receive them on board. There had evidently been some
afterthoughts on shore. These men were turned in with the crew, except
two who were officers, and they were put in the ward room. The ship then
proceeded on her course.

"The Ionian is about two miles ahead of us, Mr. Passford," said the
captain, after he had used his glass diligently for some time. And he
spoke in a very low tone.

"We have no business with her at present," added Christy.

"None, except to watch her; and, fortunately, we have fine, clear
weather, so that will not be a difficult job. By the way, Mr. Passford,
the envelope I received was from your father, and he gives me
information of another steamer expected in the vicinity of Bermuda about
this time; and he thinks we had better look for her when she comes out
from those islands," said the captain, evidently delighted with the
prospect before him.

"What are these men for that were sent off in the tug?" Christy
inquired; for he felt that he had a right to ask the question.

"They are to take the Ionian back to New York, if we have to capture
her."

Captain Passford appeared to be afraid the Chateaugay would be
shorthanded if she had to send a prize crew home with the Ionian.




CHAPTER IV
