thee.
Zuleika. Thou mayst indeed. Heaven were not more true than I will be
unto my word. [Hassan pauses before the door.]
Hassan. Lady, the hours are fleeting. It were best to make good speed.
Zuleika. Hassan, thou dost counsel aright; morn must not find me here.
[To Ion.] Young Greek, thou knowest with the coming dawn thy father
dies.
Ion. Ay, ere another moon doth rise that life, so dear to Greece, shall
be no more; the heart that beat so nobly at his country's call be still
forever,--I know it well!
Zuleika. And hast thou no last word for him, no parting wish?
Ion. O maiden, my life were a glad sacrifice, so that I might for a
single hour look on him,--for the last time say, "My father, bless thy
Ion."
Zuleika. That hour shall be thine. Fold thyself in yonder cloak, and
follow me.
Ion. Follow thee,--and whither?
Zuleika. To thy father's presence. Thou shalt spend with him the last
hours of his earthly life. Stay not; this friendly gloom will ere long
pass away.
Ion [falling on his knees and catching her robe]. Art thou my guardian
angel? Oh, may the consolation thou hath poured into a suffering soul,
fall like heaven's dew upon thine own; and if the prayers of a grateful
heart bring hope and joy and peace, thy life shall bloom with choicest
blessings. O maiden, how do I bless thee! [Kisses her robe.]
Zuleika. Speak not of that,--kneel not to me, a mortal maiden. Thy
gratitude is my best reward. Hassan, lead on!
Hassan. Lady, I do thy bidding. First let me lead thee to a place of
safety.
Zuleika. Nay, Hassan, I tarry here,--thou canst return; I will await
thee. Now make all speed,--away!
Ion. Let us hence; my heart can ill contain its joy. Oh, my father,
shall I see thee, hear thy voice, feel thine arms once more about me,
and die with thy blessing on my head. Heaven hath blessed my mission.
Zuleika. Shall we depart? The hour wanes.
Ion. I will follow whither thou shalt lead. But, stay! is there no
danger unto thee? Will thy deed of mercy bring suffering to thee, my
kind deliverer?
Zuleika. Fear not for me. Yet one pledge must I ask of thee on which my
safety doth depend. 'Tis this: Swear that from the moment thou dost
leave me until thou art again a prisoner here, though the path lie plain
before thee thou wilt not fly.
Ion. I swear. Thou mayst trust me.
Zuleika. Yet once again. Breathe not to mortal ear the means by which
thou sought'st thy sire, and let the memory of this hour fade from thy
heart forever. [Ion bows assent.] What pledge have I of thy secrecy,
and of thy truth?
Ion. The word of a Greek is sacred, and were not my gratitude my surest
pledge to thee?
Zuleika. Pardon, I do trust. Now haste thee.
Ion [pointing to his fetters]. Thou dost forget I am a prisoner still.
Zuleika. Hassan, unloose these fetters, and give the Greek his freedom.
[Hassan takes off the chains; Ion springs joyfully forward.]
Ion. Now am I free again, and with the Turk's base fetters have I cast
off my fears and my despair. Hope smiles upon me, and my father calls.
Oh, let us tarry not.
Zuleika [folding a dark mantle round him]. Thus shrouded, in safety
thou mayst reach his cell; this ring will spare thee question. Hassan
will guide thee, and I--will pray for thy success. Farewell! May Allah
aid thee!
Ion. Lady, though I may never know thee, never look on thee again, the
memory of this brief hour will never fade. The blessed gift of mercy
thou dost bestow will I ever treasure with the deepest gratitude, and my
fervent prayer that all Heaven's blessings may rest upon thee cease but
with my life [falls on his knee and kisses her hand]. Pardon,--'tis my
only thanks. Spirit of mercy, farewell! farewell! [Follows Hassan;
Zuleika gazes after him, then sinks down weeping.]
                                CURTAIN.
                              SCENE FIFTH.
                     [Tent of Cleon the Greek.
                 Cleon, chained, pacing to and fro.]
Cleon. A few short hours and all is o'er,--Cleon sleeps with his
fathers. I could have wished to die like a hero in my harness, and have
known my grave were watered by my loved one's tears; to take my wife
once more unto my bosom; once more bless my noble Ion; and pass hence
with the blest consciousness of victory won. 'Tis bitter thus to die,
ingloriously and alone. [Proudly raising his head.] But the name of
Cleon is too dear unto his people e'er to be forgotten. The memory that
he strove ever for his country's welfare shall strew with tearful
blessings his unhonored grave. [Steps approach; voices are heard.] Ah,
they come! They shall find me ready. [Enter Ion.] Has mine hour come?
I am here.
           [Ion casts off his cloak, and springs forward.]
Ion. Father! O my father!
Cleon [starting back wildly]. Thou? Here!
Ion. Yes, thy Ion; bless me, Father [kneels].
Cleon [raising and clasping Ion to his breast]. Here, on my heart,
dear one. I turn to meet my executioners, and see thee, my boy. Great
Heaven, I bless thee! [They embrace tenderly and weep.] Thou camest
thither--how?
Ion. Alone, with my good sword.
Cleon. Thy guide through the perils of the way, my child?
Ion. The good Father who doth guide all who trust in him.
Cleon. And thine errand?
Ion. To behold thee, my father, and with my life to strive for thy
release.
Cleon. My noble boy, thou hast come unto thy death. Oh, who could bid
thee thus brave the doom that must await thee?
Ion. My mother bid me forth; and as she girded on my sword, she bid me
seek my father, with her blessing on my mission.
Cleon. My brave Iantha, thus for thy country's sake to doom thine own
heart to so deep a sorrow [looks sadly upon Ion]. Tell me, my son, did
thy mother bear bravely up against the fatal tidings? I had feared her
tender heart might but ill meet a blow so fearful. Speak to me of her.
Ion. When the rude Turk did in rough speech acquaint her with thy fell
defeat, she sank as one o'erpowered by her grief, praying the friendly
hand of death might take her hence; but soon the spirit of the Greek
rose high within her, and, banishing her fears, with brave and trusting
heart she sent me forth to seek, and if it might be, save thee. Ah, my
father, that I might die for thee!
Cleon. And thou hath come to see me die! Dost thou not know that with
the night thy father passeth hence, and when the stars again look forth
it will be upon his grave?
Ion. Father, 'tis because thou art doomed that I am here. And if my
heart speak truly, those same bright stars shall serve to guide thee
back to freedom.
Cleon. Thou doth speak wildly. What wilt thou do? Wilt thou brave the
king?
Ion [proudly]. Nay, I have knelt for the last time unto Mohammed. I
have offered him my liberty, my service, ay, my life itself, and he hath
scorned me. I have deigned to bow before him as a suppliant, and he hath
spurned me; I have sought by all the power love and despair could teach
to move him, and his ear was closed to me. I seek him not again.
Cleon. Child, what hath led thee to the presence of the king? How didst
thou brave the frown of him before whom even armed men do tremble? Didst
thou dream thy feeble voice could reach a heart so cruel, that thy
prayers could soften one who knoweth not the name of mercy?
Ion. Love can brave all dangers. It giveth wisdom to the untaught,
strength to the weak, hope to the despairing, comfort to the mourner.
Love hath been my guide, my guard.
Cleon. My boy! my Ion! Truly doth God place in the pure heart of such as
thou his truest wisdom, his deepest faith [embraces him with deep
emotion]. But--art not thou in danger? Did not thy bold speech anger
the proud king? Art thou still free?
Ion. Let not thy heart be vexed with fears for me,--I am unharmed.
Cleon. Ion, deceive me not, but as thou hopest for thy father's love,
speak truly. Art thou in danger from the Turk, and in thy devotion to
thy father dost thou seek to be thyself the sacrifice? Answer me, Ion.
Ion. Father, I sought to spare thy too o'erburdened heart another grief.
I am a prisoner in Mohammed's power, and know not if my fate be life
or death.
Cleon. 'Tis as I feared; and thou, the last hope of thy country, must
fall,--all, all, for me! Oh, mine own disgrace were bitter, but to see
thee die! Oh, woe is me!
Ion. Father, were it not better thus to die, than in disgraceful peace
to pass away with no thought for our fatherland, no proud consciousness
of having at the call of duty sacrificed all we held most dear, and
leave a name held sacred as one who yielded life and liberty on the
altar of his country?
Cleon. But that thou in thine innocence and bloom should meet death at
the hands of heartless foemen; and for my sake! 'Tis this that tears
my heart.
Ion. The purer the victim the more acceptable the sacrifice. But fear
not, dear father. The Turk is yet a man; 'tis 'gainst thee he wars, and
he will not wreak his vengeance on a child. He may relent, and for my
love's sake, pardon mine offence.
Cleon. Child, thou knowest not Mohammed. He pardons none; all fall
before him, with relentless hand,--all strew his pathway unto victory.
Will he then spare and pity thee? Nay, sire and son must fall! [Stands
sorrowfully. Ion suddenly sees Zuleika's ring upon his hand, and
springs forward.]
Ion. Father, thou shalt yet breathe the air of freedom, shall clasp my
mother to thy heart; once more shall lead thy gallant band onward to
victory.
Cleon. Raise not bright hopes to crush them at their birth; wake not to
dreams of triumph the heart that hath striven to drive hence all save
the solemn thoughts meet for one so soon to pass away.
Ion [pointing to the door]. See, the gray morning 'gins to glimmer in
the east. 'Tis no time for despair. Haste, Father, freedom is near!
Cleon. What doth thus move thee, Ion? Dost thou forget these chains,
the guards, the perils at each step? Thou art dreaming!
Ion. I tell thee 'tis no dream. Thou shalt be free. This mantle will
disguise thee; this ring open a pathway through the guards; these stars
shall be thy silent guide. Wilt thou go?
Cleon. 'Tis strange! Whence then that ring? How dost thou, a captive,
wander thus freely, and offer liberty with such a bounteous hand?
Ion. A solemn oath doth forbid me to reveal to living man the secret of
this hour; but if ever angels do leave their homes to minister to
suffering souls, 'twas one most bright and beautiful who hath this night
led me unto thee, and placed in mine hand the power to set thee free.
Cleon. Truth speaketh in thine earnest eye and pleading voice, and yet I
dare not listen to thy tale.
Ion. Oh, Father, heed not thy fears, thy doubts! Take thy liberty,
believing it heaven-sent. No oath binds thee to Mohammed; thou art no
rightful prisoner of war,--neither duty nor honor doth demand thy stay.
Thy country calls, and Heaven doth point the way.
Cleon. 'Tis true; no oath doth bind me to the Turk, and yet to fly--My
soldier's spirit doth ill brook such retreat.
Ion. Then stay not, my father, but whilst thou may, depart.
Cleon. Bright hopes call me hence. Life, love, fame, beckon me away.
                                                    [Hassan looks in.]
Hassan. The promised hour hath well-nigh gone. Prepare, young Greek; we
must away.
Ion. A moment more. [Exit Hassan.] Father, time wanes. Once more I do
entreat thee,--go!
Cleon. Heaven grant I choose aright! Come Ion, we will forth together.
[Ion folds the cloak about Cleon; gives him the ring.] Come, let us
go.
Ion. Nay, but one can pass forth. Thou goest. I await the morning here.
Cleon. Then do I tarry also. Nay, Ion, I will not go hence without thee.
Ion. Then all is lost. Father, thy stay can nought avail me. It cannot
save, and thou wilt but sacrifice thine own priceless life.
Cleon. Then fly with me; let me bear thee to thy mother. Alone, I will
not go.
Ion. I cannot go; a vow doth bid me stay,--a vow that nought shall tempt
me from the camp to-night; and when did a Greek e'er break his plighted
word?
Cleon. If thine honor bid thee stay, thy father will not tempt thee
hence; but he may stay and suffer with thee the fate of the faithful
[throws off the mantle].
Ion. Oh, my father, do not cast from thee the priceless boon of liberty.
Think of thy broken-hearted wife, thy faithful followers, thy
unconquered foes; think, Father, of thy country calling on thee for
deliverance. What were my worthless life weighed 'gainst her freedom.
And what happier fate for a hero's son than for a hero's sake to fall!
Cleon. Thou true son of Greece! Mayst thou yet live to wield a sword for
thine oppressed land, and gird with laurels that brow so worthy them.
                                                       [Hassan enters.
Hassan. No longer may I stay: thine hour is past.
Ion. I come,--yet one moment more, good Hassan; it is my last. [Exit
Hassan.] Once more, my father, do I entreat thee,--go. Thou dost forget
a guardian spirit watcheth over me, and the power that led me hither may
yet accomplish my deliverance. If nought else can move thee, for my sake
go, and win for me that freedom mine honor doth now forbid me to seek.
Break not my heart, nor let me plead in vain.
Cleon. My boy, for thy dear sake do I consent. I will earn thy
deliverance bravely, as a soldier should; and thy dear image shall be
to me the star that leads me on to victory.
Ion [joyfully]. Away! Hassan will guide thee past the guards. Then
fly,--and Heaven guide thee, O my father! [Ion again shrouds Cleon in
the mantle, concealing his chains in the thick folds.] Thus muffle thy
tell-tale fetters, that no sound may whisper to the Turks there walks a
Greek under the free heavens forth to freedom.
Cleon. My Ion, one last embrace! God grant 'tis not our last on earth!
Bless thee, thou true young heart! Heaven guard thee!
                                              [Hassan enters in haste.
Hassan. Art ready? We must depart. [Cleon bows his head and follows.
Ion rushes after, looking from the tent.]
Ion. Saved! saved! The morning sun that was to shine upon his grave,
will smile upon him far, far from foemen's power. And Mohammed, thinking
to look upon a dying slave, shall waken to the sound of his victorious
war-trump. Ion, thy mission is accomplished. Thou hast given a saviour
to thy fatherland, and mayst fall thyself without a murmur [looks up
thankfully; a loud noise without].
                                         [Enter Abdallah and Murad.
Abd. Where is the prisoner? Come forth!
Ion. I am here [comes forward].
Abd. Ha!--here is treason! Without there!--the prisoner hath escaped!
Murad. Who flieth yonder, past the camp?
Abd. 'Tis he! Forth, call for aid! Search without delay! Here is foul
work abroad. First, seize yon boy; fetter the base spy; bear him before
the king. Speed hence!
Murad [to Ion]. Infidel dog, thou shalt learn what it is to brave
Mohammed's ire!
                [They seize Ion, and drag him away.]
                                CURTAIN.
                                BIANCA.
                            OPERATIC TRAGEDY.
                            NOTE TO BIANCA.
The peculiarity of this opera was that while the words were committed to
memory, the music was composed and sung as the scene proceeded.
In spite of its absurdity, this play was a great favorite; for Jo was
truly superb as the hapless Bianca, while her trills and tragic agonies
were considered worthy of the famous Grisi herself.
                              CHARACTERS.
    Adelbert   .   .   .   .   .   .    Betrothed to Bianca.
    Huon   .   .   .   .   .   .   .    His Rival.
    Juan   .   .   .   .   .   .   .    A Page.
    Bianca .   .   .   .   .   .   .    A Spanish Lady.
    Hilda  .   .   .   .   .   .   .    A Witch.
                                BIANCA.
                           OPERATIC TRAGEDY.
                              SCENE FIRST.
                               [A wood.
                             Enter Huon.]
Huon. Hist! All is still. They are not yet here. On this spot will the
happy lovers meet. O wretched Huon! she whom thou so passionately doth
love will here speak tender words to thy thrice hated rival. Yet I,
unseen, will watch them, and ere long my fierce revenge shall change
their joy to deepest woe. Hark! they come! Now, jealous heart, be still!
[Hides among the trees.]
                                        [Enter Bianca and Adelbert.
Adel. Nay, dearest love, fear not; no mortal eye beholds us now, and yon
bright moon looks kindly down upon our love.
                              [They seat themselves beneath the trees.
Bianca. Ah, dearest Adelbert, with thee I feel no fear, but thy fierce
rival Huon did vow vengeance on thee, for I did reject his suit for
thine. Beware! for his wild heart can feel no pity, tenderness, or love.
Adel. I fear him not. Ere long thou wilt be mine, and then in our fair
home we will forget all but our love. Think not, dearest, of that dark,
revengeful man; he does not truly love thee.
Bianca. Near thee I cannot fear; but when thou art far from me, my fond
heart will ever dread some danger for thee. Ah, see the moon is waning;
dear love, thou must away.
Adel. Ah, sweet moments, why so quickly fled? 'Tis hard to leave thee,
thou bright star in my life's sky, and yet I must, or all may be
betrayed. Fare thee well, dear love. One sweet kiss ere we part! [They
embrace.]
Bianca. Farewell! Ah, when shall I again behold thee? Oh, be not long
away, for like a caged bird I pine for thee.
Adel. When next yon moon doth rise beneath thy lattice, thou shalt hear
my light guitar.
Bianca. Fail not to come. I shall watch for thee the live-long night,
and if thou comest not, this fond heart will grieve.
Both. Farewell, till yon bright moon doth rise,
      Farewell, dear love, farewell!
      Farewell, farewell, farewell!
      Farewell, dear love, farewell!
                                                       [Exit Adelbert.
Bianca. Ah, love, thou magic power, thus ever make my breast thy home.
Adieu, dear spot! I fly to happiness and--
Huon. Me--[Bianca shrieks, and seeks to fly. Huon detains her.]
Bianca. Unmanly villain, touch me not. What dost thou here concealed?
Huon. I listen to thy lover's fond and heartless vows. What is his love
to mine? Ah, lady, he loves thee for thy wealth alone. Again I ask, nay,
I implore thee to be mine! Oh, grant me now my prayer!
Bianca. Never! never! I will not listen to thee more. My heart is all
another's; my hatred and contempt are thine.
                                                         [Exit Bianca.
Huon. Now, by yon moon 'neath which thy tender vows were plighted, do I
swear to win thee, proud and haughty lady, to these arms. Thou shalt
curse the day when thou didst cast away my love, and wake my deep
revenge.
                                                           [Exit Huon.
                                CURTAIN.
                             SCENE SECOND.
            [A cave in the forest. Hilda leaning over a
                     boiling caldron. Enter Huon.]
Hilda. Ha! who art thou, and what wouldst thou with old Hilda? Speak,
and be obeyed.
Huon. O mighty wizard, I have sought thee for a charm to win a proud and
scornful woman's love,--some mystic potion that shall make her cold
heart burn for me. Ah, give me this, and gold uncounted shall be thine.
Hilda. I will give to thee a draught that shall chase her coldness and
her pride away, and make the heart now beating for another all thine
own. Hold! 'tis here,--three crimson drops when mingled in her wine,
will bring the boon thou askest [gives Huon a tiny phial].
Huon. Oh, blessed draught that wins for me the love I seek. Proud
Bianca, now art thou in my power, and shalt ere long return the love of
the once hated and despised Huon. Great sorceress, say how can I repay
thee? Fear not to claim thy just reward.
Hilda. I ask no gold. But when thy prize is won, remember thou old
Hilda's warning. Woman's heart is a fragile thing, and they who trifle
with it should beware. Now go; I would be alone.
Huon. Farewell! When my love and my revenge are won, I'll bless this
hour and Hilda's charm.
                                                           [Exit Huon.
Hilda. Poor fool! thou little thinkest thy love-charm is a deadly
draught, and they who quaff it die. When thou shalt seek thy lady,
hoping for her love, a dead bride thou wilt win. Ha! ha! old Hilda's
spells work silently and well.
                                CURTAIN.
                              SCENE THIRD.
               [Room in the castle of Bianca. Evening.
                             Enter Huon.]
Huon. How can I best give the draught that none may see the deed? Ha!
yonder comes her page, bearing wine. Now in her cup will I mingle these
enchanted drops, and she shall smile on me when next I plead my suit.
Ho, Juan, my boy! come hither; I would speak with thee. [Enter Juan
with wine.] Where is thy lady now?
Juan. At her lattice, watching for Lord Adelbert, and gazing on the
flowers he hath sent.
Huon [aside]. She shall never watch and wait for him again. [Aloud.]
Whence bearest thou the wine, Juan? Is it to thy lady?
Juan. Yes, my lord. She bid me haste. I must away.
Huon. Stay! clasp my sandal, boy; I will repay thee if thy mistress
chide. [Juan stoops; Huon drops the potion into the wine cup.]
Thanks; here is gold for thee. Away, and tell thy lady I will be here
anon.
                                                           [Exit Juan.
    Ha, ha! 'tis done! 'tis done!
    My vengeance now is won,
    And ere to-morrow's sun shall set,
    Thou, haughty lady, shalt forget
    The lover who now hastes to thee,
    And smile alone, alone on me.
                                                           [Exit Huon.
                                CURTAIN.
                             SCENE FOURTH.
                  [Bianca's castle. A moonlit balcony.
                            Enter Bianca.]
Bianca. He comes not. Yon bright moon will ere long set, and still I
hear not the dear voice 'neath my lattice singing. Adelbert! Ah, come!
Hist! I hear his light boat on the lake. 'Tis he! 'tis he! [Leans over
the balcony.]
                                  [Adelbert sings in the garden below.
    The moon is up, wake, lady, wake!
    My bark is moored on yonder lake.
    The stars' soft eyes alone can see
    My meeting, dear one, here with thee.
    Wake, dearest, wake! lean from thy bower,
    The moonlight gleams on tree and flower.
    The summer sky smiles soft above;
    Look down on me, thou star of love!
Bianca. Adelbert, dear love, now haste thee quickly up to me.
                                   [Enter Adelbert upon the balcony.
Adel. Sweet love, why fearest thou? None dare stay me when I fly to
thee. Ah, sit thee here, and I will rest beside thee. [Bianca seats
herself; Adelbert lies at her feet.]
Bianca. Thou art weary, love. I'll bring thee wine, and thou shalt rest
while I do sing to thee. [She gives him wine; he drinks.]
Adel. Thanks to thee, dearest love, I am weary now no longer. When here
beside thee, pain, sorrow, time are all forgot. Ah! what is this?--a
deadly pang hath seized me. All grows dark before mine eyes. I cannot
see thee. Yon cup,--'twas poisoned! I am dying, dying!
Bianca. Ah, nay, thou art faint! Speak not of dying, love. [Adelbert
falls.] Adelbert, Adelbert, speak!--speak! It is thine own Bianca
calls thee! [Throws herself beside him.]
Adel. Farewell, dear love, farewell! Huon hath won his vengeance now.
God bless thee, dearest. Oh, farewell! [Dies.]
Bianca. Awake! awake! All, cold and still! Thou true, brave heart, thou
art hushed forever. Huon! yes! 'twas he; and he hath sought to win me
thus. But 'tis in vain! Where is the poisoned cup that I may join thee,
Adelbert? [Takes the cup.] Ah, 'tis gone: there is no more. Yet I will
be with thee, my murdered love. For me life hath no joy, and I will find
thee even in death [falls fainting to the ground].
                                CURTAIN.
                              SCENE FIFTH.
                           [Bianca's castle.
                    The garden. Bianca singing.]
    Faded flowers, faded flowers,
      They are all now left to cherish;
    For the hopes and joys of my young life's spring
      I have seen so darkly perish.
    Cold, ah, cold, in the lone, dark grave,
      My murdered love lies low,
    And death alone can bring sure rest
      To this broken heart's deep woe.
    Faded flowers, faded flowers,
      They are all now left to cherish;
    For ah, his dear hand gathered them,
      And my love can never perish.
                                                               [Weeps.
                                 [Enter Huon and kneels at her feet.
Bianca [starting up]. Fiend! demon! touch me not with hands that
murdered him! Hence! out of my sight,--away!
Huon. Nay, lady, nay! I swear by Heaven it was not I. The spell I
mingled in thy cup was but to win thy love. The old witch hath deceived
me, and given that deadly poison. Forgive me, I implore thee, and here
let me offer thee my love once more.
Bianca [repulsing him]. Love! darest thou to speak of love to me,
whose bright dream of life thou hast destroyed? Love! I who loathe,
scorn, hate thee with a deep and burning hate that death alone can
still! Oh, Heaven, have mercy on my tortured heart, and let it break.
Huon [aside]. His death hath well-nigh driven her mad. Dear lady,
grieve not thus. Let me console thee. Forget thy love, and seek in mine
the joy thou hast lost.
Bianca. Forget! Ah, never, never, till in death I join him! Forgive
thee? Not till I have told thy crime. Yes, think not I will rest till
thou, my murdered Adelbert, art well avenged. And thou!--ah, sinful
man, tremble, for thou art in my power, and my wronged heart can feel no
pity now.
Huon [fiercely]. Wouldst thou betray me? Never! Yield thou to my love,
or I will sheathe my dagger in thy heart, and silence thee forever!
Bianca. I will not yield. The world shall know thy guilt, and then sweet
death shall be a blessing.
Huon. Then die, and free me from the love and fear that hang like clouds
above me [stabs her].
Bianca. Thy sin will yet be known, and may God pardon thee! O earth,
farewell! My Adelbert, I come, I come! [Dies.]
Huon. Dead! dead! Oh, wretched Huon! Where now seek rest from bitter
memories and remorse. Ha, a step! I must fly. Angel, fare thee well!
                                                           [Exit Huon.
                                CURTAIN.
                              SCENE SIXTH.
               [Huon's room. Huon asleep upon a couch.
               Enter Bianca's spirit. She lays her hand
                              upon him.]
Huon [starting in affright]. Ha! spirit of the dead, what wouldst thou
now? For long, long nights why hast thou haunted me? Cannot my agony,
remorse, and tears win thee to forget? Ah, touch me not! Away! away! See
how the vision follows. It holds me fast. Bianca, save me! save me!
[Falls and dies.]
                                                             [Tableau.
                                CURTAIN.
                           THE UNLOVED WIFE;
                                  OR,
                             WOMAN'S FAITH.
                              CHARACTERS.
    Count Adrian   .   .   .   .   .    Nina's Husband.
    Don Felix  .   .   .   .   .   .    His Secret Rival.
    Nina   .   .   .   .   .   .   .    The Unloved Wife.
    Hagar  .   .   .   .   .   .   .    A Fortune Teller.
                           THE UNLOVED WIFE;
                                  OR,
                             WOMAN'S FAITH.
                              SCENE FIRST.
                 [Room in the palace of Count Adrian.
                             Enter Nina.]
Nina. 'Tis a fair and lovely home and well befits a gay young bride; but
ah, not if she bear a sad and weary heart like mine beneath her bridal
robes. All smile on me and call me happy, blessed with such a home and
husband; and yet 'mid all my splendor I could envy the poor cottage
maiden at her spinning-wheel. For ah, 'mid all her poverty one sweet
thought comes ever like a sunny sky to brighten e'en her darkest hours,
for she is loved; while I yet sigh in vain for one kind word, one
tender glance, from him I love so fondly. Ah, he comes, no sad tears
now, sorrow is for my lonely hours and I will smile on him e'en though
my heart is breaking.
                                                  [Enter Count Adrian.
Adrian [coldly]. Good-even, madam, I trust all things are placed
befitting a fair lady's bower and thou hast found thy home a pleasant
one.
Nina. Adrian, husband, speak not thus to me. I could find more joy in
some poor cell with thee, than all the wealth that kings could give if
thou wert gone. Look kindly on me and I ask no more. One smile from thee
can brighten all the world to these fond eyes. Oh, turn not away, but
tell me how have I angered thee, and grant thy pardon for thy young
wife's first offence.
Adrian. The pardon I could give were worthless for the time is past.
'Tis too late to ask forgiveness now. It matters not, then say no more
[turns away].
Nina. My lord, I charge thee tell me of what dark crime thou dost think
me guilty! Fear not to tell me; innocence is strong to bear and happy to
forgive. Ah, leave me not, I cannot rest till I know all, and if the
deep devotion of a woman's heart can still repair the wrong, it shall be
thine--but answer me.
Adrian. Canst thou unsay the solemn words that bound us at the altar
three short days ago? Canst thou give back the freedom thou hast taken,
break the vows thou hast plighted, cast away that ring and tell me I am
free? Do it, and my full forgiveness shall be thine.
Nina. Give thee back thy freedom; am I a chain to bind thee to what thou
dost not love? Take back the vows I made to honor thee; what dost thou
mean? I am thy wife and dost thou hate me?
Adrian. I do.
Nina. God help me now. Tell me, Adrian, I implore thee, tell me what
have I done to tempt such cruel words from thee? I loved thee and left
all to be thy wife, and now when my poor heart is longing for one tender
word to cheer its sorrow, thou, the husband who hath vowed to love and
cherish me, hath said thou dost hate me. Ah, am I sleeping? Wake me or
the dream will drive me mad.
Adrian. 'Tis a dream I cannot banish. We must part.
Nina. Part--go on, the blow hath fallen, I can feel no more. Go on.
Adrian. Thou knowest I wooed thee. Thou wert fair and wondrous rich; I
sought thy gold, not thee, for with thy wealth I would carve out a
path through life that all should honor. Well, we were wed, and when I
sought to take thy fortune it was gone, and not to me, but to thy
father's friend, Don Felix. It was all left to him, and thou wert
penniless; and thus I won a wife I loved not, and lost the gold I would
have died to gain. Thinkest thou not I am well angered? But for thee I
might yet win a noble bride whose golden fetters I would gladly wear.
Nina. And this is he to whom I gave my heart so filled with boundless
love and trust. Oh, Adrian, art thou so false? What is gold to a woman's
deathless love? Can it buy thee peace and all the holy feelings human
hearts can give? Can it cheer and comfort thee in sorrow, or weep fond,
happy tears when thou hast won the joy and honor thou dost seek? No,
none of these, the golden chains will bind thee fast till no sweet
thought, no tender hope can come to thee. I plead not now for my poor
self, but for thine own heart thou doth wrong so cruelly by such vain
dreams.
Adrian. Enough. Thou hast a noble name and men will honor thee, thou
wilt suffer neither pain nor want. I will leave thee and wander forth to
seek mine own sad lot. Farewell, and when they ask thee for thy husband,
tell them thou hast none, and so be happy [turns to go].
Nina. Oh, Adrian, I implore thee stay. I will bear all thy coldness, ay
even thy contempt. I will toil for thee and seek to win the gold for
which thou dost sigh, I will serve thee well and truly, for with all my
heart I love thee still. Leave me not now or I shall die! [Kneels and
clasps his hand.]
Adrian. I am a slave till death shall set me free. We shall not meet
again. Nay, kneel not to me. I do forgive thee, but I cannot love thee
[rushes out].
Nina. This is more than I can bear. Oh, Father, take thy poor child
home, and still the sorrow of this broken heart.
                                CURTAIN.
                             SCENE SECOND.
                     [Home of Hagar, the gypsy.
                     Enter Hagar and Nina.]
Hagar. What brings thee hither, gentle lady, and how can the wanderer
serve the high-born and the fair?
Nina [sadly]. There is often deeper sorrow in the palace than the cot,
good Hagar, and I seek thee for some counsel that will cure the pain of
a lonely heart. I have tried all others' skill in vain, and come to thee
so learned in mystic lore to give me help. I am rich and can repay thee
well.
Hagar. I can read a sad tale in thy pale and gentle face, dear lady.
Thou art young and loving, but the hope of youth is gone; and thou art
sorrowing with no fond heart whereon to lean, no tender voice to comfort
and to cheer. Ah, have I read aright? Then the only charm to still thy
pain is death.
Nina. 'Tis death I long for. That still, dreamless sleep would bring me
peace. But 'tis a fearful thing to take the life God gave, and I dare
not. Canst thou not give me help?
Hagar. Within this tiny casket there is that which brings a quiet sleep
filled with happy dreams, and they who drink the draught lie down and
slumber, and if not awakened it will end in death. But thou, sweet lady,
wouldst not leave this fair world yet. Tell me more, for this old heart
is warm and tender still, and perchance I can help thee.
Nina. 'Tis strange that I can feel such faith in thee, kind friend, but
I am young and lonely and I seek some heart for counsel. Thou art from
my own fair land and I will tell thee of my sorrow. 'Tis a short, sad
tale. I loved, was wed, and then--oh, darksome day--I learned my husband
felt no love, and sought me only for my gold. I was penniless, and thus
he cast me off; and now for long, long weeks I have not seen him, for he
would not dwell with her who loved him more than life itself. Now give
me some sweet charm to win that lost heart back. Ah, Hagar, help me.
Hagar. I can give thee no truer charm than that fair face and noble
soul, dear lady. Be thou but firm and faithful in thy love and it will
win thy husband back. God bless and grant all happiness to one who doth
so truly need it.
Nina. Give me the casket; and when life hath grown too bitter to be
borne then will I gladly lay the burden down, and blessing him I love so
well sleep that calm slumber that knows no awaking. Farewell, Hagar,
thou hast given me comfort and I thank thee.
                                                           [Exit Nina.
                                CURTAIN.
                              SCENE THIRD.
              [One year is supposed to have elapsed. A
              room in the palace of Nina. Enter Adrian
                             disguised.]
Adrian. Here last I saw her one long year ago. How the wild, sweet voice
still rings in my ear imploring me to stay. I can find no rest save
here; and thus do I seek my home, worn out by my long wandering, and
trusting to learn tidings of poor Nina. If she be true and love me still
I will cast away my pride, my coldness, and all vain hopes of wealth,
and let the sunlight of that pure, young life brighten my life
henceforth. I hear a step, and will hide here, perchance I may thus see
her [hides behind curtain].
                                                          [Enter Nina.
Nina. No rest for thee poor heart, ever whispering that dear name, ever
sorrowing for those hard words that gave so deep a wound. All is dark
and lonely, for he is gone. Only these withered flowers, dearer by far
than my most costly gems, for his hand hath touched them, and he smiled
on me when they were given. Oh, Adrian, wilt thou never give one tender
thought to her who still loves and prays for thee? Death will soon free
thee from thy hated wife.
                                                           [Exit Nina.
Adrian [stealing forth]. And this is she, whose pure young love I have
cast away, the fond, trusting bride I left alone and friendless. She
still loves on, and offers up her prayers for one who sought to break
that tender heart so cruelly. I will watch well and guard thee, Nina;
and if thou art truly mine thou shalt find a happy home with him thy
patient love hath won.
                                     [Exit Adrian and re-enter Nina.
Nina [with Adrian's picture]. Ah, these cold eyes smile kindly on me
here, and the lips seem speaking tender words. Other faces are
perchance more fair, but none so dear to me. Oh, husband, thou hast cast
me off; and yet, though lonely and forsaken, I still can cherish loving
thoughts of thee, and round thy image gather all the tender feelings
that a woman's heart can know. Thy cruel words I can forgive, and the
trusting love I gave thee glows as warmly now as when thou didst cast it
by and left me broken-hearted [weeps; enter Don Felix]. My lord,
what seekest thou with me? Thou dost smile. Ah, hast thou tidings of my
husband? Tell me quickly, I beseech thee.
Don Felix. Nay, dear lady--But sit thee down and let me tell thee why I
came. [He leads her to a sofa.] Thou knowest I have been with thee
from a child. I stood beside thee at the altar, and was the first to
cheer and comfort thee when thou wast left deserted and alone. Let me
now ask thee, Wouldst thou not gladly change thy sad lot here for a gay
and joyous life with one who loves thee fondly?
Nina. It were indeed a happy lot to be so loved and cherished; but
where, alas, is he who could thus feel for one so lonely and forsaken?
Don Felix [kneeling]. Here at thy feet, dear Nina. Nay, do not turn
away, but let me tell thee of the love that hath grown within my heart.
[Nina starts up.] Thy wedded lord hath cast thee off. The law can free
thee. Ah, then be mine, and let me win and wear the lovely flower which
he hath cast away.
Nina. Lord Felix, as the wife of him thou dost so wrong, I answer thee.
Dost thou not know the more a woman's heart is crushed and wounded the
more tenderly it clings where first it loved; and though deserted, ay,
though hated, I had rather be the slighted wife of him, than the honored
bride of the false Costella. Now leave me--I would be alone.
Don Felix. A time will come, proud woman, when thou shalt bend the knee
to him whom now thou dost so scorn. Beware, for I will have a fierce
revenge for the proud words thou hast spoken.
Nina. I am strong in mine own heart and fear thee not. Work thy will and
thou shalt find the wife of Adrian de Mortemar needs no protector save
her own fearless hand.
                                                           [Exit Nina.
Don Felix. Now, by my faith, thou shalt bow that haughty head, and sue
to me for mercy, and I will deny it. I'll win her yet, she shall not
idly brave my anger. Now to my work,--revenge.
                                                      [Exit Don Felix.
                                CURTAIN.
                             SCENE FOURTH.
                    [Apartment in palace of Nina.
                             Nina alone.]
Nina. Ever thus alone, mourning for him who loves me not; was ever heart
so sad as mine. Oh, Adrian, couldst thou but return even for one short
hour to thy poor Nina. [Enter Adrian, disguised.] Ha, who art thou
that dares to enter here in such mysterious guise? Thine errand,
quickly,--speak.
Adrian. Forgive me, lady, if I cause thee fear; I would have thee know
me as a friend, one who will watch above thee, and seek to spare thee
every sorrow. Dear lady, think me not too bold, for I have known thee
long and have a right to all thy confidence. Thy husband was my nearest
friend; and, when he left thee friendless and alone, I vowed to guard
and save thee in all peril. Wilt thou trust me? See, I bear his
ring,--thou knowest it?
Nina. 'Tis indeed his ring. Whence came it? Ah, hast thou seen him? Tell
me, and I will give thee all my confidence and thanks [takes the ring
and gazes beseechingly upon Adrian, who turns aside].
Adrian. He is well, lady, and happy as one can be who bears a cold,
proud heart within his breast. He has cast away an angel who could have
cheered and blessed his life, and sought to find in gold the happiness
thy love alone could bring. He has suffered, as he well deserves to do.
Spend not thy pity upon him.
Nina [proudly]. And who art thou to speak thus of him? Thou canst not
judge till thou also hast been tried and like him deceived. He sought
for wealth to bring him fame and honor; and when he found it not, what
