frame dwellings whose whitewashed exteriors were almost concealed from
sight by climbing tangles of rose-vines, honeysuckles, and
morning-glories. Each of these pretty homes had a garden in front fenced
with white palings and opulently stocked with hollyhocks, marigolds,
touch-me-nots, prince's-feathers and other old-fashioned flowers; while
on the window-sills of the houses stood wooden boxes containing
moss-rose plants and terra-cotta pots in which grew a breed of geranium
whose spread of intensely red blossoms accented the prevailing pink tint
of the rose-clad house-front like an explosion of flame. When there was
room on the ledge outside of the pots and boxes for a cat, the cat was
there--in sunny weather--stretched at full length, asleep and blissful,
with her furry belly to the sun and a paw curved over her nose. Then
that house was complete, and its contentment and peace were made
manifest to the world by this symbol, whose testimony is infallible. A
home without a cat--and a well-fed, well-petted and properly revered
cat--may be a perfect home, perhaps, but how can it prove title?
All along the streets, on both sides, at the outer edge of the brick
sidewalks, stood locust-trees with trunks protected by wooden boxing,
and these furnished shade for summer and a sweet fragrance in spring
when the clusters of buds came forth. The main street, one block back
from the river, and running parallel with it, was the sole business
street. It was six blocks long, and in each block two or three brick
stores three stories high towered above interjected bunches of little
frame shops. Swinging signs creaked in the wind, the street's whole
length. The candy-striped pole which indicates nobility proud and
ancient along the palace-bordered canals of Venice, indicated merely the
humble barber shop along the main street of Dawson's Landing. On a chief
corner stood a lofty unpainted pole wreathed from top to bottom with tin
pots and pans and cups, the chief tinmonger's noisy notice to the world
(when the wind blew) that his shop was on hand for business at that
corner.
The hamlet's front was washed by the clear waters of the great river;
its body stretched itself rearward up a gentle incline; its most
rearward border fringed itself out and scattered its houses about the
base-line of the hills; the hills rose high, inclosing the town in a
half-moon curve, clothed with forests from foot to summit.
Steamboats passed up and down every hour or so. Those belonging to the
little Cairo line and the little Memphis line always stopped; the big
Orleans liners stopped for hails only, or to land passengers or freight;
and this was the case also with the great flotilla of "transients."
These latter came out of a dozen rivers--the Illinois, the Missouri, the
Upper Mississippi, the Ohio, the Monongahela, the Tennessee, the Red
River, the White River, and so on; and were bound every whither and
stocked with every imaginable comfort or necessity which the
Mississippi's communities could want, from the frosty Falls of St.
Anthony down through nine climates to torrid New Orleans.
Dawson's Landing was a slaveholding town, with a rich slave-worked grain
and pork country back of it. The town was sleepy and comfortable and
contented. It was fifty years old, and was growing slowly--very slowly,
in fact, but still it was growing.
The chief citizen was York Leicester Driscoll, about forty years old,
judge of the county court. He was very proud of his old Virginian
ancestry, and in his hospitalities and his rather formal and stately
manners he kept up its traditions. He was fine and just and generous. To
be a gentleman--a gentleman without stain or blemish--was his only
religion, and to it he was always faithful. He was respected, esteemed
and beloved by all the community. He was well off, and was gradually
adding to his store. He and his wife were very nearly happy, but not
quite, for they had no children. The longing for the treasure of a child
had grown stronger and stronger as the years slipped away, but the
blessing never came--and was never to come.
With this pair lived the Judge's widowed sister, Mrs. Rachel Pratt, and
she also was childless--childless, and sorrowful for that reason, and
not to be comforted. The women were good and commonplace people, and did
their duty and had their reward in clear consciences and the community's
approbation. They were Presbyterians, the Judge was a free-thinker.
Pembroke Howard, lawyer and bachelor, aged about forty, was another old
Virginian grandee with proved descent from the First Families. He was a
fine, brave, majestic creature, a gentleman according to the nicest
requirements of the Virginia rule, a devoted Presbyterian, an authority
on the "code," and a man always courteously ready to stand up before you
in the field if any act or word of his had seemed doubtful or suspicious
to you, and explain it with any weapon you might prefer from brad-awls
to artillery. He was very popular with the people, and was the Judge's
dearest friend.
Then there was Colonel Cecil Burleigh Essex, another F. F. V. of
formidable caliber--however, with him we have no concern.
Percy Northumberland Driscoll, brother to the Judge, and younger than he
by five years, was a married man, and had had children around his
hearthstone; but they were attacked in detail by measles, croup and
scarlet fever, and this had given the doctor a chance with his effective
antediluvian methods; so the cradles were empty. He was a prosperous
man, with a good head for speculations, and his fortune was growing. On
the 1st of February, 1830, two boy babes were born in his house: one to
him, the other to one of his slave girls, Roxana by name. Roxana was
twenty years old. She was up and around the same day, with her hands
full, for she was tending both babies.
Mrs. Percy Driscoll died within the week. Roxy remained in charge of the
children. She had her own way, for Mr. Driscoll soon absorbed himself in
his speculations and left her to her own devices.
In that same month of February, Dawson's Landing gained a new citizen.
This was Mr. David Wilson, a young fellow of Scotch parentage. He had
wandered to this remote region from his birthplace in the interior of
the State of New York, to seek his fortune. He was twenty-five years
old, college-bred, and had finished a post-college course in an Eastern
law school a couple of years before.
He was a homely, freckled, sandy-haired young fellow, with an
intelligent blue eye that had frankness and comradeship in it and a
covert twinkle of a pleasant sort. But for an unfortunate remark of his,
he would no doubt have entered at once upon a successful career at
Dawson's Landing. But he made his fatal remark the first day he spent in
the village, and it "gaged" him. He had just made the acquaintance of a
group of citizens when an invisible dog began to yelp and snarl and howl
and make himself very comprehensively disagreeable, whereupon young
Wilson said, much as one who is thinking aloud--
"I wish I owned half of that dog."
"Why?" somebody asked.
"Because I would kill my half."
The group searched his face with curiosity, with anxiety even, but found
no light there, no expression that they could read. They fell away from
him as from something uncanny, and went into privacy to discuss him. One
said:
"'Pears to be a fool."
"'Pears?" said another. "Is, I reckon you better say."
"Said he wished he owned half of the dog, the idiot," said a third.
"What did he reckon would become of the other half if he killed his
half? Do you reckon he thought it would live?"
"Why, he must have thought it, unless he is the downrightest fool in the
world; because if he hadn't thought it, he would have wanted to own the
whole dog, knowing that if he killed his half and the other half died,
he would be responsible for that half just the same as if he had killed
that half instead of his own. Don't it look that way to you, gents?"
"Yes, it does. If he owned one half of the general dog, it would be so;
if he owned one end of the dog and another person owned the other end,
it would be so, just the same; particularly in the first case, because
if you kill one half of a general dog, there ain't any man that can tell
whose half it was, but if he owned one end of the dog, maybe he could
kill his end of it and--"
"No, he couldn't either; he couldn't and not be responsible if the other
end died, which it would. In my opinion that man ain't in his right
mind."
"In my opinion he hain't got any mind."
No. 3 said: "Well, he's a lummox, anyway."
"That's what he is," said No. 4, "he's a labrick--just a Simon-pure
labrick, if ever there was one."
"Yes, sir, he's a dam fool, that's the way I put him up," said No. 5.
"Anybody can think different that wants to, but those are my
sentiments."
"I'm with you, gentlemen," said No. 6. "Perfect jackass--yes, and it
ain't going too far to say he is a pudd'nhead. If he ain't a pudd'nhead,
I ain't no judge, that's all."
Mr. Wilson stood elected. The incident was told all over the town, and
gravely discussed by everybody. Within a week he had lost his first
name; Pudd'nhead took its place. In time he came to be liked, and well
liked too; but by that time the nickname had got well stuck on, and it
stayed. That first day's verdict made him a fool, and he was not able to
get it set aside, or even modified. The nickname soon ceased to carry
any harsh or unfriendly feeling with it, but it held its place, and was
to continue to hold its place for twenty long years.
CHAPTER II.
Driscoll Spares His Slaves.
Adam was but human--this explains it all. He did not want the apple for
the apple's sake, he wanted it only because it was forbidden. The
mistake was in not forbidding the serpent; then he would have eaten the
serpent.--Pudd'nhead Wilson's Calendar.
Pudd'nhead Wilson had a trifle of money when he arrived, and he bought a
small house on the extreme western verge of the town. Between it and
Judge Driscoll's house there was only a grassy yard, with a paling fence
dividing the properties in the middle. He hired a small office down in
the town and hung out a tin sign with these words on it:
DAVID WILSON.
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELOR-AT-LAW.
SURVEYING, CONVEYANCING, ETC.
But his deadly remark had ruined his chance--at least in the law. No
clients came. He took down his sign, after a while, and put it up on his
own house with the law features knocked out of it. It offered his
services now in the humble capacities of land-surveyor and expert
accountant. Now and then he got a job of surveying to do, and now and
then a merchant got him to straighten out his books. With Scotch
patience and pluck he resolved to live down his reputation and work his
way into the legal field yet. Poor fellow, he could not foresee that it
was going to take him such a weary long time to do it.
He had a rich abundance of idle time, but it never hung heavy on his
hands, for he interested himself in every new thing that was born into
the universe of ideas, and studied it and experimented upon it at his
house. One of his pet fads was palmistry. To another one he gave no
name, neither would he explain to anybody what its purpose was, but
merely said it was an amusement. In fact he had found that his fads
added to his reputation as a pudd'nhead; therefore he was growing chary
of being too communicative about them. The fad without a name was one
which dealt with people's finger-marks. He carried in his coat pocket a
shallow box with grooves in it, and in the grooves strips of glass five
inches long and three inches wide. Along the lower edge of each strip
was pasted a slip of white paper. He asked people to pass their hands
through their hair (thus collecting upon them a thin coating of the
natural oil) and then make a thumb-mark on a glass strip, following it
with the mark of the ball of each finger in succession. Under this row
of faint grease-prints he would write a record on the strip of white
paper--thus:
John Smith, right hand--
and add the day of the month and the year, then take Smith's left hand
on another glass strip, and add name and date and the words "left hand."
The strips were now returned to the grooved box, and took their place
among what Wilson called his "records."
He often studied his records, examining and poring over them with
absorbing interest until far into the night; but what he found there--if
he found anything--he revealed to no one. Sometimes he copied on paper
the involved and delicate pattern left by the ball of a finger, and then
vastly enlarged it with a pantograph so that he could examine its web of
curving lines with ease and convenience.
One sweltering afternoon--it was the first day of July, 1830--he was at
work over a set of tangled account-books in his work-room, which looked
westward over a stretch of vacant lots, when a conversation outside
disturbed him. It was carried on in yells, which showed that the people
engaged in it were not close together:
"Say, Roxy, how does yo' baby come on?" This from the distant voice.
"Fust-rate; how does you come on, Jasper?" This yell was from close by.
"Oh, I's middlin'; hain't got noth'n' to complain of. I's gwine to come
a-court'n' you bimeby, Roxy."
"You is, you black mud-cat! Yah--yah--yah! I got somep'n' better to do
den 'sociat'n' wid niggers as black as you is. Is ole Miss Cooper's
Nancy done give you de mitten?" Roxy followed this sally with another
discharge of care-free laughter.
"You's jealous, Roxy, dat's what's de matter wid you, you
hussy--yah--yah--yah! Dat's de time I got you!"
"Oh, yes, you got me, hain't you. 'Clah to goodness if dat conceit o'
yo'n strikes in, Jasper, it gwine to kill you sho'. If you b'longed to
me I'd sell you down de river 'fo' you git too fur gone. Fust time I
runs acrost yo' marster, I's gwine to tell him so."
This idle and aimless jabber went on and on, both parties enjoying the
friendly duel and each well satisfied with his own share of the wit
exchanged--for wit they considered it.
Wilson stepped to the window to observe the combatants; he could not
work while their chatter continued. Over in the vacant lots was Jasper,
young, coal-black and of magnificent build, sitting on a wheelbarrow in
the pelting sun--at work, supposably, whereas he was in fact only
preparing for it by taking an hour's rest before beginning. In front of
Wilson's porch stood Roxy, with a local hand-made baby-wagon, in which
sat her two charges--one at each end and facing each other. From Roxy's
manner of speech, a stranger would have expected her to be black, but
she was not. Only one sixteenth of her was black, and that sixteenth did
not show. She was of majestic form and stature, her attitudes were
imposing and statuesque, and her gestures and movements distinguished by
a noble and stately grace. Her complexion was very fair, with the rosy
glow of vigorous health in the cheeks, her face was full of character
and expression, her eyes were brown and liquid, and she had a heavy suit
of fine soft hair which was also brown, but the fact was not apparent
because her head was bound about with a checkered handkerchief and the
hair was concealed under it. Her face was shapely, intelligent and
comely--even beautiful. She had an easy, independent carriage--when she
was among her own caste--and a high and "sassy" way, withal; but of
course she was meek and humble enough where white people were.
To all intents and purposes Roxy was as white as anybody, but the one
sixteenth of her which was black outvoted the other fifteen parts and
made her a negro. She was a slave, and salable as such. Her child was
thirty-one parts white, and he, too, was a slave, and by a fiction of
law and custom a negro. He had blue eyes and flaxen curls like his white
comrade, but even the father of the white child was able to tell the
children apart--little as he had commerce with them--by their clothes:
for the white babe wore ruffled soft muslin and a coral necklace, while
the other wore merely a coarse tow-linen shirt which barely reached to
its knees, and no jewelry.
The white child's name was Thomas à Becket Driscoll, the other's name
was Valet de Chambre: no surname--slaves hadn't the privilege. Roxana
had heard that phrase somewhere, the fine sound of it had pleased her
ear, and as she had supposed it was a name, she loaded it on to her
darling. It soon got shorted to "Chambers," of course.
Wilson knew Roxy by sight, and when the duel of wit began to play out,
he stepped outside to gather in a record or two. Jasper went to work
energetically, at once, perceiving that his leisure was observed. Wilson
inspected the children and asked--
"How old are they, Roxy?"
"Bofe de same age, sir--five months. Bawn de fust o' Feb'uary."
"They're handsome little chaps. One's just as handsome as the other,
too."
A delighted smile exposed the girl's white teeth, and she said:
"Bless yo' soul, Misto Wilson, it's pow'ful nice o' you to say dat,
'ca'se one of 'em ain't on'y a nigger. Mighty prime little nigger, I
al'ays says, but dat's 'ca'se it's mine, o' course."
"How do you tell them apart, Roxy, when they haven't any clothes on?"
Roxy laughed a laugh proportioned to her size, and said:
"Oh, I kin tell 'em 'part, Misto Wilson, but I bet Marse Percy couldn't,
not to save his life."
Wilson chatted along for awhile, and presently got Roxy's finger-prints
for his collection--right hand and left--on a couple of his glass
strips; then labeled and dated them, and took the "records" of both
children, and labeled and dated them also.
Two months later, on the 3d of September, he took this trio of
finger-marks again. He liked to have a "series," two or three "takings"
at intervals during the period of childhood, these to be followed by
others at intervals of several years.
The next day--that is to say, on the 4th of September--something
occurred which profoundly impressed Roxana. Mr. Driscoll missed another
small sum of money--which is a way of saying that this was not a new
thing, but had happened before. In truth it had happened three times
before. Driscoll's patience was exhausted. He was a fairly humane man
toward slaves and other animals; he was an exceedingly humane man toward
the erring of his own race. Theft he could not abide, and plainly there
was a thief in his house. Necessarily the thief must be one of his
negroes. Sharp measures must be taken. He called his servants before
him. There were three of these, besides Roxy: a man, a woman, and a boy
twelve years old. They were not related. Mr. Driscoll said:
"You have all been warned before. It has done no good. This time I will
teach you a lesson. I will sell the thief. Which of you is the guilty
one?"
They all shuddered at the threat, for here they had a good home, and a
new one was likely to be a change for the worse. The denial was general.
None had stolen anything--not money, anyway--a little sugar, or cake, or
honey, or something like that, that "Marse Percy wouldn't mind or miss,"
but not money--never a cent of money. They were eloquent in their
protestations, but Mr. Driscoll was not moved by them. He answered each
in turn with a stern "Name the thief!"
The truth was, all were guilty but Roxana; she suspected that the others
were guilty, but she did not know them to be so. She was horrified to
think how near she had come to being guilty herself; she had been saved
in the nick of time by a revival in the colored Methodist Church, a
fortnight before, at which time and place she "got religion." The very
next day after that gracious experience, while her change of style was
fresh upon her and she was vain of her purified condition, her master
left a couple dollars lying unprotected on his desk, and she happened
upon that temptation when she was polishing around with a dust-rag. She
looked at the money awhile with a steady rising resentment, then she
burst out with--
"Dad blame dat revival, I wisht it had 'a' be'n put off till to-morrow!"
Then she covered the tempter with a book, and another member of the
kitchen cabinet got it. She made this sacrifice as a matter of religious
etiquette; as a thing necessary just now, but by no means to be wrested
into a precedent; no, a week or two would limber up her piety, then she
would be rational again, and the next two dollars that got left out in
the cold would find a comforter--and she could name the comforter.
Was she bad? Was she worse than the general run of her race? No. They
had an unfair show in the battle of life, and they held it no sin to
take military advantage of the enemy--in a small way; in a small way,
but not in a large one. They would smouch provisions from the pantry
whenever they got a chance; or a brass thimble, or a cake of wax, or an
emery-bag, or a paper of needles, or a silver spoon, or a dollar bill,
or small articles of clothing, or any other property of light value; and
so far were they from considering such reprisals sinful, that they would
go to church and shout and pray the loudest and sincerest with their
plunder in their pockets. A farm smoke-house had to be kept heavily
padlocked, for even the colored deacon himself could not resist a ham
when Providence showed him in a dream, or otherwise, where such a thing
hung lonesome and longed for some one to love. But with a hundred
hanging before him the deacon would not take two--that is, on the same
night. On frosty nights the humane negro prowler would warm the end of a
plank and put it up under the cold claws of chickens roosting in a tree;
a drowsy hen would step on to the comfortable board, softly clucking her
gratitude, and the prowler would dump her into his bag, and later into
his stomach, perfectly sure that in taking this trifle from the man who
daily robbed him of an inestimable treasure--his liberty--he was not
committing any sin that God would remember against him in the Last Great
Day.
"Name the thief!"
For the fourth time Mr. Driscoll had said it, and always in the same
hard tone. And now he added these words of awful import:
"I give you one minute"--he took out his watch. "If at the end of that
time you have not confessed, I will not only sell all four of you,
but--I will sell you down the river!"
It was equivalent to condemning them to hell! No Missouri negro doubted
this. Roxy reeled in her tracks and the color vanished out of her face;
the others dropped to their knees as if they had been shot; tears gushed
from their eyes, their supplicating hands went up, and three answers
came in the one instant:
"I done it!"
"I done it!"
"I done it!--have mercy, marster--Lord have mercy on us po' niggers!"
"Very good," said the master, putting up his watch, "I will sell you
here though you don't deserve it. You ought to be sold down the river."
The culprits flung themselves prone, in an ecstasy of gratitude, and
kissed his feet, declaring that they would never forget his goodness and
never cease to pray for him as long as they lived. They were sincere,
for like a god he had stretched forth his mighty hand and closed the
gates of hell against them. He knew, himself, that he had done a noble
and gracious thing, and was privately well pleased with his magnanimity;
and that night he set the incident down in his diary, so that his son
might read it in after years, and be thereby moved to deeds of
gentleness and humanity himself.
CHAPTER III.
Roxy Plays a Shrewd Trick.
Whoever has lived long enough to find out what life is, knows how deep a
debt of gratitude we owe to Adam, the first great benefactor of our
race. He brought death into the world.--Pudd'nhead Wilson's Calendar.
Percy Driscoll slept well the night he saved his house-minions from
going down the river, but no wink of sleep visited Roxy's eyes. A
profound terror had taken possession of her. Her child could grow up and
be sold down the river! The thought crazed her with horror. If she dozed
and lost herself for a moment, the next moment she was on her feet
flying to her child's cradle to see if it was still there. Then she
would gather it to her heart and pour out her love upon it in a frenzy
of kisses, moaning, crying, and saying, "Dey sha'n't, oh, dey
sha'n't!--yo' po' mammy will kill you fust!"
Once, when she was tucking it back in its cradle again, the other child
nestled in its sleep and attracted her attention. She went and stood
over it a long time communing with herself:
"What has my po' baby done, dat he couldn't have yo' luck? He hain't
done noth'n'. God was good to you; why warn't he good to him? Dey can't
sell you down de river. I hates yo' pappy; he hain't got no heart--for
niggers he hain't, anyways. I hates him, en I could kill him!" She
paused awhile, thinking; then she burst into wild sobbings again, and
turned away, saying, "Oh, I got to kill my chile, dey ain't no yuther
way,--killin' him wouldn't save de chile fum goin' down de river. Oh, I
got to do it, yo' po' mammy's got to kill you to save you, honey"--she
gathered her baby to her bosom, now, and began to smother it with
caresses--"Mammy's got to kill you--how kin I do it! But yo' mammy ain't
gwine to desert you--no, no; dah, don't cry--she gwine wid you, she
gwine to kill herself too. Come along, honey, come along wid mammy; we
gwine to jump in de river, den de troubles o' dis worl' is all over--dey
don't sell po' niggers down the river over yonder."
She started toward the door, crooning to the child and hushing it;
midway she stopped, suddenly. She had caught sight of her new Sunday
gown--a cheap curtain-calico thing, a conflagration of gaudy colors and
fantastic figures. She surveyed it wistfully, longingly.
"Hain't ever wore it yet," she said, "en it's jist lovely." Then she
nodded her head in response to a pleasant idea, and added, "No, I ain't
gwine to be fished out, wid everybody lookin' at me, in dis mis'able ole
linsey-woolsey."
She put down the child and made the change. She looked in the glass and
was astonished at her beauty. She resolved to make her death-toilet
perfect. She took off her handkerchief-turban and dressed her glossy
wealth of hair "like white folks"; she added some odds and ends of
rather lurid ribbon and a spray of atrocious artificial flowers; finally
she threw over her shoulders a fluffy thing called a "cloud" in that
day, which was of a blazing red complexion. Then she was ready for the
tomb.
She gathered up her baby once more; but when her eye fell upon its
miserably short little gray tow-linen shirt and noted the contrast
between its pauper shabbiness and her own volcanic irruption of infernal
splendors, her mother-heart was touched, and she was ashamed.
"No, dolling, mammy ain't gwine to treat you so. De angels is gwine to
'mire you jist as much as dey does yo' mammy. Ain't gwine to have 'em
putt'n' dey han's up 'fo' dey eyes en sayin' to David en Goliah en dem
yuther prophets, 'Dat chile is dress' too indelicate fo' dis place.'"
By this time she had stripped off the shirt. Now she clothed the naked
little creature in one of Thomas à Becket's snowy long baby-gowns, with
its bright blue bows and dainty flummery of ruffles.
"Dah--now you's fixed." She propped the child in a chair and stood off
to inspect it. Straightway her eyes began to widen with astonishment and
admiration, and she clapped her hands and cried out, "Why, it do beat
all!--I never knowed you was so lovely. Marse Tommy ain't a bit
puttier--not a single bit."
She stepped over and glanced at the other infant; she flung a glance
back at her own; then one more at the heir of the house. Now a strange
light dawned in her eyes, and in a moment she was lost in thought. She
seemed in a trance; when she came out of it she muttered, "When I 'uz
a-washin' 'em in de tub, yistiddy, his own pappy asked me which of 'em
was his'n."
She began to move about like one in a dream. She undressed Thomas à
Becket, stripping him of everything, and put the tow-linen shirt on him.
She put his coral necklace on her own child's neck. Then she placed the
children side by side, and after earnest inspection she muttered--
"Now who would b'lieve clo'es could do de like o' dat? Dog my cats if it
ain't all I kin do to tell t'other fum which, let alone his pappy."
She put her cub in Tommy's elegant cradle and said--
"You's young Marse Tom fum dis out, en I got to practise and git used to
'memberin' to call you dat, honey, or I's gwine to make a mistake some
time en git us bofe into trouble. Dah--now you lay still en don't fret
no mo', Marse Tom--oh, thank de good Lord in heaven, you's saved, you's
saved!--dey ain't no man kin ever sell mammy's po' little honey down de
river now!"
She put the heir of the house in her own child's unpainted pine cradle,
and said, contemplating its slumbering form uneasily--
"I's sorry for you, honey; I's sorry, God knows I is,--but what kin I
do, what could I do? Yo' pappy would sell him to somebody, some time, en
den he'd go down de river, sho', en I couldn't, couldn't, couldn't stan'
it."
She flung herself on her bed and began to think and toss, toss and
think. By and by she sat suddenly upright, for a comforting thought had
flown through her worried mind--
"'Tain't no sin--white folks has done it! It ain't no sin, glory to
goodness it ain't no sin! Dey's done it--yes, en dey was de biggest
quality in de whole bilin', too--kings!"
She began to muse; she was trying to gather out of her memory the dim
particulars of some tale she had heard some time or other. At last she
said--
"Now I's got it; now I 'member. It was dat ole nigger preacher dat tole
it, de time he come over here fum Illinois en preached in de nigger
church. He said dey ain't nobody kin save his own self--can't do it by
faith, can't do it by works, can't do it no way at all. Free grace is de
on'y way, en dat don't come fum nobody but jis' de Lord; en he kin give
it to anybody he please, saint or sinner--he don't kyer. He do jis' as
he's a mineter. He s'lect out anybody dat suit him, en put another one
in his place, and make de fust one happy forever en leave t'other one to
burn wid Satan. De preacher said it was jist like dey done in Englan'
one time, long time ago. De queen she lef' her baby layin' aroun' one
day, en went out callin'; en one o' de niggers roun'-'bout de place dat
was 'mos' white, she come in en see de chile layin' aroun', en tuck en
put her own chile's clo'es on de queen's chile, en put de queen's
chile's clo'es on her own chile, en den lef' her own chile layin' aroun'
en tuck en toted de queen's chile home to de nigger-quarter, en nobody
ever foun' it out, en her chile was de king bimeby, en sole de queen's
chile down de river one time when dey had to settle up de estate. Dah,
now--de preacher said it his own self, en it ain't no sin, 'ca'se white
folks done it. Dey done it--yes, dey done it; en not on'y jis' common
white folks nuther, but de biggest quality dey is in de whole bilin'.
Oh, I's so glad I 'member 'bout dat!"
She got up light-hearted and happy, and went to the cradles and spent
what was left of the night "practising." She would give her own child a
light pat and say humbly, "Lay still, Marse Tom," then give the real Tom
a pat and say with severity, "Lay still, Chambers!--does you want me to
take somep'n' to you?"
As she progressed with her practice, she was surprised to see how
steadily and surely the awe which had kept her tongue reverent and her
manner humble toward her young master was transferring itself to her
speech and manner toward the usurper, and how similarly handy she was
becoming in transferring her motherly curtness of speech and
peremptoriness of manner to the unlucky heir of the ancient house of
Driscoll.
She took occasional rests from practising, and absorbed herself in
calculating her chances.
"Dey'll sell dese niggers to-day fo' stealin' de money, den dey'll buy
some mo' dat don't know de chillen--so dat's all right. When I takes de
chillen out to git de air, de minute I's roun' de corner I's gwine to
gaum dey mouths all roun' wid jam, den dey can't nobody notice dey's
changed. Yes, I gwineter do dat till I's safe, if it's a year.
"Dey ain't but one man dat I's afeard of, en dat's dat Pudd'nhead
Wilson. Dey calls him a pudd'nhead, en says he's a fool. My lan', dat
man ain't no mo' fool den I is! He's de smartes' man in dis town, less'n
it's Jedge Driscoll or maybe Pem Howard. Blame dat man, he worries me
wid dem ornery glasses o' hisn; I b'lieve he's a witch. But nemmine, I's
gwine to happen aroun' dah one o' dese days en let on dat I reckon he
wants to print de chillen's fingers ag'in; en if he don't notice dey's
changed, I bound dey ain't nobody gwine to notice it, en den I's safe,
sho'. But I reckon I'll tote along a hoss-shoe to keep off de
witch-work."
The new negroes gave Roxy no trouble, of course. The master gave her
none, for one of his speculations was in jeopardy, and his mind was so
occupied that he hardly saw the children when he looked at them, and all
Roxy had to do was to get them both into a gale of laughter when he came
about; then their faces were mainly cavities exposing gums, and he was
gone again before the spasm passed and the little creatures resumed a
human aspect.
Within a few days the fate of the speculation became so dubious that Mr.
Percy went away with his brother the Judge, to see what could be done
with it. It was a land speculation as usual, and it had gotten
complicated with a lawsuit. The men were gone seven weeks. Before they
got back Roxy had paid her visit to Wilson, and was satisfied. Wilson
took the finger-prints, labeled them with the names and with the
date--October the first--put them carefully away and continued his chat
with Roxy, who seemed very anxious that he should admire the great
advance in flesh and beauty which the babies had made since he took
their finger-prints a month before. He complimented their improvement to
her contentment; and as they were without any disguise of jam or other
stain, she trembled all the while and was miserably frightened lest at
any moment he--
But he didn't. He discovered nothing; and she went home jubilant, and
dropped all concern about the matter permanently out of her mind.
CHAPTER IV.
The Ways of the Changelings.
Adam and Eve had many advantages, but the principal one was, that they
escaped teething.--Pudd'nhead Wilson's Calendar.
There is this trouble about special providences--namely, there is so
often a doubt as to which party was intended to be the beneficiary. In
the case of the children, the bears and the prophet, the bears got more
real satisfaction out of the episode than the prophet did, because they
got the children.--Pudd'nhead Wilson's Calendar.
This history must henceforth accommodate itself to the change which
Roxana has consummated, and call the real heir "Chambers" and the
usurping little slave "Thomas à Becket"--shortening this latter name to
"Tom," for daily use, as the people about him did.
"Tom" was a bad baby, from the very beginning of his usurpation. He
would cry for nothing; he would burst into storms of devilish temper
without notice, and let go scream after scream and squall after squall,
then climax the thing with "holding his breath"--that frightful
specialty of the teething nursling, in the throes of which the creature
exhausts its lungs, then is convulsed with noiseless squirmings and
twistings and kickings in the effort to get its breath, while the lips
turn blue and the mouth stands wide and rigid, offering for inspection
one wee tooth set in the lower rim of a hoop of red gums; and when the
appalling stillness has endured until one is sure the lost breath will
never return, a nurse comes flying, and dashes water in the child's
face, and--presto! the lungs fill, and instantly discharge a shriek, or
a yell, or a howl which bursts the listening ear and surprises the owner
of it into saying words which would not go well with a halo if he had
one. The baby Tom would claw anybody who came within reach of his nails,
and pound anybody he could reach with his rattle. He would scream for
water until he got it, and then throw cup and all on the floor and
scream for more. He was indulged in all his caprices, howsoever
troublesome and exasperating they might be; he was allowed to eat
anything he wanted, particularly things that would give him the
stomach-ache.
When he got to be old enough to begin to toddle about and say broken
words and get an idea of what his hands were for, he was a more
consummate pest than ever. Roxy got no rest while he was awake. He would
call for anything and everything he saw, simply saying "Awnt it!" (want
it), which was a command. When it was brought, he said in a frenzy, and
motioning it away with his hands, "Don't awnt it! don't awnt it!" and
the moment it was gone he set up frantic yells of "Awnt it! awnt it!
awnt it!" and Roxy had to give wings to her heels to get that thing back
to him again before he could get time to carry out his intention of
going into convulsions about it.
What he preferred above all other things was the tongs. This was because
his "father" had forbidden him to have them lest he break windows and
furniture with them. The moment Roxy's back was turned he would toddle
to the presence of the tongs and say "Like it!" and cock his eye to one
side to see if Roxy was observing; then, "Awnt it!" and cock his eye
again; then, "Hab it!" with another furtive glance; and finally, "Take
it!"--and the prize was his. The next moment the heavy implement was
raised aloft; the next, there was a crash and a squall, and the cat was
off on three legs to meet an engagement; Roxy would arrive just as the
lamp or a window went to irremediable smash.
Tom got all the petting, Chambers got none. Tom got all the delicacies,
Chambers got mush and milk, and clabber without sugar. In consequence
Tom was a sickly child and Chambers wasn't. Tom was "fractious," as Roxy
called it, and overbearing; Chambers was meek and docile.
With all her splendid common sense and practical every-day ability, Roxy
was a doting fool of a mother. She was this toward her child--and she
was also more than this: by the fiction created by herself, he was
become her master; the necessity of recognizing this relation outwardly
and of perfecting herself in the forms required to express the
recognition, had moved her to such diligence and faithfulness in
practicing these forms that this exercise soon concreted itself into
habit; it became automatic and unconscious; then a natural result
followed: deceptions intended solely for others gradually grew
practically into self-deceptions as well; the mock reverence became real
reverence, the mock obsequiousness real obsequiousness, the mock homage
real homage; the little counterfeit rift of separation between
imitation-slave and imitation-master widened and widened, and became an
abyss, and a very real one--and on one side of it stood Roxy, the dupe
of her own deceptions, and on the other stood her child, no longer a
usurper to her, but her accepted and recognized master. He was her
darling, her master, and her deity all in one, and in her worship of him
she forgot who she was and what he had been.
In babyhood Tom cuffed and banged and scratched Chambers unrebuked, and
Chambers early learned that between meekly bearing it and resenting it,
the advantage all lay with the former policy. The few times that his
persecutions had moved him beyond control and made him fight back had
cost him very dear at headquarters; not at the hands of Roxy, for if she
ever went beyond scolding him sharply for "forgitt'n' who his young
marster was," she at least never extended her punishment beyond a box on
the ear. No, Percy Driscoll was the person. He told Chambers that under
no provocation whatever was he privileged to lift his hand against his
little master. Chambers overstepped the line three times, and got three
such convincing canings from the man who was his father and didn't know
it, that he took Tom's cruelties in all humility after that, and made no
more experiments.
Outside of the house the two boys were together all through their
boyhood. Chambers was strong beyond his years, and a good fighter;
strong because he was coarsely fed and hard worked about the house, and
a good fighter because Tom furnished him plenty of practice--on white
boys whom he hated and was afraid of. Chambers was his constant
body-guard, to and from school; he was present on the playground at
recess to protect his charge. He fought himself into such a formidable
reputation, by and by, that Tom could have changed clothes with him, and
"ridden in peace," like Sir Kay in Launcelot's armor.
He was good at games of skill, too. Tom staked him with marbles to play
"keeps" with, and then took all the winnings away from him. In the
winter season Chambers was on hand, in Tom's worn-out clothes, with
"holy" red mittens, and "holy" shoes, and pants "holy" at the knees and
seat, to drag a sled up the hill for Tom, warmly clad, to ride down on;
but he never got a ride himself. He built snow men and snow
fortifications under Tom's directions. He was Tom's patient target when
Tom wanted to do some snowballing, but the target couldn't fire back.
Chambers carried Tom's skates to the river and strapped them on him,
then trotted around after him on the ice, so as to be on hand when
wanted; but he wasn't ever asked to try the skates himself.
In summer the pet pastime of the boys of Dawson's Landing was to steal
apples, peaches, and melons from the farmers' fruit-wagons,--mainly on
account of the risk they ran of getting their heads laid open with the
butt of the farmer's whip. Tom was a distinguished adept at these
thefts--by proxy. Chambers did his stealing, and got the peach-stones,
apple-cores, and melon-rinds for his share.
Tom always made Chambers go in swimming with him, and stay by him as a
protection. When Tom had had enough, he would slip out and tie knots in
Chambers's shirt, dip the knots in the water and make them hard to undo,
then dress himself and sit by and laugh while the naked shiverer tugged
at the stubborn knots with his teeth.
Tom did his humble comrade these various ill turns partly out of native
viciousness, and partly because he hated him for his superiorities of
physique and pluck, and for his manifold cleverness. Tom couldn't dive,
for it gave him splitting headaches. Chambers could dive without
inconvenience, and was fond of doing it. He excited so much admiration,
one day, among a crowd of white boys, by throwing back somersaults from
the stern of a canoe, that it wearied Tom's spirit, and at last he
shoved the canoe underneath Chambers while he was in the air--so he came
down on his head in the canoe-bottom; and while he lay unconscious,
several of Tom's ancient adversaries saw that their long-desired
opportunity was come, and they gave the false heir such a drubbing that
with Chambers's best help he was hardly able to drag himself home
afterward.
When the boys were fifteen and upward, Tom was "showing off" in the
river one day, when he was taken with a cramp, and shouted for help. It
was a common trick with the boys--particularly if a stranger was
present--to pretend a cramp and howl for help; then when the stranger
came tearing hand over hand to the rescue, the howler would go on
struggling and howling till he was close at hand, then replace the howl
with a sarcastic smile and swim blandly away, while the town boys
assailed the dupe with a volley of jeers and laughter. Tom had never
tried this joke as yet, but was supposed to be trying it now, so the
boys held warily back; but Chambers believed his master was in earnest,
therefore he swam out, and arrived in time, unfortunately, and saved his
life.
This was the last feather. Tom had managed to endure everything else,
but to have to remain publicly and permanently under such an obligation
as this to a nigger, and to this nigger of all niggers--this was too
much. He heaped insults upon Chambers for "pretending" to think he was
in earnest in calling for help, and said that anybody but a block-headed
nigger would have known he was funning and left him alone.
Tom's enemies were in strong force here, so they came out with their
opinions quite freely. They laughed at him, and called him coward, liar,
sneak, and other sorts of pet names, and told him they meant to call
Chambers by a new name after this, and make it common in the town--"Tom
Driscoll's niggerpappy,"--to signify that he had had a second birth into
this life, and that Chambers was the author of his new being. Tom grew
frantic under these taunts, and shouted--
"Knock their heads off, Chambers! knock their heads off! What do you
stand there with your hands in your pockets for?"
Chambers expostulated, and said, "But, Marse Tom, dey's too many of
'em--dey's--"
"Do you hear me?"
"Please, Marse Tom, don't make me! Dey's so many of 'em dat--"
