seemed to veil themselves as if there were 
something more within them than her mod 
est feeling would reveal among so many 
people. Her attitude, her breathlessness, 
her fitful color, her half-averted look, all 
said : 
 
" I believe in you ! But I'm not going 
to tell ! You're doing well. Steady, sir, 
steady ! Don't look at me so hard ! Stea-dy ! 
You II get it" 
The girl 's inspiration was finer than wine 
to him. 
Donald felt as if he spoke on wings, and 
lived upon the hopes of Paradise. And 
there ! Before he knew it, the young orator 
had come to the end, had paused, bowed, 
and turned to leave the stage. A thunder 
of applause recalled him. Donald turned, 
surprised. He did not expect such a storm. 
Wave upon wave it broke about him. 
Marcy was a very popular young man at 
Harle. His success was considered certain, 
and the general pleasure was emphatic. 
Flowers fell on him as he stood bowing. 
The Professor 's daughter classically asked 
Trouncey to toss a wreath of laurel ; Merry 
Gorond stood upon a seat and threw, with 
precision, a blazing bouquet of the reddest 
roses to be found in Harle ; but Fay, Fay 
threw no flowers ; she sat with downcast 
eyes. Donald felt a momentary pang ; 
when, softly, almost unobserved, there fell 
at his feet a tiny cluster of white violets, 
hidden in their own leaves. Dr. Fleet 
threw them in a very quiet way ; Fay 's card 
was not even tied to them ; but that was not 
needed. Donald gathered them quickly out 
of sight and hid them in his breast pocket, 
as he bowed himself off the stage. 
" Good elocution," he heard one of the 
committee whisper, as he passed by. 
" The oration was well constructed, too." 
Tom Hallo well followed the little furor 
which his predecessor 's address had caused, 
with perfect self-possession. Marcy 's suc 
cess did not seem to trouble him at all. He 
delivered his oration with a grave self-con 
fidence which it was impossible not to regard 
respectfully. His elocution was inferior to 
his rival s. Three sentences settled that. 
But the material of his address was, it must 
be admitted, remarkably, even unexpectedly 
excellent. He compelled attention, and held 
what he had compelled. His thought was 
clear, strong, even original ; his style
practiced and charming. Alas, he was an older 
boy than Don, and his maturity "told." 
When he had finished his oration, he retired 
among fewer flowers and less enthusiasm 
than his rival; but followed by anxious 
looks upon the part of some of Donald 's 
friends. 
Fay did not look anxious. She looked 
startled. Her cheeks were brightly flushed, 
and her eyes flashed with a singular look. 
She made as if she would speak to her father, 
but changed her mind, and said nothing, sit 
ting lost in thought while the committee 
went out to make their decision. 
It was a shock, but it was not wholly a 
surprise, to many in that audience, when, 
after half an hour 's debate, the committee 
reported that the De Courtney prize was 
awarded to Thomas Z. Hallowell. 
CHAPTER XVII. 
THE GIRL AND THE COMMITTEE. 
To say that the announcement of the com 
mittee was a terrible blow to Donald Marcy 
is to say nothing at all about it. The 
sympathy of the audience and the judgment of 
the committee, as we know, had gone strongly 
with him, until Hallo well 's address was well 
under way. In fact, there had been but one 
opinion on the platform and in the hall. 
The De Courtney prize was as good as given 
to Marcy, up to the moment that Tom Hal- 
lowell 's oration had snatched it so surprisingly 
away from him. Donald had under 
stood this perfectly well. Trusting to his 
unquestionably superior elocution, and underrating, 
as, alas, it proved, the force of his 
rival 's thought and the brilliancy of his style, 
Don had retired from the stage, pressing 
with Fay 's violets a confident hope of suc 
cess to his beating heart. 
The bolt of defeat struck him like light 
ning. He tried to make the best of it among 
 
the fellows, but lie was greatly shaken. His 
chum reached him in such time as it takes 
the report to follow the flash, and got him 
out of the green-room and away, as soon as 
was possible. 
"I I must go back and congratulate 
Hallo well," said Don, half-way down the 
steep, winding stairs, standing still, and 
looking confusedly at Jamie Fleet. 
"Well if you insist on it," hesitated 
Jamie. " I suppose it would be the thing. 
But I meant to spare you that, old fellow." 
" It 's the manly way," said Don. " I 
can't afford to seem mean, because I'm 
beaten." 
He climbed slowly back, went in among 
the fellows, and shook hands heartily with 
Tom. 
" That 's kind of you, Marcy," said Hal- 
lowell, in a low voice. He regarded Donald 
with a strange look. His big, black eyes 
burned, and that enviable mustache worked 
nervously. Hallowell was very pale, paler 
than his defeated rival. Several of the fellows
noticed this, and commented on it after 
ward. 
When Fleet and Marcy got out of doors, 
they were met by an usher with a message. 
They were wanted, he said, directly, on the 
lowest step at the right of the front entrance. 
An elderly gentleman was there, and a young 
lady ; they had got out by a side door, he 
had helped them, the usher said, and they 
seemed to be in some haste. He believed 
the young lady didn't feel well ; faint,
perhaps, though the usher added that she didn't 
seem to be the fainting kind. 
The two boys hurried to the spot indi 
cated, and were met by Dr. Fleet and Fay. 
Dr. Fleet grasped Donald 's hand warmly. 
" Cheer up, my boy," he said. " He 's 
older than you. Many a De Courtney has 
been won by a poorer address than yours. 
Your oration will be remembered in Harle. 
It was downright, good, conscientious work, 
and would be a credit to any boy of your 
age. I congratulate you." 
" Thank you, sir," said Donald, trying to 
smile. " It doesn't matter." 
He turned to Fay. Fay had not spoken. 
She stood still, with burning cheeks and 
excited eyes. She held out her hand to him 
in a silence which he could not understand. 
In some embarrassment the little party 
moved on to find the carriage which Don 
had ordered to take Fay and her father to 
 
their hotel. Naturally, Don fell into step 
with Fay, and the two dropped behind. 
" Don't speak to me ! " began Fay, under 
her breath. " I have something very 
important on my mind. I can't talk yet." 
" Are you ashamed of me ? " pleaded poor 
Don. 
" I'm proud of you ! " exploded Fay. 
" Oh ! then I don't care ! " cried Don, 
brightening swiftly. " What 's the De 
Courtney, if I haven't disappointed you ? " 
At this moment a group of girls passed 
them, chatting noisily. One turned, and 
bowed to him with marked interest. The 
shadow of a red parasol wrapped her face in 
a blaze of color. 
" Too bad, Marcy ! " she said loudly, 
nodding her showy hat. 
She glanced keenly through her red lace 
veil at Fay Fleet before she passed on, and 
smiled, not quite pleasantly. Donald looked 
from Merry Gorond to Fay ; his whole soul 
sickened when Merry spoke to him. He felt 
almost sorry to have such a recoil from the 
girl. His eyes rested on Fay 's pure, modest, 
intellectual face with a kind of ethereal pride. 
He had no right to look upon her with any 
other kind of pride ; his manly delicacy 
never intruded by a thought upon bound 
aries to which he had no charter. But his 
whole nature bowed before her with a 
beautiful reverence. He felt as if he could have 
knelt at her feet, or put his proud, young 
curls humbly beneath the blessing of her 
soft hands. 
For the moment this emotion lifted the 
boy above the cruel disappointment he was 
suffering. 
He was recalled to the facts of the day 
by Fay 's asking her brother if she might go 
and see the college library. It was late in 
the afternoon, five o clock at least, and both 
Jamie and Donald expressed some surprise 
at Fay 's request. They were all pretty well 
tired out, to tell the truth. But Fay urged 
her point quietly, and her brother proposed 
that Don should take her wherever she 
wished to go. 
" Father is used up," said Jamie. " We 
can't trot him round libraries to-day. He 
knows every book there by heart. I 'll take 
him up to my room to rest, Don, and you 
look after my sister, will you? I suppose 
she has a right to be so all-fired literary if 
she wants to. She 's got her diploma. You 
and I are nothing but undergraduates." 
 
So Donald, nothing loath, escorted Fay to 
the library alone. It was cooler there ; but 
few visitors were visible, many of them 
having rushed for their return trains, and more 
having gone home to get off their hot, best 
clothes, and cool before tea-time. Donald 
and Fay sat down in one of the shaded al 
coves and rested a minute. Fay was still so 
silent that Don was a little puzzled by her 
manner. 
" Ask the librarian, please," said Fay 
directly, " to get me some books I want, 
will you?" 
" Certainly. And what, Miss Fay ? " 
" Well let me see," hesitated Fay. " I 
think I would like to look over Rufus 
Choate. Has he a good edition of Choate ? 
It will rest us, and give us something else to 
think of, don't you think so ? " 
Don was not very sure about it, but he 
obeyed the young lady without question. 
Bringing two large octavo volumes of Rufus 
Choate 's addresses, he deposited them upon 
Fay 's pretty brown lap, and sat down again, 
watching her in silence while she turned the 
leaves. 
"Are you going to read aloud?" asked 
Don presently. 
"Perhaps so," nodded Fay. "Here! 
There!" 
Her face crimsoned suddenly, from brow to 
chin. She read a page to herself skipped 
read another shut the book, and hold 
ing her finger to keep the place, looked 
with blazing eyes at Don. She had taken 
off her warm glove, like the true book-lover 
that she was, lest perchance a speck of the 
color from the kid should mar the margin of 
the beautifully printed page. 
" It is just as I thought ! " cried Fay. 
" Only I wanted to make sure of it. I didn't 
dare say so, seeing father didn't find it out. 
Father knows everything everybody has 
ever written on every subject, you know. I 
didn't know but I might be mistaken, since 
he didn't get up and shake that fellow by 
the coat-collar and toss him off the stage 
into the middle of the main aisle ! " 
exploded Fay. 
" What in the name of Eufus Choate 
do you mean ? " demanded Donald. 
" I mean," said Fay more quietly, "that 
Thomas Z. Hallowell has no more right to 
the De Courtney prize than than that girl 
with the red parasol ! " 
" I don't understand you in the least," 
 
said Don, blushing in his turn. " Besides, 
she 's nothing to me that girl." 
" Oh, never mind the girl ! " replied Fay 
impatiently. " It 's the boy I'm after. The 
boy is a plagiarist. He has copied a great 
part of one of Rufus Choate 's orations. Mr. 
Don, the De Courtney prize is yours." 
" Let me see," whispered Don. He was 
trembling very much, and all the color had 
left his face. 
Fay handed him the big book, and they 
looked it over together. Donald felt the 
agitated motion of her sweet, young breath. 
He dared not look at her. He pinned his 
eyes to the page which Fay pointed out to 
him. 
"See," said Fay. "Look there. He 
called his piece : American Nationality? 
That is the very subject. Mr. Choate 's 
[ Address on the Fourth of July] delivered 
in Boston on July 5, 1858, Mr. Hallo well 
has copied a half page whole page word 
for word. Just read ! 
" Did not Sparta and Athens hate one 
another, and fight one another habitually, 
and yet when those Lacedcemonian levies 
gazed so steadfastly on the faces of the 
fallen at Marathon, did they not give Greek 
tears to Athens and Greek curses to Persia, 
and in the hour of Platcea did they not 
stand together against the barbarians ? 
" Don't you remember how the audience 
thrilled at that ? And there and here 
and read that! Thrilled ! " cried Fay, " I 
should think they would ! The idea of 
supposing that a fellow with that kind of a 
mustache waxed on the ends could 
write like that ! 
" I hope," added Fay, looking perfectly 
magnificent, " that he hasn't got a sister, 
or a a real nice girl friend anywhere to 
be mortified dead ashamed of him, the 
scoundrel ! " 
" Why, this is dreadful ! " said Don. 
Really, for the moment, he was thinking 
more of Hallo well 's disgrace than of his own 
now well-assured success. 
He and Fay sat and looked at each other 
with bright, sympathetic, young eyes. How 
wonderful it was in that dim alcove ! How 
calm, how set-apart, how sheltered ! Their 
joy seemed to mount from shelf to shelf of 
the dreary old books, like a little climbing 
elf who made himself at home everywhere, 
as human joy has the right to do, and, thank 
Heaven, it will take its rights. 
" How in the world," asked Don 
ald in an awed voice, " did you ever find it 
out ? " 
He felt at that moment as if Fay 's learn 
ing overtopped the world. It was positively 
appalling. How was he ever to keep pace 
with a girl like that? a girl who knew 
more than the faculty of Harle and all the 
De Courtney committee ! So thought Don, 
looking at her with the reverence of a 
janitor at Hypatia. 
" Oh, that 's nothing ! " said Fay care 
lessly. " My first thesis was on Rufus 
Choate. / was crammed, people forget 
the old things, you know. It 's only a 
chance who remembers what, I think, any 
how. It was just good luck for me. I gave 
up Rufus and wrote on Daniel Webster, 
after all. But I got it into my head." 
Donald and Fay passed out of the cool 
library into the hot, summer evening, in a 
kind of solemn agitation. The consciousness 
of the disgrace they were about to expose 
began to come to them with heaviness. To 
hurl a young man down from the top of 
glory (so far as college life could give that 
glittering thing) into the dust of shame, 
of life-long shame ; for a deed like this 
follows a man to the end in the educated world, 
to dash him headlong, at a moment 's no 
tice, by one flash of a girl 's thought, at the 
touch of a girl 's hand, it seemed hard. 
For the moment, to Donald 's highly wrought 
mood, it seemed cruel. 
" I don't want to do it ! " he cried, stop 
ping short. 
" You oucjlit, I think," said Fay firmly. 
" I don't believe it," argued Don. " I'd 
better lose the De Courtney twice over than 
bring all that shame and misery on people. 
I saw his mother in the audience. . . . She 
came way on from the West on purpose. I 
can't ! " cried Don. 
" I didn't like her looks so much," he 
added ruefully. " She was a showy woman, 
one of the kind that wears what do you 
call em? shows her arms, you know, in a 
public hall. But she was his mother. I saw 
her crying when he was speaking, for 
joy, I suppose. Miss Fay, I won't do it! 
I'm sorry to disagree with you, but I won't 
tell of Hallowell." 
" What will you do ? " asked Fay, turning 
a bit pale. She knew when Don set his lips 
together that way, that he meant business. 
What he said, he would perform. Yet she 
felt confident in her own mind that the facts 
 
of the case ought not to be suppressed ; not 
for Don 's sake so much as for the sake of 
that college honor so dear to Harle, and to 
every educated man. Fay was greatly agitated
and perplexed by the position in which 
she found herself. All their happiness of a 
moment ago had drifted away into a swirl of 
doubt and distress. She lifted to Donald, 
with tears in her beautiful eyes, a timid, 
womanly look that went to his heart. 
" Excuse me, Miss Fay," he said gently ; 
" but I can't talk about it just now. I 'll 
see you safely to our room, and leave you 
to J. and your father for a little while. I 
have some business to attend to." 
" Where are you going ? " asked Fay. 
" I am going," replied Donald, holding 
his head very straight, " right to Hallo well 
himself. I am going to tell him that I know 
everything ; and then I'm going to tell him 
that I don't mean to tell. Maybe I'd bet 
ter see Mm. It may do him good for all the 
rest of his life." 
He lifted his hat to Fay gravely, and hav 
ing opened the door of his study, where her 
father and brother sat, left her without an 
other word. She watched him from the 
window. He went directly over, with ring 
ing steps, to Tom Hallowell 's room. 
CHAPTER XVIII. 
A NOBLE FELLOW. 
THOMAS HALLOWELL was sitting in his 
room, by an odd chance, alone. The winner 
of the great De Courtney prize was not over 
powered as yet by the acclamations of his 
college-mates. Perhaps the hurrah was 
delayed till evening, or perhaps there was not 
much heart for it among the fellows. At 
all events, when Donald Marcy came in, he 
found Hallowell, as I say. The door was 
half open, and Donald pushed in simultaneously
with his knock. He was in time to 
see his rival lift a haggard face from the 
table, where he had apparently been sitting 
with his head buried in his arms. 
" Ah ! Marcy. That is good of you. Sit 
down. Glad you find me alone. I've just 
got back from taking my mother to her 
train. Take an easier chair, do." 
" So your mother has gone back to her 
home ? " asked Donald, feeling embarrassed 
before his unpleasant errand. 
 
" Yes. She meets friends in New York 
who will look after her. I didn't expect 
her on. She 's quite beside herself with the 
result. I didn't know but she'd have hysterics 
there in the hall. Women are such 
emotional, undisciplined creatures ! My 
mother is, unfortunately, very partial to me. 
I'm the only son." 
" Yes ? " said Donald awkwardly. " Very 
natural." 
There was an uncomfortable pause. Hal 
lo well drummed on the table uneasily. He 
muttered some commonplace about the 
weather or the audience. He avoided look 
ing Marcy in the eye while he spoke. It 
was impossible not to notice this. But Don 
ald regarded him steadily. Suddenly he 
broke out : - 
" It 's no use, Hallowell. I can't play 
small-talk under the circumstances. I've 
come here for a special purpose, and I may 
as well out with it." 
" Pray do," politely from Hallowell. 
" Have a cigar to help you out ? " 
" No, thank you, I won't smoke just now. 
I came in to tell you, Hallowell, I thought 
it was the best way, on the whole, I may 
as well let you know that I know all about it. 
The game 's up and it 's in my hands." 
Hallowell lifted his wandering eyes to 
Donald 's face. It was difficult to say which 
of the two boys was the paler, at that moment. 
" I don't understand you," began Hallo- 
well. 
" Oh, come ! " said Donald, with a slight 
impatience. " Don't be a fool. I tell you, 
I know everything " 
" Do me the favor to explain yourself," 
returned Hallowell, with cold courtesy. 
" What do you know ? I fail to follow 
you." 
" I know that it wasn't Thomas Z. Hallowell 
who won the De Courtney to-day," 
said Donald, in a low, clear voice. 
" And who, then ? Donald Marcy ? " 
" Kufus Choate, sir ! " 
Hallowell made a slight, quick movement, 
settled back in his chair, put his hands in 
his pockets, and regarded his visitor, now, 
with great steadiness. 
" Go on," he said boldly ; but his voice 
shook. 
" You have used Mr. Choate 's Fourth of 
July address, delivered in Boston on July 
5, 1858, Hallowell. You have cribbed it 
word for word. You have cribbed whole 
 
pages. Your oration contains only so much 
of your own material as is necessary to 
weave together the eloquent passages from 
one of the first of American orators, which 
have given you the prize. You are a 
plagiarist, and a dishonor to the De Courtney, 
and to Harle College." 
Donald brought these words out firmly; 
but not without gentleness. He was much 
agitated by what he had undertaken to do, 
and, torn between righteous rage and human 
pity, knew not how to work his way through 
this distressing interview. 
" I in awfully sorry," he said, when he 
had finished. " Hallowell ! I shouldn't 
think it would have paid. A man must feel 
so, afterwards, to do a thing like that." 
Donald 's fine, scornful face, half melting, 
half marble, looked like a fashionable young 
angel s, as it regarded the dark, averted 
countenance of the disgraced man. For 
some moments Hallowell made no answer at 
all to his accuser, then he took his hands out 
of his pockets, and brought the front legs of 
his chair down hard upon the floor. 
" Well," he said sullenly, "your proofs?" 
" I read Choate 's address this afternoon, 
at a quarter past five, in the college library." 
" Who put you up to it ? " 
" I decline to say." 
" I insist on knowing. You never found 
that out, yourself. You're not scholar 
enough. You don't read. Somebody told 
you." 
"Well yes," admitted Donald, "some 
body did." 
" It makes all the difference to me, all 
the difference in the world in all my life" 
cried Hallowell, his voice rising to a sudden 
pitch of unmistakable agony. " Who put 
you up to this devilish job? How many 
people have shared your discovery? All 
over college, is it?" 
Hallowell, as he spoke, glanced at his 
watch. His tone and manner were defiant 
in the extreme. 
" I have not told a soul, Tom," said Don 
ald gently. 
" That 's good of you, Marcy," gasped 
Hallowell, in a changed voice. 
" I came straight to you. I thought that 
was fair. Nobody in Harle knows it but 
just myself and this this other person." 
" Who is he ? " pleaded Hallowell. " Don't 
you see I must know ? " 
"You'll never know from me," firmly 
 
replied Donald. " It is a person who 
discovered it, and who who told me." 
" It 's a woman ! " cried Hallowell, bring 
ing his fist down sharply on the table, till 
the inkstand and mucilage bottle rang. 
" It is a lady yes," replied Donald, 
flushing slightly, " but I'd rather not 
mention her name." 
" No one but an educated woman would 
have discovered it," muttered the college 
politician astutely. " She 's a college
graduate, so she 's a young lady. If she 's 
young, she 'll tell. Has she a brother in 
Harle ? " demanded Hallowell. 
Donald made no reply. There followed a 
long silence between the two boys. Hal 
lowell broke it by saying in a dull voice : 
" It 's all up with me. It 'll be sure to 
leak out. I may as well let it out myself. 
It 's a devil of a business, anyhow. I've 
wished I were out of it for weeks. But I'd 
got in ; I didn't know how. It 's all one 
with me ! I'm disgraced ! I'm ruined for 
life!" 
With a groan, the wretched boy dropped 
his face into his hands, and his tall frame 
shook as if with suppressed and terrible 
sobs. The sight went to Donald 's heart. 
"I won't tell, Hallowell," he urged. 
" And she won't, if I ask her not to. I for 
got to before I came," he added truthfully, 
" but I 'll get right back. The young lady 
won't cross my wishes about it. I move you 
don't say a word ; as long as I don't
expose you, you're safe. Come, Hallowell ! 
I let you off, with all my heart. A fellow 
saved that way wouldn't do such a 
thing again, would he? You could tit. It 
might make a new man of you, mightn't it, 
Tom?" 
" Do you really mean," asked Hallowell, 
in a low voice, " that you would give up 
everything? The De Courtney is yours, 
Marcy. No doubt about it. You earned it. 
You don't mean you'd go without the De 
Courtney to save a fellow you don't care 
for from from shame and disgrace ? " 
" I want the De Courtney," admitted 
Don. " I want it very much. But that 's 
over now. I don't want it at the expense 
of telling on a classmate. I'd rather go 
without, than think of all that misery 
that disgrace. Oh, Tom Hallowell ! how 
could you ? " 
" Marcy," said Hallowell, " Marcy " 
His lip trembled, his voice choked. " You're 
a good fellow ! I didn't know you were 
that kind, a stylish chap like you ; and 
captain of the Junior crew, up to every 
thing. A fellow might have thought it of 
Fleet, or some of those saints ; but you " 
Donald smiled, tossing back his bright 
curls. 
" I don't know as I ever thought it my 
self, Tom, till now. But it seems to me a 
clear case. I don't want the thing at such 
a cost." 
" You're a good fellow," repeated Hal- 
lowell drearily. " I couldn't make you 
understand how I came to do it. You would 
n't see. But it 's done. I've got to abide 
by it now. . . . Before God ! " cried Hallow- 
ell, shaken with sudden passion, " if I ever 
get out of this, you don't catch me in such 
a scrape again ! Judging from what I've 
undergone in the last three weeks, in these 
last three hours, Don Marcy, I declare I 
believe it would pay to be an honest fel 
low ! " 
Donald made no answer. This seemed to 
him rather a low motive for a high purpose, 
and he did not know what to say to the 
" tricky " boy to whom sincerity did not come 
naturally. But, perhaps, to such a nature 
as Hallo well s, even a high wish must come 
first upon a low plane. 
"Well," said Donald slowly, "I don't 
know that there 's anything more to say 
about it. I guess I 'll be going, Hallowell." 
Hallowell 's face had gone down into his 
elbow again ; he seemed quite overcome 
with his disgrace ; he held out his hand 
pitiably without looking at Donald, who 
took it, after an instant 's hesitation. Hallow- 
ell wrung Don 's hand in a grip of remorse, 
or agony, or gratitude, or reverence, or who 
knew what ? Perhaps in all combined ; 
and Donald left him without another word. 
But when he got back to his rooms, he 
found a scene of high agitation. Jamie was 
walking up and down the study in a white 
rage. No one had ever seen J. so angry in 
his life. Dr. Fleet was excitedly writing a 
note at the study table. Fay came up to 
Donald instantly, and held out both her 
hands. She looked like a pretty culprit and 
a severe moral judge woven into one deter 
mined and yet timid little girl. 
"I've told father!" she cried. "I had 
to tell my father. I haven't mentioned it 
to another soul, I haven't done a thing 
about it. I didn't dare to, till you got 
 
back. But I knew you'd let me tell fa 
ther. Are you angry with me?" pleaded 
Fay, drooping under Donald 's quick, keen 
glance. 
" I am sorry," said Don. How could he 
be angry with Fay ? He stood quite still, 
looking about at his three friends. His 
face had a high and beautiful expression. 
" I've seen Hallowell," he said quietly. 
" I've told him I wouldn't tell. I've given 
my word." 
" Look here, Don," pleaded Jamie, " leave 
this to father, won't you ? Your father isn't 
here. Somebody 's got to advise you. He 
knows. We're not very old, yet. Just you 
calm down, Don, and let father manage the 
whole business." 
" What 's your father doing, J. ? " asked 
Donald sharply. 
" I'm writing to the President, Donald, 
said Dr. Fleet, speaking for the first time. 
" I am suggesting to him that he read Ruf us 
Choate 's Fourth of July address for 1858 ; 
and that he withhold my name from all con 
nection with the subject. That 's what I in 
doing." 
" I object, sir," said Donald firmly and 
respectfully. " I forbid you to do it. It is 
my affair." 
" Now there, Donald, you are mistaken," 
cried Dr. Fleet, suddenly rising with a force 
which sent the study-chair sprawling behind 
his venerable and scholarly figure. " It is 
not your affair ! Your affair is a small part 
of the whole business ! It is the affair of 
the De Courtney prize. It is the affair of 
