much interested by some story which Crowdie was telling. Her own mind
being entirely occupied with Ralston, it was not surprising that she
should imagine that they were talking of him.
She watched her opportunity, and when Crowdie at last left her mother’s
side, went to her immediately. They were a wonderful pair as they stood
together for a few moments, and many people watched them. Mrs.
Lauderdale, who was especially conscious of the admiration she was
receiving that night, felt so vain of herself that she did not attempt
to avoid the comparison, but drew herself up proudly to her great height
in the full view of every one, and as though remembering and repenting
of the bitter envy she had felt of Katharine’s youth even as lately as
the previous day, she looked down calmly and lovingly into the girl’s
face. Katharine was not in the least aware that any one was looking at
them, nor did she imagine any comparison possible between her mother and
herself. Her faults of character certainly did not lie in the direction
of personal vanity. Many people, too, thought that she was not looking
her best, as the phrase goes, on that evening, while others said that
she had never looked as well before. She was transparently pale, with
that fresh pallor which is not unbecoming in youth and health when it is
natural, or the result of an emotion. The whiteness of her face made her
deep grey eyes seem larger and deeper than ever, and the broad, dark
eyebrows gave a look of power to the features, which was striking in one
so young. Passion, anxiety, the alternations of hope and fear, even the
sense of unwonted responsibility, may all enhance beauty when they are
of short duration, though in time they must destroy it, or modify its
nature, spiritualizing or materializing it, according to the objects and
reasons from which they proceed. The beauty of Napoleon’s death mask is
very different from that of Goethe’s, yet both, perhaps, at widely
different ages, approached as nearly to perfection of feature as
humanity ever can.
“Well, child, have you come back to me?” asked Mrs. Lauderdale, with a
smile.
There was nothing affected in her manner, for she had too long been
first, yet she knew that her smile was not lost on others--she could
feel that the eyes of many were on her, and she had a right to be as
handsome as she could. Even Katharine was struck by the wonderful return
of youth.
“You’re perfectly beautiful to-night, mother!” she exclaimed, in genuine
admiration.
There was something in the whole-hearted, spontaneous expression of
approval from her own daughter which did more to assure the elder woman
of her appearance than all Crowdie’s compliments could have done.
Katharine rarely said such things.
“You’re not at all ugly yourself to-night, my dear!” laughed Mrs.
Lauderdale. “You’re a little pale--but it’s very becoming. What’s the
matter? Are you out of breath? Have you been dancing too long?”
“I didn’t know that I was pale,” answered Katharine. “No, I’m not out of
breath--nor anything. I just came over to you because I saw you were
alone for a moment. By the bye, mother, have you seen Jack anywhere?”
It was not very well done, and it was quite clear that she had crossed
the big ball-room solely for the purpose of asking the question. Mrs.
Lauderdale hesitated an instant before giving any answer, and she had a
puzzled expression.
“No,” she said, at last. “I’ve not seen him. I don’t believe he’s here.
In fact--” she was a truthful woman--“in fact, I’m quite sure he’s not.
Did you expect him?”
“Of course,” answered Katharine, in a low voice. “He always comes.”
She knew her mother’s face very well, and was at once convinced that she
had been right in supposing that Crowdie had been speaking of Ralston.
She saw the painter at some distance, and tried to catch his glance and
bring him to her, but he suddenly turned away and went off in the
opposite direction. She reflected that Crowdie did not pass for a
discreet or reticent person, and that if there were anything especial to
be told he had doubtless confided it to his wife before coming to the
ball. She looked about for Hester, but could not see her at first,
neither could she discover Bright or Miner in the moving crowd. She
stood quietly by her mother for a time, glad to escape momentarily from
her usual retinue of beardless young dandies. Mrs. Lauderdale still
seemed to hesitate as to whether she should say any more. The story
Crowdie had told her was a very strange one, she thought, and she
herself doubted the accuracy of the details. And he had exacted a sort
of promise of secrecy from her, which, in her experience, very generally
meant that a part, or the whole of what was told, might be untrue.
Nevertheless, she had never thought that the painter was a spiteful
person. She was puzzled, therefore, but she very soon resolved that she
should tell Katharine nothing, which was, after all, the wisest plan.
Just then a tall, lean man made his way up to her and bowed rather
stiffly. He was powerfully made, and moved like a person more accustomed
to motion than to rest. He had a weather-beaten, kindly face, clean
shaven, thin and bony. His features were decidedly ugly, though by no
means repulsive. His hair was thick and iron grey, and he was about
fifty years of age. Mrs. Lauderdale gave him her hand, and seemed glad
to see him.
“Mr. Griggs--my daughter,” she said, introducing him to Katharine, who
had immediately recognized him, for she had seen him at a distance on
the previous evening at the Thirlwalls’ dance.
Paul Griggs bowed again in his stiff, rather foreign way, and Katharine
smiled and bent her head a little. She had always wished she might meet
him, for she had read some of his books and liked them, and he was
reported to have led a very strange life, and to have been everywhere.
“I saw you talking to Mrs. Crowdie,” said Mrs. Lauderdale. “She’s
charming, isn’t she?”
“Very,” answered Mr. Griggs, in a deep, manly voice, but without any
special emphasis. “Very,” he repeated vaguely. “She was a mere girl--not
out yet--when I was last at home,” he added, suddenly showing some
interest.
“By the bye, where is she?” asked Katharine, in the momentary pause
which followed. “I was looking for her.”
“Over there,” replied Mr. Griggs, nodding almost imperceptibly in the
direction he meant to indicate. As he was over six feet in height, and
could see over the heads of most of the people, Katharine had not gained
any very accurate information.
“You can see her,” he continued in explanation. “She’s sitting up among
the frumps; she’s looking for her husband, and there’s a man with yellow
hair talking to her--it’s her brother--over there between the first and
second windows from the end where the music is. Do you make her out?”
“Yes. How can you tell that she is looking for her husband at this
distance?” Katharine laughed.
“By her eyes,” answered Mr. Griggs. “She’s in love with him, you
know--and she’s anxious about him for some reason or other. But I
believe he’s all right now. I used to know him very well in Paris once
upon a time. Clever fellow, but he had--oh, well, it’s nobody’s
business. What a beautiful ball it is, Mrs. Lauderdale--”
“What did Mr. Crowdie have in Paris?” asked Katharine, with sudden
interest, and interrupting him.
“Oh--he was subject to bad colds in winter,” answered Mr. Griggs,
coolly. “Lungs affected, I believe--or something of that sort. As I was
saying, Mrs. Lauderdale, this is a vast improvement on the dances they
used to have in New York when I was young. That was long before your
time, though I daresay your husband can remember them.”
And he went on speaking, evidently making conversation of a most
unprofitable kind in the most cold-blooded and cynical manner, by sheer
force of habit, as people who have the manners of the world without its
interests often do, until something strikes them.
A young man, whose small head seemed to have just been squeezed through
the cylinder of enamelled linen on which it rested as on a pedestal,
came up to Katharine and asked her for a dance. She went away on his
arm. After a couple of turns, she made him stop close to Hester Crowdie.
“Thanks,” she said, nodding to her partner. “I want to speak to my
cousin. You don’t mind--do you? I’ll give you the rest of the dance some
other time.”
And without waiting for his answer, she stepped upon the low platform
which ran round the ball-room, and took the vacant seat by Hester’s
side. Hamilton Bright, who had only been exchanging a word with his
sister when Griggs had caught sight of him, was gone, and she was
momentarily alone.
“Hester,” began Katharine, “where is Jack Ralston? I’m perfectly sure
your husband knows, and has told you, and I know that he has told my
mother, from the way she spoke--”
“How did you guess that?” asked Mrs. Crowdie, starting a little at the
first words. “But I’m sorry if he has spoken to your mother about it--”
She stopped suddenly, feeling that she had made a mistake.
She was very nervous herself that evening, and as Griggs had said, she
was anxious about her husband. There was no real foundation for her
anxiety, but since her recent experience, she was very easily
frightened. Crowdie had spoken excitedly to her about Ralston’s conduct
at the club that afternoon, and she had fancied that there was something
unusual in his look.
“Oh, Hester, what is it?” asked Katharine, bending nearer to her and
laying a hand on hers.
“Don’t look so awfully frightened, dear!” Hester smiled, but not very
naturally. “It’s nothing very serious. In fact, I believe it’s only that
Walter saw him at the club late this afternoon and got the idea that he
wasn’t--quite well.”
“Not well? Is he ill? Where is he? At home?” Katharine asked the
questions all in a breath, with no suspicion that Hester had softened
the truth almost altogether into something else.
“I suppose he’s at home, since he’s not here,” answered Mrs. Crowdie,
wishing that she had said so at first and had said nothing more.
“Oh, Hester! What is it? I know it’s something dreadful!” cried
Katharine. “I shall go and ask Mr. Crowdie if you won’t tell me.”
“Don’t!” exclaimed Mrs. Crowdie, so quickly and so loudly that the
people near her turned to see what was the matter.
“You’ve told me, now--he must be very ill, or you wouldn’t speak like
that!” Katharine’s lips began to turn white, and she half rose from her
seat.
Mrs. Crowdie drew her back again very gently.
“No, dear--no, I assure--I give you my word it’s not that, dear--oh, I’m
so sorry I said anything!” Katharine yielded, and resumed her seat.
“Hester, what is it?” she asked very gravely for the third time. “You’re
my best friend--the only friend I have besides him. If it’s anything
bad, I’d much rather hear it from you. But I can’t stand this suspense.
I shall ask everybody until somebody tells me the truth.”
Mrs. Crowdie seemed to reflect for a moment before answering, but even
while she was thinking of what she should say, her passionate eyes
sought for her husband’s pale face in the crowd--the pale face and the
red lips that so many women thought repulsive.
“Dear,” she said at last, “it’s foolish to make such a fuss and to
frighten you. That sort of thing has happened to almost all men at one
time or another--really, you know! You mustn’t blame Jack too much--”
“For what? For what? Speak, Hester! Don’t try to--”
“Katharine darling, Walter says that Jack was--well--you know--just a
little far gone--and they had some trouble with him at the club. I don’t
know--it seems that my brother tried to hold him for some reason or
other--it’s not quite clear--and Jack threw Ham down, there in the hall
of the club, before a lot of people--Katharine dearest, I’m so sorry I
spoke!”
Katharine was leaning back against the cushion, her hands folded
together, and her face set like a mask; but she said nothing, and
scarcely seemed to be listening, though she heard every word.
“Of course, dear,” continued Mrs. Crowdie, “I know how you love him--but
you mustn’t think any the worse of him for this. Ham just told me it
wasn’t--well--it wasn’t as bad as Walter made out, and he was very angry
with Walter for telling me--as though he would keep anything from me!”
She stopped again, being much more inclined to talk of Crowdie than of
Ralston, and to defend his indiscretion. Katharine did not move nor
change her position, and her eyes looked straight before her, though it
was clear that they saw nothing.
“I’m glad it was you who told me,” she said in a low, monotonous tone.
“So am I,” answered her friend, sympathetically. “And I’m sure it’s not
half as bad as they--”
“They all know it,” continued Katharine, not heeding her. “I can see it
in their eyes when they look at me.”
“Nonsense, Katharine--nobody but Walter and Ham--”
“Your husband told my mother, too. She spoke very oddly. He’s been
telling every one. Why does he want to make trouble? Does he hate Jack
so?”
“Hate him? No, indeed! I think he’s rather fond of him--”
“It’s a very treacherous sort of fondness, then,” answered Katharine,
with a bitter little laugh, and changing her position at last, so that
she looked into her friend’s face.
“Katharine!” exclaimed Hester. “How can you talk like that--telling me
that Walter is treacherous--”
“Oh--you mustn’t mind what I say--I’m a little upset--I didn’t mean to
hurt you, dear.”
Katharine rose, and without another word she left her friend and began
to go up the side of the room alone, looking for some one as she went.
In a moment one of her numerous young adorers was by her side. He had
seen her talking to Mrs. Crowdie, and had watched his opportunity.
“No,” said Katharine, absently, and without looking at him. “I don’t
want to dance, thanks. I want to find my cousin, Hamilton Bright. Have
you seen him?”
“Oh--ah--yes!” answered the young man, with an imitation of the advanced
English manner of twenty years ago, which seems to have become the ideal
of our gilded youth of to-day. “He’s in the corner under the
balcony--he’s been--er--rather leathering into Crowdie--you
know--er--for talking about Jack Ralston’s last, all over the place--I
daresay you’ve heard of it, Miss Lauderdale--being--er--a cousin of your
own, too. No end game, that Ralston chap!”
Katharine lost her temper suddenly. She stopped and looked the young
dandy in the eyes. He never forgot the look of hers, nor the paleness of
her lips as she spoke.
“You’re rather young to speak like that of older men, Mr. Van De Water,”
she said.
She coolly turned her back on the annihilated youth and walked away from
him alone, almost as surprised at what she had done as he was. He, poor
boy, got very red in the face, stood still, helped himself into
countenance by sticking a single glass in his eye and then went in
search of his dearest friend, the man who had just discovered that
extraordinary tailor in New Burlington Street, you know.
Katharine had been half stunned by what Hester Crowdie had told her,
which she felt instinctively was not more than a moiety of the truth.
She had barely recovered her self-possession when she was met by what
rang like an insult in her ears. It was no wonder that her blood boiled.
Without looking to the right or to the left, she went forward till she
was under the great balcony, and there, by one of the pillars, she came
upon Bright and Crowdie talking together in low, excited tones.
Bright’s big shoulders slowly heaved as in his anger he took about twice
as much breath as he needed into his lungs at every sentence. His fresh,
pink face was red, and his bright blue eyes flashed visibly. What the
young dandy had said was evidently true. He was still ‘leathering into’
Crowdie with all his might, which was considerable.
Crowdie, perfectly cool and collected, leaned against the wooden pillar
with a disagreeable sneer on his red mouth. One hand was in his pocket;
the other hung by his side, and his fingers quietly tapped a little
measure upon the fluted column. Almost every one has that trick of
tapping upon something in moments of anxiety or uncertainty, but the
way in which it is done is very characteristic of the individual.
Crowdie’s pointed white fingers did it delicately, drawing back lightly
from contact with the wood, as a woman’s might, or as though he were
playing upon a fine instrument.
“It’s just like you, Walter,” Bright was saying, to go about telling the
thing to all the women. Didn’t I tell you this afternoon that I was the
principal person concerned, that it was my business and not yours and
that if I wished it kept quiet, nobody need tell? And you said yourself
that you hoped Hester might not hear it, and then the very first thing I
find is that you’ve told her and cousin Emma and probably Katharine
herself--”
“No, I’ve not told Katharine,” said Crowdie, calmly. “I shan’t, because
she loves him. The Lord knows why! Drunken beast! I shall leave the club
myself, since he’s not to be turned out--”
Crowdie stopped suddenly, for he was more timid than most men, and his
face plainly expressed fear at that moment--but not of Hamilton Bright.
Katharine Lauderdale was looking at him over Bright’s shoulder and had
plainly heard what he had said. A man’s fear of woman under certain
circumstances exceeds his utmost possible fear of man. The painter knew
at once that he had accidentally done Katharine something like a mortal
injury. He felt as a man must feel who has accidentally shot some one
while playing with a loaded pistol.
As for Katharine, this was the third blow she had received within five
minutes. The fact that she was in a measure prepared for it had not
diminished its force. It had the effect, however, of quenching her
rising anger instead of further inflaming it, as young Van De Water’s
foolish remarks had done. She begun to feel that she had a real calamity
to face--something against which mere anger would have no effect. She
heard every word Crowdie said, and each struck her with cruel precision
in the same aching spot. But she drew herself up proudly as she came
between the two men. There was something almost queenly in the quiet
dignity with which she affected to ignore what she had heard, even
trying to give her white lips the shadow of a civil smile as she spoke.
“Mr. Crowdie, I wish to speak to Hamilton a moment--you don’t mind, do
you?”
Crowdie looked at her with undisguised amazement and admiration. He
uttered some polite but half inaudible words and moved away, glad,
perhaps, to get out of the sphere of Bright’s invective. Bright
understood very well that Katharine had heard, and admired her calmness
almost as much as Crowdie did, though he did not know as much as the
latter concerning Katharine’s relations with Ralston. Hester Crowdie,
who told her husband everything, had told him most of what Katharine had
confided to her, not considering it a betrayal of confidence, because
she trusted him implicitly. No day of disenchantment had yet come for
her.
“Won’t you come and sit down?” asked Bright, rather anxiously. “There’s
a corner there.”
“Yes,” said Katharine, moving in the direction of the vacant seats.
“I’m afraid you heard what that brute said,” Bright remarked before they
had reached the place. “If I’d seen you coming--”
“It wouldn’t have made any difference,” Katharine answered. Then they
sat down side by side. “It’s much too serious a matter to be angry
about,” she continued, settling herself and looking at his face, and
feeling that it was a relief to see a pair of honest blue eyes at last.
“That’s why I come to you. It happened to you, it seems. Everybody is
talking about it, and I have some right to know--” She hesitated and
then continued. “He’s a near relation and all that, of course, and
whatever he does makes a difference to us all--my mother has heard,
too--I’m sure Mr. Crowdie told her. Didn’t he?”
“I believe so,” answered Bright. “He’s just like a--oh, well! I’ll swear
at him when I’m alone.”
“I’m glad you’re angry with him,” said Katharine, and her eyes flashed
a little. “It’s so mean! But that’s not the question. I want to know
from your own lips what happened--and why he’s not here. I have a right
to know because--because we were going to dance the cotillion
together--and besides--”
She hesitated again, and stopped altogether this time.
“It’s very natural, I’m sure,” said Bright, who was not the type of men
who seek confidences. “Crowdie has made it all out much worse than it
was. He’s a--I mean--I wish I’d met him when I was driving cattle in the
Nacimiento Valley!”
Katharine had never seen Bright so angry before, and the sight was very
soothing and comforting to her. She fully concurred in Bright’s
last-expressed wish.
“You’re Jack’s best friend, aren’t you?” she asked.
“Oh, well--a friend--he always says he hasn’t any. But I daresay I’d do
as much for him as most of them, though, if I had to. I always liked the
fellow for his dash, and we generally get on very well together. He’s
just a trifle lively sometimes, and he doesn’t go well on the curb when
he’s had--when he’s too lively--”
“Why don’t you say when he drinks?” asked Katharine, biting on the
words, as it were, though she forced herself to say them.
“Well, he doesn’t drink exactly,” said Bright. “He’s got an awfully
strong head and a cast-iron constitution, but he’s a queer chap. He gets
melancholy, and thinks he’s a failure and tries to cheer himself with
cocktails. And then, you see, having such a nerve, he doesn’t know
exactly how many he takes; and there’s a limit, of course--and the last
one does the trick. Then he won’t take anything to speak of for days
together. He got a little too much on board last Monday--but that was
excusable, and I hadn’t seen him that way for a long time. I daresay you
heard of it? He saved a boy’s life between a lot of carts and
horse-cars, and got a bad fall; and then, quite naturally--just as I
should have done myself--he swallowed a big dose of something, and it
went to his head. But he went straight home in a cab, so I suppose it
was all right. It was a pretty brave thing he did--talk of baseball! It
was one of the smartest bits of fielding I ever saw--the way he caught
up the little chap, and the dog and the perambulator--forgot nothing,
though it was a close shave. Oh--he’s brave enough! It’s a pity he can’t
find anything to do.”
“Monday,” repeated Katharine, thoughtfully. “Yes--I heard about it. Go
on, please, Ham--about to-day. I want to hear everything there is.”
“Oh--Crowdie talks like a fool about it. I suppose Jack was a little
depressed, or something, and had been trying to screw himself up a bit.
Anyway, he looked rather wild, and I tried to persuade him to stay a
little while before going out of the club--it was in the hall, you know.
I behaved like an ass myself--you know I’m awfully obstinate. He really
did look a little wild, though! I held his arm--just like that, you
know--” he laid his broad hand upon Katharine’s glove--“and then,
somehow, we got fooling together--there in the hall--and he tripped me
up on my back, and ran out. It was all over in a minute; and I was
rather angry at the time, because Crowdie and little Frank Miner were
there, and a couple of servants. But I give you my word, I didn’t say
anything beyond making them all four swear that they wouldn’t tell--”
“And this is the result!” said Katharine, with a sigh. “What was that he
said about being turned out of the club?”
“Crowdie? Oh--some nonsense or other! He felt his ladyship offended
because there had been a bit of a wrestling match in the hall of his
club, that’s all, and said he meant to leave it--”
“No--but about Jack being turned out--”
“It’s all nonsense of Crowdie’s. Men are turned out of a club for
cheating at cards, and that sort of thing. Besides, Jack’s popular with
most of the men. I don’t believe you could get a committee to sit on his
offences--not if he locked the oldest member up in the ice-chest, and
threw the billiard-table out of the window. He says he has no
friends--but it’s all bosh, you know--everybody likes him, except that
doughy brother-in-law of mine!”
Katharine was momentarily comforted by Bright’s account of the matter,
delivered in his familiar, uncompromising fashion. But she was very far
from regaining her composure. She saw that Bright was purposely making
light of the matter; and in the course of the silence, which lasted
several minutes after he had finished speaking, it all looked worse than
it had looked before she had known the exact truth.
She felt, too, an instinct of repulsion from Ralston, which she had
never known, nor dreamed possible. Could he not have controlled himself
a few hours longer? It was their wedding day. Twelve hours had not
passed from the time when they had left the church together until he had
been drunk--positively drunk, to the point of knocking down his best
friend in such a place as a club. She could not deny the facts. Even
Hamilton Bright, kind--more than kind, devoted--did not attempt to
conceal the fact that Ralston had been what he called ‘lively.’ And if
Bright could not try to make him out to have been sober, who could?
And they had been married that morning! If he had been sober--the word
cut her like a whip--if he had been sober, they would at that very
moment have been sitting together--planning their future--perhaps in
that very corner.
She did not know all yet, either. The clock was striking twelve. It was
about at that time that John Ralston was brought into his mother’s house
by a couple of policemen, who had found his card-case in his pocket, and
had the sense--with the hope of a handsome fee--to bring him home,
insensible, stunned almost to death with the blow he had received.
They had waked him roughly, the conductor and the other man, who was
really a prize fighter, at the end of the run, in front of the horse-car
stables, and John had struck out before he was awake, as some excitable
men do. The fight had followed as a matter of course, out in the snow.
The professional had not meant to hurt him, but had lost his temper when
John had reached him and cut his lip, and a right-handed counter had
settled the matter--a heavy right-hander just under John’s left ear.
The policemen said they had picked him up out of a drunken brawl.
According to them, everybody was drunk--Ralston, the prize fighter,--who
had paid five dollars to be left in peace after the adventure,--the
conductor, the driver and every living thing on the scene of action,
including the wretched horses of the car.
There was a short account of the affair in the morning papers, but only
one or two of them mentioned Ralston’s name.
Katharine had yet much to learn about the doings on her wedding day,
when she suddenly announced her intention of going home before the ball
was half over. Hester Crowdie took her, in her own carriage; and Mrs.
Lauderdale and Crowdie stayed till the end.
Now against all this chain of evidence, including that of several men
who had met John in Fifth Avenue about six o’clock, with no overcoat and
his hat badly smashed, against evidence that would have hanged a man ten
times over in a murder case, stood the plain fact, which nobody but
Ralston knew, and which no one would ever believe--the plain fact that
he had drunk nothing at all.
CHAPTER XXI.
In the grey dawn of Friday morning Katharine woke from broken sleep to
face the reality of what she had done twenty-four hours earlier. It had
snowed very heavily during the night, and her first conscious perception
was of that strange, cold glare which the snow reflects, and which makes
even a bedroom feel like a chilly outer hall into which the daylight
penetrates through thick panes of ground glass.
She had slept very little, and against her will, losing consciousness
from time to time out of sheer exhaustion, and roused again by the cruel
reuniting of the train of thought. Those who have received a wound by
which a principal nerve has been divided, know how intense is the
suffering when the severed cords begin to grow together, with agonizing
slowness, day by day and week by week, convulsing the whole frame of the
man in their meeting. Katharine felt something like that each time that
the merciful curtains of sleep were suddenly torn asunder between
herself and the truth of the present.
The pain was combined of many elements, too, and each hurt her in its
own way. There was the shame of the thing, first, the burning, scarlet
shame--the thought of it had a colour for her. John Ralston was
disgraced in the eyes of all the world. Even the smooth-faced dandy,
fresh from college, young Van De Water, might sneer at him and welcome,
and feel superior to him, for never having gone so far in folly. Now if
such men as Van De Water knew the story, it was but a question of hours,
and all society must know it, too. Society would set down John Ralston
as a hopeless case. Katharine wondered, with a sickening chill, whether
the virtuous--like her father--would turn their backs on Ralston and
refuse to know him. She did not know. But Ralston was her husband.
The thought almost drove her mad. There was that condition of the
inevitable in her position which gives fate its hold over men’s minds.
She could not escape. She could not go back to the point where she had
been yesterday morning, and begin her life again. As she had begun it,
so it must go on to the very end, ‘until death them should part’--the
life of a spotless girl married to a man who was the very incarnation of
a disgusting vice. In those first moments it would have been a human
satisfaction to have been free to blame some one besides herself for
what she had done.
But even now, when every bitter thought seemed to rise up against John
Ralston, she could not say that the fault had been his if she had bound
herself to him. To the very last he had resisted. This was Friday
morning, and on the Wednesday night at the Thirlwalls’ he had told her
that he could not be sure of himself. By and by, perhaps, that brave act
of his might begin to tell in his favour with her, but not yet. The
faces, the expressions, the words, of those from whom she had learned
the story of his doings were before her eyes and present in her hearing
now, as she lay wide awake in the early morning, staring with hot eyes
at the cold grey ceiling of her room.
It was only yesterday that her sister Charlotte had sat there, lamenting
her imaginary woes. How Katharine had despised her! Had she not
deliberately chosen, of her own free will, and was she not bound to
stand by her choice, out of mere self-respect? And Katharine had felt
then that, come what might, for good or ill, better or worse, honour or
dishonour, she was glad that she had married John Ralston and that she
would face all imaginable deaths to help him, even a little. But
now--now, it was different. He had failed her at the very outset. It was
not that others had turned upon him, despising him wholly for a partial
fault. The public disgrace made it all worse than it might have been,
but it was only secondary, after all. The keenest pain was from the
thrust that had entered Katharine’s own heart. It had been with him as
though she had not existed. He had not been strong enough, for her sake,
on their wedding day--the day of days to her--to keep himself sober from
three o’clock in the afternoon until ten o’clock at night. Only seven
hours, Katharine repeated to herself in the cold snow-glare of the early
morning--seven little hours; her lips were hot and dry with anger, and
her hands were cold, as she thought of it. It was not only the weakness
of him, contemptible as that was--if it had at least been weakness for
something less brutal, less beastly, less degrading. Katharine chose the
strongest words she could think of, and smote him with them in her
heart. Was he not her husband, and had she not the right to hate and
despise what he had done? It was bad enough, as she said it, and as it
appeared to most people that morning. There was not a link missing in
the evidence, from the moment when John had begun to lose his temper
with Miner at the club, until he had been brought home insensible to his
mother’s house by a couple of policemen. His relations and his best
friends were all convinced that he had been very drunk, and there was no
reason why society in general should be more merciful than his own
people. Robert Lauderdale said nothing, but when he saw the paragraph
in a morning paper describing ‘Mr. John R----’s drunken encounter with
a professional pugilist,’ he regarded the statement as an elucidatory
comment on his interview with his great-nephew. No one spoke of the
matter in Robert Lauderdale’s presence, but the old gentleman felt that
it was a distinct shame to the whole family, and he inwardly expressed
himself strongly. The only one who tried to make matters look a little
better than every one believed they were, was Hamilton Bright. He could
not deny the facts, but he put on a cheerful countenance and made the
best of them, laughing good-humouredly at John’s misfortune, and asking
every one who ventured an unfavourable comment whether John was the only
man alive on that day in the city of New York who had once been a little
lively, recommending the beardless critics of his friend’s conduct to go
out and drive cattle in the Nacimiento Valley if they wished to
understand the real properties of alcohol, and making the older ones
feel uncomfortable by reminding them vividly of the errors of their
youth. But no one else said anything in Ralston’s favour. He was down
just then, and it was as well to hit him when everybody was doing the
same thing.
Katharine tried to make up her mind as to what she should do, and she
did not find it an easy matter. It would be useless to deny the fact
that what she felt for Ralston on that morning bore little resemblance
to love. She remembered vaguely, and with wonder, how she had promised
to stand by him and help him to her utmost to overcome his weakness. How
was she to help him now? How could she play a part and conceal the
anger, the pain, the shame that boiled and burned in her? If he should
come to her, what should she say? She had promised that she would never
refer to the matter in any way, when it had seemed but the shadow of a
possibility. But it had turned into the reality so soon, and into such a
reality--far more repulsive than anything of which she had dreamed.
Besides, she added in her heart, it was unpardonable on that day of all
days. Married she was, but forgive she could not and would not. Wounded
love is less merciful than any hatred, and Katharine could not help
deepening the wound by recalling every circumstance of the previous
evening, from the moment when she had looked in vain for John’s face in
the crowded room, until she had broken down and asked Hester Crowdie to
bring her home.
She rose at last to face the day, undecided, worn out with fatigue, and
scared, had she been willing to admit the fact, by the possibilities of
the next twelve hours. Half dressed, she paused and sat down to think it
all over again--all she knew, for she had yet to learn the end of the
story.
She had been married just four and twenty hours. Yesterday, at that
very time, life had been before her, joyous, hopeful, merry. All that
was to be had glistened with gold and gleamed with silver, with the
silver of dreamland and the gold of hope, having love set as a jewel in
the midst. To-day the precious things were but dross and tinsel and
cheap glass. For it was all over, and there was no returning. Real life
was beginning, began, had begun--the reality of an existence not defined
except in the extent of its suffering, but desperately limited in the
possibilities of its happiness.
Katharine tried to think it over in some other way. The snow-glare was
more grey than ever, and her eyes ached with it, whichever way she
turned. The room was cold, and her teeth chattered as she sat there,
half dressed. Then, when she let in the hot air from the furnace, it was
dry and unbearable. And she tried hard to find some other way in which
to save her breaking heart--if so be that she might look at it so as not
to see the break, and so, perhaps--if there were mercy in heaven, beyond
that aching snow-glare--that by not seeing she might feel a little less,
only a little less. It was hard that she should have to feel so much and
so very bitterly, and all at once. But there was no other way. Instead
of facing life with John Ralston, she had now to face life and John
Ralston. How could she guess what he might do next? A drunken man has
little control of his faculties--John might suddenly publish in the club
the fact that he was her husband.
He was not the same John Ralston whom she had married yesterday morning,
and whom she had seen yesterday afternoon for one moment at her door.
The hours had changed him. Instead of his face there was a horrible
mask; instead of his straight, elastic figure there was the reeling,
delapidated body of the drunken wretch her father had once shown her in
the streets. How could she love that thing? It was not even a man. She
loathed it and hated it, for it had broken her life. She remembered
having once broken a thermometer when she had been a little girl. She
remembered the jagged edge of glass, and how the bright mercury had all
run out and lost itself in tiny drops in the carpet. She recalled it
vividly, and she felt that she was like the broken thermometer, and the
idea was not ridiculous to her, as it must be to any one else, because
she was badly hurt.
Vague ideas of a long and painful sacrifice rose before her--of
something which must inevitably be begun and ended, like an execution.
She had never understood what the inevitable meant until to-day.
Then, all at once, the great question presented itself clearly, the
great query, the enormous interrogation of which we are all aware, more
or less dimly, more or less clearly--the question which is like the
death-rattle in the throat of the dying nineteenth century,--‘What is it
all for?’
It came in a rush of passionate disappointment and anger and pain. It
had come to Katharine before then, and she had faced it with the easy
answer, that it was for love--that it was all for love of John
Ralston--life, its thoughts, its deeds, its hopes, its many fears--all
for him, so far as Katharine Lauderdale was concerned. Love made God
true, and heaven a fact, the angels her guardians now and her companions
hereafter. And her love had been so great that it had seemed to demand a
wider wealth of heavenly things wherewith to frame it. God was hardly
good enough nor heaven broad enough.
But if this were to be the end, what had it all meant? She stood before
the window and looked at the grey sky till the reflection from the dead
white snow beneath her window and on the opposite roof was painful. Yet
the little physical pain was a relief. She turned, quite suddenly, and
fell upon her knees beside the corner of the toilet table, and buried
her face in her hands and became conscious of prayer.
That seems to be the only way of describing what she felt. The wave of
pain beat upon her agonized heart, and though the wave could not speak
words, yet the surging and the moaning, and the forward rushing, and
the backward, whispering ebb, were as the sounds of many prayers.
Was God good? How could she tell? Was He kind? She did not know.
Merciful? What would be mercy to her? God was there--somewhere beyond
the snow-glare that hurt so, and the girl’s breaking heart cried to Him,
quite incoherently, and expecting nothing, but consciously, though it
knew more of its own bitterness than of God’s goodness, just then.
Momentarily the great question sank back into the outer darkness with
which it was concerned, and little by little the religious idea of a
sacrifice to be made was restored with greater stability than before.
She had chosen her own burden, her own way of suffering, and she must
bear all as well as she could. The waves of pain beat and crashed
against her heart--she wondered, childishly, whether it were broken yet.
She knew it was breaking, because it hurt her so.
There was no connected thread of thought in the torn tissue of her mind,
any more than there was any coherence in the few words which from time
to time tried to form themselves on her lips without her knowledge. So
long as she had been lying still and staring at the grey ceiling, the
storm had been brooding. It had burst now, and she was as helpless in it
as though it had been a real storm on a real sea, and she alone on a
driving wreck.
She lifted her face and wrung her hands together. It was as though some
one from behind had taken a turn of rough rope round her breast--some
one who was very strong--and as though the rope were tightening fast.
Soon she should not be able to draw breath against it. As she felt it
crushing her, she knew that the hideous picture her mind had made of
John was coming before her eyes again. In a moment it must be there.
This time she felt as though she must scream when she saw it. But when
it came she made no sound. She only dropped her head again, and her
forehead beat upon the back of her hands and her fingers scratched and
drew the cover of the toilet table. Then the picture was drowned in the
tide of pain--as though it had fallen flat upon the dark sands between
her and the cruel surf of her immense suffering that roared up to crash
against her heart again. It must break this time, she thought. It could
not last forever--nor even all day long. God was there--somewhere.
A lull came, and she said something aloud. It seemed to her that she had
forgotten words and had to make new ones--although those she spoke were
old and good. With the sound of her own voice came a little courage, and
enough determination to make her rise from her knees and face daylight
again.
Mechanically, as she continued to dress, she looked at herself in the
mirror. Her features did not seem to be her own. She remembered to have
seen a plaster cast from a death mask, in a museum, and her face made
her think of that. There were no lines in it, but there were shadows
where the lines would be some day. The grey eyes had no light in them,
and scarcely seemed alive. Her colour was that of wax, and there was
something unnatural in the strong black brows and lashes.
The door opened at that moment, and Mrs. Lauderdale entered the room.
She seemed none the worse for having danced till morning, and the
freshness which had come back to her had not disappeared again. She
stood still for a moment, looking at Katharine’s face as the latter
turned towards her with an enquiring glance, in which there was
something of fear and something of shyness. A nervous thoroughbred has
the same look, if some one unexpectedly enters its box. Mrs. Lauderdale
had a newspaper in her hand.
“How you look, child!” she exclaimed, as she came forward. “Haven’t you
slept? Or what is the matter?”
She kissed Katharine affectionately, without waiting for an answer.
“Well, I don’t wonder,” she added, a moment later, as though speaking to
herself. “I’ve been reading this--”
She paused and hesitated, as though not sure whether she should give
Katharine the paper or not, and she glanced once more at the paragraph
before deciding.
“What is it about?” Katharine asked, in a tired voice. “Read it.”
“Yes--but I ought to tell you first. You know, last night--you asked me
about Jack Ralston, and I wouldn’t tell you what I had heard. Then I saw
that somebody else had told you--you really ought to be more careful,
dear! Everybody was noticing it.”
“What?”
“Why--your face! It’s of no use to advertise the fact that you are
interested in Jack’s doings. They don’t seem to have been very
creditable--it’s just as well that he didn’t try to come to the ball in
his condition. Do you know what he was doing, late last night, just
about supper-time? I’m so glad I spoke to you both the other day.
Imagine the mere idea of marrying a man who gets into drunken brawls
with prize fighters and is taken home by the police--”
“Stop--please! Don’t talk like that!” Katharine was trembling visibly.
“My dear child! It’s far better that I should tell you--it’s in the
papers this morning. That sort of thing can’t be concealed, you know.
The first person you meet will talk to you about it.”
Katharine had turned from her and was facing the mirror, steadying
herself with her hands upon the dressing table.
“And as for behaving as you did last night--he’s not worth it. One might
forgive him for being idle and all that--but men who get tipsy in the
streets and fight horse-car conductors and pugilists are not exactly the
kind of people one wants to meet in society--to dance with, for
instance. Just listen to this--”
“Mother!”
“No--I want you to hear it. You can judge for yourself. ‘Mr. John R----,
a well-known young gentleman about town and a near relation of--’”
“Mother--please don’t!” cried Katharine, bending over the table as
