About five o'clock Fletcher opened his eyes. He was one who slept fast,
so to speak, and obtained as much refreshment from an hour's sleep as
most people do from a period twice as long. He had been lying on the
ground wrapped in a blanket, as was the case with the other members of
the party.
Raising himself, and leaning on his elbow, he saw that they were all
fast asleep. He nodded with satisfaction, and getting on his feet he
approached Obed Stackpole with noiseless tread. The Yankee was sleeping
with his mouth wide open, occasionally emitting a sonorous snore through
his aquiline nose. He was not beautiful to look upon, as Fletcher
evidently thought.
"Ill-favored brute!" he ejaculated. "I'd like to choke him!"
If any special advantage had been likely to accrue to him, Fletcher's
conscience would not have been likely to stand in the way of violence;
but his purpose now was different.
"The fellow must have gold about him," muttered Fletcher. "I wonder
whether I can get at it without waking him up."
Obed seemed to be in a profound slumber, but it was a peculiarity of our
Yankee friend to wake at the least touch. This, of course, was not known
to Dick Fletcher, who felt that there would be no risk in a careful
exploration of Obed's pockets.
He thrust his hand into one of the Yankee's pockets with the practiced
skill of a pickpocket, when an entirely unexpected result followed.
"Why, you skunk, what in creation are you about?" exclaimed Obed,
suddenly seizing Fletcher by the throat.
"Let me go!" said Fletcher, struggling violently, but ineffectually, to
free himself.
"Not till you've told me what you are after."
"Let go, and I'll tell you."
Obed loosened his grip, saying sternly, "Are you a pickpocket, my
enterprising friend, or what is the meaning of all this business?"
"You had better not insult me!" said Fletcher angrily. "I'm no more a
pickpocket than you are."
"Then what is the meaning of your little game? Maybe you got up in your
sleep."
"No, I didn't. I just waked up, and thought I'd like to have a smoke,
but had no matches. I thought you might have some in your pocket."
"Why didn't you wake me up and ask me?"
"You looked so comfortable, and I thought you needed rest after a hard
day's work, so I decided to help myself."
"It looks like it," responded Obed dryly. "So that's all you were after,
was it?"
"Of course," said Fletcher, regaining confidence. "What else could it
be?"
"Well, it strikes me it's rather takin' a liberty with a gentleman to
search his pockets while he's asleep, that's all! In Californy,
Fletcher, if you had been caught doin' it, ten chances to one you'd have
been lynched, and lynchin' isn't usually regarded as comfortable or
desirable. Where's your cigar?"
"I haven't any, but I've got a pipe."
"Well, I do happen to have a few matches in my other pocket, but I'd
rather you'd ask for 'em next time."
"I will. The fact is, I ought to have brought some with me. It's very
strange, old traveller as I am."
"It would have been a little better than borrowin' them of a sleepin'
man without leave. Don't do it again, Fletcher."
"I'm not very likely to borrow them of you again, except when you're
awake," said Fetcher with a short laugh. "Do you always wake up so
easy?" he asked, in some curiosity.
"Always. I sleep mighty sound, but the least touch wakes me up."
"I shall remember that," thought Fletcher. "This Yankee is rather a
dangerous man to tackle. I won't attempt it again unless I have the
decided advantage."
"I hope you'll excuse me, Mr. Stackpole," he said aloud in a smooth
tone. "I used to travel with a friend--a great chum of mine--and we
never stood on ceremony with each other. I ought to have remembered that
you and I are comparatively new acquaintances."
"Perhaps it will be best," said Obed dryly. "You see when I wake up I
don't always have my wits about me, and I might cut up rough before I
had time to think."
"Oh, no apologies, I beg," said Fletcher, waving his hand.
"Who's apologizin'?" demanded Obed, in surprise.
"Never mind, it's all right! I thought you were apologizing for seizing
me by the throat. As you say, you waked up suddenly, and didn't have
your wits about you."
"Well, I know!" ejaculated Obed half to himself. "I didn't think of that
way of puttin' it. You're a cute fellow, Fletcher."
"Thank you, Mr. Stackpole. Now I will have my smoke;" and Fletcher,
though he did not care for it, by way of removing any lingering
suspicion, lit his pipe and puffed away with apparent pleasure.
CHAPTER VII.
PARTING COMPANY.
"I mistrust that man Fletcher," said Obed to Harry Vane the next day,
taking the opportunity when, at one of their rests, the man referred to
had sauntered into the woods.
"I don't like him myself," said Harry. "Have you any particular reason
for mistrusting him?"
"He was searchin' my pockets last night when he thought I was asleep,"
answered Obed, and he related the incident of the night before.
"It looks suspicious," said Harry. "I have not much money, but I don't
care to lose what I have."
"I should like to shake him, but I don't see how we can very well. He's
a reg'lar member of the party."
"We can be on our guard at any rate," said Harry. "I'll tell Jack, and
advise him to be careful also."
At this point Dick Fletcher returned. He looked suspiciously from one to
the other, under the impression that something had been said about him.
He asked no questions, however, and no information was volunteered. He
could not but observe, however, that there was more or less restraint in
the manner of his companions toward him, and that they were not disposed
to be social.
That day they made nine miles, the road being slightly better than the
day before. About five o'clock they reached a rude wayside inn, over the
door of which was a swinging sign, on which was printed:
TRAVELLERS' REST.
"We might as well stop here, instead of camping out," said Fletcher.
"I'm agreeable," said Obed, "if the tax isn't too high."
"Oh, Linton is moderate in his charges," said Fletcher. "I've known him
a good while. He's a good fellow."
This was not a very valuable recommendation in the opinion of Obed and
the two boys, but they had no objection to becoming guests of the
establishment.
It was a rude building, and the accommodations were very limited. In
fact, there were but two sleeping rooms. One of these Fletcher occupied,
and the other was given up to the other members of the party, there
being two beds.
"I'd rather bunk in with you, if you don't mind," said Stackpole to
Harry. "I don't feel easy in the same room with Fletcher."
"We shall be very glad of your company, Mr. Stackpole."
"If I snore, just come and turn me over. I don't want to disturb
nobody."
"I think Jack and I will be too sound asleep to be disturbed by your
snoring," said Harry with a laugh. "However, if there is any occasion, I
will follow your directions."
The landlord was a broad-shouldered man of moderate stature, who had
lost the sight of one eye. The other, being covered with a green shade,
gave him an ill look. His manner, however, was hearty, and showed a
bluff, off-hand cordiality, as he welcomed the party to the
hospitalities of the Travellers' Rest. He was familiarly called "Larry,"
by Fletcher, who greeted him like an old comrade.
The supper consisted in part of their own supplies, with some small
additions from the larder of the inn. It was, at any rate, an
improvement upon their camp fare, and the boys enjoyed it.
After supper they sat down on a settle in front of the inn, but
presently Fletcher strayed away into the woods at the back of the house.
Some fifteen minutes later Larry Linton also got up, but ostentatiously
went in a different direction.
"I'm going a little ways to a squatter's to speak about some
vegetables," he said.
"If you don't mind company, I'll go along too," said Obed.
"Better not," answered Larry. "There's a boggy spot which a stranger is
likely to fall into."
"I've had enough of bogs," said Obed, shrugging his shoulders. "Seems to
me you haven't got much besides bogs out in Australy."
So Linton went off by himself. After he was fairly out of the way, Obed
said, turning to the two boys. "Did you think I wanted to go off with
Linton?"
"I supposed so, as you made the proposal."
"I only wanted to find out if he wanted me or not. I have my
suspicions."
"What kind of suspicions?"
Harry was the speaker, as usual, for Jack never took the lead when Harry
was present.
"Fletcher and Linton are too thick together to suit me," answered the
Yankee. "Looks as if they was in league together."
"Do you think they have arranged a meeting?"
"That's just what I do think."
"But they have gone in different directions," objected Jack.
"Bless your simple heart, my boy, that's done on purpose," said Obed.
"Can't they fetch round together without our knowing it?"
"I didn't think of that," Jack admitted.
"Mr. Stackpole," said Harry after a moment's thought, "if you and Jack
will keep each other company, I will explore a little myself. I may
happen to be at the conference."
"Be careful if you do, Harry," said Obed. "Don't run no risk."
"I'll look out for that."
In the rear of the house, and almost reaching to it, was a forest of
eucalyptus trees. It was unfavorable to Harry's purpose that these trees
rise straight from the ground, and are not encumbered by underbrush. It
was very pleasant walking though, and Harry sauntered along at his
leisure. He almost forgot the object of his enterprise, until some half
an hour later, in the stillness of the woods, his quick ear caught the
sound of voices.
He was instantly on the alert. The voices, he doubted not, were those of
Dick Fletcher and Larry Linton. He moved forward cautiously, and soon
espied the speakers. They were sitting on the ground, under the
overreaching boughs of a gigantic tree. Harry managed to get near enough
to listen to the conversation, being himself concealed from view behind
the trunk of a neighboring tree.
"Is there much money in the party?" he heard Linton ask.
"I can't tell you. The boys haven't got much, but that long-legged
Yankee has probably got considerable."
"What sort of a man is he?"
"He's likely to prove a troublesome customer. He is muscular, as you can
see, and not easily scared."
"Has he any suspicion of you?"
"Yes; I put my foot in it the other night."
"How's that?"
"I saw him sleeping like a boy, and thought there was no danger of his
waking up, so I took the liberty to explore his pockets. Before I could
say Jack Robinson he had me by the throat, and wanted to know what I was
after."
"That was awkward. How did you get out of it?"
"Lied out! Told him I was looking for matches, as I wanted a smoke."
"Did he swallow it down?"
"He didn't contradict me, but it has made him watchful and suspicious.
If I'd got the money, I was ready to make tracks, and leave them to find
their way as they could."
At this point the two rose and walked away, leaving Harry in his
position behind the tree. As soon as he thought it was safe he came out,
and made the best of his way to the inn, getting there about fifteen
minutes before Fletcher appeared, but without the landlord. During that
interval he had time to communicate what he had heard to Obed
Stackpole.
"Just what I expected!" said Obed. "The treacherous skunk! So he's in
league with the landlord, is he? I'll fix him."
He cautioned the two boys not to show by their manner that they had made
any discovery, but to appear as usual.
The next morning the party started as usual. They plodded on for almost
a mile, when Obed, turning quickly to Fletcher, said:
"Let me look at that weapon of yours a minute."
Fletcher unsuspiciously handed it over.
"I think I shall keep this, Fletcher," said Obed, eying him steadily.
"I'm pained to have to bid you good-by."
"What does all this mean?" blustered Fletcher.
"It means that your room is better than your company. We'd better
part."
"Would you rob me? That revolver is mine, and I paid for a share of the
things in the cart."
"I'll allow you the vally of them and pay you on the spot, but we can't
go on together."
Suiting the action to the word, Mr. Stackpole handed over a handsome sum
of money.
"But I don't want to sell my revolver," repeated Fletcher. "What am I to
do out here alone, and unarmed."
"You'd better go back to your friend Larry Linton. He'll look out for
you."
"You will regret this high-handed proceeding!" exclaimed Fletcher
angrily.
"Maybe I shall, and maybe I shan't," answered Obed indifferently. "I'll
risk it."
Fletcher halted a moment as if undecided, then turned back, and was soon
out of sight.
CHAPTER VIII.
A VICTIM OF TREACHERY.
All the party felt relieved to be rid of Fletcher. Without being able to
prove anything against him, all believed him to be unworthy of
confidence. Now they were a united party, and whatever might be the
hardships of the trip they were ready to sympathize and co-operate with
each other.
They had already learned that it was no holiday trip they had
undertaken. The bogs have already been referred to. In addition the heat
was oppressive in the middle of the day. Then the numerous insects that
infest Australia--the ants, flies, and scorpions--were most troublesome.
They had to be very careful to avoid being bitten, for the bite of any
these is severe and dangerous. On the day succeeding their parting from
Fletcher they accomplished but six miles, the road being unusually
swampy.
"I feel about tuckered out," said Obed, about the middle of the
afternoon, just after he had extricated the team, by great personal
effort, from a morass. "If I'd 'a' known as much of the country before
startin' I wouldn't have started at all."
"It's a long road that has no ending," said Harry, smiling. He, too, was
very tired, but youth is hopeful.
"It's the worst country I ever travelled in, by a long shot. If I ever
make my pile, I'll take the first steamer back to Frisco."
"Who's that?" suddenly exclaimed Jack.
Obed and Harry, looking up, saw a forlorn-looking figure approaching
them. It was a man of middle age, and emaciated in appearance, looking
the image of despair. He tottered rather than walked, from exceeding
weakness.
"For Heaven's sake give me something to eat! I am almost famished," he
cried.
"Why, certainly, friend," answered Obed, rising and advancing to meet
the stranger. "We don't keep a first-class hotel, but you're welcome to
what we've got. Are you travellin' alone?"
"Yes, if you call it travelling. I've been dragging myself along for
several days, hoping to find somebody that would give me aid."
"Well, you've found somebody. Here, sit down, for you don't seem able to
stand, and we'll provide for you. Harry, bring some biscuit and cold
meat, won't you, and Jack had better build a fire. A cup of tea will put
new life into you, my friend."
The biscuit were soaked in water and given to the stranger. He devoured
them like a man in the last stages of hunger.
"Go slow, my friend. Your stomach must be weak," said Obed.
"If you only knew the gnawing at my vitals," said the new-comer. "I have
not tasted food for three days."
"I never was in that fix, though I did go hungry for twenty-four hours
once in Californy. You'd better believe I pitched in when I got to where
victuals were."
"How did that happen, Mr. Stackpole?" asked Harry.
"I was lost in the mountains," answered Obed, "and couldn't find any
trace of a livin' creature except an old miser, who pointed a musket at
me, and didn't dare to let me into his hut. I don't think I could have
stood it three days."
"That goes to the right spot," said the stranger, after he had gulped
down two cups of tea. "Now I'm ready to die without complaining."
"If it's all the same to you, I think you'd better get ready to live,"
said Obed.
"I'd rather die now than suffer as I have done in the last three days,"
"You won't have to. We've got plenty and to spare."
"But I have no money. I have been robbed of everything."
"Robbed! How is that?"
"It's rather a long story. You may not have patience to hear it."
"We've got time enough, and patience enough, but perhaps you don't feel
strong enough to talk."
"I didn't before you relieved my hunger. The food and the tea have put
new life into me, as you predicted they would."
"Then go ahead, stranger. We're all anxious to hear your story."
"I am an Englishman," began the unknown, "and my name is Ralph Granger.
When the report reached England of the richness of the Australian
gold-fields, I sold out my business, and was among the first to come out
here. By the sale of my business I realized about five hundred pounds.
Three hundred I left with my wife--I have no children--to keep her while
I was gone. It is very fortunate that I took this precaution and left
her so well provided for, since, had I brought all my money with me, it
would all have been lost."
The three adventurers looked at each other soberly. The ill fortune of
their new acquaintance did not augur very well for their good fortune.
"Then you had bad luck," said Harry inquiringly.
"On the contrary I had good luck," replied the stranger.
"Good luck!" repeated Harry in surprise. "Then how----"
"How did I come into this plight? That is what you were about to ask?"
"Yes."
"You will soon learn. On reaching this country I was in doubt whether to
go to Ballarat or Bendigo, but finally decided upon the latter."
"We are bound for Bendigo," said Jack.
"So I inferred. Ballarat is in a different direction. Very well, I
reached Bendigo three months since. For a time I was unlucky. I found
next to no gold, and the prices of living used up about all the money I
had left after the expense of getting there. Just when I was on the
point of giving up in despair my luck turned. I made a strike, and
during the next six weeks I unearthed gold to the value of a thousand
pounds."
"That certainly wasn't bad luck."
"It was extraordinarily good luck, and naturally drew the attention of
the rest of the camp. This was unfortunate, for in such a settlement, as
may well be supposed, there are many reckless adventurers, ex-convicts,
and men utterly destitute of principle."
"Then you were robbed at the camp?"
"Not then nor there. I took the precaution to send the greater part of
my money to Melbourne by experts. Destitute and lost, I have six hundred
pounds in Melbourne awaiting my arrival, but for all that, I should
probably have starved to death but for my opportune meeting with you."
"Come, then, you've got something to live for, after all," said Obed.
"Yes, you are right. Let me once get to Melbourne and I am all right. I
shall buy a passage ticket to Liverpool, and carry with me the balance
of my money. With all that I have lost I shall go home richer than I
came."
"But how did you lose your money?" asked Jack, who was eager to have his
curiosity gratified.
"When I got ready to leave the gold-fields, there was no party which I
could join. I did not like to go alone. In this emergency a man who had
been working an adjoining claim offered to go with me. He professed to
have been fortunate, and to be ready to go back to the city. I saw no
reason to distrust him, and accepted his proposal. We bought each a
horse, made other preparations, and set out together. He won upon my
confidence, and I told him everything. He was very comfortably fixed
himself, he told me, and was glad he had fallen in with me, as he had
been afraid of being robbed on the journey. All went pleasantly for
three days, but on the morning of the fourth day when I awoke I found
myself alone. A little startled, I felt for my gold, which I carried in
a belt around my waist. It was gone, and so was my horse. Of course you
guess how it happened. My companion had robbed me during the night, and
left me in the woods utterly destitute."
"What was the name of your companion?" asked Obed quickly.
"He called himself Fletcher."
"I thought so!" exclaimed Obed, slapping his leg with emphasis. "We know
the gentleman a little ourselves."
CHAPTER IX.
A DISAGREEABLE SURPRISE.
"You have not met Dick Fletcher?" said Ralph Granger in surprise.
"Yes, we only parted from him this morning."
"Did he rob you?"
"No, but he tried to."
Here Obed gave an account of Fletcher's searching his pockets during the
night.
"He thought I was sound asleep," he continued, "and so I was, but it
doesn't take much to wake me. When I gripped his throat, he concluded
he'd tackled the wrong man."
"Did you part company with him then?"
"No; he pretended he had been in search of matches, and I pretended to
believe it, but kept a good look-out. Last evening we stopped at the
Travellers' Rest, and Harry, here, overheard him and the landlord out in
the woods concocting a scheme to rob us, so I just told the gentleman
his room was better than his company, and he cleared out."
"I am afraid he will turn up again," said Granger apprehensively.
"We'll try to be ready for him," said Obed coolly, "but I don't mean to
borrow any trouble."
By this time their new acquaintance had satisfied his hunger. He turned
gratefully to Obed Stackpole.
"How can I thank you for your great kindness?" he said earnestly. "I
feel that you have saved my life."
"Tut, tut." said Obed, "I've only done as you would have done in my
place. Obed Stackpole isn't the man to let anyone go hungry when he has
enough and to spare. But finish your story, my friend. How long is it
since you parted company with that skunk, Fletcher?"
"I think it is only seven days, but it has seemed a month."
"And didn't you meet anybody humane enough to relieve your hunger?".
"Yes, during the first four days, but not for the last three. Part of
the time I lost my way, and did not meet anyone. I hope you will never
know such torments as I have known in that time."
"Amen to that! And now, my friend, what are your plans?"
"I should like to go back to Melbourne," said the stranger hesitatingly.
"If you say so, we'll fit you out with three days' provisions, and you
can push on."
"I hardly like to go alone."
"I am sorry, for your sake, that we are going the other way. You see we
haven't made our pile yet, and must go on. I wish we were on our way
back, with our pockets well lined. Although you have been robbed, you've
got a good sum waiting for you in Melbourne."
"True; I shall be all right when I get there, but as I am at present
situated, it seems very uncertain when I shall have that good fortune."
"I'll tell you what you'd better do, Granger. Come along with us, and
join the first party we meet bound for the city. You will, at all
events, be sure of your victuals till then."
"I believe your advice to be good, and will accept your kind invitation.
When I met you I was about worn out, but the tea and food have put new
life in me, and my strength has returned."
After an hour's halt, the little party resumed their march. They were
compelled to go so slowly, in consequence of the difficulties of the
way, not caring, of course, to get ahead of the oxen, that Granger was
easily able to keep up. He proved to be a pleasant addition to the
party, and all were glad to have exchanged Fletcher for him. They were
not destined to travel long together, however, for before nightfall they
fell in with a party of eight persons bound for Melbourne. The two
parties halted, and had a conference. Granger's story being told, they
agreed to let him join their party, in consideration of a fair
compensation which he agreed to make on his arrival at Melbourne.
"Good-by, Granger," said Obed, as they parted. "I think you're all right
now. I wish you good luck for the balance of your journey."
"Thank you, Mr. Stackpole," said Granger, grasping the Yankee's hand
cordially. "If I do, I shall feel that I am indebted to you for my good
fortune. I shudder to think what would have been my fate if I hadn't
fallen in with you."
"Then don't think of it! Good-by. Perhaps we shall meet again."
Granger also shook hands with Harry and Jack, and so they parted on the
best of terms.
"I wonder whether we shall meet with any more of that mean skunk
Fletcher's victims," said Obed. "He's in a pretty mean business."
"There's no doubt about that," said Harry. "I'd rather live poor all my
life than live by fleecing my neighbors."
Toward the close of the day they entered a much pleasanter country. In
place of sandy clay, baked hard in the sun, alternating here and there
with a moist bog, they came to tall grass, trees of great height, and
meadows suitable for grazing. The cattle revelled in the rich feed, and
Obed suffered them to eat their fill, feeling that they had worked hard
and deserved it. Though it was rather earlier than usual, they decided
to encamp for the night near the margin of a creek, shaded by trees of a
gigantic size.
Harry looked longingly at the clear stream, and a vision rose before him
of a pond in his native town where he had been accustomed to bathe.
"Jack," said he, "let's have a swim."
"I'm with you," said Jack promptly. "I'll bet you a shilling I'll be in
the water first."
"I'll make a try for it anyway." But Jack, being more simply dressed,
was as good as his word, and plunged into the creek first. Harry was
scarcely half a minute behind. The boys swam, dived, and frolicked as
boys of their age will, and were loath to come out at the last. After
their experience of mud and heat the bath seemed to them delicious.
"I haven't enjoyed myself so much since I came to Australia," said Harry
with a deep sigh of satisfaction. "I wish I could have a bath every
evening."
"So do I," said Jack; "I mean to have another to-morrow morning."
They slept soundly all night, but early in the morning, as consciousness
returned, Harry was startled by the sound of hearty laughter. He looked
at Jack and Obed in amazement, but both were fast asleep. Indeed, the
sound seemed to come from above. He looked up into the tree beneath
which they had encamped, but could see no person concealed among the
branches. He did, however, notice a peculiar looking bird, and it dawned
upon him that the laughter proceeded from it. He remembered now to have
heard of the bird peculiar to Australia, popularly known as "the
laughing jackass." This was the first chance he had had of hearing it,
and he woke up Obed and Jack to hear it also.
"That beats all I ever heard," said Mr. Stackpole. "I wish he'd tell us
what's the joke, and we'll laugh too."
This was not the only sound they heard. A flock of white cockatoos were
roosting on the tree, and favored the party with their dissonant cries.
They are described as having "most sharp and rasping voices."
"If that's singing," said Obed. "I shan't be afraid to try it myself."
"Don't you sing, Mr. Stackpole?" asked Jack, smiling.
"I thought I could once, when I was in my teens. I attended a singing
school, and went in the attic one Sunday mornin' to practise. Soon my
father was at the foot of the stairs, and asked me what I meant by
sawin' boards up in the attic Sunday mornin'."
Of course the boys laughed, but in spite of Obed's disclaimer thought
they would prefer listening to him to the cockatoos.
They got ready to move at seven, the boys having made sure of a bath
first. They were not destined to proceed far, however. About ten
o'clock, as they were skirting the woods, six men on horseback rode out
from the leafy covert. They seemed inclined to dispute the passage of
the party.
"What can they want?" ejaculated Harry, with a startled look.
"I expect they are bushrangers," said Obed.
CHAPTER X.
FLETCHER TURNS UP AGAIN.
Harry didn't need to be told that bushrangers in Australia correspond to
bandits in Italy and highwaymen in other countries. The escaped convicts
and desperate characters who are naturally attracted to a new country,
readily adopted the wild and lawless life of the bushrangers. Stories of
their outrages were common enough, and among the dangers apprehended in
a journey to or from the mines, that of meeting with a party of this
gentry was perhaps the most dreaded.
Though Obed Stackpole betrayed no emotion, but was outwardly quiet, his
heart sank within him when he saw the bushrangers strung along the
road.
"I guess our trip to the mines must be given up," said he in a low voice
to Harry.
Meanwhile Harry had been scanning the faces of the men who confronted
them, and made a surprising discovery.
"Look, Obed," he said eagerly, "at that man on the extreme right."
Mr. Stackpole did look.
"Dick Fletcher, as I'm a living sinner!" he ejaculated.
But at this point the leader of the bushrangers broke silence.
"Do you surrender?" he asked in brief, commanding accents.
"I think we shall have to, squire," answered Obed, to whom the demand
was naturally addressed. "But I would like to ask a question or two if
you don't mind."
"Go on."
"Are we prisoners of war? I didn't know for my part that there was any
war in this country."
"I have no time for foolish discussion," was the stern reply. "You must
give up what money you have about you."
"It's mighty inconvenient, squire. I'm a good many thousand miles away
from home, and----"
"Peace, fool! Produce whatever you have of value."
"I haven't got much. You've tackled the wrong man, squire."
"Fletcher, search that man!" said the captain of the band.
Dick Fletcher dismounted from his horse, and with evident alacrity
advanced to the side of the Yankee.
"I think we've met before," said Obed significantly.
"I think we have," said the outlaw, showing his teeth. "I told you we
should meet again."
"I can't say I'm overjoyed at the meeting. However, I respect you more
now, when you show yourself in your true colors, than when you sneaked
up to me at night, and searched my pockets, pretending all the while to
be a friend."
"Take care how you talk!" said Fletcher, frowning. "Yesterday you were
three to one, now you are in my power."
"So you're a highway robber, are you, Fletcher? Well, I can't say I'm
very much surprised. I guess that's what you're most fit for."
"Do you want me to kill you?" said Fletcher, touching his hip pocket.
"It isn't safe for you to insult me."
"Just so! You have a right to be brave with all them men at your side."
"What are you doing there, Dick Fletcher? Why don't you proceed to
business?" demanded the leader impatiently.
"Empty your pockets, Stackpole!" said Fletcher in a peremptory tone.
"All right."
The Yankee plunged his hands into his pockets, and produced in
succession a jackknife, a plug of tobacco, a bunch of keys, and a couple
of buttons.
"Take them, Fletcher," he said, "if you want 'em more than I do."
"What do you mean with this tomfoolery?" demanded Fletcher, perceiving
an impatient frown on the face of his chief. "Hand over your money."
"I guess you'll have to search me, Fletcher. You've done it before,"
answered Obed imperturbably. "I've mislaid my money, and you may know
where it is better than I do."
Fletcher took him at his word, and proceeded to search, using some
roughness about it.
"Be careful, Fletcher," said Obed. "I'm a tender plant, and mustn't be
roughly handled."
Every pocket was searched, but no money was found. Dick Fletcher looked
puzzled.
"I can't find anything," he said to the captain.
"Rip open his clothes," said the leader impatiently. "He has some place
of concealment for his gold, but it won't avail. We shall find it."
Fletcher whipped out a knife and was about to obey directions, but Obed
anticipated him.
"I'll save you the trouble, Fletcher," he said. "As you're bound to have
the money, I may as well give it up. Just hand over that jack-knife,
won't you?"
Fletcher hesitated, not understanding his meaning.
"Oh, I'll give it back to you if you want it, but I need it to get the
money."
Upon this the knife was given back to him.
Obed cut open the lining of his pantaloons, and drew out four five-pound
bank-notes. They were creased and soiled, but this did not impair their
value.
"I guess that's what you were after," said Obed. "I can't say you're
welcome to them, but that doesn't make any difference to you, I take
it."
"Is that all you've got?" demanded the chief of the bushrangers, looking
very much disappointed.
"Every cent, squire."
The leader turned to Fletcher.
"Didn't you tell us this man was well fixed?" he asked.
"I thought so," answered Fletcher, crestfallen.
"I thought you knew it. Why, this is a contemptibly small sum, and
doesn't pay for our trouble."
"You're right, squire," said Obed. "It aint worth carryin' away. You may
as well give it back, Fletcher."
"That's a different matter," continued the captain. "Once more, is that
all the money you have about you?"
"It is, squire."
"Be careful what you say, for if we catch you in a lie, we'll string you
up to the nearest tree."
"It's as true as preachin', squire. I never lie. I'm like Washington. I
dare say you've heard of him."
A further search was made, but no money was found, luckily for Obed,
since there is reason to believe that the outlaw would have carried out
his threat.
"The fellow here fooled you, Fletcher," said the captain sternly. "Take
care how you bring us any more false reports."
"There are the boys," suggested Fletcher, uncomfortable under the
rebuke.
"Search them also."
This was done, or rather it would have been done, had not Harry and
Jack, fully realizing the futility of resistance, produced promptly all
the money they had. So much, however, had been spent on the outfit, that
between them they could only muster about seven pounds.
"Humph!" said the captain contemptuously, "that's a big haul, upon my
word!"
"There are the cattle and supplies," said Fletcher.
"They will be of use. Here, Peter, do you and Hugh drive the team into
the woods, and prepare some dinner for the band. We will be there
directly."
Two men, unmounted, who seemed to be servants, came forward, and
proceeded to obey orders.
"Hold on, squire!" exclaimed Obed in alarm. "You aint goin' to take our
team, are you?"
"Most certainly I am. If you had had a large sum in money, we would have
spared you this. As it is, we must have them."
"But we shall starve, without money or food."
"That is nothing to me."
"Well, boys, come along," said Obed in a despondent tone. "Our prospects
aint over bright, but something may turn up."
Meanwhile there was a quiet conference among the bushrangers.
"Hold!" said the captain, as Harry and Jack were about to leave the
scene with their older companion. "You can go," turning to Obed, "but
the boys remain with us."
CHAPTER XI.
TAKEN CAPTIVE.
Harry and Jack exchanged a glance of dismay. To be stripped of all they
had was a serious misfortune but in addition to be made prisoners by the
bushrangers was something of which they had not dreamed. Obed, too, was
taken aback. He had become attached to his young companions, and he was
very sorry to part with them. He could not forbear a remonstrance.
"Look here, squire," he said familiarly to the captain, "what do you
want to keep the boys for? They won't do you any good, and it'll cost
considerable to keep 'em. They're pretty hearty."
Harry and Jack could not help laughing at this practical argument.
The captain of the bushrangers frowned.
"I am the best judge of that," he said. "You are lucky to be let off
yourself. Don't meddle with matters that don't concern you."
"Take me, if you want to," said Obed independently. "I shall be lonesome
without the boys."
"You had better go while there is a chance," said the captain
menacingly. "If you give me any more trouble, I will have my men tie you
to a tree, and leave you here."
Harry was afraid the threat would be carried out, and begged Obed to
make no further intercession.
"I have no doubt we shall meet again," he said. "These gentlemen will no
doubt release us soon."
He was by no means confident of this, but he thought it politic to take
things cheerfully.
"The boy has sense," said the captain approvingly.
"Well, good-by, boys," said Obed, wringing the hands of his two young
friends. "I shall feel awfully lonely, that's a fact, but as you say, we
may meet again."
"Good-by, Obed," said each boy, trying not to look as sorrowful as he
felt.
Obed Stackpole turned, and walked slowly away. His prospects were by no
means bright, for he was left without money or provisions in the
Australian wilderness, but at that moment he thought only of losing the
companionship of the two boys, and was troubled by the thought that they
might come to harm among the bushrangers.
"If I only knew where they were goin' to take 'em," he said to himself,
"I'd foller and see if I couldn't help 'em to escape."
To follow at once, however, he felt would be in the highest degree
imprudent, and he continued to move away slowly, but without any
definite idea of where he intended to go.
When Obed had disappeared, Fletcher came up to the boys, and said with a
smile:
"So you miss that Yankee, do you?"
"Yes, I do," answered Harry.
"You like him?"
"Yes."
"Then I don't admire your taste. He's rough and uncouth, and is more
fitted for a farm laborer than for society."
"That may be," said Harry, "but he is honest and reliable."
He might perhaps unconsciously have emphasized the word honest. At any
rate, Fletcher so understood him, and took offence at the implication.
"Look here, young whipper-snapper," he said roughly, "you'd better take
care how you talk. You are in my power, and something will happen to you
if you are insolent."
"What have I said to offend you?" asked Harry, looking the bushranger
calmly in the face. "I am not speaking of you, but of Mr. Stackpole."
"You meant to insinuate that there was a difference between us."
"That ought not to offend you, as you have so poor an opinion of him."
Harry evidently had the best of it, and Fletcher felt cornered, for he
did not care to court the charge of dishonesty.
"Perhaps you didn't mean anything," he growled. "If so, all is well, but
you had best be careful."
"Follow me, men," said the leader. He turned his horse's head and rode
into the wood.
The eucalyptus trees are very tall, some attaining a height of hundreds
of feet. They begin to branch high up, and there being little if any
underbrush in the neighborhood, there was nothing to prevent the passage
of mounted horsemen. The ground was dry also, and the absence of bogs
and marshy ground was felt to be a great relief.
The boys were on foot, and so were two or three of the bushrangers'
party. As already intimated, they were of inferior rank and employed as
attendants. In general the party was silent, but the boys overheard a
little conversation between the captain and Dick Fletcher, who rode
beside him.
"You haven't distinguished yourself this time, Fletcher," said the chief
in a dissatisfied tone. "You led me think that this party had money
enough to repay us for our trouble."
"It isn't my fault," said Fletcher in an apologetic tone. "The Yankee
completely deceived me. He was always boasting of his money."
