morning after the funeral? How does one meet the grocery bills when
the property is gone? How does a man act when his reputation is
ruined by the span of an afternoon? Fiction does not tell us, but
fact omits nothing of the grim details; spares not the least stroke
of that black perplexity which, next to the insecurity of life, is
the hardest thing about it.
You men of affairs, give a moment’s manly sympathy to the position
of a young fellow like yourselves, halting just over the line
between education and a life’s work, trained for a calling which
the worldliest soul among you respects as nobler and higher than
your own, tripped at the outset by one of its lower and more
ignoble accidents; a man who will not lie to God or his own soul,
who has scorned the consequences of being simply true, but must
bear them for all that, like other men. For the holiest dedications
in this world suffer the taint thereof; and it is at once the
saddest and the healthiest thing about the work of a man of God
that it is subject to market laws, to fashion, to prejudice, to
envy, and to poor judgment, like other work.
It seems a little thing to write about, but at the time it was not
the least aspect of the great crisis into which Emanuel Bayard
had arrived, that, when he came out into the strong, salt breeze
of Windover that afternoon, it suddenly occurred to the heretic
minister that he had nowhere to spend the night. Alas for the
bright and solemn festival in which his should have been the
crowned hero’s part! He heard the excited women of the parish
asking each other:--
“Who is going to eat up that collation?”
“What is ever going to become of all that one-two-three-four cake?”
“Feed those old ministers now? Not a sandwich! Let ’em go home
where they belong. If we’re going to have no minister, they shall
have no supper! We’ll settle him in spite of ’em!”
Thus the Ladies’ Aid Association, with flushed cheeks and shrill
voices. But the deacons and the pillars of the disturbed church
collected in serious groups, and discussed the catastrophe with the
dignity of the voting and governing sex.
Sick at heart, and longing to escape from the whole miserable
scene, Bayard walked down the street alone. His steps bent blindly
to the station. When he had bought his ticket to Boston, it came to
him for the first time to ask himself where he was going. Home?
What home? Whose? Hermon Worcester’s? That glance at his uncle’s
rigid face which he had allowed himself back there in the church
recurred to him. The incensed and disappointed man had suffered
his smitten boy to go forth from that furnace without a sign of
sympathy. He had given Emanuel one look: the pupils of his eyes
were dark and dilated with indignation of the kind that a gentleman
does not trust himself to express.
“I cannot go home,” said Emanuel suddenly, half aloud. “I forgot
that. I shall not be wanted.”
He put his ticket in his wallet and turned away. Some people were
hurrying into the station, and he strode to a side door to escape
them. The handsome knob of an Oriental grapestick touched his arm.
The white face of the Professor of Theology looked sternly into his.
“Suppose you come out to Cesarea with me to-night? We can
talk this unfortunate affair over quietly, and--I am sure you
misapprehend the real drift of some of these doctrines that disturb
you. I believe I could set you right, and possibly--another
examination--before a different Council”--
Bayard’s head swam for an instant. A girl in a muslin dress stood
at the meeting of the arms of the great cross in the Seminary lawn.
It was moonlight, and it was June, and this dreadful thing had
never happened. He was in that state when a woman’s sympathy is
the only one delicate enough for a man’s bruised nature to bear. He
quivered at the thought of being touched by anything harsher than
the compassionate approval, the indignant sorrow, the intelligent
heart--
“No,” he said, after a scarcely perceptible hesitation. “Thank you,
Professor--I can’t do it. I should only disappoint you. I am almost
too tired to go all over the ground again. Good-by, Professor.”
He held out his hand timidly. The thin, high-veined hand of the
Professor shook as he responded to the grasp.
“I didn’t know,” he said more gently, “but you would be more
comfortable. Your uncle”--the Professor hesitated.
“Thank you,” said the young man again. “That was thoughtful in you.
If your theology were half as tender as your heart, Professor!”
added the poor fellow, trying to smile with the old audacity of
Professor Carruth’s pet student. But he shook his head, and pushed
out of the door into the street.
There he stood irresolute. What next? He was to have been the guest
of the treasurer of the church that night, after the ordination.
It was a pretty, luxurious home; he had been entertained there
so often that he felt at home in it; the family had been his
affectionate friends, and the children were fond of him. He thought
of that comfortable guest-room with the weakest pang that he
had known yet: he felt ill enough to go to bed. But they had not
asked the dishonored minister, now, to be their guest. It did not
occur to him, so sore at heart was he, that he had given them no
opportunity.
He was about to return to the station, with a vague purpose to seek
shelter in some hotel in a village where nobody knew him, when a
plain, elderly woman dressed in black approached him. He recognized
her as one of the obscurer people of his lost parish. She had been
comforted by something he had said one Sunday; she had come timidly
to tell him so, after the fashion of such women; she had known
trouble, he remembered, and poverty, it was clear.
“Ah, Mrs. Granite!” he said pathetically. “Did you take all the
trouble to come to say good-by to me?”
“You look so tired, sir!” sobbed Mrs. Granite. “You look down sick
abed! We thought you wasn’t fit to travel to-night, sir, and if
you wouldn’t mind coming home with us to get a night’s rest, Mr.
Bayard? We live very poor, sir, not like you; but me and my girl,
we couldn’t bear to see you going off so! We’d take it for an
honor, Mr. Bayard, sir!”
“I will come,” said the weary man. And he went, at once. Certain
words confusedly recurred to him as he walked silently beside Mrs.
Granite, “He had not where,” they ran,--“He had not where to lay
his head.”
The light burned late in the clean, spare room in the cottage of
the fisherman’s widow on Windover Point that night.
Early in the morning her mother sent Jane Granite running for
the doctor; and by night it was well known in Windover that the
new minister was ill. He was threatened with something with a
Latin name; not epidemic in Windover, whose prevailing diseases
are measles and alcoholism. Mrs. Granite found the minister’s
anticipated malady hard to pronounce; but Jane, who had been at the
high school, called it meningitis.
But here again fact dealt with Emanuel Bayard as no respectable
fiction could be expected to. An interesting delirium or deadly
fever might have changed the whole course of his life. Had he
fallen then and there a martyr to his fate, the sympathy of the
town, the interest of the denomination, the affection of his lost
parish, the penitent anxiety of Mr. Hermon Worcester, would--how
easily!--have marked out his future for him in flower-beds that
seemed forsooth to be the vineyard of the Lord; and he might have
done a deal of pleasant hoeing and trimming there, like other men,
till harvest time. But floriculture is small pastime for the sinew
elected to cut thickets and to blaze forests; and he arose to tear
and bleed at his self-chosen brambles as God decreed.
He had not meningitis; he suffered no mortal malady; he did but
lie helpless for two weeks under one of those serious nervous
collapses which seem ignominy to a young man. During these critical
days his people elect and lost had plenty of time to quarrel over
him, or to send him currant jelly. And the wife of the treasurer
was reported to have said that he ought to be in her house. But
Mrs. Granite and Jane nursed him adoringly, and as soon as the
doctor permitted, Jane brought the patient his mail. It contained a
curt but civil letter from his uncle, regretting to learn that he
had been indisposed, and requesting an interview.
As soon as he was able to travel, Emanuel went to Boston.
An unexpected incident which happened on the morning that he left
Windover gave back something of the natural fire to his eyes, and
he looked less ill than Mr. Worcester had expected, when they met
in the library on Beacon Street.
This circumstance checked the slightly rising tide of sympathy in
his uncle’s feeling; and it was with scarcely more than civility
that the elder man opened the conversation.
“I wish to discuss this situation with you, Emanuel, once for all.
You have for some time avoided the issue between us which is bound
to come.”
“I have avoided nothing,” interrupted Emanuel proudly.
“It is the same thing. You have never met me halfway. The time has
come when we must have it out. You know, of course, perfectly well
what a blow this thing has been to me--the mortification--the....
After all I have done for you”--
The cold, clear-cut features of Hermon Worcester’s face became
suffused; he put his hand against his heart, and gasped. For the
first time it occurred to the young man that the elder, too, had
suffered; with a quick exclamation of sympathy or anxiety, he
turned to reply, but Mr. Worcester got to his feet, and began to
pace the library hotly.
“What do you propose to do?” he cried. “Seven years of
higher education, and--how many trips to Europe? And all
the--that--feeling a man has for a child he has brought up--wasted,
worse than wasted! What do you propose to do? Thirty years old, and
a failure at the start! A disgrace to the faith of your fathers! A
blot on an old religious name! Come, now! what next?... I suppose
I could find you a place to sweep a store,” added Hermon Worcester
bitingly.
Emanuel had flushed darkly, and then his swift pallor came on.
“Uncle,” he said distinctly, “I think this interview we have been
preparing for so long may as well be dispensed with. It seems to me
quite useless. I can only grieve you, sir; and you cannot comfort
me.”
“Comfort!” sneered the other, with his least agreeable expression;
for Hermon Worcester had many, in frequent use.
“Well,” said Emanuel, “yes. There are times when even a heretic may
need something of that sort. But I was about to say that I think it
idle for us to talk. My plans are now quite formed.”
“Indeed, sir!” said Mr. Worcester, stopping short.
“I have been invited by a minority of my people to start a new work
in Windover, of which they propose that I shall become the leader.”
“Not the pastor!” observed Mr. Worcester.
“Yes, the pastor,--that was the word. It will be a work quite
independent of the old church.”
“And of the old faith, eh?”
“Of the old traditions, some of them,” replied Emanuel gently; “not
of the old truth, I hope. I cannot hope for your sympathy in this
step. I have decided to take it. It strikes me, Uncle, that we had
better not discuss the matter.”
“His mother before him!” cried Hermon Worcester, violently striding
up and down the velvet carpet of the library, “I went through it
with his mother before him,--this abhorrent indifference to the
demands of birth and training, this scandal, this withdrawal from
the world, this publicity given to family differences, the whole
miserable business! She for love, and you for--I suppose you call
it religion! I can’t go through it again, and I won’t! It is asking
too much of me!”
“I ask nothing of you, Uncle,” said the young man, rising.
“You’ll end in infidelity, sir. You will be an agnostic in a year’s
time. You’ll be preaching positivism! I will have nothing to do
with it! I warned you before, Manuel,--back there in Cesarea. I
am forced to repeat myself. Under the circumstances, you will not
expect a dollar from me. I would as soon leave my property to
an atheist club as to you, and your second probations, and your
uninspired Bibles!”
Mr. Worcester snapped in the private drawer of his desk, and locked
it with unnecessary force and symbolism.
“I don’t forbid you my house, mind. I sha’n’t turn you into the
street. You’ll starve into your senses fast enough on any salary
that the rabble down in that fishing-town can raise for you. When
you do--come back to me. Keep your latch-key in your pocket. You
will want to use it some day.”
“I must run my chances, sir,” said Bayard in a voice so low that
it was scarcely audible. Instinctively he drew his latch-key from
his pocket and held it out; but Mr. Hermon Worcester did not deign
to notice it. “I have never thought about your money, Uncle. I’m
not that kind of fellow, exactly. You have always been good to me,
Uncle Hermon!” He choked, and held out his hand to say good-by.
“But look here--see here--you’ll stay to dinner? You’ll go up to
your room, Manuel?” stammered the elder man. “I explicitly told
you that I didn’t drive you out of your home. I don’t desire any
scene--any unnecessary scandal. I wish you to understand that you
are not turned into the street.”
“I have promised to be in Windover this evening, to settle this
matter,” replied Bayard. He looked over his uncle’s head, through
the old, purple, Beacon Street glass, upon the waters of Charles
River; then softly closed the library door, looked for a moment
about the dark, familiar hall, took his hat from the peg on the
carved mahogany tree where he had hung his cap when he was a little
boy in Latin School, and went down the long, stone steps.
It occurred to him to go back and tell Partredge and Nancy to look
after his uncle carefully, but he remembered that he had no reason
to give them for his indefinite absence, bethought himself of his
uncle’s horror of airing family affairs before servants, and so
went on.
He walked up the street slowly, for he was weak yet. At the door of
an old friend, he was tempted to pause and rest, but collected his
senses, and struggled on.
He turned to look for a cab; then remembered that he had no longer
fifty cents to waste upon so mere a luxury as the economy of
physical strength. It was his first lesson in poverty,--that a
sick man must walk, because he could not afford to ride. Besides,
it proved to be a private carriage that he had seen. The elderly
coachman, evidently a family retainer, had just shut the door and
clambered to the box; he was waiting to tuck the green cloth robe
deliberately about his elegant legs, when a low exclamation from
the coach window caused Bayard to look back.
Helen Carruth had opened the door, and stood, irresolute, with one
foot upon the step, as if half her mind were in, and half were out
the carriage. She was richly dressed in purple cloth, and had that
fashionable air which he could not conceive of her as dispensing
with if she were a missionary in Tahiti. She looked vivid, vital,
warm, and somehow, gorgeous to him.
“You?” she cried joyously; then seemed to recall herself, and
stepped back.
He went up to her at once.
“I have been staying with Clara Rollins for a week,” she hastened
to say. “I am just going home. It’s her afternoon at the Portuguese
Mission, so she could not see me off. I did not know you were in
town, Mr. Bayard.”
“I am not,” said Bayard, smiling wanly. “I am on my way to
Windover; I am late to my train now.”
“Why, jump in!” said the young lady heartily. “We are going the
same way; and I’m sure Mrs. Rollins would be delighted to have
you. She’s at the Woman’s Branch.”
“The Woman’s who?” asked Bayard, laughing for the first time for
many days. He had hesitated for a moment; then stepped into the
carriage, and shut the door.
“I presume you’ve been in this vehicle before?” began Miss Carruth.
He nodded, smiling still.
“At intervals, as far back as I can remember. Miss Clara and I used
to go to the same dancing-school.”
“Mrs. Rollins was saying only yesterday what an age it was since
they had seen you--Mr. Bayard!” she broke off, “you look ill. You
are ill.”
He had sunk back upon the olive satin cushions. The familiar sense
of luxury and ease came upon him like a wave of mortal weakness.
For a moment he did not trust himself to look at the girl beside
him. Her beauty, her gayety, her health, her freedom from care,
something even in her personal elegance overcame him. She seemed to
whirl before his eyes, the laughing figure of a happy Fortune, the
dainty symbol of the life that he had left and lost. The deliberate
coachman was now driving rapidly, and they were well on their way
over Beacon Hill. She gave Bayard one of her long, steady looks.
Something of timidity stole over her vivacious face.
“Mr. Bayard,” she said in a changed tone, “I have heard all about
it from my father. I wanted to tell you, but I had no way. I am
glad to have a chance to say--I am sorry for you with all my heart.
And with all my soul, I honor you.”
“Do you?” said the disheartened man. “Then I honor myself the more.”
He turned now, and looked at her gratefully. This first drop of
human sympathy from man or woman of his own kind was inexpressibly
sweet to him. He could have raised her hand to his lips. But they
were in Mrs. Rollins’s carriage, and on Beacon Street.
“Oh!” cried Helen suddenly. “Look there! No, there! See that
poor, horrible fellow! Why, he’s arrested! The policemen are
carrying him off.”
They had now reached Tremont Street, where the young lady had an
errand which had decided her direction to the northern stations.
But for the trifling circumstance that Helen Carruth had promised
her mother to bring out from a famous Boston grocer’s that
particular brand of olive oil which alone was worthy of a salad
for the Trustees’ lunch, the event which followed would never have
occurred. Thus may the worry of a too excellent housekeeper lay its
petty finger upon the future of a man or of an enterprise.
Bayard looked out of the carriage window, and uttered a disturbed
exclamation. Struggling in the iron grip of two policemen of
assorted sizes, the form and the tongue of Job Slip were forcibly
ornamenting Tremont Row.
“I must go. I must leave you. Excuse me. Drive on without me, Miss
Carruth. That is a friend of mine in trouble there.”
Bayard stopped the coachman with an imperious tap, and a “Hold on,
John!”
“A what of yours?” cried Helen.
“It is one of my people,” explained Bayard curtly. He leaped from
the carriage, raised his hat, and ran.
“Just release this man, if you please,” he said to the police
authoritatively. “I know him; I am his minister. I’m going on the
train he meant to take. I’ll see him safely home. I’ll answer for
him.”
“Well--I don’t know about that, sir,” replied the smaller policeman
doubtfully.
But the larger one looked Bayard over, and made answer: “Oh,
bejabers, Tim, let ’im goa!”
Job, who was not too far gone to recognize his preserver, now threw
his arms affectionately around Bayard’s recoiling neck, and became
unendurably maudlin. In a voice audible the width of the street,
and with streaming tears and loathsome blessings, he identified
Bayard as his dearest, best, nearest, and most intimate of friends.
A laughing crowd collected and followed, as Bayard tried to hurry
to the station, encumbered by the grip of Job’s intoxicated
affection. Now falling, now staggering up, now down again, and
ever firmly held, Job looked up drunkenly into the white, delicate
face that seemed to rise above him by a space as far as the span
between the heavens and the earth. Stupidly he was aware that
the new minister was doing something by him that was not exactly
usual. He began to talk in thick, hyphenated sentences about his
wife and home, his boy, and the trip he had taken to Georges’. He
had made, he averred, a hundred dollars (which was possible), and
had two dollars and thirty-seven cents left (which was altogether
probable). Job complained that he had been robbed in Boston of the
difference, and, weeping, besought the new minister to turn back
and report the theft to the police.
“We shall lose the train, Job,” said Bayard firmly. “We must get
home to your wife and little boy.”
“Go wherever y’ say!” cried Job pleasantly. “Go to h---- along of
you, if you say so!”
There was something so grotesque in the situation that Bayard’s
soul recoiled within him. He was not used to this kind of thing. He
was no Christ, but a plain human man, and a young man at that. His
sense of dignity was terribly hurt. Without turning his head, he
knew when the carriage drove on. He felt her eyes upon him; he knew
the moment when she took them off; Job was attempting to kiss him
at that particular crisis.
Bayard managed to reach the last platform of the last car as it
moved out of the station, and to get his charge to Windover without
an accident. He had plenty of time for reflection on the trip; but
he reflected as little as possible. With his arm linked firmly
through Job’s and his eyes closed, he became a seer of visions,
not a thinker of thoughts. Her face leaned out of the carriage
window,--faded, formed, and dimmed, and formed again. He saw the
velvet on her dress, the little dash of gold color on her purple
bonnet, the plain distinguished fashion of her yellow hair about
her forehead. He saw the astonishment leap into her brown eyes, and
that look which no sibyl could have interpreted, forming about her
merry lips. He heard the coachman say, “Shall I drive on, Miss?”
And the answer, “Yes, John, drive on. I must not miss the train.”
He opened his eyes, and saw the sullen horizon of the sea across
the marshes, and the loathsome face of Job leaning against the
casement of the car window at his side.
By the time they had reached Windover, Slip was sleepy and quite
manageable. Bayard consulted his watch. It was the hour for his
evening appointment with the officers of the new parish.
“Again!” he thought. He looked at the drunkard wearily. Then the
flash of inspiration fired his tired face.
“Come, Job,” he said suddenly. “Never mind our suppers. Come with
me.”
He took Job as he was,--torpid, sodden, disgusting, a creature
of the mud, a problem of the mire. The committee sat in the
anxious conclave of people embarked upon a doubtful and unpopular
enterprise. Emanuel Bayard pushed Job Slip before him into the
pretty parlors of the ex-treasurer of the old First Church. For the
treasurer had followed the come-outers. He had joined the poor and
humble people who, in fear and faith, had tremblingly organized
the experiment for which, as yet, they had no other name than that
they gave it in their prayers. Christ’s work, they called it, then.
The treasurer was their only man of property. His jaw dropped when
he saw Job.
“Gentlemen,” said the young pastor, “gentlemen, I have brought you
a sample of the material under discussion. What are we going to do
with this?”
VII.
Jane Granite stood at the foot of the steep, uncarpeted stairs.
She had a stone-china cup filled with tea in her hand. She had
hesitation in her mind, and longing in her heart. When the
minister had sent word that he would eat no supper, it was plain
that something must be done. Her mother was out, and Jane had no
superior intelligence to consult. For Mrs. Granite was appointed
to the doom that overtakes the women of a poor and struggling
religious movement; she was ex-officio beggar for the new mission;
on this especial occasion she was charged with the duty of wringing
a portion of the minister’s almost invisible salary out of the
least unfriendly citizens of the town. The minister had observed
her from his window, tugging at her black skirts as she sallied
forth, ankle-deep, in the slush of the February afternoon; and his
brows had darkened at the sight. For the good woman would trudge
and soak five miles for--what? Possibly five dollars. How dreary
the devices of small people to achieve large ends!
To the young man who had never had to think what anything cost, the
cold, pecuniary facts of his position were galling past the power
of these simple people to comprehend.
He did not care too much on his own account. He felt more surprise
than impatience to see his coat turn shiny and frayed, and to know
that he could not get another. He was learning not to mind his
straw mattress as much as he did at first; and to educate himself
to going without magazines, and to the quality of Mrs. Granite’s
tea. When a man deliberately elects a great personal sacrifice, he
does not concern himself with its details as women are more likely
to do.
But there were aspects of his chosen work to which his soul was as
sore as a boy’s. He could not accustom himself with the ease of a
poor man’s son to the fact that a superb, supreme faith like the
Christianity of Christ must beg for its living. “It degrades!” he
thought, looking up from his books. “Lowell was right when he said
that no man should preach who hadn’t an independent property.” His
Bible fell from his clenched hand; he picked it up penitently, and
tenderly smoothed the crumpled leaf at which it had opened. Half
unconsciously, he glanced, and read:--
“Take no scrip in your purse;” his burning eye followed along the
page; softened, and grew moist.
“Perhaps on the whole,” he said aloud, “He really knew as much
about it as any American poet.”
He returned patiently to his preparation for the evening service,
for he worked hard for these fishermen and drunkards--harder than
he had ever worked at anything in his life. To make them one half
hour’s talk, he read, he ransacked, he toiled, he thought, he
dreamed, he prayed.
The only thing which he had asked leave to take from his uncle’s
house, was his own library. It piled Mrs. Granite’s spare chamber
from the old, brown carpet to the low and dingy ceiling. Barricades
of books stood on the floor by the ugly little coal-stove; and were
piled upon the stained pine table at which he sat to study in a
hard wood chair with a turkey-red cushion. Of the pictures, dear to
his youth, and to his trained taste, but two had come through with
him in the flying leap from Beacon Street to Mrs. Granite’s. Over
the table in his study a fine engraving watched him. It was Guido’s
great Saint Michael. Above the straw mattress in the chilly closet
where he slept hung a large photograph of Leonardo’s Christ; the
one from the Last Supper, as it was found in the ruined fresco on
the monastery wall.
But Jane Granite stood irresolute upon the bare, steep stairs, with
the stone-china teacup in her hand.
The minister had never concentrated his mind on Jane. He was a
busy man. She was a modest, quiet girl; she helped her mother “do”
his rooms, and never slammed the door when she went out. He felt a
certain gratitude to her, for the two women took trouble for him
far beyond the merits of the meagre sum allowed them for his bread
and codfish. But for the life of him, if he had been required to,
he could not have told anybody how Jane Granite looked.
When her timid knock struck the panel of his door, he started
impatiently, put down his pen, and patiently bade her enter.
“I thought perhaps, sir--you would drink your tea?” pleaded Jane.
“You haven’t eaten a morsel, and mother will mind it when she comes
home.”
Bayard looked at her in a dazed way; trying to see the connection
between forty-cent Japan tea and that beautiful thing said of
Whitefield, that he “forgot all else about the men before him, but
their immortality and their misery.”
“It’s getting cold,” said Jane, with quivering lip. “I stood on the
stairs so long before I could make up my mind to disturb you. Let
me get a hot cup, now, sir--do!”
“Why, I’ll come down!” said Bayard. “I must not make myself as
troublesome as this.”
He pushed away his books, and followed her to the sitting-room,
where, in default of a dining-room, and in vague deference to the
antecedents of a guest popularly reported not to be used to eating
in the kitchen, the meals of the family were served.
“Maybe you’d eat the fish-hash--a mouthful, sir?” asked Jane,
brightening, “and there’s the stewed prunes.”
Bayard looked at her, as she ran to and fro, flushed and happy
at her little victory over his supperless intentions. Jane was a
trig, neat body; small, as the coast girls often are--I wonder why?
whether because the mother was under-fed or over-anxious when the
fleets were out? Jane Granite wore a blue gingham dress, closely
fitted to a pleasant figure. She had a pleasant face, too; she had
no beauty, but that certain something more attractive than beauty
to many men,--a kind of compactness of feature, and an ease of
outline which haunts the retina; it is not easy to describe, but we
all know it. Her mother had told the minister that Jane was keeping
company--that is the Windover phrase--with some one; the details
had escaped his memory.
He looked at her, now, for the first time attentively, as she
served his tea. She flitted to and fro lightly. She sang in the
kitchen when she saw him smile. When he said, “Thank you, Jane! You
have given me a delicious supper,” a charming expression crossed
her face. He observed it abstractedly, and thought: How kind these
good people are to me! The paper shades were up, and Jane wished to
draw them when she lighted the kerosene lamp; but Bayard liked to
watch the sea, as he often did at twilight. The harbor was full,
for the weather was coming on wild. Clouds marshaled and broke, and
retreated, and formed upon a stormy sky. The lights of anchored
fleets tossed up and down in the violet-gray shadow. The breakers
growled upon the opposite shore. The best thing about his lodging
was its near and almost unobstructed view of the sea, which dashed
against a slip of a beach between the wharves of Windover Point,
within a thousand feet of Mrs. Granite’s cottage.
As he sat, sipping his green tea, and making believe with his hash,
to save the feelings of the girl; watching the harbor steadily
and quietly, the while, and saying nothing--he was startled by
the apparition of a man’s face, pressed stealthily against the
window-pane, and disappearing as quickly as it came. Bayard had
been sitting between the window and the light. Jane was dishing out
his prunes from a vegetable dish into a blue willow saucer, and
had seen nothing. Wishing not to alarm the girl, he went to the
window quietly, and looked out. As he did so, he perceived that the
intruder had his hand on the knob of the front door. Bayard sprang,
and the two met in the cottage entry.
“What are you doing here?” began Bayard, barring the way.
“I guess I’d better ask what are you a-doin’ here,” replied
the other, crowding by the minister with one push of an athletic
shoulder. “I’m on my own ground. I ain’t so sure of you.”
Little Jane uttered a cry, and the athletic young man strode
forward, and somewhat ostentatiously put his arm about her waist.
“Ah, I see!” smiled the minister. “It is strange that we have not
met before. We must often have been in the house at the same time.
I am a little absent-minded. Perhaps it is my fault. A hundred
pardons, Mr. ----?”
Trawl. Ben Trawl was the name. Ben Trawl was not cordial. Perhaps
that would be asking too much of the lover who had been mistaken
for a burglar by another man; and the young minister was already
quite accustomed to the varying expressions with which a provincial
town receives the leader of an unpopular cause. He recognized Ben
Trawl now;--the young man who had the straight eyebrows, and who
did not drink, who had been one of the crowd at the fight in Angel
Alley on the ordination day which never had ordained.
The pastor found the situation embarrassing, and was glad when Mrs.
Granite came in, soaked through, and tired, with drabbled skirts.
She had collected six dollars and thirty-seven cents.
Bayard ground his teeth, and escaped to his study as soon as he
could. There they heard him, pacing up and down hotly, till seven
o’clock. Bayard had arranged one of those piteous attempts to
“amuse the people,” into which so much wealth of heart and brain
is flung, with such atmospheric results. His notion of religious
teaching did not end with the Bible, though it began there. The
fishermen who had irreverently named the present course of talks
“the Dickens,” crowded to hear them, nevertheless. The lecture of
that evening (“Sydney Carton,” he called it) was a venture upon
which Bayard had expended a good deal of thought and vitality.
Poor, wet Mrs. Granite waded out again, without a murmur, to hear
it; she walked beside the minister, alone; it was a long walk, for
the new people met in the well-known hall near the head of Angel
Alley.
“Ben Trawl’s kinder off his hook,” she explained apologetically.
“He wouldn’t come along of us, nor he wouldn’t let Jane come,
neither. He has them spells.”
Jane Granite watched them off with aching heart. As he closed the
door, the minister smiled and lifted his hat to her. Where was
there a smile like his in all the world of men? And where a man
who thought or knew so little of the magic which his beauty wrought?
For love of this radiance and this wonder the heart of the coldest
woman of the world might have broken. Little Jane Granite looked
after him till he was drowned in the dark. She came in and stood
at the window, busying herself to draw the shade. But Ben Trawl
watched her with half-closed eyes; and when bright, wide eyes turn
dull and narrow, beware of them!
“Come here!” said Ben, in the voice of a man who had “kept company”
with a girl for three years. In Windover, the respectable young
people do not flirt or intrigue; breach of troth is almost unknown
among them. To walk with a girl on Sunday afternoon, and to kiss
her Sunday evening, is to marry her, as a matter of course. Ben
Trawl spoke in the imperious tone of the seafaring people who call
a wife “my woman,” and who lie on the lounge in the kitchen while
she brings the water from the well.
“You come here, Jane, and sit on the sofy alongside of me! I’ve got
a word or so to say to you.”
Jane Granite came. She was frightened. She sat down beside her
lover, and timidly surrendered the work-worn little hand which he
seized and crushed with cruel violence within his own.
“Mr. Granite wasn’t never wholly satisfied about Ben,” Mrs. Granite
was saying to the minister as they splashed through the muddy
slush. “His father’s Trawl the liquor dealer, down to Angel Alley,
opposite our place, a little below. But Jane says Ben don’t touch
it; and he don’t. I don’t know’s I’ve any call to come between her
and Ben. He’s a stiddy fellow, and able to support her,--and he’s
that fond of Jane”--
“He seems to be,” said Bayard musingly. His thoughts were not
with Mrs. Granite. He hardly knew what she had said. He was not
used to this petty, parish atmosphere. It came hard to him. He
underestimated the value of these wearisome trifles, in the large
work performed by little people. Nothing in the world seemed to him
of less importance than the natural history of Ben Trawl.
“The wind is east,” he said abstractedly, “and there’s a very heavy
sea on.”
He cast at the harbor and the sky the anxious look habitual with
the people of Windover; the stranger had already acquired it. He
had not been a month in the fishing-town before he noticed that the
women all spoke of their natural foe as “the terrible sea.”
The hall which the new people had leased for their services and
entertainments had long borne the grim name of Seraph’s Rest;
having been, in fact, for years, a sailors’ dance-hall of the
darkest dye.
“Give us,” Bayard had said, “the worst spot in the worst street
of this town. We will make it the best, or we will own ourselves
defeated in our work.”
In such streets, and in such places, news has wings. There is no
spot in Windover where rumor is run down so soon as in Angel Alley.
Bayard had talked perhaps half an hour, when he perceived by the
restlessness in his crowded and attentive audience that something
had happened. He read on for a moment:--
“‘Are you dying for him?’ she whispered. ‘And his wife and child.
Hush! Yes.’”
Then, with the perfect ease which he always sought to cultivate in
that place between speaker and hearer, “What is the matter?” he
asked in a conversational tone.
“Sir,” said an old captain, rising, “there’s a vessel gone ashore
off Ragged Rock.”
Bayard swept his book and manuscript off the desk.
“I was about to read you,” he said, “how a poor fellow with a
wretched life behind him died a noble death. Perhaps we can do
something as grand as he did. Anyhow, we’ll try. Come, boys!”
He thrust himself into his coat, and sprang down among the audience.
“Come on! You know the way better than I do! If there’s anything to
do, we’ll do it. Lead on, boys! I’m with you!”
The audience poured into Angel Alley, with the minister in their
midst. Confusion ran riot outside. The inmates of all the dens
on the street were out. Unnoticed, they jostled decent citizens
who had flocked as near as possible to the news-bearer. Panting
and white, a hatless messenger from the lighthouse, who had run
all the way at the keeper’s order to break the black word to the
town, reiterated all he knew: “It’s the Clara Em! She weighed
this afternoon under full canvas--and she’s struck with fourteen
men aboard! I knew I couldn’t raise nobody at the old Life-Saving
Station”--
“It’s t’other side the Point, anyhow!” cried a voice from the crowd.
“It’s four mile away!” yelled another.
“Good heavens, man!” cried Bayard. “You don’t propose to wait for
them?”
“I don’t see’s there’s anything we can do,” observed the old
captain deliberately. “The harbor’s chockful. If anybody could do
anything for ’em, some o’ them coasters--but ye see there can’t no
boat live off Ragged Rock in a breeze o’ wind like this.”
“How far off is this wreck?” demanded Bayard, inwardly cursing his
own ignorance of nautical matters and of the region. “Can’t we get
up some carts and boats and ropes--and ride over there?”
“It’s a matter of three mile an’ a half,” replied the mate of a
collier, “and it’s comin’ on thick. But I hev known cases where a
cart--Now there’s them I-talians with their barnana carts.”
“You won’t get no fog with this here breeze,” contended a very
ancient skipper.
“What’ll you bet?” said the mate of the collier.
An Italian with a fruit cart was pushed forward by the crowd; an
express cart was impressed; ropes, lanterns, and a dory appeared
from no one knew where, at the command of no one knew who. Bayard
suggested blankets and dry clothes. The proposal seemed to cause
surprise, but these supplies were volunteered from somewhere.
“Pile in, boys!” cried the minister, in a ringing voice. He sprang
into one of the carts, and it filled in a moment. One of the horses
became frightened at the hubbub and reared. Men swore and women
shrieked. In the momentary delay, a hand reached over the wheel,
and plucked at Bayard’s sleeve. He flashed the lantern in his hand,
and saw a woman’s strained, set face. It was Job Slip’s wife,
Mari, with the little boy crying at her skirts.
“Sir,” she said hoarsely, “if it’s the Clara Em, he’s aboard of
her--for they shipped him at five o’clock, though they see the
storm a-comin’--and him as drunk as death. But it’s true--he got it
at Trawl’s--I see ’em lift him acrost the wharf an’ sling him over
int’ the dory.”
“I’ll do my best,” said Bayard with set teeth. He reached over the
wheel as the horses started, plunging, and wrung the hand of the
drunkard’s wife. He could not trust himself to say more. Such a
vision of what life meant to such a woman swept through Angel Alley
upon the wings of the gale, that he felt like a man whose eyes have
beheld a panorama on a stage in hell.
Many people, as the carts rolled through the town, followed on
foot, among them a few women whose husbands, or lovers, or brothers
were known to be aboard the Clara Em.
“Here’s an old woman with a boy aboard! Seems you might find
room in one them wagons for her!” cried a young voice. It was the
girl known to Windover only by the name of Lena; she for whom the
“terrible sea” could have no horrors; the one woman of them from
whom no betrothed lover could sail away; to whom no husband should
return.
“She’s right about that. We must manage somehow!” called Bayard.
Strong hands leaned out and swept the old woman up over the wheel,
and the horses galloped on.
There was neither rain nor snow; but the storm, in the seaman’s
sense of the word, was approaching its height. The wind had now
become a gale, and blew southeast. The sky was ominously black. To
Bayard’s sensitive and excited imagination, as he looked out from
the reeling wagon, the mouth of the harbor seemed to gape and grin;
the lights of the fleet, furled and anchored for dear life, lost
their customary pleasant look, and snapped and shone like teeth in
the throat of a monster.
The wagons rolled on madly; the horses, lashed to their limit of
speed, leaped down Windover Point. They had now left the road, and
were dashing across the downs which stretched a mile farther to the
eastern shore. The roughness of the route had become appalling,
but a Cape horse is as used to boulders as a Cape fisherman;
neither wagon overset, though both rolled like foundering ships.
The lanterns cut swathes of light in the blackness which bounding
wheels and racing heels mowed down before them.
