continued unctuously. “To-day I have no words save those laid to my
use by the Book of books—‘My cup runneth over.’ It is not one of my
foibles to expatiate upon the better ‘days that are no more.’ The trick
is common and cheap. But to you, my best friends, I may venture to
confide that my dear wife and I were brought up in what I have since
been disposed to characterize as ‘mistaken luxury.’ Since the unselfish
saint joined her blameless lot with mine she has never had a carriage
of her own until to-day. I can receive favors done to myself with a
manly show of gratitude. Appreciation of my wife makes a baby of me.”
“By this time he should be in his second childhood, then, for
everybody likes mamma,” piped a familiar voice from within the French
window of the library. Glancing around with a start that was not
theatrical, he espied his eldest born established at her ease in a
low chair. Her feet were on a stool; she wore a white gown, and May’s
white Chudda shawl covered her from the waist downward; her hair was
a mesh of gold thread that drew to it all the light of the dying day.
May sat on a cushion in the window and linked Hester in her comparative
retirement with the veranda group.
“Ah, little one, are you there?” said the fond parent playfully. “I
missed you from the dinner table and might have guessed that you could
be nowhere but here.”
Profound silence ensued, and lasted for a minute. Hester shrank into
herself with a blush visible even in the shadowy interior.
March and May had gone through orchard and gardens to fetch her an hour
ago. Her father had eaten his evening meal at the same table with her.
In the circumstances there was nothing to say, a fact comprehended by
all except the unconscious offender.
“I think Mrs. Wayt will find her horse gentle,” said Judge Gilchrist,
in formal civility too palpable to his wife.
With intelligent apprehension of the truth, too often overlooked, that
confidence in the truth bearer must precede obedience to his message,
she desired that her husband and son should like Mr. Wayt. To March she
had confessed her fear that some of the family were “peculiar,” and he
might infer the inclusion of the nominal head in the category. Further
than this she would not go. With pious haste she picked the fly out of
the ointment, and with holy duplicity beguiled others into approval of
the article that bore the trade mark of “The Church.”
Ah, the Church!—in every age and, despite lapses and shortcomings and
stains, the custodian of the Ark of God—her debt to such devout and
loyal souls as this woman’s will never be estimated until the Master
shall make acknowledgment of it in the great day of reckoning.
When the judge’s turn of the subject and the “horsey” talk that
followed granted his wife leisure to reconsider the matter, she
discovered that there was no cause for discomfiture. Mr. Wayt was
absent-minded, as were all students of deep things. Only, her husband
was quick of sight and wit, and neither March nor May had much to say,
of late, of the new preacher who was doing such excellent work in
the congregation. March went regularly to church and sat beside his
mother through prayer and hymn and sermon, and afterward refrained
from adverse criticism. This may have been out of respect to the girl
he hoped to make his wife. Yet she had dared fancy that the graver
tenderness of his behavior to herself and the unusual periods of
thoughtfulness that occurred in their conversations had to do with the
dawning of spiritual life in his soul. However much certain of Mr.
Wayt’s mannerisms might offend her taste, there was no question of his
ability and eloquence. That these might be the divinely appointed nets
for the ingathering into the Church of her best beloved was a burden
that weighted every petition.
March had not spoken openly of his love for Hetty Alling since the
evening on which he first avowed it to his mother, but, in her opinion,
there was nothing significant in this reserve. The Gilchrists were
delicate in their dealings with one another, never asking inconvenient
questions, or pushing communication beyond the voluntary stage. If May
divined the drift of her brother’s affections, she did not intimate
it by word or look. When the fruit of confidence was ripe it would be
dropped into her lap. She did note what Mrs. Gilchrist had not the
opportunity of seeing—how seldom Hetty had leisure to receive March or
his sister. She was getting ready the wardrobe of the twin boys, who
were to go to boarding school the 1st of October. Through Hester’s talk
May had learned incidentally that the Wayts employed neither dressmaker
nor seamstress.
“Hetty is miraculously skillful with her needle,” was Hester’s way of
putting it, “and so swift that it would drive her wild to see her work
done by the ‘young lady who goes out by the day.’ I work buttonholes
and hem ruffles and such like, and mamma gives her all the time she can
spare from baby—and other things. But our Hetty is the motor of the
household machine. I don’t believe there is another like her in the
world. The mold in which she was cast was broken.”
She had said this in a chat held with her favorite this evening while
the others were engaged with other themes outside of the window. May
encouraged her to go on by remarking:
“You love her as dearly as if she were really your sister, don’t you?”
“‘As well!’ The love I have for mother, sisters, and brothers is a
drop in the ocean compared with what I feel for Hetty! See here, Miss
May!” showing her perfectly formed hands. “These were as helpless as
my feet. Hetty rubbed me, bathed me, flexed the muscles for an hour
every morning and an hour every night. She tempted me to eat; obliged
me to take exercise; carried me up and down stairs, and sat with me
in her arms out of doors until she had saved fifty dollars out of her
allowance to have my chair built. Hetty educated me—made me over! She
is my brain, the blood of my heart—I don’t believe I should have a soul
but for Hetty!”
The warm water stood in May’s eyes. But the weak voice, thrilling with
excitement, reminded her of the danger of an excess of feeling upon the
disjointed system. She spoke lightly:
“Oh, your father would have looked out for your soul!”
“Would he?”
The accent of intensest acrimony shocked the listener, corroborated as
it was by the bitterness of scorn that wrung the small face.
In a second Hester caught herself up.
“They say that cobblers’ wives go barefoot. Ministers have so little
time to spare for the souls of their families that their children are
paganed. If it wasn’t for their wives and their wives’ sisters, the
forlorn creatures would not know who made them.”
It was a plausible evasion, but it did not efface from May’s mind the
disdainful outburst and the black look that went with it. Both seemed
so unnatural, even revolting, to a girl whose father stood with her
as the synonym for nobility of manhood, that she could not get away
from the recollection for the rest of the evening. This was before Mr.
Wayt’s arrival, and sharpened May’s appreciation of the little by-play
between Hester and her parent.
His departure at nine o’clock was succeeded by Hester’s at ten, and, as
was their habit, March and his sister took her home by the path across
the orchard. The night was sultry; the moon lay languid under swathes
of gray mist. She looked warm, and the stars near her faint and tired.
Low down upon the horizon were flashes of purple sheet lightning. The
town had kept the Fourth patriotically, and the odor of burned paper
and gunpowder tainted the stirless air.
“The grass is perfectly dry,” said May, stopping to lay her hand upon
the mown sward. “That should be a sign of a shower.”
“There is always rain on the night of the Fourth of July,” returned
March abstractedly.
Hester said not a word. As she looked up at the sick moon her eyes
showed large and dark; her face was corpselike in the wan radiance. She
was weary, and she had been indiscreet. She could not sleep without
confessing to Hetty her lapse of temper and tongue, and Hetty had
enough to bear already. She had not been so strong and bright as was
her wont for a month past. It might be only excessive drudgery over
sewing machine and household duties, but she looked fagged and sad at
times. The phaëton and horse would benefit mamma and the children—when
the vacant place beside the mistress of the Manse was not occupied by
their lord and master. He got the lion’s share of every luxury. Poor
Hester’s conscience and heart were raw, and the heat of the wounds
inflamed her imagination. The evening at the judge’s had not rested
her. That was strange, or would have been had not the long, black
shadow of her father lain across the memory of it.
The back door of the parsonage stood wide open, and the house was so
still that, as March stooped to lift Hester from her carriage at the
foot of the steps, he caught the sound of what was scarcely louder
than an intermittent sigh in the upper story, but continuous as a
violent fit of weeping. The arm that lay over his shoulder twitched
convulsively; Hester shuddered sharply, then laughed aloud:
“Oh, Mr. Gilchrist! I thought I was falling! It is too bad to put you
to all this trouble. I hope Tony hasn’t blown himself up. He ought to
have come for me.”
“Didn’t I promise your mother to bring you home safely?” said March
reassuringly. And, as they reached the hall—“May I carry you upstairs?”
The offer seemed to terrify her.
“Oh, no, no! Just lay me on the settee there! Somebody will be down
directly. Don’t trouble yourself to bring the chair in. Tony will
attend to that. Thank you! Good-night, Mr. Gilchrist! Good-night, Miss
May!”
While she hurried all this out, a stumble on the back stairs was the
precursor of Homer’s appearance in the dim recesses of the hall. He
alighted at the bottom of the flight on all-fours, picked himself up
and shambled forward, one hand on his head, the other on his elbow, an
imbecile grin spreading his jaws.
“Now, I a’most broke me nake on them stairs!”
March had deposited Hester upon the hall lounge, and although
perceiving her anxiety to get rid of him, hesitated to commit her to
the keeping of a man who was, apparently, but half awake.
“Let me carry you up!” he insisted to Hester. “He may fall again.”
“Oh, Tony is all right!” in the same strained key as before. “He never
lets anything but himself drop.”
A rustle and swift step sounded above stairs. Someone ran down. It was
Hetty. Her white wrapper was begirt with a ribbon loosely knotted; her
rust-brown hair was breaking from constraint and tumbling upon her
shoulders.
March’s first pained thought was: “She knew I would be in, yet did not
mean to see me again to-night!”
A second glance at the colorless face and wild eyes awakened unselfish
concern.
“What is the matter? Who is hurt?” she queried anxiously. Hester’s
reply was a shriek of laughter.
“Nothing! Nobody! Only Tony has broken his neck again, and Mr.
Gilchrist did not know that it is an hourly occurrence in our family
life, so he insisted upon taking me upstairs himself.”
“Mr. Gilchrist is very kind!” Hetty’s tone was deadly mechanical; in
speaking she looked at nobody. “I sent Homer down when I heard you
coming. I am sorry he was not in time.”
May had joined the group.
“I hope,” she said in her cheery way, “that none of the rest of your
household have come to grief to-day?”
Hetty turned to her with eyes that questioned silently—almost defiantly.
“I mean, of course, did the boys bring home the proper quantum of eyes
and fingers?”
“Yes! oh, yes! thank you! they went to bed tired, but whole, I believe.”
“That is fortunate, but remarkable for a Fourth of July report,” said
March. “Come, May! Good-night!”
He had seen, without comprehending, the intense relief that flooded
the girl’s visage at his sister’s second sentence, also that she was
feverishly anxious to have them go. And the sound above stairs, hushed
by Hester’s shrill tones—was it low, anguished weeping? The mourner was
not Hetty, yet her dry eyes were full of misery. His big, soft heart
ached with futile sympathy. By what undiscovered track could he fare
near enough to her to make her conscious of this and of a love the
greatness of which ought to help her bear her load of trouble?
“Hetty looks dreadfully!” broke out May at the garden gate. “She
is worked and worried to death! I am amazed that Mrs. Wayt allows
it. To reduce a girl like that to the level of a household drudge is
barbarous. She has no time for society or recreation of any kind. It
is toil, toil, toil, from morning until night. Mary Ann—the cook mamma
got for them—says she ‘never saw such another young lady for sweetness
and kindness to servants as Miss Hetty,’ but that she ‘carries all the
house on them straight little shoulders of hern.’ Hester tells the same
story in better English.”
She repeated what she had heard that evening.
March stopped to listen under the king apple tree, where he had begun
to love the subject of the eulogy. While May declaimed he reached up
for a cluster of green apples and leaves and pulled it to pieces, his
face grave, his fingers lingering.
“Heaven knows, May”—she was not prepared for the emotion with which
it was uttered—“that I would risk my life to make hers happy. I
hoped once—but you see for yourself how she avoids me. I could fancy
sometimes that she is afraid of me!”
“Perhaps she is afraid of herself.”
He looked up eagerly.
“Is that a chance remark? You women understand one another. Have you
seen anything——”
“Nothing I could or would repeat, my dear boy! But there is a mystery
somewhere, and I can’t believe it is the phenomenon of such a sensible
girl’s failure to appreciate my brother. May I say something, March,
dear?”
“Whatever you like—after what has gone before!”
“Maybe it ought not to have gone before—or after, either. For, brother,
this is not just the sort of connection that you should form. To
speak plainly, you might look higher. ‘Strike—but hear!’ Hetty is
all that I have said, and more. But there is a Bohemian flavor about
the household. We will whisper it—even at half-past ten o’clock at
night, in the orchard—and never hint it to ‘the people,’ or to mamma!
They are nomads from first to last—why, I cannot say. They have lived
everywhere, and nowhere long. Mrs. Wayt is a refined gentlewoman, but
her eyes are sad and anxious. You know how fond I am of Hester, poor
child! Still a nameless something clings to them as a whole—not quite
a taint, but a tang! Especially to Mr. Wayt. There! it is out! Let us
hope the apple trees are discreet! I distrust him, March! He doesn’t
ring true. He is always on pose. He is a sanctimonious (which doesn’t
mean sanctified) self-lover. Such men ought to remain celibate.”
March tried to laugh, but not successfully.
“I dissent from and agree to nothing you say. But——” He waited so long
that May finished the sentence for him.
“But you love Hetty?”
“Yes! She suits me, May! As no other woman ever did. As no other
woman ever will. I have tried to reason myself out of the persuasion,
but get deeper in. She suits me—every fiber and every impulse of my
nature. I seem to have known her forever and always to have missed her.”
With all her pride in her family and ambition for her brother May had
a romantic side to her character. Had she liked Hetty less, she would
yet have pledged her support to the lover. She told him this while they
strolled homeward, and then around and around the graveled drive in
front of the Gilchrist portico, and had, in return, the full story of
his passion.
“When I marry, my wife will have all there is of me,” he had said, long
ago, to his sister.
He reminded her of it to-night.
“She is not a brilliant society woman. Not beautiful, perhaps. I am not
a competent judge of that at this date. She has not the prestige of
wealth or station. But she is my counterpart.”
He always returned to that.
When his sister had gone into the house he tarried on the lawn with
his cigar. What freshness the fierce sun had left to the air was all
to be found out of doors. As the gray swathes continued to smother
the light out of the moon the heat became more oppressive. The gravel
walks were hot to his feet; the bricks of the house radiated caloric.
With a half-laugh at the whim, he entered the now silent and darkened
dwelling, sought and procured a carriage rug, and pulling the door shut
after him, whistled for Thor, and retraced his steps to the orchard. He
spread the rug upon the grass kept cool by the down-leaning branches of
the arbor and cast himself upon it. He meant to make a night of it.
“I have camped out, many a July night, in far less luxurious quarters,”
he muttered. “And this place is sacred.”
When the mosquitoes began to hum in his ears, he lighted another cigar.
He was the more glad to do it, as he fancied, once in a while, that
the young apples or the wilting leaves had a peculiar and not pleasant
odor, as of some gum or essence, that hung long in the atmosphere.
He had noticed it when he pulled down a branch to get the spray he
had torn apart, while May talked. The air was full of foreign scents
to-night, and this might be an olfactory imagination.
As twelve o’clock struck from the nearest church spire, he was staring
into the formless shadows overhead and living over the apple-blossom
week, the symphony in pink and white. The young robins were full
fledged and had flitted from the parent nest. The young hope, born of
what stood with him for all the poetry of his six-and-twenty years of
life, spread strong wings toward a future he was not to enjoy alone.
Thor was uneasy. He should have found his share of the rug laid upon
elastic turf as comfortable as the mat on the piazza floor, which was
his usual bed, yet he arose to his haunches, once and again, and,
although at his master’s touch or word, he lay down obediently, the
outline of his big head, as March could make it out in the gloom, was
alert.
“What is it, old boy?” said he presently. “What is going on?”
Thor whined and beat the ground with his tail, both tentatively, as
asking information in return.
In raising his own head from the yielding and soft rustling grasses,
March became aware of a sound, iterative and teasing, that vexed the
languid night. It was like the ticking of a clock, or of an uncommonly
strenuous deathwatch. While he listened it seemed to gather force and
become rhythmic.
“Click! click! clack! click! click! clack! clicketty click!
clicketty, clicketty clack! click! click! click! clicketty clack!
ting!”
Somebody was working a typewriter on this stifling night, presumably by
artificial light, in the most aristocratic quarter of Fairhill.
Thor knew the incident to be unprecedented. The rhythmic iteration made
his master nervous; the sharp warning of the bell at the end of each
line pierced his ear like the touch of a fine wire.
He sat up and looked about him.
An aperture in the foliage let through a single ray of light. It came
from the direction of the parsonage.
“Tony’s pet hallucination is of a wandering light in the garden and
orchard, a sort of ‘Will o’ the Wisp’ affair, which it is his duty to
look after,” Hester had said that evening. “He rushes downstairs at all
hours of the evening to see who is carrying it. I told him last night
that burglars were too clever to care to enter a clergyman’s house,
but he cannot be convinced that somebody, bent upon mischief, doesn’t
prowl about the premises. He is half blind, you know, and has but
three-fourths of his wits within call.”
Recollecting this, March arose cautiously, whispered to Thor to
“trail,” and stole noiselessly up the easy grade.
The light was in the wing of the parsonage and shone from the wide
window of the pastor’s study on the first floor. The shutters were
open; a wire screen excluded insects, and just within this sat a woman
at a typewriter—Hetty!
Across the shallow garden he could see that her hair was combed to the
crown of her head for coolness, and coiled loosely there. Now that
he was nearer to the house, he distinguished another voice, also a
woman’s, dictating, or reading, as the flying fingers manipulated the
keys. Drawing out his repeater, he struck it. Half-past twelve!
“I have been sorely interrupted in my pulpit preparation this week,”
Mr. Wayt had informed Mrs. Gilchrist, on taking leave that night. “I
fear the sunlight will extinguish my midnight argand burner. ‘The labor
we delight in physicks pain,’ and, with me, takes the place of slumber,
meat, and drink.”
Impressed by an undefined sense of trouble, March stood, his hand upon
the gate, almost decided to go up to the house and inquire if aught
were amiss. While he cast about in his mind for some form of words
that might account for his intrusion, Mrs. Wayt’s figure came forward,
and offered, with one hand, a glass of water to her sister. In the
other she held a paper. Without taking her fingers from the typewriter
Hetty raised her head, Mrs. Wayt put the glass to her lips, and, while
she drank, dictated a sentence from the sheet in her hand. In the
breezeless hush of the July night a clause was audible to the spectator.
“Who has not heard the story of the drummer boy of Gettysburg?”
“Click-click-clack! Click-click-clack!” recommenced the noisy rattle.
While Hetty’s fingers flew her sister fanned her gently, but the eyes
of one were riveted to the machine, those of the other never left the
paper in her hand.
March went back to his orchard camp, Thor at his heels.
It was close cloudy; the purple play of lightning was whitening and
concentrating in less frequent lines and lances. When these came, it
could be seen that thunderheads were lifting themselves in the west.
But the night remained windless, and the iterative click still teased
the ears of the watcher. It was an odd vigil, even for an anxious
lover, to lie there, gazing into the black abysses of shade, seeing
naught except by livid flashes that left deeper blackness, and knowing
whose vital forces were expended in the unseasonable toil.
What could it mean? Did the overladen girl add copying for pay to the
list of her labors? And could the sister who seemed to love her, aid
and abet the suicidal work? Where was Mr. Wayt? The play of questions
took the measure and beat of the type keys, until he was wild with
speculation and hearkening.
At half-past two the rattle ceased suddenly. Almost beside himself with
nervous restlessness, he sprang up and looked through the gap in the
boughs. The light went out, and, at the same instant, the delayed storm
burst in roar and rain.
CHAPTER VI.
SUNDAY, July 5, dawned gloriously, clear and fresh after the
thunder-storm, to which Fairhill people still refer pridefully, as the
most violent known in thirty years. The gunpowder and Chinese paper
taint was swept and washed out of the world.
Mrs. Wayt, holding Fanny by the hand, and followed decorously by the
twin boys in their Sunday clothes and churchward-bound behavior,
emerged from her gate as the Gilchrists gained it. In the white light
of the forenoon, the eyes of the pastor’s wife showed faded; groups of
fine wrinkles were at the corners, and bistre shadows under them. Yet
she announced vivaciously that all were in their usual health at home,
except for Mr. Wayt’s headache, and nobody had been hurt yesterday.
“For which we should return special thanks, public and private,” she
went on to say, walking, with her little girl, abreast with Judge and
Mrs. Gilchrist, the boys falling back with the young people. “At least,
those of us who are the mothers of American boys. I can breathe with
tolerable freedom now until the next Fourth of July. What a fearful
storm we had last night! My baby was awakened by it and wanted to know
if it was ‘torpetoes or firetrackers?’ Yet, since we owe our beautiful
Sabbath to the thunder and rain, we may be thankful for it; as for many
other things that seem grievous in the endurance.”
“I hope Mr. Wayt’s headache is not in consequence of having sat up
until daybreak, as he threatened to do,” the judge said, in a genial
voice that reached his son’s ears.
March listened breathlessly for the reply.
“I think not. I did not ask him this morning at what time he left his
study. He is not inclined to be communicative with regard to his sins
of commission in that respect, but I suspect he is an incorrigible
offender. He attributes his headache—verbally—to the extraordinary heat
of yesterday. We all suffered from it, more or less, and it increased
rather than diminished, after sunset.”
“Is Mr. Wayt well enough to take the service this morning?”
“Oh, yes!” quickly emphatical. “It would be a severe indisposition
indeed that would keep him out of the pulpit. Both his parents suffered
intensely from nervous and sick headaches, so he could hardly hope to
escape. I have observed that people who are subject to constitutional
attacks of this kind, are seldom ill in any other way, particularly
if the headaches are hereditary. How do you account for this, Judge
Gilchrist? Or, perhaps, you doubt the statement itself.”
March did not trouble his brains with his father’s reply. The
volubility of one whose discourse was generally distinctively refined
and moderate in tone and terms would of itself have challenged
attention. But what was her object in saying that she had not inquired
at what hour her husband left his study last night? Since she and her
sister were in occupation of the room from midnight—probably before
that hour—until two in the morning, she certainly knew that he was
not there and almost as surely where he was and how engaged during
those hours. Where was the need of duplicity in the circumstances? Was
she committed to uphold the professional fiction, which her husband
circulated vauntingly, that his best pulpit preparation must be done
when honest people are asleep in their beds—that the beaten oil of the
sanctuary must flow through lamp-wick or gas-burners? What end was
subserved by supererogatory diplomacy and subterfuge?
“How are the two Hesters to-day, Mrs. Wayt?” asked May, from the side
of her puzzled brother.
“Hester is rather languid. The heat again!”
She looked over her shoulder to say it, and they could see how entirely
the freshness had gone from eyes and complexion. Her very hair looked
bleached and dry. “The weather will excuse every mishap and misdemeanor
until the dog days are over. Hetty stayed at home to watch over her. It
is a source of regret to Mr. Wayt and myself”—comprehensively to the
four Gilchrists—“that my sister is so often debarred the privileges of
the sanctuary in consequence of Hester’s dependence upon her.”
“I have remarked that she is frequently absent from church,” Mrs.
Gilchrist answered.
Her dry tone annoyed her son. Yet how could she, bred in luxury and
living in affluence, enter into the exigencies of a position which
combined the offices of nurse, companion, housewife, seamstress,
mother, and bread-winner?
Mrs. Wayt took alarm.
“Poor child! she hardly calls herself a church-goer at all. But it is
not her fault. She thinks, and with reason, that it is more important
for me to attend service regularly—for the sake of the example, you
understand—and we cannot leave our dear, helpless child with the
children or servants. She gets no Sabbath except as my sister gives
it to her. I am anxious that the true state of the case should be
understood by the church people. Hetty would grieve to think that her
enforced absences are a stumbling block.”
Her solicitude was genuine and obvious. Judge Gilchrist offered an
assuasive:
“We must have a telephone wire run from the pulpit to Miss Hester’s
room. I have known of such things.”
“I don’t believe that Hester would care to keep her room Sunday
mornings then!” whispered Perry, l’enfant terrible of the Wayt
family. “She says family prayers are all she can stand.”
March, the recipient of the saucy “aside,” cast a warning look at the
telltale. Inwardly he was amused by the unlucky revelation. Spoiled
child as Hester was, she had marvelously keen perceptions and shrewd
judgment. She saw through the jugglery that deceived the mass of Mr.
Wayt’s followers, and rated correctly the worth of his capital.
He juggled rarely to-day. Even his voice partook of the spread-eagle
element which interfused Divine services as conducted by the popular
preacher. The church was full to the doors, many of the audience being
strangers and sightseers. The number of “transients” increased weekly.
“He is like fly-paper,” Hester had said, this very Sunday, as the
skirts of his well-fitting coat, clerically cut and closely buttoned,
cleared the front door. “Out of the many that swarm and buzz about
him, some are sure to stick—that is, take pews! That is the test of
spiritual husbandry, Hetty! I believe I’ll be an infidel!”
“Don’t be utterly absurd!” answered her aunt in a spiritless way. “I
haven’t the energy to argue, or even scold. ‘Let God be true, and
every man a liar.’ God forgive me, but I am ready, sometimes, to say
that all men are! But I can’t let Him go, dear!”
Mr. Wayt gave out the opening hymn in tones that would have been
clarion, but for an occasional break into falsetto that brought to
March’s irreverent mind the wheezing drone of a bagpipe.
    We are living, we are dwelling,
    In a grand and awful time;
    In an age on ages telling,
    To be living is sublime.
    Hark! the waking up of nations,
    Gog and Magog to the fray!
    Hark! what soundeth? ’Tis creation
    Groaning for its latter day!
His text was, as was his custom, startlingly peculiar:
“Only the stump of Dagon was left to him.”
It was a political discourse, after the manner of a majority of
discourses which are miscalled “National.” Government jobbery,
nepotism, and chicanery; close corporations, railway monopolies,
municipal contracts—each had its castigation; at each was hurled the
prophecy of the day of doom when head and palms would be sundered from
the fishy trunk, and evil in every form be dominated by God’s truth
marching on.
March listened for a while, then reverted to matters of more nearly
personal interest. Last night’s incident had left a most disagreeable
impression on his mind, which was confirmed by Mrs. Wayt’s demeanor.
May’s assertion of the Bohemian flavor recurred to him more than once.
No! the specious advocate of public reforms and private probity did not
“ring true.” And protest as Hester might, with all the passion of a
forceful nature, against her father’s double ways, he was her father,
and the ruler of his household. His wife, it was plain, believed in and
imitated him.
Gazing at the pale, large-featured face of the orator, now alive with
his theme, and glancing from this to the refined, faded lineaments
of her whose meek eyes were raised to it from the pastor’s pew,
he was distrustful of both. He wished Hetty were not Mr. Wayt’s
wife’s sister, or that he could marry her out of hand, and get his
brother-in-law, once removed, a call to—Alaska! Her, he never doubted.
Their acquaintance had been brief, and scanty opportunities of
improving it had been vouchsafed to him of late; yet she had fastened
herself too firmly upon affection and esteem to admit of the approach
of disparaging suspicion. She might be a slave to her sister and her
sister’s children. She could never be made a tool for the furtherance
of unworthy ends. She would not have said: “I did not inquire at what
hour Mr. Wayt left his study last night!” If she spoke, it would be to
tell the truth.
At this point an idea entered his brain, carrying a flood of light
with it. Mrs. Wayt was an author—one of the many ministers’ wives who
eke out insufficient salaries by writing for Sunday-school and church
papers! It was a matter of moment—perhaps of ten dollars—to get off a
MS. by a given time, and Hetty had taken it down in typewriting from
her dictation and the rough draught. Of a certainty, here was the
solution of the mysterious vigil, and of Mrs. Wayt’s equivocation!
She looked like a woman who would write over the signature of “Aunt
Huldah” in the Children’s Column, or “Theresa Trefoil” in the Woman’s
Work-table, and dread lest her identity with these worthies should be
suspected by her husband’s people, or by even “dear Percy” himself.
March experienced a blessed letting-down of the whole system—a surcease
from worrying thought, so sudden that a deep sigh escaped him that
made his mother glance askance at him. Instead of admiring the brave
industry of the true wife he had suffered a whimsical prejudice to
poison his mind against her. He despised himself as a midnight spy and
gossip hunter, in the recollection of the orchard vigil. The patient,
unseasonable toil of the sisters became sublime.
“Who has not heard the story of the drummer boy of Gettysburg?”
thundered the preacher, raising eagle eyes from the manuscript laid
between the Bible leaves.
March jumped as if the fulmination were chain-shot. Mrs. Gilchrist,
looking full at him, saw his color flicker violently, his fingers
clinch hard upon the palms. Then he became so ghastly that she
whispered:
“Are you ill?”
“A sharp pain in my side! It will be gone in a moment,” he whispered
back, his lips contracting into a smile. Rather a sword in his heart.
The light within him was darkness. How foolish not to have solved the
mean riddle at a glance! Mr. Wayt’s sensational sermons were composed
by his clever wife, and transcribed by her as clever sister! Here was
the secret of the sense of unreality and distrust that had haunted him
in this man’s presence from the beginning of their acquaintanceship.
The specious divine was a fraud out and out, and through and through a
cheap cheat. No wonder now, at the swift itinerancy of his ministry!
His talk of midnight study was a lie, his pretense of scholarship a
trick so flimsy that a child should have seen through it. He had gone
to bed the evening before, and taken his rest in sleep, while his
accomplices got up to order the patriotic pyrotechnics for the next day.
No wonder that Mrs. Wayt’s eyes were furtive and anxious, that there
were crow’s feet in the corners, and bistre rings about them after that
July night’s work!
No wonder that the less hardened and less culpable sister-in-law
shunned church services!
The sword was double-edged, and dug and turned in his heart. For the
girl who lent aid, willing or reluctant, to the deliberate deception
practiced in the Name which is above all other names, had a face as
clear as the sun, and eyes honest as Heaven, and he loved her!
The main body of the audience could not withdraw their eyes from the
narrator of the telling anecdote of the drummer-boy of Gettysburg. The
story was new to all there, although he had assumed their familiarity
with it. It was graphic; it was pathetic to heart-break; it thrilled
and glowed and coruscated with self-devotion and patriotism; it was
an inimitable illustration of the point just made by the orator, who
was carried clear out of himself by the theme. And not one person
there—not even March Gilchrist, fiercely distrustful of the man and
all his works—suspected that it was an original incident, home-grown,
homespun, and home-woven. Write it not down as a sin against the
popular pastor of the Fairhill First Church that the Gettysburg hero
was a twenty-four-year-old child of the speaker’s brain. If the Mill of
the Press, and the Foundry of Tradition cannot turn out illustrations
numerous and pat enough to suit every subject and time, private
enterprise must supply personal demand.
“I think young Gilchrist was ill in church to-day,” observed Mr. Wayt
to his wife that afternoon, as she fed him with the dainty repast he
could not go to the table to eat.
He lay on the settee in the wide, cool hall, supported by linen-covered
cushions. She had brought him, as a persuasive first course, a cup of
delicious bouillon, ice-cold, and administered it to him, spoonful by
spoonful.
“He changed color, and seemed to be in great pain for an instant,”
he continued, after another sip. “His mother looked very uneasy, and
apparently advised him to go out. I judged from his fluctuations of
color that it was vertigo—or a severe pain in the head. He would not
leave until the services were over. I have few more attentive hearers
than March.” Another sip. “If I should be the means of bringing him
into the Church, it would be a happy day for his pious mother. Should
my headache abate in the course of an hour or so, I will look in and
inquire how he is. It would only be courteous and neighborly.”
In the adjoining dining room, the door of which the draught had opened
a few inches, the family circle of the solicitous pastor heard every
word of the communication, although his accents were subdued by pain.
Sharp-eared-and-eyed Perry winked at Hetty.
“He won’t find Mr. March Gilchrist,” he mouthed in a fashion invented
by himself, to convey pert speeches only to the person for whom they
were invented. “He went to New York on the five o’clock train. I saw
him. He said he was going to dine with a friend. I heard him. A man
asked him. Another slice of beef, please, Hetty! Rare, and a bit of
fat! Some gravy on my potatoes, too!”
Hetty had shunned the orchard since the day of the last sitting. Seated
behind the shutters of her chamber-window, she had seen, almost every
day, Thor bound across the grass in pursuit of a figure partially
hidden by the lower branches. Since March frequented the spot, it was
no resort for her. She had no time for play, she told Hester, gently,
when she pleaded for a return to the pleasant lounging and talk
“under green-apple boughs.” Homer could draw the carriage down the
garden-walk and through the gate and leave the cripple there with books
and color box, whenever she wanted to go. Hester often brought back
stories of chats and readings and painting lessons with the brother or
sister—sometimes with both. Occasionally, March came to the parsonage
with a message from his sister to the effect that she had taken Hester
home with her for the day or evening, and would return her in good
order. He was apt to insist upon leaving the message with Hetty, if
Mary Ann or one of the children answered his ring. Mr. Wayt’s wife’s
sister would obey the summons in person, but she did not invite the
bearer in.
She ran down in her simple morning gown, or almost as plain afternoon
dress, without waiting to remove her sewing apron, heard what he had
to say gravely, and replied civilly, as might a servant or governess.
And day by day, he marked the lessening round of cheek and chin, and
the deepening of the plait between the brows. She could not know that
he went away, each time pitying and loving her the more, and furious at
the cruelty of the demands upon her time and strength. She could not
have altered her behavior, unless to grow more formal, had she divined
all.
But for the orchard outings Hester would have had but a dull summer of
it. As it was, it was the happiest of her life. She actually gained
flesh, and her cheeks had the delicate flush of a sweet-pea blossom.
She mellowed and mollified in the intercourse with the sound, bright
natures of her new friends. Prosperity was teaching her unselfishness.
Hetty had a proof of this after the Sunday dinner was eaten, and there
still remained a long hour of sunful daylight.
“I have a charming book which Miss May lent me yesterday,” she said, as
her custodian inquired what she should do for her entertainment. “And
now that mamma has set the children to studying their Sunday-school
lessons for next week, you ought to have a breathing spell, my poor
dear. You are bleaching too fast to please me. You can’t plead ‘work to
do’ for once.”
Hetty yielded—the more, it would seem, because she had not the strength
to resist love pleadings than from any desire for the “outing”
recommended by Hester. Taking shawl and cushion with her, she passed
down the garden alley to the gate. There was a broad track through the
orchard, worn by the wheeled chair and Hester’s attendants. It led
straight to the king apple tree. From this bourne another track, not so
distinctly marked, diverged to the white picket fence shutting in the
Gilchrist garden. Hetty’s feet had never trodden this, she reflected
with a pang, after she had settled herself against the brown trunk. It
was most probable that she never would.
Her one little dream was dead, and she was too practical a business
woman to resuscitate it. Her consistent plan of avoiding March
Gilchrist and abjuring the painful sweet of association with his sister
was adopted before she returned to the house from her ineffectual quest
for Homer and the parsley. She was filled with wonder, in looking back
to the time—was it three minutes, or thirty?—she had wasted, leaning
on the gate, enveloped in lilac perfume as in a viewless mantle, and
daring to feel as other and unexceptional girls feel—that she could
have forgotten herself so utterly. She said—“so shamelessly.”
“The worm on the earth may look up to the star,” if it fancies that
method of spending an ignoble life, but star-gazing and presumptuous
longing for a million centuries would bring planets and worms no nearer
together. Hetty was very humble in imagining the figure. Some people
must live on the shady side of the street, where rents are low, and
green mold gathers upon stones, and snails crawl in areas. If the
wretches who pune and pale in the malaria-breeding damps would not go
mad, they must not look too often across the way where flowers and
people bloom. If they do, they must support the consequences.
This misguided girl had looked. She was now suffering. That she merited
what she had to bear did not make the pain less.
Unwittingly she had spread her shawl where March had laid his rug last
night. The rough bark of the tree-bole hurt her presently. Her gown
was thin, and her flesh less firm than it had been six weeks ago. She
slid down upon the shawl, her head on the cushion, and reached out, in
idle misery, to pick up some withered leaves and small, unripe apples
scattered on the grass. March had dropped them while hearkening to
his sister’s criticism of the Bohemian household. She was as idly—and
as miserably—tearing apart the leaves toughened by the heat of the
day, when she heard a joyous rush behind her and felt the panting of
hot breath upon her neck, and Thor was kissing her face and licking
her hands. She sprang to her feet and cast a wild glance along the
path and under the trees. There was no one in sight. The grounds were
peremptorily posted, and no vagrant foot ever crossed them. She took in
the situation at once. March had gone to New York in the five o’clock
train; the dog, wandering aimlessly about and missing his master,
had espied her, and accepted her as a substitute. She knelt down and
clasped her arms about his head, laid her cheek to his burly muzzle.
“O Thor! Thor! you would help me if you could.” Just as she had fondled
him in those far-away, blissful days. Her hand was tangled in his coat
when, looking across his huge bulk, she had met March Gilchrist’s eyes.
True eyes—and bonny and true, which must never read her soul again.
“Thor! dear Thor!” She cried it out in a passion of tears.
The faithful fellow moaned a little in sympathy. The more eloquent than
human longing to comfort the sorrowing, never seen except in a dog’s
eyes, filled and rounded his.
“I wouldn’t cry if I could help it, dear,” said Hetty, her arch smile
striking through the rain. “And nobody else should see me shed a tear.
You are my only confidant; and I do believe you understand—a little.”
He was not an indifferent consoler, it appeared, for in fifteen minutes
both of them were asleep, their heads upon the same pillow.
The sunset sea breeze rustled the stooping boughs. Arrows of greenish
