"Courage, let us try again; I am not tired, 
indeed I am not" 

Yvonne never came into the studio when Gethryn had models, but often, after the light was 
dim, and the models had taken their leave, she 
would slip in, and, hanging lightly over his 
shoulder, her cheek against his, would stand 
watching the touches and retouches with which 
the young artist always eked out the last rays 
of daylight. And when his hand drooped, and 
she could hardly distinguish his face in the 
gathering gloom, he would sigh and turn to her, 
smoothing the soft hair from her forehead, say 
ing: "Are you happy, Yvonne?" And Yvonne 
always answered, "Yes, Rex, when you are." 

Then he would laugh, and kiss her and tell 
her he was always happy with La Belle He"lene, 
and they would stand in the gathering twilight 
until a gurgle from the now well-grown pups 
would warn them that the hour of hunger had 
arrived, 



 

The triumvirate, with Thaxton, Rhodes, 
Carleton, and the rest, had been frequent visitors all winter at the "Menagerie," as Clifford's 
bad pun had named Gethryn's apartment; but, 
of late, other social engagements and, possibly, 
a small amount of work, had kept them away. 
Clifford was a great favorite with Yvonne. . 
Thaxton and Elliott she liked. Rowden she 
tormented, and Carleton she endured. She 
captured Clifford by suffering him to play his 
banjo to her piano. Rowden liked her because 
she was pretty and witty, though he never got 
used to her quiet little digs at his own respected 
and dignified person. Clifford openly avowed 
his attachment, and spent many golden hours 
away from work, listening to her singing. She 
had been taught by a good master, and her 
voice was pure and pliant, although as yet only 
half developed. The little concerts they gave 
their friends were really charming, with 
Clifford's banjo, Gethryn's guitar, Thaxton's 
violin, Yvonne's voice and piano. Clifford made 
the programmes. They were profusely illustrated, and he spent a great deal of time rehearsing, writing verses, and re-hashing familiar airs 





(he called it "composing"), which would have 
been as well devoted to his easel. 

In Rowden, Yvonne was delighted to find 
a cultivated musician. Clifford listened to their 
talk of chords and keys, went and bought a 
"Musical Primer" on the Quai'd Orsay, spent 
a wretched hour groping over it, swore softly, 
and closed the book forever. 

But neither the triumvirate nor the others had 
been to the "Menagerie" for over a fortnight, 
when Rowden, feeling it incumbent upon him 
to return some of Gethryn's hospitality, issued 
very proper cards, indeed they were very swell 
cards for the Latin Quarter, for a "dinner," 
to be followed by a "quiet evening" at the Bal 
Masqud at the Opera. 

The triumvirate had accordingly tied up their 
brindled bull-dogs, "Spit," "Snap" and "Tug;" 
had donned their white ties and collars of awful 
altitude, and were fully prepared to please and 
to be pleased. Although it was nominally a 
"stag" party, the triumvirate would as soon have 
cut off their tender mustaches as have failed to 
invite Yvonne. But she had replied to Row- 
den's invitation by a dainty little note, ending: 



 

"and I am sure that you will understand when I 
say that this time I will leave you gentlemen in 
undisturbed possession of the evening, for I 
know how dearly men love to meet and behave 
like bears all by themselves. But I shall see 
you all afterward at the Opera. Au revoir then, 
at the Bal Masque. Y. D." 

The first sensation to the young men was one 
of disappointment. But the second was that 
Mademoiselle Descarte's tact had not failed 
her. 

The triumvirate were seated upon the side 
board swinging their legs. Rowden cast a sat 
isfied glance at the table laid for fifteen, and 
flicked an imaginary speck from his immac 
ulate shirt front. 

"I think it's all right," said Elliott, noticing 
his look, "eh, Clifford?" 

"Is there enough champagne?" asked that 
youth, calculating four quart bottles to each 
person. 

Rowden groaned. 

"Of course there is. What are you made of?" 

"Human flesh," acknowledged the other 
meekly. 





At eleven the guests began to arrive, welcomed by the triumvirs with great state and dig 
nity. Rovvden, looking about, missed only one 
Gethryn, and he entered at the same moment. 

"Just in time," said Rowden, and made the 
move to the table. As Gethryn sat down, he 
noticed that the place on Rowden's right was 
vacant, and before it stood a huge bouquet of 
white violets. 

"Too bad she isn't here," said Rowden, glancing at Gethryn and then at the vacant place. 

"That's awfully nice of you, Rowden," cried 
Gethryn, with a happy smile; "she will have a 
chance to thank you to-night." 

He leaned over and touched his face to the 
flowers. As he raised his head again, his eyes 
met Braith s. 

"Hello!" cried Braith, cordially. 

Rex did not notice how pale he was, and called 
back, "Hello!" with a feeling of relief at Braith's 
tone. It was always so. When they were apart 
for days, there weighed a cloud of constraint on 
Rex's mind, which Braith's first greeting always 
dispelled. But it gathered again in the next 
interval. It rose from a sullen deposit of self- 



 

reproach down deep in Gethryn's own heart. 
He kept it covered over; but he could not pre 
vent the ghost-like exhalations that gathered 
there and showed where it was hidden. 

Speeches began rather late. Elliott made one 
and offered a toast to "la plus jolie demoiselle de 
Paris, "which was drunk amid great enthusiasm, 
and responded to by Gethryn, ending with a 
toast to Rowden. Rowden's response was stiff, 
but most correct. The same could not be said 
of Clifford's answer to the toast, "The struggling 
Artist Heaven help him!" 

Towards i A. M. Mr. Clifford's conversation 
had become incoherent. But he continued to 
drink toasts. H3 drank Yvonne's health five 
times, he pledged Rowden and Gethryn and 
everybody else he could think of, down to Mrs. 
Gummidge and each separate kitten, and finally 
pledged himself. By that time he had reached 
the lachrymose state. Tears, it seemed, did 
him good. A heart-rending sob was usually the 
sign of reviving intelligence. 

"Well," said Gethryn, buttoning his great 
coat, "I'll see you all in an hour, at the Opera." 


 

Braith was not coming with them to the Ball, 
so Rex shook hands and said "Good-night," and 
calling "Au revoir" to Rowden and the rest, 
ran downstairs three at a time. He hurried into 
the court and after spending five minutes shout 
ing "Cordon!" succeeded in getting out of the 
door, and into the Rue Michelet. From there he 
turned into the Avenue de 1 Observatoire, and 
cutting through into the Boulevard, came to his 
hotel. 

Yvonne was standing before the mirror, tying 
the hood of a white silk domino under her chin. 
Hearing Gethryn's key in the door, she hurriedly 
slipped on her little white mask and confronted 
him. 

"Why, who is this?" cried Gethyrn. "Yvonne, 
come and tell me who this charming stranger is!" 

"You see before you the Princess Helene, 
Monsieur," she said, gravely bending the little 
masked head. 

"Oh, in that case, you needn't come, Yvonne, 
as I have an engagement with the Princess 
Helene of Troy." 

"But you mustn't kiss me!" she cried, hastily 
placing the table between herself and Geth- 



 

ryn; "you have not yet been presented. Oh, 
Rex! Don't be so so idiotic; you spoil my 
dress there, yes, only one, but don't you dare 
to try Oli, Rex! Now I am all in wrinkles, 
you you bear!" 

"Bears hug that's a fact," he laughed. "Come, 
are you ready or I'll just " 

"Don't you dare!" she cried, whipping off 
her mask and attempting an indignant frown. 
She saw the big bunch of white violets in his 
hand, and made a diversion by asking what 
those were. He told her, and she declared, de 
lightedly, that she should carry them with 
Rex's roses to the Ball. 

"They shall have the preference, Monsieur," 
she said, teasingly. "Oh, Rex! don't please " 
she entreated. 

"All right, I won t," he said, drawing her 
wrap around her; and Yvonne, replacing the 
mask and gathering up her fluffy skirts, slipped 
one small gloved hand through his arm, and 
danced down the stairs. 

On the corner of the Vaugirard and the Rue 
de Medicis one always finds a line of cabs, and 
presently they were bumping and bouncing away 
down the Rue de Seine to the river. 







"Je fais ce que sa fantaisie 

Veut m ordonner, 
Et je puis,'s il lui faut ma vie 
La lui dormer, " 

sang Yvonne, deftly thrusting tierce and quarte 
with her fan to make Gethryn keep his distance. 

"Do you know it is snowing?" he said pres 
ently, peering out of the window, as the cab 
rattled across the Pont Neuf. 

"Tant mieux!" cried the girl; "I shall make 
a snowball, a she opened her blue eyes 
impressively, "a very, very large one, and 

"And?" 

"Drop it on the head of Mr. Rowden," she 
announced, with cheerful decision. 

"I'll warn poor Rowden of your intention," 
he laughed, as the cab rolled smoothly up the 
Avenue de 1 Opera, across the Boulevard des 
Italiens, and stopped before the glittering pile 
of the great Opera. 

She sprang lightly to the curbstone and stood 
tapping her little feet against the pavement 
while Gethryn fumbled about for his fare. 

The steps of the Opera and the Plaza were 
covered with figures in dominoes, blue, red or 



 

black, many grotesque and bizarre costumes, 
and not a few sober claw-hammers. The great 
flare of yellow light which bathed and flooded 
the shifting, many-colored throng, also lent a 
strangely weird effect to the now heavily falling 
snow-flakes. Carnages and cabs kept arriving 
in countless numbers. It was half past two, and 
nobody who wanted to be considered anybody 
thought of arriving before that hour. The peo 
ple poured in a steady stream through the por 
tals. Groups of English and American students 
in their irreproachable evening attire, groups of 
French students in someone else's doubtful 
evening attire, crowds of rustling silken dominoes, herds of crackling muslin dominoes, 
countless sad faced Pierrots, fewer sad-faced 
Capuchins, now and then a slim Mephistopheles, 
now and then a fat, stolid Turk, Arry, Tom, 
and Billy, redolent of plum pudding and Seven 
Dials, Gontran, Gaston and Achille, savoring of 
brasseries and the Sorbonne. And then, from 
the carriages and nacres; Mademoiselle Patch 
ouli and good old Monsieur Bonvin, Mademoi 
selle Nitouche and bad young Monsieur de 
Sacrebleu, Mademoiselle Moineau and Don Caesar 





Imberbe; and the pink silk domino of "La Pat- 
aude" mais n importe! 

Aliens, Messieurs, Mesdames, to the cloak 
room to the foyer! To the escalier! or you, 
Madame la Comtesse, to your box, and smooth 
out your crumpled domino; as for "LaPataude," 
she is going to dance to-night. 

Gethryn, with Yvonne clinging tightly to his 
arm, entered the great vestibule and passed 
through the railed lanes to the broad inclined 
aisle which led to the floor. 

"Do you want to take a peep before we go to 
our box?" he asked, leading her to the door 
way. 

Yvonne's little heart beat faster as she leaned 
over and glanced at the dazzling spectacle. 

"Come, hurry, let us go to the box!" she 
whispered, dragging Gethryn after her up the 
stairway. 

He followed, laughing at her excitement, and in 
a few minutes they found the door of their lodge 
and slipped in. 

Gethryn lighted a cigarette and began to 
unstrap his field glasses. 

"Take these, Yvonne," he said, handing them 



 

to her while he adjusted her own tiny gold 
ones. 

Yvonne's cheeks flushed and her eyes sparkled 
under the little mask, as she leaned over 
the velvet railing and gazed at the bewildering 
spectacle below. Great puffs of hot, perfumed 
air bore the crash of two orchestras to their 
ears, mixed with the distant clatter and whirl of 
the dancers, and the shouts and cries of ths 
maskers. 

At the end of the floor, screened by banks 
of palms, sat the musicians, and round 
about, rising tier upon tier, the glittering boxes 
were filled with the elite of the demi-monde, 
who ogled and gossiped and sighed, entirely 
content with the material and social barriers 
which separate those who dance for ten francs 
from those who look on for a hundred. 

But there were others there who should not 
by any means be confounded with their sisters 
of the "half-world." 

The Faubourg St. Germain, the Champs 
Elysees, and the Pare Monceau were possibly 
represented among those muffled and disguised 
beauties, who began the evening with their fans 





so handy in case of need. Ah, well, now they 
lay their fans down quite out of reach in case of 
emergency, and who shall say if disappointment 
lurks under these dainty dominoes, that there is 
so little to bring a blush to modest cheeks, 
alas! few emergencies. 

And you over there you of the "American 
Colony," who are tossed like shuttle-cocks in the 
social whirl, you, in your well-appointed masks 
and silks, it is all very new and exciting yes, 
but why should you come? American women, 
brought up to think clean thoughts, and see with 
innocent eyes, to exact a respectful homage 
from men and enjoy a personal dignity and in 
dependence unknown to women anywhere else, 
why do you want to come here? Do you not 
know that the foundations of that liberty which 
makes you envied in the old world are laid in 
the respect and confidence of men? Undermine 
that, become wise and cynical, learn the mean 
ing of doubtful words and gestures whose signif 
icance you never need have suspected, meet 
men on the same ground where they may any 
day meet fast women of the continent, and fix 
at that moment on yo-ur free limbs the same 



 

chains which corrupt society has forged for the 
women of Europe. 

Yvonne leaned back in her box with a little 
gasp. 

"But I can't make out any one at all," she 
said; "it's all a great, sparkling sea of color." 

"Try the field glasses, "replied Gethryn, giving 
them to her again, at the same time opening her 
big plumy fan and waving it to and fro beside 
the flushed cheek. 

Presently she cried out, "Oh, look! There 
is Mr. Elliott and Mr. Rowden, and I think Mr. 
Clifford, but I hope not," 

He leaned forward and swept the floor with 
the field glass. 

"It's Clifford, sure enough," he muttered; 
"what on earth induces him to dance in that set?" 

It was Clifford. 

At that moment, he was addressing Elliott 
in pleading, though hazy, phrases. 

"Come long, Elliott, don't be so so un- 
comft ble n p tic lar! W t's use of be ng 
shnobbish?"he urged, clinging hilariously to his 
partner, a pigeon-toed ballet girl. But Elliott 
only laughed and said; 





"No; waltzes are all I care for. No quadrille 
for me " 

The crash of the orchestra drowned his voice, 
and Clifford, turning and bowing gravely to his 
partner, and then to his vis-a-vis, began to per 
form such antics and cut such pigeon-wings, 
that his pigeon-toed partner glared at him 
through the slits of her mask in envious astonishment. The floor was dotted with numerous 
circles of maskers, tenor fifteen deep, all watch 
ing and applauding the capers of the hilarious 
couples in the middle. 

But Clifford's set soon attracted a large and 
enthusiastic audience, who were connoisseurs 
enough to distinguish a voluntary dancer from a 
hired one; and when the last thundering chords 
of Offenbach's "March into Hell" scattered the 
throng into a delirious waltz, Clifford reeled 
heavily into the side scenes and sat down, rather 
unexpectedly, in the lap of Mademoiselle Ni- 
touche, who had crept in there with the Baron 
Silberstein for a nice, quiet view of a genuine 
can-can. 

Mademoiselle did not think it funny, but 
the Baron did, and when she boxed Clifford's 
ears he thought it funnier still. 



 

Rowden and Elliott, who were laboriously 
waltzing with a twin pair of flat-footed Watteau 
Shepherdesses, immediately ran to his assist 
ance; and later, with a plentiful application of 
cold water and still colder air restored Mr. 
Clifford to his usual spirits. 

"You're not a beauty, you know," said Row- 
den, looking at Clifford's hair, which was soaked 
into little points and curls; "you're certainly 
no beauty, but I think you're all right now, 
don't you, Elliott?" 

"Certainly," laughed the triumvir, producing 
a little silver pocket-comb and presenting it to 
the woe-begone Clifford, who immediately 
brought out a hand-glass and proceeded to con 
struct a "bang" of wonderful seductiveness. 

In ten minutes they sallied forth from the 
dressing-room, and wended their way through 
the throngs of masks to the center of the floor. 
They passed Thaxton and Rhodes, who, each 
with a pretty nun upon his arm, were trying to 
persuade Bulfinch into taking the third nun, who 
might have been the Mother Superior or pos 
sibly a resuscitated I4th century abbess. 

"No," he was saying, while he blinked painfully at the ci-devant abbess, "I can't go that; 

upon my word, don't ask me, fellows, I
can't." 

"Oh, come," urged Rhodes, "what's the odds?" 

"You can take her and I'll take yours," began 
the wily little man, but neither Rhodes nor 
Thaxton waited to argue longer. 

"No catacombs for me," growled Bulfinch 
eyeing the retreating nuns, but catching sight of 
the triumvirate, his face regained its bird-like 
felicity of expression. 

"Glad to see you indeed I am! That Co 
lossus is too disinterested in securing partners for 
his friends; he is, I assure you. If you're look 
ing for a Louis Quatorze partner, warranted gen 
uine, go to Rhodes." 

"Rex ought to be hereby this time," said 
Rowden; "look in the boxes on that side, and 
Clifford and I will do the same on this." 

"No need," cried Elliott, "I see him with a 
white domino there in the second tier. Look! 
He's waving his hand to us and so is the dom- 



"Come along," said Clifford, pushing his way 
toward the foyer, "I'll find them in a moment. 



 

Let me see," a few minutes later, pausing out 
side a row of white and gilt doors, "let me 
see, seventh box, second tier, here we are," 
he added, rapping loudly. 

Yvonne ran and opened the door. 

"Bonsoir, Messieurs," she said, with a de 
mure curtsy. 

Clifford gallantly kissed the little glove and 
then shook hands with Gethryn. 

"How is it on the floor?" asked the latter, as 
Elliott and Rowden came forward to the edge 
of the box. "I want to take Yvonne out for a 
turn, and perhaps a walt2, if it isn't too crowded." 

"Oh, it's pretty rough just now, but it will 
be better in half an hour," replied Rowden, bar 
ricading the champagne from Clifford. 

"We saw you dancing, Mr. Clifford," observed 
Yvonne, with a wicked glance at him from un 
der her mask. 

Clifford blushed. 

"I I don't make an ass of myself but once 
a year, you know," he said, with a deprecatory 
look at Elliott. 

"Oh," murmured the latter, doubtfully, "glad 
to hear it." 





Clifford gazed at him in meek reproof, and 
then made a flank movement upon the cham 
pagne, but was again neatly foiled by Rowden. 

Yvonne looked serious, but presently leaned 
over and filled one of the long-stemmed gob 
lets. 

"Only one, Mr. Clifford; one for you to drink 
my health, but you must promise me truthfully 
not to take any more wine this evening!" 

Clifford promised with great promptness, and 
taking the glass from her hand with a low bow, 
sprang recklessly upon the edge of the box and 
raised the goblet. 

"A la plus belle demoiselle de Paris !" he cried, 
with all the strength of his lungs, and drained 
the goblet. 

A shout from the crowd below answered his 
toast. A thousand faces were turned upward, 
and people leaned over their boxes, and looked 
at the party from all parts of the house. 

Mademoiselle Nitouche turned to Monsieur 
de Sacrebleu. 

"What audacity!" she murmured. 

Mademoiselle Goujon smiled at the Baron 
Silberstein. 



 

"Tiens!" she cried, "the gayety has begun, I 
hope." 

Little Miss Ducely whispered to Lieutenant 
Faucon: 

"Those are American students," she sighed; 
"how jolly they seem to be, especially Mr. Clifford ! 
I wonder if she is so pretty!" 

Half a dozen riotous Frenchmen in the box 
opposite jumped to their feet and waved their 
goblets at Clifford. 

"A la plus jolie femme du monde!" they 
roared. 

Clifford seized another glass and filled it. 

"She is here!" he shouted, and sprang to the 
edge again. But Gethryn pulled him down. 

"That's too dangerous," he laughed; "you 
could easily fall." 

"Oh, pshaw!" cried Clifford, draining the 
glass, and shaking it at the opposite box. 

Yvonne put her hand on Gethryn's arm. 

"Don't let him have any more," she whispered. 

"Give us the goblet!" yelled the Frenchmen. 

"Le voila!" shouted Clifford, and stepping 
back, hurled the glass with all his strength across 





the glittering gulf. It fell with a crash in the 
box it was aimed at, and a howl cf applause 
went up from the floor. 

Yvonne laughed nervously, but coming to the 
edge of the box buried her mask in her bouquet 
and looked down. 

4 A rose! A rose!" cried the maskers below; 
"a rose from the most charming demoiselle in 
