Silenced by the court.) Another Voice: "No, give 
Tommy another highst!" (Laughter. Sharply re- 
buked by the court.) 
"Now, then, Mr. Rogers, two kicks shall be de- 
livered, one after the other, and I give you my 
lord that at least one of the two shall be delivered 
 
by one of the twins alone, without the slightest 
assistance from his brother. Watch sharply, for you 
have got to render a decision without any if's and 
and's in it." Rogers bent himself behind the twins 
with his palms just above his knees, in the modern 
attitude of the catcher at a baseball match, and 
riveted his eyes on the pair of legs in front of him. 
"Are you ready, Mr. Rogers?" 
"Ready, sir." 
"Kick!" 
The kick was launched. 
"Have you got that one classified, Mr. Rogers?" 
"Let me study a minute, sir." 
"Take as much time as you please. Let me 
know when you are ready." 
For as much as a minute Rogers pondered, with all 
eyes and a breathless interest fastened upon him. 
Then he gave the word: "Ready, sir." 
"Kick!" 
The kick that followed was an exact duplicate of 
the first one. 
"Now, then, Mr. Rogers, one of those kicks was 
an individual kick, not a mutual one. You will now 
State positively which was the mutual one." 
The witness said, with a crestfallen look: 
"I've got to give it up. There ain't any man in 
the woiM that could tell t'other from which, sir." 
"Do yc." still assert that last night's kick was a 
mutual kick;" 
"Indeed, I don't, sir." 
"That will do, Mr. Rogers. If my brother Allen 
desires to address the court, your honor, very well; 
 
but as far as I am concerned I am ready to let the 
case be at once delivered into the hands of this 
intelligent jury without comment." 
Mr. Justice Robinson had been in office only two 
months, and in that short time had not had many 
cases to try, of course. He had no knowledge of 
laws and courts except what he had picked up since 
he came into office. He was a sore trouble to the 
lawyers, for his rulings were pretty eccentric some- 
times, and he stood by them with Roman simplicity 
and fortitude ; but the people were well satisfied with 
him, for they saw that his intentions were always 
right, that he was entirely impartial, and that he 
usually made up in good sense what he lacked in 
technique, so to speak. He now perceived that 
there was likely to be a miscarriage of justice here, 
and he rose to the occasion. 
"Wait a moment, gentlemen," he said, "it is 
plain that an assault has been committed — it is 
plain to anybody; but the way things are going, 
the guilty will certainly escape conviction. I can- 
not allow this. Now — " 
"But, your honor!" said Wilson, interrupting him, 
earnestly but respectfully, "you are deciding the 
case yourself, whereas the jury — " 
"Never mind the jury, Mr. Wilson; the jury will 
have a chance when there is a reasonable d- j.bt for 
them to take hold of — which there isn't, so far. 
There is no doubt whatever that an assault has been 
committed. The attempt to show that both of the 
accused committed it has failed. Are they both to 
escape justice on that account? Not in this court, 
 
if I can prevent it. It appears to have been a mis- 
take to bring the charge against them as a corpora- 
tion ; each should have been charged in his capacity 
as an individual, and — " 
"But, your honor!" said Wilson, "in fairness to 
my clients I must insist that inasmuch as the prose- 
cution did not separate the — " 
"No wrong will be done your clients, sir — they 
will be protected; also the public and the offended 
laws. Mr. Allen, you will amend your pleadings, 
and put one of the accused on trial at a time." 
Wilson broke in: "But, your honor! this is 
wholly unprecedented! To imperil an accused per- 
son by arbitrarily altering and widening the charge 
against him in order to compass his conviction when 
the charge as originally brought promises to fail to 
convict, is a thing unheard of before." 
"Unheard of where?" 
"In the courts of this or any other state." 
The Judge said with dignity: "I am not ac- 
quainted with the customs of other courts, and am 
not concerned to know what they are. I am respon- 
sible for this court, and I cannot conscientiously 
allow my judgment to be warped and my judicial 
liberty hampered by trying to conform to the 
caprices of other courts, be they — " 
"But, your honor, the oldest and highest courts 
in Europe — " 
"This court is not run on the European plan, 
Mr. Wilson; it is not run on any plan but its own. 
It has a plan of its own; and that plan is, to find 
justice for both State and accused, no matter what 
 
happens to be practice and custom in Europe or 
anywhere else." (Great applause.) "Silence! It 
has not been the custom of this court to imitate 
other courts; it has not been the custom of this 
court to take shelter behind the decisions of other 
courts, and we will not begin now. We will do the 
best we can by the light that God has given us, and 
while this court continues to have His approval, it 
will remain indifferent to what other organizations 
may think of it." (Applause.) "Gentlemen, I 
must have order! — quiet yourselves! Mr. Allen, 
you will now proceed against the prisoners one at a 
time. Go on with the case." 
Allen was not at his ease. However, after whis- 
pering a moment with his client and with one or 
two other people, he rose and said: 
"Your honor, I find it to be reported and be- 
lieved that the accused are able to act independently 
in many ways, but that this independence does not 
extend to their legs, authority over their legs being 
vested exclusively in the one brother during a 
specific term of days, and then passing to the other 
brother for a like term, and so on, by regular alter- 
nation. I could call witnesses who would prove 
that the accused had revealed to them the existence 
of this extraordinary fact, and had also made known 
which of them was in possession of the legs yester- 
day — and this would, of course, indicate where the 
guilt of the assault belongs — but as this would be 
mere hearsay evidence, these revelations not having 
been made under oath — " 
"Never mind about that, Mr. Allen. It may not 
 
all be hearsay. We shall see. It may at least help 
to put us on the right track. Call the witnesses." 
"Then I will call Mr. John Buckstone, who is 
now present, and I beg that Mrs. Patsy Cooper may 
be sent for. Take the stand, Mr. Buckstone." 
Buckstone took the oath, and then testified that 
on the previous evening the Count Angelo Capello 
had protested against going to the hall, and had 
called all present to witness that he was going by 
compulsion and would not go if he could help him- 
self. Also, that the Count Luigi had replied sharply 
that he would go, just the same, and that he, Count 
Luigi, would see to that himself. Also, that upon 
Count Angelo's complaining about being kept on his 
legs so long, Count Luigi retorted with apparent 
surprise, " Your legs! — I like your impudence!" 
"Now we are getting at the kernel of the thing," 
observed the Judge, with grave and earnest satisfac- 
tion. "It looks as if the Count Luigi was in pos- 
session of the battery at the time of the assault." 
Nothing further was elicited from Mr. Buckstone 
on direct examination. Mr. Wilson took the witness. 
"Mr. Buckstone, about what time was it that that 
conversation took place?" 
"Toward nine yesterday evening, sir." 
"Did you then proceed directly to the hall?" 
"Yes, sir." 
"How long did it take you to go there?" 
"Well, we walked; and as it was from the ex- 
treme edge of the town, and there was no hurry, I 
judge it took us about twenty minutes, maybe a, 
trifle more." 
 
"About what hour was the kick delivered?" 
"About thirteen minutes and a half to ten." 
"Admirable! You are a pattern witness, Mr. 
Buckstone. How did you happen to look at your 
watch at that particular moment?" 
"I always do it when I see an assault. It's likely 
I shall be called as a witness, and it's a good point 
to have." 
"It would be well if others were as thoughtful. 
Was anything said, between the conversation at my 
house and the assault, upon the detail which we are 
now examining into?" 
"No, sir." 
"If power over the mutual legs was in the pos- 
session of one brother at nine, and passed into the 
possession of the other one during the next thirty or 
forty minutes, do you think you could have de- 
tected the change?" 
"By no means!" 
"That is all, Mr. Buckstone." 
Mrs. Patsy Cooper was called. The crowd made 
way for her, and she came smiling and bowing 
through the narrow human lane, with Betsy Hale, as 
escort and support, smiling and bowing in her wake, 
the audience breaking into welcoming cheers as the 
old favorites filed along. The Judge did not check 
this kindly demonstration of homage and affection, 
but let it run its course unrebuked. 
The old ladies stopped and shook hands with the 
twins with effusion, then gave the Judge a friendly 
nod, and bustled into the seats provided for them. 
They immediately began to deliver a volley of eager 
 
questions at the friends around them: "What is 
this thing for?" "What is that thing for?" "Who 
is that young man that's writing at the desk? Why, 
I declare, it's Jack Bunce! I thought he was sick." 
"Which is the jury? Why, is that the jury? Billy 
Price and Job Turner, and Jack Lounsbury, and 
— well, I never!" "Now who would ever 'a* 
thought—" 
But they were gently called to order at this point, 
and asked not to talk in court. Their tongues fell 
silent, but the radiant interest in their faces re- 
mained, and their gratitude for the blessing of a 
new sensation and a novel experience still beamed 
undimmed from their eyes. Aunt Patsy stood up 
and took the oath, and Mr. Allen explained the 
point in issue, and asked her to go on now, in her 
own way, and throw as much light upon it as she 
could. She toyed with her reticule a moment or two, 
as if considering where to begin, then she said: 
"Well, the way of it is this. They are Luigi's 
legs a week at a time, and then they are Angelo's, 
and he can do whatever he wants to with them." 
"You are making a mistake, Aunt Patsy Cooper," 
said the Judge. "You shouldn't state that as a. fact, 
because you don't know it to be a fact." 
"What's the reason I don't?" said Aunt Patsy, 
bridling a little. 
"What is the reason that you do know it?" 
"The best in the world — because they told me." 
"That isn't a reason." 
"Well, for the land's sake! Betsv Hale, do you 
hear that?" 
 
"Hear it? I should think so," said Aunt Betsy, 
rising and facing the court. "Why, Judge, I was 
there and heard it myself. Luigi says to Angelo — 
no, it was Angelo said it to — " 
"Come, come, Mrs. Hale, pray sit down, and — " 
"Certainly, it's all right, I'm going to sit down 
presently, but not until I've — " 
"But you must sit down!" 
"Must! Well, upon my word if things ain't 
getting to a pretty pass when — " 
The house broke into laughter, but was promptly 
brought to order, and meantime Air. Allen persuaded 
the old lady to take her seat. Aunt Patsy continued : 
"Yes, they told me that, and I know it's true. 
They're Luigi's legs this week, but — " 
"Ah, they told you that did they?" said the 
Justice, with interest. 
"Well, no, I don't know that they told me, but 
that's neither here nor there. I know, without that, 
that at dinner } r esterday, Angelo was as tired as a 
dog, and yet Luigi wouldn't lend him the legs to go 
up-stairs and take a nap with." 
"Did he ask for them?" 
"Let me see — it seems to me somehow, that — 
that — Aunt Betsy, do you remember whether he — " 
"Never mind about what Aunt Betsy remembers 
— she is not a witness; we only want to know what 
you remember yourself," said the Judge. 
"Well, it does seem to me that you are most 
cantankerously particular about a little thing, Sim 
Robinson. Why, when I can't remember a thing 
myself, I always — " 
 
"Ah, please go on!" 
"Now how can she when you keep fussing at her 
all the time?" said Aunt Betsy. "Why, with a 
person pecking at me that way, I should get that 
fuzzled and fuddled that — " 
She was on her feet again, but Allen coaxed her 
into her seat once more, while the court squelched 
the mirth of the house. Then the Judge said : 
"Madam, do you know — do you absolutely 
know, independently of anything these gentlemen 
have told you — that the power over their legs passes 
from the one to the other regularly every week?" 
"Regularly? Bless your heart, regularly ain't 
any name for the exactness of it ! All the big cities 
in Europe used to set the clocks by it." (Laughter, 
suppressed by the court.) 
"How do you know? That is the question. 
Please answer it plainly and squarely." 
"Don't you talk to me like that, Sim Robinson — 
I won't have it. How do I know, indeed! How 
do you know what you know? Because somebody 
told you. You didn't invent it out of your own 
head, did you? Why, these twins are the truthful- 
est people in the world; and I don't think it be- 
comes you to sit up there and throw slurs at them 
when they haven't been doing anything to you. 
And they are orphans besides — both of them. 
All—" 
But Aunt Betsy was up again now, and both old 
ladies were talking at once and with all their might ; 
but as the house was weltering in a storm of laughter, 
and the Judge was hammering his desk with an iron 
 
paper-weight, one could only see them talk, not 
hear them. At last, when quiet was restored, the 
court said: 
"Let the ladies retire." 
"But, your honor, I have the right, in the interest 
of my clients, to cross-exam — " 
"You'll not need to exercise it, Mr. Wilson — 
the evidence is thrown out." 
"Thrown out!" said Aunt Patsy, ruffled; "and 
what's it thrown out for, I'd like to know." 
"And so would I, Patsy Cooper. It seems to 
me that if we can save these poor persecuted stran- 
gers, it is our bounden duty to stand up here and talk 
for them till—" 
"There, there, there, do sit down!" 
It cost some trouble and a good deal of coaxing, 
but they were got into their seats at last. The trial 
was soon ended now. The twins themselves became 
witnesses in their own defense. They established 
the fact, upon oath, that the leg-power passed from 
one to the other every Saturday night at twelve 
o'clock sharp. But on cross-examination their 
counsel would not allow them to tell whose week of 
power the current week was. The Judge insisted 
upon their answering, and proposed to compel them, 
but even the prosecution took fright and came to 
the rescue then, and helped stay the sturdy jurist's 
revolutionary hand. So the case had to go to the 
jury with that important point hanging in the air. 
They were out an hour and brought in this verdict: 
"We the jury do find: 1, that an assault was 
committed, as charged; 2, that it was committed by 
one of the persons accused, he having been seen to 
do it by several credible witnesses; 3, but that his 
identity is so merged in his brother's that we have 
not been able to tell which was him. We cannot 
convict both, for only one is guilty. We cannot 
acquit both, for only one is innocent. Our verdict 
is that justice has been defeated by the dispensation 
of God, and ask to be discharged from further 
duty." 
This was read aloud in court and brought out a 
burst of hearty applause. The old ladies made a 
spring at the twins, to shake and congratulate, but 
were gently disengaged by Mr. Wilson and softly 
crowded back into their places. 
The Judge rose in his little tribune, laid aside his 
silver-bowed spectacles, roached his gray hair up 
with his fingers, and said, with dignity and solemnity, 
and even with a certain pathos: 
"In all my experience on the bench, I have not 
seen justice bow her head in shame in this court 
until this day. You little realize what far-reaching 
harm has just been wrought here under the fickle 
forms of law. Imitation is the bane of courts — I 
thank God that this one is free from the contamina- 
tion of that vice — and in no long time you will see 
the fatal work of this hour seized upon by profligate 
so-called guardians of justice in all the wide circum- 
stance of this planet and perpetuated in their perni- 
cious decisions. I wash my hands of this iniquity. 
I would have compelled these culprits to expose 
their guilt, but support failed me where I had most 
right to expect aid and encouragement. And I was 
 
confronted by a law made in the interest of crime, 
which protects the criminal from testifying against 
himself. Yet I had precedents of my own whereby 
I had set aside that law on two different occasions 
and thus succeeded in convicting criminals to whose 
crimes there were no witnesses but themselves. 
What have you accomplished this day? Do you 
realize it? You have set adrift, unadmonished, in 
this community, two men endowed with an awful 
and mysterious gift, a hidden and grisly power for 
evil — a power by which each in his turn may com- 
mit crime after crime of the most heinous character, 
and no man be able to tell which is the guilty or 
which the innocent party in any case of them all. 
Look to your homes — look to your property — look 
to your lives — for you have need! 
"Prisoners at the bar, stand up. Through sup- 
pression of evidence, a jury of your — our — country- 
men have been obliged to deliver a verdict con- 
cerning your case which stinks to heaven with the 
rankness of its injustice. By its terms you, the 
guilty one, go free with the innocent. Depart in 
peace, and come no more ! The costs devolve upon 
the outraged plaintiff — another iniquity. The court 
stands dissolved." 
Almost everybody crowded forward to overwhelm 
the twins and their counsel with congratulations; 
but presently the two old aunties dug the duplicates 
out and bore them away in triumph through the 
hurrahing crowd, while lots of new friends carried 
Pudd'nhead Wilson off tavern ward to feast him 
and "wet down" his great and victorious entry into 
 
the legal arena. To Wilson, so long familiar with 
neglect and depreciation, this strange new incense 
of popularity and admiration was as a fragrance 
blown from the fields of paradise. A happy man 
was Wilson. 
CHAPTER VI 
THE AMAZING DUEL 
A deputation came in the evening and conferred upon Wilsou 
the welcome honor of a nomination for mayor; for the village 
has just been converted into a city by charter. Tom skulks 
out of challenging the twins. Judge Driscoll thereupon chal' 
lenges Angelo (accused by Tom of doing the kicking); he de- 
clines, but Luigi accepts in his place against Angelo's timid 
protest. 
JT was late Saturday night — nearing eleven. 
The Judge and his second found the rest of 
the war party at the further end of the vacant 
ground, near the haunted house. Pudd'nhead Wil- 
son advanced to meet them, and said anxiously: 
"I must say a word in behalf of my principal's 
proxy, Count Luigi, to whom you have kindly 
granted the privilege of fighting my principal's 
battle for him. It is growing late, and Count Luigi 
is in great trouble lest midnight shall strike before 
the finish." 
"It is another testimony," said Howard, approv- 
ingly. "That young man is fine all through. He 
wishes to save his brother the sorrow of fighting on 
the Sabbath, and he is right; it is the right and 
maniy feeling and does him credit. We will make 
all possible haste." 
Wilson said: "There is also another reason — a 
consideration, in fact, which deeply concerns Count 
 
Luigi himself. These twins have command of their 
mutual legs turn about. Count Luigi is in command 
now; but at midnight, possession will pass to my 
principal, Count Angelo, and — well, you can foresee 
what will happen. He will march straight off the 
field, and carry Luigi with him." 
"Why! sure enough!" cried the Judge, "we have 
heard something about that extraordinary law of 
their being, already — nothing very definite, it is 
true, as regards dates and durations of power, but I 
see it is definite enough as regards to-night. Of 
course we must give Luigi every chance. Omit all 
the ceremonial possible, gentlemen, and place us in 
position." 
The seconds at once tossed up a coin; Howard 
won the choice. He placed the Judge sixty feet 
from the haunted house and facing it ; Wilson placed 
the twins within fifteen feet of the house and facing 
the Judge — necessarily. The pistol-case was opened 
and the long slim tubes taken out; when the moon- 
light glinted from them a shiver went through 
Angelo. The doctor was a fool, but a thoroughly 
well-meaning one, with a kind heart and a sincere 
disposition to oblige, but along with it an absence of 
tact which often hurt its effectiveness. He brought 
his box of lint and bandages, and asked Angelo to 
feel and see how soft and comfortable they were. 
Angelo's head fell over against Luigi's in a faint, 
and precious time was lost in bringing him to; 
which provoked Luigi into expressing his mind to 
the doctor with a good deal of vigor and frankness. 
After Angelo came to he was still so weak that 
Luigi was obliged to drink a stiff horn of brandy to 
brace him up. 
The seconds now stepped at once to their posts, half- 
way between the combatants, one of them on each 
side of the line of fire. Wilson was to count, very 
deliberately, "One — two — three — fire! — stop!" and 
the duelists could bang away at any time they chose 
during that recitation, but not after the last word. 
Angelo grew very nervous when he saw Wilson's hand 
rising slowly into the air as a sign to make ready, 
and he leaned his head against Luigi's and said : 
"Oh, please take me away from here, I can't 
stay, I know I can't!" 
"What in the world are you doing? Straighten 
up! What's the matter with you? — you're in no 
danger — nobody's going to shoot at you. Straighten 
up, I tell you!" 
Angelo obeyed, just in time to hear: 
"One—!" 
"Bang!" Just one report, and a little tuft of 
white hair floated slowly to the Judge's feet in the 
moonlight. The Judge did not swerve; he still 
stood erect and motionless, like a statue, with his 
pistol-arm hanging straight down at his side. He 
was reserving his fire. 
"Two—!" 
"Three—!" 
"Fire—!" 
Up came the pistol-arm instantly — Angelo dodged 
with the report. He said "Ouch!" and fainted 
again. 
The doctor examined and bandaged the wound. 
 
It was of no consequence, he said — bullet through 
fleshy part of arm — no bones broken — the gentle- 
man was still able to fight — let the duel proceed. 
Next time Angelo jumped just as Luigi fired, 
which disordered his aim and caused him to cut a 
chip out of Howard's ear. The Judge took his time 
again, and when he fired Angelo jumped and got a 
knuckle skinned. The doctor inspected and dressed 
the wounds. Angelo now spoke out and said he 
was content with the satisfaction he had got, and if 
the Judge — but Luigi shut him roughly up, and 
asked him not to make an ass of himself; adding: 
"And I want you to stop dodging. You take a 
great deal too prominent a part in this thing for a 
person who has got nothing to do with it. You 
should remember that you are here only by courtesy, 
and are without official recognition ; officially you are 
not here at all; officially you do not even exist. 
To all intents and purposes you are absent from this 
place, and you ought for your own modesty's sake 
to reflect that it cannot become a person who is not 
present here to be taking this sort of public and 
indecent prominence in a matter in which he is 
not in the slightest degree concerned. Now, don't 
dodge again; the bullets are not for you, they are 
for me; if I want them dodged I will attend to it 
myself. I never saw a person act so." 
Angelo saw the reasonableness of what his brother 
had said, and he did try to reform, but it was of no 
use; both pistols went off at the same instant, and 
he jumped once more; he got a sharp scrape along 
his cheek from the Judge's bullet, and so deflected 
Luigi's aim that his ball went wide and chipped a 
flake of skin from Pudd'nhead Wilson's chin. The 
doctor attended to the wounded. 
By the terms, the duel was over. But Luigi was 
entirely out of patience, and begged for one more 
exchange of shots, insisting that he had had no fair 
chance, on account of his brother's indelicate be- 
havior. Howard was opposed to granting so un- 
usual a privilege, but the Judge took Luigi's part, 
and added that indeed he himself might fairly be con- 
sidered entitled to another trial, because although 
the proxy on the other side was in no way to blame 
for his (the Judge's) humiliatingly resultless work, 
the gentleman with whom he was fighting this duel 
was to blame for it, since if he had played no ad- 
vantages and had held his head still, his proxy 
would have been disposed of early. He added: 
"Count Luigi's request for another exchange is 
another proof that he is a brave and chivalrous 
gentleman, and I beg that the courtesy he asks may 
be accorded him." 
"I thank you most sincerely for this generosity, 
Judge Driscoll," said Luigi, with a polite bow, and 
moving to his place. Then he added — to Angelo, 
' ' Now hold your grip, hold your grip, I tell you, and 
I'll land him sure!" 
The men stood erect, their pistol-arms at their 
sides, the two seconds stood at their official posts, 
the doctor stood five paces in Wilson's rear with his 
instruments and bandages in his hands. The deep 
stillness, the peaceful moonlight, the motionless 
figures, made an impressive picture and the impend- 
 
ing fatal possibilities augmented this impressiveness 
to solemnity. Wilson's hand began to rise — slowly 
— slowly — higher — still higher — in another moment : 
"Boom!" — the first stroke of midnight swung up 
out of the distance; Angelo was off like a deer! 
"Oh, you unspeakable traitor!" wailed his brother, 
as they went soaring over the fence. 
The others stood astonished and gazing; and so 
stood, watching that strange spectacle until dis- 
tance dissolved it and swept it from their view. 
Then they rubbed their eyes like people waking out 
of a dream. 
"Well, I've never seen anything like that be- 
fore!" said the Judge. "Wilson, I am going to 
confess now, that I wasn't quite able to believe in 
that leg business, and had a suspicion that it was a 
put-up convenience between those twins; and when 
Count Angelo fainted I thought I saw the whole 
scheme — thought it was pretext No. i, and would 
be followed by others till twelve o'clock should 
arrive, and Luigi would get off with all the credit of 
seeming to want to fight and yet not have to fight, 
after all. But I was mistaken. His pluck proved 
it. He's a brave fellow and did want to fight." 
"There isn't any doubt about that," said Howard, 
and added, in a grieved tone, "but what an un- 
worthy sort of Christian that Angelo is — I hope and 
believe there are not many like him. It is not right 
to engage in a duel on the Sabbath — I could not ap- 
prove of that myself; but to finish one that has been 
begun — that is a duty, let the day be what it may." 
They strolled along, still wondering, still talking. 
 
"It is a curious circumstance," remarked the 
surgeon, halting Wilson a moment to paste some 
more court-plaster on his chin, which had gone to 
leaking blood again, "that in this duel neither of 
the parties who handled the pistols lost blood, while 
nearly all the persons present in the mere capacity 
of guests got hit. I have not heard of such a thing 
before. Don't you think it unusual?" 
"Yes," said the Judge, "it has struck me as 
peculiar. Peculiar and unfortunate. I was annoyed 
at it, all the time. In the case of Angelo it made 
no great difference, because he was in a measure 
concerned, though not officially; but it troubled me 
to see the seconds compromised, and yet I knew no 
way to mend the matter." 
"There was no way to mend it," said Howard, 
whose ear was being readjusted now by the doctor; 
"the code fixes our place, and it would not have 
been lawful to change it. If we could have stood at 
your side, or behind you, or in front of you, it — 
but it would not have been legitimate and the other 
parties would have had a just right to complain of 
our trying to protect ourselves from danger; in- 
fractions of the code are certainly not permissible in 
any case whatever." 
Wilson offered no remarks. It seemed to him 
that there was very little place here for so much 
solemnity, but he judged that if a duel where nobody 
was in danger or got crippled but the seconds and 
the outsiders had nothing ridiculous about it for 
these gentlemen, his pointing out that feature would 
probably not help them to see it. 
 
He invited them in to take a nightcap, and 
Howard and the Judge accepted, but the doctor 
said he would have to go and see how Angelo's 
principal wound was getting on. 
[It was now Sunday, and in the afternoon Angelo was to be 
received into the Baptist communion by immersion — a doubtful 
prospect, the doctor feared.) 
CHAPTER Vn 
LTJIGI DEFIES GALEN 
WHEN the doctor arrived at Aunt Patsy 
Cooper's house, he found the lights going 
and everybody up and dressed and in a great 
state of solicitude and excitement. The twins were 
stretched on a sofa in the sitting-room, Aunt Patsy 
was fussing at Angelo's arm, Nancy was flying 
around under her commands, the two young boys 
were trying to keep out of the way and always 
getting in it, in order to see and wonder, Rowena 
stood apart, helpless with apprehension and emo- 
tion, and Luigi was growling in unappeasable fury 
over Angelo's shameful flight. 
As has been reported before, the doctor was a 
fool — a kind-hearted and well-meaning one, but 
with no tact; and as he was by long odds the most 
learned physician in the town, and was quite well 
aware of it, and could talk his learning with ease 
and precision, and liked to show off when he had an 
audience, he was sometimes tempted into revealing 
more of a case than was good for the patient. 
He examined Angelo's wound, and was really 
minded to say nothing for once; but Aunt Patsy 
was so anxious and so pressing that he allowed his 
caution to be overcome, and proceeded to empty 
himself as follows, with scientific relish: 
 
"Without going too much into detail, madam — 
for you would probably not understand it, anyway 
— I concede that great care is going to be necessary 
here; otherwise exudation of the esophagus is 
nearly sure to ensue, and this will be followed by 
ossification and extradition of the maxillaris superi- 
oris. which must decompose the granular surfaces of 
the great infusorial ganglionic system, thus obstruct- 
ing the action of the posterior varioloid arteries, and 
precipitating compound strangulated sorosis of the 
valvular tissues, and ending unavoidably in the dis- 
persion and combustion of the marsupial fluxes and 
the consequent embrocation of the bicuspid populo 
redax referendum rotulorum." 
A miserable silence followed. Aunt Patsy's heart 
sank, the pallor of despair invaded her face, she was 
not able to speak ; poor Rowena wrung her hands in 
privacy and silence, and said to herself in the bitter- 
ness of her young grief, "There is no hope — it is 
plain there is no hope"; the good-hearted negro 
wench, Nancy, paled to chocolate, then to orange, 
then to amber, and thought to herself with yearning 
sympathy and sorrow, "Po' thing, he ain' gwyne 
to las' throo de half o' dat"; small Henry choked 
up, and turned his head away to hide his rising 
tears, and his brother Joe said to himself, with a 
sense of loss, "The baptizing's busted, that's sure." 
Luigi was the only person who had any heart to 
speak. He said, a little bit sharply, to the doctor: 
"Well, well, there's nothing to be gained by 
wasting precious time; give him a barrel of pills — 
I'll take them for him." 
 
