"Yes, was a remarkably nice little dog," 
Isaacstein continued ; and, drawing a phial 
from his waistcoat, with one hand he caught 
the animal by the neck, then passing the 
stopper between its lips, let -it fall back 
lifeless and limp. 
" It was quite dead, Hosvald. Kick it 
and see." 
Quain shook his head. " It would never 
work. I doubt if they'd let me in, to begin 
with, and even otherwise, I should be sus- 
pected at once." 
" Of course, Hosvald, so you would, if 
you go to the front door and tell the 'ouse- 
keeper hall habout it. But vy should you 
do that? Vy shouldn't you go in by the 
vindow, by the old toff's vindow, and no one 
the viser, not even himself ? " 
Well, what then ? " 
" Vat then ? Vy, Hosvald, ven they take 
him his gruel in the morning they find he 
had a fit in the night. There'll be no 
hodor, Hosvald. Look at that little doggie, 
Hosvald. All the doctors in the vorld 
couldn't tell but vat that little doggie just 
died of old hage. 'Ave you had you' sup- 
per, Hosvald ? Veil, see there now. No 
man was brave on an hempty stomach. 
Come vid me, Hosvald ; come vid you' 
farder." 
On the main street was an eating-house, 
a whitewashed room, the ceiling astragaled 
and arabesqued with flies, the walls fes- 
tooned with alluring invitations liver and 
bacon, ham and eggs, coffee and cakes, 
corned-beef hash, all kinds of pie. 
" It isn't Delmonico's," said Isaacstein, in 
gracious apology. " But then, Lord love 
you, ve von't 'ave to pay twenty-five dollars 
for a steak." 
"And vat did the ladies do now?" he 
began anew, when food and flies had at last 
been brought. " Vat did Miss Myrrha say 
ven you valked in and kind of took 'em 
unavares ? And vat did her aunt say, and 
vat did you say to them ? Come, Hosvald, 
tell you' farder hall about it." 
" Myrrha didn't say anything. What the 
deuce would you expect her to say? The 
old lady looked a bit rattled at first, but she 
picked up the paper and began about some 
bloody Englishman or other who is lost 
Lord Cloden, I think. I say, waiter, haven't 
you any baldheaded potatoes ? " 
" Vat Henglishman did you say, Hosvald ? 
Vat Henglishman?" 
" Cloden, the viscount, marquis, or some- 
thing or other of Cloden. Why ? " and 
Quain looked up from his plate. 
" And he was lost ? " 
" So the Herald says gone astray in the 
upper reaches of the Amazon." 
Isaacstein nodded. " I knew his farder 
veil. A damned hold scoundrel, a swindler, 
Hosvald that's vat he vas, and his farder 
before 'im. A bad lot, Hosvald. He did 
Moss & Lewes in Golden Square. He 
did my sister-in-law's cousin Cohen, of 
Finsbury Pavement. He knew more than 
they did more than they did, Hosvald ! 
No, but he did, and that was the most I 
could say of any hearl in the peerage. Veil, 
and then vat ? " 
" Nothing there was nothing else. The 
old lady seemed to think it would be charm- 
ing to have the beggar meet Myrrha and 
marry her ; but Myrrha didn't take to the 
scheme at all." 
" Of course not ! The hidea ! A young 
lady like herself ! Vat would she want for 
to marry a little cadger like that? Hos- 
vald, I've seen him. Hosvald, I don't mind 
telling you he tried a post-hobit on me 
damme if he didn't and not a stick to post- 
hobit on, not a stump. Nothing, Hosvald, 
nothing. Hit was cruel. But I was onto 
'im. Hosvald, I know 'em root and branch. 
He wouldn't suit Miss Myrrha at all. Veil, 
and then vat ? " 
" Then what ? Why, then I asked her to 
go with me, and just when she said she 
would her father sent for me. I told you 
the whole thing an hour ago. What's the 
use in going over it again ? " 
" Her farder's room, Hosvald ? That was 
just over the balcony, vasn't it ? 'And 
over 'and, and there you are. That was it, 
vasn't it, Hosvald ? " 
< There you are, if you like. The coast is 
free ; I sha'n't interfere. But I won't go 
myself." 
" Not for twenty million, Hosvald ? Not 
for twenty million ? Vy, Hosvald, think ; 
vith twenty million you could say the World 
vas mine ! And, Hosvald now do take a 
little more of the steak, just this little and, 
Hosvald, no hodor. You should schmell 
that little doggie now. No hodor. It hall 
evaporates. Not a thing, Hosvald, on me 
'onor. 'Art failure, they will say. Lord 
love you, Hosvald, they've said it a thousand 
times before. They'll say it this time too. 
Vy, Hosvald, I'd do it meself if I was to get 
the plum. But you see I haint. Only ten 
per chent, which you might 'ave called it 
twenty. But there, Hosvald, you'll do the 
square thing by you' farder. I know you will, 
Hosvald. Hay, vaiter ! Were's the brandy ? " 
Quain pushed his plate aside and looked 
over at the Jew. 
" What is the stuff, anyway ? Chloroform ? " 
Benignantly, with that indulgence which 
superior wisdom brings, Isaacstein smiled. 
Before he could reply the waiter approached 
and lolled, affectionately familiar, against 
the table, ready to join in the conversation, 
to take a seat too, and share in the brandy 
as well. 
" Hot, isn't it ? You gentlemen are strangers, ben't you ? Going to pass the summer 
here ? " 
" Vat was that to you ? Be hoff ! " 
The man scowled and withdrew. 
Isaacstein's smile, overcast for a second, 
reappeared : 
" Take this, Hosvald, it will do you good. 
No, Hosvald, no vater, take it neat. 
Zere, that's something like. No, Hosvald, 
it vasn't chloroform, it was, h'm, it was, h'm, 
it was hydrocyanic." 
The effort at that H must have made the 
acid seem ludicrously impotent, or else the 
brandy was taking effect, for Quain laughed 
outright. 
" I say, Isaacstein, you remind me of a 
character in a novel. You are ornate, useful, beautiful to behold. You charm. 
There radiate from you emanations that 
clothe me with delight. You are frank a 
quality which is rare. But you have no 
conscience, which is commonplace. Every- 
body should cultivate one, though it be but 
for the pleasure of enjoying its qualms. 
Now be conscientious for a second, and tell 
me where you stole that stuff." 
" Were ? " Isaacstein put a finger to his 
nose and for a moment seemed lost in reflection. " I will tell you were. I will tell you 
haftervards. ' ' 
Quain contemplated the table-cloth. 
When he looked up, all sign of hilarity had 
gone. 
"See here, a fellow doesn't do a thing 
of that sort off-hand. He has got to kill 
phantom after phantom ; he has to have 
done it time and again in fancy before 
he can do it in fact. He must have accustomed his nerves to the idea." 
" And must a fellow haccustom his nerves 
to the hidea of preserving his life before he 
does anything to the other fellow vat has 
got him by the throat ? Must he, Hosvald ? 
Vat did the old toff say habout those 
cheques ? Tell you' farder again, Hosvald, 
tell 'im again. Those little bits of paper can 
string hout into ten years, Hosvald. Votild- 
n't you like to 'ave 'em back ? Wouldn't you 
like to 'ave 'em bin you' pocket ? Wouldn't 
you like to 'ave the will there, too ? 
Wouldn't you like to 'ave Miss Myrrha ? 
Wouldn't you like twenty million ? Tventy, 
Hosvald, hevery penny hof it except my ten 
per chent. Vy, of course you would, Hos- 
vald, and nothing to prevent you except 
you' conscience. You shouldn't 'ave no 
such thing habout you, Hosvald ; give it to 
the vaiter. And you haint frank vith you' 
farder neither, Hosvald, you haint frank 
vith him as he is vith you. You don't tell 
him little things. You like to tease you
hold farder, don't you, Hosvald ? You 
don't want him to know that you hintend 
to do the job by yourself and bilk him 
hout of his ten per chent. You don't 
want 'im to know that, eh, Hosvald, me 
boy ? " 
" Idiot ! " Quain snarled in exasperation. 
" That was it, Hosvald. Habuse you' 
hold farder, hinsult you' hold farder. He 
don't mind ; he'll go vid you, Hosvald ; 
he'll give you a lift, Hosvald ; he'll stand 
guard, Hosvald." 
And lowering his voice the Jew leaned 
across the table. 
"There haint no moon." 
Isaacstein dropped back in his seat, heavily, with the air of one who has had his say. 
But his eyes were on Quain, as were Quain's 
on him. And for awhile both sat, without 
a word, without a motion, staring at one 
another, until at last the Jew began to nod 
his head, as he had done on the wharf, then 
both stood up and passed into the night. 
CHAPTER IV 
THE HUSHING OF IT 
" THE requirements in Rhode Island are 
the same as in New York. Two witnesses 
are sufficient." And Bancroft handed to Mr. 
Attersol a will which he had just prepared. 
" It seems a pity," he added, in reference 
perhaps to the provisions of the instrument. 
But Mr. Attersol did not seem to hear. 
He held the paper to the light of a lamp, 
lost in its clauses. Bancroft went to the 
window. A gale was blowing, and the 
waters had recommenced their surge. 
" By the way, I omitted to tell you. 
When I left town this morning, Mr. Brisbane 
asked me to say that a cheque for seven 
thousand had come from Philadelphia. It 
had not your new mark on it, and he threw 
it out." 
" Ah ! It had been cashed, then ? " 
" By the Philadelphia Trust. They have 
taken it up, of course." 
Mr. Attersol raised his eyes. " Do you 
mean " 
"Yes, they turned it over to Byrnes." 
The document which Mr. Attersol held 
shook as though caught by the gale without. " Do they have they did Mr. Bris- 
bane seem to have any er any suspicions ? " 
" He said it was Quain," the lawyer 
answered shortly. 
The will fell from the old man's hand, and 
he stooped laboriously to recover it. But 
Bancroft crossed the room and picked it up 
before Mr. Attersol could reach it. 
"Thank you. I think" He turned, 
tottering a little, and seated himself. 
" What nonsense ! " he cried abruptly. 
" Brisbane is a fool. The cheque is right 
enough. I wish you would wire him to- 
night, Bancroft " 
" Certainly, sir, if you wish. But do you 
not think that such lenience, particularly as 
it seems to have happened before " 
" It won't happen again, I will see to 
that. In any event, Brisbane has no right 
to say it is Quain." 
"But it is Quain, sir." 
Mr. Attersol waved a hand impatiently. 
"Wire to Brisbane, and let the matter 
drop." 
" It shall be as you wish, sir, of course. 
But as he put my name on it too " 
" What ! " 
" The cheque was made payable to me ; 
the indorsement made it payable to bearer. 
It was because of that Brisbane spoke. Of 
course, the Trust people will want my testimony. As to the payee, there is not a 
doubt. The teller described him red hair, 
squat features, projecting teeth." 
"We must hush it up." 
The old man had turned ; he was livid, 
his head shaking with palsy. With one 
hand he grasped the arm of the chair, but 
the other was shaking, too. 
"Bancroft, we must hush it up." 
The lawyer raised his eyebrows. " It is 
compounding a felony, sir. But even 
otherwise, the law should take its course. 
The fellow is an unmitigated scoundrel. 
You put him from your office, from your 
house ; I need not remind you of the manner in which he conducted himself here this 
afternoon. His incarceration, it seems to 
me, is but a duty." 
Mr. Attersol looked down and away, hes- 
itant, perplexed. 
"You love her still, do you not?" he 
asked at last. 
" Myrrha ? Love her ? Why, Mr. Atter- 
sol, I would give my life for her." 
The old man nodded. " And I my two 
hands were she yours to-day." 
There had come a strange pathos to his 
voice, and to his great haggard eyes and 
tormented brows a look wistful in its melan- 
choly. 
" He is her brother ; we must hush it 
up" 
The words had struggled from beneath 
the breath, but in them was the crash of 
thunder. Bancroft started. The room 
seemed to be turning round. 
" I need not tell you of it all, nor would 
you care to know. We " and as the mono- 
syllable dropped from the old man, he made 
a gesture so significant in the remoteness 
which it evoked that it dispensed with 
explanations " we were to have been 
married, but at the time there were obstacles. It was at his birth she died. It 
was the sin of my life, and terrible has been 
the penalty. It is killing me, as long since 
it killed her." 
For a second he paused, a hand before 
his eyes ; but presently it fell again, and the 
confession continued. 
" Years after, when Myrrha was still a 
child, her mother learned the truth. It 
broke her heart. I think it killed her too ; 
she was never the same again. In every 
way I have been punished. And yet, as 
God sees me now, I did my best for the boy. 
He was my son in everything but name. I 
should have left him half of what I have. 
It was the sentiment I saw developing between him and Myrrha which forced me to 
act as I did. Tell me, do you think she 
still cares ? " 
" It is horrible," the young man muttered 
to himself. 
But Mr. Attersol must have heard or 
divined the words, for he raised his palsied 
hands in testimony and cried aloud : 
" It is worse ; it is life." 
Then he sank back shuddering, overcome 
by the changes of the tragedy he had unrolled ; and for a while there was silence in 
that room. 
" You should tell her," said Bancroft at 
last, very gently. 
As though issuing from the mists of 
dream Mr. Attersol answered, " I know it." 
Then he hesitated again and added : " But 
I can't. Nor in my place could you, could 
any one. I have tried. I have sought the 
courage I have failed." 
Again he hesitated, dejected still ; but at 
once, in a tone curiously humble, the tone of 
one imploring the alms of advice, furtively 
yet almost hopefully too, with that singular 
air which says Fate has done its worst, he 
began anew : 
" Might it not be, if we offered him a 
lump sum to renounce Myrrha and as 
alternative, arrest might it not be that he 
would accept ? I say a lump sum. He 
would have had half my property. This is 
not a moment to be paltry. Suppose I 
offer a million, two, five even ; that should 
satisfy, should it not ? " 
" Any one else, yes ; but him never. 
When a hyena has eaten, he is at peace 
with the world. But when were covetous- 
ness, crime, and folly filled? They are 
insatiable, and so is he" 
" He is my son," the old man interrupted, 
and then interrupting himself he added : 
" My son ! He is myself. The covetous- 
ness, crime, and folly that are in him are my 
own. It was from me he took them ; they 
are the legacies of my flesh. My covetous- 
ness has been the ruin of hundreds ; my 
crime preceded his birth ; but it was my 
folly to think that, criminal and covetous as 
I have been, I could elude the finger of 
God. There cannot be two hells, but there 
is one, and men such as I bear it in their hearts. You are right. I know my punishment is incomplete. Send for her. I will 
tell her, and then, God willing, I will turn 
my face to the wall." 
Bancroft raised a hand in protest. 
" It was not that which I meant, Mr. At- 
tersol ; indeed it was not. It was my dread, 
one which we all share, a dread which each 
day is increasing into conviction, that the 
disposition of your property will not affect 
Myrrha's feelings toward him in the least. 
It is that which should be counteracted," he 
added a little lamely, confused perhaps by 
the length of his own preamble, perhaps too 
by the vehemence of the old man's remorse. 
" That was what I meant, that and that 
only." 
But Mr. Attersol did not appear to no- 
tice, to heed even. 
" Bring her to me. Is it late ? Find her 
maid, then, and have her called. Perhaps 
yes, I had best see her alone. But come to 
me afterward. I am not well, and that will 
should be signed." 
He had risen, and putting his hands on 
Bancroft's shoulders looked him in the face. 
" Afterward " he accentuated the word 
with wider meaning "afterward tell her 
how I have suffered. And, Arthur, should 
she become your wife, be true to her there, 
I know you will. But never let her endure 
because of you, what her mother did because of me." 
Bancroft turned ; the old man watched 
him go. Then, in shame of his daughter's 
coming shame of him, he lowered the light 
to but a knot of gold and blue. 
" DERE it goes, Hosvald." 
From the road that skirted the house 
Quain and Isaacstein peered. First the 
lights on the ground floor had been extin- 
guished, then others on the floor above ; 
alone a glimmer from the room occupied by 
Mr. Attersol remained ; but now that had 
gone, the house itself seemed to have 
retreated. Under it pits had formed, and 
out of them an obscurity crept which effaced 
and devoured the lawn. Above, a blackness, brooding yet somnolent, enveloped 
the sky. The gale had lessened, but from 
beyond a swirl of waters put an accent on 
the gloom. 
" Vas you ready ? " 
From a pocket the Jew drew a handker- 
chief, black silk slit in three places, which 
he arranged about the young man's face 
and head. 
Quain readjusted it to his liking. " Should 
anything occur " 
" Lord love you, Hosvald, nothing will." 
" Hold your tongue. Should anything 
occur, go back to that place where we had 
supper. In five minutes I'll be there 
unless I happen to be detained." 
There was a wall to be crossed, the 
devoured lawn as well, and to Isaacstein 
abruptly he seemed to have been engulfed 
by the night. Silently yet swiftly, with the 
noiselessness of the ocelot, he reached the 
house, and there, at the veranda steps, 
crouched and listened. But there was 
nothing the swirl of waters merely, the 
hush of locusts, the beating of his heart. 
Reassured he loosened and removed his 
shoes, placing them carefully on a step, 
close to a pillar, where even in haste and 
possible excitement they could readily be 
found. Then at once the ascent of the 
pillar began, and continued through sheer 
strength of arm and knee, until, a projecting 
ledge aiding, he swung himself bodily on to 
the roof and landed there, acrobatically, on 
the tips of his toes. 
But the roof creaked a little, and he 
remained very still. The handkerchief had 
slipped a trifle, and he rearranged it properly. That window was the one, and he 
fell to wondering whether it might not be 
bolted. It was a thing of which he had not 
thought before, and he marvelled a little at 
himself. And that light ! But it was such 
a thread that he decided it must come from 
a night lamp. 
" After all," he reflected, " I can stand 
here an hour, if I like, and ask myself 
questions at the rate of one a second, or I 
can act. The latter course is, I fancy, what 
Isaacstein would prefer. Now, were is the 
shtuff ? " 
But the little bottle was safe enough. 
Tightening the knot of the handkerchief, 
he approached the window and put his fingers tentatively on the cross-piece, tentatively yet presently authoritatively, for it 
had moved, and authoritatively still he 
raised and raised it, until the spring, catching, snapped out feebly a minute gun of 
alarm. 
"Who's there?" 
In circumstances not necessarily similar, 
but cognate, men of experience, of learning, 
men of what it is usual to term the world, 
have asked and will ask just such a thing as 
that without, it may be, awaiting any definite 
reply. It is true Mr. Attersol was expecting 
his daughter, but heretofore such visits as 
she had made had been effected in a less 
circuitous fashion ; invariably she had come 
through the door. Then, too, what window 
of its own volition raised itself ? Mr. Atter- 
sol's curiosity was therefore quite natural, 
but that curiosity promptly gave way to a 
sentiment in which there was anger, and in 
which there was terror, too. 
The rationale of fear is simple it is the 
dread of the Unknown. And before any 
circumstantial answer to that question coufd 
have been received, abruptly at his side the 
Unknown surged a Thing which he could 
see yet not discern, which he could feel yet 
not describe, a form vague yet undeter- 
mined, nebulous yet solid, gigantic yet 
dwarfed a Thing which like the wave of 
the sea dashed him back on the chair from 
which he had half risen, pinioned him there, 
overwhelmed him, suffocated him, and left 
him drowned. 
"It was easier than I thought," the Thing 
reflected. " And so this is after. For the 
last hour I have been wondering how I 
should feel. I seem to feel hot. Nothing 
else." 
But in reflecting the Thing had not been 
inactive ; it had restoppered and repocketed 
a phial, turned up the light, and then trying 
the door and finding it unlocked, it had 
turned the key. 
" There, and now to work." 
In the chair Mr. Attersol lay ; his great 
haggard eyes protruding, the mouth open, 
the tongue curled. But the muscles of the 
neck no longer twitched, the head was 
quiet, and the hands were still. 
" I must rearrange that." 
And very adroitly and swiftly he closed 
the eyes, the mouth ; turned the head a 
little on the shoulder, folded the hands on 
the lap, put the body into the attitude of 
one whom sleep has overtaken, and fumbled 
in a pocket which he remembered of old. 
If the will was already signed, it was in 
the safe, he was convinced ; and with a key 
which he had found he busied himself with 
the lock, one which lacked complexity, for at 
a turn the door opened of itself, disclosing 
a vista of drawers and lettered pigeon-holes. 
The compartment marked W contained but 
one paper, the plan and diagram of a wharf. 
Perplexed, he opened at random a drawer ; 
it was partially filled, and he was about to 
rummage through the contents, when the 
question he had heard five minutes before 
leaped to his own lips there was some one 
at the door. 
Like a rat surprised he wheeled, all his 
senses concentrated yet alert. Behind the 
woodwork there was detection, recognition 
perhaps, and remotely the electric chair. 
To the palms of his hands perspiration 
started, and from his forehead drops fell 
beneath the handkerchief on his face. 
Then there came another knock, louder 
this time a knock that exacted admittance, 
one that rang out imperatively and echoed 
reverberant through the silence of the hall. 
He could yet go, he told himself. There 
was yet time. Yet did he now go with- 
out the will, without the cheques, he might 
better have remained away far better, in- 
deed ; and in that paralyzing uncertainty 
which fright provides, he crouched, un- 
determined still. Then abruptly his brain 
became a rendezvous of terrors. In men- 
tal flashlights he saw his entrance ob- 
served, his identity discowered ; he told 
himself that Isaacstein, perhaps, had sold 
him out ; that the police were there behind 
that door, beneath that veranda, too ; that 
the house was surrounded ; that there was 
no escape, not one ; and instinctively, with 
an unformed resolve to defend himself 
to the last, he drew out and clutched a 
knife. 
But why had that imperious knocking 
ceased ? The echoes had subsided, the hall 
was silent again no, there was the sound 
of footsteps ; but those footsteps yes, 
there could be no mistake, those footsteps 
were going away. 
He had not dared to breathe ; but as the 
sound of those footsteps retreated and died 
in the distance, he stood up, tremulous with 
the excess of emotion still, but himself, 
his mind dispossessed and vacated of its 
horrors. It was Mrs. Smithwick, no doubt, 
Myrrha perhaps, who had come on some 
unimportant errand, and finding the door 
locked had concluded that Mr. Attersol was 
asleep and had returned suspicionless as 
before. 
That was the explanation of it all ; in the 
relief it brought him he found the leisure 
to smile, and turned again to the drawer. 
Bills, vouchers, letters ; he was looking for 
none of these things. He closed it and 
looked at the pigeon-holes once more. 
The will might be in T, under the head of 
" Testament," and hurriedly he examined 
the papers that were there bonds of a 
turnpike road, defaulted presumably, and in 
any event worthless ; a bundle of stock of 
a traction company, and a receipt from the 
Telephone Service. 
" I can understand he locks that up," 
mused Quain. " But where is the will ? 
Where are the cheques ? Certainly he 
pointed to the safe this afternoon." 
His eyes roamed again over the pigeon- 
holes and lighted on Q. Ah ! it was there 
the cheques were, he could tell them by 
the edges. Yes, both of them ; and with 
a glance he thrust them in a pocket. Now 
for the will. Where could it be ? An 
hour, two even, would be insufficient to go 
over every paper in that safe ; and yet did 
he not assure himself regarding it, he might 
almost as well have remained away. Might 
it be that the old man had it about him? 
Of that it were easy to assure himself, and 
he turned to where he lay. 
Was it intuition, or was it the influence of 
that occult force which some of us recog- 
nize and none can explain, that compelled 
him, even as he turned, to look not at the 
door but above it ? Not a sound had he 
heard, yet the inexplicable drew his eyes 
that way ; and as he looked, during one 
fleeting yet ever memorable second, behind 
the transom he saw a head that disappeared 
so suddenly that you or I might have accounted it an optical delusion, a phantom created according to the pathology of the case 
by the over-taxing of digestion or of nerves. 
But Quain offered himself no such ex- 
planation. A fear more paralyzing even 
than uncertainty glued him to the spot ; he 
wanted to rush to the window, throw him- 
self down to the lawn, and be off, anywhere, 
afar from the accursed house yet his eyes 
were fastened on that transom, his feet 
rooted to the floor. If conscious at all, it 
was but of the immanence of fate, one that 
detained him there and would not suffer 
him to go. 
A moment, it had passed. The door was 
quaking and shrieking beneath the violence 
of blows. The uproar and the life of it 
banished the catalepsy which had garroted 
his will ; he raised a hand in testimony of 
his deliverance, and instantly he had use for 
it. The door flew open-. As though hurled 
from a catapult, Bancroft leaped at his 
throat. 
But the upraised hand, closed now and 
withdrawn, went out to meet the intruder, 
and fair on the forehead a blow to fell a 
bullock knocked him backward on the 
floor. He would have risen, but Quain 
gave him no time ; there was a flash of 
steel, one gasp, and silence. 
"And it was of that I was afraid ! " 
To convince himself, perhaps, of the idle- 
ness of it all, he gave the body a kick, not 
aggressive, but experimental, as an assur- 
ance that it was not a fake. 
"Bah! What did I tell him this day? 
There are souls that have teeth, and mine 
have bitten. But now for the will." 
Again he turned to where the old man 
lay, but hastily, fearful lest the household 
were aroused. In the breast pocket there 
was but a wallet ; it was not there it could 
be, and he replaced it, querying still, when 
an oblong document that lay on the table 
caught his eye. Reaching over, he drew it 
to him. 
" Know all men," he began, but a cry 
interrupted the cry of a heart that is breaking, the cry of the alma perdita; a cry agonizing, resonant, lancinant with pain, with 
anguish, too, with despair, with love ; a cry 
that filled the room with the moan of his 
name, passed into the night, and sank into 
stillness. 
In the doorway, clinging to the wainscot, 
Myrrha stood. His hand went to his face ; 
the handkerchief was no longer there. 
When he looked again, the girl had fallen. 
CHAPTER VI 
EXIT OSWALD QUAIN 
" YES, sir ; Mr. Attersol is dead, but you 
are not to talk." 
Bancroft would talk. The orders which 
the nurse had received and which that nurse 
proposed to obey were of no moment to 
him. He wanted to know everything at 
once, without delay. And as for the relapse with which he was menaced, it would 
come, and by express, unless his curiosity 
was there and then satisfied. But the nurse 
had not only received orders ; he knew his 
place, and knowing, too, that that place 
depended not on the patient who had not 
selected him, but on the physician who had, 
instantly pretended to be deaf and dumb. 
Besides, his tariff of ten dollars a day did 
not include the answering of fool questions. 
Bancroft had escaped heart puncture by a 
centimetre, special dispensation or Quain's 
inexperience. In addition, he was young, 
in tip-top trim, without an excess against 
him. He had been unconscious for hours, 
