station, the rails simply came to an end in the main street. A small
frame structure, which bore the inscription "Blue Ridge Hotel," faced
the end of the rails.
"He's in there," said Chase, in a low tone, indicating a lighted window
of this house; "that room on the ground-floor. And the old lady--she is
sitting there beside him. She is quiet, she doesn't say anything. But
she just sits there."
"Mrs. Jared and Miss Dolly are with her, aren't they?" said the young
clergyman.
"Well, Dolly is keeping Gen in the other room across the hall as much as
she can. For Dolly tells me that her mother likes best to sit there
alone. Women, you know, about their sons--sometimes they're queer!"
remarked Chase.
"The mother's love--yes," Malachi answered, his voice uncertain for a
moment. He swallowed. "There isn't a man who doesn't feel, sooner or
later, after it has gone, that he hasn't prized it half enough--that it
was the best thing he had! It was brain-fever, wasn't it?" he went on,
hurriedly, to cover his emotion. For he, too, had been an only son.
"Yes, and bad. He was raving; he knocked down one of the doctors. After
the fever left him, it was just possible, they told me, that he might
have pulled through, if he had only been stronger. But he was played out
to begin with; I discovered that myself as soon as I reached Raleigh.
Gen got there in time to see him. But the old lady was too late; and
pretty hard lines for her! She kept telegraphing from different stations
as she and Dolly hurried up from Charleston; and I did my best to
hearten her by messages that met her here and there; but she missed it.
By only half an hour. When I saw that it had come--that he was sinking
and she wouldn't find him alive--I went out and just cursed, cursed the
luck! For Gen had his last words, and everything. And his poor old
mother had nothing at all."
Here the conductor came up.
"Ready?" said Chase. "All right, here's your through ticket, Hill--the
one I bought for myself. And inside the envelope is a memorandum, with
the number and street of our house in New York, and other items. I'm no
end obliged to you for going." They shook hands cordially. "When you
come back, don't let my wife travel straight through," added the
husband. "Make her stop over and sleep."
"I'll do my best," answered Hill, as the train started. In deference to
the mourning party which it had brought westward, there was no whistle,
no ringing of the bell; the locomotive moved quietly away, and the
clergyman, standing on the rear platform, holding on by the handle of
the door, watched as long as he could see it the lighted window of the
room where lay all that was mortal of Jared Franklin.
An hour later the funeral procession started up the mountain. First,
there was a wagon, with the undertaker and his three assistants. Then
followed the large, heavy hearse drawn by four horses. Next came a
carriage containing Mrs. Franklin and Dolly; and, finally, a second
carriage for Genevieve and Horace Chase.
"Poor mamma is sadly changed," commented Genevieve to her companion.
"She insisted upon being left alone with the remains at the hotel, you
know; and now she wishes her carriage to be as near the hearse as
possible. Fortunately, these things are very unimportant to me, Horace.
I do not feel, as they do, that Jay is here. My husband has gone--gone
to a better world. He knew that he was going; he said good-bye to me so
tenderly. He was always so--so kind." And covering her face, Genevieve
gave way to tears.
"Yes, he thought the world and all of you, Gen. There's no doubt about
that," Chase answered.
He did full justice to the sobbing woman by his side. He was more just
to her than her husband's family had ever been, or ever could be; he had
known her as a child, and he comprehended that according to her nature
and according to her unyielding beliefs as to what was best, she had
tried to be a good wife. In addition (as he was a man himself), he
thought that it was to her credit that her husband had always been fond
of her, that he had remained devoted to her to the last. "That doesn't
go for nothing!" he said to himself.
The ascent began. The carriages plunged into holes and lurched out of
them; they jolted across bits of corduroy; now and then, when the track
followed a gorge, they forded a brook. The curves were slippery, owing
to the red clay. Then, without warning, in the midst of mud would come
an unexpected sharp grind of the wheels over an exposed ledge of bare
rock. Before midnight clouds had obscured the stars and it grew very
dark. But the lamps on the carriages burned brightly, and a negro was
sent on in advance carrying a pitch-pine torch.
In the middle of the night, at the top of the pass, there was a halt.
Chase had made Genevieve comfortable with cushions and shawls, and soon
after their second start she fell asleep. Perceiving this, he drew up
the window on her side, and then, opening the carriage-door softly, he
got out; it was easy to do it, as all the horses were walking. Making a
detour through the underbrush, so that he should not be seen by Mrs.
Franklin and Dolly in case they were awake, he appeared by the side of
the hearse.
"Don't stop," he said to the driver, in a low tone; "I'm going to get up
there beside you." He climbed up and took the reins. "I'll drive the
rest of the way, or at least as far as the outskirts of the town. For
between here and there are all the worst places. You go on and join that
fellow in front. You might carry a second torch; you'll find some in the
wagon."
The driver of the hearse, an Asheville negro, who knew Chase, gave up
his seat gladly. There were bad holes ahead, and there was a newly
mended place which was a little uncertain; he would not have minded
taking the stage over that place (none of the Blue Ridge drivers minded
taking the stage anywhere), but he was superstitious about a hearse.
"Fo' de Lawd, I'm glad to be red of it!" he confided to the other negro,
as they went on together in advance with their flaring torches. "It
slips an' slews when dey ain't no 'casion! Sump'n mighty quare 'bout it,
I tell you dat!"
Presently the plateau came to an end, and the descent began. Rain was
now falling. The four vehicles moved slowly on, winding down the zigzags
very cautiously in the darkness, slipping and swaying as they went.
After half an hour of this progress, the torch-bearers in front came
hurrying back to give warning that the rain had loosened the temporary
repairs of the mended place, so that its edge had given away; for about
one hundred and forty yards, therefore, the track was dangerously narrow
and undefended, with the sheer precipice on one side and the high cliff
on the other; in addition, the roadway slanted towards this verge, and
the clay was very slippery.
Chase immediately sent word back to the drivers of the carriages behind
to advance as slowly as was possible, but not to stop, for that might
waken the ladies; then, jumping down from the hearse, and leaving one of
the negroes in charge of his team, he hurried forward to make a personal
inspection. The broken shelf, without its parapet, certainly looked
precarious; so much so that the driver of the wagon, when he came up,
hesitated. Chase, ordering him down, took his place, and drove the wagon
across himself. Whereupon the verbose undertaker began to thank him.
"Don't worry; I didn't do it for you" answered Chase, grimly. "If
you'd gone over, you'd have carried away more of the track; that was
all." Going back, he resumed his place on the hearse. Then speaking to
his horses, he guided them on to the shelf. Here he stood, in order to
see more clearly, the men on the far side watching him breathlessly, and
trying meanwhile (at a safe distance) to aid him as much as they could,
by holding their torches high. The ponderous hearse began to slip by its
own weight towards the verge. Then, with strong hand, Chase sent his
team sharply towards the cliff that towered above them, and kept them
grinding against it as they advanced, the two on the inside fairly
rubbing the rock, until, by main strength, the four together had dragged
their load away. But in a minute or two it began over again. It happened
not once merely, but four times. And, the last time, the hind wheels
slipped so far, in spite of Chase's efforts, that it seemed as if they
would inevitably go over, and drag the struggling horses with them. But
Chase was as bold a driver as he was speculator. How he inspired them,
the horror-stricken watchers could not discover; but the four bays,
bounding sharply round together, sprang in a heap, as it were, at the
rocky wall on the left, the leaders rearing, the others on top of them;
and by this wild leap, the wheels (one of them was already over) were
violently jerked away. It was done at last; the dark, ponderous car
stood in safety on the other side, and the spectators, breathing again,
rubbed down the wet horses. Then Horace Chase went back on foot, and, in
turn, drove the two carriages across. Through these last two transits
not a word was spoken by any one; he mounted soundlessly, so that
Genevieve slept on undisturbed, and Mrs. Franklin and Dolly, unaware of
the danger or of the new hand on the reins, continued to gaze vaguely at
the darkness outside, their thoughts pursuing their own course. Finally,
leaving one of the negroes on guard to warn other travellers of the
wash-out and its perils, Chase resumed his place on the hearse, and the
four vehicles continued their slow progress down the mountain.
After a while, the first vague clearness preceding dawn appeared; the
rain ceased. Happening to turn his head fifteen minutes later, he was
startled to see, in the dim light, the figure of a woman beside the
hearse. It was Mrs. Franklin. The road was now smoother, and she walked
steadily on, keeping up with the walk of the horses. As the light grew
clearer, she saw who the driver was, and her eyes met his with
recognition. But her rigid face seemed to have no power for further
expression; it was set in lines that could not alter. Chase, on his
side, bowed gravely, taking off his hat; and he did not put it on again,
he left it on the seat by his side. He made no attempt to stop her, to
persuade her to return to her carriage; he recognized the presence of
one of those moods which, when they take possession of a woman, no power
on earth can alter.
As they came to the first outlying houses of Asheville, he gave up his
place to the negro driver, and getting down on the other side of the
hearse, away from Mrs. Franklin, he went back for a moment to Dolly.
"You must let her do it! Don't try to prevent her," Dolly said,
imperatively, in a low tone, the instant she saw him at the carriage
door.
"I'm not thinking of preventing her," Chase answered. Waiting until the
second carriage passed, he looked in; Genevieve was still asleep. Then,
still bareheaded, he joined Mrs. Franklin, and, without speaking, walked
beside her up the long, gradual ascent which leads into the town.
The sun now appeared above the mountains; early risers coming to their
windows saw the dreary file pass--the wagon and the two carriages, heavy
with mud; the hearse with four horses, and the mother walking beside
it. As they reached the main street, Chase spoke. "The Cottage?"
"No; home," Mrs. Franklin answered. As the hearse turned into the
driveway of L'Hommedieu, she passed it, and, going on in advance, opened
the house door; here, waving away old Zoe and Rinda, who came hurrying
to meet her, she waited on the threshold until the men had lifted out
the coffin; then, leading the way to the sitting-room, she pointed to
the centre of the floor.
"Oh, not to our house?" Genevieve whispered, as she alighted, her eyes
full of tears.
But Dolly, to whom she spoke, limped in without answering, and Mrs.
Franklin paid no more heed to her daughter-in-law, who had followed her,
than as though she did not exist. Genevieve, quivering from her grief,
turned to Horace Chase.
He put his arm round her, and led her from the sitting-room. "Give way
to her, Gen," he said, in a low tone. "She isn't well--don't you see it?
She isn't herself; she has been walking beside that hearse for the last
hour! Let her do whatever she likes; it's her only comfort. And now I am
going to take you straight home, and you must go to bed; if you don't,
you won't be able to get through the rest--and you wouldn't like that.
I'll come over at noon and arrange with you about the funeral; to-morrow
morning will be the best time, won't it?" And half leading, half
carrying her, for Genevieve was now crying helplessly, he took her
home.
When he came back, Dolly was in the hall, waiting for him.
There was no one in the sitting-room save Mrs. Franklin; he could see
her through the half-open door. She was sitting beside the coffin, with
her head against it, and one arm laid over its top. Her dress was
stained with mud; she had not taken off her bonnet; her gloves were
still on. Dolly closed the door, and shut out the sight.
"You ought to see to her; she must be worn out," Chase said,
expostulatingly.
"I'll do what I can," Dolly answered. "But mother has now no desire to
live--that will be the difficulty. She loves Ruth, and she loves me. But
not in the same way. Her father, her husband, and her son--these have
been mother's life. And now that the last has gone, the last of the
three men she adored, she doesn't care to stay. That is what she is
thinking now, as she sits there."
"Come, you can't possibly know what she is thinking," Chase answered,
impatiently.
"I always know what is in mother's mind; I wish I didn't!" said Dolly,
her features working convulsively for a moment. Then she controlled
herself. "I am sorry you came all the way back with us, Mr. Chase. It
wasn't necessary as far as we were concerned. We could have crossed
the mountain perfectly well without you. But Ruth--that is another
affair, and I wish you had gone for her yourself, instead of sending Mr.
Hill! You must be prepared to see Ruth greatly changed. I should not be
surprised if she should arrive much broken, and even ill. She was very
fond of Jared. She will be overwhelmed--" Here, feeling that she was
saying too much, the elder sister abruptly disappeared.
Chase, left alone, went out to see to the horses. The men were waiting
at the gate, the carriages and the hearse were drawn up at a little
distance; the undertaker and his assistants were standing in the garden.
"Get your breakfast at the hotel; I'll send for you presently," he said
to the latter. Then he paid the other men, and dismissed them. "You go
and tell whoever has charge, to have that bad bit of road put in order
to-day," he directed. "Tell them to send up a hundred hands, if
necessary. I'll pay the extra."
CHAPTER XVI
The morning after the funeral, Chase, upon coming down to breakfast,
found Mrs. Franklin already in the sitting-room. She had not taken the
trouble to put on the new mourning garb which had been hastily made for
her; her attire was a brown dress which she had worn in Florida. She sat
motionless in her easy-chair, with her arms folded, her feet on a
footstool, and her face had the same stony look which had not varied
since she was told, upon her arrival at Raleigh, that her son was dead.
"Well, ma'am, I hope you have slept?" Chase asked, as he extended his
hand.
She gave him hers lifelessly.
"Yes; I believe so."
"Ruth will soon be here now," her son-in-law went on, as he seated
himself. "I told Hill not to let her travel straight through, for it
would only tire her; and she needs to keep well, ma'am, so as to be of
use to you. I'm going to drive over to Old Fort to-day, starting
late--about six o'clock, I guess. I've calculated that if Ruth spent a
night in New York (as she probably did, waiting for Hill to get there),
and if she stops over one night on the way, she would reach Old Fort
to-morrow noon. Then I'll bring her right on to L'Hommedieu."
"Yes, bring her. And let her stay."
"As long as ever you like, ma'am. I can't hold on long myself just now,
but I'll leave her with you, and come for her later. I am thinking of
taking a house at Newport for the summer; I hope that you and Miss Dolly
will feel like spending some time there with Ruth? Say August and
September?"
"I shall travel no more. Leave her with me; it won't be for long."
"You must cheer up, ma'am--for your daughters' sake."
"Ruth has you," Mrs. Franklin responded. "And you are good." Her tone
remained lifeless. But it was evident that her words were sincere; that
a vague sense of justice had made her rouse herself long enough to utter
the commendation.
"That's a mistake. I've never laid claim to anything of that sort,"
Chase answered rather curtly, his face growing red.
"When I say 'good' I mean that you will be good to Ruth," said the
mother; "it is the only sort of goodness I care for! At present you
don't like Dolly. But Dolly is so absolutely devoted to her sister that
you will end by accepting her, faults and all; you won't mind her little
hostilities. I can therefore trust them both to you--I do so with
confidence," she added. And, with her set face unchanged, she made him a
little bow.
"Why talk that way, ma'am? We hope to have you with us many years
longer," Chase answered. "A green old age is a very fine thing to see."
(He thought rather well of that phrase.) "My grandmother--she stuck it
out to ninety-eight, and I hope you'll do the same."
"Probably she wished to live. I have no such desire. As I sat here
beside my son the morning we arrived, I knew that I longed to go, too. I
want to be with him--and with my husband--and my dear father. My life
here has now come to its end, for they were my life."
"That queer Dolly knew!" thought Chase. "But perhaps they've talked
about it?" He asked this question aloud. "Have you told your daughter
that, ma'am?"
"Told my poor Dolly? Of course not. Please go to breakfast, Mr. Chase; I
am sure it is ready." Chase went to the dining-room. A moment later
Dolly came in to pour out the coffee.
"Is there anything I can do for you this morning?" Chase asked, as he
took a piece of Zoe's hot corn-bread. "I am going to drive over to Old
Fort this afternoon, and wait there for Ruth, for I've calculated the
trains, and I reckon that she and Hill will reach there to-morrow."
Dolly looked at him for a moment. Then she said: "You have a great deal
of influence with Genevieve; perhaps you could make her understand that
for the present it is better that she should not try to see mother. Tell
her that mother is much more broken than she was yesterday; tell her
that she is very nervous; tell her, in short, anything you please,
provided it keeps her away!" Dolly added, suddenly giving up her long
effort to hide her bitter dislike.
Chase glanced at her, and said nothing; he ate his corn-bread, and
finished his first cup of coffee in silence. Then, as she poured out the
second, he said: "Well, she might keep away entirely? She might leave
Asheville? She has a brother in St. Louis, and she likes the place, I
know; I've heard her say so. If her property here could be taken off her
hands--at a good valuation--and if a well-arranged, well-furnished house
could be provided for her there, near her brother, I guess she'd go. I
even guess she'd go pretty quick," he added; "she'd be a long sight
happier there than here." For though he had no especial affection for
Genevieve, he at least liked her better than he liked Dolly.
Dolly, however, was indifferent to his liking or his disliking. "Oh!"
she said, her gaze growing vague in the intensity of her wish, "if it
could only be done!" Then her brow contracted, she pushed her plate
away. "But we cannot possibly be so much indebted to you--I mean so much
more indebted."
"You needn't count yourself in, if it worries you," Chase answered with
his deliberate utterance. "For I should be doing it principally for
Ruth, you know. When she comes, the first thing she'll want to do, of
course, is to make her mother comfortable. And if Gen's clearing out,
root and branch, will help that, I rather guess Ruth can fix it."
"You mean that you can."
"Well, we're one; I don't think that even you can quite break that up
yet," Chase answered, ironically. Then he went on in a gentler tone: "I
want to do everything I can for your mother. She has always been very
kind to me."
And Dolly was perfectly well aware that, as he looked at her (looked at
her yellow, scowling face), his feeling for her had become simply pity,
pity for the sickly old maid whom no one could possibly please--not even
her sweet young sister.
Soon after breakfast Chase went to the Cottage. Genevieve received him
gratefully. Her cheeks were pale; her eyes showed the traces of the
tears of the previous day, the day of the funeral.
Her visitor remained two hours. Then he rose, saying, "Well, I must see
about horses if I am to get to Old Fort to-night. I shall tell Ruth
about this new plan of ours, Gen. She'll be sure to like it; she'll
enjoy going to St. Louis to see you; we'll both come often. And you'll
be glad of a change yourself. The other house, too, is likely to be shut
up. For, though they don't say so yet, I guess the old lady and Dolly
will end by spending most of their time with Ruth, in New York."
"I must go over and see mamma at once," answered Genevieve. "I must have
her opinion, first of all. I shall ask mamma's advice more than ever
now, Horace; it will be my pleasure as well as my duty. For Jay was very
fond of his mother; he often told me--" Her voice quivered, and she
stopped.
"Now, Gen, listen to me," said Chase, taking her hand. "Don't go over
there at all to-day. And, when you go to-morrow, and later, don't try to
see the old lady; wait till she asks for you. For she is all unhinged;
I've just come from there, and I know. She is very nervous, and
everything upsets her. It won't do either of you any good to meet at
present; it would only be a trial to you both. And Dolly says so, too.
Promise me that you'll take care of yourself; promise me especially that
you won't leave the house at all to-day, but stay quietly at home and
rest."
Genevieve promised. But after he had gone, the sense of duty that was a
part of her nature led her to reconsider her determination. That her
husband should have been laid in his grave only twenty-four hours
before, and that she, the widow, should not see his bereaved mother
through the whole day, when their houses stood side by side; that they
should not mingle their tears, and their prayers also, while their
sorrow was still so new and so poignant--this seemed to her wrong. In
addition, it seemed hardly decent. The mother was ill and broken? So
much the more, then, was it her duty to go to her. At four o'clock,
therefore, she put on her bonnet and its long crape veil, and her black
mantle, and crossed the meadow towards L'Hommedieu.
Mrs. Franklin was still sitting in the easy-chair with her arms folded,
as she had sat in the morning when Chase came in. The only difference
was that now a newspaper lay across her lap; she had hastily taken it
from the table, and spread it over her knees, when she recognized her
daughter-in-law's step on the veranda.
Genevieve came in. She was startled at first by the sight of the brown
dress, which happened to have red tints as well as brown in its fabric.
But it was only another cross to bear; her husband's family had always
given her so many! "I hope you slept last night, mamma?" she said,
bending to kiss Mrs. Franklin's forehead.
"Yes, I believe so," the elder woman answered, mechanically, as she had
answered Chase. She was now indefinitely the elder. Between the wife of
forty, and the slender, graceful, vivacious mother of fifty-eight, there
had been but the difference of one short generation. But now the mother
might have been any age; her shoulders were bent, her skin looked
withered, and all the outlines of her face were set and sharpened.
Genevieve took off her crape mantle, folding it (with her habitual
carefulness) before she laid it on a chair. "You must let me see to your
mourning, mamma," she said, as she thus busied herself. "I suppose your
new dress doesn't fit you? It was made so hastily. I shall be sitting
quietly at home for the present, day after day, and it will occupy me
and take my thoughts from myself to have some sewing to do. And I know
how to cut crape to advantage also, for I was in mourning so long when
I was a girl."
Mrs. Franklin made no reply.
Her daughter-in-law, seating herself beside her, stroked back her gray
hair. "You look so tired! And I am afraid Dolly is tired out also, as
she isn't with you?"
"I sent her to bed half an hour ago; for I am afraid one of her attacks
is coming on," Mrs. Franklin answered, her lips compressing themselves
as she endured the caress. Genevieve's touch was gentle. But Mrs.
Franklin did not like to have her hair stroked.
"Poor Dolly! But, surely, it is not surprising. I must see her before I
go back. But shall I go back, mamma? As you are alone, wouldn't it be
better for me to stay with you for the rest of the day? I could read to
you; I should love to do it. It seems providential that my dear copy of
Quiet Hours should have come back from Philadelphia only yesterday; I
had sent it to Philadelphia, you know, to be rebound. But there have
been greater providences still; for instance, how I was able to get to
Raleigh in time to see our dear one. For the stage had gone when
Horace's telegram came, and Mr. Bebb's having arranged, by a mere
chance, to drive to Old Fort with that pair of fast horses at the very
moment I wished to start--surely that was providential? But you look
so white; do let me get you some tea? Or, better still, won't you go to
bed? I should so love to undress you, and bathe your face with cologne."
Mrs. Franklin shook her head; through her whole life she had detested
cologne. On the top of her dumb despair, on the top of her profound
enmity, rose again (a consciousness sickening to herself) all the petty
old irritations against this woman; against her "providential"; her
Quiet Hours; her "surely"; her "cutting crape to advantage"; and even
her "cologne." She closed her eyes so that at least she need not see
her.
"I have had a letter from my sister," Genevieve went on. "I brought it
with me, thinking that you might like to hear it, for it is so
beautifully expressed. As you don't care to lie down, I'll read it to
you now. My sister reminds me, mamma, that in the midst of my grief I
ought to remember that I have had one great blessing--a blessing not
granted to all wives; and that is, that from the first moment of our
engagement to his last breath, dear Jay was perfectly devoted to me; he
never looked--he never cared to look--at any one else!"
Mrs. Franklin refolded her arms; her hands, laid over her elbows,
tightened on her sleeves.
Genevieve began to read the letter. But when she came to the passage she
had quoted, the tears began to fall. "I won't go on," she said, as she
wiped them away. "For we must not dwell upon our griefs--don't you think
so, mamma? Not purposely remind ourselves of them; surely that is
unwise. I have already arranged to give away Jay's clothes, for
instance--give them to persons who really need them. For as long as they
are in the house I can't help cr-crying whenever I see them." Her voice
broke, and she stopped; her effort at self-control, both here and at
home, was sincere.
She replaced the letter in her pocket. And as she did so, the crape of
her sleeve, catching on the edge of the newspaper which lay over Mrs.
Franklin's knees, drew it so far to one side that it fell to the floor.
And there, revealed on the mother's lap, lay a little heap: a package of
letters in a school-boy hand; a battered top, and one or two other toys;
a baby's white robe yellow with age; some curls of soft hair, and a
little pair of baby shoes.
"Oh, mamma, are you letting yourself brood over these things? Surely it
is not wise? Let me put them away."
But Mrs. Franklin, gathering her poor treasures from Genevieve's touch,
placed them herself in her secretary, which she locked. Then she began
to walk to and fro across the broad room--to and fro, to and fro, her
step feverishly quick.
After a minute, Genevieve followed her. "Mamma, try to be resigned. Try
to be calm."
Mrs. Franklin stopped. She faced round upon her daughter-in-law. "You
dare to offer advice to me, you barren woman? You tell me to be
resigned? What do you know of a mother's love for her son--you who
have never borne a child? You can comprehend neither my love nor my
grief. Providential, is it, that you reached Raleigh in time? Providence
is a strange thing if it assists you. For you have killed your
husband--killed him as certainly as though you had given him slow
poison. You broke up his life--the only life he loved; you never rested
until you had forced him out of the navy. And then, your greed for money
made you urge him incessantly to go into business--into business for
himself, which he knew nothing about. You gave him no peace; you drove
him on; your determination to have all the things you care for--a
house of your own and a garden; chairs and tables; handsome clothes;
money for charities" (impossible to describe the bitterness of this
last phrase)--"these have been far more important to you than anything
else--than his own happiness, or his own welfare. And, lately, your
process of murder has gone on faster. For he has been very ill all
winter (I know it now!) and you have not been near him; you have
stayed here month after month, buying land with Ruth's money, filling
your pockets and telling him nothing of it, adding to your house, and
saying to yourself comfortably meanwhile that this wise course of yours
would in the end bring him round to your views. It has brought him
round--to his death! His life for years has been wretched, and you were
the cause of the misery. For it was his feeling of being out of his
place, his gradual discouragement, his sense of failure, that finally
broke down his health. If he had never seen you, he might have lived
to be an old man, filling with honor the position he was fitted for.
Now, at thirty-nine, he is dead. He was faithful to you, you say? He
was. And it is my greatest regret! I do not wish ever to see your face
again. For he was the joy of my life, and you were the curse of his.
Go!"
These sentences, poured out in clear, vibrating tones, had filled
Genevieve with horror. And something that was almost fear followed as
the mother, coming nearer, her eyes blazing in her death-like face,
emphasized her last words by stretching out her arm with a gesture that
was fiercely grand--the grandeur of her bereavement and her despair.
Genevieve escaped to the hall. Then, after waiting for a moment
uncertainly, she hurried home.
When the sound of her footsteps had died away, Mrs. Franklin went to the
secretary and took out again the dress and the top, the little shoes and
the baby-curls; seating herself, she began to rearrange them. But her
hands only moved for a moment or two. Then her head sank back, her eyes
closed.
CHAPTER XVII
As it happened, Horace Chase was the next person who entered the parlor.
He was touched when he saw the old-looking figure, with the pathetic
little heap in its lap. But when he perceived that the figure was
unconscious, he was much alarmed; summoning help, he sent hastily for a
doctor. After being removed to her own room, Mrs. Franklin was extremely
restless; she moved her head incessantly from side to side on the
pillow, and she seemed to be half blind; her mind wandered, and her
voice, as she spoke incoherently, was very weak. Then suddenly she sank
into a lethargic slumber. The doctor waited to see in what condition she
would waken; for there were symptoms he did not like. Miss Billy,
meanwhile, was installed as nurse.
Mrs. Kip, Maud Muriel, and Miss Billy had visited this house of mourning
many times since the arrival of the funeral procession two days before,
with the mother walking beside the coffin of her son. And now that this
poor mother was stricken down, they all came again, anxious to be of
use. Chase, who had always liked her gentle ways, selected Miss Billy.
Dolly knew nothing of her mother's prostration; for her pain (her old
enemy), having been deadened by an opiate, she was sleeping. In order
that she should not suspect what had happened, Miss Billy did not show
herself at all in Dolly's room; Rinda, who was accustomed to this
service, was established there on a pallet, ready to answer if called.
Chase had decided that he would wait for the doctor's report before
starting on his drive across the mountain; it would be satisfactory to
have something definite to tell Ruth. It was uncertain when that report
would come. But as he intended to set out, in spite of the darkness, the
first moment that it was possible, there was no use in going to bed.
Alone in the parlor, therefore, he first read through all the newspapers
he could find. Then, opening the window, he smoked a cigar or two.
Finally, his mind reverted, as it usually did when he was alone, to
business; drawing a chair to the table, he took out some memoranda and
sat down. Midnight passed. One o'clock came. Two o'clock. He still sat
there, absorbed. Mrs. Franklin's reading-lamp, burning brightly beside
him, lighted up his hard, keen face. For it looked hard now, with its
three deeply set lines, one on each side of the mouth, and one between
the eyes; and the eyes themselves were hard and sharp. But though the
business letter he was engaged upon was a masterpiece of shrewdness (as
those who received it would not fail to discover sooner or later), and
though it dealt with large interests that were important, the faintest
sound upstairs would have instantly caught the attention of its writer.
On a chair beside him were railroad time-tables, and a sheet of
commercial note-paper with two lines of figures jotted down in orderly
rows side by side; these represented the two probabilities regarding the
trains which his wife might take--their hours of departure and their
connections. He had received no telegrams, and this had surprised him.
"What can the little chap be about?" he had more than once thought. His
adjective "little" was not depreciatory; Malachi Hill was, in fact,
short. In addition, his fresh, pink-tinged complexion and bright blue
eyes gave him a boyish air. To Horace Chase, who was over six feet in
height, and whose dark face looked ten years older than it really was,
the young missionary (whom he sincerely liked) seemed juvenile; his
youthful appearance, in fact, combined with his unmistakable "grit" (as
Chase called it), had been the thing which had first attracted the
notice of the millionaire.
A little before three there was a sound. But it was not from upstairs,
it was outside; steps were coming up the path from the gate. The man in
the parlor went into the hall; and as he did so, to his surprise the
house-door opened and his wife came in.
Behind her there was a momentary vision of Malachi Hill. The clergyman,
however, did not enter; upon seeing Horace Chase, he closed the door
quietly and went away.
Ruth's face, even to the lips, was so white that her husband hastily
put his arm round her; then he drew her into the sitting-room, closing
the door behind them.
"Where is he?" Ruth had asked, or rather, her lips formed the words.
"Didn't you wait for me?"
"My darling, he was buried yesterday," Chase answered, sitting down and
drawing her into his arms. "Didn't Hill tell you?"
"Yes, but I didn't believe it. I thought you would wait for me; I
thought you would know that I wanted to see him."
"No one saw him after we left Raleigh, dear. The coffin was not opened
again."
"If I had been here, mother would have--mother would have--"
"It was your mother who arranged everything," Chase explained gently, as
with careful touch he took off her hat, and then her gloves; her hands
were icy, and he held them in his to warm them.
"Where is mother? And Dolly? Weren't they expecting me? Didn't they
know I would come?"
"Your mother is sick upstairs. No, don't get up--you can't see her now;
she is asleep, and mustn't be disturbed. But the first moment she wakes
up the doctor is to let me know, and then you shall go to her right
away. Miss Breeze is up there keeping watch. Dolly has broken down, too.
But Dolly's case is no worse than it has often been before, and you'd
better let her sleep while she can. And now, will you stay here with me,
Ruthie, till the doctor comes? Or would you rather go to bed? If you'll
go, I promise to tell you the minute your mother wakes." He put his hand
on her head protectingly, and kissed her cheek. Her face was cold. Her
whole frame had trembled incessantly from the moment of her entrance.
"My darling little girl, how tired you are!"
"Tell me everything--everything about Jared," Ruth demanded, feverishly.
Though she was so white, it was evident that she had not shed tears; her
eyes were bright, her lips were parched. Her husband, with his
rough-and-ready knowledge of women, knew that it would be better for her
to "have her cry out," as he would have phrased it; it would quiet her
excitement and subdue her so that she would sleep. As she could not eat,
he gave her a spoonful of brandy from his own flask, and wrapped her
cold feet in his travelling-shawl; then, putting her on the sofa, he sat
down beside her, and, holding her tenderly in his arms, he told her the
story of Jared's last hours.
His account was truthful, save that he softened the details. In his
narrative Mrs. Nightingale's shabby house became homelike and
comfortable, and Jared's bare attic a pleasant place; Mrs. Nightingale
herself (here there was no need for exaggeration) was an angel of
kindness. He dwelt upon Jared's having agreed to go with him to New
York. "I had planned to start at nine o'clock the next morning, Ruthie,
having a doctor along without his knowing it; and I had ordered a
private car--a Pullman sleeper--to go through to New York; once there, I
thought you could make him take a good long rest. That kind woman had
been sitting up at night in the room next to his. So I fixed that by
taking the same room myself. I didn't undress, but I guess I fell
asleep; and I woke up hearing him talking. And then he walked about the
room, and he even climbed out on the roof; but we soon got him back all
right. Everything possible was done, dear; the best doctor in Raleigh,
and a nurse--two of 'em. But it was no use. It was brain-fever, or
inflammation of the brain rather, and after it had left him he was too
weak to rally. They thought everything of him at Raleigh; your mother
wanted him brought here, and when we went to the depot, everybody who
had ever known him turned out, so that there was a long procession; and
all the ladies of his boarding-house brought flowers. At Old Fort, I had
intended to let Hill (I had wired to him to meet us there) take charge
of them across the mountains, for I wanted to go to New York to get
you. But the night was dark, and the road is always so bad that I
thought, on the whole, you'd rather have me stay with your mother. And
she has been tolerably well, too, until this afternoon, when she had an
attack of some sort. But I guess it's only that she is overtired; the
doctor will probably come down and tell us so before long."
"I wanted to see him," repeated Ruth, her eyes still dry and bright.
"It was very little to do for me, I think. If I could have just taken
his poor hand once--even if it was dead! Everybody else got there in
time to speak to him, to say good-by."
"No; your mother didn't get there," Chase explained.
"She didn't get there? And Genevieve did? I know it by your face. Let
me go to mother--poor mother! Let me go to her, and never leave her
again."
"You shall go the instant she wakes; you shall stay with her as long as
you like," Chase answered, drawing her down again, and putting his cheek
against her head as it lay on his breast. "There is nothing in the world
I wouldn't do for your mother; you have only to choose. And for Dolly,
too. You shall stay with them; or they can go with you; or anything you
think best, my poor little girl."
Ruth still trembled, and no tears came to her relief.
Her cry, "And Genevieve did?" had struck him. "How they all hate her?"
he thought.
He had seen Genevieve since Mrs. Franklin's attack; he had gone over for
a moment to tell her what had happened.
Genevieve, when driven from L'Hommedieu, had taken refuge in her own
room at the Cottage; here, behind her locked door, she had spent a long
hour in examining herself searchingly, examining her whole married life.
Her hands had trembled as she looked over her diaries, and as she
turned the pages of her "Questions for the Conscience." But with all her
efforts she could not discern any point where she had failed. Finally,
at the end of the examination, she summed the matter up more calmly: "It
was best for Jared to be out of the navy; he was forming habits there
that I understood better than his mother. And I know that I am not
avaricious. I know that I have always tried to do what was best for him,
that I have tried to elevate him and help him in every way. I have
worked hard--hard. I have never ceased to work. It is all a falsehood,
or, rather, it is a delusion; for she is, she must be, insane." Having
reached this conclusion (with Genevieve conclusions were final), she put
away her diaries and went down-stairs to tea. When Chase came in and
told what had happened, she said, with the utmost pity, "I am not
surprised! When she comes out of it, I fear you will find, Horace, that
her mind is affected. But surely it is natural. Mamma's mind--poor, dear
mamma!--never was very strong; and, in this great grief which has
overwhelmed us all, it has given way. We must make every allowance for
her." She told him nothing of her terrible half-hour at L'Hommedieu. She
never told any one. Silence was the only proper course--a pitying
silence over Jay's poor mother, his crazed mother.
Ruth had paid no heed to her husband's soothing words, his promise to do
everything that he possibly could for her mother and Dolly. "What did
Jared say? You were with him before he was ill. Tell me everything,
everything!"
He tried to satisfy her. Then he attempted to draw her thoughts in
another direction. "How did you get here so soon, Ruthie? I told Hill to
make you stop over and sleep."
"Sleep!" repeated Ruth. "I only thought of one thing, and that was to
get here in time to see him." She left the sofa. "You ought to have
waited for me. It would have been better if you had. Jared was the one
I cared for. One look at his face, even if he was dead. Where did they
put him when they brought him home? For I know mother had him here, here
and not at the Cottage. It was in this room, wasn't it? In the centre of
the floor?" She walked to the middle of the room and stood there.
"Jared could have helped me," she said, miserably. "Why did they take
my brother--the one person I had!"
The door opened and the doctor entered. "You here, Mrs. Chase? I
didn't know you had come." He hesitated.
"What is it?" said Ruth, going to him. "Tell me! Tell me."
The doctor glanced at Chase.
Chase came up, and took his wife's hand protectingly. "You may as well
tell her."
"It is a stroke of paralysis," explained the doctor, gravely.
"But she'll know me?" cried Ruth in an agony of tears.
"She may. You can go up if you like."
But the mother saw nothing, heard nothing on earth again. She might live
for years. But she did not know her own child.
Chase came at last, and took his wife away.
"Oh, be good to me, Horace, or I shall die! I think I am dying now,"
she added in sudden terror.
She clung to him in alarm. His immense kindness was now her refuge.
CHAPTER XVIII
In spite of all there was to see that afternoon, Dolly Franklin had
chosen to remain at home; she sat alone in the drawing-room, adding
silken rows to her stocking of the moment. Wherever Ruth was, that was
now Dolly's home; since Mrs. Franklin's death, two years before, Dolly
had lived with her sister. The mother had survived her son but a month.
Her soul seemed to have departed with the first stroke of the benumbing
malady; there was nothing but the breathing left. At the end of a few
weeks, even the breathing ceased. Since then, L'Hommedieu had been
closed, save for a short time each spring. Horace Chase had bought a
cottage at Newport, and his wife and Dolly had divided their time
between Newport and New York. This winter, however, Chase had reopened
his Florida house, the old Worth place, at St. Augustine; for Ruth's
