nomination of the candidates for the presidency. The agitation became
that of Loyalty and Secession.
The governor had issued his proclamation in favor of the neutrality of
the State, and Home Guards were organized to enforce it. But it never
amounted to anything; for the majority were demonstrated to be Union
men, and appealed to the traditions of the past as the first State to
join the original thirteen. Captain Titus had become the commander of
one of these companies, on his promise to uniform and equip his men. He
had expended a considerable portion of the money he had inherited in the
purchase of arms and ammunition for his command, though he had never
been able to supply his soldiers with uniforms.
He had sent to New York for an abundant supply of weapons and
cartridges, including two brass field-pieces, over a hundred
breech-loading rifles, and nearly as many revolvers of several sizes. He
intended that his company should be the best equipped in the region, and
his newly acquired wealth made him very extravagant. But the Union
forces had begun to show themselves in the State, and the loyal element
exceeded in numbers the Secessionists; so that it was necessary for the
commander of the Home Guards to take extraordinary precautions for the
safety of the war material he had purchased.
With some difficulty he had moved the cases from the train at Dripping
Spring, carted them to a point on Bar Creek, from which he had conveyed
them to one of the numerous sink-hole caverns which abound in this part
of the State. He had carefully disposed of them, with the aid of his two
sons and some trusted neighbors, intending to give them out to his men
in a few days.
An indiscretion on the part of his wife had given a hint of the
existence of the arms at Riverlawn, which an exploration of Artie Lyon,
the adopted son, had worked into tangible evidence of the place where
the munitions had been concealed. Noah believed it was a duty he owed to
his country to obtain possession of these arms. He had already been
warned by his brother that he was regarded as an abolitionist, and that
a mob, consisting mainly of the Home Guards, were agitating the question
of burning his mansion and driving him out of the county.
When the loss of the arms was discovered, Titus became absolutely
furious, and, either with or without sufficient evidence, accused Noah
of stealing the property. A very enthusiastic Union meeting was held at
the Big Bend schoolhouse, and was attended by some of the most prominent
citizens of the county. The action of Major Lyon, as he had come to be
called very generally as a title of respect, in accordance with a
prevailing custom, in securing the arms was heartily approved by the
assembly.
That very night the ruffians of the Home Guard, for such they were,
which included most of the baser element of the locality, had made an
attack on the plantation of Major Lyon, intending to burn and destroy
it, if not, as was hinted, to hang the planter to one of the big trees
on his lawn. But a few of his neighbors had rallied to his assistance,
and his negroes were armed with the confiscated weapons, and the attack
was an utter failure.
Colonel Belthorpe, who had been a soldier in his earlier years,
commanded the defenders of the estate, and the mob marched to his
plantation to wreak their vengeance upon him by the destruction of his
property; but the same forces defeated them there, with many wounds, and
the loss of a few lives.
At the Union meeting Major Lyon had proposed to raise a company of
cavalry. He had offered to contribute a considerable number of horses
for the service, and his neighbors had followed his example; and over a
hundred steeds were pledged. Letters had been written to the commander
of the Union army in Kentucky, relating to this project, and Lieutenant
Burke Gordan had been sent to organize the company; and he was followed
later by several non-commissioned officers to assist in the drill. The
ruffians had made an attempt to stop the enlistments at Riverlawn, where
the camp was located; but they had been beaten off.
The recruiting had progressed very successfully; and instead of one
company, two had been organized during the next three months. Major Lyon
and his two sons had drilled and studied the military art in the most
determined manner; for they were enthusiastic in the support of the
government. The two companies, though hardly entitled to the name, were
called a squadron. The planter, in spite of his protest, was made the
major of the command; and he had become competent for the position. This
was the squadron which marched by the house of Swin Pickford while Deck
was talking with the two sons of Titus about the strait of the captain's
family in Barcreek village.
CHAPTER IV
THE DAY'S MARCH OF THE SQUADRON
It seemed to be almost a miracle that Noah Lyon had been transformed
into a soldier; and those who had known him in the State of New
Hampshire could hardly have recognized him. He had always been a
dignified, peaceable, and quiet man--the very antipode of a fire-eater.
At his former home he had been a justice of the peace, and was regarded
as a person of eminent gravity.
His anger, if he was ever stirred by any such passion, was nothing more
than indignation. But he was not a milk-and-water man; and, gentle as
were his manners, he was an earnest man. He had never developed any
military ambition in his earlier years, though he was sorry he had not
done so when he found himself on the very border of the Rebellion. He
was still of the military age, and was a hearty and vigorous man at
forty-two, when he was called into the service.
He was an earnest and determined patriot; and nothing but the need of
the nation could have induced him to put on a uniform, and drill
laboriously for months in preparation for his new sphere. He belonged to
the class who were said to make the best soldiers, because they went
into the field as high-toned men, with whom a principle was at stake.
Such soldiers had not been hurried into the camp by the excitement of
the times, or by any motive but patriotic duty.
Sandy and Orly Lyon stood in front of Pickford's house, and observed the
approaching column of cavalry; but the most of their attention was given
to Uncle Noah. It was a very strange sight for them to see him in the
uniform of a soldier, riding at the head of the squadron. These boys had
drilled and marched with the Home Guards, and their father had military
aspirations, though he was a little past the military age. They could
not help contrasting the appearance of Major Lyon's command with that of
Captain Lyon's.
Not all the Home Guards in the State were of the character of the
ruffians forming the company which had marched to Bowling Green, and who
had been the principal participants in the outrages and the ruffianism
in the vicinity of Barcreek. Some of the companies were composed and
officered by Union men, who did some of the first fighting in the State
when the Confederates fortified Cumberland Gap in the eastern section.
Such as these wheeled into the Union army, while those of the Secession
stripe promptly joined the forces on the other side.
No doubt many of these Home Guards believed sincerely in the neutrality
policy, which was advocated by some of the best men in the State; but it
afforded thousands of ruffians the advantages of an organization for
plunder and outrage. But its day had gone by. Major Lyon insisted from
the beginning that it was a fraud; and, in spite of the action of the
governor, Kentucky adhered to the Union. It cost something there to be
true to the old flag, and the State deserves all honor for the struggle
it made against the breaking up of the Union.
Major Lyon sat erect upon his horse, a valuable animal, which had been
his favorite since his arrival. There was nothing like vanity in his
expression, as might have been excusable at the head of such a fine
body of men; but he looked as he always did, earnest and determined, his
soldierly character resting more on his devotion to the cause than on
any other motive. He wore a felt hat, ornamented with a black feather,
which the mustering officer had prevailed upon him to adopt.
The squadron was composed of rather young men as a rule, and they were
the sons of farmers and others engaged in business. They were
fine-looking men, and they had been diligently drilled by the officers
sent to Riverlawn for the purpose. Perhaps the commander was the only
real planter enlisted; for most of them in the vicinity were past the
age for active service, though they had done their duty in repressing
outrages and keeping the peace.
Captain Gordon, who had been charged with the organization of the first
company, was in command of it, while Captain Truman, a young lawyer,
whose eloquent voice had been raised for the Union in the important
meeting at the Big Bend schoolhouse, was in command of the second; but
he had proved in the Riverlawn battle that he was a brave man, and would
make a good soldier. Tom Belthorpe, who had taken part in the defence
of Lyndhall and of Riverlawn, was first lieutenant of the first company;
while Major Gadbury, whose military title was one of courtesy, held the
corresponding rank in the second company.
It had required a great deal of persuasion to induce the proprietor of
Riverlawn to accept the position of major. He was a man of character;
and some of the planters in the neighborhood, especially Colonel
Cosgrove and Colonel Belthorpe, convinced him that it was his duty to
the cause to take the place. He had proved to them, in the engagements
with the ruffians, that he had the material in his composition of which
reliable commanders are made.
Deck Lyon had a tremendous reputation for courage and skill at Lyndhall;
for he had rescued both of the daughters of its owner from the hands of
the ruffians, who had captured them for the purpose of assisting in the
recovery of the arms the major had secured. When it came to the matter
of electing officers for the second company, Tom had advocated the
choice of Deck as captain, though he was only eighteen years old, to the
position.
Of course the young man was elated at the idea of being elevated to such
a position before he had been tried in the service; but it did not seem
to be quite right to him, and he went to his father for advice. The
major promptly advised him to accept no position in the company. He was
too young to be the commander of a company, which might be ordered on
duty by itself. As his father pointed out to him the difficulties in his
way, Deck went to the other extreme, and declined to take a place even
as a non-commissioned officer. Artie Lyon liked the stand he had taken
so well, that he followed his example, and both remained privates.
Deck and Artie did not forget the favorable mention of their names, and
they electioneered very zealously for the choice of Tom Belthorpe as
first lieutenant. In the case of the former, perhaps Deck was
unconsciously influenced by the fact that he had a very pretty sister,
who had manifested no little interest in him since he had attacked the
ruffian who held her as a prisoner. In fact, Tom had two pretty sisters;
but this fact affected Lieutenant Gadbury more than any other person.
When the squadron had advanced a short distance, Major Lyon wheeled his
horse, and faced his command, who were marching as usual on the road by
fours. He had learned his lesson well at the camp; for the squadron had
been thoroughly drilled from the beginning, up to the point where the
"school of the battalion" had been their practice.
"Battalion, halt!" he commanded, with a voice loud enough and clear
enough to be heard far back of the place where the order was given.
Captain Gordon declared that he had not caught the major in a single
error or slip since he had begun to exercise the squadron. The command
was repeated by the subordinate officers, and the force came to a full
halt. Deck had stopped by the side of the road, to await the coming up
of his section, and his father called him as soon as he had halted the
battalion.
The young man had been on a military errand for the major, rather than
for his father, who insisted that his two sons should fare precisely the
same as other soldiers of the companies. There was to be no favoritism
on account of relationship. Deck could not report the result of his
errand while the commander was marching at the head of his column, for
the new companies had not reached the free-and-easy stage which came
later.
Deck saluted the major as though they had never met before in their
lives, and his father acknowledged it. Then the private reported the
result of his mission.
"You have been making some stay at this house we are passing," continued
Major Lyon, as he glanced back at the two boys who were still standing
there.
"Found a fight going on in the house, and I went in on account of a call
for help," replied Deck.
"But that is Pickford's house, and no ruffians would attack him,"
suggested the major. "Are these Titus's boys standing here?"
"They are. Uncle Titus has a bill against Pickford for twenty-seven
dollars for building his chimney, and Sandy and Orly were trying to
collect it by force of arms."
"I will hear more of that another time, Dexter," added Major Lyon,
cutting short the story. "I declare, I hardly knew those boys!"
"They have had a hard time of it; but I must fall in," said Deck, as he
began to turn his horse. "I suppose you are out for a drill, father."
"We are not; we are going on duty this time. General Buckner is
somewhere in this vicinity, and evidently intends to occupy Bowling
Green. Colonel Cosgrove came over to see me this morning. He says
Captain Titus's company have got into the Confederate army at last, and
have been supplied with arms of a poor quality, though not with
uniforms."
"His men have been about half-starved while waiting, and that is the
reason why Sandy and Orly came home," added the young soldier.
"Another time for that, Dexter. Are you all ready to march with your
company?" asked the major.
"I have my sabre, carbine, and pistols; but I have no blanket, as I see
the rest of the men have."
"You can be supplied from the wagon in the rear. But fall in," said the
major, as he prepared to resume the march.
Deck galloped back to the section in which he belonged, where he had
only to take his place at the side of Artie, though inside of him, for
he was a trifle taller than his cousin. In the infantry, the tallest men
are placed on the right, which is always the head of the column, while
in the cavalry the tallest are placed in the middle.
"What does all this mean, Deck? Didn't I see Sandy and Orly Lyon by that
house?" asked Artie.
"They are there, whether you saw them or not," replied Deck.
"Battalion, at ease, march!"
In the infantry, when the order for "route step!" is given, the men need
not even keep step, and the formalities are relaxed in some other
respects. In the cavalry, in which the horses take all the steps, the
strain of precise position and movement is removed, and the soldiers may
make the best of their journey. Artie wanted to know all about his two
cousins he had seen at Pickford's, and Deck told him the whole story of
what had occurred there.
"Is it possible that Uncle Titus's family are reduced to such a strait?"
demanded Artie, his pity and sympathy apparent on his face.
"The boys say Aunt Meely and the girls are going back to Derry; and
that looks as though the family were very hard up," replied Deck. "And
Mabel has gone out to work in the family of Dr. Falkirk."
"I think Sandy and Orly must be in a desperate situation when they try
to collect a bill with a gun."
"I have no doubt of it; though Sandy tried to put the best face on the
matter, and said the part of the Confederate army that was to come to
Bowling Green had not got there yet, and that they will be all right as
soon as the company is mustered in. Orly speaks out loud, and tells all
he knows about the condition of the family. He wants to join one of our
companies."
"Orly Lyon!" exclaimed Artie. "Why, he was one of the loudest
Secessionists in the village!"
"He has got enough of it, working without pay or rations," added Deck.
"But where are we going, Artie?"
"I'm sure I don't know; why didn't you ask your father, if you want to
know?"
"Ask my father! You know better than that, Artie; for you are aware that
commanding officers don't tell what they are going to do till they get
ready to do it," returned Deck.
"We are provided with ammunition and rations, and very likely we have
come out to-day in order to get used to carrying them on a march,"
suggested Artie.
"Not at all; for father told me we were out on duty to-day, though he
did not say what it was," replied Deck.
The march continued all day long, and it began to look as though it
would extend into the night. About nine o'clock in the evening Major
Lyon called a halt at a point where a railroad could be seen in the
gloom of the night. The column had just crossed a bridge of considerable
length over a creek, and the position of the railroad indicated that it
must be bridged over the same stream.
While the commander and his officers were trying to make out the
surroundings, half a dozen muskets were discharged from a covert of
trees; but fortunately none of the cavalrymen appeared to be struck by
the bullets. But it was evident that the time for action had come.
CHAPTER V
THE LEADER OF THE SCOUTING-PARTY
As the squadron came to a region where Major Lyon was no longer familiar
with the country, scouts had been sent out ahead of the column to give
information in regard to any possible enemy. Confederate troops had been
reported from several different directions by those who had occasion to
travel about the State. As indicated by some of their operations, their
present policy was to destroy the railroad bridges, so as to prevent the
government from forwarding troops by them.
General Buckner, or his forces, had destroyed one at Rolling Creek; but
he was supposed to be falling back upon Bowling Green, as regiments from
Ohio, Indiana, and Illinois began to reach this part of the State. It
was possible that the squadron might come in contact with some of these
forces; and the men were very anxious to find them.
Sergeant Knox was at the head of the scouts. He was a man of forty-two,
a tall, raw-boned Kentuckian, whose enterprise and love of adventure had
led him into the region beyond the Mississippi, where he had been a
regular soldier, a hunter, a trapper, and voyageur. For some reason he
had become a strong friend of Deck Lyon, who was never tired of
listening to his stories of the regions beyond the pale of civilization.
He was a bluff, good-natured man with those who pleased his fancy; and,
though he was not bitter or revengeful, he was capable of being a
terrible enemy.
Firing at a target was part of the regular drill of the cavalrymen in
camp, and Life Knox always put his ball inside of every other. His name
was Eliphalet, and he sometimes laughed at his parents for giving him
such a long name. Captain Gordon had had no little difficulty in
inducing him to sign his name in full on the enlistment papers. He had
abbreviated it to "Life," and declared that he had never signed anything
but that to any document in all his life.
He was born and "raised" in Warren County, though he had wandered far
from it at an early age, after the death of his father and mother. He
had a brother who was a prosperous planter, and with him he had lived
the last two years of his life. When he came to Riverlawn to enlist, he
brought with him a long rifle, which was a load for an ordinary man to
carry. He was told that he could make no use of it in the army; but he
asked Deck to take care of it for him, and he put it in his room.
It was occasionally brought out when the soldiers were firing at a
target, and Life produced the most surprising results with it. He was
pretty sure to hit the bull's-eye with it every time; for he had been
trained where his daily existence depended upon the accuracy of his aim.
He could bring down a squirrel as far as he could see him; and he always
insisted that the rifle had as much to do with the result as himself.
His shooting was observed with interest by the officers and men; and he
was called, not simply a good, but a remarkable, shot. He was a dead
shot to any living thing at which he aimed.
Life Knox was a good-hearted man; but there was a sort of inborn
aristocracy in him which would not permit him to associate intimately
with all his comrades in the ranks, though he treated them well, and
spoke pleasantly to them. Deck was always respectful to him, and Life
had taken a decided fancy to him. When the tall Kentuckian was ordered
upon the scout, he took care that Deck should be one of the party. They
had ridden together all the afternoon, and Life had made the time seem
short to the young man by relating all the details of a fight with a
party of Indians.
As the darkness of the evening came on, Life ordered his men to keep a
sharp lookout on all sides, and suspended his thrilling narratives that
his own watchfulness might not be impaired. The scouts were passing
through what appeared to be a plantation, though they could not yet see
any buildings. Suddenly the light of a fire flashed up at a considerable
distance to the right of the scouts in the road.
"A fire, Life!" shouted Deck, as he discovered the glare of the first
flame that rose in the darkness.
"Hush, little one!" interposed Knox. "Don't tell the neighbors about it,
for it might astonish them."
"I don't believe there are any neighbors very near us," replied Deck in
a low tone. "But there is something going on in this vicinity."
"We won't tell 'em, whoever's at work round here, that we are coming. By
the light of the fire I can see a mansion or farmhouse over yonder."
As he spoke, the report of the half-a-dozen muskets, more or less, that
had attracted the attention of the main body of the squadron, was heard,
though the scouts were half a mile distant. The building of the fire was
possibly a signal for the discharge which had so soon followed it; but
no other connection could be suggested between them.
"One man can always do better in lookin' inter things than a dozen,"
said Life, as he was trying to connect the fire and the firing in a
reasonable manner. "Ride over towards that fire, Deck, and see what you
can see."
"Be you uns soldiers, Mars'r?" asked a negro, coming out of a cornfield
at the side of the road, where the stalks had concealed his coming.
"Of course we are, Cato," replied Deck, who was nearest to him.
"Who done tole you my name, Mars'r?" asked the negro, whose surprise
seemed to have driven everything else out of his head.
"I guessed at it. But what do you want? I told you we were soldiers,"
added Deck. "Do you come from that house beyond the cornfield?"
"Yes, Mars'r; but if you uns is soldiers, which side was you on?"
inquired Cato very cautiously.
"Not gone, Deck?" asked Knox, riding up to him.
"This contraband has just come out of the field, and belongs to the
house we saw in the distance. I thought he could tell me better than I
could see for myself what is going on here," replied Deck.
"You are right, Deck."
"But he wants to know which side we are on before he says anything,"
added Deck.
"Then he is a sensible nigger. Of course we uns belong on the Union
side; and when you catch Life Knox on any other side, you'll catch a
coon asleep," replied the sergeant, decidedly enough to satisfy any
doubtful person. "What's gwine on at that fire, Minky?"
"Bress de Lod if you was Union sodgers! and my name is Cato!" exclaimed
the visitor, earnestly enough for a camp-meeting. "Dey is a hull
regiment of Sesh sodgers ober dar!" he added, pointing in the direction
from which the report of the firing had come.
Without waiting for any further information, Knox called Lane, one of
the scouts, and sent him back to report what the negro said to Major
Lyon. He was directed to move slowly after he had gone the eighth of a
mile; for the enemy were at some point on the right of the road, and he
would get a shot if he disturbed them.
"What are the Sesh soldiers here for, Cato?" asked Knox, as soon as his
messenger had gone.
"Gwine to burn de bridge ober dar," replied the man, pointing in the
direction in which the structure had been made out in the gloom of the
evening.
"Well, why don't they burn it, then?"
"Dey done got oder business at de mansion-house, sar."
"What other business have they got there?"
"I reckon de story's as long as Uncle Zeke's sarmints; but de fust thing
is, dey's gwine to hang Mars'r Barkland to one ob dem trees, if he don't
tell whar he hide his money," answered Cato, as he gave a hurried
glance at the fire.
"How many men are there at the house, or near it, Cato?" asked Knox with
deep interest.
"I done count six on 'em."
"Then we won't allow a Union man to be hung to a tree. Scouts,
attention, march!" called the sergeant hurriedly.
With this order, Life dashed into the cornfield, closely followed by
Deck and the others. The harvest had been gathered in the field, and
there was nothing but the stalks that remained to obstruct the passage
of the squad. The fire was at the edge of a grove, on ground slightly
elevated, and not far in the rear of the mansion, which could now be
distinctly seen. In approaching it, the cavalrymen came to a spot less
elevated than the grove, where Knox halted to reconnoitre.
"There's a lot of the villains coming from the house!" exclaimed the
sergeant, as he brought his horse to a full stop all at once.
"They have about finished hanging Union men in our county," said Deck,
"and I don't believe they will hang this one here."
"You can bet your horse they won't," added Life. "They can't see us
yet, and I think we had better fix things a little before we begin
business."
"We obey orders, Sergeant. There's a knoll over on the right covered
over with trees."
"I was looking at that; and we will move over there, and take a position
behind it, where they can't see us," replied Knox, as he led the way
through a hollow, which brought the party to it.
The mansion-house was on the highest ground in the vicinity, though it
was not on a hill. The fire seemed to be plentifully supplied with wood;
for it burned brightly, and shed its light on the road leading from the
house to the grove. A group of men could be seen approaching the
elevation where the fire burned. They moved very slowly, and appeared to
have considerable trouble in making any progress at all. There was a
prisoner in the midst of the party, and he was very unwilling to move in
the direction indicated by his oppressors.
While they were observing the spectacle, Cato joined them, for he had
followed the cavalrymen as rapidly as he could on foot. He evidently
belonged on the plantation, and knew all about the nature of the affair
in progress, though the sergeant was not disposed to listen to a story
as "long as Uncle Zeke's sermons."
"Do you know what those villains are doing there, Cato?" he asked, when
the negro had recovered his breath.
"Dey drag ole Mars'r Barkland ober to de tree, whar dey will hang him,"
answered Cato promptly.
"Then your master has plenty of money?"
"I dunno, Mars'r; he neber tole me notin' about dat."
"I s'pose not. Are the men who came to the mansion in uniform, Cato?"
"No, sar; no uniform but de rags dey wear. Cap'n Tites is out at bof
elbows, and a nigger'd be 'shamed to wear sich a coat."
"Did you hear what they said when they came to the house?"
"Hear ebery word dey say, Mars'r, 'cause I waits on de table when dey
done took supper."
"Then they had supper at the mansion?"
"Yes, sar; dey was all half-starbed, and dey eat more'n twenty men, and
done drink whiskey enough to float a canal-boat."
"Did that captain you spoke of drink whiskey, Cato?" asked Deck.
"He done drink more as all de rest on 'em. Mars'r Barkland willin' to
gib dem de supper and de whiskey, but he don't want to gib 'em any
money. Cap'n Tites tell him he done got million money; but mars'r say he
don't hab none. Den de cap'n say he hang 'im to a tree if he don't gib
up de money."
"That will do, Cato; I think I understand the matter now," said Knox, as
he changed his position so that he could get a better view of the scene
of action. "They have got nearly to the tree. It is about time to make a
move."
The sergeant questioned the negro in regard to the road which led to the
rear of the house, and some other matters relating to the locality. Knox
was a strategist in a small way, as he had been obliged to be in
defending himself from Indians and wild beasts. In a moment he had his
plan ready to put into operation.
"I count nine men there, taking in the planter," said he. "Cato says
there is a whole regiment camped in here somewhar. I don't believe it,
Deck; but we don't want to stir 'em up just yet. You will take Owens
and Fox, and ride round to that road Cato tells about, and I will go in
on this side. I'll do most of the job with my four; but I don't want 'em
to git off to their main body. Major Lyon'll tend to them."
Deck started at once with his two followers, directed by Cato again; and
the negro went himself with all the speed of his legs. He came to the
road, which was simply a driveway over the plantation, and soon reached
the house. He was galloping his steed; but when he came to the house he
reined him in at the plaintive supplication of an elderly woman and a
young lady, whose face he could not see in the gloom of the evening.
CHAPTER VI
A VERY OBSTINATE PRISONER CAPTURED
Deck Lyon's horse had been one of his father's best stock, and he had
been selected by Levi Bedford, the overseer, for his use. He was a very
spirited animal, and not every young fellow of eighteen would have felt
at home in a saddle placed on his back. As the ladies from the house
rushed forward to intercept him, Ceph, which was his abbreviated name,
was startled, reared, and faced the music, as he had been taught to do.
"I didn't mean to scare your horse, sir," said the elder of the ladies;
"but for the love of Heaven, can't you do something for my husband?"
demanded Mrs. Barkland, as she proved to be.
"Oh, save my father, if you can!" added the younger woman. "Oh, my
father! They are abusing him shamefully, and they have threatened to
hang him."
"That is the business in which I am engaged; and, if you will excuse
me, I will attend to it," replied Deck, as he gave Ceph the signal to go
ahead again with his legs.
"Do save him!" repeated the old lady, who wanted to talk some more about
the matter.
But the young cavalryman waited to hear no more; and his horse went off
at a dead run, the other two following him as rapidly as their steeds
would permit, and he was several rods ahead of them. In a couple of
minutes he had reached a point which commanded a view of the place
chosen for the spectacle. The actors had evidently preferred to be at a
distance from the mansion, where the women could not interfere with
them, the better to carry their point with the owner of the plantation.
They had the intended victim with a rope around his neck, and there
could be no doubt in regard to their purpose. One man had the other end
of the line, and was climbing a tree with it, to pass it over a branch.
Five men were on the ground, and their attention had already been
attracted by the approach of the horsemen from the direction of the
house; and they did not appear to have observed the others, with Knox at
their head, for they had passed behind a thicket of young trees on a
knoll.
"Halt!" shouted one of the five men in a voice loud enough to be heard
half a mile. "If you come any nearer we will fire!"
"Fire away!" yelled Deck with all the force of his lungs.
But he reined in his steed; and Ceph obediently came to a full stop,
while he unslung his carbine, his companions doing the same without any
suggestion from him. They came up to him, and ranged their horses at his
side. The carbines were ready for use in a moment, and all three of them
were aimed at the five men surrounding the planter. The actors in the
tragedy very plainly did not like this demonstration; for they did not
fire, though all of them had aimed at the intruders on this side of
them. The distance was still considerable, and probably they had no
great faith in the arms in their hands.
"Now we will go ahead, if you are ready, Fox and Owens," said Deck,
though he had no authority whatever to direct their movements.
The speed and sagacity of Ceph appeared to have placed him in command of
the little squad, for his horse always kept away ahead of every other
when he was permitted to do so. Deck was a brave fellow; he seemed to
have no idea of anything like fear when he was required to face an
enemy; but his father, who thought his son was inclined to be reckless,
had carefully instilled into his mind the necessity of prudence.
Knox had said that he intended to do most of the work on the present
occasion; but just now it looked as though the whole of it had fallen on
Deck's party. It was possible that he and his men had been entangled in
the bushes and young trees, or had come to some water they could not
easily pass. Deck led the way, and his companions kept close to him. The
man in the tree had passed the line over the branch, and thrown the end
down to the others.
"Halt where you are!" shouted the man who had spoken before; and this
time his voice gave Deck a thrill which caused him to stop his horse.
The two parties were not more than two hundred feet apart; and the
leader believed the speaker was his uncle, Captain Titus Lyon. This gave
him much to think of besides the identity of the commander of the
expedition upon which the squadron had fallen. It was evident to him
that the first work of the cavalry squadron raised at Riverlawn was to
be fighting the Home Guards, or "ruffians" as they had hitherto been
called.
Deck was annoyed and disconcerted at the discovery he had made, and it
checked his enthusiasm; for the quarrel with Uncle Titus, which he
insisted upon carrying to extremes, was in the family. The forces at
Riverlawn had defeated and driven off him and his command three times,
and it was an old story. He had hoped and expected that the campaign
would present the war in a new aspect.
It gave the young soldier his first lively impression of the results of
civil war. He was not at all inclined to shoot his father's brother;
though he was just as earnestly determined to do his whole duty to his
country, without regard to his relationship with any of the combatants
on the other side. They were there by their own choice, and were
responsible for the consequences.
With his carbine ready for instant use, Deck rode forward very slowly;
and, more than at any time before, he wished Knox would arrive upon the
scene of action. Captain Titus could now be clearly identified; and he
had evidently made up his mind to proceed with the business in hand, as
only three men had appeared so far to interfere with the operation. He
had turned his attention from the intruders, and was talking to the
unfortunate planter he had captured in a brutal manner, and shaking his
fist frequently in his face.
"Stand by the rope!" called he to the other men. "The fellow is as
obstinate as a mule, and we must make an end of him."
"Aim at the men who are holding the rope," said Deck to his companions,
and the three carbines were promptly pointed at them. "This thing has
gone far enough!" continued he, addressing the principal actor in the
scene.
"Who are you?" demanded Captain Titus, stopping long enough in his
operation to examine the intruders.
"I don't want to shoot you, but if you proceed any farther with this
business we shall fire," replied Deck.
Captain Titus was plainly astonished, if not confounded, when he
recognized his nephew in the uniform of the cavalry. He did not like the
looks of the three carbines pointed at his men. But Deck felt somewhat
ashamed of the delay he had made in relieving the terrified planter from
the extremity to which he had been reduced, and he decided to bring
matters to a head at once. Starting his horse, he dashed to the rope,
and seized it with one hand.
"Fire at him!" yelled Captain Titus furiously, to two of the ruffians
with muskets in their hands.
One of them raised his weapon to aim at Deck, who instantly fired at
him. He dropped his gun upon the ground, and grasped his right arm with
the left hand. The other man then raised his musket; but both of the
other horsemen fired at him at the same instant, and he dropped heavily
on the sod.
The three cavalrymen reloaded their weapons, and were immediately ready
for the next move. The three men at the rope seemed to be appalled at
the fate of their associates, and released their hold upon it. A moment
later they began to skulk off in the direction of the grove.
"Don't let them escape, Owens!" said Deck, to the one nearest to him.
Both of them darted off at a gallop, and headed them off, driving them
back to the tree from which the rope was hanging. Again Deck seized the
line, and urged his horse up to the place where the planter was
standing. Reaching down from his seat in the saddle, he cut the cords
that bound the prisoner, and then directed him to remove the rope from
his neck.
"I owe my life to you, young man," said Mr. Barkland, panting with
emotion and excitement.
"I suppose you are a Union man, sir?" added Deck.
"I am; and that is the reason why I am subjected to this outrage,"
replied the intended victim.
"What brought you here, Deck Lyon? Who sent you here to interfere with
my business?" demanded Captain Titus, confronting his nephew with a
savage frown.
"We shall not allow any such business as this," answered Deck, who was
not at all inclined to parley with the captain of the late Home Guards,
now in the service of the Confederacy. "You and those with you will
consider yourselves as prisoners of war."
"Prisoners of war!" exclaimed Captain Titus. "I reckon we ain't nothin'
of the sort. Do you mean to take six on us with only three?"
"We shall not take the trouble to count your numbers. Mr. Barkland, you
can return to your house, for your wife and daughter are very anxious
about you. I hope you have not been injured, sir."
"Only in my nerves," replied the planter, as he started for his mansion.
At this moment Knox and his three men dashed upon the scene, to the
great astonishment of Captain Titus.
"Well, Deck, is the business finished?" asked the sergeant, as he reined
up his steed. "We had to go about two miles to get here, and that is
what made it so late."
Deck reported what had happened so far. The man who had dropped so
heavily on the ground was not killed; but he was bleeding from a wound
in the side of the head, and the ball had only stunned him. The other
man, with a bullet through his arm, was worse off.
"This man who is in command of the company is my uncle, Captain Titus,"
said Deck in a low voice to the sergeant.
"What! Major Lyon's brother?" exclaimed Life. "I have heard all about
him, and he is a pesky troublesome fellow."
"I don't want anything more to do with him, Life, and I wish you would
dispose of him," added Deck.
"Do you want me to kill him? I can't do that; for"--
"Nothing of the sort!" interposed the nephew warmly. "Of course I don't
want you to do anything of the sort."
"We have six prisoners of war, and we will march them down to the main
body," added Knox.
The sergeant proceeded to form his prisoners in a single rank; but
Captain Titus appeared to have brought all his obstinacy and
unreasonableness with him, and he refused to take the place assigned to
him.
"Where are you going?" demanded the prisoner, as though he still ruled
the roost, as he had doubtless done in his company.
"None of your business where we are going," replied the sergeant. "If
you don't take your place I shall put you into it."
"This thing won't last long, for my company will take a hand in the
business in the morning, and a battalion of Texan cavalry will make it
warm for you."
"We are not talking about your company or any Texan cavalry. Will you
take your place in the line? That's the only question you have got to
settle," returned Knox.
"I won't take any place!" replied the captain with a volley of oaths.
"Swear not at all, my man," continued Life, as he seized the rebellious
prisoner by the back of his coat collar, lifted him clear of the ground,
and then brought him down in the place assigned to him. "Stay there!"
"I won't stay there!" growled he, as he attempted to leave the spot.
But Knox seized hold of him again, lifted him up, and slapped him down
across the pommel of his saddle, face down.
"Any way you like, my man; but you are going with this crowd. Forward,
my men!" and he placed himself at the head of the squad, and started in
the direction of the road, in spite of the struggles of the prisoner.
But they had not reached the road where they had first seen Cato, when
the head of a column appeared in the act of turning into the field,
doubtless guided by Hart, the messenger who had been sent to report to
the major in command.
Knox halted his little force, and threw his prisoner on the ground
without any ceremony, ordering Owens to take charge of him. The column
consisted of only the first company, the other having been sent to take
another position. Captain Truman had been ordered to hold himself in
readiness to cut off the retreat to the westward of the force which Lane
had reported upon.
"What have you here?" asked Major Lyon, as he saw the six prisoners in
front of Knox's scouts.
"Prisoners, Major; and I am sorry to say that your brother is one of
them," replied the sergeant. "They were about to hang the planter, Mr.
Barkland, who lives in the mansion yonder; but we saved him, and sent
him home."
"My brother a prisoner!" exclaimed the major very sadly.
He gave the order to march, and the first company proceeded towards the
planter's mansion.
CHAPTER VII
PREPARING FOR ACTIVE OPERATIONS
The discipline which Knox had administered to Captain Titus had taken
some of the obstinacy out of him, and he was willing to march with the
other prisoners. All of them had been engaged in the "Battle of
Riverlawn," as it was called, when the mob had been driven away from the
plantation. They were placed between a couple of ranks of troopers, and
no further attention was given to them till the company halted, a short
distance from the mansion.
It was the camp for the night; and the horses were picketed, the tents
pitched, and a cordon of sentinels stationed around the whole. The
prisoners were provided for as comfortably as the soldiers, and the
major had an opportunity to inquire into the situation. He had reached
the point to which he had been ordered. The region in the vicinity of
the railroad bridge had been examined by a large body of scouts, and
nothing like an enemy had been discovered. A trio of negroes had been
seen, and they were always ready to tell all they knew to persons
wearing the national uniform.
There was no military force near the bridge. After Knox had sent back a
messenger with the information obtained from Cato, that "a whole
