I had to go a good way round, by the gate near the highroad, and I found
the box open and hanging on the other side of the hedge. It had caught
on the twigs by the string, and the lid had fallen off and was lying on
the ground below it. That shows that it did not open till it was well
over; and if it had not opened as soon as it left my hand, what was
inside it must have gone beyond the road too.
That's all. I took the box upstairs to the cupboard, and put the skull
back and locked it up. When the girl brought me my breakfast she said
she was sorry, but that she must go, and she did not care if she lost
her month's wages. I looked at her, and her face was a sort of greenish,
yellowish white. I pretended to be surprised, and asked what was the
matter; but that was of no use, for she just turned on me and wanted to
know whether I meant to stay in a haunted house, and how long I
expected to live if I did, for though she noticed I was sometimes a
little hard of hearing, she did not believe that even I could sleep
through those screams again--and if I could, why had I been moving about
the house and opening and shutting the front door, between three and
four in the morning? There was no answering that, since she had heard
me, so off she went, and I was left to myself. I went down to the
village during the morning and found a woman who was willing to come and
do the little work there is and cook my dinner, on condition that she
might go home every night. As for me, I moved downstairs that day, and I
have never tried to sleep in the best bedroom since. After a little
while I got a brace of middle-aged Scotch servants from London, and
things were quiet enough for a long time. I began by telling them that
the house was in a very exposed position, and that the wind whistled
round it a good deal in the autumn and winter, which had given it a bad
name in the village, the Cornish people being inclined to superstition
and telling ghost stories. The two hard-faced, sandy-haired sisters
almost smiled, and they answered with great contempt that they had no
great opinion of any Southern bogey whatever, having been in service in
two English haunted houses, where they had never seen so much as the
Boy in Gray, whom they reckoned no very particular rarity in
Forfarshire.
They stayed with me several months, and while they were in the house we
had peace and quiet. One of them is here again now, but she went away
with her sister within the year. This one--she was the cook--married the
sexton, who works in my garden. That's the way of it. It's a small
village and he has not much to do, and he knows enough about flowers to
help me nicely, besides doing most of the hard work; for though I'm fond
of exercise, I'm getting a little stiff in the hinges. He's a sober,
silent sort of fellow, who minds his own business, and he was a widower
when I came here--Trehearn is his name, James Trehearn. The Scotch
sisters would not admit that there was anything wrong about the house,
but when November came they gave me warning that they were going, on the
ground that the chapel was such a long walk from here, being in the next
parish, and that they could not possibly go to our church. But the
younger one came back in the spring, and as soon as the banns could be
published she was married to James Trehearn by the vicar, and she seems
to have had no scruples about hearing him preach since then. I'm quite
satisfied, if she is! The couple live in a small cottage that looks
over the churchyard.
I suppose you are wondering what all this has to do with what I was
talking about. I'm alone so much that when an old friend comes to see
me, I sometimes go on talking just for the sake of hearing my own voice.
But in this case there is really a connection of ideas. It was James
Trehearn who buried poor Mrs. Pratt, and her husband after her in the
same grave, and it's not far from the back of his cottage. That's the
connection in my mind, you see. It's plain enough. He knows something;
I'm quite sure that he does, by his manner, though he's such a reticent
beggar.
Yes, I'm alone in the house at night now, for Mrs. Trehearn does
everything herself, and when I have a friend the sexton's niece comes in
to wait on the table. He takes his wife home every evening in winter,
but in summer, when there's light, she goes by herself. She's not a
nervous woman, but she's less sure than she used to be that there are no
bogies in England worth a Scotchwoman's notice. Isn't it amusing, the
idea that Scotland has a monopoly of the supernatural? Odd sort of
national pride, I call that, don't you?
That's a good fire, isn't it? When driftwood gets started at last
there's nothing like it, I think. Yes, we get lots of it, for I'm sorry
to say there are still a great many wrecks about here. It's a lonely
coast, and you may have all the wood you want for the trouble of
bringing it in. Trehearn and I borrow a cart now and then, and load it
between here and the Spit. I hate a coal fire when I can get wood of any
sort. A log is company, even if it's only a piece of a deck-beam or
timber sawn off, and the salt in it makes pretty sparks. See how they
fly, like Japanese hand-fireworks! Upon my word, with an old friend and
a good fire and a pipe, one forgets all about that thing upstairs,
especially now that the wind has moderated. It's only a lull, though,
and it will blow a gale before morning.
You think you would like to see the skull? I've no objection. There's no
reason why you shouldn't have a look at it, and you never saw a more
perfect one in your life, except that there are two front teeth missing
in the lower jaw.
Oh yes--I had not told you about the jaw yet. Trehearn found it in the
garden last spring when he was digging a pit for a new asparagus bed.
You know we make asparagus beds six or eight feet deep here. Yes, yes--I
had forgotten to tell you that. He was digging straight down, just as he
digs a grave; if you want a good asparagus bed made, I advise you to
get a sexton to make it for you. Those fellows have a wonderful knack at
that sort of digging.
Trehearn had got down about three feet when he cut into a mass of white
lime in the side of the trench. He had noticed that the earth was a
little looser there, though he says it had not been disturbed for a
number of years. I suppose he thought that even old lime might not be
good for asparagus, so he broke it out and threw it up. It was pretty
hard, he says, in biggish lumps, and out of sheer force of habit he
cracked the lumps with his spade as they lay outside the pit beside him;
the jawbone of a skull dropped out of one of the pieces. He thinks he
must have knocked out the two front teeth in breaking up the lime, but
he did not see them anywhere. He's a very experienced man in such
things, as you may imagine, and he said at once that the jaw had
probably belonged to a young woman, and that the teeth had been complete
when she died. He brought it to me, and asked me if I wanted to keep it;
if I did not, he said he would drop it into the next grave he made in
the churchyard, as he supposed it was a Christian jaw, and ought to have
decent burial, wherever the rest of the body might be. I told him that
doctors often put bones into quicklime to whiten them nicely, and that
I supposed Dr. Pratt had once had a little lime pit in the garden for
that purpose, and had forgotten the jaw. Trehearn looked at me quietly.
"Maybe it fitted that skull that used to be in the cupboard upstairs,
sir," he said. "Maybe Dr. Pratt had put the skull into the lime to clean
it, or something, and when he took it out he left the lower jaw behind.
There's some human hair sticking in the lime, sir."
I saw there was, and that was what Trehearn said. If he did not suspect
something, why in the world should he have suggested that the jaw might
fit the skull? Besides, it did. That's proof that he knows more than he
cares to tell. Do you suppose he looked before she was buried? Or
perhaps--when he buried Luke in the same grave----
Well, well, it's of no use to go over that, is it? I said I would keep
the jaw with the skull, and I took it upstairs and fitted it into its
place. There's not the slightest doubt about the two belonging together,
and together they are.
Trehearn knows several things. We were talking about plastering the
kitchen a while ago, and he happened to remember that it had not been
done since the very week when Mrs. Pratt died. He did not say that the
mason must have left some lime on the place, but he thought it, and
that it was the very same lime he had found in the asparagus pit. He
knows a lot. Trehearn is one of your silent beggars who can put two and
two together. That grave is very near the back of his cottage, too, and
he's one of the quickest men with a spade I ever saw. If he wanted to
know the truth, he could, and no one else would ever be the wiser unless
he chose to tell. In a quiet village like ours, people don't go and
spend the night in the churchyard to see whether the sexton potters
about by himself between ten o'clock and daylight.
What is awful to think of, is Luke's deliberation, if he did it; his
cool certainty that no one would find him out; above all, his nerve, for
that must have been extraordinary. I sometimes think it's bad enough to
live in the place where it was done, if it really was done. I always put
in the condition, you see, for the sake of his memory, and a little bit
for my own sake, too.
I'll go upstairs and fetch the box in a minute. Let me light my pipe;
there's no hurry! We had supper early, and it's only half-past nine
o'clock. I never let a friend go to bed before twelve, or with less than
three glasses--you may have as many more as you like, but you shan't
have less, for the sake of old times.
It's breezing up again, do you hear? That was only a lull just now, and
we are going to have a bad night.
A thing happened that made me start a little when I found that the jaw
fitted exactly. I'm not very easily startled in that way myself, but I
have seen people make a quick movement, drawing their breath sharply,
when they had thought they were alone and suddenly turned and saw some
one very near them. Nobody can call that fear. You wouldn't, would you?
No. Well, just when I had set the jaw in its place under the skull, the
teeth closed sharply on my finger. It felt exactly as if it were biting
me hard, and I confess that I jumped before I realised that I had been
pressing the jaw and the skull together with my other hand. I assure you
I was not at all nervous. It was broad daylight, too, and a fine day,
and the sun was streaming into the best bedroom. It would have been
absurd to be nervous, and it was only a quick mistaken impression, but
it really made me feel queer. Somehow it made me think of the funny
verdict of the coroner's jury on Luke's death, "by the hand or teeth of
some person or animal unknown." Ever since that I've wished I had seen
those marks on his throat, though the lower jaw was missing then.
I have often seen a man do insane things with his hands that he does
not realise at all. I once saw a man hanging on by an old awning stop
with one hand, leaning backward, outboard, with all his weight on it,
and he was just cutting the stop with the knife in his other hand when I
got my arms round him. We were in mid-ocean, going twenty knots. He had
not the smallest idea what he was doing; neither had I when I managed to
pinch my finger between the teeth of that thing. I can feel it now. It
was exactly as if it were alive and were trying to bite me. It would if
it could, for I know it hates me, poor thing! Do you suppose that what
rattles about inside is really a bit of lead? Well, I'll get the box
down presently, and if whatever it is happens to drop out into your
hands that's your affair. If it's only a clod of earth or a pebble, the
whole matter would be off my mind, and I don't believe I should ever
think of the skull again; but somehow I cannot bring myself to shake out
the bit of hard stuff myself. The mere idea that it may be lead makes me
confoundedly uncomfortable, yet I've got the conviction that I shall
know before long. I shall certainly know. I'm sure Trehearn knows, but
he's such a silent beggar.
I'll go upstairs now and get it. What? You had better go with me? Ha,
ha! do you think I'm afraid of a bandbox and a noise? Nonsense!
Bother the candle, it won't light! As if the ridiculous thing
understood what it's wanted for! Look at that--the third match. They
light fast enough for my pipe. There, do you see? It's a fresh box, just
out of the tin safe where I keep the supply on account of the dampness.
Oh, you think the wick of the candle may be damp, do you? All right,
I'll light the beastly thing in the fire. That won't go out, at all
events. Yes, it sputters a bit, but it will keep lighted now. It burns
just like any other candle, doesn't it? The fact is, candles are not
very good about here. I don't know where they come from, but they have a
way of burning low occasionally, with a greenish flame that spits tiny
sparks, and I'm often annoyed by their going out of themselves. It
cannot be helped, for it will be long before we have electricity in our
village. It really is rather a poor light, isn't it?
You think I had better leave you the candle and take the lamp, do you? I
don't like to carry lamps about, that's the truth. I never dropped one
in my life, but I have always thought I might, and it's so confoundedly
dangerous if you do. Besides, I am pretty well used to these rotten
candles by this time.
You may as well finish that glass while I'm getting it, for I don't mean
to let you off with less than three before you go to bed. You won't
have to go upstairs, either, for I've put you in the old study next to
the surgery--that's where I live myself. The fact is, I never ask a
friend to sleep upstairs now. The last man who did was Crackenthorpe,
and he said he was kept awake all night. You remember old Crack, don't
you? He stuck to the Service, and they've just made him an admiral. Yes,
I'm off now--unless the candle goes out. I couldn't help asking if you
remembered Crackenthorpe. If any one had told us that the skinny little
idiot he used to be was to turn out the most successful of the lot of
us, we should have laughed at the idea, shouldn't we? You and I did not
do badly, it's true--but I'm really going now. I don't mean to let you
think that I've been putting it off by talking! As if there were
anything to be afraid of! If I were scared, I should tell you so quite
frankly, and get you to go upstairs with me.
       *       *       *       *       *
Here's the box. I brought it down very carefully, so as not to disturb
it, poor thing. You see, if it were shaken, the jaw might get separated
from it again, and I'm sure it wouldn't like that. Yes, the candle went
out as I was coming downstairs, but that was the draught from the leaky
window on the landing. Did you hear anything? Yes, there was another
scream. Am I pale, do you say? That's nothing. My heart is a little
queer sometimes, and I went upstairs too fast. In fact, that's one
reason why I really prefer to live altogether on the ground floor.
Wherever that shriek came from, it was not from the skull, for I had the
box in my hand when I heard the noise, and here it is now; so we have
proved definitely that the screams are produced by something else. I've
no doubt I shall find out some day what makes them. Some crevice in the
wall, of course, or a crack in a chimney, or a chink in the frame of a
window. That's the way all ghost stories end in real life. Do you know,
I'm jolly glad I thought of going up and bringing it down for you to
see, for that last shriek settles the question. To think that I should
have been so weak as to fancy that the poor skull could really cry out
like a living thing!
Now I'll open the box, and we'll take it out and look at it under the
bright light. It's rather awful to think that the poor lady used to sit
there, in your chair, evening after evening, in just the same light,
isn't it? But then--I've made up my mind that it's all rubbish from
beginning to end, and that it's just an old skull that Luke had when he
was a student; and perhaps he put it into the lime merely to whiten it,
and could not find the jaw.
I made a seal on the string, you see, after I had put the jaw in its
place, and I wrote on the cover. There's the old white label on it
still, from the milliner's, addressed to Mrs. Pratt when the hat was
sent to her, and as there was room I wrote on the edge: "A skull, once
the property of the late Luke Pratt, M.D." I don't quite know why I
wrote that, unless it was with the idea of explaining how the thing
happened to be in my possession. I cannot help wondering sometimes what
sort of hat it was that came in the bandbox. What colour was it, do you
think? Was it a gay spring hat with a bobbing feather and pretty
ribands? Strange that the very same box should hold the head that wore
the finery--perhaps. No--we made up our minds that it just came from the
hospital in London where Luke did his time. It's far better to look at
it in that light, isn't it? There's no more connection between that
skull and poor Mrs. Pratt than there was between my story about the lead
and----
Good Lord! Take the lamp--don't let it go out, if you can help it--I'll
have the window fastened again in a second--I say, what a gale! There,
it's out! I told you so! Never mind, there's the firelight--I've got the
window shut--the bolt was only half down. Was the box blown off the
table? Where the deuce is it? There! That won't open again, for I've put
up the bar. Good dodge, an old-fashioned bar--there's nothing like it.
Now, you find the bandbox while I light the lamp. Confound those
wretched matches! Yes, a pipe spill is better--it must light in the
fire--I hadn't thought of it--thank you--there we are again. Now,
where's the box? Yes, put it back on the table, and we'll open it.
That's the first time I have ever known the wind to burst that window
open; but it was partly carelessness on my part when I last shut it.
Yes, of course I heard the scream. It seemed to go all round the house
before it broke in at the window. That proves that it's always been the
wind and nothing else, doesn't it? When it was not the wind, it was my
imagination. I've always been a very imaginative man: I must have been,
though I did not know it. As we grow older we understand ourselves
better, don't you know?
I'll have a drop of the Hulstkamp neat, by way of an exception, since
you are filling up your glass. That damp gust chilled me, and with my
rheumatic tendency I'm very much afraid of a chill, for the cold
sometimes seems to stick in my joints all winter when it once gets in.
By George, that's good stuff! I'll just light a fresh pipe, now that
everything is snug again, and then we'll open the box. I'm so glad we
heard that last scream together, with the skull here on the table
between us, for a thing cannot possibly be in two places at the same
time, and the noise most certainly came from outside, as any noise the
wind makes must. You thought you heard it scream through the room after
the window was burst open? Oh yes, so did I, but that was natural enough
when everything was open. Of course we heard the wind. What could one
expect?
Look here, please. I want you to see that the seal is intact before we
open the box together. Will you take my glasses? No, you have your own.
All right. The seal is sound, you see, and you can read the words of the
motto easily. "Sweet and low"--that's it--because the poem goes on "Wind
of the Western sea," and says, "blow him again to me," and all that.
Here is the seal on my watch-chain, where it's hung for more than forty
years. My poor little wife gave it to me when I was courting, and I
never had any other. It was just like her to think of those words--she
was always fond of Tennyson.
It's of no use to cut the string, for it's fastened to the box, so I'll
just break the wax and untie the knot, and afterward we'll seal it up
again. You see, I like to feel that the thing is safe in its place, and
that nobody can take it out. Not that I should suspect Trehearn of
meddling with it, but I always feel that he knows a lot more than he
tells.
You see, I've managed it without breaking the string, though when I
fastened it I never expected to open the bandbox again. The lid comes
off easily enough. There! Now look!
What? Nothing in it? Empty? It's gone, man, the skull is gone!
       *       *       *       *       *
No, there's nothing the matter with me. I'm only trying to collect my
thoughts. It's so strange. I'm positively certain that it was inside
when I put on the seal last spring. I can't have imagined that: it's
utterly impossible. If I ever took a stiff glass with a friend now and
then, I would admit that I might have made some idiotic mistake when I
had taken too much. But I don't, and I never did. A pint of ale at
supper and half a go of rum at bedtime was the most I ever took in my
good days. I believe it's always we sober fellows who get rheumatism and
gout! Yet there was my seal, and there is the empty bandbox. That's
plain enough.
I say, I don't half like this. It's not right. There's something wrong
about it, in my opinion. You needn't talk to me about supernatural
manifestations, for I don't believe in them, not a little bit! Somebody
must have tampered with the seal and stolen the skull. Sometimes, when I
go out to work in the garden in summer, I leave my watch and chain, on
the table. Trehearn must have taken the seal then, and used it, for he
would be quite sure that I should not come in for at least an hour.
If it was not Trehearn--oh, don't talk to me about the possibility that
the thing has got out by itself! If it has, it must be somewhere about
the house, in some out-of-the-way corner, waiting. We may come upon it
anywhere, waiting for us, don't you know?--just waiting in the dark.
Then it will scream at me; it will shriek at me in the dark, for it
hates me, I tell you!
The bandbox is quite empty. We are not dreaming, either of us. There, I
turn it upside down.
What's that? Something fell out as I turned it over. It's on the floor,
it's near your feet, I know it is, and we must find it. Help me to find
it, man. Have you got it? For God's sake, give it to me, quickly!
Lead! I knew it when I heard it fall. I knew it couldn't be anything
else by the little thud it made on the hearth-rug. So it was lead after
all, and Luke did it.
I feel a little bit shaken up--not exactly nervous, you know, but badly
shaken up, that's the fact. Anybody would, I should think. After all,
you cannot say that it's fear of the thing, for I went up and brought it
down--at least, I believed I was bringing it down, and that's the same
thing, and by George, rather than give in to such silly nonsense, I'll
take the box upstairs again and put it back in its place. It's not that.
It's the certainty that the poor little woman came to her end in that
way, by my fault, because I told the story. That's what is so dreadful.
Somehow, I had always hoped that I should never be quite sure of it, but
there is no doubting it now. Look at that!
Look at it! That little lump of lead with no particular shape. Think of
what it did, man! Doesn't it make you shiver? He gave her something to
make her sleep, of course, but there must have been one moment of awful
agony. Think of having boiling lead poured into your brain. Think of
it. She was dead before she could scream, but only think of--oh! there
it is again--it's just outside--I know it's just outside--I can't keep
it out of my head!--oh!--oh!
       *       *       *       *       *
You thought I had fainted? No, I wish I had, for it would have stopped
sooner. It's all very well to say that it's only a noise, and that a
noise never hurt anybody--you're as white as a shroud yourself. There's
only one thing to be done, if we hope to close an eye to-night. We must
find it and put it back into its bandbox and shut it up in the cupboard,
where it likes to be. I don't know how it got out, but it wants to get
in again. That's why it screams so awfully to-night--it was never so bad
as this--never since I first----
Bury it? Yes, if we can find it, we'll bury it, if it takes us all
night. We'll bury it six feet deep and ram down the earth over it, so
that it shall never get out again, and if it screams, we shall hardly
hear it so deep down. Quick, we'll get the lantern and look for it. It
cannot be far away; I'm sure it's just outside--it was coming in when I
shut the window, I know it.
Yes, you're quite right. I'm losing my senses, and I must get hold of
myself. Don't speak to me for a minute or two; I'll sit quite still and
keep my eyes shut and repeat something I know. That's the best way.
"Add together the altitude, the latitude, and the polar distance, divide
by two and subtract the altitude from the half-sum; then add the
logarithm of the secant of the latitude, the cosecant of the polar
distance, the cosine of the half-sum and the sine of the half-sum minus
the altitude"--there! Don't say that I'm out of my senses, for my memory
is all right, isn't it?
Of course, you may say that it's mechanical, and that we never forget
the things we learned when we were boys and have used almost every day
for a lifetime. But that's the very point. When a man is going crazy,
it's the mechanical part of his mind that gets out of order and won't
work right; he remembers things that never happened, or he sees things
that aren't real, or he hears noises when there is perfect silence.
That's not what is the matter with either of us, is it?
Come, we'll get the lantern and go round the house. It's not
raining--only blowing like old boots, as we used to say. The lantern is
in the cupboard under the stairs in the hall, and I always keep it
trimmed in case of a wreck.
No use to look for the thing? I don't see how you can say that. It was
nonsense to talk of burying it, of course, for it doesn't want to be
buried; it wants to go back into its bandbox and be taken upstairs, poor
thing! Trehearn took it out, I know, and made the seal over again.
Perhaps he took it to the churchyard, and he may have meant well. I
daresay he thought that it would not scream any more if it were quietly
laid in consecrated ground, near where it belongs. But it has come home.
Yes, that's it. He's not half a bad fellow, Trehearn, and rather
religiously inclined, I think. Does not that sound natural, and
reasonable, and well meant? He supposed it screamed because it was not
decently buried--with the rest. But he was wrong. How should he know
that it screams at me because it hates me, and because it's my fault
that there was that little lump of lead in it?
No use to look for it, anyhow? Nonsense! I tell you it wants to be
found--Hark! what's that knocking? Do you hear it?
Knock--knock--knock--three times, then a pause, and then again. It has a
hollow sound, hasn't it?
It has come home. I've heard that knock before. It wants to come in and
be taken upstairs, in its box. It's at the front door.
Will you come with me? We'll take it in. Yes, I own that I don't like to
go alone and open the door. The thing will roll in and stop against my
foot, just as it did before, and the light will go out. I'm a good deal
shaken by finding that bit of lead, and, besides, my heart isn't quite
right--too much strong tobacco, perhaps. Besides, I'm quite willing to
own that I'm a bit nervous to-night, if I never was before in my life.
That's right, come along! I'll take the box with me, so as not to come
back. Do you hear the knocking? It's not like any other knocking I ever
heard. If you will hold this door open, I can find the lantern under the
stairs by the light from this room without bringing the lamp into the
hall--it would only go out.
The thing knows we are coming--hark! It's impatient to get in. Don't
shut the door till the lantern is ready, whatever you do. There will be
the usual trouble with the matches, I suppose--no, the first one, by
Jove! I tell you it wants to get in, so there's no trouble. All right
with that door now; shut it, please. Now come and hold the lantern, for
it's blowing so hard outside that I shall have to use both hands. That's
it, hold the light low. Do you hear the knocking still? Here goes--I'll
open just enough with my foot against the bottom of the door--now!
Catch it! it's only the wind that blows it across the floor, that's
all--there's half a hurricane outside, I tell you! Have you got it? The
bandbox is on the table. One minute, and I'll have the bar up. There!
Why did you throw it into the box so roughly? It doesn't like that, you
know.
What do you say? Bitten your hand? Nonsense, man! You did just what I
did. You pressed the jaws together with your other hand and pinched
yourself. Let me see. You don't mean to say you have drawn blood? You
must have squeezed hard, by Jove, for the skin is certainly torn. I'll
give you some carbolic solution for it before we go to bed, for they say
a scratch from a skull's tooth may go bad and give trouble.
Come inside again and let me see it by the lamp. I'll bring the
bandbox--never mind the lantern, it may just as well burn in the hall,
for I shall need it presently when I go up the stairs. Yes, shut the
door if you will; it makes it more cheerful and bright. Is your finger
still bleeding? I'll get you the carbolic in an instant; just let me see
the thing.
Ugh! There's a drop of blood on the upper jaw. It's on the eye-tooth.
Ghastly, isn't it? When I saw it running along the floor of the hall,
the strength almost went out of my hands, and I felt my knees bending;
then I understood that it was the gale, driving it over the smooth
boards. You don't blame me? No, I should think not! We were boys
together, and we've seen a thing or two, and we may just as well own to
each other that we were both in a beastly funk when it slid across the
floor at you. No wonder you pinched your finger picking it up, after
that, if I did the same thing out of sheer nervousness, in broad
daylight, with the sun streaming in on me.
Strange that the jaw should stick to it so closely, isn't it? I suppose
it's the dampness, for it shuts like a vice--I have wiped off the drop
of blood, for it was not nice to look at. I'm not going to try to open
the jaws, don't be afraid! I shall not play any tricks with the poor
thing, but I'll just seal the box again, and we'll take it upstairs and
put it away where it wants to be. The wax is on the writing-table by the
window. Thank you. It will be long before I leave my seal lying about
again, for Trehearn to use, I can tell you. Explain? I don't explain
natural phenomena, but if you choose to think that Trehearn had hidden
it somewhere in the bushes, and that the gale blew it to the house
against the door, and made it knock, as if it wanted to be let in,
you're not thinking the impossible, and I'm quite ready to agree with
you.
Do you see that? You can swear that you've actually seen me seal it this
time, in case anything of the kind should occur again. The wax fastens
the strings to the lid, which cannot possibly be lifted, even enough to
get in one finger. You're quite satisfied, aren't you? Yes. Besides, I
shall lock the cupboard and keep the key in my pocket hereafter.
Now we can take the lantern and go upstairs. Do you know? I'm very much
inclined to agree with your theory that the wind blew it against the
house. I'll go ahead, for I know the stairs; just hold the lantern near
my feet as we go up. How the wind howls and whistles! Did you feel the
sand on the floor under your shoes as we crossed the hall?
Yes--this is the door of the best bedroom. Hold up the lantern, please.
This side, by the head of the bed. I left the cupboard open when I got
the box. Isn't it queer how the faint odour of women's dresses will hang
about an old closet for years? This is the shelf. You've seen me set the
box there, and now you see me turn the key and put it into my pocket. So
that's done!
       *       *       *       *       *
Good-night. Are you sure you're quite comfortable? It's not much of a
room, but I daresay you would as soon sleep here as upstairs to-night.
If you want anything, sing out; there's only a lath and plaster
partition between us. There's not so much wind on this side by half.
There's the Hollands on the table, if you'll have one more nightcap. No?
Well, do as you please. Good-night again, and don't dream about that
thing, if you can.
       *       *       *       *       *
The following paragraph appeared in the Penraddon News, 23rd November,
1906:
                "MYSTERIOUS DEATH OF A RETIRED SEA CAPTAIN
     "The village of Tredcombe is much disturbed by the strange death of
     Captain Charles Braddock, and all sorts of impossible stories are
     circulating with regard to the circumstances, which certainly seem
     difficult of explanation. The retired captain, who had successfully
     commanded in his time the largest and fastest liners belonging to
     one of the principal transatlantic steamship companies, was found
     dead in his bed on Tuesday morning in his own cottage, a quarter of
     a mile from the village. An examination was made at once by the
     local practitioner, which revealed the horrible fact that the
     deceased had been bitten in the throat by a human assailant, with
     such amazing force as to crush the windpipe and cause death. The
     marks of the teeth of both jaws were so plainly visible on the skin
     that they could be counted, but the perpetrator of the deed had
     evidently lost the two lower middle incisors. It is hoped that this
     peculiarity may help to identify the murderer, who can only be a
     dangerous escaped maniac. The deceased, though over sixty-five
     years of age, is said to have been a hale man of considerable
     physical strength, and it is remarkable that no signs of any
     struggle were visible in the room, nor could it be ascertained how
     the murderer had entered the house. Warning has been sent to all
     the insane asylums in the United Kingdom, but as yet no information
     has been received regarding the escape of any dangerous patient.
     "The coroner's jury returned the somewhat singular verdict that
     Captain Braddock came to his death 'by the hands or teeth of some
     person unknown.' The local surgeon is said to have expressed
     privately the opinion that the maniac is a woman, a view he deduces
     from the small size of the jaws, as shown by the marks of the
     teeth. The whole affair is shrouded in mystery. Captain Braddock
     was a widower, and lived alone. He leaves no children."
[Note.--Students of ghost lore and haunted houses will find the
foundation of the foregoing story in the legends about a skull which is
still preserved in the farm-house called Bettiscombe Manor, situated, I
believe, on the Dorsetshire coast.]
MAN OVERBOARD!
Yes--I have heard "Man overboard!" a good many times since I was a boy,
and once or twice I have seen the man go. There are more men lost in
that way than passengers on ocean steamers ever learn of. I have stood
looking over the rail on a dark night, when there was a step beside me,
and something flew past my head like a big black bat--and then there was
a splash! Stokers often go like that. They go mad with the heat, and
they slip up on deck and are gone before anybody can stop them, often
without being seen or heard. Now and then a passenger will do it, but he
generally has what he thinks a pretty good reason. I have seen a man
empty his revolver into a crowd of emigrants forward, and then go over
like a rocket. Of course, any officer who respects himself will do what
he can to pick a man up, if the weather is not so heavy that he would
have to risk his ship; but I don't think I remember seeing a man come
back when he was once fairly gone more than two or three times in all my
life, though we have often picked up the life-buoy, and sometimes the
fellow's cap. Stokers and passengers jump over; I never knew a sailor to
do that, drunk or sober. Yes, they say it has happened on hard ships,
but I never knew a case myself. Once in a long time a man is fished out
when it is just too late, and dies in the boat before you can get him
aboard, and--well, I don't know that I ever told that story since it
happened--I knew a fellow who went over, and came back dead. I didn't
see him after he came back; only one of us did, but we all knew he was
there.
No, I am not giving you "sharks." There isn't a shark in this story, and
I don't know that I would tell it at all if we weren't alone, just you
and I. But you and I have seen things in various parts, and maybe you
will understand. Anyhow, you know that I am telling what I know about,
and nothing else; and it has been on my mind to tell you ever since it
happened, only there hasn't been a chance.
It's a long story, and it took some time to happen; and it began a good
many years ago, in October, as well as I can remember. I was mate then;
I passed the local Marine Board for master about three years later. She
was the Helen B. Jackson, of New York, with lumber for the West
Indies, four-masted schooner, Captain Hackstaff. She was an
old-fashioned one, even then--no steam donkey, and all to do by hand.
There were still sailors in the coasting trade in those days, you
remember. She wasn't a hard ship, for the Old Man was better than most
of them, though he kept to himself and had a face like a monkey-wrench.
We were thirteen, all told, in the ship's company; and some of them
afterwards thought that might have had something to do with it, but I
had all that nonsense knocked out of me when I was a boy. I don't mean
to say that I like to go to sea on a Friday, but I have gone to sea on
a Friday, and nothing has happened; and twice before that we have been
thirteen, because one of the hands didn't turn up at the last minute,
and nothing ever happened either--nothing worse than the loss of a light
spar or two, or a little canvas. Whenever I have been wrecked, we had
sailed as cheerily as you please--no thirteens, no Fridays, no dead men
in the hold. I believe it generally happens that way.
I daresay you remember those two Benton boys that were so much alike? It
is no wonder, for they were twin brothers. They shipped with us as boys
on the old Boston Belle, when you were mate and I was before the mast.
I never was quite sure which was which of those two, even then; and when
they both had beards it was harder than ever to tell them apart. One was
Jim, and the other was Jack; James Benton and John Benton. The only
difference I ever could see was, that one seemed to be rather more
cheerful and inclined to talk than the other; but one couldn't even be
sure of that. Perhaps they had moods. Anyhow, there was one of them that
used to whistle when he was alone. He only knew one tune, and that was
"Nancy Lee," and the other didn't know any tune at all; but I may be
mistaken about that, too. Perhaps they both knew it.
Well, those two Benton boys turned up on board the Helen B. Jackson.
They had been on half a dozen ships since the Boston Belle, and they
had grown up and were good seamen. They had reddish beards and bright
blue eyes and freckled faces; and they were quiet fellows, good workmen
on rigging, pretty willing, and both good men at the wheel. They managed
to be in the same watch--it was the port watch on the Helen B., and
that was mine, and I had great confidence in them both. If there was any
job aloft that needed two hands, they were always the first to jump into
the rigging; but that doesn't often happen on a fore-and-aft schooner.
If it breezed up, and the jibtopsail was to be taken in, they never
minded a wetting, and they would be out at the bowsprit end before there
was a hand at the downhaul. The men liked them for that, and because
they didn't blow about what they could do. I remember one day in a
reefing job, the downhaul parted and came down on deck from the peak of
the spanker. When the weather moderated, and we shook the reefs out, the
downhaul was forgotten until we happened to think we might soon need it
again. There was some sea on, and the boom was off, and the gaff was
slamming. One of those Benton boys was at the wheel, and before I knew
what he was doing, the other was out on the gaff with the end of the new
downhaul, trying to reeve it through its block. The one who was steering
watched him, and got as white as cheese. The other one was swinging
about on the gaff end, and every time she rolled to leeward, he brought
up with a jerk that would have sent anything but a monkey flying into
space. But he didn't leave it until he had rove the new rope, and he got
back all right. I think it was Jack at the wheel; the one that seemed
more cheerful, the one that whistled "Nancy Lee." He had rather have
been doing the job himself than watch his brother do it, and he had a
scared look; but he kept her as steady as he could in the swell, and he
drew a long breath when Jim had worked his way back to the peak-halliard
block, and had something to hold on to. I think it was Jim.
They had good togs, too, and they were neat and clean men in the
forecastle. I knew they had nobody belonging to them ashore--no mother,
no sisters, and no wives; but somehow they both looked as if a woman
overhauled them now and then. I remember that they had one ditty bag
between them, and they had a woman's thimble in it. One of the men said
something about it to them, and they looked at each other; and one
smiled, but the other didn't. Most of their clothes were alike, but they
had one red guernsey between them. For some time I used to think it was
always the same one that wore it, and I thought that might be a way to
tell them apart. But then I heard one asking the other for it, and
saying that the other had worn it last. So that was no sign either. The
cook was a West Indiaman, called James Lawley; his father had been
hanged for putting lights in cocoanut trees where they didn't belong.
But he was a good cook, and knew his business; and it wasn't
soup-and-bully and dog's-body every Sunday. That's what I meant to say.
On Sunday the cook called both those boys Jim, and on weekdays he called
them Jack. He used to say he must be right sometimes if he did that,
because even the hands on a painted clock point right twice a day.
What started me to trying for some way of telling the Bentons apart was
this. I heard them talking about a girl. It was at night, in our watch,
and the wind had headed us off a little rather suddenly, and when we had
flattened in the jibs, we clewed down the topsails, while the two Benton
boys got the spanker sheet aft. One of them was at the helm. I coiled
down the mizzen-topsail downhaul myself, and was going aft to see how
she headed up, when I stopped to look at a light, and leaned against the
deck-house. While I was standing there, I heard the two boys talking. It
sounded as if they had talked of the same thing before, and, as far as I
could tell, the voice I heard first belonged to the one who wasn't quite
so cheerful as the other--the one who was Jim when one knew which he
was.
"Does Mamie know?" Jim asked.
"Not yet," Jack answered quietly. He was at the wheel. "I mean to tell
her next time we get home."
"All right."
That was all I heard, because I didn't care to stand there listening
while they were talking about their own affairs; so I went aft to look
into the binnacle, and I told the one at the wheel to keep her so as
long as she had way on her, for I thought the wind would back up again
before long, and there was land to leeward. When he answered, his voice,
somehow, didn't sound like the cheerful one. Perhaps his brother had
relieved the wheel while they had been speaking, but what I had heard
set me wondering which of them it was that had a girl at home. There's
lots of time for wondering on a schooner in fair weather.
After that I thought I noticed that the two brothers were more silent
when they were together. Perhaps they guessed that I had overheard
something that night, and kept quiet when I was about. Some men would
have amused themselves by trying to chaff them separately about the girl
at home, and I suppose whichever one it was would have let the cat out
of the bag if I had done that. But, somehow, I didn't like to. Yes, I
was thinking of getting married myself at that time, so I had a sort of
fellow-feeling for whichever one it was, that made me not want to chaff
him.
They didn't talk much, it seemed to me; but in fair weather, when there
was nothing to do at night, and one was steering, the other was
everlastingly hanging round as if he were waiting to relieve the wheel,
though he might have been enjoying a quiet nap for all I cared in such
weather. Or else, when one was taking his turn at the lookout, the other
would be sitting on an anchor beside him. One kept near the other, at
night more than in the daytime. I noticed that. They were fond of
sitting on that anchor, and they generally tucked away their pipes under
it, for the Helen B. was a dry boat in most weather, and like most
fore-and-afters was better on a wind than going free. With a beam sea we
sometimes shipped a little water aft. We were by the stern, anyhow, on
that voyage, and that is one reason why we lost the man.
We fell in with a southerly gale, southeast at first; and then the
barometer began to fall while you could watch it, and a long swell began
to come up from the south'ard. A couple of months earlier we might have
been in for a cyclone, but it's "October all over" in those waters, as
you know better than I. It was just going to blow, and then it was to
rain, that was all; and we had plenty of time to make everything snug
before it breezed up much. It blew harder after sunset, and by the time
it was quite dark it was a full gale. We had shortened sail for it, but
as we were by the stern we were carrying the spanker close reefed
instead of the storm trysail. She steered better so, as long as we
didn't have to heave to. I had the first watch with the Benton boys, and
we had not been on deck an hour when a child might have seen that the
weather meant business.
