was well enough to be removed to his own apart- 
ments in the neighborhood. A carriage was sent 
for, and the transfer was made, and made through 
a crowd in the streets, which stood silent and un- 
covered as his carriage passed through it. Dr. 
Leigh remained with him for an hour longer, and 
then left him in charge of a young gentleman 
from the Neighborhood Guild, who gladly volun- 
teered to watch for the night. 
Ruth walked slowly home, weary now that the 
excitement was over, and revolving many things in 
her mind, as is the custom of women. She heard 
again that voice, she saw again that inspired face ; 
but the impression most indelible with her was the 
prostrate form, the pallid countenance, the help- 
lessness of this man whose will had before been 
strong enough to compel the obedience of his de- 
spised body. She had admired his strength; but it 
was his weakness that drew upon her woman's 
heart, and evolved a tenderness dangerous to her 
peace of mind. Yet it was the doctor and not the 
woman that replied to the inquiries at the dispen- 
sary. 
" Yes, it was fasting and overwork. Men are so 
stupid ; they think they can defy all the laws of 
nature, especially priests." And she determined to 
be quite plain with him next day. 
And Father Damon, lying weary in his bed, be- 
fore he fell asleep, saw the faces in the dim chapel 
turned to him in strained eagerness the moment 
before he lost consciousness; but the most vivid 
image was that of a woman bending over him, 
with eyes of tenderness and pity, and the smile 
with which she greeted his awakening. He could 
feel yet her hand upon his brow. 
When Dr. Leigh called next day, on her morning 
rounds, she found a brother of the celibate order, 
Father Monies, in charge. He was sitting by the 
window reading, and when the doctor came up the 
steps he told her in a low voice to enter without 
knocking. Father Damon was better, much better ; 
but he had advised him not to leave his bed, and 
the patient had been dozing all the morning. The 
doctor asked if he had eaten anything, and how 
much. The apartment was small and scantily fur- 
nished a sort of anchorite cell. Through the 
drawn doors of the next room the bed was in 
sight. As they were talking in low voices there 
came from this room a cheerful 
" Good-morning, doctor." 
" I hope you ate a good breakfast," she said, as 
she arose and went to his bedside. 
" I suppose you mean better than usual," he re- 
plied, with a faint attempt at a smile. " Xo doubt 
you and Father Monies are satisfied, now you've 
got me laid up." 
"That depends upon your intentions." 
" Oh, I intend to get up to-morrow." 
" If you do, without other change in your inten- 
tions, I am going to report you to the Organized 
Charity as a person who has no visible means of 
support." 
She had brought a bunch of violets, and as they 
talked she had filled a glass with water and put 
them on a stand by the head of the bed. Then 
oh, quite professionally she smoothed out his pil- 
lows and straightened the bedclothes, and, talking 
all the time, and as if quite unconscious of what 
she was doing, moved about the room, putting 
things to rights, and saying, in answer to his pro- 
test, that perhaps she should lose her reputation as 
a physician in his eyes by appearing to be a pro- 
fessional nurse. 
There was a timid knock at the door, and a for- 
lorn little figure, clad in a rumpled calico, with an 
old shawl over her head, half concealing an eager 
and pretty face, stood in the doorway, and hesitat- 
ingly came in. 
" Meine Mutter sent me to see how Father Da- 
mon is," she explained ; " she could not come, be- 
cause she washes." 
She had a bunch of flowers in her hand, and en- 
couraged by the greeting of the invalid, she came 
to the bedside and placed them in his outstretched 
hand a faded blossom of scarlet geranium, a 
bachelor's-button, and a sprig of parsley, probably 
begged of a street dealer as she came along. " Some 
blooms," she said. 
"Bless you, my dear," said Father Damon ; "they 
are very pretty." 
" Dey smells nice," the child exclaimed, her eyes 
dancing with pleasure at the reception of her gift 
She stood staring at him, and then, her eye catch, 
ing the violets, she added, " Dose is pooty, too." 
" If you can stay half an hour or so, I should 
like to step round to the chapel," Father Monies 
said to the doctor in the front room, taking up 
his hat. 
The doctor could stay. The little girl had moved, 
a chair up to the bedside, and sat quite silent, her 
grimy little hand grasped in the father's. Ruth, 
saying that she hoped the father wouldn't mind, 
began to put in order the front room, which the 
incidents of the night had somewhat disturbed. 
Father Damon, holding fast by that little hand to 
the world of poverty to which he had devoted his 
life, could not refrain from watching her, as she 
moved about with the quick, noiseless way that a 
woman has when she is putting things to rights. 
This was indeed a novel invasion of his life. He 
was still too weak to reason about it much. How 
good she was, how womanly ! And what a sense 
of peace and repose she brought into his apart- 
ment ! The presence of Brother Monies was peace- 
ful also, but hers was somehow different. His eyes 
had not cared to follow the brother about the room. 
He knew that she was unselfish, but he had not 
noticed before that her ways were so graceful. 
As she turned her face towards him from time to 
time he thought its expression beautiful. Ruth 
Leigh would have smiled grimly if any one had 
called her beautiful, but then she did not know 
how she looked sometimes when her feelings were 
touched. It is said that the lamp of love can il- 
lumine into beauty any features of clay through 
which it shines. As he gazed, letting himself drift 
as in a dream, suddenly a thought shot through 
his mind that made him close his eyes, and such a 
severe priestly look came upon his face that the 
little girl, who had never taken her eyes off him, 
exclaimed, 
" It is worse ?" 
" No, my dear," he replied, with a reassuring 
smile ; " at least, I hope not." 
But when the doctor, finishing her work, drew a 
chair into the doorway, and sat by the foot of his 
bed, the stern look still remained on his pale face. 
And the doctor, she also was the doctor again, as 
matter of fact as in any professional visit. 
" You are very kind," he said. 
There was a shade of impatience on her face as 
she replied, "But you must be a little land to 
yourself." 
" It doesn't matter." 
" But it does matter. You defeat the very work 
you want to do. I'm going to report you to youF 
order." And then she added, more lightly, " Don't 
you know it is wrong to commit suicide ?" 
" You don't understand," he replied. " There is 
more than one kind of suicide ; you don't believe 
in the suicide of the soul. Ah me !" And a shade 
of pain passed over his face. 
She was quick to see this. " I beg your pardon, 
Father Damon. It is none of my business, but 
we are all so anxious to have you speedily well 
again." 
Just then Father Monies returned, and the doc- 
tor rose to go. She took the little girl by the 
hand and said, " Come, I was just going round to 
see your father. Good-bye. I shall look in again 
to-morrow." 
" Thank you thank you a thousand times. But 
you have so much to do that you must not bother 
about me." 
Whether he said this to quiet his own con- 
science, secretly hoping that he might see her 
again on the morrow, perhaps he himself could not 
have decided. 
Late the next afternoon, after an unusually 
weary round of visits, made in the extreme heat 
and in a sort of hopeless faithfulness, Dr. Leigh 
reached the tenement in which Father Damon 
lodged. In all the miserable scenes of the day it 
had been in her mind, giving to her work a pleas- 
ure that she did not openly acknowledge even to 
herself, that she should see him. 
The curtains were down, and there was no re- 
sponse to her knock, except from a door in the 
passage opposite. A woman opened the door 
wide enough to show her head and to make it 
evident that she was not sufficiently dressed to 
come out, and said that Father Damon had gone. 
He was very much better, and his friend had taken 
him up-town. Dr. Leigh thanked her, and said 
she was very glad. 
She was so glad that, as she walked away, scarce- 
ly heeding her steps or conscious of the chaffing, 
chattering crowd, all interest in her work and in 
that quarter of the city seemed dead. 
CHAPTER XIII 
IT is well that there is pleasure somewhere in 
the world. It is possible for those who have a 
fresh-air fund of their own to steam away in a 
yacht, out of the midsummer ennui and the weary 
gayety of the land. It is a costly pleasure, and 
probably all the more enjoyed on that account, 
for if everybody had a yacht there would be no 
more feeling of distinction in sailing one than in 
going to any of the second-rate resorts on the 
coast. There is, to be sure, some ennui in yacht- 
ing on a rainy coast, and it might be dull but for 
the sensation created by arrivals at watering-places 
and the telegraphic reports of these sensations. 
If there was any dulness on the Delancy yacht 
means were taken to dispel it. While still in the 
Sound a society was formed for the suppression of 
total abstinence, and so successful was this that 
Point Judith was passed, in a rain and a high and 
chopping sea, with a kind of hilarious enjoyment 
of the commotion, which is one of the things de- 
sired at sea. When the party came round to New- 
port it declared that it had had a lovely voyage, 
and inquiry brought out the great general princi- 
pie, applicable to most coast navigation for pleas- 
ure, that the enjoyable way to pass Point Judith 
is not to know you are passing Point Judith. 
Except when you land, and even after you have 
got your sea-legs on, there is a certain monotony in 
yachting, unless the weather is very bad, and unless 
there are women aboard. A party of lively women 
make even the sea fresh and entertaining. Other- 
wise, the game of poker is much what it is on land, 
and the constant consulting of charts and reckon- 
ing of speed evince the general desire to get some- 
where that is, to arrive at a harbor. In the recol- 
lections of this voyage, even in Jack's recollections 
of it after he had paid the bills, it seemed that it 
had been simply glorious, free from care, generally 
a physical-setting-up performance, and a lark of 
enormous magnitude. And everybody envied the 
fortunate sailors. 
Mavick actually did enjoy it, for he had that 
brooding sort of nature, that self-satisfied atti- 
tude, that is able to appropriate to its own uses 
whatever comes. And being an unemotional and 
very tolerable sailor, he was able to be as cyn- 
ical at sea as on land, and as much of an oracle, 
in his wholly unobtrusive way. The perfect per- 
sonal poise of Mavick, which gave him an air of 
patronizing the ocean, and his lightly held scep- 
tical view of life, made his company as full of fla- 
vor on ship as it was on shore. He didn't know 
anything more about the weather than the Weath- 
er Bureau knows, yet the helmsman of the yacht 
used to consult him about the appearances of the 
sky and a change of wind with a confidence in his 
opinion that he gave to no one else on board. 
And Mavick never forfeited this respect by being 
too positive. It was so with everything ; he evi- 
dently knew a great deal more than he cared to 
tell. It is pleasing to notice how much credit 
such men as Mavick obtain in the world by cir- 
cumspect reticence and a knowing manner. Jack, 
blundering along in his free-hearted, emotional 
way, and never concealing his opinion, was really 
right twice where Mavick was right once, but he 
never had the least credit for wisdom. 
It was late in August that the Delancy yacht 
steamed into the splendid Bar Harbor, making its 
way slowly through one of the rare fogs which 
are sometimes seen by people who do not own real 
estate there. Even before they could see an island 
those on board felt the combination of mountain 
and sea air that makes this favored place at once a 
tonic and a sedative to the fashionable world. 
The party were expected at Bar Harbor. It had 
been announced that the yacht was on its way, 
and some of the projected gayeties were awaiting 
its coming, for the society re-enforcement of the 
half-dozen men on board was not to be despised. 
The news went speedily round that Captain De> 
lancy's flag was flying at the anchorage off the 
landing. 
Among the first to welcome them as they landed 
and strolled up to the hotel was Major Fairfax. 
" Oh yes," he said ; " we are all here that is, all 
who know where they ought to be at the right 
moment." 
To the new-comers the scene was animated. The 
exotic shops sparkled with cheap specialties ; lan- 
daus, pony-phaetons, and elaborate buckboards 
dashed through the streets ; aquatic and lawn-ten- 
nis costumes abounded. If there was not much 
rowing and lawn-tennis, there was a great 'deal of 
becoming morning dressing for these sports, and in 
all the rather aimless idleness there was an air of 
determined enjoyment. Even here it was evident 
that there was a surplus of women. These lovers 
of nature, in the summer season, who had retired 
to this wild place to be free from the importunities 
of society, betrayed, Mavick thought, the common 
instinct of curiosity over the new arrival, and he 
was glad to take it as an evidence that they loved 
not nature less but man more. Jack tripped up 
this ungallant speech by remarking that if Mavick 
was in this mood he did not know why he came 
ashore. And Yan Dam said that sooner or later 
all men went ashore. This thin sort of talk was 
perhaps pardonable after the weariness of a sea 
voyage, but the Major promptly said it wouldn't 
do. And the Major seemed to be in charge of the 
place. 
" No epigrams are permitted. We are here to 
enjoy ourselves. I'm ordered to bring the whole 
crew of you to tea at the Tavish cottage." 
" Anybody else there ?" asked Jack, carelessly. 
" Well, it's the most curious coincidence, but 
Mrs. Henderson arrived last night ; Henderson has 
gone to Missouri." 
" Yes, he wrote me to look out for his wife on 
this coast," said Mavick. 
" You kept mighty still about it," said Jack. 
" So did you," retorted Mavick. 
" It is very curious," the Major explained, " how 
fashionable intelligence runs along this coast, ap- 
parently independent of the telegraph ; everybody 
knows where everybody else is." 
The Tavish cottage was a summer palace of the 
present fashion, but there was one good thing about 
it : it had no tower, nor any make-believe balconies 
hung on the outside like bird - cages. The rooms 
were spacious, and had big fireplaces, and ample 
piazzas all round, so that the sun could be courted 
or the wind be avoided at all hours of the day. It 
was, in short, not a house for retirement and pri- 
vacy, but for entertainment. It was furnished lux- 
uriously but gayly, and with its rugs and portieres 
and divans it reminded Mavick of an Oriental mar- 
quee. Miss Tavish called it her tepee, an evolution 
of the aboriginal dwelling. She liked to entertain, 
and she never appeared to better advantage than 
when her house was full, and something was go- 
ing on continually lively breakfasts and dinners, 
dances, theatricals, or the usual flowing in and out 
of callers and guests, chattering groups, and flirta- 
tious couples. It was her idea of repose from the 
winter's gayety, and in it she sustained the role of 
the non-fatigueable society girl. It is a perform- 
ance that many working-girls regard with amaze- 
ment. 
There was quite a flutter in the cottage, as there 
always is when those who know each other well 
meet under new circumstances after a short separa- 
tion. 
" We are very glad to see you," Miss Tavish said, 
cordially ; " we have been awfully dull." 
" That is complimentary to me," said the Major. 
"You can judge the depths we have been in 
when even the Major couldn't pull us out," she re- 
torted. "Without him we should have simply 
died." 
"And it would have been the liveliest obsequies 
I ever attended." 
Carmen was not effusive in her greeting ; she left 
that role to Miss Tavish, taking for herself that of 
confidential friend. She was almost retiring in her 
manner, but she made Jack feel that she had a 
strong personal interest in his welfare, and she 
asked a hundred questions about the voyage and 
about town and about Edith. 
" I'm going to chaperon you up here," she said, 
"for Miss Tavish will lead you into all sorts of 
wild adventures." 
There was that in the manner of the demure lit- 
tle woman when she made this proposal that con- 
vinced Jack that under her care he would be per- 
fectly safe from Miss Tavish. 
After cigarettes were lighted she contrived to 
draw Mavick away to the piazza. She was very 
anxious to know what Henderson's latest moves 
were. Mavick was very communicative, and told 
her nothing that he knew she did not already 
know. And she was clever enough to see, without 
any apparent distrust, that whatever she got from 
him must be in what he did not say. As to Jack's 
speculations, she made little more progress. Jack 
gave every sign of being prosperous ; he entertained 
royally on his yacht. 
Mavick himself was puzzled to know whether 
Carmen really cared for Jack, or whether she was 
only interested as in a game, one of the things that 
amused her life to play, to see how far he would 
go, and to watch his ascension or his tumble. Mav- 
ick would have been surprised if he had known 
that as a result of this wholly agreeable and con- 
fidential talk, Carmen wrote that night in a letter 
to her husband : 
"Your friend Mavick is here. What a very 
clever man he is ! If I were you I would keep an 
eye on him." 
A dozen plans were started at the tea for reliev- 
ing the tedium of the daily drives and the regula- 
tion teas and receptions. For one thing, weather 
permitting, they would all breakfast at twelve on 
the yacht, and then sail about the harbor, and come 
home in the sunset. 
The day was indeed charming, so stimulating as 
to raise the value of real estate, and incite every- 
body to go off in search of adventure, in wagons, in 
"walking parties, in boats. There is no happiness 
like the anticipation of pleasure begot by such a 
morning. Those who live there said it was regular 
Bar Harbor Aveather. 
Captain Delancy was on deck to receive his 
guests, who came out in small boats, chattering and 
fluttering and " ship-ahoying," as gay in spirits as 
in apparel. Anything but high spirits and non- 
sense would be unpardonable on such a morning. 
Breakfast was served on deck, under an awning, 
in sight of the mountains, the green islands, the 
fringe of breaking sea in the distant opening, the 
shimmer and sparkle of the harbor, the white 
sails of pleasure-boats, the painted canoes, the 
schooners and coal -boats and steamers swinging 
at anchor just enough to make all the scene 
alive. 
" This is my idea," said the Major, " of going to 
sea in a yacht ; it would be perfect if we were tied 
up at the dock." 
" I move that we throw the Major overboard," 
cried Miss Tavish. 
" No," Jack exclaimed ; " it is against the law to 
throw anything into the harbor." 
" Oh, I expected Miss Tavish would throw me 
overboard when Mavick appeared." 
Mavick raised his glass and proposed the health 
of Miss Tavish. 
"With all my heart," the Major said; "my life 
is passed in returning good for evil." 
" I never knew before," and Miss Tavish bowed 
her acknowledgments, " the secret of the Major's 
attractions." 
" Yes," said Carmen, sweetly, " he is all things to 
all women." 
" You don't appear to have a friend here, Major," 
Mavick suggested. 
" No ; my friends are all foul - weather friends ; 
come a bright day, they are all off like butterflies. 
That comes of being constant." 
" That's no distinction," Carmen exclaimed ; " all 
men are that till they get what they want." 
" Alas ! that women also in three days here be- 
come cynical ! It was not so when I was young. 
Here's to the ever young," and he bowed to Carmen 
and Miss Tavish. 
" He's been with Ponce de Leon !" cried Miss 
Tavish. 
"He's the dearest man living, except a few," 
echoed Carmen. " The Major's health." 
The yellow wine sparkled in the glasses like the 
sparkling sea, the wind blew softly from the south, 
the sails in the bay darkened and flashed, and the 
breakfast, it seemed to go along of itself, and ere- 
long the convives were eating ambrosia and sipping 
nectar. Yan Dam told a shark story. Mavick 
demonstrated its innate improbability. The Major 
sang a song a song of the forties, with a touch of 
sentiment. Jack, whose cheerful voice was a little 
of the cider-cellar order, and who never sang when 
he was sad, struck up the latest vaudeville ditty, 
and Carmen and Miss Tavish joined in the chorus. 
" I like the sea," the Major declared. They all 
liked it. The breakfast lasted a long time, and 
when they rose from the table Jack said that pres- 
ently they would take a course round the harbor. 
The Major remarked that that would suit him. He 
appeared to-be ready to go round the world. 
"While they were preparing to start, Carmen and 
Jack strolled away to the bow, where she perched 
herself, holding on by the rigging. He thought he 
had never seen her look so pretty as at that mo- 
ment, in her trim nautical costume, sitting up there, 
swinging her feet like a girl, and regarding him 
with half-mocking, half-admiring eyes. 
"What were they saying ? Heaven only knows. 
What nonsense do people so situated usually talk. 
Perhaps she was warning him against Miss Tavish. 
Perhaps she was protesting that Julia Tavish was 
a very, very old friend. To an observer this ad- 
mirable woman seemed to be on the defensive her 
most alluring attitude. It was not, one could hear, 
exactly a sober talk ; there was laughter and rail- 
lery and earnestness mingled. It might be said 
that they were good comrades. Carmen professed 
to like good comradeship and no nonsense. But 
she liked to be confidential. 
Till late in the afternoon they cruised about 
among the islands, getting diiferent points of view 
of the coast, and especially different points of view 
of each other, in the freedom of talk and repartee 
permitted on an excursion. Before sunset they 
were out in the open, and could feel the long ocean 
swell. The wind had risen a little, and there was 
a low band of clouds in the south. The skipper 
told Mr. Delancy that it would be much fresher 
with the sinking of the sun, but Jack replied that 
it wouldn't amount to anything ; the glass was all 
right. 
' ' Now the great winds shoreward blow ; 
Now the salt tides seaward flow; 
Now the wild white horses play, 
Champ and chafe and toss in the spray." 
Miss Tavish was in the wheel-house, and had 
taken the wheel. This clever girl knew her right 
hand from her left, instantly, without having to 
stop and think and look at her rings, and she knew 
what port and starboard meant, as orders, and ex- 
actly how to meet a wave with a turn of the 
wheel. 
" I say, Captain Delancy," she cried out, " the 
steamer is about due. Let's go down and meet her, 
and race in." 
" All right," replied Jack. " We can run round 
her three times and then beat her in." 
The steamer's smoke was seen at that instant, 
and the yacht was headed for it. The wind was a 
little fresher, but the tight little craft took the 
waves like a duck, and all on board enjoyed the 
excitement of the change, except the Major, who 
said he didn't mind, but he didn't believe the 
steamer needed any escort. 
By the time the steamer was reached the sun was 
going down in a band of clouds. There was no 
gale, but the wind increased in occasional puffs of 
spite, and the waves were getting up. The skipper 
took the wheel to turn the yacht in a circle to 
her homeward course. As this operation created 
strange motions, and did not interest the Major, he 
said he would go below and reflect. 
In turning, the yacht came round on the seaward 
side of the steamer, but far behind. But the little 
craft speedily showed her breeding and overhauled 
her big rival, and began to forge ahead. The little 
group on the yacht waved their hankerchiefs as if 
in good -by, and the passengers on the steamer 
cheered. As the wind was every moment increas- 
ing, the skipper sheered away to allow plenty of 
sea-room between the boats. The race appeared 
to be over. 
" It's a pity," said Miss Tavish. 
" Let's go round her," said Jack ; " eh, skipper ?" 
" If you like, sir," responded the skipper. " She 
can do it." 
The yacht was well ahead, but the change in the 
direction brought the vessels nearer together. But 
there was no danger. The speed they were going 
would easily bring her round away ahead of the 
steamer. 
But just then something happened. The yacht 
would not answer to her helm. The wheel flew 
around without resistance. The wind, hauled now 
into the east, struck her with violence and drove 
her sideways. The little thing was like a chip on 
the sea. The rudder-chain had broken. The yacht 
seemed to fly towards the long, hulking steamer. 
The danger was seen there, and her helm was put 
hard down, and her nose began to turn towards the 
shore. But it was too late. It seemed all over in 
an instant. The yacht dashed bow on to the side 
of the steamer, quivered an instant, and then 
dropped away. At the same moment the steamer 
slowed down and began to turn to assist the 
wounded. 
The skipper of the yacht and a couple of hands 
rushed below. A part of the bow had been carried 
away and a small hole made just above the water- 
line, through which the water spurted whenever 
she encountered a large wave. It was enough to 
waterlog her and sink her in such a sea. The two 
seamen grasped whatever bedding was in reach 
below, rammed it into the opening, and held it 
there. The skipper ran on deck, and by the aid of 
the men hauled out a couple of sails and dropped 
them over the bow. These would aid in keeping 
out the water. They could float now, but where 
were they going? " Going ashore," said Mavick, 
grimly. And so they were. 
""Was there a panic on board?" it was asked 
afterwards. "Not exactly. Among well-bred peo- 
ple a panic is never good form. But there were 
white faces and trembling knees and anxious looks. 
The steamer was coming towards them, and all 
eyes were fixed on that rather than on the rocks 
of the still distant shore. 
The most striking incident of the moment it 
seemed so to some of those who looked back upon 
it was a singular test of character, or rather of 
woman's divination of character. Carmen instinc- 
tively flew to Jack and grasped and held his arm. 
She knew, without stopping to reason about it, 
that he would unhesitatingly imperil his life to 
save that of any woman. Whatever judgment is 
passed upon Jack, this should not be forgotten. 
And Miss Tavish; to whom did she fly in this 
peril ? To the gallant Major ? No. To the cool 
and imperturbable Mavick, who was as strong and 
sinewy as he was cool? Ko. She ran without 
hesitation to Yan Dam, and clung to him, recog- 
nizing instinctively, with the woman's feeling, the 
same quality that Jack had. There are such men, 
who may have no great gifts, but who will always 
fight rather than run under fire, and who will al- 
ways protect a woman. 
Mavick saw all this, and understood it perfectly, 
and didn't object to it at the time but he did not 
forget it. 
The task of rescue was not easy in that sea and 
wind, but it was dexterously done. The steamer 
approached and kept at a certain distance on the 
windward side. A boat was lowered, and a line 
was brought to the yacht, which was soon in tow 
with a stout cable hitched to the steamer's anchor 
windlass. It was all done with much less excite- 
ment than appeared from, the telegraphed accounts, 
and while the party were being towed home the 
peril seemed to have been exaggerated, and the af- 
fair to look like an ordinary sea incident. But the 
skipper said that it was one escape in a hundred. 
The captain of the steamer raised his hat grave- 
ly in reply to the little cheer from the yacht, when 
Carmen and Miss Tavish fluttered their handker- 
chiefs towards him. The only chaff from the 
steamer was roared out by a fat Boston man, who 
made a funnel of his hands and shouted, " The race 
is not always to the swift." 
As soon as Jack stepped ashore he telegraphed 
to Edith that the yacht had had an accident in the 
harbor, but that no one was hurt. When he reached 
the hotel he found a letter from Edith of such a 
tenor that he sent another despatch, saying that 
she might expect him at once, leaving the yacht 
behind. There was a buzz of excitement in the 
town, and there were a hundred rumors, which the 
sight of the yacht and its passengers landed in 
safety scarcely sufficed to allay. 
When Jack called at the Tavish cottage to say 
good-by, both the ladies were too upset to see 
him. He took a night train, and as he was whirled 
away in the darkness the events of the preceding 
forty-eight hours seemed like a dream. Even the 
voyage up the coast was a little unreal an insub- 
stantial episode in life. And the summer city by 
the sea, with its gayety and gossip and Jbusy idle- 
ness, sank out of sight like a phantom. He drew 
his cap over his eyes, and was impatient that the 
rattling train did not go faster, for Edith, waiting 
there in the Golden House, seemed to stretch out 
her arms for him to come. Still behind him rose 
a picture of that bacchanalian breakfast the Ma- 
jor and Carmen and Mavick and Miss Tavish 
dancing a reel on the sloping deck, then the rising 
wind, the reckless daring of the race, and a vision 
of sudden death. He shuddered for the first time 
in a quick realization of how nearly it came to 
being all over with life and its pleasures. 
CHAPTER XIV 
EDITH had made no appeal to Jack to come home. 
His going, therefore, had the merit in his eyes of 
being a voluntary response to the promptings of 
his better nature. Perhaps but for the accident at 
Mount Desert he might have felt that his summer 
pleasure was needlessly interfered with, but the 
little shock of that was a real, if still temporary, 
moral turning-point for him. For the moment his 
inclination seemed to run with his duty, and he had 
his reward in Edith's happiness at his coming, the 
loving hunger in her eyes, the sweet trust that ani- 
mated her face, the delightful appropriation of him 
that could scarcely brook a moment's absence from 
her sight. There could not be a stronger appeal to 
his manhood and his fidelity. 
" Yes, Jack dear, it was a little lonesome." She 
was swinging in her hammock on the veranda in 
sight of the sea, and Jack sat by her with his cigar. 
"I don't mind telling you now that there were 
times when I longed for you dreadfully, but I was 
glad, all the same, that you were enjoying yourself, 
for it is tiresome down here for a man with nothing 
to do but to wait." 
" You dear thing !" said Jack, with his hand on 
her head, smoothing her glossy hair and pushing it 
back from her forehead, to make her look more in- 
tellectual a thing that she hated. " Yes, dear, I 
was a brute to go off at all." 
" But you wanted to come back ?" And there 
was a wistful look in her eyes. 
"Indeed I did," he answered, fervently, as he 
leaned over the hammock to kiss the sweet eyes 
into content ; and he was quite honest in the ex- 
pression of a desire that was nearly forty-eight 
hours old, and by a singular mental reaction seemed 
to have been always present with him. 
" It was so good of you to telegraph me before I 
could see the newspaper." 
" Of course I knew the account would be greatly 
exaggerated ;" and he made light of the whole affair, 
knowing that the facts would still be capable of 
shocking her, giving a comic picture of the Ma- 
jor's seafaring qualities, and Carmen's and Miss 
Tavish's chaff of the gallant old beau. 
