mountains nor at the sea; most of the time her eyes had rested on the
blue cloth of the empty seat opposite. Occasionally, however, they had
followed the two figures on horseback, and it was after these figures
had passed them a second time, pushing on ahead in order to get a free
space of road for a gallop, that she had offered her suggestion.
"Go back? Not for ten thousand dollars--not for ten thousand devils!"
said John Ash. "What a lazy girl you are, marmer!" And he became gay and
talkative.
His mother responded to his gayety as well as she could: she laughed
when he did. Her laugh was eager. It was almost obsequious.
By-and-by the three temples loomed into view, standing in all their
beauty on the barren waste, majestic, uninjured, extraordinary. Their
rows of fluted columns, their brilliant tawny hues, their perfect Doric
architecture, made the loneliness surrounding them even more lonely,
made the sound of the sea breaking near by on the lifeless shore a
melancholy dirge. When the party reached the great colonnades there were
exclamations; there was even declamation, Mrs. Preston having been
fitted by nature for that. Freemantle, Gates, and Beckett had come
rushing forward to meet their arriving friends. In reality, however, it
was Griff whom they had rushed to meet. Griff to their minds was the
only important person present, even though the unimportant included
Pauline.
"Hallo, Griff, old fellow! how are you?"
"Couldn't you stay, Griff? We've got a tent for you."
They laughed, and made jokes, and hovered about him, longing to drag him
off immediately to show him their drawings, and to discuss with him a
hundred disputed points. But though they thus paid small attention to
Pauline, they were obliged to form part of her train; for as Griff
remained with her, and they remained with Griff, naturally, as Isabella
would have said, they made the tour of inspection in her company.
In the meanwhile Isabella, who had it upon her strictly kept conscience
not to neglect her own duties in spite of the Abercrombie revolt, had
taken her stand before the great temple of Neptune, with her instructive
little book in her hand. "'The men of Poseidonia,'" she began, "'having
been at first true Greeks, had in process of time gradually become
barbarized, changing to Romans.' Poseidonia, girls, was the ancient
name of Pæstum," she interpolated in explanation, glancing over her
glasses at her silent audience.
The Abercrombies could not retort this time, because Aunt Octavia was
very near them, sitting at the base of one of the great columns of
travertine with the air and manner of Neptune's only lawful wife. But
their backs were towards her; she could not see their faces; they were
able, therefore, to make grimaces at Isabella, and this they immediately
proceeded to do in unison, flattening their thin lips over their teeth
in a very ghastly way, and turning up their eyes so unnaturally far that
Isabella was afraid the pupils would never come down again.
"'Yet they still observed one Hellenic festival,'" she read stumblingly
on--stumblingly because she felt obliged from a sort of fascination to
glance every now and then at the distorted countenances before
her--"'one Hellenic festival, when they met together here to call to
remembrance the old days and the old customs, and to weep upon each
other's necks, and to lament drearily. And then, when the time of their
mourning was over, they departed, each man in silence to his Roman
home.'"
"Very fine," said Mrs. Preston, commendingly, from her column.
But Isabella had closed her book, and was walking away, wiping her
forehead: those girls' faces were really too horrible.
"Where are you going, Isabella?" Mrs. Preston called.
"I suppose I may gather some asphodel?" Isabella responded, with some
asperity.
But she did not gather much asphodel. Coming upon Mrs. Ash wandering
about over the fallen stones, she stayed her steps to speak to her. She
was not interested in Mrs. Ash, but she was so "happily relieved" that
dear Paulie lately had given up her rides with the son, that she, as
Paulie's cousin (first), could afford to be civil to the mother, in
spite of that mother's bad judgment as to English and diamonds. Isabella
disapproved of Mrs. Ash; she thought that "such persons" did great harm
by their display of "mere vulgar affluence." No vulgar affluence
oppressed Isabella. She had six hundred dollars a year of her own, and
each dollar was well bred.
"We shall soon be having lunch, I suppose," she began, in a gracious
tone. "It seems almost a desecration, doesn't it, to have it in the
shrine itself, for I see they are arranging it there."
"Oh, is that a shrine?" said Mrs. Ash, vaguely. "I didn't know. But then
I'm not a Catholic. They seem very large buildings. They seem wasted
here."
Little Isabella looked up at her--she was obliged to look up, her
companion was so tall. The anxious expression in Mrs. Ash's eyes had
grown into anguish: she was watching her son, who had now joined Pauline
and her train. Pauline had Carew on her right hand and John Ash on her
left; the four boys walked stragglingly, now in front, now behind, but
never far from Carew.
"You are not well," said Isabella; "the drive was too long for you. Pray
take my smelling-salts; they are sometimes refreshing." And she detached
from its black chain a minute funereal bottle.
"Thank you," answered Mrs. Ash, gazing down uncomprehendingly at the
offering; "I am very well indeed. I was jest looking at your cousin,
Mrs. Graham; she's very handsome."
"Yes," responded Isabella, gladly seizing this opportunity to convey to
the Ash household a little light, "Pauline is handsome--in her own way.
It is not the style that I myself admire. But then I know that my taste
is severe. By ordinary people Pauline is considered attractive; it is
therefore all the more to be deplored that she should be such a sad, sad
flirt."
"A flirt?" said Mrs. Ash.
"Yes--I am sorry to say it. No matter how far she may go, it means
nothing, absolutely nothing; she has not the slightest intention of
allowing herself either to fall in love or to marry again; she prefers
her position as it is. And I don't think she realizes sufficiently that
what is but pastime to her may be taken more seriously by others; and
naturally, I must say, after the way she sometimes goes on. I could
never do so, no matter what the temptations were, and I must say I have
never been able to understand it in Pauline. At present it is Mr. Carew;
she is going to Naples with him to-morrow for the day. As you may
imagine, it is against our wish--Cousin Octavia Preston's and mine. But
Pauline being a widow, which she considers an advantage, and no longer
young (she is thirty, though you may not think it; she shows her age
very fully in the morning)--Pauline, under these circumstances, has for
some time refused a chaperon. I don't think myself that she needs a
chaperon exactly, but she might take a lady friend."
"Going to Naples with him to-morrow," murmured Mrs. Ash. She put her
gloved hand over her mouth for a moment, the large kid expanse very
different from Isabella's little black paw. "I might as well go over
there," she said, starting off with a rapid step towards Pauline.
Pauline received her smilingly; Ash frowned a little. He frowned not at
his mother--she was always welcome; he frowned at her persistence in
standing so near Pauline, in dogging her steps. Mrs. Ash kept this up;
she sat near Pauline at lunch; she followed her when she strolled down
to the beach; she gathered flowers for her; in her India shawl and Paris
bonnet she hovered constantly near.
Only once did John Ash find opportunity to speak to Pauline alone. The
boys had at last carried off Griff by force to their camp; Griff was
willing enough to go, the "force" applied to the intellectual effort
necessary on the boys' part to detach him from a lady who wished to keep
him by her side. They had all been strolling up and down in the shade of
the so-called Basilica, amid the fern and acanthus. Left alone with her
son and Mrs. Graham, Mrs. Ash, after remaining with them a few moments,
turned aside, and entering the temple, sat down there. She was out of
hearing, but still near.
"Ride with me to-morrow, Pauline," Ash said, immediately. "I have not
had a chance to speak to you before. Don't refuse."
"I am afraid I must. I have an engagement."
"With Carew?"
"Yes."
"What is it?"
"I am very good-natured to tell you. I am going to Naples with him for
the day."
"You are going-- Damnation!"
"You forget yourself," said Pauline. Then, when she saw the look on his
face--the face of this man with whom she had played--she was startled.
"Forget myself! I wish I could. You shall not go to Naples."
"And how can you prevent it?"
"Are you daring me?"
"By no means," answered Pauline; and this time she really tried to speak
gently. "I was calling to your remembrance the fact that there is no tie
between us, Mr. Ash; you have no shadow of authority over my actions; I
am free to do as I please."
"I know you are; that is the worst of it," he said, almost with a groan.
"Pauline, don't play with me now. I have given up hoping for anything
for myself--if I ever really did hope; I am not worthy of you. Whether
you could make me worthy I don't know; but I don't ask you that; I don't
ask you to try; it would be too much. I only ask you to be as you have
been; as you were, I mean, during all those many weeks, not as you have
been lately. Only a few days are left when I can see you freely; be kind
to me, then, during those few days, and then I will take myself off."
"I mean to be kind; I am kind."
"Then ride with me to-morrow; just this once more."
"But I told you it was impossible; I told you I was going to Naples."
The pleading vanished from Ash's face and voice. "I never asked you to
do that--to go off with me for a whole day."
Pauline did not answer; she was arranging the flowers which Mrs. Ash had
industriously gathered.
"So much the greater fool I!--is that what you are thinking?" Ash went
on, laughing discordantly.
For the moment Pauline forgot to be angry in the vague feeling,
something like fear, which took possession of her. All fear is
uncomfortable, and she hated discomfort; she gave herself a little
inward shake as if to shake it off. "I shall ask Cousin Oc to go back to
Paris next week," was her thought. "I have had enough of Italy for the
present--Italy and madmen!"
"You won't go?" asked Ash, bending forward eagerly, as though he had
gained hope from her silence.
"To Paris?"
"Are we speaking of Paris? To Naples--to-morrow."
"Oh, I must go to Naples," she answered, gayly. In spite of her gayety
she turned towards the Basilica; Mrs. Ash was the nearest person.
"You are going to my mother? She, at least, is a good woman; she would
never have tarnished herself with such an expedition as you are
planning!" cried Ash, in a fury.
Pauline turned white. "I am well paid for ever having endured you, ever
having liked you," she said, in a low voice, as she hastened on. "I
might have known--I might have known."
There was not much to choose now between the expression of the two
faces, for the woman's sweet countenance showed in its pallor an anger
as vivid as that which had flushed the face of the man beside her, with
a red so dark that his blue eyes looked unnaturally light by contrast,
as though they had been set in the face of an Indian.
Mrs. Ash had come hurriedly out to meet them. Her son paid no attention
to her; all his powers were evidently concentrated upon holding himself
in check. "I shouldn't have said it, even if it were the plain brutal
truth," he said. "But you madden me, Pauline. I mean what I say--you
really do drive me into a kind of madness."
"I have no desire to drive you into anything; I have no desire to talk
with you further," she answered.
"No, no, dearie, don't say that; talk ter him a little longer," said
Mrs. Ash, coming forward, her face set in a tremulous smile. "I'm sure
it's very pleasant here--beside these buildings. And John thinks so much
of you; he means no harm."
"Poor mother!" said Ash, his voice softening. "She does not dare to say
to you what she longs to say; she would whisper it if she could; and
that is, 'Don't provoke him!' She has some pretty bad memories--haven't
you, mother?--of times when I've--when I've gone a-hunting, as one may
say. She'll tell you about them if you like."
"I don't want to hear about them; I don't want to hear about anything,"
answered Mrs. Graham, troubled out of all her composure, troubled even
out of her anger by the strangeness of this strange pair. She looked
about for some one, and, seeing Carew coming from the tents of the camp,
she waved her hand to attract his attention and beckoned to him; then
she went forward to meet him as he hastened towards her.
Ash disengaged himself from his mother, who, however, had only touched
his arm entreatingly, for she had learned to be very cautious where her
son was concerned; he strode forward to Pauline's side.
"I should rather see you dead before me than go with that man
to-morrow."
"Pray don't kill me, at least till the day is over," Pauline answered,
her courage, and her unconquerable carelessness too, returning in the
approach of Carew. "It would be quite too great a disappointment to lose
my day."
"You shall lose it!" said Ash, with a loud coarse oath.
"Oh!" said the woman, all her lovely delicate person shrinking away from
him.
Her intonation had been one of disgust. She held the skirt of her habit
closer, as if to avoid all contact.
V
At five o'clock of the same afternoon Freemantle, Gates, and Beckett,
with Arthur Abercrombie, came running along the narrow streets of a
village some miles from Pæstum.
The stone houses of which this village was composed stood like two solid
walls facing each other, rising directly from the stone-paved road,
which was barely ten feet wide; down this conduit water was pouring like
a brook. The houses were about forty in number, twenty on each side, and
this one short street was all there was of the town.
It was raining, not in drops, but in torrents, with great pats of water
coming over, almost like stones, and striking upon the heads of those
who were passing below; every two or three minutes there came a glare of
blindingly white lightning, followed immediately by the crash of
thunder, which seemed to be rolling on the very roofs of the houses
themselves. The four boys must have been out in the storm for some time,
for they paid no attention to it. Their faces were set, excited. Every
thread of their clothing was wet through.
"This is the house," said Arthur.
They looked up, sheltering their eyes with their arms from the blows of
the rain-balls. From the closed windows above, the faces of Isabella
Holland and the three Abercrombie girls looked down at them, pressed
flatly against the small panes, in order to see; for the storm had made
the air so dark that the street lay in gloom.
The next moment the boys entered.
"No, we haven't found him," said Arthur, in answer to his white sisters'
look. "But we're going to."
"Yes, we're going to," said the others. And then, walking on tiptoe in
their soaked shoes, they went softly into an inner room.
Here on a couch lay Griffith Carew, dying.
An Italian doctor was still trying to do something for the unconscious
man. He had an assistant, and the two were at work together. Near by,
old Mrs. Preston sat waiting, her hands folded upon the knob of a cane
which stood on the floor before her, her chin resting upon her hands. In
this bent position, with her disordered white hair and great black eyes,
she looked witch-like. Three candles burned on a table at the head of
the bed, illumining Carew and the two doctors and the waiting old woman.
The room was long, and its far end was in shadow. Was there another
person present--sitting there silent and motionless? Yes--Pauline. The
boys came to the foot of the bed and gazed with full hearts at Griff.
Griff had been shot by John Ash two hours before. The deed had been done
just as they had reached the shelter of this village, swept into it
almost by a tornado, which, preceding the darker storm, had driven them
far from their rightful road. The darker storm had broken upon them
immediately afterwards with a terrible sound and fury; but the boys had
barely heard the crash in the sky above them as they carried Griff
through the stony little street. They had found a doctor--two of them;
they had done everything possible. Then they had been told that Griff
must die, and they had gone out to look for the murderer.
He could not be far, for the village was small, and he could not have
quitted the village, because the half-broken young horses that had
brought him from Salerno, frightened by the incessant glare of the
lightning, had become unmanageable, dragged their fastenings loose, and
disappeared. In any case the plain was impassable; the roar of the sea,
with the night coming on, indicated that the floods were out; they had
covered the shore, and would soon be creeping inland; the road would be
drowned and lost. Ash, therefore, could not be far.
Yet they had been unable to find him, though they had searched every
house. And they had found no trace of his mother.
During these long hours four times the boys had sallied forth and hunted
the street up and down. The Italians, crowded into their narrow dark
dwellings from fear of the storm, had allowed them to pass freely in and
out, to go from floor to floor; some of the men had even lighted their
little oil lamps and gone down with them to search the shallow cellars.
But the women did not look up; they were telling their beads or
kneeling before their little in-door shrines, the frightened children
clinging to their skirts and crying. For both the street and the dark
houses were lighted every minute or two by that unearthly blinding
glare.
The village version of the story was that the two forestieri had
sprung at each other's throats, maddened by jealousy; poniards had been
drawn, and one of them had fallen. One had fallen, indeed, but only one
had attacked. And there had been no poniards: it was a well-aimed bullet
from an American revolver that had struck down Griffith Carew.
The four boys, brought back each time from their search by a sudden hope
that perhaps Griff might have rallied, and forced each time to yield up
their hope at the sight of his death-like face, were animated in their
grief by one burning determination: they would bring the murderer to
justice. It was a foreign land and a remote shore; they were boys; and
he was a bold, bad man with a wonderful brain--for they had always
appreciated Ash's cleverness, though they had never liked him. In spite
of all this he should not escape; they would hunt him like
hounds--blood-hounds; and though it should take months, even years, of
their lives, they would bring him to justice at the last.
This hot vow kept the poor lads from crying. They were very young, and
their heads were throbbing with their unshed tears; there were big lumps
in their throats when poor Griff, opening his dull eyes for a moment,
knew them, and tried to smile in his cheery old way. But he relapsed
into unconsciousness immediately. And the watch went on.
The gloomy day drew to its close; by the clocks, evening had come.
There was more breathing-space now between the lightning flashes and the
following thunder; the wind was no longer violent; the rain still fell
heavily; its torrent, striking the pavement below, sent up a loud hollow
sound. One of the doctors left the house, and came back with a fresh
supply of candles and various things, vaguely frightful, because hidden,
concealed in a sheet. Then the other doctor went out to get something to
eat. Finally they were both on guard again. And the real night began.
Then, to the waiting group in the lighted silent room, there entered a
tall figure--Azubah Ash; drenched, without bonnet or shawl, she stood
there before them. Her frightened look was gone forever: she faced them
with unconscious majesty. "My son is dead"--this was her announcement.
She walked forward to the bed, and gazed at the man lying there.
"Perhaps he will not die," she said, turning her head to glance at the
others. "God is kind--sometimes; perhaps he will not die." She bent over
and stroked his hair tenderly with her large hand. "Dear heart, live!
Try ter live!" she said; "we want yer to, so much!"
Then she left him, and faced them again. "I thought of warning you," she
began; "you"--and she looked at Mrs. Preston; "and you"--she turned
towards the figure at the end of the room. "My son was not himself when
he was in a passion--I have known it ever sence he was born. Even when
he was a little fellow of two and three I used ter try ter guard him;
but I couldn't do much--his will was stronger than mine. And he was
always very clever, my son was--much cleverer than me. Twice before,
three times before, I've ben afraid he'd take some one's life. You
see, he didn't care about life so much as some people do; and now he has
taken his own."
There was an involuntary stir among the boys.
Mrs. Ash turned her eyes towards them. "Would you like ter see him, so's
ter be sure? In one moment."
She went towards the bed again, and clasped her hands; then she knelt
down, and began to pray beside the unconscious man in hushed tones. "O
God, O our Father, give us back this life: do, Lord--O do. It's so dear
ter these poor boys, and it's so dear ter many; and perhaps there's a
mother too. O Lord, give it back to us! And when he's well again, help
him ter be all that my poor son was not. For Christ's sake."
She rose and crossed to where the boys were standing. "Will you come
now?" she said. "I'm taking him away at dawn." Then, very simply, she
offered her hand to Mrs. Preston. "He was a great deal at your house; he
told me that. I thank you for having ben so kind ter him. Good-bye."
"But I too will go with you," answered Mrs. Preston, in her deep tones.
She rose, leaning on her cane. Mrs. Ash was already crossing the room
towards the door.
The boys followed her; then came Mrs. Preston, looking bent and old. The
figure of Pauline in her dark corner rose as they approached.
"No," said Mrs. Ash, seeing the movement. She paused. "Don't come, my
dear; I really can't let you; you'd think of it all the rest of your
life if you was ter see him now, and 'twould make you feel so bad. I
know you didn't mean no harm. But you mustn't come."
And Pauline, shrinking back into the shadow, was held there by the
compassion of this mother--this mother whose nobler nature, and large
glance quiet in the majesty of sorrow, made her, made all the women
present, fade into nothingness beside her. In the outer room Isabella
and the excited, peering Abercrombies were like four unimportant,
unnoticed ghosts, as the little procession went by them in silence, and
descended the stairs. Then it passed out into the storm.
Mrs. Ash walked first, leading the way, the rain falling on her hair;
the three boys followed; behind them came Mrs. Preston, leaning on her
nephew's arm and helping herself with her cane. They passed down the
narrow street, and the people brought their small lamps to the doorways
to aid them in the darkness. The street ended, but the mother went on:
apparently she was going out on the broad waste. They all followed, Mrs.
Preston merely shaking her head when Arthur proposed that she should
turn back.
At some distance beyond the town there was a grove of oaks; they went
round an angle of this grove, stumbling in the darkness, and came to a
mound behind it; on the summit of the mound there was something--a
square structure of stone. Mrs. Ash went up, and entered a low door.
Within there was but one room, empty save for a small lighted lamp
standing on the dirt floor; a stairway, or rather a flight of stone
steps, ascended to a room above. Mrs. Ash took the lamp and led the way
up; Mrs. Preston's cane sounded on the stones as she followed.
[Illustration: "THE CART WAS GOING SLOWLY ACROSS THE FIELDS, FOR THE
ROAD WAS OVERFLOWED."]
The room above was square, like the one below; it was the whole interior
of the ancient house, or rather the ancient watch-tower; its roof of
beams was broken; the rain came through in several places and dropped
upon the floor. There was a second small lamp in the room besides the
one which Mrs. Ash had brought; the two shed a dim ray over a peasant's
rude bed, where something long and dark and straight was stretched out.
Mrs. Ash went up to the bed, and motioning away the old peasant who was
keeping watch there, she took both lamps and held them high above the
still face. The others drew near. And then they saw that it was John
Ash--dead!
There were no signs of the horror of it; his mother had removed them
all; he lay as if asleep.
The mother held the lights up steadily for a long moment. Then she
placed them on a table, and coming back, took her son's lifeless hand in
hers.
"Now that you've seen him, seen that he's really gone, will you leave me
alone with him?" she said. "I think there's nothing more."
There was a dignity in her face as she stood there beside her child
which made the others feel suddenly conscious of the wantonness of
further intrusion. As they looked at her, too, they perceived that she
no longer thought of them, no longer even saw them: her task was ended.
Without a word they went out. Mrs. Preston's cane sounded on the
stairway again; then there was silence.
At dawn they saw her drive away. Griff might live, the doctors had said.
But for the moment the gazing group of Americans forgot even that. She
was in a cart, with a man walking beside the horse; the cart was going
slowly across the fields, for the road was over-flowed. The storm had
ceased; the sky was blue; the sun, rising, shed his fresh golden light
on the tall, lonely figure with its dark hair uncovered, and on the
long rough box at its feet.
Looking the other way, one could see in the south the beautiful temples
of Pæstum, that have gazed over that plain for more than two thousand
years.
A PINK VILLA
I
"Yes, of the three, I liked Pierre best," said Mrs. Churchill. "Yet it
was hard to choose. I have lived so long in Italy that I confess it
would have been a pleasure to see Eva at court; it's a very pretty
little court they have now at Rome, I assure you, with that lovely Queen
Margherita at the head. The old Marchese is to resign his post this
month, and the King has already signified his intention of giving it to
Gino. Eva, as the Marchesa Lamberti, living in that ideal old Lamberti
palace, you know--Eva, I flatter myself, would have shone in her small
way as brightly as Queen Margherita in hers. You may think I am assuming
a good deal, Philip. But you have no idea how much pain has been taken
with that child; she literally is fitted for a court or for any other
high position. Yet at the same time she is very childlike. I have kept
her so purposely; she has almost never been out of my sight. The
Lambertis are one of the best among the old Roman families, and there
could not be a more striking proof of Gino's devotion than his having
persuaded his father to say (as he did to me two months ago) that he
should be proud to welcome Eva 'as she is,' which meant that her very
small dowry would not be considered an objection. As to Eva herself, of
course the Lambertis, or any other family, would be proud to receive
her," pursued Mrs. Churchill, with the quiet pride which in its
unruffled serenity became her well. "But not to hesitate over her mere
pittance of a portion, that is very remarkable; for the marriage-portion
is considered a sacred point by all Italians; they are brought up to
respect it--as we respect the Constitution."
"It's a very pretty picture," answered Philip Dallas--"the court and
Queen Margherita, the handsome Gino and the old Lamberti palace. But I'm
a little bewildered, Fanny; you speak of it all so appreciatively, yet
Gino was certainly not the name you mentioned; Pierre, wasn't it?"
"Yes, Pierre," answered Mrs. Churchill, laughing and sighing with the
same breath. "I've strayed far. But the truth is, I did like Gino, and I
wanted to tell you about him. No, Eva will not be the Marchesa Lamberti,
and live in the old palace; I have declined that offer. Well, then, the
next was Thornton Stanley."
"Thornton Stanley? Has he turned up here? I used to know him very well."
"I thought perhaps you might."
"He is a capital fellow--when he can forget his first editions."
Mrs. Churchill folded her arms, placing one hand on each elbow, and
slightly hugging herself. "He has forgotten them more than once in
this house," she said, triumphantly.
"He is not only a capital fellow, but he has a large fortune--ten times
as large, I venture to say, as your Lambertis have."
"I know that. But--"
"But you prefer an old palace. I am afraid Stanley could not build Eva
an old castle. Couldn't you manage to jog on with half a dozen new
ones?"
"The trouble with Thornton Stanley was his own uncertainty," said Fanny;
"he was not in the least firm about staying over here, though he
pretended he was. I could see that he would be always going home. More
than that, I should not be at all surprised if at the end of five
years--three even--he should have bought or built a house in New York,
and settled down there forever."
"And you don't want that for your American daughter, renegade?"
Mrs. Churchill unfolded her arms. "No one can be a warmer American than
I am, Philip--no one. During the war I nearly cried my eyes out; have
you forgotten that? I scraped lint; I wanted to go to the front as
nurse--everything. What days they were! We lived then. I sometimes
think we have never lived since."
Dallas felt a little bored. He was of the same age as Fanny Churchill;
but the school-girl, whose feelings were already those of a woman, had
had her nature stirred to its depths by events which the lad had been
too young to take seriously to heart. His heart had never caught up with
them, though, of course, his reason had.
"Yes, I know you are flamingly patriotic," he said. "All the same, you
don't want Eva to live in Fiftieth Street."
"In Fiftieth Street?"
"I chose the name at random. In New York."
"I don't see why you should be sarcastic," said Fanny. "Of course I
expect to go back myself some time; I could not be content without that.
But Eva--Eva is different; she has been brought up over here entirely;
she was only three when I came abroad. It seems such a pity that all
that should be wasted."
"And why should it be wasted in Fiftieth Street?"
"The very qualities that are admired here would be a drawback to her
there," replied Mrs. Churchill. "A shy girl who cannot laugh and talk
with everybody, who has never been out alone a step in her life, where
would she be in New York?--I ask you that. While here, as you see,
before she is eighteen--"
"Isn't the poor child eighteen yet? Why in the world do you want to
marry her to any one for five years more at least?"
Mrs. Churchill threw up her pretty hands. "How little you have learned
about some things, Philip, in spite of your winters on the Nile and your
Scotch shooting-box! I suppose it is because you have had no daughters
to consider."
"Daughters?--I should think not!" was Dallas's mental exclamation.
Fanny, then, with all her sense, was going to make that same old mistake
of supposing that a bachelor of thirty-seven and a mother of
thirty-seven were of the same age.
"Why, it's infinitely better in every way that a nice girl like Eva
should be married as soon as possible after her school-books are closed,
Philip," Mrs. Churchill went on; "for then, don't you see, she can enter
society--which is always so dangerous--safely; well protected, and yet
quite at liberty as well. I mean, of course, in case she has a good
husband. That is the mother's business, the mother's responsibility, and
I think a mother who does not give her heart to it, her whole soul and
energy, and choose well--I think such a mother an infamous woman. In
this case I am sure I have chosen well; I am sure Eva will be happy with
Pierre de Verneuil. They have the same ideas; they have congenial
tastes, both being fond of music and art. And Pierre is a very lovable
fellow; you will think so yourself when you see him."
"And you say she likes him?"
"Very much. I should not have gone on with it, of course, if there had
been any dislike. They are not formally betrothed as yet; that is to
come soon; but the old Count (Pierre's father) has been to see me, and
everything is virtually arranged--a delightful man, the old Count. They
are to make handsome settlements; not only are they rich, but they are
not in the least narrow--as even the best Italians are, I am sorry to
say. The Verneuils are cosmopolitans; they have been everywhere; their
estate is near Brussels, but they spend most of their time in Paris.
They will never tie Eva down in any small way. In addition, both father
and son are extremely nice to me."
"Ah!" said Dallas, approvingly.
"Yes; they have the French ideas about mothers; you know that in France
the mother is and remains the most important person in the family." As
she said this, Mrs. Churchill unconsciously lifted herself and threw
back her shoulders. Ordinarily the line from the knot of her hair behind
to her waist was long and somewhat convex, while correspondingly the
distance between her chin and her belt in front was surprisingly short:
she was a plump woman, and she had fallen into the habit of leaning upon
a certain beguiling steel board, which leads a happy existence in
wrappings of white kid and perfumed lace.
"Not only will they never wish to separate me from Eva," she went on,
still abnormally erect, "but such a thought would never enter their
minds; they think it an honor and a pleasure to have me with them; the
old Count assured me of it in those very words."
"And now we have the secret of the Belgian success," said Dallas.
"Yes. But I have not been selfish; I have tried to consider everything;
I have investigated carefully. If you will stay half an hour longer you
can see Pierre for yourself; and then I know that you will agree with
me."
In less than half an hour the Belgian appeared--a slender, handsome
young man of twenty-two, with an ease of manner and grace in movement
which no American of that age ever had. With all his grace, however, and
his air of being a man of the world, there was such a charming
expression of kindliness and purity in his still boyish eyes that any
mother, with her young daughter's happiness at heart, might have been
pardoned for coveting him as a son-in-law. This Dallas immediately
comprehended. "You have chosen well," he said to Fanny, when they were
left for a moment alone; "the boy's a jewel."
Before the arrival of Pierre, Eva Churchill, followed by her governess,
had come out to join her mother on the terrace; Eva's daily lessons were
at an end, save that the music went on; Mlle. Legrand was retained as a
useful companion.
Following Pierre, two more visitors appeared, not together; one was an
Englishman of fifty, small, meagre, plain in face; the other an
American, somewhat younger, a short, ruddy man, dressed like an
Englishman. Mrs. Churchill mentioned their names to Dallas: "Mr.
Gordon-Gray." "Mr. Ferguson."
It soon appeared that Mr. Gordon-Gray and Mr. Ferguson were in the habit
of looking in every afternoon, at about that hour, for a cup of tea.
Dallas, who hated tea, leaned back in his chair and watched the scene,
watched Fanny especially, with the amused eyes of a contemporary who
remembers a different past. Fanny was looking dimpled and young; her tea
was excellent, her tea-service elaborate (there was a samovar); her
daughter was docile, her future son-in-law a Count and a pearl; in
addition, her terrace was an enchanting place for lounging, attached as
it was to a pink-faced villa that overlooked the sea.
Nor were there wanting other soft pleasures. "Dear Mrs.
Murray-Churchill, how delicious is this nest of yours!" said the
Englishman, with quiet ardor; "I never come here without admiring it."
Fanny answered him in a steady voice, though there was a certain
flatness in its tone: "Yes, it's very pretty indeed." Her face was red;
she knew that Dallas was laughing; she would not look in his direction.
Dallas, however, had taken himself off to the parapet, where he could
have his laugh out at ease: to be called Mrs. Murray-Churchill as a
matter of course in that way--what joy for Fanny!
Eva was listening to the busy Mark Ferguson; he was showing her a little
silver statuette which he had unearthed that morning in Naples, "in a
dusty out-of-the-way shop, if you will believe it, where there was
nothing else but rubbish--literally nothing. From the chasing I am
inclined to think it's fifteenth century. But you will need glasses to
see it well; I can lend you a pair of mine."
"I can see it perfectly--thanks," said Eva. "It is very pretty, I
suppose."
"Pretty, Miss Churchill? Surely it's a miracle!" Ferguson protested.
Pierre, who was sitting near the mother, glanced across and smiled. Eva
did not smile in reply; she was looking vaguely at the blackened silver;
but when he came over to see for himself the miracle, then she smiled
very pleasantly.
Pierre was evidently deeply in love; he took no pains to conceal it; but
during the two hours he spent there he made no effort to lure the young
girl into the drawing-room, or even as far as the parapet. He was very
well bred. At present he stood beside her and beside Mark Ferguson, and
talked about the statuette. "It seems to me old Vienna," he said.
"Signor Bartalama," announced Angelo, Mrs. Churchill's man-servant,
appearing at the long window of the drawing-room which served as one of
the terrace doors; he held the lace curtains apart eagerly, with the
smiling Italian welcome.
Fanny had looked up, puzzled. But when her eyes fell upon the figure
emerging from the lace she recognized it instantly. "Horace Bartholomew!
Now from what quarter of the heavens do you drop this time?"
"So glad you call it heaven," said the new-comer, as she gave him her
hand. "But from heaven indeed this time, Mrs. Churchill--I say so
emphatically; from our own great, grand country--with the permission of
the present company be it spoken." And he bowed slightly to the
Englishman and Pierre, his discriminating glance including even the
little French governess, who smiled (though non-comprehendingly) in
reply. "May I present to you a compatriot, Mrs. Churchill?" he went on.
"I have taken the liberty of bringing him without waiting for formal
permission; he is, in fact, in your drawing-room now. His credentials,
however, are small and puny; they consist entirely of the one item--that
I like him."
"That will do perfectly," said Fanny, smiling.
Bartholomew went back to the window and parted the curtains. "Come," he
said. A tall man appeared. "Mrs. Churchill, let me present to you Mr.
David Rod."
Mrs. Churchill was gracious to the stranger; she offered him a chair
near hers, which he accepted; a cup of tea, which he declined; and the
usual small questions of a first meeting, which only very original minds
are bold enough to jump over. The stranger answered the questions
promptly; he was evidently not original. He had arrived two days before;
this was his first visit to Italy; the Bay of Naples was beautiful; he
had not been up Vesuvius; he had not visited Pompeii; he was not afraid
of fever; and he had met Horace Bartholomew in Florida the year before.
"I am told they are beginning to go a great deal to Florida," remarked
Fanny.
"I don't go there; I live there," Rod answered.
"Indeed! in what part?" (She brought forward the only names she knew.)
"St. Augustine, perhaps? Or Tallahassee?"
"No; I live on the southern coast; at Punta Palmas?"
"How Spanish that is! Perhaps you have one of those old Spanish
plantations?" She had now exhausted all her knowledge of the State save
a vague memory of her school geography: "Where are the Everglades?"
"They are in the southern part of Florida. They are shallow lakes filled
with trees." But the stranger could hardly live in such a place as that.
"No," answered Rod; "my plantation isn't old and it isn't Spanish; it's
a farm, and quite new. I am over here now to get hands for it."
"Hands?"
"Yes, laborers--Italians. They work very well in Florida."
Eva and Mademoiselle Legrand had turned with Pierre to look at the
magnificent sunset. "Did you receive the flowers I sent this morning?"
said Pierre, bending his head so that if Eva should glance up when she
answered, he should be able to look into her eyes.
"Yes; they were beautiful," said Eva, giving the hoped-for glance.
"Yet they are not in the drawing-room."
"You noticed that?" she said, smiling. "They are in the music-room;
Mademoiselle put them there."
"They are the flowers for Mozart, are they not?" said
Mademoiselle--"heliotrope and white lilies; and we have been studying
Mozart this morning. The drawing-room, as you know, Monsieur le Comte,
is always full of roses."
"And how do you come on with Mozart?" asked Pierre.
"As usual," answered Eva. "Not very well, I suppose."
Mademoiselle twisted her handkerchief round her fingers. She was
passionately fond of music; it seemed to her that her pupil, who played
accurately, was not. Pierre also was fond of music, and played with
taste. He had not perceived Eva's coldness in this respect simply
because he saw no fault in her.
"I want to make up a party for the Deserto," he went on, "to lunch
there. Do you think Madame Churchill will consent?"
"Probably," said Eva.
"I hope she will. For when we are abroad together, under the open sky,
then it sometimes happens I can stay longer by your side."
"Yes; we never have very long talks, do we?" remarked Eva, reflectively.
"Do you desire them?" said Pierre, with ardor. "Ah, if you could know
how I do! With me it is one long thirst. Say that you share the feeling,
even if only a little; give me that pleasure."
"No," said Eva laughing, "I don't share it at all. Because, if we should
have longer talks, you would find out too clearly that I am not clever."
"Not clever!" said Pierre, with all his heart in his eyes. Then, with
his unfailing politeness, he included Mademoiselle. "She is clever,
Mademoiselle?"
"She is good," answered Mademoiselle, gravely. "Her heart has a
depth--but a depth!"
"I shall fill it all," murmured Pierre to Eva. "It is not that I myself
am anything, but my love is so great, so vast; it holds you as the sea
holds Capri. Some time--some time, you must let me try to tell you!"
Eva glanced at him. Her eyes had for the moment a vague expression of
curiosity.
This little conversation had been carried on in French; Mademoiselle
spoke no English, and Pierre would have been incapable of the rudeness
of excluding her by means of a foreign tongue.
II
The pink villa was indeed a delicious nest, to use the Englishman's
phrase. It crowned one of the perpendicular cliffs of Sorrento, its rosy
façade overlooking what is perhaps the most beautiful expanse of water
in the world--the Bay of Naples. The broad terrace stretched from the
drawing room windows to the verge of the precipice; leaning against its
strong stone parapet, with one's elbows comfortably supported on the
flat top (which supported also several battered goddesses of marble),
enjoying the shade of a lemon-tree set in a great vase of tawny
