"You may laugh," said Miss Pitcher, nodding her head sagely, "but he did
eat a great deal of sugar. Nothing else would content him but that bowl
on the high shelf."
"Do you still retain the same tastes, Mr. Ford?" said Katharine. "Do you
still prefer what is out of reach--on a high shelf?"
"When one is grown," said Ford, "there is very little that is absolutely
out of reach. It is, generally speaking, a question merely of
determination, and--a long arm."
The sun sank; his rays came slanting under their tree, gilding the grass
in bars. The conversation had taken a turn towards the society of the
eighteenth century. Percival said the most. But a poet may well talk in
a memorial garden, hushed and sunny, on a cushioned carpet under the
trees, with a long-stemmed wineglass near his hand, and fair ladies
listening in rapt attention. Ford, leaning back against his tree, was
smoking a cigarette; it is to be supposed that he was listening also.
"Here is something I read the other day, at least as nearly as I can
recall it," said the speaker. He was gazing at the tops of the trees on
the other side of the pond. He had a habit of fixing his eyes upon
something high above his hearers' heads when speaking. Men considered
this an impertinence; but women had been known to allude to it as
"dreamy."
"'Fair vanished ladies of the past,'" quoted the poet in his delightful
voice, "'so charming even in your errors, do you merit the judgment
which the more rigid customs of our modern age would pronounce upon you?
Was that enthusiasm for virtue and for lofty sentiments with which your
delicious old letters and memoirs, written in faded ink and flowing
language, with so much wit and so much bad spelling, are adorned--was it
all declamation merely, because, weighed in our severer balances, your
lives were not always in accordance with it? Are there not other
balances? And were you not, even in your errors, seeking at least an
ideal that was fair? Striving to replace by a sensibility most devoted
and tender a morality which, in the artificial society that surrounded
you, had become well-nigh impossible? Let us not forget how many of you,
when the dread hour came, faced with unfaltering courage the horrors of
the Revolution, sustained by your example the hearts of strong men which
had failed them, and atoned on the red guillotine for the errors and
follies of your whole generation with your delicate lives.'"
He paused. Then, in a lighter tone, added: "Charming vanished dames, in
your powder and brocade, I salute you! I, for one, enroll myself among
your faithful and tender admirers."
Mr. Percival remained two weeks at Miolans. He was much with Mrs.
Winthrop. They seemed to have subjects of their own for conversation,
for on several occasions when Ford came over in the morning they were
said to be "in the library," and Miss Pitcher was obliged to confess
that she did not feel at liberty to disturb them. She remarked, with a
sigh, that it must be "very intellectual," and once she asked her nephew
if he had not noticed the poet's "brow."
"Oh yes; he is one of those tall, slim, long-faced, talking fellows whom
you women are very apt to admire," said Ford.
Miss Pitcher felt as much wrath as her gentle nature allowed. But again
her sentiments were divided, and she sacrificed her personal feelings.
That evening she confided to Katharine, under a pledge of deepest
secrecy, her belief that "John" was "jealous."
Mrs. Winthrop greeted this confidence with laughter. Not discouraged,
the aunt the next day confided to her nephew her conviction that, as
regarded the poet, Katharine had not yet "at all made up her mind."
"That is rather cruel to Percival, isn't it?" said Ford.
"Oh, he too has many, many friends," said Sylvia, veering again.
"Fortunate fellow!"
At last Percival went. Ford was again the only visitor. And if he did
not have long mornings in the library, he had portions not a few of
afternoons in the garden. For if he came up the water-steps and found
the mistress of the house sitting under the trees, with no other
companion than a book, it was but natural that he should join her, and
possibly make some effort to rival the printed page.
"You do not like driving?" she said, one day. They were in the parlor,
and the carriage was coming round; she had invited him to accompany
them, and he had declined.
"Not with a coachman, I confess."
"There is always the phaeton," she said, carelessly.
He glanced at her, but she was examining the border of her lace scarf.
"On the whole, I prefer riding," he answered, as though it were a
question of general preferences.
"And Katharine rides so well!" said Sylvia, looking up from her wax
flowers. Sylvia made charming wax flowers, generally water-lilies,
because they were "so regular."
"There are no good horses about here," observed Ford. "I have tried them
all. I presume at home in America you keep a fine one?"
"Oh, in America! That is too far off. I do not remember what I did in
America," answered Mrs. Winthrop.
A day or two later. "You were mistaken about there being no good
saddle-horses here," she remarked. "My coachman has found two; they are
in the stable now."
"If you are going to be kind enough to offer one of them to me," he
said, rather formally, after a moment's silence, "I shall then have the
pleasure of some rides with you, after all."
"Yes," answered Mrs. Winthrop. "As you say--after all!" She was smiling.
He smiled too, but shook his head. Sylvia did not see this little
by-play. Whatever it meant, however, it did not prevent Ford's riding
with Mrs. Winthrop several times, her groom following. Miss Pitcher
watched these little excursions with much interest.
Meanwhile letters from Lorimer Percival came to Miolans almost daily.
"That is the Percival crest," said Sylvia to her nephew, one of these
epistles, which had just arrived, being on the hall table, seal upward,
as they passed. "So appropriate for a poet, I think--a flame."
"Ah! I took it for steam," said Ford.
Now the elder Percival had been a successful builder of locomotives.
"John," said Miss Pitcher, solemnly, "do you mean that for derision?"
"Derision, my dear aunt! There is nothing in the world so powerful as
steam. If I only had more, I too might be a poet. Or if my father had
had more, I too might have enjoyed a fortune."
"Mr. Percival enjoys no fortune," said Sylvia, still solemnly.
"What has he done with it, then? Enjoyed it all out?"
"He tells me that it dissolved, like a mist, in his grasp."
"Yes; they call it by various names," said Ford.
Mrs. Winthrop, dressed in her habit, now came down the stairway; she
took the letter and put it in her pocket. That day the groom could not
accompany them: the horse he rode was lame. "We are sufficiently brave
to do without him for one afternoon, are we not?" said the lady.
"I confess I am timid; but I will do my best," answered Ford, assisting
her to mount. Sylvia, standing in the doorway, thought this a most
unfortunate reply.
They rode southward. "Shall we stop for a few moments?" said Katharine,
as they came towards Coppet.
"Yes; for ten," he answered.
The old custodian let them in, and threw open the windows as before. The
visitors went out on the little shelf-like balcony which opened from
the drawing-room.
"You notice there is no view, or next to none," said Ford, "although we
are on the shore of Lake Leman, and under the shadow of Mont Blanc. They
did not care for views in the eighteenth century--that is, views of the
earth; they were all for views of the 'soul.' Madame de Staël detested
the country; to the last, Coppet remained to her a dreary exile. She was
the woman who frankly said that she would not cross the room to look at
the Bay of Naples, but would walk twenty miles to talk with an agreeable
man."
"They were as rare then, it seems, as they are now," said Mrs. Winthrop.
"But to-day we go more than twenty miles; we go to Europe."
"She did the same--that is, what was the same in her day; she went to
Germany. There she found two rather agreeable men--Goethe and Schiller.
Having found them, she proceeded to talk to them. They confessed to each
other, long afterwards, the deep relief they felt when that gifted woman
departed."
"Ah, well, all she wanted, all she was seeking, was sympathy."
"She should have waited until it came to her."
"But if it never came?"
"It would--if she had not been so eager and voracious. The truth is,
Corinne was an inordinate egotist. She expected all minds to defer to
her superiority, while at the very moment she was engaged in extracting
from them any poor little knowledge or ideas they might possess which
could serve her own purposes. All her books were talked into existence;
she talked them before she wrote them. It was her custom, at the
dinner-table here at Coppet, to introduce the subject upon which she was
engaged, and all her guests were expected, indeed forced, to discuss it
with her in all its bearings, to listen to all she herself had to say,
and never to depart from the given line by the slightest digression
until she gave the signal. The next morning, closeted in her own room,
she wrote out the results of all this, and it became a chapter."
"She was a woman of genius, all the same," said Mrs. Winthrop, in a
disagreeing tone.
"A woman of genius! And what is the very term but a stigma? No woman is
so proclaimed by the great brazen tongue of the Public unless she has
thrown away her birthright of womanly seclusion for the miserable mess
of pottage called 'fame.'"
"The seclusion of a convent? or a prison?"
"Neither. Of a home."
"You perhaps commend obedience, also?"
"In one way--yes."
"I'm glad to know there are other ways."
"I shall be very obedient to the woman I love in several of those other
ways," replied Ford, gathering some of the ripening grapes near the
balcony rail.
Mrs. Winthrop went back into the faded drawing-room. "It is a pity there
is no portrait here of Madame Récamier," she remarked. "That you might
have admired."
"The 'incomparable Juliette' was at least not literary. But in another
way she was as much before the public as though she had been what you
call a woman of genius. It may be said, indeed, that she had genius--a
genius for attracting admiration."
"You are hard to please."
"Not at all; I ask only the simple and retiring womanly graces. But
anything retiring was hard to find in the eighteenth century."
"You dislike literary women very much," said Mrs. Winthrop. She had
crossed the room to examine an old mirror made of squares of glass,
welded together by little leaden frames, which had once been gilded.
"Hardly. I pity them."
"You did not know, then, that I was one?"
He had crossed the room also, and was now standing behind her; as she
asked the question she looked at his image in the glass.
"I did not know it," he answered, looking at hers.
"I am, anonymously."
"Better anonymously than avowedly."
"Will you read something I have written?"
"Thanks. I am not in the least a critic."
"I know that; you are too prejudiced, too narrow, to be one. All the
same, will you read?"
"If you insist."
"I do insist. What is more, I have it with me. I have had it for several
days, waiting for a good opportunity." She drew from her pocket a small
flat package, and gave it to him.
"Must it be now?"
"Here and now. Where could we find a more appropriate atmosphere?"
He seated himself and opened the parcel; within was a small square book
in flexible covers, in decoration paper and type, a daintily rich little
volume.
"Ah! I know this," he said. "I read it when it first came out."
"So much the better. You can give me your opinion without the trouble of
reading."
"It received a good deal of praise, I remember," he said, turning over
the leaves.
She was silent.
"There was a charming little description somewhere--about going out on
the Campagna to gather the wild narcissus," he went on, after a pause.
And then there was another silence.
"But--" said Mrs. Winthrop.
"But, as you kindly suggest, I am no judge of poetry. I can say nothing
of value."
"Say it, valuable or not. Do you know, Mr. Ford, that you have scarcely
spoken one really truthful word to me since we first met. Yet I feel
sure that it does not come natural to you, and that it has cost you some
trouble to--to--"
"To decorate, as I have, my plain speech. But if that is true, is it not
a compliment?"
"And do I care for your compliments? I have compliments in abundance,
and much finer ones than yours. What I want from you is the truth, your
real opinion of that little volume in your hand. You are the only man I
have met in years who seems to feel no desire to flatter me, to make me
think well of myself. I see no reason why I should not think well of
myself; but, all the same, I am curious. I can see that you judge me
impartially, even severely."
She paused. He did not look up or disclaim; he went on turning the pages
of the little volume.
She had not seated herself; she was standing beside a table opposite
him. "I can see that you do not in the least like me," she added, in a
lower tone.
"My dear lady, you have so many to like you!" said Ford.
And then he did look up; their eyes met.
A flush came to her cheeks. He shut the little book and rose.
"Really, I am too insignificant a victim," he said, bowing as he
returned it.
"You mean that I--that I have tried--"
"Oh no; you do it naturally."
For the moment her self-possession had failed her. But now she had it in
hand again. "If I have tried, naturally or artificially, I have made a
failure--have I not?"
"It must be a novel experience for Mrs. Winthrop."
She turned away and looked at a portrait of Voltaire. After some
moments, "Let us come back to the real point between us," she said, as
he did not speak--"that is, your opinion of my little book."
"Is that the real point between us?"
"Of course it is. We will walk up and down Corinne's old rooms, and you
shall tell me as we walk."
"Why do you force me to say unpleasant things?"
"They are unpleasant, then? I knew it! Unpleasant for me."
"For us both."
"For you, I doubt it. For me, they cannot be more unpleasant than the
things you have already said. Yet you see I forgive them."
"Yes; but I have not forgiven you, Mrs. Winthrop."
"For what, pray?"
"For proposing to make me a victim."
"Apparently you had small difficulty in escaping."
"As you say--apparently. But perhaps I conceal my wounds."
"You are trying to turn the subject, so that I will not insist about the
little book."
"I wish, indeed, that you would not insist."
"But if I am the sort of woman you have indicated, I should think you
would enjoy punishing me a little."
"A little, perhaps. But the punishment would be too severe."
They were walking slowly through the rooms; she turned her head and
looked at him. "I have listened to you, Mr. Ford; I have let you say
pretty much what you pleased to me, because it was amusing. But you
cannot seriously believe that I really care for what you say, severe or
otherwise?"
"Only as any right-minded woman must care."
"Say on. Now I insist."
"Good-bye to Miolans, then. You will never admit me within its gates
again; that is, unless you have the unusual justice--unusual in a
woman--to see that what I say is but the severity of a true friend."
"A friend is not severe."
"Yes, he is; in such a case as this, must be."
"Go on. I will decide afterwards."
They entered the third room. Ford reflected a moment; then began. "The
poem, which you now tell me is yours, had, as its distinguishing
feature, a certain daring. Regarding its other points: its rhythm was
crude and unmelodious; its coloring was exaggerated--reading it, one was
cloyed with color; its logic--for there was an attempt at logic--was
utterly weak." He paused. Mrs. Winthrop was looking straight before her
at the wall across the end of the last room in the vista. Her critic did
not lift his eyes, but transferred his gaze from one section of the
dark old floor to the next as they walked onward.
"All this, however," he resumed, "could be forgiven. We do not expect
great poems from women any more than we expect great pictures; we do not
expect strong logic any more than we expect brawny muscle. A woman's
poetry is subjective. But what cannot be forgiven--at least in my
opinion--is that which I have called the distinguishing feature of the
volume, a certain sort of daring. This is its essential, unpardonable
sin. Not because it is in itself dangerous; it has not force enough for
that; but because it comes, and can be recognized at once as coming,
from the lips of a woman. For a woman should not dare in that way.
Thinking to soar, she invariably descends. Her mental realm is not the
same as that of man; lower, on the same level, or far above, it is at
least different. And to see her leave it, and come in all her white
purity, which must inevitably be soiled, to the garish arena where men
are contending, where the dust is rising, and the air is tainted and
heavy--this is indeed a painful sight. Every honest man feels like going
to her, poor mistaken sibyl that she is, closing her lips with gentle
hand, and leading her away to some far spot among the quiet fields,
where she can learn her error, and begin her life anew. To the pity of
it is added the certain truth that if the words she sang could be
carried out to their logical end, if they were to be clothed in the hard
realities of life and set up before her, they would strike first the
poor creature who was chanting them, and crush her to the dust.
Fortunately there is no danger of this; it is among the impossibilities.
And sometimes the poor sibyls learn, and through the teachings of their
own hearts, their great mistake." As he ended, for the first time he
lifted his eyes from the floor and looked at her.
Katharine Winthrop's face was flushed; the dark color extended over her
forehead and dyed even her throat, and there was an expression as though
only by a strong effort was a tremor of the lips controlled. This gave
to her mouth a fixed look. She was so unlike herself, veiled in that
deep, steady, painful blush, that, involuntarily and earnestly, Ford
said, "I beg you not to mind it so much."
"I mind only that you should dare to say such things to me," she
answered, slowly, as though utterance was an effort.
"Remember that you forced me to speak."
"I did not expect--this."
"How could I know what you expected? But in one way I am glad you made
me go on; it is well that you should have for once a man's true
opinion."
"All men do not think as you think."
"Yes, they do; the honest ones."
"Mr. Percival does not."
"Oh, Percival! He's effeminate."
"So you judge him," said Mrs. Winthrop, to whose utterance anger had now
restored the distinctness.
"We will not quarrel about Lorimer Percival," said Ford; "he is not
worth it--at least, he is not worth it to me." Then, as they entered the
last room, "Take it as I meant it, Katharine," he said, the tone of his
voice changing--"take it as a true woman should. Show me the sweet side
of your nature, the gentle, womanly side, and I will then be your suitor
indeed, and a far more real and earnest one than though I had become
the victim you intended me to be. You may not care for me; you may never
care. But only let me see you accept for your own sake what I have said,
in the right spirit, and I will at least ask you to care, as humbly and
devotedly as man ever asked woman. For when she is her true self she is
so far above us that we can only be humble."
The flush still covered her forehead; her eyes looked at him, strangely
and darkly blue in all this red.
"Curious, isn't it, how things come about?" she said. "You have made me
a declaration, after all."
"A conditional one."
"No, not conditional in reality, although you might have pleased
yourself with the fancy. For I need not have been in earnest. I had only
to pretend a little, to pretend to be the acquiescent creature you
admire, and I could have turned you round my little finger. It is rather
a pity I did not do it. It might have been entertaining."
He had watched her as she spoke. "I do not in the least believe you," he
said, gravely.
"It is not of much consequence whether you believe me or not. I think,
on the whole, however, that I may as well take this occasion to tell you
what you seem not to have suspected: I am engaged to Mr. Percival."
"Of course, then, you were angry when I spoke of him as I did. But I beg
you will do me the justice to believe that I never for a moment dreamed
that he was anything to Mrs. Winthrop."
"Your dreams must be unobservant."
"I knew that he was with you, of course, and that you received his
letters--there is one in your pocket now. But it made no impression
upon me--that is, as far as you were concerned."
"And why not? Even in the guise of an apology, Mr. Ford, you succeed in
insinuating your rudeness. What you have said, when translated, simply
means that you never dreamed that Mrs. Winthrop could be interested in
Mr. Percival. And why should she not be interested? But the truth is,
there is such an infinite space between you that you cannot in the least
comprehend him." She turned towards the door which led to the stairway.
"That is very possible," said Ford. "But I have not now the honor to be
a rival of Mr. Percival's, even as an unfavored suitor; you did not
comply with my condition."
They went down the stairs, past the shining statue of Necker, and out
into the sunshine. Benjamin Franklin brought forward the horses, and
Ford assisted her to mount. "You prefer that I should not go with you,"
he said; "but of course I must. We cannot always have things just as we
wish them in this vexatious world, you know."
The flush on her face was still deep; but she had recovered herself
sufficiently to smile. "We will select subjects that will act as safe
conductors down to commonplace," she said. They did. Only at the gate of
Miolans was any allusion made to the preceding conversation.
He had said good-bye; the two riding-gloves had formally touched each
other. "It may be for a long time," he remarked. "I start towards Italy
this evening; I shall go to Chambéry and Turin."
She passed him; her horse turned into the plane-tree avenue. "Do not
suppose that I could not have been, that I could not be--if I chose--all
you described," she said, looking back.
"I know you could. It was the possibilities in you which attracted me,
and made me say what I did."
"That for your possibilities!" she answered, making the gesture of
throwing something lightly away.
He lifted his hat; she smiled, bowed slightly, and rode onward out of
sight. He took his horse to the stables, went down to the water-steps,
and unmoored his skiff. The next day Sylvia received a note from him; it
contained his good-bye, but he himself was already on the way to Italy.
      
The following summer found Miss Pitcher again at Miolans. But although
her little figure was still seen going down to the outlook at sunset,
although she still made wax flowers and read (with a mark) "Childe
Harold," it was evident that she was not as she had been. She was
languid, mournful, and by August these adjectives were no longer
sufficient to describe her condition, for she was now seriously ill. Her
nephew, who was spending the summer in Scotland, was notified by a
letter from Cousin Walpole. In answer he travelled southward to Lake
Leman without an hour's delay; for Sylvia and himself were the only ones
of their blood on the old side of the Atlantic, and if the gentle little
aunt was to pass from earth in a strange land, he wished to be beside
her.
But Sylvia did not pass. Her nephew read her case so skilfully, and with
the others tended her so carefully, that in three weeks' time she was
lying on a couch by the window, with "Childe Harold" again by her side.
But if she was now well enough for a little literature, she was also
well enough for a little conversation.
"I suppose you were much surprised, John, to find Katharine still Mrs.
Winthrop?"
"No, not much."
"But she told me that she had mentioned to you her engagement."
"Yes, she mentioned it."
"You speak as though she was one of the women who make and break
engagements lightly. But she is not, I assure you: far from it."
"She broke this one, it seems."
"One breaking does not make a--breaker," said Sylvia, thinking vaguely
of "swallows," and nearly saying "summer." She paused, then shook her
head sadly. "I have never understood it," she said, with a deep sigh.
"It lasted, I know, until the very end of June. I think I may say,
without exaggeration, that I spent the entire month of July, day and
night, picturing to myself his sufferings."
"You took more time than he did. He was married before July was ended."
"Simply despair."
"Despair took on a cheerful guise. Some of the rest of us might not
object to it in such a shape."
But Miss Pitcher continued her dirge. "So terrible for such a man! A
mere child--only seventeen!"
"And he is--"
"Thirty-seven years, eight months, and nine days," answered the lady, in
the tone of an obituary. "Twenty years younger than he is! Of course,
she cannot in the least appreciate the true depth of his poetry."
"He may not care for that, you know, if she appreciates him," said
Ford--Miss Pitcher thought, heartlessly.
During these three weeks of attendance upon his aunt he had, of course,
seen Mrs. Winthrop daily. Generally he met her in the sick-room, where
she gave to the patient a tender and devoted care. If she was in the
drawing-room when he came down, Cousin Walpole was there also; he had
not once seen her alone. He was not staying at Miolans, although he
spent most of his time there; his abode nominally was a farm-house near
by. Sylvia improved daily, and early in September her nephew prepared
for departure. He was going to Heidelberg. One beautiful morning he felt
in the mood for a long farewell ride. He sent word to Sylvia that he
should not be at Miolans before evening, mounted, and rode off at a
brisk pace. He was out all day under the blue sky, and enjoyed it. He
had some wonderful new views of Mont Blanc, some exhilarating speed over
tempting stretches of road, a lunch at a rustic inn among the vineyards,
and the uninterrupted companionship of his own thoughts. Towards five
o'clock, on his way home, he came by Coppet. Here the idle ease of the
long day was broken by the small accident of his horse losing a shoe. He
took him to the little blacksmith's shop in the village; then, while the
work was in slow Swiss progress, he strolled back up the ascent towards
the old château.
A shaggy white dog came to meet him; it was his friend Gibbon, and a
moment later he recognized Mrs. Winthrop's groom, holding his own and
his mistress's horse. Mrs. Winthrop was in the garden, so Benjamin
Franklin said. He opened the high gate set in the stone wall and went
down the long walk.
She was at the far end; her back was towards him, and she did not hear
his step; she started when he spoke her name. But she recovered herself
immediately, smiled, and began talking with much the same easy, graceful
manner she had shown upon his first arrival at Miolans, when they met at
the gate the year before. This meant that she had put him back as an
acquaintance where he was then.
He did not seem unwilling to go. They strolled onward for ten minutes;
then Mrs. Winthrop said that she must start homeward; they turned
towards the gate. They had been speaking of Sylvia's illness and
recovery. "I often think, when I look at my little aunt," said Ford,
"how pretty she must have been in her youth. And, by-the-way, just
before leaving Scotland I met a lady who reminded me of her, or rather
of my idea of what she must have been. It was Mrs. Lorimer Percival."
"She is charming, I am told," said the lady beside him.
"I don't know about the charming; I dislike the word. But she is very
lovely and very lovable."
"Did you see much of her?"
"I saw her several times; but only saw her. We did not speak."
"You judge, then, by appearance merely."
"In this case--yes. Her nature is written on her face."
"All are at liberty to study it, then. Pray describe her."
He was silent. Then, "If I comply," he said, "will you bear in mind that
I am quite well aware that that which makes this little lady's happiness
is something that Mrs. Winthrop, of her own accord, has cast aside as
nothing worth?" As he rounded off this phrase he turned and looked at
her.
But she did not meet his eyes. "I will remember," she answered.
He waited. But she said nothing more.
"Mrs. Percival," he resumed, "is a beautiful young girl, with a face
like a wild flower in the woods. She has an expression which is to me
enchanting--an expression of sweet and simple goodness, and gentle,
confiding trust. One is thankful to have even seen such a face."
"You speak warmly. I am afraid you are jealous of poor Mr. Percival."
"He did not strike me as poor. If I was jealous, it was not the first
time. He was always fortunate."
"Perhaps there are other wild flowers in the woods; you must search more
diligently." She opened the gate, passed through, and signalled to her
groom.
"That is what I am trying to do; but I do not succeed. It is terribly
lonely work sometimes."
"What a confession of weakness!"
He placed her in the saddle. "It may be. At any rate, it is the truth.
But women do not believe in truth for its own sake; it strikes them as
crude."
"You mean cruel," said Katharine Winthrop. She rode off, the groom and
Gibbon following. He went back to the blacksmith's shop. The next day he
went to Heidelberg.
But he had not seen the last of Corinne's old château. On the 25th of
October he was again riding up the plane-tree avenue of Miolans, this
time under bare boughs.
"Oh, John! dear John!" said Miss Pitcher, hurrying into the drawing-room
when she was told he was there. "How glad I am to see you! But how did
you know--I mean, how did you get here at this time of year?"
"By railway and on horseback," he answered. "I like autumn in the
country. And I am very glad to see you looking so well, Aunt Sylvia."
But if Sylvia was well in body, she was ill at ease in mind. She began
sentences and did not finish them; she often held her little
handkerchief to her lips as if repressing herself. Cousin Walpole had
gone to Geneva, "on business for Katharine." No, Katharine was not with
him; she was out riding somewhere. She was not well, and needed the
exercise. Katharine, too, was fond of autumn in the country. But Sylvia
found it rainy. After a while Ford took leave, promising to return in
the evening. When he reached the country road he paused, looking up and
down it for a moment; then he turned his horse southward. It was a
dreary day for a ride; a long autumn rain had soaked the ground, clouds
covered the sky, and a raw wind was blowing. He rode at a rapid pace,
and when he came towards Coppet he again examined the wet track, then
turned towards the château. He was not mistaken; Mrs. Winthrop's horse
was there. There was no groom this time; the horse was tied in the
court-yard. Benjamin Franklin said that the lady was in the garden, and
he said it muffled in a worsted cap and a long wadded coat that came to
his heels. No doubt he permitted himself some wonder over the lady's
taste.
The lady was at the end of the long walk as before. But to-day the long
walk was a picture of desolation; all the bright leaves, faded and
brown, were lying on the ground in heaps so sodden that the wind could
not lift them, strongly as it blew. Across one end of this vista
stretched the blank stone wall, its grayness streaked with wet spots;
across the other rose the old château among the bare trees, cold, naked,
and yellow, seeming to have already begun its long winter shiver. But
men do not mind such things as women mind them. A dull sky and stretch
of blank stone wall do not seem to them the end of the world--as they
seemed at that moment to Katharine Winthrop. This time she heard his
step; perhaps he intended that she should hear it. She turned.
Her face was pale; her eyes, with the dark shadows under them, looked
larger than usual. She returned his greeting quietly; her trouble,
whatever it was, did not apparently connect itself with him.
"You should not be walking here, Mrs. Winthrop," he said as he came up;
"it is too wet."
"It is wet; but I am going now. You have been at Miolans?"
"Yes. I saw my aunt. She told me you were out riding somewhere. I
thought perhaps you might be here."
"Is that all she told you?"
"I think so. No; she did say that you were fond of autumn in the
country. So am I. Wouldn't it be wise to stop at the old man's cottage,
before remounting, and dry your shoes a little?"
"I never take cold."
"Perhaps we could find a pair in the village that you could wear."
"It is not necessary. I will ride rapidly; the exercise will be the best
safeguard."
"Do you know why I have come back?" he said, abandoning the subject of
the shoes.
"I do not," answered the lady. She looked very sad and weary.
"I have come back, Katharine, to tell you plainly and humbly that I love
you. This time I make no conditions; I have none to make. Do with me as
you please; I must bear it. But believe that I love you with all my
heart. It has been against my will; I have not been willing to admit it
to myself; but of late the certainty has forced itself upon me so
overwhelmingly that I had no resource left save to come to you. I am
full of faults; but--I love you. I have said many things that displeased
you deeply; but--I love you. Do not deliberate. Send me away--if go I
must--now. Keep me--if you will keep me--now. You can punish me
afterwards."
They had been walking onward, but now he stopped. She stopped also; but
she said nothing; her eyes were downcast.
"It is a real love I offer you," he said, in a low tone. Then, as still
she did not speak, "I will make you very happy, Katharine," he added.
Her face had remained pale, but at this assertion of his a slight color
rose, and a smile showed itself faintly. "You are always so sure!" she
murmured. And then she laughed, a little low, sweet, sudden laugh.
"Let him laugh who wins," said Ford, triumphantly. The old streaked
stone wall, if dreary, was at least high; no one saw him but one very
wet and bedraggled little bird, who was in the tree above. This bird was
so much cheered (it must have been that) that he immediately chirruped
one note quite briskly, and coming out on a drier twig, began to
arrange his soaked feathers.
"Now," said Ford, "we will have those shoes dried, whether you like it
or not. No more imprudence allowed. How angry you were when I said we
might find a pair in the village that you could wear! Of course I meant
children's size." He had drawn her hand through his arm, and was going
towards the gate.
But she freed herself and stopped. "It is all a mistake," she said,
hurriedly. "It means nothing. I am not myself to-day. Do not think of
it."
"Certainly I shall not trouble myself to think of it much when--what is
so much better--I have it."
"No; it is nothing. Forget it. I shall not see you again. I am going
back to America immediately--next week."
He looked at her as she uttered these short sentences. Then he took her
hands in his. "I know about the loss of your fortune, Katharine; you
need not tell me. No, Sylvia did not betray you. I heard it quite by
chance from another source while I was still in Heidelberg. That is the
reason I came."
"The reason you came!" she repeated, moving from him, with the old proud
light coming back into her eyes. "You thought I would be
overwhelmed--you thought that I would be so broken that I would be
glad--you pitied me--you came to help me? And you were sure--" She
stopped; her voice was shaking.
"Yes, Katharine, I did pity you. Yes, I came to help you if you would
let me. But I was not sure. I was sure of nothing but my own obstinate
love, which burst out uncontrollably when I thought of you in trouble. I
have never thought of you in that way before; you have always had
everything. The thought has brought me straight to your side."
But she was not softened. "I withdraw all I have said," she answered.
"You have taken advantage."
"As it happens, you have said nothing. As to taking advantage, of course
I took advantage: I was glad enough to see your pale face and sad eyes.
But that is because you have always carried things with such a high
hand. First and last, I have had a great deal of bad treatment."
"That is not true."
"Very well; then it is not. It shall be as you please. Do you want me to
go down on my knees to you on this wet gravel?"
But she still turned from him.
"Katharine," he said, in a graver tone, "I am sorry on your account that
your fortune is gone, or nearly gone; but on my own, how can I help
being glad? It was a barrier between us, which, as I am, and as you
are--but principally as you are--would have been, I fear, a hopeless
one. I doubt if I should ever have surmounted it. Your loss brings you
nearer to me--the woman I deeply love, love in spite of myself. Now if
you are my wife--and a tenderly loved wife you will be--you will in a
measure be dependent upon your husband, and that is very sweet to a
self-willed man like myself. Perhaps in time I can even make it sweet to
you."
A red spot burned in each of her cheeks. "It is very hard," she said,
almost in a whisper.
"Well, on the whole, life is hard," answered John Ford. But the
expression in his eyes was more tender than his words. At any rate, it
seemed to satisfy her.
"Do you know what I am going to do?" he said, some minutes later. "I am
going to make Benjamin Franklin light a fire on one of those old
literary hearths at the château. Your shoes shall be dried in the
presence of Corinne herself (who must, however, have worn a much larger
pair). And while they are drying I will offer a formal apology for any
past want of respect, not only to Corinne, but to all the other
portraits, especially to that blue-eyed Madame Necker in her very tight
white satin gown. We will drink their healths in some of the native
wine. If you insist, I will even make an effort to admire the yellow
turban."
He carried out his plan. Benjamin Franklin, tempted by the fee offered,
and relying no doubt upon the gloomy weather as a barrier against
discovery, made a bright fire upon one of the astonished hearths, and
brought over a flask of native wine, a little loaf, and some fine
grapes. Ford arranged these on a spindle-legged table, and brought
forward an old tapestried arm-chair for Katharine. Then while she sat
sipping her wine and drying her shoes before the crackling flame, he
went gravely round the room, glass in hand, pausing before each portrait
to bow ceremoniously and drink to its health and long life--probably in
a pictorial sense. When he had finished the circuit, "Here's to you all,
charming vanished ladies of the past," he said; "may you each have every
honor in the picturesque, powdered, unorthographic age to which you
belong, and never by any possibility step over into ours!"
"That last touch has spoiled the whole," said the lady in the tapestried
chair.
But Ford declared that an expression in Madame Necker's blue eye
approved his words.
He now came back to the hearth. "This will never do," he said. "The
shoes are not drying; you must take them off." And with that he knelt
down and began to unbutton them. But Katharine, agreeing to obey orders,
finished the task herself. The old custodian, who had been standing in
the doorway laughing at Ford's portrait pantomime, now saw an
opportunity to make himself useful; he came forward, took one of the
shoes, put it upon his hand, and, kneeling down, held it close to the
flame. The shoes were little boots of dark cloth like the habit,
slender, dainty, and made with thin soles; they were for riding, not
walking. Ford brought forward a second arm-chair and sat down. "The old
room looks really cheerful," he said. "The portraits are beginning to
thaw, presently we shall see them smile."
Katharine too was smiling. She was also blushing a little. The blush and
slight embarrassment made her look like a school-girl.
"Where shall we go for the winter?" said Ford. "I can give you one more
winter over here, and then I must go home and get to work again. And as
we have so little foreign time left, I suggest that we lose none of it,
and begin our married life at once. Don't be alarmed; he does not
understand a word of English. Shall we say, then, next week?"
"No."
"Are you waiting to know me better? Take me, and make me better."
"What are your principal faults--I mean besides those I already know?"
she said, shielding her face from the heat of the fire with her riding
gauntlets.
"I have very few. I like my own way; but it is always a good way. My
opinions are rather decided ones; but would you like an undecided man?
I do not enjoy general society, but I am extremely fond of the
particular. I think that is all."
"And your obstinacy?"
"Only firmness."
"You are narrow, prejudiced; you do not believe in progress of any kind.
You would keep women down with an iron hand."
"A velvet one."
The custodian now took the other shoe.
"He will certainly stretch them with that broad palm of his," said Ford.
"But perhaps it is as well; you have a habit of wearing shoes that are
too small. What ridiculous little affairs those are! Will twelve pairs a
