"I may be like my father in some ways," he answered. "But I'm a good
deal like you too, mother. I'm rather apt to stick to what I like, you
know. Besides, I don't believe you would do anything of the kind. And
she isn't inclined to like me, as it is. I believe she must have heard
some story or other. Don't make things any worse than they are."
"Then don't lose your head and ask her to marry you after a fortnight's
acquaintance, Brook, because she'll accept you, and you will make her
perfectly wretched."
He saw that it was not always possible to argue with his mother, and he
said nothing more. But he reflected upon her point of view, and he saw
that it was not altogether unjust, as she knew him. She could not
possibly understand that what he felt for Clare Bowring bore not the
slightest resemblance to what he had felt for Lady Fan, if, indeed, he
had felt anything at all, which he considered doubtful now that it was
over, though he would have been angry enough at the suggestion a month
earlier. To tell the truth, he felt quite sure of himself at the present
time, though all his sensations were more or less new to him. And his
mother's sudden and rather eccentric opposition unexpectedly
strengthened his determination. He might laugh at what he called her
originality, but he could not afford to jest at the prospect of her
giving Clare an account of his life. She was quite capable of it, and
would probably do it.
These preoccupations, however, were as nothing compared with the main
point--the certainty that Clare would refuse him, if he offered himself
to her, and when he left his mother he was in a very undetermined state
of mind. If he should ask Clare to marry him now, she would refuse him.
But if his mother interfered, it would be much worse a week hence.
At last, as ill-luck would have it, he came upon her unexpectedly in the
corridor, as he came out, and they almost ran against each other.
"Won't you come out for a bit?" he asked quickly and in a low voice.
"Thanks--I have some letters to write," answered the young girl.
"Besides, it's much too hot. There isn't a breath of air."
"Oh, it's not really hot, you know," said Brook, persuasively.
"Then it's making a very good pretence!" laughed Clare.
"It's ever so much cooler out of doors. If you'll only come out for one
minute, you'll see. Really--I'm in earnest."
"But why should I go out if I don't want to?" asked the young girl.
"Because I asked you to--"
"Oh, that isn't a reason, you know," she laughed again.
"Well, then, because you really would, if I hadn't asked you, and you
only refuse out of a spirit of opposition," suggested Brook.
"Oh--do you think so? Do you think I generally do just the contrary of
what I'm asked to do?"
"Of course, everybody knows that, who knows you." Brook seemed amused
at the idea.
"If you think that--well, I'll come, just for a minute, if it's only to
show you that you are quite wrong."
"Thanks, awfully. Sha'n't we go for the little walk that was interrupted
when my people came the other day?"
"No--it's too hot, really. I'll walk as far as the end of the terrace
and back--once. Do you mind telling me why you are so tremendously
anxious to have me come out this very minute?"
"I'll tell you--at least, I don't know that I can--wait till we are
outside. I should like to be out with you all the time, you know--and I
thought you might come, so I asked you."
"You seem rather confused," said Clare gravely.
"Well, you know," Brook answered as they walked along towards the
dazzling green light that filled the door, "to tell the truth, between
one thing and another--" He did not complete the sentence.
"Yes?" said Clare, sweetly. "Between one thing and another--what were
you going to say?"
Brook did not answer as they went out into the hot, blossom-scented air,
under the spreading vines.
"Do you mean to say it's cooler here than indoors?" asked the young
girl in a tone of resignation.
"Oh, it's much cooler! There's a breeze at the end of the walk."
"The sea is like oil," observed Clare. "There isn't the least breath."
"Well," said Brook, "it can't be really hot, because it's only the first
week in June after all."
"This isn't Scotland. It's positively boiling, and I wish I hadn't come
out. Beware of first impulses--they are always right!"
But she glanced sideways at his face, for she knew that something was in
the air. She was not sure what to expect of him just then, but she knew
that there was something to expect. Her instinct told her that he meant
to speak and to say more than he had yet said. It told her that he was
going to ask her to marry him, then and there, in the blazing noon,
under the vines, but her modesty scouted the thought as savouring of
vanity. At all events she would prevent him from doing it if she could.
"Lady Johnstone seems to like this place," she said, with a sudden
effort at conversation. "She says that she means to make all sorts of
expeditions."
"Of course she will," answered Brook, in a half-impatient tone. "But,
please--I don't want to talk about my mother or the landscape. I really
did want to speak to you, because I can't stand this sort of thing any
longer, you know."
"What sort of thing?" asked Clare innocently, raising her eyes to his,
as they reached the end of the walk.
It was very hot and still. Not a breath stirred the young vine-leaves
overhead, and the scent of the last orange-blossoms hung in the
motionless air. The heat rose quivering from the sea to southward, and
the water lay flat as a mirror under the glory of the first summer's
day.
They stood still. Clare felt nervous, and tried to think of something to
say which might keep him from speaking, and destroy the effect of her
last question. But it was too late now. He was pale, for him, and his
eyes were very bright.
"I can't live without you--it comes to that. Can't you see?"
The short plain words shook oddly as they fell from his lips. The two
stood quite still, each looking into the other's face. Brook grew paler
still, but the colour rose in Clare's cheeks. She tried to meet his eyes
steadily, without feeling that he could control her.
"I'm sorry," she said, "I'm very sorry."
"You sha'n't say that," he answered, cutting her words with his, and
sharply. "I'm tired of hearing it. I'm glad I love you, whatever you do
to me; and you must get to like me. You must. I tell you I can't live
without you."
"But if I can't--" Clare tried to say.
"You can--you must--you shall!" broke in Brook, hoarsely, his eyes
growing brighter and fiercer. "I didn't know what it was to love
anybody, and now that I know, I can't live without it, and I won't."
"But if--"
"There is no 'if,'" he cried, in his low strong voice, fixing her eyes
with his. "There's no question of my going mad, or dying, or anything
half so weak, because I won't take no. Oh, you may say it a hundred
times, but it won't help you. I tell you I love you. Do you understand
what that means? I'm in God's own earnest. I'll give you my life, but I
won't give you up. I'll take you somehow, whether you will or not, and
I'll hide you somewhere, but you sha'n't get away from me as long as you
live."
"You must be mad!" exclaimed the young girl, scarcely above her breath,
half-frightened, and unable to loose her eyes from the fascination of
his.
"No, I'm not mad; only you've never seen any one in earnest before, and
you've been condemning me without evidence all along. But it must stop
now. You must tell me what it is, for I have a right to know. Tell me
what it all is. I will know--I will. Look at me; you can't look away
till you tell me."
Clare felt his power, and felt that his eyes were dazzling her, and that
if she did not escape from them she must yield and tell him. She tried,
and her eyelids quivered. Then she raised her hand to cover her own
eyes, in a desperate attempt to keep her secret. He caught it and held
it, and still looked. She turned pale suddenly. Then her words came
mechanically.
"I was out there when you said 'good-bye' to Lady Fan. I heard
everything, from first to last."
He started in surprise, and the colour rose suddenly to his face. He did
not look away yet, but Clare saw the blush of shame in his face, and
felt that his power diminished, while hers grew all at once, to
overmaster him in turn.
"It's scarcely a fortnight since you betrayed her," she said, slowly and
distinctly, "and you expect me to like you and to believe that you are
in earnest."
His shame turned quickly to anger.
"So you listened!" he exclaimed.
"Yes, I listened," she answered, and her words came easily, then, in
self-defence--for she had thought of it all very often. "I didn't know
who you were. My mother and I had been sitting beside the cross in the
shadow of the cave, and she went in to finish a letter, leaving me
there. Then you two came out talking. Before I knew what was happening
you had said too much. I felt that if I had been in Lady Fan's place I
would far rather never know that a stranger was listening. So I sat
still, and I could not help hearing. How was I to know that you meant to
stay here until I heard you say so to her? And I heard everything. You
are ashamed now that you know that I know. Do you wonder that I disliked
you from the first?"
"I don't see why you should," answered Brook stubbornly. "If you do--you
do. That doesn't change matters--"
"You betrayed her!" cried Clare indignantly. "You forgot that I heard
all you said--how you promised to marry her if she could get a divorce.
It was horrible, and I never dreamt of such things, but I heard it. And
then you were tired of her, I suppose, and you changed your mind, and
calmly told her that it was all a mistake. Do you expect any woman, who
has seen another treated in that way, to forget? Oh, I saw her face, and
I heard her sob. You broke her heart for your amusement. And it was only
a fortnight ago!"
She had the upper hand now, and she turned from him with a last
scornful glance, and looked over the low wall at the sea, wondering how
he could have held her with his eyes a moment earlier. Brook stood
motionless beside her, and there was silence. He might have found much
in self-defence, but there was not one word of it which he could tell
her. Perhaps she might find out some day what sort of person Lady Fan
was, but his own lips were closed. That was his view of what honour
meant.
Clare felt that her breath came quickly, and that the colour was deep in
her cheeks as she gazed at the flat, hot sea. For a moment she felt a
woman's enormous satisfaction in being absolutely unanswerable. Then,
all at once, she had a strong sensation of sickness, and a quick pain
shot sharply through her just below the heart. She steadied herself by
the wall with her hands, and shut her lips tightly.
She had refused him as well as accused him. He would go away in a few
moments, and never try to be alone with her again. Perhaps he would
leave Amalfi that very day. It was impossible that she should really
care for him, and yet, if she did not care, she would not ask the next
question. Then he spoke to her. His voice was changed and very quiet
now.
"I'm sorry you heard all that," he said. "I don't wonder that you've
got a bad opinion of me, and I suppose I can't say anything just now to
make you change it. You heard, and you think you have a right to judge.
Perhaps I shouldn't even say this--you heard me then, and you have heard
me now. There's a difference, you'll admit. But all that you heard then,
and all that you have told me now, can't change the truth, and you can't
make me love you less, whatever you do. I don't believe I'm that sort of
man."
"I should have thought you were," said Clare bitterly, and regretting
the words as soon as they were spoken.
"It's natural that you should think so. At the same time, it doesn't
follow that because a man doesn't love one woman he can't possibly love
another."
"That's simply brutal!" exclaimed the young girl, angry with him
unreasonably because the argument was good.
"It's true, at all events. I didn't love Mrs. Crosby, and I told her so.
You may think me a brute if you like, but you heard me say it, if you
heard anything, so I suppose I may quote myself. I do love you, and I
have told you so--the fact that I can't say it in choice language
doesn't make it a lie. I'm not a man in a book, and I'm in earnest."
"Please stop," said Clare, as she heard the hoarse strength coming back
in his voice.
"Yes--I know. I've said it before, and you don't care to hear it again.
You can't kill it by making me hold my tongue, you know. It only makes
it worse. You'll see that I'm in earnest in time--then you'll change
your mind. But I can't change mine. I can't live without you, whatever
you may think of me now."
It was a strange wooing, very unlike anything she had ever dreamt of, if
she had allowed herself to dream of such things. She asked herself
whether this could be the same man who had calmly and cynically told
Lady Fan that he did not love her and could not think of marrying her.
He had been cool and quiet enough then. That gave strength to the
argument he used now. She had seen him with another woman, and now she
saw him with herself and heard him. She was surprised and almost taken
from her feet by his rough vehemence. He surely did not speak as a man
choosing his words, certainly not as one trying to produce an effect.
But then, on that evening at the Acropolis--the thought of that scene
pursued her--he had doubtless spoken just as roughly and vehemently to
Lady Fan, and had seemed just as much in earnest. And suddenly Lady Fan
was hateful to her, and she almost ceased to pity her at all. But for
Lady Fan--well, it might have been different. She should not have blamed
herself for liking him, for loving him perhaps, and his words would have
had another ring.
He still stood beside her, watching her, and she was afraid to turn to
him lest he should see something in her face which she meant to hide.
But she could speak quietly enough, resting her hands on the wall and
looking out to sea. It would be best to be a little formal, she thought.
The sound of his own name spoken distinctly and coldly would perhaps
warn him not to go too far.
"Mr. Johnstone," she said, steadying her voice, "this can't go on. I
never meant to tell you what I knew, but you have forced me to it. I
don't love you--I don't like a man who can do such things, and I never
could. And I can't let you talk to me in this way any more. If we must
meet, you must behave just as usual. If you can't, I shall persuade my
mother to go away at once."
"I shall follow you," said Brook. "I told you so the other day. You
can't possibly go to any place where I can't go too."
"Do you mean to persecute me, Mr. Johnstone?" she asked.
"I love you."
"I hate you!"
"Yes, but you won't always. Even if you do, I shall always love you just
as much."
Her eyes fell before his.
"Do you mean to say that you can really love a woman who hates you?" she
asked, looking at one of her hands as it rested on the wall.
"Of course. Why not? What has that to do with it?"
The question was asked so simply and with such honest surprise that
Clare looked up again. He was smiling a little sadly.
"But--I don't understand--" she hesitated.
"Do you think it's like a bargain?" he asked quietly. "Do you think it's
a matter of exchange--'I will love you if you'll love me'? Oh no! It's
not that. I can't help it. I'm not my own master. I've got to love you,
whether I like it or not. But since I do--well, I've said the rest, and
I won't repeat it. I've told you that I'm in earnest, and you haven't
believed me. I've told you that I love you, and you won't even believe
that--"
"No--I can believe that, well enough, now. You do to-day, perhaps. At
least you think you do."
"Well--you don't believe it, then. What's the use of repeating it? If I
could talk well, it would be different, but I'm not much of a talker,
at best, and just now I can't put two words together. But I--I mean lots
of things that I can't say, and perhaps wouldn't say, you know. At
least, not just now."
He turned from her and began to walk up and down across the narrow
terrace, towards her and away from her, his hands in his pockets, and
his head a little bent. She watched him in silence for some time.
Perhaps if she had hated him as much as she said that she did, she would
have left him then and gone into the house. Something, good or evil,
tempted her to speak.
"What do you mean, that you wouldn't say now?" she asked.
"I don't know," he answered gruffly, still walking up and down, ten
steps each way. "Don't ask me--I told you one thing. I shall follow you
wherever you go."
"And then?" asked Clare, still prompted by some genius, good or bad.
"And then?" Brook stopped and stared at her rather wildly. "And then? If
I can't get you in any other way--well, I'll take you, that's all! It's
not a very pretty thing to say, is it?"
"It doesn't sound a very probable thing to do, either," answered Clare.
"I'm afraid you are out of your mind, Mr. Johnstone."
"You've driven most things out of it since I loved you," answered Brook,
beginning to walk again. "You've made me say things that I shouldn't
have dreamed of saying to any woman, much less to you. And you've made
me think of doing things that looked perfectly mad a week ago." He
stopped before her. "Can't you see? Can't you understand? Can't you feel
how I love you?"
"Don't--please don't!" she said, beginning to be frightened at his
manner again.
"Don't what? Don't love you? Don't live, then--don't exist--don't
anything! What would it all matter, if I didn't love you? Meanwhile, I
do, and by the--no! What's the use of talking? You might laugh. You'd
make a fool of me, if you hadn't killed the fool out of me with too much
earnest--and what's left can't talk, though it can do something better
worth while than a lot of talking."
Clare began to think that the heat had hurt his head. And all the time,
in a secret, shame-faced way, she was listening to his incoherent
sentences and rough exclamations, and remembering them one by one, and
every one. And she looked at his pale face, and saw the queer light in
his blue eyes, and the squaring of his jaw--and then and long afterwards
the whole picture, with its memory of words, hot, broken, and confused,
meant earnest love in her thoughts. No man in his senses, wishing to
play a part and produce an impression upon a woman, would have acted as
he did, and she knew it. It was the rough, real thing--the raw strength
of an honest man's uncontrolled passion that she saw--and it told her
more of love in a few minutes than all she had heard or read in her
whole life. But while it was before her, alive and throbbing and
incoherent of speech, it frightened her.
"Come," she said nervously, "we mustn't stay out here any longer,
talking in this way."
He stopped again, close before her, and his eyes looked dangerous for an
instant. Then he straightened himself, and seemed to swallow something
with an effort.
"All right," he answered. "I don't want to keep you out here in the
heat."
He faced about, and they walked slowly towards the house. When they
reached the door he stood aside. She saw that he did not mean to go in,
and she paused an instant on the threshold, looked at him gravely, and
nodded before she entered. Again he bent his head, and said nothing. She
left him standing there, and went straight to her room.
Then she sat down before a little table on which she wrote her letters,
near the window, and she tried to think. But it was not easy, and
everything was terribly confused. She rested her elbows upon the small
desk and pressed her fingers to her eyes, as though to drive away the
sight that would come back. Then she dropped her hands suddenly and
opened her eyes wide, and stared at the wall-paper before her. And it
came back very vividly between her and the white plaster, and she heard
his voice again--but she was smiling now.
She started violently, for she felt two hands laid unexpectedly upon her
shoulders, and some one kissed her hair. She had not heard her mother's
footstep, nor the opening and shutting of the door, nor anything but
Brook Johnstone's voice.
"What is it, my darling?" asked the elder woman, bending down over her
daughter's shoulder. "Has anything happened?"
Clare hesitated a moment, and then spoke, for the habit of her
confidence was strong. "He has asked me to marry him, mother--"
In her turn Mrs. Bowring started, and then rested one hand on the table.
"You? You?" she repeated, in a low and troubled voice. "You marry Adam
Johnstone's son?"
"No, mother--never," answered the young girl.
"Thank God!"
And Mrs. Bowring sank into a chair, shivering as though she were cold.
CHAPTER XII
Brook felt in his pocket mechanically for his pipe, as a man who smokes
generally takes to something of the sort at great moments in his life,
from sheer habit. He went through the operation of filling and lighting
with great precision, almost unconscious of what he was doing, and
presently he found himself smoking and sitting on the wall just where
Clare had leaned against it during their interview. In three minutes his
pipe had gone out, but he was not aware of the fact, and sat quite still
in his place, staring into the shrubbery which grew at the back of the
terrace.
He was conscious that he had talked and acted wildly, and quite unlike
the self with which he had been long acquainted; and the consciousness
was anything but pleasant. He wondered where Clare was, and what she
might be thinking of him at that moment. But as he thought of her his
former mood returned, and he felt that he was not ashamed of what he had
done and said. Then he realised, all at once, for the second time, that
Clare had been on the platform on that first night, and he tried to
recall everything that Lady Fan and he had said to each other.
No such thing had ever happened to him before, and he had a sensation of
shame and distress and anger, as he went over the scene, and thought of
the innocent young girl who had sat in the shadow and heard it all. She
had accidentally crossed the broad, clear line of demarcation which he
drew between her kind and all the tribe of Lady Fans and Mrs. Cairngorms
whom he had known. He felt somehow as though it were his fault, and as
though he were responsible to Clare for what she had heard and seen. The
sensation of shame deepened, and he swore bitterly under his breath. It
was one of those things which could not be undone, and for which there
was no reparation possible. Yet it was like an insult to Clare. For a
man who had lately been rough to the girl, almost to brutality, he was
singularly sensitive perhaps. But that did not strike him. When he had
told her that he loved her, he had been too much in earnest to pick and
choose his expressions. But when he had spoken to Lady Fan, he might
have chosen and selected and polished his phrases so that Clare should
have understood nothing--if he had only known that she had been sitting
up there by the cross in the dark. And again he cursed himself bitterly.
It was not because her knowing the facts had spoilt everything and
given her a bad impression of him from the first: that might be set
right in time, even now, and he did not wish her to marry him believing
him to be an angel of light. It was that she should have seen something
which she should not have seen, for her innocence's sake--something
which, in a sense, must have offended and wounded her maidenliness. He
would have struck any man who could have laughed at his sensitiveness
about that. The worst of it--and he went back to the idea again and
again--was that nothing could be done to mend matters, since it was all
so completely in the past.
He sat on the wall and pulled at his briar-root pipe, which had gone out
and was quite cold by this time, though he hardly knew it. He had plenty
to think of, and things were not going straight at all. He had pretended
indifference when his mother had told him how Lady Fan meant to get a
divorce and how she was telling her intimate friends under the usual
vain promises of secrecy that she meant to marry Adam Johnstone's son as
soon as she should be free. Brook had told her plainly enough that he
would not marry her in any case, but he asked himself whether the world
might not say that he should, and whether in that case it might not
turn out to be a question of honour. He had secretly thought of that
before now, and in the sudden depression of spirits which came upon him
as a reaction he cursed himself a third time for having told Clare
Bowring that he loved her, while such a matter as Lady Fan's divorce was
still hanging over him as a possibility.
Sitting on the wall, he swung his legs angrily, striking his heels
against the stones in his perplexed discontent with the ordering of the
universe. Things looked very black. He wished that he could see Clare
again, and that, somehow, he could talk it all over with her. Then he
almost laughed at the idea. She would tell him that she disliked him--he
was sick of the sound of the word--and that it was his duty to marry
Lady Fan. What could she know of Lady Fan? He could not tell her that
the little lady in the white serge, being rather desperate, had got
herself asked to go with the party for the express purpose of throwing
herself at his head, as the current phrase gracefully expresses it, and
with the distinct intention of divorcing her husband in order to marry
Brook Johnstone. He could not tell Clare that he had made love to Lady
Fan to get rid of her, as another common expression put it, with a
delicacy worthy of modern society. He could not tell her that Lady Fan,
who was clever but indiscreet, had unfolded her scheme to her bosom
friend Mrs. Leo Cairngorm, or that Mrs. Cairngorm, unknown to Lady Fan,
had been a very devoted friend of Brook's, and was still fond of him,
and secretly hated Lady Fan, and had therefore unfolded the whole plan
to Brook before the party had started; or that on that afternoon at
sunset on the Acropolis he had not at all assented to Lady Fan's mad
proposal, as she had represented that he had when they had parted on the
platform at Amalfi; he could not tell Clare any of these things, for he
felt that they were not fit for her to hear. And if she knew none of
them she must judge him out of her ignorance. Brook wished that some
supernatural being with a gift for solving hard problems would suddenly
appear and set things straight.
Instead, he saw the man who brought the letters just entering the hotel,
and he rose by force of habit and went to the office to see if there
were anything for him.
There was one, and it was from Lady Fan, by no means the first she had
written since she had gone to England. And there were several for Sir
Adam and two for Lady Johnstone. Brook took them all, and opened his own
at once. He did not belong to that class of people who put off reading
disagreeable correspondence. While he read he walked slowly along the
corridor.
Lady Fan was actually consulting a firm of solicitors with a view to
getting a divorce. She said that she of course understood his conduct on
that last night at Amalfi--the whole plan must have seemed unrealisable
to him then--she would forgive him. She refused to believe that he would
ruin her in cold blood, as she must be ruined if she got a divorce from
Crosby, and if Brook would not marry her; and much more.
Why should she be ruined? Brook asked himself. If Crosby divorced her on
Brook's account, it would be another matter altogether. But she was
going to divorce Crosby, who was undoubtedly a beast, and her reputation
would be none the worse for it. People would only wonder why she had not
done it before, and so would Crosby, unless he took it into his head to
examine the question from a financial point of view. For Crosby was, or
had been, rich, and Lady Fan had no money of her own, and Crosby was
quite willing to let her spend a good deal, provided she left him in
peace. How in the world could Clare ever know all the truth about such
people? It would be an insult to her to think that she could understand
half of it, and she would not think the better of him unless she could
understand it all. The situation did not seem to admit of any solution
in that way. All he could hope for was that Clare might change her mind.
When she should be older she would understand that she had made a
mistake, and that the world was not merely a high-class boarding-school
for young ladies, in which all the men were employed as white-chokered
professors of social righteousness. That seemed to be her impression, he
thought, with a resentment which was not against her in particular, but
against all young girls in general, and which did not prevent him from
feeling that he would not have had it otherwise for anything in the
world.
He stuffed the letter into his pocket, and went in search of his father.
He was strongly inclined to lay the whole matter before him, and to ask
the old gentleman's advice. He had reason to believe that Sir Adam had
been in worse scrapes than this when he had been a young man, and
somehow or other nobody had ever thought the worse of him. He was sure
to be in his room at that hour, writing letters. Brook knocked and went
in. It was about eleven o'clock.
Sir Adam, gaunt and grey, and clad in a cashmere dressing-jacket, was
extended upon all the chairs which the little cell-like room contained,
close by the open window. He had a very thick cigarette between his
lips, and a half-emptied glass of brandy and soda stood on the corner of
a table at his elbow. He had not failed to drink one brandy and soda
every morning at eleven o'clock for at least a quarter of a century.
His keen old eyes turned sharply to Brook as the latter entered, and a
smile lighted up his furrowed face, but instantly disappeared again; for
the young man's features betrayed something of what he had gone through
during the last hour.
"Anything wrong, boy?" asked Sir Adam quickly. "Have a brandy and soda
and a pipe with me. Oh, letters! It's devilish hard that the post should
find a man out in this place! Leave them there on the table."
Brook relighted his pipe. His father took one leg from one of the
chairs, which he pushed towards his son with his foot by way of an
invitation to sit down.
"What's the matter?" he asked, renewing his question. "You've got into
another scrape, have you? Mrs. Crosby--of all women in the world. Your
mother told me that ridiculous story. Wants to divorce Crosby and marry
you, does she? I say, boy, it's time this sort of nonsense stopped, you
know. One of these days you'll be caught. There are cleverer women in
the world than Mrs. Crosby."
"Oh! she's not clever," answered Brook thoughtfully.
"Well, what's the foundation of the story? What the dickens did you go
with those people for, when you found out that she was coming? You knew
the sort of woman she was, I suppose? What happened? You made love to
her, of course. That was what she wanted. Then she talked of eternal
bliss together, and that sort of rot, didn't she? And you couldn't
exactly say that you only went in for bliss by the month, could you? And
she said, 'By Jove, as you don't refuse, you shall have it for the rest
of your life,' and she said to herself that you were richer than Crosby,
and a good deal younger, and better-looking, and better socially, and
that if you were going to make a fool of yourself she might as well get
the benefit of it as well as any other woman. Then she wrote to a
solicitor--and now you are in the devil of a scrape. I fancy that's the
history of the case, isn't it?"
"I wish you wouldn't talk about women in that sort of way, Governor!"
exclaimed Brook, by way of answer.
"Don't be an ass!" answered Sir Adam. "There are women one can talk
about in that way, and women one can't. Mrs. Crosby is one of the first
kind. I distinguish between 'women' and 'woman.' Don't you? Woman means
something to most of us--something a good deal better than we are, which
we treat properly and would cut one another's throats for. We sinners
aren't called upon to respect women who won't respect themselves. We are
only expected to be civil to them because they are things in petticoats
with complexions. Don't be an ass, Brook. I don't want to know what you
said to Mrs. Crosby, nor what she said to you, and you wouldn't be a
gentleman if you told me. That's your affair. But she's a woman with a
consumptive reputation that's very near giving up the ghost, and that
would have departed this life some time ago if Crosby didn't happen to
be a little worse than she is. She wants to get a divorce and marry my
son--and that's my affair. Do you remember the Arab and his slave?
'You've stolen my money,' said the sheikh. 'That's my business,'
answered the slave. 'And I'm going to beat you,' said the sheikh.
'That's your business,' said the slave. It's a similar case, you know,
only it's a good deal worse. I don't want to know anything that happened
before you two parted. But I've a right to know what Mrs. Crosby has
done since, haven't I? You don't care to marry her, do you, boy?"
"Marry her! I'd rather cut my throat."
"You needn't do that. Just tell me whether all this is mere talk, or
whether she has really been to the solicitor's. If she has, you know,
she will get her divorce without opposition. Everybody knows about
Crosby."
"It's true," said Brook. "I've just had a letter from her again. I wish
I knew what to do!"
"You can't do anything."
"I can refuse to marry her, can't I?"
"Oh--you could. But plenty of people would say that you had induced her
to get the divorce, and then had changed your mind. She'll count on
that, and make the most of it, you may be sure. She won't have a penny
when she's divorced, and she'll go about telling everybody that you have
ruined her. That won't be pleasant, will it?"
"No--hardly. I had thought of it."
"You see--you can't do anything without injuring yourself. I can settle
the whole affair in half an hour. By return of post you'll get a letter
from her telling you that she has abandoned all idea of proceedings
against Crosby."
"I'll bet you she doesn't," said Brook.
"Anything you like. It's perfectly simple. I'll just make a will,
leaving you nothing at all, if you marry her, and I'll send her a copy
to-day. You'll get the answer fast enough."
"By Jove!" exclaimed Brook, in surprise. Then he thoughtfully relighted
his pipe and threw the match out of the window. "I say, Governor," he
added after a pause, "do you think that's quite--well, quite fair and
square, you know?"
"What on earth do you mean?" cried Sir Adam. "Do you mean to tell me
that I haven't a perfect right to leave my money as I please? And that
the first adventuress who takes a fancy to it has a right to force you
into a disgraceful marriage, and that it would be dishonourable of me to
prevent it if I could? You're mad, boy! Don't talk such nonsense to me!"
"I suppose I'm an idiot," said Brook. "Things about money so easily get
a queer look, you know. It's not like other things, is it?"
"Look here, Brook," answered the old man, taking his feet from the chair
on which they rested, and sitting up straight in the low easy chair.
"People have said a lot of things about me in my life, and I'll do the
world the credit to add that it might have said twice as much with a
good show of truth. But nobody ever said that I was mean, nor that I
ever disappointed anybody in money matters who had a right to expect
something of me. And that's pretty conclusive evidence, because I'm a
Scotch-man, and we are generally supposed to be a close-fisted tribe.
They've said everything about me that the world can say, except that
I've told you about my first marriage. She--she got her divorce, you
know. She had a perfect right to it."
The old man lit another cigarette, and sipped his brandy and soda
thoughtfully.
"I don't like to talk about money," he said in a lower tone. "But I
don't want you to think me mean, Brook. I allowed her a thousand a year
after she had got rid of me. She never touched it. She isn't that kind.
She would rather starve ten times over. But the money has been paid to
her account in London for twenty-seven years. Perhaps she doesn't know
it. All the better for her daughter, who will find it after her mother's
death, and get it all. I only don't want you to think I'm mean, Brook."
"Then she married again--your first wife?" asked the young man, with
natural curiosity. "And she's alive still?"
"Yes," answered Sir Adam, thoughtfully. "She married again six years
after I did--rather late--and she had one daughter."
"What an odd idea!" exclaimed Brook. "To think that those two people are
somewhere about the world. A sort of stray half-sister of mine, the
girl would be--I mean--what would be the relationship, Governor, since
we are talking about it?"
"None whatever," answered the old man, in a tone so extraordinarily
sharp that Brook looked up in surprise. "Of course not! What relation
could she be? Another mother and another father--no relation at all."
"Do you mean to say that I could marry her?" asked Brook idly.
Sir Adam started a little.
"Why--yes--of course you could, as she wouldn't be related to you."
He suddenly rose, took up his glass, and gulped down what was left in
it. Then he went and stood before the open window.
"I say, Brook," he began, his back turned to his son.
"What?" asked Brook, poking his knife into his pipe to clean it.
"Anything wrong?"
"I can't stand this any longer. I've got to speak to somebody--and I
can't speak to your mother. You won't talk, boy, will you? You and I
have always been good friends."
"Of course! What's the matter with you, Governor? You can tell me."
"Oh--nothing--that is--Brook, I say, don't be startled. This Mrs.
Bowring is my divorced wife, you know."
"Good God!"
Sir Adam turned on his heels and met his son's look of horror and
astonishment. He had expected an exclamation of surprise, but Brook's
voice had fear in it, and he had started from his chair.
"Why do you say 'Good God'--like that?" asked the old man. "You're not
in love with the girl, are you?"
"I've just asked her to marry me."
The young man was ghastly pale, as he stood stock-still, staring at his
father. Sir Adam was the first to recover something of equanimity, but
the furrows in his face had suddenly grown deeper.
"Of course she has accepted you?" he asked.
"No--she knew about Mrs. Crosby." That seemed sufficient explanation of
Clare's refusal. "How awful!" exclaimed Brook hoarsely, his mind going
back to what seemed the main question just then. "How awful for you,
Governor!"
"Well--it's not pleasant," said Sir Adam, turning to the window again.
"So the girl refused you," he said, musing, as he looked out. "Just like
her mother, I suppose. Brook"--he paused.
"Yes?"
"So far as I'm concerned, it's not so bad as you think. You needn't
pity me, you know. It's just as well that we should have met--after
twenty-seven years."
"She knew you at once, of course?"
"She knew I was your father before I came. And, I say, Brook--she's
forgiven me at last."
His voice was low and unsteady, and he resolutely kept his back turned.
"She's one of the best women that ever lived," he said. "Your mother's
the other."
There was a long silence, and neither changed his position. Brook
watched the back of his father's head.
"You don't mind my saying so to you, Brook?" asked the old man, hitching
his shoulders.
"Mind? Why?"
"Oh--well--there's no reason, I suppose. Gad! I wish--I suppose I'm
crazy, but I wish to God you could marry the girl, Brook! She's as good
as her mother."
Brook said nothing, being very much astonished, as well as disturbed.
"Only--I'll tell you one thing, Brook," said the voice at the window,
speaking into space. "If you do marry her--and if you treat her as I
treated her mother--" he turned sharply on both heels and waited a
minute--"I'll be damned if I don't believe I'd shoot you!"
"I'd spare you the trouble, and do it myself," said Brook, roughly.
They were men, at all events, whatever their faults had been and might
be, and they looked at the main things of life in very much the same
way, like father like son. Another silence followed Brook's last speech.
"It's settled now, at all events," he said in a decided way, after a
long time. "What's the use of talking about it? I don't know whether you
mean to stay here. I shall go away this afternoon."
Sir Adam sat down again in his low easy chair, and leaned forward,
looking at the pattern of the tiles in the floor, his wrists resting on
his knees, and his hands hanging down.
"I don't know," he said slowly. "Let us try and look at it quietly, boy.
Don't do anything in a hurry. You're in love with the girl, are you? It
isn't a mere flirtation? How the deuce do you know the difference, at
your age?"
"Gad!" exclaimed Brook, half angrily. "I know it! that's all. I can't
live without her. That is--it's all bosh to talk in that way, you know.
One goes on living, I suppose--one doesn't die. You know what I mean.
I'd rather lose an arm than lose her--that sort of thing. How am I to
explain it to you? I'm in earnest about it. I never asked any girl to
marry me till now. I should think that ought to prove it. You can't say
that I don't know what married life means."
"Other people's married life," observed Sir Adam, grimly. "You know
something about that, I'm afraid."
"What difference does it make?" asked Brook. "I can't marry the daughter
of my father's divorced wife."
"I never heard of a case, simply because such cases don't arise often.
But there's no earthly reason why you shouldn't. There is no
relationship whatever between you. There's no mention of it in the table
of kindred and affinity, I know, simply because it isn't kindred or
affinity in any way. The world may make its observations. But you may do
much more surprising things than marry the daughter of your father's
divorced wife when you are to have forty thousand pounds a year, Brook.
I've found it out in my time. You'll find it out in yours. And it isn't
as though there were the least thing about it that wasn't all fair and
square and straight and honourable and legal--and everything else,
including the clergy. I supposed that the Archbishop of Canterbury
wouldn't have married me the second time, because the Church isn't
supposed to approve of divorces. But I was married in church all right,
by a very good man. And Church disapproval can't possibly extend to the
second generation, you know. Oh no! So far as its being possible goes,
there's nothing to prevent your marrying her."
"Except Mrs. Crosby," said Brook. "You'll prove that she doesn't exist
either, if you go on. But all that doesn't put things straight. It's a
horrible situation, no matter how you look at it. What would my mother
say if she knew? You haven't told her about the Bowrings, have you?"
"No," answered Sir Adam, thoughtfully. "I haven't told her anything. Of
course she knows the story, but--I'm not sure. Do you think I'm bound to
tell her that--who Mrs. Bowring is? Do you think it's anything like not
fair to her, just to leave her in ignorance of it? If you think so, I'll
