order to march. Milton conducted the platoon to the road by an open
field most of the way, and the soil afforded a better footing for the
horses.
"What does all that mean, Lieutenant?" asked Win, as they came to a
little hill which gave them a view of the road for a considerable
distance. "There is a company of cavalry coming down the road at a
headlong gallop!"
"Probably the first platoon of our company," replied Deck.
At the same moment Sergeant Fronklyn and Sandy Lyon rode furiously
across the field, and halted in front of them, having just returned
from their mission to the mansion of Colonel Halliburn.
"Confederate cavalry!" shouted Fronklyn, when he was a considerable
distance from the column.
"Battalion--halt!" shouted Deck in his loudest tones.
"It is a small platoon, and perhaps it is a part of the enemy
Lieutenant Belthorpe engaged at Breedings. The men look as though they
were running away from a force behind them."
"How many of them are there, Fronklyn?" asked Deck hurriedly.
"Not more than thirty, if as many as that," answered the sergeant.
"Life!" called the lieutenant. "Select ten men, and guard the
prisoners," he added.
The sergeant took the men from the rear of the column, and Deck ordered
the rest of the platoon to march at a gallop. The officer rode at a
pace the other horses could not equal, and reached the road far in
advance of his command. He wanted a few minutes to examine the
situation; but the enemy were within fifty rods of him. At a glance he
counted six fours, which made twenty-four men besides the officer.
By the time the lieutenant had made his momentary survey of the
approaching force, his platoon reached the road, Win Milton with them.
The company's baggage-train had arrived, and had halted about twenty
rods to the south of the place where Fronklyn had thrown down the fence
when he saw the command were coming. The wagons were guarded by ten
men, who had been taken from both companies at Columbia; for Major Lyon
had learned there that several counties were overrun with guerillas and
foragers, the latter sent out from General Zollicoffer's Confederate
force at Mill Springs.
The baggage-guard had been ordered up by Fronklyn, and they were
approaching as Deck dashed into the road. If a dozen war-elephants had
waddled into the road instead of Deck's command, they could hardly have
created more surprise than this force of United States cavalry. The
officer in command of the force promptly ordered a halt when he was
within twenty rods of his enemy, for he could not help recognizing the
uniform of the loyal army.
The young lieutenant had reined in his horse and come to a halt as soon
as he reached the road, where he had a full view of the coming
detachment. Milton joined him as the men dashed into the road, with
Life, who had detailed Corporal Tilford, with the ten men, to guard the
prisoners. Deck, profiting by the solemn injunctions of his father when
his promotion went into effect, struggled to keep cool and
self-possessed. His first impulse was to charge the approaching enemy;
and he would have done so if the Confederates had not halted, and given
him time to look over his surroundings.
As he took in the situation, he was perfectly satisfied that he could
easily defeat the enemy, and the only fear he had was that the
detachment would escape. His force was now nearly double that of the
Confederates in numbers, and would be more than that if he called in
the guard of his prisoners.
"Do you know that force, Win?" he asked as the guide rode up to him.
"I do. They wear the blue and the gray, and they are Tennessee
cavalry," replied Milton. "Fronklyn was right."
Deck had a field-glass slung over his shoulder, and he directed it to a
point beyond the enemy; for he wished to ascertain if Tom Belthorpe's
platoon was in pursuit; but the road was too crooked to enable him to
see any distance, for it was bordered in places by walnut forests.
"I don't quite understand this thing," said Deck, musing, as he
strained his vision to discover another force at the north. "Captain
Gordon was with the detachment that went to Breedings; and if he
defeated the Confederates, as he must have done, I don't see how he
happened to permit them to escape, for he had better horses than the
men in front of us ride, and the captain and Lieutenant Belthorpe are
wide-awake officers."
"But both of them are strangers in these counties, while the
Tennesseeans are probably well acquainted with the country. Zollicoffer
has to feed his army on the supplies gathered from the region around
him, and his foragers have learned the geography of this part of the
State. At any rate, his officers can obtain plenty of guides," replied
Milton; "and this one had a better knowledge of the roads and the paths
across the country."
Fearful that the Confederate commander would avail himself of his
knowledge, and thus elude him, Deck sent Life with ten men into the
field on the left, and Fronklyn with the same number into that on the
right. The enemy did not seem to like this movement, though it weakened
the force in front of him about one-half. The officer arranged his men
so that they extended entirely across the road, and then in a voice
that might have been heard half a mile, he ordered a charge.
CHAPTER VI
A SMART SKIRMISH IN THE ROAD
The Confederate troopers set up a yell loud and fierce enough to
intimidate all the old ladies in the State if they could have heard it;
but the Riverlawn Cavalry had heard it before, and its effect was to
kindle the wrath of the members of the platoon.
"Unsling your carbines, Life! Unsling your carbines, Fronklyn!" shouted
Deck, as the flanking parties dashed into the two fields.
The men had fought hand to hand with the Texan Rangers; and they were
roused to the highest pitch of enthusiasm when they found themselves
again in front of a regular force of troopers, instead of Home Guards
or guerillas. With their sabres in hand they rushed upon the foe with
all the speed to which they could spur their horses. The men were
fresh; for they had fought no engagement that day, and their work had
been easier than the regular marching.
On the other hand, the enemy had perhaps fought with the first platoon,
and had been running their horses till the animals were nearly
exhausted. But they received the charge like brave men, and stood up to
the work. Deck had advanced on the right of his men for the reason that
the officer in command of the enemy was on the left of his troopers;
for he desired to meet him. He had drawn his sabre; and possibly the
remembrance of his meeting on the field with the lieutenant of the
Texan Rangers had something to do with his choice of a position.
The squads in charge of Life and Fronklyn had each put in a volley from
their carbines as soon as they were abreast of the Confederates, where
they could fire diagonally at the enemy so as not to imperil their
friends; and two of them had dropped out of their saddles, and
doubtless others were wounded. Deck shouted words of encouragement to
his soldiers, and almost instantly the conflict became furious. The
Confederates fought like demons, and two of the loyal force were seen
to drop from their saddles by the men on the flanks.
But the firing ceased as soon as both parties were mingled in the
fight; for the two sergeants feared that their bullets might hit the
wrong men. At this point the Confederate commander rushed upon the
young lieutenant, who was ready for him, though he had not opened the
duel. Both of them were skilled swordsmen, and for a minute at least
they parried each other's cuts and thrusts. Life realized that his
protégé, as he regarded him, was in imminent peril; for his
antagonist was a heavier and taller man, and the longer reach of his
right arm was in his favor.
Deck was hard pressed, and neither officer could even glance at his
men, lest he should be caught off his guard. But Deck was still
self-possessed, and perhaps the excellent advice of his father saved
his life. Life Knox was not afraid of anything, but he trembled for the
safety of his lieutenant. He sought a position where he could put a
bullet through the brain of the brave Confederate, though he felt that
it would be mean to do so. Fortunately for him the sergeant could find
no such position.
Ceph, the name of Deck's noble steed, which had been abbreviated from
Bucephalus, seemed to Life, whose attention was fixed upon his officer,
restive and uneasy: but his rider did not bring him into a leaping
posture, as he had done on a former occasion, and had been charged by
his superiors with reckless daring; but the charger suddenly stood up
on his hind feet, as though he intended to attempt the leap over the
Confederate officer's horse on his own responsibility.
But the other steed was too tall for him, and his rider reined him in.
At the moment when he was elevated above the head of his opponent, Deck
seized his opportunity to deliver a blow upon the head of his foe with
his sabre. It struck him on the side of the head, above the ear,
cleaving his skull, and he dropped from his horse like a lump of lead.
Life was happily relieved at the result of this furious conflict.
He had not been idle during the affair; for he had sent two of his men
to remove the fence at the side of the road, and Fronklyn had done the
same on the other side. The moment the enemy's brave leader had fallen
from his horse, the sergeant ordered his men into the road, leading the
way himself, and the other sergeant on the left had followed his
example.
"Squad--attention!" shouted the orderly sergeant, after he had formed
the troopers in two ranks. "Forward--march!"
He led the charge himself; and they delivered a volley of blows and
thrusts, as occasion served them, which ended the strife in less than
another moment. Several of the Confederates cried "Quarter!" and not
another blow was struck after the word was heard.
"Who is in command of this company now?" asked Deck, as he and his men
moved out of the tangle to the sides of the road.
"Leftenant Logan," replied a wounded trooper who had a sabre-cut on the
side of his face which was bleeding profusely.
"The fall of Captain Letcher leaves me in command," said this officer,
approaching the young lieutenant.
"Do you surrender, Lieutenant Logan?" asked Deck, as he surveyed the
fine form and handsome face of the officer, who appeared to be not more
than a year or two older than the victor.
"I have no alternative; we are outnumbered, and surrounded by your
force," replied the Confederate lieutenant solemnly and sadly.
"I sympathize with you, Lieutenant, though I was compelled to do my
duty," replied Deck; and even while he gloried in the success of his
command, he was sincerely sorry for the misfortune of the officer, whom
he had seen in the road fighting bravely for the cause in this
particular field, which was lost from the beginning. "But it is no
disgrace or dishonor to you or your brave soldiers to be beaten by
double your number."
"I thank you, Lieutenant; and I only regret that we are obliged to be
enemies," returned the officer very courteously. "Am I at liberty to
attend to my wounded now?"
"Certainly, sir; and I hope your loss is not so great as it appears to
be at this moment," answered Deck.
After an action as hotly contested as this skirmish had been, it was
surprising how few had been killed outright. Only two of the Riverlawns
had fallen never to rise again; but six of the twenty-two Confederates
who had gone into the action were past human aid. Four of the blue, and
nine of gray, had been disabled by wounds more or less severe, while
hardly a single man on either side had escaped without being slightly
wounded.
"Have you a surgeon in your detachment, Lieutenant Logan?"
"I have not. He was left with the other platoon near Breedings; but I
hope you have one."
"I have not. Ours is with the main body," replied Deck; and the
Confederate officer returned to his men.
"Who are the killed in our platoon, Life?" said Deck, when the sergeant
came to the lieutenant for further orders.
"I don't like to say so, Leftenant; but your cousin, Orly Lyon, is one
of them."
"Poor fellow!" exclaimed Deck. "I am sorry he has finished his campaign
so soon; but I am glad he did not die among the enemies of the Union."
"But he fought like a hero in the action, for I was near him when he
fell under the sabre of the lieutenant yonder," added Sergeant Sluder.
"Who was the other man killed, Life?" asked Deck.
"Barron, another of the new recruits."
"I am sorry to lose him, for he was a very promising soldier, though he
had not been sufficiently drilled. Bury the dead in the field on the
right," said Deck as he started for the baggage-wagons, where the
wounded had been carried.
Life had detailed a burial party, and Logan had done the same for the
men he had lost. Shovels and picks had been supplied to both from one
of the wagons. Having attended to this duty, the orderly sergeant was
sent to the field to ascertain the condition of the prisoners in charge
of Corporal Tilford. They still sat upon their horses, with the right
hand made fast at the crupper-strap, and doubtless were anxiously
awaiting the result of the skirmish in the road.
"How goes it, Sergeant Knox?" asked Captain Coonly when Life came
within speaking distance of him.
"All right," replied the big Kentuckian.
"Haven't the regulars of the Confederate army licked you?"
"Not much; but they have been licked out of their boots, with the third
part of them killed or badly wounded. You have no show for gittin' out
of this scrape yet."
Tilford reported that the prisoners had not made any trouble; for they
all declared that the Riverlawns would be beaten, and they were waiting
to be set at liberty. The sentinels over them guarded them very
closely, and afforded them no opportunity to make a demonstration, even
if they had been disposed to do so; for the soldiers with loaded
carbines in their hands, and with orders to shoot any one who did not
obey orders, or who attempted to escape, was a fact patent to them all.
Life was satisfied with his inspection, and hastened back to the
wagons.
When he reached the road, he met two well-dressed gentlemen coming out
of the field on the left, from the direction of Colonel Halliburn's
house. Both of them were mounted, and were provided with saddle-bags.
He was a native of Kentucky, and he promptly recognized them as
doctors.
"Mornin', gentlemen," said he, riding towards them. "I reckon you uns
be doctors?"
"You are not far from right, soldier," replied the elder of the two.
"Be you Secesh or Union?" demanded Life, as though he had the right to
put the question.
"Divide the question, and each can answer for himself," replied the one
who had spoken before. "I am opposed to making Kentucky the
battleground of this war; and if I fought on either side, it would be
with the Confederates."
"Be you of the same mind?" asked Life, turning to the other.
"I am sorry to differ from my friend, Dr. McNairy; but I am a Union
man," answered the younger doctor, though he appeared to be at least
forty years old. "But what has happened here?" he continued, surveying
the surroundings, especially the work of the burial parties.
"There's been a bit of a scrimmage between your friends here and them
as runs with t'other doctor; but you are both wanted right now,"
replied Life.
At this moment Mr. Milton arrived at the spot, and had apparently
recognized the two gentlemen as they rode across the field. He saluted
them both, calling them by name.
"I've told these doctors what we want of them," added the sergeant.
"But what about this battle, Mr. Milton?" inquired Dr. McNairy, the
elder one, who appeared to be about sixty years old.
Milton gave a very brief account of the action, and mentioned that Mr.
Halliburn's mansion had been ransacked by the prisoners whom he pointed
out in the field.
"Why didn't you hang them?" demanded Dr. Barlow, the young doctor.
"The military officer in command of the detachment here managed the
business, and I had nothing to do with the matter; though I would have
strung up Coonly if I had had my way, for hanging would do him good.
But the lieutenant said that one outrage did not mend another," replied
Milton impatiently; for he was anxious to have the wounded cared for.
"The lieutenant is a sensible man," added Dr. McNairy.
"Now, Dr. Barlow, your coming is most opportune; and I hope you will
attend to the wounded of the Union force, and that Dr. McNairy will do
the same for the Confederates," added Milton.
"It is a mere accident that we happen to be here, for we have been over
to perform an operation on the wife of General Macklin; but I am glad
to be able to serve the Union wounded, and I am quite willing to do the
same for the Confederates."
"I will take care of the Confederates," added Dr. McNairy.
"Now, Sergeant Knox, if you will conduct Dr. McNairy to the
Confederates, I will take Dr. Barlow to the Union wounded."
"I'll do that; but tell the leftenant there is a cavalry force comin'
down the road, and I reckon it's the first platoon of our company."
Both of them departed on their missions, accompanied by the doctors.
CHAPTER VII
THE BATTLE AT THE BREEDINGS FORT
Dr. McNairy was introduced to Lieutenant Logan, and the surgeon began
his work at once. Both of the professional gentlemen had their
instruments with them, for they had performed an operation that
forenoon. Life remained but a moment after he had done his errand, and
hastened to a point where he could obtain a better view of the
approaching cavalry force. His supposition that it was the first
platoon of the first company proved to be correct, and he awaited its
arrival.
The column was moving leisurely, for there was no occasion for haste;
and it appeared later that the men had not been idle during the
forenoon. Captain Gordon and Lieutenant Belthorpe were riding at the
head of the platoon, and as they came to a turn in the road the scene
of the late action came into view; and both of the officers were
greatly surprised, for neither of them had supposed that Deck would
have anything to do but guard and hurry on the baggage-wagons.
"What does all that mean?" asked the captain, as he opened his eyes
very wide to take in the gathering in the road and the fields beside it
of men and horses.
"It looks as though Lieutenant Lyon had been doing something there; but
I will warrant that Deck has done his duty like a man, whatever he has
been at," replied Tom Belthorpe, who had an abundant admiration for the
young officer.
"I hope he has not been reckless, as I am afraid he is inclined to be
when things get warm around him," returned the captain.
"There comes Sergeant Knox; and things must be quiet in the camp, or he
would not have left Deck for a moment," added the lieutenant.
Life had ridden forward to inform the captain what had transpired in
the road and at the mansion of Mr. Halliburn; for he believed the
officers would be anxious to solve what was now a mystery to them.
"What's going on here, Sergeant?" demanded the captain as soon as Life
came within speaking-distance of him.
"We uns have had a bit of a scrimmage here with Confed'rit cavalry,"
replied the sergeant as he reined in his steed, and saluted the
captain.
"A skirmish?" said the captain.
"Well, yes; and it was a rayther lively bout till the enemy
surrendered."
"Did they surrender?" asked the commander of the company; for it was
not the habit of the Southern troopers to yield, and he had been
fighting with a portion of the same company that forenoon.
"They couldn't help theirselves; we outnumbered 'em, and they had to
give in or be cut to pieces."
"How is Lieutenant Lyon?" inquired the captain with no little anxiety
in his tones and his expression.
"I reckon he's got a sword-cut on the arm; but he's right side up, and
don't say nothin' about it."
"What were the losses?"
"We had two killed and four wounded."
"Who were the killed?"
"Orly Lyon and Barron."
"Both new recruits, and one of them is the nephew of Major Lyon."
"The enemy lost six killed, and nine wounded; and the captain in
command was in the fust lot, brought down by Leftenant Lyon in a
hand-to-hand squabble at the side of the road. Deck fit like a mad
rooster. His hoss stood up straight, and gin his rider a chance to git
in the cut that finished the officer."
"Lieutenant Lyon was reckless, wasn't he, Sergeant?" asked the captain.
"Not a bit on't! He was as cool as a frozen cowcumber; but he hit hard
when his hoss stood up endways," replied Life. "We cleaned out a gang
of gorillas afore we had this scrimmage in the road."
"Another affair? Did you have a hard fight with them?"
"No fight at all," answered the tall Kentuckian, with a slight chuckle.
"Deck bagged 'em like a flock of wild turkeys in a trap-pen."
"We will hear about that another time," said Captain Gordon as the head
of the column arrived at the scene of the fight. "Who are those over on
our right?"
"The fust ones is the Confed'rits burin' their dead. The next lot is
the doctor fixin' up the enemy's wounded. The surgeon is a Secesh, and
we picked up two on 'em as they come across lots from an operation on
some woman. T'other is over with our men, and he's a Union man."
"Where is Lieutenant Lyon?"
"I left him over by the baggage-wagons, lookin' out for the wounded. We
shall git there in a minute or two."
"What are those men on our left, in the field?" asked the captain as
they came to a point where the prisoners could be seen, still in charge
of Corporal Tilford.
"Them's the prisoners tooken over at the mansion of Mr. Halliburn, half
a mile from here," replied Life, as they approached the location of the
wounded Union soldiers.
Dr. Barlow had informed Deck of the coming of the first platoon, and he
had mounted his horse to go out and meet them. He was ready to come
into the presence of the captain of the company; for he felt that he
had done his duty faithfully, and also that he had conducted himself
with prudence and discretion.
"What in the world have you been doing over here, Lieutenant Lyon?"
asked Captain Gordon, as he rode forward, and grasped the hand of the
young officer. "You seem to have been busy here from what Sergeant Knox
has told me."
"We haven't had any time to spare, Captain; for in half an hour after
we parted events began to thicken upon us, and we have been kept busy
ever since," replied Deck.
"I will hear your report later, for my men are tired, and need their
dinner. It seems to be all quiet about here now, and we must take a
rest here."
"I have ordered our cooks to make coffee, and it will be ready to serve
out very soon," replied Deck, as he pointed to the fires in the field
behind the temporary hospital; and near them the horses of the troopers
and the mules that drew the wagons were eating their oats off the
grass. "We shall feed our men on herring and hardtack with the coffee."
Lieutenant Belthorpe ordered his men to picket their horses and feed
them; and in another hour the soldiers and their beasts had all been
fed. Seated on the grass with his two lieutenants, the captain listened
to the report of Deck on the events of the forenoon. When he came to
his encounter with Captain Letcher, both of his auditors were intensely
interested, though he told his story very modestly.
"I suppose you caused Ceph to stand up on end when you found yourself
in a tight place?" suggested Tom Belthorpe.
"I did not," answered Deck very emphatically. "Ceph knows more than
some men; but he became restive and uneasy after the captain and I had
pegged away at each other for some time, and he stood up of his own
accord. I had to hold on with all my might with my left hand; but my
horse did not try to leap over the other animal, for he was even taller
than Ceph. When I saw the captain's head below mine, I used the
opportunity, and made the cut that finished the affair. I was not
reckless, as I was once accused of being, but wrongly, Captain Gordon.
I have made it a business of mine to-day to keep cool, and not let my
impulses run away with me; and I think I succeeded very well."
"Life thinks so too," added the captain.
"I have not said a word to him about it. I have kept my affairs closely
in my own head."
"You managed the guerillas admirably, and bagged them very skilfully,"
said his superior approvingly.
"I think it was largely a matter of luck and chance that I gathered
them in without losing a man, or even having a fight," added Deck. "The
ruffians were all busy ransacking the mansion in search of the money;
and if they had found it, I learned from Mr. Milton that it would have
given them over two hundred dollars apiece. I got in without
disturbing them, and they did not suspect the presence of my platoon
till the bugler sounded the call for my men. Then they were surrounded,
and the carbines were pointed at every window, with half a dozen aimed
up the staircase. It was easy enough then to bring the affair to a
conclusion."
"What are you going to do with your prisoners, Lieutenant?" asked
Captain Gordon.
"I turn them over to my superior officer, of course; for I have ceased
to be in command now. Mr. Milton informed me that there is a Union Home
Guard at Millersville that might take charge of the guerillas," replied
Deck, glad to be rid of this responsibility.
"Who is this Mr. Milton?" asked the commander; and Deck told him all he
knew about him, and especially that he had been very useful to him as a
guide.
"Where is he now?" inquired the captain, as they continued to eat the
dinner of hardtack and herring, washed down with hot coffee.
"There he is near the hospital; he has just sat down to lunch with the
sergeants," replied Deck, pointing to the group.
"Ask him to join us, Lieutenant," said the captain.
Deck obeyed; and Milton immediately responded to the summons. The
lieutenant apologized to him for his want of attention, for he had been
very busy every moment of the time. He was introduced to the commander
and Lieutenant Belthorpe; and the former thanked him warmly for the
service he had rendered, and invited him to join them in the simple
repast before them. He freely answered all the questions put to him. He
declared that Millersville contained a majority of loyal people, many
of whom had enlisted in the Kentucky regiments, while others had formed
a Union Home Guard, and were ready to fight to keep the State in the
Union.
"I judge that your time has not been wasted this forenoon," said Deck.
"It has not, indeed," replied the commander of the company; and he
proceeded to detail his experience with the enemy at Breedings.
He found on his arrival at that place that the marauders were a
foraging-party of regular Confederate cavalry, and not guerillas. It
consisted of at least a platoon, or half a company. They were coming
across the field from the Millersville Road. As soon as they discovered
the Riverlawn force, the enemy retreated, as the captain understood it;
but they were only hastening to a small fortification of earthworks
thrown up by the Confederate Home Guards of the place, who were in the
majority in that locality, although there were several rich planters in
the district who were Union men.
The fort had been armed with two rusty iron cannons, which had been
used for salutes in the time when the Fourth of July had been generally
celebrated. But it was not large enough to hold all the cavalrymen, and
the second platoon of twenty-five men had been sent to a hill on the
other side of the road. The commander sent Lieutenant Belthorpe to
attack them there, while he gave his attention to the enemy in the
fort.
The two guns, loaded with home-made grape-shot, were discharged; but
the gunners were utterly ignorant of the art of handling the pieces,
and the scattering bullets all went over the heads of the loyal
cavalrymen. The captain did not give them time to repeat the
experiment, for he ordered his lieutenant to charge over the earthwork
before they had time to load again. The fort had been constructed in a
very rude manner, without the help of an engineer; and it was only a
sort of windrow of earth, as hay is raked up in a field, and the
mounted men had no difficulty in riding over it.
The Confederates had dismounted, turning their horses into a field.
This was a fatal mistake on the part of their officer. His men were
huddled together with the Home Guards in the small space; and though
they fought bravely, they were soon ridden down, and totally defeated.
Many of them had been killed or disabled, and the Home Guards had run
away as soon as the horses began to ride them down. The officer called
for quarter, and surrendered. He and his men were paroled at once.
At the hill Lieutenant Belthorpe had vigorously attacked the second
platoon, and soon drove them from their ground. When the victory was
won at the fort, Captain Gordon re-enforced Belthorpe with twenty men
while the paroling was in process; and the enemy seeing that they were
outnumbered more than before, when they were driven from the hill, gave
up the fight, and fled at the best speed of their horses by the way
they had come. The lieutenant in command pursued them as far as the
road, when the recall was sounded near the fort, and they returned to
the little village. Captain Letcher was in command of the platoon, and
he had continued to retreat, believing that his pursuers were still
following him.
CHAPTER VIII
BEFORE THE BATTLE OF MILL SPRINGS
Captain Gordon had related the history of the affair at Breedings, and
Deck had learned from Lieutenant Logan considerably more that was not
within the knowledge of the commander. As they finished their simple
dinner, they discovered a gentleman, attended by a couple of men who
looked like mechanics, the latter with muskets on their shoulders, and
all of them mounted on fine horses, approaching the camp. The two
surgeons had finished dressing the wounds of the injured, and had
mounted their horses to depart. The soldiers, the prisoners, and the
horses had all been fed, and it seemed to be time for the next
movement.
"That is Colonel Halliburn coming," said Milton.
"Is his title simply an honorary one, or is he a military man?"
inquired the captain.
"He has been the leading man in the militia for thirty years, though he
has never been in active service," replied Milton. "He is past the
military age now."
The gentleman was introduced to the party, and he gave Deck the most
cordial thanks for the service rendered to his brother.
"How is Miss Grace, Colonel?" asked Win.
"She is well and happy now, though she is much concerned about her
guardian, and would have returned to him if I had permitted her to do
so; but I am going over to my brother's now, and I shall persuade him
and his wife to come to my house, for it is not safe for them to be
alone there. I have brought a couple of my men with me; and if we can
do anything to assist you here, we are at your service."
"Thank you, sir; we have defeated the enemy on all sides, and we are
ready to move on now to join the other company of our squadron,"
replied the captain. "The next question that we have to settle is the
disposition of our wounded, some of whom are not in condition to be
moved."
"My house is at your service for this purpose. I have twenty-five men
who belong to the Home Guard of Millersville residing in my village;
and I have called them out since Miss Morgan came to my house, and they
will be able to defend us from any ordinary enemies, so that your men
will be safe there," said the colonel.
"I thank you with all my heart," answered Captain Gordon. "I shall
avail myself of your kind offer."
"I am the captain of the Home Guards, and Dr. Barlow is the surgeon;
and we will attend to the removal of the men. I will look after the
matter as soon as I return from my brother's. Mr. Milton and the doctor
will remain here till I come."
"I am under very great obligations to you, Colonel Halliburn," added
the captain, "and I hope I shall be able to render you any service in a
time of need which you may require."
The commander of the company paroled the Confederate prisoners, and
permitted them to retire with their horses. They carried their wounded
with them on stretchers or on horseback, and marched up the road to
join the rest of their company. The bugle sounded, and the first
company of the Riverlawns formed in the road. It was only about six
miles to Millersville, and the captain decided to march the guerilla
prisoners to that town. They were placed between the two platoons, with
a guard on the flank; but the fun had all gone out of them, and they
were as submissive as whipped puppies. The column marched, and in about
two hours arrived at their next destination.
They found a company of about fifty Home Guards, armed with muskets,
but without uniforms, drawn up to receive them; for the news of the
skirmish had reached the place, and a considerable body of citizens
were in attendance as spectators.
"I am Lieutenant Ripley, commanding in the absence of Captain Halliburn
the Home Guards, all loyal men, and we give you a Kentucky welcome,"
said the officer of the Guards, saluting the captain. "What can we do
for you?"
"You can take these guerilla prisoners off our hands, for they are a
nuisance to us," replied Captain Gordon with a smile.
"Do you wish us to hang them to those trees yonder?" asked the
lieutenant.
"I do not ask you to do anything of the kind, though it might do them
good to hang them; but we don't treat prisoners in that way, even if
they are guerillas," replied the commander with considerable energy.
"You can confine them in some building, or let them go; but you must
not kill, starve, or ill-treat them, for Union soldiers don't do such
things."
It was nearly sundown, and the captain decided to bivouac for the
night. The camp was laid out in a field, and the tents were pitched. A
supper was cooked for the men, though the commissioned officers were
invited to a private house; but they declined the invitations to sleep
away from the company, though they ate the supper provided for them in
the house of a Union magnate, and repeated again the story of the day's
events. The commander inquired particularly for the news from the seat
of war in this quarter.
"I understand that General Crittenden has joined the army of General
Zollicoffer, and, as he ranks him, has the command of the army,"
replied the host, who seemed to be a very well-informed gentleman. "I
believe most of the Confederate troops on the other side of the
Cumberland River are Tennesseeans, and that is about all I know in
regard to them."
"Do you know where they are located, Mr. Kennedy?" asked the captain.
"We all know that they are on the other side of the Cumberland, about
six miles below the point to which steamboats can ascend. Zollicoffer
has fortified the hills, three or four hundred feet high, and holds a
very strong position; in fact, one of the strongest in the State in the
hands of the enemy. It covers the coal-mines and a great many
salt-wells beyond the river, and these are of the utmost importance to
the Confederacy. But it is well understood in these parts that the army
of Zollicoffer is short of supplies, and some say his men are starving
in the camps. I know that the Tennessee cavalry are foraging on this
side of the river to a considerable extent; and you have met one of
these parties to-day, and defeated them. Compared with the guerillas
that are operating on their own account in many parts of the State, the
foragers are really very mild; for they do not insult women, or take
anything from the farmers and planters except provisions; and they
treat Federalists and Secessionists just alike, for supplies have
become an absolute necessity to their army."
"Troops are constantly arriving from the North; and doubtless they
intend to attack Zollicoffer or General Crittenden, whichever it may
be, in his position near the Cumberland," suggested Captain Gordon.
"I doubt if Zollicoffer will wait for them to do that; for he must find
the Union forces, and beat them, or retreat into Tennessee. Should he
stay where he is, he must either surrender or starve."
It appeared subsequently that he decided upon the alternative of
crossing the Cumberland, and attacking the Union forces wherever he
could find them. He was compelled to do this, as Mr. Kennedy declared,
or starve for the want of supplies. Mill Springs, which is the name
given to the battle that was fought by Zollicoffer, though it is called
Somerset, and also Logan's Cross Roads, is on the south side of the
Cumberland River, and is a post-town. But the battle was not fought on
that side of the river, and it is the name of the position of the
Confederate army before the battle.
The line of defence, or of attack, as might be, chosen by the
Confederate army under General Johnston in Kentucky, appeared to extend
across the southern part of the State, and included three strongholds,
the first of which was Columbus, on the Mississippi River, on the west;
Bowling Green in the centre; and around Mill Springs on the east.
General Crittenden, the Southern commander-in-chief in this section,
had intrenched himself at Beech Grove, in Pulaski County, on the north
side of the river, east of Mill Springs.
Zollicoffer commanded under him, and the battle was fought by him. His
position was fifteen miles south-west of Somerset. General Buell, at
Louisville, then in command of the Union department which included the
State of Kentucky, realized the necessity of reducing this stronghold,
and sent General George H. Thomas, the ideal soldier of the war, though
not then so well known as at a later period, with a considerable force
to this region to accomplish this object. This able general had
approached his destination, but had not yet concentrated his force for
the attack. It was General Crittenden's policy to beat the Union army
in detail before the troops for the assault had been massed for the
final attack; but Zollicoffer, forced by his need of supplies, crossed
the river in a steamer and other craft, with about five thousand men,
and moved towards the north, to attack the force that threatened him.
This was the situation in the vicinity of Somerset and Mill Springs
when the Riverlawn Cavalry was marching in the direction of the former
place; and one company had reached Millersville, while the other was
believed to be at Harrison. The raids in the vicinity by foragers and
guerillas had been the immediate cause of sending the squadron to the
locality. The first company had camped for the night; and the officers
had returned from the residence of Mr. Kennedy, where they had been
entertained at supper. The officers and soldiers were tired enough to
roll themselves up in their blankets in their beds on the grass; and
Captain Gordon was preparing to do so when one of the sentinels
informed him that a man at the lines wished to see him, and he believed
it was the one who had been the guide of the first platoon in the
forenoon, for he gave his name as Winfield Milton.
At the sound of this name, Deck, who had lain down, sprang to his feet.
He feared that he had come for assistance against another attack of
guerillas or foragers. The captain ordered him to be admitted to the
tent, and he soon appeared. He had rendered very valuable service, both
to Deck's command and to the company after it was united.
"I am sorry to disturb you, Captain, at this hour; but I could not get
away any earlier, for we have been busy over at Colonel Halliburn's,
moving his brother and his wife, and transporting the wounded to his
mansion."
"I am very glad to see you, Mr. Milton. It is only eight o'clock, and I
had not retired," replied the captain. "But I hope you have not been
attacked again."
"No, sir, we have not been attacked; and if we had been, we have force
enough at the colonel's to defend ourselves, for we have a part of the
Home Guards from this town to re-enforce those of the little village,"
replied Milton. "I came for another purpose."
"I am glad to see you again, Win," interposed Deck, as he grasped the
hand of the late guide.
"Sorry to turn you out of bed, Lieutenant Lyon; but I was afraid you
would leave before I could get here in the morning," replied the
visitor. "I have been talking with Colonel Halliburn since you left,
and I have felt not a little ashamed that I am not in the Union army in
its time of need. But I have had to look after Grace and her guardian's
family, and that is the best excuse I could give to myself. Now they
are all settled at the colonel's, and I have come over here to enlist
in your company, Captain Gordon, if you will take me. You have lost
some men, and I thought you might want some more."
"We have kept both of our companies full so far, and I shall be glad to
have so good a man as you are in our ranks," promptly answered the
captain. "When shall you be ready to join us?"
"Right now!" exclaimed Milton.
"Is Miss Morgan willing that you should enlist?" asked Deck with a
laugh.
"Grace is as good a girl as ever was raised in Kentucky, and she has
always been ready to have me go to the war. She is as full of
patriotism as a nut is of meat, and says she should be ashamed to make
any objection to my going. I am ready to sign the papers, and take all
the steps to get into your company, Captain," continued the would-be
recruit.
"Our surgeon is with the other company, and you must be examined by a
doctor."
Milton drew a paper from his pocket, which proved to be a certificate
to his physical qualifications, signed by Dr. Barlow, who had been
regularly appointed as an examining surgeon. The Captain wrote down the
particulars in answer to his questions, and Winfield Milton was duly
enlisted in the service. Deck was especially pleased with the result of
this interview, for he had taken a strong liking to Milton.
CHAPTER IX
PREPARING FOR ANOTHER BATTLE IN THE ROAD
The Assembly sounded at five o'clock the next morning; and half an hour
later the troopers had their breakfast of coffee, hardtack, and cold
beef, the last cooked the night before. Milton was supplied with a
uniform and accoutrements from a wagon by the quartermaster-sergeant.
He had served in the militia in a company of mounted men raised in his
county; and though some of the tactics were new to him, he was at home
in most of the duties of the soldier.
At six o'clock, while there was still hardly light enough to recognize
a friend twenty feet off, the company was formed; and Life Knox, who
was the orderly sergeant, reported the fact to the captain. It was but
ten miles to Jamestown, and twenty-five to Harrison, where the two
companies were to unite. Life Knox, who had earned the reputation of
