vibration of the air, however, told her that whatever Mrs. Brigstock's
spirit might originally have been, it had been sharply affected by the
sight of Owen. He was essentially a surprise: she had reckoned with
everything that concerned him but his presence. With that, in awkward
silence, she was reckoning now, as Fleda could see, while she effected
with friendly aid an embarrassed transit to the sofa. Owen would be
useless, would be deplorable: that aspect of the case Fleda had taken in
as well. Another aspect was that he would admire her, adore her, exactly
in proportion as she herself should rise gracefully superior. Fleda felt
for the first time free to let herself "go," as Mrs. Gereth had said,
and she was full of the sense that to "go" meant now to aim straight at
the effect of moving Owen to rapture at her simplicity and tact. It was
her impression that he had no positive dislike of Mona's mother; but she
couldn't entertain that notion without a glimpse of the implication that
he had a positive dislike of Mrs. Brigstock's daughter. Mona's mother
declined tea, declined a better seat, declined a cushion, declined to
remove her boa: Fleda guessed that she had not come on purpose to be
dry, but that the voice of the invaded room had itself given her the
hint.
"I just came on the mere chance," she said. "Mona found yesterday,
somewhere, the card of invitation to your sister's marriage that you
sent us, or your father sent us, some time ago. We couldn't be
present--it was impossible; but as it had this address on it I said to
myself that I might find you here."
"I'm very glad to be at home," Fleda responded.
"Yes, that doesn't happen very often, does it?" Mrs. Brigstock looked
round afresh at Fleda's home.
"Oh, I came back from Ricks last week. I shall be here now till I don't
know when."
"We thought it very likely you would have come back. We knew of course
of your having been at Ricks. If I didn't find you I thought I might
perhaps find Mr. Vetch," Mrs. Brigstock went on.
"I'm sorry he's out. He's always out--all day long."
Mrs. Brigstock's round eyes grew rounder. "All day long?"
"All day long," Fleda smiled.
"Leaving you quite to yourself?"
"A good deal to myself, but a little, to-day, as you see, to Mr.
Gereth,--" and the girl looked at Owen to draw him into their
sociability. For Mrs. Brigstock he had immediately sat down; but the
movement had not corrected the sombre stiffness taking possession of him
at the sight of her. Before he found a response to the appeal addressed
to him Fleda turned again to her other visitor. "Is there any purpose
for which you would like my father to call on you?"
Mrs. Brigstock received this question as if it were not to be
unguardedly answered; upon which Owen intervened with pale irrelevance:
"I wrote to Mona this morning of Miss Vetch's being in town; but of
course the letter hadn't arrived when you left home."
"No, it hadn't arrived. I came up for the night--I've several matters to
attend to." Then looking with an intention of fixedness from one of her
companions to the other, "I'm afraid I've interrupted your
conversation," Mrs. Brigstock said. She spoke without effectual point,
had the air of merely announcing the fact. Fleda had not yet been
confronted with the question of the sort of person Mrs. Brigstock was;
she had only been confronted with the question of the sort of person
Mrs. Gereth scorned her for being. She was really, somehow, no sort of
person at all, and it came home to Fleda that if Mrs. Gereth could see
her at this moment she would scorn her more than ever. She had a face of
which it was impossible to say anything but that it was pink, and a mind
that it would be possible to describe only if one had been able to mark
it in a similar fashion. As nature had made this organ neither green nor
blue nor yellow, there was nothing to know it by: it strayed and bleated
like an unbranded sheep. Fleda felt for it at this moment much of the
kindness of compassion, since Mrs. Brigstock had brought it with her to
do something for her that she regarded as delicate. Fleda was quite
prepared to help it to perform, if she should be able to gather what it
wanted to do. What she gathered, however, more and more, was that it
wanted to do something different from what it had wanted to do in
leaving Waterbath. There was still nothing to enlighten her more
specifically in the way her visitor continued: "You must be very much
taken up. I believe you quite espouse his dreadful quarrel."
Fleda vaguely demurred. "His dreadful quarrel?"
"About the contents of the house. Aren't you looking after them for
him?"
"She knows how awfully kind you've been to me," Owen said. He showed
such discomfiture that he really gave away their situation; and Fleda
found herself divided between the hope that he would take leave and the
wish that he should see the whole of what the occasion might enable her
to bring to pass for him.
She explained to Mrs. Brigstock. "Mrs. Gereth, at Ricks, the other day,
asked me particularly to see him for her."
"And did she ask you also particularly to see him here in town?" Mrs.
Brigstock's hideous bonnet seemed to argue for the unsophisticated
truth; and it was on Fleda's lips to reply that such had indeed been
Mrs. Gereth's request. But she checked herself, and before she could say
anything else Owen had addressed their companion.
"I made a point of letting Mona know that I should be here, don't you
see? That's exactly what I wrote her this morning."
"She would have had no doubt you would be here, if you had a chance,"
Mrs. Brigstock returned. "If your letter had arrived it might have
prepared me for finding you here at tea. In that case I certainly
wouldn't have come."
"I'm glad, then, it didn't arrive. Shouldn't you like him to go?" Fleda
asked.
Mrs. Brigstock looked at Owen and considered: nothing showed in her face
but that it turned a deeper pink. "I should like him to go with me."
There was no menace in her tone, but she evidently knew what she wanted.
As Owen made no response to this Fleda glanced at him to invite him to
assent; then, for fear that he wouldn't, and would thereby make his case
worse, she took upon herself to declare that she was sure he would be
very glad to meet such a wish. She had no sooner spoken than she felt
that the words had a bad effect of intimacy: she had answered for him as
if she had been his wife. Mrs. Brigstock continued to regard him as if
she had observed nothing, and she continued to address Fleda: "I've not
seen him for a long time--I've particular things to say to him."
"So have I things to say to you, Mrs. Brigstock!" Owen interjected. With
this he took up his hat as if for an immediate departure.
The other visitor meanwhile turned to Fleda. "What is Mrs. Gereth going
to do?"
"Is that what you came to ask me?" Fleda demanded.
"That and several other things."
"Then you had much better let Mr. Gereth go, and stay by yourself and
make me a pleasant visit. You can talk with him when you like, but it is
the first time you've been to see me."
This appeal had evidently a certain effect; Mrs. Brigstock visibly
wavered. "I can't talk with him whenever I like," she returned; "he
hasn't been near us since I don't know when. But there are things that
have brought me here."
"They are not things of any importance," Owen, to Fleda's surprise,
suddenly asserted. He had not at first taken up Mrs. Brigstock's
expression of a wish to carry him off: Fleda could see that the instinct
at the bottom of this was that of standing by her, of seeming not to
abandon her. But abruptly, all his soreness working within him, it had
struck him that he should abandon her still more if he should leave her
to be dealt with by her other visitor. "You must allow me to say, you
know, Mrs. Brigstock, that I don't think you should come down on Miss
Vetch about anything. It's very good of her to take the smallest
interest in us and our horrid little squabble. If you want to talk about
it, talk about it with me." He was flushed with the idea of protecting
Fleda, of exhibiting his consideration for her. "I don't like your
cross-questioning her, don't you see? She's as straight as a die: I'll
tell you all about her!" he declared with an excited laugh. "Please come
off with me and let her alone."
Mrs. Brigstock, at this, became vivid at once; Fleda thought she looked
most peculiar. She stood straight up, with a queer distention of her
whole person and of everything in her face but her mouth, which she
gathered into a small, tight orifice. Fleda was painfully divided; her
joy was deep within, but it was more relevant to the situation that she
should not appear to associate herself with the tone of familiarity in
which Owen addressed a lady who had been, and was perhaps still, about
to become his mother-in-law. She laid on Mrs. Brigstock's arm a
repressive hand. Mrs. Brigstock, however, had already exclaimed on her
having so wonderful a defender. "He speaks, upon my word, as if I had
come here to be rude to you!"
At this, grasping her hard, Fleda laughed; then she achieved the exploit
of delicately kissing her. "I'm not in the least afraid to be alone with
you, or of your tearing me to pieces. I'll answer any question that you
can possibly dream of putting to me."
"I'm the proper person to answer Mrs. Brigstock's questions," Owen broke
in again, "and I'm not a bit less ready to meet them than you are." He
was firmer than she had ever seen him: it was as if she had not known he
could be so firm.
"But she'll only have been here a few minutes. What sort of a visit is
that?" Fleda cried.
"It has lasted long enough for my purpose. There was something I wanted
to know, but I think I know it now."
"Anything you don't know I dare say I can tell you!" Owen observed as he
impatiently smoothed his hat with the cuff of his coat.
Fleda by this time desired immensely to keep his companion, but she saw
she could do so only at the cost of provoking on his part a further
exhibition of the sheltering attitude, which he exaggerated precisely
because it was the first thing, since he had begun to "like" her, that
he had been able frankly to do for her. It was not in her interest that
Mrs. Brigstock should be more struck than she already was with that
benevolence. "There may be things you know that I don't," she presently
said to her, with a smile. "But I've a sort of sense that you're
laboring under some great mistake."
Mrs. Brigstock, at this, looked into her eyes more deeply and yearningly
than she had supposed Mrs. Brigstock could look; it was the flicker of a
certain willingness to give her a chance. Owen, however, quickly spoiled
everything. "Nothing is more probable than that Mrs. Brigstock is doing
what you say; but there's no one in the world to whom you owe an
explanation. I may owe somebody one--I dare say I do; but not you, no!"
"But what if there's one that it's no difficulty at all for me to give?"
Fleda inquired. "I'm sure that's the only one Mrs. Brigstock came to
ask, if she came to ask any at all."
Again the good lady looked hard at her young hostess. "I came, I
believe, Fleda, just, you know, to plead with you."
Fleda, with a bright face, hesitated a moment. "As if I were one of
those bad women in a play?"
The remark was disastrous. Mrs. Brigstock, on whom her brightness was
lost, evidently thought it singularly free. She turned away, as from a
presence that had really defined itself as objectionable, and Fleda had
a vain sense that her good humor, in which there was an idea, was taken
for impertinence, or at least for levity. Her allusion was improper,
even if she herself wasn't; Mrs. Brigstock's emotion simplified: it came
to the same thing. "I'm quite ready," that lady said to Owen rather
mildly and woundedly. "I do want to speak to you very much."
"I'm completely at your service." Owen held out his hand to Fleda.
"Good-bye, Miss Vetch. I hope to see you again to-morrow." He opened the
door for Mrs. Brigstock, who passed before the girl with an oblique,
averted salutation. Owen and Fleda, while he stood at the door, then
faced each other darkly and without speaking. Their eyes met once more
for a long moment, and she was conscious there was something in hers
that the darkness didn't quench, that he had never seen before and that
he was perhaps never to see again. He stayed long enough to take it--to
take it with a sombre stare that just showed the dawn of wonder; then he
followed Mrs. Brigstock out of the house.
XVI
He had uttered the hope that he should see her the next day, but Fleda
could easily reflect that he wouldn't see her if she were not there to
be seen. If there was a thing in the world she desired at that moment,
it was that the next day should have no point of resemblance with the
day that had just elapsed. She accordingly aspired to an absence: she
would go immediately down to Maggie. She ran out that evening and
telegraphed to her sister, and in the morning she quitted London by an
early train. She required for this step no reason but the sense of
necessity. It was a strong personal need; she wished to interpose
something, and there was nothing she could interpose but distance, but
time. If Mrs. Brigstock had to deal with Owen she would allow Mrs.
Brigstock the chance. To be there, to be in the midst of it, was the
reverse of what she craved: she had already been more in the midst of it
than had ever entered into her plan. At any rate she had renounced her
plan; she had no plan now but the plan of separation. This was to
abandon Owen, to give up the fine office of helping him back to his own;
but when she had undertaken that office she had not foreseen that Mrs.
Gereth would defeat it by a manoeuvre so simple. The scene at her
father's rooms had extinguished all offices, and the scene at her
father's rooms was of Mrs. Gereth's producing. Owen, at all events, must
now act for himself: he had obligations to meet, he had satisfactions to
give, and Fleda fairly ached with the wish that he might be equal to
them. She never knew the extent of her tenderness for him till she
became conscious of the present force of her desire that he should be
superior, be perhaps even sublime. She obscurely made out that
superiority, that sublimity, mightn't after all be fatal. She closed her
eyes and lived for a day or two in the mere beauty of confidence. It was
with her on the short journey; it was with her at Maggie's; it glorified
the mean little house in the stupid little town. Owen had grown larger
to her: he would do, like a man, whatever he should have to do. He
wouldn't be weak--not as she was: she herself was weak exceedingly.
Arranging her few possessions in Maggie's fewer receptacles, she caught
a glimpse of the bright side of the fact that her old things were not
such a problem as Mrs. Gereth's. Picking her way with Maggie through the
local puddles, diving with her into smelly cottages and supporting her,
at smellier shops, in firmness over the weight of joints and the taste
of cheese, it was still her own secret that was universally inter-woven
In the puddles, the cottages, the shops she was comfortably alone with
it; that comfort prevailed even while, at the evening meal, her
brother-in-law invited her attention to a diagram, drawn with a fork on
too soiled a tablecloth, of the scandalous drains of the Convalescent
Home. To be alone with it she had come away from Ricks; and now she knew
that to be alone with it she had come away from London. This advantage
was of course menaced, but not immediately destroyed, by the arrival, on
the second day, of the note she had been sure she should receive from
Owen. He had gone to West Kensington and found her flown, but he had got
her address from the little maid and then hurried to a club and written
to her. "Why have you left me just when I want you most?" he demanded.
The next words, it was true, were more reassuring on the question of his
steadiness. "I don't know what your reason may be," they went on, "nor
why you've not left a line for me; but I don't think you can feel that I
did anything yesterday that it wasn't right for me to do. As regards
Mrs. Brigstock, certainly, I just felt what was right and I did it. She
had no business whatever to attack you that way, and I should have been
ashamed if I had left her there to worry you. I won't have you worried
by any one; no one shall be disagreeable to you but me. I didn't mean to
be so yesterday, and I don't to-day; but I'm perfectly free now to want
you, and I want you much more than you've allowed me to explain. You'll
see if I'm not all right, if you'll let me come to you. Don't be
afraid--I'll not hurt you nor trouble you. I give you my honor I'll not
hurt any one. Only I must see you, on what I had to say to Mrs. B. She
was nastier than I thought she could be, but I'm behaving like an angel.
I assure you I'm all right--that's exactly what I want you to see. You
owe me something, you know, for what you said you would do and haven't
done; what your departure without a word gives me to understand--doesn't
it?--that you definitely can't do. Don't simply forsake me. See me, if
you only see me once. I shan't wait for any leave--I shall come down
to-morrow. I've been looking into trains and find there's something that
will bring me down just after lunch and something very good for getting
me back. I won't stop long. For God's sake, be there."
This communication arrived in the morning, but Fleda would still have
had time to wire a protest. She debated on that alternative; then she
read the note over and found in one phrase an exact statement of her
duty. Owen's simplicity had expressed it, and her subtlety had nothing
to answer. She owed him something for her obvious failure, and what she
owed him was to receive him. If indeed she had known he would make this
attempt she might have been held to have gained nothing by her flight.
Well, she had gained what she had gained--she had gained the interval.
She had no compunction for the greater trouble she should give the young
man; it was now doubtless right that he should have as much trouble as
possible. Maggie, who thought she was in her confidence, but was
immensely not, had reproached her for having left Mrs. Gereth, and
Maggie was just in this proportion gratified to hear of the visitor with
whom, early in the afternoon, she would have to ask to be left alone.
Maggie liked to see far, and now she could sit upstairs and rake the
whole future. She had known that, as she familiarly said, there was
something the matter with Fleda, and the value of that knowledge was
augmented by the fact that there was apparently also something the
matter with Mr. Gereth.
Fleda, downstairs, learned soon enough what this was. It was simply
that, as he announced the moment he stood before her, he was now all
right. When she asked him what he meant by that state he replied that he
meant he could practically regard himself henceforth as a free man: he
had had at West Kensington, as soon as they got into the street, such a
horrid scene with Mrs. Brigstock.
"I knew what she wanted to say to me: that's why I was determined to get
her off. I knew I shouldn't like it, but I was perfectly prepared," said
Owen. "She brought it out as soon as we got round the corner; she asked
me point-blank if I was in love with you."
"And what did you say to that?"
"That it was none of her business."
"Ah," said Fleda, "I'm not so sure!"
"Well, I am, and I'm the person most concerned. Of course I didn't use
just those words: I was perfectly civil, quite as civil as she. But I
told her I didn't consider she had a right to put me any such question.
I said I wasn't sure that even Mona had, with the extraordinary line,
you know, that Mona has taken. At any rate the whole thing, the way I
put it, was between Mona and me; and between Mona and me, if she didn't
mind, it would just have to remain."
Fleda was silent a little. "All that didn't answer her question."
"Then you think I ought to have told her?"
Again our young lady reflected. "I think I'm rather glad you didn't."
"I knew what I was about," said Owen. "It didn't strike me that she had
the least right to come down on us that way and ask for explanations."
Fleda looked very grave, weighing the whole matter. "I dare say that
when she started, when she arrived, she didn't mean to 'come down.'"
"What then did she mean to do?"
"What she said to me just before she went: she meant to plead with me."
"Oh, I heard her!" said Owen. "But plead with you for what?"
"For you, of course--to entreat me to give you up. She thinks me awfully
designing--that I've taken some sort of possession of you."
Owen stared. "You haven't lifted a finger! It's I who have taken
possession."
"Very true, you've done it all yourself." Fleda spoke gravely and
gently, without a breath of coquetry. "But those are shades between
which she's probably not obliged to distinguish. It's enough for her
that we're singularly intimate."
"I am, but you're not!" Owen exclaimed.
Fleda gave a dim smile. "You make me at least feel that I'm learning to
know you very well when I hear you say such a thing as that. Mrs.
Brigstock came to get round me, to supplicate me," she went on; "but to
find you there, looking so much at home, paying me a friendly call and
shoving the tea-things about--that was too much for her patience. She
doesn't know, you see, that I'm after all a decent girl. She simply made
up her mind on the spot that I'm a very bad case."
"I couldn't stand the way she treated you, and that was what I had to
say to her," Owen returned.
"She's simple and slow, but she's not a fool: I think she treated me, on
the whole, very well." Fleda remembered how Mrs. Gereth had treated Mona
when the Brigstocks came down to Poynton.
Owen evidently thought her painfully perverse. "It was you who carried
it off; you behaved like a brick. And so did I, I consider. If you only
knew the difficulty I had! I told her you were the noblest and
straightest of women."
"That can hardly have removed her impression that there are things I put
you up to."
"It didn't," Owen replied with candor. "She said our relation, yours and
mine, isn't innocent."
"What did she mean by that?"
"As you may suppose, I particularly inquired. Do you know what she had
the cheek to tell me?" Owen asked. "She didn't better it much: she said
she meant that it's excessively unnatural."
Fleda considered afresh. "Well, it is!" she brought out at last.
"Then, upon my honor, it's only you who make it so!" Her perversity was
distinctly too much for him. "I mean you make it so by the way you keep
me off."
"Have I kept you off to-day?" Fleda sadly shook her head, raising her
arms a little and dropping them.
Her gesture of resignation gave him a pretext for catching at her hand,
but before he could take it she had put it behind her. They had been
seated together on Maggie's single sofa, and her movement brought her to
her feet, while Owen, looking at her reproachfully, leaned back in
discouragement. "What good does it do me to be here when I find you only
a stone?"
She met his eyes with all the tenderness she had not yet uttered, and
she had not known till this moment how great was the accumulation.
"Perhaps, after all," she risked, "there may be even in a stone still
some little help for you."
Owen sat there a minute staring at her. "Ah, you're beautiful, more
beautiful than any one," he broke out, "but I'll be hanged if I can ever
understand you! On Tuesday, at your father's, you were beautiful--as
beautiful, just before I left, as you are at this instant. But the next
day, when I went back, I found it had apparently meant nothing; and now,
again, that you let me come here and you shine at me like an angel, it
doesn't bring you an inch nearer to saying what I want you to say." He
remained a moment longer in the same position; then he jerked himself
up. "What I want you to say is that you like me--what I want you to say
is that you pity me." He sprang up and came to her. "What I want you to
say is that you'll save me!"
Fleda hesitated. "Why do you need saving, when you announced to me just
now that you're a free man?"
He too hesitated, but he was not checked. "It's just for the reason that
I'm free. Don't you know what I mean, Miss Vetch? I want you to marry
me."
Fleda, at this, put out her hand in charity; she held his own, which
quickly grasped it a moment, and if he had described her as shining at
him it may be assumed that she shone all the more in her deep, still
smile. "Let me hear a little more about your freedom first," she said.
"I gather that Mrs. Brigstock was not wholly satisfied with the way you
disposed of her question."
"I dare say she wasn't. But the less she's satisfied the more I'm free."
"What bearing have her feelings, pray?" Fleda asked.
"Why, Mona's much worse than her mother. She wants much more to give me
up."
"Then why doesn't she do it?"
"She will, as soon as her mother gets home and tells her."
"Tells her what?" Fleda inquired.
"Why, that I'm in love with you!"
Fleda debated. "Are you so very sure she will?"
"Certainly I'm sure, with all the evidence I already have. That will
finish her!" Owen declared.
This made his companion thoughtful again. "Can you take such pleasure in
her being 'finished'--a poor girl you've once loved?"
Owen waited long enough to take in the question; then with a serenity
startling even to her knowledge of his nature, "I don't think I can have
really loved her, you know," he replied.
Fleda broke into a laugh which gave him a surprise as visible as the
emotion it testified to. "Then how am I to know that you 'really'
love--anybody else?"
"Oh, I'll show you that!" said Owen.
"I must take it on trust," the girl pursued. "And what if Mona doesn't
give you up?" she added.
Owen was baffled but a few seconds; he had thought of everything. "Why,
that's just where you come in."
"To save you? I see. You mean I must get rid of her for you." His
blankness showed for a little that he felt the chill of her cold logic;
but as she waited for his rejoinder she knew to which of them it cost
most. He gasped a minute, and that gave her time to say: "You see, Mr.
Owen, how impossible it is to talk of such things yet!"
Like lightning he had grasped her arm. "You mean you will talk of
them?" Then as he began to take the flood of assent from her eyes: "You
will listen to me? Oh, you dear, you dear--when, when?"
"Ah, when it isn't mere misery!" The words had broken from her in a
sudden loud cry, and what next happened was that the very sound of her
pain upset her. She heard her own true note; she turned short away from
him; in a moment she had burst into sobs; in another his arms were round
her; the next she had let herself go so far that even Mrs. Gereth might
have seen it. He clasped her, and she gave herself--she poured out her
tears on his breast; something prisoned and pent throbbed and gushed;
something deep and sweet surged up--something that came from far within
and far off, that had begun with the sight of him in his indifference
and had never had rest since then. The surrender was short, but the
relief was long: she felt his lips upon her face and his arms tighten
with his full divination. What she did, what she had done, she
scarcely knew: she only was aware, as she broke from him again, of what
had taken place in his own quick breast. What had taken place was that,
with the click of a spring, he saw. He had cleared the high wall at a
bound; they were together without a veil. She had not a shred of a
secret left; it was as if a whirlwind had come and gone, laying low the
great false front that she had built up stone by stone. The strangest
thing of all was the momentary sense of desolation.
"Ah, all the while you cared?" Owen read the truth with a wonder so
great that it was visibly almost a sadness, a terror caused by his
sudden perception of where the impossibility was not. That made it all
perhaps elsewhere.
"I cared, I cared, I cared!" Fleda moaned it as defiantly as if she were
confessing a misdeed. "How couldn't I care? But you mustn't, you must
never, never ask! It isn't for us to talk about!" she insisted. "Don't
speak of it, don't speak!"
It was easy indeed not to speak when the difficulty was to find words.
He clasped his hands before her as he might have clasped them at an
altar; his pressed palms shook together while he held his breath and
while she stilled herself in the effort to come round again to the real
and the right. He helped this effort, soothing her into a seat with a
touch as light as if she had really been something sacred. She sank into
a chair and he dropped before her on his knees; she fell back with
closed eyes and he buried his face in her lap. There was no way to thank
her but this act of prostration, which lasted, in silence, till she laid
consenting hands on him, touched his head and stroked it, held it in her
tenderness till he acknowledged his long density. He made the avowal
seem only his--made her, when she rose again, raise him at last, softly,
as if from the abasement of shame. If in each other's eyes now, however,
they saw the truth, this truth, to Fleda, looked harder even than
before--all the harder that when, at the very moment she recognized it,
he murmured to her ecstatically, in fresh possession of her hands, which
he drew up to his breast, holding them tight there with both his own:
"I'm saved, I'm saved,--I am! I'm ready for anything. I have your
word. Come!" he cried, as if from the sight of a response slower than he
needed, and in the tone he so often had of a great boy at a great game.
She had once more disengaged herself, with the private vow that he
shouldn't yet touch her again. It was all too horribly soon--her sense
of this was rapidly surging back. "We mustn't talk, we mustn't talk; we
must wait!" she intensely insisted. "I don't know what you mean by
your freedom; I don't see it, I don't feel it. Where is it yet, where,
your freedom? If it's real there's plenty of time, and if it isn't
there's more than enough. I hate myself," she protested, "for having
anything to say about her: it's like waiting for dead men's shoes! What
business is it of mine what she does? She has her own trouble and her
own plan. It's too hideous to watch her and count on her!"
Owen's face, at this, showed a reviving dread, the fear of some darksome
process of her mind. "If you speak for yourself I can understand, but
why is it hideous for me?"
"Oh, I mean for myself!" Fleda said impatiently.
"I watch her, I count on her: how can I do anything else? If I count
on her to let me definitely know how we stand, I do nothing in life but
what she herself has led straight up to. I never thought of asking you
to 'get rid of her' for me, and I never would have spoken to you if I
hadn't held that I am rid of her, that she has backed out of the whole
thing. Didn't she do so from the moment she began to put it off? I had
already applied for the license; the very invitations were half
addressed. Who but she, all of a sudden, demanded an unnatural wait? It
was none of my doing; I had never dreamed of anything but coming up to
the scratch." Owen grew more and more lucid, and more confident of the
effect of his lucidity. "She called it 'taking a stand,' to see what
mother would do. I told her mother would do what I would make her do;
and to that she replied that she would like to see me make her first. I
said I would arrange that everything should be all right, and she said
she really preferred to arrange it herself. It was a flat refusal to
trust me in the smallest degree. Why then had she pretended so
tremendously to care for me? And of course, at present," said Owen, "she
trusts me, if possible, still less."
Fleda paid this statement the homage of a minute's muteness. "As to
that, naturally, she has reason."
"Why on earth has she reason?" Then, as his companion, moving away,
simply threw up her hands, "I never looked at you--not to call
looking--till she had regularly driven me to it," he went on. "I know
what I'm about. I do assure you I'm all right!"
"You're not all right--you're all wrong!" Fleda cried in despair. "You
mustn't stay here, you mustn't!" she repeated with clear decision. "You
make me say dreadful things, and I feel as if I made you say them."
But before he could reply she took it up in another tone. "Why in the
world, if everything had changed, didn't you break off?"
"I?--" The inquiry seemed to have moved him to stupefaction. "Can you
ask me that question when I only wanted to please you? Didn't you seem
to show me, in your wonderful way, that that was exactly how? I didn't
break off just on purpose to leave it to her. I didn't break off so
that there shouldn't be a thing to be said against me."
The instant after her challenge Fleda had faced him again in
self-reproof. "There isn't a thing to be said against you, and I don't
know what nonsense you make me talk! You have pleased me, and you've
been right and good, and it's the only comfort, and you must go.
Everything must come from Mona, and if it doesn't come we've said
entirely too much. You must leave me alone--forever."
"Forever?" Owen gasped.
"I mean unless everything is different."
"Everything is different--when I know!"
Fleda winced at what he knew; she made a wild gesture which seemed to
whirl it out of the room. The mere allusion was like another embrace.
"You know nothing--and you must go and wait! You mustn't break down at
this point."
He looked about him and took up his hat: it was as if, in spite of
frustration, he had got the essence of what he wanted and could afford
to agree with her to the extent of keeping up the forms. He covered her
with his fine, simple smile, but made no other approach. "Oh, I'm so
awfully happy!" he exclaimed.
She hesitated: she would only be impeccable even though she should have
to be sententious. "You'll be happy if you're perfect!" she risked.
He laughed out at this, and she wondered if, with a new-born acuteness,
he saw the absurdity of her speech, and that no one was happy just
because no one could be what she so lightly prescribed. "I don't pretend
to be perfect, but I shall find a letter to-night!"
"So much the better, if it's the kind of one you desire." That was the
most she could say, and having made it sound as dry as possible she
lapsed into a silence so pointed as to deprive him of all pretext for
not leaving her. Still, nevertheless, he stood there, playing with his
hat and filling the long pause with a strained and anxious smile. He
wished to obey her thoroughly, to appear not to presume on any advantage
he had won from her; but there was clearly something he longed for
beside. While he showed this by hanging on she thought of two other
things. One of these was that his countenance, after all, failed to bear
out his description of his bliss. As for the other, it had no sooner
come into her head than she found it seated, in spite of her resolution,
on her lips. It took the form of an inconsequent question. "When did you
say Mrs. Brigstock was to have gone back?"
Owen stared. "To Waterbath? She was to have spent the night in town,
don't you know? But when she left me, after our talk, I said to myself
that she would take an evening train. I know I made her want to get
home."
"Where did you separate?" Fleda asked.
"At the West Kensington station--she was going to Victoria. I had walked
with her there, and our talk was all on the way."
Fleda pondered a moment. "If she did go back that night you would have
heard from Waterbath by this time."
"I don't know," said Owen. "I thought I might hear this morning."
"She can't have gone back," Fleda declared. "Mona would have written on
the spot."
"Oh yes, she will have written bang off!" Owen cheerfully conceded.
Fleda thought again. "Then, even in the event of her mother's not having
got home till the morning, you would have had your letter at the latest
to-day. You see she has had plenty of time."
Owen hesitated; then, "Oh, she's all right!" he laughed. "I go by Mrs.
Brigstock's certain effect on her--the effect of the temper the old lady
showed when we parted. Do you know what she asked me?" he sociably
continued. "She asked me in a kind of nasty manner if I supposed you
'really' cared anything about me. Of course I told her I supposed you
didn't--not a solitary rap. How could I suppose you do, with your
extraordinary ways? It doesn't matter; I could see she thought I lied."
"You should have told her, you know, that I had seen you in town only
that one time," Fleda observed.
"By Jove, I did--for you! It was only for you."
Something in this touched the girl so that for a moment she could not
trust herself to speak. "You're an honest man," she said at last. She
had gone to the door and opened it. "Good-bye."
Even yet, however, he hung back; and she remembered how, at the end of
his hour at Ricks, she had been put to it to get him out of the house.
He had in general a sort of cheerful slowness which helped him at such
times, though she could now see his strong fist crumple his big, stiff
gloves as if they had been paper. "But even if there's no letter--" he
began. He began, but there he left it.
"You mean, even if she doesn't let you off? Ah, you ask me too much!"
Fleda spoke from the tiny hall, where she had taken refuge between the
old barometer and the old mackintosh. "There are things too utterly for
yourselves alone. How can I tell? What do I know? Good-bye, good-bye! If
she doesn't let you off, it will be because she is attached to you."
"She's not, she's not: there's nothing in it! Doesn't a fellow
know?--except with you!" Owen ruefully added. With this he came out of
the room, lowering his voice to secret supplication, pleading with her
really to meet him on the ground of the negation of Mona. It was this
betrayal of his need of support and sanction that made her
retreat--harden herself in the effort to save what might remain of all
she had given, given probably for nothing. The very vision of him as he
thus morally clung to her was the vision of a weakness somewhere in the
core of his bloom, a blessed manly weakness of which, if she had only
the valid right, it would be all a sweetness to take care. She faintly
sickened, however, with the sense that there was as yet no valid right
poor Owen could give. "You can take it from my honor, you know," he
whispered, "that she loathes me."
Fleda had stood clutching the knob of Maggie's little painted
stair-rail; she took, on the stairs, a step backward. "Why then doesn't
she prove it in the only clear way?"
"She has proved it. Will you believe it if you see the letter?"
"I don't want to see any letter," said Fleda. "You'll miss your train."
Facing him, waving him away, she had taken another upward step; but he
sprang to the side of the stairs and brought his hand, above the
banister, down hard on her wrist. "Do you mean to tell me that I must
marry a woman I hate?"
From her step she looked down into his raised face. "Ah, you see it's
not true that you're free!" She seemed almost to exult. "It's not
true--it's not true!"
He only, at this, like a buffeting swimmer, gave a shake of his head and
repeated his question. "Do you mean to tell me I must marry such a
woman?"
Fleda hesitated; he held her fast. "No. Anything is better than that."
"Then, in God's name, what must I do?"
"You must settle that with her. You mustn't break faith. Anything is
better than that. You must at any rate be utterly sure. She must love
you--how can she help it? I wouldn't give you up!" said Fleda. She
spoke in broken bits, panting out her words. "The great thing is to keep
faith. Where is a man if he doesn't? If he doesn't he may be so cruel.
So cruel, so cruel, so cruel!" Fleda repeated. "I couldn't have a hand
in that, you know: that's my position--that's mine. You offered her
marriage: it's a tremendous thing for her." Then looking at him another
moment, "I wouldn't give you up!" she said again. He still had hold of
her arm; she took in his blank alarm. With a quick dip of her face she
reached his hand with her lips, pressing them to the back of it with a
force that doubled the force of her words. "Never, never, never!" she
cried; and before he could succeed in seizing her she had turned and,
scrambling up the stairs, got away from him even faster than she had got
away from him at Ricks.
XVII
Ten days after his visit she received a communication from Mrs.
Gereth--a telegram of eight words, exclusive of signature and date.
"Come up immediately and stay with me here"--it was characteristically
sharp, as Maggie said; but, as Maggie added, it was also
characteristically kind. "Here" was an hotel in London, and Maggie had
embraced a condition of life which already began to produce in her some
yearning for hotels in London. She would have responded in an instant,
and she was surprised that her sister seemed to hesitate. Fleda's
hesitation, which lasted but an hour, was expressed in that young lady's
own mind by the reflection that in obeying her friend's summons she
shouldn't know what she should be "in for." Her friend's summons,
however, was but another name for her friend's appeal; and Mrs. Gereth's
bounty had laid her under obligations more sensible than any reluctance.
In the event--that is at the end of her hour--she testified to her
gratitude by taking the train and to her mistrust by leaving her
luggage. She went as if she had gone up for the day. In the train,
however, she had another thoughtful hour, during which it was her
mistrust that mainly deepened. She felt as if for ten days she had sat
in darkness, looking to the east for a dawn that had not yet glimmered.
Her mind had lately been less occupied with Mrs. Gereth; it had been so
exceptionally occupied with Mona. If the sequel was to justify Owen's
prevision of Mrs. Brigstock's action upon her daughter, this action was
at the end of a week as much a mystery as ever. The stillness, all
round, had been exactly what Fleda desired, but it gave her for the time
a deep sense of failure, the sense of a sudden drop from a height at
which she had all things beneath her. She had nothing beneath her now;
she herself was at the bottom of the heap. No sign had reached her from
Owen--poor Owen, who had clearly no news to give about his precious
letter from Waterbath. If Mrs. Brigstock had hurried back to obtain that
this letter should be written, Mrs. Brigstock might then have spared
herself so great an inconvenience. Owen had been silent for the best of
all reasons--the reason that he had had nothing in life to say. If the
letter had not been written he would simply have had to introduce some
large qualification into his account of his freedom. He had left his
young friend under her refusal to listen to him until he should be able,
on the contrary, to extend that picture; and his present submission was
all in keeping with the rigid honesty that his young friend had
prescribed.
It was this that formed the element through which Mona loomed large;
Fleda had enough imagination, a fine enough feeling for life, to be
impressed with such an image of successful immobility. The massive
maiden at Waterbath was successful from the moment she could entertain
her resentments as if they had been poor relations who needn't put her
to expense. She was a magnificent dead weight; there was something
positive and portentous in her quietude. "What game are they all
playing?" poor Fleda could only ask; for she had an intimate conviction
that Owen was now under the roof of his betrothed. That was stupefying
if he really hated Mona; and if he didn't really hate her what had
brought him to Raphael Road and to Maggie's? Fleda had no real light,
but she felt that to account for the absence of any result of their last
meeting would take a supposition of the full sacrifice to charity that
she had held up before him. If he had gone to Waterbath it had been
simply because he had to go. She had as good as told him that he would
have to go; that this was an inevitable incident of his keeping perfect
faith--faith so literal that the smallest subterfuge would always be a
reproach to him. When she tried to remember that it was for herself he
was taking his risk, she felt how weak a way that was of expressing
Mona's supremacy. There would be no need of keeping him up if there were
nothing to keep him up to. Her eyes grew wan as she discerned in the
impenetrable air that Mona's thick outline never wavered an inch. She
wondered fitfully what Mrs. Gereth had by this time made of it, and
reflected with a strange elation that the sand on which the mistress of
