when he lurked in the hollow below with Fox, while 
Westover remained talking with Whitwell. He 
 
thought of the picnic that Mrs. Marven had embittered 
for him, and he thought of the last time that he had 
been there with Westover, when they talked of the 
Vostrands. 
Life had, so far, not been what he meant it, and 
just now it occurred to him that he might not have 
wholly made it what it had been. It seemed to him 
that a good many other people had come in and taken 
a hand in making his own life what it had been ; and 
if he had meddled with theirs more than he was 
wanted, it was about an even thing. As far as he 
could make out, he was a sort of ingredient in the 
general mixture. He had probably done his share of 
the flavoring, but he had had very little to do with 
the mixing. There were different ways of looking at 
the thing. Westover had his way, but it struck Jeff 
that it put too much responsibility on the ingredient, 
and too little on the power that chose it. He believed 
that he could prove a clear case in his own favor, as 
far as the question of final justice was concerned, but 
he had no complaints to make. Things had fallen 
out very much to his mind. He was the Landlord at 
Lion's Head, at last, with the full right to do what he 
pleased with the place, and with half a year's leisure 
before him to think it over. He did not mean to 
waste the time while he was abroad ; if there was any- 
thing to be learned anywhere about keeping a summer 
hotel, he was going to learn it ; and he thought the 
summer hotel could be advantageously studied in its 
winter phases in the mild climates of Southern Europe. 
He meant to strike for the class of Americans who 
resorted to those climates ; to divine their characters 
and to please their tastes. 
He unconsciously included Cynthia in his scheme 
of inquiry ; he had been used so long to trust to her 
instincts and opinions, and to rely upon her help, and 
he realized that she was no longer in his life with 
something like the shock a man experiences when the 
loss of a limb, which continues a part of his inveterate 
consciousness, is brought to his sense by some me- 
chanical attempt to use it. But even in this pang he 
did not regret, that all was over between them. He 
knew now that he had never cared for her as he had 
once thought, and on her account, if not his own, he 
was glad their engagement was broken. A soft mel- 
ancholy for his own disappointment imparted itself to 
his thoughts of Cynthia. He felt truly sorry for her, 
and he truly, admired and respected her. He was in 
a very lenient mood towards every one, and he went 
so far in thought towards forgiving his enemies that 
he was willing at least to pardon all those whom he 
had injured. A little rustling in the underbrush 
across the clearing caught his quick ear, and he looked 
up to see Jombateeste parting the boughs of the young 
pines on its edge, and advancing into the open with a 
gun on his shoulder. He called to him cheerily : 
" Hello, John ! Any luck ? " 
Jombateeste shook his head. " Nawthing." He 
hesitated. 
" What are you after ? " 
" Partridge," Jombateeste ventured back. 
JefE could not resist the desire to scoff which always 
 
came upon him at sight of the Canuck. " Oh, pshaw ! 
Why don't you go for woodchucks ? They fly low, 
and you can hit them on the wing, if you can't sneak 
on 'em sitting." 
Jombateeste received his raillery in dignified silence, 
and turned back into the woods again. He left Dur- 
gin in heightened good-humor with himself and with 
the world, which had finally so well adapted itself to 
his desires and designs. 
JefE watched his resentful going with a grin, and 
then threw himself hack on the thick bed of dry moss 
where he had been sitting, and watched the clouds 
drifting across the space of blue which the clearing 
opened overhead. His own action reminded him of 
Jackson, lying in the orchard, and looking up at the 
sky. He felt strangely at one with him, and he ex- 
perienced a tenderness for his memory which he had 
not known before. Jackson had been a good man ; 
he realized that with a curious sense of novelty in the 
reflection ; he wondered what the incentives and the 
objects of such men as Jackson and Westover were, 
anyway. Something like grief for his brother came 
upon him ; not such grief as he had felt passionately 
enough, though tacitly, for his mother ; but a regret 
for not having shown Jackson during his life that he 
could appreciate his unselfishness, though he could 
not see the reason or the meaning of it. He said to 
himself, in their safe remoteness from each other, that 
he wished he could do something for Jackson. He 
wondered if in the course of time he should get to be 
something like him. He imagined trying. 
He heard sounds again in the edge of the clearing, 
but he decided that it was that fool Jombateeste com- 
ing back ; and when steps approached softly and hesi- 
tantly across the moss, he did not trouble himself to 
take his eyes from the clouds. He was only vexed to 
have his reverie broken in upon. 
A voice that was not Jombateeste's spoke : " I say ! 
Can you tell me the way to the Brooker Institute, or 
to the road down the mountain ? " 
JefE sat suddenly bolt-upright ; in another moment 
he jumped to his feet. The Brooker Institute was a 
branch of the Keeley Cure recently established near 
the Huddle, and this must be a patient who had wan- 
dered from it, on one of the excursions the inmates 
made with their guardians, and lost his way. This 
was the fact that Jeff realized at the first glance he 
gave the man. The next he recognized that the man 
was Alan Lynde. 
" Oh, it's you," he said, quite simply. He felt so 
cruelly the hardship of his one unforgiven enemy's 
coming upon him just when he had resolved to be 
good, that the tears came into his eyes. Then his 
rage seemed to swell up in him like the rise of a vol- 
canic flood. " I'm going to kill you ! " he roared, and 
he launched himself upon Lynde, who stood dazed. 
But the murder which JeS meant was not to be so 
easily done. Lynde had not grown up in dissolute 
idleness without acquiring some of the arts of self- 
defence which are called manly. He met Jeff's onset 
with remembered skill, and with the strength which 
he had gained in three months of the wholesome regi- 
 
men of the Brooker Institute. He had been sent 
there, not by Dr. Lacy's judgment, but by his despair, 
and so far the Cure had cured. He felt strong and 
fresh, and the hate which filled JefE at sight of him 
steeled his shaken nerves, and re-enforced his feebler 
muscles too. 
He made a desperate fight where he could not hope 
for mercy, and kept himself free of his powerful foe, 
whom he fought round and foiled, if he could not hurt 
him. Jefi never knew of the blows Lynde got in upon 
him ; he had his own science too, but he would not 
employ it. He wanted to crash through Lynde's de- 
fence, and lay hold of him, and crush the life out of 
him. 
The contest could not have lasted long at the best ; 
but before Lynde was worn out he caught his heel in 
an old laurel root, and while he whirled to recover his 
footing JefE closed in upon him, caught him by the 
middle, flung him down upon the moss, and was 
kneeling on his breast with both hands at his throat. 
He glared down into his enemy's face, and sud- 
denly it looked pitifully little and weak, like a girl's 
face, a child's. 
Sometimes, afterwards, it seemed to him that he 
forbore because at that instant he saw Jombateeste 
appear at the edge of the clearing and come running 
upon them. At other times he had the fancy that his 
action was purely voluntary, and that, against the logic 
of his hate and the habit of his life, he had mercy 
upon his enemy. He did not pride himself upon it; 
he rather humbled himself before the fact, which was 
accomplished tlirougli his will, and not by it, and re- 
mained a mystery he did not try to solve. 
He took his hands from Lynde's throat and his 
knees ofE his breast. "Get up," he said; and when 
Lynde stood trembling on his feet, he said to Jomba- 
teeste : " Show this man the way to the Brooker Insti- 
tute. I'll take your gun home for you," and it was 
easy for him to detach the piece from the bewildered 
Canuck's grasp. " Go ! And if you stop, or even let 
him look back, I'll shoot him. Quick ! " 
LI. 
The day after Thanksgiving, when Westover was 
trying to feel well after the turkey and cranberry and 
cider which a lady had given him at a consciously 
old-fashioned Thanksgiving dinner, but not making it 
out sufficiently to be able to work, he was astonished 
to receive a visit from Whitwell. 
" Well, sir," said the philosopher, without giving 
himself pause for the exchange of reflections upon his 
presence in Boston, which might have been agreeable 
to him on a less momentous occasion, " it's all up with 
Lion's Head." 
"What do you mean?" demanded Westover, with 
his mind upon the mountain, which he electrically 
figured in an incredible destruction. ' 
" She's burnt. Burnt down day before yist'd'y 
aft'noon. A'n't hardly a stick of her left. Ketched 
Lord knows how, from the kitchen chimney, and a 
high northwest wind blowin', that ca'd the sparks to 
the barn, and set fire to that too. Hosses gone; 
couldn't get round to 'em ; only three of us there, and 
mixed up so about the house till it was so late the 
critters wouldn't come out. Folks from over Huddle 
 
way see the blaze, and helped all they could ; but it 
wa'n't no use. I guess all we saved, about, was the 
flag-pole." 
"But you're all right yourselves? Cynthia — " 
" Well, there was our misfortune," said Whitwell, 
while Westover's heart stopped in a mere wantonness 
of apprehension. " If she'd be'n there, it might ha' 
be'n diff'ent. We might ha' had more sense ; or she 
would, anyway. But she was over to Lovewell stock- 
in' up for Thanksgivin', and I had to make out the 
best I could, with Frank and Jombateeste. Why, that 
Canuck didn't seem to have no more head on him than 
a hen. I was disgusted ; but Cynthy wouldn't let me 
say anything to him, and I d' know as 't 'ould done 
any good, myself. We've talked it all over in every 
light, ever since ; guess we've set up' most the time 
talkin', and nothin' would do her but I should come 
down and see you before I took a single step about 
it." 
" How — step about what ?" asked Westover, with 
a remote sense of hardship at being brought in, tem- 
pered by the fact that it was Cynthia who had brought 
him in. 
" Why, that devil," said Whitwell, and Westover 
knew that he meant Jefi, " went and piled on all the 
insurance he could pile on, before he left ; and I don't 
know what to do about it." 
" I should think the best thing was to collect the 
insurance," Westover suggested, distractedly. 
" It a'n't so easy as what that comes to," said 
Whitwell. " I couldn't collect the insurance ; and 
Aa 
 
here's the point, anyway. When a hotel's made a bad 
season, and she's fully insured, she's pootty certain to 
burn up some time in the winter. Everybody knows 
that comical devil wanted Lion's Head to burn up so' t 
he could build new, and I presume there a'n't a man, 
woman, or child anywhere round but what believes I 
set her on fire. Hired to do it. Now, see ? Jeff off 
in Europe ; daytime ; no lives lost ; prop'ty total loss. 
'S a clear case. Heigh? I tell you, I'm afraid I've 
got trouble ahead." 
Westover tried to protest, to say something in de- 
rision or defiance ; but he was shaken himself, and he 
ended by getting his hat and coat ; Whitwell had kept 
his own on, in the excitement. " We'll go out and 
see a lawyer. A friend of mine ; it won't cost you 
anything." He added this assurance at a certain look 
of reluctance that came into Whitwell's face, and that 
left it as soon as he had spoken. Whitwell glanced 
round the studio even cheerily. " Who'd ha' thought," 
he said, fastening upon the study which Westover had 
made of Lion's Head the winter before, " that the old 
place would 'a' gone so soon ? " He did not mean the 
mountain which he was looking at, but the hotel that 
was present to his mind's eye ; and Westover per- 
ceived as he had not before that to Whitwell the 
hotel and not the mountain was Lion's Head. 
He remembered to ask now where Whitwell had 
left his family, and Whitwell said that Frank and 
Cynthia were at home in his own house with Jomba- 
teeste ; but he presumed he could not get back to 
them now before the next day. He refused to be 
 
interested in any of the aspects of Boston which 
Westover casually pointed out, but when they had 
seen the lawyer he came forth a new man, vividly in- 
terested in everything. The lawyer had been able to 
tell them that though the insurance companies would 
look sharply into the cause of the fire, there was no 
probability, hardly a possibility, that they would in- 
culpate him, and he need give himself no anxiety 
about the affair. 
" There's one thing, though," Whitwell said to 
Westover when they got out upon the street. " Hadn't 
I ought to let Jeff know ? " 
"Yes, at once. You'd better cable him. Have 
you got his address ? " 
Whitwell had it, and he tasted all the dramatic 
quality of sending word to Jeff, wHich he would receive 
in Florence an hour after it left Boston. " I did hope 
I could ha' cabled once to Jackson, while he was gone," 
he said, regretfully, " but unless we can fix up a wire 
with the other world, I guess I sha'n't ever do it now. 
I suppose Jackson's still hangin' round Mars, some- 
'res." 
He had a sectarian pride in the beauty of the Spir- 
itual Temple which Westover walked him by on his 
way to see Trinity Church and the Fine Arts Museum, 
and he sorrowed that he could not attend a service 
there. But he was consoled by the lunch which he 
had with Westover at a restaurant where it was served 
in courses. " I presume this is what Jeff's goin' to 
give 'em at Lion's Head when he gits it goin' again." 
" How is it he's in Florence ? " it occurred to West- 
 
over to ask. " I thought he was going to Nice for 
the winter." 
" I don't know. That's the address he give in his 
last letter," said Whitwell. "I'll be glad when I've 
done with him for good and all. He's all kinds of a 
devil." 
It was in Westover's mind to say that he wished the 
Whitwells had never had anything to do with Durgin 
after his mother's death. He had felt it a want of 
delicacy in them that they had been willing to stay on 
in his employ, and his ideal of Cynthia had suffered a 
kind of wound from what must have been her decision 
in the matter. He would have expected something 
altogether different from her pride, her self-respect. 
But he now merely said : " Yes, I shall be glad, too. 
I'm afraid he's a bad fellow." 
His words seemed to appeal to Whitwell's impar- 
tiality. "Well, I d' know as I should say bad, exact- 
ly. He's a mixture." 
" He's a bad mixture," said Westover. 
" Well, I guess you're partly right there," Whitwell 
admitted with a laugh. After a dreamy moment he 
asked, " Ever hear anything more about that girl here 
in Boston?" 
Westover knew that he meant Bessie Lynde. 
" She's abroad somewhere, with her aunt." 
Whitwell had not taken any wine ; apparently he 
was afraid of forming instantly the habit of drink if 
he touched it; but he tolerated Westover's pint of 
Zinfandel, and he seemed to warm sympathetically to 
a greater confidence as the painter made away with it. 
 
" There's one thing I never told Cynthy yet ; well, 
Jombateeste didn't tell me himself till after JefE was 
gone ; and then, thinks I, what's the use ? But I guess 
you had better know." 
He leaned forward across the table, and gave Jom- 
bateeste's story of the encounter between Jefi and Alan 
Lynde in the clearing. " Now what do you suppose 
was the reason JefE let up on the feller ? Of course, 
he meant to choke the life out of him, and his just 
ketchin' sight of Jombateeste, do you believe that was 
enough to stop him, when he'd started in for a thing 
like that ? Or what was it done it ? " 
Westover listened with less thought of the fact itself 
than of another fact that it threw light upon. It was 
clear to him now that the Class-Day scrapping which 
had left its marks upon JefE's face was with Lynde, 
and that when JefE got him in his power he was in 
such a fury for revenge, that no mere motive of pru- 
dence could have arrested him. In both events, it must 
have been Bessie Lynde that was the moving cause ; 
but what was it that stayed JefE in his vengeance ? 
" Let him up, and let him walk away, you say ? " he 
demanded of Whitwell. 
Whitwell nodded. " That's what Jombateeste said. 
Said Jeff said if he let the feller look back he'd shoot 
him. But he didn't haf to." 
" I can't make it out," Westover sighed. 
" It's been too much for me," Whitwell said. " I 
told Jombateeste he'd better keep it to himself, and I 
guess he done so. S'pose Jeff still had a sneakin' 
fondness for the girl ? " 
 
" I don't know ; perhaps," Westover asserted. 
Whitwell threw his head back in a sudden laugh 
that showed all the work of his dentist. " Well, 
wouldn't it be a joke if he was there in Florence after 
her? Be just like Jeff." 
"It would be like JefE; I don't know whether it 
would be a joke or not. I hope he won't find it a 
joke, if it's so," said Westover, gloomily. A fantastic 
apprehension seized him, which made him wish for the 
moment that it might be so, and which then passed, 
leaving him simply sorry for any chance that might 
bring Bessie Lynde into the fellow's way again. 
For the evening Whitwell's preference would have 
been a lecture of some sort, but there was none adver- 
tised, and he consented to go with Westover to the 
theatre. He came back to the painter at dinner-time, 
after a wary exploration of the city, which had resulted 
not only in a personal acquaintance with its monu- 
ments, but an immunity from its dangers and tempta- 
tions which he prided himself hardly less upon. He 
had seen Faneuil Hall, the old State House, Bunker 
Hill, the Public Library, and the Old South Church, 
and he had not been sand-bagged, or buncoed, or led 
astray from the paths of propriety. He was disposed, 
in the comfortable sense of escape, to moralize upon 
the civilization of great cities, which he now witnessed 
at first hand for the first time ; and throughout the 
evening, between the acts of the Old Homestead, 
which he found a play of some merit, but of not so 
much novelty in its characters as he had somehow led 
himself to expect, he recurred to the difficulties and 
 
dangers that must beset a young man in coming to a 
place lite Boston. Westover found him less amusing 
than he had on his own ground at Lion's Head, and 
tasted a quality of commonplace in his deliverances 
which made him question whether he had not, per- 
haps, always owed more to this environment than he 
had suspected. But they parted upon terms of mutual 
respect, and in the common hope of meeting again. 
Whitwell promised to let Westover know what he 
heard of Jeff, but when the painter had walked the 
philosopher home to his hotel, he found a message 
awaiting him at his studio, from JeflE direct. 
" Whitwell' s despatch received. Wait letter. 
"DURGIN." 
Westover raged at the intelligent thrift of this tel- 
egram, and at the implication that he not only knew 
all about the business of Whitwell's despatch, but that 
he was in communication with him, and would be 
sufficiently interested to convey Jeff's message to him. 
Of course, Durgin had at once divined that Whitwell 
must have come to him for advice, and that he would 
hear from him, whether he was still in Boston or not. 
By cabling to Westover, Jefi saved the cost of an elab- 
orate address to Whitwell at Lion's Head, and had 
brought the painter in for further consultation and 
assistance in his affairs. What vexed him still more 
was his own consciousness that he could not defeat 
this impudent expectation. He had indeed some dif- 
ficulty with himself to keep from going to Whitwell's 
hotel with the despatch at once, and he slept badly, in 
 
his fear that he might not get it to him ia the morn- 
ing before he left town. 
The sum of Jeff's letter when it came, and it came 
to Westover and not to Whitwell, was to request the 
painter to see a lawyer in his behalf, and put his in- 
surance policies in his hands, with full authority to 
guard his interests in the matter. He told Westover 
where his policies would be found, and enclosed the 
key of his box in the Safety Vaults, with a due de- 
mand for Westover's admission to it. He registered 
his letter, and he jocosely promised Westover to do 
as much for him some day, in pleading that there was 
really no one else he could turn to. He put the whole 
business upon him, and Westover discharged himself 
of it as briefly as he could by delivering the papers 
to the lawyer he had already consulted for Whitwell. 
" Is this another charity patient ? " asked his friend, 
with a grin. 
"No," replied Westover. "You can charge this 
fellow along the whole line." 
Before he parted with the lawyer he had his mis- 
givings, and he said, " I shouldn't want the blackguard 
to think I had got a friend a fat job out of him." 
The lawyer laughed intelligently. "I shall only 
make the usual charge. Then he is a blackguard." 
" There ought to be a more blistering word." 
"One that would imply that he was capable of set- 
ting fire to his property ? " 
" I don't say that. But I'm glad he was away when 
it took fire," said Westover. 
" You give him the benefit of the doubt." 
" Yes, of every kind of doubt." 
LII. 
Westover once more promised himself to have 
nothing to do wi,th Jeff Durgin or his affairs. But he 
did not promise this so confidently as upon former 
occasions, and he instinctively waited for a new com- 
plication. He could not understand why Jeff should 
not have come home to look after his insurance, unless 
it was because he had become interested in some 
woman even beyond his concern for his own advan- 
tage. He believed him capable of throwing away 
advantages for disadvantages in a thing of that kind, 
but he thought it more probable that he had fallen in 
love with one whom he would lose nothing by winning. 
It did not seem at all impossible that he should have 
again met Bessie Lynde, and that they should have 
made up their quarrel, or whatever it was. Jeff would 
consider that he had done his whole duty by Cynthia, 
and that he was free to renew his suit with Bessie ; 
and there was nothing in Bessie's character, as West- 
over understood it, to prevent her taking him back 
upon a very small show of repentance if the needed 
emotions were in prospect. He had decided pretty 
finally that it would be Bessie rather than another 
 
when lie received a letter from Mrs. Vostrand. It was 
dated at Florence, and after some pretty palaver about 
their old friendship, which she only hoped he remem- 
bered half as fondly as she did, the letter ran : 
" I am turning to you now in a very strange diffi- 
culty, but I do not know that I should turn to you 
even now, and knowing all I do of your goodness, if I 
were not asked to do so by another. 
" I believe we have not heard from each other since 
the first days of my poor Genevieve's marriage, when 
everything looked so bright and fair, and we little 
realized the clouds that were to overcast her happiness. 
It is a long story, and I will not go into it fully. The 
truth is that poor Gigi did not treat her very kindly, 
and that she has not lived with him since the birth of 
their little girl, now nearly two years old, and the 
sweetest little creature in the world; I wish you could 
see her ; I am sure it would inspire your pencil with 
the idea of an angel-child. At first I hoped that the 
separation would be only temporary, and that when 
Genevieve had regained her strength she would be 
willing to go back to her husband ; but nothing would 
induce her to do so. In fact, poor Gigi had spent all 
her money, and they would have had nothing to live 
upon but his pay, and you know that the pay of the 
Italian ofiicers is very small. 
" Gigi made several attempts to see her, and he 
threatened to take the child from her, but he was 
always willing to compromise for money. I am 
afraid that he never really loved her, and that we were 
botli deceived by his fervent protestations. We man- 
aged to get away from Florence without his knowing 
it, and we have spent the last two years in Lausanne, 
very happily, though very quietly. Our dear Checco 
is in the University there, his father having given up 
the plan of sending him to Harvard, and we had him 
with us, while we were taking measures to secure the 
divorce. Even in the simple way we lived Genevieve 
attracted a great deal of attention, as she always has 
done, apd she would have had several very eligible offers, 
if she had been divorced, or if her affections had not 
already been engaged, as I did not know at the time. 
" We were in this state of uncertainty up to the 
middle of last summer, when the news of poor Gigi's 
sudden death came. I am sorry to say that his habits 
in some respects were not good, and that probably has- 
tened it some ; it had obliged him to leave the army. 
Genevieve did not feel that she could consistently put 
on black for him, and I did not urge her, under the pe- 
culiar circumstances; there is so much mere formality in 
those kind of things at the best ; but we immediately 
returned to Florence to try and see if we could not 
get back some of her effects which his family had 
seized. I am opposed to lawsuits if they can possibly 
be avoided, and we arranged with poor Gigi's family 
by agreeing to let them have Genevieve's furniture if 
they would promise never to molest her with the child, 
and I must say they have behaved very well. We are 
on the best of terms with them, and they have let us 
have some of the things back which were endeared to 
her by old associations, at a very reasonble rate. 
" This brings me to the romantic part of my letter, 
and I will say at once that we found your friend Mr. 
Durgin in Florence, in the very hotel we went to. We 
all met in the dining-room, at the table d'hdte one 
evening, and Genevieve and he took to each other at 
once. He spent the evening with us in our private 
drawing-room, and she said to me, after he went, that 
for the first time in years she felt rested. It seems 
that she had always seoretlj fancied him, and that she 
gave up to me in the matter of marrying poor Gigi, 
because she knew I had my heart set upon it, and she 
was not very certain of her own feelings when Mr. 
D. offered himself in Boston ; but the conviction that 
she had made a mistake grew upon her more and more 
after she had married Gigi. 
" Well, now, Mr. Westover, I suppose you have 
guessed by this time that Mr. Durgin has renewed his 
offer, and Genevieve has conditionally accepted him ; 
we do not feel that she is like an ordinary widow, and 
that she has to fill up a certain season of mourning ; 
she and Gigi have been dead to each other for years; 
and Mr. Durgin is as fond of our dear little Bice as 
her own father could be, and they are together all 
the time. Her name is Beatrice de' Popolani Grassi. 
Isn't it lovely ? She has poor Gigi's black eyes, with 
the most beautiful golden hair, which she gets from 
our side. You remember Genevieve's hair back in the 
dear old days, before any trouble had come, and we 
were all so happy together. And this brings me to 
what I wanted to say. You are the oldest friend we 
have, and by a singular coincidence you arc the oldest 
friend of Mr. Durgin, too. I cannot bear to risk my 
child's happiness a second time, and though Mr. Vos- 
trand fully approves of the match, and has cabled his 
consent from Seattle, Washington, still, you know, a 
mother's heart cannot be at rest without some positive 
assurance. I told Mr. Durgin quite frankly how I 
felt, and he agreed with me that after our experience 
with poor Gigi we could not be too careful, and he 
authorized me to write to you, and find out all you 
Jcnew about him. He said you had known him ever 
since he was a boy, and that if there was anything 
had in his record you could tell it, and he did not 
want you to spare the truth. He knows you will be 
just, and he wants you to write out the acis as they 
struck you at the time. 
" T shall be on pins and needles, as the saying is, till 
we hear from you, and you know how Genevieve and 
Mr. D. must be feeling. She is fully resolved not to 
have him without your endorsement, and he is quite 
willing to abide by what you say. I could almost 
wish you to cable me just Good or Bad, but I know 
that this will not be wise, and I am going to wait for 
your letter, and get your opinion in full. 
" We all join in the kindest regards. Mr. D. is talk- 
ing with Genevieve while I write, and has our darling 
Bice on his knees. You cannot imagine what a pict- 
ure it makes, her childish delicacy contrasted with his 
stalwart strength. She says to send you a haciettino, 
and I wish you were here to receive it from her angel 
lips. Yours faithfully, 
" Medoiia Vostrand. 
 
" P. S.— Mr. D. says that lie fell in love with Gen- 
evieve across the barrier between the first and second 
cabin when he came over with us on the Acquitaine 
four years ago, and that he has never ceased to love 
her, though at one time he persuaded himself that he 
cared for another because he felt that she was lost to 
him forever, and it was no use. He really did care 
for the lady he was engaged to, and had a true affec- 
tion for her, which he mistook for a warmer feeling. 
He says that she was worthy of any man's love, and 
of the highest respect. I tell Genevieve that she ought 
to honor him for it, and that she must never be jealous 
of a memory. We are very happy in Mr. Vostrand's 
cordial approval of the match. He is so glad to think 
that Mr. D. is a business man. His cable from Seattle 
was most enthusiastic. M. D. " 
Westover did not know whether to laugh or cry 
when he read this letter, which covered several sheets 
of paper in lines that traversed each other in different 
directions. His old, youthful ideal of Mrs. Vostrand 
finally perished in its presence, though still he could 
not blame her for wishing to see her daughter well 
married after having seen her married so ill. He asked 
himself, without getting any very definite response, 
whether Mrs. Vostrand had always been this kind of 
a woman, or had grown into it by the use of arts 
which her peculiar plan of life had rendered necessary 
to her. He remembered the intelligent toleration of 
Cynthia in speaking of her, and his indignation in be- 
half of the girl was also a thrill of joy for her escape 
from tte fate which Mrs. Vostrand was so eagerly in- 
voking for her daughter. But he thought of Gene- 
vieve with something of the same tenderness, and with 
a compassion that was for her alone. She seemed to 
him a victim who was to be sacrificed a second time, 
and he had clearly a duty to her which he must not 
evade. The only question could be how best to dis- 
charge it, and Westover took some hours from his 
work to turn the question over in his mind. In the 
end, when he was about to give the whole afiair up 
for the present, and lose a night's sleep over it later, 
he had an inspiration, and he acted upon it at once. 
He perceived that he owed no formal response to the 
sentimental insincerities of Mrs. Vostrand's letter, and 
he decided to write to Durgin himself, and to put the 
case altogether in his hands. If Durgin chose to show 
the Vostrands what he should write, very well ; if he 
chose not to show it, then Westover's apparent silence 
would be a sufiicient reply to Mrs. Vostrand's appeal. 
" I prefer to address you," he began, " because I do 
not choose to let you think that I have any feeling to 
indulge against you, and because I do not think I have 
the right to take you out of your own keeping in any 
way. You would be in my keeping if I did, and I do 
not wish that, not only because it would be a bother 
to me, but because it would be a wrong to you. 
" Mrs. Vostrand, whose letter to me I will leave you 
to answer by showing her this, or in any other man- 
ner you choose, tells me you do not want me to spare 
the truth concerning you. I have never been quite 
certain what the truth was concerning you ; you know 
 
that better than I do ; and I do not propose to write 
your biography here. But I will remind you of a few 
things. 
" The first day I saw you, I caught you amusing 
yourself with the terror of two little children, and I 
had the pleasure of cuflSng you for it. But you were 
only a boy then, and afterwards you behaved so well 
that I decided you were not so much cruel as thought- 
lessly mischievous. When you had done all you could 
to lead me to this favorable conclusion, you suddenly 
turned and avenged yourself on me, so far as you 
could, for the help I had given the little ones against 
you. I never greatly blamed you for that, for I de- 
cided that yon had a vindictive temperament, and that 
you were not responsible for your temperament, but 
only for your character. 
" In your first year at Harvard your associations 
were bad, and your conduct generally was so bad that 
you were suspended. You were arrested with other 
rowdy students, and passed the night in a police sta- 
tion. I believe you were justly acquitted of any spe- 
cific offence, and I always believed that if you had 
experienced greater kindness socially during your first 
year in college you would have been a better man. 
" You seem to have told Mrs. Vostrand of your en- 
gagement, and I will not speak of that. It was cred- 
itable to you that so wise and good a girl as your 
betrothed should have trusted you, and I do not know 
that it was against you that another girl who was 
neither wise nor good should have trusted you at the 
same time. You broke with the last, because you had 
 
to choose between the two ; and, so far as I know, yon 
accepted with a due sense of your faithlessness your 
dismissal by the first. In this connection I must re- 
mind you that while you were doing your best to make 
the party to your second engagement believe that you 
were in love with her, you got her brother, an habitual 
inebriate, drunk, and were, so far, instrumental in 
breaking down the weak will with which he was strug- 
