 
an independence that would have made him wel 
come at the Bank. On the other hand she caught 
the note of a tired grimness in the way he added: 
"I've come back with that. It sticks to me!" 
She spared him a minute. " You want her as 
much as ever?" 
His eyes confessed to a full and indeed to a 
sore acceptance of that expression of the degree. 
" I want her as much as ever. It's my constitu 
tional obstinacy ! " 
" Which her treatment of you has done nothing 
to break down?" 
"To break down? It has done everything in 
life to build it up." 
"In spite of the particular circumstance ?" 
At this point even Mrs. Beever's directness failed. 
That of her visitor, however, was equal to the 
occasion. " The particular circumstance of her 
chucking me because of the sudden glimpse given 
her by Mrs. Bream's danger of the possibility of a 
far better match ? " He gave a laugh drier than 
her own had just been, the ring of an irony from 
which long, hard thought had pressed all the 
savour. " That ' particular circumstance,' dear 
Madam, is every bit that's the matter with 
me!" 
"You regard it with extraordinary coolness, 
but I presumed to allude to it " 
"Because," Dennis broke in with lucidity, "I 
myself made no bones of doing so on the only 
other occasion on which we've met." 
" The fact that we both equally saw, that we 
both equally judged," said Mrs. Beever, " was on 
that occasion really the only thing that had time 
to pass between us. It's a tie, but it's a slender 
one, and I'm all the more flattered that it should 
have had any force to make you care to see me 
again." 
" It never ceased to be my purpose to see you, 
if you would permit it, on the first opportunity. 
My opportunity," the young man continued, " has 
been precipitated by an accident. I returned to 
England only last week, and was obliged two days 
ago to come on business to Southampton. There 
I found I should have to go, on the same matter, 
to Marrington. It then appeared that to get to 
Marrington I must change at Plumbury " 
" And Plumbury," said Mrs. Beever, "reminded 
you that you changed there, that it was from 
there you drove, on that horrible Sunday." 
"It brought my opportunity home to me. 
Without wiring you or writing you, without 
 
sounding the ground or doing anything I ought 
to have done, I simply embraced it. I reached 
this place an hour ago and went to the inn." 
She looked at him wof ully. " Poor dear young 
man!" 
He turned it off. " I do very well. Remember 
the places I've come from." 
"I don't care in the least where you've come 
from ! If Rose weren't here I could put you up 
so beautifully." 
" Well, now that I know it," said Dennis after 
a moment, " I think I'm glad she's here. It's a 
fact the more to reckon with." 
"You mean to see her then?" 
He sat with his eyes fixed, turning it over. 
"You must tell me two or three things first. 
Then I'll choose I'll decide." 
She waited for him to mention his require 
ments, turning to her teapot, which had been 
drawing, so that she could meanwhile hand him 
a cup. But for some minutes, taking it and stir 
ring it, he only gazed and mused, as if his 
curiosities were so numerous that he scarcely 
knew which to pick out. Mrs. Beever at last, 
with a woman's sense for this, met him exactly 
at the right point. " I must tell you frankly that 
if four years ago she was a girl most people 
admired " 
He caught straight on. "She's still more 
wonderful now?" 
Mrs. Beever distinguished. "I don't know 
about ' wonderful ' ; but she wears really well. 
She carries the years almost as you do, and her 
head better than any young woman I've ever 
seen. Life is somehow becoming to her. Every 
one's immensely struck with her. She only needs 
to get what she wants. She has in short a charm 
that I recognise." 
Her visitor stared at her words as if they had 
been a framed picture ; the reflected colour of it 
made a light in his face. " And you speak as one 
who, I remember, doesn't like her." 
The lady of Eastmead faltered, but there was 
help in her characteristic courage. "No I don't 
like her." 
" I see," Dennis considered. " May I ask then 
why you invited her?" 
" For the most definite reason in the world. 
Mr. Bream asked me to." 
Dennis gave his hard smile. " Do you do 
everything Mr. Bream asks?" 
"He asks so little!" 
 
"Yes," Dennis allowed -"if that's a specimen! 
Does he like her still? " he inquired. 
"Just as much as ever." 
The young man was silent a little. "Do you 
mean he's in love with her?" 
" He never was in any degree." 
Dennis looked doubtful. " Are you very 
sure ? " 
"Well," said his hostess, "I'm sure of the 
present. That's quite enough. He's not in love 
with her now I have the proof." 
"The proof?" 
Mrs. Beever waited a moment. "His request 
in itself. If he were in love with her he never 
would have made it." 
There was a momentary appearance on her 
companion's part of thinking this rather too fine ; 
but he presently said: "You mean because he's 
completely held by his deathbed vow to his 
wife?" 
"Completely held." 
" There's no likelihood of his breaking it ? " 
"Not the slightest." 
Dennis Vidal exhaled a low, long breath which 
evidently represented a certain sort of relief. 
" You're very positive ; but I've a great respect 
for your judgment." He thought an instant, 
then he pursued abruptly : " Why did he wish 
her invited ? " 
" For reasons that, as he expressed them to me, 
struck me as natural enough. For the sake of 
old acquaintance for the sake of his wife's 
memory." 
"He doesn't consider, then, that Mrs. Bream's 
obsession, as you term it, had been in any degree 
an apprehension of Rose?" 
" Why should he ? " Mrs. Beever asked. 
"Rose, for poor Julia, was on the point of 
becoming your wife." 
" Ah ! for all that was to prevent ! " Dennis 
ruefully exclaimed. 
"It was to prevent little enough, but Julia 
never knew how little. Tony asked me a month 
ago if I thought he might without awkwardness 
propose to Miss Armiger a visit to the other 
house. I said ' No, silly boy ! ' and he dropped 
the question; but a week later he came back 
to it. He confided to me that he was ashamed, 
for so long, to have done so little for her; and 
she had behaved, in a difficult situation, with such 
discretion and delicacy that to have 'shunted' 
her, as he said, so completely was a kind of 
 
outrage to Julia's affection for her and a slur 
upon hers for his wife. I said to him that if 
it would help him a bit I would address her a 
suggestion that she should honour me with her 
company. He jumped at that, and I wrote. 
She jumped and here she is." 
Poor Dennis, at this, gave a spring, as if the 
young lady had come into sight. Mrs. Beever 
reassured him, but he was on his feet and he 
stood before her. "This, then, is their first 
meeting ? " 
" Dear, no ! they've met in London. He often 
goes up." 
"How often?" 
" Oh, irregularly. Sometimes twice a month." 
"And he sees her every time?" 
Mrs. Beever considered. " Every time ? I 
should think hardly." 
"Then every other?" 
"I haven't the least idea." 
Dennis looked round the garden. "You say 
you're convinced that in the face of his promise 
he has no particular interest in her. You 
mean, however, of course, but to the extent of 
marriage." 
" I mean," said Mrs. Beever, " to the extent of 
anything at all." She also rose; she brought 
out her whole story. " He's in love with another 
person." 
" Ah," Dennis murmured, " that's none of my 
business ! " He nevertheless closed his eyes an 
instant with the cool balm of it. " But it makes 
a lot of difference." 
She laid a kind hand on his arm. " Such a lot, 
I hope, then, that you'll join our little party ? " 
He looked about him again, irresolute, and 
his eyes fell on the packages gathered hard by, 
of which the nature was betrayed by a glimpse 
of flaxen curls and waxen legs. She immediately 
enlightened him. " Preparations for a birthday 
visit from the little girl at the other house. 
She's coming over to receive them." 
Again he dropped upon a seat : she stood there 
and he looked up at her. "At last we've got 
to business ! It's she I've come to ask about." 
"And what do you wish to ask?" 
"How she goes on I mean in health." 
" Not very well, I believe, just to-day ! " Mrs. 
Beever laughed. 
"Just to-day?" 
" She's reported to have a slight cold. But 
don't be alarmed. In general she's splendid." 
 
He hesitated. " Then you call it a good 
little life?" 
" I call it a beautiful one ! " 
"I mean she won't pop off?" 
"I can't guarantee that," said Mrs. Beever. 
"But till she does " 
" Till she does ? " he asked as she paused. 
She paused a moment longer. "Well it's a 
comfort to see her. You'll do that for yourself." 
" I shall do that for myself," Dennis repeated. 
After a moment he went on: "To be utterly 
frank, it was to do it I came." 
" And not to see me f Thank you ! But I 
quite understand," said Mrs. Beever; "you 
looked to me to introduce you. Sit still where 
you are, and I will." 
"There's one thing more I must ask you. 
You see ; you know ; you can tell me." He 
complied but a minute with her injunction ; 
again, nervously, he was on his feet. "Is Miss 
Armiger in love with Mr. Bream ? " 
His hostess turned away. "That's the one 
question I can't answer." Then she faced him 
again. "You must find out for yourself." 
He stood looking at her. " How shall I find 
out?" 
" By watching her." 
" Oh, I didn't come to do that ! " Dennis, on 
his side, turned away; he was visibly dissatis 
fied. But he checked himself; before him rose 
a young man in boating flannels, who appeared 
to have come up from the river, who had ad 
vanced noiselessly across the lawn, and whom 
Mrs. Beever introduced, without ceremony, as 
her " boy." Her boy blinked at Dennis, to whose 
identity he received no clue ; and her visitor 
decided on a course. " May I think over what 
you've said to me and come back?" 
" I shall be very happy to see you again. But 
in this poor place what will you do ? " 
Dennis glanced at the river, then he appealed to 
the young man. " Will you lend me your boat? " 
" It's mine" said Mrs. Beever with decision. 
" You're welcome to it." 
" I'll take a little turn." Raising his hat, 
Dennis went rapidly down to the stream. 
Paul Beever looked after him. "Hadn't I 
better show him ? " he asked of his mother. 
"You had better sit right down there." She 
pointed with sharpness to the chair Dennis had 
quitted, and her son submissively took posses 
sion of it. 
XV 
PAUL BEEVEE was tall and fat, and his eyes, 
like his mother's, were very small; but more 
even than to his mother nature had offered him 
a compensation for this defect in the extension 
of the rest of the face. He had large, bare, 
beardless cheeks and a wide, clean, candid mouth, 
which the length of the smooth upper lip caused 
to look as exposed as a bald head. He had a 
deep fold of flesh round his uncovered young 
neck, and his white flannels showed his legs to 
be all the way down of the same thickness. He 
promised to become massive early in life and 
even to attain a remarkable girth. His great 
tastes were for cigarettes and silence; but he 
was, in spite of his proportions, neither gross 
nor lazy. If he was indifferent to his figure he 
was equally so to his food, and he played cricket 
with his young townsmen and danced hard with 
their wives and sisters. Wilverley liked him 
and Tony Bream thought well of him: it was 
only his mother who had not yet made up her 
mind. He had done a good deal at Oxford 
in not doing any harm, and he had subse 
quently rolled round the globe in the very groove 
with which she had belted it. But it was exactly 
in satisfying that he a little disappointed her: 
she had provided so against dangers that she 
found it a trifle dull to be so completely safe. 
It had become with her a question not of how 
clever he was, but of how stupid. Tony had 
expressed the view that he was distinctly deep, 
but that might only have been, in Tony's florid 
way, to show that he himself was so. She would 
not have found it convenient to have to give the 
boy an account of Mr. Vidal; but now that, 
detached from her purposes and respectful of her 
privacies, he sat there without making an inquiry, 
she was disconcerted enough slightly to miss the 
opportunity to snub him. On this occasion, how 
ever, she could steady herself with the possibility 
that her hour would still come. He began to eat 
a bun his row justified that; and meanwhile 
she helped him to his tea. As she handed him 
the cup she challenged him with some sharpness. 
"Pray, when are you going to give it?" 
 
He slowly masticated while he looked at her. 
"When do you think I had better?" 
" Before dinner distinctly. One doesn't know 
what may happen." 
" Do you think anything at all will ? " he 
placidly asked. 
His mother waited before answering. "Noth 
ing, certainly, unless you take some trouble for 
it." His perception of what she meant by this 
was clearly wanting, so that after a moment she 
continued: "You don't seem to grasp that I've 
done for you all I can do, and that the rest now 
depends on yourself." 
" Oh yes, mother, I grasp it," he said without 
irritation. He took another bite of his bun, and 
then he added: "Miss Armiger has made me 
quite do that." 
"Miss Armiger?" Mrs. Beever stared; she 
even felt that her opportunity was at hand. 
"What in the world has she to do with the 
matter?" 
"Why, I've talked to her a lot about it." 
"You mean she has talked to you a lot, I sup 
pose. It's immensely like her." 
" It's like my mother that's whom it's like," 
said Paul. " She takes just the same view as 
yourself. I mean the view that I've a great 
opening and that I must make a great effort." 
"And don't you see that for yourself? Do 
you require a pair of women to tell you ? " Mrs. 
Beever asked. 
Paul, looking grave and impartial, turned her 
question over while he stirred his tea. " No, not 
exactly. But Miss Armiger puts everything so 
well." 
"She puts some things doubtless beautifully. 
Still, I should like you to be conscious of some 
better reason for making yourself acceptable to 
Jean than that another young woman, however 
brilliant, recommends it." 
The young man continued to ruminate, and it 
occurred to his mother, as it had occurred before, 
that his imperturbability was perhaps a strength. 
"I am," he said at last. "She seems to make 
clear to me what I feel." 
Mrs. Beever wondered. " You mean of course 
Jean does." 
" Dear no Miss Armiger ! " 
The lady of Eastmead laughed out in her im 
patience. "I'm delighted to hear you feel any 
thing. You haven't often seemed to me to feel." 
"I feel that Jean's very charming." 
 
She laughed again at the way he made it 
sound. " Is that the tone in which you think of 
telling her so?" 
" I think she'll take it from me in any tone," 
Paul replied. "She has always been most kind 
to me ; we're very good friends, and she knows 
what I want." 
" It's more than I do, my dear ! That's ex 
actly what you said to me six months ago 
when she liked you so much that she asked you 
to let her alone." 
"She asked me to give her six months for a 
definite answer, and she likes me the more for 
having consented to do that," said Paul. " The 
time I've waited has improved our relations." 
" Well, then, they now must have reached 
perfection. You'll get her definite answer, there 
fore, this very afternoon." 
" When I present the ornament ? " 
"When you present the ornament. You've 
got it safe, I hope ? " 
Paul hesitated; he took another bun. "I im 
agine it's all right." 
" Do you only ' imagine ' with a thing of that 
value? What have you done with it?" 
Again the young man faltered. " I've given 
it to Miss Armiger. She was afraid I'd lose 
it." 
"And you were not afraid she would?" his 
mother cried. 
"Not a bit. She's to give it back to me on 
this spot. She wants me too much to succeed." 
Mrs. Beever was silent a little. " And how 
much do you want her to ? " 
Paul looked blank. "In what?" 
" In making a fool of you." Mrs. Beever gath 
ered herself. " Are you in love with Rose Armi 
ger, Paul?" 
He judiciously considered the question. " Not 
in the least. I talk with her of nobody and noth 
ing but Jean." 
"And do you talk with Jean of nobody and 
nothing but Rose?" 
Paul appeared to make an effort to remember. 
" I scarcely talk with her at all. We're such old 
friends that there's almost nothing to say." 
" There's this to say, my dear that you take 
too much for granted ! " 
" That's just what Miss Armiger tells me. 
Give me, please, some more tea." His mother 
took his cup, but she looked at him hard and 
searchingly. He bore it without meeting her 
eyes, only turning his own pensively to the differ 
ent dainties on the table. " If I do take a great 
deal for granted," he went on, " you must remem 
ber that you brought me up to it." 
Mrs. Beever found only after an instant a reply. 
Then, however, she uttered it with an air of 
triumph. "I may have brought you up but I 
didn't bring up Jean ! " 
" Well, it's not of her I'm speaking," the young 
man good-humouredly rejoined ; " though I might 
remind you that she has been here again and 
again, and month after month, and has always 
been taught so far as you could teach her 
to regard me as her inevitable fate. Have you 
any real doubt," he went on, " of her recognising 
in a satisfactory way that the time has come ? " 
Mrs. Beever transferred her scrutiny to the 
interior of her teapot. "No!" she said after a 
moment. 
"Then what's the matter?" 
" The matter is that I'm nervous, and that your 
stolidity makes me so. I want you to behave to 
me as if you cared and I want you still more 
to behave so to her" Paul made, in his seat, a 
movement in which his companion caught, as she 
supposed, the betrayal of a sense of oppression; 
and at this her own worst fear broke out. " Oh, 
don't tell me you don't care for if you do I 
don't know what I shall do to you ! " He looked 
at her with an air he sometimes had, which 
always aggravated her impatience, an air of 
amused surprise, quickened to curiosity, that 
there should be in the world organisms capable 
of generating heat. She had thanked God, 
through life, that she was cold-blooded, but now 
it seemed to face her as a Nemesis that she was 
a volcano compared with her son. This trans 
ferred to him the advantage she had so long 
monopolised, that of always seeing, in any relation 
or discussion, the other party become the specta 
cle, while, sitting back in her stall, she remained 
the spectator and even the critic. She hated to 
perform to Paul as she had made others perform 
to herself; but she determined on the instant 
that, since she was condemned to do so, she 
would do it to some purpose. She would have 
to leap through a hoop, but she would land on 
her charger's back. The next moment Paul was 
watching her while she shook her little flags at 
him. "There's one thing, my dear, that I can 
give you my word of honour for the fact that 
if the influence that congeals, that paralyses you 
 
happens by any chance to be a dream of what 
may be open to you in any other quarter, the 
sooner you utterly dismiss that dream the better 
it will be not only for your happiness, but for 
your dignity. If you entertain with no matter 
how bad a conscience a vain fancy that you've 
the smallest real chance of making the smallest 
real impression on anybody else, all I can say is 
that you prepare for yourself very nearly as 
much discomfort as you prepare disgust for your 
mother." She paused a moment; she felt, before 
her son's mild gape, like a trapezist in pink tights. 
" How much susceptibility, I should like to know, 
has Miss Armiger at her command for your great 
charms ? " 
Paul showed her a certain respect; he didn't 
clap her that is, he didn't smile. He felt some 
thing, however, which was indicated, as it always 
was, by the way his eyes grew smaller: they con 
tracted at times, in his big, fair face, to mere little 
conscious points. These points he now directed 
to the region of the house. " Well, mother," he 
quietly replied, " if you would like to know it 
hadn't you better ask her directly? " Rose Armi 
ger had come into view; Mrs. Beever, turning, 
saw her approach, bareheaded, in a fresh white 
dress, under a showy red parasol. Paul, as she 
drew near, left his seat and strolled to the ham 
mock, into which he meditatively dropped. Ex 
tended there, while the great net bulged and its 
attachments cracked with his weight, he spoke 
with the same plain patience. "She has come 
to give me up the ornament." 
XVI 
"THE great cake has at last arrived, dear 
lady ! " Rose gaily announced to Mrs. Beever, 
who waited, before acknowledging the news, long 
enough to suggest to her son that she was per 
haps about to act on his advice. 
" I'm much obliged to you for having gone to 
see about it," was, however, what, after a moment, 
Miss Armiger's hostess elected to reply. 
" It was an irresistible service. I shouldn't have 
got over on such a day as this," said Rose, "the 
least little disappointment to dear little Jean." 
" To say nothing, of course, of dear little Erne," 
Mrs. Beever promptly rejoined. 
"It comes to the same thing the occasion so 
mixes them up. They're interlaced the cake 
with their initials and their candles. There 
are plenty of candles for each," Rose laughed, 
"for their years have been added together. It 
makes a very pretty number ! " 
" It must also make a very big cake," said Mrs. 
Beever. 
" Colossal." 
"Too big to be brought out?" 
The girl considered. " Not so big, you know," 
she archly replied, "as if the candles had to be 
yours and mine ! " Then holding up the " orna 
ment " to Paul, she said : " I surrender you my 
trust. Catch ! " she added, with decision, mak 
ing a movement to toss him a small case in red 
morocco, which, the next moment, in its flight 
through the air, without altering his attitude, he 
intercepted with one hand. 
Mrs. Beever's excited mistrust dropped at the 
mere audacity of this: there was something per 
ceptibly superior in the girl who could meet half 
way, so cleverly, a suspicion she was quite con 
scious of and much desired to dissipate. The 
lady of Eastmead looked at her hard, reading her 
desire in the look she gave back. "Trust me, 
trust me," her eyes seemed to plead ; " don't at 
all events think me capable of any self-seeking 
that's stupid or poor. I may be dangerous to my 
self, but I'm not so to others ; least of all am I so 
to you" She had a presence that was, in its way, 
like Tony Bream's : it made, simply and directly, 
 
a difference in any personal question exposed to 
it. Under its action, at all events, Mrs. Beever 
found herself suddenly feeling that she could 
after all trust Rose if she could only trust Paul. 
She glanced at that young man as he lay in the 
hammock, and saw that in spite of the familiarity 
of his posture which indeed might have been 
assumed with a misleading purpose his dimin 
ished pupils, fixed upon their visitor, still had 
the expression imparted to them by her own last 
address. She hesitated ; but while she did so 
Rose came straight up to her and kissed her. It 
was the very first time, and Mrs. Beever blushed 
as if one of her secrets had been surprised. Rose 
explained her impulse only with a smile ; but the 
smile said vividly : " I'll polish him off ! " 
This brought a response to his mother's lips. 
" I'll go and inspect the cake ! " 
Mrs. Beever took her way to the house, and as 
soon as her back was turned her son got out of 
the hammock. An observer of the scene would 
not have failed to divine that, with some pro 
fundity of calculation, he had taken refuge there 
as a mute protest against any frustration of his 
interview with Rose. This young lady herself 
laughed out as she saw him rise, and her laugh 
would have been, for the same observer, a tribute 
to the natural art that was mingled with his 
obvious simplicity. Paul himself recognised its 
bearing and, as he came and stood at the tea-table, 
acknowledged her criticism by saying quietly: 
"I was afraid my mother would take me away." 
" On the contrary ; she has formally sur 
rendered you." 
"Then you must let me perform her office 
and help you to some tea." 
He spoke with a rigid courtesy that was not 
without its grace, and in the rich shade of her 
umbrella, which she twirled repeatedly on her 
shoulder, she looked down with detachment at 
the table. "I'll do it for myself, thank you; 
and I should like you to return to your ham 
mock." 
"I left it on purpose," the young man said. 
"Flat on my back, that way, I'm at a sort of 
disadvantage in talking with you." 
" That's precisely why I make the request. I 
wish you to be flat on your back and to have 
nothing whatever to reply." Paul immediately 
retraced his steps, but before again extending 
himself he asked her, with the same grave con 
sideration, where in this case she would be 
 
seated. " I sha'n't be seated at all," she an 
swered; "I'll walk about and stand over you 
and bully you." He tumbled into his net, sitting 
up rather more than before ; and, coming close 
to it, she put out her hand. "Let me see that 
object again." He had in his lap the little box 
he had received from her, and at this he passed 
it back. She opened it, pressing on the spring, 
and, inclining her head to one side, considered 
afresh the mounted jewel that nestled in the 
white velvet. Then, closing the case with a 
loud snap, she restored it to him. "Yes, it's 
very good ; it's a wonderful stone, and she knows. 
But that alone, my dear, won't do it." She 
leaned, facing him, against the tense ropes of 
the hammock, and he looked up at her. " You 
take too much for granted." 
For a moment Paul answered nothing, but at 
last he brought out : " That's just what I said 
to my mother you had already said when she 
said just the same." 
Rose stared an instant; then she smiled again. 
" It's complicated, but I follow you ! She has 
been waking you up." 
"She knows," said her companion, "that you 
advise me in the same sense as herself." 
"She believes it at last her leaving us to 
gether was a sign of that. I have at heart per 
fectly to justify her confidence, for hitherto she 
has been so blind to her own interest as to sup 
pose that, in these three weeks, you had been so 
tiresome as to fall in love with me." 
"I particularly told her I haven't at all." 
Paul's tone had at its moments of highest 
gravity the gift of moving almost any interlocutor 
to mirth. "I hope you'll be more convincing 
than that if you ever particularly tell anyone 
you have at all ! " the girl exclaimed. She gave 
a slight push to the hammock, turning away, 
and he swung there gently a minute. 
" You mustn't ask too much of me, you know," 
he finally said, watching her as she went to the 
table and poured out a cup of tea. 
She drank a little and then, putting down 
the cup, came back to him. "I should be ask 
ing too much of you only if you were asking 
too much of her. You're so far from that, and 
your position's so perfect. It's too beautiful, 
you know, what you offer." 
"I know what I offer, and I know what I 
don't," Paul returned; "and the person we 
speak of knows exactly as well. All the ele- 
 
ments are before her, and if my position's so 
fine it's there for her to see it, quite as well 
as for you. I agree with you that I'm a decent 
sort, and that, as things are going, my business, 
my prospects, my guarantees of one kind and 
another, are substantial. But just these things, 
for years, have been made familiar to her, and 
nothing, without a risk of greatly boring her, 
can very well be added to the account. You 
and my mother say I take too much for granted ; 
but I take only that." This was a long speech 
for our young man, and his want of accent, his 
passionless pauses, made it seem a trifle longer. 
It had a visible effect on Rose Armiger, whom 
he held there with widening eyes as he talked. 
There was an intensity in her face, a bright 
sweetness that, when he stopped, seemed to give 
itself out to him as if to encourage him to go on. 
But he went on only to the extent of adding: 
" All I mean is that if I'm good enough for her 
she has only to take me." 
" You're good enough for the best girl in the 
world," Rose said with the tremor of sincerity. 
"You're honest and kind; you're generous and 
wise." She looked at him with a sort of intelli 
gent pleasure, that of a mind fine enough to be 
touched by an exhibition of beauty even the 
most occult. "You're so sound you're so safe 
that it makes any relation with you a real luxury 
and a thing to be grateful for." She shed on 
him her sociable approval, treating him as a 
happy product, speaking of him as of another 
person. " I shall always be glad and proud that 
you've been, if only for an hour, my friend ! " 
Paul's response to this demonstration consisted 
in getting slowly and heavily on his feet. "Do 
you think I like what you do to me ? " he abruptly 
demanded. 
It was a sudden new note, but it found her 
quite ready. " I don't care whether you like it 
or not ! It's my duty, and it's yours it's the 
right thing." 
He stood there in his tall awkwardness ; he 
spoke as if he had not heard her. " It's too 
