This with spirit. 
' Without soldiers to fight with ? ' 
' The drums will summon them. They will answer, and 
they will march.' 
' March to the rear, as usual ? ' 
' No ; to the front— ever to the front— always to the 
front ! You shall see.' 
' And the pauper King ? ' 
' He will mount his throne— he will wear his crown.' 
' Well, of a truth this makes one's head dizzy. Why 
if I could believe that in thirty years from now the English 
domination would be broken and the French monarch's 
head find itself hooped with a real crown of sovereignty—' 
' Both will have happened before two years are sped.' 
' Indeed ? and who is going to perform all these sublime 
possibilities ? ' 
'God.' 
It was a reverent low note, but it rang clear. 
What could have put those strange ideas in her head  
This question kept running in my mind during two or three 
days. It was inevitable that I should think of madness. 
What other way was there to account for such thing-s ? 
Grieving and brooding over the woes of France had weak- 
ened that strong mind, and filled it with fantastic phan- 
toms—yes, that must be it. 
But I watched her, and tested her, and it was not so 
Her eye was clear and sane, her ways were natural, her 
speech direct and to the point. No, there was nothing 
the matter with her mind ; it was still the soundest in the 
village, and the best. She went on thinking for others 
planning for others, sacrificing herself for others, just as 
always before. She went on ministering to her sick and 
to her poor, and still stood ready to give the wayfarer her 
bed and content herself with the floor. There was a secret 
somewhere, but madness was not the key to it. This was 
plain. 
Now the key did presently come into my hands, and 
the way that it nappened was this. You have heard all 
the world talk of this matter which I am about to speak 
of, but you have not heard an eye-witness talk of it be- 
was coming from over the ridge, one day-it was 
May IS, 28-and when I got to the edge of the oak forest 
and'wi; about to step out of it upon the turfy P-JPa
in which the haunted beech-tree stood, I happened to cast 
a glance from cover, first-then I took a step backward, 
and stood in the shelter and concealment of the foliage_ 
For I had caught sight of Joan, and thought would 
devise some sort of playful surprise for her. Thmk of it- 
that trivial conceit was neighbour, with but a scarcely 
measurable interval of time between, to an event destined 
to endure for ever in histories and songs. 
The day was overcast, and all that grassy space wherein 
the Tree stood lay in a soft rich shadow. Joan sat on a 
natural seat formed by gnarled great roots of the Tree. 
Her hands lay loosely, one reposing in the other, in her 
Ian Her head was bent a little toward the ground, and 
her air was that of one who is lost in thought, steeped in 
dreams, and not conscious of herself or of the world. And 
now I saw a most strange thing, for I saw a shadow 
come slowly gliding along the grass toward the Tree. It 
waTo grand proportions-a robed form, with wings-and 
The whiteness of this shadow was not like any other white- 
ness that we know of, except it be the whiteness of the 
lightnings ; but even the lightnings are not so intense as it 
was for one can look at them without hurt, whereas this 
brilliancy was so blinding that it pained my eyes and 
broueht the water into them. I uncovered my head, per- 
ce°ving that I was in the presence of something not of this 
world My breath grew faint and difficult, because of the 
terror and the awe that possessed me. 
Another strange thing. The wood had been silent- 
smitten with that deep stillness which comes when a 
storm-cloud darkens a forest, and the wild creatures lose 
heart and are afraid ; but now all the birds burst forth my 
song, and the joy, the rapture, the ecstasy of it was beyond 
belief ; and was so eloquent and so moving, withal, that it 
was plain it was an act of worship. With the first note of 
those birds Joan cast herself upon her knees, and bent her 
head low and crossed her hands upon her breast. 
She had not seen the shadow yet. Had the song of the 
birds told her it was coming ? It had that look to me. 
Then the like of this must have happened before. Yes, 
there might be no doubt of that. 
The shadow approached Joan slowly ; the extremity of 
it reached her, flowed over her, clothed her in its awful 
splendour. In that immortal light her face, only humanly 
beautiful before, became divine ; flooded with that trans- 
forming glory, her mean peasant habit was become like to 
the raiment of the sun-clothed children of God as we see 
them thronging the terraces of the Throne in our dreams 
and imaginings. 
Presently she rose and stood, with her head still bowed 
a little, and with her arms down and the ends of her fingers 
lightly laced together in front of her ; and standing so, all 
drenched with that wonderful light, and yet apparently not 
knowing it, she seemed to listen — but I heard nothing. 
After a little she raised her head, and looked up as one 
might look up toward the face of a giant, and then clasped 
her hands, and lifted them high, imploringly, and began to 
plead. I heard some of the words. I heard her say — 
' But I am so young ! oh, so young to leave my mother 
and my home, and go out into the strange world to under- 
take a thing so great ! Ah, how can I talk with men, be 
comrade with men ? — soldiers ! It would give me over to 
insult, and rude usage, and contempt. How can I go to 
the great wars, and lead armies? — I, a girl, and ignorant 
of such things, knowing nothing of arms, nor how to 
mount a horse, nor ride it. . . . Yet — if it is com- 
manded — ' 
Her voice sank a little, and was broken by sobs, and I 
made out no more of her words. Then I came to myself. 
I reflected that I had been intruding upon a mystery of 
God — and what might my punishment be ? I was afraid, 
and went deeper into the wood. Then I carved a mark in 
the bark of a tree, saying to myself, it may be that I am 
dreaming, and have not seen this vision at all. I will come 
again, when I know that I am awake and not dreaming, 
and see if this mark is still here ; then I shall know. 
CHAPTER VIII 
I HEARD my name called. It was Joan's voice. It startled 
me, for how could she know I was there ? I said to myself, 
it is part of the dream ; it is all dream — voice, vision and 
all ; the fairies have done this. So I crossed myself and 
pronounced the name of God, to break the enchantment. 
I knew I was awake now and free from the spell, for no 
spell can withstand this exorcism. Then I heard my name 
called again, and I stepped at once from under cover, and 
there indeed was Joan, but not looking as she had looked 
in the dream. For she was not crying, now, but was 
looking as she had used to look a year and a half before, 
when her heart was light and her spirits high. Her old- 
time energy and fire were back, and a something like ex- 
altation showed itself in her face and bearing. It was 
almost as if she had been in a trance all that time and had 
come awake again. Really, it was just as if she had been 
away and lost, and was come back to us at last ; and I 
was so glad that I felt like running to call everybody and 
have them flock around her and give her welcome. I ran 
to her excited, and said — 
' Ah, Joan, I've got such a wonderful thing to tell you 
about ! You would never imagine it. I've had a dream, 
and in the dream I saw you right here where you are 
standing now, and — ' 
But she put up her hand and said — 
' It was not a dream.' 
It gave me a shock, and I began to feel afraid again. 
' Not a dream ? ' I said, ' how can you know about it, 
Joan ? ' 
' Are you dreaming now ? ' 
' I — I suppose not. I think I am not.' 
' Indeed you are not. I know you are not. And you 
were not dreaming when you cut the mark in the tree.' 
I felt myself turning cold with fright, for now I knew of 
a certainty that I had not been dreaming, but had really 
been in the presence of a dread something not of this world. 
Then I remembered that my sinful feet were upon holy 
ground — the ground where that celestial shadow had rested. 
I moved quickly away, smitten to the bones with fear. 
Joan followed, and said — 
' Do not be afraid ; indeed there is no need. Come with 
me. We will sit by the spring and I will tell you all my 
secret.' 
When she was ready to begin, I checked her and 
said — 
' First tell me this. You could not see me in the wood ; 
how did you know I cut a mark in the tree ? ' 
' Wait a little ; I will soon come to that ; then you will 
see.' 
' But tell me one thing now ; what was that awful 
shadow that I saw ? ' 
' I will tell you, but do not be disturbed ; you are not in 
danger. It was the shadow of an archangel — Michael, the 
chief and lord of the armies of heaven.' 
I could but cross myself and tremble for having polluted 
that ground with my feet. 
' You were not afraid, Joan ? Did you see his face — 
did you see his form ? ' 
' Yes ; I was not afraid, because this was not the first 
time. I was afraid the first time.' 
' When was that, Joan ? ' 
' It is nearly three years ago, now.' 
' So long ? Have you seen him many times ? ' 
' Yes, many times.' 
' It is this, then, that has changed you ; it was this that 
made you thoughtful and not as you were before. I see it 
now. Why did you not tell us about it ? ' 
' It was not permitted. It is permitted now, and soon 
I shall tell all. But only you, now. It must remain a 
secret a few days still.' 
' Has none seen that white shadow before but me ? ' 
' No one. It has fallen upon me before when you and 
others were present, but none could see it. To-day it has 
been otherwise, and I was told why ; but it will not be 
visible again to any.' 
' It was a sign to me, then— and a sign with a meaning 
of some kind ? ' 
' Yes, but I may not speak of that.' 
' Strange — that that dazzling light could rest upon an 
object before one's eyes and not be visible.' 
' With it comes speech, also. Several saints come, 
attended by myriads of angels, and they speak to me ; I 
hear their voices, but others do not. They are very dear 
to me — my Voices ; that is what I call them to myself.' 
' Joan, what do they tell you ? ' 
' All manner of things — about France I mean.' 
' What things have they been used to tell you ? ' 
She sighed, and said — 
' Disasters — only disasters, and misfortunes, and humi- 
liations. There was naught else to foretell.' 
' They spoke of them to you beforehand? ' 
' Yes. So that I knew what was going to happen 
before it happened. It made me grave — as you saw. It 
could not be otherwise. But always there was a word of 
hope, too. More than that ; France was to be rescued, 
and made great and free again. But how and by whom — 
that was not told. Not until to-day.' As she said those 
last words a sudden deep glow shone in her eyes, which I 
was to see there many times in after-days when the bugles 
sounded the charg-e and learn to call it the battle-light.
Her breast heaved, and the colour rose in her face. ' But 
to-day I know. God has chosen the meanest of His crea- 
tures for this work ; and by His command, and in His pro- 
tection, and by His strength, not mine, I am to lead His 
armies, and win back France, and set the crown upon the 
head of His servant that is Dauphin and shall be King.' 
I was amazed, and said — 
' You, Joan ? You, a child, lead armies ? ' 
' Yes. For one little moment or two the thought 
crushed me ; for it is as you say — I am only a child ; a 
child and ignorant — ignorant of everything that pertains to 
war, and not fitted for the rough life of camps and the 
companionship of soldiers. But those weak moments 
passed ; they will not come again. I am enlisted, I will 
not turn back, God helping me, till the English grip is 
loosed from the throat of France. My Voices have never 
told me lies, they have not lied to-day. They say I am to 
go to Robert de Baudricourt, governor of Vaucouleurs, 
and he will give me men-at-arms for escort and send me 
to the King. A year from now a blow will be struck which 
will be the beginning of the end, and the end will follow 
swiftly.' 
' Where will it be struck ? ' 
' My Voices have not said ; nor what will happen this 
present year, before it is struck. It is appointed me to 
strike it, that is all I know ; and follow it with others, 
sharp and swift, undoing in ten weeks England's long years 
of costly labour, and setting the crown upon the Dauphin's 
head — for such is God's will ; my Voices have said it, and 
shall I doubt it ? No ; it will be as they have said, for they 
say only that which is true.' 
These were tremendous sayings. They were impossi- 
bilities to my reason, but to my heart they rang true ; and 
so, while my reason doubted, my heart believed — believed, 
and held fast to its belief from that day. Presently I 
said — 
' Joan, I believe the things which you have said, and 
now I am glad that I am to march with you to the 
great wars — that is, if it is with you I am to march when 
I go.' 
She looked surprised and said — 
' It is true that you will be with me when I go to the 
wars, but how did you know ? ' 
' I shall march with you, and so also will Jean and 
Pierre, but not Jacques.' 
' All true — it is so ordered, as was revealed to me lately, 
but I did not know until to-day that the marching would 
be with me, or that I should march at all. How did you 
know these things ? ' 
I told her when it was that she had said them. But 
she did not remember about it. So then I knew that she 
had been asleep, or in a trance or an ecstasy of some kind, 
at that time. She bade me keep these and the other 
revelations to myself for the present, and I said I would, 
and kept the faith I promised. 
None who met Joan that day failed to notice the change 
that had come over her. She moved and spoke with energy 
and decision ; there was a strange new fire in her eye, and 
also a something wholly new and remarkable in her carriage 
and in the set of her head. This new light in the eye and 
this new bearing were born of the authority and leadership 
which had this day been vested in her by the decree of God, 
and they asserted that authority as plainly as speech could 
have done it, yet without ostentation or bravado. This 
calm consciousness of command, and calm unconscious 
outward expression of it, remained with her thenceforth 
until her mission was accomplished. 
Like the other villagers, she had always accorded me 
the deference due to my rank ; but now, without word said 
on either side, she and I changed places : she gave orders, 
not suggestions, I received them with the deference due to 
a superior, and obeyed them without comment. In the 
evening she said to me — 
' I leave before dawn. No one will know it but you. I 
go to speak with the governor of Vaucouleurs as commanded, 
who will despise me and treat me rudely, and 
perhaps refuse my prayer at this time. I go first to Burey, 
to persuade my uncle Laxart to go with me, it not being 
meet that I go alone. I may need you in Vaucouleurs ; 
for if the governor will not receive me I will dictate a 
letter to him, and so must have some one by me who knows 
the art of how to write and spell the words. You will g'o 
from here to-morrow in the afternoon, and remain in 
Vaucouleurs until I need you.' 
I said I would obey, and she went her way. You see 
how clear a head she had, and what a just and level 
judgment. She did not order me to go with her ; no, she 
would not subject her good name to gossiping remark. 
She knew that the g'overnor, being a noble, would grant 
me, another noble, audience ; but no, you see, she would 
not have that, either. A poor peasant girl presenting a 
petition through a young nobleman — how would that look ? 
She always protected her modesty from hurt ; and so, for 
reward, she carried her good name unsmirched to the end. 
I knew what I must do, now, if I would have her approval : 
go to Vaucouleurs, keep out of her sight, and be ready 
when wanted. 
I went the next afternoon, and took an obscure lodging ; 
the next day I called at the castle and paid my respects to 
the governor, who invited me to dine with him at noon of 
the following day. He was an ideal soldier of the time ; 
tall, brawny, gray-headed, rough, full of strange oaths 
acquired here and there and yonder in the wars and 
treasured as if they were decorations. He had been used 
to the camp all his life, and to his notion war was God's 
best gift to man. He had his steel cuirass on, and wore 
boots that came above his knees, and was equipped with a 
huge sword ; and when I looked at this martial figure, and 
heard the'' marvellous oaths and guessed how little of 
poetry and sentiment might be looked for in this quarter, I 
hoped the little peasant girl would not get the privilege of 
confronting this battery, but would have to content herself 
with the dictated letter. 
I came again to the castle the next day at noon, and 
was conducted to the great dining-hall and seated by the 
side of the governor at a small table which was raised a 
couple of steps higher than the general table. At the 
small table sat several other guests besides myself, and at 
the general table sat the chief officers of the garrison. At 
the entrance door stood a guard of halberdiers, in morion 
and breastplate. 
As for talk, there- was but one topic, of course — the 
desperate situation of France. There was a rumour, some 
one said, that Salisbury was making preparations to march 
against Orleans. It raised a turmoil of excited conversa- 
tion, and opinions fell thick and fast. Some believed he 
would march at once, others that he could not accomplish 
the investment before fall, others that the siege would be 
long, and bravely contested ; but upon one thing all voices 
agreed : that Orleans must eventually fall, and with it 
France. With that, the prolonged discussion ended, and 
there was silence. Every man seemed to sink himself in 
his own thoughts, and to forget where he was. This 
sudden and profound stillness, where before [had been so 
much animation, was impressive and solemn. Now came 
a servant and whispered something to the governor, who 
said — 
' Would talk with me ? ' 
' Yes, your Excellency.' 
' H'm ! A strange idea, certainly. Bring them in.' 
It was Joan and her uncle Laxart. At the spectacle of 
the great people the courage oozed out of the poor old pea- 
sant, and he stopped midway and would come no further, 
but remained there with his red nightcap crushed in his hands 
and bowing humbly here, there and everywhere, stupefied 
with embarrassment and fear. But Joan came steadily 
forward, erect and self-possessed, and stood before the 
 governor. She recognized me, but in no way indicated it. 
There was a buzz of admiration, even the governor contri- 
buting to it, for I heard him mutter, ' By God's grace, it 
is a beautiful creature ! ' He inspected her critically a 
moment or two, then said — 
' Well, what is your errand, my child ? ' 
' My message is to you, Robert de Baudricourt, governor 
of Vaucouleurs, and it is this : that you will send and tell 
the Dauphin to wait and not give battle to his enemies, for 
God will presently send him help.' 
This strange speech amazed the company, and many 
murmured, 'The poor young thing is demented.' The 
governor scowled, and said — 
' What nonsense is this ? The King — or the Dauphin, 
as you call him — needs no message of that sort. He will 
wait — give yourself no uneasiness as to that. What further 
do you desire to say to me ? ' 
' This. To beg that you will give me an escort of men- 
at-arms and send me to the Dauphin.' 
'What for?' 
' That he may make me his general, for it is appointed 
that I shall drive the English out of France, and set the 
crown upon his head.' 
' What — you ? Why, you are but a child ! ' 
' Yet am I appointed to do it, nevertheless.' 
' Indeed ? And when will all this happen ? ' 
' Next year he will be crowned, and after will remain 
master of France.' 
There was a great and general burst of laughter, and 
when it had subsided the governor said — 
' Who has sent you with these extravagant messages ? ' 
' My Lord.' 
' What Lord ? ' 
'The King of Heaven.' 
Many murmured. ' Ah, poor thing, poor thing ! ' and 
others, ' Ah, her mind is but a wreck ! ' The governor 
hailed Laxart, and said — 
 
' Harkye ! — take this mad child home and whip her 
soundly. That is the best cure for her ailment.' 
As Joan was moving" away she turned and said with 
simplicity — 
' You refuse me the soldiers, I know not why, for it is 
my Lord that has commanded you. Yes, it is He that has 
made the command ; therefore must I come again, and 
yet again : then I shall have the men-at-arms.' 
There was a great deal of wondering talk, after she 
was gone ; and the guards and servants passed the talk to 
the town, the town passed it to the country ; Domremy 
was already buzzing with it when we got back. 
CHAPTER IX 
Human nature is the same everywhere : it deifies success, 
it has nothing but scorn for defeat. The village considered 
that Joan had disgraced it with her grotesque performance 
and its ridiculous failure ; so all the tongues were busy 
with the matter, and as bilious and bitter as they were busy; 
insomuch that if the tongues had been teeth she would not 
have survived her persecutions. Those persons who did 
not scold, did what was worse and harder to bear ; for 
they ridiculed her, and mocked at her, and ceased neither 
day nor night from their witticisms and jeerings and 
laughter. Haumette and Little Mengette and I stood by 
her, but the storm was too strong for her other friends, 
and they avoided her, being ashamed to be seen with her 
because she was so unpopular, and because of the sting or 
the taunts that assailed them on her account. She shed 
tears in secret, but none in public. In public she carried 
herself with serenity, and showed no distress, nor any re- 
sentment — conduct which should have softened the feeling 
against her, but it did not. Her father was so incensed 
that he could not talk in measured terms about her wild 
project of going to the wars like a man. He had dreamed 
of her doing such a thing, some time before, and now he 
remembered that dream with apprehension and anger, and 
said that rather than see her unsex herself and go away 
with the armies, he would require her brothers to drown 
her ; and that if they should refuse, he would do it with 
his own hands. 
But none of these things shook her purpose in the least. 
Her parents kept a strict watch upon her to keep her from 
leaving the village, but she said her time was not yet ; that 
when the time to go was come she should know it, and 
then the keepers would watch in vain. 
The summer wasted along ; and when It was seen that 
her purpose continued steadfast, the parents were glad of a 
chance which finally offered itself for bringing her projects 
to an end through marriage. The Paladin had the effron- 
tery to pretend that she had engaged herself to him several 
years before, and now he claimed a ratification of the en- 
gagement. 
She said his statement was not true, and refused to 
marry him. She was cited to appear before the ecclesias- 
tical court at Toul to answer for her perversity ; when she 
declined to have counsel, and elected to conduct her case 
herself, her parents and all her ill-wishers rejoiced, and 
looked upon her as already defeated. And that was 
natural enough ; for who would expect that an ignorant 
peasant girl of sixteen would be otherwise than frightened 
and tongue-tied when standing for the first time in presence 
of the practised doctors of the law, and surrounded by the 
cold solemnities of a court? Yet all these people were 
mistaken. They flocked to Toul to see and enjoy this 
fright and embarrassment and defeat, and they had their 
trouble for their pains. She was modest, tranquil, and 
quite at her ease. She called no witnesses, saying she 
would content herself with examining the witnesses for 
the prosecution. When they had testified, she rose and 
reviewed their testimony in a few words, pronounced it 
vague, confused, and of no force, then she placed the 
Paladin again on the stand and began to search him. His 
previous testimony went rag by rag to ruin under her in- 
genious hands, until at last he stood bare, so to speak, he 
that had come so richly clothed in fraud and falsehood. 
His counsel began an argument, but the court declined to 
hear it, and threw out the case, adding a few words of 
grave compliment for Joan, and referring to her as ' this 
marvellous child.' 
After this victory, with this high praise from so impos- 
ing a source added, the fickle village turned again, and 
gave Joan countenance, compliment, and peace. Her 
mother took her back to her heart, and even her father 
relented and said he was proud of her. But the time hung 
heavy on her hands, nevertheless, for the siege of Orleans 
was begun, the clouds lowered darker and darker over 
France, and still her Voices said wait, and gave her no 
direct commands. The winter set in, and wore tediously 
along ; but at last there was a change. 
IN COURT AND CAMP 
CHAPTER I 
The 5th of January, 1429, Joan came to me with her uncle 
Laxart, and said — 
' The time is come. My Voices are not vague now, 
but clear, and they have told me what to do. In two 
months I shall be with the Dauphin.' 
Her spirits were high, and her bearing martial. I 
caught the infection, and felt a great impulse stirring in 
me that was like what one feels when he hears the roll of 
the drums and the tramp of marching men. 
' I believe it,' I said. 
' I also believe it,' said Laxart. ' If she had told me 
before that she was commanded of God to rescue France, 
I should not have believed ; I should have let her seek the 
governor by her own ways and held myself clear of meddling 
in the matter, not doubting she was mad. But I have seen 
her stand before those nobles and mighty men unafraid, 
and say her say ; and she had not been able to do that 
but by the help of God. That I know. Therefore with all 
humbleness I am at her command, to do with me as she 
will.' 
' My uncle is very good to me,' Joan said. ' I sent and 
asked him to come and persuade my mother to let him 
take me home with him to tend his wife, who is not well. 
It is arranged, and we go at dawn to-morrow. From his 
house I shall go soon to Vaucouleurs, and wait and strive 
until my prayer is granted- Who were the two cavaliers 
who sat to your left at the governor's table that day ? ' 
' One was the Sieur Jean de Novelonpont de Metz, the 
other the Sieur Bertrand de Poulengy.' 
' Good metal — good metal, both. I marked them for 
men of mine. . . . What is it I see in your face ? Doubt ? ' 
I was teaching myself to speak the truth to her, not 
trimming it or polishing it ; so I said — 
' They considered you out of your head, and said so. 
It is true they pitied you for being in such misfortune, but 
still they held you to be mad.' 
This did not seem to trouble her in any way or wound 
her. She only said — 
' The wise change their minds when they perceive that 
they have been in error. These will. They will march 
with me. I shall see them presently. . . . You seem to 
doubt again ? Do you doubt ? ' 
' N — no. Not now. I was remembering that it was a 
year ago, and that they did not belong there, but only 
chanced to stop a day on their journey.' 
' They will come again. But as to matters now in 
hand ; I came to leave with you some instructions. You 
will follow me in a few days. Order your affairs, for you 
will be absent long.' 
' Will Jean and Pierre go with me ? ' 
' No ; they would refuse now, but presently they will 
come, and with them they will bring my parents' blessing, 
and likewise their consent that I take up my mission. I 
shall be stronger then — stronger for that ; for lack of it I 
am weak now.' She paused a little while, and the tears 
gathered in her eyes ; then she went on : M would say 
good-bye to Little Mengette. Bring her outside the village 
at dawn ; she must go with me a little of the way — ' 
' And Haumette ? ' 
She broke down and began to cry, saying — 
' No, oh, no — she is too dear to me ; I could not bear 
it, knowing I should never look upon her face again.' 
The Governor keeps his promise to Joan.
Next morning I brought Mengette, and we four walked 
along the road in the cold dawn till the village was far 
behind ; then the two girls said their good-byes, clinging 
about each other's neck, and pouring out their grief in 
loving words and tears, a pitiful sight to see. And Joan 
took one long look back upon the distant village, and the 
Fairy Tree, and the oak forest, and the flowery plain, and 
the river, as if she was trying to print these scenes on her 
memory so that they would abide there always and not 
fade, for she knew she would not see them any more in 
this life ; then she turned, and went from us, sobbing 
bitterly. It was her birthday and mine. She was seven- 
teen years old. 
CHAPTER II 
After a few days, Laxart took Joan to Vaucouleurs, and 
found lodging and guardianship for her with Catherine 
Royer, a wheelwright's wife, an honest and good woman. 
Joan went to mass regularly, she helped do the housework, 
earning her keep in that way, and if any wished to talk 
with her about her mission — and many did — she talked 
freely, making no concealments regarding the matter now. 
I was soon housed near by, and witnessed the effects 
which followed. At once the tidings spread that a young 
girl was come who was appointed of God to save France. 
The common people flocked in crowds to look at her and 
speak with her, and her fair young loveliness won the half 
of their belief, and her deep earnestness and transparent 
sincerity won the other half. The well-to-do remained 
away and scoffed, but that is their way. 
Next, a prophecy of Merlin's, more than eight hundred 
years old, was called to mind, which said that in a far 
future time France would be lost by a woman and restored 
by a woman. France was now, for the first time, lost — 
and by a woman, Isabel of Bavaria, her base Queen ; 
doubtless this fair and pure young girl was commissioned 
of Heaven to complete the prophecy. 
This gave the growing interest a new and powerful 
impulse ; the excitement rose higher and higher, and hope 
and faith along with it ; and so from Vaucouleurs wave 
after wave of this inspiring enthusiasm flowed out over 
the land, far and wide, invading all the villages and 
refreshing and revivifying the perishing children of France ; 
and from these villages came people who wanted to see 
for themselves, hear for themselves ; and the}'- did see and 
hear, and believe. They filled the town ; they more than 
filled it ; inns and lodgings were packed, and yet half of 
the inflow had to go without shelter. And still they came, 
winter as it was, for when a man's soul is starving, what 
does he care for meat and roof so he can but get that 
nobler hunger fed ? Day after day, and still day after day, 
the great tide rose. Domremy was dazed, amazed, stupe- 
fied, and said to itself, ' Was this world-wonder in our 
familiar midst all these years and we too dull to see it ? ' 
Jean and Pierre went out from the village stared at and 
envied like the great and fortunate of the earth, and their 
progress to Vaucouleurs was like a triumph, all the 
country side flocking to see and salute the brothers of one 
with whom angels had spoken face to face, and into whose 
hands by command of God they had delivered the destinies 
of France. 
The brothers brought the parents' blessing and God- 
speed to Joan, and their promise to bring it to her in 
person later ; and so, with this culminating happiness in 
her heart and the high hope it inspired, she went and 
confronted the governor again. But he was no more 
tractable than he had been before. He refused to send 
her to the King. She was disappointed, but in no degree 
discouraged. She said — 
' I must still come to you until I get the men-at-arms ; 
for so it is commanded, and I may not disobey. I must go 
to the Dauphin, though I go on my knees.' 
I and the two brothers were with Joan daily, to see the 
people that came and hear what they said ; and one day, 
sure enough, the Sieur Jean de Metz came. He talked 
with her in a petting and playful way, as one talks with 
children, and said — 
' What are you doing here, my little maid ? Will they 
drive the King out of France, and shall we all turn 
English ? ' 
She answered him in her tranquil, serious way— 
' I am come to bid Robert de Baudricourt take or send 
me to the King, but he does not heed my words.' 
' Ah, you have an admirable persistence, truly ; a whole 
year has not turned you from your wish. I saw you when 
you came before.' 
Joan said, as tranquilly as before — 
' It is not a wish, it is a purpose. He will grant it. I 
can wait.' 
' Ah, perhaps it will not be wise to make too sure of 
that, my child. These governors are stubborn people to 
deal with. In case he shall not grant your prayer—' 
' He will grant it. He must. It is not matter of 
choice.' 
The gentleman's playful mood began to disappear— one 
could see that by his face. Joan's earnestness was affect- 
mg him. It always happened that people who began in 
jest with her, ended by being in earnest. They soon began 
to perceive depths in her that they had not suspected ; and 
then her manifest sincerity and the rocklike steadfastness 
of her convictions were forces which cowed levity, and it 
could not maintain its self-respect in their presence The 
Sieur de Metz was thoughtful for a moment or two, then 
he began, quite soberly — 
Ms it necessary that you go to the King soon ?— that 
is, I mean — ' 
' Before Mid-Lent, even though I wear away my legs to 
the knees ! '
She said it with that sort of repressed fieriness that 
means so much when a person's heart is in a thing. You 
could see the response in that nobleman's face ; you could 
see his eye light up ; there was sympathy there. He said, 
most earnestly — 
' God knows I think you should have the men-at-arms, 
and that somewhat would come of it. What is it that you 
would do ? What is your hope and purpose ? ' 
' To rescue France. And it is appointed that I shall 
do it. For no one else in the world, neither kings, nor 
dukes, nor any other, can recover the kingdom of France, 
and there is no help but in me.' 
The words had a pleading and pathetic sound, and 
they touched that good nobleman. I saw it plainly. Joan 
dropped her voice a little, and said : ' But indeed I would 
rather spin with my poor mother, for this is not my calling ; 
but I must go and do it, for it is my Lord's will.' 
' Who is your Lord ? ' 
< He is God.' 
Then the Sieur de Metz, following the impressive old 
feudal fashion, knelt and laid his hands within Joan's, in 
sign of fealty, and made oath that by God's help he him- 
self would take her to the King. 
The next day came the Sieur Bertrand de Poulengy, 
and he also pledged his oath and knightly honour to abide 
with her and follow whithersoever she might lead. 
This day, too, toward evening, a great rumour went 
flying abroad through the town — namely, that the very 
governor himself was going to visit the young girl in her 
humble lodgings. So in the morning the streets and lanes 
were packed with people waiting to see if this strange thing 
would indeed happen. And happen it did. The governor 
rode in state, attended by his guards, and the news of it 
went everywhere, and made a great sensation, and modi- 
fied the scoffings of the people of quality and raised Joan's 
