working-gown as neat as she can keep it, and relieved before John
comes in by clean collar or ruching and a smooth white apron. It is
altogether possible for the woman who "does her own work" to be as
"well set-up"--to borrow a sporting phrase from John--as her rich
neighbor who can drag a train over Oriental rugs from the moment she
rises to a late breakfast until she sweeps yards of brocade and velvet
up the polished stairs after ball, dinner or theatre-party.
What I have to do with now is John's unreasonable desire that his wife
should--as the help-meet of a man who has his own way to make in the
world--dress as well as when she was the unmarried daughter of an
elderly gentleman whose way was made. Every sensible girl married to a
poor man comprehends, as one trait of wifely duty, that she must make
her trousseau last and look well as long as she can. In the honorable
dread of suggesting to him whose fortune she has elected to share, that
when her handsome gowns are no longer wearable she must replace lace
with cotton lawns, and silk with all-wool merino or serge, she devises
excuses for sparing the costly fabrics--pretexts which, to his shame it
is said, he is prone to misunderstand. If men such as he could guess at
the repressed longings for the brave array of other times that assail
the wearers of well-saved--therefore passee--finery, at sight of other
women less conscientious, or with richer husbands than themselves,
reveling in the latest and most enticing modes--if eyes scornful of
plain attire could penetrate to the jealously locked closet where
feminine vanity and native extravagance are kept under watch and ward by
the love the critic is ready to doubt,--print, gingham and stuff gowns
would be fairer than ermine and velvet in John's esteem.
CHAPTER VI.
CHINK-FILLERS.
At a recent conference of practical housewives and mothers held in a
western city, one of the leaders told, as illustrative of the topic
under discussion, an incident of her childhood. When a little girl of
seven years, she stood by her father, looking at a new log-cabin.
"Papa," she observed, "it is all finished, isn't it?"
"No, my daughter, look again!"
The child studied the structure before her. The neatly hewed logs were
in their proper places. The roof, and the rough chimney, were
complete, but, on close scrutiny, one could see the daylight filtering
through the interstices of the logs. It had yet to be "chinked."
When this anecdote was ended, a bright little woman arose and returned
her thanks for the story, for, she said, she had come to the
conclusion that she was one of the persons who had been put in the
world to "fill up the chinks."
The chink-fillers are among the most useful members of society. The
fact is patent of the founder of one of our great educational systems,
that he grasped large plans and theories, but had no talent for
minutiæ. What would his majestic outlines be without the army of
workers who, with a just comprehension of the importance of detail,
fill in the chinks in the vast enterprise?
Putty may be a mean, cheap article, far inferior to the clear,
transparent crystal pane, but what would become of the costly
plate-glass were there no putty to fill in the grooves in which it
rests, and to secure it against shocks?
The universal cry of the woman of the present to the effect that the
sex has a mighty mission to accomplish, sounds a note of woe to her
who, try as she may, can find no one occupation in which she excels
and who feels that her only sphere in life is to go through the world
doing the little things left undone by people with Missions. Does it
ever occur to the self-named commonplace woman that her
heaven-appointed task is as high a "mission" as any that may be taken
up by her more gifted sisters?
It requires vast patience and much love for one's fellow-man to be a
chink-filler. She it is who, as wife, mother, sister, or, perhaps,
maiden-aunt, picks up the hat or gloves Mamie has carelessly left on
the drawing-room table, wipes the tiny finger smears from the
window-panes at which baby stood to wave his hand to papa this
morning, dusts the rungs of the chair neglected by the parlor-maid,
and mends the ripped coat which Johnny forgot to mention until it was
nearly time to start for school. It is she who thinks to pull the
basting-threads out of the newly finished gown, tacks ruching in neck
and sleeves against the time when daughter or sister may want it in a
hurry, remembers to prepare some dainty for that member of the
household who is "not quite up to the mark" in appetite--in fact,
undertakes those tasks, so many of which show for little when done,
but which are painfully conspicuous when neglected. Does she bewail
herself that her sphere is small--limited? Let her pause and consider
how it would affect the family were the hat and gloves to be out of
place, the chair undusted, the blurred window-glass overlooked, the
coat unmended, the bastings allowed to stand in all their hideous
white prominence, the invalid's appetite untempted. Like a good
spirit, our chink-filler glides in and out among the fallen threads in
the tangled web of life, picking up dropped stitches, fastening loose
strands, and weaving the tissue into a harmonious whole, and yet doing
it all so unobtrusively that the great weavers, looking only at the
vast pattern they are forming, are unconscious that, but for the
unselfish thought and deft fingers of the commonplace woman, their
work would be a grand failure. Sometime the children whose
shortcomings she has supplemented and thus saved from harsh reproof,
the servants whose tasks she has made lighter, the husbands and wives,
fathers and mothers, for whom she has made life smoother, and
brighter, will arise and call her blessed. It may not be in this life,
but it will surely come to pass in "the world that sets this right."
   "She doth little kindnesses
   Which most leave undone or despise;
   For naught that sets one heart at ease,
   Or giveth happiness or peace,
   Is low-esteeméd in her eyes."
Few people appreciate the dignity of detail, although, from the days
of our childhood, we have heard rhymes, verses and proverbs
innumerable which aim to impress mankind with the importance of the
horse-shoe nail, of the rift in the lute, and the tiny worm-hole in
the vessel through which the "watery tide" entered.
The wife and mother, more than any other, knows what a great part of
life is made up of the little things, such as:--
   "Sewing on the buttons,
   Overseeing rations;
   Soothing with a kind word
   Guiding clumsy Bridgets,
   Coaxing sullen cooks,
   Entertaining company,
   And reading recent books;
      Woman's work!"
Strange as it may seem, the mind of the hireling cannot grasp the
importance of the lesser tasks that go to make up the sum of
existence. If you allow Bridget to prepare your guest chamber for an
unexpected friend, you will observe that she glories in Rembrandt-like
effects,--which, when viewed at a distance, assume a respectable
appearance. You, with brains back of your hands, will notice that
there is a tiny hole in the counterpane, dust under the table,
and--above all--that the soap-dish is not clean. Your servant may do
the rough work; the dainty, lady-like touch must be given by you.
You have an experienced waitress, and a jewel, if the dining-room and
table are perfect without your supervision. It may be only that a
teacup or plate is sticky or rough to the touch, a fork or a knife
needed, the steel or one of the carvers forgotten. But when the family
is assembled at the board, these trifles cause awkward pauses and
interruptions.
Other little cares are to ascertain that the water with which the tea
is made is boiling, that the alcohol lamp is filled, the flies brushed
from the room, the plates warmed, and the sugar-dishes and
salt-cellars filled. One housekeeper says that attention to these
duties always reminds her of the task of washing one's face. Nobody
notices if you keep your face clean, and you get no credit for doing
it, but if you did not wash it, all the world would remark upon the
dirt.
Often the work which "doesn't show" takes most time, and tries the
temper. And the hardest part of it all is that it is so frequently
caused by others' laziness or delinquencies. If John would only use an
ash-receiver, instead of strewing the veranda-floor with ashes and
burnt matches; if he would "just think" to close the library blinds
when he has finished looking for a missing book, instead of allowing
the hot sunshine and flies to enter at their own sweet will, until,
two hours after his departure for the office, you descend to the
apartment which you had already dusted and darkened, and find it
filled with heat and buzz! If that big boy of yours could remember
to strip the covers from his bed when he arises and if your pretty
daughter could cultivate her bump of order sufficiently to refrain
from leaving a hat of some description in every room on the first
floor, and her jacket on the banisters! Nobody but yourself knows how
many precious minutes you expend in righting these wrongs caused by
others' carelessness. John would advise grandly that you "Let Bridget
attend to these matters. Why keep a dog and do your own barking?" If
he is particularly sympathetic and generous, he will inform you
seriously that your time is too precious to spend on beggarly trifles,
and that if one servant cannot do the work of the establishment, he
wants you to hire another. Perhaps you ungratefully retort that "it
will only make one more for you to follow up and supplement."
It would be an excellent plan for each member of the household to
resolve to put in its proper place everything which he or she observed
out of order. By the time this rule had been established for
twenty-four hours, the house would be immaculate, and the mother find
ample time for her mission,--if she has any beside general
chink-filler for the family. If not, she will have an opportunity to
rest.
A well-known author, who is at the same time an exemplary housewife,
tells of how she retired one rainy spring morning to her study in just
the mood for writing. Husband and sons had gone to their various
occupations. She had a splendid day for work ahead of her. She sat
down to her desk and took up her pen. The plot of a story was forming
itself in her brain. She dipped her pen in the ink and wrote:
"He was--"
A knock at the door. Enter Anne.
"Please, mem, a mouse has eat a hole in one of your handsome
napkins,--them as I was to wash agin the company you're expectin'
to-morrow night. By rights it should be mended before it's washed."
"Bring it to the sewing-room."
When the neat piece of darning was ended, the housekeeper repaired to
the closet to put on a loose writing-sack. On the nail next to the
jacket hung her winter coat. On the edge of the sleeve was a tiny
hole. The housewifely spirit was filled with dread. There were
actually moths in that closet! She must attend to it immediately.
The woolens ought to be put up if moths had already appeared. John's
clothes and the boys' winter coats were in great danger of being
ruined. By lunch time the necessary brushing and doing up were ended.
But in stowing away the winter garments in the attic, our heroine was
appalled at the confusion among the trunks. The garret needed
attention, and received it as soon as the noonday meal was dispatched.
At four o'clock, with the waitress' assistance, the task was
completed. About the same time a note arrived from John saying he
would be obliged to bring two of his old friends--"swell
bachelors"--who were spending the day in town, to dine with him that
night. She "must not put herself to any trouble about dinner, and he
would take them to the theatre in the evening." To the dinner already
ordered were added oyster-pâtés, salad, with mayonnaise dressing,
salted almonds, and, instead of the plain pudding that John liked, was
a pie of which he was still more fond, capped by black coffee, all of
which articles, except the last-named, were prepared by the hostess,
who, in faultless toilette, with remarkably brilliant color, smilingly
welcomed her husband and his guests to the half-past six dinner. When
they had gone to the theatre, and the mother had talked to her two
sons of the day's school experiences, before they settled down to
their evening of study, she returned to the dining-room, and, as Mary
had a headache and had had a busy day, she assisted in washing and
wiping the unusual number of soiled dishes, and in setting the
breakfast table. At nine o'clock she dragged her weary self upstairs.
As she passed the door of her sanctum on the way to her bed-chamber,
she paused, then entered, and lighted the gas-jet over her desk. On it
lay the page of foolscap, blank but for the words:
"He was--"
The day had gone and the plot with it.
With a half-sob she sat down and wrote with tired and trembling
fingers:
"He was--this morning. He isn't now!"
But will not my readers agree with me that she was a genuine wife,
mother, housekeeper,--in short, a "chink-filler?"
CHAPTER VII.
MUST-HAVES AND MAY-BES.
"A Summer in Leslie Goldthwaite's Life," one of the most charming, as
well as one of the most helpful of Adeline D.T. Whitney's books, was
sent into the world over a quarter-century ago. But age cannot wither
nor custom stale, nor render old-fashioned the delightful volume with
its many quaint and original ideas. Others besides girls have learned
the practical truth of one sentence which, for the good it has done,
deserves to be written in letters of gold:
"Something must be crowded out."
More than one perplexed and conscientious worker has, like myself,
written it out in large text and tacked it up in sewing-room, kitchen,
or over a desk.
In the beginning, I want to guard what may seem to be a weak point by
stating, first and above all, that this is not an excuse for slighting
or "slurring over" our legitimate work.
One easygoing housekeeper used to say that, in her opinion, there was
a genius in slighting. Her home attested the fact that she had reduced
the habit of leaving things undone to a science, but it is doubtful if
the so-called genius differed largely from that which forms a
prominent characteristic of the porcine mother, and enables her to
enjoy her home and little ones with apparent indifference to the fact
that outsiders denominate one a sty, and her offspring small pigs.
Not very long ago I was frequently brought into contact with a woman
who has, as all her friends acknowledge, a faculty for "turning off
work." She has a jaunty knack of pinning trimming on a hat, which,
although bare and stiff in the start, evolves into a toque or capote
that a French milliner need not blush to confess as her handiwork.
She can run up the seams in a dress-skirt with speed that fills the
slower sisters working at her side with sad envy. She puts up
preserves with marvelous dexterity, and can toss together eggs,
butter, sugar and flour, and turn out a cake in less time than an
ordinary woman would consume in creaming the butter and sugar. But it
is an obvious fact that the work of this remarkable woman lacks
"staying power." Her too rapid and long stitches often give way,
allowing between them mortifying glimpses of white under-waist or
skirt to obtrude themselves; in a high wind the trimmings or feathers
are likely to blow loose from the dainty bonnets; her preserves
ferment, and have to be "boiled down," while the cutting of her cake
reveals the truth that under the top-crust are heavy streaks, like a
stratum of igneous formation shot athwart the aqueous. The maker of
gown, hat, preserves, and cake lacks thoroughness. As one irreverent
young man once said after dancing with her--"she is all the time
tumbling to pieces."
Since something must be crowded out, the first and great point is to
determine what this something must be. Certain duties are of prime
importance, others only secondary. One writer says of a woman who had
cultivated the sense of proportion with regard to her work: "We felt
all the while the cheer and gladness and brightness of her presence,
just because she had learned to make this great distinction,--to put
some things first and others second. She had mastered the great secret
of life."
This talk of mine reminds me of a prosy preacher who chose one Sunday
as the text of his sermon, "It is good to be here," and began his
discourse with the announcement, "I shall employ all the time this
morning in telling of the places in which it is not good to be. If
you come to hear me to-night I will tell you where it is good to be."
So we will consider the things which must not be put aside. Some
duties are plain, self-evident, and heaven-appointed. Such is the care
of children. To the young mother this is, or should be, the first and
great object in life. Her baby must have enough clothes, and these
clothes must be kept clean, fresh and dainty, for his pure, sweet
babyship. His many little wants must be attended to, even if calls are
not returned and correspondence is neglected. But it is not absolutely
necessary to load down the tiny frocks with laces and embroidery that
are time consumers from the moment they are stitched on till the
article they serve to adorn is ready for the rag-bag. The starching,
the fluting, the ironing, all take precious hours that might be
employed upon some of the must-haves.
Home duties take the precedence of social engagements. A busy mother
cannot serve John, babies and society with all her heart, soul and
strength. Either she will neglect the one and cleave unto the other,
or neither will receive proper attention. Even a wealthy woman who can
make work easy (?) by having a nurse for each child in the household,
cannot afford to leave the tender oversight of the clothes, food, and
general health of one of her babies to those hired to do the
"nursing." There is no genuine nurse but the mother; and although
others may do well under her eye and directed by her, she can never
shift the mother-responsibility to other shoulders; and if she be
worthy of the dignity of motherhood, she will never wish to have it
otherwise.
A few days ago I heard a clever woman say that a friend of hers had
chosen as her epitaph--not, "She hath done what she could," but "She
tried to do what she couldn't," and that her motto in life seemed to
be, "What's worth doing at all is worth doing swell." This speech
applies to too many American women, and so general is the habit of
overcrowding, that she who would really determine what is worth doing
at all must hold herself calmly and quietly in hand, and stand still
with closed eyes for one minute, until her senses, dazed by the wild
rush about her, have become sufficiently clear, and her hand steady
enough, to pick out the diamonds of duty from the glass chips which
pass with the superficial observer for first-water gems. It is well
for our housewife to have some test-stone duty by which she may rate
the importance of other tasks. Such a test-stone may be John's or
baby's needs or requirements. Of course she must not expect to make as
much show to the outside world by keeping the children well and happy,
entertaining her husband each evening until he forgets the trials and
vexations of his business-day, preparing toothsome and wholesome
dainties for the loved ones, and making home sweet and attractive, as
does the society woman who attends twenty teas a week, gives large
lunches and dinners, and "takes in" every play and opera.
"The little bird sits at his door in the sun,
   Atilt like a blossom among the leaves,
And lets his illumined being o'errun
   With the deluge of summer it receives.
His mate feels the eggs beneath her wings,
   And the heart in her dumb breast flutters and sings;
He sings to the wide world, and she to her nest;
   In the nice ear of Nature which song is the best?"
If my reader is a mother it will not take very long for her to justly
determine the values.
Recently I heard a busy woman and an excellent housewife say: "If I am
pressed with important work, and my parlors are not very dusty, I
unblushingly wipe off the polished furniture, on which every speck
shows, and leave the upholstered articles until another time."
This was not untidiness. It was only putting time and work to the best
advantage, that there might be enough to go around.
I read the other day in the woman's department of a prominent paper a
letter from a subscriber who said that she was so driven with work
that it was all she could do to get her washing done, much less her
ironing. So she had determined to use her bed-linen and underclothing
rough-dry. Would it not have been wiser as well as neater, for her to
have plain, untrimmed underwear, and iron it without starching? For
here comfort is also to be considered. Is not smooth, neat linen to
take the precedence of trimming and starch?
Another thing which must not be crowded out is rest, and the care of
the health,--and the one includes the other. A day in which no
breathing-space has been found is a wicked day. Not only is it our
duty to the bodies which God has given to care properly for them, but
it is, moreover, a positive duty to our fellow-man. An overworked
person is likely to be cross and disagreeable, for the mind is
affected by the state of the body, and it is an absolute sin to put
ourselves into a condition that makes others miserable. It is also
wretched economy to burn the candle at both ends every day. When it is
needed to aid us in some large piece of work the wick will be
consumed, and the light will faintly flicker, or splutter feebly and
die.
Among the things which may be easily and advantageously crowded out,
we may rank unnecessary talking. The housekeeper would be surprised
were she to take note of the time spent by her servants, and, perhaps,
even by herself, in saying a few words here, and telling a story there
in the time which rightfully belongs to other tasks. Could she look,
herself unseen, into her kitchen, she would find Bridget and Norah,
arms akimbo, comparing notes as to past "places" or present beaux.
Gossip is their meat and drink, and it does not occur to them, or they
do not care, that they are paid the same wages for time thus spent as
for the hours at the tubs and ironing-board. "When you work, work; and
when you play, play," is an excellent motto for both mistress and
maid.
To many workers there is a lack of courage and a sinking of heart at
the thought of a large piece of work ahead of them, and such persons
lose a vast amount of time in looking at a duty before they attack it.
This habit of dallying over a task is something which may certainly be
crowded out.
The two great points in the successful management of time are
concentration and system. At the beginning of each day set duties in
array before your mind's eye, and attack them, one at a time. This may
at first sight sound like ridiculously unnecessary advice. But unless
my readers are exceptional women, they all know what it is to be so
pressed with things that must be done that they do not know what to
begin first. Having chosen the most important task, attack that, and
when you have once laid hold of the plough, drive straight ahead, not
allowing the sight of another furrow, which is not just straight, to
induce you to stop midway to straighten it before you have finished
the one upon which your energies should now be bent. Too many women
are mere potterers, not earnest laborers. They begin to make a bed,
and stop to brush up some dust that has collected under the bureau.
Before the dust-pan is emptied, the thought occurs of a tear in one of
the children's aprons, and by the time that is mended, something else
appears that needs attention, and all day long tasks are half
completed and nothing is entirely finished, until at night the poor
toiler is weary and discouraged, with nothing to show for her pains,
except an anxious face and a semi-straight household.
Woman's work is quite as dignified as man's, and why should it not be
arranged as carefully and systematically? If some thing must be
crowded out, let it be, with forethought and reason, set to one
side,--not shoved or huddled amid mess and confusion.
CHAPTER VIII.
WHAT GOOD WILL IT DO?
Thus I translate the Latin cui bono. In whatever language the query
is put, it is the most valuable balance-wheel ever attached to human
action and speech.
The principle is old. The pithy phrase in the shrewd Roman's mouth was
two-edged, and had a sharp point. The enterprise that led to no good
was not worth beginning.
A friend of mine who has written long, much, and, so far as I can
judge, always profitably, told me that in 1865 she wrought out what
was, to her apprehension, the most powerful book she ever composed,--a
story of the Civil War. She was a Unionist in every thought and
sentiment, and this she proclaimed; she had had unusual opportunities
of seeing behind the scenes of political intrigue, and she had
improved them. When the last chapter was written she carried the MS.
into her husband's study at dusk one evening, and began to read it
aloud to him. She finished it at two o'clock a.m. Her auditor would
not let her pause until then. Hoarse, but with a heart beating high
with excitement, she waited for the verdict. The husband walked up and
down the floor for some minutes, head bent and hands clasped behind
him, deep in thought. Finally he stopped in front of her.
"That is a marvelous book, my dear,--strong, true, dramatic. It will
sell well. It will make a noise in the world. But--cui bono?"
Chagrined, mortified, angry, the author took the words with her to her
room, and her brain tossed upon them as upon thorns all night. At dawn
she arose and put the MS. into the fire.
"I shudder to this day in thinking what would have been had I acted
differently," she says. "What I had written in a semi-frenzy of
patriotism would have been hot pincers, tearing open wounds which
humanity and religion would have taught me to heal."
Into many lives comes some such crisis, when the text I would bind
upon my reader's mind would act as a breakwater, and save more than
one soul from sorrow, perhaps from destruction. In the everyday life
of everybody, crises of less moment accentuate experience, and tend to
make the nature richer or poorer.
I incline to the belief that nine-tenths of the remorseful heartaches
which most of us know only too well, might be spared us did we pause
to repeat to ourselves the Latin or English sentence. It may be a
relic of barbarism, but it is an undeniable trait of human nature that
all of us feel the longing to "answer back," or, as the children put
it, to "get even with" the man or woman whose speech offends us. The
apostle showed marvelous knowledge of the weakness of sinful mortals
when he affirmed that the tongue was an unruly member, for it is
easier to perform a herculean feat, to strain physical strength and
muscle to the utmost, than to bite back the sharp retort, or repress
the acrid reply. And there is such a hopelessness in the sentence once
uttered! It is gone from us forever. We may regret it and show our
repentance in speech and action, but we cannot blot the memory of the
cruel words from our minds, or from the mind of the person,--perhaps a
mere acquaintance, oftener bone of our bone and flesh of our
flesh,--in whose heart the barbed arrows of our eloquence rankle for
months and years. The dear friend may forgive freely and fully the
bitter censure or unjust reproof, but a scar is left which, if touched
in a moment of inadvertence, will pulse and throb with the remembrance
of pain.
   "Leave the bitter word unspoken;
      So shalt thou be strongly glad,
   If there lies no backward shadow
      On dead faces, wan and sad."
"To repress a harsh answer, to confess a fault, to stop, right or
wrong, in the midst of self-defence, in gentle submission, sometimes
requires a struggle like life and death, but these three efforts are
the golden threads with which domestic happiness is woven."
How frequently we exclaim,--"If I ever get the opportunity, I will
give that woman a piece of my mind!" or, "I shall some time have the
satisfaction of telling that man what I think of his behavior."
It is a very melancholy and most unsatisfactory satisfaction to know
that you have made a person uncomfortable. It is folly for you to
suppose for a moment that an angry speech of yours will turn a man
from a course of which you do not approve. It will make him hate you,
perhaps, but it will not change him. It is not only foolish, but
un-Christian to triumph in another's discomfiture. Then why "give the
piece of your mind," which you can never take back? What good will it
do?
The same question may be asked with regard to the uncharitable remarks
which nearly all of us make daily. Once in a great while, we meet a
human being, still permitted to dwell on this sinful earth, who rarely
says anything unkind of anybody, whose rule is, "If you cannot say a
kind thing say nothing." In the course of a long and varied experience
I may have known half-a-dozen such. But what man has done, man may do
again. What is the baneful spirit which tempts the gentlest of us to
take more pleasure in calling attention to a fault than to a virtue?
If a woman is a tender mother, a model wife, and an excellent
housekeeper, why, when her virtues are discussed, is it necessary for
some one to "think it is such a pity that she does not read more?" or
what good comes from the remark that she is "sprightly, but not very
deep?"
There is no habit more easily contracted than that of wholesale
criticism, and it is a habit that grows with fungus-like rapidity.
Washington Irving says "that a sharp tongue is the only edged tool
that grows keener with constant use," and with many people the unruly
member has acquired a razor-like edge which contains in itself the
faculty of keeping sharp, and never needs "honing" or "setting."
I have in mind one man to whom I hesitate to name a friend, unless it
chances to be one over whom he has cast the mantle of his approval.
Those who are fortunate enough to live up to his standard are very
few, and all others he criticises unmercifully, employing in his
condemnation a ready wit and fluent speech that might be used in a
nobler purpose. Such a reputation as he holds for all uncharitableness
is not an enviable one, and one wonders what would be his answer to
our cui bono. When there are so many truthful and pleasant things
that may be said of everybody, why call attention to disagreeable
points, which after all, are fewer than the agreeable ones?
The office of the gossip is so thankless that it is a marvel any one
accepts it. To certain natures there is positive delight in being the
first to relate a choice bit of scandal. It never occurs to them that
the old maxim with regard to a dog who fetches a bone can possibly be
applied to them. But it is as true as the stars that if a person
brings you an unsavory tale of a friend, she will carry away as ugly
a story of you, if she can find the faintest suggestion upon which to
found it. The gossip acquires a detective-like faculty for following
out a clue, but unfortunately, the clue is oftener purely imaginary
than real. A little discrepancy like this does not disturb the
professional scandal-monger. So tenacious is the habit of making much
of nothing, that, deprived of this, her sustenance, she would find
life colorless and void. So, if material does not present itself, she
manufactures it. One must live.
There is also a habit, which, while comparatively innocent, is likely
to bring trouble upon the perpetrator. It is that of making many
confidantes. Here comes a very serious cui bono. Undoubtedly there
is a momentary satisfaction in telling one's woes and sorrows to an
interested listener. When the auditor is a friend, and a trusted
friend, whose sympathy is genuine and whose discretion is vast, there
is a comfort beyond description in unburdening one's soul. But there
is a line to be drawn even here. It is not deceit to keep your private
affairs to yourself when you are sure that you are guilty of nothing
dishonorable or hypocritical in so doing. You are often your own best
and safest counselor. I know one woman who long ago said a thing which
should be a motto to those susceptible persons who in a sudden
expansion of the heart tell all they know and which they would most
wish to keep to themselves.
"My dear," she said, "in the course of a somewhat checkered life I
have discovered that while I have often been sorry for things which I
have told, I have never had cause to regret what I have kept to
myself."
If you have a secret and wish to keep it, guard it jealously. It
ceases to be yours alone when you impart it to another. Your
confidante may be discretion personified, and, yet again, she may have
some nearer and dearer one to whom she "tells everything," even the
secrets of her friends. Or, you may in time learn to be ashamed of the
confidence which you have reposed in this person, and the knowledge
that she knows and remembers the thing, and, it may be, knows that you
feel a mortification at the thought of it, will gall you unspeakably.
Perhaps the hardest struggle that comes to the average human being is
to let others be mistaken. Yet what good will it do to point out to
them their mistakes? If your husband or son tells several people that
he met John Smith last week in New York, and you know that he was in
that city three weeks ago, why correct him? He is talking hastily and
does not stop to measure his words or time. The mistake is
unimportant. Why antagonize a man by exclaiming:
"My dear John! This is the third week in January, and you went to New
York immediately after Christmas."
When you hear your friend tell your favorite story, and change some
minor detail, she will love you not a whit the more if you correct her
with--
"No, Mary! the way it happened was this"--and then proceed with the
tale in the manner which you consider best.
There are so many things which we all do for which there is no honest
reason, that I will mention only one more. That is the exceedingly
uncomfortable trick of reminding a man of something he has once said,
when he has since had occasion to change his mind. Perhaps some years
ago when you first met your now dear friend, you thought her manner
affected, and did not hesitate to mention the fact to your family.
Since then you have become so well acquainted with her delightful
points that you forget your early impression of her. How do you feel
when you are enthusiastically enumerating her many lovable attributes,
if the member of the household with the fiendish memory strikes in
with--
"Oh, then you have changed your mind about her? You remember you once
said that you considered her the most affected mortal whom you had
ever met."
Under such provocation does not murder assume the guise of justifiable
homicide?
There is no more bitter diet than to be forced to eat one's own words.
Never tell one of an opinion which he once held, if he has since had
reason to alter his views. There is no sin or weakness in changing
one's mind. It is a thing which all of us--if we except a few victims
to pig-headed prejudice--do daily. And, as a rule, we hate to be
reminded of the fact. Then why call the attention of others to the
circumstances that they are guilty of the same weakness, if such it
be? Again I ask, cui bono?
CHAPTER IX.
SHALL, I PASS IT ON?
"Me refrunce, mum!"
I look up, bewildered, from an essay to which I have just set the
caption--"Who is my Neighbor?"
"Me carackter, mum! Me stiffticket! You'll not be sending me away
without one, peticklerly as 'twas meself as give warnin'?"
She is ready for departure. Dressed in decent black for the brother
"who was drownded las' summer," she stands at the back of my desk,
one hand on her hip, and makes her demand. It is not a petition, but a
dispassionate statement of a case that has no other side.
She has been in my kitchen for six months as my nominal servitor. She
has drawn her wages punctually for that time. She "wants a change;"
her month is up; she is going out of my house, out of my employ, out
of my life. These things being true, Katy wants to take with her all
that pertains to her. One of these belongings is her "refrunce." From
her standpoint, I owe it to her as truly as I owed the sixteen dollars
I have just paid her.
I engaged Katy last May from a highly responsible intelligence office.
For and in consideration of a fee of three dollars, a lady-like agent,
with a smooth voice and demeanor, passed over "the girl" to me as she
might a brown paper parcel of moist sugar. She supplied, gratis, a
personal voucher for the woman I had engaged, having known her well
for five years. Katy had, moreover, a model "recommend," which she
unwrapped from a bit of newspaper that had kept it clean. The
chirography was the fashionable "long English;" the diction was good,
and the orthography faultless. Envelope and paper had evidently come
from a lady's davenport.
"This is to certify that Katherine Brady has lived in my family for
eleven months as cook. I have found her industrious, sober, neat,
honest and obliging. She also understands her business thoroughly. She
leaves me in consequence of my removal from the city.
(Mrs.) ... No ... West 57th St., New York City."
If the certificate had a fault, it was that the fit was too nearly
perfect. I had heard of references written to order by venal scribes,
and I consulted the city directory. Mr. ...'s office was in Wall
street, his residence No ... West 57th street. I called to see him,
found him in, and found him a gentleman. He had no doubt that all was
right. He believed the name of their latest cook was Katherine. They
called her "Katy." He knew that his wife was sorry to part with her,
and inferred that she was a worthy woman.
We, too, were leaving town, but only for the summer. Katy "liked the
country in hot weather. All the best fam'lies now-a-days had their
country-places."
It is not an easy matter to "change help" during a summer sojourn in a
cottage distant an hour and a half from town. The act involves one or
more railway journeys, much running about in hot streets, and much
hopeless ringing at dumb and dusty doors. This is the explanation of
Katy's six months' stay in my kitchen. In town, she would have been
dismissed at the end of the first week. She was a wretched cook, and a
worse laundress. Within an hour after she entered my door, the decent
black gown was exchanged for a dingy calico which she wore, without a
collar, and minus a majority of the buttons, all day long and every
day. She was "a settled girl"--owning to twenty-eight summers, and
having weathered forty winters. Her hair, streaked with gray, tumbled
down as persistently as Patience Riderhood's, and was uncomfortably
easy of identification in ragout and muffins. Her slippers were down
at heel; her kitchen was never in order; her tins were black; her pots
were greasy; her range was dull; her floors unclean. Like all her
compeers, she "found the place harder nor she had been give to
onderstand, but was willin' to do her best, seein' she had come."
Her best was sometimes sour bread, sometimes burned biscuits,
generally weak, muddy coffee, always under-seasoned vegetables and
over-seasoned soup. By July 1, she developed a genius for quarreling
with the other servants that got up a domestic hurricane, and I told
her she must leave. She promptly burst into tears, and reminded me
that I "had engaged her for the sayson, an' what would a pore girl be
doin' in the empty city in the middle of the summer?
"An' whativer they may say o' me ways down-stairs, it's the timper of
a babby I have, an' would niver throw a harrd wurrd at a dog, let
alone a human. Whin they think me cross, it's only that I'm a bit
quoiet, an' who can wonder? thinkin' o' me pore brother as was
drownded las' summer, an' him niver out o' me moind!"
I weakly allowed her to stay upon promise of good and peaceable
behavior, and tried to make the best of her, as she had of the place.
One September day, just when the physician, called in to see a dear
young guest, had expressed his fear that she was sickening for a
serious illness, Katy gave warning. "Her feelin's would not allow her
to stay in a house where there was sickness. It always reminded her of
her pore, dear brother what was drownded las' summer, an' a sick
pairson made a quare lot o' extra work, even when it was considered in
the wages. She'd be lavin' that day week, her month bein' up then."
Happily, the threatening of illness was a false alarm, but Katy is
going. The city is filling up, and many "best families" must re-open
their town-houses in time for the school terms. She looks as happy at
the prospect of a return to area-gossip and Sunday flirtation as I
feel at getting rid of her. I have made with her a farewell round of
pantries, refrigerator, and cellar. Valuable articles are
missing--notably two solid silver tablespoons and a dozen fine
napkins. At the back of the barn a pile of brushwood masks a Monte
Testaccio of china and cut-glass. Dirt is in every corner;
glass-towels have been degraded into dish and floor-cloths; saucepans
are burned into holes; tops are lacking to pots and pails.
For all this there is no redress. When I made a stand upon the "case
of spoons," as being old family silver, the housemaid declared that
Katy had used them often to stir soup and porridge, and Katy retorted
with gusts of brine and brogue that she "wouldn't be accountable for
things that didn't belong to her business."
Altogether, my amiable willingness that she should take her leave
without shaking more dust from her feet upon an already burdened
household, had become impatient desire by the time I counted out her
wages. Yet, here she stands, grim as the sphinx, fixed as Fate, with
the inexorable requisition, "Me refrunce, mum!"
"What could I say of you Katy?" I ask, miserably.
"What any leddy whatsomever, as is a leddy, would say! What lots o'
other leddies, as leddylike as enny leddy could wish to be, ridin' in
their coaches an' livin' in houses tin times 's big as this, leddies as
had none but leddylike ways, has said!" is the tautological response.
"I've served yez, fair an' faithful, for six mont's, and it stan's to
rayson as I wouldn't 'a' been let to stay that long onder yer ruff if
so be I hadn't shuited yez."
She has me there, and she knows it. Inwardly, I retract some of the
hard things I have thought and said of Mrs. ... of No ... West
Fifty-seventh street. Having let the creature abide under her roof for
eleven months, she must justify herself for the act. She meant to
leave town, as I mean to go back to town, and, like me, truckled
weakly to expediency. Nevertheless, her weakness did me a real wrong.
Shall I pass it on?
This is the moral question I would sift from what my readers may
regard as trivial and commonplace details. The fact that my experience
is so common as to seem trite, is the most startling feature in the
case. Our American domestic service is a loosely woven web, full of
snarls and knots. It is time that the great national principle that
government must depend upon the consent of the governed, should be
studied and applied to the matter in hand. We, the wage-payers, are
the governed, and without our consent. The recent attempt to enforce
this retroverted law upon a grand scale, in calling a mighty railway
corporation to account for the discharge of a dozen or so out of
