without further words.
As he turned back, the village doctor appeared under the arch, leading
his mule. He was a pale young fellow from Messina, who had been three or
four years at Santa Vittoria. San Giacinto offered him an escort back to
the village, but he refused.
'If I could not go about alone, my usefulness would be over,' he said.
'It is quite safe now. They will probably kill me the next time there is
a cholera season.'
'Why?'
'They are convinced that the government sends them the cholera through
the doctors, to thin the population,' answered the young man, with a
dreary smile.
'What a country! It is worse than Naples.'
'In some ways, far worse. In others, much better.'
'In what way is it better?' asked San Giacinto, with some curiosity.
'They are terrible enemies,' said the doctor, 'but they can be very
devoted friends, too.'
'Oh--we have had a taste of their enmity first. I hope we may see
something of their friendship before long.'
'I doubt it, Signor Marchese. You will have the people against you from
first to last, and your position is dangerous. Ferdinando Corleone was
popular, and he had the outlaws on his side. I have no doubt that many
of the band have been hidden here. It is a lonely and desolate house,
full of queer hiding-places. By the bye, are you going to bury that poor
man here? Shall I send people down from Santa Vittoria with a coffin, to
carry him up to the cemetery?'
'You know the country. What should you advise me to do? We must give him
Christian burial, I suppose.'
'I should be inclined to lift up the slab in the church and quietly drop
him down among the monks,' said the doctor. 'That would be Christian
burial enough for him. But you had better consult the sergeant about it.
If he is taken up to Santa Vittoria, there will be a great public
funeral, and all the population will follow, as though he were a martyr.
If you bury him without a priest, they will say that you not only
murdered him treacherously, but got rid of his body by stealth. Consult
the sergeant, Signor Marchese. That is best.'
The doctor mounted his mule and rode away. San Giacinto closed and
barred the great gate himself before he went back into the court. He
found Orsino in the midst of a discussion with the sergeant, regarding
the same question of the disposal of the body.
'I know his family,' Orsino was saying. 'Some of them are friends of
mine. He must be decently buried by a priest. I insist upon it.'
The sergeant repeated what the doctor had said, namely, that a public
funeral would produce something like a popular demonstration.
'I should not care if it produced a revolution,' answered Orsino. 'I
killed the man like a dog, not knowing who he was, but I will not have
him buried like one. If you are afraid of the village, let them send
their priest down here, dig a grave under the floor of the church, and
bury him there. But he shall not be dropped into a hole like a dead rat
without a blessing. Besides, it is not legal--there are all sorts of
severe regulations--'
'There is one against burying any one within a church,' observed the
sergeant. 'But the worst that could happen would be that you might have
to pay a fine. It shall be as you please, signore. In the morning we
will get a priest and a coffin, and bury him under the church. I have
the doctor's certificate in my pocket.'
Orsino was satisfied, and went away to be alone again, not caring where.
But San Giacinto and the carabineers proceeded to turn the great court
into something like a camp. There were all sorts of offices, kitchens,
bake-houses, oil-presses, and storerooms, which opened directly upon the
paved space. The men collected old wood and kindling stuff to make a
fire, and prepared to cook some of the provisions which San Giacinto had
brought for the night, while he and the sergeant determined on the best
positions for sentries.
Orsino wandered about the great rooms upstairs. They were half
dismantled and much dilapidated, but not altogether unfurnished.
Ferdinando had retired some days previously to the village and had taken
what he needed for his own use, but had left the rest. There was a
tolerably furnished room immediately above the great gate. Orsino opened
the window wide, and leaned out, breathing the outer air with a certain
sense of relief from oppression. Watching the swallows that darted down
from under the eaves to the weed-grown lawn, and up again with meteor
speed, and catching in his face the last reflections of the sun, which
was sinking fast between two distant hills, he could almost believe that
it had all been a bad dream. He could at least try to believe it for a
little while.
But the sun went down quickly, though it still blazed full on the
enormous snowy dome of Etna, opposite the window; and the chill of
evening came on while it was yet day, and with it came back the memory
of the coldly smiling, handsome face of dead Ferdinando Pagliuca, and
the terrible suggestion of a likeness to Vittoria, which had struck at
Orsino's heart when he had found him in the bushes, shot through the
head. It all came back with a sudden, drowning rush that was
overwhelming. He turned from the window, and, to occupy himself, he went
and got his belongings and tried to make the room habitable. He knew
that it was in a good position for the night, since it was not likely
that he should sleep much, and he could watch the gate from the window,
for his share of the defence.
CHAPTER XII
As was perhaps to be expected, considering the precautions taken, the
friends of Ferdinando Pagliuca gave no sign during the night. The
carabineers, when they are actually present anywhere, impose respect,
though their existence is forgotten as soon as they are obliged to move
on.
Orsino lay down upon a dusty mattress in the room he had chosen. He had
been down to the court again, where San Giacinto ate his supper from the
soldier's improvised kitchen, by the light of a fire of brush and scraps
of broken wood, which one of the men replenished from time to time. But
Orsino was not hungry, and presently he had gone upstairs again. About
the middle of the night, San Giacinto, carrying a lantern, opened his
door, and found him reading by the light of a solitary candle.
'Has all been quiet on this side?' asked the big man.
'All quiet,' answered Orsino.
San Giacinto nodded, shut the door, and went off, knowing that the young
man would rather be alone. An hour later, Orsino's book dropped from his
hand, and he dozed a little, in a broken way. Outside, the waning moon
had risen high above the shoulders of Etna, not a breath was stirring,
and only the distant roar of the water came steadily up from the other
side of the old monastery. Orsino dreamed strange, shapeless dreams of
vast desolateness and empty darkness, in which he had no perception by
sight, and heard only the unbroken rush of water far away. Then, in the
extreme blackness of nothing, a dead face appeared, with wide and
sightless eyes that stared at him, and he woke and turned upon his side
with a shudder, to doze again and dream again, and wake again. It was a
horrible night.
Towards morning the dream changed. In the darkness, together with the
sub-bass of the torrent, a voice came to him, in a low, long-drawn
lamentation. It was Vittoria's voice, and yet unlike hers. He could hear
the words:
'Me l'hanno ammazzato! Me l'hanno ammazzato!'
It was Vittoria d'Oriani wailing over her brother's body. Orsino heard
the words and the voice distinctly. She was outside his door. She had
dragged the corpse up from the church in the dark, all the long, winding
way, to bring it to him and reproach him, and to weep over it. He
refused to allow himself to awake, as one sometimes can in a dream, for
he knew, somehow, that he was not altogether dreaming. There was an
element of reality in the two sounds of the river and the voice,
interfering with each other, and the voice came irregularly, always
repeating the same words, but the river roared on without a break. Then
there was a sound of moaning without words, and then the words began
again, always the same.
Orsino started and sat up, wide awake. He was sure that he was awake
now, for he could see that the light outside the window was gray. The
dawn was beginning to drink the moonlight out of the air. He heard the
voice distinctly.
'Me l'hanno ammazzato!' it moaned, but much less loudly than he had
heard it in his dream. 'They have killed him for me,' is the meaning of
the words.
Orsino sprang from the bed, and opened the door, which was opposite the
window. The long corridor was dark and quiet, and he turned back and
opened the casement, and looked out.
The words were half spoken again, but suddenly ceased as he threw the
window open. In the dim gray dawn he saw a muffled figure crouching on
the stones by the gate, slowly swaying forwards and backwards. The wail
began again, very soft and low, and as though the woman half feared to
be heard and yet could not control herself.
Orsino watched her intently for a few moments, and then understood. It
was some woman who had loved Ferdinando Pagliuca, and who came in the
simple old way to mourn at the door of the house wherein he lay dead.
Her head was covered with a black shawl, and her skirts were black, too,
but her hands were clasped about her knees, and visible, and looked
white in the dawn.
The young man drew back softly from the window, and sat down upon the
edge of the bed. He, of all men, had no right to silence the woman. She
did no harm, wailing for the dead man out there in the cold dawn. She
was not the only one who was to mourn him on that day. In a few hours
his sister would know, his mother, his brothers, and all the world
besides, though the rest of the world mattered little enough to Orsino.
But this woman's grief was a sort of foretaste of Vittoria's. She was
but a peasant woman, perhaps, or at most a girl of the small farmers'
class, but she had loved him, and would hate for ever the man who had
killed him. How much more should the slayer be hated by the dead man's
own flesh and blood!
The light grew less gray by quick degrees, and there were heavy
footsteps in the corridor. Then came a knock at the door, and a trooper
appeared in his forage cap.
'We have made the coffee, signore,' he said, on the threshold.
He held out a bright tin pannikin from which the steam rose in fragrant
clouds. The physical impression of the aromatic smell was the first
pleasant sensation which Orsino had experienced since he had pulled the
trigger of his rifle on the previous afternoon. If we could but look at
things as they are, we should see that there is neither love nor hate,
neither joy nor grief, nor hope nor fear, that will not at last efface
itself for a moment before hunger and thirst; so effectually can this
dying body mask and screen the undying essence.
Orsino drank the hot coffee with keen physical delight, though the
woman's wailing came up to his ears through the open window, and though
he had known a moment earlier that the stealing dawn was the beginning
of a day which might end in a broken heart.
But the trooper heard the voice, and went to the window and looked out,
while Orsino drank.
'Ho, there!' he cried roughly. 'Will you go or not?' He turned to
Orsino. 'She has been there since two o'clock,' he explained. 'We heard
her through the closed gate.'
'Let her alone,' said Orsino authoritatively. 'She is only a woman, and
can do no harm; and she has a right to her mourning, God knows.'
'There will be a hundred before the sun has been up an hour, signore,'
answered the soldier. 'The people will collect about her, for they will
come out of curiosity, from many miles away. It will be better to get
rid of them as fast as they come.'
'You might let that poor woman in,' suggested Orsino. 'After all, I have
killed her lover--she has a right to see his body.'
'As you wish, signore,' answered the trooper, taking the empty pannikin.
Orsino got up and looked out again, as the man went away. The girl had
risen to her feet, and stood looking up to the window. Her shawl had
fallen back upon her shoulders, and disclosed a young and dishevelled
but beautiful head, of the Greek type, though the eyes were somewhat
long and almond-shaped. There was no colour in the olive-pale cheeks,
and little in the parted lips; and the hand that gathered the shawl to
the bosom was singularly white. The regular features were set in a
tragic mask of grief, such as one very rarely sees in the modern world.
When she saw Orsino, she suddenly raised both hands to him, like a
suppliant of old.
'They have killed him!' she cried. 'They have killed my bridegroom! Let
me see him! let me kiss him! Are they Christians, and will not let me
see him?'
'You shall see him,' answered Orsino. 'I will let you in myself.'
'God will render it to you, signore. And God will render also to his
murderer a bad death.'
She sat down upon the stones, thinking, perhaps, that it would be long
before the gate was opened; and she began her low moan again.
'They have killed him! They have murdered him!'
But Orsino had already left the window and the room. He had understood
clearly from her words and face that she was no light creature, for whom
Ferdinando had conceived a passing fancy. He had meant to marry her,
perhaps within a few days. There was in her face the high stamp of
innocence, and her voice rang fearless and true. Ferdinando had never
been like his brothers. He had meant to marry this girl, doubtless a
small farmer's daughter, from her dress; and he would have lived happily
with her, sinking, perhaps, to a lower social level, but morally rising
far higher than his scheming brothers. Orsino had guessed from his dead
face, and from what he had heard, that Ferdinando had been the best of
the family; and in a semi-barbarous country like the interior of Sicily,
the young Roman did not blame him overmuch for having tried to resist
the new owners of his father's house when they came to take possession.
San Giacinto and the sergeant objected on principle to admitting the
girl, but Orsino insisted, and at last opened the gate himself. She had
covered her head and face again, and followed him swiftly and
noiselessly across the court to the door of the church. As though by
instinct she turned directly to her lover's body, where it lay before
the side altar, and with a low wail like a wounded animal, she fell
beside it, with clasped hands. Orsino left her there alone, closing the
door softly, and came out into the court, where it was almost broad
daylight. The men had drunk their coffee and were grooming their black
chargers tethered to rusty rings in the wall. The old stables were
between the court and the rampart. The two foot-carabineers were
despatched to Santa Vittoria to get a coffin for the dead man and a
priest to come and bury him.
From the church came every now and then the piteous echo of the girl's
lamentations. Then there was a knocking at the gate, and someone called
from without. One of the troopers looked out through the narrow slit in
the stone, made just wide enough to let the barrel of a gun pass. Half a
dozen peasants were outside, and the soldiers could see two more coming
down the drive towards the house. He asked what they wanted.
'We wish to speak with the master,' said one, and two or three repeated
the words.
They were the men who had brought the tools on the previous evening,
with a number of others, the small tenants of the little estate. San
Giacinto went and spoke with them, assuring them that he would be a
better landlord than they had ever had, if they would treat him well,
but that if he met with any treachery, he would send every man of them
to the galleys for life. It was his way of making acquaintance, and they
seemed to understand it.
While he was speaking a number of men and women appeared in the drive,
headed by the two soldiers who had gone to the village. Close behind
them, swaying with the walk of the woman who carried the load upon her
head, a white deal coffin caught the morning light. Then more people,
and always more, came in sight, up the drive. Amongst them walked a
young priest in his short white 'cotta' over his shabby cassock, and
beside him came a big boy bearing a silver basin with holy water, and
the little broom for sprinkling it. The two trudged along in a
business-like way, and all the people were talking loudly. It seemed to
San Giacinto that half the population of the village must have turned
out. He stepped back and called to the troopers to keep the gate, and
prevent the crowd from entering. Then he waited outside. The people
became silent as they came near, and he looked at them, scrutinising
their faces. Some of the men had their guns slung over their shoulders,
but many were only labourers and had none.
Many scowling glances were turned on San Giacinto as the crowd came up
to the gate, and he began to anticipate trouble of some sort. The
troopers had their rifles in their hands as they formed up behind him.
The tenants of Camaldoli mixed with the crowd, evidently not wishing to
identify themselves with their new landlord.
'What do you want?' asked San Giacinto, in a harsh, commanding voice.
The priest came close to him, and bowed and smiled, as though the
occasion of meeting were a pleasant one. Then he stood aside a little,
and a strapping woman who carried the coffin on her head marched in
under the gate between the soldiers, who made way for her. And behind
her came her husband, a crooked little carpenter, carrying a leathern
bag from which protruded the worn and blackened handle of a big hammer.
The third comer was stopped by the sergeant. He was a ghastly pale old
man, with a three-days' beard on his pointed chin, and he was dressed in
dingy black.
'Who are you?' asked the sergeant sharply.
'I am one without whom people are not buried,' answered the old man, in
a cracked voice. 'You have a carpenter and a priest, but there is a
third--I am he, the servant of the dead, who give no orders.'
The sergeant understood that the man was the parish undertaker, and let
him pass also. Meanwhile San Giacinto repeated his question.
'What do you all want?' he asked in a thundering tone, for he was
annoyed.
'If it please you, Signor Marchese,' said the priest, 'these, my
parishioners, desire the body of Don Ferdinando Corleone, in order to
bury it in holy ground, for he was beloved of many. Pray do not be
angry, Excellency, for they come in peace, having heard that Don
Ferdinando had been killed by an accident. Grant their request, which is
a proper one, and they shall depart quickly. I answer for them.'
As he spoke the last words in a tone which all could hear, he turned to
the crowd, as though for their assent.
'He answers for us,' said many of them, in a breath. 'Good, Don Niccola!
You answer for us. We are Christians. We wish to bury Don Ferdinando
properly.'
'I have not the slightest objection,' said San Giacinto. 'On the
contrary, I respect your wish, and I only regret that I have not the
means of doing more honour to your friend. You must attend to that. Be
kind enough to wait here while the priest blesses the body.'
The priest and the boy with the holy water passed in, and the gate
closed upon the crowd. While they had been talking, the carpenter and
his wife had entered the court. Basili's man led them to the door of the
church and opened it. The woman marched in with her swinging stride,
and one hand on her hips, while the other steadied the deal coffin.
'Where is he?' she asked in a loud, good-natured voice, for the church
seemed very dark after the morning light outside.
She was answered by a low cry from the steps of the side altar, where
the unhappy girl lay half across her lover's body, looking round towards
the door, in a new horror.
The woman uttered an exclamation of surprise, and then slowly swung her
burden round so that she could see her husband.
'Help me, Ciccio,' she said, in a matter-of-fact way. 'They are always
inconvenient things.'
The man held up his hands and took the foot, while his wife raised her
hands also and shifted the weight towards him little by little, until
she got hold of the head. The loose lid rattled as they set the thing
down on the floor. Then the woman took the rolled towel on which she had
carried the weight, from her head, undid it, wiped her brow with it, and
looked at the girl in some perplexity.
'It is the apothecary's Concetta,' she said, suddenly recognising the
white features in the gloom. 'Oh, poor child! poor child!' she cried,
going forward quickly, while her husband took the lid from the coffin
and began to fumble in his leathern bag for his nails.
As the woman approached the step, Concetta threw her arms wildly over
her head, stiffened her limbs straight out, and rolled over and over
upon the damp pavement, in one of those strange fainting fits which
sometimes seize women in moments of intense grief. The carpenter's wife
tried to lift her, and to bend her arms, so as to get hold of her; but
the girl was as rigid as though she were in a cataleptic trance.
'Poor child! Poor Concetta!' exclaimed the carpenter's wife, softly.
Then, bending her broad back, she raised the girl up by main strength,
getting first one arm round her and then the other, till she got her
weight up and could carry her. Her crooked little husband paid no
attention to her. Women were women's business at such times. The big
woman got the girl out into the morning sunshine in the court, meeting
the eccentric undertaker and the priest, who were talking together
outside. San Giacinto came forward instantly, followed by Orsino, who
had been wandering about the rampart over the river when the crowd had
come. San Giacinto took the unconscious girl's body from the woman, with
ease.
'Come,' he said, carrying her before him on his arms. 'Get some water.'
He entered the room where the men had slept on some straw and laid
Concetta down, her arms still stiffened above her head. One of the
troopers brought water in a pannikin. San Giacinto dashed the cold drops
upon the white face, and the features quivered nervously.
'Take care of her,' he said to the woman. 'Who is she?'
'She is Concetta, the daughter of Don Atanasio, the apothecary. She was
to marry Don Ferdinando next week. But now that they have killed him,
she will marry someone else.'
'Poor girl!' exclaimed San Giacinto compassionately, and he turned and
went out.
Orsino was standing by the door, looking in, and he had heard what the
woman had said. It confirmed what he had guessed from the girl's own
words. He wondered how it was possible that the action of one second
could really cause such terrible trouble in the world.
From the open door of the church came the sound of the regular blows of
a hammer. The work had been quickly done and the carpenter was nailing
down the lid of the coffin. The priest, who had stayed in the early
sunshine for warmth, hung a shabby little stole round his neck, and took
the holy water basin and the little broom from the boy, and entered the
church to bless the body before it was taken away.
As it was not advisable to let in the crowd, the six soldiers lifted the
coffin and bore it out of the gate. Then the peasants laid it on a bier
which had been brought after them and covered it with a rusty black
pall. The priest walked before it, and began to recite the psalms for
the dead. The women covered their heads, and some of the men uncovered
theirs, and a few joined in the priest's monotonous recitations. A
quarter of an hour later, San Giacinto, watching from the gate, saw the
last of the people disappear up the drive. But the carpenter's wife had
stayed with Concetta.
'It is a bad business,' said the old giant to himself, as he turned and
went in.
CHAPTER XIII
The taking possession of Camaldoli had turned out much more difficult
and dangerous than even San Giacinto had anticipated, for the
catastrophe of Ferdinando Pagliuca's death had at once aroused the anger
and revengeful resentment of the whole neighbourhood. He made up his
mind that it would be necessary for himself or Orsino to return to Rome
at once, both in order to see the Minister of the Interior, with a view
to obtaining special protection from the government, and to see the
Pagliuca family, in the hope of pacifying them.
The latter mission would not be an easy nor an agreeable one, and San
Giacinto would gladly have undertaken it himself. On the other hand, he
did not trust Orsino's wisdom in managing matters in Sicily. The young
man was courageous and determined, but he had not the knowledge of the
southern character which was indispensable. Moreover, he was not the
real owner of the lands, and would not feel that he had authority to act
independently in all cases. It was, therefore, decided that Orsino
should go back to Rome at once, while San Giacinto remained at Camaldoli
to get matters into a better shape.
It was a dreary journey for Orsino. He telegraphed that he was coming,
found that there was no steamer from Messina, crossed to Reggio, and
travelled all night and all the next day by the railway, reaching Rome
at night, jaded and worn.
He found, as he had expected, that all Rome was talking of his adventure
with the brigands, and of the death of Ferdinando Pagliuca, and of the
probable consequences. But he learned to his surprise how Tebaldo had
been heard to say at the club on the previous afternoon that Ferdinando
was no relation of his, and that it was a mere coincidence of names.
'Nevertheless,' said Sant' Ilario, 'we all believe that you have killed
his brother. Tebaldo Pagliuca has no mind to have it said that his
brother was a brigand and died like a dog. He says he is not in Sicily,
but left some time ago. As no one in Rome ever saw him, most people will
accept the statement for the girl's sake, if not for the rest of the
family.'
Orsino looked down thoughtfully while his father was speaking. He
understood at once that the story being passably discreditable to the
d'Oriani, he had better seem to fall in with their view of the case, by
holding his peace when he could. His father and mother, as well as the
old Prince, insisted upon hearing a detailed account of the affair in
the woods, however, and he was obliged to tell them all that had
happened, though he said nothing about the fancied resemblance of
Ferdinando to Vittoria, and as little as possible about the way in which
the people had carried off the man's body with a public demonstration of
sorrow. After all, no one had told him that Ferdinando was the brother
of Tebaldo. He had taken it for granted, and it was barely possible that
he might have been mistaken.
'There may be others of the name,' he said, as he concluded his story.
His mother looked at him keenly. Half an hour later he was alone with
her in her own sitting-room.
'Why did you say that there might be others of the name?' she asked
gravely. 'Why did you wish to imply that the unfortunate man may not
have been the brother of Don Tebaldo and Donna Vittoria?'
Orsino was silent for a moment. There was reproach in Corona's tone, for
she herself had not the slightest doubt in the matter. He came and stood
before her, for he was a truthful man.
'It seemed to me,' he said, 'that I might let him have the benefit of
any doubt there may be, though I have none myself. The story will be a
terrible injury to the family.'
'You are certainly not called upon to tell it to everyone,' said
Corona. 'I only wished to know what you really thought.'
'I am sorry to say that I feel sure of the man's identity, mother. And I
want you to help me,' he added suddenly. 'I wish to see Donna Vittoria
alone. You can manage it.'
Corona did not answer at once, but looked long and earnestly at her
eldest son.
'What is it, mother?' he asked, at last.
'It is a very terrible thing,' she answered slowly. 'You love the girl,
you wish to marry her, and you have killed her brother. Is not that the
truth?'
'Yes, that is the truth,' said Orsino. 'Help me to see her. No one else
can.'
'Does anyone know? Did you speak about it to her mother, or her
brothers, before you left? Does Ippolito know?'
'No one knows. Will you help me, mother?'
'I will do my best,' said Corona thoughtfully. 'Not that I wish you to
marry into that family,' she added. 'They have a bad name.'
'But she is not like them. It is not her fault.'
'No, it is not her fault, and she has not their faults. But for her
brothers--well, we need not talk of that. For the sake of what there has
been between you two, already, you have a sort of right to see
Vittoria.'
'I must see her.'
'I went there yesterday, after we read the news in the papers,' said
Corona. 'Her mother was ill. Later your father came in and said he had
seen Don Tebaldo at the club. You heard what he said. They mean to deny
the relationship. In fact, they have done so. I can therefore propose to
take Vittoria to drive to-morrow afternoon, and I can bring her here to
tea, in my own sitting-room. Then you may come here and see her, and I
will leave you alone for a little while. Yes--you have a right to see
her and to defend yourself to her, and explain to her how you killed
that poor man, not knowing who he was.'
'Thank you--you are very good to me. Mother--' he hesitated a
moment--'if my father had killed your brother by accident, would you
have married him?'
He fixed his eyes on Corona's. She was silent for a moment.
'Yes,' she answered presently. 'The love of an honest woman for an
honest man can go farther than that.'
She turned her beautiful face from Orsino as she spoke, and her splendid
eyes grew dreamy and soft, as she leaned back in her chair beside her
writing-table. He watched her, and a wave of hope rose slowly to his
heart. But all women were not like his mother.
Early on the following morning she wrote a note to Vittoria. The answer
came back after a long time, and the man sent up word that he had been
kept waiting three-quarters of an hour for it. It was written in a
tremulous hand, and badly worded, but it said that Vittoria would be
ready at the appointed time. Her mother, she added, was ill, but wished
her to accept the Princess's invitation.
Vittoria had grown thin and pale, and there was a sort of haunted look
in her young eyes as she sat beside Corona in the big carriage. Corona
herself hesitated as to what she should say, for the girl was evidently
in a condition to faint, or break down with tears, at any sudden shock.
Yet it was necessary to tell her that Orsino was waiting for her, and it
might be necessary also to use some persuasion in inducing her to meet
him.
'My dear,' said Corona, after a little while, 'I want you to come home
with me when we have had a little drive. Do you mind? We will have tea
together in my little room.'
'Yes--of course--I should like it very much,' answered Vittoria.
'We shall not be quite alone,' Corona continued. 'I hope you will not
mind.'
Corona Saracinesca had many good qualities, but she was not remarkably
clever, and when she wished to be tactful she often found herself in
conflict with the singular directness of her own character. At the same
time, she feared to let the girl at her side see how much she knew.
Vittoria looked so pale and nervous that she might faint. Corona had
never fainted. The girl naturally supposed that Orsino was still in
Sicily.
They were near the Porta Salaria, and there was a long stretch of lonely
road between high walls, just beyond it. Corona waited till they had
passed the gate.
'My dear,' she began again, taking Vittoria's hand kindly, 'do not be
surprised at what I am going to tell you. My son Orsino--'
Vittoria started, and her hand shook in her companion's hold.
'Yes--my son Orsino has come back unexpectedly and wishes very much to
see you.'
Vittoria leaned back suddenly and closed her eyes. Corona thought that
the fainting fit had certainly come, and tried to put her arm round the
slight young figure. But as she looked into Vittoria's face, she saw
that the soft colour was suddenly blushing in her cheeks. In a moment
her eyes opened again, and there was light in them for a moment.
'I did not know how you would take it,' said Corona, simply, 'but I see
that you are glad.'
'For him--that he is safe,' answered the young girl, in a low voice.
'But--'
She stopped, and gradually the colour sank away from her face again, and
her eyes grew heavy once more. The trouble was greater than the
gladness.
'Will you see him, in my own room?' asked the elder woman, after a
pause.
'Oh, yes--yes! Indeed I will--I must see him. How kind you are!'
Corona leaned forward and spoke to the footman at once, and the carriage
turned back towards the city. She knew well enough how desperately hard
it would be for Vittoria to wait for the meeting. She knew also, not by
instinct of tact, but by a woman's inborn charity, that it would be kind
of her to speak of other things now that she had said what was
necessary, and not to force upon Vittoria the fact that Orsino had
revealed his secret, still less to ask her any questions about her true
relationship to Ferdinando Pagliuca, which might put her in the awkward
position of contradicting Tebaldo's public statement. But as they swept
down the crowded streets, amongst the many carriages, Vittoria looked
round into Corona's face almost shyly, for she was very grateful.
'How good you are to me!' she exclaimed softly. 'I shall not forget it.'
Corona smiled, but said nothing, and ten minutes later the carriage
thundered under the archway of the gate. Corona took Vittoria through
the state apartments, where they were sure of meeting no one at that
time, and into her bedroom by a door she seldom used. Then she pointed
to another at the other side.
'That is the way to my sitting-room, my dear,' she said. 'Orsino is
there alone.'
With a sudden impulse she kissed her on both cheeks and pushed her
towards the door.
CHAPTER XIV
Orsino heard the door of his mother's bedroom open, and rose to his
feet, expecting to see Corona. He started as Vittoria entered, and he
touched the writing-table with his hand as though he were unsteady. The
young girl came forward towards him quickly, and the colour rose visibly
in her face while she crossed the little room. Orsino was white and did
not hold out his hand, not knowing what to expect, for it was the hand
that had killed her brother but two days ago.
Vittoria had not thought of what she should do or say, for it had been
impossible to think. But as she came near, both her hands went out
instinctively to touch him. Almost instinctively, too, he drew back from
her touch a little. But she did not see the movement, and her eyes
sought his as she laid her fingers lightly upon his shoulders and looked
up to him. Then the sadness in his face, that had been almost like fear
of her, relaxed toward a change, and his eyes opened wide in a sort of
hesitating surprise. Two words, low and earnest, trembled upon
Vittoria's lips.
'Thank God!'
In an instant he knew that she loved him in spite of all. Yet, arguing
against his senses that it was impossible, he would not take her at her
word. He took both her hands from his shoulders and held them, so that
they crossed.
'Was he really your brother?' he asked slowly.
'Yes,' she answered faintly, and looked down.
Perhaps it seemed to her that she should be ashamed of forgiving, before
he had said one word of defence or uttered one expression of sorrow for
what he had done. But she loved him, and since she had been a little
child she had not seen her brother Ferdinando half a dozen times. It
was true that when she had seen him she had been drawn to him, as she
was not drawn to the two that were left, for he had not been like the
others. She knew that she should have trusted Ferdinando if she had
known him better.
Orsino began his defence.
'We were fired upon several times,' he said. Her hands started in his as
she thought of his danger. 'I saw a man's coat moving in the brush,' he
continued, 'and I aimed at it. I never saw the man's face till we found
him lying dead. It was not an accident, for bullets cut the trees
overhead and struck the carriage.' Again her hands quivered. 'It was a
fight, and I meant to kill the man. But I could not see his face.'
She did not speak for a moment. Then, for the first time, she shrank a
little, and withdrew her hands from his.
'I know--yes--it is terrible,' she said in broken tones; and she glanced
at him, and looked down again. 'Do not speak of it,' she added suddenly,
and she was surprised at her own words.
It was the woman's impulse to dissociate the man she loved from the
deed, for which she could not but feel horror. She would have given the
world to sit down beside him and talk of other things. But he wished the
situation to be cleared for ever, as any courageous man would.
'I must speak of it,' he answered. 'Perhaps we shall never have the
chance again--'
'Never? What do you mean?' she asked quickly. 'Why not?'
'You may forgive me,' he answered earnestly. 'You know that I would have
let him shoot me ten times over rather than have hurt you--'
'Orsino--' She touched his arm nervously, trying to stop him.
'Yes--I wish I were in his grave to-day! You may forgive, but you cannot
forget--how can you?'
'How? If--if you still love me, I can forget--'
Orsino's eyes were suddenly moist. It seemed as though something broke,
and let in the light.
'I shall always love you,' he said simply; as men sometimes do when
they are very much in earnest.
'And I--'
She did not finish the sentence in words, but her hand and face said the
rest.
'Sit down,' she said, after a little silence.
They went to a little sofa and sat down together, opposite the window.
'Do you think that anything you could do could make me not love you?'
she asked, looking into his face. 'Are you surprised? Did you think that
I should turn upon you and accuse you of my brother's death, and say
that I hated you? You should not have judged me so--it was unkind!'
'It has all been so horrible that I did not know what to expect,' he
said. 'I have not been able to think sensibly until now. And even
now--no, I have not judged you, as you call it, dear. But I expected
that you would judge me, as God knows you have the right.'
'Why should I judge you?' asked Vittoria, softly and lovingly. 'If you
had lain in wait for him and killed him treacherously, as he meant to
kill you, it would have been different. If he had killed you, as he was
there to kill you--as he might have killed you if you had not been
first--I--well, I am only a girl, but even these little hands would have
had some strength! But as it is, God willed it. Whom shall I judge? God?
That would be wrong. God protected you, and my brother died in his
treachery. Do you think that if I had been there, and had been a man,
and the guns firing, and the bullets flying, I should not have done as
you did, and shot my own brother? It would have been much more horrible
even than it is, but of course I should have done it. Then why are you
in such distress? Why did you think that I should not love you any
more?'
'I did not dare to think it,' answered Orsino.
'You see, as I said, God willed it--not you. You were but the
instrument, unconscious and innocent. It is only a little child that
will strike the senseless thing that hurts it.'
'You are eloquent, darling. You will make me think as you do.'
'I wish you would, indeed I wish you would! I am sorry, I am grieved, I
shall mourn poor Ferdinando, though I scarcely knew him. But you--I
shall love you always, and for me, as I see it, you were no more the
willing cause of his death than the senseless gun you held in your hand.
Do you believe me?'
She took his hand again, as though to feel that he understood. And
understanding, he drew her close to him and kissed her young eyes, as he
had done that first time, out on the bridge over the street.
'You have my life,' he said tenderly. 'I give you my life and soul,
dear.'
She put up her face suddenly, and kissed his cheek, and instantly the
colour filled her own, and she shrank back, and spoke in a different
tone.
'We will put away that dreadful thing,' she said, drawing a little
towards her own end of the sofa. 'We will never speak of it again, for
you understand.'
'But your mother, your brothers,' answered Orsino. 'What of them? I hear
that they do not acknowledge--' he stopped, puzzled as to how he should
speak.
'My mother is ill with grief, for Ferdinando was her favourite. But
Tebaldo and Francesco have determined that they will act as though he
were no relation of ours. They say that it would ruin us all to have it
said that our brother had been with the brigands. That is true, is it
not?'
'It would be a great injury to you,' answered Orsino.
'Yes. That is what they say. And Tebaldo will not let us wear mourning,
for fear that people should not believe what he says. This morning when
the Princess's note came, Tebaldo insisted that I should accept, but my
mother said that I should not come to the house. They had a long
discussion, and she submitted at last. What can she do? He rules
everybody--and he is bad, bad in his heart, bad in his soul! Francesco
is only weak, but Tebaldo is bad. Beware of him, for though he says that
Ferdinando was not his brother, he will not forgive you. But you will
not go back to Sicily?'
'Yes, I must go. I cannot leave San Giacinto alone, since I have created
so much trouble.'
'Since poor Ferdinando is dead, you will be safer--I mean--' she
hesitated. 'Orsino!' she suddenly exclaimed, 'I knew that he would try
to kill you--that is why I wanted to keep you here. I did not dare tell
you--but I begged so hard--I thought that for my sake, perhaps, you
would not go. Tebaldo would kill me if he knew that I were telling you
the truth now. He knew that Ferdinando had friends among the outlaws,
and that he sometimes lived with them for weeks. And Ferdinando wrote to
Tebaldo, and warned him that although he had signed the deed, no one
should ever enter the gate of Camaldoli while he was alive. And no one
did, for he died. But the Romans would think that he was a common
brigand; and I suppose that Tebaldo is right, for it would injure us
very much. But between you and me there must be nothing but the truth,
so I have told you all. And now beware of Tebaldo; for, in spite of what
he says, he will some day try to avenge his brother.'
'I understand it all much better now,' said Orsino, thoughtfully. 'I am
glad you have told me. But the question is, whether your mother and your
brothers will ever consent to our marriage, Vittoria. That is what I
want to know.'
'My mother--never! Tebaldo might, for interest. He is very scheming. But
my mother will never consent. She will never see you again, if she can
help it.'
'What are we to do?' asked Orsino, speaking rather to himself than to
Vittoria.
