, without fear and without reproach, like the 
Christian Bayard that he was. At the last, he 
pushed on into monologue a thing I never 
heard him do before ; and no one, not even 
 
the king of Boston conversers, cared to
interrupt him. 
The preacher's eyes burned over our heads 
into the peaceful perspective of Charles River ; 
his voice took on the priestly ring ; he seemed 
to hear the orders of authority " we could not 
hear," and to see visions which "we might not 
see." He scathed the fashionable classes for 
their follies, and flung a kind of holy scorn at 
the paltriness and cowardice which excused 
itself from contact with the suffering and the 
loathsomeness of the lower world. 
To my surprise, he spoke of the Salvation 
Army in language of deep respect. He honored 
its work. He prophesied heartily for its 
future. He spoke contemptuously of the 
nervousness of people of ease about infection in 
clothing brought from the sweat-shops, and 
from homes whose horrors few of us troubled 
a heart-throb to alleviate. With sacred indignation
he rebuked the heathen of the West 
End, who cared neither for their own souls 
nor for those of other men. He scored world- 
liness of heart and life in a lofty denunciation, 
to which it was impossible to offer a protesting 
word. 
He mentioned, by name, a certain fashion 
able men's club on the Back Bay. 
"The Salvation Army," he cried, "ought 
to be sent there. Nobody needs them more. 
They ought to go right through such a place 
as that, and preach New Testament religion ! " 
At this point, Doctor Holmes suggested, in 
a subdued voice : 
" But, Doctor Brooks, such men as those are 
not going to listen to the Salvation Army. It 
seems to me that you are the man to go into 
the Club, and preach Christianity." 
Mr. Brooks made no reply. The rest of us 
took the thought up, and urged him a little. 
But he fell into a silence, so sad that it was 
impossible to break it. His gaze wandered 
from us, solemnly. Was he renewing the con 
flict of soul which must have preceded his de 
termination to leave the pastorate of his loved 
and loving people ? Was he heartsick with his 
own great ideal of what a Christian teacher 
might achieve and must forever fail to ? Was 
he thinking of his limits in the light of his 
aspirations ? He talked no more. In a few 
moments he abruptly and silently left us. 
I was once talking with a man of well-known 
gifts and power who is a pronounced unbeliever 
in Christianity, indeed, a free-thinker of a 
confirmed type. In answer to some personal 
plea of mine for the rationality of faith,
he exclaimed : 
" A Christian ? If If I were to be a Christian 
I should have to be why, I should have 
to be such a man as Phillips Brooks ! " 
That instinctive reverence in the man of 
this world for the man of the other I have 
always called the finest tribute to Mr. Brooks 
that I have ever heard. 
One of the pleasant est recollections which 
I have of Phillips Brooks is not at all con 
nected with Boston, but brings me to my life at 
Gloucester, and will be given later in this 
fragmentary story, which is now well overdue at 
my own summer home upon the rough shores 
of Cape Ann. 
It fell to me, rather early in life, to try 
one of those experiments at home-making for 
one's self in which unmarried women venture 
less often, I think, than would be good for 
them and for society at large. My father's 
absence from Andover in search of his lost 
health having become a settled part of the 
summer programmes, I pursued, for a while, 
the usual career of summer boarder. The 
usual restlessness for " higher things "
resulted. 
I had engaged rooms, one summer, upon 
the other side of Cape Ann, privately known 
to its North Shore residents as the Pacific 
Ocean, meaning thereby the region of Ipswich 
Bay. Our quarters were far from the sea, in 
the thick of a village, and opposite a grammar 
school. I bore it for a week, and then, one 
desperate day, I started upon an exploring 
expedition. We drove on for seven miles, cross 
ing the noisiest and dustiest and fishiest of 
little cities, without enthusiasm. Gloucester, 
as to her business sections, did not prove al 
luring, but we pushed on eastward down her 
harbor shore. 
Suddenly, at the end of our journey, hot, 
dusty and discouraged, toiling up what is known 
as Patch's Hill, we brought our tired pony to a 
halt, and drew the breath of unexpected and 
undreamed-of delight. We had discovered 
Eastern Point. 
Out of the salt dust, out of the narrow, 
scorching streets, by the fish-flakes and the 
fish-teams, past the rude roads whose boulders 
seemed to have been only " spatted " down by 
the whimsical street-commissioner, Time, we 
came upon the fairest face of all the New 
England coast, the Eastern side of Gloucester 
Harbor. 
The traveling American, who has seen the 
world, often tells me that here is one of the 
most beautiful scenes upon the whole round 
face of it. On this point I am not authorized 
by experience to testify ; but my private 
convictions are that it would not be easy to find a 
lovelier bit of coast survey. 
There is a nook known as Wonson's ; it was 
then a sheltered, peaceful spot, scarcely 
devastated by the tramp of the summer boarder, and 
so undisturbed that I only knew when callers 
came because the chickens ran past the window 
to get away from them. 
A cottage with its feet in the water and its 
eyes on the harbor received me ; and there, 
close upon the gorge with the lava trap, and 
glancing over the little beach where the north 
west gales clear out the cool dashes of green 
and purple and bronze, and where mast and 
mainsail cut brown and sharp against the gold 
beyond Ten Pound Island, and the towers of 
old Gloucester (called by architects picturesque 
for America) rise against the sunset, I spent 
the preliminary summers which made me slave 
to Gloucester shore for life. The result was 
the chalet known to my " kind readers " as 
The Old Maids Paradise. 
This I built, and there I lived from May to 
November, or nearly that. The waves played 
almost to my door ; in winter the spray dashed 
upon the piazza. The fishermen, my neighbors, 
drew up their dories upon the rocks in front of 
me ; the foreground was marked by lobster- 
pots, and nets spread upon the scanty grass to 
dry or to mend. The fishermen's children 
who could hold an oar at the age of three, and 
whom I have seen placed by their fathers sit 
ting straight in the stern of a dory when they 
were three months old played over my rocks, 
or brought me blue-tipped innocence and white 
violets every year when I returned. 
"You come up with the spring flowers," 
prettily said one imaginative little neighbor, a 
fisherman's daughter. 
Opposite my study windows, cruel and beau 
tiful as any siren of fable, ran the reef of
Norman's Woe. 
The shore of Fresh Water Cove made a fair, 
green blush in the gray outline of the stern 
coast which ran from Norman's Woe to Pavilion
Beach. When I rowed, or was rowed, 
over to it (it was a good pull of a mile and a 
half or more), if the wind were up, or there 
were " short chops " upon the harbor, and the 
landing became a matter of skill, I used always 
to think of the two lines in an old hymn : 
" Sweet fields beyond the swelling flood 
Stand dressed in living green." 
When the breeze struck from the east or 
southeast, then the whole length of the west 
ern shore of the harbor broke into white fire. 
Hours were short in watching this blaze of 
foam. Suddenly it shot up call it fifty feet, 
call it twice that, according to the vigor of the 
storm in jets and great tongues ; as if it be 
lieved itself able to lick the solid cliffs away. 
Seen through the shaking window of my throb 
bing little house, it was easy to believe that it 
could. 
Perhaps the wind fell, but failed to die with 
the day. Then came on the wonder of a stormy 
sunset. All Gloucester harbor tossed against 
it. The bows of the anchored fleet rose and 
sank angrily. The head-lights came out one 
by one, and flared, surging up and down. Ten 
Pound Light flashed out for the night ; but 
her blinder was on, towards us. The little 
city, glorified now, forgiven of her fish, and 
her dust, and her bouncing roads, loved and 
dreamed over, and sung in heart and pen, 
melted all through her pretty outlines against 
the massive colors of the west. 
Then, off Eastern Point, far to the left, 
where the shadow fell, sprang out the red, 
revolving flash of Cape Ann Light. 
The fishermen's children are in their beds ; 
the rocks are quiet, but for the cannonade of 
the surf. Shut away from the world, shut in 
with the sea, I light my lonely fire, and thank 
God for my own hearth, and for Gloucester 
shore. 
I had a little dog in those days. With the 
 
lady who mothered my home, and the maid 
who served it, he formed " my family ; " we 
three sat in the windows, and heard the
summer people as they grew, alas, in force 
pass by our chalet, chatting busily. Often 
their talk would be of us. 
The name of that dog, by the way, was 
Daniel Deronda ; and one day it fell to me, 
with my own ears, to overhear these 
authenticated words : 
" Mamma ? " It was a little fellow who 
spoke, tugging at his mother's fingers as he 
scrambled over the boulders. " Mamma, I 
want to know ; is this where the Derondas 
live ? " 
Such was human fame ; and such will it 
ever be ! The eyes that see us, see with their 
own natures and from their own focus ; not 
from ours or with ours. Worse might befall 
me than to be known as one of the Derondas. 
I looked solemnly at the little dog (he was 
the only masculine member of the household), 
and said : 
" It is the doom of women, Dan. Seven 
pounds of your lordly sex and with bangs 
down to his nose, into the bargain orders 
our identity away from us. We must make 
the best of it, Dan ; and you and I know that 
it's all the same in the end." 
 
LIFE at Gloucester began very much as 
either life begins in the first delightful 
possession of one's "ain fireside." Is happiness 
essentially selfish ? For some years after my 
cottage was built I surrendered my summers 
to the luxury of entertaining. I remember 
those as the years of the friends. I was slow 
in asking whether the North Shore had other 
claims upon me than those of giving pleasure 
to other comfortable people, and receiving more 
than I gave. Having waited, apparently long 
enough for me to ask, fate abruptly told me 
without the formality of a question. 
One summer evening, in a year of whose 
date I cannot be sure, except that it was in 
the seventies, I was driving with a friend 
through the main street of East Gloucester. 
It was after tea, and a sky, translucent over 
head, was burning down towards the west, 
preparing for one of the famous Gloucester 
sunsets. 
We were driving through a weir of stores and 
fish-firms and fish-flakes this last, it should 
be said, is the technical name for the frames 
or trellises on which salt fish is dried. For 
Gloucester, it must be understood, is the most 
important fishing port in the world, and Fish, 
whether dead or living, is always spelled there 
with a capital. In fact, there is a dignity 
about this form of commerce, upon which, to 
the reduction of most other kinds of interests, 
Gloucester insists. Her summer guests may 
come and go, may pay or not, may criticise 
or adore, but her fish bite on forever. The 
result of my own observation has been that 
Gloucester, in her heart of hearts, regards her 
large summer population with a certain con 
tempt. We are weak on the topics of main- 
sheets, and jib-hanks, of blocks and "popple- 
ballast," and seines. We are not learned in 
the times when herring strike and mackerel 
are due. We cannot man a Grand Banker in 
a gale. We do not go " haddockin " in March. 
We do not pack " Cape Ann turkey " to the 
limits Of the globe. Our incomes, if we have 
any, are drawn from invisible sources looked 
upon with instinctive suspicion. They are
neither caught with a hook nor salted in a box, 
nor telephoned to the Board of Trade when the 
cargoes come in. We are more or less idle 
folk, who wander about the streets, (who knows 
 
why ?) or sun ourselves stupidly on the red 
and purple rocks, or dig for clams on the 
beaches at high tide, or exasperate the farmers 
by trampling down the hay, and letting the 
cattle into the apple-orchards. We are artists, 
whose crop of white umbrellas sprouts every 
where, and bothers everybody, and whose 
brushes do not know a back-stay from corn- 
silk. We are boarders who capsize the cat- 
boats, or pay by the hour to sail in a calm and 
don't know any better ; cottagers who create 
homes in extraordinary localities hitherto little 
respected ; or even writers who put Gloucester 
adoringly into the magazines out of the im 
pulses of our loyal and loving hearts, and are 
hated accordingly of all men for the tribute's 
sake. 
Perhaps every line of this page may cost its 
writer a friend in Gloucester who can tell ? 
Yet I mean only gracious things by the dear 
old place, which I have loved for twenty years. 
I devoutly believe and firmly proclaim that 
Gloucester Harbor is the most adorable spot 
in this part of the world in which to spend the 
summer ; and that he who has never known 
her Junes and her Septembers, her wonderful 
downs (said to be the only specimens of the 
real thing on our coast), the warm heart of her 
fishing-folk, and the colors of her waves, seen 
returning from afternoon sails in a light South- 
wester, misses something out of life, which the 
next will remind him that he lacks. I am 
aware that this is a strong statement, and 
beyond it I cannot go. This does not mean 
that I am unconscious of the faults in the 
loveliest of places, though for love's sake I 
may pass them lightly by. 
All seaport towns drink. I do not know if 
Gloucester be any thirstier than other places 
of her kind. I like to think not but, on the 
summer evening of which I speak, it first came 
to my thought or knowledge that this little city 
seethed with tempted men, having peculiar 
difficulties and dangers and needing peculiar 
treatment. 
As we drove through the chief street of East 
Gloucester, we saw a crowd thickening before 
us in front of a store or shop, whose existence 
I did not remember to have observed before. 
It was a large crowd for a small place, and 
evidently under intense excitement. All along 
the sides of the street women who did not join 
it came to their doors and looked out soberly. 
They were white to the lips, every woman of 
them ; some of them shook their fists in the 
direction of the crowd ; some wept, some 
seemed to curse, and some to pray. 
" If men folks will do such things, they 
 
must expect such things to happen ! " cried one 
matron. 
" I hope they'll raze the place to the 
ground ! I hope they'll fire it to ashes ! I 
hope they won't leave stick nor stone of it till 
morning ! " said another, in the deep tones of 
irreproachable anathema. 
I had stopped my horse, and begged to be 
told what had happened ; but it was some time 
before the women paid attention enough to me 
to answer my question. I was only a " summer 
boarder," alien to them, and to the sorrows of 
their lives. I was of far less importance to 
them than the school of mackerel which en 
tered or swam past Gloucester Harbor; one 
might easily say of less than the barnacles on 
the old piers. 
" Haven't you heard ? " said a woman at 
last, scornfully. " Why, it happened in 
 rum-shop." 
Now, I had been in East Gloucester more 
summers than I cared just then to remember, 
and never till that moment had I known that 
had a rum-shop in the centre of the 
town. 
" There's a man murdered there," continued 
the speaker more gently, observing perhaps 
the expression of my face. " He's just dead. 
Him and this other fellar had words, and he 
drove a knife into him and out again three 
times. He's stone dead, layin there on the 
floor. . . . See the men folks crowdin round 
to look at him ! If men folks will do such 
things, they must expect such things to
happen ! I hope they won't leave stick nor stone 
to that place, come mornin ! " 
" Was he a married man ? " 
" She lives up to the Block, and the young 
ones." 
" How many ? " 
"Twelve." 
" Has anybody been to see this poor creature 
the widow ? Has any woman gone to 
her?" 
" Hey ? " staring. " I guess not. Not that 
I know of." 
I turned my horse and drove straight to the 
smitten family. My friend (who had the worst 
of it) kindly agreed to sit in the carriage among 
the gathering people while I went into the ten 
ement. I felt like thanking her warmly, for 
it would have been easy to make that little 
decision hard for me ; or to turn my own mind 
in the trembling of a choice, upon which, I 
came to think afterwards, a good deal that may 
have been important swung. 
I went in. It was like other places of its 
kind, neither better nor worse. Such homes 
 
were not unfamiliar to me, but I had never 
entered one before on such an errand. To 
my selfish relief I found that some news- 
bearer had preceded me, and that it did not 
devolve upon me to break the tidings to the 
widow. She was pacing up and down the 
dark, close rooms like a large creature in a 
very little cage. She uttered strange, mo 
notonous shrieks. She did not notice my 
entrance. In fact, no one paid any attention to 
me. The twelve (I think it was twelve) chil 
dren, in various stages of grief and fright, were 
scattered about. Her oldest son leaned against 
the wall, and looked helplessly at the screaming 
woman. She wailed, " Oh, ain't it hard ? 
ain't it, ain't it ? " 
A neighbor came in, a big, red woman, and 
offered consolation in this form : " Mis ! 
Mis ! Be still now, there, and have the 
patience of God ! " 
This modest and moderate demand, strange 
to say, was disregarded by the afflicted
creature, who moaned on pitifully. 
I was an uninvited guest in that stricken 
household, and it seems like a breach of some 
thing for which we have no precise name for 
me to dwell too far upon the details of such a 
scene as no spectator could easily forget or 
describe. In point of fact, nothing and 
nobody quieted the woman ; and so I went up, 
saying no words at all, and took her in my 
arms. 
For a little her wailing continued steadily ; 
then I saw, at last, that her eyes had fallen 
upon my gloves. They were white, like the 
rest of my dress ; the room was heavy with 
the advancing dusk, and I suppose they made 
a spot of light, by which her frenzied sight 
was arrested. Her sobbing broke ; she turned, 
and looked up into my face. Still I did not 
speak, but only held her quietly. . . . 
I stayed with her till the body was brought 
home, and then we drove away. As we turned 
into the main street, I heard low cries from 
the people : " There he is ! There he is ! 
They've caught him ! They've got the mur 
derer ! He ran and hid down to the water 
but there he is ! " 
A carryall rapidly driven, and closely guarded 
by officers, passed us. The sunset was dying, 
and against a cold streak of wintry color, be 
yond the western shore of the harbor, I saw 
the profile of the murderer ; as pale as that 
other face which I had left with a woman wail 
ing over it. He was a very young man, they 
told me, and came of a self-respecting family. 
I had read, of course, like other intelligent 
people, of women who entered rum-shops on 
 
moral and religious errands ; in fact, I think 
once in Andover, when I was a very young 
lady, I personally besought a liquor-seller in 
behalf of some ruined family in which I was 
interested, to abandon the error of his ways ; 
he received me politely and continued them 
steadily. But as for what is known in this 
country as the Temperance Movement, it was 
as unfamiliar to me as the gossip of Tahiti. I 
was reared in circles which pursued their own 
proportion of Christian charity in their own 
ways, and which knew but little of this form 
of ethical progress. In a word, I was without 
education for that kind of service to humanity ; 
and I had, hitherto, paid no more attention to 
it than any woman of society. In fact, if the 
truth were to be told, I had, perhaps, little 
more confidence in the wisdom of its prevailing 
methods. Ignorance is always prejudice, 
and I was prejudiced in proportion to mine. 
That Gloucester murder, and the short sun 
set hour which I spent in that devastated 
home, did for me what all the temperance con 
ventions and crusades of America, generated 
by braver and broader-minded women than I, 
had failed to do. All my traditions went down, 
and my common sense and human heart came 
up. From that day " I asked no questions ; I 
had no replies ; " but gave my sympathy
without paltry hesitation to the work done by the 
women of America for the salvation of men 
endangered or ruined by the liquor habit. 
" I am going into that rum-shop next Sunday," 
I announced, " to hold a service. * 
" You ? " My friends stared at me anxiously. 
Would two physicians and the legal certificate 
of incarceration be needed shortly ? After 
wards I remembered how they looked. At 
the time I scarcely noticed it, but proceeded 
on my way with the absorption of all young 
reformers in a new enthusiasm. 
Of course my first step was to visit the bar 
tender. I was received with drawing-room 
politeness. He was more than willing that I 
should hold a religious service in his saloon. 
He was, I thought, personally very grateful. 
He felt the odium under which he stood. He 
was pale and perturbed. He welcomed me 
with significant cordiality. Indeed, I think he 
looked upon me for the moment as his individual 
savior from social downfall. It had not 
occurred to me that I was enlisting my energies
to protect the rum-seller, and I must say 
that this amusing view of the situation rather 
staggered me. But, concluding to ignore it 
gracefully, I went on with my plan for the 
Sunday. 
" You'll say, won't you," pleaded the dealer 
in death, "that this ain't my fault ? You'll tell 
em it might have happened anywhere, won't 
you ? Why, it might have happened in a 
church ! There's murders do. You'll say so ; 
won't you, ma am ? " 
Without committing myself on this delicate 
point, I arranged our little programme, securing 
the help of a lovely gray-haired " lady from 
Philadelphia " for this was in the days when 
my own hair was still so dark that I liked to 
be mothered a little in difficult positions. We 
went into the saloon the next Sunday and 
opened our short services. Now, my com 
panion had been trained by Phillips Brooks in 
his younger pastorate, and she was far better 
qualified than I to conduct the service. But 
with the pertinacity of gentle women she 
refused. She would read, she would sing, she 
would help, but speak she would not. 
" You will not ? " pleaded I, " but I cannot. 
I never opened my mouth in a public place 
in my life. I shall drop of stage fright and 
think of the scene ! It will be little less 
exciting than the murder. I am a coward born, 
bred, and graduated on this point. It is morally
impossible for me to speak in that or any 
other place." 
But I prevailed nothing against her, and 
speak I had to. 
 
The saloon was of course packed. It over 
flowed to the porch, and into the street, and 
back through the three little rooms within 
rooms, which, according to my limited observation, 
seem to characterize the grog-shops of 
our native land ; an architectural peculiarity 
into whose causes or effects I have never 
penetrated. 
There were a few women there to sing for 
us, and certain of the wives of the men who 
frequented the shop ; but our hearers were 
chiefly men, and precisely the men who were 
the usual customers of this and kindred places. 
A great, red stain in the floor was covered 
from sight by the crowd. 
To say that the audience was respectful is 
to say little enough. If we had been angels 
from the clouds or courts of heaven, we could 
not have been received with more deference, 
more delicacy, or more attention. To say that 
no disturbance of any kind took place is again 
to say too little for the occasion. Not a foot 
stirred, not a lip whispered ; indeed, it is quite 
within bounds to say that not an eye wan 
dered. We read a little not too much 
from the Bible, and we sang a hymn or two, 
and I said a few words, and we came away. 
Those men listened to us as if they had never 
heard a message of mercy before in all their 
 
lives, and never might again. I remember 
that some of them hung their heads upon their 
breasts like guilty children, and that they 
looked ashamed and sorry ; but most of them 
met us in the eye, and drank what we said 
thirstily. Their attention and gravity amounted 
to solemnity, and had the appearance of resolution.
But of that, who can testify ? 
We did not too much blame these men ; 
they had reasons for getting drunk, which life 
had never made apparent to us : nor did we 
berate the rum-seller ; we were his guests. 
We read and spoke to them of better things ; 
that was all. I remember that we read from 
the Revelation about the dead, great and small, 
who stand before God to be judged ; and I can 
never forget how these men looked, as I laid 
down my father's Bible, with those words. 
Life has given and withheld much from me 
that has been or has seemed to be rich and 
valuable. It has never given me another hour 
when I felt that I had found the chief privilege 
of existence, as I felt when I forgot myself and 
pleaded with Heaven for those miserable men ; 
nor has it withheld much that I should have 
treasured more than the power to continue my 
happy work among them. 
It lasted for but three years. Though it 
began, it did not seem to begin with the 
 
murder ; for, after a few Sundays our services 
in the saloon came to an end. The bartender's 
religious character was not prominently developed,
and his hospitality cooled as the 
excitement waned. Not wishing to intrude upon it, 
for, after all, the rum was his, and the legal 
right to sell it, we devoted ourselves for a 
little to the concerns of the fatherless family, 
and returned to the normal course of summer 
existence. Without were drunkards and murderers,
and we thought of them no more. 
I thought of them no more, at least not 
then. But God's lessons are not lost so easily 
as that. The next year, when the Old Maids 
Paradise was opened for the season, a person 
indistinctly known to our domestic world as 
" the vegetable man " one day quietly made 
his way from the back door to the front, and 
boldly demanded that I should visit the 
Reform Club and give a Temperance lecture. If 
he had asked me to discover the North Pole 
in a Gloucester dory, I should have been less 
astounded ; perhaps less shocked. In vain did 
I reason that I did not know what a Reform 
Club was ; that I was not, and never might, 
could, would, or should be a lecturer, and that 
a Temperance lecturer was a being so apart 
from my nature and qualifications that I was 
better fitted to salt fish upon the wharves than 
 
to assume the position which I was desired 
to fill. The petitioner was dogged, obstinate, 
ingenious, and respectful. It seemed the or 
ganization which he represented, having heard 
of the rum-shop services, had appointed a
committee to request my presence in the appalling 
capacity specified, and no for an answer these 
enthusiasts declined to take. 
"I do not lecture," I persisted, "but I will 
come up to your club-room and help you some 
how." 
Thus compromising with my fate, I rode up 
in the vegetable man's carryall to the club- 
room, and I left it that first evening the firm 
friend of those struggling men and women, 
and of all like them, in hard positions and in 
service like theirs forever. 
The little local organization with which I 
was concerned had, in some respects, an 
exceptional history, but it belonged to a great 
class of its kind at that time popular with the 
mass of our people, and unquestionably use 
ful in stimulating a taste for decent ways of 
living among that proportion of our fellow- 
citizens whom the liquor traffic disgraces and 
ruins. Having become once convinced that 
the method however foreign to my taste and 
to my training was sound and sensible ; was, 
in fact, so much wiser and greater than my 
 
ignorance or timidity, that it commanded my 
respect as well as my conscience, of course 
I had no choice but to give myself to the 
principle, and try to improve its practice, if I 
might. As our Methodist friends would say, 
I " followed the leading," and I never
regretted it. 
For three years I had the great happiness 
of serving the people who had needed and 
selected me. There and then, if ever, I be 
came acquainted with life. I learned more 
from my Gloucester people than I ever taught 
them, and I shall hold them gratefully and 
lovingly in my heart as long as I live. 
The pathetic battle of those tempted men 
with themselves ; the hardships of the fisher 
men, shipped for midwinter voyages ; rum 
on the wharves and rum on the vessel, mocking 
the vow of the newly-sobered man ; the distrusts 
and jealousies and obstacles flung in the way 
of " reformed men " by their own mates, or by 
respectable citizens who ought to have sunk 
to their knees with shame for deeds that I 
have known to be done ; and the persistent 
unpopularity of our efforts, an unpopularity 
