what any one says to the contrary. She 's the 
cleverest woman I ever saw in all my life. 
She 's too charming." She had been touched 
already by his tone, and now she leaned back 
in her chair and felt something tremble within 
her. " She 's tremendous fun she can do 
all sorts of things better than I 've ever seen 
anyone. She has the pluck of fifty and 
I know : I assure you I do. She has the nerve 
for a tiger-shoot by Jove, I 'd take her ! 
And she 's awfully open and generous, don't 
you know? there are women that are such 
horrid sneaks. She 'd go through anything 
for any one she likes." He appeared to watch 
for a moment the effect on his companion of 
this emphasis ; then he gave a small sigh that 
mourned the limits of the speakable. But it 
was almost with the note of a challenge that 
he wound up : " Look here she 's true ! " 
Maisie had so little desire to assert the con- 
trary that she found herself, in the intensity of 
her response, throbbing with a joy still less 
utterable than the essence of the Captain's 
appreciation. She was fairly hushed with the 
sense that he spoke of her mother as she had 
never heard any one speak. It came over her 
as she sat silent that, after all, this admiration 
and this respect were quite new words, which 
took a distinction from the fact that nothing in 
the least resembling them in quality had on 
any occasion dropped from the lips of her 
father, of Mrs. Beale, of Sir Claude or even 
of Mrs. Wix. What it appeared to her to 
come to was that, on the subject of her lady- 
ship, it was the first real kindness she had 
heard, so that at the touch of it something 
strange and deep and pitying surged up within 
her a revelation that, practically and so far 
as she knew, her mother, apart from this, had 
only been disliked. Mrs. Wix's original 
account of Sir Claude's affection seemed as 
empty now as the chorus in a children's game, 
and the husband and wife, but a little way off 
at that moment, were face to face in hatred and 
with the dreadful name he had called her still 
in the air. What was it the Captain on the 
other hand had called her? Maisie wanted 
to hear that again. The tears filled her eyes 
and rolled down her cheeks, which burned 
under them with the rush of a consciousness 
that for her too, five minutes before, the vivid, 
towering beauty whose onset she awaited had 
been for the moment an object of pure dread. 
She became indifferent on the spot to her 
usual fear of showing what in children was 
notoriously most offensive she presented to 
her companion, soundlessly but hideously, her 
wet, distorted face. She cried, with a pang, 
straight at him, cried as she felt that she had 
never cried at any one in all her life. " Oh, 
do you love her? " she brought out with a gulp 
that was the effect of her trying not to make 
a noise. 
It was doubtless another consequence of the 
thick mist through which she saw him that, in 
reply to her question, the Captain gave her 
such a queer blurred look. He hesitated ; yet 
in his voice there was also the ring of a great 
awkward insistence. " Of course I 'm tre- 
mendously fond of her I like her better than 
any woman I ever saw. I don't mind in the 
least telling you that," he went on ; " and I 
should think myself a great beast if I did." 
Then, to show that his position was superla- 
tively clear, he made her, with a kindness that 
even Sir Claude had never surpassed, tremble 
again as she had trembled at his first outbreak. 
He called her by her name, and her name 
drove it home. " My dear Maisie, your 
mother 's an angel ! " 
It was an almost incredible balm it 
soothed so her impression of danger and 
pain. She sank back in her chair; she 
covered her face with her hands. " Oh, 
mother, mother, mother ! " she sobbed. She 
had a vague sense that the Captain, beside 
her, though more and more friendly, was by 
no means unembarrassed ; in a minute, how- 
ever, when her eyes were clearer, he was erect 
in front of her, very red and nervously looking 
about him and whacking his leg with his stick. 
" Say you love her, Mr. Captain say it, say 
it ! " she implored. 
Mr. Captain's blue eyes fixed themselves 
very hard. " Of course I love her, damn it, 
you know." 
At this she also jumped up ; she had fished 
out somehow her pocket-handkerchief. " So 
do , then I do, I do, I do ! " she passion- 
ately cried. 
" Then will you come back to her? " 
Maisie, staring, stopped the tight little plug 
of her handkerchief on the way to her eyes. 
" She won't have me ! " 
" Yes, she will. She wants you." 
" Back at the house with Sir Claude ? " 
Again he stopped. "No, not with him. 
In another place." 
They stood looking at each other with an 
intensity unusual as between a Captain and a 
little girl. " She won't have me in any place." 
" Oh yes, she will if  ask her." 
Maisie's intensity continued. " Shall you 
be there?" 
The Captain's, on the whole, did the same, 
" Oh yes some day." 
"Then you don't mean now? " 
He broke into a quick smile. " Will you 
come now? go with us for an hour?" 
Maisie considered. " She would n't have 
me even now." 
She could see that he had his idea, but that 
her tone impressed him. That disappointed 
her a little, though in an instant he rang out 
again. " She will if  ask her," he repeated. 
" I 'll ask her this minute." 
Maisie, turning at this, looked away to 
where her mother and her stepfather had 
stopped. At first, among the trees, nobody 
was visible; but the next moment she ex- 
claimed with expression : " It 's over here 
he comes ! " 
The Captain watched the approach of her 
ladyship's husband, who walked slow and 
composed across the grass, making, with his 
closed fingers, to Maisie, a little movement 
in the air. " I've no desire to avoid him." 
"Well, you mustn't see him," said Maisie. 
" Oh, he's in no hurry himself!" Sir 
Claude had stopped to light another cigarette. 
She was vague as to the way it was proper 
he should feel ; but she had a sense that the 
Captain's remark was rather a free reflection. 
" Oh, he does n't care," she replied. 
" Does n't care for what? " 
" Does n't care who you are. He told me 
so. Go and ask mamma," she added. 
"If you can come with us? Very good. 
You really want me not to wait for him?" 
" Please don't." But Sir Claude was not 
yet near, and the Captain had with his left 
hand taken hold of her right, which he 
familiarly, sociably swung a little. "Only 
first," she continued, "tell me this. Are you 
going to live with mamma? " 
The immemorial note broke out at her 
seriousness. " One of these days." 
She wondered, wholly unperturbed by his 
laughter. " Then where will Sir Claude be? " 
" He 'll have left her of course." 
" Does he really intend to do that? " 
" You have every opportunity to ask him." 
Maisie shook her head with decision. " He 
won't do it. Not first." 
Her " first " made the Captain resound 
again. " Oh, he 'll be sure to be nasty ! But 
I've said too much to you." 
"Well, you know, I'll never tell," said 
Maisie. 
" No, it's all for yourself. Good-bye." 
" Good-bye." Maisie kept his hand long 
enough to add : " I like you, too." And 
then supremely: " You do love her? " 
" My dear child ! " The Captain wanted 
words. 
" Then don't do it only for just a little." 
"A little?" 
" Like all the others." 
" Like all the others? " he stood staring. 
She pulled away her hand. " Do it al- 
ways ! " Then she bounded to meet Sir 
Claude and as she left the Captain she heard 
him sound out with apparent gayety : " Oh, 
I 'll keep it up ! " As she joined Sir Claude 
she perceived her mother, in the distance, 
move slowly off; and, glancing again at 
the Captain, saw him, swinging his stick, 
retreat in the same direction. 
She had never seen Sir Claude look as he 
looked just then ; flushed, yet not excited 
settled rather in an immovable disgust and 
at once very sick and very hard. His con- 
versation with her mother had clearly drawn 
blood, and the child's old horror came back 
to her, producing the instant moral contrac- 
tion of the days when her parents had looked 
to her to feed their love of battle. Her great- 
est fear for the moment, however, was that 
her friend would see she had been crying. 
The next she became aware that he glanced 
at her and it presently occurred to her that 
he did n't wish even to be looked at. At 
this she quickly removed her gaze, and 
he said rather curtly : " Well, who in the 
world is the fellow?" 
She felt herself flooded with prudence. 
" Oh,  have n't found out ! " This sounded 
as if she meant he ought to have done so 
himself; but she could only face doggedly 
the ugliness of seeming disagreeable as she 
used to face it in the hours when her father, 
for her blankness, called her a dirty little 
donkey and her mother, for her falsity, pushed 
her out of the room. 
" Then what have you been doing all this 
time?" 
" Oh, I don't know." It was of the essence 
of her method not to be silly by halves. 
" Then did n't the scoundrel say anything? " 
They had got down by the lake and were 
walking fast. 
" Well, not very much." 
" He did n't speak of your mother? " 
" Oh, yes, a little." 
"Then what I ask you, please, is how." 
She was silent a minute so long that he 
presently went on : "I say, you know 
don't you hear me? " 
At this she produced: "Well, I'm afraid 
I did n't attend to him very much." 
Sir Claude, smoking rather hard, made no 
immediate rejoinder; but finally he ex- 
claimed: "Then, my dear, you were the 
perfection of an idiot ! " He was so irritated 
or she took him to be that for the rest 
of the time they were in the Gardens he spoke 
no other word; and she meanwhile subtly 
abstained from any attempt to pacify him. 
That would only lead to more questions. 
At the gate of the Gardens he hailed a four- 
wheeled cab and without meeting her con- 
scious eyes put her into it, only saying 
" Give him that ! " as he tossed half a crown 
upon the seat. Even when from outside he 
had closed the door and told the man where 
to go he never took her departing look. 
Nothing of this kind had ever yet happened 
to them, but it had no power to make her 
love him less, and she could not only bear it 
she felt as she drove away that she could re- 
joice in it. It brought again the sweet sense 
of success that, ages before, she had had on 
an occasion when, on the stairs, returning 
from her father's, she had met a fierce ques- 
tion of her mother's with an imbecility as 
studied and had in consequence been dashed 
by Mrs. Farange almost to the bottom. 
XVII 
IF for reasons wholly her own she could 
bear the sense of Sir Claude's displeasure 
her young endurance might have been put 
to a serious test. The days went by without 
his knocking at her father's door, and the 
time would have turned to dreariness if some- 
thing had not conspicuously happened to give 
it a new difference. What took place was a 
marked change in the attitude of Mrs. Beale 
a change that somehow even in his absence 
seemed to bring Sir Claude again into the 
house. It began practically with a con- 
versation that occurred between them the 
day Maisie came home alone in the cab. 
Mrs. Beale had by that time returned, and 
she was more successful than their friend in 
extracting from our young lady an account 
of the extraordinary passage with the Cap- 
tain. She came back to it repeatedly, and 
on the very next day it grew distinct to 
Maisie that she was already in full possession 
of what at the same moment had been en- 
acted between her ladyship and Sir Claude. 
This was the real origin of her final perception 
that though he did n't come to the house 
her stepmother had some subtle secret for 
not being bereft of him. That produced 
eventually a strange, a deeper communion 
with Mrs. Beale, the first sign of which had 
been not on Maisie's part a wonderful 
outbreak of tears. Mrs. Beale was not, as 
she herself said, a crying creature; she had 
not cried, to Maisie's knowledge, since the 
lowly governess days, the gray dawn of their 
connection. But she wept now with passion, 
professing loudly that it did her good and 
saying remarkable things to the child, for 
whom the occasion was an equal benefit, an 
addition to all the fine reasons stored up for 
not making anything worse. It had n't some- 
how made anything worse, Maisie felt, for 
her to have told Mrs. Beale what she had 
not told Sir Claude, inasmuch as the greatest 
strain, to her sense, was between Sir Claude 
and Sir Claude's wife, and his wife was just 
what Mrs. Beale was unfortunately not. He 
sent his stepdaughter three days after the 
incident in Kensington Gardens a message 
as frank as it was tender, and that was how 
Mrs. Beale had had to bring out in a manner 
that seemed half an appeal, half a defiance : 
" Well, yes, hang it I do see him ! " 
How and when and where, however, were 
just what Maisie was not to know an ex- 
clusion moreover that she never questioned 
in the light of a participation large enough 
to make him, in hours of solitude with Mrs. 
Beale, present like a picture on the wall. As 
far as her father was concerned such hours 
had no interruption ; and then it was clear 
between them that they were each thinking 
of the absent and each thinking that the 
other thought; so that he was an object of 
conscious reference in everything they said 
or did. The wretched truth, Mrs. Beale had 
to confess, was that she had hoped against 
hope and that in the Regent's Park it was 
impossible Sir Claude should really be in and 
out. Had n't they at last to look the fact in 
the face? it was too disgustingly evident 
that no one after all had been squared. 
Well, if no one had been squared it was be- 
cause every one had been vile. No one and 
every one were of course Beale and Ida, the 
extent of whose power to be nasty was a 
thing that, to a little girl, Mrs. Beale simply 
could n't communicate. Therefore it was 
that to keep going at all, as she said, that 
lady had to make, as she also said, another 
arrangement the arrangement in which 
Maisie was included only to the point of 
knowing that it existed and wondering wist- 
fully what it was. Conspicuously at any 
rate it had a side that was responsible for 
Mrs. Beale's sudden emotion and sudden con- 
fidence a demonstration, however, of which 
the tearfulness was far from deterrent to our 
heroine's thought of how happy she should 
be if she could only make an arrangement 
for herself. Mrs. Beale's own operated, it 
appeared, with regularity and frequency; for 
it was almost every day or two that she was 
able to bring Maisie a message and to take one 
back. It had been over the vision of what, 
as she called it, he did for her that she broke 
down ; and this vision was kept in a manner 
before Maisie by a subsequent increase not 
only of the gayety, but literally it seemed 
not presumptuous to perceive of the actual 
virtue of her friend. The friend was herself 
the first to proclaim it : he had pulled her up 
immensely he had quite pulled her round. 
She had charming, tormenting words about 
him : he was her good fairy, her hidden spring 
above all he was just her conscience. 
That was what had particularly come out with 
her startling tears : he had made her, dear 
man, think ever so much better of herself. 
It had been thus rather surprisingly revealed 
that she had been in a way to think ill, and 
Maisie was glad to hear of the corrective at 
the same time that she heard of the ailment. 
She presently found herself supposing and 
in spite of her envy even hoping that when- 
ever Mrs. Beale was out of the house Sir 
Claude had in some manner the satisfaction 
of it. This was now of more frequent oc- 
currence than ever before so much so that 
she would have thought of her stepmother 
as almost extravagantly absent had it not 
been that in the first place her father was a 
superior specimen of that habit: it was the 
frequent remark of his present wife, as it had 
been before the tribunals of their country a 
conspicuous plea of her predecessor, that he 
scarce came home even to sleep. In the 
second place Mrs. Beale, when she was on 
the spot, had now a beautiful air of longing 
to make up for everything. The only shadow 
in such bright intervals was that, as Maisie 
put it to herself, she could get nothing by 
questions. It was in the nature of things to 
be none of a small child's business even 
when a small child had from the first been 
deluded into a fear that she might be only 
too much initiated. Things then were in 
Maisie's experience so true to their nature 
that questions were almost always improper ; 
but she learned on the other hand soon to 
recognize that patient little silences and in- 
telligent little looks could be rewarded from 
time to time by delightful little glimpses. 
There had been years at Beale Farange's 
when the monosyllable " he " meant always, 
meant almost violently the master; but all 
that was changed at a period at which Sir 
Claude's merits were of themselves so much 
in the air that it scarce took even two letters 
to name him. " He keeps me up splendidly 
he does, my own precious," Mrs. Beale 
would observe to her companion ; or else 
she would say that the situation at the other 
establishment had reached a point that could 
scarcely be believed the point, monstrous 
as it sounded, of his not having laid eyes upon 
her for twelve days. " Her " of course at 
Beale Farange's had never meant any one 
but Ida, and there was the difference in this 
case that it now meant Ida with renewed in- 
tensity. Mrs. Beale was in a position strik- 
ingly to animadvert more and more upon her 
dreadfulness, the moral of all which appeared 
to be how abominably yet blessedly little she 
had to do with her husband. This flow of 
information came home to our two friends 
because truly Mrs. Beale had not much 
more to do with her own ; but that was one 
of the reflections that Maisie could make 
without allowing it to break the spell of her 
present sympathy. How could such a spell 
be anything but deep when Sir Claude's in- 
fluence, though operating from afar, at last 
really determined the resumption of his 
stepdaughter's studies? Mrs. Beale again 
took fire about them and was quite vivid, 
for Maisie, as to their being the great 
matter to which the absent friend kept her 
up. 
This was the second source I have just 
alluded to the first of the child's conscious- 
ness of something that, very hopefully, she 
described to herself as a new phase ; and it 
also presented in the brightest light the fresh 
enthusiasm with which Mrs. Beale always re- 
appeared and which really gave Maisie a 
happier sense than she had yet had of being 
very dear at least to two persons. That she 
had small remembrance at present of a third 
illustrates, I am afraid, a temporary oblivion 
of Mrs. Wix, an accident to be explained 
only by a state of unnatural excitement. For 
what was the form taken by Mrs. Beale's en- 
thusiasm and acquiring relief in the domestic 
conditions still left to her but the delightful 
form of " reading " with her little charge on 
lines directly prescribed and in works pro- 
fusely supplied by Sir Claude ? He had got 
hold of an awfully good list "mostly es- 
says, don't you know? " Mrs. Beale had said ; 
a word always august to Maisie, but hence- 
forth to be softened by hazy, in fact by quite 
languorous edges. There was at any rate a 
week in which no less than nine volumes ar- 
rived, and the impression was to be gathered 
from Mrs. Beale that the obscure intercourse 
she enjoyed with Sir Claude not only involved 
an account and a criticism of studies, but was 
organized almost for the very purpose of re- 
port and consultation. It was for Maisie's 
education in short that, as she often re- 
peated, she closed her door closed it to the 
gentlemen who used to flock there in such 
numbers and whom her husband's practical 
desertion of her would have made it a course 
of the highest indelicacy to receive. Maisie 
was familiar from of old with the principle 
at least of the care that a woman, as Mrs. 
Beale phrased it, attractive and exposed 
must take of her tc character," and was duly 
impressed with the rigor of her stepmother's 
scruples. There was literally no one of the 
other sex whom she appeared to feel at lib- 
erty to see at home, and when the child 
risked an inquiry about the ladies who one 
by one, during her own previous period, had 
been made quite loudly welcome, Mrs. Beale 
hastened to inform her that one by one they 
had, the fiends, been found out after all to 
be awful. If she wished to know more about 
them she was recommended to approach her 
father. 
Maisie had, however, at the very moment 
of this injunction much livelier curiosities> 
for the dream of lectures at an institution 
had at last become a reality, thanks to Sir 
Claude's now unbounded energy in discover- 
ing what could be done. It appeared in this 
connection that when you came to look into 
things in a spirit of earnestness an immense 
deal could be done for very little more than 
your fare in the Underground. The institu- 
tion there was a splendid one in a part of 
the town but little known to the child be- 
came in the glow of such a spirit a thrilling 
place, and the walk to it from the station 
through Glower Street a pronunciation for 
which Mrs. Beale once laughed at her little 
friend a pathway literally strewn with 
"subjects." Maisie seemed to herself to 
pluck them as she passed, though they thick- 
ened in the great gray rooms where the foun- 
tain of knowledge, in the form usually of a 
high voice that she took at first to be angry, 
plashed in the stillness of rows of faces thrust 
out like empty jugs. " It must do us good 
it 's all so hideous," Mrs. Beale had imme- 
diately declared, manifesting a purity of reso- 
lution that made these occasions quite the 
most harmonious of all the many on which 
the pair had pulled together. Maisie cer- 
tainly had never in such an association felt 
so uplifted and never above all been so car- 
ried off her feet as at the moments of Mrs. 
Beale's breathlessly re-entering the house 
and fairly shrieking upstairs to know if they 
would still be in time for a lecture. Her 
stepdaughter, all ready from the earliest 
hours, almost leaped over the banister to 
respond, and they dashed out together in 
quest of learning as hard as they often dashed 
back to release Mrs. Beale for other preoccu- 
pations. There had been in short no bustle 
like it since that last brief flurry when Mrs. 
Wix, blowing as if she were grooming her, 
" made up " for everything previously lost at 
her father's. 
These weeks as well were too few, but 
they were flooded with a new emotion, a part 
of which indeed came from the possibility 
that, through the long telescope of Glower 
Street, or perhaps between the pillars of the 
institution which were what Maisie thought 
most made it one they should some day 
spy Sir Claude. That was what Mrs. Beale, 
under pressure, had said doubtless a little 
impatiently : " Oh, yes, oh, yes ; some day ! " 
His joining them was clearly far less of a 
matter of course than was to have been gath- 
ered from his original profession of desire to 
improve in their company his own mind; 
and this sharpened our young lady's guess 
that since that occasion either something 
destructive had happened or something de- 
sirable had n't. Mrs. Beale had thrown but a 
partial light in telling her how it had turned 
out that nobody had been squared. Maisie 
wished at any rate that somebody would be 
squared. However, though in every ap- 
proach to the temple of knowledge she 
watched in vain for Sir Claude, there was no 
doubt about the action of his loved image as 
an incentive and a recompense. When the 
institution was most on pillars or, as Mrs. 
Beale put it, on stilts when the subject was 
deepest and the lecture longest and the lis- 
teners ugliest, then it was they both felt their 
absent protector would be most pleased with 
them. 
One day, unexpectedly, in the midst of his 
absence, Mrs. Beale said to her companion : 
"We'll go to-night to the thingumbob at 
Earl's Court; " an announcement putting 
forth its full lustre when she had made 
known that she referred to the great Exhibi- 
tion just opened in that quarter, a collection 
of extraordinary foreign things in tremen- 
dous gardens, with illuminations, bands, ele- 
phants, switchbacks and sideshows, as well 
as crowds of people among whom they might 
possibly see some one they knew. Maisie 
flew in the same bound at the neck of her 
friend and at the name of Sir Claude, on 
which Mrs. Beale confessed that well, yes, 
there was just a chance that he would be able 
to meet them. He never of course in his 
terrible position knew what might happen 
from hour to hour ; but he hoped to be free 
and he had given Mrs. Beale the tip. " Bring 
her there on the quiet, and I 'll try to turn 
up" this was clear enough on what so 
many weeks of privation had made of his 
desire to see the child : it even appeared to 
represent on his part a yearning as constant 
as her own. That in turn was just puzzling 
enough to make Maisie express a bewilder- 
ment. She could n't see, if they were so 
intensely of the same mind, why the theory 
on which she had come back to Mrs. Beale 
the general reunion, the delightful trio, 
should have broken down so in fact. Mrs. 
Beale, however, only gave her more to think 
about in saying that their disappointment 
was the result of his having got into his head 
a kind of idea. 
"What kind of idea?" 
" Oh, goodness knows ! " She spoke with 
an approach to asperity. " He 's so awfully 
delicate." 
" Delicate? " that was ambiguous. 
"About what he does, don't you know?" 
said Mrs. Beale. She made it clearer. 
"Well, about what we do." 
Maisie wondered. " You and me? " 
" Me and him, silly ! " cried Mrs. Beale with, 
this time, a real giggle. 
" But you don't do any harm you 
don't," said Maisie, wondering afresh and 
intending her emphasis as a resigned allusion 
to her parents. 
" Of course we don't, you angel that 's 
just the ground  take ! " her companion 
exultantly responded. " He says he does n't 
want you mixed up." 
" Mixed up with what? " 
" That 's exactly what  want to know : 
mixed up with what, and how you are any 
more mixed ? " But Mrs. Beale paused 
without ending her question. She ended 
after an instant in a different way. " All you 
can say is it 's his fancy." 
The tone of this, in spite of its expressing 
a resignation, the fruit of weariness, that dis- 
missed the subject, conveyed so vividly how 
much such a fancy was not Mrs. Beale's own 
that our young lady was led by the mere fact 
of contact to arrive at a dim apprehension 
of the unuttered and the unknown. The 
relation between her step-parents had then 
a kind of mysterious residuum : this was the 
first time she really had reflected that except 
as regards herself it was not a relationship. 
To each other it was only what they might 
happen to make it, and she gathered that 
this, in the event, had been something that 
led Sir Claude to keep away from her. 
Did n't he fear she would be compromised ? 
The perception of such a scruple endeared 
him the more, and it flashed over her that 
she might simplify everything by showing 
him how little she made of such a danger. 
Had n't she lived with her eyes on it from 
her third year? It was the condition most 
frequently discussed at the Faranges', where 
the word was always in the air and where at 
the age of five, amid rounds of applause, she 
could gabble it off. She knew as well in 
short that a person could be compromised as 
that a person could be slapped with a hair- 
brush or left alone in the dark, and it was 
equally familiar to her that each of these or- 
deals was in general held to have too little 
effect. But the first thing was to make 
absolutely sure of Mrs. Beale. This was 
done by saying to her thoughtfully: "Well, 
if you don't mind and you really don't, do 
you ? " 
Mrs. Beale, with a dawn of amusement, 
considered. "Mixing you up? Not a bit. 
For what does it mean? " 
"Whatever it means, I don't in the least 
mind being mixed. Therefore if you don't 
and I don't," Maisie continued, " don't you 
think that when I see him this evening I had 
better just tell him we don't and ask him 
why in the world he should?" 
XVIII 
THE child, however, was not destined to en- 
joy much of Sir Claude at the " thingum- 
bob," which took for them a very different 
turn indeed. On the spot Mrs. Beale, with 
hilarity, had urged her to the course pro- 
posed ; but later, at the Exhibition, she with- 
drew this allowance, mentioning, as a result 
of second thoughts, that when a man was so 
sensitive such a communication might only 
make him worse. It would have been hard 
indeed for Sir Claude to be "worse," Maisie 
felt, as, in the gardens and the crowd, when 
the first dazzle had dropped, she looked for 
him in vain up and down. They had all 
their time, the couple, for frugal, wistful wan- 
dering : they had partaken together, at home, 
of the light, vague meal Maisie's name for 
it was a "jam-supper" to which they were 
reduced when Mr. Farange sought his pleas- 
ure abroad. It was abroad now, entirely, 
that Mr. Farange cultivated this philosophy, 
and it was the actual impression of his 
daughter, derived from his wife, that he had 
three days before joined a friend's yacht at 
Cowes. 
The place was full of sideshows, to which 
