"I was silent out of regard to your father, who was blind to your
faults," she answered. "You must not expect me to be equally blind."
"I don't, madam."
"Do you intend to remain in the kitchen?" demanded Mrs. Kent
"I was questioning Margaret about my father's last days."
"I am the proper one to question."
"Would you have afforded me the information I desired?"
"If the questions you asked were of a proper character."
"Mrs. Kent, I will take you at your word. How does it happen that you
dismissed Dr. Graham, my father's old family physician?"
His step-mother hesitated and looked angry, but she replied, after a
brief pause:
"He did not understand the case."
"What makes you think so? He certainly ought to understand my father's
constitution."
"Perhaps he ought, but he didn't," said Mrs. Kent, sharply.
"You haven't given any reason."
"I have given all I choose. I don't mean to be catechised by a boy."
"Who is this Dr. Kenyon whom you called in afterward?"
"A very skilful physician."
"He looks young."
"He has a high reputation."
"When did he assume charge of my father's case?"
"A week ago."
"And since then he has grown steadily worse."
"Who told you that?" demanded Mrs. Kent, sharply.
"Is it not true?"
"Did Margaret tell you this?"
"I did," said Margaret, quietly.
"I shall remember this," said Mrs. Kent, spitefully.
"I didn't need to ask Margaret," said Jasper, "when my father lies dead
after a week's treatment by this skilful physician."
Mrs. Kent was white with anger.
"You ought to know that life and death are in the power of no doctor,"
she said, for, angry as she was, she saw that it was necessary to reply
to what Jasper said. "In sending for Dr. Kenyon I did not much expect
that he would cure your father, but I felt that it was my duty to give
him this last chance. Unfortunately he was too far gone."
"You thought that matters were as bad as that a week ago, and yet you
didn't send for me?" exclaimed Jasper.
"It would have done no good," said she, coldly.
"But it would have been a satisfaction to me to see something of him in
his last sickness. Mrs. Kent, you haven't treated me right in this
matter."
"Is that the way for a boy to talk to his--elder?"
"Yes, if he says only what is strictly true."
"I shall not continue this conversation," said Mrs. Kent, haughtily,
"nor shall I submit to be talked to in this style. It is not for your
interest to make me your enemy," she added, significantly.
Jasper was frank and fearless by temperament, and anything in the shape
of a menace roused his high spirit.
"That consideration doesn't weigh with me a particle," he said, hastily.
"We will see," she retorted, and with a look of anger she swept from the
room.
"Margaret," said Jasper, abruptly, "did you go into my father's
sick-chamber at any time?"
"Yes, Master Jasper."
"Did you ever hear my father inquire after me?"
"I heard him say more than once, with a sigh like, that he wished to see
you."
"And she wouldn't send for me!" exclaimed Jasper, bitterly.
"She always opposed it, saying it wouldn't do no good, and would only
take you off your studies."
"Much she cared for my studies! Margaret, I will never forgive that
woman, never!"
"Well, I can't blame you, Master Jasper."
Here Margaret heard her name called in a loud voice, and was forced to
obey.
"She wants to separate us," thought Jasper, as he slowly and sadly went
up to his own chamber.
CHAPTER X.
NICHOLAS APPEARS UPON THE SCENE.
The funeral was over. Mrs. Kent was considered by those present to
display a great deal of fortitude. As she felt no real grief for the
death of her husband, this was not remarkable. Jasper looked pale and
sorrowful, but gave way to no violent demonstrations of sorrow, though
he began to understand that he had not only lost his best friend, but
become at the same time exposed to the machinations of a resolute and
relentless enemy.
In due time the will was read.
It was very brief, and clear in its provisions.
To Mrs. Kent was left one-third of the estate, real and personal, of
which the deceased was possessed, and the balance was willed to his only
child and dear son Jasper, of whom his step-mother was left guardian.
When this clause was read Mrs. Kent directed a brief and triumphant
glance at Jasper. He met the glance, and understood what it meant. He
knew that it boded him no good.
The company assembled gradually dispersed, and Jasper was left alone
with his step-mother.
"You see that I am left your guardian," she said.
"Yes," answered Jasper, briefly.
"Perhaps you would have chosen a different one if the choice had been
left to you," she continued, with a sneer.
"I should," said Jasper, promptly.
"Well, that is plain language."
"I suppose you expected a plain answer," said the boy, firmly.
"I did not expect a polite one. You appear to forget that I am a lady."
"You are mistaken, madam. I am ready to treat you as well as you treat
me. I won't pretend that I like your guardianship, as I fear that we
shall not agree."
"If we don't, you will have to yield," said his step-mother.
"I would rather not dispute till it is absolutely necessary," said
Jasper. "May I ask whether you desire me to return to school?"
"I have not made up my mind. I may be able to tell you to-morrow."
"Until you make up your mind you expect me to remain at home, I
suppose?"
"Yes."
Jasper bowed and turned away. He went down stairs into the hall just as
the front door was opened, and the familiar voice of Nicholas Thorne was
heard. Jasper stared in some surprise at the intruder, not knowing that
he was expected.
"Halloo, Jasper!" said Thorne, boisterously. "How are you?"
"I am well," said Jasper, distantly.
"Where's mother?"
"Your mother? Your aunt, you mean."
"No, I don't. That's all gammon. She's my mother."
"She is!" exclaimed Jasper. "What made you deny it, then?"
"Policy," said Thorne, laughing. "Your father might not have liked it.
Now it's all right."
"Did your mother send for you?" asked Jasper.
"Yes, of course she did. This is to be my home now."
Jasper made no comment. What could he say? If Thorne were his
step-mother's son, it was only natural that he should live in the house
of which she was mistress.
But it seemed to him as if he were being pushed out of his own father's
house, and these strangers were coming in to occupy it He felt that it
would no longer seem like home to him.
"Well, where's my mother?" asked Thorne.
"She's up stairs. Shall I show you the way?"
"If you're a mind to. I guess I'll know my own way round here pretty
soon."
"What a detestable fellow!" thought Jasper. "I am afraid we shall
quarrel soon."
He led the way up stairs, and ushered Nicholas into his mother's
presence.
This uncouth boy was the one object this selfish woman loved. She
uttered an exclamation of delight.
"Welcome home, my dear Nicholas!" she exclaimed, advancing hastily and
throwing her arms round his neck.
He received the embrace apathetically, but made no opposition, as at
another time he might have done. He felt on good terms with his mother
and the whole world, in the face of the brilliant improvement of his
prospects.
"Are you well, my dear boy?" asked Mrs. Kent.
"Oh, I'm well enough, mother. This is a splendid old place, isn't it?"
Mrs. Kent laughed at Jasper.
"Yes, it is a fine country-place."
Jasper left the two, and went down stairs.
"Say, mother, how about the will?" asked Thorne. "Is it all right?"
"A third of the estate is left to me."
"Only a third! Does Jasper get the rest?"
"Yes."
"That's a shame. You ought to have had half."
"I shall have control of the whole till Jasper is of age. I am left his
guardian."
"That's good, anyhow. You must make him toe the mark, mother."
"I mean to."
"He's always had his own way, and he may give you trouble. He feels high
and mighty. I can tell you."
"I shall know how to deal with him," said Mrs. Kent, closing her thin
lips resolutely. "He will find me as firm as himself."
"I guess that's so, mother. You'll prove a tough customer."
Mrs. Kent smiled, as if she enjoyed the compliment.
"I'll stand by you, mother. If you have any trouble, just call me in."
"I don't expect to need any help, Nicholas; but I am glad to find I have
a brave son, who will stand by his mother."
Certainly no one believed in Nicholas so thoroughly as his mother. To
the world generally he was a cowardly bully, rough, brutal, and selfish.
In his mother's eyes he was manly and a paragon of youthful virtue. I
have already said that Thorne's affection for his mother was far less
disinterested, as is very apt to be the case with boys. His intention to
benefit by the change of circumstances was shown at once.
"What allowance are you going to give me, mother?" he asked.
"I have not thought, yet, Nicholas."
"Then I want you to think, mother."
"How much do you want?"
"I want as much as Jasper gets."
"You shall receive as much," said his mother, promptly. "Do you know how
much he has received?"
"Yes--he has had five dollars a week."
"That's too much."
"It isn't too much for me."
"I shall reduce his allowance to three dollars a week."
"You don't expect me to get along on three dollars?" grumbled Thorne.
"I will give you five."
"And Jasper only three?"
"Yes."
"Won't he be mad!" exclaimed Nicholas, with malicious satisfaction.
"What'll you say to him about it?"
"I shall merely announce my decision," said Mrs. Kent, coolly. "I am not
bound to assign any reasons."
"Won't there be a precious row!" said Thorne.
"I presume he will complain, but he has not conducted himself toward me
in a manner to secure any favors."
"I say, mother, can you give me my first week's allowance in advance?
I'm awful hard up."
"Here, my son," said Mrs. Kent, drawing out her pocket-book and placing
a five-dollar bill in her son's hand.
"Good for you, mother. When are you going to have supper?"
"In an hour."
"How much property did the old man leave?"
"The estate is probably fully up to one hundred thousand dollars. This
place is worth fifteen thousand. The rest is in good interest-paying
stocks and bonds."
"And a third belongs to you! I say, mother, you've feathered your nest
well. I guess I'll go out and take a look round."
In the rear of the house, in front of the stable, Nicholas caught sight
of Jasper.
He smiled maliciously.
"I'll go and tell him about the reduction in his allowance," he said to
himself.
CHAPTER XI.
THE OUTBREAK OF HOSTILITIES.
Jasper was quietly thinking over his change of circumstances when he was
roused by a rather violent slap on the shoulder.
Turning hastily, he saw that it was Nicholas.
"I say, this is a jolly place, Jasper," said Thorne.
"Yes," said Jasper. "It has been my home as far back as I can remember."
"That's where you have the advantage of me, but after all it doesn't
make much difference, as long as it's going to be my home now."
Jasper didn't reply.
"I say, Kent, it seems odd that me and you are brothers," said Thorne,
not very grammatically.
"We are not," said Jasper, quickly.
"It's all the same--we've got the same mother."
"You are mistaken," said Jasper, coldly.
"You know what I mean. She's my mother and your step-mother."
"That's very different. Besides, the relationship is so very recent that
I find it hard to think of your mother as any relation at all."
"She is, though. I suppose me and you will be a good deal together now."
"I don't know what my future plans will be," said Jasper, not very much
elated by this prospect.
"No, I suppose not. Mother'll arrange about them. How much allowance did
your father use to give you?"
Jasper thought at first of refusing to reply, but it occurred to him
that under the new and strange circumstances it was not an improper
question for Nicholas to ask. He therefore decided to reply.
"Five dollars a week," he answered.
"When was it paid?"
"On Saturday."
"See here," said Thorne, drawing from his vest pocket the five-dollar
bill his mother had given him.
"What of it?" said Jasper.
"It's my allowance for this week," said Thorne, triumphantly.
"I congratulate you," said Jasper, coldly.
"That's kind in you," returned Thorne, with a sneer, "especially as you
are cut down."
"What do you mean?" asked Jasper, hastily.
"Mother says five dollars a week is too much for you. She's going to cut
you down to three."
The indignant color came to Jasper's cheek. Was this interloper--this
stranger--to be preferred to him in his own father's house? He was not
excessively fond of money, and had there been need would not have
objected to a reduction of his allowance. But to be deprived of his
rights in favor of a fellow like Thorne was intolerable. If Nicholas
wished to annoy and anger him, he had succeeded.
"Who told you this?" demanded Jasper, sharply.
"My mother," answered Nicholas, with a gratified smile.
"When?"
"About fifteen minutes ago," replied Thorne, with provoking coolness.
"I don't think she would do anything so outrageous."
"Don't you? You'll find mother's got plenty of grit."
"So have I," said Jasper, his face hardening. "If your mother undertakes
to wrong me she will repent it."
"You had better not say that to her," said Thorne, insolently.
"I shall when the proper time comes. My allowance is not due yet. I
don't care for the money, but my father knew what it was proper for me
to have."
"There's going to be a row," thought Nicholas, with satisfaction. "I'll
bet on mother. She'll put down this whipper-snapper."
Jasper turned away, and walked out of the yard.
"Where are you going?" asked Thorne.
"To walk."
"I guess I'll go along, too."
"I would rather go alone."
"You're not very polite."
"Excuse me," said Jasper, with the instinct of a gentleman. "You would
find me very poor company. Another time we will walk together."
"Oh, just as you like; I don't want to intrude," said Thorne, sulkily.
They did not meet again till supper. Mrs. Kent presided. On one side sat
Nicholas, on the other Jasper. Our hero looked sad. The kind, worn face
he was accustomed to see at the head of the table was gone forever. He
felt that he was indeed desolate. His appetite was very small, while, on
the other hand, Nicholas seemed to be famished. His mother kept plying
him with dainties and tidbits, and he appeared to like the treatment
amazingly.
"Why don't you eat, Jasper?" asked Thorne with his mouth full.
"I am not hungry."
"I should think your walk might have given you an appetite."
"It doesn't appear to."
"You look awful glum. Is it what I said this afternoon?"
"About what?"
"Your allowance being cut down."
"I wasn't thinking about that particularly. Besides, you are not the one
from whom I expect to receive such communications."
"It's all true, though, as you will find. Ain't it, mother?" persisted
Nicholas, who was anxious to have the row come off as soon as possible.
Jasper turned his glance upon Mrs. Kent.
"You needn't have introduced the subject, Nicholas," she said, with
slight reproof.
"Why not, mother?"
"It isn't a proper subject to introduce at the supper-table."
"You see, Jasper didn't half believe what I told him."
"He may rely upon your statement," said Mrs. Kent.
"Am I to understand that my allowance is reduced to three dollars a
week?" asked Jasper, who felt that he had been dragged into the
discussion.
"Yes. I consider that three dollars a week is a liberal allowance for a
boy of your age."
"My father gave me five."
"Your father acted according to his judgment," said Mrs. Kent, coldly.
"On some points I differ from him in judgment. I think that he indulged
you too much, probably because you were his only child."
"He was always kind to me," said Jasper. "It was his nature to be kind."
"You will find me kind, too, if you deserve it," said his step-mother.
But her tone belied her words.
"Nicholas tells me that his allowance is to be five dollars," said
Jasper.
"I conceive that the amount of his allowance has nothing to do with
yours," said Mrs. Kent.
"Is it true?" persisted Jasper.
"It is," said Mrs. Kent, with a defiant look, which Jasper interpreted
to mean "What are you going to do about it?"
"Why is he to receive five dollars, if I am only to get three?"
"Because I choose."
"You have answered rightly," said Jasper, scornfully. "Even you are
unable to defend it on the score of fairness or justice."
Mrs. Kent's thin lips compressed.
"Audacious boy!" she exclaimed, "do you dare to speak to me in this
style?"
"I am not aware of any impropriety, madam. I am protesting against your
unjust partiality for Nicholas."
"He is my son."
"I am aware of that; but the money out of which the allowance is paid
came to you from my father."
"Do you dare to continue your impertinent remarks?" exclaimed his
step-mother, pale with rage.
"Madam, I am only stating the truth," said Jasper, sturdily. "You cannot
expect me to submit tamely to such an injustice. Had you reduced my
allowance and given Nicholas no more I would have let it pass."
"I won't submit to this impertinence!" exclaimed Mrs. Kent, furiously.
"Nicholas, will you sit there and see your mother insulted?"
"What do you want me to do, mother?" asked Thorne, not exactly liking
the turn matters had taken.
"Put that unmannerly boy out of the room."
"Oh, there ain't any need of that," said Thorne, who knew by experience
Jasper's strength.
"Do as I say, or I will give you no allowance at all!" said Mrs. Kent,
stamping her foot angrily.
Nicholas unwillingly arose from his seat and approached Jasper.
"You'd better not try it, Thorne," said Jasper, coolly.
"Do you hear that, sir? He has insulted you, too," said Mrs. Kent, in a
furious passion.
It was these words, perhaps, that spurred Nicholas to his task. Jasper
had now risen, and Thorne threw himself upon him.
But Jasper was prepared. In less time than I have required to tell it,
Thorne found himself prostrate on the floor.
"Madam," said Jasper, turning to his step-mother, "I am ready to leave
your presence now, but of my own accord."
He left the room. Mrs. Kent was too astonished to speak. She had felt no
doubt that Nicholas was more than a match for Jasper, as he certainly
was bigger, and weighed twenty pounds more.
"My poor boy!" she said, pitifully, bending over her son; "are you much
hurt?"
"Yes," said Nicholas; "and it's all on account of you!"
"I thought you were stronger than he."
"So I am, but he knows how to wrestle; besides, he's so quick."
"I thought you could have put him out easily."
"Well, don't set me to doing it again," said Thorne, sulkily. "I didn't
want to fight. You made me."
"Don't mind it, my dear boy. It was because I was angry with him."
"Oh, how my head aches!"
"I'll put on some cologne. I'll give you an extra five dollars, too, for
standing by your mother."
"All right, mother," said Thorne, in a more cheerful tone. "That's the
way to talk. Give it to me now."
Jasper did not see either of them again that evening. He called on a
friend, and, entering the house at ten o'clock, went directly to his own
room.
CHAPTER XII.
A SCHEME OF VENGEANCE.
Mrs. Kent had never cared for Jasper. Since the marriage she had
disliked him. Now that he had struck down Nicholas in her presence, she
positively hated him. She did not stop to consider that he was provoked
to it, and only acted in self-defense. She thirsted for revenge--more,
indeed, than Nicholas, who, bully as he was, having been fairly worsted,
was disposed to accept his defeat philosophically. If he could annoy or
thwart Jasper he would have been glad to do it, but he did not desire to
injure him physically.
Not so Mrs. Kent.
Her darling had been assaulted and defeated in her presence. She did not
again wish to put him against Jasper lest he should be again defeated,
but she wished Jasper, her detested step-son, to drink the same cup of
humiliation which had been forced upon Nicholas.
So she sat pondering how to accomplish the object she had in view. She
could not herself beat Jasper, though, had he been younger and smaller,
she would certainly have attempted it. She must do it by deputy.
Under the circumstances she thought of Tom Forbes, a strong and stalwart
hired man, who had been for some months working on the place. Probably
he would not like the task, but she would threaten to discharge him if
he refused to obey her commands, and this, she thought, would bring him
around.
"I wonder where Jasper is?" said Nicholas, about eight o'clock, as he
sat opposite the little table where his mother was sewing.
"Gone out, I suppose," said Mrs. Kent.
"He found the house too hot to hold him," suggested Thorne.
"He certainly will if he conducts himself in the future as he has
already done. He makes a mistake if he thinks I will tolerate such
conduct."
"It's because you're a woman," said her son. "Boys of his age don't make
much account of women."
"Do you speak for yourself as well as for him?" asked Mrs. Kent,
sharply.
"Of course not," said Nicholas, whose interest it was to keep on good
terms with his mother. "Of course not; besides, you are my mother."
"You are much more of a gentleman than Jasper is," said his mother,
appeased.
"I hope so," said Nicholas.
"As for him, I consider him a young ruffian."
"So he is," said Thorne, who was ready to assent to anything that his
mother might say.
"And yet his father thought him a paragon!" continued Mrs. Kent, her lip
curling. "It is strange how parents can be deceived!"
Unconsciously she illustrated the truth of this remark in her own
person. She considered Nicholas handsome, spirited, and amiable--indeed,
as an unusually fascinating and attractive boy. To others he was big,
overgrown, malicious, and stupid. But then mothers are apt to look
through different spectacles from the rest of the world.
"I guess Jasper'll want to change his guardian," said Thorne, laughing.
"You and he won't hitch horses very well."
"Don't use such a common expression, Nicholas. I want you to grow up a
well-bred gentleman."
"Oh, well, I mean to. But I say, if his father liked him so much, what
made him appoint you to take care of him?"
"He didn't know how I felt toward Jasper. I humored his fancies, and
treated him better than I felt toward him."
"Then you wanted to be his guardian?"
"Yes, I wanted to pay off old scores," said Mrs. Kent, again compressing
her lips with unpleasant firmness.
"What made you dislike him?" asked her son, with curiosity.
"He was opposed to my marriage. He would have stopped it if he could,
but there I got the better of him. When he found that he was too late he
treated me with coldness. He never liked me."
"By Jove! I don't think he's had much reason," said Nicholas, laughing
boisterously.
"He'll regret not having treated me with more attention. I can thwart
all his plans and make his life very uncomfortable."
"I'll trust you to do that, mother. You've got spunk enough."
"Don't say 'spunk,' Nicholas."
"What shall I say, then?"
"Resolution--firmness."
"It's all the same."
"There is a choice in words. Remember, my dear boy, I want you to be a
refined and cultivated gentleman."
"Well, I can be, now you're rich. But I say, mother, what are you going
to do? You ain't going to stick down in this dull place all your life,
are you?"
"No, Nicholas. In the summer we'll go travelling."
"Good!" exclaimed Nicholas, with satisfaction. "Where will we go?"
"How would you like to go to Niagara Falls?"
"Bully!"
"Or to Saratoga?"
"I don't know much about that."
"It is a fashionable place."
"Can a fellow have fun there?"
"Of course he can."
"Then I'd like to go. But I say, are you going to take Jasper, too?"
"No," said Mrs. Kent, decidedly. "I certainly shall not give him so much
pleasure."
"I don't know. I might like it better if I had a fellow of my own age to
go around with."
"You will find plenty of companions more agreeable than Jasper."
"All right, mother. I suppose you know best."
"You can trust me to provide for your happiness, Nicholas. It is all I
live for."
The next morning Mrs. Kent arose early, and summoned the hired man, Tom
Forbes.
"Tom," said she, "have you a good whip?"
"Yes, ma'am."
"And a strong arm?"
"Middlin', ma'am," answered the wondering hired man.
"I want you to be in the kitchen, provided with your whip, when
breakfast is over."
"What for?" asked Tom, in surprise.
"Never mind now. I shall inform you at the time."
"All right, ma'am."
Twenty minutes later, Jasper, unaware of his step-mother's benevolent
intentions, took his seat at the breakfast-table.
CHAPTER XIII.
MRS. KENT IS FOILED.
Breakfast was a quiet meal. Mrs. Kent preserved a frigid silence toward
Jasper, interrupted only by necessary questions. Nicholas, who
understood that there was a row in prospect, occasionally smiled as he
looked across the table at Jasper, but he, too, was silent.
When breakfast was over, and the three arose from the table, Mrs. Kent
said, in a cold voice:
"Jasper Kent, I have something to say to you."
"Very well," said Jasper, taking a seat and looking expectant.
"Yesterday you conducted yourself in a most improper manner."
"Please explain," said Jasper, quietly.
"You ought not to require any explanation. You made an assault upon
Nicholas."
"I beg pardon, Mrs. Kent, but he made an assault upon me."
"You knocked him down."
"Not until he attacked me."
"He did so by my direction."
"Did you expect me to make no resistance?" asked Jasper.
"You had insulted me, and it was his duty, as my son, to resent it."
"I don't think you have any right to say that I insulted you, and you
would not have any reason to complain of me if you would treat me with
ordinary justice and politeness."
"You are insulting me now," said Mrs. Kent, angrily.
"I am telling the truth. I am sorry that it is the truth. I would prefer
to live on good terms with you."
"And have your own way!" said his step-mother, sarcastically. "I
understand you, but I will have you know that I am mistress in this
house. Are you ready to apologize for having attacked Nicholas?"
"I did not wish to do it, especially as he didn't attack me of his own
accord, but if he should do so again I should act in the same manner."
"Insolent!" exclaimed his step-mother, reddening.
"You have peculiar ideas of insolence," said Jasper, quietly. "I believe
in defending myself, but I shouldn't like to harm Nicholas."
"You have undertaken to rebel against my authority," said Mrs. Kent,
"but you don't understand me. I am not to be bullied or overcome by a
boy."
"You are in no danger of either from me, madam."
"I shall take care not to give you the power. Nicholas, call Tom."
Jasper looked at his step-mother in amazement. What had Tom Forbes to do
with their colloquy.
Nicholas opened the door of the adjoining room, the kitchen, and
summoned the hired man.
Ignorant of why he was wanted, for Mrs. Kent had not informed him, he
came into the room, and looked about with a perplexed expression.
He was a tall, strong-looking fellow, country-bred, of about twenty-five
or six.
"Where is your whip, Tom?" demanded Mrs. Kent.
"My whip?" repeated Tom.
"Yes; didn't I tell you I wanted you to have it?"
"Yes, ma'am; it's in the kitchen."
"Bring it."
Tom went into the kitchen, and returned bringing the whip.
"What am I to do with it?" he asked.
"I will tell you in a moment. Jasper Kent," said his step-mother,
turning to him, "you have rebelled against my just authority, you have
insulted me in my own house, you have made a brutal attack upon my son
in my presence, and now I am going to have you punished. Tom, I order
you to give Jasper half a dozen lashes with your whip."
It is hard to tell which looked the more surprised at this brutal
command, Jasper or the hired man. They looked at each other in
amazement, but Tom did not stir.
"Did you hear me?" asked Mrs. Kent, sharply, impatient of the delay.
"Yes, ma'am, I heard you," answered Tom, slowly.
"Why don't you obey, then?" she continued, in the same tone.
"Because," said Tom, with manly independence, "I didn't hire out to do
anything of the kind."
"Do you refuse?"
"Yes, I do. You may do your own dirty work."
"It seems you are not only disobedient, but insolent," said Mrs. Kent,
angrily.
"You must be crazy, ma'am!" said the hired man, bluntly.
"No more of this. I discharge you from my employment."
"What! for not flogging Master Jasper?"
"For not obeying me."
"I'll follow your directions, ma'am, so far as they are in the line of
duty, but I won't do that."
"I discharge you."
"As to that, ma'am, if I go, I'll let everybody in the village know why
you sent me away."
For this Mrs. Kent was not altogether prepared. She knew that it was not
prudent to defy public opinion. Perhaps she had already gone too far.
She put a great constraint upon herself, and said:
"Go back to your work. I will speak of this matter hereafter."
Tom withdrew at once, glad of the opportunity. Thus far Mrs. Kent had
been foiled, and she knew it. She could scarcely conceal her
mortification.
Jasper, who had been passive thus far, now spoke. He felt outraged and
disgusted by his step-mother's brutal purpose, though it had failed.
"Mrs. Kent," he said with quiet resolution, "after the scene of this
morning I cannot remain in the same house with you. My father has not
been dead a week, yet you have treated me in a manner which, though I
never liked you, I could not have thought possible. You are left my
guardian. I do not wish to remain another day in this house. Have I your
permission to return to school?"
"No," said his step-mother.
"Why not?"
"Because you wish it. I do not mean to let you have your own way."
"I am willing to go to another school, if you insist upon it."
"You will go to no school. You will stay here."
"In this house?"
"Yes."
"With the opinion which you have of me, Mrs. Kent, I should hardly think
this would be very agreeable to you."
"It will not. I hate the sight of you!" said his step-mother, with
energy.
"I am sorry for that, but I am not surprised. From the way you have
treated me, I should think so. Won't it be better for as both to be
separated?"
"It will gratify your wishes, and therefore I order you to remain here."
"That we may have more such scenes as yesterday and to-day?"
"No; I am determined to break your rebellious will, and teach you to
obey me implicitly."
"I have only to ask if you have fully made up your mind," said Jasper,
quietly, but with suppressed excitement.
"I mean precisely what I say."
"Then, madam, I shall have to leave this house and go out into the
world. I shall find more kindness among strangers than here."
"I have heard boys talk like this before," said Mrs. Kent, with
contemptuous incredulity.
"Boys sometimes mean what they say," retorted Jasper.
He took his hat and left the room without another word.
"I say, mother," said Nicholas, "suppose he don't come back?"
"There's no fear of that," said Mrs. Kent, coldly.
"But I say, mother, he's pretty plucky, Jasper is."
"He won't run away from me as long as I have charge of his property, you
may be sure of that. He'll be coming back and apologizing pretty soon."
"Suppose he doesn't?"
"Then it'll be his own fault."
"You may as well let him go back to school, mother. He'll be out of our
way, and we can enjoy ourselves."
"I am not going to gratify him so far. He has defied me and insulted me,
and he must take the consequences," said Mrs. Kent, with a compression
of her thin lips.
On the whole, Jasper's prospects could not be said to be very
flattering.
CHAPTER XIV.
MEDIATION.
When Jasper left the house he bent his steps to the dwelling of a friend
of his father, Otis Miller, a man of considerable property and good
position. He found Mr. Miller at home.
"I am glad to see you, Jasper," said he, cordially.
"Thank you, sir."
"You have met with a great loss," said Mr. Miller, attributing Jasper's
serious expression to his father's death.
"Yes, sir; I am only just beginning to understand how much."
"A father's place cannot be supplied."
"No, sir; but this is not the extent of my trouble."
"Can I do anything to help you?"
"Yes, sir. I am very much in need of advice."
"I shall be glad to give you the best I can, Jasper. I was your father's
friend, and I shall be glad to be yours also."
"Thank you, sir. My troubles are connected with my step-mother, who
treats me like an enemy."
"Can this be so?" asked Mr. Miller, in surprise.
"I will tell you all, and then ask your advice."
"Do so."
Jasper told the story briefly and without excitement. It was only in his
step-mother's presence that he felt disturbed.
"I have met your step-mother, but I know very little of her," said Mr.
Miller. "She never impressed me very favorably, but I never dreamed that
she would act in such an unreasonable manner. Perhaps even now matters
are not as bad as you think. Sometimes people say things in anger which
they repent of in their cooler moments."
"I don't think it is the case with Mrs. Kent."
"It is unfortunate, since she is your guardian."
"I wish you were my guardian, Mr. Miller."
"For your sake, Jasper, I wish I were. I don't think we should quarrel."
"I know we should not."
"You wish to know what to do?"
"Yes."
"You are quite sure you cannot stay at home?"
"I should be subject to constant persecution from Mrs. Kent."
"You think she would not allow you to go back to school?"
"She has refused to do so."
"There is one thing she cannot do, and that is, keep your portion of the
estate from you when you become of age."
"No, I suppose not."
"You will then be rich."
"But the money won't do me any good now, will it?"
"In this way it will. Suppose I agree to pay your expenses at
school--that is to say, advancing the money, to be repaid when you
obtain yours?"
"That would be very kind, Mr. Miller; but I shouldn't like to subject
you to that risk."
"You mean that a minor's promise would be invalid? Well, Jasper, I have
too much confidence in you to have any doubt of your integrity."
"Thank you, Mr. Miller; but suppose I should die before attaining my
majority?"
"Then I should probably lose the money."
"That is what I thought of. I should not like to have you run the risk."
"But I am willing to do so. However, it may be as well to ascertain
definitely your step-mother's intentions first. I will call upon her in
your interest and find out."
"Thank you, sir. I should like to have you do so, as I don't want to act
too hastily."
"I will go at once. Will you remain here till I return?"
"Yes, sir."
When Mrs. Kent was told that Mr. Miller had called to see her she went
down to meet him, not surmising his errand.
"Mrs. Kent," said he, after the ordinary greetings were over, "I have
called with reference to your relations to your late husband's son,
Jasper."
"Did he ask you to come?" demanded Mrs. Kent, frowning.
"No; but he came to ask my advice as to what he ought to do. I am sorry
to hear that you are unfriendly."
"He has treated me with intolerable insolence," said Mrs. Kent, hotly.
"That surprises me. It is wholly contrary to his reputation with those
who have known him from his infancy," said Mr. Miller, quietly.
"Then you don't know him as he is."
"He tells me you have accorded your own son superior privileges."
"My son treats me with respect."
