in the barn to sober up; because he did not want us children to hear the
terrible story."
"Were the slaves brought that way?" asked Hanny, with a shudder.
"Most every civilised country condemns that part of the awful practice,"
answered Ben. "But it is a fact that the native tribes in Africa sell
prisoners to one another, or whoever will buy them. Do you suppose
Africa will ever be explored?" and Ben looked up at Mr. Whitney.
We did not know much about Africa even then. But Ben was afterward to
see the great explorer Stanley, whose journey across that country was a
wonderful romance. And although the question of slavery was seething
even then, he could not have dreamed, this lovely afternoon when all was
at peace, that one day he should be in the thick of the battle himself,
with many another brave soul, when his country was nearly rent in twain.
A few lanes led up to places, the outline of streets, and lost
themselves in the fields. Cottages had been built to face nearly every
way. Here and there was an old colonial house of greater pretensions,
some of them at the end of a long driveway lined with stately trees.
Here also were the remnants of orchards, meadows where cows were
pasturing, thickets of shrubbery with bread-and-butter vine running over
them, showing glossy green leaves.
Mr. Whitney paused at a queer, long, one-story house with a high-peaked
roof in which were set three small dormer windows. There was a little
dooryard in front, a Dutch hall door with an iron knocker, a well near
by with the old oaken bucket General Morris had immortalised, and back
of the house a picturesque ravine through which ran a clear stream of
water that presently found its way out to the Passaic. Willows bent over
it, elms and maples stood, tall and handsome, like guardian sentinels.
A little old woman sat sewing by the window.
"We haven't time to stop," said Mr. Whitney. "Hanny, that lady is your
hero's grandmother, and the mother of General Watts Kearny. He not only
distinguished himself in the Mexican War, but also in the War of 1812.
Then he was Governor of Vera Cruz and the City of Mexico."
"And the hero of no end of stories," added Ben. "Jim and I were wild
over them a few years ago. Why do people keep saying we have no romance
in our own country, because we have no ruined old castles? Why, Mexico
itself is a land of historical romance!"
"What a lovely cool dell!" exclaimed Dele. "Just the place to take your
book on a hot summer day."
"I believe your young hero Philip was born in New York. But this is the
old home, one of the landmarks."
Opposite was a rather pretty place,--a rambling brick house with sharp,
pointed roofs, and a long stretch of evergreens. It was beautiful in
this soft atmosphere. The birds made a swift dazzle now and then, and
filled the air with melody.
"Up here is a hedge of hawthorn that was brought over from England by a
Yorkshireman living up above. It is out of bloom now; but another year
you can come over early in May and see the 'hawthorn blossoms white'
that poets never tire of praising."
Dele broke off a sprig for herself, and one for Hanny. The spaces were
larger, the houses farther apart. On the west side was a tree-nursery
and garden, and two quaint old frame-houses that hardly looked large
enough for any one to live in; but there were children playing about;
and on the other side a cemetery. All this tract was known as Mount
Pleasant.
At the north of the cemetery, they plunged down a stony way called a
road, mostly by courtesy, though it was the only way of getting up from
the river. Great trees overhung it on one side, and gave it a weird,
darkened aspect.
"It might be a ghost-walk, at night," exclaimed Delia. "Edgar A. Poe
could have put a story here. I like the tragic; but I'm not so fond of
the horrible."
Another turn showed them the river and the opposite shore crowned with
green glittering in the afternoon sunshine. They all paused, it was such
a wonderful outlook.
And when they reached it, and glanced up and down, it was a picture
indeed. The river made little bends, and wound around tiny points, edged
with the greenest of sedge grass in some places, then grey stones with
mossy sea-growth, or willows dipping their branches in the lightly
ruffled water. Not a soul to be seen anywhere, not a sound save the
voices of birds; but while they looked, a flock of geese came floating
grandly down.
    "On thy fair bosom, silver lake,
    The white swan spreads her snowy sail,"
quoted Delia.
"It is not the first time swans have proved geese," said Mr. Theodore,
with a smile. "But for the sake of the picturesque we will let it pass."
"I wonder if the Wye or the Severn would be so enchanting to us if poets
had not lived there and immortalised them?"
"When we are an old country, we will, no doubt, sigh for relics. In
1666, this was called 'Neworke or Pesayak towne;' and a little more than
a hundred years ago this Gully was made the dividing line between the
towns. There are many historic spots in Belleville, and an old copper
mine that once made a great addition to her prosperity. But my quest
ends here. I don't know as I have a hero exactly, Miss Hanny, yet my
friend, Frank Forrester, has had a varied and eventful life. This way."
Mr. Whitney led them up a path mostly over-grown with pale, spindling
grass that had no chance for sunshine, so close and tall were the trees.
It was undeniably gloomy, hidden away here. A little old brown,
weather-beaten house hung with vines, that even stretched up into the
trees; small, narrow windows, with diamond-shaped panes that could not
let in much light, it would seem.
"It's a horrid place," cried Dele. "Hanny, we shall surely see a ghost.
The idea of living at the very foot of a burying-ground!"
Hanny held tight to Joe's hand. She was beginning to have what Miss
Cynthia called the "creeps."
CHAPTER XIII
OUT-OF-THE-WAY CORNERS
If the outside was gloomy, it had a queer, disorderly, and rather
cheerful aspect within, for the sun was pouring a flood of gold in one
window where it happened to strike a spot between two trees. And Frank
Forrester was by no means melancholy to-day. He shook hands cordially
with Mr. Whitney, and welcomed the rest of the party with the utmost
affability,--a fine-looking Englishman with a picturesque air, due
largely to his rather long hair, which fell about his forehead and neck
in a tumbled manner, suggesting a tendency to curls.
"These young people may like to look over my curiosities, while we have
our talk," he said. "Take a cigar, and I'll bring a bottle of wine.
Won't you join us, Doctor? Here, young folks, are curiosities from
everywhere."
He ushered them into a small room that was library and everything by
turns. There were trophies of hunting expeditions, some rare birds
stuffed and mounted, looking so alive Hanny would not have been
surprised if they had suddenly begun to warble; books in every stage of
dilapidation, some of them quite rare copies, Ben found; portfolios of
old engravings; curious weapons; foreign wraps; Grecian and Turkish bits
of pottery; and the odd things we call bric-à-brac nowadays.
Delia began to make some notes. Ben laughed a little. Interviewing was
not such a fine art then; and people were considered greater subjects of
interest than their belongings. But Delia was saving up things for
stories which she meant to write as she found time.
Doctor Joe had come in here with the young people, leaving the two
friends to discuss their business. He, too, found much to interest him;
and he was amused at Delia's running comments, some of them very bright
indeed. She was quite a spur to Ben, he found; and he was surprised at
the varied stock of knowledge Ben had accumulated.
It did not seem as if they had explored half, when Mr. Whitney opened
the door.
"Young folks, we must be going, if we expect to reach home that very
same night, like the old woman with her pig," he said.
"Are you talked out?" asked Delia, archly; "for we haven't half looked
through things."
"I want your brother to stay and have some supper with me. I'm my own
housekeeper now; but I think we could manage."
"What fun it would be," said Delia. "As there are no stores, we should
have to start at the foundation of things."
"I have a loaf of bread, and some cold mutton, and eggs, I think, and
tea and coffee. Come, you had better accept my hospitality."
"I must be home in the early evening," remarked Doctor Joe.
"And Hanny's not to stay out after dark," appended Ben.
"We are going down to Cockloft Hall," explained Mr. Whitney. "I am sorry
we cannot accept."
"Then you must bring your happy family again. If they are fond of
curiosities, the old house could entertain them all day long."
"And if they are fond of adventures, which they are, they might put you
to the test," said Delia, daringly.
Herbert laughed at the vivacious tone.
"Then you'd have to find me in the mood. In that respect, I am
variable."
"Do you have a mood for each day? Then your friends could be sure--"
"A good idea, like the ladies' reception-days. Must I put on the card,
Serious, Jolly, Adventurous, etc.?"
"And supernatural. I should come on the ghost days. For if ever a ghost
walked out of its earthy habitation, I should think it would be here.
Did you ever see a ghost, Mr. Herbert?"
"I have seen some queer things. But these up here," nodding his head,
"seem a very well behaved community. I can't say that they have troubled
me; and I've come down the road at twelve or so at night. Perhaps my
imagination is not vivid enough in that line. Have you ever seen a
ghost, Miss Whitney?"
"No, I have not, except the ghosts of my imagination. I can shut my eyes
now, and see them come trooping down that lonely road by twos and
threes."
Herbert laughed again. "A vivid imagination is worth a good deal at
times," he said. "There ought to be a ghost-walk about here; and next
time you come over, we'll arrange one so perfectly that he shall defy
detection. I'll walk a bit with you, if I am not a ghost."
When he put on his wide-brimmed, rather high-crowned hat, he looked more
Spanish than English. They went through another room that opened on a
porch, and, from thence, through the garden, or an attempt at one that
did not betoken signal success.
The cemetery sloped down from a high hill that was such a thicket of
woods it hid all indications of the City of the Dead. The placid river,
in which there was only a gentle tide up here, lapped the shores with a
little murmur as it came up from the bay. The green, irregular shore
opposite showed here and there a house. The wood-robins were beginning
their vespers already. Hanny thought them the sweetest singers she had
ever heard.
Just here there was a terraced garden-spot and an old house adorned with
all kinds of blossoming shrubbery.
"You see we two are guardians of the place, at either end. Miss
Whitney, this house could tell some interesting tales of the bygone
time; but the glory is departing. In a few years the city will stretch
out and invade our solitude."
A wild spot of ground it was below, hilly, gravelly, sloping sharply
down to the river. But people were beginning to take advantage of the
shore-edge for business. There were shops, and a foundry stretching out
smoky, dingy arms in various directions.
They said their good-byes here, as they were in sight of the old
Gouverneur mansion. And no one guessed then that a tragedy of love and
desperation to madness was soon to follow, and that in the dreary old
house "Frank Forrester" was to lie, slain by his own hand, that he waved
so jauntily to them as he bade them "Come again."
They scrambled up the small ascent, and sprang over the wall. Here was
where the Nine Worthies used to come for their merry-making in their
exuberant youth, and, as one of their number said afterward, "enlivened
the solitude by their mad-cap pranks and juvenile orgies." The house had
not been much modernised up to that period. Its young owner, Mr. Kemble,
who was the Patroon of the merry company, still held it. They found the
old honeydew cherry-tree standing; but some of its long-armed branches
were going to decay. The odd, octagonal summer-house had not then fallen
down.
They went up to the old room in the south-western angle, the green
moreen chamber, as it had been called, where the Nine Worthies used to
congregate, and where Irving concocted some choice bits of fun for the
Salamagundi Club. And here was the great drawing-room where they
disposed themselves to sociable naps on Sunday afternoons, the
vine-covered porch on which they sat and smoked starlit evenings, and
the grassy lawn over which they rambled. And now Mr. Washington Irving
had been minister to Spain, and the guest of noted people in England and
on the continent. He had won fame in more than one line, and hosts of
appreciative readers.
Hanny could hardly realise it all, as she thought of the still handsome
though rather delicate man, past middle life, gracious and dignified and
kindly, sitting on his own porch at Sunnyside. She couldn't help going
back to her first love, the old "Knickerbocker History" that seemed so
real to her, even now.
The hand of improvement touched Cockloft Hall shortly after. The old
summer-house was taken down; the famous cherry-tree, where the robins
sang and reared their young for so many generations, succumbed to old
age and wintry blasts; but she was glad she had seen it in its romantic
halo.
They were not far from the upper railroad station then,--the old Morris
and Essex that had stirred up the country people mightily when it first
went thundering through quiet vales, and screaming out at little
way-stations. They were just in time for a train. The sun had dropped
down behind the Orange Mountain, though the whole west was alive with
changeful gold and scarlet, melting to fainter tints, changing to
indescribable hues and visionary islands floating in seas of amber and
chrysoprase.
Hanny was quite tired, and leaned her head on Joe's shoulder. Ben and
Delia were in front, and Mr. Whitney in the seat behind. They kept up an
animated conversation, and thought it had been a delightful afternoon.
"And I feel like quoting a bit out of a letter of the Poet Gray," said
Ben. "'Do you not think a man may be the wiser, I had almost said
better, for going a hundred or two miles?' We have gone a tenth or so of
that, and I feel ever so much richer as well as wiser. How is it with
you, little Hanny?"
"I've been to the land of heroes," she replied, with a soft smile. "I
shall insist that Jim must honour New Jersey in the future."
"Bravo!" said Mr. Whitney. "And there are many more heroes in it, and I
think some heroines, that we must hunt up at a leisure day. There was
Ann Halsted of Elizabethtown, who saw the British foraging expedition
coming over from Staten Island, where the ship lay at anchor; and,
donning a suit of her father's clothes, and taking an old musket, she
went down to the only road they could come up, and blazed away at them
with such intrepidity that the red-coats were alarmed lest a whole squad
might be quartered there, and retreated in haste. It was said when
Washington heard of it, he toasted the young lady. And there were the
brave women of Valley Forge."
"And Moll Pitcher, don't forget her," put in Ben. "We in New York don't
own quite everything."
They went rumbling into the tunnel, and Hanny started. She was used to
the Harlem tunnel; but this came upon her unexpectedly.
"And there are three considerable tunnels," laughed Delia. "Yet there
are people who believe the State is one vast sandy plain, and that the
agricultural products are solely watermelons and peaches. Some one
always stands ready to believe ridiculous things."
"Hereafter, we will take up the cudgels for New Jersey," declared Ben.
"I am hungry as a bear! That rye bread was splendid, wasn't it! We must
ask mother to make some, Joe."
Mr. Whitney begged them to stop to tea; but Doctor Joe thought they had
better get home. They were late, of course; but Mrs. Underhill had a
nice supper for them.
When Jim heard about Captain Alden, he half wished he had gone.
"But I had to come in and save the day, or we should have been beaten
out of sight, so I was of some use," he announced.
Mrs. Underhill was put on her mettle by hearing about Mrs. Alden's rye
bread; and the very next week she made some quite as splendid.
Hanny displayed her sprig of hawthorn,--real hawthorn.
"Are you sure it isn't artificial?" asked Jim, teasingly.
"An artificial branch can't grow," she said indignantly.
The next week at school, the girls' compositions had to be read aloud;
and Hanny wrote about her tour, which received the highest commendation.
Delia came up to get the story of the man who had been on board the
slave ship. She had a sketch of her own under way, and she wanted to
make it very thrilling.
"And I shall have to give you half the money for it," she said
laughingly.
It had a rather amusing hitch about its acceptance. The editor of the
paper to which it was offered liked it extremely for its vigourous
treatment, but begged her to use a masculine name, or simply initials,
because it didn't sound like a young girl's story.
She told this over with great gusto, and showed her check for twenty
dollars. But Mr. Underhill magnanimously refused to accept the half of
it.
"I don't approve of so much mannishness in a girl," Mrs. Underhill said
decisively. In her heart she wished Ben did not like her so well. But
they really were more like two boys than lovers.
She took every occasion to make sharp little comments. Delia was rather
careless in her attire; and while she dressed her heroines in the styles
of their period, or in good taste, if they were modern, she had a rather
mismatched look herself, except when she wore white, which she nearly
always did evenings at home.
And she made home a really delightful place. She was quite ambitious for
reception evenings. Mrs. Osgood was holding them for a literary circle.
Of course she could not aim at anything as elegant as that; but
newspaper men, young and old, were in the habit of dropping in upon Mr.
Whitney quite informally. About ten, they might be asked down to the
dining-room, where there was a dainty little spread, sometimes a Welsh
rarebit that Dele could concoct to perfection. To be sure, they smoked
the room blue; and Mr. Whitney often brought out a bottle of wine, as
was the custom then; true, he waited until Delia and Nora had gone
upstairs, and taken some of the younger men. Delia had made a strong
protest against it, in her humourous way.
"I don't so much mind you old fellows, who, if you haven't sense enough
not to addle your brains, never will have. But the young men oughtn't
have the temptation thrust in their way. They think it looks smart and
manly; and they make themselves so silly that I'm like a lump of ice to
some of them. I like clear-brained people."
So upstairs they had music and recitations. Every young man of any
elocutionary ability felt himself empowered to recite "The Raven," that
much admired and sharply discussed poem by the Poet Poe, whose
melancholy end still created much interest. Critical spirit ran high.
One party could see only a morbid faculty heightened by opium and
intoxicants; others found the spirit of true and fine genius in many of
his efforts, and believed the circumstances of his life had been against
him.
Ben was reading one evening in Doctor Joe's cosy library, enjoying the
most capacious arm-chair, and improvising a foot-rest out of one not
quite so luxurious. The Doctor had been making out bills, and feeling
quite encouraged, perhaps lighter-hearted than he would when he had
waited a year for the payment of some of them.
"Joe," began his brother, abruptly, "what do you suppose makes mother so
bitter about Delia Whitney?"
"Bitter?" repeated Joe, in the tone of indecision people often use when
a proposition or question takes them by surprise.
"Yes. We all used to be so nice and jolly together, and Delia likes us
all so much. Hanny has such good times down there, with the old lady who
sings such pretty old-fashioned songs, if her voice is rather cracked
and tremulous; and Nora is bright and entertaining. But the other day
mother wouldn't let her go; and she was dreadfully disappointed; and
mother is not as cordial to Delia as she used to be. Dele spoke of it."
Ben looked straight at his brother, out of the frankest of eyes. It was
Joe who changed colour.
"I hate things to go crosswise. And when something keeps you just a
little ruffled up all the time--"
Ben drew his brows. Was he really unconscious of the trouble?
"You go there a good deal, you know. Some of the men are not quite the
company a young fellow should choose, mother thinks."
That was begging the main issue, of course.
"I don't see much of the older men. They're mostly smoking downstairs,
and I don't care a bit for that. But their talk is often worth listening
to. People who just keep in one little round have no idea how rich the
world is growing intellectually, scientifically; and on what broad lines
it is being laid."
"It is not the men altogether. Ben, you don't go anywhere else. Perhaps
it would be wisdom to enlarge your acquaintance among girls, young
ladies," and Joe gave a short laugh that betrayed the effort.
"I don't care a penny for girls in general," said Ben, with elderly
gravity. "Delia sometimes asks them in; and we seldom have as good a
time. She's a host in herself; and I've always liked her."
"You haven't had a very wide experience. And you are too young to make
up your mind about--anything."
Ben started up suddenly and flushed. What a fine, strong, solid face he
had! It wasn't the face of one turned about with every wind of doctrine;
it was not as handsome as Jim's bid fair to be, but it had hardly a weak
or selfish line in it. Ben had always been such a good, generous, steady
boy.
"You don't mean," he began with a little gasp,--"Joe, you can't think
that mother--that any one would object if the time came for me to--to
marry Delia?"
"You are too young to think of such things, Ben," said his brother,
gently.
"Why--I've been thinking of it ever since Mr. Theodore came home. We
were talking one time about going to Europe--"
"Are you really engaged, Ben?"
The young fellow laughed and blushed.
"Well--I suppose not exactly," he answered slowly. "We've never come to
that boshy stuff you find now and then in stories. But we know all about
each other's plans; and we like so many of the same things; and we
always feel so comfortable together, not a bit as if we were trigged up
in Sunday clothes. I don't think she's the most beautiful girl in the
world; but she has lovely eyes, and I've never seen a handsome girl I
have liked as well. Steve chose his own wife, and so did John.
Cleanthe's a splendid housekeeper; but she doesn't have time to read a
newspaper. Dolly's well informed, and has something fresh to talk about.
But it seems to me Margaret is always caring about society and
etiquette, and who is in our set, and a hundred things that bore me.
Phil has all his life been used to style, so Margaret's just the one for
him. And why shouldn't I have just the one for me?"
Joe laughed heartily then.
"I'd wait a year or two," he answered drily. "You are not out of your
time; and it is an unwise thing to take the responsibilities of life too
early. Delia may fancy some one else."
"Oh, no, she won't," replied Ben, confidently. "We just suit. I can't
explain it to you, Joe; but it is one of the things that seem to come
about without any talking. Are some things ordained? I should be awful
sorry to have mother object to it; but I know Dolly would stand by us
when the time came."
"Well--don't hurry; and, Ben, take the little comments patiently. If
mother was convinced that it was for your happiness, she would consent.
We all know there are unwise marriages, unhappy ones, as well."
"Oh, we're not in any hurry! You see, Delia is really needed at home.
The old aunt is awfully fond of her. And she's so interested in her
stories. We have such fun planning them out; and she does some capital
little sketches."
Joe nodded in a friendly manner, as if he did not altogether disapprove.
But there was a belief that literary women could not make good wives.
People quoted Lady Bulwer and Lady Byron; and yet right in the city were
women of literary proclivities living happily with their husbands.
And Joe had found careless, fretful, indifferent wives and poor
housekeepers among women who could not even have written a coherent
account-book. Come to think, he liked Delia a good deal himself. And if
she wasn't such a great worker, she did have the art of making a
cheerful, attractive home, and putting everybody at ease.
The new woman and cooking-schools were in the far future. Every mother,
if she knew enough, trained her daughter to make a good wife, to buy
properly, to cook appetisingly if not always hygienically, to make her
husband's shirts, and do the general family sewing, to keep her house
orderly, to fight moths and mice, and to give company teas with the best
china and the finest tablecloth.
To be sure there was a little seething of unrest. Mrs. Bloomer had put
forth a new costume that shocked the feminine world, though they were
complaining of the weight of heavy skirts and the various devices for
distending them. Lucretia Mott and some other really fine women were
advocating the wider education of the sex. Women were being brought to
the fore as teachers in schools, and higher institutions were being
discussed. There was a Mrs. Bishop who had preached; there were women
who lectured on various subjects.
The sewing-machine was making its way; and the argument in its favour
was that it would save a woman's strength and give her more leisure. But
employment of any kind out of the house was considered derogatory
unless one had no father or brother to supply her needs.
Still, the old simple life was going out of date. There was more style;
and some leaders of opinion professed to be shocked at the extravagance
of the day. There was a sudden influx of people up-town. There were new
stores and offices. One wondered where all the people came from. But New
York had taken rapid strides in her merchant-marine. The fastest vessels
in the China trade went out of her ports. The time to both California
and China was shortened by the flying clippers. The gold of that
wonderful land of Ophir was the magic ring that one had only to rub, if
he could get hold of it, and work wonders.
But the little girl went on her quiet way. They were finding friends in
the new neighbourhood; yet Daisy Jasper could not be superseded. Every
letter was carefully treasured; and, oh, how many things she found to
say in return.
They kept up the intimacy with the Deans, though Josephine seemed almost
a young woman. Mr. Reed enjoyed the pleasant home wonderfully. Charles
spent much of his leisure over music, of which he was passionately fond.
He and Jim were not so intimate. Jim was going with a gayer lot of young
fellows, while Charles was seriously considering his life-plans.
CHAPTER XIV
AMONG GREAT THINGS
Were people more enthusiastic in old New York than they are at the end
of the century? We have done so much, we have had so many wonderful
happenings since then. To be sure, Dickens had been over and made,
people thought, a somewhat caustic return for the hospitable welcome;
Harriet Martineau had made a tour, and gone home rather favourably
impressed; and the winter before the intellectual circle--and it was
getting to be quite notable--had honoured the Swedish novelist,
Frederica Bremer, and been really charmed by her unaffected sweetness.
If they were not quite ready to take up her theories for the advancement
of women, they fell to reading the delightful "Neighbours" and "Home."
And now there was to be another visitant, "The Swedish Nightingale."
For Mr. Barnum was still the prince of entertainers. Theatres waxed and
waned, and new stars came to the front who had still their laurels to
win; people strove for cards to the Steven's Terrace, just back of
Columbia College on Park Place. Bleecker Street was not out of date,
though Mrs. Hamilton Fish had gone up to Stuyvesant Square, and was
gathering about her a political clique. There were card-parties and
dances; there were Christy's Minstrels and the Hutchinson family; and
some of the more intellectual circles had conversaziones where the best
talent displayed itself. Still, Barnum could not be crowded out. No
sarcasm withered him; and his variety was infinite. It was a safe place
for mothers to go and take their children. The men had formed several
ambitious clubs, and were beginning to entertain themselves.
Jenny Lind had already captivated Europe. Mr. Barnum judiciously brought
interest up to fever heat. After the bargain was made known, and the
young singer had taken her passage with her suite, a musical rage
pervaded the very city. The streets leading to the wharf were thronged
by crowds in the wildest enthusiasm. Triumphal arches were built across
Canal Street, and as she came down the gang-plank of the steamer, shouts
rent the very air.
The young traveller and poet, Bayard Taylor, had captured the prize
offered for the finest ode to be sung at her first concert. Two hundred
dollars seemed a large price at that time, as Tennyson had not been
offered a thousand for a poem. So great was the inquiry for tickets,
that they were sold at auction a few days previous. And Mr. Genin, a
Broadway hatter, signalised himself by making the highest bid for a
ticket,--two hundred and twenty-five dollars. Over one thousand tickets
were sold on the first day.
The concert was to be at Castle Garden. At five, the doors were opened,
and people began to throng in, though each seat had been secured to its
proper owner; and by eight, the audience was in a perfect transport of
expectation. It was said to be the largest audience assembled to listen
to her. And when she was led on the stage by her manager, the enthusiasm
was beyond description. It seemed to divine beforehand that the
fair-haired Swedish songstress would meet all expectations; and she
passed beyond it.
Ben had been caught by the enthusiasm, and squandered his savings on a
ticket. He and Jim had been in the crowd around the hotel, that first
night when the New York musical society had serenaded her, and she had
bowed from the old stone balcony to the admiring crowds.
"There isn't any word to express it," declared Ben, at the
breakfast-table the next morning. "Joe, you must hear her, and
Hanny--all of you. Never mind the cost."
"Ben, you have lost your senses," said his mother, with a touch of her
old sharpness. "As if we were all millionaires! And I have heard people
sing before."
"Not anything like that. You can't imagine such melody. And the
enthusiasm of the crowd is worth something!"
The little girl looked up wistfully. She was beginning to understand the
value of money.
"Yes," returned Joe; "Hanny must hear her. I wouldn't have her miss it
for anything. But the tickets won't be so high after a little."
They dropped to regular prices, but that was high for the times; and the
rush continued unabated. New York broke out in a Jenny Lind furore.
There were gloves, and hats, and shawls, and gowns, beautiful little
tables, and consoles, and furniture of all sorts that bore her name. The
bakers made Jenny Lind cake. What a time there was! Enthusiastic adorers
took her carriage from its shafts, and dragged it from Castle Garden to
the hotel. Was New York old in those days? Rather, it was the glowing,
fervid impetuosity of early youth.
And the serenade, when Broadway was jammed for blocks, and lighted by
torches in the street, and illuminations in the houses and stores. There
was a wonderful cornetist, Koenig, who could have won another Eurydice
from the shades with his playing. Out on the balcony he stood and moved
the crowd with his melody. Then she came out beside him, and, in the
hush, a thousand times more appreciative than the wildest applause, the
magnificent voice sang to its large, free audience, "Home, Sweet Home,"
as no one will ever hear it sung again. That alone would be fame enough
for any writer of song!
The furore did not abate. But they must all go,--Stephen and Dolly,
Margaret and her husband, Joe and the little girl, and her father.
"It is nonsense for an old fellow like me," he declared, half
humourously.
"But I shall like it so much better, and then we can talk it over
afterward. That's half the pleasure."
She looked so wistful out of her soft eyes, and patted his hand with her
caressing little fingers, of course he couldn't say No.
It was so much harder to persuade Mrs. Underhill. "It certainly was
wicked to spend so much money just to hear one woman sing. She had heard
the 'Messiah,' with Madame Anna Bishop in it; and she never again
expected to hear anything so beautiful this side of heaven."
They carried the day, however, in spite of her objections. Castle Garden
looked like fairyland, with its brilliant lights, its hundred ushers in
white gloves and rosettes, their wands tipped with ribbon as if for some
grand ball. The quiet was awe-inspiring. One did not even want to
whisper to his neighbour, but just sit in fascinated silence and wonder
what it would be like.
Then Jenny Lind was led on the stage, and the entire audience rose with
one vast, deafening cheer,--a magnificent one, as hearty as on her first
night. It seemed as if they would never stop. There was a cloud of
waving handkerchiefs, shaking out fragrance in the air.
A simple Swedish maiden in her gown of soft, white silk, with no blaze
of diamonds, and just one rose low down in her banded hair, only her
gracious sweetness and simplicity, a thousand times finer and more
effective than flashing beauty. She has heard the applause many a time
before, in audiences of crowned heads; and this from the multitude is
just as sweet.
When all is listening, attentive silence, she begins "Casta Diva." "Hark
to the voice," and every one listens with such intensity that the
magnificent sound swells out and fills the farthest space. There is no
striving for effect. A woman singing with a God-given voice, in simple
thanks for its ownership, not a queen bidding for admiration. Had any
voice ever made such glorious melody, or so stirred human souls?
The applause has in it an immensity of appreciation, as if it could
never get itself wholly expressed.
Then another favourite, which everybody sang at for years afterward: "I
dreamt I dwelt in marble halls." In some of the sorrows of her
womanhood, the little girl was to recall the sweet refrain--
    "That you loved me still the same."
Then "Comin' thro' the Rye," with a lilt and dainty deliciousness that
one never can forget. But "Home, Sweet Home," moves to tears and
enthusiasm. Surely, no voice ever put such pathos, such marvellous
sweetness, into it!
And sometimes now, when the little girl looks over to the other country,
one of the many joys she thinks will be hearing such blessed voices as
Jenny Lind's and Parepa Rosa's. You could not shake her faith in
immortality and all these precious joys to come.
She was quite a heroine at school for many days to come. People did not
think it worth while to spend so much money on children at that time.
Margaret and her mother had compromised on the school question, or
rather Margaret had yielded.
Hanny would graduate at the end of the year. Margaret preferred a
stylish boarding-school after that. The Hoffmans were quite in the swim
of that period. The Doctor's connections, and Margaret's beauty, made
them welcome in circles that were beginning to grow a little exclusive,
and demand grandfathers for vouchers. There was a little talk, even
then, about nouveaux riches; but, after all, no one seemed to
absolutely despise wealth.
Margaret was really very ambitious for the younger members of the
family. Jim, with his good looks and the brightness that was akin to
wit, was her favourite. Then he took naturally to elegance.
Dolly was very happy and jolly with her husband and children. They lived
in a very pleasant manner; and society courted Dolly as well. Stephen
was prospering wonderfully, and had a fine standing among business-men.
Hanny was extravagantly fond of the children. Stevie called her Auntie
Nan, now; but Annie said simply Nan. Margaret had adopted it as well.
Hannah was rather awkward and old-fashioned. Even Ben sometimes
warbled,--
    "Nannie, wilt thou gang wi' me?"
She had another great and unexpected treat a few weeks later. She had
gone on Friday to make a real visit at Dolly's, and go from there to
school on Monday morning. And, fortunately for her, she had taken her
best Sunday frock, which she was wearing a good deal lest she might
outgrow it.
And who should drop in but Delia Whitney. Whether Dolly suspected all
was not clear sailing for the young people, no one could have told from
her friendly manner. She had taken quite a liking to Delia, and was much
interested in her success.
They talked over the Jenny Lind concert. Delia had attended two. She was
going about quite a good deal among literary people.
"And to-morrow night, The. and I are going to take Ben to the Osgoods.
Oh, Hanny, that's the author of the little song you sing:--
    "'I love you, I adore you; but
    I'm talking in my sleep.'
And she's just lovely."
"Oh," cried Hanny, "I should like to see her, truly. You know I told you
about seeing her in the carriage when she went up to Mr. Poe's."
"Well, can't you go? The. has a standing invitation to bring friends.
Why, Nora has gone! She sang up there one evening, and did wonderfully
well. Her teacher thinks in a year or two she can try concerts; only it
isn't best to strain her voice now. And you may see some famous people,
and some yet to be famous, myself among them."
"Oh, I don't care about the others," said Hanny, naïvely. "And if you
are quite sure--Dolly, ought I to go?"
"Why not?" answered Dolly. "It's fortunate that you brought your best
frock; though we could have sent for it. Why, yes, if you would like
to."
Hanny drew a long breath. Twice of late her mother had found excuses
when she had asked to go down to Beach Street. She, too, had a vague
feeling there was something in the air; but her simple nature was not
suspicious. And it wasn't like going to the Whitney's. She couldn't do
such a thing without asking permission.
Delia finished her call, kissed the babies and Hanny, and said they
would all be up at eight, sharp.
"I'll have Hanny in apple-pie order," answered Dolly, with her bright
smile.
Stephen was delightful in his family; and he had the same odd little
look in his eye as her father, suggestive of fun. He was teaching her to
play checkers; and, although Dolly helped sometimes, she found it hard
work to beat him. Dolly sat by embroidering.
The next morning they drove down-town and did some shopping, and called
on Annette, who made them stay to luncheon. Mrs. Beekman was quite
poorly now, and had grown very, very stout. She said, "she had lost all
her ambition. It was a great thing to be young, and have all your life
before you."
It was so delightful; and Dolly was sure they wouldn't have many more
such Indian summery days, so they went over to Washington Parade-ground,
where the style promenaded on Saturday afternoon. Hanny wore her best
dress and a pretty cloth cape trimmed with a little edge of fur. They
took Stevie, who was delighted of course, and who ran about, very proud
of his new jacket and trousers.
Many of the promenaders nodded to young Mrs. Stephen Underhill. Belles
and beaux went by; prettily dressed children; stylish little boys, who
carried canes, and had long tassels drooping over one side of their
caps. Hanny enjoyed it all very much.
Then after supper, Dolly put a fine lace tucker over the edging at the
neck of her frock, and found a blue sash, and curled her hair so as to
make it all wavy at the edge of her forehead; and there was a very
sweet, attractive girl, if she wasn't a beauty.
Mr. Theodore Whitney seemed very much amused and pleased, and politely
inquired if he might be Miss Underhill's escort. Delia looked unusually
nice in her new brown silk and some beautiful old lace Aunt Clem had
given her.
People did not wait until ten o'clock for "functions" to begin; neither
did they give them that uneuphonious name. Hanny had read and heard a
good deal since her first visit to genius in the plain, poor, little
cottage; and this certainly had more of the true aspect one connects
with poesy. The two rooms were daintily furnished; pictures everywhere.
Mr. Osgood was a painter, and his portraits were quite celebrated. The
curtains fell with a graceful sweep. The light brocade of the chairs
threw out glisteny shades; the little tables set about held books and
engravings, and great portfolios leaned against the wall. There was a
case of choicely-bound books, and an open piano. Flowers were in vases
on brackets, and low, quaint china bowls. It was like a lovely picture
to the little girl; but she felt afraid of the people talking so
earnestly, and wondered if they were all poets and authors.
The party greeted their hostess, and Hanny was introduced. Was it the
glamour of the summer and the blue gown that had made Mrs. Osgood so
lovely sitting there in the carriage? Now she was thin, and her hair was
banded down in the fashion of the day; then it had been flying in
ringlets. Her gown was black silk, and that made her look rather grave;
but when she smiled, all the old sweetness was there. Hanny knew her
then.
Delia took charge of Hanny, and seated her by a table with a book of
choice engravings. Ben had found some one he knew, and Mr. Whitney had
gone to talk to General Morris. A tall young lady came over and began
complimenting Miss Whitney on her story in Godey's, and Delia flushed up
with pleasure. Then she begged to introduce her to a friend. She wrote
verses only, and her friend had composed music for them.
Hanny kept watching her hostess. She knew some of the guests, from
having had them pointed out to her in the street. There was Mr. Greeley,
thin of face and careless of attire in those early days. In the street
he could always be told by a shaggy light coat that he wore.
A very sweet-looking elderly lady came up presently and spoke to Delia,
who was in full flow of eager talk with the young musical composer.
"Isn't that your sister, or your niece,--the one who sang here some time
ago? I saw her come in with Mr. Whitney."
"Oh, no," returned Delia. "But she is a very dear friend,--Mr.
Underhill's sister."
"Mr. Stephen Underhill?"
"Yes, she is his sister; but it is Mr. Ben Underhill who is here."
"I know Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Underhill very well. She was a Beekman. And
Dr. Hoffman's wife belongs to the family."
Delia turned and introduced Mrs. Kirtland.
She had such an attractive face, framed in with rows of snowy puffs,
quite gone out of date, but becoming to her nevertheless.
"I feel that I almost know you," she said sweetly, "though I half
