raid an objectionable house, or tear 
down a tavern of evil repute, or spoil 
a playhouse. The high - streets, espe- 
 
cially in winter-time, were annoyed by 
hourly frays of sword and buckler men ; 
but these were suddenly suppressed 
when the more deadly fight with rapier 
and dagger came in. The streets were 
entirely unlighted and dangerous at 
night, and for this reason the plays at 
the theatres were given at three in the 
afternoon. 
About Shakespeare's time many new 
inventions and luxuries came in : masks, 
muffs, fans, periwigs, shoe-roses, love- 
handkerchiefs (tokens given by maids 
and gentlewomen to their favorites), 
heath -brooms for hair-brushes, scarfs, 
garters, waistcoats, flat-caps; also hops, 
turkeys, apricots, Venice glass, tobacco. 
In 1524, and for years after, was used 
this rhyme : * 
" Turkeys, Carpes, Hops : Piccarel, and beere, 
Came into England : all in one year." 
10S 
 
There were no coffee-houses as yet, for 
neither tea nor coffee was introduced 
till about 1661. Tobacco was first made 
known in England by Sir John Haw- 
kins in 1565, though not commonly 
used by men and women till some years 
after. It was urged as a great medicine 
for many ills. Harrison says, 1573, "In 
these days the taking in of the smoke 
of the Indian herb called ' Tabaco,' by 
an instrument formed like a little ladle, 
whereby it passeth from the mouth 
into the head and stomach, is greatly 
taken up and used in England, against 
Rewmes and some other diseases en- 
gendered in the lungs and inward parts, 
and not without effect." Its use spread 
rapidly, to the disgust of James I. and 
others, who doubted that it was good 
for cold, aches, humors, and rheums. 
In 1614 it was said that seven thousand 
houses lived by this trade, and that 
 
^"399,375 a year was spent in smoke. 
Tobacco was even taken on the stage. 
Every base groom must have his pipe ; 
it was sold in all inns and ale-houses, 
and the shops of apothecaries, grocers, 
and chandlers were almost never, from 
morning till night, without company 
still taking, of tobacco. 
There was a saying on the Continent 
that " England is a paradise for women, 
a prison for servants, and a hell or pur- 
gatory for horses." The society was 
very simple compared with the complex 
condition of ours, and yet it had more 
striking contrasts, and was a singular 
mixture of downrightness and artifici- 
ality; plainness and rudeness of speech 
went with the utmost artificiality of 
dress and manner. It is curious to 
note the insular, not to say provincial, 
character of the people even three cen- 
turies ago. When the Londoners saw 
no 
 
a foreigner very well made or particu- 
larly handsome, they were accustomed 
to say, " It is a pity he is not an ENGLISH- 
MAN." It is pleasant, I say, to trace 
this " certain condescension " in the 
good old times. Jacob Rathgeb (1592) 
says the English are magnificently 
dressed, and extremely proud and over- 
bearing ; the merchants, who seldom go 
unto other countries, scoff at foreigners, 
who are liable to be ill-used by street 
boys and apprentices, who collect in 
immense crowds and stop the way. Of 
course Cassandra Stubbes, whose mind 
was set upon a better country, has little 
good to say of his countrymen: "As 
concerning the nature, propertie, and 
disposition of the people they be desir- 
ous of new fangles, praising things past, 
contemning things present, and covet- 
ing after things to come. Ambitious, 
proud, light, and unstable, ready to be 
in 
 
carried away with every blast of wind." 
The French paid back with scorn the 
traditional hatred of the English for 
the French. Perlin (1558) finds the 
people proud and seditious, with bad 
consciences and unfaithful to their 
word — " in war unfortunate, in peace 
unfaithful"; and there was a Spanish 
or Italian proverb : " England, good 
land, bad people." But even Perlin 
likes the appearance of the people : 
" The men are handsome, rosy, large, 
and dexterous, usually fair-skinned ; the 
women are esteemed the most beau- 
tiful in the world, white as alabaster, 
and give place neither to Italian, Flem- 
ish, nor German ; they are joyous, cour- 
teous, and hospitable (de bon recueil)." 
He thinks their manners, however, lit- 
tle civilized : for one thing, they have 
an unpleasant habit of eructation at the 
table (car iceux routent a la table sans 
 
honie & ignominie)', which recalls Chau- 
cer's description of the Trumpington f 
miller's wife and daughter : — 
" Men might her rowtyng hearen a forlong, 
The wenche routeth eek par companye." 
Another inference as to the table man- 
ners of the period is found in Coryat's 
" Crudities " (161 1). He saw in Italy gen- 
erally a curious custom of using a little 
fork for meat, and whoever should take 
the meat out of the dish with his fingers 
would give offence. And he accounts for 
this peculiarity quite naturally : " The 
reason of this their curiosity is, because 
the Italian cannot by any means indure 
to have his dish touched with fingers, 
seeing all mens fingers are not alike 
cleane." Coryat found the use of the 
fork nowhere else iri Christendom, and 
when he returned, and, oftentimes in 
h 
 
England, imitated the Italian fashion, 
his exploit was regarded in a humorous 
light. Busino says that fruits were sel- 
dom served at dessert, but that the 
whole population were munching them 
in the streets all day long, and in the 
places of amusement; and it was an 
amusement to go out into the orchards 
and eat fruit on the spot, in a sort of 
competition of gormandize between the 
city belles and their admirers. And he 
avers that one young woman devoured 
twenty pounds of cherries, beating her 
opponent by two pounds and a half. 
All foreigners were struck with the 
English love of music and drink, of ban- 
queting and good cheer. Perlin notes 
a pleasant custom at table: during the 
feast you hear more than a hundred 
times, " Drink ion" (he loves to air his 
English), that is to say, " Je m'en vois 
boyre a toy." You respond, in their 
 
language, " Iplaigin " ; that is to say, 
" Je vous plege." If you thank them, 
they say in their language, "God tanque 
artelay" ; that is, " Je vous remercie de 
bon coeur." And then, says the artless 
Frenchman, still improving on his Eng- 
lish, you should respond thus : "Bigod, 
sol drink ion agoud oin." At the great 
and princely banquets, when the pledge 
went round and the heart's desire of 
lasting health, says the chronicler, " the 
same was straight wayes knowne, by 
sound of Drumme and Trumpet, and 
the cannon's loudest voyce." It was 
so in Hamlet's day: — 
"And as he drains his draughts of Rhenish 
down, 
The kettle-drum and trumpet thus bray out 
The triumph of his pledge." 
According to Hentzner (1598), the 
English are serious, like the Germans, 
 
and love show and to be followed by 
troops of servants wearing the arms of 
their masters ; they excel in music and 
dancing, for they are lively and active, 
though thicker of make than the French; 
they cut their hair close in the middle 
of the head, letting it grow on either 
side ; " they are good sailors, and bet- 
ter pyrates, cunning, treacherous, and 
thievish"; and, he adds, with a touch 
of satisfaction, " above three hundred 
are said to be hanged annually in Lon- 
don." They put a good deal of sugar 
in their drink; they are vastly fond of 
great noises, firing of cannon, beating of 
drums, and ringing of bells, and when 
they have a glass in their heads they go 
up into some belfry, and ring the bells 
for hours together, for the sake of exer- 
cise. Perlin's comment is that men are 
hung for a trifle in England, and that 
r ou will not find many lords whose par- 
 
ents have not had their heads chopped 
off. 
It is a pleasure to turn to the simple 
and hearty admiration excited in the 
breasts of all susceptible foreigners by 
the English women of the time. Van 
Meteren, as we said, calls the women 
beautiful, fair, well dressed, and modest. 
To be sure, the wives are, their lives 
only excepted, entirely in the power of 
their husbands, yet they have great lib- 
erty; go where they please; are shown 
the greatest honor at banquets, where 
they sit at the upper end of the table 
and are first served ; are fond of dress 
and gossip and of taking it easy ; and 
like to sit before their doors, decked out 
in fine clothes, in order to see and be 
seen by the passers-by. Rathgeb also 
agrees that the women have much more 
liberty than in any other place. When 
old Busino went to the Masque at 
 
Whitehall, his colleagues kept exclaim- 
ing, " Oh, do look at this one — oh, do 
see that ! Whose wife is this ? — and that 
pretty one near her, whose daughter is 
she?" There was some chaff mixed in, 
he allows, some shrivelled skins and 
devotees of S. Carlo Borromeo, but the 
beauties greatly predominated. 
In the great street pageants, it was 
the beauty and winsomeness of the Lon- 
don ladies, looking on, that nearly drove 
the foreigners wild. In 1606, upon the 
entry of the king of Denmark, the chron- 
icler celebrates " the unimaginable num- 
ber of gallant ladies, beauteous virgins, 
and other delicate dames, filling the win- 
dows of every house with kind aspect." 
And in 1638, when Cheapside was all 
alive with the pageant of the entry of 
the queen mother, " this miserable old 
queen," as Lilly calls Marie de Medicis 
(Mr.. Furnivall reproduces an old cut of 
 
the scene), M. de la Serre does not try 
to restrain his admiration for the pretty- 
women on view: only the most fecund 
imagination can represent the content 
one has in admiring the infinite number 
of beautiful women, each different from 
the other, and each distinguished by 
some sweetness or grace to ravish the 
heart and take captive one's liberty. No 
sooner has he determined to yield to 
one than a new object of admiration 
makes him repent the precipitation of 
his judgment. 
And all the other foreigners were in 
the like case of " goneness." Kiechel, 
writing in 1585, says, "Item, the women 
there are charming, and by nature so 
mighty pretty as I have scarcely ever 
beheld, for they do not falsify, paint, or 
bedaub themselves as in Italy or other 
places" ; yet he confesses (and here is 
another tradition preserved) " they are 
 
somewhat awkward in their style of 
dress." His second " item" of gratitude is 
a Netherland custom that pleased him — 
whenever a foreigner or an inhabitant 
went to a citizen's house on business, 
or as a guest, he was received by the 
master, the lady, or the daughter, and 
"welcomed " (as it is termed in their 
language) ; "he has a right to take them 
by the arm and to kiss them, which is 
the custom of the country ; and if any 
one does not do so, it is regarded and 
imputed as ignorance and ill -breeding 
on his part." Even the grave Erasmus, 
when he visited England, fell easily into 
this pretty practice, and wrote with un- 
theological fervor of the " girls with 
angel faces," who were " so kind and 
obliging." "Wherever you come," he 
says, " you are received with a kiss by 
all ; when you take your leave you are 
dismissed with kisses ; you return, kisses 
 
are repeated. They come to visit you, 
kisses again ; they leave you, you kiss 
them all round. Should they meet you 
anywhere, kisses in abundance : in fine, 
wherever you move there is nothing but 
kisses" — a custom, says this reformer, 
who has not the fear of Stubbes before 
his eyes, " never to be sufficiently com- 
mended." 
We shall find no more convenient op- 
portunity to end this part of the social 
study of the age of Shakespeare than 
with this naive picture of the sex which 
most adorned it. Some of the details 
appear trivial ; but grave history which 
concerns itself only with the actions of 
conspicuous persons, with the manoeu- 
vres of armies, the schemes of politics, 
the battles of theologies, fails signally 
to give us the real life of the people by 
which we judge the character of an age. 
 
CHAPTER III 
WHEN we turn from France to Eng- 
land in the latter part of the sixteenth 
and the beginning of the seventeenth 
century, we are in another atmosphere ; 
we encounter a literature that smacks 
of the soil, that is as varied, as racy, 
often as rude, as human life itself, and 
which cannot be adequately appreciated 
except by a study of the popular mind 
and the history of the time which pro- 
duced it. 
" Voltaire," says M. Guizot, " was the 
first person in France who spoke of 
Shakespeare's genius ; and although he 
spoke of him merely as a barbarian gen- 
ius, the French public were of the opin- 
ion that he had said too much in his 
 
favor. Indeed, they thought it nothing 
less than profanation to apply the words 
genius and glory to dramas which they 
considered as crude as they were coarse." 
Guizot was one of the first of his na- 
tion to approach Shakespeare in the 
right spirit — that is, in the spirit in which 
he could hope for any enlightenment ; 
and in his admirable essay on " Shake- 
speare and His Times," he pointed out 
the exact way in which any piece or 
period of literature should be studied, 
that is worth studying at all. He in- 
quired into English civilization, into the 
habits, manners, and modes of thought 
of the people for whom Shakespeare 
wrote. This method, this inquiry into 
popular sources, has been carried much 
further since Guizot wrote, and it is 
now considered the most remunerative 
method, whether the object of study is 
literature or politics. By it not only is 
 
the literature of a period for the first 
time understood, but it is given its just 
place as an exponent of human life and 
a monument of human action. 
The student who takes up Shake- 
speare's plays for the purpose of either 
amusement or cultivation, I would rec- 
ommend to throw aside the whole load 
of commentary, and speculation, and dis- 
quisition, and devote himself to trying 
to find out first what was the London 
and the England of Shakespeare's day, 
what were the usages of all classes of 
society, what were the manners and the 
character of the people who crowded to 
hear his plays, or who denounced them 
as the works of the devil and the allies 
of sin. I say again to the student that 
by this means Shakespeare will become 
a new thing to him, his mind will be 
enlarged to the purpose and scope of 
the great dramatist, and more illumi- 
 
nation will be cast upon the plays than 
is received from the whole race of in- 
quisitors into his phrases and critics of 
his genius. In the light of contempo- 
rary life, its visions of empire, its' spirit 
of adventure, its piracy, exploration, and 
warlike turmoil, its credulity and super- 
stitious wonder at natural phenomena, 
its implicit belief in the supernatural, 
its faith, its virility of daring, coarseness 
of speech, bluntness of manner, luxury 
of apparel, and ostentation of wealth, 
the mobility of its shifting society, these 
dramas glow with a new meaning, and 
awaken a profounder admiration of the 
poet's knowledge of human life. 
The experiences of the poet began 
with the rude and rural life of England, 
and when he passed into the presence 
of the court and into the bustle of great 
London in an age of amazing agitation, 
he felt still in his veins the throb of the 
 
popular blood. There were classic af- 
fectations in England, there were masks 
and mummeries and classic puerilities 
at court and in noble houses — Eliza- 
beth's court would well have liked to be 
classical, remarks Guizot — but Shake- 
speare was not fettered by classic con- 
ventionalities, nor did he obey the uni- 
ties, nor attempt to separate on the 
stage the tragedy and the comedy of 
life — " immense and living stage," says 
the writer I like to quote because he is 
French, " upon which all things are rep- 
resented, as it were, in their solid form, 
and in the place which they occupied in 
a stormy and complicated civilization. 
In these dramas the comic element is 
introduced whenever its character of re- 
ality gives it the right of admission and 
the advantage of opportune appearance. 
Falstaff appears in the train of Henry 
V., and Doll Tear-Sheet in the train of 
 
Falstaff ; the people surround the kings, 
and the soldiers crowd around their gen- 
erals ; all conditions of society, all the 
phases of human destiny appear by 
turns in juxtaposition, with the nature 
which properly belongs to them, and in 
the position which they naturally oc- 
cupy. . . . Thus we find the entire world, 
the whole of human realities, reproduced 
by Shakespeare in tragedy, which, in his 
eyes, was the universal theatre of life 
and truth." 
It is possible to make a brutal picture 
of the England of Shakespeare's day 
by telling nothing that is not true, and 
by leaving out much that is true. M. 
Taine, who has a theory to sustain, does 
it by a graphic catalogue of details and 
traits that cannot be denied ; only there 
is a great deal in English society that he 
does not include, perhaps does not ap- 
prehend. Nature, he thinks, was never 
 
so completely acted out. These robust 
men give rein to all their passions, de- 
light in the strength of their limbs like 
carmen, indulge in coarse language, un- 
disguised sensuality, enjoy gross jests, 
brutal buffooneries. Humanity is as 
much lacking as decency. Blood, suf- 
fering, does not move them. The court 
frequents bull and bear baitings ; Eliza- 
beth beats her maids, spits upon a court- 
ier's fringed coat, boxes Essex's ears ; 
great ladies beat their children and their 
servants. " The sixteenth century," he 
says, "is like a den of lions. Amid pas- 
sions so strong as these there is not one 
lacking. Nature appears here in all its 
violence, but also in all its fulness. If 
nothing has been softened, nothing has 
been mutilated. It is the entire man 
who is displayed, heart, mind, body, 
senses, with his noblest and finest aspi- 
rations, as with his most bestial and 
 
savage appetites, without the prepon- 
derance of any dominant passion to cast 
him altogether in one direction, to exalt 
or degrade him. He has not become 
rigid as he will under Puritanism. He 
is not uncrowned as in the Restoration." 
He has entered like a young man into 
all the lusty experiences of life, every 
allurement is known, the sweetness and 
novelty of things are strong with him. 
He plunges into all sensations. " Such 
were the men of this time, Raleigh, 
Essex, Elizabeth, Henry VIII. himself, 
excessive and inconstant, ready for de- 
votion and for crime, violent in good 
and evil, heroic with strange weak- 
nesses, humble with sudden changes of 
mood, never vile with premeditation like 
the roisterers of the Restoration, never 
rigid on principle like the Puritans of 
the Revolution, capable of weeping like 
children, and of dying like men-, often 
i 
 
base courtiers, more than once true 
knights, displaying constantly, amidst 
all these contradictions of bearing, only 
the overflowing of nature. Thus pre- 
pared, they could take in everything, 
sanguinary ferocity and refined gener- 
osity, the brutality of shameless de- 
bauchery, and the most divine inno- 
cence of love, accept all the characters, 
wantons and virgins, princes and moun- 
tebanks, pass quickly from trivial buf- 
foonery to lyrical sublimities, listen al- 
ternately to the quibbles of clowns and 
the songs of lovers. The drama even, 
in order to satisfy the prolixity of their 
nature, must take all tongues, pompous, 
inflated verse, loaded with imagery, and 
side by side with this vulgar prose ; 
more than this, it must distort its natu- 
ral style and limits, put songs, poetical 
devices in the discourse of courtiers and 
the speeches of statesmen ; bring on the 
 
stage the fairy world of opera, as Mid- 
dleton says, gnomes, nymphs of the 
land and sea, with their groves and 
meadows; compel the gods to descend 
upon the stage, and hell itself to furnish 
its world of marvels. No other theatre 
is so complicated, for nowhere else do 
we find men so complete." 
M. Taine heightens this picture in 
generalizations splashed with innumera- 
ble blood-red details of English life and 
character. The English is the most 
warlike race in Europe, most redoubt- 
able in battle, most impatient of slavery. 
" English savages " is what Cellini calls 
them ; and the great shins of beef with 
which they fill themselves nourish the 
force and ferocity of their instincts. To 
harden them thoroughly, institutions 
work in the same groove as nature. 
The nation is armed. Every man is a 
soldier, bound to have arms according to 
 
his condition, to exercise himself on 
Sundays and holidays. The State re- 
sembles an army ; punishments must 
inspire terror ; the idea of war is ever 
present. Such instincts, such a history, 
raises before them with tragic severi- 
ty the idea of life ; death is at hand, 
wounds, blood, tortures. The fine pur- 
ple cloaks, the holiday garments, else- 
where signs of gayety of mind, are stain- 
ed with blood and bordered with black. 
Throughout a stern discipline, the axe 
ready for every suspicion of treason ; 
" great men, bishops,achancellor,princes, 
the king's relations, queens, a protector 
kneeling in the straw, sprinkled the 
Tower with their blood; one after the 
other they marched past, stretched out 
their necks ; the Duke of Bucking- 
ham, Queen Anne Boleyn, Queen Cath- 
erine Howard, the Earl of Surrey, Ad- 
miral Seymour, the Duke of Somerset, 
 
Lady Jane Grey and her husband, the 
Duke of Northumberland, the Earl of 
Essex, all on the throne, or on the steps 
of the throne, in the highest ranks of 
honor, beauty, youth, genius ; of the 
bright procession nothing is left but 
senseless trunks, marred by the tender 
mercies of the executioner." 
The gibbet stands by the highways, 
heads of traitors and criminals grin on 
the city gates. Mournful legends mul- 
tiply, church-yard ghosts, walking spir- 
its. In the evening, before bedtime, in 
the vast country houses, in the poor 
cottages, people talk of the coach which 
is seen drawn by headless horses, with 
headless postilions and coachmen. All 
this, with unbounded luxury, unbridled 
debauchery, gloom, and revelry hand in 
hand. " A threatening and sombre fog 
veils their mind like their sky, and joy, 
like the sun, pierces through it and 
i
 
upon them strongly and at intervals." 
All this riot of passion and frenzy of 
vigorous life, this madness and sorrow, 
in which life is a phantom and destiny 
drives so remorselessly, Taine finds on 
the stage and in the literature of the 
period. 
To do him justice, he finds something 
else, something that might give him a 
hint of the innate soundness of English 
life in its thousands of sweet homes, 
something of that great force of moral 
stability, in the midst of all violence 
and excess of passion and performance, 
which makes a nation noble. " Op- 
posed to this band of tragic figures," 
which M. Taine arrays from the dramas, 
"with their contorted features, brazen 
fronts, combative attitudes, is a troop 
(he says) of timid figures, tender before 
everything, the most graceful and love- 
worthy whom it has been given to man 
 
to depict. In Shakespeare you will 
meet them in Miranda, Juliet, Desde- 
mona, Virginia, Ophelia, Cordelia, Imo- 
gen ; but they abound also in the oth- 
ers ; and it is a characteristic of the race 
to have furnished them, as it is of the 
drama to have represented them. By 
a singular coincidence the women are 
more of women, the men more of men, 
here than elsewhere. The two natures 
go to its extreme — in the one to bold- 
ness, the spirit of enterprise and resist- 
ance, the warlike, imperious, and unpol- 
ished character ; in the other to sweet- 
ness, devotion, patience, inextinguisha- 
ble affection (hence the happiness and 
strength of the marriage tie), a thing 
unknown in distant lands, and in France 
especially : a woman here gives herself 
without drawing back, and places her 
glory and duty in obedience, forgiveness, 
adoration, wishing, and pretending only 
i
 
to be melted and absorbed daily deeper 
and deeper in him whom she has freely 
and forever chosen." This is an old 
German instinct. The soul in this race 
is at once primitive and serious. Wom- 
en are disposed to follow the noble 
dream called duty. " Thus, supported 
by innocence and conscience, they in- 
troduce into love a profound and up- 
right sentiment, abjure coquetry, vanity, 
and flirtation ; they do not lie, they are 
not affected. When they love they are 
not tasting a forbidden fruit, but are 
binding themselves for their whole life. 
Thus understood, love becomes almost 
a holy thing ; the spectator no longer 
wishes to be malicious or to jest; wom- 
en do not think of their own happi- 
ness, but of that of the loved ones ; 
they aim not at pleasure, but at devo- 
tion." 
Thus far M. Taine's brilliant antith- 
 
eses — the most fascinating and most 
dangerous model for a young writer. 
But we are indebted to him for a most 
suggestive study of the period. His 
astonishment, the astonishment of the 
Gallic mind, at what he finds, is a meas- 
ure of the difference in the literature of 
the two races as an expression of their 
life. It was natural that he should 
somewhat exaggerate what he regards 
as the source of this expression, leaving 
out of view, as he does, certain great 
forces and currents which an outside 
observer cannot feel as the race itself 
feels. We look, indeed, for the local 
color of this English literature in the 
manners and habits of the times, traits 
of which Taine has so skilfully made a 
mosaic from Harrison, Stubbes, Stowe, 
Holinshed, and the pages of Reed and 
Drake ; but we look for that which 
made it something more than a mirror 
 
of contemporary manners, vices, and 
virtues, made it representative of uni- 
versal men, to other causes and forces — 
such as the Reformation, the immense 
stir, energy, and ambition of the age 
(the result of invention and discovery), 
newly awakened to the sense that there 
was a world to be won and made trib- 
