husband.  It would be hard to answer that, having no right of his own to
fight her battles, least of all against the man she had married.
He might answer by reminding Harmon of old times.  He might say that he
at least resigned the hope of that right, when Harmon had been his
friend, because he had believed that it was for Helen’s happiness.
That would be but a miserably unsatisfactory answer, though it would be
the truth.  The colonel did not remember that he had ever wished to
strike a man with a whip until the present moment.  But the sight of the
cut on Helen’s forehead had changed him very quickly. He was not sure
that he could keep his hands from Harmon if he should see him.  And
slowly a sort of cold and wrathful glow rose in his face, and he felt as
though his long, thin fingers were turning into steel springs.
Miss Wimpole had taken up a book and was reading.  She heard him move in
his chair, and looked up and saw his expression.
"What is the matter with you, Richard?" she enquired, in surprise.
"Why?" He started nervously.
"You look like the destroying angel," she observed calmly.  "I suppose
you are gradually beginning to be angry about Sylvia’s hat, as I was.  I
don’t wonder."
"Oh yes--Sylvia’s hat; yes, yes, I remember."  The colonel passed his
hand over his eyes.  "I mean, it is perhaps the heat.  It’s a warm day.
I’ll go to my room for a while."
"Yes, do, my dear.  You behave so strangely to-day--as if you were going
to be ill."
But the colonel was already gone, and was stalking down the corridor
with his head high, his eyes as hard as polished grey stones, and his
nervous hands clenched as they swung a little with his gait.
His sister shook her head energetically, then slowly and sadly, as she
watched him in the distance.
"How much more gracefully we grow old than men!" she said aloud, and
took up her book again.
                               CHAPTER VI
Helen had not seen the paragraph about Harmon.  She rarely read
newspapers, and generally trusted to other people to learn what they
contained.  The majority read papers for amusement, or for the sort of
excitement produced on nervous minds by short, strong shocks often
repeated.  There are persons who ponder the paper daily for half an hour
in absorbed silence, and then lift up their voices and cackle out all
they have read, as a hen runs about and cackles when she has laid an
egg.  They fly at every one they see, an unnatural excitement in every
tone and gesture, and ask in turn whether each friend has heard that
this one is engaged to be married, and that another is dead and has left
all his money to a hospital.  When they have asked all the questions
they can think of, without waiting for an answer, they relapse into
their normal condition, and become again as other men and women are.
Very few really read the papers in order to follow the course of events
for the mere sake of information. Mrs. Harmon was more or less
indifferent to things that neither directly concerned her nor appealed
to her tastes and sympathies.
Her letters were brought to her before she had left the sitting-room
after the colonel had gone away, and she looked at the addresses on them
carelessly, passing them from one hand to the other as one passes cards.
One arrested her attention, among the half-dozen or so which she had
received.  It was the regular report from the asylum, posted on the
first of the month. But it was thicker than usual; and when she tore
open the envelope, rather nervously and with a sudden anticipation of
trouble, a second sealed letter dropped from the single folded sheet
contained in the first.  But even that one sheet was full, instead of
bearing only the few lines she always received to tell her that there
was no change in her husband’s condition.
There had been a change, and a great one. Since last writing, said the
doctor, Harmon had suddenly begun to improve.  At first he had merely
seemed more quiet and patient than formerly; then, in the course of a
few days, he had begun to ask intelligent questions, and had clearly
understood that he had been insane for some time and was still in an
asylum.  He had rapidly learned the names of the people about him, and
had not afterwards confused them, but remembered them with remarkable
accuracy.  Day by day he had improved, and was still improving.  He had
enquired about the state of his affairs, and had wished to see one or
two of his old friends.  More than once he had asked after his wife, and
had evidently been glad to hear that she was well.  Then he had written
a letter to her, which the doctor immediately forwarded.  So far as it
was possible to form a judgment in the case, the improvement seemed to
promise permanent recovery; though no one could tell, of course, whether
a return to the world might not mean also a return to the unfortunate
habit which had originally unbalanced Harmon’s mind, but from which he
was safe as long as he remained where he was.
It was not easy for Helen to read to the end of such a letter: it shook
in her hands as she went on from one sentence to the next, and the
sealed envelope slipped from her knees to the floor while she was
reading.  When she had got to the end, she stared a moment at the
signature, and then folded the sheet, almost unconsciously, and drew her
nail sharply along the folds, as though she would make the paper feel
what she felt, and suffer as she suffered, in every nerve of her body,
and in every secret fibre of her soul.
She had not believed a recovery possible.  Now that it was a fact, she
knew how utterly beyond probability she had thought it; and immediately
the great problem rose before her, confusing, vast, terrifying.  But
before she faced it she must read Harmon’s letter.
It had fallen to the floor, and she had to look for it and find it and
pick it up.  The handwriting was large, somewhat ornamental, yet heavy
in parts and not always regular.  As she glanced at the address, she
remembered how she had disliked the writing when she had first seen it,
at a time when she had seen much to admire in Harmon himself.  Now she
did not like to touch the envelope on which he had written her name, and
she unreasoningly feared the contact of the sheet it held, as of
something that might defile her and must surely hurt her cruelly.  The
hand that had traced the characters on the paper was the hand that had
struck her and left its mark for all her life. And as she remembered the
rest, an enormous loathing of the man who was still her husband took
possession of her, so that she could not open the letter for a few
moments.
It was at once a loathing of bodily disgust, like a sickness, and a
mental horror of a creature who was so far from her natural nobility
that it frightened her to know how she hated him, and she began to fear
the letter itself, lest it should make some great change in her for
which she should at last hate herself also.  The spasm ran all through
her, as the sight of some very disgusting evil thing violently disturbs
body and mind at the same time.
The temptation to destroy the letter unread came upon her with all
possible force, and the vision of a return to peace was before her eyes,
as though the writing were already burned and beyond her power to
recover.  But that would be cowardly, and she was brave.  With drawn
lips, pale cheeks, and knitted brows she opened it, took out the folded
contents, and began to read.  As though to remind her of the place where
he was, and of all the circumstances from first to last, the name of the
asylum was printed at the head of each sheet in small, businesslike
letters.
She began to read:
MY DEAR HELEN,--You will be surprised to hear directly from me, I
suppose, and I can hardly expect that you will be pleased, though you
are too good not to be glad that I am better after my long illness.  I
have a great many things to write to you, and no particular right to
hope that you will read them.  Will you?  I hope so, for I do not mean
to write again until I get an answer to this letter.  But if you do read
this one, please believe that I am quite in my right senses again, and
that I mean all I say.  Besides, the doctor has written to you.  He
considers me almost ’safe’ now.  I mean, safe to remain as I am.
It is not easy for me to write to you.  You must hate me, of course.
God knows, I have given you reason enough to wish that I might stay here
for the rest of my life.  You are a very good woman, and perhaps you
will forgive me for all I have done to hurt you.  That is the main thing
I wanted to say.  I want to ask your pardon and forgiveness for
everything, from beginning to end.
’Everything’ is a big word, I know.  There has been a great deal during
these many years,--a great deal more than I like to think of; for the
more I think of it, the less I see how you can forgive even the half,
much less forget it.
I was not myself, Helen.  You have a right to say that it was my fault
if I was not myself.  I drank hard. That is not an excuse, I know; but
it was the cause of most of the things I did.  No woman can ever
understand how a man feels who drinks, and has got so far that he cannot
give it up.  How should she?  But you know that most men cannot give it
up, and that it is a sort of disease, and can be treated scientifically.
But I do not mean to make excuses.  I only ask your forgiveness, and in
order to forgive me you will find better excuses for me than I could
invent for myself.  I throw myself upon your kindness, for that is the
only thing I can do.
They say that it would not be quite safe for me to leave the asylum for
another month or two, and I am quite resigned to that; for the life is
quiet here, and I feel quiet myself and hate the idea of excitement.  I
suppose I have had too much of it.
But by and by they will insist upon my leaving, when I am considered
quite cured; and then I want to go back to you, and try to make you
happy, and do my best to make up to you for all the harm I have done
you. Perhaps you think it is impossible, but I am very much changed
since you saw me.
I know what I am asking, dear Helen.  Do not think I ask it as though it
were a mere trifle.  But I know what you are and what you have done.
You could have got a divorce over and over again, and I believe you
could now if you liked.  It is pretty easy in some states, and I suppose
I could not find much to say in defence.  Yet you have not done it.  I
do not know whether you have ever thought of it.
If you think of it now that I want to come back to you and try to do
better, and make you happy, for God’s sake give me another chance before
you take any step. Give me one more chance, Helen, for the sake of old
times.  You used to like me once, and we were very happy at first.
Then--well, it was all my fault, it was every bit of it my fault, and I
would give my soul to undo it.  If you will forgive me, we can try
together and begin over again, and it shall all be different, for I will
be different.
Can we not try?  Will you try?  It will be easy if you will only let us
begin.  It is not as if we should have other troubles to deal with, for
we have plenty of friends and plenty of money, and I will do the rest.
I solemnly promise that I will, if you will forgive me and begin over
again.  I know it must seem almost impossible. It would be quite
impossible for any other woman, though you can do it if you will.
I shall wait for your answer, before I write again, though it will seem
a very long time, and I am very anxious about it.  If it is what I hope
it will be, perhaps you will cable a few words, even one word.
’Forgiven’ is only one word.  Will you not say it?  Will you not give me
one chance more?  Oh, Helen dear, for God’s sake, do!  H.
Helen read the letter to the end, through every phrase and every
repetition.  Then the fight began, and it was long and bitter, a battle
to death, of which she could not see the issue.
The man wrote in earnest, and sincerely meant what he said.  No one
could read the words and doubt that.  Helen believed all he had written,
so far as his intention was concerned, but she could not cut his life in
two and leave out of the question the man he had been, in order to
receive without fear or disgust the man he professed himself to be.
That was too much to ask of any woman who had suffered what she had of
neglect, of violence, of shame.
’No one could tell,’ the doctor wrote, ’whether a return to the world
might not mean also a return to the unfortunate habit’--no one could
tell that.  And Harmon himself wrote that most men could not give it up,
that it was a disease, and that no woman could understand it.  What
possible surety could he give that it should never get hold of him
again? None.  But that was only a small matter in the whole question.
If she had ever loved him, perhaps if she could have felt that he had
ever loved her truly, it would have been different.  But she could not.
Why had he married her?  For her beauty.  The shame of it rose in her
eyes as she sat alone, and she could not help turning her face from the
light.
For love’s sake, even for an old love, outraged long ago and scarred
past recognizing, she could have forgiven much.  Old memories, suddenly
touched, are always more tender than we have thought they were, till the
tears rise for them, and the roots of the old life stir in the heart.
Helen had nothing of that.  She had made the great mistake of marrying a
man whom she had not loved, but whom she had admired, and perhaps
believed in, more than she understood. She had married him because he
seemed to love her very much, and the thought of being so loved was
pleasant.  She had soon found out what such love meant, and by and by
she had seen how traces of it survived in Henry Harmon, when all thought
of honouring her, or even of respecting her, was utterly gone.
A bitter laugh rang through the quiet room, and she started, for it was
her own voice.  She was to forgive!  Did he know what he was asking, and
for what things he was praying forgiveness?  Yet when he was sober he
had generally remembered what he had done when he had been drunk.  That
is to say, he had seemed to have the faculty of remembering what he
chose to recall, and of forgetting everything else.  She was to forgive
what he chose to remember!
’Oh, Helen dear, for God’s sake, do!’  She could see the last written
words of his letter before her eyes, though the sheet was folded and
bent double in her tightly closed hand.  He meant it, and it was an
appeal for mercy.  She hated herself for having laughed so cruelly a
moment earlier.  There was a cry in the words, quite different from all
he had written before them.  It did not touch her, it hardly appealed to
her at all, but somehow it gave him the right to be heard, for it was
human.
Then she went over all he said, though it hurt her.  She was not a woman
of quick impulses, and she knew that what was left of her life was in
the balance.  Even he seemed to acknowledge that, for he spoke of a
possibility of freedom for her by divorce.  To speak so easily of it, he
must have thought of it often, and that meant that it was really an easy
matter, as Colonel Wimpole had said.  It was in her power, and she had
free will.  He knew that she had a choice, and that she could either
take him back, now that he was cured, or make it utterly out of the
question for him to approach her.  He said as much, when he implored her
to give him one more chance ’before taking any step.’  She went over and
over it all, for hours. In the cool of the evening she opened the
blinds, collected her letters, and then sat down again, no nearer to a
decision than she had been at first.  A servant came and told her that
Colonel Wimpole was downstairs.  He had written a word on his card,
asking to see her again.
Her first impulse was the natural one.  She would let him come in and
she would lay the whole matter before him, as before the best friend she
had in the world, and ask him how she should act.  There was not in all
the world a man more honourable and just.  She would let him come to
her.
The words were on her lips, while the servant stood in the open door,
waiting for her answer. She checked herself with an effort.  She wrote a
line and gave it to the man.
She would not see Wimpole just then, for it would not be fair to him nor
perhaps quite just to Harmon.  Wimpole loved her, though he was quite
unaware that she knew it.  She believed firmly that when he had advised
her that very afternoon to divorce her husband, he was thinking only of
her happiness; but he had advised it, all the same, just because he
believed that Harmon might recover.  He could not change his mind now
that what he feared for her was taking place.  How could he?  He would
use every argument in his power, and he would find many good ones,
against her returning to her husband.  He could influence her against
her free will, and far more than he could guess, because she loved him
secretly as much as he loved her.  It was bitter not to see him, and
tell him, and ask his help; it was desperately hard, but as soon as she
saw that it was right, she wrote the words that must send him away,
before she could have time to hesitate.  Deep in her heart, too, there
was a thought for him. Loving her as he did, it would not be easy for
him, either, to go into the whole matter.  His honour and his love would
have to fight it out. So she sent him away.
Then Archie came into the room, vague and childish at first, but with an
odd look in his eyes, and he began to talk to her about Sylvia Strahan
in a way that frightened her, little by little, as he went on.
"Marry me to her, mother," he said at last, as though asking for the
simplest thing.  "I want to be married, and I want Sylvia.  I never saw
any other girl whom I wanted."
                              CHAPTER VII
There are times when trouble accumulates as an avalanche, or like water
in one of those natural intermittent springs that break out plentifully,
and dry up altogether in a sort of alternation.  But the spring has its
regular period, and trouble has not, and in an avalanche of disasters it
is impossible to say at any moment whether the big boulders have all
passed in the sliding drift of smaller stuff, or whether the biggest of
all may not be yet coming.
There are days in a lifetime which decide all the rest, and sometimes
explain all that has gone before, happy days, or days of tears, as the
case may be.  Perhaps they are the most interesting days to describe,
after all, for they are the ones which generally terminate a period in
existence.  But many say that in real life situations, as they are
called, never have any satisfactory termination, and that the story
which is most true of men and women is that one which has neither
beginning nor end.  The fact is that what appears to be the beginning is
often in reality the termination of a long series of events.  Novels
often end in marriage, yet real life frequently begins there.  There is
a very old proverb to that effect.
On such days all sorts of things happen that never occurred before and
perhaps never occur again, and every one who has had one or two such
short and eventful periods of confusion can remember how a host of
unforeseen trifles thrust themselves forward to disturb him.  It was as
though nothing could turn out right, as if nobody could take a message
without a mistake, as if the post and the telegraph had conspired
together to send letters and telegrams to wrong addresses, and
altogether all things, including the most sober and reliable
institutions, seem to work backwards against results instead of for
them.  Those are bad times. When they last long, people come to grief.
When they are soon over, people laugh at them.  When they decide a whole
life, as they sometimes do, people can afterwards trace the causes of
happiness or disaster to some very small lucky coincidence or
unfortunate mistake over which they themselves had no control.
When Colonel Wimpole had left Helen so abruptly, he had looked upon his
going away as a mere interruption of his visit, necessary, because he
could not be sure of controlling himself just then, but not meant to
last any length of time.  But after so suddenly learning the change in
Harmon’s condition, he would have waited till the evening before going
back, if his sister had not been so absurdly nervous about the price of
the hat, insisting that he should go at once and return the money.  He
had gone to his own room in a disturbed state of mind and had stayed
there an hour, after which Miss Wimpole, judging that he must be
sufficiently rested, had knocked at his door and urged him to go at once
to see Mrs. Harmon.  As he had no very good reason to give for refusing
to do so, he had made the attempt and had been refused admittance. He
went for a walk along the lake and came back again after an hour, and
wrote on his card a special request.
"May I see you now?  It is about a rather awkward little matter."
It was growing late.  Helen reflected that he could not stay long before
his own dinner time and hers, that he evidently had something especial
to say, and that she was certainly strong enough to keep her own counsel
for a quarter of an hour if she made up her mind to do so. Besides, it
must seem strange to him to be refused a second time; he would infer
that something was wrong and would ask questions when they next met.
She decided to see him.
His face was grave, and he was quite calm again.  As he took her hand
and spoke, there was a sort of quiet tenderness in his manner and tone,
a little beyond what he usually showed, perceptible to her, who longed
for it, though it could hardly have been noticed by any one else.
"It is rather an awkward little matter," he said, repeating the words he
had written.
Then he saw her face in the twilight, and he guessed that she had seen
the newspaper.
"You are in trouble," he said quickly.
She hesitated and turned from him, for she had forgotten that her face
must betray her distress.
"Yes," she answered, but she said no more than that.
"Can I help you?" he asked after a short pause.
"Please do not ask me."
She sat down, and Wimpole sighed audibly as he took his seat at a little
distance from her. He knew that she must have seen the paragraph about
Harmon’s recovery.
"Then I will explain my errand," he said.  "May I?"
It seemed rather a relief to have so small a matter ready to hand.
"Yes.  It will not take long, will it?" she asked rather nervously, for
she felt how his presence tempted her to confidence.  "It--it will soon
be dinner time, you know."
"I shall not stay long," said the colonel, quietly.  "It is rather an
awkward little matter.  You know Archie was with you this morning when I
saw you in the shop and got that miniature."
Helen looked at him suddenly with a change of expression, expecting some
new trouble.
"Yes, Archie was with us.  What is it?"  Her voice was full of a new
anxiety.
"It is nothing of any great importance," answered Wimpole, quickly, for
he saw that she was nervous.  "Only, he went out by himself afterwards,
and came across my sister and Sylvia in a milliner’s shop--"
"What was he doing in a milliner’s shop?" interrupted Helen, in
surprise.
"I don’t know," said the colonel.  "I fancy he saw them through the
window and went in to speak to them.  Sylvia was trying on a hat, you
know, and she liked it, and Archie, without saying anything, out of pure
goodness of heart, I suppose--"
He hesitated.  On any other day he would have smiled, but just now he
was as deeply disturbed as Helen herself, and the absurd incident of the
hat assumed a tremendous importance.
"Well?  What did he do?"  Helen’s nerves were on edge, and she spoke
almost sharply.
"He paid for the hat," answered Wimpole, with an air of profound sorrow,
and even penitence, as if it had been all his fault.  "And then he went
off, before they knew it."
Helen bit her lip, for it trembled.  He had not told the story very
clearly or connectedly, but she understood.  Archie had just been
talking to her strangely about Sylvia, and she had seen that he had
fallen in love with his old playmate, and she was afraid.  And now, she
was horribly ashamed for him.  It was so stupid, so pitifully stupid.
The colonel, guessing what greater torment was tearing at her heart, sat
still in a rather dejected attitude, waiting for her to speak, but not
watching her.
The matter which had brought him was certainly not very terrible in
itself, but it stirred and quickened all the ever-growing pain for her
son which was a part of her daily life.  It knitted its strength to that
of all the rest, to hurt her cruelly, and the torture was more than she
could bear.
She turned suddenly in her seat and half buried her face against the
back of the chair, so that Wimpole could not see it, and she bit the
coarse velvet savagely, trying to be silent and tearless till he should
go away.  But he knew what she was doing.  If he had not spoken, she
could still have kept back the scalding tears awhile.  But he did speak,
and very gently.
"Helen--dear Helen--what is it?"
"My heart is breaking," she said, almost quietly.
But then the tears came, and she shook once or twice, like an animal
that has a deep wound but cannot die.  The tears came slowly, and burned
her like drops of fire.  She kept her face turned away.
Wimpole was beside her and held her passive hand.  It twitched painfully
as it lay in his, and every agonized movement of it shot through him,
but he could not say anything at first. Besides, she knew he was there
and would help her if he could.  At last he spoke his thought.
"I will keep him from you," he said.  "He shall not come near you."
Her hand tightened upon his, instantly, and she sat up in her chair,
turning her face to him, quite white in the dusk, by the open window.
"Then you know?" she asked.
"Yes.  It is in the Paris paper to-day.  But it is only a report.  I do
not believe it is true."
She rose, mastering herself, as she withdrew her hand, and steadied
herself a moment against the chair beside him.
"It is true," she said.  "He has recovered. He has written to me."
Wimpole felt as if he had been condemned to death without warning.
"When?" he managed to ask.
"I got the letter this afternoon."
Their voices answered each other, dull and colourless in the gloom, and
for some moments neither spoke.  Helen went to the window and leaned
upon the broad marble sill, breathing the evening air from the lake, and
Wimpole followed her.  The electric lamps were lighted in the street,
glaring coldly out of the grey dusk, and many people were moving slowly
along the pavement below, in little parties, some gay, some silent.
"That is why I did not let you come up," said Helen, after a long time.
"But now--since you know--"  She stopped, still hesitating, and he tried
to see her expression, but there was not enough light.
"Yes?" he said, with a question, not pressing her, but waiting.
"Since you know," she answered at last, "you can guess the rest."
A spasm of pain half choked her, and Wimpole put out his hand to lay it
gently upon her arm, but drew it back again.  He had never done even
that much in all those years, and he would not do it now.
"I will keep him from you," he said again.
"No.  You must not do that."  Her voice was steady again.  "He will not
come to me against my will."
Wimpole turned sharply as he leaned on the window-sill beside her, for
he did not understand.
"You cannot possibly be thinking of writing to him, of letting him come
back?"
"Yes," she said.  "That is what I am thinking of doing."
She hardly dared think that she still could hesitate, now that Wimpole
was beside her.  If he had not come, it might have been different. But
he was close to her now, and she knew how long and well he had loved
her.  Alone, she could have found reasons for refusing ever to see
Harmon again, but they lost their look of honour now that this man, who
was everything to her, was standing at her elbow.  Exaggerating her
danger, she feared lest Wimpole should influence her, even
unintentionally, if she left the question open.  And he, for her own
happiness and honourably setting all thoughts of himself aside, believed
that he ought to use whatever influence he had, to the utmost.
"You must not do it," he said.  "I implore you not to think of it.  You
will wreck your life."
She did not move, for she had known what he would say.
"If you are my friend," she answered, after a pause, "you should wish me
to do what is right."
It was a trite commonplace, but she never tried to be original, at any
time, and just then the words exactly expressed her thought.  He
resented it.
"You have done more than enough of that sort of right already.  It is
time you thought a little of yourself.  I do not mean only of your
happiness, but of your safety.  You are not safe with that man.  He will
drink again, and he may kill you."
She turned her white face deliberately towards him in the gloom.
"And do you think I am afraid of that?" she asked slowly.
There was a sort of reproach in the tone, and a great good pride with
it.  Wimpole did not know what to say, and merely bent his head gravely.
"Besides," she added, "he is in earnest.  He is sorry.  He was mad then,
and he asks me to forgive him now.  How can I refuse?  He was really
mad, really insane.  No one can deny it. Shall I?"
"You can forgive him without going back to him.  Why should you risk
your life?"
"It is the only way of showing him that I forgive him, and my life will
not be in danger."
"Do you think that you can ever be happy again, if you go back to him?"
asked Wimpole.
"My happiness is not the question.  The only thing that matters is to do
right."
"It seems to me that right is more or less dependent on its results--"
"Never!" cried Helen, almost fiercely, and drawing back a little against
the side of the window.  "If one syllable of that were true, then we
could never know whether we were doing right or not, till we could judge
the result. And the end would justify the means, always, and there would
be no more right and wrong at all in the world."
"But when you know the results?" objected Wimpole.  "It seems to me that
it may be different."
"Then it is fear!  Then one is afraid to do right because one knows that
one risks being hurt!  What sort of morality would that be? It would be
contemptible."
"But suppose that it is not only yourself who may be hurt, but some one
else?  One should think of others first.  That is right, too."  He could
not help saying that much.
Helen hesitated a moment.
"Yes," she answered presently.  "But no one else is concerned in this
case."
"I will leave your friends out of the question," said Wimpole.  "Do you
think it will do Archie any good to live under the same roof with his
father?"
Helen started perceptibly.
"Oh, why did you say that!" she exclaimed in a low voice, and as she
leaned over the window-sill again she clasped her hands together in a
sort of despairing way.  "Why did you say that!" she repeated.
Wimpole was silent, for he had not at first realized that he had found a
very strong argument.  As yet, being human, she had thought only of
herself, in the first hours of her trouble. He had recalled all her past
terrors for her unfortunate son, and the memory of all she had done to
keep him out of his father’s way in old days.  He had been a mere boy,
then, and it had been just possible, because his half-developed mind was
not suspicious.  Now that he was grown up, it would be another matter.
The prospect was hideous enough, if Harmon should take a fancy to the
young man, and make him his companion, and then fall back into his old
ways.
"Why did you say it?  Why did you make me think of that?"  Helen asked
the questions almost piteously.  "I should have to send Archie
away--somewhere, where he would be safe."
"How could he be safe without you?"  The argument was pitilessly just.
But, after all, her life and happiness were at stake.  Wimpole saw right
in everything that could withhold her from the step to which she had
evidently made up her mind.
"And if I refuse to go back to my husband, what will become of him?" she
asked, still clasping her hands hard together.
"He could be properly taken care of," suggested Wimpole.
"And would that be forgiveness?"  Helen turned to him again
energetically.
"It would be wisdom, at all events."
"Ah, now you come back to your argument!" Her voice changed.  "You are
pressing me to do what is wise, not what is right.  Don’t do that!
Please don’t do that!"
"Do you forgive him?" asked the colonel, very gravely.
Again she paused before answering him.
"Why should you doubt it?" she asked in her turn.  "Don’t you see that I
wish to go back to him?"
"You know what I mean.  It is not the same thing.  You are a very good
woman, and by sheer force of goodness you could make an enormous
sacrifice for the sake of what you thought right."
"And would not that be forgiveness?"
"No.  If you freely forgave him, it would be no sacrifice, for you would
believe in him again. You would have just the same faith in Harmon which
you had on the day you married him.  If forgiveness means anything, it
means that one takes back the man who has hurt one, on the same real,
inward terms with oneself on which one formerly lived with him.  You
cannot do that, for it would not be sane."
"No, I cannot quite do that," Helen answered, after a moment’s thought.
"It would not be true to say that I had even thought I could. But then,
if you put it in that way, it would be hard to forgive any one, and it
would generally be foolish.  There is something wrong about your way of
looking at it."
"I am not a woman," said Wimpole, simply. "That is what is the matter.
At the same time, I do not see how you, as a woman, are ever going to
reconcile what you believe to be your duty to Harmon with what is
certainly your duty to your son."
"I must," said Helen.  "I must."
"Then you must do it before you write to Harmon, for afterwards it will
be impossible. You must decide first what you will do with Archie to
keep him out of danger.  When you have made up your mind about that, if
you choose to sacrifice yourself, nobody can prevent you.  At least you
will not be ruining him, too."
He saw no reason for not putting the case plainly, since what he said
was true.  Yet as he felt his advantage, he knew that by pressing it he
was increasing her perplexity.  In all his life he had never been in so
difficult a position.  She stood close beside him, her arm almost
touching his, and he had loved her all his life, as few men love, with
an honesty and purity that were more than quixotic.  What there was
left, he could have borne for her sake, even to seeing her united again
with Henry Harmon.  But the thought of the risk she was running was more
than he could bear.  He would use argument, stratagem, force, anything,
to keep her out of such a life; and when he had succeeded in saving her,
he would be capable of denying himself even the sight of her, lest his
conscience should accuse him of having acted for himself rather than for
her alone.
He remembered Harmon’s face as he had last seen it, coarse, cunning,
seamed with dissipation, and he looked sideways at Helen, white, weary,
bruised, a fast fading rose of yesterday, as she had called herself.
The thought of Harmon’s touch was more than he could bear.
"You shall not do it!" he exclaimed, after a long silence.  "I will make
it impossible."
Almost before he spoke the last words, he had repented them.  Helen drew
herself up and faced him, one hand on the window-sill.
"Colonel Wimpole," she said, "I know that you have always been my best
friend.  But you must not talk in that way.  I cannot allow even you to
come between me and what I think is right."
He bent his head a little.
"I beg your pardon," he answered, in a low voice.  "I should have done
it--not said it."
"I hope you will never think of it again," said Helen.
She left the window, and felt in the dark for matches, on the table, to
light a small candle she used for sealing letters.  It cast a faint
light up to her sad face.  Wimpole had stayed by the window, and watched
her now, while she looked towards him over the little flame.
"Please go, now," she said gravely.  "I cannot bear to talk about this
any longer."
                              CHAPTER VIII
After the door had closed, Helen stood a moment by the table,
motionless.  Then she sat down by the feeble light of the taper and
wrote upon a sheet of paper her husband’s address and one
word--’forgiven.’  She looked at the writing fixedly for a minute or
two, and then rang the bell.
"Have this telegram sent at once, please, and bring me a lamp and
dinner," she said to the servant.
With the lamp came Archie, following it with a sort of interest, as
children do.
"You must have been in the dark ever so long, mother," he said, and just
then he saw her white face.  "You are not looking all right," he
observed.
Helen smiled, from force of habit, rather wearily.  The servant began to
set the table, moving stealthily, as though he were meditating some
sudden surprise which never came. He was a fairly intelligent Swiss,
with an immense pink face and very small blue eyes.
Helen watched him for a moment, and sighed. The man was intellectually
her son’s superior, and she knew it.  Any one else might have smiled at
the thought, as grotesque, but it had for her the cruel vividness of a
misfortune that had saddened all of her life which her husband had not
embittered.  She envied, for her son, the poor waiter’s little powers of
mental arithmetic and memory.
"What’s the matter, mother?" asked Archie, who sat looking at her.
"Nothing, dear," she answered, rousing herself, and smiling wearily
again.  "I am a little tired, perhaps.  It has been a hot day."
"Has it?  I didn’t notice.  I never do--at least, not much.  I say,
mother, let’s go home! I’m tired of Europe, and I know you are.  Let’s
all go home together--we and the Wimpoles."
"We shall be going home soon," said Helen.
"I thought you meant to go to Carlsbad first. Wasn’t it to Carlsbad we
were going?"
"Yes, dear.  But--here comes dinner--we will talk about it by and by."
They sat down to table.  In hotels abroad Helen always dined in her
rooms, for she was never quite sure of Archie.  He seemed strangely
unconscious of his own defect of mind, and was always ready to enter
boldly into conversation with his neighbours at a foreign hotel dinner
table.  His childish ignorance had once or twice caused her such
humiliation as she did not feel called upon to bear again.
"I don’t know why we shouldn’t talk about it now," began Archie, when he
had eaten his soup in silence, and the servant was changing his plate.
"We shall be alone, after dinner," answered his mother.
"Oh, the waiter doesn’t care!  He’ll never see us again, you know, so
why shouldn’t we say anything we like before him?"
Mrs. Harmon looked at her son and shook her head gravely, which was an
admonition he always understood.
"Did you see anything you liked, to-day?" she asked incautiously, by way
of changing the conversation.
"Rather!" exclaimed Archie, promptly.  "I met Sylvia Strahan--jukes!"
Helen shuddered, as she saw the look in his face and the glitter in his
eyes.
"I wish you could remember not to say ’jukes’ every other minute,
Archie," she said, for the thousandth time.
"Do you think Sylvia minds when I say ’jukes’?" asked the young man,
suddenly.
"I am sure she thinks it a very ugly and senseless word."
"Does she?  Really?"  He was silent for a few moments, pondering the
question.  "Well," he resumed at last, in a regretful tone, "I’ve always
said it, and I like it, and I don’t see any harm in it.  But, of course,
if Sylvia doesn’t like it, I’ve got to give it up, that’s all.  I’m
always going to do what Sylvia likes, now, as long as I live.  And what
you like, too, mother," he added as an apologetic and dutiful
afterthought. "But then, you’re pretty sure to like the same things,
after all."
"You really must not go on in this way about Sylvia, my dear," said
Helen.  "It is too absurd."
Archie’s heavy brows met right across his forehead as he looked up with
something like a glare in his eyes, and his voice was suddenly thick and
indistinct, when he answered.
"Don’t call it absurd, mother.  I don’t understand what it is, but it’s
stronger than I am. I don’t want anything but Sylvia.  Things don’t
amuse me any more.  It was only to-day--"
He stopped, for he was going to tell her how he had found no pleasure in
his toys, neither in the blocks, nor in the tin soldiers, nor in the
little papier-mâché lady and gentleman in the painted cart.  But he
thought she did not know about them, and he checked himself in a sudden
shame which he had never felt before.  A deep red blush spread over his
dark face, and he looked down at his plate.
"I’m a man, now," he said, through his teeth, in a rough voice.
After that, he was silent for a time, but Helen watched him nervously.
She, too, saw that he was a man, with almost less than a boy’s mind, and
her secret terror grew.  She could not eat that evening, but he did not
notice her. They dined quickly and then they sat down together, as they
usually did, quite near to each other and side by side.  She could
sometimes teach him little things which he remembered, when everything
was quiet.  He generally began to talk of something he had seen, and she
always tried to make him understand it and think about it.  But this
evening he said nothing for a long time, and she was glad of his
silence.  When she thought of the telegram she had sent, she had a sharp
pain at her heart, and once or twice she started a little in her chair.
But Archie did not notice her.
"I say, mother," he began, looking up, "what becomes of all the things
one forgets?  Do they--do they go to sleep in one’s head?"
Mrs. Harmon looked at him in surprise, for it was by far the most
thoughtful question he had ever asked.  She could not answer it at once,
and he went on.
"Because you always tell me to try and remember, and you think I could
remember if I tried hard enough.  Then you must believe the things are
there.  You wouldn’t expect me to give you what I hadn’t got, would you?
That wouldn’t be fair."
"No, certainly not," answered his mother, considerably puzzled.
"Then you really think that I don’t forget. You must think I don’t
remember to remember. Something like that.  I can’t explain what I mean,
but you understand."
"I suppose so, my dear.  Something like that.  Yes, perhaps it is just
as you say, and things go to sleep in one’s head and one has to wake
them up.  But I know that I can often remember things I have forgotten
if I try very hard."
"I can’t.  I say, mother, I suppose I’m stupid, though you never tell me
so.  I know I’m different from other people, somehow.  I wish you would
tell me just what it is.  I don’t want to be different from other
people.  Of course I know I could never be as clever as you, nor the
