she had not seen her father again, and believed that 
he had left the camp. The Queen knew that the 
lovers met, but she would not hinder them, though 
it was cruel pain to think of their happiness. Many 
have spoken and written evil things of Eleanor, for 
she was a haughty woman and overbearing, and she 
feared neither God nor man, nor Satan either; but 
she had a strong and generous heart, and, having 
promised, she kept her word as well as she could. 
She would not send for Gilbert, nor see him alone, 
lest she should fail of resolution when her eyes 
looked on him too closely. Beatrix knew this and 
took heart, and the veil of estrangement was lifted 
between her and Gilbert. 
On the last day but one of the year he went be- 
fore the King, who bade him mount again with his 
men and ride before the army through the passes of 
the Cadmus towards Attalia, seeking out the safest 
way and giving timely warning of the enemy. Also, 
because it was known that the danger must be 
greater now than before, the King gave him leave to 
choose knights and men-at-arms to the number of a 
hundred, to be under him, and made him rich presents 
of fine armour, and caused his shield to be painted 
 
afresh by a skilled Greek. "While he talked with Gil- 
bert he watched the Queen, who sat apart somewhat 
pale, reading in a Book of Hours, for he was suspicious 
ofiier; but she never looked at the Englishman until 
he was taking his leave. Then she beckoned him to 
her, before he went out, and gave him her ungloved 
hand, which he kissed, and she looked into his face a 
moment, very sadly, not knowing whether she should 
see him again. So he went out, to bid Beatrix farewell. 
She met him at the accustomed place by the river, 
and for a while they were together; but they could 
not talk much, being both very sad. She took a 
golden ring from her hand, and would have put it 
upon his finger, but it was too small. 
" I had hoped that you could wear it," she said, 
disappointed, "for it was my mother's." 
Gilbert took it in his hand. It was of very pure 
gold and thin, so he cut it open with the point of 
his dagger and bent it back and clasped it round 
his fourth finger, tightly. 
" It is our troth," he said. 
It was hard to let him go, for she also knew the 
peril, as the Queen knew it. 
" I shall pray for you," she said, clinging to him. 
"God is good — you may come back to me." 
They sat a long time together, saying nothing. 
When it was time for him to lead his men out, as he 
judged by the sun, he kissed her, lifting her up to 
him. 
" Good-by," he said. 
" Not yet ! " she pleaded, between his kisses. " Oh, 
Gilbert, not so very soon I " 
But she knew that he must go, and he set her 
gently upon her feet, for it was the last moment. 
When he was gone, she sat down upon the stone, 
and the Norman woman came and put one arm 
round her, holding her, for she seemed fainting. 
Still her eyes followed him as he strode along the 
river, till he reached the turning. There he stopped 
and looked back, and kissed the ring she had given 
him, and waved his hand to her; and she pressed 
both her hands to her lips and threw them out to 
him, as if she would have thrown him her heart and 
her soul with it. 
When he was gone, the sky turned black before 
her eyes and time stood still, and she knew what 
death meant. But she did not faint, and she had 
no tears. Only, when she went back after some 
time, she walked unsteadily and her woman helped 
her. 
So Gilbert rode out to seek the way, taking well- 
mounted messengers with him as before, and on the 
first day of the New Year the whole army began the 
march again, crossing the river the first time at a 
ford. The Queen would perforce be in the van, 
vdth her ladies, so that the speed of their riding 
became the speed of the whole army, whereby the 
whole host was kept together. The first messenger 
who came back told that Sir Gilbert had reached 
the hills, and led the Queen by the way he had fol- 
lowed, saying that so far he had met no enemies. 
But on the morrow, as they drew near to the moun- 
tains and rode up the rising ground, they saw afar 
off a man standing by one who lay stark on the 
 
ground, and driving off a vulture and a score of 
ravens with a long staff. The Queen's heart stood 
still when she saw this sight, and she spurred her 
Arab mare forward before all the army till she 
stopped beside the dead body and saw that the face 
was not Gilbert's. The squire who was guarding 
the dead told her how, very early in the morning, 
some fifty Seljuk horsemen had come down from the 
hills and had shot arrows at Gilbert and his men 
from a distance, wheeling quickly and galloping away 
out of sight before the Christians could mount ; and 
this one knight had been killed, and his squire had 
stayed by him till the army should come up, while 
the rest rode on, and took both the horses with them 
in case they should lose any of their own. 
There they buried the body deep, when the 
Queen's chaplain had blessed it, and they marched 
on till noon, and encamped. From that time the 
Queen made her ladies ride in the centre of the 
great host, protected on all sides ; but she herself, 
with the Lady Anne of Auch, still kept the van, for 
in this way she was nearer to Gilbert. She also 
sent out parties of scouts to the right and left, to 
give warning of the Seljuks ; and the King guarded 
the rear, where there was also great danger. 
Meanwhile Gilbert went farther up into the moun- 
tains, searching out the best way to the pass, distrust- 
ing the Greek guides, who nevertheless feared him 
and told him the truth, though it was the secret wish 
of the Greek Emperor that the army should all be 
destroyed, because he desired no increase of the 
western power in Asia. But Gilbert told the guides 
severally and all together that he would cut off the 
head of the first one who should even seem to be 
false ; and he kept them under his own eye, and his 
long sword was always loose in the sheath. 
He went very cautiously now, setting sentinels 
at night and sleeping little himself, so that he might 
often go a,lone from post to post and see that all was 
well. But the Seljuks never came in the darkness, 
for as yet there were not many of them, and they 
trusted to their bows by day, when they could see ; 
but they feared to come to close quarters with the 
picked swordsmen of the French army. Since they 
had first shown themselves, the Christians all rode 
fully armed in mail and hood, knights and men-at- 
arms and young squires alike, with the half-dozen 
pack-horses and a few spare mounts in the midst; 
and good mail was proof against arrows, but Gilbert 
wished that he had brought fifty archers with him, 
such marksmen as little Alric, his groom. 
There was some fighting every day, when he was 
able to overtake the swift Seljuks in some narrow 
place. They fled when they could, but when they 
were brought to bay they turned savagely and 
fought like panthers, yelling their war-cry : " Hurr ! 
Hurr ! " which in the Tartar tongue signifies : " Kill ! 
Kill ! " 
But more often the Christians killed them, being 
stronger men and better armed, and Gilbert was ever 
the first to strike ; and one day, as the fiercest of a 
band of Seljuks rode at him, whirling a crooked 
sword and shouting the cry, Gilbert cut off his arm 
at one stroke and it fell to the ground with tTie fist 
 
still grasping the scimitar ; whereat Gilbert laughed 
fiercely and mocked the unbeliever's cry. 
" Hurrah ! Hurrah ! " he shouted, as he rode on. 
Then his followers took the cry from him, jeering 
at their enemies, and on that morning they let not 
one escape, but slew them all, saving one man only, and 
took the horses that were alive. But from that time, 
the Christians began to cry, " Hurrah ! " And when 
men shout to-day, " Hurrah for the king," they know 
not that they are crying, " Kill for the king." 
But Gilbert saw that the place where this hap- 
pened was a very dangerous one, though the entrance 
to it was broad and pleasant, through a high valley 
where there were certain huts in which shepherds 
dwelt, and grass and water. Therefore he turned 
back quickly when the killing was over, and he took 
the chief of the guides by the throat, holding his head 
down upon the pommel of his saddle, and bade him 
show a better way if he would keep his head on his 
shoulders. 
" My lord, there is no other way," cried the man, 
fright-struck. 
" Very well," answered Gilbert, drawing his red 
sword again. " If there is no other way, I shall not 
need you any more, my man. " 
When the fellow heard the sheath sucking the 
wet steel, he screamed for terror, crying out that 
there was another way. So they rode back to the 
entrance of the valley, and the man began to lead 
them up a steep track among trees ; and above the 
trees they came to a desolate, stony ridge ; but still 
they could ride, though it was a very toilsome way. 
When they had reached the top, after three hours, 
Gilbert saw that he was at the true pass, broad and 
straight, opening down to grassy slopes beyond, be- 
tween crags that would not give a foothold to a goat. 
He rode on a little way farther, and there was a very 
steep path, turning back, round the highest peak, and 
presently he looked down into a small, high valley, 
below which the narrow way led down to the pleasant 
place through which he had first ridden, and he saw 
that a great army could easily be destroyed there by 
a small one lying in ambush. He could see quite 
plainly the dead Seljuks lying as they had fallen, and 
from far and near the great vultures and the kites 
were sailing down from the crags, while the ravens 
and crows that followed his killing day by day were 
flying, and settling, and hopping along the ground, 
and flying again to the places of death. 
He rode back to his men, driving the guide before 
him ; and the man feared for his life continually, and 
reeled in the saddle as if he were drunk. But Gil- 
bert knew that a man well frightened was a man 
gained for what he wanted, so when he had threat- 
ened to cut off his hands and put out his eyes and 
leave him to die among the rocks if he tried to mis- 
guide the army again, he let him live. Then he 
sent ten men back to lead the host on the following 
day, and he remained in the pass to keep it until the 
vanguard should be in sight. He bade his messengers 
tell the King that for his life he must not go into the 
broad valley, though it looked so fair and open. 
Now the Seljuks whom he had met were all dead 
but one young man; but there were many of them, 
 
some five thousand, encamped in a great hiding-place 
surrounded by rocks, on the other side of the pass. 
And the one who had escaped went to them, and 
told them what had happened, and that the whole 
French army would surely come up that way on the 
next day or the day after that. Therefore the Seljuks 
mounted, and came and lay in ambush, and two hun- 
dred of them rode down into the valley and hid 
themselves among the trees where the steep way 
began which was the right way. For they knew 
the mountains, and feared lest at the last moment the 
White Fiend, as they called Gilbert, might find out 
his mistake and choose that path to the pass, and 
save all ; whereas on the steep ridge, under cover of 
trees, two hundred chosen bowmen, each with a great 
sheaf of arrows, might turn back a host. So the 
night passed, and Gilbert was undisturbed; but great 
evil was prepared for the army, though his messen- 
gers reached the camp and repeated his words to the 
King before nightfall. 
It lacked two hours of noon when Sir Gaston de 
Castignac and a dozen other knights, and Gilbert's 
ten men, turned the spur of the mountain where the 
broad green valley opened, having on their right the 
wooded ridge where the two hundred Seljuks were 
hidden. A moment later the Queen herself came up, 
with Anne of Auch and a hundred knights, and she 
supposed that they should have ridden through the 
valley ; but Castignac stopped her and told her what 
the men said, and that they must all begin the ascent 
from that point. The valley was inviting, with its 
pleasant water and its broad meadow, and some of the 
knights murmured ; but when Eleanor heard that 
Gilbert had chosen the steeper way, she had no doubt, 
and bade them all be silent ; yet as there was much 
space on the grass, and as the men said that the ascent 
was long, it seemed better to halt awhile before 
beginning to climb. Meanwhile the whole van of 
the army came up, many thousands of men-at-arms 
and knights, and footmen, and after them the gorgeous 
train of ladies, careless and gay, feeling themselves 
safe among so many armed men, and desiring a sight 
of the enemy rather than fearing it. There was 
little order in the march, and hitherto there had been 
little danger ; for the Seljuks meant to destroy them 
in the mountains, and would never have tried battle 
in the open with such a great host. 
Still the troop came on, filling the valley from side 
to side, and pressing up by sheer numbers toward 
the pass ; and the King came at last, and with him 
certain Greek guides to whom he listened, and who 
began to make a great outcry, saying that Sir Gil- 
bert was a madman and that no horses could climb 
the ridge. Thereat Gilbert's men swore that they 
had climbed it on the preceding day, and that even 
a woman could ride up it. And one of the Greeks 
began to laugh at them, saying that they lied ; so Sir 
Gaston de Castignac smote him on the mouth with 
his mailed hand, breaking all his teeth, and there was 
a turmoil, and the people began to take opposite sides, 
for many of the King's men had come up, and he 
himself was for the easy way up the valley. 
Then Eleanor was very angry, and she mounted 
again, calling Gilbert's men to her side, and her own 
 
knights who rode in the van ; and she told the King 
to his face that the Guide of Aquitaine had eyer led 
them safely, but that whenever the army had fol- 
lowed the King's guides, evil had befallen. But the 
King would not be browbeaten before the great 
lords and barons, and he swore a great oath that he 
would go by the valley, come what might. There- 
upon Eleanor turned her back on him, wheeling her 
horse short round ; and she bade her knights ride up 
the hill to the trees with her, and gave orders that her 
army should follow her, and leave the King to take his 
men by any way he chose. On this the confusion 
became greater than ever, for in the host there were 
thousands of men, half pilgrims, half soldiers, who 
had come of their own accord, as free men, bound 
neither to the King nor the Queen ; there were also the 
Poles and Bohemians, who were independent. All 
these began to discuss and quarrel among themselves. 
Meanwhile the Queen and Anne of Auch rode 
slowly up the hill, straight toward the trees, with 
Castignac and Gilbert's men before them, and the 
knights of Guienne following closely after ; but none 
of them expected evil, for the place looked peaceful 
in the high sunshine. Eleanor and the Lady Anne 
rode fearlessly in their skirts and mantles, but the 
men were fully armed in their mail and steel caps. 
The foremost were half a dozen spears' lengths 
from the brushwood when the sharp twang of a bow- 
string broke the stillness, and an arrow that was 
meant for the Queen's face flew just between her 
and the Lady Anne. The fair woman flushed sud- 
denly at the danger ; on the dark one's forehead a 
vein stood out, straight from the parting of the hair, 
downward between the eyes. The men spurred 
their horses instantly, and dashed into the wood 
before the Queen could stop them, Castignac first 
by a length, with his sword out. The flight of 
arrows that followed the first shot struck horses and 
men together, and three or four horses went down 
with their riders; but the mail was proof, and the 
men were on their feet in an instant and running 
among the trees, whence came the sound of great 
blows, and the sharp twanging of many bowstrings, 
and the yell of the Seljuks. Now and again an 
arrow flew from among the trees at random, and while 
Eleanor sat on her horse, looking down the hill and 
crying to her knights to come on quickly and join 
ji the fight, she did not know that Anne of Auch 
covered her with her body from the danger of a stray 
shaft, facing the danger with a light heart, in the 
hope of the blessed death for which she looked. 
Of those who went in under the trees, none came 
back, while the din of the flght rose louder and 
wilder, by which Eleanor guessed that the enemy 
were very few and were being driven up the hill, 
overpowered by numbers; and lest her own men 
should hamper each other, she stopped them and 
would not allow any more to go up. 
Meanwhile the King looked on from below, saying 
prayers; for he was in mortal dread of wishing that 
the Queen might be killed, since that would have 
been as great a sin as if he had slain her with his 
own hand ; so that whereas when there was no pres- 
ent danger he constantly prayed that by some means 
 
he might be delivered from the woman of Belial, 
he now prayed as fervently that she might be pre- 
served. As soon as he saw her forbidding a further 
advance, he took it for granted that she intended to 
come back and go up the valley, and he gave the 
signal to his own knights and men to advance in that 
direction, away from the place where the Seljuks 
were fighting. Indeed, there were always many who 
were ready to turn their backs on danger, especially 
of the poorer sort, who were ill-armed ; and immedi- 
ately, with great confusion and much shouting and 
pressing, the main body began to move on quickly, 
spreading out as they went, and completely filling up 
the valley ; but then they were crowded again, as they 
went higher, where the valley narrowed to the pass, 
and at last they were so squeezed and jammed to- 
gether that the horses could hardly move at all. 
The Queen's ladies, with their great throng of 
attendants and servants, had drawn aside at the 
beginning of the valley, protected by two or three 
thousand men-at-arms, to wait the end of the fight- 
ing, but she herself was still on the spur of the hill 
before the woods. Before long came Sir Gaston de 
Castignac, on foot and covered with blood, his mail 
hacked in many places by the crooked Seljuk swords, 
and his three-cornered shield dinted and battered. 
He came to the Queen's side and made a grand bow, 
waving his right hand towards the trees, and he 
spoke in a loud voice. 
" The Duchess's highway is clear," he said. "The 
way is open and the road is swept. But the broom — " 
He turned livid and reeled. 
" The broom is broken ! " he cried, as he fell at 
full length almost under the Arab mare's feet. 
He had been shot through the middle with an 
arrow, but had lived to tell of victory. In an instant 
the Queen knelt beside him, trying to raise his head; 
and he smiled when he knew her, and died. But 
there were gentle tears in her eyes as she rose to her 
feet and bade them bury the Gascon deep, while she 
herself laid his shield upon his knees, and crossed his 
hands upon his breast. 
Many others died there, and were buried quickly ; 
but the bodies of the Seljuks were dragged aside, 
out of the hne of the march ; and it was high noon, 
for all that had happened had taken place in 
about two hours. Yet as the way was long to 
the summit of the pass, those of Gilbert's men who 
had not been killed urged the Queen to march on 
at once, in order that the camp might be pitched 
by daylight where Gilbert was waiting. So Eleanor 
commanded that all her people should follow her 
in the best order they could keep, and she began 
to ride up the steep way. But in the valley the 
King's army was pressing on and up toward the 
place where Gilbert had fought yesterday, where 
the bones of the slain Seljuks were already white, 
and the gorged vultures perched sleeping in the 
noonday sun. 
Two hours passed, and because the guides knew the 
way well, it being now the third time of their pass- 
ing there, and because the Queen and her vanguard 
were on sure-footed horses, they reached the top in 
that time, and saw Gilbert and the eighty men he 
 
still had with him sitting on the rocks in their 
armour, waiting, and their horses tethered near by, 
but saddled and bridled. Then Gilbert stood out 
before the rest and waited for the Queen, who 
cantered forward and halted beside him. She began 
to speak somewhat hurriedly, and she constantly 
looked about her, rather than into his face, telling 
him how they had fought in the wood, and how the 
King and many of the host had gone round by the 
valley. Thereat Gilbert became yery anxious. 
"The ladies are following me," said Eleanor, 
gently, for she knew why he was pale. 
As she spoke, a cry came on the air, wild, distinct 
as the scream of the hungry falcon, but it was the 
cry of thousands. 
"Hurr! Hurr ! Hurr !" 
" The Seljuks are upon them," said Gilbert, " for 
that cry is from the pass above the valley. God 
have mercy on the souls of Christian men ! " 
Dunstan, who knew him well, brought his horse at 
the first alarm. 
" By your Grace's leave," said Gilbert, taking the 
bridle to mount, " I will take my men and do what I 
can to help them. I have explored the way round 
this mountain, and every man who follows me may 
kill ten Seljuks at an advantage, from above, just as 
the Seljuks are now slaying the King's men, below 
them." 
"Hurr! Hurr! Kill! Kill ! " 
Ear-piercing, wild, the cry of slaughter came up 
from the valley again and again, and worse sounds 
came now on the clear air, the howls of men 
pressed together and powerless, slain in hundi-eds 
with arrows and stones, and the unearthly shrieks 
of horses wounded to death. 
" They are in thousands," said Gilbert, listening. 
"I must have more men." 
" I give you my army," said Eleanor. " Command 
all, and do your best." 
For one moment Gilbert looked hard at her, scarcely 
believing that she meant the words. But she raised 
herself in her saddle, and called out in a loud voice to 
the hundreds of nobles and knights who had already 
come up. 
" Sir Gilbert Warde commands the army ! " she 
cried. " Follow the Guide of Aquitaine ! " 
There was light in his face as he silently bowed 
his head and mounted. 
" Sirs," he said, when he was in the saddle, " the 
way by which I shall lead you to rescue the King is 
narrow ; therefore follow me in good order, two and 
two, all those who have sure-footed horses. But 
beyond the defile as many as a thousand may fight 
without hindering each other. The rest encamp 
here and protect the Queen and her ladies. For- 
ward ! " 
He saluted Eleanor and rode away, leaving her 
there. She hesitated and looked longingly after 
him, but Anne of Auch laid a hand upon her 
bridle. 
"Madam," she said, "your place is here, where 
there is no one to command. And here also there 
may be danger before long." 
All the time, the dreadful din of fight came up 
 
from below, louder and louder. The Seljuks had 
waited until not less than five thousand men, with 
the King himself, had passed through the narrow 
channel from the lower valley and choked the 
upper gorge, pushed on by those behind ; and then, 
from their hiding-places among the rocks and trees, 
they had sprung up in their thousands to kill those 
taken in the trap like mice. B'^irst came the thick 
flight of their arrows, straight and deadly, going 
down with flashes into the sea of men ; and then 
great stones rolled from the heights, boulders that 
crushed the life out of horse and man and rolled 
straight through the mass of human bodies, leaving 
a track of blood behind ; and then more arrows, 
darting hither and thither in the sunlight like rock- 
swallows ; and again stones and boulders, till the 
confusion and the panic were at their height, and 
the wild Seljuks sprang down the sides of the 
gorge, yelling for death, swinging their scimitars, 
to kill more surely by hand, lest they should waste 
arrows on dead men. 
The blood was ankle-deep in the pass, through 
which more and more of the Christians were driven 
up to the slaughter by those who followed them. 
The King was forcing his way through his own men, 
and with them, toward the side where there were 
most enemies. His sluggish blood was roused at 
last, and his sword was out. Nor was it long before 
he was able to fight hand to hand ; but many of 
those around him were slain, because their arms 
were hampered in the close press. The Seljuks 
made room by killing, and climbed upon the slain 
towards the living. In the vast and screaming din, 
no one could have heard a voice of command, and 
the air was darkening with the steam and reek of 
battle. 
A full hour the Seljuks slew and slew, almost 
unharmed, and the Christians were dead in thou- 
sands under their feet. The King, with a hundred 
followers, was at bay by the roots of a huge oak tree, 
fighting as best he might, and killing a man now and 
then, though wounded in the face and shoulder, and 
sorely spent. But he saw that it was a desperate 
case and that all was lost, and no more of his army 
were coming up to the rescue, because the narrow pass 
was choked with dead. So he began to sing the 
penitential psalms in time with the swinging of his 
sword. 
It was towards evening, for the days were short, 
and the westering sun suddenly poured its light 
straight into the gorge and upon the rising ground 
above. Some of the Christians looked up out of the 
carnage, and the King turned his eyes that way 
when he could spare a glance, and suddenly the sun 
flashed back from the height, as from golden and 
silver mirrors quickly moving, and foremost was an 
azure shield with a golden cross flory, and the Chris- 
tians knew it well. Then a feeble shout went up 
from the few who lived. 
" The Guide of Aquitaine ! " they cried. 
But they were not heard, for suddenly there 
was a louder cry from the Seljuks, and it was 
not their war-yell, but something like a howl of 
fear. 
 
" The Wrath of God ! The White Fiend ! " 
For they were caught in their own trap, and death 
rose in their eyes. On the low heights above the 
gorge a thousand Christians had formed in ranks 
quickly, with lance lowered and sword loose in 
sheath. A moment later, and a steel cap went 
whirling through the air, glancing and gleaming in 
the sun, till it fell among the enemy below, and then 
came the sharp command, the leader's single word : 
« Charge ! " 
The Seljuks heard the terrible, quick clanking 
of armour as the great troop began to move, and 
the Guide of Aquitaine swept down in a storm of 
steel, bareheaded, his fair hair streaming on the 
wind, his eyes on lire in the setting sun, his great 
sword high in air, the smile of destruction on his 
even lips. 
"The White Fiend! The Wrath of God!" 
screamed the Seljuks. 
They tried to fly, but there was no way out, 
for the pass was choked with dead below, and 
they must win or die, every living soul of their 
host. So they turned at bay, joining their strength, 
and standing as they could on heaps of dead bodies. 
There, where they had slain, Gilbert slew them, and 
a thousand blades flashed red in the red sunlight, in 
time with his; and there was a low, sure sound of 
killing as steel went through flesh and bone and 
was wrenched back to strike again. The Seljuks 
fought like madmen and like wild beasts while they 
could ; but in Gilbert's eyes there was the awful light 
of victory, and his arm tired not, while rank upon 
rank the enemy went down, and the Christians who 
still lived began to smite them from behind. Then 
the pass was filled fuller than before, and a small 
red river leaped down from stone to stone, following 
the channel to the broad valley beyond, where nearly 
fifty thousand powerless men watched it flowing 
among them. But they listened, too, and the Seljuk 
yell grew fainter, because few were left, and there 
were few to cry out. 
The shout of triumphant Christian men came 
ringing down the evening air instead, and fear gave 
way to rejoicing and gladness; for though there 
were many dead in the upper valley, and many 
strong knights and men-at-arms, young and old, 
great and small, lay under the dead Seljuks who had 
killed them, yet the great body of the army was 
alive, the strength of the enemy was broken, and 
Gilbert had saved the King. In truth, he had 
found him in an evil case, with his back against 
the oak tree, and his knights dead around him ; three 
of the last Seljuks who lived were still hacking at 
him with their crooked swords, while he sang his 
"De profundis," for his soul's good, and used Ms 
best fence for his body's safety, hewing away like 
a strong man and brave, as he was, notwithstand- 
ing his faults; and he was sore spent. 
" Sir," he said, taking Gilbert's hand, " ask what 
you will of me, and if it be no sin, you shall have 
it, for you have saved the army of the Cross." 
But the Englishman smiled and would ask noth- 
ing, for he had honour enough that day. Yet he 
knew not that on the cliff whence he had descended 
 
to the valley, there sat two women who dearly lovec 
him, watching him from first to last, — the Queer 
and Beatrix. 
There they sat, unconsciously clasping hand ir 
hand, and their eyes were wide with fear for him 
and yet bright with pride of him as they saw th( 
splendour of his deeds, how his fair streaming haii 
went ever forward through the Seljuk ranks, and 
how his track was deep and red for others to follow, 
till it seemed not possible that one man could slaji 
so many and be unhurt, and a sort of awe came ovei 
them, as if he were a being beyond nature. 
Neither spoke, nor did either hand loosen on the 
other ; but when it was done, and they saw him dis- 
mount, and stand a little apart from other men, rest- 
ing on his sword, with the glory of the sunset in 
his face as he looked down the valley, then Beatrix 
turned to the Queen, and the tears of joy sprang 
to her eyes as she buried her girl's face in Eleanor's 
bosom, and she was glad of the kind arms that held 
her, seeming to understand all her joy. But the 
Queen's eyes were dry, her face was white, and her 
beautiful coral lips were parched as in a fever. 
CHAPTER XXIII 
In this way it came about that Gilbert, of whom the 
historians say that nothing else is known, was placed 
in command of the whole army of Crusaders, to lead 
them through the enemy's country down into Syria ; 
and so he did, well and bravely. After the great 
battle in the valley there was much fighting still to 
be done, day by day; for the Seljuks retreated foot by 
foot, filling the mountains and sweeping down like 
storm-clouds, to disappear as quickly, leaving blood 
behind them. But Gilbert led the van, and held the 
whole pilgrimage together, commanding where the 
camp should be each night, and ordering the march. 
Men wondered at his wisdom, and at his strength to 
endure hardship ; for all were very tired, and pro- 
vision was scarce, and the Greek hill people sold at 
a tenfold value the little they had to sell, so that the 
soldiers dined not every day, and a dish of boiled 
goat's flesh was a feast. So the pilgrimage went on 
in fighting and suffering, and as time passed the peo- 
ple were the more in earnest with themselves and 
with one another, looking forward to the promised 
forgiveness of sins when they should have accom- 
plished their vows in the holy places. 
They came down at last from the mountains to 
the sea, to a place called Attalia. Thence Gilbert 
would have led them still by land into Syria; but the 
 
King was weary, and the Queen also had seen the 
great mistake she had made in bringing her ladies 
into the pilgrimage ; for few had the strength of the 
hardy Anne of Auch, or the spirit of Beatrix, to 
endure without murmuring, like men, and like very 
brave men. The ladies' train had become a company 
of complainers, murmuring against everything, long- 
ing for the good things of France, and often crying 
out bitterly, even with tears, that they had been 
brought out to waste their youth and freshness, or 
even their lives, in a wilderness. Therefore Eleanor 
consented at last to the King's desire, which was to 
take ship from Attalia to Saint Simeon's Harbour, 
which is close to Antioch. In Antioch also reigned 
her uncle. Count Raymond, a man of her own blood, 
and thinking as she thought ; him sh« now desired 
to see and consult with, because he knew the world, 
and was an honourable man, and of good counsel. 
Yet there was danger there, too, for the King had 
once believed that this Count Raymond loved her, 
when he had been at the court, and the King was 
ever very jealous and sour. 
He would have brought the whole army to Antioch 
with him, but a great outcry arose ; for, whereas 
all the great barons and knights were for the safer 
journey, the poorer sort of pilgrims feared the 
sea more than they feared the Seljuks, and they 
would not take ship. So at last the King let 
them go, and they, not knowing whither they went, 
boasted that they should reach Antioch first. He 
gave them money and certain guides whom he 
trusted. 
Then Gilbert, seeing that there was a choice of 
two ways, sat down at night and debated what he 
should do. He desired to follow Beatrix with the 
ships, for he had not seen Sir Arnold de Curboil 
since Christmas Eve, and he believed that he had 
gone back to Ephesus to sail for Syria, so that at 
the present time he could not suddenly surprise his 
