sense of having literally slept at my post. It was after luncheon,
and by the schoolroom fire, and yet I hadn’t really, in the least,
slept: I had only done something much worse--I had forgotten. Where,
all this time, was Flora? When I put the question to Miles he played on
a minute before answering, and then could only say: “Why, my dear,
how do I know?”--breaking moreover into a happy laugh which,
immediately after, as if it were a vocal accompaniment, he prolonged
into incoherent, extravagant song.
I went straight to my room, but his sister was not there; then, before
going downstairs, I looked into several others. As she was nowhere
about she would surely be with Mrs. Grose, whom, in the comfort of
that theory, I accordingly proceeded in quest of. I found her where I
had found her the evening before, but she met my quick challenge with
blank, scared ignorance. She had only supposed that, after the repast,
I had carried off both the children; as to which she was quite in her
right, for it was the very first time I had allowed the little girl
out of my sight without some special provision. Of course now indeed
she might be with the maids, so that the immediate thing was to look
for her without an air of alarm. This we promptly arranged between us;
but when, ten minutes later and in pursuance of our arrangement, we met
in the hall, it was only to report on either side that after guarded
inquiries we had altogether failed to trace her. For a minute there,
apart from observation, we exchanged mute alarms, and I could feel with
what high interest my friend returned me all those I had from the first
given her.
“She’ll be above,” she presently said--“in one of the rooms you
haven’t searched.”
“No; she’s at a distance.” I had made up my mind. “She has gone
out.”
Mrs. Grose stared. “Without a hat?”
I naturally also looked volumes. “Isn’t that woman always without
one?”
“She’s with her?”
“She’s with her!” I declared. “We must find them.”
My hand was on my friend’s arm, but she failed for the moment,
confronted with such an account of the matter, to respond to my
pressure. She communed, on the contrary, on the spot, with her
uneasiness. “And where’s Master Miles?”
“Oh, he’s with Quint. They’re in the schoolroom.”
“Lord, Miss!” My view, I was myself aware--and therefore I suppose
my tone--had never yet reached so calm an assurance.
“The trick’s played,” I went on; “they’ve successfully worked
their plan. He found the most divine little way to keep me quiet while
she went off.”
“‘Divine’?” Mrs. Grose bewilderedly echoed.
“Infernal, then!” I almost cheerfully rejoined. “He has provided
for himself as well. But come!”
She had helplessly gloomed at the upper regions. “You leave
him----?”
“So long with Quint? Yes--I don’t mind that now.”
She always ended, at these moments, by getting possession of my hand,
and in this manner she could at present still stay me. But after
gasping an instant at my sudden resignation, “Because of your
letter?” she eagerly brought out.
I quickly, by way of answer, felt for my letter, drew it forth,
held it up, and then, freeing myself, went and laid it on the great
hall-table. “Luke will take it,” I said as I came back. I reached
the house-door and opened it; I was already on the steps.
My companion still demurred: the storm of the night and the early
morning had dropped, but the afternoon was damp and grey. I came down
to the drive while she stood in the doorway. “You go with nothing
on?”
“What do I care when the child has nothing? I can’t wait to
dress,” I cried, “and if you must do so, I leave you. Try
meanwhile, yourself, upstairs.”
“With them?” Oh, on this, the poor woman promptly joined me!
XIX
We went straight to the lake, as it was called at Bly, and I dare say
rightly called, though I reflect that it may in fact have been a sheet
of water less remarkable than it appeared to my untravelled eyes. My
acquaintance with sheets of water was small, and the pool of Bly, at
all events on the few occasions of my consenting, under the protection
of my pupils, to affront its surface in the old flat-bottomed boat
moored there for our use, had impressed me both with its extent and
its agitation. The usual place of embarkation was half a mile from
the house, but I had an intimate conviction that, wherever Flora
might be, she was not near home. She had not given me the slip for
any small adventure, and, since the day of the very great one that I
had shared with her by the pond, I had been aware, in our walks, of
the quarter to which she most inclined. This was why I had now given
to Mrs. Grose’s steps so marked a direction--a direction that made
her, when she perceived it, oppose a resistance that showed me she was
freshly mystified. “You’re going to the water, Miss?--you think
she’s in----?”
“She may be, though the depth is, I believe, nowhere very great. But
what I judge most likely is that she’s on the spot from which, the
other day, we saw together what I told you.”
“When she pretended not to see----?”
“With that astounding self-possession! I’ve always been sure she
wanted to go back alone. And now her brother has managed it for her.”
Mrs. Grose still stood where she had stopped. “You suppose they
really talk of them?”
I could meet this with a confidence! “They say things that, if we
heard them, would simply appal us.”
“And if she is there----?”
“Yes?”
“Then Miss Jessel is?”
“Beyond a doubt. You shall see.”
“Oh, thank you!” my friend cried, planted so firm that, taking it
in, I went straight on without her. By the time I reached the pool,
however, she was close behind me, and I knew that, whatever, to her
apprehension, might befall me, the exposure of my society struck her
as her least danger. She exhaled a moan of relief as we at last came
in sight of the greater part of the water without a sight of the
child. There was no trace of Flora on that nearer side of the bank
where my observation of her had been most startling, and none on the
opposite edge, where, save for a margin of some twenty yards, a thick
copse came down to the water. The pond, oblong in shape, had a width so
scant compared to its length that, with its ends out of view, it might
have been taken for a scant river. We looked at the empty expanse, and
then I felt the suggestion of my friend’s eyes. I knew what she meant
and I replied with a negative headshake.
“No, no; wait! She has taken the boat.”
My companion stared at the vacant mooring-place and then again across
the lake. “Then where is it?”
“Our not seeing it is the strongest of proofs. She has used it to go
over, and then has managed to hide it.”
“All alone--that child?”
“She’s not alone, and at such times she’s not a child: she’s
an old, old woman.” I scanned all the visible shore while Mrs. Grose
took again, into the queer element I offered her, one of her plunges
of submission; then I pointed out that the boat might perfectly be in a
small refuge formed by one of the recesses of the pool, an indentation
masked, for the hither side, by a projection of the bank and by a clump
of trees growing close to the water.
“But if the boat’s there, where on earth’s she?” my colleague
anxiously asked.
“That’s exactly what we must learn.” And I started to walk
further.
“By going all the way round?”
“Certainly, far as it is. It will take us but ten minutes, but it’s
far enough to have made the child prefer not to walk. She went straight
over.”
“Laws!” cried my friend again; the chain of my logic was ever too
much for her. It dragged her at my heels even now, and when we had
got half-way round--a devious, tiresome process, on ground much broken
and by a path choked with overgrowth--I paused to give her breath. I
sustained her with a grateful arm, assuring her that she might hugely
help me; and this started us afresh, so that in the course of but
few minutes more we reached a point from which we found the boat to
be where I had supposed it. It had been intentionally left as much as
possible out of sight and was tied to one of the stakes of a fence that
came, just there, down to the brink and that had been an assistance
to disembarking. I recognised, as I looked at the pair of short, thick
oars, quite safely drawn up, the prodigious character of the feat for
a little girl; but I had lived, by this time, too long among wonders
and had panted to too many livelier measures. There was a gate in the
fence, through which we passed, and that brought us, after a trifling
interval, more into the open. Then, “There she is!” we both
exclaimed at once.
Flora, a short way off, stood before us on the grass and smiled as
if her performance was now complete. The next thing she did, however,
was to stoop straight down and pluck--quite as if it were all she was
there for--a big, ugly spray of withered fern. I instantly became sure
she had just come out of the copse. She waited for us, not herself
taking a step, and I was conscious of the rare solemnity with which
we presently approached her. She smiled and smiled, and we met; but it
was all done in a silence by this time flagrantly ominous. Mrs. Grose
was the first to break the spell: she threw herself on her knees and,
drawing the child to her breast, clasped in a long embrace the little
tender, yielding body. While this dumb convulsion lasted I could only
watch it--which I did the more intently when I saw Flora’s face peep
at me over our companion’s shoulder. It was serious now--the flicker
had left it; but it strengthened the pang with which I at that moment
envied Mrs. Grose the simplicity of her relation. Still, all this
while, nothing more passed between us save that Flora had let her
foolish fern again drop to the ground. What she and I had virtually
said to each other was that pretexts were useless now. When Mrs. Grose
finally got up she kept the child’s hand, so that the two were still
before me; and the singular reticence of our communion was even more
marked in the frank look she launched me. “I’ll be hanged,” it
said, “if I’ll speak!”
It was Flora who, gazing all over me in candid wonder, was the
first. She was struck with our bareheaded aspect. “Why, where are
your things?”
“Where yours are, my dear!” I promptly returned.
She had already got back her gaiety, and appeared to take this as an
answer quite sufficient. “And where’s Miles?” she went on.
There was something in the small valour of it that quite finished me:
these three words from her were, in a flash like the glitter of a
drawn blade, the jostle of the cup that my hand, for weeks and weeks,
had held high and full to the brim and that now, even before speaking,
I felt overflow in a deluge. “I’ll tell you if you’ll tell
me----” I heard myself say, then heard the tremor in which it
broke.
“Well, what?”
Mrs. Grose’s suspense blazed at me, but it was too late now, and I
brought the thing out handsomely. “Where, my pet, is Miss Jessel?”
XX
Just as in the churchyard with Miles, the whole thing was upon us. Much
as I had made of the fact that this name had never once, between
us, been sounded, the quick, smitten glare with which the child’s
face now received it fairly likened my breach of the silence to the
smash of a pane of glass. It added to the interposing cry, as if to
stay the blow, that Mrs. Grose, at the same instant, uttered over my
violence--the shriek of a creature scared, or rather wounded, which, in
turn, within a few seconds, was completed by a gasp of my own. I seized
my colleague’s arm. “She’s there, she’s there!”
Miss Jessel stood before us on the opposite bank exactly as she had
stood the other time, and I remember, strangely, as the first feeling
now produced in me, my thrill of joy at having brought on a proof. She
was there, and I was justified; she was there, and I was neither
cruel nor mad. She was there for poor scared Mrs. Grose, but she was
there most for Flora; and no moment of my monstrous time was perhaps
so extraordinary as that in which I consciously threw out to her--with
the sense that, pale and ravenous demon as she was, she would catch and
understand it--an inarticulate message of gratitude. She rose erect
on the spot my friend and I had lately quitted, and there was not,
in all the long reach of her desire, an inch of her evil that fell
short. This first vividness of vision and emotion were things of a
few seconds, during which Mrs. Grose’s dazed blink across to where I
pointed struck me as a sovereign sign that she too at last saw, just
as it carried my own eyes precipitately to the child. The revelation
then of the manner in which Flora was affected startled me, in truth,
far more than it would have done to find her also merely agitated,
for direct dismay was of course not what I had expected. Prepared and
on her guard as our pursuit had actually made her, she would repress
every betrayal; and I was therefore shaken, on the spot, by my first
glimpse of the particular one for which I had not allowed. To see her,
without a convulsion of her small pink face, not even feign to glance
in the direction of the prodigy I announced, but only, instead of
that, turn at me an expression of hard, still gravity, an expression
absolutely new and unprecedented and that appeared to read and accuse
and judge me--this was a stroke that somehow converted the little girl
herself into the very presence that could make me quail. I quailed
even though my certitude that she thoroughly saw was never greater
than at that instant, and in the immediate need to defend myself
I called it passionately to witness. “She’s there, you little
unhappy thing--there, there, there, and you see her as well as you
see me!” I had said shortly before to Mrs. Grose that she was not at
these times a child, but an old, old woman, and that description of her
could not have been more strikingly confirmed than in the way in which,
for all answer to this, she simply showed me, without a concession, an
admission, of her eyes, a countenance of deeper and deeper, of indeed
suddenly quite fixed, reprobation. I was by this time--if I can put
the whole thing at all together--more appalled at what I may properly
call her manner than at anything else, though it was simultaneously
with this that I became aware of having Mrs. Grose also, and very
formidably, to reckon with. My elder companion, the next moment, at
any rate, blotted out everything but her own flushed face and her loud,
shocked protest, a burst of high disapproval. “What a dreadful turn,
to be sure, Miss! Where on earth do you see anything?”
I could only grasp her more quickly yet, for even while she spoke the
hideous plain presence stood undimmed and undaunted. It had already
lasted a minute, and it lasted while I continued, seizing my colleague,
quite thrusting her at it and presenting her to it, to insist with my
pointing hand. “You don’t see her exactly as we see?--you mean
to say you don’t now--now? She’s as big as a blazing fire! Only
look, dearest woman, look----!” She looked, even as I did, and
gave me, with her deep groan of negation, repulsion, compassion--the
mixture with her pity of her relief at her exemption--a sense, touching
to me even then, that she would have backed me up if she could. I might
well have needed that, for with this hard blow of the proof that her
eyes were hopelessly sealed I felt my own situation horribly crumble,
I felt--I saw--my livid predecessor press, from her position, on my
defeat, and I was conscious, more than all, of what I should have
from this instant to deal with in the astounding little attitude
of Flora. Into this attitude Mrs. Grose immediately and violently
entered, breaking, even while there pierced through my sense of ruin a
prodigious private triumph, into breathless reassurance.
“She isn’t there, little lady, and nobody’s there--and you
never see nothing, my sweet! How can poor Miss Jessel--when poor Miss
Jessel’s dead and buried? We know, don’t we, love?”--and she
appealed, blundering in, to the child. “It’s all a mere mistake and
a worry and a joke--and we’ll go home as fast as we can!”
Our companion, on this, had responded with a strange, quick primness
of propriety, and they were again, with Mrs. Grose on her feet, united,
as it were, in pained opposition to me. Flora continued to fix me with
her small mask of reprobation, and even at that minute I prayed God to
forgive me for seeming to see that, as she stood there holding tight
to our friend’s dress, her incomparable childish beauty had suddenly
failed, had quite vanished. I’ve said it already--she was literally,
she was hideously, hard; she had turned common and almost ugly. “I
don’t know what you mean. I see nobody. I see nothing. I never
have. I think you’re cruel. I don’t like you!” Then, after
this deliverance, which might have been that of a vulgarly pert little
girl in the street, she hugged Mrs. Grose more closely and buried in
her skirts the dreadful little face. In this position she produced an
almost furious wail. “Take me away, take me away--oh, take me away
from her!”
“From me?” I panted.
“From you--from you!” she cried.
Even Mrs. Grose looked across at me dismayed, while I had nothing
to do but communicate again with the figure that, on the opposite
bank, without a movement, as rigidly still as if catching, beyond the
interval, our voices, was as vividly there for my disaster as it was
not there for my service. The wretched child had spoken exactly as if
she had got from some outside source each of her stabbing little words,
and I could therefore, in the full despair of all I had to accept,
but sadly shake my head at her. “If I had ever doubted, all my doubt
would at present have gone. I’ve been living with the miserable
truth, and now it has only too much closed round me. Of course
I’ve lost you: I’ve interfered, and you’ve seen--under her
dictation”--with which I faced, over the pool again, our infernal
witness--“the easy and perfect way to meet it. I’ve done my best,
but I’ve lost you. Good-bye.” For Mrs. Grose I had an imperative,
an almost frantic “Go, go!” before which, in infinite distress,
but mutely possessed of the little girl and clearly convinced, in spite
of her blindness, that something awful had occurred and some collapse
engulfed us, she retreated, by the way we had come, as fast as she
could move.
Of what first happened when I was left alone I had no subsequent
memory. I only knew that at the end of, I suppose, a quarter of an
hour, an odorous dampness and roughness, chilling and piercing my
trouble, had made me understand that I must have thrown myself, on
my face, on the ground and given way to a wildness of grief. I must
have lain there long and cried and sobbed, for when I raised my head
the day was almost done. I got up and looked a moment, through the
twilight, at the grey pool and its blank, haunted edge, and then
I took, back to the house, my dreary and difficult course. When I
reached the gate in the fence the boat, to my surprise, was gone,
so that I had a fresh reflection to make on Flora’s extraordinary
command of the situation. She passed that night, by the most tacit,
and I should add, were not the word so grotesque a false note, the
happiest of arrangements, with Mrs. Grose. I saw neither of them on
my return, but, on the other hand, as by an ambiguous compensation,
I saw a great deal of Miles. I saw--I can use no other phrase--so much
of him that it was as if it were more than it had ever been. No evening
I had passed at Bly had the portentous quality of this one; in spite
of which--and in spite also of the deeper depths of consternation that
had opened beneath my feet--there was literally, in the ebbing actual,
an extraordinarily sweet sadness. On reaching the house I had never so
much as looked for the boy; I had simply gone straight to my room to
change what I was wearing and to take in, at a glance, much material
testimony to Flora’s rupture. Her little belongings had all been
removed. When later, by the schoolroom fire, I was served with tea
by the usual maid, I indulged, on the article of my other pupil,
in no inquiry whatever. He had his freedom now--he might have it to
the end! Well, he did have it; and it consisted--in part at least--of
his coming in at about eight o’clock and sitting down with me in
silence. On the removal of the tea-things I had blown out the candles
and drawn my chair closer: I was conscious of a mortal coldness and
felt as if I should never again be warm. So, when he appeared, I was
sitting in the glow with my thoughts. He paused a moment by the door as
if to look at me; then--as if to share them--came to the other side of
the hearth and sank into a chair. We sat there in absolute stillness;
yet he wanted, I felt, to be with me.
XXI
Before a new day, in my room, had fully broken, my eyes opened to
Mrs. Grose, who had come to my bedside with worse news. Flora was so
markedly feverish that an illness was perhaps at hand; she had passed
a night of extreme unrest, a night agitated above all by fears that had
for their subject not in the least her former, but wholly her present,
governess. It was not against the possible re-entrance of Miss Jessel
on the scene that she protested--it was conspicuously and passionately
against mine. I was promptly on my feet of course, and with an immense
deal to ask; the more that my friend had discernibly now girded her
loins to meet me once more. This I felt as soon as I had put to her
the question of her sense of the child’s sincerity as against my
own. “She persists in denying to you that she saw, or has ever seen,
anything?”
My visitor’s trouble, truly, was great. “Ah, Miss, it isn’t a
matter on which I can push her! Yet it isn’t either, I must say, as
if I much needed to. It has made her, every inch of her, quite old.”
“Oh, I see her perfectly from here. She resents, for all the world
like some high little personage, the imputation on her truthfulness
and, as it were, her respectability. ‘Miss Jessel indeed--she!’
Ah, she’s ‘respectable,’ the chit! The impression she gave me
there yesterday was, I assure you, the very strangest of all; it was
quite beyond any of the others. I did put my foot in it! She’ll
never speak to me again.”
Hideous and obscure as it all was, it held Mrs. Grose briefly silent;
then she granted my point with a frankness which, I made sure, had more
behind it. “I think indeed, Miss, she never will. She do have a grand
manner about it!”
“And that manner”--I summed it up--“is practically what’s the
matter with her now!”
Oh, that manner, I could see in my visitor’s face, and not a little
else besides! “She asks me every three minutes if I think you’re
coming in.”
“I see--I see.” I too, on my side, had so much more than worked it
out. “Has she said to you since yesterday--except to repudiate her
familiarity with anything so dreadful--a single other word about Miss
Jessel?”
“Not one, Miss. And of course you know,” my friend added, “I took
it from her, by the lake, that, just then and there at least, there
was nobody.”
“Rather! And, naturally, you take it from her still.”
“I don’t contradict her. What else can I do?”
“Nothing in the world! You’ve the cleverest little person to deal
with. They’ve made them--their two friends, I mean--still cleverer
even than nature did; for it was wondrous material to play on! Flora
has now her grievance, and she’ll work it to the end.”
“Yes, Miss; but to what end?”
“Why, that of dealing with me to her uncle. She’ll make me out to
him the lowest creature----!”
I winced at the fair show of the scene in Mrs. Grose’s face; she
looked for a minute as if she sharply saw them together. “And him who
thinks so well of you!”
“He has an odd way--it comes over me now,” I laughed, “--of
proving it! But that doesn’t matter. What Flora wants, of course, is
to get rid of me.”
My companion bravely concurred. “Never again to so much as look at
you.”
“So that what you’ve come to me now for,” I asked, “is to speed
me on my way?” Before she had time to reply, however, I had her in
check. “I’ve a better idea--the result of my reflections. My going
would seem the right thing, and on Sunday I was terribly near it. Yet
that won’t do. It’s you who must go. You must take Flora.”
My visitor, at this, did speculate. “But where in the world----?”
“Away from here. Away from them. Away, even most of all, now, from
me. Straight to her uncle.”
“Only to tell on you----?”
“No, not ‘only’! To leave me, in addition, with my remedy.”
She was still vague. “And what is your remedy?”
“Your loyalty, to begin with. And then Miles’s.”
She looked at me hard. “Do you think he----?”
“Won’t if he has the chance, turn on me? Yes, I venture still
to think it. At all events, I want to try. Get off with his sister
as soon as possible and leave me with him alone.” I was amazed,
myself, at the spirit I had still in reserve, and therefore perhaps a
trifle the more disconcerted at the way in which, in spite of this fine
example of it, she hesitated. “There’s one thing, of course,” I
went on: “they mustn’t, before she goes, see each other for three
seconds.” Then it came over me that, in spite of Flora’s presumable
sequestration from the instant of her return from the pool, it might
already be too late. “Do you mean,” I anxiously asked, “that they
have met?”
At this she quite flushed. “Ah, Miss, I’m not such a fool as
that! If I’ve been obliged to leave her three or four times, it has
been each time with one of the maids, and at present, though she’s
alone, she’s locked in safe. And yet--and yet!” There were too many
things.
“And yet what?”
“Well, are you so sure of the little gentleman?”
“I’m not sure of anything but you. But I have, since last
evening, a new hope. I think he wants to give me an opening. I do
believe that--poor little exquisite wretch!--he wants to speak. Last
evening, in the firelight and the silence, he sat with me for two hours
as if it were just coming.”
Mrs. Grose looked hard, through the window, at the grey, gathering
day. “And did it come?”
“No, though I waited and waited, I confess it didn’t, and it
was without a breach of the silence or so much as a faint allusion
to his sister’s condition and absence that we at last kissed for
good-night. All the same,” I continued, “I can’t, if her uncle
sees her, consent to his seeing her brother without my having given
the boy--and most of all because things have got so bad--a little more
time.”
My friend appeared on this ground more reluctant than I could quite
understand. “What do you mean by more time?”
“Well, a day or two--really to bring it out. He’ll then be on my
side--of which you see the importance. If nothing comes, I shall only
fail, and you will, at the worst, have helped me by doing, on your
arrival in town, whatever you may have found possible.” So I put it
before her, but she continued for a little so inscrutably embarrassed
that I came again to her aid. “Unless, indeed,” I wound up, “you
really want not to go.”
I could see it, in her face, at last clear itself; she put out her hand
to me as a pledge. “I’ll go--I’ll go. I’ll go this morning.”
I wanted to be very just. “If you should wish still to wait, I
would engage she shouldn’t see me.”
“No, no: it’s the place itself. She must leave it.” She held me a
moment with heavy eyes, then brought out the rest. “Your idea’s the
right one. I myself, Miss----”
“Well?”
“I can’t stay.”
The look she gave me with it made me jump at possibilities. “You mean
that, since yesterday, you have seen----?”
She shook her head with dignity. “I’ve heard----!”
“Heard?”
“From that child--horrors! There!” she sighed with tragic
relief. “On my honour, Miss, she says things----!” But at this
evocation she broke down; she dropped, with a sudden sob, upon my sofa
and, as I had seen her do before, gave way to all the grief of it.
It was quite in another manner that I, for my part, let myself
go. “Oh, thank God!”
She sprang up again at this, drying her eyes with a groan. “‘Thank
God’?”
“It so justifies me!”
“It does that, Miss!”
I couldn’t have desired more emphasis, but I just hesitated.
“She’s so horrible?”
I saw my colleague scarce knew how to put it. “Really shocking.”
“And about me?”
“About you, Miss--since you must have it. It’s beyond everything,
for a young lady; and I can’t think wherever she must have picked
up----”
“The appalling language she applied to me? I can, then!” I broke in
with a laugh that was doubtless significant enough.
It only, in truth, left my friend still more grave. “Well, perhaps
I ought to also--since I’ve heard some of it before! Yet I can’t
bear it,” the poor woman went on while, with the same movement, she
glanced, on my dressing-table, at the face of my watch. “But I must
go back.”
I kept her, however. “Ah, if you can’t bear it----!”
“How can I stop with her, you mean? Why, just for that: to get her
away. Far from this,” she pursued, “far from them----”
“She may be different? she may be free?” I seized her almost with
joy. “Then, in spite of yesterday, you believe----”
“In such doings?” Her simple description of them required, in the
light of her expression, to be carried no further, and she gave me the
whole thing as she had never done. “I believe.”
Yes, it was a joy, and we were still shoulder to shoulder: if I might
continue sure of that I should care but little what else happened. My
support in the presence of disaster would be the same as it had been
in my early need of confidence, and if my friend would answer for my
honesty, I would answer for all the rest. On the point of taking leave
of her, none the less, I was to some extent embarrassed. “There’s
one thing of course--it occurs to me--to remember. My letter, giving
the alarm, will have reached town before you.”
I now perceived still more how she had been beating about the bush
and how weary at last it had made her. “Your letter won’t have got
there. Your letter never went.”
“What then became of it?”
“Goodness knows! Master Miles----”
“Do you mean he took it?” I gasped.
She hung fire, but she overcame her reluctance. “I mean that I saw
yesterday, when I came back with Miss Flora, that it wasn’t where
you had put it. Later in the evening I had the chance to question Luke,
and he declared that he had neither noticed nor touched it.” We could
only exchange, on this, one of our deeper mutual soundings, and it was
Mrs. Grose who first brought up the plumb with an almost elate “You
see!”
“Yes, I see that if Miles took it instead he probably will have read
it and destroyed it.”
“And don’t you see anything else?”
I faced her a moment with a sad smile. “It strikes me that by this
time your eyes are open even wider than mine.”
They proved to be so indeed, but she could still blush, almost, to
show it. “I make out now what he must have done at school.” And she
gave, in her simple sharpness, an almost droll disillusioned nod. “He
stole!”
I turned it over--I tried to be more judicial. “Well--perhaps.”
She looked as if she found me unexpectedly calm. “He stole
letters!”
She couldn’t know my reasons for a calmness after all pretty
shallow; so I showed them off as I might. “I hope then it was to
more purpose than in this case! The note, at any rate, that I put on
the table yesterday,” I pursued, “will have given him so scant an
advantage--for it contained only the bare demand for an interview--that
he is already much ashamed of having gone so far for so little, and
that what he had on his mind last evening was precisely the need of
confession.” I seemed to myself, for the instant, to have mastered
it, to see it all. “Leave us, leave us”--I was already, at the
door, hurrying her off. “I’ll get it out of him. He’ll meet
me--he’ll confess. If he confesses, he’s saved. And if he’s
saved----”
“Then you are?” The dear woman kissed me on this, and I took her
farewell. “I’ll save you without him!” she cried as she went.
XXII
Yet it was when she had got off--and I missed her on the spot--that
the great pinch really came. If I had counted on what it would give
me to find myself alone with Miles, I speedily perceived, at least,
that it would give me a measure. No hour of my stay in fact was so
assailed with apprehensions as that of my coming down to learn that
the carriage containing Mrs. Grose and my younger pupil had already
rolled out of the gates. Now I was, I said to myself, face to face
with the elements, and for much of the rest of the day, while I fought
my weakness, I could consider that I had been supremely rash. It was a
tighter place still than I had yet turned round in; all the more that,
for the first time, I could see in the aspect of others a confused
reflection of the crisis. What had happened naturally caused them all
to stare; there was too little of the explained, throw out whatever we
might, in the suddenness of my colleague’s act. The maids and the men
looked blank; the effect of which on my nerves was an aggravation until
I saw the necessity of making it a positive aid. It was precisely,
in short, by just clutching the helm that I avoided total wreck; and
I dare say that, to bear up at all, I became, that morning, very grand
and very dry. I welcomed the consciousness that I was charged with much
to do, and I caused it to be known as well that, left thus to myself,
I was quite remarkably firm. I wandered with that manner, for the next
hour or two, all over the place and looked, I have no doubt, as if I
were ready for any onset. So, for the benefit of whom it might concern,
I paraded with a sick heart.
The person it appeared least to concern proved to be, till dinner,
little Miles himself. My perambulations had given me, meanwhile, no
glimpse of him, but they had tended to make more public the change
taking place in our relation as a consequence of his having at the
piano, the day before, kept me, in Flora’s interest, so beguiled
and befooled. The stamp of publicity had of course been fully given by
her confinement and departure, and the change itself was now ushered
in by our non-observance of the regular custom of the schoolroom. He
had already disappeared when, on my way down, I pushed open his door,
and I learned below that he had breakfasted--in the presence of a
couple of the maids--with Mrs. Grose and his sister. He had then gone
out, as he said, for a stroll; than which nothing, I reflected, could
better have expressed his frank view of the abrupt transformation of
my office. What he would now permit this office to consist of was yet
to be settled: there was a queer relief, at all events--I mean for
myself in especial--in the renouncement of one pretension. If so much
had sprung to the surface, I scarce put it too strongly in saying that
what had perhaps sprung highest was the absurdity of our prolonging
the fiction that I had anything more to teach him. It sufficiently
stuck out that, by tacit little tricks in which even more than myself
he carried out the care for my dignity, I had had to appeal to him to
let me off straining to meet him on the ground of his true capacity. He
had at any rate his freedom now; I was never to touch it again; as I
had amply shown, moreover, when, on his joining me in the schoolroom
the previous night, I had uttered, on the subject of the interval
just concluded, neither challenge nor hint. I had too much, from this
moment, my other ideas. Yet when he at last arrived the difficulty of
applying them, the accumulations of my problem, were brought straight
home to me by the beautiful little presence on which what had occurred
had as yet, for the eye, dropped neither stain nor shadow.
To mark, for the house, the high state I cultivated I decreed that
my meals with the boy should be served, as we called it, downstairs;
so that I had been awaiting him in the ponderous pomp of the room
outside of the window of which I had had from Mrs. Grose, that first
scared Sunday, my flash of something it would scarce have done to call
light. Here at present I felt afresh--for I had felt it again and
again--how my equilibrium depended on the success of my rigid will,
the will to shut my eyes as tight as possible to the truth that what
I had to deal with was, revoltingly, against nature. I could only get
on at all by taking “nature” into my confidence and my account,
by treating my monstrous ordeal as a push in a direction unusual, of
course, and unpleasant, but demanding, after all, for a fair front,
only another turn of the screw of ordinary human virtue. No attempt,
none the less, could well require more tact than just this attempt
to supply, one’s self, all the nature. How could I put even a
little of that article into a suppression of reference to what had
occurred? How, on the other hand, could I make a reference without a
new plunge into the hideous obscure? Well, a sort of answer, after a
time, had come to me, and it was so far confirmed as that I was met,
incontestably, by the quickened vision of what was rare in my little
companion. It was indeed as if he had found even now--as he had
so often found at lessons--still some other delicate way to ease me
off. Wasn’t there light in the fact which, as we shared our solitude,
broke out with a specious glitter it had never yet quite worn?--the
fact that (opportunity aiding, precious opportunity which had now come)
it would be preposterous, with a child so endowed, to forgo the help
one might wrest from absolute intelligence? What had his intelligence
been given him for but to save him? Mightn’t one, to reach his mind,
risk the stretch of an angular arm over his character? It was as if,
when we were face to face in the dining-room, he had literally shown me
the way. The roast mutton was on the table, and I had dispensed with
attendance. Miles, before he sat down, stood a moment with his hands
in his pockets and looked at the joint, on which he seemed on the point
of passing some humorous judgment. But what he presently produced was:
“I say, my dear, is she really very awfully ill?”
“Little Flora? Not so bad but that she’ll presently be better.
London will set her up. Bly had ceased to agree with her. Come
here and take your mutton.”
He alertly obeyed me, carried the plate carefully to his seat, and,
when he was established, went on. “Did Bly disagree with her so
terribly suddenly?”
“Not so suddenly as you might think. One had seen it coming on.”
“Then why didn’t you get her off before?”
“Before what?”
“Before she became too ill to travel.”
I found myself prompt. “She’s not too ill to travel: she only
might have become so if she had stayed. This was just the moment
to seize. The journey will dissipate the influence”--oh, I was
grand!--“and carry it off.”
“I see, I see”--Miles, for that matter, was grand too. He settled
to his repast with the charming little “table manner” that,
from the day of his arrival, had relieved me of all grossness of
admonition. Whatever he had been driven from school for, it was not
for ugly feeding. He was irreproachable, as always, today; but he was
unmistakeably more conscious. He was discernibly trying to take for
granted more things than he found, without assistance, quite easy;
and he dropped into peaceful silence while he felt his situation. Our
meal was of the briefest--mine a vain pretence, and I had the things
immediately removed. While this was done Miles stood again with his
hands in his little pockets and his back to me--stood and looked out of
the wide window through which, that other day, I had seen what pulled
me up. We continued silent while the maid was with us--as silent,
it whimsically occurred to me, as some young couple who, on their
wedding-journey, at the inn, feel shy in the presence of the waiter. He
turned round only when the waiter had left us. “Well--so we’re
alone!”
XXIII
“Oh, more or less.” I fancy my smile was pale. “Not absolutely.
We shouldn’t like that!” I went on.
“No--I suppose we shouldn’t. Of course we have the others.”
“We have the others--we have indeed the others,” I concurred.
“Yet even though we have them,” he returned, still with his hands
in his pockets and planted there in front of me, “they don’t much
count, do they?”
I made the best of it, but I felt wan. “It depends on what you call
‘much’!”
“Yes”--with all accommodation--“everything depends!” On this,
however, he faced to the window again and presently reached it with
his vague, restless, cogitating step. He remained there awhile, with
his forehead against the glass, in contemplation of the stupid shrubs
I knew and the dull things of November. I had always my hypocrisy of
“work,” behind which, now, I gained the sofa. Steadying myself with
it there as I had repeatedly done at those moments of torment that I
have described as the moments of my knowing the children to be given to
something from which I was barred, I sufficiently obeyed my habit of
being prepared for the worst. But an extraordinary impression dropped
on me as I extracted a meaning from the boy’s embarrassed back--none
other than the impression that I was not barred now. This inference
grew in a few minutes to sharp intensity and seemed bound up with the
direct perception that it was positively he who was. The frames and
squares of the great window were a kind of image, for him, of a kind of
failure. I felt that I saw him, at any rate, shut in or shut out. He
was admirable, but not comfortable: I took it in with a throb of
hope. Wasn’t he looking, through the haunted pane, for something he
couldn’t see?--and wasn’t it the first time in the whole business
that he had known such a lapse? The first, the very first: I found it
a splendid portent. It made him anxious, though he watched himself;
he had been anxious all day and, even while in his usual sweet little
manner he sat at table, had needed all his small strange genius to give
it a gloss. When he at last turned round to meet me, it was almost as
if this genius had succumbed. “Well, I think I’m glad Bly agrees
with me!”
“You would certainly seem to have seen, these twenty-four hours,
a good deal more of it than for some time before. I hope,” I went on
bravely, “that you’ve been enjoying yourself.”
