when she was joined by a couple who had apparently not left her a great
while before, and who spoke, without otherwise saluting her, as they sat
down on either side of her.  I instantly interpreted her friends to be
the young wife and middle-aged husband of a second marriage; for they
were evidently man and wife, and he must have been nearly twice as old as
she.  In person he tended to the weight which expresses settled
prosperity, and a certain solidification of temperament and character; as
to his face, it was kind, and it was rather humorous, in spite of being a
little slow in the cast of mind it suggested.  He wore an iron-grey beard
on his cheeks and chin, but he had his strong upper lip clean shaven;
some drops of perspiration stood upon it, and upon his forehead, which
showed itself well up toward his crown under the damp strings of his
scanty hair.  He looked at the young goddess in white duck with a sort of
trouble in his friendly countenance, and his wife (if it was his wife)
seemed to share his concern, though she smiled, while he let the corners
of his straight mouth droop.  She was smaller than the young girl, and I
thought almost as young; and she had the air of being somehow responsible
for her, and cowed by her, though the word says rather more than I mean.
She was not so well dressed; that is, not so stylishly, though doubtless
her costume was more expensive.  It seemed the inspiration of a village
dressmaker; and her husband’s low-cut waistcoat, and his expanse of
plaited shirt-front, betrayed a provincial ideal which she would never
decry—which she would perhaps never find different from the most worldly.
He had probably, I swiftly imagined, been wearing just that kind of
clothes for twenty years, and telling his tailor to make each new suit
like the last; he had been buying for the same period the same shape of
Panama hat, regardless of the continually changing type of straw hats on
other heads.  I cannot say just why, as he tilted his chair back on its
hind-legs, I felt that he was either the cashier of the village bank at
home, or one of the principal business men of the place.  Village people
I was quite resolute to have them all; but I left them free to have come
from some small manufacturing centre in western Massachusetts or southern
Vermont or central New York.  It was easy to see that they were not in
the habit of coming away from their place, wherever it was; and I
wondered whether they were finding their account in the present
excursion.
I myself think Saratoga one of the most delightful spectacles in the
world, and Mrs. March is of the same mind about it.  We like all the
waters, and drink them without regard to their different properties; but
we rather prefer the Congress spring, because it is such a pleasant place
to listen to the Troy military band in the afternoon, and the more or
less vocal concert in the evening.  All the Saratoga world comes and goes
before us, as we sit there by day and by night, and we find a perpetual
interest in it.  We go and look at the deer (a herd of two, I think)
behind their wire netting in the southward valley of the park, and we
would feed the trout in their blue tank if we did not see them suffering
with surfeit, and hanging in motionless misery amid the clear water under
a cloud of bread crumbs.  We are such devotees of the special attractions
offered from time to time that we do not miss a single balloon ascension
or pyrotechnic display.  In fact, it happened to me one summer that I
studied so earnestly and so closely the countenance of the lady who went
up (in trunk-hose), in order to make out just what were the emotions of a
lady who went up every afternoon in a balloon, that when we met near the
end of the season in Broadway I thought I must have seen her somewhere in
society, and took off my hat to her (she was not at the moment in
trunk-hose).  We like going about to the great hotels, and sponging on
them for the music in the forenoon; we like the gaudy shops of modes kept
by artists whose addresses are French and whose surnames are Irish; and
the bazaars of the Armenians and Japanese, whose rugs and bric-à-brac are
not such bargains as you would think.  We even go to the races sometimes;
we are not sure it is quite right, but as we do not bet, and are never
decided as to which horse has won, it is perhaps not so wrong as it might
be.
Somehow I could not predicate these simple joys of the people I have been
talking of, for the very reason, that they were themselves so simple.  It
was our sophistication which enabled us to taste pleasures which would
have been insipidities to them.  Their palates would have demanded other
flavours—social excitements, balls, flirtations, almost escapades.  I
speak of the two women; the man, doubtless, like most other Americans of
his age, wanted nothing but to get back to business in the small town
where he was important; and still more I speak of the young girl; for the
young wife I fancied very willing to go back to her house-keeping, and to
be staying on in Saratoga only on her friend’s account.
II
I HAD already made up my mind that they had been the closest friends
before one of them married, and that the young wife still thought the
young girl worthy of the most splendid fate that marriage could have in
store for any of her sex.  Women often make each other the idols of such
worship; but I could not have justified this lady’s adoration so far as
it concerned the mental and moral qualities of her friend, though I fully
shared it in regard to her beauty.  To me she looked a little dull and a
little selfish, and I chose to think the husband modestly found her
selfish, if he were too modest to find her dull.
Yet, after all, I tacitly argued with him, why should we call her
selfish?  It was perfectly right and fit that, as a young girl with such
great personal advantages, she should wish to see the world—even to show
herself to the world,—and find in it some agreeable youth who should
admire her, and desire to make her his own for ever.  Compare this simple
and natural longing with the insatiate greed and ambition of one of our
own sex, I urged him, and then talk to me, if you can, of this poor
girl’s selfishness!  A young man has more egoism in an hour than a young
girl has in her whole life.  She thinks she wishes some one to be devoted
to her, but she really wishes some one to let her be devoted to him; and
how passively, how negatively, she must manage to accomplish her
self-sacrifice!  He, on the contrary, means to go conquering and
enslaving forward; to be in and out of love right and left, and to end,
after many years of triumph, in the possession of the best and wisest and
fairest of her sex.  I know the breed, my dear sir; I have been a young
man myself.  We men have liberty, we have initiative; we are not
chaperoned; we can go to this one and that one freely and fearlessly.
But women must sit still, and be come to or shied off from.  They cannot
cast the bold eye of interest; they can at most bridle under it, and
furtively respond from the corner of the eye of weak hope and gentle
deprecation.  Be patient, then, with this poor child if she darkles a
little under the disappointment of not finding Saratoga so personally gay
as she supposed it would be, and takes it out of you and your wife, as if
you were to blame for it, in something like sulks.
He remained silent under these tacit appeals, but at the end he heaved a
deep sigh, as he might if he were acknowledging their justice, and were
promising to do his very best in the circumstances.  His wife looked
round at him, but did not speak.  In fact, they none of them spoke after
the first words of greeting to the girl, as I can very well testify; for
I sat eavesdropping with all my might, resolved not to lose a syllable,
and I am sure I lost none.
The young girl did not look round at that deep-drawn sigh of the man’s;
she did not lift her head even when he cleared his throat: but I was
intent upon him, for I thought that these sounds preluded an overture (I
am not sure of the figure) to my acquaintance, and in fact he actually
asked, “Do you know just when the concert begins?”
I was overjoyed at his question, for I was poignantly interested in the
little situation I had created, and I made haste to answer: “Well,
nominally at eight o’clock; but the first half-hour is usually taken up
in tuning the instruments.  If you get into the pavilion at a quarter to
nine you won’t lose much.  It isn’t so bad when it really begins.”
The man permitted himself a smile of the pleasure we Americans all feel
at having a thing understated in that way.  His wife asked timidly, “Do
we have to engage our seats in the—pavilion?”
“Oh, no,” I laughed; “there’s no such rush as that.  Haven’t you been at
the concerts before?”
The man answered for her: “We haven’t been here but a few days.  I should
think,” he added to her, “it would be about as comfortable outside of the
house.”  I perceived that he maintained his independence of my superior
knowledge by refusing to say “pavilion”; and in fact I do not know
whether that is the right name for the building myself.
“It will be hot enough anywhere,” I assented, as if the remark had been
made to me; but here I drew the line out of self-respect, and resolved
that he should make the next advances.
The young girl looked up at the first sound of my voice, and verified me
as the elderly man whom she had seen before; and then she looked down at
the water again.  I understood, and I freely forgave her.  If my beard
had been brown instead of grey I should have been an adventure; but to
the eye of girlhood adventure can never wear a grey beard.  I was truly
sorry for her; I could read in the pensive droop of her averted face that
I was again a disappointment.
They all three sat, without speaking again, in the mannerless silence of
Americans.  The man was not going to feel bound in further civility to me
because I had civilly answered a question of his.  I divined that he
would be glad to withdraw from the overture he had made; he may have
thought from my readiness to meet him half way that I might be one of
those sharpers in whom Saratoga probably abounded.  This did not offend
me; it amused me; I fancied his confusion if he could suddenly know how
helplessly and irreparably honest I was.
“I don’t know but it’s a little too damp here, Rufus,” said the wife.
“I don’t know but it is,” he answered; but none of them moved, and none
of them spoke again for some minutes.  Then the wife said again, but this
time to the friend, “I don’t know but it’s a little too damp here,
Julia,” and the friend answered, as the husband had—
“I don’t know but it is.”
I had two surprises in this slight event.  I could never have imagined
that the girl had so brunette a name as Julia, or anything less blond in
sound than, say, Evadne, at the very darkest; and I had made up my
mind—Heaven knows why—that her voice would be harsh.  Perhaps I thought
it unfair that she should have a sweet voice added to all that beauty and
grace of hers; but she had a sweet voice, very tender and melodious, with
a plangent note in it that touched me and charmed me.  Beautiful and
graceful as she was, she had lacked atmosphere before, and now suddenly
she had atmosphere.  I resolved to keep as near to these people as I
could, and not to leave the place as long as they stayed; but I did not
think it well to let them feel that I was æsthetically shadowing them,
and I got up and strolled away toward the pavilion, keeping an eye in the
back of my head upon them.
I sat down in a commanding position, and watched the people gathering for
the concert; and in the drama of a group of Cubans, or of South
Americans, I almost forgot for a moment the pale idyl of my compatriots
at the kiosk.  There was a short, stout little Spanish woman speaking in
the shapely sentences which the Latin race everywhere delights in, and
around her was an increasing number of serious Spanish men, listening as
if to important things, and paying her that respectful attention which
always amuses and puzzles me.  In view of what we think their low
estimate of women, I cannot make out whether it is a personal tribute to
some specific woman whom they regard differently from all the rest of her
sex, or whether they choose to know in her for the nouce the abstract
woman who is better than woman in the concrete.  I am sure I have never
seen men of any other race abandon themselves to such a luxury of respect
as these black and grey bearded Spaniards of leaden complexion showed
this dumpy personification of womanhood, with their prominent eyes bent
in homage upon her, and their hands trembling with readiness to seize
their hats off in reverence.  It appeared presently that the matter they
were all canvassing so devoutly was the question of where she should sit.
It seemed to be decided that she could not do better than sit just at
that point.  When she actually took a chair the stately convocation
ended, and its members, with low obeisances, dispersed themselves in
different directions.  They had probably all been sitting with her the
whole afternoon on the verandah of the Everett House, where their race
chiefly resorts in Saratoga, and they were availing themselves of this
occasion to appear to be meeting her, after a long interval, in society.
I said to myself that of course they believed Saratoga was still that
centre of American fashion which it once was, and that they came and went
every summer, probably in the belief that they saw a great deal of social
gaiety there.  This made me think, by a natural series of transitions, of
the persons of my American idyl, and I looked about the pavilion
everywhere for them without discovering, till the last, that they were
just behind me.
I found the fact touching.  They had not wished to be in any wise
beholden to me, and had even tried to reject my friendly readiness to
know them better; but they had probably sought my vicinity in a sense of
their loneliness and helplessness, which they hoped I would not divine,
but which I divined instantly.  Still, I thought it best not to show any
consciousness of them, and we sat through the first part of the concert
without taking notice of one another.  Then the man leaned forward and
touched me on the shoulder.
“Will you let me take your programme a minute?”
“Why, certainly,” said I.
He took it, and after a vague glance at it he passed it to his wife, who
gave it in turn to the young girl.  She studied it very briefly, and
then, after a questioning look, offered it back to me.
“Won’t you keep it?” I entreated.  “I’ve quite done with it.”
“Oh, thank you,” she answered in her tender voice, and she and the wife
looked hard at the man, whom they seemed to unite in pushing forward by
that means.
He hemmed, and asked, “Have you been in Saratoga much?”
“Why, yes,” I said; “rather a good deal.  My wife and I have been here
three or four summers.”
At the confession of my married state, which this statement implicated,
the women exchanged a glance, I fancied, of triumph, as if they had been
talking about me, and I had now confirmed the ground they had taken
concerning me.  Then they joined in goading the man on again with their
eyes.
“Which hotel,” he asked, “should you say had the most going on?”
The young girl and the wife transferred their gaze to me, with an
intensified appeal in it.  The man looked away with a certain shame—the
shame of a man who feels that his wife has made him make an ass of
himself.  I tried to treat his question, by the quantity and quality of
my answer, as one of the most natural things in the world; and I probably
deceived them all by this effort, though I am sure that I was most
truthful and just concerning the claims of the different hotels to be the
centre of excitement.  I thought I had earned the right to ask at the
end, “Are you stopping at the Grand Union?”
“No,” he said; and he mentioned one of the smaller hotels, which depend
upon the great houses for the entertainment of their guests.  “Are you
there?” he asked, meaning the Grand Union.
“Oh no,” I said; “we couldn’t do that sort of thing, even if we wanted.”
And in my turn I named the modest hotel where we were, and said that I
thought it by all odds the pleasantest place in Saratoga.  “But I can’t
say,” I added, “that there is a great deal going on there, either.  If
you want that sort of thing you will have to go to some of the great
hotels.  We have our little amusements, but they’re all rather mild.”  I
kept talking to the man, but really addressing myself to the women.
“There’s something nearly every evening: prestidigitating, or
elocutioning, or a little concert, or charades, or impromptu theatricals,
or something of that sort.  I can’t say there’s dancing, though really, I
suppose, if any one wanted to dance there would be dancing.”
I was aware that the women listened intelligently, even if the man did
not.  The wife drew a long breath, and said, “It must be very pleasant.”
The girl said—rather more hungrily, I fancied—“Yes, indeed.”
I don’t know why their interest should have prompted me to go on and
paint the lily a little, but I certainly did so.  I did not stop till the
music began again, and I had to stop.  By the time the piece was finished
I had begun to have my misgivings, and I profited by the brief interval
of silence to say to the young girl, “I wouldn’t have you think we are a
whirl of gaiety exactly.”
“Oh no,” she answered pathetically, as if she were quite past expecting
that or anything like it.
We were silent again.  At the end of the next piece they all rose, and
the wife said timidly to me, “Well, good-evening,” as if she might be
venturing too far; and her husband came to her rescue with “Well,
good-evening, sir.”  The young girl merely bowed.
I did not stay much longer, for I was eager to get home and tell my wife
about my adventure, which seemed to me of a very rare and thrilling kind.
I believed that if I could present it to her duly, it would interest her
as much as it had interested me.  But somehow, as I went on with it in
the lamplight of her room, it seemed to lose colour and specific
character.
“You are always making up these romances about young girls being off and
disappointed of a good time ever since we saw that poor little Kitty
Ellison with her cousins at Niagara,” said Mrs. March.  “You seem to have
it on the brain.”
“Because it’s the most tragical thing in the world, and the commonest in
our transition state,” I retorted.  I was somewhat exasperated to have my
romance treated as so stale a situation, though I was conscious now that
it did want perfect novelty.  “It’s precisely for that reason that I like
to break my heart over it.  I see it every summer, and it keeps me in a
passion of pity.  Something ought to be done about it.”
“Well, don’t you try to do anything, Basil, unless you write to the
newspapers.”
“I suppose,” I said, “that if the newspapers could be got to take hold of
it, perhaps something might be done.”  The notion amused me; I went on to
play with it, and imagined Saratoga, by a joint effort of the leading
journals, recolonised with the social life that once made it the paradise
of young people.
“I have been writing to the children,” said my wife, “and telling them to
stay on at York Harbour if the Herricks want them so much.  They would
hate it here.  You say the girl looked cross.  I can’t exactly imagine a
cross goddess.”
“There were lots of cross goddesses,” I said rather crossly myself; for I
saw that, after having trodden my romance in the dust, she was willing I
should pick it up again and shake it off, and I wished to show her that I
was not to be so lightly appeased.
“Perhaps I was thinking of angels,” she murmured.
“I distinctly didn’t say she was an angel,” I returned.
“Now, come, Basil; I see you’re keeping something back.  What did you try
to do for those people?  Did you tell them where you were stopping?”
“Yes, I did.  They asked me, and I told them.”
“Did you brag the place up?”
“On the contrary, I understated its merits.”
“Oh, very well, then,” she said, quite as if I had confessed my guilt;
“they will come here, and you will have your romance on your hands for
the rest of the month.  I’m thankful we’re going away the first of
August.”
III
THE next afternoon, while we were sitting in the park waiting for the
Troy band to begin playing, and I was wondering just when they would
reach the “Washington Post March,” which I like because I can always be
sure of it, my unknown friends came strolling our way.  The man looked
bewildered and bored, with something of desperation in his troubled eye,
and his wife looked tired and disheartened.  The young girl, still in
white duck, wore the same air of passive injury I had noted in her the
night before.  Their faces all three lighted up at sight of me; but they
faded again at the cold and meagre response I made to their smiles under
correction of my wife’s fears of them.  I own it was base of me; but I
had begun to feel myself that it might be too large a contract to attempt
their consolation, and, in fact, after one is fifty scarcely any romance
will keep overnight.
My wife glanced from them to me, and read my cowardly mind; but she
waited till they passed, as they did after an involuntary faltering in
front of us, and were keeping on down the path, looking at the benches,
which were filled on either hand.  She said, “Weren’t those your
friends?”
“They were the persons of my romance.”
“No matter.  Go after them instantly and bring them back here, poor
things.  We can make room for them.”
I rose.  “Isn’t this a little too idyllic?  Aren’t you rather overdoing
it?”
“Don’t speak to me, Basil!  I never heard of anything so atrocious.  Go
on your knees to them if they refuse!  They can sit here with me, and you
and he can stand.  Fly!”
I knew she was punishing me for her own reluctance; but I flew, in that
sense of the term, and easily overhauled them in the tangle of people
coming and going in the path, and the nursemaids pushing their
perambulators in either direction.  Hat in hand I delivered my message.
I could see that it gave the women great pleasure and the man some doubt.
His mouth fell open a little; their cheeks flushed and their eyes shone.
“I don’t know as we better,” the wife hesitated; “I’m afraid we’ll crowd
you.”  And she looked wistfully toward my wife.  The young girl looked at
her.
“Not at all!” I cried.  “There’s an abundance of room.  My wife’s keeping
the places for you,”—in fact, I saw her putting her arm out along the
bench, and explaining to a couple who had halted in front of her that the
seats were taken—“and she’ll be disappointed.”
“Well,” the woman consented, with a little sigh of triumph that touched
me, and reanimated all my interest in her and in her friend.  She said,
with a sort of shy, instinctive politeness, “I don’t know as you and Mr.
Deering got acquainted last night.”
“My name is March,” I said, and I shook the hand of Mr. Deering.  It was
rather thick.
“And this—is our friend,” Mrs. Peering went on, in presentation of me to
the young lady, “Miss Gage, that’s come with us.”
I was delighted that I had guessed their relative qualities so perfectly,
and when we arrived at Mrs. March I glibly presented them.  My wife was
all that I could have wished her to be of sympathetic and intelligent.
She did not overdo it by shaking hands, but she made places for the
ladies, smiling cordially; and Mrs. Deering made Miss Gage take the seat
between them.  Her husband and I stood awhile in front of them, and then
I said we would go off and find chairs somewhere.
We did not find any till we had climbed to the upland at the south-east
of the park, and then only two iron ones, which it was useless to think
of transporting.  But there was no reason why we should not sit in them
where they were: we could keep the ladies in plain sight, and I could not
mistake “Washington Post” when the band came to it.  Mr. Deering sank
into one of the chairs with a sigh of satisfaction which seemed to
complete itself when he discovered in the thick grass at his feet a twig
from one of the tall, slim pines above us.  He bent over for it, and
then, as he took out his penknife and clicked open a blade to begin
whittling, he cast up a critical glance at the trees.
“Pretty nice pines,” he said; and he put his hand on the one next to us
with a sort of appreciation that interested me.
“Yes; the trees of Saratoga are the glory of the place,” I returned.  “I
never saw them grow anywhere else so tall and slim.  It doesn’t seem the
effect of crowding either.  It’s as if there was some chemical force in
the soil that shot them up.  They’re like rockets that haven’t left the
ground yet.”
“It’s the crowding,” he said seriously, as if the subject were not to be
trifled with.  “It’s the habit of all these trees—pines and oaks and
maples, I don’t care what they are—to spread, and that’s what we tell our
customers.  Give the trees plenty of room; don’t plant ’em too thick if
you want to get all the good out of ’em.”  As if he saw a question in my
eye, he went on: “We do a forest-tree business exclusively; these
shade-trees, and walnuts, hickories, chestnuts, and all kinds.  It’s a
big trade, getting to be, and growing all the time.  Folks have begun to
find out what fools they were to destroy the forests, and the children
want to buy back what the fathers threw away.”
I scarcely needed to prompt him; he was only too glad to talk on about
his business, and he spoke with a sort of homesick fondness.  He told me
that he had his nurseries at De Witt Point, up on the St. Lawrence, where
he could raise stock hardy enough for any climate, and ship by land or
water.
“I’ve got to be getting home right away now,” he said finally, clicking
his knife-blade half shut and open with his thumb.
“It’s about time for our evergreen trade, and I don’t want the trees to
stay a minute in the ground after the middle of the month.”
“Won’t the ladies find it hard to tear themselves away from the gaieties
of Saratoga?” I asked with apparent vagueness.
“Well, that’s it,” said Mr. Deering; and he shut his knife and slipped it
into his pocket, in order to take his knee between his clasped hands and
lift his leg from the ground.  I have noticed that this is a
philosophical attitude with some people, and I was prepared by it for
some thoughtful generalising from my companion.  “Women would be willing
to stay on in a place for a year to see if something wouldn’t happen; and
if you take ’em away before anything happens, they’ll always think that
if they’d stayed something would have happened the next day, or maybe the
day they left.”
He stared upward into the pine boughs, and I said: “Yes, that’s so.  I
suppose we should be like them if we had the same conditions.  Their
whole life is an expectation of something to happen.  Men have the
privilege of making things happen—or trying to.”
“Oh, I don’t know as I want to criticise ’em.  As you say, I guess we
should be just so.”  He dropped his leg, and bent over as if to examine
the grass; he ended by taking a blade of it between his teeth before he
spoke again, with his head still down.  “I don’t want to hurry ’em; I
want to give ’em a fair show now we’re here, and I’ll let the stock go as
long as I can.  But I don’t see very much gaiety around.”
I laughed.  “Why, it’s all gaiety, in one way.  Saratoga is a perpetual
Fourth of July, we think.”
“Oh yes; there’s enough going on, and my wife and me we could enjoy it
first rate.”
“If the young lady could?” I ventured, with a smile of sympathetic
intelligence.
“Well, yes.  You see, we don’t know anybody, and I suppose we didn’t take
that into account.  Well, I suppose it’s like this: they thought it would
be easy to get acquainted in the hotel, and commence having a good time
right away.  I don’t know; my wife had the idea when they cooked it up
amongst ’em that she was to come with us.  But I swear I don’t know how
to go about it.  I can’t seem to make up my mouth to speak to folks
first; and then you can’t tell whether a man ain’t a gambler, or on for
the horse-races anyway.  So we’ve been here a week now, and you’re the
first ones we’ve spoken to besides the waiters since we came.”
I couldn’t help laughing, their experience was so exactly as I had
imagined it when I first saw this disconsolate party.  In my triumph at
my own penetration, I would not have had their suffering in the past one
pang the less; but the simple frankness of his confession fixed me in the
wish that the future might be brighter for them.  I thought myself
warranted by my wife’s imprudence in taking a step toward their further
intimacy on my own account, and I said:
“Well, perhaps I ought to tell you that I haven’t been inside the
Saratoga Club or bet on the races since I’ve been here.  That’s my name
in full,”—and I gave him my card,—“and I’m in the literary line; that is,
I’m the editor of a magazine in New York—the Every Other Week.”
“Oh yes; I know who you are,” said my companion, with my card in his
hand.  “Fact is, I was round at your place this morning trying to get
rooms, and the clerk told me all about you from my description.  I felt
as mean as pu’sley goin’; seemed to be takin’ kind of an advantage of
you.”
“Not at all; it’s a public house,” I interrupted; but I thought I should
be stronger with Mrs. March if I did not give the fact away to her, and I
resolved to keep it.
“But they couldn’t rest easy till I tried, and I was more than half glad
there wasn’t any rooms.”
“Oh, I’m very sorry,” I said; and I indulged a real regret from the
vantage I had.  “It would have been very pleasant to have you there.
Perhaps later—we shall be giving up our rooms at the end of the month.”
“No,” he said, with a long breath.  “If I’ve got to leave ’em, I guess
it’ll be just as well to leave ’em where they’re acquainted with the
house anyway.”  His remark betrayed a point in his thinking which had not
perhaps been reached in his talk with the ladies.  “It’s a quiet place,
and they’re used to it; and I guess they wouldn’t want to stay through
the rest of the month, quite.  I don’t believe my wife would, anyway.”
He did not say this very confidently, but hopefully rather, and I thought
it afforded me an opening to find out something yet more definite about
the ladies.
“Miss Gage is remarkably fine-looking,” I began.
“Think so?” he answered.  “Well, so does my wife.  I don’t know as I like
her style exactly,” he said, with a kind of latent grudge.
“Her style is magnificent,” I insisted.
“Well, maybe so.  I guess she’s good enough looking, if that’s what you
mean.  But I think it’s always a kind of a mistake for three persons to
come off together, I don’t care who they are.  Then there’s three
opinions.  She’s a nice girl, and a good girl, and she don’t put herself
forward.  But when you’ve got a young lady on your hands, you’ve got
her, and you feel bound to keep doin’ something for her all the time; and
if you don’t know what to do yourself, and your wife can’t tell—”
I added intelligently, “Yes.”
“Well, that’s just where it is.  Sometimes I wish the whole dumb town
would burn up.”  I laughed and laughed; and my friend, having begun to
unpack his heart, went on to ease it of the rest of its load.  I had not
waited for this before making some reflections concerning him, but I now
formulated them to myself.  He really had none of that reserve I had
attributed to him the night before; it was merely caution and this is the
case with most country people.  They are cautious, but not reserved; if
they think they can trust you, they keep back none of their affairs; and
this is the American character, for we are nearly all country people.  I
understood him perfectly when he said, “I ruther break stone than go
through what I have been through the last week!  You understand how it
is.  ’Tain’t as if she said anything; I wish she would; but you feel all
the while that it ain’t what she expected it to be, and you feel as if it
was you that was to blame for the failure.  By George! if any man was to
come along and make an offer for my contract I would sell out cheap.
It’s worse because my wife asked her to come, and thought she was doin’
her all kinds of a favour to let her.  They’ve always been together, and
when we talked of coming to Saratoga this summer, nothing would do my
wife but Julia must come with us.  Her and her father usually take a trip
off somewhere in the hot weather, but this time he couldn’t leave;
president of our National Bank, and president of the village, too.”  He
threw in the fact of these dignities explanatorily, but with a
willingness, I could see, that it should affect me.  He went on: “They’re
kind of connections of my first wife’s.  Well, she’s a nice girl; too
nice, I guess, to get along very fast.  I see girls all the way along
down gettin’ acquainted on the cars and boats—we come east on the
Ogdensburg road to Rouse’s Point, and then took the boat down Lake
Champlain and Lake George—but she always seemed to hold back.  I don’t
know’s she’s proud either; I can’t make it out.  It balls my wife all up,
too.  I tell her she’s fretted off all the good her trip’s goin’ to do
her before she got it.”
He laughed ruefully, and just then the band began to play the “Washington
Post.”
“What tune’s that?” he demanded.
“‘Washington Post,’” I said, proud of knowing it.
“By George! that tune goes right to a fellow’s legs, don’t it?”
“It’s the new march,” I said.
He listened with a simple joy in it, and his pleasure strengthened the
mystic bond which had formed itself between us through the confidences he
had made me, so flatteringly corroborative of all my guesses concerning
him and his party.
IV
I LONGED to have the chance of bragging to my wife; but this chance did
not come till the concert was quite over, after I rejoined her with my
companion, and she could take leave of them all without seeming to
abandon them.  Then I judged it best to let her have the word; for I knew
by the way she ran her hand through my arm, and began pushing me along
out of earshot, that she was full of it.
“Well, Basil, I think that is the sweetest and simplest and kindest
creature in the world, and I’m perfectly in love with her.”
I did not believe somehow that she meant the girl, but I thought it best
merely to suggest, “There are two.”
“You know very well which I mean, and I would do anything I could for
her.  She’s got a difficult problem before her, and I pity her.  The
girl’s very well, and she is a beauty; and I suppose she has been
having a dull time, and of course you couldn’t please Mrs. Deering half
so well as by doing something for her friend.  I suppose you’re feeling
very proud that they’re just what you divined.”
“Not at all; I’m so used to divining people.  How did you know I knew
it?”
“I saw you talking to him, and I knew you were pumping him.”
“Pumping?  He asked nothing better than to flow.  He would put to shame
the provoked spontaneity of any spring in Saratoga.”
“Well, did he say that he was going to leave them here?”
“He would like to do it—yes.  He was very sweet and simple and kind, too,
Isabel.  He complained bitterly of the goddess, and all but said she
sulked.”
“Why, I don’t know,” said my wife.  “I think, considering, that she is
rather amiable.  She brightened up more and more.”
“That was prosperity, or the hope of it, my dear.  Nothing illumines us
like the prospect of pleasant things.  She took you for society smiling
upon her, and of course she smiled back.  But it’s only the first smile
of prosperity that cheers.  If it keeps on smiling it ends by making us
dissatisfied again.  When people are getting into society they are very
glad; when they have got in they seem to be rather gloomy.  We mustn’t
let these things go too far.  Now that you’ve got your friends in good
humour, the right way is to drop them—to cut them dead when you meet
them, to look the other way.  That will send them home perfectly
radiant.”
“Nonsense!  I am going to do all I can for them.  What do you think we
can do?  They haven’t the first idea how to amuse themselves here.  It’s
a miracle they ever got that dress the girl is wearing.  They just made a
bold dash because they saw it in a dressmaker’s window the first day, and
she had to have something.  It’s killingly becoming to her; but I don’t
believe they know it, and they don’t begin to know how cheap it was: it
was simply thrown away.  I’m going shopping with them in the morning.”
“Oh!”
“But now the question is, what we can do to give them some little glimpse
of social gaiety.  That’s what they’ve come for.”
We were passing the corner of a large enclosure which seems devoted in
Saratoga to the most distracting of its pleasures, and I said: “Well, we
might give them a turn on the circular railway or the switchback; or we
could take them to the Punch and Judy drama, or get their fortunes told
in the seeress’s tent, or let them fire in the shooting-gallery, or buy
some sweet-grass baskets of the Indians; and there is the pop-corn and
the lemonade.”
“I will tell you what,” said Mrs. March, who had not been listening to a
word I said; for if she had heard me she would not have had patience with
my ironical suggestions.
“Well, what?”
“Or, no; that wouldn’t do, either.”
“I’m glad you don’t approve of the notion, on second thoughts.  I didn’t
like it from the beginning, and I didn’t even know what it was.”
“We could have them up to the house this evening, and introduce them to
some of our friends,—only there isn’t a young man in the whole place,—and
have them stay to the charades.”
“What do you think,” I said, “of their having come up this morning and
tried to get rooms at our house?”
“Yes; they told me.”
“And don’t you call that rather forth-putting?  It seems to me that it
was taking a mean advantage of my brags.”
“It was perfectly innocent in them.  But now, dearest, don’t be tiresome.
I know that you like them as well as I do, and I will take all your
little teasing affectations for granted.  The question is, what can we do
for them?”
“And the answer is, I don’t in the least know.  There isn’t any society
life at Saratoga that I can see; and if there is, we are not in it.  How
could we get any one else in?  I see that’s what you’re aiming at.  Those
public socialities at the big hotels they could get into as well as we
could; but they wouldn’t be anywhere when they got there, and they
wouldn’t know what to do.  You know what hollow mockeries those things
are.  Don’t you remember that hop we went to with the young Braceys the
first summer?  If those girls hadn’t waltzed with each other they
wouldn’t have danced a step the whole evening.”
“I know, I know,” sighed my wife; “it was terrible.  But these people are
so very unworldly that don’t you think they could be deluded into the
belief that they were seeing society if we took a little trouble?  You
used to be so inventive!  You could think up something now if you tried.”
“My dear, a girl knows beyond all the arts of hoodwinking whether she’s
having a good time, and your little scheme of passing off one of those
hotel hops for a festivity would never work in the world.”
“Well, I think it is too bad!  What has become of all the easy gaiety
there used to be in the world?”
“It has been starched and ironed out of it, apparently.  Saratoga is
still trying to do the good old American act, with its big hotels and its
heterogeneous hops, and I don’t suppose there’s ever such a thing as a
society person at any of them.  That wouldn’t be so bad.  But the
unsociety people seem to be afraid of one another.  They feel that there
is something in the air—something they don’t and can’t understand;
something alien, that judges their old-fashioned American impulse to be
sociable, and contemns it.  No; we can’t do anything for our hapless
friends—I can hardly call them our acquaintances.  We must avoid them,
and keep them merely as a pensive colour in our own vivid memories of
Saratoga.  If we made them have a good time, and sent them on their way
rejoicing, I confess that I should feel myself distinctly a loser.  As it
is, they’re a strain of melancholy poetry in my life, of music in the
minor key.  I shall always associate their pathos with this hot summer
weather, and I shall think of them whenever the thermometer registers
eighty-nine.  Don’t you see the advantage of that?  I believe I can
ultimately get some literature out of them.  If I can think of a fitting
fable for them Fulkerson will feature it in Every Other Week.  He’ll
get out a Saratoga number, and come up here and strike the hotels and
springs for ad’s.”
“Well,” said Mrs. March, “I wish I had never seen them; and it’s all your
fault, Basil.  Of course, when you played upon my sympathies so about
them, I couldn’t help feeling interested in them.  We are a couple of
romantic old geese, my dear.”
“Not at all, or at least I’m not.  I simply used these people
conjecturally to give myself an agreeable pang.  I didn’t want to know
anything more about them than I imagined, and I certainly didn’t dream of
doing anything for them.  You’ll spoil everything if you turn them from
fiction into fact, and try to manipulate their destiny.  Let them alone;
they will work it out for themselves.”
“You know I can’t let them alone now,” she lamented.  “I am not one of
those who can give themselves an agreeable pang with the unhappiness of
their fellow-creatures.  I’m not satisfied to study them; I want to
relieve them.”
She went on to praise herself to my disadvantage, as I notice wives will
with their husbands, and I did not attempt to deny her this source of
consolation.  But when she ended by saying, “I believe I shall send you
alone,” and explained that she had promised Mrs. Deering we would come to
their hotel for them after tea, and go with them to hear the music at the
United States and the Grand Union, I protested.  I said that I always
felt too sneaking when I was prowling round those hotels listening to
their proprietary concerts, and I was aware of looking so sneaking that I
expected every moment to be ordered off their piazzas.  As for convoying
a party of three strangers about alone, I should certainly not do it.
“Not if I’ve a headache?”
“Not if you’ve a headache.”
“Oh, very well, then.”
“What are you two quarrelling about?” cried a gay voice behind us, and we
looked round into the laughing eyes of Miss Dale.  She was the one
cottager we knew in Saratoga, but when we were with her we felt that we
knew everybody, so hospitable was the sense of world which her kindness
exhaled.
“It was Mrs. March who was quarrelling,” I said.  “I was only trying to
convince her that she was wrong, and of course one has to lift one’s
voice.  I hope I hadn’t the effect of halloaing.”
“Well, I merely heard you above the steam harmonicon at the switchback,”
said Miss Dale.  “I don’t know whether you call that holloaing.”
“Oh, Miss Dale,” said my wife, “we are in such a fatal—”
“Pickle,” I suggested, and she instantly adopted the word in her
extremity.
“—pickle with some people that Providence has thrown in our way, and that
we want to do something for”; and in a labyrinth of parentheses that no
man could have found his way into or out of, she possessed Miss Dale of
the whole romantic fact.  “It was Mr. March, of course, who first
discovered them,” she concluded, in plaintive accusation.
“Poor Mr. March!” cried Miss Dale.  “Well, it is a pathetic case, but it
isn’t the only one, if that’s any comfort.  Saratoga is reeking with just
such forlornities the whole summer long; but I can quite understand how
you feel about it, Mrs. March.”  We came to a corner, and she said
abruptly: “Excuse my interrupting your quarrel!  Not quite so loud, Mr.
March!” and she flashed back a mocking look at me as she skurried off
down the street with astonishing rapidity.
“How perfectly heartless!” cried my wife.  “I certainly thought she would
suggest something—offer to do something.”
“I relied upon her, too,” I said; “but now I have my doubts whether she
was really going down that street till she saw that it was the best way
to escape.  We’re certainly in trouble, my dear, if people avoid us in
this manner.”
V
“I AM doing it entirely on Mrs. Deering’s I account,” said my wife that
evening after tea, as we walked down the side-street that descended from
our place to Broadway.  “She has that girl on her hands, and I know she
must be at her wits’ end.”
“And I do it entirely on Deering’s account,” I retorted.  “He has both of
those women on his hands.”
We emerged into the glistening thoroughfare in front of the vast hotels,
