She spoke with all her father's harsh pride when addressing an inferior:
Don Roberto regarded servants, in spite of the heavy wage they
commanded, as he had the Indians of his early manhood. Trennahan watched
her closely, remarking upon the variety a man might find in a woman if
he chose to look for it.
The boy assured Magdaléna that the tarantulas had been above ground. She
shrugged her shoulders and turned her back expressively upon him.
"You see those little round holes covered with white film?" she said to
Trennahan. "They lead down to the tarantulas' houses,--real little
houses, with doors on hinges. People pour water down, and the old
tarantula comes up--back first, dragging his legs after him--to see what
is the matter. Then they set two of them at each other with sticks, and
they--the tarantulas--never stop fighting until they have torn each
other to death: they have two curved sharp teeth."
Good sport for variety's sake, thought Trennahan. I see myself engaged
on warm afternoons.
XVII
After breakfast Trennahan lay in a long chair on the verandah and smoked
undisturbed. Mrs. Yorba was busy, and Magdaléna sat up in her room,
longing to go down, but fearing to weary him. She recalled the early
hours with vivid pleasure. For the first time in her life she was almost
pleased with herself. She took out her writing materials; but her
beloved art would not hold her. She went to the window and unfastened
the shutter softly. Trennahan was not talking to himself nor even
walking up and down the hard boards below, but the aroma of his cigar
gave evidence that he was there. It mingled with the perfume of the pink
and white roses swarming over the roof of the verandah almost to her
window.
She experienced her first impulse to decorate herself, to gather a
handful of those roses and place them in her hair. Her aunt had never
been without that national adornment, worn with the grace of her slender
girlhood.
She stepped over the sill, catching her breath as the tin roof cracked
beneath her feet, but gathered the roses and returned to her mirror.
With the nimble fingers of her race she arranged the roses at one side
of her head, above and behind the ear. Certainly they were becoming. She
also discovered that she had her aunt's turn of the head, her graceful
way of raising her hand to her ear.
But it is so little, she thought with a sigh; if I could only have the
rest!
Her mind wandered back to the heroines of her aunt's tales. If she but
had the beauty of those wondrous girls, Trennahan would have taken fire
in the hour that he met her, as their caballeros had done. The thought
made her sigh again, not with a woman's bitterness,--she had lived too
little for that,--but with a girl's romantic sadness. Why had she been
defrauded of her birthright? She recalled something Colonel Belmont had
once said about "cross-breeding being death on beauty in nine cases out
of ten." Why could not her father have married another woman of his
race? She dismissed these reflections as unfilial and wicked, and
returned to her work; but it was only to bite the end of her pen-holder
and dream.
Meanwhile Trennahan fell asleep and dreamed that his Menlo house caught
fire one night and that all the maidens of his new acquaintance came in
a body to extinguish the flames. Miss Montgomery played a hose
considerably larger round than her neck, with indomitable energy and
persistence. Miss Brannan, in a dashing red cap and jacket, danced like
a bacchante on the roof, albeit manipulating large buckets of water.
Mrs. Washington was also there, and, swinging in a hammock, encouraged
the workers with her characteristic optimism expressed in picturesque
American. Magdaléna, in a suit of her father's old clothes, was handing
his books through the library window to Miss Folsom. Miss Geary was
scrambling up the ladder, a hose coiled about her like a python. The
leader of the company stood on the roof directly above the front door,
giving orders with imperious voice and gesture. But although the flames
leaped high about her, starting the leaves of a neighbouring tree into
sharp relief, he could not see her face.
XVIII
Trennahan did not see Magdaléna until luncheon. She came in late, and
her manner was a shade colder and more reserved than usual. After much
excogitation, she had decided to leave the roses in her hair, but it had
taken her ten minutes to summon up courage to go downstairs.
He understood perfectly, and his soul grinned. Then he sighed. Youth had
been very sweet to him, all manifestations of femininity in a woman very
dear. There were four long windows in the dining-room, but the roof of
the verandah, the thick vines springing from pillar to pillar, the
lilac-trees and willows just beyond, chastened the light in the room.
Magdaléna looked almost pretty, with her air of proud reserve, the roses
nestling in her dark hair. Ten years ago he might have loved her,
perhaps, in spite of her complexion.
Mrs. Yorba did not notice the roses. Her mind was blind with wrath: the
cream sauce of the chicken was curdled. During at least half the meal
she did not utter a word; and Trennahan, wondering if fate were forcing
him into the permanent role of the garrulous American, a breed for which
he had all the finely bred American's contempt, talked of the weather,
the woods, the climate, the beauty of the Californian women, with little
or no assistance from Magdaléna. The moment he paused, and he was
hungry, the catlike tread of the Chinese butlers was the only sound in
the large house; the silence was so oppressive that he reflected with
gratitude that his visit would be done with the morrow's morn.
Finally, Mrs. Yorba left the table and stepping through one of the open
casements walked up and down the verandah. She was very fond of this
little promenade between the last solid course of luncheon and the
griddle-cakes and fruit.
"I am glad you wear flowers in your hair," said Trennahan. "Your head
was made for them. I am certain your Ysabel What's-her-name must have
worn them just so the night her ardent lover conceived the idea of
robbing the Mission of its pearls for her fair sake."
Magdaléna's face glowed with its rare smile. "But Ysabel was so
beautiful," she said wistfully,--"the most beautiful woman in
California."
"All women are beautiful, my dear Miss Yorba--when they are young. If
girls could only be made to understand that youth is always beautiful,
they would be even prettier than they are."
Magdaléna's eyes were large and radiant for a moment. She was disposed
to believe in him implicitly. She determined that she would think no
more on the beautiful women of her race, but learn to make herself
attractive in other ways. Helena would return soon and would teach her.
"I have read in books that plain women are sometimes more fascinating
than beautiful ones," she said. "How can that be? Of course you must
know."
"A fascinating ugly woman is one who in the same moment sets the teeth
on edge and makes a beauty look like a daub or a statue. Her pitfall is
that she is apt to be lacking in pride: she makes too great an effort to
please. Your pride is magnificent. I say that in strict truth and
without any desire to pay you a compliment. Had fate been so unkind as
to make you an ugly woman, you would not have had a jot less; it is the
finest part of you, to my way of thinking. You are worrying now because
you have less to say than these girls who have travelled and been
educated abroad, and who, moreover, are of lighter make. Don't try to
imitate them. The knack of making conversation will come with time; and
you will always be appreciated by the men who are weary past your power
to understand of the women that chatter. If I buy this place, I shall
read over some of my favourite old books with you,--that is, if you will
let me; and I believe that you will."
Magdaléna's hands were clasped on the edge of the table; she was leaning
forward, her soul in her eyes. For the moment she was beautiful, and
Trennahan looked his admiration and forgot her lack of complexion. To
Magdaléna there had been a sudden blaze of golden light, then a rift,
through which she caught a brief flash of heaven. Her vague longings
suddenly cohered. She was to be solitary no longer. She was to have a
companion, a friend,--perhaps a confidante, a person to whom she might
speak out her inmost soul. She had never thought that she should wish to
open her reserve to anyone, but in this prospect there was enchantment.
Mrs. Yorba returned to her seat and helped herself to hot cakes.
"When Miss Montgomery and Miss Brannan were leaving last night," she
said, "they asked me to stop for them this afternoon, as they wished to
persuade you that the Mark Smith place was exactly what you wanted, or
something to that effect. So we shall stop for them. The char-à-banc
will be at the door at a quarter to four."
That was her last remark, as it had been her first, and some twenty
minutes later the repast came to an end.
XIX
Trennahan was again left to his own devices. He amused himself
inspecting the stable, a most unpretentious structure, containing all
that was absolutely indispensable and no more. Attached to the farmhouse
in an adjoining field was a barn for the work-horses. The stable-boy did
duty as guide, and conducted Trennahan through the dairy, granary,
carpenter shop, and various other outbuildings. It was all very plain,
but very substantial, the symbol of a fortune that would last;
altogether unlike the accepted idea of California, that State of rockets
and sticks.
But, for the matter of that, thought Trennahan, all things should be
stable in this land of dreaming nature. He had been told since his
arrival that everything had been in a rut since the great Bonanza
plague; but assuredly this archaic repose must be its natural
atmosphere; its fevers must always be sporadic and artificial.
Yes, he thought, it is a good place to die in. It would have been
intolerable ten years ago, but it seems little short of paradise when a
man has dry rot in him. And that girl looked remarkably well with those
roses in her hair. Poor thing!
Magdaléna came down to the verandah a few moments before the char-à-banc
drove up. She wore a buff lawn, simply made by the family seamstress,
and a large straw hat trimmed with daisies. She had taken the flowers
out of her hair, but had pinned a large cluster of red roses at her
waist. Altogether she looked her best, and felt that she might be able
to hold her own against the other girls.
One secret of Trennahan's charm for women was that he never overlooked
their little efforts to please him. He said immediately,--
"Yellow and red were made for you. You should leave white for those who
cannot stand the fury of colour."
She was keenly alive to the pleasures of appreciation, but merely asked
if he had managed to amuse himself.
"Fairly well, considering that you deserted me."
"But they almost always leave the men alone down here in the daytime,
Tiny says. She says that all they come for is to get away from San
Francisco, and that they prefer to go to sleep on the verandah or the
lawns."
"I should not have guessed that Miss Montgomery was cynical. I fancy she
finds entertaining in the open air rather sleepy work herself. Or
perhaps she thinks they are sufficiently honoured in being asked within
the sacred precincts of Menlo Park," he added mischievously. "I have
been given to understand that it is an honour."
"We keep very much to ourselves," said Magdaléna, gravely. "We never
care to know new people unless we are sure that we shall like them."
To flirt with her a little, or rather to flirt at her, was irresistible.
He bent over her, smiling and compelling her gaze. "And how can I be
sure that you will not find me wanting?" he asked; "not like me at all a
month hence? I think I should wait at least that time before buying this
place."
She shook her head seriously. "I am sure we are all going to like you.
While you were with papa last night, Tiny and Ila and Mrs. Washington
and Rose and Caro all said they hoped you would buy the Mark Smith
place. Ila said she had not come back to California to talk to children;
and Tiny--who is not really enthusiastic--said you were one of the few
men she ever wanted to see a second time. Mrs. Washington said, 'A
man-of-the-world at this last end of creation, stepping off landing--'"
"I am more flattered than I can possibly express, but I want to know
what you think about it. Shall you tire of me?"
"Oh, I think not. I am sure I shall not."
"Do you want me to buy this place?"
She looked at him helplessly. Instinct whispered that he was unfair, but
she had no anger for him. "I--I--think I do," she said. "I--I think you
know I do." And then she did feel a little angry with him.
He drew back at once. "You are my first friend, you know," he said in
his ordinary manner. "I should not think of settling near you unless I
were sure of not boring you. But I believe we have tastes in common, and
I hope you will let me come over often."
"You will be always welcome," she said formally. Her anger had gone,
leaving a chill in its wake.
The char-à-banc drove up. Mrs. Yorba descended simultaneously. Her
virtues were many, and one of them was punctuality.
XX
The Montgomerys' house was next in age to the Yorbas', but neither so
large nor so solid. Even its verandah, however, had a more homelike air;
its carpets and rugs were old but handsome; and it was full of pretty
trifles, and much carved furniture, gathered in Europe. The lawns were
small, the grounds carelessly kept, but there were many fine old trees
and a wilderness of flowers.
Coralie Brannan and Lee Tarlton, Mrs. Montgomery's little ward, were
romping on the lawn as the Yorbas drove up. Tiny and Ila were sitting on
the verandah. The former was in her favourite white, and a hat and sash
of azure. Ila wore a superlatively smart frock of yellow silk muslin,
and a yellow sun-hat covered with red poppies.
Trennahan saw the flash of dismay from Magdaléna's eyes before her face
settled into its most stolid expression. He felt genuinely sorry for
her, but his only part was to get out and hand these radiant visions
into the char-à-banc.
"It is so nice to think that you may be a neighbour of ours," said
Tiny, sweetly, as Ila was kissing Mrs. Yorba, and asking if she were not
a good girl to meet her halfway. "We shall really be glad to have you."
"We shall make him forget that he has not lived here always," said Ila,
with her most brilliant smile. She was much elated at the unexpected
foil. "He will become quite one of us."
"I am sure he would not think of settling elsewhere in California," said
Mrs. Yorba. And then she added with what for her was extreme
graciousness, "My husband and I shall be very glad to have him for
neighbour."
Trennahan murmured his thanks. He was deeply amused. That he was the
representative of one of the proudest families in a State some three
hundred years old mattered nothing to these Californians of Menlo Park.
Is it catching, I wonder? he thought. If some of my English friends
should come out here five years hence, should I patronise them?
Doubtless, for it is like living on another planet. Exclusiveness is the
very scheme of its nature. It is encouraging to think that I have yet
another phase to live through.
Ila claimed his attention and kept it as they rolled down the dusty road
toward the Mark Smith place. Tiny, after a futile attempt to engage
Magdaléna in conversation, devoted herself prettily to Mrs. Yorba and
talked of the plans for the summer.
Magdaléna was acutely miserable. Her exaltation of spirits was a bare
memory. She hated her dowdy frock, her glaring contrast to the vivid
Ila, accentuated by that grotesque similarity of attire. She listened to
Ila's brilliant chatter and recalled her own halting phrases, her narrow
vocabulary, and wondered angrily at the conceit which had prompted her
to hope that she was overcoming her natural deficiencies.
Then she remembered that she was a Yorba, and drew herself up in lonely
pride. It was a privilege for these girls to be intimate with her, to
call her 'Léna, great as might be their social superiority over the many
in San Francisco whose names she had never heard. In her inordinate
pride of birth, in her intimate knowledge of the fact that she was the
daughter of a Californian grandee who still possessed the three hundred
thousand acres granted his fathers by the Spanish crown, she in all
honesty believed no one of these friends of her youth to be her equal,
although she never betrayed herself by so much as a lifting of the
eyebrow. She had questioned, after her loss of religion, if it were not
her duty to train down her pride, but had concluded that it was not; it
injured no one, and it was a tribute she owed her race. She liked
Trennahan the better that he had discovered and approved this pride.
XXI
Magdaléna did not see Trennahan alone again; he did not ask her to ride
with him on the following morning, and left for town immediately after
breakfast. But before taking his seat in the char-à-banc he held her
hand a moment and assured her with such emphasis that he owed the great
pleasure of his visit entirely to her, that her spirits, which had been
in weeds, flaunted into colour and song; and she went at once to her
nook in the woods, feeling that the fire in her mind was nothing less
than creative.
But she did not write for some time. The sun was already intensely hot;
even in those depths the air was heavy, the heat waves shimmered among
the young green of the undergrowth.
Magdaléna stretched herself out lazily and looked up into the green
recesses of the trees. The leaves were rustling in a light hot wind. She
fancied that they sang, and strained her ears to catch the tune. It
looked so cool and green and dark up there; surely the birds, the
squirrels, the very tree-toads,--those polished bits of malachite,--must
be happy and fond in their storeyed palace. What a poem might be written
about them! but they would not raise their voices above that indefinite
murmur, and the straining ears of her soul heard not either.
She sat up and began to write, endeavouring to shake some life into her
heroine, but only succeeding in making her express herself in very
affected old English, with the air of a marionette.
Then mechanically, almost unconsciously, she began the story again. At
the end of an hour she discovered that she had dressed up Trennahan in
velvet and gold, doublet and hose. She laughed with grim merriment.
Ignorant as she was, she was quick to see the incongruity between modern
man in his quintessence and the romantic garments of a buried century.
Also, her hero had addressed his startled friends in this wise:
"I can't stand that rat-hole any longer. I'm going to stay down here
with the rest of you, whether I'm hanged for it or not."
This was undoubtedly what Trennahan would have said; but not the
Cavalier, Lord Hastings of Fairfax. She had a vague prompting that on
the whole it was preferable to,--
"Gadsooks, my bold knights, and prithee should a man rot in a rat-ridden
cupboard while his friends make merry? Rather let him be drawn and
quartered, then fed to ravens, but live while he may."
But she dismissed the thought as treason to letters, and proceeded on
her mistaken way with the Lady Eleanora Templemere. Shakspere and Scott
were her favourite writers; she felt that she must fumble into the
sacred lines of literature by such feeble rays as they cast her. She
liked and admired the great realists whose bones were hardly dust; but
they did not inspire her, taught her nothing.
XXII
The next morning, as she was starting for the woods, rather later than
usual, Dick, the stable-boy, who had just returned from the post-office,
detached a letter from a packet he was handing the butler and ran after
her. As Helena was her only correspondent, she marvelled at the strange
handwriting, but opened the letter more promptly than most women do in
the circumstances. It was from Trennahan and read:
     DEAR MISS YORBA,--I have virtually bought the place. That
     is to say, I shall buy it as soon as the deeds are made out.
     Meanwhile, I am looking for servants and hope to move down on Monday
     next at latest. Mr. Smith has also consented to sell me his stud,
     which, your father tells me, is exceptionally fine. So, you see, I
     am really to be your neighbour, and am hoping you are friendly
     enough not to be displeased. At all events, I shall give myself the
     pleasure of riding over on Monday evening, and hope that you will
     join me in another ride on the following morning. Meanwhile, can I
     do anything for you in town? Is there anything that you would care
     to read? Pray command me.
     Faithfully,
     J. S. TRENNAHAN.
Never was there a more commonplace or business-like note, but it seemed
a miracle of easy grace to Magdaléna: it was the first note of any sort
that she had received from a man not old enough to be her father. She
invested it with all the man's magnetism, and heard it enunciated in his
cultivated voice. She imagined it delivered in the nasal tones of her
uncle, or in the thick voice of the youth that had sat on her left at
the birthday dinner,--she had forgotten his name,--and shuddered.
She recalled that her mother had received an envelope directed by the
same hand the night before; but that, doubtless, had been a mere note of
politeness. He had written this because he wished to do so!
She spent the entire morning answering the note, and discovered that it
was as easy to write a book. After tearing up some twenty epistles, she
concluded that the following, when copied on her best note-paper, and
compared with the dictionary, would do,--
     DEAR MR. TRENNAHAN,--I am glad that you have bought the
     Mark Smith place. There is nothing that I want. Many thanks.
     Yours truly,
     MAGDALÉNA YORBA.
XXIII
On the following Monday Don Roberto had a cold and did not go to town,
but sunned himself on the verandah, alternately sipping whiskey and
eating quinine pills. Magdaléna dutifully kept him company, and the
whiskey having made him unusually amiable, he talked more than was his
wont with the women of his family. In his way he was fond of his
daughter, deeply as she had disappointed him; and, had she known how to
manage him, doubtless her girlish wants would have met with few rebuffs.
But that would have meant another Magdaléna.
"I like this Trennahan," he announced. "He prefer talk with me than with
the young mens, and he know plenty good stories, by Jimminy! He have
call on me at the bank three times, and I have lunch with him one day.
Damn good lunch. He is what Jack call thoroughbred, and have the manners
very fine. I like have him much for the neighbour. He ask myself and
Eeram and Washeengton to have the dinner with him on Thursday and warm
the house. He understand the good wine and the tabac, by Scott! I feel
please si he ask me plenty time, and I have him here often."
Magdaléna was delighted with these unexpected sentiments. She pressed
her lips together twice, then said,--
"He asked me if I could ride again with him to-morrow morning."
"I have not the objection to you ride all you want it with Mr.
Trennahan, si you not go outside the place. Need not take that boy, for
he have the work; and I have trust in Mr. Trennahan."
He would, indeed, have welcomed Trennahan as a son-in-law. Magdaléna
must inherit his wealth as well as the immense fortune of her uncle;
neither of these worthy gentlemen had the least ambition to be
caricatured in bronze and accumulate green mould as public benefactors.
Nor did Don Roberto regret that he had no son, having the most profound
contempt for the sons of rich men, as they circled within his horizon.
It would be one of the terms of his will that Magdaléna's first son
should be named Yorba, and that the name should be perpetuated in this
manner until California should shake herself into the sea.
He had long since determined that Magdaléna should marry no one of the
sons of his moneyed friends, nor yet any of the sprouting lawyers or
unfledged business youths who made up the masculine half of the younger
fashionable set. Nor would he leave his money in trust for trustees to
fatten on. Ever since Magdaléna's sixteenth birthday he had been on the
look-out for a son-in-law to his pattern. The New Yorker suited him. A
wealthy man himself, Trennahan's motives could not be misconstrued. His
birth and breeding were all that could be desired, even of a Yorba. He
understood the value of money and its management. And he was well past
the spendthrift age.
Don Roberto and Mr. Polk had discussed the matter between them; and
these two wily old judges of human nature had agreed that Trennahan must
become the guardian of their joint millions. Magdaléna was her father's
only misgiving. Would a man with an exhaustive experience of beautiful
women be attracted into marriage by this ugly duckling? But Trennahan
had passed his youth. Perhaps, like himself, he would have come to the
conclusion that it was better to have a plain wife and leave beauty to
one's mistresses. He had not the slightest objection to Trennahan having
a separate establishment; in fact, he thought a man a fool who had not.
Little escaped his sharp eyes. He had noted Trennahan's interest in
Magdaléna, the length of the morning ride, his daughter's sparkling eyes
at breakfast. Propinquity would do much; and the bait was dazzling, even
to a man of fortune.
He became aware that Magdaléna was speaking.
"I have no habit; and Ila says that they intend to have riding parties."
"You can get one habit. Go up to-morrow and order one."
Magdaléna felt a little dazed, and wondered if everything in her life
were changing.
"I hear wheels," she said after a moment. They were on the verandah on
the right of the house. She stood up and watched the bend of the drive.
"It is the Montgomery char-à-banc," she said, "and there are Mrs.
Cartright and Tiny and Ila and Rose. Shall you stay?"
"I stay. Bring them here to me. Tiny and Ila beautiful girls. Great
Scott! they know what they are about. Rose very pretty, too."
The char-à-banc drew up; and as its occupants did not alight, Magdaléna
went down and stood beside it, shading her eyes with her hand.
"We have come to take you for a drive to the hills, 'Léna dear," said
Tiny. "Do come."
"Papa has a bad cold. I cannot leave--"
"Poor dear Don Roberto!" exclaimed Mrs. Cartright. "I will get out this
minute and speak to him. I know so many remedies for a cold,--blackberry
brandy, or currant wine, or inhaling burnt linen and drinking hot
water--" But she was halfway down the verandah by this time.
"Do you remember the last time we went to the hills?" asked Ila. "Helena
and Rose shrieked with such hilarity that the horses bolted."
"I can answer for myself," said Rose. "I may say that the memory was
burnt in with a slipper."
"I never was spanked," murmured Tiny. "That is one of the many things I
am grateful for. It must be so humiliating to have been spanked."
"Who can tell what futures may lie in a slipper?" replied Rose, who had
a reputation for being clever. "I am sure that my slipperings, for
instance, generated a tendency for epigram; something swift and sharp.
It destroyed the tendency to bawl continuously,--the equivalent of the
great national habit of monologue."
"Rose, you are quite too frightfully clever," said Tiny, with an
assumption of languor. "You will be writing a book next."
"I will make 'Léna the heroine," retorted Rose, with a keen glance, "and
call it 'The Sphinx of Menlo Park.'"
"Fancy 'Léna being called a sphinx," said Ila, who was looking very
bored. "Are you coming, 'Léna, or not? I suppose you don't want to be
kept standing in the sun."
"Oh, we're all used to that," said Rose. "I have three new freckles that
I owe to Mrs. Washington and Caro Folsom. They called yesterday and kept
me standing in the sun exactly three quarters of an hour before they
made up their minds to come in and stay ten minutes."
"I'd like to go--"
Mrs. Cartright returned, shaking her head.
"Don Roberto does not want to be left alone," she said. "I fortunately
thought of a most wonderful remedy for colds, and I have also been
telling him about a terrible cold General Lee had once when he was
staying with us. He did look so funny, dear great man, with his head
tied up in one of old Aunt Sally's bandannas--"
"Please excuse me for interrupting you, dear Mrs. Cartright," said Tiny,
firmly; "but I think we had better get out and talk to Don Roberto, and
go to the hills another day when 'Léna can go with us. Don't you think
that would be best?" she murmured to the other girls. "We might help to
amuse him a little."
"It will be vastly to our credit," said Rose, "for he certainly won't
amuse us."
"Has anyone ever been amused here?" asked Ila, looking at Magdaléna, who
was politely listening to Mrs. Cartright's anecdote. "Fancy having the
biggest house in the smartest county in California and making no more of
it than if it were a cottage. The rest of the houses are so cut up; but
fancy what dances we could have here."
"I have been thinking over a plan," said Tiny, "and that is to try to
manage Don Roberto. 'Léna can't, but I think the rest of us could, and
Mrs. Yorba likes to give parties."
"I am told that in early days there was an extra burst of lawlessness
after each of her balls,--reaction," said Rose.
"I don't think that it is nice for us to be discussing people at their
very doorstep," said Tiny. "I just thought I'd mention my plan. And if
it succeeded, and all took charge, as it were, there need be no
stiffness in an informal party in the country. Shall we get out?"
"By all means, General Tom Thumb," said Rose, with some ire; "it is very
plain who is to be boss in this community, as Mrs. Washington would
say."
"Wait till Helena comes," whispered Ila.
XXIV
Don Roberto rose as they approached. He did not take off his skull-cap,
but he received them with the courtly grace of the caballero, one of his
inheritances which he had not permanently discarded, although he
practised what he was pleased to call his American manners in the
sanctity of his home.
He bowed low, kissed their finger-tips, and handed them in turn to the
chairs which he first arranged in a semi-circle about his own. When he
resumed his former half-reclining attitude he had the air of an invalid
sultan holding audience.
"We are so sorry that you have such a dreadful cold," said Tiny,
with her sweetest smile and emphasis; "and so glad that we happened to
drive up. You couldn't come for a drive with us, could you? We should
love to have you."
Don Roberto rose to the bait at once. He was as susceptible to the
blandishments of pretty women as Jack Belmont, although their influence
over his purse was an independent matter.
"Very glad I am that I have the cold," he answered gallantly; "for it
give me the company of three so beautiful ladies. I no can go for drive,
for it blow, perhaps; but I no care, so long as you here with me sit."
"Well, we are going to stay a long time; and we are so glad we are
back in Menlo again,--so many of us together. We used to love so to come
here; it seems ages ago. And now that we have got 'Léna again, you
must expect us to fairly overrun the house."
"It is yours," said Don Roberto, in the old vernacular. "Burn it if you
will."
Tiny, who had never heard even an anecdote of the early Californians,
gave a quick glance at the whiskey flask, but replied undauntedly,--
"How gallant you are, Don Roberto! The young men say such stupid things.
But you always were so original!"
"Poor old dear, I feel like wiping it off," whispered Rose to Ila.
But it was evident that Don Roberto's vision was powdered with the
golden dust of flattery. He smiled approvingly into Tiny's pretty face.
"But I say true, and the young mens do not sometimes. It make me young
again to see you here."
"One would think you were old," said Tiny. "But do you really like
to see us here? Should you mind if we came sometimes in the evening? It
would be such fun to meet at each other's houses and talk on the
verandahs."
"Come all the evenings," said Don Roberto, promptly, "si you talk to me
sometimes."
"I want to do that. Ila plays, and Rose sings beautifully. Some
evening we will get up charades--to amuse you."
"On Saturday, Sunday, Tuesday, and Thursday nights I am here."
"Those will be our evenings to come here." She gave a peremptory glance
to Rose, who responded hurriedly, "Are you fond of music, Don Roberto?
It will give me great pleasure to sing for you; and Ila has been
learning some of my accompaniments."
Don Roberto did not answer for a moment. His memory had played him a
trick: it had leaped back to the days of guitars and gratings. He rarely
sought the society of gentlewomen, not, at least, of those whose names
were on visiting lists. There was something unexpectedly sweet and
fragrant in the company of these three beautiful girls. Don Roberto's
memories were hanging in a dusty cupboard, and his heart had shrunken
like the meat of a nut too long neglected; but there was life at the
core, and the memories came forth, wanting only a breath to dust them.
Yes, he should like to have these girls about him. And Magdaléna had
lived the life of a hermit. It was time for her to enjoy her girlhood.
"Yes," he said, "alway I like the music. Si the piano need tune, I send
one man down. You can dance, too, si you like it. Always I like see the
young peoples dance."
Tiny clapped her hands. Ila leaned forward and patted his hand.
"What an inspiration!" she exclaimed. "This will be a simply gorgeous
house to dance in. Don Roberto, you certainly are an angel!"
Don Roberto had never been called an angel before, but he smiled
approvingly. "Some night this week we have the dance," he said. "My wife
write you to-night."
"I am on the verge of nervous prostration," whispered Rose, as his
attention was claimed by Mrs. Cartright. "The effort of keeping my
countenance--but the way you handle a trowel, Tiny, is a new chapter in
diplomacy. Butter and molasses for fifty and after; a vaporiser and
peau d'espagne for the sharp young things. I was just saying," she
added hastily, as Don Roberto reclined suddenly and turned to her, "that
young men are a nuisance. I am thinking of writing a book of advice--"
"A book!" cried Don Roberto, his brows rushing together. "You no write
the books?"
"Of course she would never publish," interposed Tiny. "She would just
write it for our amusement. I think it would be so horrid to publish the
cleverest book," she said, turning to Magdaléna, unmistakable
sincerity in her voice. "It has always seemed to me so--so--horrid for
women to write things to print--for anybody to read."
Magdaléna did not answer her. She was staring at her father, breathless
for his next words.
"The ladies never write," announced that grandson of old Spain. "Nor the
gentlemens. Always the common peoples write the books."
"Oh, it's better now, really," said Rose. "Some people that write are
said to be quite nice. Of course, one doesn't meet them in society,--in
San Francisco society, at least,--but that may be the fault of society."
"Of course," said Tiny. "I do not mean that people who write must be
horrid. But I think I couldn't know a woman who made her name so
public,--I mean if I hadn't been fond of her before; but I should really
hate to see a friend's name in print. You are not really thinking of
writing a book, are you, Rose, dear?"
"I have not the slightest idea of writing a book--for the very good
reason that I haven't brains enough. You needn't worry about any of us
adding to the glory of California--unless, to be sure, 'Léna should be
clever enough."
She spoke at random, and Magdaléna's face did not betray her; but she
almost hated the girl who was forcing her to another of her mental
crises.
"My daughter write!" shouted Don Roberto. "A Yorba! She make a fool de
my name like the play-actor that do the monkey tricks on the stage? Si
she do that--"
"Here comes Mr. Trennahan," said Magdaléna, standing up. "Mamma is not
here. I must go to meet him."
Trennahan threw the reins to his groom and sprang out of the cart. "I
could not wait till evening, you see," he said, as he came up the steps.
"What is the matter? Something has gone wrong with you."
She shivered. "Yes. Something. I cannot tell you."
"Can we have our ride to-morrow?"
"Yes, I can ride with you. Don't, d-don't--"
"Yes?"
"Don't talk to me when you get round there."
"I won't; and I won't let them talk to you."
Something has gone wrong, he thought. She looks like a condemned
criminal.
XXV
The next morning when Trennahan rode up, Magdaléna was already on her
horse, and they cantered off at once.
"I must teach you to trot," he said. "This is very old-fashioned. You
must not be behind your friends, who would scorn to canter."
"Very well. You can teach me."
The next half-hour was given up to the lesson. Magdaléna did not like
the new method, but persevered heroically. A half-hour was all she could
endure, and they cantered across the meadows to the back woods.
Magdaléna was as pale as a swarthy person can be. Her eyes were heavy
and shadowed.
"You did not sleep last night," said Trennahan, abruptly. "And something
had happened yesterday before I came. What was it?"
"I don't think I can tell you. I don't like to talk about things--about
myself."
"Then let me tell you that no human being can go through life without
help. With all your brain and your natural reticence, you are no
exception to the rule. I am much older than you are. I know a great deal
of the world. You know nothing of it. I can help you if you will let
me."
He was interested, and thought it probable that her trouble came from
the depths of her nature. Nevertheless, she was very young, and he
prayed that her grief were not the sequence of a rejected manuscript.
Magdaléna flushed, then paled again. She remembered that she had wanted
to speak out to him; but face to face with the prospect, the levelling
of lifelong barriers appalled her. If she could only tell part and
conceal the rest! But she was no artist in words. She drew a deep sigh
and opened her lips, but closed them again.
"It will be easier here in the woods," he said, as they rode into the
deep shade. "The world always seems quite different to me in a wood." It
did not in the least, but he knew that it did to her.
"I should have to go back," she said finally. "I cannot begin with
yesterday. And I talk so badly."
"The longer the story, the more interested I shall be. And I like your
direct simplicity. Let us walk the horses."
"When I was a child I was very religious,--a Catholic. It was a very
great deal to me. When I prayed to the Virgin about my wants and
troubles, I felt quite happy and hopeful. I lost it a year or two ago. I
had read a great many scientific books; and my religion fell to pieces
like--like--There was a beautiful old tree on the edge of the woods
once. It looked as if it would stand a century longer. One day there was
a terrible wind, and it fell down. Its sap and roots were almost gone. I
felt dreadfully--about the religion, I mean. I felt, somehow, as if my
backbone had been taken out. I knew that one must have some sort of
moral ideal. I thought a great deal, and finally I determined to make my
conscience my religion. I made a resolution that I would never do, and
try not even to think, what I believed to be wrong. When I was little, I
followed Helena into a great many of her naughty escapades,--though
nothing so bad as the fire,--and I did not tell my parents, as a rule,
because I could not see that it did any good. When my New England
conscience, as Helena calls it, got the best of me and I confessed about
the fire, the consequences were so terrible that I made up my mind that
I would do as I chose and say nothing about it. I kept to that until I
lost my religion. Then I was careful about every little thing. It was
easy enough for a year. Then--I don't think I can go on."
"Then you wrote a book and your conscience hurts you because you have
not told your parents."
Magdaléna dropped her reins and stared at him. Had a voice leapt down
from heaven, she could not have been more dumfounded.
"I never told you," she said helplessly. "Can all the others know too?"
"I am positive that no one suspects but myself. Do go on."
"You have guessed something, but not all. I have only begun a book; and
I am so ignorant, and my mind is so slow, that I know it will be years
before I shall be able to write a book that anybody would read. At first
this dismayed me. Now I do not care, so long as I succeed in the end;
and it will be a pleasure to see myself improve. I have not thought it
wrong not to tell my parents, so long as what I did could not affect
them in any way. Do you not think I was right in that?"
"Assuredly."
"I believed that when I had done something excellent, if that time ever
came, they would be proud of it. My mother was a school-teacher, you
know; and I did not see why my father should care. He hates to hear
women talk, but writing is different. At least I thought so. Yesterday,
just before you came, the subject came up. Rose said she believed I
could write a book, and papa was furious at the mere thought. I knew
nothing about old-world prejudices, but it seems that a lady would be
thought to have disgraced herself in Spain if she wrote a book: and papa
is as Spanish as if he had never learned a word of English, although he
would be ready to beat anyone that told him so. He did not have a chance
to say much yesterday; but I saw what his ideas were and that nothing
could change them.
"I did not go to sleep at all last night. I sat up trying to think what
I should do. Of course I need not tell him what I had done; but should I
give it up? That was the question. If I continued, I must tell him of my
intention to be a writer. He would forbid it. If I refused to obey,
which I do not think I have any right to do, he is quite capable of
locking me up. But I cannot go on writing in secret. That would be a
great wrong; it would be living a lie. I could not make myself believe
that I only wrote for the pleasure of writing: I should know that I
longed for the time when I should see my book on somebody's shelf. It
seems to me that I cannot give it up. I have much less in my life than
most girls. In spite of the hard work, I have felt almost happy while
writing. And I am afraid that I have as much ambition as pride. But he
is my father. My first duty is to him--I cannot make up my mind. I
suppose there should be no struggle; but there is, and I feel as if it
were killing me."
Trennahan had been the confidant of many women, had listened to many
tragic confessions, had seen women in agonies of remorse; but nothing
had ever touched him as did this bald statement, abrupt with repressed
feeling, of a girl's solitary tragedy. Had her hero been a lover instead
of an art, he would have met her confidence with platitudes and a
suppressed yawn; but her lonely attitude in the midst of millions and
friends, her terrible slavery to an ideal, to a scourging conscience
which was at war with all the secretiveness, self-indulgence, and
haughty intolerance of restraint which she had inherited with her
father's blood, interested him even more profoundly than it appealed to
