Europe this afternoon at three."
"Sail for Europe!" ejaculated Ben, overwhelmed with surprise.
"Yes. See that your trunk is packed by eleven."
                           CHAPTER XIII.
                         A FAREWELL CALL.
Ben was startled by Major Grafton's abrupt proposal. To go to Europe
would be delightful, he admitted to himself, but to start at a few
hours' notice was naturally exciting. What would his mother and
sister say?
"I suppose there isn't time for me to go home and see my mother
before sailing?" he ventured to say, interrogatively.
"As we are to sail at three o'clock this afternoon, you can judge
for yourself about that," said the major, coolly. "Don't you want to
go?"
"Oh, yes, sir. There is nothing I should like better. I should like
to have said good-by to my mother, but----"
"Unfortunately, you can't. I am glad you take so sensible a view of
the matter. I will depend on you to be ready."
"How long shall we probably be gone?" asked Ben.
"I can tell you better some weeks hence, Philip. By the way," he
added, after a moment's thought, "if any letters should come here
addressed to you, don't open them till I come back."
Ben looked at the major in surprise. Why should he not open any
letters that came for him? He was not likely, he thought, to receive
any except from Sunderland.
"I will explain," continued the major. "There are some people in the
city that are continually writing begging letters to me. They use
every method to annoy me, and might go so far as to write to you and
ask your intercession."
"I understand," said Ben, unsuspiciously.
"I thought you would," returned the major, evidently relieved. "Of
course if you get any letter from home you will open that."
"Thank you, sir."
After breakfast Major Grafton left the hotel without saying where
he was going, and Ben addressed himself first to packing his trunk,
and then going down to the reading-room. There he sat down and wrote
a letter to his mother, which ran thus:
    "DEAR MOTHER:--I can imagine how much you will be surprised
    when I tell you that when this letter reaches you I shall
    be on my way to Europe. Major Grafton, my employer, only
    told me an hour since, and we sail this afternoon at three.
    I should be glad to come home and bid you and my little
    sister good-by, but there is no time. I know you will miss
    me, but it is a splendid chance for me to go, and I shall
    be receiving a liberal salary, out of which I can send you
    money from time to time. I know I shall enjoy myself, for I
    have always had a longing to go to Europe, though I did not
    dream that I should have the chance so soon. I will write to
    you as soon as we get on the other side.
    "Your loving son, BEN.
    "P. S.--We sail on the Parthia."
It may be readily understood that this letter made a great
sensation in Sunderland. Mrs. Baker hardly knew whether to be glad
or sorry. It was hard to part from Ben for an uncertain period. On
the other hand, all her friends congratulated her on Ben's great
success in securing so good a position and salary. It was certainly
a remarkable stroke of good fortune.
Ben was about to write another letter to Clarence, explaining why he
could not accept the invitation for dinner on Sunday, but a glance
at the clock showed him that he would have a chance to go to his
uncle's store, and that seemed, on the whole, more polite.
He jumped on board a Broadway car at Twenty-third street, and
half an hour later got out in front of his uncle's large business
establishment. He entered with quite a different feeling from that
attending his first visit, when, in his country attire, poor and
without prospects, he came to make an appeal to his rich uncle.
Handsome clothes are apt to secure outward respect, and one of the
salesmen came forward, obsequiously, and asked:
"What can I show you, young gentleman?"
"Nothing, thank you," answered Ben, politely. "Is my uncle in?"
"Your uncle?"
"Mr. Walton."
"Oh, yes; you will find him in his office."
"Thank you."
Nicholas Walton looked up as Ben entered his presence, and did
not immediately recognize the handsomely-dressed boy who stood
before him. He concluded that it was one of Clarence's high-toned
acquaintances.
"Did you wish to see Clarence?" he asked affably. "I am sorry to say
that he has not been in this morning."
"I should like to see him, Uncle Nicholas; but I also wished to see
you."
"Oh, it's Ben!" said Mr. Walton, in a slightly changed tone.
"Yes, uncle; I met my cousin at the Windsor last evening."
"He told me so. You are staying there, he says."
"For a very short time. My cousin was kind enough to invite me to
dinner on Sunday."
"Yes; we shall be glad to have you dine with us."
"I am sorry I cannot come. I am to sail for Europe this afternoon."
"You sail for Europe!" repeated his uncle, in amazement.
"Yes, uncle. I knew nothing of it till this morning."
"It is indeed surprising. To what part do you go?"
"I believe we sail for Liverpool in the Parthia. More than that I
know nothing."
"You are certainly strangely fortunate," said the merchant,
musingly. "Does this Major Grafton appear to be wealthy?"
"I judge that he is."
"Does he pay you well?"
"He gives me fifty dollars per month."
"And what do you do?"
"I am his private secretary, but thus far I have not been called
upon to do much. I suppose I shall have more to do when I get to
Europe."
"He seems to be eccentric as well as rich. Perhaps he will want to
adopt you. I advise you to try to please him."
"I shall certainly do that, though I don't think he will adopt me."
"Clarence will be sorry not to have seen you. He has taken a trip
to Long Branch this morning with Percy Van Dyke."
"I saw Percy last evening."
"This country nephew of mine gets into fashionable society
remarkably quick," thought the merchant. "There must be something in
the boy, or he would not make his way so readily."
"We are all going to Long Branch next week," said Mr. Walton, aloud.
"We are to stay at the West End. If you had remained here you could
have tried to persuade Major Grafton to spend part of the season at
the Branch."
"I shall be satisfied with Europe," said Ben, smiling.
"You have reason to be satisfied. Clarence will envy you when he
hears that you are going."
"It didn't look as if he were likely to envy me for anything when I
met him here the other day," thought Ben.
"Please remember me to my cousin," said Ben, and shaking his
uncle's extended hand he left the store.
He was passing through the store when he felt a touch on his
shoulder.
Turning, he recognized the tall lady he had met just after his last
visit.
"Are you not the boy who told me I had a ticket on my shawl?" she
inquired.
"Yes, madam," replied Ben, smiling.
"I recognize your face, but otherwise you look very different."
"You mean I am better dressed."
"Yes; I thought you a country boy when I met you."
"So I am, but I am trying to be mistaken for a city boy."
"I am relieved to meet you, for some one told me you had got into
some trouble with the unmannerly boys who were following me."
"I am much obliged to you for your solicitude in my behalf," said
Ben, not caring to acknowledge the fact of the arrest.
"I had hoped to be of service to you, but I see you don't appear to
need it. I am here buying a suit of clothes for a poor boy in whom
I am interested. Let me give you my card, and if you ever need a
friend, come and see me."
The card bore the name of "Jane Wilmot, 300 Madison avenue."
Ben thanked Miss Wilmot and left his uncle's store.
                           CHAPTER XIV.
                    WHAT BEN'S FRIENDS THOUGHT.
"Did you see Philip?" asked Adeline, eagerly, when her young brother
returned from his visit to the Metropolitan Hotel.
"No," answered Harry. "He was out."
"And you brought back the note, then?" said his sister, disappointed.
"No; the clerk said he would give it to him; so I left it with him."
Adeline looked anxious.
"I am afraid his guardian will get hold of it," she said, turning to
Rose.
"Even if he does, there is nothing in it that you need regret
writing."
"It would never reach Philip."
"Probably you are right. In that case we must make another effort
when there seems a good chance."
It was decided that Harry should call the next day, at his dinner
hour, and ascertain whether the note had been delivered. He did so,
but only to learn that the note had been given to Major Grafton, and
that both he and Philip had left the hotel.
"Do you know where they went," asked Harry, eagerly.
"No; the major did not say. He will probably send here for letters,
and then I can mention that you called."
Harry assented, not being able to explain that this would not answer
his purpose.
When he reported his information at home, Adeline said, quickly:
"He left because he does not want us to communicate with Philip."
"Probably," said Rose. "This shows," she added, "that he is afraid
Philip would be inclined to do something for us. I am glad to have
my faith strengthened in the boy, at all events. If he were willing
to live in luxury while he knew we were struggling with poverty I
could not regard him as a cousin."
The next morning Mr. Codicil read in the morning papers, among the
passengers who had sailed for Europe the day before, the names of
Major Grafton and Philip.
"The fellow has lost no time," he said to himself. "The boy is
bright and attractive, but he stands a chance of being spoiled under
such a guardian. I wish I had questioned him, and tried to learn
something of him. I might have given him some idea of the injustice
which has been practiced toward his poor cousins. I do not care
so much that he profits by it as that that worthless uncle of his
should live in luxury at their expense. I am afraid they are having
a hard time."
How hard a time the sisters were having--how stern and exacting was
the toil which her sister's helplessness imposed upon Rose--Mr.
Codicil really had little idea. If he had, he would certainly have
done something to assist them, for he was a kind-hearted man; but
whenever Rose called upon him she was neatly dressed, and did not
bear outward marks of the poverty with which she had to contend.
So far as Nicholas Walton was concerned, he was glad, upon the
whole, to learn that his nephew had gone to Europe. He could not
see Ben without his conscience reproaching him with the wrong he
had done him, and was still doing him and his mother, by retaining
possession of a sum of money which would have given them opulence
in exchange for the poverty which was not removed by the small
allowance he sent them.
"Perhaps Major Grafton will adopt the boy," he said to himself, "and
then he won't need his father's money."
As if this would gloss over or excuse the base fraud of which he had
been guilty. He had knowingly and intentionally been the occasion of
his brother-in-law's sudden death, and was as much his murderer as
if he had plunged a knife into his breast, though his crime was less
brutal and revolting.
While these thoughts were passing through his mind, Clarence entered
the office.
"Clarence, your cousin has been here to see you," said Mr. Walton.
"What did he have to say, pa?"
"He came to bid you good-by."
"To bid me good-by? What for? Where is he going?"
"He is to sail for Europe this afternoon."
"To sail for Europe!" repeated Clarence, in amazement. "He didn't
say anything about it last evening."
"Because he did not know it. He was only told this morning."
"He's a lucky beggar!" said Clarence, enviously. "I've been longing
to go to Europe this ever so long. Percy Van Dyke spent last summer
in Switzerland. It annoys me to hear him talk of the splendid times
he had. Here is my country cousin going, while I have to stay at
home."
"Don't worry, Clarence," said his father, encouragingly. "You shall
go in time. If your friend Percy should be going again, and will
accept you as a companion, I will let you go."
This somewhat cheered up Clarence, though with the natural
impatience of youth he wanted to go at once.
"I think I never knew a boy as lucky as Ben," said he.
"He certainly has been strangely fortunate," said Mr. Walton.
"He would have been glad to take a place in a store at five dollars
a week, and now he's got something ever so much better. I believe he
has more money than I to spend, and I am sure he dresses better."
"He seems to have made an impression upon this Major Grafton. I
shouldn't be surprised if Grafton adopted him. He has no family of
his own, and is, I imagine, very rich."
We know that on this last point Mr. Walton was misinformed. The
suggestion, however, was enough to excite the envy and jealousy of
Clarence.
"Do you think he will be richer than I?" he asked.
"You will be well provided for, Clarence. You won't have occasion
for envying your cousin, even if he should be adopted by Major
Grafton."
We have now to change the scene to the little town of Sunderland,
from which our hero had come to New York to seek the good fortune
which he so strangely found.
We direct our steps to a plain cottage, containing but four rooms
and an attic, which stood a little out of the centre of the village.
Small and plain as it was, it had an air of refinement and good
taste, with its climbing honeysuckles, tiny bed of flowers, its
trimly-kept lawn and neat surroundings, which are vainly sought
about many more pretentious residences.
Here dwelt Mrs. Baker and Ben's little sister, Alice, but ten years
old. She bore a strong family resemblance to Ben, and was equally
good-looking.
"It seems an age since Ben left home," said Mrs. Baker, with a
little sigh.
"I miss him dreadfully, mother," said Alice. "Why need he go away?"
"I can't blame him, Alice, though I am very sorry to have him go,"
said Mrs. Baker. "He is ambitious----"
"What does that mean?" asked Alice, puzzled.
"It means that he is anxious to get on in the world--to make money.
It is a natural feeling for a boy."
"He used to earn money here at home," said Alice.
"Only a little. No doubt he can do better in New York, if he can get
a chance. If his uncle will only help him----"
"I should think he might, mother. Ben is a good boy."
"There is none better," assented his mother, fondly; "but strangers
may not know that."
Just then a neighbor, driving by, paused in the road and called out
to the widow, whom he saw at the open window:
"Widder Baker, there's a letter for you at the post-office. 'Spect
it's from Ben."
"Go right over and get it, Alice," said her mother, excitedly.
Alice wasn't long in performing her errand. She came back well
rewarded, bringing with her two letters, one of which had arrived
the day before. The first letter contained an account of his cold
reception by his uncle, and on the other hand his good luck in
encountering Major Grafton. As an earnest of his good fortune he
enclosed three five-dollar bills.
"God has been very good to us!" said the widow, with beaming face.
"I can hardly believe in Ben's good fortune."
"Open the other letter, mother," said Alice.
Mrs. Baker did so, and, glancing over it rapidly, uttered a quiet
exclamation of surprise and dismay.
"Alice," she said, "Ben has sailed for Europe!"
"Gone to Europe, and without bidding us good-by!"
"He did not have any chance," and Mrs. Baker read Ben's letter.
When she came to think it over, she felt that Ben was, on the
whole, fortunate to have so good an opportunity of seeing the world;
and as to dangers and risks, God would take care of him abroad as
well as at home. She would have liked to have known the man who had
her boy in charge. Doubtless he must have taken a fancy to Ben, or
he would not have given him such a chance.
                            CHAPTER XV.
                         FILIPPO NOVARRO.
Nicholas Walton was well pleased with the good fortune of his
nephew. Though a selfish man, he was not wholly without a conscience
and a heart. He had always regretted the manner in which he had
possessed himself of the large sum of money which, by enabling him
to take a store on Broadway, and largely extend his business, had
allowed him to take a place among the foremost merchants of New
York. He would have preferred to compass his own fortune without
bringing ill-fortune to his brother-in-law, but if the thing had to
be done again, under the same circumstances, he would probably have
yielded to the same temptation.
"Ben appears to be a smart, attractive boy," said Walton to
himself. "He is likely to make his own way in the world, especially
in his present position. I dare say it is better for him to have
lived plainly, and nourished self-reliance, than to have been reared
in luxury. Then, as to the fortune, Doctor Baker was a man of very
little business shrewdness. He would have wasted the money in bad
investments, and, ten to one, not a dollar of it would have remained
at the present time."
All this Nicholas Walton said to quiet his conscience, but without
success. Many a time, especially in the silent watches of the
night, memory revived for him that scene, which he would so gladly
have forgotten, when his ill-fated brother-in-law died in a fit of
agitation brought on by Walton intentionally. He could see himself
once more rifling the pockets of the dead man, and converting to his
own use the money which would have made the physician and his family
prosperous and happy.
These disquieting thoughts he tried to get rid of. He tried to
persuade himself that he was wholly disinterested in his good wishes
for his nephew. By way of keeping up the illusion he snatched
five minutes from his business, and wrote the following letter of
congratulation to his sister:
    "MY DEAR SISTER:--Benjamin has no doubt apprised you of his
    success in obtaining a profitable engagement, and of his
    departure for Europe. He has also, perhaps, told you that
    I was opposed to his remaining in the city. I admit that
    I thought it would have been better for him to remain in
    Sunderland and obtain a practical acquaintance with farming,
    in which case I would, at the proper time, have set him up
    on a farm of his own, for I hold that the farmer is the
    only truly independent man. A merchant may be rich to-day
    and a bankrupt to-morrow, and that in spite of the utmost
    care and prudence. However, I won't dwell on this subject.
    I am willing to admit that I did not give my nephew credit
    for the energy and ability he has shown. Though I refused
    to help him, further than to pay the expenses of his trip
    to the city, on condition of his returning home at once, he
    remained and succeeded in commending himself to the favor of
    a rich man who has given him an excellent position, and will
    probably--for he seems to be eccentric--finally conclude to
    adopt the boy.
    "It is needless to say that I could not have anticipated
    such extraordinary luck for Benjamin, and that I am glad he
    followed his own counsel and remained in the city. Doubtless
    a better fortune awaits him than the life of a farmer,
    which, though independent, is laborious. I only write now
    to congratulate you upon his success, and to express my
    interest in him. Though you will no doubt miss him, I think
    you will be able to see that he has done the best thing for
    himself and for you in the engagement which he has made with
    Major Grafton. He would have dined at my house to-morrow,
    but for his sudden departure.
    "I inclose my next month's allowance a little in advance.
    "Your affectionate brother,
    "NICHOLAS WALTON."
Mrs. Baker was surprised and gratified on receiving this unusually
long letter from her brother Nicholas. She had been wounded at the
cool reception which he had accorded to Ben, as detailed in the
letter of the latter, but this letter put a new face on the matter.
"After all, Nicholas feels an interest in Ben," she said to
herself, "and no doubt he acted for what he thought the best in the
advice he gave him to remain in Sunderland and become a farmer. He
acknowledges his mistake very handsomely."
So upon the spur of the moment she wrote her brother a letter,
acknowledging gratefully his kindness to her boy, and asking for a
continuance of it.
This letter was received by Mr. Walton with satisfaction. It made
it easier for him to feel that he had not, after all, wronged his
sister and her family as much as his conscience sometimes reproached
him with.
"Would that I could lose all the memories of that dreadful hour!" he
said to himself, with a shudder.
But he did not find that so very easy. It was destined to be
recalled to him in a startling manner within a week.
As he sat in his office the following Thursday, a clerk entered.
"Mr. Walton," he said, "there is a foreign gentleman in the store
who wishes to see you."
"Is it a stranger?"
"Yes, sir."
"He wishes to see me on business, doubtless. You may bring him in."
The visitor entered--a man of medium size and swarthy
complexion--who would be taken at first sight for a Spaniard or a
Portuguese. Nicholas Walton regarded him with a look of inquiry.
"Do I speak to Mr. Walton?" asked the stranger, in good English, but
with a foreign accent.
"I am Mr. Walton," answered the merchant.
"You are brother-in-law to Mr.--I beg pardon, Doctor Baker?"
"Ye-es," answered the merchant, with a startled look.
"Can you tell me if the good doctor is well?"
"He is--dead!" replied Walton, slowly. "Did you know him?"
"I much regret to hear of his death. I did not know him, but I met
him once."
"This must be the man who gave him the bonds," thought Walton,
trying to conceal his perturbation. "The moment and the man I have
so long dreaded have arrived. Now, Nicholas Walton, you require all
your coolness and nerve."
"May I ask when that was?" he asked, with apparent unconcern.
"Five years ago. I was the agent for conveying to him a large sum
in securities bequeathed him by my uncle, to whom he had rendered a
great service."
"Indeed! I am most glad to see you, sir. I wish my brother-in-law
were alive to give you personal welcome."
"When--did he die?"
"But a short time after you met him. He died instantly--of heart
disease."
"He left a wife and child, did he not?"
"He left a wife and two children."
"And they live?"
"Yes."
"I wish I could see them."
Nicholas Walton was perplexed and alarmed. If the stranger should
see Mrs. Baker, his elaborate scheme would fall to the ground and he
would be called upon for an explanation.
"Do you remain long in the city?" he asked.
"I go to Havana in three days. Business of importance, not to
mention the sickness of my brother, calls me there."
"Ah!" said the merchant, relieved. "You will have to defer seeing
Mrs. Baker, then."
"I thought she might live near by," said Filippo Novarro, for such
was the name he gave.
"Two years ago she removed to Minnesota," said the merchant, with
fluent falsehood. "Her son, however, is travelling in Europe."
"That, at least, will look as if she retained her fortune," he said
to himself.
"Then I must not hope to meet her," said Novarro. "When you write,
will you give her my profound respects?"
"With pleasure, Señor Novarro," said Walton, briskly. "Can I be of
any service to you personally?"
"Thank you, sir, no. I shall be very busy till I leave the city."
"Then let me express my pleasure in meeting you," said Walton,
offering his hand.
"The pleasure is mutual, Mr. Walton, I assure you," said the
stranger, bowing low.
"Thank Heaven, I have got rid of you," said Walton to himself,
wiping the perspiration from his brow. "But shall I always be as
lucky?"
                           CHAPTER XVI.
                       ON BOARD THE PARTHIA.
"Am I really on the Atlantic, bound for Europe?" said Ben to
himself, as he paced the deck of the Parthia, then several hours out.
He found it hard to realize, for only a week before he had been in
his quiet country home, wholly unconscious of the great change that
fate had in store for him.
He was not unfavorably affected by the new sea-life. Instead of
making him sick, it only gave him a pleasant sense of exhilaration.
With Major Grafton it was different. He was a very poor sailor. He
was scarcely out of port before he began to feel dizzy, and was
obliged to retire to his state-room. He felt almost irritated when
he saw how much better Ben bore the voyage than he.
"One would think you were an old sailor, instead of me," he said.
"I have crossed the Atlantic a dozen times, and yet the first whiff
of sea air lays me on my back, while you seem to enjoy it."
"So I do at present," answered Ben; "but perhaps my time will come
to be sick. Can't I do something to make you comfortable?"
"You may tell the steward to bring some ginger ale," said the major.
Ben promptly complied with the major's request. He felt glad to do
something to earn the liberal salary which he was receiving. It was
not exactly acting as a private secretary; but, at any rate, he was
able to be of service, and this pleased him. He had no complaint to
make of Major Grafton. The latter saw that he wanted for nothing,
and had he been the major's son he would have fared no better. Yet
he did not form any attachment for his employer, as might have been
thought natural. He blamed himself for this, when he considered the
advantages of his position; but it was not so strange or culpable
as Ben supposed. The boy saw clearly that, whatever might have been
Major Grafton's motives in taking him into his service, it was not
any special interest or attachment. The reader understands that
Grafton had a purpose to serve, and that a selfish one. For Ben he
cared nothing, but his own interest required that he should have a
boy with him as a substitute for the one whose death he wished to
conceal, and our hero filled the bill as well as any he could secure.
One day, while Major Grafton was in his state-room, enduring as well
as he could the pangs of sea-sickness, a gentleman on deck accosted
Ben:
"You seem to enjoy the voyage, young man," he said.
"Yes, sir; very much."
"You are not alone?"
"No; I am travelling with Major Grafton."
"Indeed!" said the gentleman, in surprise. "I didn't know the major
was on board. Where does he keep himself?"
"He seldom leaves his state-room. He has been sick ever since he
started."
"I remember meeting the major last summer in Switzerland. You were
sick at the time, but from your present appearance I judge that you
got bravely over it."
"I think you are mistaken, sir. I was not with Major Grafton at that
time."
"You were not! That is strange. Surely there was a boy with him; I
remember he called him Philip."
"He calls me so, but that is not my name."
"Do you mean to say that you were not with the major at that time?"
"I did not know there was such a man at that time."
"Humph! I don't understand it," said James Bolton (this was the
traveller's name). "I do remember, however, hearing that the boy,
then called Philip, died at Florence."
"I think that settles it," said Ben. "Whoever the poor fellow may
have been that died, I am sure that it was not I."
"Are you Major Grafton's adopted son, or ward?"
"No, sir; I am his private secretary. That is, I was hired in that
capacity, though as yet I have not had much writing to do."
"You are lucky. Take care you don't die, like the other boy."
"I will try to live, I assure you, sir."
"By the way, just mention my name to the major--James Bolton, of
London. I dare say he will remember me. Just say that I occupied
the room opposite his in the Hotel des Bergues, in Geneva, and
that we went to Chamounix together. I should be glad to renew my
acquaintance with him, whenever he feels well enough to come on
deck."
"I will mention you to him, Mr. Bolton," said Ben, politely.
Our young hero took an early opportunity of keeping his promise.
On his next visit to the state-room he said:
"Major Grafton, I met a gentleman on deck this morning who wishes to
be remembered to you."
"Who is it?" asked the major, quickly, raising his head from the
pillow of his berth.
"He says his name is Bolton--James Bolton, of London."
"Don't know him!" said the major, shortly.
"He says that he was with you at the Hotel des Bergues, in Geneva,
Switzerland, last summer; also that he went with you to Chamounix."
"What else did he say?" asked the major, who seemed unpleasantly
affected by the mention of Bolton's name.
"He thought I was with you at the time."
"Ha! What did you say?"
"I told him he was mistaken."
"Don't tell these fellows too much; they are simply impertinent,"
said the major, with a frown. "What more did he say?"
"He said you had a boy with you whom you called Philip, and that
this boy, as he afterward heard, died at Florence."
Ben looked inquiringly at the major, as if to obtain confirmation or
denial of this story.
Major Grafton hesitated, as if not decided what to say.
"It is true," he said, after a pause. "Poor Philip died; but it
is a painful subject. I don't like to speak of it. You resemble
him very closely, and that was my chief object in taking you as a
companion. I don't really need a private secretary, as you have
probably found out."
"I wish you did, sir. I would like to do something to earn my wages."
"Don't trouble yourself on that score. It suits me to have a
companion; I hate being alone. As long as you conform to my wishes,
I will provide for you."
"Thank you, sir."
"But hark you, Philip! I don't care to have you talk too much to
strangers about me or my affairs. Now, as to this man Bolton, I
prefer that you should keep him at a distance. He is not a fit
companion for you."
"Is he a bad man?" asked Ben, in some surprise, for Bolton had
seemed to him a very respectable sort of man.
"He is a thoroughly unprincipled man," answered the major,
emphatically. "He is a confirmed gambler, and is cultivating your
society because he thinks you may have money. He is trying to lead
you into a snare."
"Then I was deceived in him," said Ben, indignantly, for it didn't
occur to him to doubt the positive statement of Major Grafton.
"Quite natural, Philip," said Grafton, pleased with having
aroused the boy's suspicions of a man who might impart dangerous
information. "Of course, I needn't suggest to you to keep the man at
a distance. I do not care to have you come under his influence."
"I shall bear in mind what you say, sir," said Ben.
"I think I have checkmated this meddling Bolton," said the major to
himself, in a tone of satisfaction.
When, a few hours later, Bolton approached Ben and asked: "Have you
spoken to Major Grafton about me?" Ben coldly answered, "Yes, sir."
"Did he remember me?" questioned Bolton.
"Yes, sir."
"I thought he would. Are we likely to see him on deck soon?"
"No, sir, I think not."
Ben spoke so coldly that Bolton regarded him with a puzzled look.
He could not help seeing that the boy did not care to continue the
conversation, and, with a bow of farewell, joined another passenger
in a promenade.
"I should like to have asked him a little more about the boy I am
succeeding," thought Ben; but he respected the major's wishes, and
kept aloof from Bolton for the remainder of the voyage.
                           CHAPTER XVII.
                     THE BEAUFORTS IN TROUBLE.
There was an anxious look on Rose Beaufort's pleasant face. She and
her young brother were the only bread-winners in the family, and
work as hard as they might it was very difficult to make both ends
meet. But for one item they could have managed with strict economy,
but that item--the rent--was a formidable one. They hired their
humble apartment of a Mrs. Flanagan, who leased the whole floor, and
agreed to pay two dollars a week. This woman was a coarse, selfish
person, whose heart was as hard and unfeeling as her face and
manners were unprepossessing.
One Monday morning, about two months after Ben's departure for
Europe, the landlady knocked at the door of the two sisters.
"It's Mrs. Flanagan," said Rose, with a troubled look, recognizing
her knock. "She has come for her rent, and I have but fifty cents
toward it."
"Perhaps she will wait," suggested Adeline; but her voice was not
hopeful.
"Come in!" said Rose.
"You were mighty long tellin' me to come in," grumbled the landlady,
as she entered the humble room, with a hostile look.
"I am sorry if I kept you waiting," said Rose, gently.
"I thought maybe you didn't want to see me," said Mrs. Flanagan. "I
won't stay long to trouble ye."
"Stay as long as you like," said Rose in a conciliatory manner.
"I didn't come for any palaver--I haven't the time. I suppose you
know what I came for. You haven't forgot it's Monday mornin'?" said
the landlady, in an aggressive tone.
"I didn't forget it, Mrs. Flanagan, but I am afraid I shall have to
disappoint you this morning."
"Do you mane to say you haven't got my rint ready?" demanded Mrs.
Flanagan, her red face becoming still more inflamed with anger.
"Indeed, Mrs. Flanagan, it isn't my fault," pleaded Rose. "I've got
fifty cents toward it, and if--"
"Fifty cints! What's fifty cints?" exclaimed the landlady, angrily.
"Can I pay my rint wid fifty cints? It's a shame--that it is--for
you to chate a poor hard-workin' woman, and a widder besides."
"My sister never cheats anybody," said Adeline, indignantly.
"Hoity-toity! So it's you that are spakin', is it?" said Mrs.
Flanagan, with her arms akimbo. "You can talk, anyway, if you can't
work. All you do is to sit here all day long, while your sister is
wearin' out her fingers wid the needle."
It was a cruel blow to the poor girl, who needed no reminder of what
she often thought about with bitter regret and mortification. She
did not retort angrily, but, turning sadly to her sister, said:
"I am afraid it's true, Rose; I am only a burden and an expense to
you. I do nothing to help you."
Now it was Rose's turn to be angry.
"Are you not ashamed, Mrs. Flanagan, to twit my poor sister with
what is her misfortune, not her fault?" she exclaimed, with flushed
face and sparkling eyes. "She would gladly work, if she could."
"It's ashamed I'm to be, am I?" retorted Mrs. Flanagan, viciously.
"I pay my bills, anyhow, and it's ashamed I'd be if I didn't. I
don't want no more talk from the like of you. It's money I want."
"Here are fifty cents, and I will try to get you the rest to-day,"
said Rose, sadly.
"Them that wear gold rings can pay their rint, if they want to," was
Mrs. Flanagan's parting shot, as she slammed the door behind her.
Rose looked at the plain gold ring on her finger. It had been her
mother's ring, and for that she valued it above its intrinsic value.
"I can't part with this," she murmured, with moistened eyes. "Yet,
is it right to keep it when we owe money?"
"Don't part with mother's ring, whatever you do, Rose," said her
sister, hastily.
"But have we a right to keep it?" asked Rose, doubtfully.
"Yes, a thousand times, yes! That woman can wait for her money. We
cannot part with this legacy of our dying mother."
"But she may put us out into the street," said Rose, shuddering.
"Is there nothing else by which we can raise money?" said Adeline,
realizing their situation.
"Money is due me for two vests. As a general thing, Walton & Co.
don't pay me till I hand in half a dozen, but perhaps they would
make an exception in this case."
"That would be but seventy cents. It would not make up what we owe
Mrs. Flanagan."
"It might induce her to wait for the rest," said Rose. "If you don't
mind staying alone a little while, Addie, I will wrap them up and
carry them to the store."
"Go, if you like, Rose. I always miss you, but I cannot expect to
keep you here with me all the time."
Rose wrapped up the two completed vests, and putting on her hat,
kissed her sister and went down stairs.
It was not far to the great store, which we have already entered
with Ben.
Entering, Rose walked to the back part of the store and took the
elevator to the second floor, where she found the superintendent of
the work-room.
She made known her request.
"Quite out of the question, miss," said the superintendent, sharply.
He was a hard-featured man, who was a good man of business, but was
not open to sentimental consideration.
"Didn't you know our rules?" he asked.
"Yes, sir; but this was a case of necessity."
"I beg your pardon, miss, it is a matter of business. When you have
finished the batch we will pay you, and not till then."
"But, sir, I need the money very much."
"That is your affair, not ours. Probably you have friends and can
borrow money, if you need it sooner than we are ready to pay it to
you."
"I don't know where to find them," thought Rose, but she did not
say this.
The superintendent had already turned away, as if to intimate that
he had no more time to give her. Rose walked to the elevator slowly
and sadly, and descended to the main store.
"What shall I do?" she thought. "Mrs. Flanagan will turn us out, and
then poor Addie will suffer."
As she stepped out into the street the thought of the ring came
back to her. It was dear to her as a cherished legacy from a mother
early lost and deeply mourned, yet it had a money value which would
relieve their pressing necessities for a week at least.
"I don't think mother would wish me to keep it under the
circumstances," she thought. "Addie will scold me, but it appears
to be the only thing that remains for me to do. Heaven knows that I
don't wish to part with it."
The proper place to go would have been to a pawnbroker's shop,
but Rose did not know of one. She had never had dealings with any.
As she passed a jewelry store it occurred to her that perhaps they
would buy it inside, and she entered.
"In what way can I serve you, miss?" asked a young man behind the
counter.
"I--I wish to dispose of a ring," said Rose, hurriedly. "Can you
tell me the value of it?" and she slipped the ring from her finger
and offered it to the salesman.
"We don't buy second-hand jewelry," said the clerk, rudely. "We sell
