racks with the new year. They complimented the adventurers in a curious 
mixture of stately Spanish and eager 
youthfulness, and their admiration was so 
apparent that our heroes would have 
doubled the dangers of the past on the 
spot. 
When they returned home to dinner the 
great space before the house was filled 
with shining horses pawing the ground 
under their heavy saddles. The court 
and corridors were an animated scene, 
overflowing with dons and donas in brilliant array. When dinner was over and 
 
the grown-up guests and young girls were 
lingering over the Christmas dulces, all 
the boys slipped away and went out to the 
huge kitchen, where countless Indian servants were busy or resting. They de 
manded four dozen eggs and help to blow 
them at once. The maids hastened to do 
the bidding of the little dons, and in less 
than a quarter of an hour the eggs were 
free of their natural contents, and all were 
busy refilling them with flour, or cologne, 
or scraps of gold and silver paper. Then 
the boys stuffed the fronts of their shirts, 
their sleeves, and their pockets with the 
eggs, and hid themselves among the palms 
of the court. Presently the guests came 
forth and scattered about the corridor, 
smiling and chatting in the soft subdued 
spanish way. Suddenly twelve eggs, 
thrown with supple wrist and aimed with 
unfailing dexterity, flew tli rough the air 
and crashed softly on the backs of caba- 
lleros curls and donas braids, flour pow 
dering, gold and silver paper glittering on 
the dense blackness of those California!! 
tresses, cologne shooting down dignified 
 
spines. There was a chorus of shrieks, 
and then, as every head whisked about, and 
as a blow did not count unless it struck 
at the back, the boys ran up to the corridors,
dodged under vengeful arms and 
continued the battle. Finally they were 
chased out into the open, and the guests 
having been provided with the remaining 
eggs by Dona Martina, the battle waged 
fierce and hot until, exhausted, the guests 
retired for siesta. 
But siesta was brief that day. In less 
than an hour's time all had reappeared 
and were mounting for the race. 
XV 
THE race took place in a field a mile 
from the house, on a straight track. 
Four vaqueros in black velvet small 
clothes trimmed with silver, spotless linen, 
and stiff glazed black sombreros, walked 
up and down, leading the impatient mus 
tangs. Two of these horses were a beau 
tiful bronze-gold in colour, with silver 
manes and tails, a breed peculiar to the 
Californias; one was black, the other as 
white as crystal. The family and guests 
of Casa Carillo sat on their horses, in their 
carretas, or stood just outside the fence 
surrounding the field. At one end were 
the several hundred Indians employed by 
Don Tiburcio, and several hundred more 
from the Mission. Father Osuna had 
also joined the party from the Casa, and 
Roldaa who had seen hundreds of horse 
races and was built on a more complex 
plan than his contemporaries, got as close 
to the priest as he dared and gave him his 
undivided attention. Padre Osuna was a 
man of unusual height and heaviness of 
build. His black eves were set close to 
his fine Roman nose. The mouth was so 
tightly compressed that its original curves 
were quite destroyed, and the intellectual 
development of the brow was very marked. 
His hands exerted a peculiar fascination 
over Roldan. They were of huge size, 
even for so big a man, lean and knotted, 
with square-tipped fingers. The skin on 
them was fine and brown : it looked as 
- jft as a woman's. He used them a good 
deal when talking, and not ungracefully; 
but they seemed to claw and grasp the 
air, to be independent of the arms hidden 
in the voluminous sleeves of the smart 
brown cassock. Other people watched 
those hands too they seemed to poss 
a magnetism of their own ; and everv one 
showed this priest great deference : he was 
one of the most successful disciplinarians 
in the Department of California, a bril 
liant speaker, an able adviser in matters 
of state, and a man of many social graces. 
" More agreeable to meet in the sala of 
the Mission than in a cave at midnight
thought Roldan. "Still " His scent for 
danger, particularly if it involved a match 
ing of wits, was very keen. 
The word was given. The race began. 
The dons shouted, the lovely faces between 
the bright folds of the rebosos flushed ex 
pectantly. From the black mass of Indians 
opposite came a mighty gurgle, which grad 
ually broke into a roar, 
" The black ! Fifty hides on the black ! " 
"The little bronze! She is a length 
ahead! Maclre cle dios! Six doubloons 
of Mexico on the little bronze ! " 
The priest pushed his way to the 
speaker, a wealthy ranchero who had been 
more than once to Mexico. 
" The white against the bronze, senor," 
he said. " Twenty otter skins to the six 
doubloons of Mexico." 
" Done, your reverence. I am honoured 
that you bet with me. But the white 
have you thought well, my father? " 
"She breathes well, and her legs are 
very clean." 
 
" True, my father, but look at the 
muscles of the little bronze. How they 
swell ! And the fire in the nostrils ! " 
" True, Don Jaime ; and if she wins, the 
skins are yours." 
As the horses darted down the track 
almost neck to neck, the excitement 
routed Spanish dignity. The dons stood 
up in their saddles, shouting and betting 
furiously. The women clapped their white 
idle hands, and cheered, and bet but 
with less recklessness : a small jewel or a 
second-best mantilla. As they could not 
remember what they had bet when the 
excitement was over, these debts were never 
paid ; but it pleased them mightily to 
make their little wagers. The men were 
betting ranchitas, horses, cattle, and, finally, 
their jewels and saddles and serapes. For 
each horse represented a different district 
of the Department, and there was much 
rivalry. 
The priest did not shout, and he made 
no more bets, but his eyes never left those 
figures speeding like arrows from the bow, 
the riders motionless as if but the effigies
of men strapped to the creatures of 
fire beneath. Sometimes the black gained, 
then the little bronze; once the white 
dashed a full three yards beyond his
fellows, and Roldan saw the great hands of 
the priest, which had been clinched against 
his shoulders, open spasmodically, then 
close harder than ever as the white quickly 
dropped back again. 
It was a very close race. The excite 
ment grew tense and painful. Even Rol 
dan felt it finally, and forgot the priest. 
The big bronze had quite dropped out 
of it and was lagging homeward, hardly 
greeted by a hiss. The others were almost 
neck and neck, the little bronze slightly in 
the lead. "She wins," thought Roldan, 
"No! No! The black! the black! Ay, 
no, the bronze! but no! no! Ay! Ay! 
Ay!" A roar went up that ended in a 
shriek. The black had won. 
Roldan looked at the priest. His skin 
was livid, his nostrils twitching. But his 
mouth and eyes told nothing. 
The crowd rode home, still excited, 
gay, cheerful. Their losses mattered not. 
 
Were not their acres numbered by the 
hundred thousand ? Did they not have 
more horses and cattle than they would 
ever count ? In those days of pleasure 
and plenty, of luxury and unconsidered 
generosity, a rancho, a caponara the less, 
meant a loss neither to be felt nor 
remembered. 
After the bountiful supper the guests 
loitered for a time in the courtyard, then 
the sala was cleared and the dance began. 
Several of the girls danced alone, while 
the caballeros clapped and shouted. Then 
all waltzed or took part in their only square 
dance, the contradanza. They kept it up 
until morning. Needless to say, our 
heroes went to bed at an early hour. 
They were up the next morning with 
the dawn, and in company with Rafael and 
the other guests of their own age, went for 
their canter. This time they avoided the 
hills behind the Mission, as they had no 
wish to share their secret, and a chance 
word might divulge all. They rode toward 
the hills at the head of the valley. Roldan 
was still the hero of the hour, and Rafael, 
 
although the most generous of boys, 
resented it a little. He was not without 
ambitions of his own, and determined to 
seize the first opportunity to remind his 
companions that the son of Don Tiburcio 
Carillo, the greatest ranchero of that
section of the Californias, had not the habit 
to occupy the humble position of tag- 
behind even to so brilliant and adventur 
ous a guest as Rolclan Castaiiada. 
He soon found his opportunity. 
As they reached the first hill they saw a 
bull feeding on its summit. " Aha ! " cried 
the young don of the Rancho Encarna- 
cion. " Now I will make for you a little 
morning entertainment, my friends. Col- 
iar! coliar!" 
"No! no! "cried the boys. "The hill 
is too steep. It is like the side of a 
house. You will break your neck, my 
friend." 
Roldan said : " It is dangerous, but it 
could be done." 
" I can do it," said Rafael, proudly, 
"and I shall." 
The other boys, good sportsmen as they 
 
all were, shouted, " No ! no ! " again ; but 
Rafael laughed gaily, and forced his horse 
up the almost perpendicular declivity, l
eisurely unwinding his lariat from the high 
pommel of his saddle, and tossing it into 
big snake-like loops, which he gathered 
one by one into his hand, the last about 
his thumb. The bull fed on unsuspecting, 
for the early green of winter was very de 
licious after eight months of unrelenting 
sunshine. When Rafael reached the summit
he rode back for some distance, then 
came at the bull full charge, yelling like 
a demon. The bull, terrified and indig 
nant, gave a mighty snort and leaped over 
the brow of the hill. It was much like 
descending the slightly inclined side of a 
cliff, but he kept his footing. The boys 
held their breath as Rafael rode straight 
over the brow in the wake of the bull. 
With one hand he held the bridle in a 
tight grip, in the other he held aloft the 
coils of the lariat. It looked like a huge 
snake, and quivered as if aware that it was 
about to spring. There was no cheering; 
the boys were too much alarmed. A mis- 
 
step and there would be a hideous heap 
at the foot of the hill. 
The little mustang appeared scarcely to 
touch the uneven surface of the descent. 
He looked as if galloping in air, and 
tossed his head fiercely as though to shake 
the rising sun out of his eyes. The bull 
seemed continually gathering himself for 
a great leap, his clumsy bulk heaving from 
side to side. But a quarter of the distance 
had been traversed when the great curves 
of the lasso sprang forward, and, amidst a 
hoarse murmur from the boys, caught the 
bull below the horns. But that was all. 
The bull would not down ! There would 
be no coliar! He merely ran on the 
brute! the beast! jerking his horns 
defiantly, putting down his head, nearly 
dragging Rafael from the saddle. But 
no ! but no ! Rafael has risen in his saddle, 
he has forced his mustang the harder, he 
is almost level with the bull he has 
passed ! He gives a great jerk, dragging 
the bull to his knees, then another, and 
the bull is on his side and rolling over and 
over down the hill, Rafael following fast, 
 
slackening his lariat. The boys now cheer 
wildly, although danger is not over yes, 
in another moment it is, and Rafael, smiling
complacently, is at the foot of the hill, 
disengaging the humbled bull. 
" Bravo ! " said a voice from behind the 
horses. All turned with a start. It was 
the priest. " Coliar was never better 
done," he added graciously; and Rafael 
felt that the day was his. 
The priest had ridden up unnoted in 
the tense excitement of the last few mo 
ments. He sat a big powerful horse, and 
his bearing was as military as that of the 
two great generals of the Californias, 
Castro and Vallejo. 
As the boys, congratulations and modest 
acknowledgement over, were making for 
home and breakfast, the priest pressed his 
horse close to Roldan's. " I interested 
you much at the race yesterday, Don 
Roldan," he said, with a good-humoured 
smile. "Why was that?" 
Roldan was not often embarrassed, but 
he was so taken aback at the abrupt sally 
he forgot to be flattered-that the priest had 
 
evidently thought it worth while to inquire 
his name ; and stammered : " I well, you 
see, my father, you are not like other 
priests." Which was not undiplomatic. 
The priest smiled, this time with a faint 
flush of unmistakable pleasure. " You are 
right, my son, I am not as other priests in 
this wilderness. Would to Heaven I were, 
or " 
" Or that you were in Spain ? " Roldan 
could not resist saying, then caught his 
breath at his temerity. 
The priest turned about and faced him 
squarely. " Yes," he said deliberately, 
" and that I were a cardinal of Rome. 
Such words I have never uttered to mortal 
before; but if I am not as other men, neither 
are you as other lads. Some day you will 
be a Castro or an Alvarado; it is written 
in your face. Perhaps something more, 
for changes may come and your oppor 
tunities be greater. But I I am no 
longer young ; there is no hope in 
California for me." 
" Why do you not return to Spain ? " 
" I have written. They will not answer. 
 
In my youth I was wild. They forced 
me to come here. I had no money. I 
was obliged to obey. I have christianised 
a few hundred worthless savages who were 
better off in their barbarism, and I have 
made myself a power among a few thou 
sand men of whom the outer world, the 
great world, knows nothing. My Mission 
is the most prosperous in the Californias 
and I " he set and ground his teeth. 
Roldan thought of the gold. "When 
I am governor of the Californias, my 
father," he said, " I shall send you back to 
Spain, for then I shall have great
influence and much o^old." 
At the last word the priest's eyes flamed 
with so fierce a light that Roldan shrank 
back repelled, feeling himself in the pres 
ence of a passion of which he had no 
knowledge. But the priest controlled him 
self at once. " Thank you, my son," he 
said with a brilliant smile. " And I do 
not ask you to guard as your own what I 
have said. It is a part of the power of 
such natures as yours that you know what 
to repeat and what to leave unsaid." Then 
as they approached the house he suddenly 
took Roldan's slender elegant hand in one 
of his mighty paws, shook it heartily, and 
flinging his bridle to a vaquero, sprang 
lightly to the ground and entered the 
courtyard, leaving our hero in a condition 
of flattered bewilderment. 
XVI 
THAT day there was to be a grand 
rodeo, or " round-up : " the branding 
of cattle ; not only of the stock belonging 
to Don Tiburcio, but of many of his neigh 
bours, which would be driven over to his 
rancho for the operation. This was one 
of the great occasions of the year. Im 
mediately after breakfast the neighbours 
began to arrive, magnificently mounted, 
sparkling with gold and silver lace, their 
wives and daughters each surrounded by 
her cavalcade. About ten the gorgeous 
company, led by the host, started for an 
immense corral about three miles from 
the house. The boys were well to the 
front, and established themselves on the 
wall of the corral. The rest of the party 
remained on their horses, but mounted the 
little slopes. The green winter landscape 
 
had suddenly become a blaze of colour, 
and never was there a more animated 
scene. Over all hung a light haze. The 
distant mountains, which could be seen 
from the outer valley, were almost invisible.
The priest, a huge brown figure, on 
his big brown horse, stood on the very 
apex of the highest knoll. 
Presently, from various directions rose 
a low deep murmur, then a rumble of 
growing volume as of an approaching 
earthquake. Men and women grasped 
their bridles with firmer fingers, and 
pressed still nearer to the crests of the 
many mounds. Then over the hills on 
every side came a mass of tossing horns 
and sleek shining bodies, separated here 
and there by a shouting vaquero, whose 
black and silver seemed pierced at every 
point by those white curving horns. The 
cattle, several thousand in number, trotted 
over the hills and toward the corral swiftly, 
but in good order, held well in check by 
the careful vaqueros. There was no cheer 
ing, for excitement was to be avoided. 
The cattle would stand any amount of the 
 
shouting they were used to, but little from 
unaccustomed throats. 
In the corral, at its farther end, stood, 
by an oven, a tall muscular Indian, the 
most famous brander in that part of the 
country. He was stripped to the waist, 
and as the first steer was driven through 
the narrow gate, he plucked a red-hot 
iron from the coals. The beast, kicking 
and bellowing, was flung to the ground 
by a dexterous twist of his tail, two more 
Indians held him in position, and the 
branding was accomplished. 
Almost before he was up another was 
prostrate ; and they followed each other in 
such rapid succession that the wonder 
was some were not branded twice. As 
fast as each brute received his mark he 
was driven out of another gate and over 
the hills, lest his ill-nature should be the 
cause of wild disorder. 
The vaqueros handled their dangerous 
charges with admirable skill, keeping those 
to be branded in groups of a hundred or 
more at some distance from the corral, 
riding round them constantly with peremptory 
shouts. Other vaqueros, belong 
ing to the same herd, segregated the 
animals immediately required and drove 
them in a straight line for the corral. 
There was not a moment of pause. The 
vaqueros, the brander, and his assistants 
seemed impervious to fatigue ; the cattle, 
shifting uneasily in their bands, leaped 
eagerly from the lines at the first signal 
from the vaquero bearing down on them 
like a fury from the corral. On the far 
side, otherwise deserted, the sore indig 
nant beasts scampered as fast as their legs 
could carry them whithersoever their 
vaquero chose to drive. 
After two hours or more, the atmos 
phere was charged with a certain breath 
less excitement, as was natural enough. 
The constant cyclonic rush of vaqueros 
and cattle, the angry bellowings, the in 
creasing masses of animals, the furious 
shouts of the men, had changed a peace 
able landscape into a vast theatre full of 
tragic possibilities. The waiting cattle 
were growing more and more restless, and 
there was a low rumble among them. 
 
Don Tiburcio motioned to his guests that 
it was time to leave ; moreover, it was nearly
the dinner hour. 
" Rafael ! " he called. His son turned 
his head impatiently, but prepared to 
obey ; the California!! youth was brought 
up on rigid lines. 
" Ay, must we go ? " cried Adan. " I 
could stand here till night, even without 
dinner, my friends." 
" I, too, am sorry," began Roldan. " But 
what is the matter ? " 
The great masses of cattle had begun 
to heave suddenly. They were uttering 
hoarse growls of terror. The mustangs 
of the vaqueros stood suddenly still, quiv 
ering. Then, abruptly, a horrible stillness 
fell. All things breathing seemed to pet 
rify. But only for numbered seconds. 
From beneath came a low roar, gather 
ing in volume like the progression of a 
tidal wave; then the world heaved and 
rocked. 
" Temblor ! temblor ! " went up as from 
one mighty horrified throat. The priest 
shouted to the boys : " Stay where you 
are;" to Don Tiburcio and his guests: 
" With all your speed after me." 
They understood his meaning. The 
cattle were leaping over one another, 
bellowing madly, giving no heed to the 
hoarse cries of the terrified vaqueros. In 
a moment a blaze of colour was flying 
down the valley, a long brown arm lifted 
high above it. In twenty seconds five 
thousand tossing horns and blazing eyes 
and heaving flanks were in pursuit. 
The vaqueros did their best, although 
their faces were white and their lips
shaking. Three that were between the unit 
ing herds, had their legs crushed into their 
mustangs sides, and were borne along and 
aloft, shrieking horribly, adding to the fury 
of the stampede. Another, trying to head 
the cattle off, rode into a sudden split in 
the hard adobe soil and went down beneath 
those iron feet. 
The boys clung together. The wall 
was broad, but it rocked continuously, 
whether from other shocks or from the 
hoof-assaulted earth it would have been 
impossible to say. A curving outer flank 
 
of the flying mass bulged against it, and 
it quivered horribly with the impact. The 
boys strained their eyes after the retreat 
ing points of colour. Would they escape ? 
Were the frightened mustangs fleeter of 
foot than those maddened brutes? And 
if they were the Casa! 
"I think," said Roldan, "that we had 
better get down on the other side. This 
wall may go down any minute; and the 
cattle are all looking in one direction." 
"You are right," said Rafael. "This 
way Ay de mi ! " 
There was another heave of the earth, 
distinct from the steady vibration of
stampeding cattle. The adobe wall rocked 
violently, sprang, twisted, crumbled to the 
ground, a heap of dust. 
For a moment the boys were invisible. 
Then they emerged, one by one, choking 
and spitting, rubbing their eyes with their 
knuckles. When they had recovered some 
measure of vision they huddled together, 
staring with affrighted eyes at the 
moving wall of cattle not twenty yards to their 
left, hardly able to keep their balance. 
Suddenly Roldan pulled his wits to 
gether. "Sit down," he said. "We are 
the colour now of the earth. If we keep 
quiet and look no taller than weeds they 
will not see us and we shall not be hurt." 
The boys dropped to the ground and sat 
in silence, staring ahead of them. Would 
that rushing, heaving, bellowing mass have 
no end ? It was indeed a long time before 
the last line, curiously compact, swept by. 
Occasionally the earth jumped with brief 
abruptness, causing hair to crackle at the 
roots, and dust-laden as it was, make as if 
to rise on end. The squirrels were screech 
ing in the trees. The birds pitifully twit 
tered. Even the leaves rustled in response 
to those terrible quivers. 
The cattle were a red streak at the end 
of the perspective. The boys rose, shook 
themselves, and walked heavily to their 
tethered mustangs. The poor beasts were 
trembling and whinnying ; they greeted 
their young masters with a quavering neigh 
of relief. The boys mounted ; but although 
they rode rapidly, with ever increasing 
impatience, they paused every few moments 
 
to listen ; there was likely to be a return 
stampede at any moment. More than 
once they were obliged to swerve suddenly 
aside from yawning rifts, and they passed 
a spring of boiling water, spouting and 
hissing upward, which had not been there 
in the morning. They were too frightened 
to talk ; not only the paralysing awe of the 
earthquake was upon them, but the least 
imaginative saw his home levelled to the 
ground, his relatives and friends trodden 
down into the cracking earth. Hills lay 
between them and the Casa Encarnacion. 
There were two exits from the valley 
where the branding had taken place: one, 
very narrow, to the right, which led 
directly to the house, the other straight 
ahead, almost as broad as the valley itself. 
The boys saw at a glance that pursued 
and pursuers had taken the more spacious 
way, and they followed without consultation. 
The crushed grass looked like green 
blood, but there was no other evidence of 
slaughter; the mustangs had been fleeter 
than the cattle. The latter had evidently 
 
kept well together, for on either side of a 
swath some three hundred yards in width, 
the grass stood high. 
They were in a wide valley now ; they 
could see the great mountains, still faint 
under their vapourous mist, the redwoods 
as rigid of outline as if the heart of the 
world beneath had never changed its 
measure. Just beyond this valley was a 
wood, then the Mission. Were twenty 
thousand hoofs trampling among its 
ruins ? 
They left the valley, entered the wood, 
galloped down its narrow path, and 
emerged. The Mission stood on its pla 
teau above the river, as serene and proud 
as the redwoods on the mountain. She 
had held her own against many earthquakes 
and would against many more. But there 
was not a horn, a horse, a man, nor a 
woman to be seen. 
The boys dismounted, not daring to 
think. They walked toward the build 
ings, then paused to listen. Through the 
open doors of the church rolled the sono 
rous tones of Padre Osuna's voice, inton- 
 
ing mass. The boys ran forward to enter 
the building. They paused on the threshold, 
held by a sight, the like of which had 
never been seen in California before, and 
never shall be again. 
Near the entrance of the vast building 
were a multitude of half-clothed dusky 
forms, prone. Between them and the 
altar were more than an hundred horses, 
caparisoned with silver and carved leather, 
and gay aquera. They stood as if petrified. On them, huddled to the arching 
necks, in an attitude of prostrate devotion, 
were magnificent bunches of colour; scarce 
an outline could be seen of the proudly 
attired men and women who had fled 
before a tidal wave of tossing horns. 
Father Osuna, in his coarse brown woollen 
robes, stood before the altar, chanting the 
mass of thanksgiving. The church blazed 
with the light of many candles. The air 
was thick and sweet with incense. 
XVII 
AFTER the mass was over the boys 
learned the sequel of the morning's 
terrible adventure. Between the second 
valley and the wood the cattle, diverted by 
one of those mysterious impulses which 
govern masses of all grades of intelligence, 
had deflected suddenly and raced for the 
hills. The gay company was much shaken, 
but somewhat restored by the calm of the 
church and the solemn monotonous roll 
of Father Osuna's voice. They cantered 
slowly homeward, and crossed themselves 
fervently when they saw the Casa Encarnacion none the worse for her shaking, 
beyond a few fallen tiles. After dinner 
and siesta they recovered their natural 
spirits, and the men and boys went forth 
with the vaqueros to hunt the cattle. 
These were found at the foot of the 
mountain, weary and humble. Not a 
 
horn was tossed in defiance at the volley 
of abuse hurled upon them, and they 
allowed themselves to be driven to the 
ranches of their respective owners without 
a protest. 
That evening the household and guests 
of Casa Encarnacion spent in music and 
dancing ; so light of heart and careless of 
mind were the people of that time and 
country. 
A number of cattle had been trampled 
to death in the stampede, and the bodies 
lay within a few miles of the mountains. 
It was inevitable that bears would come out 
to eat the carcasses. On the night of the 
day of terrifying memory no one felt equal 
to the exertion of another ten mile ride 
and the subsequent battle with a possible 
herd of bears. But at eight o'clock orb 
the following night Don Tiburcio, Padre 
Osuna, the boys, some ten of the caba- 
lleros, and as many vaqueros mounted 
