"You will have to take off the coat and accompany me to the police
station."
"This is an outrage!" exclaimed the young man. "My uncle will be very
angry."
"If he identifies you, and assures us that it was by his authority you
borrowed the coat, we will apologize."
"But that won't make up to me for your unwarrantable interference. Take
the coat and let me go."
In spite of his protestations, however, Mr. Charles Drayton, as he
called himself, was escorted to the nearest police station and held for
examination. He was tried, and would have been sentenced to a term of
imprisonment, Mr. Silas Drayton disclaiming all relationship, had not
the old gentleman taken pity on him and declined to prosecute.
It appeared at the trial that the young man was well known to the police
as Sidney Marvin, an expert thief, born in London, but for three years a
resident of the United States. Mr. Drayton was blamed for allowing him
to escape punishment, but he was a soft-hearted man, and disposed to
give the young man another chance.
CHAPTER XXVIII.
RUPERT RESIGNS HIS SITUATION.
Rupert had been a bell-boy for more than a year. He found his employers
very pleasant and considerate, and his salary was larger, probably, than
he could get anywhere else. Still the position was not likely to lead to
anything better, unless he might in time qualify himself to be a hotel
clerk.
Sometimes he talked over the matter with Leslie, but the latter had the
advantage of knowing just what he aspired to. He was determined some day
to be an actor, and was content to remain in his present place till
there was an opening for him on the stage.
One day Rupert received a letter from Colorado. He knew, of course, that
the letter was written by his old acquaintance, Giles Packard, from whom
he heard occasionally. This was the letter:
     "FRIEND RUPERT--
     "I have been meaning for some time to write to you, but my mode of
     life is not favorable to letter-writing, and whenever I take my pen
     in hand I feel as awkward as a Chinaman would with a knife and
     fork. I think it is three months since I heard from you, but I hope
     you are well and getting on nicely. How is the little boy you took
     charge of? It was a pretty big responsibility for a lad of your
     age, but I am sure you would take better care of him than a good
     many older persons.
     "Don't forget that you promised to let me know if you needed some
     help. Even small boys cost something to bring up, and I have
     plenty, while you are only beginning life. I suppose you are still
     a bell-boy at the Somerset Hotel. Now that is a good position for a
     boy, but it seems to me that it is about time you took up something
     else. Before choosing what it shall be, I want you to come out and
     make me a visit. I feel pretty lonely sometimes, having neither
     'chick nor child,' unless I count you. I think it would do you good
     to see a little something of the far West. I inclose a draft for
     two hundred dollars for your expenses out here. If all is right I
     want you either to ask for a vacation or leave your situation, and
     start as soon as you can. Don't be afraid, for I will see that you
     don't suffer, even if you don't get a new place right off."
Here followed some directions as to finding him, and then the letter
ended.
The proposal struck Rupert favorably. He had a natural desire to
travel, and had a great anxiety to see Chicago and other places, of
which he had heard a great deal.
He went at once to the proprietor of the hotel and showed him the
letter.
"You want to accept the invitation, I suppose?" said the landlord.
"Yes, sir, if it won't inconvenience you."
"As it happens, one of my old friends wants me to give his son a place
in the hotel. I had thought of discharging Leslie to make room for him,
but if you really wish to give up your position I will put him in your
place."
"That will suit me, sir."
"But in that case I cannot take you back on your return."
"I will not expect you to do so. I think I can find something outside,
and Mr. Packard agreed to see me through."
"That draft looks like it. I will send for the boy at once, and during
the balance of the week you can instruct him in his duties."
"I am sorry you are going, Rupert," said Leslie. "If you get acquainted
with any managers on your Western trip, speak a good word for me."
"I will."
"I am going to play at a benefit next week, Wednesday. It is a variety
entertainment, and I am to give imitations of celebrated actors. I've
got Irving down fine. You ought to stay and see me."
"Perhaps you will give me a private rehearsal. It wouldn't be convenient
for me to put off my journey."
"I will. Come into my room to-night, and you shall see me imitate
Irving, Booth and Joe Jefferson."
Rupert stayed two days in Chicago, and visited the principal localities,
including Jackson Park, soon to become known all over the country as the
site of the World's Fair. He was impressed with the business activity
and greatness of the Queen City of the West, and left it reluctantly at
the end of two days. At the railroad station, while purchasing his
ticket to Denver, his attention was called to a tall old man who looked
to be nearly seventy. He was thin and bent, and his face was sad. His
suit was black, but it was well-worn and looked shabby. His eyes were
fixed on Rupert as he bought his ticket, and he heaved a sigh.
"I envy you, young man," he said in answer to Rupert's inquiring look.
"Why so?" asked the bell-boy.
"Because you are going to Denver."
"Do you wish to go there?"
"Yes, but it is impossible."
"Why is that? Won't your business permit you?"
"Alas, I have no business. I came to Chicago from my old home in
Rochester, New York, hoping to get a situation as bookkeeper. I
understand bookkeeping thoroughly, and for fifteen years occupied that
position in one of the largest firms in Buffalo. But they went out of
business, and I was thrown on my own resources."
"Had you not laid up any money?"
"Yes. I took what I had, and went by invitation to make my home at the
house of a niece in Rochester who was married to a man named Jackson. I
had three thousand dollars, and I thought that if I should get
something to do I might with the help of that live comfortably for the
balance of my days. That was a year ago, and I was then sixty-five. I
can hardly expect to live many years, and I considered myself well
provided for.
"Well, I sought out my niece, and was cordially received by her husband
and herself after they learned that I had money. I agreed to board with
them, and sought a position in my old line. But a man over sixty is at a
disadvantage when he is seeking employment. In vain I showed a
first-class recommendation from my past employers in Buffalo.
"'I dare say you understand your business,' one and another said to me,
'but you are too old for us. We want a young man who can hustle.'
"'But I can hustle, too,' I said.
"They only laughed.
"'You are too old to work. You ought to retire,' they said.
"I reported my disappointment to my niece and her husband.
"'Uncle John,' said my nephew, 'I feel for you, and I will try to do
something for you. I think I can make a place for you in my store. I
can't afford to pay you high wages. If you will work for ten dollars a
week I will employ you.'
"I was very glad to accept this proposal, though I had in my time been
paid a hundred dollars a month.
"I entered the store, and had reason to think that I was doing
satisfactory work. But at the end of three weeks Eben Jackson called me
aside and said: 'Uncle John, I have been figuring up my expenses, and I
don't see how I can afford to employ you.'
"'You wish me to go, then?'
"'I shall have to dispense with your services unless I can get
additional capital to enlarge my business.'
"Presently he made me a proposal.
"'If you will lend me three thousand dollars,' he said, 'and allow me to
use it in my business, I will pay you six per cent. interest, and
advance your wages to twelve dollars a week.'
"I thought over this proposal and determined to accept it. Eben Jackson
was very plausible and smooth-spoken, and I saw no reason to doubt him.
I transferred my small capital to him. He increased his stock, but only
by five hundred dollars' worth, as I afterwards ascertained, and I
continued to work for him. For a month he paid me twelve dollars per
week, then he reduced me to ten, on the plea that business was poor,
afterwards to eight, and finally he allowed me only my board. I became
indignant and demanded my money back, but he absolutely refused to repay
it. I consulted a lawyer, but found upon inquiry that he had made over
all his property to his wife. I saw that nothing was to be expected, and
a month since I left Rochester and came to Chicago, in the hope of
finding employment here."
CHAPTER XXIX.
THE ST. JAMES HOTEL, IN DENVER.
"What has been your success here, Mr. Plympton?" inquired Rupert.
"No better than in Rochester. Why is it that no one is willing to employ
an old man? I am in good bodily health, and I can do as good work as I
ever could, but no one will have me."
"Chicago seems to be a city of young men--more so than New York."
"Have you noticed that? Some of the successful business men are men
young enough to be my sons."
"I understand you to say that you wished to go to Denver. Have you any
reason to think you will succeed any better there?"
"No, but I have a nephew somewhere in Colorado, and perhaps in Denver.
If I can fall in with him, I am sure he will help me. I haven't seen
Giles for twenty years, but--"
"Giles!" repeated Rupert, in surprise. "What is his full name?"
"Giles Packard. He is my sister's son."
"Well, that is astonishing," ejaculated Rupert.
"What is astonishing?"
"Your nephew is my particular friend, and I am going out to Colorado at
his special invitation."
"Is it possible?" asked the old man, eagerly. "Then you know where he
lives?"
"Yes."
"Will you tell him you met me, and ask him if he will send money to
bring me on to where he lives? Giles was always good-hearted, and I am
sure he will do it."
"It won't be necessary to wait. I will buy you another ticket, and take
you on with me."
John Plympton's face lighted up with joy.
"How kind you are," he said, grasping Rupert's hand. "I hope when you
are old you will find some one who will be as kind to you. You are not
related to me in any way, you only saw me within the hour, yet you are
going to do me a great kindness. May heaven bless you."
"Thank you, but don't give me too much credit. I am sure Mr. Packard
will approve what I am doing, and will consider it a favor done to
himself."
"I hope so, but my niece's treatment has made me uncertain how far the
ties of relationship will be regarded. Yet I will accept your offer
thankfully."
Rupert lost no time in purchasing another ticket, and secured Pullman
accommodations for himself and his new acquaintance.
"You used to live in Buffalo," he said.
"Yes, I worked in one place there for fifteen years."
"Did you ever hear of the firm of Rollins & Lorimer?"
"Certainly. They were dry-goods merchants."
"I am Rupert Rollins, son of the senior partner."
"Is it possible? I knew your father well. He was a fine man."
"I am glad to hear you say so."
"But I didn't like Mr. Lorimer as well."
"I have little reason to like him, for he ruined my poor father, and
indirectly caused his death."
"I am not surprised to hear it. I never had any dealings with Mr.
Lorimer, but I knew his reputation. Is your mother living?"
"Yes, thank God, she is living, and my sister Grace as well."
"Did your father lose all his property?"
"All."
"How, then, is your mother getting along?"
Rupert explained.
"And yourself? Are you in any employment?"
"I have been a bell-boy in a New York hotel for the last year and a
half."
"You could hardly be very well paid."
"Yes, I received larger pay than I would have received in a mercantile
house. But I have finally given up the business."
"What do you propose to do?"
"I shall ask the advice of your nephew. He is a very good friend of
mine--the best I have outside my own family with one exception--and I
shall be guided by what he says."
"I wish I had been able to go to him instead of to my niece and her
husband."
"I don't see how they could have treated you so meanly."
"Mary would have treated me better, but she is under the thumb of her
husband, and he is as mean a man as I ever encountered."
"Excepting Mr. Lorimer."
"There isn't much choice between them."
"Did he give you a note for the three thousand dollars you lent him?"
"Yes, I have his note--but what is it worth?"
"Keep it and show it to Mr. Packard. He may be able to advise you how to
secure it."
"Do you know if Giles has been successful? Has he bettered himself in
Colorado?"
"I have reason to think that he is a rich man. He has been very kind to
me, who am a recent acquaintance, and I am sure he will not turn his
back upon his uncle."
This assurance brightened up the old man, who rapidly recovered his
cheerfulness, and looked forward to a meeting with the nephew whom he
had not seen for twenty years.
Rupert had telegraphed to Mr. Packard when he would reach Denver, and
received a return telegram directing him to go to the St. James Hotel.
Thither he repaired, taking his companion with him.
Mr. Plympton displayed some anxiety as they were approaching Denver.
"Perhaps my nephew will receive me coldly," he said. "If he does, there
will be nothing left me but destitution and the poorhouse."
"Don't be alarmed, Mr. Plympton," rejoined Rupert. "You have not seen
your nephew for twenty years. I have met him more recently, and I
probably know him better than you. Leave all in my hands. I will speak
to him about you."
They reached the St. James, and Rupert engaged rooms for both. On
examining the hotel register he found that Giles Packard had already
arrived. He had been in the hotel hardly half an hour when Mr. Packard
entered.
His face lighted up with pleasure when he saw Rupert.
"I am delighted to see you, Rupert," he said. "Somehow you seem very
near to me. I shall take you, after a day or two in Denver, to my cattle
ranch near Red Gulch, and I think I can promise you a good time and a
comfortable home for as long as you are willing to stay."
"Have you room for another, Mr. Packard? I have brought a companion with
me."
"Why, certainly. Any friend of yours shall have a cordial welcome."
"But he is nearer to you than to me."
Mr. Packard's face expressed surprise.
"I don't understand you."
"I found a relative of yours in Chicago. He was in hard luck, and I
thought you would be willing to help him. Here he is."
He led Giles Packard up to his uncle, who anxiously scanned the face of
his nephew.
"Don't you know me, Giles?" he asked, in a tremulous tone.
"Surely you are not my Uncle John?"
"The same. I hope you will forgive me for seeking you out."
"Don't speak like that, Uncle John. I have not forgotten that I am your
nephew."
"But, Giles, I come to you as a pauper."
"I have enough for us both. Did you save nothing, then, by your long
years of business?"
"I saved three thousand dollars."
Then he explained how he had been defrauded of it by Eben Jackson.
Giles Packard's face became stern.
"The scoundrel!" he exclaimed. "And after he got your money he had no
further use for you?"
"No, he turned me out to starve."
"You were very imprudent in trusting him with the money."
"So I was, but he promised, if I lent it to him, that he would give me a
position in his store."
"And he broke his promise?"
"No; he employed me for about two months, but in the end he would only
give me my board, and refused to let me have money enough to buy a suit
of clothes. Then I became indignant and left the house."
"Did you make an effort to recover the money?"
"Yes, but it was of no use. He refused to give it back."
"He must have given you a note?"
"Yes, I have his note."
"I will give you the money, and you will transfer the note to me. He
will find me a different customer to deal with."
"Keep the money yourself, Giles, and pay me interest on it. I shall not
be afraid to trust you."
"I will. If I treat you as Eben Jackson did, may I lose my property and
become a pauper."
"You are sure you can afford to do this, Giles? You have accumulated
some property?"
"Well," answered Giles, smiling, "I am not a millionaire, but I think
perhaps I might realize seventy-five thousand dollars if I should take
account of stock. I have been very successful in gathering property, but
I have had a great many lonely hours."
"Don't you need a bookkeeper?" asked the old man, eagerly.
"Yes, I can find you something to do in your own line, Uncle John. My
business isn't very complicated, but I find it necessary to keep some
accounts. I will give you a home and you shall want for nothing. Has
Eben Jackson got any children?"
"Yes, he has two, a boy and a girl. They are fourteen and eleven."
"What sort of children are they?"
"The boy is like his father. He never treated me with respect, but
looked upon me as a poor relation. The girl is of a better disposition."
"And they would be among my heirs. I will look them up some day, and
shape my will accordingly. Shall you be ready to go back with me on
Monday, Rupert?"
"I will be ready whenever you are, Mr. Packard."
CHAPTER XXX.
PACKARD'S HOME AT RED GULCH.
Mr. Packard's cattle ranch was located in one of the extensive parks for
which Colorado is noted. It included several square miles of territory.
The cattleman had erected a dwelling, covering a good deal of ground,
but only one story high. While it was comfortable, it was easy to see
that it was the home of a bachelor.
He had as housekeeper the widow of a herdsman, or perhaps I may say,
cowboy, who had died a year before. She cooked and took care of the
house.
"Well, Rupert," he said, "this is my home. Mrs. Jones, get ready two
rooms for my friends here. Uncle John, you are the oldest and shall have
the choice."
"Any room will do for me, Giles," said the old man modestly.
"You shall have as good a one as the house affords."
"You treat me differently from Eben Jackson. He gave me a small room in
the attic."
"And did his wife allow that?"
"She had very little to say. Her husband's will is law in that
household."
"I am sorry for her. She deserved a better fate. As a girl she was
good-hearted and had a cheerful disposition."
"She is greatly changed. I am afraid her husband has taught her to be
selfish. She seemed to have little more consideration for me than Eben."
Rupert found that Mr. Packard was a cattle owner on a large scale. He
had a great number of cowboys in his employ, over whom he exercised
supervision.
"Is all your property in cattle, Giles?" asked his uncle.
"No. I have mining interests. The money I have made in the cattle
business I have invested, at least partially, in mines and mining
claims. I don't believe in having all my eggs in one basket."
"You seem to have done well in coming out West."
"Yes, when I came out here I probably was not worth over two thousand
dollars all told. Now I am worth somewhere from seventy-five to one
hundred thousand."
"I should think you would marry."
Giles Packard shook his head.
"When a man reaches the age of forty-five unmarried," he said, "he had
better remain so. After that, marriage is a lottery."
Mr. Packard's guests found that he lived in a generous style. His
housekeeper was an excellent cook, and his table was well supplied. But
the days seemed long without employment. Rupert was supplied with a
saddle-horse, and rode far and wide with his host, but John Plympton had
reached an age when a man enjoys home comforts better than out-of-door
exercise.
"Giles," he said, on the third day, "I am tired of doing nothing.
Suppose you bring out your books and give me something to do."
"I will, Uncle John. When I was in Denver I bought some new books, and I
will commission you to transfer my accounts from the old ones. I never
was much of a bookkeeper, and I am not sure whether you can understand
my entries. However, you will be able to refer to me when you get
puzzled."
The old man felt quite happy when set to work in his old business. As
Mr. Packard's books covered a period of over fifteen years he found the
task by no means a short one, but this pleased him all the more.
"I like to feel that I am earning my living," he said.
"What do you think of me as a bookkeeper, Uncle John?"
"I think you would find it hard to obtain a position in any first-class
house," answered the old man, smiling.
"I have no doubt you are right. However, I never was ambitious to become
a bookkeeper. What salary were you accustomed to earn?"
"A hundred dollars a month."
"You couldn't get rich on that. I have done better than that. Every man
to his trade, as some wise man has said."
"Are you fond of hunting, Rupert?" asked Giles Packard one day.
"When I lived in the country I used to go gunning sometimes."
"We have some very good hunting here. I should like to go with you, but
at present my business will not permit. I think, however, that I can
find you a companion, if you would like to try it."
"I should," answered Rupert, promptly.
"There is a man who lives about three miles from me, in a small house
near the river. He is a shiftless sort of fellow, but he is a good
hunter. I will offer him pay to go with you, and his living during the
trip. You will find it pleasant to stay about a week. I suppose you
won't mind roughing it?'
"No, that is what I shall like."
"Then I shall send for Ben--his name is Ben Boone--and you can start
bright and early Monday morning."
CHAPTER XXXI.
BEN BOONE.
Ben Boone was a tall, loose-jointed man with a shambling gait, who
looked as if he wished to get through life as easily as possible. It
would be hard to find a man less ambitious. His movements were slow, and
he seemed the incarnation of laziness.
He was as slow in speech as in action. Yet he was a successful hunter
and had tramped about Colorado so much that no better guide could be
found.
"I heard you wanted to see me, Mr. Packard," he said, when he made his
appearance.
"Yes, I may have something for you to do. How are you getting on?"
"Not at all, squire. I'm a dreadfully unlucky man."
"So should I have been if I had been as lazy as you."
"What's the use of workin'? Things allus goes ag'inst me."
"I don't believe you would succeed under any circumstances. Do you know
what makes the difference between you and me?"
"I reckon you was born to be rich."
"I was not rich till I came to Colorado, but when I came here I went to
work."
Ben shrugged his shoulders.
"I've worked, too," he said, "but what's the good of it all?"
"Not much good in your case, I admit. However, I don't suppose you can
be made over again, and if you could I don't think I would undertake it.
There's one thing you do understand, and that's hunting. You've been
pretty much all over Colorado."
"Yes, squire."
"I have a young friend here who would like to spend a week among the
hills. He may not do much in the way of hunting, but he will carry a gun
with him. He would like to explore the country a little under your
guidance. I believe that is the only kind of work you are willing to
undertake."
"Yes," answered Ben, in a tone of satisfaction. "I don't mind that."
"Then I'll tell you what I will do. You will take my young friend with
you--his name is Rupert Rollins--and see that he has a good time."
"I'll do that, squire."
"I will furnish you with provisions sufficient to last you both a week,
and will give you three dollars a day for your trouble. If there are any
other expenses, Rupert will have money and will pay them. You won't need
to spend anything, so there is no reason why you shouldn't save all your
wages. How is your wife?"
"Oh, she's allus complainin'. She's had the fever'n ager last week."
"It is fortunate you have no children, for you don't seem to provide for
even your wife."
"That's because I ain't lucky."
"Luck doesn't often come in the way of a shiftless man like yourself.
Well, do you accept my offer?"
"Yes, squire. I'll be glad to do it."
"Send your wife here to-morrow morning. I will give her a part of your
wages, so that she will have enough to carry her through while you are
away."
"Give it to me, squire. I'll give it to her."
Giles Packard regarded him keenly.
"I can't trust you," he said. "If I give her the money I shall be sure
she gets it."
"How much are you goin' to give her?"
"Two days' pay--six dollars. When you return, if you are away seven days
there will be fifteen dollars for you."
Ben Boone grumbled some. He thought three dollars would be enough for
his wife, but Mr. Packard was obstinate. He understood Ben thoroughly
and had very little confidence in him.
"You may be surprised, Rupert, that I should send you with such a man,
but, shiftless and lazy as he is, he understands his business. He will
prove a good guide, and will make you acquainted with some of the
wonders of Colorado."
"I am quite satisfied, Mr. Packard."
"Uncle John, if you wish to join the party I am entirely willing, and
will pay your expenses also."
"No, Giles, I am getting too old for adventure. I have got to an age
when a man prefers the chimney corner to camping out. It will do very
well for Rupert, but I am about fifty years older than he is, and fifty
years make a great difference. He can tell me till about his trip when
he comes back."
"So I will, Mr. Plympton," said Rupert, with a smile.
Rupert looked forward to the journey with eager interest. He had always
been fond of out-of-door sports, and the hunting expedition seemed to
promise an experience entirely new to him. He little imagined what shape
a portion of this experience would take.
CHAPTER XXXII.
AN UNPLEASANT BEDFELLOW.
Rupert was provided with a hunter's outfit and a gun by his host, and in
company with his guide started out on Monday morning.
"I suppose you won't mind roughing it, Rupert?" said Mr. Packard.
"No, that is what I shall like. I remember when I lived in the country I
went with some other boys to a point fifteen miles away, and camped out
for a week. I wish I could see the boys now. There was Harry Bacon, and
George Parker, and Eugene Sweetland, and--but you won't be interested in
hearing about it."
"I am glad you have had some experience in that kind of life. Of course
you won't have the comforts of home, but you may meet with adventures.
At any rate, if you get tired you can start for home any time."
"Mr. Boone," said Rupert, when they were fairly on their way, "are you
related to Daniel Boone?"
"I don't think there was any Daniel in our family," answered Ben, in a
matter-of-fact tone. "Where did he live?"
"In Kentucky."
"I never was in Kentucky myself, though my wife has a cousin who lives
there somewhere."
"This Daniel Boone was a great hunter," explained Rupert, rather
surprised that Ben had not heard of him.
"Then he must be a relation to me. All my family were fond of hunting."
At the end of ten miles they struck a river, which was pleasant, as it
afforded them a change of travel. They had brought with them a skeleton
skiff, a sort of framework, with skins to cover it, and they were able
to launch it on the river. The stream was narrow, and bordered on one
side by mountain scenery. The channel seemed to be deep, and as the
skiff moved rapidly on, with comparatively slight exertion in the way of
rowing, Rupert felt that he was indeed in a wonderful land.
The country seemed very sparsely settled. Once in a great while they
caught sight of a rude cabin, which appeared to contain but one room.
"Have you ever been on those mountains, Mr. Boone?" asked Rupert.
"Well, I've never been to the top of any of the peaks. I reckon I've
been half-way up Pike's Peak (that's north of us) and Long's Peak. It's
dreadful hard climbing, and there don't seem to be any good in it when
you've done it. Did you want to climb up any of the mountains?"
"Well, I might like to some time, but perhaps I'd better wait till
another trip."
"I reckon you'd better."
It was clear that Mr. Boone had no desire to go mountain-climbing. He
was not fond of exertion; it was easier getting over level ground.
They kept to the river for as much as fifty miles. Occasionally they
landed, and made a little trip into the woods, but after a while they
returned again to the river. At night they slept on the ground, covering
themselves with blankets. They shot a few birds, but thus far they had
met with no large game.
One morning Rupert had a fright. It was about four o'clock, and the
light was indistinct. As he turned from one side to the other he was
startled by finding that he had a bedfellow. There, coiled at his side,
was a large rattlesnake, apparently asleep.
Rupert did not start up suddenly. He did not dare do so, for fear of
rousing his unpleasant neighbor, and perhaps receiving a bite. Rupert
was naturally a brave boy, but he turned very pale, and his heart came
up in his mouth.
With extreme caution he moved somewhat to the opposite side, and managed
to raise himself to his feet. He was not sure whether rattlesnakes had a
quick sense of hearing, and this made him unusually circumspect. He
wondered that the snake, which must have taken his position after he was
asleep, had not attacked him before.
"But I suppose he was not hungry," he reflected, and then he shuddered
as he thought that, had he slept two or three hours longer, the snake
might have waked up and felt ready for breakfast. In that case, he would
have been a ready victim.
However, he was on his feet and unhurt. Ben Boone lay ten feet away. He
was snoring loudly, so loudly that Rupert wondered he had not waked up
the rattlesnake, who could hardly be accustomed to sounds of that
nature.
He approached his companion, and, bending over, called out, "Mr. Boone,"
but Ben never moved. He was a sound sleeper.
Rupert shook him, first gently, afterwards more roughly, till at last he
opened his eyes, but seemed dazed and not quite conscious.
"Eh? Eh? What's the matter?" he ejaculated at length.
"Look there," said Rupert, pointing to the rattlesnake.
"Oh, yes, a rattlesnake," returned Ben, wholly without excitement.
"There's a good many of 'em in these parts."
"That one coiled himself up close to where I was lying."
"Yes, it's a way they have. Seems as if they liked company," answered
Ben, coolly.
"But--aren't they dangerous?"
"Well--they might be, if you interfered with 'em," drawled Boone. "As
long as you lay still and didn't meddle with 'em they'd be all right."
"But suppose in my sleep I'd thrown out my arm, as I sometimes do, and
hit the snake?"
"Then there'd be a chance of his biting you."
"And I suppose that would be fatal?"
"I've been bit myself," said Ben, in a reminiscent tone.
"And did you die?"
It was upon Rupert's lips to say this, but it occurred to him that it
would be rather an absurd question, so he changed it to, "How did you
get over it?"
"I filled myself full of whiskey--it's the only way. I was never so
drunk in my life. But when I got over it, I was all right."
"I suppose the whiskey neutralized the poison," suggested Rupert.
"I reckon so," answered Boone, who was not quite clear in his mind as
to the meaning of the word which Rupert had used. "What time is it?"
Rupert consulted his watch.
"It is fifteen minutes past four."
"That's too early to get up. I'll have another nap."
"I can't sleep. I shall be all the time thinking of the snake."
"He won't do you any harm."
"You are more used to such sights than I. Can't we kill the snake?"
"We might, but it's likely there's more not far away."
"I'll tell you what I'll do. I'll go into the boat and see if I can't
stretch myself out there."
"Just as you like," said Boone, drowsily.
He turned over, and in two minutes he was snoring as noisily as ever.
Rupert shared the repugnance that most persons have for snakes, and he
had read so much about rattlesnakes and the fatal effects of their bite
that he had an unusual dread of them. It would have been a relief if
this particular snake were killed.
How would it do for him to shoot it in the head, which he judged was the
most vulnerable part? Only, if he missed fire, and the snake were only
wounded, he would probably be roused to anger, and in that case would
become dangerous. Doubtless Ben could cope with him, but Rupert felt
that it would be imprudent in him, a mere boy, and unaccustomed to
hunting, to arouse such a dangerous antagonist.
So, giving up all thoughts of an encounter, he proceeded to the river,
and lay down as well as he could in the boat. It was not very
comfortable, but we felt relieved from all fear of the snake, and after
a while he fell asleep.
When he woke up he got out of the boat and went on shore. He looked at
the spot where the snake had been coiled, but could not see him. He had
evidently waked up and vacated the premises.
Rupert glanced over to where the guide was lying and saw that he was
still asleep. The fact that the rattlesnake was so near had not
interfered at all with his ease of mind or his slumbers.
Rupert looked at his watch. It was already seven o'clock, and that was
the hour when they generally got up.
"Seven o'clock, Mr. Boone!" he called out, giving Ben a shake.
"Oh! ah! is it?" and Ben stretched himself out in a sleepy way.
"Yes. Isn't it time to get up?"
Ben took the hint, and rose from his recumbent position.
"Didn't you wake me some time ago?" he asked. "What was it all about?"
"There was a rattlesnake lying beside me."
"Where is it now?"
"It's gone."
"Then there's no harm done."
Ben Boone was not only the guide, but the cook of the little party. They
had brought with them materials for camping-out meals, and it was his
work to make a fire and prepare their simple repasts. Sometimes they
caught a fish or two in the river, and it made a pleasant addition to
their fare.
Rupert found that in this new life he always had a good appetite for
breakfast--more, even, than for their other meals. He had never had so
good an appetite at the Somerset House, though the cook at that
establishment was probably superior to Ben Boone in his chosen line.
CHAPTER XXXIII.
BEN BOONE'S TEMPTATION.
The reader may naturally expect to hear something of Rupert's experience
as a hunter. But so far as this story is concerned, this is not called
for. He had other experiences which will speedily be set forth.
For, after all, it was not so much the hunting that Rupert cared about.
He thoroughly enjoyed his opportunity to travel through the wild scenery
of Middle Colorado. It was camping out in a much more interesting way
than when, as a boy, he went but a little way from home, and knew that
only a few miles intervened between him and his ordinary life.
Then he was interested in his guide. At the East he had never met such a
man as Ben Boone. He seemed a product of the country. As for Ben, he
carried out his contract, and served as a guide, philosopher and--I was
about to say friend, but on the whole we'll substitute companion.
Though Ben was a skillful hunter and mountaineer he did not particularly
enjoy his work. He was a thoroughly lazy man, and would prefer to have
remained at home in the rude cabin which passed for such, and, lying on
his back with a pipe in his mouth, have drowsed and dreamed away his
time. He did not understand, for his part, why city people who could
live comfortably should want to rough it, incurring the fatigue of
hunting just for the sake of amusement.
"I am tired," he said, on the night after Rupert's adventure with the
snake.
"Yes," said Rupert, "I am tired, too. We have come a good many miles."
"Do you like it?"
"Oh, yes," said Rupert enthusiastically; "it is grand."
"I don't see what good it is," rejoined Ben, lying back with a sense of
exquisite enjoyment in his chance to rest. "You are not making any
money."
"No," replied Rupert, laughing, "but I enjoy the wild mountain scenery;
don't you?"
"No; a mountain isn't much to see."
"Then there are the valleys, the woods and the waterfalls."
"Oh, I've seen plenty of them. I don't care for them."
"I suppose that is why you don't care for them. You are too familiar
with them."
"I reckon so," drawled Ben.
"Don't you enjoy seeing anything? Is there anything you would rather see
than this wild and romantic scenery?"
"Yes. I would rather see cities. Where do you live when you are at
home?"
"In New York."
"That is a wonderful city, isn't it?"
"Yes."
"I expect it is a great deal larger than Denver?"
"Yes; forty or fifty times as large."
At this time Denver probably had a population of less than thirty
thousand.
Ben Boone's eyes opened.
"And I suppose there are some grand buildings?" he said, inquiringly.
"Yes," and Rupert told his guide something about the great city, of the
horse-car lines, the elevated trains running thirty feet above the
ground, the big hotels, the Brooklyn bridge, and other marvels, to which
Ben Boone listened with rapt attention.
"I should like to see New York before I die," he said.
"Have you ever been there?"
"No."
"But you have probably seen other cities--St. Louis, or Chicago?"
"No; I have only seen Denver. Well, yes, I saw St. Louis when I was a
boy. It seemed a large city to me then, but I reckon New York is much
bigger."
"Yes, it is a great deal larger--several times as large as St. Louis was
when you saw it."
"Does it cost a great deal of money to go to New York?"
"I think one might go there for fifty dollars, ten less by second
class."
"Second class is good enough for me."
"Yes, you would be a good deal more comfortable traveling second class
than we are on our hunting trip."
"Then I should be satisfied. I ain't used to living first class."
"I should think you would like to go to New York. Is there any reason
why you should not go?"
"There's the money."
"But, as I told you, it doesn't cost a very large sum."
"Fifty dollars is a good deal to me. I never had so much money in my
life."
"Because you don't save up your money."
"I don't know how to save money," said Ben Boone in a listless manner.
"But you could. Now how much money is Mr. Packard paying you for going
with me?"
