the critics say it is commonplace and vulgar." 
Dear dreamer, it is a beautiful city, and for one 
reason and another a million of people who have 
homes there think so. But take out of it one 
person, and it would have for you no more in- 
terest than any other huge assembly of ugly 
houses. How, in a lover's eyes, the woman can 
transfigure a city, a landscape, a country ! 

Celia had come up to town for the spring ex- 
hibitions, and was lodging at the Woman's Club. 
Naturally Philip saw much of her, indeed gave 
her all his time that the office did not demand. 
Her company was always for him a keen delight, 
an excitement, and in its way a rest. For though 
she always criticised, she did not nag, and just 
because she made no demands, nor laid any 
claims on him, nor ever reproached him for want 
of devotion, her society was delightful and never 
dull. They dined together at the Woman's Club, 
they experimented on the theatres, they visited 
the galleries and the picture-shops, they took lit- 
tle excursions into the suburbs and came back 
impressed with the general cheapness and shab- 
biness, and they talked — talked about all they 
saw, all they had read, and something of what 
they thought. What was wanting to make this 
charming camaraderie perfect ? Only one thing. 




 

It may have occurred to Philip that Celia had 
not sufficient respect for his opinions; she re- 
garded them simply as opinions, not as his. 

One afternoon, in the Metropolitan Picture- 
Gallery, Philip had been expressing enthusiasm 
for some paintings that Celia thought more sen- 
timental than artistic, and this reminded her that 
he was getting into a general way of admiring 
everything. 

" You didn't use, Philip, to care so much for 
pictures." 

" Oh, Pve been seeing more." 

" But you don't say you like that ? Look at 
the drawing." 

" Well, it tells the story." 

" A story is nothing ; it's the way it's told. 
This is not well told." 

" It pleases me. Look at that girl." 

"Yes, she is domestic. I admit that. But 
I'm not sure I do not prefer an impressionistic 
girl, whom you can't half see, to such a thorough 
bread-and-butter miss as this." 

" Which would you rather live with ?" 

" I'm not obliged to live with either. In fact, 
I'd rather live with myself. If it's art, I want 
art ; if it's cooking and sewing, I want cooking 
and sewing. If the artist knew enough, he'd 
paint a woman instead of a cook." 

" Then you don't care for real life ?" 




 

" Keal life ! There is no such thing. Y"ou are 
demonstrating that. You transform this unin- 
teresting piece of domesticity into an ideal wom- 
an, ennobling her surroundings. She doesn't do 
it. She is level with them." 

" It would be a dreary world if we didn't 
idealize things." 

" So it would. And that is what I complain 
of in such ' art ' as this. I don't know what has 
got into you, Phil. I never saw you so exu- 
berant. You are pleased with everything. Have 
you had a rise in the office? Have you finished 
your novel?" 

" Neither. No rise. No novel. But Tweedle 
is getting friendly. Threw an extra job in my 
way the other day. Do you think I'd better 
offer my novel, when it is done, to Tweedle ?" 

" Tweedle, indeed !" 

" Well, one of our clients is one of the great 
publishing firms, and Tweedle often dines with 
the publisher." 

" For shame, Phil !" 

Philip laughed. "At any rate, that is no 
meaner than a suggestion of Brad's. He says if 
I will just weave into it a lot of line scenery, and 
set my people travelling on the great trunk, stop- 
ping off now and then at an attractive branch, 
the interested railroads would gladly print it and 
scatter it all over the country." 





^  

"No doubt," said Celia, sinking down upon a 
convenient seat. "I begin to feel as if there 
were no protection for anything. And, Phil, 
that great monster of a Mavick, who is eating up 
the country, isn't he a client also?" 

" Occasionally only. A man like Mavick has 
his own lawj'ers and judges." 

" Did you ever see him ?" 

"Just glimpses." 

" And that daughter of his, about whom such 
a fuss was made, I suppose you never met her ?" 

" Oh, as I wrote you, at the opera ; saw her in 
her box." 

"And—!" 

" Oh, she's rather a little thing ; rather dark, 
I told you that ; seems devoted to music." 

" And j^ou didn't tell what she wore." 

" Why, what they all wear. Something light 
and rather fluffy." 

" Just like a man. Is she pretty ?" 

"Ye-e-s; has that effect. You'd notice her 
eyes." If Philip had been frank he would have 
answered, " I don't know. She's simply ador- 
able," and Celia would have understood all 
about it. 

" And probably doesn't know anything. Yes, 
highly educated ? I heard that. But I'm get- 
ting tired of 'highly educated' ; I see so many of 
them. I've been making them now for years. 




 

Perhaps I'm one of them. And where am I ? 
Don't interrupt. I tell you it is a relief to come 
across a sweet, womanly ignoramus. "What 
church does she go to?" 

" Who ?" 

" That Mavick girl." 

" St. Thomas's, I believe." 

"That's good — that's devotional. I suppose 
you go there too, being brought up a Congrega- 
tionalist ?" 

" At vespers, sometimes. But, Celia, what is 
the matter with you ? I thought you didn't care 
— didn't care to belong to anything ?" 

" I ? I belong to everything. Didn't I write 
you reams about my studies in psychology ? I've 
come to one conclusion. There are only two per- 
sons in the world who stand on a solid founda- 
tion, the Roman Catholic and the Agnostic. The 
Roman Catholic knows everything, the Agnostic 
doesn't know anything." 

Philip was never certain when the girl was 
bantering him ; nor, when she was in earnest, 
how long she would remain in that mind and 
mood. So he ventured, humorously : 

" The truth is, Celia, that you know too much 
to be either. Tou are what they call emanci- 
pated." 

" Emancipated !" And Celia sat up energeti- 
cally, as if she were now really interested in 





r 
 

the conversation. " Become the slave of myself 
instead of the slave of somebody else ! That's 
the most hateful thing to be, emancipated. I 
never knew a woman who said she was emanci- 
pated who wasn't in some ridiculous folly or an- 
other. Now, Phil, I'm going to tell you some- 
thing. I can tell you. You know I've been 
striving to have a career, to get out of myself 
somehow, and have a career for myself. "Well, 
to-day — mind, I don't say to-morrow" — (and 
there was a queer little smile on her lips) — "I 
think I will just try to be good to people and 
things in general, in a human way." 

" And give up education ?" 

" No, no. I get my living by education, just 
as you do, or hope to do, by law or by letters ; 
it's all the same. But wait. I haven't finished 
what I was going to say. The more I go into 
psychology, trying to find out about my mind 
and mind generally, the more mysterious every- 
thing is. Do you know, Phil, that I am getting 
into the supernatural? You can't help running 
into it. For me, I am not side-tracked by any 
of the nonsense about magnetism and telepathy 
and mind-reading and other psychic impondera- 
bilities. Isn't it queer that the further we go 
into science the deeper we go into mystery ? 
Now, don't be shocked, I mean it reverently, just 
as an illustration. Do you think any one knows 




 

really anything more about the operation in the 
world of electricity than he does about the oper- 
ation of the Holy Ghost ? And yet people talk 
about science as if it were something they had 
made themselves." 

" But, Celia— " 

" ISTo, I've talked enough. We are in this world 
and not in some other, and I have to make my 
living. Let's go into the other room and see the 
old masters. They, at least, knew how to paint 
— to paint passion and character ; some of them 
could paint soul. And then, Phil, I shall be 
hungry. Talking about the mind always makes 
me hungry." 



CHAPTER XI 

Philip was always welcome at his uncle's house 
in Eivervale. It was, of course, his home during 
his college life, and since then he was always ex- 
pected for his yearly holiday. The women of the 
house made much of him, waited on him, deferred 
to him, petted him, with a flattering mingling of 
tenderness to a little boy and the respect due to 
a man who had gone into the world. Even Mr. 
Maitland condescended to a sort of equality in 
engaging Philip in conversation about the state 
of the country and the prospects of business in 
New York. 

It was July. When Philip went to sleep at 
night — he was in the front chamber reserved for 
guests — the loud murmur of the Deerfield was in 
his ears, like a current bearing him away into 
sweet sleep and dreams in a land of pleasant ad- 
ventures. Only in youth come such dreams. 
Later on the sophisticated mind, left to its own 
guidance in the night, wanders amid the com- 
plexities of life, calling up in confusion scenes 
long forgotten or repented of, images only regis- 




 

tered by a sub-conscious process, dreams to per- 
plex, irritate, and excite. 

In the morning the same continuous murmur 
seemed to awake him into a peaceful world. 
Through the open window came in the scents 
of summer, the freshness of a new day. How 
sweet and light was the air ! It was indeed the 
height of summer. The coi'n, not yet tasselled, 
stood in green flexible ranks, moved by the early 
breeze. In the river-meadows haying had just 
begun. Fields of timothy and clover, yellowing 
to ripeness, took on a fresh bloom from the dew, 
and there was an odor of new-mown grass from 
the sections where the scythes had been. He 
heard the call of the crow from the hill, the mel- 
ody of the bobolink along the meadow-brook ; 
indeed, the birds of all sorts were astir, skimming 
along the ground or rising to the sky, keeping 
watch especially over the garden and the fruit- 
trees, carrying food to their nests, or teaching 
their young broods to fly and to chirp the songs 
of summer. And from the wood-shed the shrill 
note of the scythe under the action of the grind- 
stone. No such vivid realization of summer as 
that. 

Philip stole out the unused front door without 

disturbing the family. Whither? Where would 

a boy be likely to go the first thing? To the 

barn, the great cavernous barn, its huge doors 





 

now wide open, the stalls vacant, the mows 
empty, the sunlight sifting in through the high 
shadowy spaces. How much his life had been 
in that barn ! How he had stifled and scrambled 
mowing hay in those lofts ! On the floor he had 
hulled heaps of corn, thrashed oats with a flail — 
a noble occupation — and many a rainy day had 
played there with girls and boys who could not 
now exactly describe the games or well recall 
what exciting fun they were. There were the 
racks where he put the fodder for cattle and 
horses, and there was the cutting-machine for 
the hay and straw and for slicing the frozen tur- 
nips on cold winter mornings. 

In the barn-yard were the hens, just as usual, 
walking with measured step, scratching and pick- 
ing in the muck, darting suddenly to one side 
with an elevated wing, clucking, chattering, jab- 
bering endlessly about nothing. They did not 
seem to mind him as he stood in the open door. 
But the rooster, in his oriental iridescent plu- 
mage, jumped upon a fence-post and crowed de- 
fiantly, in warning that this was his preserve. 
They seemed like the same hens, yet Philip knew 
they were all strangers ; all the hens and flaunt- 
ing roosters he knew had long ago gone to 
Thanksgiving. The hen is, or should be, an 
annual. It is never made a pet. It forms no 
attachments. Man is no better acquainted with 




 

tlie hen, as a being, than he was when the first 
chicken was hatched. Its business is to live a 
brief chicken life, lay, and be eaten. And this 
reminded Philip that his real occupation was 
hunting hens' eggs. And this he did, in the 
mows, in the stalls, under the floor -planks, in 
every hidden nook. The hen's instinct is to be 
orderly, and have a secluded nest of her own, and 
bring up a family. But in such a communistic 
body it is a wise hen who knows her own chicken. 
Nobody denies to the hen maternal instincts or 
domestic proclivities, but what an ill example is 
a hen community! 

And then Philip climbed up the hill, through 
the old grass-plot and the orchard, to the rocks 
and the forest edge, and the great view. It had 
more meaning to him than when he was a boy, 
and it was more beautiful. In a certain peace- 
ful charm, he had seen nothing anywhere in the 
world like it. Partly this was because his boyish 
impressions, the first fresh impressions of the 
visible world, came back to him ; but surely it 
was very beautiful. More experienced travellers 
than Philip felt its unique charm. 

When he descended, Alice was waiting to 
breakfast with him. Mrs. Maitland declared, 
with an approving smile on her placid, aging 
face, that he was the same good-for-nothing boy. 
But Alice said, as she sat down to the little table 




 

with Philip, " It is different, mother, with us 
city folks." They were in the middle room, and 
the windows opened to the west upon the river- 
meadows and the wooded hills beyond, and 
through one a tall rose-bush was trying to thrust 
its fragrant bloom. 

What a dainty breakfast ! Alice flushed with 
pleasure. It was so good of him to come to 
them. Had he slept well ? Did it seem like 
home at all? Philip's face showed that it was 
home without the need of saying so. Such cof- 
fee — yes, a real aroma of the berr^' ! Just a little 
more, would he have ? And as Alice raised the 
silver pitcher, there was a deep dimple in her 
sweet cheek. How happy she was ! And then 
the butter, so fresh and cool, and the delicious 
eggs — by the way, he had left a hatful in the 
kitchen as he came in. Alice explained that she 
did not make the eggs. And then there was the 
journey, the heat in the city, the grateful sight 
of the Deerfield, the splendid morning, the old 
barn, the watering -trough, the view from the 
hill — everything just as it used to be. 

"Dear Phil, it is so nice to have you here," 
and there were tears in Alice's eyes, she was so 
happy. 

After breakfast Philip strolled down the coun- 
try road through the village. How familiar was 
every step of the way ! — the old houses jutting 




 

out at the turns in the road ; the glimpse of the 
river beyond the little meadow where Captain 
Eice was killed ; the spring under the ledge over 
which the snap-dragon grew ; the dilapidated 
ranks of fence smothered in vines and fire- weeds ; 
the cottages, with flower-pots in front ; the stores, 
with low verandas ornamented with boxes and 
barrels ; the academy in its green on the hill ; the 
old bridge over which the circus elephant dared 
not walk ; the new and the old churches, with 
rival steeples ; and, not familiar, the new inn. 

And he knew everybody, young and old, at 
doorways, in the fields or gardens, and had for 
every one a hail and a greeting. How he enjoyed 
it all, and his self-consciousness added to his pleas- 
ure, as he swung along in his well-fitting city 
clothes, broad-shouldered and erect — it is aston- 
ishing how much a tailor can do for a man who 
responds to his efforts. It is a pleasure to come 
across such a hero as this in real life, and not 
have to invent him, as the saying is, out of the 
whole cloth. Philip enjoyed the world, and he 
enjoyed himself, because it was not quite his old 
self, the farmer's boy going on an errand. There 
must be knowledge all along the street that he 
was in the great law office of Hunt, Sharp & 
Tweedle. And, besides, Philip's name must be 
known to all the readers of magazines in the 
town as a writer, a name in more than one list 
I 



 

of " contributors." That was fame. Translated, 
however, into country comprehension it was 
something like this, if he could have heard the 
comments after he had passed by : 

" Yes, that's Phil Burnett, sure enough; but I'd 
hardly know him ; spruced up mightily. I won- 
der what he's at ?" 

" I heard he was down in 'New York trying to 
law it. I heard he's been writin' some for news- 
papers. Accordin' to his looks, must pay a durn 
sight better'n farmin'." 

" "Well, I always said that boy wa'n't no skee- 
zics." 

Almost the first question Philip asked Alice 
on his return was about the new inn, the Pea- 
cock Inn. 

" There seemed a good deal of stir about it as 
I passed." 

" "Why, I forgot to tell you about it. It's the 
great excitement. Eivervale is getting known. 
The Mavicks are there. I hear they've taken 
pretty much the whole of it." 

"The Mavicks?" 

" Yes, the New York Mavicks, that you wrote 
us about, that were in the paper." 

" How long have they been there ?" 

"A week. There is Mrs. Mavick and her 
daughter, and the governess, and two maids, and 
a young fellow in uniform — yes, livery — and a 




 

coachman in the same, and a stableful of horses 
and carriages. It upset the village like a circus. 
And they say there's a French clief in white cap 
and apron, who comes to the side-door and jab- 
bers to the small boys like fireworks." 
" How did it come about ?" 
" Naturally, I guess; a city family wanting a 
quiet place for summer in the country. But you 
will laugh. Patience first discovered it. One 
day, sitting at the window, she saw a two-horse 
buggy driven by the landlord of the Peacock, 
and a gentleman by his side. 'Well, I wonder 
who that is — city man certainly. And wherever 
is he going ? May be a railroad man. But there 
is nothing the matter with the railroad. Shouldn't 
wonder if he is going to see the tunnel. If it 
was just that, the landlord wouldn't drive him ; 
he'd send a man. And they keep stopping and 
pointing and looking round. No, it isn't the rail- 
road, it's scenery. And what can a man like that 
want with scenery ? He does look like a railroad 
man. It may be tunnel, but it isn't all tun- 
nel.' When the team came back in the after- 
noon, Patience was again at the window ; she 
had heard meantime from Jabez that a city man 
was stopping at the Peacock. ' There he goes, 
and looking round more than ever. They've 
stopped by the bridge and the landlord is point- 
ing out. It's not tunnel, it's scenery. I tell you, 




 

he is a city boarder. Not that he cares about 
scenery ; it's for his family. City families are al- 
ways trying to find a grand new place, and he 
has heard of Eivervale and the Peacock Inn. 
Maybe the tunnel had something to do with it.' " 

" Why, it's like second sight." 

" No, Patience says it's just judgment. And 
she generally hits it. At any rate, the family is 
here." 

The explanation of their being there — it 
seemed to Philip providential — was very simple. 
Mr. Mavick had plans about the Hoosac Tunnel 
that required him to look at it. Mrs. Mavick 
took advantage of this to commission him to 
look at a little inn in a retired village of which 
she had heard, and to report on scenery and cli- 
mate. "Warm days and cool nights and simplic- 
ity Avas her idea. Mavick reported that the 
place seemed made for the family. 

Evelyn was not yet out, but she was very 
nearly out, and after the late notoriety Mrs. Ma- 
vick dreaded the regular Newport season. And, 
in the mood of the moment, she was tired of 
the Newport palace. She always said that she 
liked simplicity — a common failing among peo- 
ple who are not compelled to observe it. Per- 
haps she thought she was really fond of rural 
life and country ways. As she herself said, " If 
you have a summer cottage at Newport or 




 

Lenox, it is necessary to go off somewhere and 
rest." And then it would be good for Evelyn to 
live out-of-doors and see the real country, and, as 
for herself, as she looked in the mirror, " I shall 
drink milk and go to bed early. Henderson used 
to say that a month in New Hampshire made 
another woman of me." 

Oh, to find a spot where we could be undis- 
turbed, alone and unknown. That was the pro- 
gramme. But Carmen simply could not be any- 
where content if she were unnoticed. It was not 
so easy to give up daily luxury, and habits of ease 
at the expense of attendants, or the ostentation 
which had become a second nature. Therefore the 
" establishment" went along with her to River- 
vale, and the shy, modest little woman, who had 
dropped down into the country simplicity that she 
so dearly loved, greatly enjoyed the sensation that 
her coming produced. It needed no effort on 
her part to produce the sensation. The carriage, 
and coachman and footman in livery, would have 
been sufficient ; and then the idea of one family 
being rich enough to take the whole hotel ! The 
liveries, the foreign cook in his queer cap and 
apron, and all the goings-on at the Peacock 
were the inexhaustible topic of talk in every 
farm-house for ten miles around. Kivervale 
was a self-respecting town, and principled 
against luxury and self-indulgence, and judged 




 

with a just and severe judgment the world of 
fashion and of the grasping, wicked millionaires. 
And now this world with all its vain show had 
plumped down in the midst of them. Those who 
had travelled and seen the ostentation of cities 
smiled a superior smile at the curiosity and won- 
der exhibited, but even those who had never seen 
the like were cautious about letting their surprise 
appear. Especially in the presence of fashion 
and wealth would the independent American 
citizen straighten his back-bone, reassuring him- 
self that he was as good as anybody. To be sure, 
people flew to windows when the elegant equi- 
page dashed by, and everybody found frequent 
occasion to drive or walk past the Peacock Inn. 
It was only the novelty of it, in a place that 
rather lacked novelties. 

And yet there prevailed in the community a 
vague sense that millions were there, and a curi- 
ous expectation of some individual benefit from 
them. All the young berry -pickers were un- 
usually active, and poured berries into the kitch- 
en door of the inn. There was not a housewife 
who was not a little more anxious about the prod- 
uct of her churning ; not a farmer who did not 
think that perhaps cord-wood would rise, that 
there would be a better demand for garden 
" sass," and more market for chickens, and who 
did not regard with more interest his promising 




 

colt. When he drove to the village his rig was 
less shabby and slovenly in appearance. The 
young fellows who prided themselves upon a 
neat buggy and a fast horse made their turn- 
outs shine, and dashed past the inn with a self- 
conscious air. Even the stores began to " slick 
up" and arrange their miscellaneous notions 
more attractively, and one of them boldly put in 
a window a placard, "Latest New York Style." 
When the family went to the Congregational 
church on Sunday not the slightest notice was 
taken of them — though ever}'^ woman could have 
told to the last detail what the ladies wore — but 
some of the worshippers were for the first time a 
little nervous about the performance of the choir, 
and the deacons heard the sermon chiefly with 
reference to what a city visitor would think of it. 
Mrs. Mavick was quite equal to the situation. 
