Philip laughed heartily at the idea.
"Why, he's only a boy!" he rejoined.
"Philip," said Mark with a warning finger, "you must treat me with
proper respect."
"Shall I call you father?"
"No; perhaps it will be more suitable to call me brother Mark. Did you
stop over in Nevada, Mr. Dempsey?"
"Yes; I went to the mine."
"What did you learn?"
"That a New York syndicate is trying to purchase the mine, and this has
carried up the price of stock to two hundred and fifty dollars."
Mark's eyes sparkled.
"Why that would make mother's share worth fifty thousand dollars," he
said.
"I advise you to take measures to secure your mother's rights as soon
as you reach home. There is danger in delay."
"I certainly will follow your advice, Mr. Dempsey. Shall you hold on to
your shares?"
"No. I think I will sell out. I have an offer from a man in Virginia
City which I think I shall accept. The stock may go higher, but again it
may go lower. My shares will bring twenty-five thousand dollars, and
that will make a man like me rich."
"I wish I had control of mother's stock now," said Mark. "I could
realize a price which would make her comfortable for life."
The sudden rise in the value of the Golden Hope shares was already known
in New York. Mr. Talbot on receiving the intelligence called on his
brokers, Crane & Lawton.
"Would you advise me to sell now, Mr. Crane?" he asked.
"Wait a week, Mr. Talbot, and you may realize a few more points. Then
you had better unload."
"I will be guided by your advice. I am sure it is for the best."
There was still, however, a feeling of uneasiness in the mind of Mr.
Talbot, who knew very well that Mrs. Mason was the rightful owner of
half the stock which he controlled. He decided to call on his sister
in-law once more, and urge her to sign a paper releasing him from
further liability as executor of her father's estate.
"I wonder whether Mark has got back," he said to himself. "If not,
probably Ellen is very short of money. I will offer, if necessary, five
hundred dollars for her signature. I don't think she can resist that."
Mrs. Mason had just finished washing her breakfast dishes when there was
a knock at the door. Opening it, she saw the familiar face of Tom
Trotter, dressed in the uniform of a Western Uniform telegraph boy.
"What, Tom!" she exclaimed in surprise. "Have you changed your
business?"
"Yes, Mrs. Mason," answered Tom complacently. "I've give up blackin'
boots, and now I'm a messenger boy like Mark."
"You look very nice in your uniform, Tom. There's another improvement I
see."
"What is that, Mrs. Mason?"
"Your hands and face are both clean."
"I've got to keep clean now," said Tom soberly. "It seems kind of
strange, but I guess I'll get used do it. When I look in the glass I
don't hardly know myself."
"Don't you like it better?"
"Well, I guess I shall when I get used to it. But I forgot, I've got a
message for you," and Tom drew out an official envelope.
"It must be from Mark," said Mrs. Mason in excitement, and she tore open
the dispatch and read as follows:
       *       *       *       *       *
OMAHA, Sept. 17.
Shall be home on Friday. MARK.
       *       *       *       *       *
"Mark will be home on Friday, Tom!" said the happy mother. "How glad I
shall be!"
"Hurray!" exclaimed Tom. "That's good news."
"Come round and take dinner with us Sunday, Tom. We'll have a little
feast in honor of Mark's return."
"I'll see, Mrs. Mason. I was engaged to take dinner with Jay Gould, but
I'll telegraph him I can't come."
"I am afraid we can't give you as good a dinner as Jay Gould."
"You'll have Mark here and that's better than the best dinner Jay can
give me. Shall I wear my swallow tail?"
"No; your uniform will do."
Tom Trotter had hardly gone out when there was another knock at the
door. On opening it Mrs. Mason was somewhat surprised to see her
brother-in-law. Solon Talbot's manner was very gracious and
patronizing.
"I hope you are well, Ellen," he said extending his hand.
"Thank you, I am quite well," replied Mrs. Mason.
"And Edith too?"
Mr. Talbot seldom took any notice of Edith, but he had an object to gain
now.
"Yes, Edith is well. She has just gone to school."
"I think I heard that Mark was absent from the city."
"Yes, he is away."
"He has been gone some time?"
"Yes."
"I should think you would miss him."
"So I do. I miss him constantly."
"You must find it hard to get along without him--financially I mean."
"He left some money behind. I am not in want."
"Ellen, I am really sorry to see you living in such a poor way. These
humble rooms are not suitable for you."
Mrs. Mason was rather astonished to hear these words from her
brother-in-law. She did not understand that he was preparing the way for
another offer.
"It would certainly be pleasant for me to live better," she said. "I
hope to when Mark gets older."
"You had better not count too much upon that. An office boy's wages
seldom amount to much. How much does he earn?"
"He averaged about five dollars a week as a telegraph messenger."
"So I supposed. He may get a dollar or two more in a year or two--but
what is that?"
"It isn't much," Mrs. Mason admitted.
"I was talking the matter over with Mary the other day, and it is
largely on her account that I came here this morning to make a proposal
to you."
"Now it's coming!" thought Mrs. Mason. "Well?" she said.
"And I have made up my mind to offer you five hundred dollars."
"That is very kind," said Mrs. Mason demurely.
"On condition that you sign this paper releasing me from all
responsibility as executor of your father's estate."
"This seems important to you, Solon," said Mrs. Mason keenly.
"It is a matter of form. I shall present it at the probate court. But it
gives me an excuse for offering you a generous gift."
"I will think it over, Solon."
"Think it over? What thinking over do you need? I am not sure that I can
give you time for that, as the gift is entirely voluntary on my part. I
have brought the money with me, and in five minutes you can be a
comparatively rich woman."
"I have just had a telegram from Mark saying that he will be home on
Friday. I will wait till he comes. If you will come round Saturday----"
"I can't promise," said Talbot, deeply disappointed. "You stand very
much in your own light."
"I can make no other answer, Solon."
"Confound that young meddler, Mark!" muttered Talbot as he left the
house. "But for him I should have no difficulty in obtaining his
mother's signature."
CHAPTER XXXV.
EDGAR GETS INTO TROUBLE.
WHILE Solon Talbot was intent upon making money, his son Edgar was left
to spend his time pretty much as he pleased. His father had secured him
a place with a firm of brokers in Wall Street, in fact in the office of
Crane & Lawton, through whom he intended to dispose of his mining
stocks.
Edgar received five dollars a week, and this his father allowed him to
keep for himself. But five dollars a week in a city like New York won't
go very far when a boy gives up his evenings to playing pool.
One night Edgar made the acquaintance of a showy young man whom he
ignorantly supposed belonged to a prominent New York family. It was in
fact our old acquaintance, Hamilton Schuyler, with whom Mark had already
had some experiences which did not impress him very much in the young
man's favor.
Schuyler's attention was drawn to Edgar at a pool-room in the
neighborhood of Forty-Second Street, and he made inquiries about him.
Ascertaining that Edgar's father was supposed to be rich he cultivated
his acquaintance, and flattered him artfully.
"You play a good game of billiards, Mr. Talbot," he said.
"Oh, fair," answered Edgar complacently.
"Do you mind having a game with me?"
"You probably play a good deal better than I do."
"We can try and see. By the way, let me introduce myself," and he handed
Edgar his card.
"Schuyler Hamilton!" read Edgar, "that is an old name, is it not?"
"Yes," answered Schuyler carelessly. "I am related to most of the old
Knickerbocker families. I am very particular whom I associate with, but
I saw at once that you were a gentleman."
Foolish Edgar was very much flattered.
"My father is a capitalist," he said. "We used to live in Syracuse, but
he thinks he can make more money in New York."
"Just so. There are plenty of chances of making money here. I made five
thousand dollars in Wall Street last week myself."
"You did!" exclaimed Edgar dazzled.
"Yes. Sometimes I have made more. I don't often lose. Which ball will
you select. The spot?"
"Yes."
"I suppose it takes considerable money to speculate in Wall Street?"
"Oh no, not on a margin."
"I should like to make a strike myself. I am in the office of Crane &
Lawton."
"Are you indeed? I never did any business with them, but I understand
that they stand very high."
"I think they are rich."
The game was played, and resulted in the success of Edgar.
"Really, you play a strong game. Suppose--just for the excitement of
it--we stake a dollar on the next game. What do you say?"
"All right!"
Edgar had received his week's pay in the afternoon, and was well
provided. He flattered himself he could play better than Schuyler, and
thought it would be very agreeable to win money in that way. Schuyler
managed to let him win.
"Really," he said with pretended annoyance, "I am afraid you are more
than a match for me."
"Perhaps I was lucky," said Edgar, elated.
"At any rate I will try again. Let us call it two dollars."
"Very well," assented Edgar.
Somehow this game was won by his opponent by five points. Edgar was
annoyed, for this took a dollar from his pocket, and it had been
arranged that the loser should pay for the use of the tables.
It was an accident, however, and he kept on. At the close of the evening
he was without a cent.
"I have been unlucky," he said, trying to hide his mortification. "I
have lost all the money I had with me."
"That is too bad. Here, give me a memorandum for two dollars, and I will
hand you back that amount. Some time when you are in funds you can pay
me."
"Thank you!" said Edgar in a tone of relief.
"You are really a better player than I am," went on Schuyler, "but the
balls happened to run in my favor. Another evening I shall be the
loser."
This was the first of Edgar's acquaintance with Schuyler Hamilton, but
it was by no means the last. They got into the way of meeting nearly
every night and Edgar ran more and more into Schuyler's debt. However,
Hamilton was very easy with him. He accepted memorandums of
indebtedness, which somehow seemed a very easy way of paying debts.
Edgar did not reflect that a day of reckoning must come at last.
At last Hamilton Schuyler thought it time to bring matters to a crisis.
"Do you know how much you are owing me, Edgar?" he said one evening.
"No," answered Edgar uneasily.
"Seventy-five dollars!"
"It can't be!" exclaimed Edgar, incredulous.
"These things increase faster than you think for," said Schuyler
carelessly.
"I suppose you'll let it run," remarked Edgar with a troubled look.
"I should be glad to do so, my dear boy, but I need the money. I was hit
rather hard at the races yesterday, and the long and short of it is,
that you will have to pay me."
"I can't pay you," said Edgar doggedly.
Schuyler frowned.
"What do you mean by that?" he demanded sternly.
"I mean exactly what I say. I haven't got any money. I only get five
dollars a week, and I can't spare any of that."
"You've got to get the money. You had no business to bet if you couldn't
pay."
"I never did bet till I got acquainted with you."
"Enough of this, boy!" said Hamilton, waving his hand in a dignified
manner. "I shall have to lay the matter before your father."
"No, don't do that! He wouldn't let me keep my wages."
"That is your affair, not mine. Can't you tell him you want to pay a
tailor's bill, and get the money that way?"
"No; I get my clothes charged at his tailor's."
"Oh, well, I don't care how you get it as long as you do get it. Doesn't
your father leave any money lying about in his desk or in his bureau
drawers?"
"No. Besides, you don't want me to steal, do you?"
"Not if you can get the money any other way."
"Look here, Mr. Schuyler, I thought you were rich. How do you happen to
be in want of seventy-five dollars?"
"Anybody might be short of money. One day when I was traveling in the
Adirondacks, I met a rich man--a millionaire--who was in trouble. 'I
say, Schuyler,' he said to me, 'can you loan me a hundred dollars. I
give you my word I am almost penniless, and no one knows me here.' Now I
happened to have three hundred dollars in my pocketbook, and I at once
produced it and lent him the money. You see even a millionaire can get
into a money scrape."
"Who was the millionaire?" asked Edgar, who was not quite so credulous
a believer of Schuyler's pictures as formerly.
"I don't feel at liberty to tell. It would not be honorable. But to come
back to our own business! You must make some arrangement to pay me."
"Tell me how," said Edgar sulkily.
"Don't you deposit for your firm in the Park Bank?"
"Yes."
"Always checks?"
"Sometimes there are bank bills."
Schuyler bent over and whispered in Edgar's ear. Edgar flushed and then
looked nervous and agitated.
"You ask me to do that," he said.
"Yes, there is no danger. Say you lost the bills in the street."
Edgar was not a conscientious boy or a boy of high principle, but this
suggestion shocked him.
"Would you ruin me?" he asked.
"I would have you pay me what you owe me. If you don't there will be a
fuss."
"I wish I had never met you, Mr. Schuyler," said poor Edgar bitterly.
"I have been disappointed in you," said Schuyler coldly. "I thought you
were the son of a gentleman and a gentleman yourself."
"Who says I am not?"
"I don't. I expect you to behave like one. Good night."
This interview took place on Fifth Avenue not far from Delmonico's café.
When the two parted another boy, who had been following at a little
distance, moved rapidly forward and placed his hand on Edgar's shoulder.
"Cousin Edgar," he said.
Edgar turned.
"Mark!" he said, not with his old hauteur, for trouble had humbled his
pride.
"Yes. Who was that you were walking with?" asked Mark.
"No one you know. He is Mr. Schuyler, from one of the best New York
families."
Mark smiled.
"I hope you have no business with him," he said.
"I owe him seventy-five dollars, and I don't know how on earth I am
going to pay him."
"What do you owe him that for?"
"For bets on games of billiards."
"This Hamilton Schuyler, as he calls himself, is an adventurer, a
swindler, and a thief. His family is not as good as yours or mine."
"Is this true?" asked Edgar stupefied.
"Yes. Don't trouble yourself about what you owe him. Appoint a meeting
for him to-morrow evening at the Fifth Avenue Hotel. I will go there and
meet him with you. I'll get you out of your scrape."
"Do that, Mark, and I'll be your friend for life. I'll never treat you
meanly again."
CHAPTER XXXVI.
AT THE FIFTH AVENUE HOTEL.
ON arriving in New York Mark took his young charge at once to the house
of Mr. Gilbert.
It was at the close of the day, and Mr. Gilbert had returned from his
office. He received Mark with great cordiality.
"True and faithful, as I expected!" he said. "How did you enjoy your
trip?"
"Very much, sir. I hope, some day, to visit California again."
"So you are Philip Lillis, my boy," continued Mr. Gilbert kindly. "Do
you think you shall like to live in New York?"
"Yes, sir."
"Were you sorry to leave California?"
"No, sir; Mr. Sprague and Oscar did not treat me well. I would rather
live with you."
"Your father was a cousin and dear friend. I will try to make his boy
comfortable and happy. Mark, will you stay to supper?"
"I should like to very much, but I have not yet seen my mother."
"That is sufficient excuse. Your first duty is to her. Wait a moment. I
must express my acknowledgments to you in a substantial manner."
Mr. Gilbert sat down at his desk and wrote a check, which he inclosed in
an envelope.
"Open it when you get home," he said.
"I have a balance of about forty dollars belonging to you, Mr. Gilbert,
from my expense money."
"Keep it. I am sure it will be more useful to you than to me."
"How kind you are, Mr. Gilbert!"
"I hope to continue so. Take a few days for rest, and then come round to
my counting-room and we will talk of your future prospects."
Mrs. Mason gave Mark a glad welcome.
"I am so glad to see you," she said.
"I hope you did not want for money while I was gone."
"No; I still have half the money you gave me from Mr. Gilbert when you
went away. Shall I give it back to you?"
"No, mother; keep it for current expenses. Mr. Gilbert gave me a check
just now, but I don't know how much it is."
He opened the envelope and took out the check.
"It is for two hundred dollars!" he exclaimed. "Mother, we are growing
rich. With the balance in my hands, which Mr. Gilbert told me to keep, I
have two hundred and forty dollars."
"We have much to be thankful for, Mark. Compare our present state with
three months since. Shall you go back to the telegraph office?"
"No; Mr. Gilbert will probably give me a place in his counting-room, but
I shall wait a few days first. Is there any news?"
"Your uncle has been to see me again. He offered me five hundred dollars
if I would sign a release to him as executor."
"You didn't do it?"
"No."
"I am glad. Mother, Uncle Solon is trying to swindle us out of a large
sum. I heard about the Golden Hope mine when I was away. The shares are
booming, and I shall to-morrow call on my friend the lawyer and request
him to communicate with Mr. Talbot."
"I leave the matter in your hands, Mark. Though you are so young, you
seem to have a judgment beyond your years."
"Thank you for the compliment, mother. I am afraid Uncle Solon would not
agree with you. That reminds me. I have an engagement with Edgar
to-morrow evening."
"Indeed! I thought you and Edgar were not friendly."
"He has got into a scrape, and I have promised to help him out."
"Is it anything serious?"
"He owes an adventurer seventy-five dollars, and the latter is trying to
frighten him into paying it. I know the man to be a swindler, and shall
be able to foil him in his plans."
"If you can be of service to Edgar I hope you will. He has not treated
you well, but he is your cousin."
The next evening Edgar Talbot walked into the Fifth Avenue Hotel. He
felt nervous, for he did not understand how Mark could help him. It
seemed strange to him that he should be indebted to his poor and almost
despised cousin for help in his time of trouble.
A minute after Mark entered looking cheerful and happy.
"Good evening, Edgar," he said. "Has our friend Schuyler appeared?"
"Not yet."
"I don't want him to see me at first. I will go into the reading room,
and when you get ready invite him in there. First, draw him out and see
what he proposes to do."
Mark's confident manner somewhat allayed Edgar's alarm. He was proud and
arrogant, but he had little courage.
He sat down on the sofa at the left hand side of the entrance and in
about five minutes Hamilton Schuyler swaggered in. He was carefully
dressed and had a rose in his buttonhole.
"I am going to the opera this evening with a fashionable party," he
said, "and I shall have to hurry up my business with you."
"I am here on time," said Edgar.
"I see. Well, I suppose you have brought the money with you."
"You mean the seventy-five dollars?"
"Of course I do."
"No, Mr. Schuyler, I have not brought the money."
"And why not, I should like to know?" demanded Schuyler with a dark
frown.
"Because I have no means of getting it."
"That isn't my lookout. It is yours. That money I must and will have."
Edgar had been told by Mark what to say, and he replied, "Then, I think,
Mr. Schuyler, you will have to sue me."
"Nonsense! I shall adopt quite a different course."
"What is that?"
"I will lay the matter before your father."
Edgar winced, but he was prepared with a reply.
"I don't think it will do you any good. Father won't pay such a bill as
that."
"At any rate it will get you into trouble with him."
"Yes it might," said Edgar nervously.
Schuyler saw his advantage. He must play upon the fears of his young
dupe.
"Come, Edgar," he said, "suppose we talk over this matter sensibly. You
are indebted to me in the sum of seventy-five dollars."
"I never got any value for it."
"It is the result of several fair and honest bets which you lost. As a
boy of honor, you must pay me."
"I have told you that I don't know where to get the money."
"And I suggested a plan."
"You suggested that I should appropriate some of the money I was given
by my employer to deposit in the Park Bank."
"Hush!" said Schuyler apprehensively. "Don't blurt out secrets."
"Well, you hinted at some such thing."
"I don't care how you get the money. If you know what is best for
yourself, you'll get it somehow and somewhere."
"I thought you were wealthy, Mr. Schuyler. I didn't think you would
press me like this."
"I am wealthy, but as I told you I have met with some losses recently, or
I would have given you more time on this debt."
"Suppose I can't pay you?"
"Then you will have to take the consequences."
"That means that you will go to my father?"
"Not alone that. I will let it be known everywhere that you have refused
to pay a debt of honor and that will exclude you from the society of
gentlemen."
Edgar was unprepared to go further, and he thought it time to obtain
Mark's assistance.
"Let us go into the reading room," he said. "Perhaps we can settle the
matter there."
"All right! I want to be easy with you, and I will agree to take off ten
dollars if you will pay me the balance."
"I will see what I can do."
Edgar led the way into the reading room at the rear of the office. He
saw Mark sitting on a chair at the opposite side of the room, and he led
Schuyler up to it.
Schuyler was short-sighted, and did not make out Mark till Edgar said:
"Mr. Schuyler, let me introduce you to my cousin, Mark Mason!"
"The telegraph boy!" ejaculated Schuyler, his face changing.
"I see you know me, Mr. Schuyler," said Mark. "My cousin tells me you
want him to pay you seventy-five dollars."
"I don't know what you have to do with the matter," said Schuyler
stiffly.
"Then I will tell you. You have imposed yourself upon Edgar as a
respectable man of good social position while I know you to be an
adventurer and a swindler."
"Do you mean to insult me?" demanded Schuyler looking around the room
nervously.
"I mean to protect my cousin. Give him the memorandums you have, or tear
them up and cease to persecute him, or I will call in a policeman."
Hamilton Schuyler looked furious, but he knew Mark and his resolute
spirit, and felt afraid he would do as he threatened.
"You cub!" he hissed. "You are always interfering with me."
He turned upon his heel and left the reading room.
"He won't trouble you any more, Edgar," said Mark.
"How can I thank you, Mark?" said Edgar gratefully. "You have got me out
of a bad scrape. That fellow has drained me of every cent. I had to
borrow five dollars of a clerk in the office to satisfy him, and if I
pay it I shall have nothing to spend for a week."
"Then let me be your banker, Edgar," said Mark as he drew a five-dollar
note from his pocket and offered it to his cousin.
"Can you spare this, Mark?" asked Edgar in surprise and relief.
"Yes."
"I don't know when I can repay you."
"Take your own time. Pay a dollar a week if you like."
"Won't you call round at the house?" asked Edgar.
"Thank you, not this evening. I hope the time will come when we can meet
each other often."
"Mark is a good fellow," thought Edgar as he walked up Fifth Avenue. "I
thought he was poor, but he seems to be better off than I am."
CHAPTER XXXVII.
SOLON TALBOT'S PLANS.
SOLON TALBOT was much elated by the great rise in the stock of the
Golden Hope Mine. At two hundred and fifty dollars each, the four
hundred shares held by his father-in-law's estate would bring one
hundred thousand dollars. While only half of this rightfully belonged to
him, he felt that he was safe in appropriating the whole, as he imagined
that Mark and his mother had no clew to its real ownership.
He had an offer from Crane & Lawton of a hundred thousand for the stock,
and this he could obtain at any time. He had not thus far been able to
obtain Mrs. Mason's signature to a release, but this he reflected was
only a matter of form and need not be regarded.
Mr. Talbot lived in a flat, but desired to own a house. With the capital
at his command when the mining stock was disposed of, he felt sure that
he could realize a large income in Wall Street by dealings in the stock
market. Somehow he seemed to think that the great rise in Golden Hope
stock reflected credit on his sagacity.
He went to the office of a prominent real estate broker and examined his
list of houses for sale. One especially pleased him--a house on West
Forty-Seventh street in excellent condition, which he could buy for
forty-five thousand dollars.
"You can pay twenty thousand dollars down," said the broker, "and the
balance can stand on mortgage at five per cent."
"I shall probably pay cash down for the whole," responded Mr. Talbot,
with the air of a capitalist.
"Very well Mr. Talbot," said the broker respectfully, "that will of
course be satisfactory. So would the other arrangement."
"I will decide in a day or two and let you know," added Talbot.
When he went home he could not help boasting a little of his proposed
purchased.
"Mary," he said, "what should you say if I bought a house?"
"In Brooklyn?"
"No I must live here in New York. My business will be here."
"I thought New York property came high, Mr. Talbot."
"So it does but I propose to go high."
"I suppose you will have to pay as much as twenty thousand dollars for a
desirable house."
"Twenty thousand dollars! what are you thinking of?"
"Why, our house in Syracuse was sold for ten thousand dollars, and I
thought you might have to pay twice as much here."
"I should say so, Mrs. Talbot. I am in treaty for a house costing
forty-five thousand dollars."
Mrs. Talbot was astonished.
"I had no idea you could afford to pay so much for a house, Solon," she
said.
"My dear, I am afraid you underrate my business abilities. I haven't
said anything to you about my business success, but I have been making
money lately. Yes, I feel that I can afford to pay forty-five thousand
dollars for a house."
"Where is the house situated?"
"In West Forty-Seventh Street, between Fifth and Sixth Avenues. That's a
fine block--a good many fashionable people live there."
"I don't know whether I shall feel at home among them."
"I mean, Mrs. Talbot, that you shall take a high place in New York
society. As my wife you will be entitled to such."
"I am not ambitious in that way. I should rather be able to see Ellen
often than to receive fashionable people."
"Ahem, Mrs. T. You must remember that Ellen lives in a very poor way,
and it would do you harm to have it known that she is your sister."
"You would not have me repudiate my own sister?" said Mrs. Talbot, half
indignantly.
"Well, no, not exactly repudiate her, but you can receive her early in
the morning when no one is likely to be here. You must remember also
that Mark, her son, has been, and perhaps still is, a common telegraph
boy, whom we couldn't have coming freely to the house and claiming
relationship with Edgar."
"I think Mark is a pretty good fellow," said Edgar unexpectedly.
It was only the previous evening that Mark had got him out of trouble.
"This is a little surprising in you, Edgar," said Solon Talbot, arching
his brow. "I thought you looked down upon him."
"I did, but I have changed my opinion of him."
"He is a poor working boy."
"He may be a working boy but he has more money than I. He always seems
to have plenty of it."
"Probably somebody has paid him some money, and he carries it all
around with him. Have you seen him since he returned from his journey?"
"Yes, father."
"Has he gone back to the telegraph office?"
"No, he says he shan't go back."
"Has he any position?"
"No he is not working just now."
"He is a foolish boy. He will spend the little money he has, and then,
when he wants to go back to the telegraph office, they won't receive
him."
"I am glad you are on better terms with Mark, Edgar," said Mrs. Talbot
regarding her son with unusual favor.
"Don't be influenced too much by what your mother says, Edgar," said his
father, "social distinctions must be observed."
For once Edgar was not influenced by what his father said. He was not
wholly bad, and Mark's friendly service in rescuing him from the
clutches of Hamilton Schuyler had quite changed his feelings towards his
cousin. Then the timely loan of five dollars had also its effect.
This was the day for the meeting of the two sisters at Arnold &
Constable's. Mrs. Talbot informed her sister of her husband's plan.
"I think Mr. Talbot must be getting along very well," she said. "He
told me this morning that he is negotiating for a fine brown stone house
on West Forty-Seventh Street. He is to pay forty-five thousand dollars
for it."
"That is a large sum."
"Yes; I had no idea when we lived in Syracuse that Solon was so rich. He
says that I underrated his business abilities."
"Do you know if he has met with any recent business success?"
"No; he never tells me particulars."
Mrs. Mason thought she could guess where the forty-five thousand dollars
were coming from, and on her return she told Mark what she had heard.
"He must be going to sell the stock," said Mark.
"Can we stop him?"
"No, as executor he would have the right to do this, but we must arrange
to share the proceeds. I will see our lawyer, and ask him what is best
to be done."
At this moment there was a knock at the door. Mark opened it, and there
stood Tom Trotter in his new uniform. "I've got a message for you,
Mark," he said.
"Who is it from?"
"From Mr. Rockwell."
"Let me see it."
The message was brief.
       *       *       *       *       *
"Come round to my office, I want to see you.
"LUTHER ROCKWELL."
       *       *       *       *       *
"How did you happen to bring this message, Tom?"
"I know Mr. Rockwell. I've often blacked his boots. I guess he's seen us
together, for when he saw me this morning he asked if I could tell him
your address which he had lost."
"I'll go right around there," said Mark.
"Perhaps he's going to take you into partnership, Mark."
"If he does, Tom, I'll find a good place in the office for you."
When Mark entered the banker's office he was at once introduced into Mr.
Rockwell's presence.
"You sent for me, sir."
"Yes. I am thinking of purchasing a block of mining stock, and as you
have recently been to the Pacific coast I thought you might have heard
something about it."
"What's the name of the mine, sir?"
"The Golden Hope Mine."
Mark's eyes lighted up.
"Yes, sir," he answered; "I can tell you a good deal about it. From whom
do you expect to purchase?"
"From Crane & Lawton. It is a block of four hundred shares, at two
hundred and sixty a share."
"Held by Solon Talbot."
"How do you know?"
"Because he is my uncle, and half of the shares belong to my mother."
CHAPTER XXXVIII
THE MINING STOCK IS SOLD.
"BUT I understood that you were poor," said Mr. Rockwell, surprised at
Mark's statement.
"That we are so is because Mr. Talbot as executor has concealed from my
mother the existence of the stock as a part of grandfather's estate."
"How long since your grandfather died?"
"Nearly two years."
"And the stock is only now to be sold?"
"Yes; my uncle had advices that it would be well to wait, as it was
likely to go up."
"And your mother's share is half--say, two hundred shares?"
"Yes, sir."
"Then she will be comfortable for life. At the price I am thinking of
paying, this will amount to over fifty thousand dollars. Now can you
give me any information about the mine?"
"Yes, sir; I made it my business to inquire. It is confidently expected
to go considerably higher. It is growing richer every day."
"I shall rely upon your statements and buy the stock. After it is sold I
advise you to take immediate steps to secure your share. Have you
consulted a lawyer?"
"Yes; a young man."
"In a matter of this importance an older and more experienced lawyer
will be better. I will give you a note to my own lawyer."
"Thank you, sir."
"I am now going to the office of Crane & Lawton where I shall meet your
uncle, and conclude the business. Come here in less than two hours and I
may be able to tell you the result."
"I will do so."
Solon Talbot was much elated when informed by Crane & Lawton that they
had found a purchaser for his mining stock in the person of Luther
Rockwell, the well-known banker.
"Do you think he would stand a higher price?" asked Talbot.
"It would not be wise to ask it."
"He is very rich. He could afford to pay more."
"True; but he became rich through prudence and shrewdness. Sell to him
and you won't have to wait for your money."
"No doubt you are right. I will be guided by your advice."
When Solon Talbot was introduced to Mr. Rockwell he made a deferential
bow.
"I am honored in making your acquaintance, Mr. Rockwell," he said.
"Thank you, sir."
The banker would have been more cordial but for what he had heard from
Mark.
"How long have you owned this stock, Mr. Talbot?" inquired Mr. Rockwell.
"Three years."
"It is not held in your name."
"No; it belongs to the estate of my late father-in-law, Elisha Doane."
"I take it that you are the executor of the estate."
"Yes, sir."
Solon Talbot would not have been so communicative if he had supposed
that the banker was a friend to Mark. He had forgotten Mark's agency in
protecting Mr. Rockwell from the dynamite fiend.
"The stock was probably purchased at a very low figure."
"I presume so, though I do not know what was paid for it. Indeed I never
heard of it until I came to examine the items of my father-in-law's
estate. He didn't have much else."
"It is fortunate for his heirs."
"Yes," answered Talbot rather nervously.
He was afraid Mr. Rockwell might inquire who were the other heirs. Had
he done so, he would have evaded the question or boldly declared that
there was no other heirs except himself.
After half an hour's conversation the purchase was made, and a check for
one hundred and four thousand dollars was handed to Mr. Talbot.
"I hope you will not have occasion to regret your purchase, Mr.
Rockwell," said Solon.
"I think I shall not from advices I have received about increasing
richness."
At the time appointed Mark called at Mr. Rockwell's office.
"Well, Mark," said the lawyer, "I made the purchase."
"At two hundred and sixty?"
"Yes. I congratulate you."
"That is, if I succeed in getting our share from my uncle."
"I will give you a letter to my lawyer, Mr. Gerrish. Obtain a letter
from him, as your counsel, and call to-morrow upon your uncle with a
formal demand for your mother's share of the proceeds of the mining
stock."
CHAPTER XXXIX.
CONCLUSION.
SOLON TALBOT went home in high spirits. It was only recently that he had
become aware of the great value of the Golden Hope shares. It had come
to him as an agreeable surprise.
"With what I was worth before," he soliloquized, "I may now rate myself
at one hundred and fifty thousand dollars. That is very good--for a
beginning. I can afford to buy the house in Forty-Seventh Street, for I
shall still have a hundred thousand dollars over, and in five years I
mean to make it half a million."
He paced up and down his library in a state of joyous excitement. No
thought of giving his sister-in-law her rightful due entered his mind.
"How can she find out?" he reflected. "Old Mr. Doane never told any of
us of his mining shares. I presume he looked upon them as rather a risky
investment. It has proved to be a splendid speculation, but it was
rather a lucky accident than a shrewd purchase."
[Illustration: "'Mark!' exclaimed Talbot. What brings you here!"--Page
