Mr. Longdon looked from one of them to the other. 
" Where have you been together ?" 
Nanda was the first to respond.  '' Only talking — on a 
bench." 
'  Well, / want to talk on a bench !" The old man 
showed a spirit. 
"With me, of course?" — Vanderbank met it with 
eagerness. 
The girl said nothing, but Mr. Longdon sought her eyes. 
"No — with ISTanda. You must mingle in the crowd." 
 
"Ah," their companion laughed, "you two are the 
crowd !" 
" Well — have your tea first." 
Vanderbank, on this, giving it up with his laugh, 
offered to Mr. Longdon, before withdrawing, the hand- 
shake of greeting he had omitted — a demonstration real- 
ly the warmer for the tone of the joke that went with it. 
 '' Intrigant .'" 
xvn 
Nanda praised to Mr. Longdon the charming spot she 
had quitted, with the effect that they presently took a 
fresh possession of it, finding the beauty of the view 
deepened as the afternoon grew old and the shadows 
long. They were of a comfortable agreement on these 
matters, by which, moreover, they were not long delayed, 
one of the pair at least being too conscious, for the hour, 
of still other phenomena than the natural and peaceful 
process that filled the air. "Well, you must tell me 
about these things," Mr. Longdon sociably said : he had 
joined his young friend with a budget of impressions 
rapidly gathered at the house ; as to which his appeal to 
her for a light or two may be taken as the measure of the 
confidence now ruling their relations. He had come to 
feel at last, he mentioned, that he could allow for most 
differences ; yet in such a situation as the present be- 
wilderment could only come back. There were no dif- 
ferences in the world — so it had all ended for him — but 
those that marked at every turn the manners he had for 
three months been observing in good society. The gen- 
eral wide deviation of this body occupied his mind to the 
exclusion of almost everything else, and he had finally 
been brought to believe that even in his slow-paced prime 
he must have hung behind his contemporaries. He had 
not supposed at the moment — in the forties and the 
fifties — that he passed for old-fashioned, but life couldn t 
have left him so far in the rear had the start between 
them originally been fair. This was the way that, more 
than once, he had put the matter to the girl : which 
gives a sufficient hint, it is hoped, of the range of some of 
their talk. It had always wound up indeed, their talk, 
with some assumption of the growth of his actual under- 
standing ; but it was just these pauses in the fray that 
seemed to lead from time to time to a sharper clash. It 
was when he felt, in a word, as if he had exhausted sur- 
prises that he received his greatest shocks. There were 
no such strange tastes as some of those drawn from the 
bucket that had repeatedly, as he imagined, touched the 
bottom of the well.  ''Now this sudden invasion of some- 
body's — Heaven knows whose — house, and our dropping 
down on it like a swarm of locusts : I dare say it isn't 
civil to criticise it when one's going too, so almost cul- 
pably, with the stream ; but what are people made of that 
they consent, just for money, to the violation of their 
homes ?" 
Nanda wondered ; she cultivated the sense that he 
made her intensely reflect. " But haven't people in Eng- 
land always let their places ?" 
 ' If we're a nation of shopkeepers, you mean, it can't 
date, on the scale on which we show it, only from last 
week ? No doubt, no doubt, and the more one thinks of 
it the more one seems to see that society — for we're in so- 
ciety, aren't we, and that's our horizon ? — can never have 
been anything but increasingly vulgar. The point is that 
in the twilight of time — and I belong, you see, to the 
twilight — it had made out much less how vulgar it could 
be. It did its best, very probably, but there were too 
many superstitions it had to get rid of. It has been 
throwing them overboard one by one, so that now the 
ship sails uncommonly light. That's the w y "- aijd thQ 
 
old man, with his eyes on the golden distance, ingen- 
iously followed it out — ''I come to feel so the lurching 
and pitching. If I weren't a pretty fair sailor — well, as 
it is, my dear," he interrupted himself with a laugh, "I 
sliow you often enough what grabs I make for support." 
He gave a faint gasp, half amusement, half anguish, then 
abruptly relieved himself by a question. " To whom, in 
point of fact, does the place belong ?" 
''Ym awfully ashamed, but I'm afraid I don't know. 
That just came up here," the girl went on, '' for Mr. 
Van."' 
Mr. Longdon seemed to think an instant. '  Oh, it 
came up, did it ? And Mr. Van couldn't tell ?" 
" He has quite forgotten — though he has been here be- 
fore. Of course it may have been with other people," 
she added in extenuation. '' I mean it mayn't have been 
theirs then any more than it's Mitchy's." 
" I see. They too had just bundled in." 
Nanda completed the simple history. " To-day it's 
Mitchy who bundles, and I believe that, really, he bun- 
dled only yesterday. He turned in his people, and here 
we are." 
" Here we are, here we are !" her friend more gravely 
echoed. " AYell, it's splendid !" 
As if at a note in his voice her eyes, while his own still 
strayed away, just fixed him. '' Don't you think it's 
really rather exciting ? Everything's ready, the feast all 
spread, and, with nothing to blunt our curiosity but the 
general knowledge that there will be people and things, 
we comfortably take our places." He answered nothing, 
though her picture apparently reached him.  '' There are 
people, there are things, and all in a plenty. Had every 
one, when you came away, turned up ?" she asked as he 
was still silent. 
'  I dare say. There were some ladies and gentlemen 
on the terrace that I didn't know. But I looked only 
  
for you, and came this way on an indication of your 
mother's." 
  And did she ask that if you should find me with Mr. 
Van you would make him come to her ?" 
Mr. Longdon replied to this with some delay, but with- 
out movement. '  How could she have supposed he was 
here r 
" Since he had not yet been to the house ? Oh, it has 
always been a wonder to me, the things that mamma sup- 
poses ! I see she asked you," Nanda observed. 
At this her old friend turned to her. '  But it wasn't 
because of that I got rid of him." 
Nanda hesitated. "No — you don't mind everything 
mamma says." 
 ''I don't mind 'everything' anybody says: not even, 
my dear, when the person's you." 
Again she waited an instant. ''Not even when it's 
Mr. Van ?" 
Mr. Longdon candidly considered. " Oh, I take him 
up on all sorts of things." 
''That shows then the importance they have for you. 
Is he like his grandmother ?" the girl pursued. Then as 
her companion looked vague : " Wasn't it his grand- 
mother too you knew ?" 
He had an extraordinary smile. " His mother." She 
exclaimed, coloring, on her mistake, and he added : " I'm 
not so bad as that. But you're none of you like them." 
"Wasn't she pretty?" Nanda inquired. 
"Very handsome. But it makes no difference. She 
herself, to-day, wouldn't know him." 
She gave a small gasp. " His own mother wouldn't — ?" 
His head-shake just failed of sharpness. " No, nor he 
her. There's a link missing." Then as if, after all, she 
might take him too seriously, " Of course it's I," he 
more gently moralized, "who have lost the link in my 
sleep. I've slept half the century— I'm Rip Van Winkle." 
I 
 
He went back, after a moment, to her question. ' He's 
not, at any rate, like his mother." 
Nanda turned it over. ' Perhaps you wouldn't think 
so much of her now." 
'  Perhaps not. At all events my parting you from Mr. 
Vanderbank was my own idea." 
" I wasn't thinking," Nanda said,  ' of your parting me. 
I was thinking of your parting yourself." 
 'I might have sent you to the house? Well," Mr. 
Longdon replied, "I find I take more and more the eco- 
nomical view of my pleasures. I run them less and less 
together — I get all I can out of each." 
''So now you're getting all you can out of mef 
"All I can, my dear — all I can." He watched a little 
the flushed distance, then mildly broke out: "It is, as 
you said just now, exciting ! But it makes me " — and he 
became abrupt again — "want you, as Fve already told 
you, to come to my place. Not, however, that we may 
be still more mad together." 
The girl, from the bench, shared his contemplation. 
" Do you call this madness ?" 
He hesitated. "You spoke of it yourself as excite- 
ment. You'll make, of course, one of your fine distinc- 
tions, but I take it, in my rough way, as a whirl. "We're 
going round and round." In a minute he had folded his 
arms with the same closeness Vanderbank had used — in 
a minute he too was nervously shaking his foot. " Steady, 
steady; if we sit close we shall see it through. But come 
down to Suffolk for sanity." 
"You do mean then that I may come alone ?" 
"I won't receive you, I assure you, on any other terms. 
I want to show you," he continued, "what life can 
give. Not, of course," he subjoined, "of this sort of 
thing." 
"No — you've told me. Of peace." 
" Of peace," said Mr. Longdon. " Oh, you don't 
  
know — you haven't the least idea. That's just why I 
want to show you." 
Nan da looked as if already she saw it in the distance. 
" But will it be peace if Vm there ? I mean for you" 
she added. 
''It isn't a question of 'me.' Everybody's omelette is 
made of somebody's eggs. Besides, I think that when 
we're alone together — " 
He had dropped for so long that she wondered. " Well, 
when we are — ?" 
"Why, it will be all right," he simply concluded. 
"Temples of peace, the ancients used to call them. 
We'll set up one, and I shall be at least doorkeeper. 
You will come down whenever you like." 
She gave herself to him in her silence more than she 
could have done in words. "Have you arranged it with 
mamma ?" she said, however, at last. 
"I've arranged everything." 
" She won't want to come ?" 
Her friend's laugh turned him to her. " Don't be ner- 
vous. There are things as to which your mother trusts 
me." 
"But others as to which not." 
Their eyes met for some time on this, and it ended in 
his saying: "Well, you must help me." Nanda, but 
without shrinking, looked away again, and Mr. Longdon, 
as if to consecrate their understanding by the air of ease, 
passed to another subject. "Mr. Mitchett's the most 
princely host." 
" Isn't he too kind for anything ? Do you know what 
he pretends ?" Nanda went on. " He says, in the most 
extraordinary way, that he does it all for me." 
"Takes this great place and fills it with servants and 
company — ?" 
" Yes, just so that I may come down for a Sunday or 
two. Of course he has only taken it for three or four 
 
weeks, but even for that time it's a handsome compli- 
ment. He doesn't care what he does. It's his way of 
amusing himself. He amuses himself at our expense/' 
the girl continued. 
 '  Well, I hope that makes up, my dear, for the rate at 
which we're doing so at his !" 
"His amusement," said Nanda, "is to see us believe 
what he says." 
Mr. Longdon thought a moment. "Eeally, my child, 
you're most acute." 
" Oh, I haven't watched life for nothing ! Mitchy 
doesn't care," she repeated. 
Her companion seemed divided between a desire to 
draw and a certain fear to encourage her. " Doesn't care 
for what ?" 
She reflected an instant, in her seriousness, and it 
might have added to Mr. Longdon's impression of her 
depth. "Well, for himself. I mean for his money. For 
anything any one may think. For Lord Petherton, for 
instance, really at all. Lord Petherton thinks he has 
helped him — thinks, that is, that Mitchy thinks he has. 
But Mitchy's more amused at Mm than at anybody else. 
He takes every one in." 
" Every one but you ?" 
 ' Oh, I like him." 
"My poor child, you're of a profundity !" Mr. Long- 
don murmured. 
He spoke almost uneasily, but she was not too much 
alarmed to continue lucid. "And he likes me, and I 
know just how much — and just how little. He's the 
most generous man in the world. It pleases him to feel 
that he's indifferent and splendid — there are so many 
things it makes up to him for." The old man listened 
with attention, and his young friend, conscious of it, 
proceeded as on ground of which she knew every inch. 
" He's the son, as you know, of a great bootmaker — 'to 
  
all the Courts of Europe' — who left him a large fortune, 
which had been made, I believe, in the most extraor- 
dinary way, in building-speculations as well/' 
" Oh yes, I know. It's astonishing !" her companion 
sighed. 
'  That he should be of such extraction ?" 
' Well, everything. That you should be talking as 
you are — that you should have  watched life,' as you 
say, to such purpose. That we should any of us be here 
— most of all that Mr. Mitchett himself should. That 
your grandmother's daughter should have brought her 
daughter — " 
"To stay with a person" — Nanda took it up as, appar- 
ently out of delicacy, he fairly failed — "whose father 
used to take the measure, down on his knees on a little 
mat, as mamma says, of my grandfather's remarkably 
large foot ? Yes, we none of us mind. Do you think 
we should ?" Nanda asked. 
Mr. Longdon turned it over. " I'll answer you by a 
question. Would you marry him ?" 
" Never." Then as if to show there was no weakness 
in her mildness, " Never, never, never," she repeated. 
" And yet I dare say you know — ?" But Mr. Longdon 
once more faltered ; his scruple came uppermost. " You 
don't mind my speaking of it ?" 
" Of his thinking he wants to marry me ? Not a bit. 
I positively enjoy telling you there's nothing in it." 
"Not even for liimf 
Nanda considered. "Not more than is made up to 
him by his having found out, through talk and things — 
which mightn't otherwise have occurred — that I do like 
him. I wouldn't have come down here if I hadn't." 
" Not for any other reason ?" Mr. Longdon gravely in- 
quired. 
" Not for your being here, do you mean ?" 
He hesitated. "Me and other persons." 
 
She showed somehow that she wouldn't flinch.    You 
weren't asked till after he had made sure I'd come. 
We've become, you and I/' she smiled, '  one of the 
couples who are invited together." 
These were couples, his speculative eye seemed to 
show, he didn't even yet know about, and if he mentally 
took them up a moment it was only, promptly, to drop 
them.  ''I don't think you put it quite strong enough, 
you know." 
" That Mitchy is hard hit ? He puts it so strong him- 
self that it will surely do for both of us. I'm a part of 
what I just spoke of — his indifference and magnificence. 
It's as if he could only afford to do what's not vulgar. 
He might perfectly marry a Duke's daughter, but that 
tuould be vulgar — would be the absolute necessity and 
ideal of nine out of ten of the sons of shoemakers made 
ambitious by riches. Mitchy says 'No ; I take my own 
line ; I go in for a beggar-maid.' And it's only because 
I'm a beggar maid that he wants me." 
 ' But there are plenty of others," Mr. Longdon ob- 
jected. 
'' Oh, I admit I'm the one he least dislikes. But if I 
had any money," Nanda went on,  '' or if I were really 
good-looking — for that to-day, the real thing, will do as 
well as being a Duke's daughter — he wouldn't come near 
me. And I think that ought to settle it. Besides, he 
must marry Aggie. She's a beggar-maid too — as well as 
an angel ; so there's nothing against it." 
Mr. Longdon stared, but even in his surprise seemed to 
take from the swiftness with which she made him move 
over the ground a certain agreeable glow. ''Does 'Ag- 
gie ' like him ?" 
" She likes every one. As I say, she's an angel — but a 
real, real, real one. The kindest man in the world is 
therefore the proper husband for her. If Mitchy wants 
to do something thoroughly nice," she declared with the 
  
same high competence, ''he'll take her out of her situa- 
tion, which is awful." 
Mr. Longdon looked graver. "In what way awful ?" 
" Why, don't you know ?" His eye was now cold enough 
to give her, in her chill, a flurried sense that she might 
displease him least by a graceful lightness. "The Duch- 
ess and Lord Petherton are like you and me." 
" Is it a conundrum ?" He was serious indeed. 
" They're one of the couples who are invited together." 
But his face reflected so little success for her levity that 
it was in another tone she presently added : " Mitchy 
really oughtn't." Her friend, in silence, fixed his eyes 
on the ground ; an attitude in which there was something 
to make her strike rather wild. " But, of course, kind, 
as he is, he can scarcely be called particular. He has his 
ideas — he thinks nothing matters. He says we've all 
come to a pass that's the end of everything." 
Mr. Longdon remained mute awhile, and when he at 
last raised his eyes it was without meeting Nanda's and 
with some dryness of manner. "The end of everything ? 
One might easily receive that impression." 
He again became mute, and there was a pause between 
them of some length, accepted by Nanda with an anxious 
stillness that it might have touched a spectator to ob- 
serve. She sat there as if waiting for some further sign, 
only wanting not to displease her friend, yet unable to 
pretend, to play any part, and with something in her 
really that she couldn't take back now, something in- 
volved in her original assumption that there was to be a 
kind of intelligence in their relation. " I dare say," she 
said at last, " that I make allusions you don't like. But 
I keep forgetting." 
He waited a moment longer, then turned to her with a 
look rendered a little strange by the way it happened to 
reach over his glasses. It was even austerer than before. 
" Keep forgetting what ?" 
 
She gave after an instant a faint, feeble smile whicli 
seemed to speak of helplessness and which, when at rare 
moments it played in her face, was expressive from her 
positive lack of personal, superficial diffidence. '' Well — 
I don't know." It was as if appearances became at times 
so complicated that — so far as helping others to under- 
stand was concerned — she could only give up. 
 '' I hope you don't think I want you to be with me as 
you wouldn't be — as it were — with yourself. I hope you 
don't think I don't want you to be frank. If you were 
to try to appear to me anything — " He ended in simple 
sadness ; that, for instance, would be so little what he 
should like. 
'' Anything different, you mean, from what I am ? 
That's just what I've thought from the first. One's just 
what one is — isn't one ? I don't mean so much," she 
went on, ' in one's character or temper — for they have, 
haven't they ? to be what's called ' properly controlled ' 
— as in one's mind and what one sees and feels and the 
sort of thing one notices." Nanda paused an instant; 
then '' There you are !" she simply but rather desperately 
brought out. 
Mr. Longdon considered this with visible intensity. 
 ' What you suggest is that the things you speak of de- 
pend upon other people ?" 
 'Well, every one isn't so beautiful as you." Nanda 
had met him with promptitude, yet no sooner had she 
spoken than she appeared again to encounter a difficulty. 
 'But there it is — my just saying even that. Oh, how I 
always know — as I've told you before — whenever I'm 
different ! I can't ask you to tell me the things Granny 
ivould have said, because that's simply arranging to keep 
myself back from you, and so being nasty and under- 
hand, which you naturally don't want, nor I either. 
Nevertheless when I say the things she wouldn't, then I 
put before you too much — too much for your liking it — 
  
what I know and see and feel. If we're both partly the 
result of other people, her other people were so different." 
The girl's sensitive boldness kept it up, but there was 
something in her that pleaded for patience.  '  And yet if 
she had you, so I've got you too. It's the flattery of that, 
or the sound of it, I know, that must be so unlike her. 
Of course it's awfully like mother ; yet it isn't as if you 
hadn't already let me see — is it ? — that you don't really 
think me the same." Again she stopped a minute, as if 
to find her way with him ; and again, for the time, he 
gave no sign. She struck out again, with her strange, 
cool limpidity : '' Granny wasn't the kind of girl she 
couldn't be — and so neither am I." 
Mr. Longdon had fallen while she talked into some- 
thing that might have been taken for a conscious tem- 
porary submission to her ; he had uncrossed his fidgety 
legs and, thrusting them out with the feet together, sat 
looking very hard before him, his chin sunk on his breast 
and his hands, clasped as they met, rapidly twirling their 
thumbs. So he remained for a time that might have 
given his young friend the sense of having made herself 
right with him so far as she had been wrong. He still 
had all her attention, just as previously she had had his, 
but while he now simply gazed and thought she watched 
him with a discreet solicitude that would almost have 
represented him as a near relative whom she supposed 
unwell. At the end he looked round, and then, obeying 
some impulse that had gathered in her while they sat 
mute, she put out to him the tender hand she might 
have offered to a sick child. They had been talking 
about frankness, but she showed a frankness in this in- 
stance that made him perceptibly color. For that, in 
turn, however, he responded only the more completely, 
taking her hand and holding it, keeping it a long min- 
ute during which their eyes met and something seemed 
to clear up that had been too obscure to be dispelled by 
 
words. Finally he brought out as if, though it was what 
be had been thinking of, her gesture had most deter- 
mined him : '  I wish immensely you'd get married !" 
His tone betrayed so special a meaning that the words 
had a sound of suddenness ; yet there was always in 
Nanda s face that odd preparedness of the young person 
who has unlearned surprise through the habit, in com- 
pany, of studiously not compromising her innocence by 
blinking at things said. '' How can I ?" she asked, but 
appearing rather to take up the proposal than to put it by. 
  ' Can t you, catch you ?" He spoke pressingly and 
kept her hand. She shook her head slowly, markedly; 
on which he continued :    You don't do justice to Mr. 
Mitchy." She said nothing, but her look was there, 
and it made him resume :  'Impossible?" 
 '' Impossible.'  At this, letting her go, Mr. Longdon 
got up ; he pulled out his watch.  ' We must go back." 
She had risen with him, and they stood face to face in 
the faded light while he slipped the watch away.  '' Well, 
that doesn't make me wish it any less." 
'' It's lovely of you to wish it, but I shall be one of 
the people who don't. I shall be at the end," said 
Nanda, '' one of those who haven't." 
''No, my child," he returned gravely — "you shall 
never be anything so sad." 
" Why not — if yoii/ve been ?" 
He looked at her a little, quietly ; then, putting out 
his hand, passed her own into his arm. " Exactly be- 
cause I have." 
XVIII 
"Would you," the Duchess said to him the next day, 
"be for five minutes awfully kind to my poor little 
niece ?" The words were spoken in charming entreaty 
as he issued from the house late on the Sunday after- 
  
noon— the second evening of his stay, which the next 
morning was to bring to an end — and on his meeting the 
speaker at one of the extremities of the wide cool ter- 
race. There was at this point a subsidiary flight of steps 
by which she had just mounted from the grounds, one of 
her purposes being apparently to testify afresh to that 
anxious supervision of little Aggie from which she had 
momentarily suffered herself to be diverted. This young 
lady, established, in the pleasant shade, on a sofa, of light 
construction, designed for the open air, offered the image 
of a patience of which it was a questionable kindness to 
break the spell. It was that beautiful hour when, towards 
the close of the happiest days of summer, such places as 
the great terrace at Mertle present to the fancy a recall 
of the banquet-hall deserted — deserted by the company 
lately gathered at tea and now dispersed, according to 
affinities and combinations promptly felt and perhaps 
quite as promptly criticised, either in quieter chambers 
where intimacy might deepen or in gardens and under 
trees where the stillness knew the click of balls and the 
good-humor of games. There had been chairs, on the 
terrace, pushed about ; there were ungathered teacups on 
the level top of the parapet ; the servants in fact, in the 
manner of  Miands" mustered by a whistle on the deck 
of a ship, had just arrived to restore things to an order 
soon again to be broken. There were scattered couples 
in sight below and an idle group on the lawn, out of the 
midst of which, in spite of its detachment, somebody was 
sharp enough sometimes to cry "Out !" The high day- 
light was still in the sky, but with just the foreknowledge, 
already, of the long golden glow in which the many- 
voiced caw of the rooks would sound at once sociable 
and sad. There was a great deal, all about, to be aware 
of and to look at, but little Aggie had her eyes on a book 
over which her pretty head was bent with a docility visi- 
ble even from afar. " Fve a friend — down there by the 
 
lake — to go back to," the Duchess went on, "and I'm on 
my way to my room to get a letter that Fve promised to 
show him. I shall immediately bring it down, and then, 
in a few minutes, be able to relieve you. I don't leave 
her alone too much — one doesn't, you know, in a house 
full of people, a child of that age. Besides " — and Mr. 
Longdon's interlocutress was even more confiding — "I 
do want you, so very intensely, to know her. You, par 
exemple, you're what I sJiould like to give her." Mr. Xiong- 
don looked the Duchess, in acknowledgment of her ap- 
peal, straight in the face, and who can tell whether or no 
she acutely guessed from his expression that he recog- 
nized this particular juncture as written on the page of 
his doom ? — whether she heard him inaudibly say "Ah, 
here it is : I knew it would have to come !" She would 
at any rate have been astute enough, had this miracle 
occurred, quite to complete his sense for her own under- 
standing and suffer it to make no difference in the tone 
in which she still confronted him. " Oh, I take the bull 
by the horns — I know you haven't wanted to know me. 
If you had you would have called on me — I've given you 
plenty of hints and little coughs. Now, you see, I don't 
cough any more — I just rush at you and grab you. You 
don't call on me — so I call on you. There isn't any in- 
decency moreover that I won't commit for my child." 
Mr. Longdon's impenetrability crashed like glass at 
the elbow-touch of this large, handsome, practised woman 
who walked, for him, like some brazen pagan goddess, in 
a cloud of queer legend. He looked off at her child, 
who, at a distance and not hearing them, had not moved. 
" I know she's a great friend of Nanda's." 
" Has Nanda told you that ?" 
"Often — taking such an interest in her." 
"I'm glad she thinks so then — though really her in- 
terests are so various. But come to my baby. I don't 
make her come," she explained as she swept him along, 
  
"because I want you just to sit down by her there and 
keep the place, as one may say — " 
 '' Well, for whom T' he demanded as she stopped. 
It was her step that had checked itself, as well as her 
tongue, and again, suddenly, they stood quite consciously 
and vividly opposed. " Can I trust you ?" the Duchess 
brought out. Again then she took herself up. " But as 
if I weren t already doing it ! It's because I do trust you 
so utterly that I haven't been able, any longer, to keep 
my hands off you. The person I want the place for is 
none other than Mitchy himself, and half my occupation 
now is to get it properly kept for him. Lord Petherton's 
immensely kind, but Lord Petherton can't do everything. 
I know you really like our host — " 
Mr. Longdon, at this, interrupted her with a certain 
coldness. "How, may I ask, do you know it ?" 
But with a brazen goddess to deal with — ! This per- 
sonage had to fix him but an instant. "Because, you 
dear honest man, you're here. You wouldn't be if you 
hated him, for you don't practically condone — " 
This time he broke in with his eyes on the child. "I 
feel, on the contrary, I assure you, that I condone a 
great deal." 
" Well, don't boast of your cynicism," she laughed, 
" till you're sure of all it covers. Let the right thing for 
you be," she went on, "that Nanda herself wants it." 
" Nanda herself ?" He continued to watch little Ag- 
gie, who had never yet turned her head. " I'm afraid I 
don't understand you." 
She swept him on again. " I'll come to you presently 
and explain. I must get my letter for Petherton ; after 
which I'll give up Mitchy, whom I was going to find, and, 
since I've broken the ice — if it isn't too much to say to 
such a polar bear ! — I'll show you le fond de ma pensee. 
Baby darling," she said to her niece, " keep Mr. Longdon. 
Show him," she benevolently suggested, " what you've 
 
been reading/  Then again to her fellow-visitor, as ar- 
rested by this very question : '  Oaro signore, have you  
possible book ?" 
Little Aggie had got straight up and was holding out 
her volume, which Mr. Longdon, all courtesy for her, 
glanced at.    Stories from English History. Oh!" 
His ejaculation, though vague, was not such as to 
prevent the girl from venturing gently: "Have you 
read it ?" 
Mr. Longdon, receiving her pure little smile, showed he 
felt that he had never so taken her in as at this moment, 
and also that she was a person with whom he should sure- 
ly get on. " I think I must have." 
Little Aggie was still more encouraged, but not to the 
point of keeping anything back.  '  It hasn't any author. 
It's anonymous." 
The Duchess borrowed, for another question to Mr. 
Longdon, not a little of her gravity. '' Is it all right ?" 
"I don't know" — his answer was to Aggie. '  There 
have been some horrid things in English history." 
'  Oh, horrid — liavenH there ?" Aggie, whose speech had 
the prettiest, faintest foreignness, sweetly and eagerly 
quavered. 
 ''Well, darling, Mr. Longdon will recommend to you 
some nice historical work — for we love history, don't we ? 
— that leaves the horrors out. We like to know," the 
Duchess explained to the authority she invoked, "the 
cheerful, happy, rigJit things. There are so many, after 
all, and this is the place to remember them. A tantot.'' 
As she passed into the house by the nearest of the long 
windows that stood open Mr. Longdon placed himself 
beside her little charge, whom he treated, for the next 
ten minutes, with an exquisite courtesy. A person who 
knew him well would, if present at the scene, have found 
occasion in it to be freshly aware that he was, in his 
quiet way, master of two distinct kinds of urlxinity, the 
  
kind that added to distance and the kind that diminished 
it. Such an analyst would furthermore have noted, in 
respect to the aunt and the niece, of which kind each 
had the benefit, and might even have gone so far as to 
detect in him some absolute betrayal of the impression 
produced on him by his actual companion, some irradia- 
tion of his certitude that, from the point of view under 
which she had been formed, she was a remarkable, a rare 
success. Since to create a particular little rounded and 
tinted innocence had been aimed at, the fruit had been 
grown to the perfection of a peach on a sheltered wall, 
and this quality of the object resulting from a process 
might well make him feel himself in contact with some- 
thing wholly new. Little Aggie differed from any young 
person he had ever met in that she had been deliberately 
prepared for consumption and in that, furthermore, the 
gentleness of her spirit had immensely helped the prepa- 
ration. Nanda, beside her, was a northern savage, and 
the reason was partly that the elements of that young 
lady's nature were already, were publicly, were almost 
indecorously, active. They were practically there, for 
good or for ill ; experience was still to come and what 
they might work out to still a mystery ; but the sum 
would get itself done with the figures now on the slate. 
On little Aggie's slate the figures were yet to be written ; 
which sufficiently accounted for the difference of the two 
surfaces. Both the girls struck him as lambs with the 
great shambles of life in their future ; but while one, 
with its neck in a pink ribbon, had no consciousness but 
that of being fed from the hand with the small sweet 
biscuit of unobjectionable knowledge, the other struggled 
with instincts and forebodings, with the suspicion of its 
doom and the far-borne scent, in the flowery fields, of 
blood. 
''Oh, Nanda, she's my best friend after three or four 
others." 
 
"After so many ?" Mr. Longdon laughed. '' Don't yon 
think that's rather a back seat, as they say, for one's best ?" 
"A back seat ?" — she wondered with a purity ! 
"If you don't understand," said her companion, "it 
serves me right, as your aunt didn't leave me with you to 
teach you the slang of the day." 
"The  slang'?" — she again spotlessly speculated. 
"You've never even heard the expression ? I should 
think that a great compliment to our time if it weren't 
that I fear it may have been only the name that has been 
kept from you." 
The light of ignorance in the child's smile was posi- 
tively golden. " The name ?" she again echoed. 
She understood too little— he gave it up. "And who 
are all the other best friends whom poor Nanda comes 
after ?" 
"Well, there's my aunt, and Miss Merriman, and Gel- 
somina, and Dr. Beltram." 
" And who, please, is Miss Merriman ?" 
" She's my governess, don't you know ? — but such a 
deliciously easy governess." 
" That, I suppose, is because she has such a deliciously 
easy pupil. And who is Gelsomina ?" Mr. Longdon in- 
quired. 
" She's my old nurse — my old maid." 
" I see. Well, one must always be kind to old maids. 
But who is Dr. Beltram ?" 
" Oh, the most intimate friend of all. We tell him 
