festooned in flags, with knots of evergreen and the 
first red boughs of the young swamp maples holding 
them in place over its irregular fagade. The coach 
itself was a mass of foliage and flowers, from which it 
defined itself as a wheeled vehicle in vague and partial 
outline ; the other wagons and coaches, as they drove 
tremulously up, with an effect of having been mired 
in blossoms about their spokes and hubs, had the un- 
wieldiness which seems inseparable from spectacular- 
ity. They represented motives in color and design 
sometimes tasteless enough, and sometimes so nearly 
very good that Mrs. Milray 's heart was a great deal 
in her mouth, as they arrived, each with its hotel-cry 
roared and shrilled from a score of masculine and 
feminine throats, and finally spelled for distinctness 
 
sake, with an ultimate yell or growl. But she had 
not finished giving the lady-representative of a Sun 
day newspaper the points of her own tableau, before 
she regained the courage and the faith in which she 
remained serenely steadfast throughout the parade. 
It was when all the equipages of the neighborhood 
had arrived that she climbed to her place ; the ladder 
was taken away ; the landlord spoke to his horses, 
and the Middleinount coach led the parade, amid the 
renewed slogans, and the cries and fluttered handker 
chiefs of the guests crowding the verandas. 
The line of march was by one road to Middlemount 
Centre, where the prize was to be awarded at the 
judges stand, and then the coaches were to escort the 
triumphant vehicle homeward by another route, so as 
to pass as many houses on the way as possible. It 
was a curious expression of the carnival spirit in a 
region immemorial ly starved of beauty in the lives of 
its people ; and whatever was the origin of the moan- 
tain coaching parade, or from whatever impulse of 
sentimentality or advertising it came, the effect was of 
undeniable splendor, and of phantasmagoric strange 
ness. 
Gregory watched its progress from a hill-side past 
ure as it trailed slowly along the rising and falling 
road. The songs of the young girls, interrupted by 
the explosion of hotel slogans and college cries from 
the young men, floated off to him on the thin breeze 
of the cloudless August morning, like the hymns and 
shouts of a saturnalian rout going in holiday proces 
sional to sacrifice to their gods. Words of fierce 
 
Hebrew poetry burned in his thought; the warnings 
and the accusals and the condemnations of the angry 
prophets ; and he stood rapt from his own time and 
place in a dream of days when the Most High stooped 
to commune face to face with His ministers, while 
the young voices of those forgetful or ignorant of 
Him, called to his own youth, and the garlanded char 
iots, with their banners and their streamers passed on 
the road beneath him and out of sight in the shadow 
of the woods beyond. 
When the prize was given to the Middlcmount 
coach at the Center the landlord took the flag, and 
gallantly transferred it to Mrs. Milray, and Mrs. Mil- 
ray passed it up to Clementina, and bade her, "Wave 
it, wave it ! " 
The village street was thronged with people that 
cheered, and swung their hats and handkerchiefs to 
the coach as it left the judges stand and drove under 
the triumphal arch, with the other coaches behind it. 
Then At well turned his horses heads homewards, and 
at the brisker pace with which people always return 
from festivals or from funerals, he left the village and 
struck out upon the country road with his long escort 
before him. The crowd was quick to catch the cour 
teous intention of the victors, and followed them with 
applause as far beyond the village borders as wind 
and limb would allow; but the last noisy boy had 
dropped off breathless before they reached a half-fin 
ished house in the edge of some woods. A line of 
little children was drawn up by the road-side before 
it, who watched the retinue with grave eagerness, till 
 
the Middlemount coach came in full sight. Then 
they sprang into the air, and beating their hands to 
gether, screamed, "-Clem! Clem! Oh it 's Clem!" 
and jumped up and down, and a shabby looking work- 
worn woman came round the corner of the house and 
stared up at Clementina waving her banner wildly to 
the children, and shouting unintelligible words to 
them. The young people on the coach joined in 're 
sponse to the children, some simply, some ironically, 
and one of the men caught up a great wreath of flowers 
which lay at Clementina 's feet, and flung it down to 
them ; the shabby woman quickly vanished round the 
corner of the house again. Mrs. Milray leaned over 
to ask the landlord, " Who in the world are Clemen 
tina 's friends? " 
" Why don 't you know ? " he retorted in a bated 
voice. " Them 's her brothas and sistas." 
" And that woman " 
" The lady at the conna? That 's her motlia." 
When the event was over, and all the things had 
been said and said again, and there was nothing more 
to keep the spring and summer months from going up 
to their rooms to lie dow r n, and the fall and winter 
months from trying to get something to eat, Mrs. 
Milray found herself alone with Clementina. 
The child seemed anxious about something, and 
Mrs. Milray, who wanted to go and lie down, too, 
asked a little impatiently, "What is it, Clementina?" 
" Oh, nothing. Only I was afraid maybe you didn 't 
like my waving to the children, when you saw how 
queea they looked." Clementina 's lips quivered. 
" Did any of the rest say anything ? " 
" I know what they thought. But I don 't care ! I 
should do it right over again ! " 
Mrs. Milray 's happiness in the day 's triumph was 
so great that she could indulge a generous emotion. 
She caught the girl in her arms. " I want to kiss 
you ; I want to hug you, Clementina ! " 
THE notion of a dance for the following night to 
celebrate the success of the house in the coaching pa 
rade came to Mrs. Milray over a welsh-rarebit which 
she gave at the close of the evening. The party was 
in the charge of Gregory, who silently served them at 
their orgy with an austerity that might have conspired 
with the viand itself against their dreams, if they had 
not been so used to the gloom of his ministrations. 
He would not allow the waitresses to be disturbed in 
their evening leisure, or kept from their sleep by such 
belated pleasures ; and when he had provided the ma 
terials for the rarebit, he stood aloof, and left their 
combination to Mrs. Milray and her chafing-dish. 
She had excluded Clementina on account of her 
youth, as she said to one of the fall and winter months, 
who came in late, and noticed Clementina 's absence 
with a " Hello ! Anything the matter with the Spirit 
of Summer?" Clementina had become both a pet 
and a joke with these months before the parade was 
over, and now they clamored together, and said they 
must have her at the dance anyway. They were more 
tepidly seconded by the spring and summer months, 
and Mrs. Milray said, " Well, then, you 'll have to all 
 
subscribe and get her a pair of dancing slippers." 
They pressed her for her meaning, and she had to 
explain the fact of Clementina 's destitution, which 
that additional fold of cheese-cloth had hidden so well 
in the coaching tableau that it had never been sus 
pected. The young men entreated her to let them 
each buy a pair of slippers for the Spirit of Summer, 
which she should wear in turn for the dance that she 
must give each of them ; and this made Mrs. Milray 
declare that, no, the child should not come to the dance 
at all, and that she was not going to have her spoiled. 
But, before the party broke up, she promised that 
she would see what could be done, and she put it 
very prettily to the child the next day, and waited 
for her to say, as she knew she must, that she could 
not go, and why. They agreed that the cheese-cloth 
draperies of the Spirit of Summer were surpassingly 
fit for the dance ; but they had to agree that this still 
left the question of slippers untouched. It remained 
even more hopeless when Clementina tried on all of 
Mrs. Milray 's festive shoes, and none of her razor- 
points and high heels would avail. She went away 
disappointed, but not yet disheartened; youth does 
not so easily renounce a pleasure pressed to the lips; 
and Clementina had it in her head to ask some of the 
table girls to help her out. She meant to try first 
with that big girl who had helped her put on the shoe- 
man 's bronze slippers; and she hurried through the 
office, pushing purblindly past Fane without looking 
his way, when he called to her in the deference which 
he now always used with her, " Here 's a package here 
 
for you, Clementina Miss Claxon," and lie gave her 
an oblong parcel, addressed in a hand strange to her. 
" Who is it from ? " she asked, innocently, and Fane 
replied with the same ingenuousness: "I 'm sure I 
don 't know." Afterwards he thought of having 're 
torted, "I haven 't opened it," but still without being 
certain that he would have had the courage to say it. 
Clementina did not think of opening it herself, even 
when she was alone in her little room above Mrs. At- 
well s, until she had carefully felt it over, and ascer 
tained that it was a box of pasteboard, three or four 
inches deep and wide, and eight or ten inches long. 
She looked at the address again, " Miss Clementina 
Claxon," and at the narrow notched ribbon which tied 
it, and noted that the paper it was wrapped in was 
very white and clean. Then she sighed, and loosed 
the knot, and the paper slipped off the box, and at 
the same time the lid fell off, and the shoe man 's 
bronze slippers fell out upon the floor. 
Either it must be a dream or it must be a joke; it 
could not be both real and earnest ; somebody was 
trying to tease her; such flattery of fortune could not 
be honestly meant. But it went to her head, and she 
was so giddy with it as she caught the slippers from 
the floor, and ran down to Mrs. Atwell, that she 
knocked against the sides of the narrow staircase. 
" What is it ? What does it mean ? Who did it ? " 
she panted, with the slippers in her hand. " Whe e 
did they come from ? " She poured out the history 
of her trying on these shoes, and of her present need 
of them, and of their mysterious coming, to meet her 
 
longing after it had almost ceased to be a hope. Mrs. 
Atwell closed with her in an exultation hardly short 
of a clapping the hands. Her hair was gray, and the 
girl 's hair still hung in braids down her back, but they 
were of the same age in their transport, which they 
referred to Mrs. Milray, and joined with her in glad 
but fruitless wonder who had sent Clementina the 
shoes. Mrs. Atwell held that the help who had seen 
the girl trying them on had clubbed together and got 
them for her at the time ; and had now given them to 
her for the honor she had done the Middlemount 
House in the parade. Mrs. Milray argued that the 
spring and summer months had secretly dispatched 
some fall and winter month to ransack the stores at 
Middlemount Centre for them. Clementina believed 
that they came from the shoe man himself, who had 
always wanted to send them, in the hope that she 
would keep them, and had merely happened to send 
them just then in that moment of extremity when she 
was helpless against them. Each conjecture involved 
improbabilities so gross that it left the field free to 
any opposite theory. 
Rumor of the fact could not fail to go through the 
house, and long before his day 's work was done it 
reached the chef, and amused him as a piece of the 
Boss 's luck. He was smoking his evening pipe at the 
kitchen door after supper, when Clementina passed 
him on one of the many errands that took her between 
Mrs. Milray 's room and her own, and he called to her: 
" Boss, what 's this I hear about a pair o glass slippas 
droppin out the sky into your lap ? " 
Clementina was so happy that she thought she 
might trust him for once, and she said, " Oh, yes, Mr. 
Mahtin ! Who do you suppose sent them ? " she en 
treated him so sweetly that it would have softened 
any heart but the heart of a tease. 
" I believe I could give a pootty good guess if I 
had the facts." 
Clementina innocently gave them to him, and he 
listened with a well-affected sympathy. 
"Say Fane fust told you about em?" 
" Yes. * He's a package for you, he said. Just 
that way ; and he couldn 't tell me who left it, or any 
thing." 
" Anybody asked him about it since ? " 
" Oh, yes ! Mrs. Milray, and Mrs. Atwell, and Mr. 
Atwell, and everybody." 
"Everybody." The chef smiled with a peculiar 
droop of one eye. " And he didn 't know when the 
slippas got into the landlo'd 's box ? " 
" Xo. The fust thing he knew, the they we e ! " 
Clementina stood expectant, but the chef smoked on 
as if that were all there was to say, and seemed to 
have forgotten her. " Who do you think put them 
thea, Mr. Mahtin?" 
The chef looked up as if surprised to find her still 
there. " Oh ! Oh, yes ! Who'd I think ? Why, I 
know, Boss. But I don 't believe I'd betta tell you." 
" Oh, do, Mr. Mahtin ! If you knew how I felt 
about it " 
" No, no ! I guess I betta not. Twouldn 't do you 
any good. I guess I won 't say anything moa. But 
 
if I was in youa place, and I really wanted to know 
wlie e them slippas come from " 
"I do I do indeed" 
The chef paused before he added, " I should go at 
Fane. I guess what he don 't know ain 't wo th know- 
in , and I guess nobody else knows anything. Thea ! 
I don 't know but I said mo n I ought, now." 
What the chef said was of a piece with what had 
been more than once in Clementina 's mind; but she 
had driven it out, not because it might not be true, 
but because she would not have it true. Her head 
drooped; she turned limp and springless away. Even 
the heart of the tease was touched ; he had not known 
that it would worry her so much, though he knew 
that she disliked the clerk. 
" Mind," he called after her, too late, " I ain 't got 
no proof t he done it." 
She did not answer him, or look round. She went 
to her room, and sat down in the growing dusk to 
think, with a hot lump in her throat. 
Mrs. Atwell found her there an hour later, when 
she climbed to the chamber where she thought she 
ought to have heard Clementina moving about over 
her own room. 
" Didn 't know but I could help you do youa dress- 
in ," she began, and then at sight of the dim figure 
she broke off: " Why, Clem ! What 's the matta? Ah 
you asleep ? Ah you sick ? It 's half an hour of the 
time and " 
" I 'm not going," Clementina answered, and she 
did not move. 
" Not goin ! Why the land o " 
" Oh, I can 't go, Mrs. Atwcll. Don 't ask me ! Tell 
Mrs. Milray, please ! " 
" I will, when I got something to tell," said Mrs. 
Atwell. " Now, you just say what 's happened, Clem 
entina Claxon ! " Clementina suffered the woful truth 
to be drawn from her. " But you don 't know whether 
it 's so or not," the landlady protested. 
" Yes, yes, I do ! It was the fust thing I thought 
of, and the chef wouldn 't have said it if he didn 't be 
lieve it," 
"That 's just what he would done," cried Mrs. At 
well. " And I 'll give him such a goin ova, for his 
teasin , as he ain 't had in one while. He just said it 
to tease. What you goin to say to Mrs. Milray I " 
" Oh, tell her I 'm not a bit well, Mrs. Atwell ! My 
head does ache, truly." 
" Why, listen," said Mrs. Atwell, recklessly. " If 
you believe he done it and he no business to why 
don 't you just go to the dance, in em, and then give 
em back to him after it 's over ? It would suv him 
right." 
Clementina listened for a moment of temptation, and 
then shook her head. " It wouldn 't do, Mrs. Atwell ; 
you know it wouldn t," she said, and Mrs. Atwell had 
too little faith in her suggestion to make it prevail. 
She went away to carry Clementina 's message to Mrs. 
Milray, and her task was greatly eased by the increas 
ing difficulty Mrs. Milray had begun to find, since the 
way was perfectly smoothed for her, in imagining the 
management of Clementina at the dance : neither child 
nor woman, neither servant nor lady, how was she to 
be carried successfully through it, without sorrow to 
herself or offence to others? In proportion to the 
relief she felt, Mrs. Milray protested her irreconcilable 
grief ; but when the simpler Mrs. Atwell proposed her 
going and reasoning with Clementina, she said, No, 
no ; better let her alone, if she felt as she did ; and 
perhaps after all she was right. 
XL 
CLEMENTINA listened to the music of the dance, till 
the last note was played ; and she heard the gay shouts 
and laughter of the dancers as they issued from the 
ball room and began to disperse about the halls and 've  
randas, and presently to call good night to one another. 
Then she lighted her lamp, and put the slippers back 
into the box and wrapped it up in the nice paper it 
had come in, and tied it with the notched ribbon. 
She thought how she had meant to put the slippers 
away so, after the dance, when she had danced her fill 
in them, and how differently she was doing it all now. 
She wrote the clerk 's name on the parcel, and then 
she took the box, and descended to the office with it. 
There seemed to be nobody there, but at the noise of 
her step Fane came round the case of letter-boxes, 
and advanced to meet her at the long desk. 
" What 's wanted, Miss Claxon ? " he asked, with 
his hopeless respectfulness. " Anything I can do for 
you ? " 
She did not answer, but looked him solemnly in the 
 
eyes and laid the parcel down on the open register, 
and then went out. 
He looked at the address on the parcel, and when 
he untied it, the box fell open and the shoes fell out 
of it, as they had with Clementina. He ran with 
them behind the letter-box frame, and held them up 
before Gregory, who was seated there on the stool he 
usually occupied, gloomily nursing his knee. 
" What do you suppose this means, Frank ? " 
Gregory looked at the shoes frowningly. " They 're 
the slippers she got to-day. She thinks you sent them 
to her." 
" And she wouldn 't have them because she thought 
I sent them ! As sure as I 'm standing here, I never 
did it," said the clerk, solemnly. 
" I know it," said Gregory. " I sent them." 
"You!" 
" What 's so wonderful ? " Gregory retorted. " I 
saw that she w anted them that day when the shoe 
peddler was here. I could see it, and you could." 
" Yes." 
" I went across into the woods, and the man overtook 
me with his wagon. I was tempted, and I bought the 
slippers of him. I wanted to give them to her then, 
but I resisted, and I thought I should never give 
them. To-day, when I heard that she was going to 
that dance, I sent them to her anonymously. That 's 
all there is about it." 
The clerk had a moment of bitterness. " If she'd 
known it was you, she wouldn 't have given them 
back." 
" That 's to be seen. I shall tell her, now. I never 
meant her to know, but she must, because she 's doing 
you wrong in her ignorance." 
Gregory was silent, and Fane was trying to measure 
the extent of his own suffering, and to get the whole 
bearing of the incident in his mind. In the end his 
attempt was a failure. He asked Gregory, " And do 
you think you 've  done just right by me ? " 
" I 've  done right by nobody," said Gregory, " not 
even by myself ; and I can see that it was my own 
pleasure I had in mind. I must tell her the truth, 
and then I must leave this place." 
" I suppose you want I should keep it quiet," said 
Fane. 
" I don 't ask anything of you." 
"And she wouldn t," said Fane, after reflection. 
" But I know she'd be glad of it, and I shain 't say 
anything. Of course, she never can care for me ; and 
there 's my hand with my w r ord, if you want it." 
Gregory silently took the hand stretched toward him 
and Fane added : " All I 'll ask is that you 'll tell her I 
wouldn 't have presumed to send her the shoes. She 
wouldn 't be mad at you for it." 
Gregory took the box, and after some efforts to 
speak, he went away. It was an old trouble, an old 
error, an old folly ; he had yielded to impulse at every 
step, and at every step he had sinned against another 
or against himself. What pain he had now given the 
simple soul of Fane ; what pain he had given that poor 
child who had so mistaken and punished the simple 
soul ! AVith Fane it was over now, but with Clem- 
 
entina the worst was perhaps to come yet. He could 
not hope to see the girl before morning, and then, 
what should he say to her ? At sight of a lamp burn 
ing in Mrs. Atwell 's room, which was on a level with 
the veranda where he was walking, it came to him that 
first of all he ought to go to her, and confess the 
whole affair ; if her husband were with her, he ought 
to confess before him ; they were there in the place of 
the child 's father and mother, and it was due to them. 
As he pressed rapidly toward the light he framed in 
his thought the things he should say, and he did not 
notice, as he turned to enter the private hallway lead 
ing to Mrs. Atwell 's apartment, a figure at the door. 
It shrank back from his contact, and he recognized 
Clementina. His purpose instantly changed, and he 
said, " Is that you, Miss Claxon ? I want to speak 
with you. Will you come a moment where I can ? " 
" I I don 't know as I'd betta," she faltered. But 
she saw the box under his arm, and she thought that 
he wished to speak to her about that, and she wanted 
to hear what he would say. She had been waiting at 
the door there, because she could not bear to go to 
her room without having something more happen. 
" You needn 't be afraid. I shall not keep you 
Come with me a moment. There is something I must 
tell you at once. You have made a mistake. And it 
is my fault. Come ! " 
Clementina stepped out into the moonlight with 
him, and they walked across the grass that sloped be 
tween the hotel and the river. There were still peo 
ple about, late smokers singly and in groups along the 
piazzas, and young couples, like themselves, strolling 
in the dry air, under the pure sky. 
Gregory made several failures in trying to begin, 
before he said : " I have to tell you that you are mis 
taken about Mr. Fane. I was there behind the letter 
boxes when you came in, and I know that you left 
these shoes because you thought he sent them to you. 
He didn 't send them." Clementina did not say any 
thing, and Gregory was forced to ask : " Do you wish 
to know who sent them ? I won 't tell you unless you 
do wish it." 
" I think I ought to know," she said, and she asked, 
" Don 't you ? " 
" Yes ; for you must blame some one else now, for 
what you thought Fane did. I  sent them to you." 
Clementina 's heart gave a leap in her breast, and 
she could not say anything. He went on. 
" I saw that you wanted them that day, and when 
the peddler happened to overtake me in the woods 
where I was walking, after I left you, I acted on a 
sudden impulse, and I bought them for you. I meant 
to send them to you anonymously, then. I had com 
mitted one error in acting upon impulse my rashness 
is my besetting sin and I wished to add a species of 
deceit to that. But I was kept from it until to-day. 
I hoped you would like to wear them to the dance 
to-night, and I put them in the post-office for you 
myself. Mr. Fane didn 't know anything about it. 
That is all. I am to blame, and no one else." 
He waited for her to speak, but Clementina could 
only say, "I don 't know what to say." 
" You can 't say anything that would bo punishment 
enough for me. I have acted foolishly, cruelly." 
Clementina did not think so. She was not indig 
nant, as she was when she thought Fane had taken 
this liberty with her, but if Mr. Gregory thought it 
was so very bad, it must be something much more 
serious than she had imagined. She said, " I don 't 
see why you wanted to do it," hoping that he would 
be able to tell her something that would make his 
behavior seem less dreadful than he appeared to think 
it was. 
" There is only one thing that could justify it, and 
that is something that I cannot justify." It was very 
mysterious, but youth loves mystery, and Clementina 
was very young. " I did it," said Gregory solemnly, 
and he felt that now he was acting from no impulse, 
but from a wisely considered decision which he might 
not fail in without culpability, " because I love you." 
"Oh ! " said Clementina, and she started away from 
him. 
"I knew that it would make me detestable!" he 
cried, bitterly. " I had to tell you, to explain what 
I did. I couldn 't help doing it. But now if you can 
forget it, and never think of me again, I can go away, 
and try to atone for it somehow. I shall be guided." 
Clementina did not know why she ought to feel 
affronted or injured by what he had said to her ; but 
if Mr. Gregory thought it was wrong for him to have 
spoken so, it must be wrong. She did not wish him 
to feel badly, even if he had done wrong, but she had 
to take his view of what he had done. " Why, sut- 
tainly, Mr. Gregory," she answered. " You mustn 't 
mind it." 
lt But I do mind it. I have been very, very selfish, 
very thoughtless. We are both too young. I can 't 
ask you to wait for me till I could marry " 
The word really frightened Clementina. She said, 
" I don 't believe I betta promise." 
" Oh, I know it ! " said Gregory. " I am going 
away from here. I am going to-morrow as soon as I 
can arrange as soon as I can get away. Good-night 
__[ " Clementina in her agitation put her hands up 
to her face. " Oh, don 't cry I can 't bear to have 
you cry." 
She took down her hands. " I 'm not crying ! But 
I wish I had neva seen those slippas." 
They had come to the bank of the river, whose 
current quivered at that point in a scaly ripple in the 
moonlight. At her words Gregory suddenly pulled 
the box from under his arm, and flung it into the 
stream as far as he could. It caught upon a shallow 
of the ripple, hung there a moment, then loosed itself, 
and swain swiftly down the stream. 
" Oh ! " Clementina moaned. 
"Do you want them back?" he demanded. "I 
will go in for them ! " 
" No, no ! No. But it seemed such a waste ! " 
" Yes, that is a sin, too." They climbed silently 
to the hotel. At Mrs. Atwell 's door, he spoke. " Try 
to forget what I said, and forgive me, if you can." 
" Yes yes, I will, Mr. Gregory. You mustn 't 
think of it any moa." 
G 
XII. 
CLEMENTINA did not sleep till well toward morning, 
and she was still sleeping when Mrs. Atwell knocked 
and called in to her that her brother Jim wanted to 
see her. She hurried down, and in the confusion of 
mind left over from the night before she cooed sweetly 
at Jim as if he had been Mr. Gregory, " What is it, 
Jim ? What do you want me for ? " 
The boy answered with the disgust a sister 's com 
pany manners always rouse in a brother. " Motha 
wants you. Says she 's wo ked down, and she wants 
you to come and help." Then he went his way. 
Mrs. Atwell was used to having help snatched from 
her by their families at a moment 's notice. " I pre 
sume you 've  got to go, Clem," she said. 
" Oh ; yes, I 've  got to go," Clementina assented, 
with a note of relief which mystified Mrs. Atwell. 
" You ti ed readin to Mr. Milray ? " 
Oh, no m no, I mean. But I guess I betta go 
home. I guess I 've  been away long enough." 
"Well, you 're a good gul, Clem. I presume your 
motha 's got a right to have you home if she wants 
you." Clementina said nothing to this, but turned 
 
briskly, and started upstairs toward her room again. 
The landlady called after her, " Shall you speak to 
Mis Milray, or do you want I should ? " 
Clementina looked back at her over her shoulder to 
warble, " Why, if you would, Mrs. Atwell," and kept 
on to her room. 
Mrs. Milray was not wholly sorry to have her go ; 
she was going herself very soon, and Clementina 's 
earlier departure simplified the question of getting rid 
of her; but she overwhelmed her with reproaches 
which Clementina received with such sweet sincerity 
that another than Mrs. Milray might have blamed her 
self for having abused her ingenuousness. 
The Atwells could very well have let the girl walk 
home, but they sent her in a buckboard, with one of 
the stablemen to drive her. The landlord put her 
neat bundle under the seat of the buckboard with his 
own hand. There was something in the child 's bear 
ing, her dignity and her amiability, which made peo 
ple offer her, half in fun, and half in earnest, the 
deference paid to age and state. 
She did not know whether Gregory would try to 
see her before she went. She thought he must have 
known she was going, but since he neither came to 
take leave of her, nor sent her any message, she de 
cided that she had not expected him to do so. About 
the third week of September she heard that he had 
left Middlemount and gone back to college. 
She kept at her work in the house and helped her 
mother, and looked after the little ones ; she followed 
her father in the woods, in his quest of stuff for walking- 
 
sticks, and advised with both concerning the taste of 
summer folks in dress and in canes. The winter came, 
and she read many books in its long leisure, mostly 
novels, out of the rector 's library. He had a whole set 
of Miss Edgeworth, and nearly all of Miss Austen and 
Miss Burney, and he gave of them to Clementina, as 
the best thing for her mind as well as her morals ; he 
believed nothing could be better for any one than 
these old English novels, which he had nearly forgot 
ten in their details. She colored the faded English life 
of the stories afresh from her Yankee circumstance ; 
and it seemed the consensus of their testimony that 
she had really been made love to, and not so very 
much too soon, at her age of sixteen, for most of their 
heroines were not much older. The terms of Greg 
ory 's declaraction and of its withdrawal were mystify 
ing, but not more mystifying than many such things, 
and from what happened in the novels she read, the 
affair might be trusted to come out all right of itself 
in time. She was rather thoughtfuller for it, and 
once her mother asked her what was the matter with 
her. " Oh, I guess I 'm getting old, motha," she said, 
and turned the question off. She would not have 
minded telling her mother about Gregory, but it would 
not have been the custom ; and her mother would have 
worried, and would have blamed him. Clementina 
could have more easily trusted her father with the 
case, but so far as she knew fathers never were trusted 
with anything of the kind. She would have been 
willing that accident should bring it to the knowledge 
of Mrs. Richling ; but the moment never came when 
 
she could voluntarily confide in her, though she was a 
great deal with her that winter. She was Mrs. Richling 's 
lieutenant in the social affairs of the parish, which 
the rector 's wife took under her care. She helped 
her get up entertainments of the kind that could be 
given in the church parlor, and they managed together 
some dances which had to be exiled to the tow r n hall. 
They contrived to make the young people of the vil 
lage feel that they were having a gay time, and Clem 
entina did not herself feel that it was a dull one. She 
taught them some of the new steps and figures which 
the help used to pick up from the summer folks at the 
Middlemount, and practise together; she liked doing 
that; her mother said the child would rather dance 
than eat, any time. She was never sad, but so much 
dignity got into her sweetness that the rector now and 
then complained of feeling put down by her. 
She did not know whether she expected Gregory to 
write to her or not ; but when no letters came she de 
cided that she had not expected them. She wondered 
if he would come back to the Middlemount the next 
summer ; but when the summer came, she heard that 
they had another student in his place. She heard 
that they had a new clerk, and that the boarders were 
not so pleasant. Another year passed, and towards 
the end of the season Mrs. Atwell wished her to come 
and help her again, and Clementina went over to the 
hotel to soften her refusal. She explained that her 
mother had so much sewing now that she could not 
spare her ; and Mrs. Atwell said : Well, that was right, 
and that she must be the greatest kind of dependence 
 
for her mother. " You ah going on seventeen this 
year, ain 't you ? " 
" I was nineteen the last day of August," said 
Clementina, and Mrs. Atwell sighed, and said, How 
the time did fly. 
It was the second week of September, but Mrs. At 
well said they were going to keep the house open till 
the middle of October, if they could, for the autumnal 
foliage, which there was getting to be quite a class of 
custom for. 
" I presume you knew Mr. Landa was dead," she 
added, and at Clementina 's look of astonishment, she 
said with a natural satisfaction, " Mm ! died the thut- 
teenth day of August. I presumed somehow you'd 
know it, though you didn 't see a great deal of em, 
come to think of it. I guess he was a good man ; too 
good for her, I guess," she concluded, in the New 
England necessity of blaming some one. " She sent 
us the papah." 
There was an early frost ; and people said there was 
going to be a hard winter, but it was not this that 
made Clementina 's father set to work finishing his 
house. His turning business was well started, now, 
and he had got together money enough to pay for the 
work. He had lately enlarged the scope of his indus 
try by turning gate-posts and urns for the tops of 
them, which had become very popular, for the front 
yards of the farm and village houses in a wide stretch 
of country. They sold more steadily than the smaller 
wares, the cups, and tops, and little vases and platters 
which had once been the output of his lathe ; after the 
