money do you think there is in that wallet?”
“Is it a large sum?” asked Paul, his curiosity aroused.
“Fifteen hundred dollars--perhaps a little more. You’re a brave boy.
But for you I should have lost it.”
“I am very glad to have been of such service,” said Paul. “If the thief
only knew what a purse he had lost he would feel like murdering me.”
“What made you suspect him? You must have sharp eyes.”
“I believe I have,” answered Paul, “but I was watching him closely as I
walked behind. I knew him to be a pickpocket.”
“How was that?” asked the young man.
“I once saw him in the court room at the Tombs, being tried for theft.
I have not seen him since, but I recognized him at once. I saw him join
you, and I suspected his motive at once.”
“You saw my condition?”
“Yes, I saw that you were not yourself.”
“I had been making a fool of myself by drinking too much. I hope you
don’t drink?”
“No, sir, never.”
“You are wise. Will you walk with me to my hotel?”
“Yes, sir, where are you staying?”
“At the Albemarle. Do you know where it is?”
“O, yes,” answered Paul, smiling. He felt that he would hardly have
been fit for a telegraph boy if he had not known the location of a
hotel so well known.
“I have been spending the evening with a few friends who live in an
apartment house near the park. The punch was remarkably good, and I
drank more than was good for me. I suppose you wonder why I didn’t ride
home, instead of walking?”
“It would have been safer, at any rate.”
“I had a headache and thought I might walk it off. At any rate,
I should feel better for being in the open air. But I found some
difficulty in steering straight, as I dare say you noticed.”
“Yes, sir, I observed it.”
“Then this fellow came along. He offered to accompany me home, and I
never suspected that he was a thief. I am afraid you will think me
rather green.”
“O, no; the man’s appearance might easily deceive you.”
“It did not deceive you.”
“No, for I had seen him before. But will you pardon me for saying that
you were imprudent in carrying around so large a sum of money at this
late hour?”
“You are quite right. I was a fool, and I am willing to admit it.”
It was not long before Paul and his new friend reached the hotel, which
is in the block above the Fifth Avenue.
“Come upstairs with me,” said the young man.
“If you wish it,” answered Paul.
“I do; I have some business with you, but I won’t keep you long.”
Paul followed his new acquaintance into a handsomely furnished chamber
on the third floor. He involuntarily thought of the poor tenement house
room in which he and old Jerry made their home, and he wondered whether
it would ever be his fortune to be as well lodged as the traveler from
Missouri.
“Why not?” asked Paul, hopefully.
“Sit down,” said the stranger, pointing to a chair. “I won’t keep you
long.”
CHAPTER XXIV. A ROOM AT THE ALBEMARLE HOTEL.
The stranger was tall and well formed. He had certainly showed moral
weakness in yielding to the fascinations of drink, but he looked like a
smart man of business.
“Wait a minute,” he said, “and I will talk to you.”
He went to a stationary washtub, and bathed his head freely.
“There,” he said, after he had rubbed his face vigorously with a towel.
“I feel fifty per cent better. There is nothing like cold water after
all.”
“Inside as well as outside,” added Paul, with a smile.
“That’s where you are right, my boy. Evidently your head is level. You
say you are a telegraph boy?”
“Yes sir.”
“How do you like it?”
“Fairly well--for the present.”
“You wouldn’t like to follow it permanently, eh?”
“No, sir; by the time I got to be fifty or sixty, I might like to
change to something else.”
“You might be able to retire on a fortune.”
“It would be a very small one, judging from my weekly pay.”
“I think myself, unless you are wedded to the business, you might pass
your time more profitably. What do you think you would like?”
“To enter some business house where I could rise step by step as I
deserved it,” answered Paul, with animation.
“You have the right idea. Now let me tell you why I inquire. In the
fall my father will establish a branch house here, with myself at the
head of it. I don’t mind telling you that if I had lost the money I
have with me, it is doubtful whether he would have trusted me so far.
Now, thanks to your prompt assistance, I have been spared the natural
result of my folly, and my father will never know the risk I have run.
So you see that you have rendered me an important service.”
“I am sincerely glad of it, sir.”
“I mean that you shall be, and on your account. If I establish myself
here, I shall want a young assistant on whose intelligence and fidelity
I can rely. Do you know any such person?”
“I hope you mean me,” said Paul eagerly. “It is just the opening I have
been looking for, for a long time.”
“I do mean you. Have you a father or mother?”
“No, sir; unhappily not.”
“Have you no one belonging to you, then?” asked the young man with a
look of sympathy.
“No, sir, I can’t say that I have. I live with an old man who is not
related to me. It is better than being alone.”
“Doesn’t he rely upon you to contribute to his support?”
“He does, but he need not. He is a miser and has money deposited in the
Bowery Savings Bank, and elsewhere, I expect. I think he has enough to
carry him through to the end of his life.”
“If he is a miser you probably don’t live very luxuriously.”
“We live in a poor room in an east side tenement house, sir,” answered
Paul.
“You are not contented with that, I take it.”
“No, sir; when I compare it with the place where I spent this evening,
it makes me mortified and ashamed.”
“You were at a party, you said?”
“Yes, sir, in a fine brown stone mansion up town.”
“Isn’t it a little unusual for a telegraph boy living in a tenement
house to be invited to a fashionable party?”
“Yes, sir, but these are very kind friends of mine, who overlook my
poor social position, and notice me as much as if I lived in a house as
good as their own.”
“I think they must be uncommon people, but I approve them for all that.
‘A man’s a man for a’ that,’ as Robert Burns says in his poem. That is,
it makes no difference whether he is rich or poor, whether he lives in
a palace or a hovel, if there is good stuff in him, he deserves honor.”
“I would like to see the whole poem,” said Paul. “I think Burns is
right.”
“So do I, but I must not forget that it is late, and I am keeping you
from your bed. I have not told you my name yet.”
“No, sir.”
“It is Eliot Wade. The firm name is William O. Wade & Co., of St Louis.
We have a wholesale clothing house, and propose to establish a similar
one in New York. Now, when this arrangement is effected, how can I
communicate with you?”
“If you will write to Paul Parton, A. D. T., No. ---- Broadway, I shall
receive the letter. If I leave the telegraph service before, I will
tell them where to send any letter which is received.”
“And in case both fail, you will be sure to learn our place from the
advertising columns of the newspapers. In that case, call and inquire
for me.”
“Thank you, sir. I will be sure to do so.”
“You will be likely to find it to your advantage.”
Paul, concluding that there was nothing more to be said, rose to go.
“Good night, Mr. Wade,” he said. “I consider myself lucky in having met
you.”
“I can return the compliment. But I have not yet got through with you.”
“I beg your pardon,” said Paul, resuming his seat.
“You don’t suppose I would send you away without an immediate
acknowledgment of the service you have done me tonight?”
“The future employment which you promised me I consider a very valuable
acknowledgment.”
“That will, I hope, prove so, but there is nothing like a bird in the
hand.”
As Eliot Wade spoke, he produced the wallet which had been saved to him
by the intrepidity and presence of mind of Paul, and drew therefrom a
bank note, which he tendered to Number 91.
“Accept that with my thanks added,” he said.
Paul looked at the bill and his face expressed the amazement he felt.
It was a hundred dollar bill!
“You don’t mean to give me so much as this, Mr. Wade,” he ejaculated.
“Why not?” asked the young man, with a smile.
“It is a good deal too much.”
“On the other hand, it is about fifty dollars too little. Ten per
cent on the sum saved would be one hundred and fifty dollars, and it
is worth that. However, I will reserve that for a future occasion.
Consider me fifty dollars in your debt.”
“You are very liberal,” said Paul earnestly, “and I heartily thank
you. You can imagine that a hundred dollars is a large sum to a poor
telegraph boy.”
“Now,” said the young man, smiling, “let me give you a piece of advice,
suggested by my own experience. Don’t drop into any drinking saloon on
your way home, or you may fall into the hands of a sharper, as I did.”
“I will remember your caution, sir,” said Paul, smiling.
“It may be safer for you to ride home, as the hour is late.”
“I will do so, sir. Good night and thank you.”
“It seems to me that you are born under a lucky star, No. 91,” said
Paul to himself. “In a single evening I have received a sum of money
equal to half a year’s wages. If old Jerry only knew it, I should not
dare to fall asleep in the same room with him.”
He took the green car whose terminus was the Grand Street Ferry, and in
less than half an hour he reached the door of his humble lodging.
He went upstairs and entered the bed chamber--which contrasted so
strongly with the handsomely furnished hotel room which he had just
left. He expected to find old Jerry fast asleep, but he was mistaken.
The old man was lying on his poor bed in a cramped position, his eyes
open, moaning piteously.
“What is the matter, Jerry?” he asked, approaching the bed.
“I am sick, Paul,” said the old man. “I--I am feeling very miserable!
Do you think I am going to die?”
CHAPTER XXV. OLD JERRY’S WEALTH.
Old Jerry certainly did look weak and miserable. His face seemed
thinner and paler than usual; his thin gray hair looked quite
disordered, and there were dark rings around his eyes.
“You look sick,” answered Paul, pityingly.
“Do you think I am going to die?” asked the old man, tremulously.
“Oh, no, not yet awhile,” answered Paul, in a cheering voice. “But you
must have a doctor.”
“No, no; I can’t afford it,” said Jerry, in alarm. “Doctors charge so
much. They--they seem to think a man is made of money.”
“Would you rather die,” Paul exclaimed, impatiently, “than pay for a
doctor’s attendance? What good will your money do you if you die?”
“You--you might ask the druggist for some medicine to help me. That
would be much cheaper.”
“That won’t do you; you need a doctor. If you don’t have one, you may
die before morning.”
Jerry was thoroughly frightened now. He made no further resistance, and
Paul summoned a doctor having an office on Grand Street.
When he saw Jerry, and felt his pulse, he looked grave.
“I think he is going to have a low fever,” he said.
“Is it catching?” asked Mrs. Hogan, nervously, for Paul had waked her
up, and asked her to come in.
The doctor smiled.
“O, no,” he said. “Don’t be alarmed. Pardon me for asking,” he said,
turning to Paul, “but does your grandfather--I suppose he is your
grandfather--eat regularly and sufficiently?”
“I am afraid not, sir.”
“He has lowered his system, I should judge, by lack of nourishing food,
and at present his vitality is very low.”
“I can easily believe it, doctor,” said Paul. “I will speak to you on
the subject later. Do you think he is going to have a fever?”
“Yes, a low fever, as I said--the revenge of outraged nature for a
violation of her rules.”
“Am I going to die?” asked Jerry, his parchment skin assuming a
greenish hue. “I--I want to live; I am not ready to die.”
“That depends on whether you follow my rules.”
“I will if--if you don’t make me spend too much money; I am
poor--miserably poor.”
“I will see that your rules are followed, doctor,” said Paul,
finding it hard to hide the disgust he felt at this characteristic
manifestation of the old man’s miserly disposition.
“I see you are a sensible boy,” said the doctor, approvingly. “Perhaps
I had better speak to you privately.”
“Very well, doctor. As we have no other room, will you step into the
entry?”
The doctor followed Paul out.
“Before you give your instructions,” said the telegraph boy, “I want
to say that Jerry--he is not my grandfather--is a miser, and has
deliberately deprived himself of the necessaries of life.”
“Has he money?”
“He has enough, I am sure, to pay what is needful, but it will be hard
to get him to spend it.”
“He must have nourishing food, and stimulating medicines, or he cannot
recover. His life is at stake.”
“Will he need a nurse?”
“I suppose you can’t attend to him?”
“No; I prefer to attend to my regular business, and hire some one.”
“Then do so, for the old man will require some weeks, at least, to
recover from the low point to which he has brought himself.”
“I think I can get Mrs. Hogan to take care of him. You may give her
your directions.”
First, however, Paul made the proposal to the good woman. “I’ll see
that you are paid,” he said. “If I can’t get the money out of Jerry, I
will pay it myself.”
“But, Paul, dear, I wouldn’t want to take the little you have. You’ve
no more than enough for yourself.”
“I will show you something, Mrs. Hogan, if you won’t let Jerry know.”
“Shure I won’t.”
Paul produced the hundred dollar bill, and filled the soul of Mrs.
Hogan with amazement.
“Where did you get it?” she asked, in wonder.
“It was given me by a gentleman whom I saved from being robbed of a
good deal more,” he answered. “You see, Mrs. Hogan, I am not so poor as
you suppose. I will pay you seven dollars a week, if that will satisfy
you, for your care of Jerry, but I will try to get him to repay me the
money, for his life depends on what we are able to do for him.”
The doctor, upon Mrs. Hogan’s acceptance of the office of nurse, gave
her instructions. To begin with, though late, he directed that some
tea and oatmeal should be prepared and administered to his patient to
reinforce his failing strength.
It was nearly one o’clock when Paul threw himself down on the lounge
with his clothes on, and fell into a sound sleep.
Old Jerry did not immediately improve. His strength was so far reduced
that it required time to rebuild his enfeebled constitution. Mrs. Hogan
proved a good nurse. Indeed, in her younger days she had acted in that
capacity, and was not ignorant of the duties.
When Paul came home the next evening, he found the nurse waiting to
speak to him.
“The doctor says Jerry must be undressed, and not lay with his clothes
on,” she said, “but old Jerry is so obstinate that he won’t agree to
it.”
“Jerry, you will feel a great deal better to take off your clothes,”
said Paul, in a tone of expostulation.
“No, no!” objected Jerry, in a terrified tone.
“And why not?” asked Mrs. Hogan. “Shure, the doctor knows what’s best
for you.”
But Jerry obstinately refused.
“It’s a quare frake the old man has, not to be undressed like a good
Christian,” observed Mrs. Hogan.
“I think I know his objection,” said Paul. “We won’t trouble him just
now.”
The next day at noon Paul called at the house, having a few minutes to
spare. Mrs. Hogan met him with a smile of triumph.
“We’ve took off his clothes,” she said, “and I’ve put a night gown on
him, and he’s lying as peaceful as can be.”
“Didn’t he refuse?” asked Paul, in surprise.
“No, and a good reason why. He was out of his head, and so I asked Mr.
McQuade, downstairs, to come up and help me. And niver a word the old
man spoke, but seemed dazed like.”
“Where are his clothes?” inquired Paul, eagerly.
“Shure there they are!” said the nurse, pointing to a pile of wretched
garments on a chair near the bedside.
“I’ll stay here ten minutes, Mrs. Hogan,” said Paul, “and give you a
chance to go to your room.”
“Thank you, Paul. I’ll go and make a bit of tay for the old man.”
Paul locked the door after her, and eagerly took up the shabby old suit
which had been worn for years by old Jerry. He instituted a careful
search, and found himself richly rewarded. In one pocket he found a
bank book on the Bowery Savings Bank. His eyes opened with amazement
when he found nearly three thousand dollars set down to the old man’s
credit. There was another book, marked the Union Dime Savings Bank, a
bank in the upper part of the city. On this book deposits were entered
to the amount of eight hundred and ninety dollars. Feeling something
stiff behind the lining of the coat, Paul hastily ripped it open, and
found a certificate of one hundred shares of Erie, then selling at
forty eight dollars per share. This appeared to be all, except a few
dollars in money.
“It is my duty to take care of them,” reflected Paul. “Mrs. Hogan is no
doubt honest, but others might enter the chamber who would not scruple
to rob the old man. I will take care of them, and deposit them in a
safe place.”
He made a hasty calculation, and found that the two savings bank
books contained deposits amounting to three thousand eight hundred
dollars. The value of the Erie stock he afterwards ascertained to be
four thousand eight hundred, making in all eight thousand six hundred
dollars.
“How strange that a man with so much money should be willing to live
so miserably!” he thought. “Probably he has shortened his life by this
means.”
At this point Mrs. Hogan reentered the room.
Paul had replaced the clothes on the chair, and she did not observe
that they had been touched.
“Is there anything you want, Mrs. Hogan?” asked Paul. “If so, I can
leave some money with you.”
“I might, maybe, need to send Mike out to the druggist.”
“Here’s a dollar, then.”
“Shure, Paul, you’re very kind to the old craythur, though he’s no kin
to you.”
“Oh, I expect to be paid back some time.”
“I’m sure you will. We’ll try to keep life in the craythur, though it’s
little he enjoys it.”
“Perhaps he enjoys it as much in his way as you or I.”
“Shure it’s little I’d enjoy if I lived like him.”
“I agree with you, Mrs. Hogan. But I must be going.”
About three o’clock there was a knock at Mrs. Hogan’s door. A woman of
thirty presented herself.
“Shure, and it’s I that am glad to see you, Mrs. Barclay,” said the
hospitable widow. “I haven’t set eyes on you since you went over to
live in Jersey City.”
“No, I don’t often get over here. Today I had to bring clothes to a
customer, and thought I’d come and see you.”
The visitor was Ellen Barclay, whom a strange chance--or was it
Providence?--had brought unwittingly to the poor home of her husband’s
father.
CHAPTER XXVI. ELLEN BARCLAY’S DISCOVERY.
Mrs. Barclay had only experienced a feeling of relief when her husband
failed to return to her. She had grown accustomed to taking care of
herself and the children without him, and his presence seemed likely
only to impose upon her an additional burden. Though she earned her
living in a humble way, she was fairly educated, and could sew neatly,
but a brief trial with the needle satisfied her that it would be
quite impossible to obtain the comforts of life for three persons in
that way. So she had mastered her pride, and entered the lists as a
laundress.
“And how are the children, Mrs. Barclay?” asked Mrs. Hogan.
“They are both well, thank God.”
“And do you never hear anything of their father?”
Mrs. Barclay’s face clouded.
“Yes,” she answered, “he came home a few days since, but only stayed
one day.”
“Didn’t he bring you any money then?”
“No; he borrowed some from me.”
“It’s a shame, so it is, in a great, strapping man like him to leave
you to work for the poor children.”
Mrs. Hogan had never seen Mr. Barclay, or she would have recognized him
in the man whom she helped drive away from his father’s room, and was
utterly ignorant of the relationship between him and the old man whom
she was nursing.
“I don’t know but it’s wrong,” said Ellen, “but I believe I should be
happy if I thought he would never come again. He has only brought me
trouble, and I dread his influence upon the children; we are better off
without him. But how are you getting along yourself, Mrs. Hogan?”
“I’ve no cause to complain,” answered the Irish widow. “I’m well, and
Mike and I pick up a living. Just now I’m taking care of a sick man in
the room across the entry. It’s an ould man--a kind of miser he is, I
surmise--and his name is the same as your own, Mrs. Barclay.”
The name of Barclay is not an uncommon one, but this statement seemed
to produce a strong impression on Mrs. Hogan’s visitor.
“An old man named Barclay?” she repeated.
“Yes.”
“How old, should you think?”
“I don’t know, but he’s all dried up, and wrinkled. He may be siventy.”
“May I see him?” asked the visitor, eagerly.
“Shure you may go in with me when I give him his medicine.”
Ellen Barclay followed Mrs. Hogan into the opposite room, and looked
with strange interest at the wan, emaciated old man stretched out on
the bed.
“I’ve brought your medicine for you, Jerry,” said Mrs. Hogan,
soothingly.
“Jerry!” exclaimed the younger woman. “Is his name Jerry?”
“Shure it is; and what thin?”
“My husband’s father was named Jeremiah. This may be he.”
“Have you niver seen him?” asked Mrs. Hogan, in surprise.
“Never; I did not know he was living till my husband’s recent visit.
Then he spoke of his father’s being a miser, and his expecting to get
some money from him.”
“Well, well; if I ever heard the like! As like as not old Jerry is your
father in law. I’ll soon see.”
“Jerry, do you want to see your own son?” she asked, bending over, and
addressing her patient.
An expression of alarm overspread the old man’s face.
“Don’t let him come in! Keep him away!” he exclaimed.
“Are you afraid of your own son, thin?” asked the nurse.
“He is a bad man; he tried to rob me,” said the old man, looking about
him fearfully.
“I do believe it’s that man I threw the bilin’ water on!” exclaimed
Mrs. Hogan, in surprise. “What’s your husband’s appearance, Mrs.
Barclay?”
“He is tall and thick set, and his hair is inclined to be red.”
“Has he a scar on his right cheek?”
“Yes.”
“That’s the same man I drove away last week, wid the bilin’ water. He
was trying to hurt old Jerry, wasn’t he, Jerry?”
“Yes, yes,” muttered the old man. “He’s a bad man, and he wanted to
take away all my money, and I’m so poor.”
“Is he so poor?” asked Mrs. Barclay.
“No, it’s only his fancy. He’s what you call a miser; that’s what Paul
says.”
“Where is Paul? Paul is a good boy!” murmured Jerry, half unconscious,
but his attention arrested by the familiar name.
“Yes, he is a good boy,” repeated Mrs. Hogan. “It’s he that engaged me
to take care of Jerry, when he was took sick, and he tould me he’d see
that I was paid.”
“How long has this boy been with him? I remember now Mr. Barclay
mentioned a telegraph boy. He didn’t seem to like him. I should like
to see the boy; perhaps he could tell me something of the old man, and
help me to decide whether he is really my husband’s father. On what day
did James call here?”
Mrs. Hogan told her.
“It was the day after he left me. You say he got no money?”
“No; but he would if I hadn’t come in.”
“It is strange he has not been here since.”
“No, it isn’t, Mrs. Barclay; he was took in by a policeman, and I
expect he’s on the Island.”
Ellen Barclay breathed a sigh of relief. Had her husband been the man
he should have been, such news would have brought sorrow and distress.
Now she regarded it as an augury of peace. While he was in confinement
he would not be able to molest her.
“When can I see this boy, Paul?” she asked.
“Paul is generally at home some part of the evening, though he’s liable
to come in at odd times.”
“I will try to come over tomorrow evening, if you think he will be at
home.”
“It would be a good thing for you if the ould man has money, as Paul
thinks,” said Mrs. Hogan, in a low voice.
“Not if my husband were free,” said Ellen Barclay.
“Thrue for you! He came near murderin’ the ould man. But there’s a dale
of virtue in hot water,” added Mrs. Hogan, with a laugh. “He made a
mistake when he tackled Bridget Hogan, I can tell him that, now.”
“I shall have to go now, Mrs. Hogan. I left the children alone.”
“Not without a cup of tay. I’m just goin’ to make some for the ould
man, and you’re welcome to a cup.”
“Thank you, Mrs. Hogan. I know of old that your tea is good.”
“It is that same, if I say so myself.”
“One thing I can’t understand,” said Ellen Barclay, thoughtfully. “You
say the telegraph boy pays you for taking care of this old man?”
“Yes, he does.”
“But where does he get the money? Telegraph boys are not usually paid a
big salary.”
“That’s thrue; but Paul is such a favorite he gets many presents. He’s
an honest boy, and it’s my hope my boy Mike will grow up just loike
him.”
“I will see him for myself tomorrow evening. If Jerry, as you call
him, is really my father in law, I ought to know it. He seems a very
different man from my husband. I can’t see any resemblance between
them.”
“That’s not strange, neither. Pat Hogan’s father was a little, dried up
shrimp of a man like ould Jerry here, and Pat was five tin, or tin feet
five, in his stockings I disremember which.”
“I think it must be five feet ten,” said Ellen Barclay, with a smile.
“No doubt you’re right, ma’am. But just come round tomorrow evenin’ and
see Paul, and then, maybe, you’ll find out all you want to know.”
CHAPTER XXVII. JERRY DISCOVERS HIS LOSS.
It was not until late in the afternoon that Jerry regained sufficient
command of his faculties to observe that his clothes had been removed.
He uttered a cry of alarm which brought Mrs. Hogan into the room.
She found the old man struggling to rise in bed, but without success,
so great was his weakness.
“Don’t try to get up, Jerry!” she said, soothingly. “Lie still, there’s
a good man!”
“Bring me my clothes!” gasped Jerry.
“And what for do you want your clothes?” asked Mrs. Hogan, supposing
that he wished to dress. “Shure the doctor said you must have them
taken off. It would be better for you.”
“Bring them to me--quick!” gasped the old man once more.
“Shure, and what will you do with them?”
“Never mind, woman! Bring them to me, or I’ll have you arrested for
robbing me.”
“O, that’s it, is it?” retorted the nurse, bridling. “If I couldn’t
find anything to stale better’n them, I’d remain honest to the end of
my life.”
“If you won’t bring them here, I’ll get up myself.”
“Take the clothes, thin,” said Mrs. Hogan, lifting them gingerly, as
though afraid of contamination. “Shure, I wouldn’t give two cents for
the lot of ’em.”
She little knew why Jerry valued them, and what a quantity of wealth
had been concealed in the soiled garments.
With trembling fingers, and features working with agitation, Jerry took
the clothes, and began to feel for his treasures. Alas for the old man!
His worst fears were realized. The bank books and certificate of stock
had been removed. Not a trace of them was to be found. The poor man,
for he was to be pitied, uttered a sharp cry of anguish. The clothes
dropped from his nerveless hands, and he fell back on the bed as if
stricken with a mortal wound.
“Help! Help! Police!” he ejaculated. “I’ve been robbed.”
“Robbed is it?” inquired Mrs. Hogan, puzzled. “And of what have you
been robbed, ould man?”
“There were two savings bank books in the pockets. You’ve taken them!”
“Well, well, if I ever heard the loike!” exclaimed Mrs. Hogan,
indignantly. “So you call me a thafe, do you?”
“Give them back to me!” said the old man, imploringly. “I--I am so
poor. It will kill me if I lose my money.”
“Two savings bank books, indade!” said Mrs. Hogan. “It’s my belafe
you’re an ould humbug, you that have always called yourself so poor.
And how much money was there in them?” she asked.
“I--I--no matter. Give me the books, or I’ll send for the police.”
“Go and welcome, this minute, if you please. You ought to know better
than to call an honest woman a thafe.”
“Somebody has taken the books,” wailed Jerry.
“Very likely Paul’s taken care of them for you. He was here alone with
the clothes.”
“Where is Paul?” demanded Jerry, with peevish eagerness.
“He’s at his work, but I’m expecting him back every minute. If he has
taken the books, they are all right. Paul’s an honest boy, and a fine
boy.”
“Do you think he would rob me, Mrs. Hogan?” asked Jerry, piteously.
“It’s a shame to be askin’ such a question,” said Mrs. Hogan. “Shure
you know Paul wouldn’t demane himself by such an act. But here he is to
answer for himself.”
She heard Paul’s step on the stairs, as he came up whistling. Directly
afterwards he entered the room.
“What’s the matter?” he asked, looking from one to the other.
“The ould man’s in a great taking about bein’ robbed, Paul,” answered
Mrs. Hogan. “He says some savings bank books have been taken from his
clothes.”
“Where are they, Paul?” wailed the old man.
“They are safe, Jerry. I took them from your pockets, and the railroad
shares, too, and have left them with a Safe Deposit Company, for safe
keeping.”
“Are you sure they are safe, Paul?”
“Yes, much safer than they would be here. Of course Mrs. Hogan is
honest, but other persons might come into the room.”
“Bring them back to me, Paul. I want to see them.”
“I can if you insist upon it, Jerry. But you are too sick to look after
them. Besides, suppose your son should come in some day. He could rob
you easily, and you would never see your property again. Shall I show
you the receipt for them?”
“Yes.”
Paul drew from his pocket the receipt given him by the Safe Deposit
Company, and displayed it to the old man.
“Let me keep this?” said Jerry.
“Yes, if you like.”
This seemed to satisfy him, and he clutched the paper with a deep sigh
of relief.
“Shure, and you’ve calmed him down, Paul,” said Mrs. Hogan. “Was it
really true about the books?”
“It was really true, Mrs. Hogan. He has a good deal of money, though he
doesn’t look it.”
“Thin it’s a fool he is to live as he does, whin he might live like a
gintleman.”
“He will never live differently. When he dies it will go to his son,
who will get through with it in short order.”
Then Mrs. Hogan told Paul about the visit of Ellen Barclay, and her
discovering a relation in old Jerry.
“I wish she might have some of the money. Shure, she nades it with her
young children.”
“I would much rather she would have it than his son, who is a ruffian
and a burglar.”
“And you’ll help her to it, if you can, Paul?”
“Yes, I will. I don’t want Jerry’s money myself. I am young, and my
prospects are good. All I want is that it should go into the right
hands.”
CHAPTER XXVIII. JERRY FINDS A NEW RELATION.
Ellen Barclay came over the next evening according to appointment, and
had an interview with Paul. She had at first been disposed to look upon
him with suspicion, as likely to divert Jerry’s money from his legal
heirs, but the interview dispelled all such ideas. The telegraph boy
was so frank and free spoken, and showed such an interest in helping
her, that she was strongly impressed in his favor. He even told her the
particulars of his first encounter with her husband, and in what manner
he had defeated his plan of gaining possession of Mr. Cunningham’s
money.
“Yes,” said Ellen, bitterly, “he is a husband to be proud of.”
“Has he always been as bad?” asked Paul.
“Yes; I had not been married to him a month before I found out that I
was wedded to a criminal. He treated me brutally, and I only breathed
freely when he was away from home. Within a year from the wedding day,
he was condemned to a year’s imprisonment, and at least half the time
since he has been in confinement.”
“Leaving you to support yourself, I suppose?”
“Yes, I have had to support myself and the children. Even when he was a
free man, he did little or nothing for the family.”
“How did you support yourself?” asked Paul.
“At first I undertook to maintain myself by the needle, but the
miserable pittance I received showed me that I must try some other
means of support. On inquiry I found that nothing paid as well as fine
laundry work for ladies. It was a trial to my pride, for I was well
brought up and educated, to take in washing for a living, but I would
rather do that than see my children suffer. So I stifled my pride and
became a laundress. I was fortunate in securing customers, and I have
wanted for nothing, neither have my children--nothing at least that
was necessary to comfort. But when my husband came home lately, and
proposed to put upon me the additional burden of his support, I became
discouraged.”
“I hope better days are in store for you,” said Paul.
“Not while my husband lives, and can find me out,” said Ellen Barclay,
sadly.
“Do you wish me to introduce you to your husband’s father?”
“Do you think it will be best?”
“We had better try the experiment at any rate. He may die, and if he
does his money ought to go to you.”
“It would be a great relief to me if my children would be provided for.”
“Follow me, then.”
Following Paul, Ellen Barclay went into the chamber occupied by old
Jerry.
The old man looked up, noticing Paul only.
“Do you think I will get well, Paul?” he asked.
“Yes, Jerry, if you receive proper care, and have nourishing food.”
“But--I am so poor, Paul.”
“That is a mistake, Jerry, as you and I know.”
“Don’t let any one know of the few dollars I have, Paul.”
“I won’t let your son know; he is the only one of whom you need be
afraid. Did you know he was married, and had two children?”
“I--I think he said something of it.”
“Would you like to see his wife?”
“I--I don’t know,” answered the old man, in an uncertain voice.
“This lady is your son’s wife,” said Paul, beckoning Ellen to come
forward.
The old man regarded her with an uneasy look. “I hope you are not like
James,” he said; “he is a bold, bad man!”
“No one knows that better than I, Mr. Barclay. It was a sad day when I
married him.”
“You have found him out, too?”
“Yes, to my sorrow.”
“You won’t try to get my money?” asked Jerry, anxiously.
“No, but I should like to bring my children here to see their
grandfather.”
“Are they--like him?”
“No, thank Heaven!”
“Then you may bring them.”
“I will. Can I do anything for you?”
“No, except to keep James away.”
“You have made a good impression on him,” said Paul, when they had left
the room together.
“Thanks to you,” said Ellen, earnestly. “You are a good boy, and an
unselfish one. Hereafter I shall trust you fully.”
CHAPTER XXIX. A NEW COMMISSION.
“If Number 91 is unemployed, send him to No. 75, Windsor Hotel, at
eleven o’clock.”
This message came to the telegraph office at which Paul was enrolled.
The superintendent called him to the desk.
“Here is a call for you, Number 91,” he said. “It comes from a lady,
Mrs. Louisa Holbrook. Do you know her?”
“No, sir.”
“Are you familiar with the name?”
“No, sir; I never heard it before.”
“She has evidently heard of you. It is now ten o’clock. At half past
ten you may start for the Windsor Hotel. If you arrive there before
eleven, you may wait till the hour, and then report at the room
indicated.”
“Yes, sir.”
Paul arrived at the Windsor Hotel at ten minutes before the hour. This
magnificent hostelry is situated on Fifth Avenue, and occupies the
entire block between Forty Sixth and Forty Seventh Streets. It is built
of brick, and has an air of quiet elegance which makes it a favorite
with ladies and others who like to be spared the noise and bustle which
attend other prominent hotels in the city. On the corner just above
stands the luxurious home of Jay Gould, the railroad king. A few blocks
above is the great Catholic Cathedral, destined one day to rank among
the famous churches of the world. Still further up, on the opposite
side, are the stately houses occupied by the Vanderbilt family. These
things, however, did not occur to Paul, for he was too familiar with
the leading buildings on the avenue to give them a special thought,
further than to reflect, “The men who occupy these fine houses were
once poor boys--many of them. I wonder whether it will ever be my
fortune to live as handsomely!”
It was only a thought, not seriously entertained. Paul wanted to rise,
but an active, healthy boy seldom thinks of luxury, or craves it. That
comes later, after he has attained manhood.
Paul entered the hotel, and, going up to the office, expressed a wish
to see Mrs. Louisa Holbrook.
“Were you sent for?” asked the clerk.
“Yes, sir.”
“Then you may go up at once. Here”--to a bell boy--“show this boy up to
No. 75, Mrs. Holbrook’s room.”
Though the room was only on the second floor, Paul followed the bell
boy into the elevator. At the second landing he got out, and followed
the hotel attendant to the door of a room fronting on the avenue. The
bell boy knocked, and a voice said, “Come in!”
“It is a telegraph boy, ma’am,” said the servant.
“He may come in, and you can go.”
Paul entered the room--a large and handsome one--and found himself in
presence of a lady not much over thirty years of age, with a pleasant
face and manner.
“You are Number 91?” she asked.
“Yes, ma’am.”
“I suppose you are surprised that I should have sent specially for
