"I shall see about having my house put in order at 
once. To-morrow at ten you may expect me. Can I 
stay to luncheon?" 

They all laughed. 

When he was gone Mrs. Townsend put her arm about 
Gertrude. 

"You will have a fine husband, dear, but I wish he 
was ten years younger." 

Gertrude thought she would not have him changed in 
the slightest respect. 



CHAPTER XIV. 

A DISCORD OF UNREASON. 

OVER their cozy breakfast Gertrude confessed her 
unsatisfactory attempt to convince her young ad- 
mirer that he had nothing to hope for and that even 
friendship now would be irksome. 

"I really did not think him in earnest, at least not 
marrying earnest. He will soon recover from his fancy. 
And the best step will be to announce your engagement 
at once." 

Gertrude turned a vivid scarlet. Was it actually true 
that she was engaged to the one man she felt she could 
love with fervent devotion, the man she had sometimes 
speculated upon, but never in the depth of her heart be- 
lieved she could win. 

"You see the idea is not new to me," continued her 
friend. "I like Con Murray extremely, but I did not 
mean he should shut you out of opportunities for 
judging whether younger men had not some subtle charm 
for you. I am not sure even / would like the disparity. 
People nearer of an age are more apt to have similar 
tastes and enjoyments. But his profession will keep him 
in touch with the younger ideas of life, the work and 
thoughts of to-day. And there is one particular mistake 
I hope you will avoid." 

A tint of color crept up in Mrs. Townsend's face, and 
she gave an airy sort of nod and smile as if she was not 
quite sure how her advice would be received. 



" O tell me whatever you think will benefit me and 
help me to make him happy." 

" My dear, let him try to make you happy for awhile. 
Young wives often offer too much devotion. But what I 
wished to say was that you must get used to seeing other 
women admire him, and you must not turn unduly jeal- 
ous. Women have been used to making much of him. 
They do have favors to ask of him and I think he is par- 
ticularly friendly to struggling feminines. There are 
many silly women in the world who have a fancy they 
can understand this or that particular man and make him 
happier than his wife does. There are others who make 
a bid for any man's admiration. And the wife who turns 
cold and silent and proud surely loses. Keep your right 
to try for his admiration as well as his love. A little ex- 
perience will teach you when to claim as well as when 
to refrain, and do not be too self-willed to make the en- 
deavor. You will find men are not perfection, but then 
neither are women." 

They both strayed away from the subject on which 
they had started. The mail came in and they were still 
sitting over the fruit when Mr. Murray entered. 

He walked around and kissed Gertrude with an air of 
proprietorship that quite amazed her, and drawing a 
chair sat down beside her. 

"Do you suppose I could have some coffee? I was 
up at six this morning, in the dark and dreary world be- 
fore there was any smiling sun. And it does not smile 
very cordially now." 

"That can make little difference to you in your pres- 
ent beatific state. You are a spoiled child and I ought 
to take you in training for Gertrude's sake. But you may 
have the coffee this morning." 





"Thank you at least twenty times." 

" You are moderate. I am glad to see you are not in 
an exaggerated frame of mind." 

Mrs. Townsend rang for the coffee. Gertrude felt 
oddly embarrassed, but Mr. Murray soon dropped into a 
half teasing and wholly delightful mood. Mrs. Town- 
send insisted with great apparent earnestness that she 
could not give up her secretary until the year expired. 

" But I have another to commend to you. A young 
woman who despises men and has forsworn matrimony." 

"I have no faith in women who despise men. They 
have generally been crossed in love and are soured, or 
have an eye on the next chance." 

" Then I will come myself and write your letters. I 
will allow Gertrude to pour tea or coffee on Saturday 
evenings, whichever is the least arduous." 

" Or renders her the least attractive." 

" Exactly. How quickly you guessed my meaning." 

"I knew you had some Bluebeard propensities." 

He nodded and laughed. 

"Now I am going to give you just half an hour. 
You may wander out to the reception-room." 

" And no chaperon ! How utterly delightful you are ! 
Gertrude, fortunately we will not go to Paris until next 
year; New York will be satisfactory to us." 

They walked out of the cozy drawing-room. Was he 
really her lover ? 

Mrs. Townsend looked after them in an amused fash- 
ion. She had a half feeling of elation that her protege 
had captured this man whom many a society girl had 
angled for. Yet she had not pinned much faith on his 
first fancy, and was pleased that Gertrude had not gone 
headlong into admiration for him. 





"I wonder," Gertrude said, after awhile, "if you can 
understand that I feel truly sorry for Sherburne, and have 
a vague misgiving that he will take the tidings of the " 

"The engagement," he appended, and she paused and 
colored in embarrassment. 

" Harder than any of us have thought. Will you 

tell him?" 

" I will do it as soon as possible. He has a good deal 
of temper and may flare up at first. But he must see — 
and I think he has some common sense." 

Gertrude gave a little sigh. " I wish it had not 
happened." Could she have averted it? His prefer- 
ence had flattered her. Any young girl it seemed to her 
might fall enthusiastically in love with him, if she had 
no other ideal. And she sincerely hoped it was one of 
the evanescent fancies. 

It was a strong one, however. He was the embodiment 
of young romance, and a first love with such inexperi- 
enced natures seems to pervade every fibre of heart and 
brain. He had a stubborn belief that devotion must win 
in the end even if it dethroned common sense for a 
season. Her charming friendliness he felt certain sprang 
from a deeper interest, and her way of holding aloof had 
piqued his vanity. A girl who had dropped into a flirta- 
tion, and had no quality but sweetness would soon have 
satiated him, and the fancy died from lack of that fine 
sustenance that holds a promise of better things to come. 

And now he was resolved not to give her up. He had 
a youthful belief that love must conquer from its very 
persistency, since he was quite sure she loved no one else. 

But the struggle made him impatient and a little irri- 
table. He could not study with the zest of the last fort- 
night, for he was continually planning how he could meet 





her again, and storing up arguments. He might throw 
up his present aims and find a business opening that 
would enable him to marry sooner. His brain was a 
chaos of half-formed plans. 

"I confess Sherburne puzzles me, and tries me as 
well," said Doctor Carew to his wife. "He has so 
much force and energy, so much quickness and ability, 
but I am afraid he is more brilliant than stable. Just 
when he raises your hopes and you feel he has reached 
a definite purpose, you find he has dropped down to the 
verge of indifference. I do wonder if his heart is sin- 
cerely in the profession he has chosen." 

"But remember how really young he is," returned 
Mrs. Carew. " His air and manner and general knowl- 
edge of the world make him seem older. There are 
many qualities so like his father. One can't help having 
high hopes for him." 

" And some of the young fellows who seem to promise 
most, never do anything especial. Now Ned isn't a bril- 
liant chap, but he has a great deal of persistence and is 
going to take his next degree with honors. I should like 
to have him in charge. And if I felt less responsibility 
for Sherburne, I might take it more lightly." 

" I am afraid you were born not to take things lightly," 
Lyndell said, with a smile. And the thought came into 
her mind as to how nearly his own sons would satisfy 
him in years to come ? How much real and lasting in- 
fluence did any individual exert? 

The world seemed mostly going at cross purposes with 
Sherburne Beaumanoir. How could he manage to see 
Gertrude again ? He made excuses to pass the house, 
he dropped in at the Kenneths'. Bertram wearied him 
with questions, he was so eager for every bit of knowl- 




edge, or else he had to recount some remarkable fact or 
discovery. He rebuffed Aunt Lyndell's attempts to draw 
him out of his abstracted mood. 

Uncle Con sent him an invitation to come and take 
supper with him at his rooms. lie had a bit of news for 
him. 

"Another piece of luck I dare say," the boy mused. 
" I wish I could strike luck somewhere. Three or four 
years is a long while to wait." 

But he went, and had a warm welcome. There was a 
real fire burning in the grate, and though the place was 
littered up bachelor fashion, it looked cozy and hospitable. 

"What have you been doing with yourself the last 
fortnight?" asked Uncle Con. "I have hardly seen 
you." 

"I have been busy about various matters," was the 
brief reply. He had not desired to see any one. 

" I hope you have not been gay and dissipated." 

" I have not been very gay." 

"Well, a little seriousness is good now and then." 

The waiter came in and began to prepare the table. 
Uncle Con eyed his guest. What made the usually 
bright fellow so serious ? 

"I hope you are in no money trouble, Sherburne," he 
began, kindly. 

"It isn't a present but a future contingency," and he 
gave a faint smile. "Uncle Con, do you know of any- 
thing in which in a few years a fellow could be realizing 
a fair salary? " 

" At business?" 

" Yes, I suppose it would have to be business. I am 
afraid I have not the genius to write a striking novel, or 
hit upon some invention to supply a long-felt want." 





"There needs to be some training. Are you tired of 
medicine? " 

" Perhaps not tired. It is so long to wait. And then 
there are several years spent in acquiring a practice." 

"And in business there ought to be several years' 
training, unless one has the money to secure a favorable 
partnership." 

The supper came in, a sort of high tea. They did not 
need the waiter and he was dismissed. Uncle Con 
started another subject, to find his nephew still abstracted 
to a certain degree. 

He suddenly roused. "Uncle Con," he began, 
"what was your news? Have you been writing a suc- 
cessful play ? ' ' 

"One could not be certain of the success in the 
writing. Plays have an uncertain first night. But I 
thought you might be interested in another outcome, 
which I hope will not be as uncertain. A change in my 
life " 

" O, are you going away again? Uncle Con, I almost 
envy you. It must be delightful to do just what one 
wishes." 

"I haven't always followed out my own fancies. I 
have been doing a good deal of what other people wished. 
We have to, in this life. Things are seldom ready-made 
for us." 

Sherburne seemed considering. "I don't know what 
you could do to surprise people in general," he ex- 
claimed, " unless you married." 

"Then I shall surprise them. That is exactly what I 
purpose to do." 

"And I envy you there," in a rapid, grudging tone. 
" If I could be five years older and have a competence? " 





Was the young fellow really dreaming of that ? Mr. 
Murray was surprised at his earnestness. He had 
treated the matter lightly in his thoughts. He had seen 
so many young loves. 

" Yes," he replied, to his former affirmation, " I have 
resolved to marry and have a real home of my own. I 
shall keep open house for all the nephews and nieces. 
And now you may guess. It is some one you have seen, 
some one you know quite well." 

Sherburne glanced intently at his uncle. There was a 
pretty widow he had met at Mrs. Townsend's who had a 
curious fashion of claiming Uncle Con — there was Mrs. 
Townsend. O no, that could not be. There were two 
charming western women who had been visiting in the 
city, and Uncle Con had taken them to the theatres and 
introduced them in several congenial circles. One, the 
elder, was an energetic newspaper woman. 

" You are such a general admirer of the sex that one 
would be a little puzzled to select any particular per- 
son." 

"You think so?" Uncle Con gave a soft delighted 
sort of laugh. " Yet you need not go very far. It is 
some one we have known for a year and a half, the girls 
longer than that." 

A sudden sharp breathless pang seized Sherburne. He 
looked steadily at his uncle, his eyes dilating, his lips 
losing their youthful gayety and settling into definite 
lines of obstinacy and doubt. A certain revelation crept 
in slowly, though he was trying to fight it every inch of 
the way. She had confessed to having an ideal, though 
she had strenuously denied the real lover. What mad- 
ness, what bewilderment had seized her ! 

" You must tell me," he said, huskily, and his eyes 





dropped. He seemed bracing for a blow and the bril- 
liant coloring faded. 

" It is Miss Maurice. I liked her a good deal the sum- 
mer at Melchias island. She was young and had seen 
nothing of the world, so I preferred she should go away 
with Mrs. Townsend. If she had met some one to her 
fancy that would have been the end of it. And it would 
not have been the first untimely fancy of my life, either." 

There was a sound in his voice meant for solace to the 
young fellow, who was impervious to comfort or reason 
just now. And the tender light in the elder's face mad- 
dened him. 

"I suppose she thinks you a good catch," he said, in 
what he meant for sarcasm, but the curl of the lip made 
it insolence. • " You have a fine position and your wife 
will be well received among attractive people and have a 
good many indulgences. Then your fortune is already 
established. She will not have to wait years, as she 
would if she took some* young man who had his to 
make." 

"You do her scant justice, I think. She could marry 
richer men if she cared for mere money." 

"The position counts for something. * And it must 
gratify a woman's vanity to capture a man who is made 
as much of by women as you are." 

Uncle Con laughed. He would have been angry if 
he had not known the other side of the case, for it 
seemed intended disrespect. 

"Of course it isn't for love," Sherburne flung out 
angrily. " She might love a young man, but when she 
deliberately chooses between youth and love, and a man 
double her age and all the material things of life — it is 
easy to see what has swayed her." 





Mr. Murray was displeased. 

" Do you know of her having done this, Sherburne? " 
he asked, incisively. " If you do not I cannot allow you 
to traduce the woman who has accepted me. For after 
all, I am not rich enough to be any overwhelming temp- 
tation. And I do think she is truthful enough to have 
declined my proffer if her affections were elsewhere en- 
gaged." 

That was the sting of it. He was not indignant at 
being betrayed, he could not accuse Gertrude Maurice of 
that ; he was angry that she had not loved him, and 
with the unreasonable faith of youth he was quite sure 
that in time he might have won her regard but for this 
interference on his uncle's part. 

" She liked me. She did the first day we met. I 
can't explain — I'm not used to dissecting people's 
feelings and writing them up. She has been — well, I had 
grounds to think she would have come to love me pres- 
ently. And I love her. I shall never love any one so 
much again. I shall never have faith in a woman's smiles 
or her sweet tones, if these can deceive. I suppose one 
cannot blame her for doing the best she could for herself. 
If you had not come — And Uncle Con, you are twice 
her age ! " 

He had that triumph over his rival — splendid youth. 
And boy-like, he made the most of it in his flashing eyes. 

" Not quite," returned Mr. Murray, with an aspect of 
imperturbable good humor. ''And I shall never be so 
near it again. She will be growing up to me. In ten 
years more I shall not be double her age." 

" But — it is a shame ! " 

" I should like to be set back ten years for her sake, 
yet they have been rich, satisfying years to me. But, 





Sherburne, suppose you go and present your case to her. 
Set it forth with all the advantages of youth. If you 
win I will relinquish her, though I confess I love her as 
well." 

" It would be of no use." Sherburne could not bring 
himself to admit that twice she had refused his overtures. 
He was too sore and angry and obstinate to be just to 
her. 

" I suppose a woman is the best judge of whom she is 
capable of loving," said the elder. 

Sherburne pushed away his chair and rose with an in- 
dignant gesture. All the rest of life would have a shadow 
over it, a sorrow through it. She could have been in- 
spiration to him and helped him to attain position, to work 
for prosperity, for her. What was the use of being rich 
and great if no one cared ! Just now there was no one 
in his world but Gertrude Maurice. What would the 
other achievements be to a lonely man. 

"Sherburne," said his uncle, with grave sympathy, 
"let us discuss the matter with a little reason. You 
really ought not to burthen your young manhood with 
an engagement. In a few years from this your ideal 
will change. Honestly I think you can find a more fit- 
ting mate when your time of real love comes. You will 
learn that youth has more than one fancy. If Gertrude 
had loved' you I should have cared enough about your 
future to take it in hand and smooth the path for you. 
You know your father would have felt hurt and disap- 
pointed in a step like this, while he is doing his best for 
you, has indeed given up his heart's desire that you 
should follow out your own bent." 

Sherburne stood by the window looking down on the 
street. He could not accept any friendly overtures from 





the man who was to marry Miss Maurice. All the de- 
lightful times were at an end. He had been deceived — 
since they both believed the same way they would make 
merry over his poor flouted love. • 

" My dear boy " 

That angered him afresh. At twenty, one had a right 
to a man's feelings and dignity. 

" Don't, Uncle Con ! Nothing can better it ! I can't 
talk about it. I — well I had better say good-night at 
once." 

" But we are not going to part this way." 

"I can't congratulate you. I suppose you will be 
happy enough without it. I've just got to fight it out 
and endure it. I can't stand anything more." 

He picked up his hat and took his coat on his arm, 
and the next instant had vanished. 

Mr. Murray gave a soft, half-amused whistle and 
looked at the door a moment as if the angry fellow might 
return. 

"He takes it harder than I imagined," he mused. 
Had Gertrude unconsciously or from love of amusement 
encouraged him ? Of course she knew when he proposed 
to visit her at home that she was a source of interest to 
him. Many girls would have enjoyed the flirtation. He 
could not see that she had been seriously at fault. Had 
his position biased her? She was doing very well, he 
knew that, but he wanted an unselfish regard. Was he 
quite sure he was getting it? 

Sherburne stopped in the hall to put on his overcoat. 
The night was sharp and cold as he emerged into it. He 
had a desperate feeling that he would like to do some- 
thing out of the ordinary course. Drinking he abhorred. 
There was a very respectable place where young men 





went to play, and in the private rooms there was regular 
gambling. But he had only a little money with him, 
and he had promised his mother that he would shun such 
places. 

So he tramped around scarcely noting whither he 
went. Then it came into his mind that he would go 
and have it out with Miss Maurice while he was in the 
humor. She had taken all the joy out of his life — why 
should she not know it ! 

Yet he hesitated a moment on the stoop. A lady and 
gentleman ascended the steps — he had seen them a time 
or two, and they all went in together. 

There were several other guests in the parlor. He sat 
down in a small reception-room and awaited Miss Mau- 
rice. It was some time before she came ; she had occu- 
pied the moments in working herself up to a desperate 
mood. 

He bowed with a cold politeness. It was extremely 
awkward, and somehow she had no heart for platitudes. 

" I am glad you have happened in," she began, with 
evident embarrassment. " There was something I wanted 
you to know." 

" Then I have been fortunate. I was not sure I would 
be welcome." 

• The voice had a touch of irony in it, and his demeanor 
was extremely lofty. It suddenly roused her sense of 
fun, and she wanted to laugh. That might have demol- 
ished the tragic aspect. 

"I want to tell you that — " she colored vividly in the 
pause, " that I am engaged. It is best that you should 
know it at once, as it will not be a long engagement." 

"You are very honorable." 

"You said that — while I was free — you should keep 





hoping." What made him take it so calmly, unless he 
had already been informed ? 

There was another long, awkward silence. She was 
really vexed with him. 

" I gave up my hope an hour or more ago," he said, 
at length, in a cold tone. He meant to be as impressive 
as possible. " I was taking supper with my uncle. It 
shocked and surprised me. I had not supposed you 
could be tempted with the goods of this world, merely." 

"I was not tempted by anything," she returned, with 
some spirit. " I will say now that I have long admired 
your uncle. Once I might have answered a suggestion 
in a manner to make it a proposal, and that was in our 
first acquaintance, and a time when temptation to such a 
step would have been doubly strong, as I was looking for 
a standing place in the world's great army and nothing 
seemed to promise a foothold. If I was not tempted 
then I am not likely to be tempted now when I have a 
secure position." 

" You mean me to infer that you love him," Sherburne 
commented, with the scornful incredulity of youth. 

" I love him," Gertrude Maurice said, simply. " For 
a year and more I have been comparing him with other 
men I have seen. It was a vague ideal in my mind, and 
I gave it no personality until we returned to the city. 
But when I met him again I knew what influence had 
shaped my ideal." 

" Well, you have idealized him to the most extravagant 
end. Let me tell you that you will be bitterly disap- 
pointed. I can see how a girl might marry a man double 
her age, but that she should set him above everything, 
when there are so many splendid men in the world ! " 

"I do not set him above every person. I admit 





frankly that there are nobler, better, wiser, grander men 
in the world. But he suits me. I am not a romantic 
girl. I should have to admire and esteem the man I 
love." 

"I don't see what you find in him to admire," he 
flung out, angrily. "He is generous and jolly and " — 
yes, he would say it — "commonplace." 

" And I am commonplace. I think you do not find a 
great many people in the world like Mrs. Drayton, even 
among geniuses," and she smiled. "And Mrs. Carew 
has such a fine, broad standard, and is so interested in 
the regeneration of mankind, indeed all the greater ques- 
tions of life. I am rather frivolous and I do like my own 
gratification in the things that please me. I suppose I 
am selfish. Mr. Murray has a good deal of penetration 
and understands human nature. I am quite sure he does 
not idealize me at all, and I shall not have to live up to 
a standard that requires thought and care every moment 
of one's life. It would wear me out." 

Her tone was a trifle impatient. 

And this was the girl he had thought would be his in- 
spiration ; who would watch every effort, who would not 
only encourage him to achieve his best, but would bring 
her own best, and so transfuse it into his life that it 
should bear fruit about which there should be no ques- 
tion, no claim. Perhaps Milton embodied the dream of 
illimitable youth in his often quoted line : 

" He for God only, she for God in him." 

" O if you are going to reduce marriage to this com- 
monplace level — " he paused and looked her over with 
his superior air — "well, then I shall be sorry for Uncle 
Con. He is worthy of something better." 





" I think we get from each other those qualities and 
affections that we are capable of inspiring, or drawing 
out. If deep answers unto deep, how much more shall 
soul answer to soul. But the cmestion or the desire must 
not be something of which the other soul is ignorant." 
