
" More than one does, no doubt. If he is against 
the bill he will be amused, as I am, and probably 
decline her invitations in the future. If he is for it 
and there is a good deal to be said in favor of the 
bill, only we cannot afford the appropriation at present he will make her think, as a reward for her 
excellent dinner, that she has secured his vote. 
Others may be influenced by having it thrashed out 
in these luxurious surroundings, so different from the 
chill simplicity of legislative halls. Those that she 
may be able to get in love with her, of course will 
believe nothing that is said of her, and when she 
travels from the Committees to the more or less indifferent members of both chambers, and gets to work 
on the nonentities whose convictions can always be 
readjusted by a clever and pretty woman, and whose 
vote is as good as North's or Ward's, you see just 
how much she can accomplish." 

" And if I have my salon, shall I come under suspicion of being a high-class lobbyist? " 

" There is not the slightest danger if you are careful 
to have only first-rate men, and avoid the temptation 



to make a pet of any bill. Besides, as I have told 
you, your position peculiarly fits you for having a 
salon. No one could question your motive in the 
beginning, and your tact would protect you always. 
Don't give up the idea, for its success would mean 
not only the best political society in the country, but 
a famous salon would tend to draw art and literature 
to Washington. And you are just the one woman who 
could make it famous ; and we 'd all help you. North 
would be sure to, his ambition for Washington is so 
great. He won't put his foot in this house. I never 
heard him discuss her, but I am convinced that he has 
seen through her for a long while." 

The next day Betty left a card on Mrs. Fonda and 
struck her from her list; but she carefully secluded 
her discovery from Mrs. Madison. 



XX 

SENATOR NORTH, until the last six days of the session, 
came twice a week to see her. She played for him, 
and they talked on many subjects in which they discovered a common interest, usually avoiding politics, 
of which he might reasonably be supposed to have 
enough on Capitol Hill. He told her a good deal 
about himself, of his early determination to go into 
public life, the interest that several distinguished men 
in his State had taken in him, and of the influence 
they had had on his mind. 

" They were almost demi-gods to my youthful enthusiasm," he said, " and doubtless I exaggerated their 



 

virtues, estimable as is the record they have left. But 
the ideals this conception of them set up in my mind 
I have clung to as closely as I could, and whatever the trials of public life I will tell you more 
about them some day the rewards are great enough 
if no one can question your sense of public duty, if no 
accusation of private interest or ignoble motive has 
ever been able to stand on its feet after the usual 
nine days' babble." 

"Would you sacrifice yourself absolutely to your 
country?" asked Betty, who kept him to the subject 
of himself as long as she could. 

He laughed. " That is not a fair question to ask 
any man, for an affirmative makes a prig of him and 
a negative a mere politician. I will therefore generalize freely and tell you that a man who believes himself 
to be a statesman considers the nation first, as a 
matter of course. Howard, for instance, nearly killed 
himself at the end of last session over a measure which 
was of great national importance. He should have 
been in his bed, and he worked day and night. But 
although it was touch and go with him afterward, it was 
no more than he should have done, for almost everything depends on the Chairman of a Committee ; and 
as Howard is a man of enormous personal influence and 
knows more about the subject than any man in Congress, he dared not resign in favor of any one. And 
yet he is accused of being hand-in-glove with one of 
the greatest moneyed interests in the country." 

" Is he?" asked Betty, pointedly. 

" Those are accusations that it is almost impossible 
to prove. Howard is a rich man, and his wealth is 
derived from the principal industry of his State, which 



 

is unquestionably monopolized by a Trust. It would 
be his duty to look after it in Congress in any case, 
as it is his State's great source of wealth ; so it is hard 
to tell. It does not interfere with his being one of 
the ablest legislators and hardest workers in the Senate 
and over matters from which he can derive no pos- 
sible gain. But the suspicion will lower his position 
in the history of the Senate." 

" Does any one know the truth about the Senate ? 
Even Bryce says it is impossible to get at it, the country is so prone to exaggeration; but estimates that 
one- fifth of the Senate is corrupt." 

" No one knows. The whole point is this : the Senate 
is the worst place in the world for a weak man, and 
there are weak men in it. A Senatorship is the highest honor to-day in the gift of the Republic, therefore 
ambitious men strive for it. A man no sooner achieves 
this ambition than he finds himself beset by many 
temptations. He is tormented by lobbyists who will 
never let him alone until he has proved himself to be a 
man of incorruptible character and iron will ; and that 
takes time. He also finds that the Senate is a sort 
of aristocracy, the more so as many of its members 
are rich men and live well. If he never wanted money 
before, he wants it then, and if he does not, his wife 
and daughters do. Then, if he is weak, he finds his 
way into the pocket of some Trust Company or Railroad Corporation, and his desire for re-election to 
retain his brilliant position multiplies his shackles; 
for if he proves himself useful, the Trust will buy his 
Legislature if it happens to be venal and keep 
him in his place. But these instances I know must be 
rare, for I know the personal character of every man in 



 

the Senate. One Senator who is nearing the end of his 
first term told me the other day that he should not 
return, for his experience in the Senate had given him 
such a keen desire to be a rich man that he should go 
into Wall Street and try to make a fortune. He is 
honest, but his patriotism is a poor affair. But if the 
Senate makes a weak man weaker, it makes a strong 
man stronger, owing to the very temptations he must 
resist from the day he enters, the compromises he is 
forced to make, and the danger to his convictions from 
the subtler brains of older men. And the Senate is 
full of strong men. But they don't make picturesque 
' copy ' for the enterprising press ; the weak and the 
corrupt do, and so much space is given them, as well 
as so much attention by the comic weeklies, which 
are regarded as a sort of current history, that the 
average man, who does not do his own thinking, 
accepts the minority as the type." 

He talked to her sometimes about his family life. 
His wife had been a beautiful and accomplished girl, 
the daughter of a Governor of his State, and he had 
married her when he was twenty-four. She had been 
a great help to him, both at home and in Washington, 
during those years when he needed help. She had 
not broken down until after the birth of his daughter, 
but that was twenty years ago, and she had been 
an invalid ever since. He spoke of this long period 
of imperfect happiness in a matter-of-fact way, and 
Betty assumed that by this time he was used to it. 
He alluded to his wife once as " a very dear old 
friend," but Betty guessed that she was nearly obliterated from his life. Of his sons he expected great 
things, but the larger measure of his affections had 

been given to his daughter, or it seemed so. now that 
he had lost her. 

During the last week of the Session she saw him 
from the Senate Gallery only, but she consoled herself 
by admiring the cool deliberation with which he 
worked his bills through, with Populists thundering on 
either side of him. 



XXI 

ON Thursday she not only witnessed the last moments 
of the last session of the Fifty- fourth Congress, but the 
initial ceremonies of the inauguration of a President of 
the United States. She had seen the galleries crowded 
before, but never as they were to-day. Even the Di- 
plomatists' Gallery, usually empty, was full of women 
and attache's, and the very steps of the other galleries 
were set thick with people. Thousands had stood 
patiently in the corridors since early morning, and 
thousands stood there still, or wandered about looking 
at the statues and painted walls. The Senators were all 
in their seats ; most of them would gladly have been in 
bed, for they had been up all night ; and the Ambas- 
sadors and Envoys were brilliant and glittering curves 
of color : the effect greatly enhanced by the Repub- 
lican simplicity of the men to whose country they were 
accredited. The Judges of the Supreme Court, in their 
flowing silk gowns, alone reminded the spectator that 
the United States had not sprung full-fledged from 
Nothing, without traditions and without precedent. 

What little is left of form in the Republic was 
observed. Two Senators and one Representative, the 



 

Committee appointed to call on the retiring President, 
who had just signed his last bill in his room close by, 
entered and announced that Mr. Cleveland had no 
further messages for the Senate, and extended his congratulations to both Houses of Congress upon the termination of their labors. The United States had been 
without a ruler for twenty minutes when the assistant 
doorkeeper announced the Vice-President, two pages 
drew back the doors, and Mr. Hobart entered on the 
arm of a Senator and took the seat on the dais beside 
his predecessor, who still occupied the chair of the 
presiding officer of the Senate. Then there was 
another long wait, during which the people in the 
galleries gossiped loudly and the Senators yawned. 
Finally the President elect and the ex- President, after 
being formally announced, entered arm in arm. Both 
looked very Republican indeed, especially poor Mr. 
Cleveland, who toiled along with the gout, leaning 
what he could of his massive figure upon an umbrella. 
The women stood up, and with one accord pronounced 
their President-elect as good-looking as he undoubtedly 
was strong and amiable and firm and calm and pious. 
Mr. Hobart took the oath of office, and after the 
necessary speeches and the proclamation for an Extra 
Session, the new Senators were sworn in by the new 
Vice-President, and Betty wondered how any man 
would dare to break so solemn an oath. 

As soon as the move began toward the platform outside, Betty escaped through the crowd and went home. 
As she drove down the Avenue, she heard the stupendous shout of joy, some fifty thousand strong, with 
which the American public ever greets its new President and the consequent show. Be he Republican or 



 

Democrat, it is all one for the day ; he is an excuse to 
gather, to yell, and to gaze. 

Betty turned her head and caught a glimpse of a 
bareheaded man on his feet, bowing and bowing and 
bowing, and of a heavy figure with its hat on seated 
beside him. She speculated upon the sardonic reflections active inside of that hat. 

She did not expect to see Senator North for at least 
twenty-four hours, but his card was brought to her 
while she was still at luncheon. She went rapidly to 
her boudoir, and found him standing with his overcoat 
on and his hat in his hand. 

Although he had been up all the night before and 
had not had his full measure of rest for a week, he 
looked as calm as usual, and there was not a hint of 
fatigue in his face nor of disorder in his dress. 

" You deserted us last night," he said, smiling. " I 
thought perhaps you would sit up and see us through." 

" I was up there at nine this morning and saw the 
Senate floor littered with papers. It had a very all-
night look. Have you had luncheon? Won't you 
come in?" 

" I should be glad to, but I haven't.time. I find I 
must go North to-night, and am on my way home to get 
a few hours' rest. I wanted to thank you for many 
pleasant hours in this room." His eyes moved 
about slowly and softened somewhat. It is not improbable that he would have liked to throw himself 
among the cushions of the divan and go to sleep. 

" Well ! You might postpone that until we part for 
life," said Betty, lightly. " You forget that Congress 
will convene in Extra Session on the fifteenth." 

" Yes, but there is no necessity for me to be here 



 

until some time in May at earliest. The principal 
object of the Session is the revision of the Tariff, and 
the new bill originates with the Ways and Means Committee. After it has been thrashed out in the House 
and returned to the Committee for amendments, it will 
be referred to the Finance Committee of the Senate. 
All that takes time. I am not a member of the Finance Committee this term, and I shall not return until 
the debate opens in the Senate. As to the Arbitration 
business, Ward will look after that. I would not stir if 
there were a chance of the Treaty coming back to the 
Senate in its original form, but there is not. When 
Ward telegraphs me I shall come down and cast my 
vote." 

His long speech had given Betty time to recover 
from his first announcement, and her eyes were full of 
the frank earnestness which had established the desired 
relation between herself and Senator North. 

" I am glad you are going to have a rest," she said ; 
" that is, if you are." 

" Oh, it is work that sits very lightly on me, and is 
very congenial : I am going to do all I can to allay 
this war fever in my own State. It is not too late 
to appeal to their reason; but it might be at any 
moment." 

" Well, at all events, you go to the bracing climate 
of the North. But I am sorry you go so soon. Mother 
cannot stay in Washington after the third week in May. 
I am afraid we shall not meet again until you come to 
the Adirondacks." 

"Ah, the Adirondacks!" he said. "Yes, I shall 
see you there. Good-bye." 

He did not smile. There were times when he 



 

seemed to turn a key and lock up his features. This 
was one of them. Betty felt as if she were looking at 
a mask contrived with uausual skill. 

He shook her warmly by the hand, however. " I 
forgot to say that I shall be in Washington off and on 
for a day or so. My wife remains here. It is still 
too cold for her in the North. Good-bye again." 

He left her, and she did not return to her luncheon. 



XXII 

BETTY, after several long and restless nights, decided 
that she was not equal to the ordeal of sitting down 
patiently in Washington awaiting the rare and flying 
visits of Senator North. If she could place herself 
quite beyond the possibility of seeing him before the 
first of June, she could get through the intervening 
months with a respectable amount of endurance, but 
not otherwise. Hers was not the nature of the patient 
watcher, the humble applicant for crumbs. She might 
put up with slices where she could not get the whole 
loaf, but her head lifted itself at the notion of crumbs. 
Her heart had not yet begun to ache. She determined 
that it should not until it was in far more desperate 
straits than now. When Lady Mary Montgomery, 
who was tired and wanted a long rest before Decem- 
ber, invited her to go to California, she accepted at 
once ; and, a week after the adjournment of Congress, 
went through the formality of obtaining her mother's 
consent. 



 

" Well," said Mrs. Madison, philosophically, " I have 
lost you for three months at a time before, and I suppose I can stand it again. I think you need a change. 
You 've been nervous lately, and you 're thinner than 
you were. As long as you don't marry I can resign 
myself quite gracefully to these little partings." 

"You're a dear, Mollyanthus. I only wish you 
were going with me, but I'll keep a journal for you 
and post it every night. I am glad you do not dis- 
like Harriet. Of course if you did I should not go, 
for it is too soon to turn her adrift." 

" She is inoffensive enough, poor soul, and so deep 
in her books that I should not know she was in the 
house if she didn't.come to the table." 

" Make Jack take her to the theatre once a week. 
She has promised me that she will go for a walk every 
day with Sally." 

" Sally says she is convinced Harriet is a Roman 
empress reborn, and may astonish Washington at any 
moment," said Mrs. Madison, anxiously. "Do you 
believe in reincarnation?" 

" I don't believe or disbelieve anything I don't understand. We none of us can even guess what is 
latent in Harriet for the matter of that I don't know 
what is latent in myself. I can only suspect. I don't 
think Harriet will ever go very deep into herself; she 
has not imagination enough. If circumstances are not 
too unfavorable, she may slip through life happy and 
respected, in spite of her tragic appearance : she is 
so slothful by nature, so much more susceptible to 
good influences than to bad. All of us possess every 
good and bad instinct in the whole book of human 
nature, but few of us have imagination enough to 



 



find it out. And the less we know of ourselves the 
better." 

" Betty, you certainly do need a change. You 
looked tragic yourself as you said that ; and if you 
became tragic it would mean something. I 'm afraid 
your conscience is tormenting you about Mr. Burleigh, 
and perhaps I did not do right in asking him to come 
to the Adirondacks ; but probably he would have come 
to the hotel, anyhow ; and if I did have to lose you " 

" You'll never get rid of me." And she went to 
her room to consult with Leontine. 

The night before she left Harriet came into her 
room and said timidly, 

" Betty, I sometimes wonder if you have told Mr. 
Emory the truth about myself " 

" Certainly not. Why should I tell Mr. Emory 
or anyone else? " 

" Well, he is so kind to me and we have become 
such friends, I thought perhaps you would think he 
ought to know." 

" That is pure nonsense. Do you suppose I tell my 
friends everything I know? No friend is so close as 
to demand to know more than you choose to tell him." 

" All right, honey ; but I am always afraid he will 
see my finger-nails when he is helping me with my 
lessons " 

" He is very near-sighted ; and I doubt if anyone 
would notice those faint blue marks unless they were 
looking for them." 

" Of course they seem the most conspicuous things 
I 've got, to me." 

"Are you happy here, Harriet?" asked Betty, 
gently. 



Harriet nodded and looked at her benefactor with 
glowing eyes. " Oh, yes," she said. "Yes yes. It 
is like heaven, in spite of the hard work they make me 
do. I 'm right down afraid of that old Frenchman, and 
when Professor Morrow shuts his eyes and groans, 
'Door d-o-o-r, Miss Walker, not d-o-u-g-h,' I could 
cry. But I 'm happy all the same, and I forgot that 
for a whole week." 

" Well, forget it altogether. And remember to have 
a thin travelling dress and a lot of summer things made. 
And of all people do not confide in Jack Emory or 
Sally Carter or any other Southerner." 



II 



Senator North, Miss Betty Madison, and several other 
Characters in this History go in search of a Moun- 
tain Lake and find an Ocean. 



BETTY never denied that she enjoyed her visit to California, despite the several thousand miles between the 
Atlantic and the Pacific coasts, and Senator North's 
rooted aversion to writing letters. She received exactly 
three brief epistles from him in almost as many months, 
but in one he said that he missed her even in the North, 
in another that Washington was not Washington without her, and in the third that he looked forward with 
pleasure to the cool Adirondacks and herself. And a 
woman can live on less than that. Betty read and 
re-read these simple and possibly perfunctory statements until they were weighted with love. 

And although she visited all the wonders of the most 
wonderful State in the Union, and was deeply grateful 
to them, they never pushed the man from the forefront 
of her mind for a moment. The egoism of love re- 
duces scenery to a setting and the splendors of sunset 
to a background. Betty thought of him by day and 
by night, in company and in solitude, but even the 
agony of longing to which her imagination sometimes 
rose contained no heartbreak. For the future was all 
over there, on the far side of the continent ; its grave- 
clothes were deep under lavender and rosemary. To 
think of him was a luxury and a delight, and would 
remain so until Imagination had been pushed aside by 
the contradictory details of Reality. Sometimes she 
wept pleasurably, but she smiled oftener. And still, 



 

although she laid no reins on her imagination, she refused to look beyond the summer among the Adirondack pines, the frequent and more frequent hours at the 
close of busy days. If pressed, she would doubtless 
have answered that she must bow to Circumstance, but 
that in Thought he was wholly hers. 



II 

BETTY reached her part of the Adirondacks late at 
night. There were two miles between the station and 
the house, and Jack Emory and Sally Carter came to 
meet her. They told her the recent news of the family 
as the horses toiled up the steep road cut through the 
dark and fragrant forest. 

" Aunt is unusually well and seems to enjoy interminable talks with Major Carter," said Emory. 
"Harriet is very much improved; she holds herself 
regally and sometimes has a color. She studied until 
the last minute, and even here is always at her books. 
I don't say she hasn't.intervals of laziness," he added 
with a laugh, " but she always pulls up ; and it is very 
creditable of her, for she is full of Southern indolence. 
She would like to lie in the sun all day and sleep, I am 
sure j although she won't admit it." 

" Does she seem any happier? She had suffered too 
much privation to have become really happy before I 
left." 

" I am sure she is " Jack began, but Sally interrupted him. 

" I think she is one of those people who hardly know 



 

whether they are happy or not. She seems to me to be 
in a sort of transition state. One moment she will be 
gay with the natural gayety of a girl, and the next she 
will look puzzled, and occasionally tragic. I think 
there must be a big love affair somewhere in her 
past." 

" I am sure there is nothing of the sort. Have the 
Norths come?" 

" Mrs. North is here, and the Senator brought her, 
but he had to go back ; for that disgraceful Tariff bill 
still hangs on. I believe we are to pay for the very air 
we breathe : a Trust company has bought it up. Oh, 
by the way, you have a new housekeeper; " and both 
she and Emory laughed. 

" Do you mean that old Mrs. Sawyer has left ? She 
was invaluable." 

" Her son wanted her to keep house for him, and she 
secured the services of a female from a neighboring 
village. Miss Trumbull is forty- odd and unmarried. 
She has a large bony face, the nondescript coloring of 
the average American, and a colossal vanity. We 
amuse ourselves watching her smirk as she passes a 
looking-glass. But she is an excellent housekeeper, and 
her vanity would be of no consequence if she would 
keep her place. The day we arrived she hinted broadly 
that she wanted to sit at table with us, and one night 
when John was ill and she had to help wait, she joined 
in the conversation. She 's a good-natured fool, but an 
objectionable specimen of that ' I 'm-as-good-as-you- 
are ' American. I've been waiting for you to come 
and extinguish her." 

" I certainly shall extinguish her." 

"She victimizes poor Harriet, whom she seems to 



 



think more on her level," said Miss Carter, not without unction. 

Betty could feel her face flush. " The sooner she 
puts that idea out of her head the better," she said 
coldly. " I am surprised that Harriet permits a liberty 
of that sort." 

" Harriet lacks pride, my dear, in spite of her ambition and what Nature has done for her outside. She 
is curiously contradictory. But that lack is one which 
persons of Miss Trumbull's sort are quick to detect 
and turn to their own account. Your housekeeper's 
variety of pride is common and blatant, and demands 
to be fed, one way or another." 

Mrs. Madison had not retired and was awaiting her 
daughter in the living-room. Betty found the household an apparently happy one. The Major was a 
courtly gentleman who told stories of the war. Harriet 
in her soft black mull with a deep color in her cheeks 
looked superb, and Betty kissed and congratulated her 
warmly ; as Senator North had predicted, the physical 
repulsion had worn away long since. The big room 
with its matting and cane divans and chairs, heaped 
with bright cushions, and the pungent fire in the deep 
chimney for the evenings were still cold looked 
cosey and inviting ; no wonder everybody was content. 
Even Jack looked less careworn than usual ; doubtless 
the pines, as ever, had routed his malaria. Only 
Sally's gayety seemed a little forced, and there was 
an occasional snap in her eye and dilation of her 
nostril. 

When Betty had put her mother to bed and talked 
her to sleep, she went to her own room and opened 
the window. She could hear the lake murmuring at 



 

the foot of the terrace, the everlasting sighing of the 
pines ; but it was very dark : she could hardly see the 
grim mountains across the water. Just below them 
was a triple row of lights. He should have been 
behind those lights and he was not. For the moment 
she hated politics. 

She closed the window and wrote the following 
letter : 

DEAR MR. NORTH, I am home, you see. Don't 
reply and tell me that the Tariff Bill surrounds you 
like a fortress wall. I am going for a walk at five o'clock 
on Saturday morning, and I expect to meet you somewhere 
in the forest above the north end of the lake. You can 
reach it by the path on your side. I shall row there. Do 
not labor over an excuse, my friend. I know how you 
hate to write letters, and you know that I am a tyrant 
whose orders are always obeyed. 

BETTY MADISON. 

" That should not worry him," she thought, " and it 
should bring him." 




As soon as she awoke next morning, she dressed and 
went downstairs. A woman stood in the lower hall, 
and from Sally's description Betty recognized Miss 
Trumbull. The woman's large mouth expanded in a 
smile, which, though correct enough, betrayed the 
self-satisfaction which pervaded her being. She was 
youngish-looking, and not as ugly as Miss Carter's bald 
description had implied. 



 

" Good-mornin'," she drawled. "I had a mind to 
set up for you last night, but I was tired. You like 
to get up early, don't you ? It 's just six. Miss Walker 
and Miss Carter don't git up till eight, Mr. Emory till 
nine fifteen, and your ma till eleven. The Major 's 
uncertain. But I'm real glad you like gittin' up 
early " 

"Will you kindly send me a boy?" interrupted 
Betty. " I wish a letter taken to the post-office." 

The woman came forward and extended her hand. 
" I'll give it to him," she said. 

" Send the boy to me. I have other orders to give 
him." 

As the woman turned away, Betty thought she detected a shade of disappointment on her face. " Has 
