offer of help.”
“Have you anything more to say to me, Mr. Wentworth?”
“No, unless to add that I generally get even with those who oppose me.
Indeed, I have a great mind to chastise you here and now.”
Gerald rose from his seat and confronted the angry man, but without
betraying any trace of excitement or fear.
“You are probably more than a match for me physically, Mr. Wentworth,”
he said, “but if you undertake anything of that kind you will meet with
a determined resistance.”
And as Wentworth looked into the boy’s resolute face he quite
understood that he spoke only the truth.
“No,” he said, after a brief pause, “I will bide my time. You may
repent of your folly and decide to come to terms with me. If you
don’t——”
He did not finish the sentence, for a man on horseback came galloping
up to the cabin. He checked his horse, and said inquiringly, “Is this
Mr. Bradley Wentworth?”
“I am he,” answered Wentworth, rising.
“Then here is a telegram for you. It came to Denver, and I have ridden
seventy miles to bring it to you.”
Wentworth tore open the message. It contained these words:
“Come home at once. The men are on strike. I can do nothing without
your authority.
  “MORGAN.”
“This is from my foreman. I am summoned home,” said Wentworth, looking
up. “How soon can I leave here?”
“At once. I engaged a wagon that will be here in fifteen minutes.”
In fifteen minutes Bradley Wentworth set out on his return. His mind
was so much occupied with the serious news from home that he left
without a word to Gerald, who stood watching the conveyance till it
disappeared behind a bend in the cliff.
“Now I am indeed alone!” he reflected, as his eyes rested sadly on the
poor cabin which he and his father had occupied for three years. “I am
alone in the world, with no friend, but with one powerful enemy.”
CHAPTER X.
AN UNEXPECTED VISITOR.
GERALD had often thought vaguely of the time when he would be left
alone. Between him and his father there had been an intimacy and mutual
dependence greater than usually exists between father and son. Now that
his father had passed away, a sudden feeling of desolation chilled the
boy’s spirits, and he asked himself what life had in store for him of
hope and happiness. But youth is buoyant, and Gerald was but sixteen.
He felt that he had something to live for. He would redeem his father’s
reputation, and instead of giving way to his feelings would fight
manfully the great battle of life.
But how? To what should he turn? He began to consider his resources.
First and most available was money. He emptied his pockets, and took
account of his worldly wealth. It amounted to one dollar and sixty-five
cents, all told.
“That isn’t much,” thought Gerald. “I shall have to go to work without
delay.”
He prepared supper as usual, but had small heart to sit down to it
alone. Little as he liked Bradley Wentworth he would have been glad to
have his company till he could endure the thought of solitude. But he
was not destined to eat by himself. Going to the door of the cabin just
as his simple preparations were made, he caught sight of an approaching
figure. It was that of a stranger, a strong, robust man of little more
than thirty, with a florid face and dressed like an English tourist.
“Hallo, there!” called out the stranger, as he caught sight of Gerald.
“Hallo!” responded Gerald.
“Is there any hotel round here?”
“Not that I know of, sir.”
“As I feared. I’ve been wandering round this confounded country till
I’ve got lost. It’s a beastly wilderness, that’s what it is.”
Gerald smiled. His experience of men was limited, and he had never met
a British tourist before.
“May I sit down awhile?” went on the newcomer.
There was a long seat built against the cabin, with the wall of the
latter for a back.
“Certainly, sir. I shall be glad of company.”
“Do you live here?”
“Yes, sir. I have lived here for three years.”
“I should think you’d commit suicide, I should, upon my word. Does no
one live with you?”
“Not now,” answered Gerald gravely. “My father died two days since.”
“Oh, I beg your pardon, I do indeed,” said the Englishman in a tone of
sympathy. “It wasn’t an accident, was it?”
“No, he had long been sick of consumption. I was feeling very lonely,
for he was only buried to-day.”
“I hope I don’t intrude. I wouldn’t do that on any account.”
“No; on the contrary I am glad to have company. I was about to sit down
to supper. If agreeable I shall be pleased to have you join me.”
“Supper!” repeated the tourist with sudden animation. “It is the one
thing I have been longing for. I haven’t eaten a particle of food since
morning, and didn’t know where to find any, though my pocket is full of
money.”
“I can’t offer you anything very inviting,” said Gerald, as he led the
way into the cabin. “I have some fish and potatoes, bread and coffee,
but I have neither milk nor butter.”
“Don’t apologize, my young friend,” interposed the Englishman. “It is
a feast fit for the gods. I have an appetite that will make anything
palatable. But where do you get your bread? There can’t be any bakers’
shops in this wilderness.”
“There are not. I make my own bread.”
“You don’t say so! And upon my word it is delicious.”
“It is fortunate that you are hungry,” said Gerald with a smile.
“No, ’pon honor, it isn’t that. It is really better than I often eat at
hotels. You really have talent as a cook.”
“I don’t think so. I don’t care for cooking, but have taken it up from
necessity.”
The tourist hadn’t exaggerated his appetite. He ate so heartily that
when the meal was concluded there wasn’t a crumb left. All the dishes
were empty.
“I ought to apologize for my appetite,” he said, “but I have been
rambling about ever since breakfast, and I find the air here very
stimulating.”
“Don’t think of apologizing!” returned Gerald. “I am glad you relished
my simple supper.”
“Now, if I were only sure of a bed, I should feel quite easy in mind.”
“I will gladly offer you a bed. This is the first night that I should
have been alone, and the solitude depressed me.”
“I will accept your kind offer thankfully. But you ought to know whom
you are obliging.”
The stranger drew from his pocket a card on which Gerald read the name:
  THE HON. NOEL BROOKE.
“I should be glad to give you my card, Mr. Brooke,” said Gerald, “but
here in this wilderness cards are not customary. My name is Gerald
Lane.”
“I am delighted to know you, Mr. Lane,” said the tourist offering his
hand cordially.
It seemed odd to Gerald to be called “Mr. Lane.”
“If you don’t mind, Mr. Brooke,” he said, “please call me Gerald. I
never thought of myself as Mr. Lane.”
“I will do so with pleasure, and it will seem easy and familiar, for I
have a Cousin Gerald. His name, too, is not unlike yours. He is Lord
Gerald Vane, son of the Marquis of Dunbar.”
“There is one essential difference,” said Gerald. “I am plain
Gerald—I can’t call myself a lord.”
“Oh, you are all sovereigns in America,” laughed the Englishman, “and
that is higher than the title of lord.”
“Perhaps you are a lord also?” suggested Gerald.
“No, Gerald, not at present. My father has a title, but my elder
brother will inherit that. However, that is of little importance here.”
“Have you been long in Colorado, Mr. Brooke?”
“About a month. I was told it was the Switzerland of America. So after
visiting your principal cities and having seen your famous Niagara, I
pushed on out here, but I didn’t reckon on there being no hotels, or I
might have stayed away.”
“There will be plenty of hotels in a few years. There are few
settlements as yet.”
“Just so. Excuse my saying so, but until that time comes I should
rather keep away. And you have actually lived here for three years?”
“Yes.”
“But why come here when there are plenty of places where you would have
enjoyed greater advantages?”
“We came here on account of my father’s health. He was in a
consumption, and the dry, clear air of this region is especially
favorable for any lung troubles.”
“Did he experience benefit?”
“Yes; he lived three years, when elsewhere he would probably have died
in twelve months.”
“But now you won’t stay here? You haven’t got consumption.”
“Not that I am aware of,” answered Gerald with a smile.
“Have you formed any plans?”
“No; I have not had time.”
“You ought to go to New York or Chicago. There would surely be an
opening in one of those cities for a clever boy like yourself.”
“Thank you for the compliment. There is one good reason, however, why I
cannot follow your advice.”
“Name it.”
“Money is necessary, and my poor father was unable to leave me any.”
“But this cabin?”
“That indeed belongs to me and the eighty acres adjoining, but it would
be difficult to sell it, nor do I care to do so. Some day, when the
country is more settled, it may be worth much more than at present.”
“You are right, Gerald. But you are not obliged to remain here. The
cabin and the land won’t run away.”
“That’s true. I mean to leave it and go somewhere, but my plans are not
formed yet.”
“Then let me help you form them. I want to make a prolonged tour in
this country, and I find it beastly dull without a companion. Come with
me!”
“But, Mr. Brooke, I am poor. I have less than two dollars in my
possession.”
“My dear fellow, what difference does that make?”
“But I can’t travel without money.”
“I offer you a position as my—private secretary, with a salary of—I
say now, I don’t know how much to pay you. We’ll call it four pounds a
week, twenty dollars in your money, if that is satisfactory.”
“But, Mr. Brooke,” exclaimed Gerald in astonishment. “I don’t
understand the duties of a private secretary, and I can’t possibly be
worth that money.”
“You won’t find your duties difficult. I call you my secretary, but
you’ll only have to keep me company.”
“I will do that with pleasure, Mr. Brooke.”
“Then it’s all settled, Gerald. Your hand upon it!”
The two clasped hands, and Gerald felt that this new friend would be a
good offset for his powerful enemy.
CHAPTER XI.
JAKE AMSDEN MAKES AN EARLY CALL, AND HAS A WARM RECEPTION.
THE next morning Gerald was up bright and early. He felt bound to
entertain his new employer, who was temporarily his guest, as royally
as possible. So he decided to make some fresh bread for breakfast, and
this would take him some time. Still all his preparations were made,
and breakfast all ready to be served before his companion awoke.
“He must be pretty tired,” thought Gerald. “I won’t wake him up, for
his business isn’t very pressing, and he will be glad of a good long
rest.”
He ate a little himself, for he had been up long enough to have a good
appetite, and seated himself on the settee in front of the cabin.
It was a charming morning, and as Gerald sat there, he felt that he had
good reason to be thankful. Yesterday he had felt alone in the world,
and had very little idea how he was going to make a living, but to-day
he found himself with a bright prospect ahead, and the promise of an
income which would have been satisfactory to many of double his age.
The state of the weather is apt to affect our spirits, and the clear
sunshine and cool bracing air had its effect on Gerald. From his seat
he could see at a distance of twenty-five miles the snowy top of
Pike’s Peak, looking on account of the clearness of the atmosphere not
more than five miles away. There were intermediate summits which, had
he been nearer, would have hidden the snowy crest of the grand old
mountain, but from where he was he could see clearly, rising above the
wooded slope.
“Colorado may be a wilderness, but it has grand scenery!” thought
Gerald. “Some time I must go to the top of Pike’s Peak. The view from
there must be great.”
He had entertained this wish before, but his father would not consent,
and, indeed as there was some danger of losing one’s way in case of a
sudden fog, his apprehensions were justified.
“How peaceful and beautiful everything looks this morning,” thought
Gerald.
But though Gerald was right, the peacefulness of the scene was soon
to be broken in upon by a human intruder on whom it produced no
impression.
As Gerald sat in quiet contemplation the figure of a man approached
rapidly. When he came nearer Gerald recognized his visitor as Jake
Amsden.
There was something hostile in Jake’s appearance, and there was an ugly
look on his face that indicated anything but friendship.
“Hallo, you young rascal!” he called out roughly, when he arrived
within earshot. “Why don’t you answer me?” he continued as Gerald
remained silent.
“I am no rascal, Mr. Amsden,” said Gerald in a dignified tone, “and I
don’t choose to be called one.”
“Oh, you’re puttin’ on frills, are you?” retorted Jake, halting where
he stood, and eying the boy with evident malevolence.
“If that’s what you call it, I am. If you will speak to me in a civil
manner I will answer you.”
“Oh, you will, will you?” sneered Amsden. “You’ll answer me any way.”
“Have you any business with me?”
“Yes, I have. You don’t think I’d come round here so early in the
mornin’ if I hadn’t?”
“I don’t know. I am not acquainted with your habits.”
“Has the gentleman gone that was stoppin’ here?”
“You mean Mr. Wentworth?”
“Like as not. I don’t know his name.”
“He went away yesterday.”
Jake Amsden appeared to receive this answer with satisfaction. He
wanted to be sure that Gerald was alone and unprotected.
“Ho ain’t comin’ back, is he?”
“Not that I know of.”
“Then you’re livin’ alone?”
“My poor father is dead as you know. Yes, I am alone in the world.”
“Look here, boy!” he commenced abruptly, “you asked me if I came on
business.”
“Yes.”
“Well, I have,” and the visitor eyed Gerald with a sinister glance.
Gerald suspected that Jake had heard of his visit to Pete Johnson’s
saloon, and wanted to hold him responsible for the loss of the stolen
wallet. He was not alarmed, knowing, as Jake Amsden did not, that he
had a friend within call.
“State your business,” he said calmly.
“I’ll do just that. Gerald Lane, you’ve played me a mean trick.”
“Go ahead! Tell me what it is.”
“You came to Pete Johnson’s and stole a wallet full of money from me
when I was asleep. Now it ain’t no use your denyin’ that you was there,
for Pete Johnson told me all about it.”
“I don’t intend to deny it. Mr. Wentworth and I called at Pete
Johnson’s saloon when you were lying under the counter.”
“No matter where I was. I’m a gentleman, and if I choose to lie
down under the counter of my friend Pete Johnson, it’s none of your
business.”
“Oh, I don’t care to interfere with you. You can lie there every night
if you like, so far as I am concerned.”
“Of course I can, but that ain’t business. Where’s that wallet you took
from me? Answer me that, you young jackanapes!”
“I took no wallet from you.”
“Then the man that was with you did.”
“That is nothing to me. Tell me, Jake Amsden, where did you get that
wallet, and the money that was in it?”
“It was my wallet.”
“And the money was yours, too, I suppose?”
“It’s none of your business any way. It was in my pocket when I lay
down and when I got up it was gone. You needn’t go to deny it, for Pete
Johnson saw it taken.”
“Look here, Jake Amsden!” said Gerald in a fearless tone, “the wallet
and money were stolen by you from Mr. Wentworth, and he only took what
belonged to him.”
“That’s a lie!”
“It’s the truth.”
“Did you see me take it?”
“No, but my father woke up in the night, and saw you bending over Mr.
Wentworth. That was when you took the wallet.”
“Your father was dreamin’! It’s all a made up story. Jake Amsden ain’t
no thief.”
“I shan’t call you any names. I only tell you the facts in the case.”
“Look here, boy, you’re mighty independent for a kid. Do you know who I
am?” and Jake, with his arms akimbo, faced Gerald threateningly.
“I know who you are very well, Mr. Amsden.”
“Mr. Amsden! Well, that’s all right. You’d better be respectful. Do
you know what I’ve come here for?”
“Suppose you tell me.”
“I’ve come here to thrash you within an inch of your life.”
“What for?” asked Gerald, who didn’t seem as much overwhelmed as Jake
Amsden anticipated.
“For robbin’ me of a wallet full of money.”
“I told you already that I had nothing to do with taking the wallet.
You must see Mr. Wentworth about that.”
“But he isn’t here.”
“You may see him again some time.”
“That don’t go down. He’s gone away, but you are here. I’m goin’ to
take it out of your hide.”
“I am only a boy, Mr. Amsden. Won’t you let me off?”
Gerald seemed alarmed, and Jake Amsden was pleased at the impression
his threats appeared to have made.
“How much money have you got about you?” he demanded.
“Not quite two dollars.”
“Didn’t your father leave you any?” asked Jake, incredulous.
“My father was a very poor man. He had no money to leave.”
“Then it’s all the wuss for you, youngster. I’m goin’ to tan your hide,
and don’t you forget it!”
Jake slipped off his coat, and advanced in a menacing way.
Gerald dodged him, and tried to escape. For a time he succeeded in
eluding the grasp of his antagonist, and the delay only infuriated
Amsden the more.
At last he managed to catch Gerald, and with a savage cry of triumph
bore him to the ground.
“Now I’ve got you!” he exclaimed, “and I’m goin’ to pound you till you
won’t know where you are.”
He pinioned Gerald to the earth, and the boy would have fared very
badly, but for the timely assistance of his guest.
Jake Amsden was preparing to carry out his threat, when something
unexpected happened, and he was under the impression that he had been
struck by a cyclone. The English tourist had been awakened by the
discussion, and comprehending from what he heard that Gerald was in a
tight place, he hastily threw on his clothes, and at the right time
darted out of the cabin, seized Jake by the collar with one hand while
with the other he planted a blow in his face, nearly stunned him, and
dragging him from Gerald hurled him forcibly upon the ground six feet
away.
“Jumpin’ Jehosaphat! What have I struck?” muttered Jake, looking around
stupidly, as he lay on his back without attempting to get up.
[Illustration: “Allow me to introduce myself,” said the Englishman. “I
am the Hon. Noel Brooke of England.”—Page 93.]
CHAPTER XII.
AN INTERNATIONAL COMBAT.
“EXCUSE my want of ceremony,” said Noel Brooke nonchalantly. “I would
have waited for an introduction but there wasn’t time.”
“Who are you?” gasped Jake Amsden.
“Allow me to introduce myself,” said the Englishman, raising his hat as
ceremoniously as if he were addressing a Chicago millionaire. “I am the
Hon. Noel Brooke, of England, at your service.”
“An Englishman? That is worse than all. That Jake Amsden should live to
be floored by an Englishman!”
“My friend, I hope that is no disgrace. There are plenty of your
countrymen who could floor me.”
“But I can’t understand it,” said Jake, rising with difficulty from his
recumbent position. “You don’t weigh within twenty-five pounds of me.”
“It isn’t always weight that counts—it’s science. I learned how to box
when I was at Eton.”
“I think I could lick you in a fair fight,” went on Jake, surveying the
trim figure of his antagonist, who was at least three inches shorter
than himself. “You hit me when I wasn’t lookin’.”
“True enough! Would you like to try it again?”
“Yes.”
“I’m ready.”
Gerald awaited the result not without anxiety. Certainly the two
did not look very well matched. Jake Amsden was a broad-shouldered,
powerfully built man of five feet ten, and would tip the scales at a
hundred and eighty pounds. Noel Brooke was three inches shorter, and
did not look to weigh over a hundred and fifty.
“I am afraid Jake will be too much for him,” he thought, “and if he is,
it will be my turn next.”
Evidently Jake was of the same opinion.
“Why, you’re a Bantam compared to me,” he said. “You’ll think you’ve
been struck by a cyclone.”
“Strike away—cyclone!” said the Englishman calmly.
Jake Amsden took him at his word. He advanced confidently, waving his
arms like a flail, and tried to overwhelm his opponent at the first
onslaught. But, intent on attack, he did not provide for defense, and
received a powerful blow for which he was unprepared, and which quite
staggered him. Now he began to get angry and renewed the attack with
even less prudence than before. The result may easily be guessed.
A blow behind the ear prostrated him, and he resumed his recumbent
position.
“That’s the end of the first round,” said the Englishman with unruffled
composure. “Will you try another?”
“No, I’ve got enough,” returned Amsden, raising himself on his elbow.
“I say, stranger, you’re a reg’lar steam engine. Do all Englishmen
fight like that?”
Noel Brooke laughed.
“Not all,” he said, “but some Americans fight better. I put on the
gloves in New York with a member of the Manhattan Athletic Club, and he
served me as I have served you.”
“I’m glad of that.”
“You have no hard feelings, I trust, my mountain friend.”
“No, but I’m glad you’ve found your match in America.”
“And you perhaps feel the same, Gerald?” said Mr. Brooke.
“I am a true American boy, Mr. Brooke,” returned Gerald.
“You are right there, and I respect you the more for it, but we won’t
let any international rivalry interfere with our friendly feelings.”
“Agreed!” said Gerald cordially.
“Now,” continued Noel Brooke, turning to Amsden, “you’ll tell me why
you attacked my young friend here.”
Jake Amsden looked a little sheepish.
“I thought he didn’t use me right,” he answered.
“Suppose you tell me the particulars. I’ll arbitrate between you.”
“He took a wallet full of bills from me when I was drunk.”
“I didn’t take it,” said Gerald. “It was the gentleman who was with me
that took it.”
“How came you with a wallet full of bills?” asked the Englishman.
“I found it.”
“Where did you find it?”
“I can’t remember exactly where.”
“Then I will help you,” put in Gerald. “You found it in our cabin
during the night, when Mr. Wentworth, our visitor, was asleep.”
“That puts rather a different face upon the matter, it strikes me,”
said the tourist.
“Mr. Wentworth owed me some money anyway,” retorted Amsden doggedly.
“He owed you money? What for?” asked Gerald in unfeigned surprise.
“He hired me to hunt for some papers that he said were in your cabin
somewhere.”
“Is this true?” demanded Gerald in amazement.
“Yes; it’s true as preachin’.”
“And was that why you came there that night?”
“Yes.”
“You came for the papers?”
“Yes.”
“How about the wallet?”
“I saw it on the floor and I thought I’d take it—payment in advance.”
“Do you believe this story, Gerald? Do you know anything about the
papers this man speaks of?” asked Mr. Brooke.
“Yes, I think his story is true as far as that goes. My father had some
papers which Mr. Wentworth tried to buy, first of my father, and next
of me. They were the records of a debt which he owed father. But I
didn’t think he would stoop to such means to obtain them.”
“What kind of a man is this Wentworth?”
“I cannot consider him an honorable man, or he would have treated us
differently.”
“What are his relations with you?”
“Unfriendly. He will do me an injury if he gets a chance. But I will
tell you more of this hereafter.”
“I have heard your story, Mr. Amsden,” said the Englishman, “and I am
obliged to decide against you. You had no right to tackle Gerald——”
“It was hard on a poor man to lose so much money,” grumbled Amsden.
“No doubt, only it happened that it was money to which you had no
rightful claim.”
“You don’t know what is it to be poor, squire.”
“I have no doubt it is very uncomfortable, but there are others who
are in the same condition. Gerald here is poor, but he doesn’t pick up
wallets belonging to other people. I advise you to go to work—there
are few Americans who don’t work—and no nation is more prosperous. Go
to work, and you won’t have so much reason to complain.”
“That’s all very well to say, but if a fellow hasn’t a cent to bless
himself with, it’s a poor lookout.”
“Are you so poor as that?”
“If gold mines were sellin’ for a nickel apiece, I couldn’t raise the
nickel,” asseverated Amsden in a melancholy tone.
“Come, that’s a pity. I didn’t know any American was ever so poor
as that. As I’ve knocked you down twice, perhaps it is only fair to
compensate you for affording me such a chance for healthful exercise.
Here, my friend, here are two silver dollars, one for each time I
floored you.”
“You’re a gentleman!” exclaimed Amsden, his face lighting up with
satisfaction as he pocketed the coins. Then, as he turned, a sudden
idea struck him, and he asked insinuatingly: “Wouldn’t you like to
knock me down ag’in, stranger?”
“No, I think not,” responded the tourist laughing. “However, we’ll
suppose I have, and here’s another dollar.”
“Thank you, squire.”
Jake Amsden departed with alacrity, making a bee-line for his friend
Pete Johnson’s saloon.
Gerald and his friend then sat down to breakfast, which, it is
needless to say, they both heartily enjoyed. As they rose from the
table a knock was heard at the cabin door.
Gerald answered it in some surprise, for visitors and calls were
infrequent, and found outside a man of about forty, holding by the hand
a boy of twelve.
CHAPTER XIII.
A VICTIM OF INJUSTICE.
THE man who stood before Gerald was dressed like a mechanic in a
working suit somewhat the worse for wear, but he had an honest,
intelligent face that inspired confidence. He had an anxious look,
however, as if he were in some mental trouble.
“Good morning,” said Gerald courteously. “Won’t you come in and share
our breakfast?”
On hearing this invitation the boy’s face brightened up.
“You are very kind, and I accept thankfully,” said the father. “Oscar
and myself are both hungry, for we have eaten nothing since one o’clock
yesterday.”
“Come in then,” said Gerald hospitably.
“I ought perhaps first to explain how I happen to be here in such a
plight.”
“I shall be glad to hear your story, and so will my friend, Mr.
Brooke, but you must breakfast first. Then you will feel probably in
much better condition for talking.”
Though Gerald and his guest had eaten heartily there was enough left
for the two new arrivals, and it was very evident that both thoroughly
enjoyed their meal.
“I hope I haven’t taken up your time,” said the visitor as he pushed
back his chair from the table. “And now, as in duty bound, I will tell
you my story.”
“Don’t think we require it,” said Gerald courteously. “The slight favor
we have done you gives us no right to ask your confidence.”
“Still you look friendly and I am glad to tell you about myself. I am,
as you will judge from my appearance, a working-man, and have ever
since I attained my majority been employed in woolen mills. The last
place where I was employed was at Seneca, in the factory of——”
“Bradley Wentworth?” asked Gerald quickly.
“Yes. Do you know him?” inquired the stranger in surprise.
“Yes; he has been making me a visit here. If you had come here
twenty-four hours earlier you would have seen him.”
“Then I am glad I was delayed.”
“Why? Has he wronged you?”
“I don’t know whether I can rightly say that, but he has treated
me without mercy. Let me explain. Fifteen years ago I was employed
in an Eastern factory. Among my fellow-workmen was one I thought
my friend. We were so intimate that we occupied the same room at a
factory boarding-house. All went well. I received excellent wages,
and had money laid by. My companion, as I soon found, was given to
extravagance, and frequently indulged in drink, so that he found it
hard work to make both ends meet. Then he began to borrow money of me,
but after a time I refused to accommodate him any further. He earned
the same wages as myself, and I felt that he ought to maintain himself
without help as I did.
“The result of my refusal was to make him my enemy. He said little but
looked ugly. Though I did not expect it he schemed a revenge. One day a
pocketbook containing money was missing from an adjoining room. A fuss
was made, and a search instituted, which resulted to my utter dismay
in the pocketbook being found in my trunk. It contained no money, but
a couple of papers which attested the ownership. Of course I asserted
my innocence, but no one believed me. The proof was held to be too
convincing. I was brought to trial, and sentenced to three months’
imprisonment. That imprisonment,” he continued bitterly, “has shadowed
all my life since. Of course I could not get back to the factory where
I had been employed, and I went to another State. I was left in peace
for ten months when one of my fellow-workmen made his appearance and
told the superintendent that I had served a sentence of imprisonment
for theft. I was summoned to the office, informed of the charge, and
had to admit it. I was instantly discharged. To assert my innocence was
of no avail. ‘You were found guilty. That is enough for us,’ said the
superintendent.
“I had to leave the factory. I found employment elsewhere, but was
hounded down again, and by the same man. But before denouncing me, he
came to me, and offered to keep silent if I would pay him a hundred
and fifty dollars. I raised the money, but the treacherous scoundrel
did not keep faith with me. He went to the superintendent, and told
him all, exacting that the source of the information should not be
divulged. So I was sent adrift again, knowing very well, though I
couldn’t prove it, that Clifton Haynes had betrayed me.”
“Why didn’t you thrash the scoundrel?” asked Noel Brooke indignantly.
“It would only have increased the prejudice against me,” answered the
visitor wearily.
“Well,” he continued, “I needn’t prolong the story, for it is always
the same. I went from one factory to another, but this man followed
me. When we met he had the assurance to demand another sum of money
in payment for his silence. I had no money to give him, nor would I
have done so if I had, knowing his treachery. The result was that
again I was discharged. A year ago I went to Seneca, and obtained
employment from Mr. Wentworth. Month after month passed and I began
to congratulate myself, when one unlucky day Haynes again made his
appearance. He tried to extort money from me, but though I had some, I
refused to bribe him. He went to Mr. Wentworth and denounced me. I was
discharged unceremoniously, though I told him my story and appealed to
his humanity. Then at last, in my despair and anger, I lay in wait for
Haynes, and gave him an unmerciful beating until he roared for mercy.”
“Good! good!” exclaimed the Englishman, clapping his hands, “you served
the scoundrel right.”
“I always think of it with pleasure, though I am not a revengeful man.”
“Were you arrested?” asked Gerald.
“Yes, but I escaped with a fine which I paid gladly. I am glad to say
when it got out that Haynes had dogged me so persistently none of the
men would associate with him, and he was obliged to leave the factory.”
“I wish I had been Mr. Wentworth,” said Brooke. “I would have retained
you in my employ even if you had been guilty in the first place. I
don’t believe in condemning a man utterly for one offense.”
“I wish more men were as charitable as yourself,” said John Carter, for
this, as he afterward informed Gerald, was his name.
“But how did you happen to come to Colorado?” asked Noel Brooke.
“I was tired of persecution. In fact I had been employed in so many
factories, all of which were now closed against me, that I decided to
earn a living some other way. I had a little money left, and I traveled
westward. I came to Colorado because it was a new country, and there
must be something here for an industrious man to do. It has been rather
hard on poor Oscar,” he added with an affectionate glance at his son.
“For latterly my money gave out, and we have more than once gone
hungry, as we would have done to-day but for your kindness.”
He was about to rise and leave the cabin but Gerald stopped him.
“Wait a minute, Mr. Carter,” he said. “I have an arrangement to
propose.”
Carter regarded him with a glance of inquiry.
“I have made an engagement to travel with my friend, Mr. Brooke,”
Gerald went on, “and this cabin will be untenanted. If you are willing
to occupy it you are welcome to do so. You will be sure to find some
employment, and if not you can hunt and fish. What do you say?”
“What can I say except that I am grateful? I am not afraid but that
I can make a living for myself and Oscar, and I shall not live in
constant fear that Clifton Haynes will find me out and expose me.”
“I wish he would happen along about this time,” said Noel Brooke. “I
should like nothing better than to get a chance at the fellow. One
thrashing isn’t enough for him.”
“I think you would make thorough work with him, Mr. Brooke,” said
Gerald laughing.
“I would try to at all events,” rejoined the Englishman.
“If you want any certificate attesting your prowess you have only to
refer to Jake Amsden.”
“Jake Amsden,” exclaimed John Carter in surprise. “Why, he is the man
for whose crime I suffered. He was the man who stole the wallet and put
it in my trunk to incriminate me.”
CHAPTER XIV.
JAKE AMSDEN TURNS OVER A NEW LEAF.
NOW it was the turn of Gerald and Mr. Brooke to look surprised.
“Why, I thrashed Jake Amsden within an hour,” said the tourist, “for an
attack upon Gerald.”
“He doesn’t seem to have improved then,” said Carter. “Does he live
hereabouts?”
“Yes.”
“Is he in business in this neighborhood?”
“His chief business,” answered Gerald, “is to get drunk, and when he
can’t raise money any other way he steals it.”
“Evidently he is the same man. He is the cause of all my misfortunes.”
“Here he is coming back!” said Gerald suddenly.
“Good!” exclaimed the tourist. “I have some business with him.”
Jake had evidently visited Pete Johnson’s saloon again, judging from
his flushed face and unsteady gait. Still he was in a condition to get
around.
“Stay in the cabin till I call you!” whispered Noel Brooke to Carter.
“Well,” he said, turning to meet Amsden, “have you come back for
another boxing lesson?”
“No, squire,” answered Jake.
“What then?”
“I thought you might like a guide, considerin’ this is your first visit
to Colorado. Don’t you want to go up Pike’s Peak?”
“I have engaged Gerald here to go about with me.”
“He’s a boy. He don’t know nothin’ of the country.”
“He will satisfy me as a companion better than you.”
“If you’re goin’ away, Gerald,” said Amsden with unabashed assurance,
“won’t you let me live in the cabin till you come back?”
“It has been engaged by another tenant,” answered Gerald.
“Who is it? It isn’t Pete Johnson, is it?”
“No, I don’t propose to let my cabin for a saloon.”
“You’re right, boy. You’d better let me have it.”
“But I told you that it was already promised to another party.”
“Who is it?”
“An old acquaintance of yours.”
At a signal from Noel Brooke John Carter came out, leading Oscar by the
hand. He looked earnestly at Jake Amsden. It was the first time in many
years that he had seen the man who was the prime mover in the events
that had brought about his financial ruin. He would hardly have known
Jake, so much had his appearance suffered from habitual intemperance.
Jake Amsden on his part scanned Carter with curious perplexity.
“Do I know you?” he asked.
“You knew me once. I have good reason to remember you,” answered John
Carter gravely.
Something in his voice recalled him to Amsden.
“Why, it’s Carter,” he said, “John Carter. How are you, Carter, old
fellow? It does me good to set eyes on an old friend.”
Carter was unprepared for this cordial welcome, and when Jake Amsden
approached with hand extended, he put his own behind his back.
“I can’t take your hand, Jake,” he said. “You’ve done me too much harm.”
“Oh, you mean that old affair,” said Jake in an airy tone. “I did
act meanly, that’s a fact, but we’re both older now. Let bygones be
bygones. It’s all over now.”
“It isn’t all over. That false accusation of yours has blighted my
life. It has driven me from factory to factory, and finally driven me
out here in the hope that I might begin a new life where it would no
longer be in my way.”
“I’m sorry for that, Carter,” said Jake Amsden. “’Pon my soul, I am. I
know it was a mean trick I played upon you, but it was either you or I.”
“And you ruined this man’s reputation to save your own?” said Noel
Brooke sternly.
“I didn’t think much about it, squire, I really didn’t,” said Jake.
“You see I run in a hole, and I was ready to do anything to get out.”
“It was the act of a scoundrel, Amsden. There is only one thing to do.”
“What is it? Take another lickin’?”
“No, that wouldn’t mend matters. You must sign a confession that you
committed the theft of which Carter was unjustly accused, so that he
may have this to show whenever the old charge is brought up against him
hereafter.”
“I’ll do it, squire. I’d have done it long ago if I’d known.”
“It is better late than not at all. Come into the cabin, both of you.”
His orders were obeyed, and after asking questions as to details he
wrote out a confession exonerating John Carter and laying the blame on
the right party. Gerald furnished him with pen, ink and paper.
“Now,” he said, when the document was completed, “I want you, Jake
Amsden, to sign this and Gerald and I will subscribe our names as
witnesses.”
“All right, squire, I’ll do it. You must not mind the writin’ for I
haven’t handled a pen for so long that I have almost forgotten how to
write.”
Jake Amsden affixed his signature in a large scrawling hand, and the
two witnesses subscribed after him.
“Now, Mr. Carter,” said Noel Brooke, as he handed him the paper,
“keep this carefully, and whenever that scoundrel who has made it
his business to persecute you engages again in the same work you can
show this document, and it will be a satisfactory answer to his base
charges.”
“I thank you, Mr. Brooke,” said Carter in a deep voice. “You cannot
conceive what a favor you have done me. I feel that a great burden
has been lifted from my life, and that it has passed out of the shadow
