thing. And oh? when can I see--?
(She breaks off, with a devout expression, and moves away; joins the
upper group of spirits. Two of these can be seen to meet and embrace
her, and lead her on.)
       [Vanish MRS. TRUE.
Enter JERRY, the loafer, hurriedly and
stumbling. His robe is of dull blue,
something in the fashion of a smock-frock,
or butcher’s blouse.
JERRY (staring about him stupidly, and with a kind of social
embarrassment, as if he had been suddenly introduced into a
drawing-room). Div-niver a cint in me pocket, and me hoofin’ it in this
quaer counthree. (Scratches his head, and mutters unintelligibly.) ...
I wondher where the ... sinsible saints I’m at.
DR. THORNE (steps forward; speaks). Why, Jerry! How are you, Jerry?
(Holds out his hand heartily.)
JERRY (staring). Sinsible saints, and silly sinners! Doctor Thorne?...
Why, I thought you was dead. Hilloa, Doctor! (Grasps the doctor’s hand,
and shakes it violently. Then meditatively.) Ye took a t’orn out av me
eye onct, and div-niver a cint did ye charrge for ’t.
DR. THORNE. What are you doing here, Jerry? How did you get here?
JERRY. I was knocked down by a blame bicycle underneat’ a murdherin’
trolley car. Nixt I know I don’t know nothin’, an’ now, behold me, I’m
let loose loafin’ in this quaer counthree.
DR. THORNE. Not drunk, were you, Jerry?
JERRY (shaking his head gravely). I shwore off, Doctor. I shwore off
t’ree years ago. Me little gurrl she give me no repose till I shwore
off.... She died jist av the hospittle, did me little gurrl.... Say,
Doctor, do ye know what’s the thramp laws in this counthree?
       Enter NORAH hastily.
NORAH. Doctor--Doctor Thorne? Have you seen--oh, there he is! There’s me
father! Why, Father, Father dear! (Caresses JERRY affectionately.)
JERRY. Och! wisha, wisha! Norah, me darlint! (Returns her caresses
tenderly.) What luck for the likes of us arrivin’ emigrants thegither
in this agra-able counthree!
NORAH (puts her arm in his). Come yonder wid me, Father. (Draws him
away.)
JERRY (looks back over his shoulder at DR. THORNE). Is it to
confession we do be goin’, Norah?--the wan av us arrivin’ be way of a
murdherin’ doctor, and the wan be way av a murdherin’ trolley! I’m
thinkin’, sir, it’s niver a cint to choose bechune.
       [Exeunt JERRY and NORAH.
DR. THORNE (watches their departure drearily; turns, and walks feebly
towards the brook; speaks). Now I think of it, I have not tasted food
or drink since I have been in this place. I believe I am downright
faint.
(Drinks water from the brook in the palm of his hand; sinks beneath the
low boughs of a tree on thick moss. His head falls upon his arm. From a
distance, and from a height, slowly moving downwards, over the beautiful
landscape, robed in cream white, and unseen by DR. THORNE,
       Enter MRS. FAYTH.
As she approaches, it can be seen that her robe also is clasped across
the breast by a little golden cross.)
SPIRITS BEYOND (softly chant the Te Deum).
    “We praise Thee, O God: we acknowledge Thee to be
       the Lord”--
(Midway of the landscape, and playing merrily,)
       Enter the Two Children.
FIRST CHILD (running to MRS. FAYTH). Oh, here I am! (He clasps her
hand; clings to her affectionately.)
MRS. FAYTH (to Second Child). Run yonder and play, Maidie.
(Second Child obeys prettily, and joins the spirits above. MRS. FAYTH
and the First Child move slowly to the front of the landscape.)
THE CHILD. See that poor man under the tree! I think he’s a hungry
man--don’t you?
(He breaks away from MRS. FAYTH, and runs to DR. THORNE; examines
the exhausted man attentively, bending forward with his hands on his
little knees. MRS. FAYTH advances slowly, with her mysterious smile;
she does not speak.)
THE CHILD (touches DR. THORNE timidly; after a silence speaks,
ceremoniously). Would you like a peach, or do you like plums instead?
I’ll pick you one.
DR. THORNE (arousing). Who spoke to me? Oh, it is a child. (Sinks
back feebly.)
(The Child gathers some fruit from the trees, and brings water from the
brook in the cup of an annunciation lily, which holds the liquid
perfectly; offers the food and drink to the exhausted man. MRS. FAYTH,
still unseen by DR. THORNE, stands quite near, nodding and smiling
at The Child. The Child looks to her for encouragement and
direction.)
DR. THORNE (reviving). Thank you, my little man. (Leans on his elbow,
and gazes steadfastly at The Child; rises to a sitting posture.)
THE CHILD (creeps nearer to DR. THORNE, and, after a moment’s
hesitation, throws his little length full on the moss at the man’s feet,
and scrutinizes him seriously, putting his chin into his hand as he does
so; speaks sympathetically). Do you feel better now?
DR. THORNE. Much better. You’re a thoughtful little fellow.
THE CHILD. Our breakfasts grow all cooked here. This is a nice country.
DR. THORNE (still gazing steadfastly at The Child). Where is your
mother, my lad?
THE CHILD. I don’t know. I lost her on the way, somewhere.
DR. THORNE. And your father? What has become of your father?
THE CHILD. Oh, he’s dead. He got dead before I came here.
MRS. FAYTH (moves within DR. THORNE’S range of vision; speaks
quietly). Good-morning, Doctor. (Smiles brightly.)
DR. THORNE (springs to his feet; cries out). Mary Fayth! I thought you
had forgotten me! I have--needed you.
(The Child rises; leans up against DR. THORNE’S knee confidingly.)
MRS. FAYTH. I have often needed you, Doctor. And you never failed me
once.
DR. THORNE (impetuously). I thought you would have come before. I
looked for you--
MRS. FAYTH. As I have often looked for you. But I was not commanded to
meet you--till this very minute.
DR. THORNE. Commanded? Commanded? There is that singular phrase again.
Have you seen Helen? (Quickly.)
MRS. FAYTH (shakes her head). Not yet.
DR. THORNE. Have you seen your husband? Did they let you go to
Fred?
MRS. FAYTH (contentedly). Oh, many times.
THE CHILD (interrupting). He doesn’t kiss me! (Puts up his lips in a
grieved, babyish fashion.)
MRS. FAYTH (very quietly). Doctor, don’t hurt that child’s feelings.
He’s yours.
DR. THORNE (gasping). I don’t understand you!
MRS. FAYTH. I have had the care of him since he came here. He’s kept me
busy, I can tell you. I am to give him over to you now.... See how he’s
grown! No wonder you didn’t know him.
DR. THORNE (in great agitation). Did Laddie die?
MRS. FAYTH (solemnly). Yes, Laddie died.
DR. THORNE. Did something really ail him that night--that most miserable
night?... Oh, poor Helen! Poor, poor Helen! (His face falls into his
hands. His frame shakes with soundless, tearless sobs.)
LADDIE (creeps into his lap; lays his head on his father’s neck).
Hilloa, Papa! (Pats his father on the cheek.)
[Exit MRS. FAYTH silently, with emotion.
DR. THORNE (raises his head, showing his stormy face. Clasps the child,
hesitatingly at first, then passionately; holds him off at arm’s length;
scans him closely; draws him back; kisses his little hands, then his
face; clasps him again). My little son! Papa’s little boy! My son! My
little son! (Smiles naturally for the first time since he died; then
with sudden recollection, he cries out.) Oh, what will your poor mother
do without you?
LADDIE. You homesick, Papa?
DR. THORNE. My little son! (Caresses the child with a touching
timidity, broken by bursts of wild affection. The child responds warmly,
laughing for joy.)
       END OF SCENE I.
SCENE II.
Dull daylight falls upon a wide and desolate expanse.
This has the appearance of a desert--unbroken and
arid. The horizon is low and heavy with cloud, and
is defined by a tossing sea-line against which no sail
appears. In the distance are cliffs, fissured by dark
cuts, but these are far away, and the foreground is
flat like sand or ashes, or it might be corrugated like
slag. There is no vegetation visible, and no sign of
organized life.
Enter DR. THORNE. (He paces the sands,
mournfully gazing about him at the
lonely scenery. He murmurs, then
raises his voice rhythmically, like one
who quotes from an uncertain memory.)
DR. THORNE.
“A life as hollow as the echo in a cave
 Hid in the heart of an unpeopled world.”
Where did I get that? Oh, I remember. I had not thought of it for years.
That woman used to quote it to me. She was the most consistent infidel I
ever knew. She shied at nothing; took the consequences, both living and
dying.... A shocking death, though! I suppose the boy is all right with
Mrs. Fayth and that little chum of his. If it hadn’t been for that
discussion with Harvey I shouldn’t have left him. Wishing seems to be
doing, in this singular state of existence. A man makes a simple
astronomical inquiry about a planet, and forthwith he is in the planet.
Remarkable! (Breaks off; continues.) How magnificent Helen was about
that affair. If she had doubted me--but she never did. She was superb.
Enter an EVIL SPIRIT. Her garments
are of flame color. Her hair has the
same tint. On her forehead blazes a
single scarlet star. Her appearance
is queenly and confident. As she reveals
her face, it is seen to be that of
the woman whose wraith has followed
DR. THORNE at intervals ever since
the hour of his death. Her robe,
which is opaque, reveals her bare
arms and feet, but covers her shoulders
and bosom with a certain modesty,
which is felt at once to be not
wholly natural to the woman. Each
footprint that she makes upon the
sand is marked by a small jet of
flame, which flares after she has
passed, and dies down quickly. DR.
THORNE stares at the woman in evident
and not well-pleased perplexity.
THE WOMAN (speaks). So? Am I forgotten on first principles? It is some
years since we had the pleasure of meeting.
DR. THORNE (coldly). I begin to recognize you, Madam.
CLEO. You did not know it, but I have given you several other
opportunities to do so since you died.
DR. THORNE. I should think that quite possible--and characteristic.
CLEO (wincing). Your tongue has not lost its edge! I’m afraid they
have not made a hopeful convert of you in yonder pious country....
Confess, you’re bored past endurance with the whole thing? (She draws a
little nearer to him, but is so adroit as not to touch him. She gives
him only her eyes, and these embrace him outright.)
DR. THORNE (regarding her steadily). Did I ever choose you for a
confidante? (He steps back.)
CLEO (persistently). Come, don’t be cross! Tell me, then, why have you
fled the first circles of celestial society--to mope out here alone? Oh,
you can’t deceive me. I understand--I always understood you better
than any other woman living. (In a low tone.) Your whole nature is in
antagonism with the very basis of existence in the state you’re plunged
into. What’s death? Nothing but a footstep. You’ve taken it. But you’re
the man you were.... Pouf! That’s death. (Snaps her fingers.) I’d
wager a waltz and a kiss that you are ennuyé to madness over
there.... Admit it? (Tenderly.) Admit it! (Imperiously.)
DR. THORNE (uneasily). I don’t profess to be thoroughly acclimated.
But I assure you I did not come here to sulk. On the contrary, I was
absorbingly interested in a scientific discussion with a distinguished
man. It was an astronomical point. I came here to verify it. I return at
once. (Moves away.)
CLEO. Don’t be in such a blatant hurry! It’s not polite. (Pouting.)
I’ve studied a little astronomy myself of late.... Come! I can converse
about planets--if you will. Was it Neptune or Venus you undertook to
investigate?
DR. THORNE (not without interest). I contended that it was
Neptune--before I came.
CLEO. And now?
DR. THORNE (gloomily gazing at her). I am inclined to think it is
Venus.
(CLEO laughs softly.)
(DR. THORNE does not smile.)
CLEO (abruptly). Esmerald Thorne, do you know what has happened? You
are in an uninhabited world--with me. You are in a dead world, burnt to
ashes, burnt to slag and lava by its own fires. You are alone in
it--alone with me.... (In a changed voice.) And I meant you should be.
Oh, I’ve dreamed of this for years. I’ve held my breath for it, perished
for it.... Now, here we are--we two outcasts from the religious idea--we
who always rebelled against it, by the very bone and tissue of our
being.... We two (tenderly) alone, at last. (She advances towards
him, and for the first time touches him, gently laying her hand upon his
shoulder.)
DR. THORNE (not rudely, but positively, removes her hand, stepping back
quickly, so that her arm falls heavily by her side). Woman! Woman, what
are you? A spirit damned, or a spirit deluded?... I confess I never
knew. And I don’t know any better now.
CLEO (more modestly lifts his hand to her cheek; speaks gently). Do
you know any better now?
DR. THORNE (withdrawing his hand). My wife always said you were half
angel, half the other thing. She pitied you, I think. I confess I never
did, very much.
CLEO (wretchedly). I never asked for the pity of Helen Thorne!
DR. THORNE (firmly). You might well receive it, Madam. It would not
harm you any.
CLEO (suddenly). Oh, everybody knew you were an irreproachable
husband. A blameless physician, of course. But we have changed all that.
You are quite free now--as free as I am, for that matter....
DR. THORNE (nobly). Yes; I am free, as you say. I am free to mourn my
wife, and love her ... and await her presence ... which has a value to
me that I do not ... I cannot discuss--with you.
CLEO (rebuffed, but gentle and sad). I beg your pardon, Dr. Thorne.
DR. THORNE (takes a few steps nearer her). And I yours ... if I have
wronged you.
CLEO (softly). You feel so sure of her, then? Helen is so attractive!
These spiritual women always are--up to a certain point.... Life is a
long wait, brutally tedious. You know as well as I do how many--Now,
there is Dr. Gazell. A very consolable widower.
DR. THORNE (proudly). Oh, that was a blunt stroke. Gazell? If Gazell
were a dog by which my wife might track her way to me through the
mystery of death ... she might have some use for him ... hardly
otherwise. I gave you credit for some wit, Cleo.
CLEO. I own the illustration was defective. But there are a plenty
better. There are gentler men than you. For my part, I don’t mind your
attacks of the devil. I never did. I’d take your cruelty to have your
tenderness--any day. But Mrs. Thorne is sensitive to kindness. She likes
the even disposition, the patient, model man. After all, there are a
good many of them.
DR. THORNE (lifting his head). I am not afraid.
CLEO (turning away). And you? She is a young woman. It may be
years....
DR. THORNE (coldly). You will have to excuse me. I left some one.... I
may be missed. I have ties which even you would respect, Madam. I must
return whence I came. (He moves away.)
(CLEO hides her face in her hands; is heard to weep.)
DR. THORNE (steps back). Do you want my pity?
CLEO (murmurs). Alone--in a desert world--we two--at last. Oh, you
don’t know the alphabet of happiness! You have everything to learn ...
from me. And we shall never be like this again!
DR. THORNE (frankly). I hope not.
CLEO (suddenly starting, paces the ashes; throws her arms above her
head). I always said you had a Nero in you.... Oh, I understood
you--I! But you.... It never occurred to you, I suppose, that you
died on my very day? I had been dead three years that night.
DR. THORNE (more gently). What did you do it for, Cleo? You know I
warned you about that habit. You know I took the laudanum away from you.
CLEO. But you could not cork up the Limited Express--could you?
DR. THORNE. It was a dreadful death! Tell me, how do you fare? Where do
you live? Do you suffer? What is your lot?
CLEO (with sudden reserve, and not without dignity) We suicides have
our own fate. We bear it. We do not reveal it.
DR. THORNE (uncomfortably). Well--I must bid you good-morning.
CLEO (savagely). At least, I gained something--if I lose all. Of
course, it never dawned on you that this was all my scheme?
DR. THORNE (in dismay). Your scheme?
CLEO (past control, raves). Oh, I had watched my chance for years. I
knew you--your mad moods, your black temper.... Yourself slew
yourself, Esmerald Thorne. Your own weakness gave me my opportunity. I
waited for my moment. I sat in the buggy beside you.... I sometimes did
that when your evil had you. (I couldn’t get there when you were good,
you know.) I tried to take the reins. I tried to get the whip--I could
not do it. I meant to hit the horse--my arm was held. (There are
always so many of these holy busybodies about--angels and messengers of
sanctity--to interfere with one!) Oh, then I sprang out--over the wheel
into the street. You didn’t see me, but Donna did. When she shied I
clung to her bit. And then she bolted.... It was a very simple thing.
(DR. THORNE recoiling slowly, an expression of cold horror chills his
features.)
CLEO (still raving). Yes, I’ve murdered you--if you will--and Mary
Fayth besides. And I’ve broken Helen’s heart. Do you suppose that
counts? Who counts? Nobody on earth, or in heaven, or in hell. I’ve got
you away from your wife.... And in earth, or in heaven, or in hell,
I’ll have you yet....
DR. THORNE (throwing out his hands; holds her off with evidences of
unbearable repulsion; speaks with difficulty). And I pitied you a
moment since. Now I cannot scorn you. It is too fine a word.
CLEO (more calmly). I can abide my time.
       Enter LADDIE, running rapidly.
LADDIE. Papa, Papa! Oh, I missed you, Papa!
CLEO (starting). I did not know the child was dead! (Looks
disconcerted.)
DR. THORNE (catches the child, and holds him to his heart; speaks).
No. You only knew you left him fatherless. (With much agitation,
continues.) How did you get here, Laddie? How did you find the way?
Papa hadn’t forgotten his little boy. I was coming right back to you, my
son.
LADDIE (mysteriously; looking about). A man with wings brought me. We
flowed over.... He is waiting out there to take us back. (Observing
CLEO, LADDIE slips down to the ground, and backs up against his
father’s knees; points at the woman.) Papa, I don’t like that lady.
DR. THORNE (cruelly). My son, I cannot deny that I respect your taste.
(Clasps the boy to his heart again; then puts him down once more, and,
with a fine motion, holds the child at arm’s-length between himself and
the woman.)
CLEO (averting her face). I perceive the importance of the obstacle. I
admit ... that to love a man who is the father of another woman’s
child--
DR. THORNE (interrupting). And who loves the mother of his child--
(CLEO sobs.)
DR. THORNE. Come, Laddie. (He does not glance at the woman again.)
       [Exeunt DR. THORNE and LADDIE.
CLEO (yearning after him; stretches out her arms, but does not follow;
calls mournfully). Oh, if you would come back a minute--only a
minute!... In heaven, or earth, or hell, I’d never ask anything of you
again. A minute, a minute!
(DR. THORNE does not return, and does not reply. CLEO is left alone
in the dead world. She falls flat upon the slag and ashes.)
       END OF SCENE II.
SCENE III.
Picturesquely visible among the trees of a grove
appears a small, rustic cottage, curiously interwoven
of bark, vines, boughs, leaves, and flowers--a building
which seems to have grown from the conditions
and the colors of the grove. The sea and the sails
show beyond, through the trees. In the distant perspective
can be seen the city on the hill; in the intervale,
the foliage, flowers, fields, as before.
The hour approaches sunset. A deep rich glow
mellows and melts the outlines of every object.
(Spirits pass and repass in the distance.)
Enter DR. THORNE and HARVEY, conversing
in low tones.
       Enter NORAH and JERRY.
JERRY. The brim of the avenin’ to yez, Doctor! Och! but this is a foine
counthree now.
NORAH (happily). Me father is getting acquainted here.
JERRY. I’m about to discover where the ... angels ... I’m at.
DR. THORNE (smiling). You’ve got ahead of me then, Jerry.
       [Exeunt NORAH and JERRY.
DR. THORNE (to HARVEY). And why, for instance, was I directed or
allowed to take that astronomical tour before I had investigated my
immediate surroundings?
HARVEY. A patient may ask questions. In your experience, did you
always answer them?
Enter LADDIE (running after his father,
whose hand he hurries to catch and
clasp).
DR. THORNE (pointing to the architecture beyond). And those public
buildings yonder--what do you call them?
HARVEY. Those are our institutions of education and of mercy. They are a
great pleasure to us. We have our temples, colleges, music halls,
libraries, schools of science, hospitals, galleries of art, as a matter
of course. What did you suppose we did with our intellects and our
leisure?
DR. THORNE. I never supposed anything on the subject. I never thought
about it.
HARVEY. Precisely. You are very ignorant--for a man of your gifts. Now,
our hospitals--
DR. THORNE. Pray do not mock me, Doctor Harvey. If you had a hospital,
you could find me something to do. The humiliating idleness of this
place crushes me. I seem to be of no more use here than a paralytic
patient was in my own charity ward at home. I am become of no more
social importance than the janitor or the steward used to be. I am of no
consequence. I am not in demand. No person desires my services. The
canker of idleness eats upon me. Here, in this world of spirits, I am an
unscientific, useless fellow. If you have anything whatever in the shape
of a hospital, I beg you to find me employment in it. At least, I could
keep the temperature charts, if I am not to be trusted with any cases.
HARVEY (smiling sadly). Your cure proceeds but slowly, my patient. I
did not think you were a dull man. Must you be taught the elements?
Our sick are not of the body, but are sick of soul. Our patients are
chiefly from among the newly arrived who are at odds with the spirit of
the place; hence, they suffer discomfort. Can you administer holiness
to a will and heart diseased?
(DR. THORNE shakes his head; bows it in bitter silence. He stands lost
in thought. As he does so, sunset deepens to twilight on the land.
LADDIE drops his father’s hand; plays among the annunciation lilies.
HARVEY, with a courtly salute, retires. He does not speak further to
DR. THORNE.)
       [Exit HARVEY.
LADDIE (breaks one of the tall lily-stalks--gently, for a boy. As he
does so, the cup opens, and a little white bird flies out, hangs poised
in the air a moment). Oh, the beautiful! (Catches the bird, which he
handles tenderly.) Papa! Papa! I went to pick a lily, and I picked a
bird! Oh, Papa, what a pretty country!
DR. THORNE (smiling in spite of himself). Come here, my lad.
(Caresses the child with pathetic gratitude.) If it were not for you,
little man-- (Bows his face on the child’s head.)
(The twilight changes slowly to moonlight.)
LADDIE (restlessly). I must go find Maidie and show her my white bird.
They didn’t grow in her street.
DR. THORNE (anxiously). Don’t go far, my child. You might lose your
way.
LADDIE (with a peal of laughter). We never lose our way in this nice
country.
       [Exit LADDIE.
(DR. THORNE paces the path desolately; does not speak. As the moonlight
brightens, groups of spirits stroll among the fields and trees. These
walk often two by two. They are, and yet are not, like earthly lovers.
They murmur softly, and express delight to be together; and some of them
go hand in hand, or with arms intertwined. But a beautiful reserve
pervades their behavior. Faintly from beyond arise the strains of the
Serenade of Schubert’s, played with extreme softness and refinement, but
with a depth of emotion which carries the heart before it. DR. THORNE
listens to the music. The sails quiver on the distant water, and faint
figures can be seen moving on the beach. The passion flowers salute each
other. The great Serenade plays on.)
Enter MRS. FAYTH. (Her smiling face
is grave, or even a little sad. She is
moved by the music, and seems to sway
towards it. DR. THORNE holds out
his hand to her. MRS. FAYTH extends
her own, confidingly. The two stand
listening to the music, like comrades
bereft of other ties; on her face rests
a frank, affectionate expression; on
his a desolate leaning towards the
nearest sympathy. They glance at
the spirits who are strolling two by
two through the celestial evening. The
music is suspended.)
DR. THORNE (moodily). This foreign country would be lonelier without
you, Mary Fayth.
MRS. FAYTH (frankly). Of course it would!... It is a lovely thing that
we died together.... It has been a comfort to me, Doctor.
DR. THORNE. And to me.... Helen would be pleased.... Helen might like to
have it so, I’ve thought ... if she thinks of me at all.
MRS. FAYTH (quickly). She thinks of nothing but you ... all the time.
DR. THORNE (eagerly). How do you know? Have you been there? Can you
see Helen?
MRS. FAYTH (mysteriously smiling). Don’t ask me!...
DR. THORNE (imperiously). When was it? How did you get there? How did
she look?--Is she well?--Did she look very wretched? Were her lips pale?
Or only her cheeks? Does she weep much? Can she sleep?--Is she living
quite alone?--Oh, how does she bear it? (He trips upon his words, and
stops abruptly.)
(A strain from the Serenade breathes, and sighs away.)
MRS. FAYTH (gently but evasively). My poor friend!
(DR. THORNE and MRS. FAYTH unclasp hands, and stand side by side,
silently in the moonlight. A certain remoteness overtakes their manner.
Each is drowned in thought in which the other has no share. The Serenade
is heard again. MRS. FAYTH, with a mute, sweet gesture of farewell,
glides gravely away. DR. THORNE does not seek to detain her.)
       [Exit MRS. FAYTH.
(The Serenade plays on steadily.)
DR. THORNE (puts his hands to his ears, as if to shut out the music,
which falls very faintly as he speaks). Between herself and me the
awful gates of death have shut. To pass them--though I would die again
to do it--to pass them for one hour, for one moment, for love’s sake,
for grief’s sake--or for pity’s own--I am forbidden. (Breaks off.) ...
Her forgiveness! Her forgiveness! The longing for it gnaws upon me....
Oh, her unfathomable tenderness--passing the tenderness of women!--It
would lean out and take me back to itself, as her white arms took me to
her heart--when I came home--after a hard day’s work--tired out....
Helen! Helen!
(The music strengthens as he ceases to speak; then faints again.)
DR. THORNE (moans). For very longing for her, I would fain forget
her.... No! No! No! (Starts.) Never would I forget her! To all
eternity would I think of her and suffer, if I must, because I think of
her.... I ... love her ... so.
(The Serenade ceases slowly, and sighs away.)
(DR. THORNE stands with the moonlight on his face. It is rapt, and
carries a certain majesty.)
(Spirits pass. Some of them glance at him, with wonder and respect. No
one addresses him. He stands like a statue of strong and noble solitude.
He does not perceive the presence of any spirit.)
Enter The Child. (Runs to his father.
Springs into his arms.)
THE CHILD. Lonesome, Papa? I will comfort you.
DR. THORNE (clasps the boy, who seems half-overcome with sleepiness.
Lays him gently on the grass). Go to sleep, my child. It is growing
late. (LADDIE drops asleep.)
DR. THORNE (continues to speak, for his emotion bears him on). I did
not expect to live when I was dead. I lived--I died--and yet I live. I
did not think that love would live when breath was gone. I loved--I
blasphemed love--I breathed my last--and still I love. If this be
true--anything may be true-- (breaks off). God! It may be years
before I can see her face--twenty years--thirty-- (groaning)--Whence
came the love of man and woman, that it should outlive the laws of
Nature, and defy dissolution, and outlast the body, and curse or bless
the spirit? If love can live, anything can live. Since this
is--anything may be-- (Falters; glances about; finds himself quite
alone with the sleeping child; lifts his eyes to the sky, and then his
hands; stands irresolute. Then slowly, reluctantly, still standing
manfully upright, with a touching embarrassment.)
DR. THORNE (prays). Almighty God!--if there be a God Almighty. Reveal
thyself to my immortal soul!--if I have a soul immortal.
       
(The moonlight fades into a dark midnight. The figure of DR. THORNE
disappears in it.)
(Dawn comes on subtly, but at once, for the nights and days of Paradise
are not governed by the laws of earth, and day breaks splendidly over
the heavenly world.)
Enter the Two Children (playing with
flowers, and tasting fruit).
LADDIE. How did you like coasting down that waterfall on rainbows?
MAIDIE. I want that butterfly--with fire on it.
LADDIE. Don’t be stupid, because you’re dead! That is a flower. (Picks
a flower in the shape of a butterfly with jeweled wings; hands it to the
girl.) No, it won’t fly. It isn’t grown up yet.
MAIDIE. Shall I fly when I’m grown up? I’ve got wings, too. (Shows her
feet, on the heels of which a tiny pair of wings appear.)
LADDIE (jealously). I didn’t know you had them. That’s why you can
jump over things and get ahead of me.
       Enter DR. THORNE and MRS. FAYTH.
MRS. FAYTH. Doctor, I don’t know what ails me. Perhaps it’s a symptom--a
moral symptom--but I can’t help thinking of Cleo. I wonder--
DR. THORNE (with reserve). I do not care to speak of the woman.
MRS. FAYTH. You are right. But I did not mean to be wrong. (I think it
must have been a symptom.) It’s the first time I’ve felt nervous since I
died. I beg your pardon.
LADDIE (running to meet them). Papa! Maidie’s got wings on her feet.
Why don’t I have some? Papa! Papa! Come into your new house. It grew
up out of the woods--like--like acorns.
DR. THORNE (addressing MRS. FAYTH, looking towards the cottage). It
is a shelter for the child, at all events. Quite in accordance with my
present social position in this place--a mere cottage--but it makes him
a home, poor little fellow!
MRS. FAYTH. It’s just what Helen would like. She hates palaces.
DR. THORNE (starts as if stabbed; makes no reply).
LADDIE (suddenly). Oh, Papa, Mrs. Fayth’s got wings on her feet, too.
Her dress covers them up. I like her better than I did that lady you
were so cross to.
MRS. FAYTH (laughing). I am so well!--oh, so well! I am a-shamed to be
so happy! I walk on air. I float on clouds. I move on waves. All nature
seems to be under my feet, and her glory in my heart.... Poor Doctor!
(Breaks off and looks at him with quick sympathy.) And yet I tru-ly
think you im-prove in spirits. You don’t look armed to the teeth, all
the time--now.
DR. THORNE (smiles cheerfully). A man must respect law, whatever state
he is in. I would conform to the customs of this place, so far as I can.
I would do this for the boy’s sake, at least. I don’t wish to be a
disgrace to him in this system of things.
MRS. FAYTH. Does Doctor Harvey treat you by scien-ti-fic ev-olu-tion?
That’s a man’s way. It’s a pretty slow one.
LADDIE (insistently). Papa, she has got wings on her feet.
MRS. FAYTH (blushing). Go away and play, children.
(The children run to the cottage. The little girl bounds before, with a
light, flying motion. They play in the cottage at “keeping house,”
running in and out.)
(Suddenly a change takes place upon the landscape. Its colors soften
and melt. Flying tints, like light broken through many prisms, float
upon the white flowers, rest upon the annunciation lilies, and
delicately touch the white robe of MRS. FAYTH. In fact, the whole
atmosphere takes on the appearance of a vast rainbow. Music from the
temple sounds clearly.)
VOICES (can be heard singing):--
    “Thou that takest away the
     Sins of the world!”
MRS. FAYTH (starts with a listening, devout expression). Do you hear
that?... Oh, watch, Doctor! Watch for what will happen!
(Spirits can be seen suddenly moving from all directions. They hurry,
and exhibit signs of joyful excitement. The singing continues;
repeats:--
    “Thou that takest away the
     Sins of the world!”)
(Now over the brilliant landscape falls a long, sharp, strange shadow.
It is seen to be the shadow of a mighty cross, which, if raised upright,
would seem to reach from earth to heaven. The children run back from the
cottage.)
LADDIE. Papa! who is worship? Is it a kind of game? Papa, what is Lord?
Is it people’s mother? What is it for?
DR. THORNE (with embarrassment). Alas, my boy, your father is not a
learned man.
LADDIE (imperiously). Teach me that pretty song! I cannot sing it. All
the other children can--
VOICES (chanting):--
    “Thou givest,
     Thou givest,
     Eternal life!”
DR. THORNE (sadly). My son, I cannot sing it, either.
LADDIE (with reproach, and with a certain dignity). Father, I wish you
were a learned man. (Walks away from his father; goes up the path.
The little girl follows him.)
(The evidences of public excitement increase visibly. From every part
of the country spirits can be seen moving, with signs of acute pleasure.
Some hasten towards the Temple; others gather in groups in the roads and
paths; all present a reverent but joyful aspect.)
MRS. FAYTH (gliding away). I cannot lose a moment. (Beckons to DR.
THORNE as she moves out of the grove and up the path. Calls.) Doctor!
Doctor!
DR. THORNE (shakes his head). I do not understand.
(MRS. FAYTH remains still full in sight, standing as if to watch a
pageant or to see the prominent figure of a procession.)
(LADDIE runs on beyond her, watching eagerly; shades his eyes with his
little hand.)
(MAIDIE flits along with him.)
(DR. THORNE stands quite alone. He, too, shades his eyes with his
hand, and scans the horizon and the foreground closely.)
(The shadow of the great cross falls upon him where he stands.)
(It can now be seen that the happy people beyond give evidence of
greeting some one who is passing by them. Some weep for joy; others
laugh for rapture. Some stretch their arms out as if in ecstasy. Some
throw themselves on the ground in humility. Some seem to be entreating a
benediction. But the figure of Him who passes by them remains invisible.
The excitement now increases, and extends along the group of spirits
until it reaches those in the foreground. Here can now be seen and
recognized some old patients of DR. THORNE’S--MRS. TRUE, NORAH, and
JERRY.)
(These wear the golden cross upon the breast. HARVEY enters
unnoticed, and mingles with the crowd. He stands behind MRS. FAYTH,
who remains rapt and mute, full in the light. She has forgotten DR.
THORNE.)
(DR. THORNE watches the scene with pathetic perplexity. He does not
speak.)
(The chanting continues, and the strain swells louder.)
[Illustration:
dolce.
Thou that tak-est a-way the sins of the
world! And givest, and giv-est e-ter-nal life!
]
(Now the Invisible Figure makes the impression of having reached the
nearer groups.)
(NORAH falls upon her knees.)
(JERRY salutes respectfully, as if he recognized a dear and honored
employer whom he wished to serve and please.)
(MRS. TRUE reaches out her arms with reverent longing.)
(MAIDIE kisses her little hands to the Unseen.)
(HARVEY stands devoutly with bowed head.)
(MRS. FAYTH holds out both hands lovingly. Then she sinks to the ground
upon her knees and makes the delicate motion of one who puts to her lips
the edge of the robe of the Unseen Passer. Her whole expression is
rapturous.)
(LADDIE, breaking away from his elders, now boldly steps out into the
path. He looks up; shades his eyes, as if from a brilliance; then
confidingly puts out his hand, as if he placed it in an Unseen Hand, and
walks along, smiling like a child who is led by One whom he trusts and
loves.)
DR. THORNE (in distress). I see nothing!--No one! I am blind--blind!
(Chanting.)
    “Thou that takest away
     The sins of the world!” ...
(DR. THORNE covers his face. The music ceases. The air grows dimmer
than twilight. But there is no moon, nor is it dark. The groups in the
foreground move away in quiet happiness, like those who have had their
heart’s wish granted.)
(Harvey, MRS. TRUE, NORAH, JERRY, and MAIDIE mingle with the other
spirits.)
(MRS. FAYTH rises from her knees; melts slowly in the dusk.)
(LADDIE runs into the grove, and disappears in the gloom. He acts as if
looking for some one.)
DR. THORNE (remains alone. He paces the grove, irresolute--then
suddenly turns in the direction whence the Invisible had come; walks
uncertainly up the path; searches, as if for signs of the Passer;
examines the grass, the shrubbery; touches the flowers, to see if they
had bent beneath His feet; stoops; examines the pathway reverently;
speaks in a low tone). The footprint! I have found the footprint! There
was One passing. And He stepped here. But I was blind! (Hesitates;
lifts his face to the sky; drops it to his breast; murmurs
inarticulately. Then slowly--as if half his nature battled with the
other half, and every fibre of his being yielded hard--he drops upon his
knees. He remains silent in this posture.)
(From the depth of the grove behind DR. THORNE’S cottage,)
Enter CLEO stealthily. (She watches
DR. THORNE with an expression in
which love, fear, reproach, and astonishment
contend. She makes no
sign, nor in any way is her presence
revealed to DR. THORNE. Taking a
few steps forward, she touches the
shadow of one arm of the mighty
cross. CLEO retreats in confusion.)
Enter The Child (running down the
path). Papa! Papa! (Points up the
path. Beckons to his father. Points
ecstatically.) Look, look, Papa!
(DR. THORNE arises to his full height; looks where The Child
points.)
(Slowly and solemnly,)
