something in the entire episode appealed to her sense of mischief.
Probably even she herself could not explain just why she had thought it
funny to see him running for his train, and later entangling himself in
a futile word-fest with the conductor and the large mottled man.
"So," she said thoughtfully, "you were obsessed by a premonition."
"Not--er--exactly obsessed," he said suspiciously. Then his face
cleared. How could anybody be suspicious of such sweetly inquiring
frankness? "You see," he admitted, "that I--well, I rather hoped you
would be going to the Austins'."
"The Austins'!" she repeated.
"Yes. I--I couldn't help speculating----"
"About me?" she asked. "Why should you?"
"I--there was no reason, of course, only I k-kept seeing you without
trying to----"
"Me?"
"Certainly. I couldn't help seeing you, could I?"
"Not if you were looking at me," she murmured, pressing her muff to her
face. Perhaps she was cold.
Again it occurred to him that there was something foolish in her reply.
Certainly she was a little difficult to talk to. But then she was
young--very young and--close enough to being a beauty to excuse herself
from any overstrenuous claim to intellectuality.
"Yes," he said kindly and patiently, "I did see you, and I did hope that
you were going to the Austins'. And then I bumped into somebody and
there you were. I don't mean," as she raised her pretty eyebrows--"mean
that you were Bailey. Good Lord, what is the matter with my tongue!"
he said, flushing with annoyance. "I don't talk this way usually."
"Don't you?" she managed to whisper behind her muff.
"No, I don't. That conductor's jargon seems to have inoculated me. You
will probably not believe it, but I can talk the English tongue
sometimes----"
She was laughing now--a clear, delicious, irrepressible little peal that
rang sweetly in the frosty air, harmonising with the chiming
sleigh-bells. And he laughed, too, still uncomfortably flushed.
"Do you think it would help if we began all over again?" she asked,
looking wickedly at him over her muff. "Let me see--you had an obsession
which turned into a premonition that bumped Bailey and you found it
wasn't Bailey at all, but a stranger in chinchillas who was going
to--where did you say she was going? Oh, to the Austins'! That is
clear, isn't it?"
"About as clear as anything that's happened to me to-night," he said.
"A snowy night does make a difference," she reflected.
"A--a difference?"
"Yes--doesn't it?" she asked innocently.
"I--in what?"
"In clearness. Things are clearer by daylight?"
"I don't see--I--exactly how--as a matter of fact I don't follow you at
all," he said desperately. "You say things--and they sound all
right--but somehow my answers seem queer. Do you suppose that German
conversation has mentally twisted me?"
Her eyes above the fluffy fur of her muff were bright as stars, but she
did not laugh.
"Suppose," she said, demurely, "that you choose a subject of
conversation and try to make sense of it. If you are mentally twisted
it will be good practice."
"And you will--you won't say things--I mean things not germane to the
subject?"
"Did you say German?"
"No, germane."
"Oh! Have I been irrelevant, too?"
"Well, you mixed up mental clarity with snowy nights. Of course it was a
little joke--I saw that soon enough; I'd have seen it at once, only I
am rather upset and nervous after that German experience."
[Illustration]
[Illustration]
CHAPTER X
CHANCE
She considered him with guileless eyes. He was too good-looking, too
attractive, too young, and far too much pleased with himself. That was
the impression he gave her. And, as he was, in addition, plainly one of
her own sort, a man she was likely to meet anywhere--a well-bred,
well-mannered and agreeable young fellow, probably a recent
undergraduate, which might account for his really inoffensive
breeziness--she felt perfectly at ease with him and safe enough to
continue imprudently her mischief.
"If you are going to begin at the beginning," she said, "perhaps it
might steady your nerves to repeat your own name very slowly and
distinctly. Physicians recommend it sometimes," she added seriously.
"My name is John Seabury," he said, laughing. "Am I lucid?"
"Lucid so far," she said gravely. "I knew a Lily Seabury----"
"My sister. She's in Paris."
"Yes, I knew that, too," mused the girl, looking at him in a different
light--different in this way that his credentials were now
unquestionable, and she could be as mischievous as she pleased with the
minimum of imprudence.
"Do you ever take the advice of physicians," he asked naïvely, "about
repeating names?"
"Seldom," she said. "I don't require the treatment."
"I was only wondering----"
"You were wondering what C. G. stood for on my satchel? I will be very
glad to tell you, Mr. Seabury. C stands for Cecil, and G for Gay;
Cecil Gay. Is that lucid?"
"Cecil!" he said; "that's a man's name."
"How rude! It is my name. Now, do you think your mental calibre
requires any more re-boring?"
"Oh, you know about calibres and things. Do you shoot? I can talk
about dogs and guns. Listen to me, Miss Gay." The subject shifted from
shooting to fishing, and from hunting to driving four-in-hand, and
eventually came back to the horses and the quaint depot-sleigh which was
whirling them so swiftly toward their destination.
"Jack Austin and I were in Paris," he observed.
"Oh--recently?"
"Last year."
"I thought so."
"Why?" he asked.
"Oh, I suppose it was one of those obsessed premonitions----"
"You are laughing at me, Miss Gay."
"Am I? Why?"
"Why? How on earth is a man to know why? I don't know why you do it,
but you do--all the time."
"Not all the time, Mr. Seabury, because I don't know you well enough."
"But you know my sister!"
"Yes. She is a dear."
"Won't that introduce me? And, besides, you know Jack Austin----"
"No, I don't."
"Isn't that odd?" he said. "You don't know Jack Austin and I don't know
Mrs. Austin. It was nice of her to ask me. They say she is one of the
best ever."
"It was certainly nice of her to ask you," said the girl, eyes
brightening over her muff.
"I was in Europe when they were married," he said. "I suppose you were
there."
"No, I wasn't. That sounds rather strange, doesn't it?"
"Why, yes, rather!" he replied, looking up at her in his boyish,
perplexed way. And for a moment her heart failed her; he was nice, but
also he was a living temptation. Never before in all her brief life had
she been tempted to do to anybody what she was doing to him. She had
often been imprudent in a circumspect way--conventionally unconventional
at times--even a little daring. At sheer audacity she had drawn the
line, and now the impulse to cross that line had been too much for her.
But even she did not know exactly why temptation had overcome her.
There was something that she ought to tell him--and tell him at once.
Yet, after all, it was really already too late to tell him--had been too
late from the first. Fate, Chance and Destiny, the Mystic Three,
disguised, as usual, one as a German conductor; one as a large mottled
man; the other as a furry footman had been bumped by Seabury and jeered
at by a girl wearing dark blue eyes and chinchillas. And now the
affronted Three were taking exclusive charge of John Seabury and Cecil
Gay. She was partly aware of this; she did not feel inclined to
interfere where interference could do no good. And that being the case,
why not extract amusement from matters as they stood? Alas, it is not
well to laugh at the Mystic Three! But Cecil Gay didn't know that. You
see, even she didn't know everything.
       
"You will like Jack Austin," he asserted.
"Really?"
"I'm willing to bet----"
"Oh, wait till we know one another officially before we begin to make
wagers.... Still, I might, perhaps safely wager that I shall not find
your friend Jack Austin very agreeable to-night."
So they settled the terms of the wager; cigarettes versus the inevitable
bonbons.
"Everybody likes Jack Austin on sight," he said triumphantly, "so you
may as well send the cigarettes when you are ready;" and he mentioned
the brand.
"You will never smoke those cigarettes," she mused aloud, looking
dreamily at him, her muff pressed alongside of her pretty cheek. "Tell
me, Mr. Seabury, are you vindictive?"
"Not very."
"Revengeful?"
"Well--no, I don't think so," he replied. "Why?"
"I'm much relieved," she said, simply.
"Why?"
"Because I've done a dreadful thing--perfectly dreadful."
"To me?"
She nodded.
Perplexed and curious, he attempted to learn what she meant, but she
parried everything smiling. And now, the faster the horses sped, the
faster her pulses beat, and the more uncertain and repentant she became
until her uncertainty increased to a miniature panic, and, thoroughly
scared, she relapsed into a silence from which he found it beyond his
powers to lure her.
For already a bright light was streaming out toward them from somewhere
ahead. In its rays the falling snow turned golden, every separate flake
distinct as they passed a great gate with the lodge beside it and went
spinning away along a splendid wooded avenue and then straight up toward
a great house, every window ablaze with light.
John Seabury jumped out and offered his aid to Cecil Gay as several
servants appeared under the porte-cochère.
"I had no idea that Jack Austin lived so splendidly," he whispered to
Miss Gay, as they entered the big hall.
But she was past speech now--a thoroughly scared girl; and she lost no
time in following a maid into the elevator, whither Seabury presently
followed her in tow of a man-servant.
"Luxury! Great Scott," thought Seabury. "This dubbing a palace a cottage
is the worse sort of affectation, and I'll tell Jack Austin so, too."
The elevator stopped; the doors clicked open; Seabury turned smilingly
to Cecil Gay, but she hurried past him, crimson-cheeked, head bent, and
he followed his pilot to his room.
"Dinner is hannounced at 'awf awfter height, sir," announced the man
with dignity.
"Thank you," said Seabury, watching a valet do sleight-of-hand tricks
with the contents of his suit-case. And when he was alone he hopped
nimbly out of his apparel and into a bath and out again in a high state
of excitement, talking to himself all the while he was dressing.
"Good old Jack! The Mrs. must have had the means to do this sort of
thing so well. I'm delighted!--de--lighted!... If ever a man deserved
affluence, it's Jack Austin! It suits him. It will do him good. It
becomes him.... Plucky fellow to go on grinding at the law!... Only
thing to do, of course--decent thing to do--self-respect and all
that.... But, by jingo!"--he looked about him as he stood buttoning his
collar. "Hah!" stepping to the wall and examining a picture--"Great
Jenkins!--why, here's a real Fortuny--in a bedroom!"
He cared for good pictures, and he stood before the exquisite aquarelle
as long as he dared. Then, glancing at his watch, he completed his
toilet, opened his door, and, scorning the lift, fled blithely down the
great staircase on pleasing bent--and on being pleased.
A big drawing-room, charmingly lighted, and gay already with the chatter
and laughter of a very jolly throng--this is what confronted him as a
servant offered him a tray containing cards.
"I don't see my name here," he said, examining the slim envelopes.
"Beg pardon, sir--what name, sir?"
"Mr. Seabury."
The servant looked and Seabury looked in vain.
"An oversight," commented the young fellow, coolly. "I'll ask Mrs.
Austin about it." And he walked in, and, singling out the hostess,
advanced with smiling confidence, thinking to himself: "She is pretty;
Jack's right. But--but, by George!--she looks like Cecil Gay!"
His hostess received him very charmingly, saying that it was so good of
him to come; and he said it was so good of her to have asked him, and
then they said several similar things. He spoke of Jack--mentioning him
and continuing to another subject; and she smiled a trifle uncertainly.
Her smile was still more vague and uncertain when he laughingly
mentioned the dinner-cards; and she said it was a vexing oversight and
would be immediately arranged--glancing rather sharply at an amiable
gentleman standing near her. And this amiable gentleman came up to
Seabury and shook hands very cordially, and said several agreeable
things to which Seabury responded, until new arrivals separated him from
his hostess and the amiable gentleman, and he fell back and glanced
about him. And, after a little while an odd expression came into his
eyes; he stood very still; a slight flush slowly spread over his face
which had grown firmer. In a few moments the color went as it had come,
slowly; the faint glitter died out in his eyes.
There were several people he knew among the guests; he nodded quietly to
young Van Guilder, to Brimwell and others, then crossed to speak to
Catherine Hyland and Dorothy Minster. He was very agreeable, but a
little distrait. He seemed to have something on his mind.
Meanwhile his hostess was saying to her husband: "Who is that, Jim?"
And her husband said: "You can search me. Didn't you ask him?" And his
wife responded: "He's talking to nearly everybody. It's curious, isn't
it?" Here she was interrupted by the flushed entrance of her unmarried
sister, Cecil Gay.
Meanwhile, Seabury was saying coolly: "I haven't seen Jack yet."
"Jack?" repeated Dorothy Minster. "Which Jack?"
"Jack Austin."
"Oh," said Miss Minster, who did not know him; "is he to be here?"
But Seabury only smiled vaguely. His mind, his eyes, his attention were
fixed upon a vision of loveliness in the foreground--a charmingly
flushed young girl who knew everybody and was evidently a tremendous
favorite, judging from the gay greetings, the little volleys of
laughter, and the animated stirring of groups among which she passed.
Watching her, quite oblivious to his surroundings, the servant at his
elbow was obliged to cough discreetly half a dozen times and repeat "Beg
pardon, sir," before he turned to notice the silver salver extended.
"Oh--thank you," he said, picking up an envelope directed, "Mr.
Seabury," and opening it. Then a trifle surprised but smiling, he turned
to find the girl whose name was written on the card. She was speaking to
the hostess and the amiable man who had first greeted him. And this is
what he didn't hear as he watched her, waiting grimly for a chance at
her:
"Cecil! Who is that very young man?"
"Betty, how should I know----"
"Look here, Cis," from the amiable gentleman; "this is some of your
deviltry----"
"Oh, thank you, Jim!"
"Yes, it is. Who is he and where did you rope him?"
"Jim!"
"Cecil! What nonsense is this?" demanded her hostess and elder sister.
"How did he get here and who is he?"
"I did not bring him, Betty. He simply came?"
"How?"
"In the depot-sleigh, of course----"
"With you?"
"Certainly. He wanted to come. He would come! I couldn't turn him out,
could I--after he climbed in?"
Host and hostess glared at their flushed and defiant relative, who tried
to look saucy, but only looked scared. "He doesn't know he's made a
mistake," she faltered; "and there's no need to tell him yet--is
there?... I put my name down on his card; he'll take me in.... Jim,
don't, for Heaven's sake, say anything if he calls Betty Mrs. Austin.
Oh, Jim, be decent, please! I was a fool to do it; I don't know what
possessed me! Wait until to-morrow before you say anything! Besides, he
may be furious! Please wait until I'm out of the house. He'll breakfast
late, I hope; and I promise you I'll be up early and off by the seven
o'clock train----"
"In Heaven's name, who is he?" broke in the amiable man so fiercely
that Cecil jumped.
"He's only Lily Seabury's brother," she said, meekly, "and he thinks
he's at the Austins'--and he might as well be, because he knows half the
people here, and I've simply got to keep him out of their way so that
nobody can tell him where he is. Oh, Betty--I've spoiled my own
Christmas fun, and his, too! Is there any way to get him to the
Austins' now?'
"The Jack Austins' of Beverly!" exclaimed her sister, incredulously. "Of
course not!"
"And you let him think he was on his way there?" demanded her
brother-in-law. "Well--you--are--the--limit!"
"So is he," murmured the abashed maid, slinking back to give place to
a new and last arrival. Then she turned her guilty face in a sort of
panic of premonition. She was a true prophetess; Seabury had seen his
chance and was coming. And that's what comes of mocking the Mystic
Three and cutting capers before High Heaven.
[Illustration]
CHAPTER XI
DESTINY
He had taken her in and was apparently climbing rapidly through the
seven Heavens of rapture--having arrived as far as the third unchecked
and without mishap. It is not probable that she kept pace with him: she
had other things to think of.
Dinner was served at small tables; and it required all her will, all her
limited experience, every atom of her intelligence, to keep him from
talking about things that meant exposure for her. Never apparently had
he been so flattered by any individual girl's attention; she was gay,
witty, audacious, charming, leading and carrying every theme to a
scintillating conclusion.
The other four people at their table he had not before met--she had seen
to that--and it proved to be a very jolly group, and there was a steady,
gay tumult of voices around it, swept by little gusts of laughter; and
he knew perfectly well that he had never had such a good time as he was
having--had never been so clever, so interesting, so quick with his wit,
so amusing. He had never seen such a girl as had been allotted to
him--never! Besides, something else had nerved him to do his best. And
he was doing it.
"It's a curious thing," he said, with that odd new smile of his, "what a
resemblance there is between you and Mrs. Austin."
"What Mrs. Austin?" began the girl opposite; but got no further, for
Cecil Gay was appealing to him to act as arbiter in a disputed Bridge
question; and he did so with nice discrimination and a logical
explanation which tided matters over that time. But it was a close call;
and the color had not all returned to Cecil's cheeks when he finished,
with great credit to his own reputation as a Bridge expert.
But the very deuce seemed to possess him to talk on subjects from which
she strove to lead him.
These are the other breaks he made, and as far as he got with each
break--stopped neatly every time in time:
"Curious I haven't seen Jack Aus----"
"Mrs. Austin does resemble----"
"This is the first time I have ever been in Bev----"
And each time she managed to repair the break unnoticed. But it was
telling on her; she couldn't last another round--she knew that. Only the
figurative bell could save her now. And she could almost hear it as
her sister rose.
Saved! But--but--what might some of these men say to him if he
lingered here for coffee and cigarettes?
"You won't, will you?" she said desperately, as all rose.
"Won't--what?" he asked.
"Stay--long."
He rapidly made his way from the third into the fourth Heaven. She
watched him.
"No, indeed," he said under his breath.
She lingered, fascinated by her own peril. Could she get him away at
once?
"I--I wonder, Mr. Seabury, what you would think if I--if I suggested
that you smoke--smoke--on the stairs--now--with me?"
He hastily scrambled out of the fourth Heaven into the fifth. She saw
him do it.
"I'd rather smoke there than anywhere in the world----"
"Quick, then! Saunter over to the door--stroll about a little first--no,
don't do even that!--I--I mean--you'd better hurry. Please!" She cast
a rapid look about her; she could not linger another moment. Then,
concentrating all the sweetness and audacity in her, and turning to him,
she gave him one last look. It was sufficient to send him in one wild,
flying leap from the fifth Heaven plump into the sixth. The sixth Heaven
was on the stairs; and his legs carried him thither at a slow and
indifferent saunter, though it required every scrap of his self-control
to prevent his legs from breaking into a triumphant trot. Yet all the
while that odd smile flickered, went out, and flickered in his eyes.
She was there, very fluffy, very brilliant, and flustered and adorable,
the light from the sconces playing over her bare arms and shoulders and
spinning all sorts of aureoles around her bright hair. Hah! She had him
alone now. She was safe; she could breathe again. And he might harp on
the Austins all he chose. Let him!
"No, I can't have cigarettes," she explained, "because it isn't good
for my voice. I'm supposed to possess a voice, you know."
"It's about the sweetest voice I ever heard," he said so sincerely that
the bright tint in her cheeks deepened.
"That is nicer than a compliment," she said, looking at him with a
little laugh of pleasure. He nodded, watching the smoke rings drifting
through the hall.
"Do you know something?" he said.
"Not very much. What?"
"If I were a great matrimonial prize----"
"You are, aren't you?"
"If I was," he continued, ignoring her, "like a king or a grand
duke----"
"Exactly."
"I'd invite a grand competition for my hand and heart----"
"We'd all go, Mr. Seabury----"
"----And then I'd stroll about among them all----"
"Certainly--among the competing millions."
"Among the millions--blindfolded----"
"Blinfo----"
"Yes."
"Why?"
"----Blindfolded!" he repeated with emphasis. "I would choose a
voice!--before everything else in the world."
"Oh," she said, rather faintly.
"A voice," he mused, looking hard at the end of his cigarette which had
gone out: and the odd smile began to flicker in his eyes again.
Mischief prompting, she began: "I wonder what chance I should have in
your competition? First prize I couldn't aspire to, but--there would be
a sort of booby prize--wouldn't there, Mr. Seabury?"
"There would be only one prize----"
"Oh!"
"And that would be the booby prize; the prize booby." And he smiled his
odd smile and laid his hand rather gracefully over his heart. "You have
won him, Miss Gay."
She looked at him prepared to laugh, but, curiously enough, there was
less of the booby about him as she saw him there than she had
expected--a tall, clean-cut, attractive young fellow, with a well-shaped
head and nice ears--a man, not a boy, after all--pleasant, amiably
self-possessed, and of her own sort, as far as breeding showed.
Gone was the indescribably indefinite suggestion of too good looks, of
latent self-sufficiency. He no longer struck her as being pleased with
himself, of being a shade--just a shade--too sure of himself. A change,
certainly; and to his advantage. Kindness, sympathy, recognition make
wonderful changes in some people.
"I'll tell you what I'd do if I were queen, and"--she glanced at him--"a
matrimonial prize.... Shall I?"
"Why be both?" he asked.
"That rings hollow, Mr. Seabury, after your tribute to my voice!...
Suppose I were queen. I'd hold a caucus, too. Please say you'd come."
"Oh, I am already there!"
"That won't help you; it isn't first come, first served at my
caucus!... So, suppose millions of suitors were all sitting around
twisting their fingers in abashed hopeful silence."
"Exactly."
"What do you think I'd do, Mr. Seabury?"
"Run. I should."
"No; I should make them a speech--a long one--oh, dreadfully long and
wearisome. I should talk and talk and talk, and repeat myself, and pile
platitude on platitude, and maunder on and on and on. And about
luncheon-time I should have a delicious repast served me, and I'd
continue my speech as I ate. And after that I'd ramble on and on until
dinner-time. And I should dine magnificently up there on the dais, and,
between courses, I'd continue my speech----"
"You'd choose the last man to go to sleep," he said simply.
"How did you guess it!" she exclaimed, vexed. "I--it's too bad for you
to know everything, Mr. Seabury."
"I thought you were convinced that I didn't know anything?" he said,
looking up at her. His voice was quiet--too quiet; his face grave,
unsmiling, firm.
"I? Mr. Seabury, I don't understand you."
He folded his hands and rested his chin on the knuckles. "But I
understand you, Miss Gay. Tell me"--the odd smile flickered and went
out--"Tell me, in whose house am I?"
Sheer shame paralyzed her; wave on wave of it crimsoned her to the hair.
She sat there in deathly silence; he coolly lighted another cigarette,
dropped one elbow on his knee, propping his chin in his open palm.
"I'm curious to know--if you don't mind," he added pleasantly.
"Oh--h!" she breathed, covering her eyes suddenly with both hands. She
pressed the lids for a moment steadily, then her hands fell to her lap,
and she faced him, cheeks aflame.
"I--I have no excuse," she stammered--"nothing to say for myself ...
except I did not understand what a--a common--dreadful--insulting thing
I was doing----"
He waited; then: "I am not angry, Miss Gay."
"N-not angry? You are! You must be! It was too mean--too
contemptible----"
"Please don't. Besides, I took possession of your sleigh. Bailey did the
business for me. I didn't know he had left the Austins, of course."
She looked up quickly; there was a dimness in her eyes, partly from
earnestness; "I did not know you had made a mistake until you spoke of
the Austins," she said. "And then something whispered to me not to tell
you--to let you go on--something possessed me to commit this folly----"
"Oh, no; I committed it. Besides, we were more than half-way here,
were we not?"
"Ye-yes."
"And there's only one more train for Beverly, and I couldn't possibly
have made that, even if we had turned back!"
"Y-yes. Mr. Seabury, are you trying to defend me?"
"You need no defense. You were involved through no fault of your own in
a rather ridiculous situation. And you simply, and like a philosopher,
extracted what amusement there was in it."
"Mr. Seabury! You shall not be so--so generous. I have cut a wretchedly
undignified figure----"
"You couldn't!"
"I could--I have--I'm doing it!"
"You are doing something else, Miss Gay."
"W-what?"
"Making it very, very hard for me to go."
"But you can't go! You mustn't! Do you think I'd let you go--now? Not
if the Austins lived next door! I mean it, Mr. Seabury. I--I simply must
make amends--all I can----"
"Amends? You have."
"I? How?"
"By being here with me."
"Th-that is--is very sweet of you, Mr. Seabury, but I--but they--but
you--Oh! I don't know what I'm trying to say, except that I like
you--they will like you--and everybody knows Lily Seabury. Please,
please forgive----"
"I'm going to telephone to Beverly.... Will you wait--here?"
"Ye-yes. Wh-what are you going to telephone? You can't go, you know.
Please don't try--will you?"
"No," he said, looking down at her.
Things were happening swiftly--everything was happening in an
instant--life, youth, time, all were whirling and spinning around her in
bewildering rapidity; and her pulses, too, leaping responsive, drummed
cadence to her throbbing brain.
She saw him mount the stairs and disappear--no doubt to his room, for
there was a telephone there. Then, before she realized the lapse of
time, he was back again, seating himself quietly beside her on the broad
stair.
"Shall I tell you what I am going to do?" he said after a silence
through which the confused sense of rushing unreality had held her mute.
"Wh-what are you going to do?"
"Walk to Beverly."
"Mr. Seabury! You promised----"
"Did I?"
"You did! It is snowing terribly.... It is miles and miles and the snow
is already too deep. Besides, do you think I--we would let you walk!
But you shall not go--and there are horses enough, too! No, no, no! I--I
wish you would let me try to make up something to you--if I--all that
I can possibly make up."
"At the end of the hall above there's a window," he said slowly. "Prove
to me that the snow is too deep."
"Prove it?" She sprang up, gathering her silken skirts and was on the
landing above before he could rise.
He found her, smiling, triumphant, beside the big casement at the end of
the hallway.
"Now are you convinced?" she said. "Just look at the snowdrifts. Are you
satisfied?"
"No," he said, quietly--too quietly by far. She looked up at him, a
quick protest framed on her red lips. Something--perhaps the odd glimmer
in his eyes--committed her to silence. From silence the stillness grew
into tension; and again the rushing sense of unreality surged over them
both, leaving their senses swimming.
"There is only one thing in the world I care for now," he said.
"Ye-yes."
"And that is to have you think well of me."
"I--I do."
"--And each day--think better of me."
"I--will--probably----"
"And in the end----"
She neither stirred nor turned her eyes.
"--In the end--Listen to me."
"I am wi-willing to."
[Illustration: "'Only one person in the world can ever matter to
me--now.'"]
"Because it will be then as it is now; as it was when even I didn't know
it--as it must be always, for me. Only one person in the world can ever
matter to me--now.... There's no escape from it for me."
"Do--do you wish to--escape?"
"Cecil!" he said under his breath.
       
"They're dancing, below," she said leaning over the gallery, one soft
white hand on the polished rail, the other abandoned to
him--carelessly--as though she were quite unconscious where it lay.
"They are dancing," she repeated, turning toward him--which brought them
face to face, both her hands resting listlessly in his.
A silence, then:
"Do you know," she said, "that this is a very serious matter?"
"I know."
"And that it's probably one of those dreadful, terrible and sudden
strokes of Fate?"
"I know."
"And that--that it serves me right?"
He was smiling; and she smiled back at him, the starry beauty of her
eyes dimming a trifle.
"You say that you have chosen a 'Voice,'" she said; "and--do you think
that you would be the last man to go to sleep?"
"The very last."
"Then--I suppose I must make my choice.... I will ... some day.... And,
are you going to dance with me?"
He raised her hands, joining them together between his; and she watched
him gravely, a tremor touching her lips. In silence their hands fell
apart; he stepped nearer; she lifted her head a little--a very
little--closing her lids; he bent and kissed her lips, very lightly.
That was all; they opened their eyes upon one another, somewhat dazed. A
bell, very far off, was sounding faintly through the falling
snow--faintly, persistently, the first bell for Christmas morning.
Then she took the edges of her silken gown between thumb and forefinger,
and slowly, very slowly, sank low with flushed cheeks, sweeping him an
old-time curtsey.
"I--I wish you a Merry Christmas," she said.... "And thank you for
your wish.... And you may take me down, now"--rising to her slim and
lovely height--"and I think we had better dance as hard as we can and
try to forget what our families are likely to think of what we've
done.... Don't you?"
"Yes," he said seriously, "I do."
       
"And that's what comes of running after trains, and talking to fat
conductors, and wearing chinchilla furs, and flouting the Mystic Three!"
added Williams throwing away his cigar.
[Illustration]
CHAPTER XII
IN WHICH A MODEST MAN MAUNDERS
"In my opinion," said I, "a man who comes to see Paris in three months is
a fool, and kin to that celebrated ass who circum-perambulated the globe
in eighty days. See all, see nothing. A man might camp a lifetime in the
Louvre and learn little about it before he left for Père Lachaise. Yet
here comes the United States in a gigantic "mônome" to see the city in
three weeks, when three years is too short a time in which to appreciate
the Carnavalet Museum alone! I'm going home."
"Oh, papa!" said Alida.
"Yes, I am," I snapped. "I'd rather be tried and convicted in Oyster Bay
on the charge of stealing my own pig than confess I had 'seen Paris' in
three months."
We had driven out to the Trocadero that day, and were now comfortably
seated in the tower of that somewhat shabby "palace," for the purpose of
obtaining a bird's eye view of the "Rive Droite" or right bank of the
Seine.
Elegant, modern, spotless, the Rive Droite spread out at our feet,
silver-gray squares of Renaissance architecture inlaid with the delicate
green of parks, circles, squares, and those endless double and quadruple
lines of trees which make Paris slums more attractive than Fifth Avenue.
Far as the eye could see stretched the exquisite monotony of the Rive
Droite, discreetly and artistically broken by domes and spires of
uncatalogued "monuments," in virgin territory, unknown and unsuspected
to those spiritual vandals whose hordes raged through the boulevards,
waving ten thousand blood-red Baedekers at the paralyzed Parisians.
"Well," said I, "now that we have 'seen' the Rive Droite, let's cast a
bird's-eye glance over Europe and Asia and go back to the hotel for
luncheon."
My sarcasm was lost on my daughters because they had moved out of
earshot. Alida was looking through a telescope held for her by a friend
of Captain de Barsac, an officer of artillery named Captain Vicômte
Torchon de Cluny. He was all over scarlet and black and gold; when he
walked his sabre made noises, and his ringing spurs reminded me of the
sound of sleigh-bells in Oyster Bay.
My daughter Dulcima was observing the fortress of Mont-Valerien through
a tiny pair of jewelled opera-glasses, held for her by Captain de
Barsac. It was astonishing to see how tirelessly De Barsac held those
opera-glasses, which must have weighed at least an ounce. But French
officers are inured to hardships and fatigue.
"Is that a fortress?" asked Dulcima ironically. "I see nothing but
some low stone houses."
"Next to Gibraltar," said De Barsac, "it is the most powerful fortress
in the world, mademoiselle. It garrisons thousands of men; its stores
are enormous; it dominates not only Paris, but all France."
"But where are the cannon?" asked Dulcima.
"Ah--exactly--where? That is what other nations pay millions to find
out--and cannot. Will you take my word for it that there are one or two
cannon there--and permit me to avoid particulars?"
"You might tell me where just one little unimportant cannon is?" said my
daughter, with the naïve curiosity which amuses the opposite and still
more curious sex.
"And endanger France?" asked De Barsac, with owl-like solemnity.
"Thank you," pouted Dulcima, perfectly aware that he was laughing.
Their voices became low, and relapsed into that buzzing murmur which
always defeats its own ends by arousing parental vigilance.
"Let us visit the aquarium," said I in a distinct and disagreeable
voice. Doubtless the "voice from the wilderness" was gratuitously
unwelcome to Messieurs De Barsac and Torchon de Cluny, but they appeared
to welcome the idea with a conciliatory alacrity noticeable in young men
when intruded upon by the parent of pretty daughters. Dear me, how fond
they appeared to be of me; what delightful information they volunteered
concerning the Trocadero, the Alexander Bridge, the Champ de Mars.
       
The aquarium of the Trocadero is underground. To reach it you simply
walk down a hole in France and find yourself under the earth, listening
to the silvery prattle of a little brook which runs over its bed of
pebbles above your head, pouring down little waterfalls into endless
basins of glass which line the damp arcades as far as you can see. The
arcades themselves are dim, the tanks, set in the solid rock, are
illuminated from above by holes in the ground, through which pours the
yellow sunshine of France.
Looking upward through the glass faces of the tanks you can see the
surface of the water with bubbles afloat, you can see the waterfall
tumbling in; you can catch glimpses of green grass and bushes, and a bit
of blue sky.
Into the tanks fall insects from the world above, and the fish sail up
to the surface and lazily suck in the hapless fly or spider that tumbles
onto the surface of the water.
It is a fresh-water aquarium. All the fresh-water fish of France are
represented here by fine specimens--pike, barbels, tench, dace, perch,
gudgeons, sea-trout, salmon, brown-trout, and that lovely delicate
trout-like fish called l'Ombre de Chevallier. What it is I do not
know, but it resembles our beautiful American brook-trout in shape and
marking; and is probably a hybrid, cultivated by these clever French
specialists in fish-propagation.
Coming to a long crystal-clear tank, I touched the glass with my
finger-tip, and a slender, delicate fish, colored like mother-of-pearl,
slowly turned to stare at me.
"This," said I, "is that aristocrat of the waters called the 'Grayling.'
Notice its huge dorsal fin, its tender and diminutive mouth. It takes a
fly like a trout, but the angler who would bring it to net must work
gently and patiently, else the tender mouth tears and the fish is lost.
Is it not the most beautiful of all fishes?
  "'Here and there a lusty trout;
  Here and there a Grayling--'
"Ah, Tennyson knew. And that reminds me, Alida," I continued, preparing
to recount a personal adventure with a grayling in Austria--"that
reminds me----"
I turned around to find I had been addressing the empty and somewhat
humid atmosphere. My daughter Alida stood some distance away, gazing
absently at a tank full of small fry; and Captain Vicômte Torchon de
Cluny stood beside her, talking. Perhaps he was explaining the habits of
the fish in the tank.
My daughter Dulcima and Captain de Barsac I beheld far down the arcades,
strolling along without the faintest pretence of looking at anything but
each other.
"Very well," thought I to myself, "this aquarium is exactly the place I
expect to avoid in future--" And I cheerfully joined my daughters as
though they and their escorts had long missed me.
Now, of course, they all expressed an enthusiastic desire to visit
every tank and hear me explain the nature of their contents; but it was
too late.
"No," said I, "it is damp enough here to float all the fishes in the
Seine. And besides, as we are to 'see' the Rive Droite, we should
