she saw the slave go out of the gate with a coil of rope 
about his arm. She could not tell why, but it annoyed 
her. It brought Roger too close. She did not want to 
think of him. 
Sylvie was very languid for several days. Hylas came 
up on the balcony, and slept at Sylvie’s door at night. 
When she felt a little stronger, she took Hylas about with 
her, explaining the situation to him. 
"Oh,” with a cry of delight, "how beautiful you have 
made this, Jaques ! And you have cleared up all the wild 
things — they grow so fast. Oh, lovely swans, you have 
a much finer home. Jaques, who told you?” raising her 
glad, eager eyes. 
"No one. I’ve had it in my mind some time. Now one 
can see about a little. It is really a bayou,” and he 
laughed delightedly. 
He had dredged out the pond and enlarged its area, 
making in some places a bed of gravelly stones that shone 
i
in the bottom. A little stream fed it on one side, that was 
lost in the dense woods. The other widened and nar- 
rowed until it spent itself in the river. But instead of 
the river ever draining these small streams and ponds, 
they seemed to grow larger from the overflow of the 
mighty current. The swans’ shelter had been made 
more secure, the herons, were down one end by them- 
selves, and delighted in wading up and down the swampy 
inlet. A small stone wall and platform had been added, 
and the rustic seats renewed. 
“How good you are to me, Jaques !” Her voice was 
full of emotion and she hung on his arm affectionately. 
“Who could help being good to thee ! And, Mam’selle, 
we will take walks about and find many beautiful things. 
I never saw so much grow in any country. It seems as 
if the good God saved his choicest gifts and creations 
for this New World. I hope we shall never need to go 
back to France.” 
“I shall not go if the others do,” she answered, de- 
cisively. “I shall live here always.” 
Jaques laughed softly. She was as much in love with 
the New World as he. 
So by degrees Sylvie woke languidly to her older in- 
terest in daily living, but not quite her olden gayety. 
She was so fond of all the out-of-doors creatures, the 
birds knew her and held their heads on one side in 
listening attitude, looking out of bright eyes as she talked 
to them. The swans came at the sound of her voice, the 
ducks rushed hither and thither when she came. 
“Do you suppose it is just because I bring them some 
choice bits,” she asked of Jaques. “The ducks are greedy, 
I know. But oh, how beautiful they are, in all their 
shining array of gold and green and blue and every 
lovely tint mingled! I suppose it is enough for some 
things just to look beautiful. The flowers cannot under- 
stand affection, yet we give them love for love.’" 
“Thou art a curious little being,” said Jaques. 
“But Telano really does love. How sorry he seemed 
when I was ill! His face was dismal, and his neck so 
long. He missed Gervaise too, I think.” 
“Ah, he did indeed I” 
“And the house seems so strange and still without him. 
He was always whistling to the birds or singing a merry 
carol. Do you think he cared very much for Claire 
Lavalette? She is ten times sweeter than Zenobie, and 
he used to go there so much.” 
“Oh, no,” Jaques tossed his head. 
“Henri de Longpre is very nice, but he talks all the 
time to Angel. And I cannot tell whether he is laughing 
at me or not. I do not like to be laughed at.” 
“Mam’selle, few of us do,” dryly. “We must try and 
laugh back.” 
Sylvie did not understand how any one could, when one 
was a little hurt. 
Angel did not grow especially fond of Hylas, and he 
preserved a cool indifference toward her. Yet sometimes 
when he studied her with those grave, fathomless eyes, 
she felt sure Monsieur Norton had confided his secret 
to him and she shrank at the uncanny consciousness. 
“We must be the better friends, Hylas,” Sylvie would 
sometimes say when they were wandering about the 
thickets. “I can’t tell any one else, but I am sure Ger- 
vaise did not want to go and she sent him, so you have 
lost your friend, and I mine. It is all very mysterious 
and very sad. As for the Marquis de Brienne — oh, I 
think he must be what is called a myth.” 
Hylas nodded sagely. 
It was not Gervaise’s love for Sylvie that Angel had 
been anxious about, but his very great fondness for 
Claire. She gave the same smile and sweetness to 
every one, but it seemed as if that especial one had 
awakened it. How did she manage to be so dainty and 
beguiling and yet keep so innocent at heart? That 
puzzled Angelique. But she could not endure the 
thought that Gervaise should fall so uselessly in love 
and be disappointed. 
Claire came down one morning flushed and smiling, 
with a mysterious sweetness in her eyes and a curious 
sound in her voice. 
“Oh, what has happened ?” cried Angelique. “Nothing 
sad, I know. Gra’mere must be quite as well as usual.” 
“Oh, yes, and very happy. We are all very happy,” 
and her eyes were full of lustrous light. 
“Then your father must have had some great good 
fortune.” 
“Yes, it is good fortune, I suppose, when children 
marry well. Fathers and mothers are both glad. It is 
natural to make new homes.” 
“You do not mean ” 
“I am to be betrothed on Thursday. There will be a 
little feast, and you must all come. It is a saint day, too. 
We are to go to mass in the morning, and though I shall 
be beside maman, I shall have the delight of knowing he 
is there.” 
“He — who?” Angelique was vainly trying to think. 
“Ah, you will hardly guess. It is Eugene Fleurien. 
You met him at the General's birthday, I believe. He is 
very fine and attractive, and rumor gave him to the 
Abeilles, but Marie was betrothed a month ago. Last 
week he went and spoke to papa, and he discussed the 
matter with dear maman, and then Eugene came and, as 
I said, we are to be betrothed and sign the contract.'’ 
“Are you very much in love with him?” For it seemed 
to Angel as if Claire had taken so much general pleasure 
that some deeper feeling was requisite. She had dis- 
covered charms in all young men. 
“Oh, not until afterward,” and she colored deeply. 
“Then we shall love each other sincerely. It will not be 
a long engagement. He has a large plantation at Pointe 
Coupee, and lives there with his father. His two sisters 
are married, his mother is dead. His father has been 
desirous this last year that he should marry and is so 
pleased that I know I shall be admired.” 
It seemed too prosaic, Angel thought, for such a really 
delightful young girl. 
“Oh, I hope you will be very happy,” she cried. 
“I am sure to be. Eugene is so good and merry, and 
is sure to be a rich man. And now that some one has 
invented what is called a cotton-gin, cotton will be profit- 
able. But they are sugar-cane growers mostly. And, 
Angel, you must come and stay days with me ; there are 
fine rides around, and they have horses. When have 
you heard from Gervaise, and where is he? And that 
curious American who was so charming when he had a 
mind?” 
No, she had not cared for Gervaise except in a friendly 
fashion, and Gervaise had sent many messages to her and 
said, “I would write to her if it was proper. Do you 
think it might be ?” 
“Only yesterday a letter came. They were at some 
straits in Michigan that it twists your tongue all up to 
pronounce. I did not even get it spelled out. And 
wonderful lakes, oh, many times larger than Lake Pont- 
chartrain, and such copper mines — enough to make a hun- 
dred people rich. The country is full of Indians, but 
they all seem friendly now.’' 
“And the other cousin ?” 
“Oh, they have heard nothing as yet. The American 
had some interest in the copper-working and in furs. 
They will go down to this place called Detroit, and there 
they may learn what befell him.” 
Angelique choked down a little sigh. 
“And now let us find Madame Champe. Maman 
sends the invitations, and you will not be displeased that 
she does not come herself. There is so much to do. 
Though why, I do not see,” laughing gayly. “There is 
always plenty in the house to eat and drink.” 
Madame Champe was taken very much by surprise, 
but she made quite a formal little speech and then gave 
very heartfelt wishes. Yes, they would be sure to come. 
Angelique had never attended a betrothal feast. 
“And the little one, too. Is she quite well ?” 
“Not as well as I could wish,” replied Barbe. “There 
is a little malaise about her, and she grows tall very fast.” 
“She and Zenobie amuse us so. They are always a 
little captious, and say sharp things that papa laughs over 
afterward. But Zenobie envies the splendid dog. Is it 
the American’s ?” 
“Yes. We only have it to keep, though Sylvie’s name 
is on the collar.” 
Claire kissed her friend warmly. She was also going 
to invite two more neighbors. 
“It is quite strange,” commented Barbe. 
“It took me by surprise. I suppose Claire did have a 
preference for him or she could not have consented so 
easily.” 
“Still, if the parents thought it best. They are wiser, 
more experienced and understand what is needed to make 
life run smoothly. It is not all romance and a tender 
voice or delightful honeyed words and smiles. And a 
man knows men better than women can.” 
Angelique made no further comment. Madame Henri- 
ade was still very kind to her and showed her many 
favors. 
“But I meet so few desirable people of your religion,” 
she said, “if you are going to let that stand in the way. 
They do not seem to be drawn into my circle, that is the 
trouble.” 
“Oh, do not think of me in that way, Madame. If I 
have your charming friendship, that is all I ask. And 
now I must devote myself to Sylvie.” 
“You are very sweet, ma fille, too sweet to be left to 
fade alone to old age.” 
“Old age is a long way off,” gayly. 
“Sylvie had better go to school and be* with other girls,” 
Barbe said one morning. “One knows not what to do 
with her. Only yesterday she was half captivated by 
the life of the Indian girls when that pretty one was in, 
trying to sell her goods. Living in a wigwam and work- 
ing beads into all sorts of things, and rambling through 
forests and canoeing — and I would not trust myself in a 
canoe for a pile of gold.” 
“I must take up Spanish again with her.” 
“And at home girls learned to sew and knit and make 
bread and puddings and preserves, and all sorts of things 
needed in housekeeping. Here the slaves do it for you. 
But among the Acadians there were little girls knitting, 
there were mothers sewing and tending babies. Slaves 
make one idle and helpless.” 
The betrothal was a very delightful and friendly 
occasion. The young couple did not hesitate to show a 
decided preference for each other afterward. The elder 
Monsieur Fleurien was rather small, a pleasant, white- 
haired man with round cheeks full of the bloom of the 
autumn of life rather than its winter. He was de- 
lighted with his son’s choice, and inclined to hurry the 
marriage forward that they might the sooner have her in 
their home. 
Long engagements were not much in favor. The mat- 
ter was well considered beforehand. Where and how the 
young people would live, and what their income would 
be, was all settled. If it was little, they made themselves 
content and dreamed of better times; if it was liberal, 
they might be gay enough between whiles when no babies 
claimed the first share of love and attention. For mother- 
hood was one of the great factors in that old life. 
Father Charlier and Father Moras of the convent were 
both present, and their blessing was almost as solemn as 
a marriage benediction. Everybody rejoiced, and there 
was much cordial good feeling and pleasantry. And 
though in the cafes and cabarets and at some of the 
officers’ houses there might be drunkenness and carous- 
ing, disputes ending in duels, one found little of it in 
private families. There was much merry-making with- 
out any excess. 
“Thou wilt soon have another daughter to husband,” 
said Pere Fleurien, with a smile, as he watched Zenobie. 
“She is of high mettle. Madame, I think my son has the 
choice, but I wish as good a husband for her as Mam’selle 
Claire will get. And we shall both give thanks many a 
time for your wise up-bringing.” 
“Yes. Zenobie will soon leave the convent now. She 
is, as you say, of high spirit, but a good girl, full of affec- 
tion and respect.” 
Zenobie was growng tall rapidly, and piquant rather 
than really handsome, but vivacious and capable of doing 
much execution with her eyes, which had not the demure 
sweetness of Claire’s, but would, no doubt, be as danger- 
ous. Sylvie looked pale and thin, but her golden hair 
was like a cloud about her. And though many at that 
age wore it in a high knot with a comb or a great cluster 
of bows, Sylvie’s flowed free in a mass of shining waves, 
the ends breaking into curls. Girls were very simply 
dressed in those days. A white gown, scant and ankle 
length, with perhaps a ruffle around the bottom ; a short 
waist, square in the neck, with a little lace edging, and 
perhaps a string of beads. Sylvie wore her pretty corals. 
Laure Gorgas was outside of all this. For that matter, 
she had no real standing, belonged to no particular class. 
At the convent there was small distinction made, but 
outside it was quite different, for a girl who knew nothing 
about her parents. 
So Sylvie was almost adored when she went down to 
Mere Milhet’s. Dolamine and Lucie were delighted with 
a bit of gossip, and Laure listened wide-eyed. 
“Zenobie will sit on the topmost round of the ladder 
now, and step on the fingers of those who venture to 
climb,” Laure declared, sharply. “It is a very fine mar- 
riage, everybody says. And Zenobie will soon leave the 
convent and be a young lady having lovers. See what it 
is to have a father with money !” 
“I have no father and no money,” said the little one, 
soberly. 
“Then you’ll have hard work getting a husband, 
Mam’selle, unless you grow very handsome.” 
Sylvie smiled with inward comfort. She had a husband 
already. When she was twelve she might announce it. 
And now Claire would not want him. 
“What are you smiling about?” queried Laure. 
''Angelique could have had a nice husband and she had 
no money,” replied the child, with quick wit. 
'‘Mam’selle Angelique is handsome.” Then, soften- 
ing a little, ‘Tt is very good of you, Sylvie, to come and 
tell us all about it. And the old gra’mere has taken a 
fancy to you, I hear ; but she is so old I should not think 
she could tell one girl from another. Did they bring her 
down ?” 
*‘Oh, no. A procession went up. The priests first, 
then M. and Madame Lavalette and the young people. 
All the guests did not go. It was very pretty. I shall 
go to see her married.” 
‘‘Ah, Mam’selle Sylvie, if you could but find your way 
to the true Church. I pray for you.” 
Pointe Coupee was considerably more than a hundred 
miles above the old city, but, though given mostly to large 
plantations, was the centre for trade with the posts of 
Natchez, with Baton Rouge, Natchitoches, and also the 
Southern ports as well as the city. One of the most 
prominent planters of the province was M. Poydras, who 
had taken such a warm interest in the young Princes. 
His was a rather romantic story. Roger Norton had told 
it over to them one afternoon, sitting in the old garden. 
While in the French navy he had been taken prisoner 
and sent to England, where he spent his time wisely in 
acquiring the language. He managed to escape and 
made his way to Louisiana just in time to see it become 
a Spanish possession. The river filled him with dreams 
of commerce, and he travelled from plantation to planta- 
tion, supplying families with needful wares until he had 
accumulated sufficient to purchase this point and enlarge 
his business. Gentle in disposition, honest to the most 
scrupulous degree, he presently had the trade from 
St. Louis to Florida, Now he had built a cotton gin in 
two places, and his plantation had been added to as far as 
False River. Other planters had settled there, Fleurien 
being among the earlier ones. 
Now M. Poydras went up and down the river in his 
own boats, and dealt in all kinds of merchandise as well 
as furs. He had planned to visit France as the Revolution 
broke out, but he was so shocked by the excesses that he 
could only pity his unhappy country and most kindly 
assist the refugees. His manly heart was full of sym- 
pathy for his fellow-creatures. He had rescued more 
than one poor slave from misery and given him a com- 
fortable home. 
Claire was full of delight. In a certain way she had 
grown very fond of Angelique, though their natures were 
so different. She had the warmth and effervescence of 
the Creole, restrained up to a certain point, joyous, con- 
tent with what was not hers at present, but could be by 
and by. Marriage she counted on; there were but two 
spheres for women, convent life and marriage. Young 
men had been mostly alike to her. It was their province 
to say pretty, complimentary things ; to hold one’s fan 
and gloves ; to carry one’s shawl ; to gather choice flowers 
if a party were out for a ramble, well chaperoned, to be 
sure ; to dance with ; perhaps to raise one’s eyes and meet 
other eyes in speechless adoration — a glance to be remem- 
bered all one’s life, yet having nothing of longing or a 
taint of infidelity in it when she is a happy wife and 
mother. 
Claire could recall more than one such glance. Of 
them all, she had wondered who would have the right to 
her hand and heart. More than one of them had a charm. 
And then Pere Fleurien had come down from Pointe 
Coupee and held an interview with Monsieur Lavalette, 
and everything ran along smoothly. Eugene was young, 
good-looking, in fair circumstances, his father’s idol, 
tender, well mannered, and with a fund of endearing ex- 
pressions. What more could a well-trained girl ask? 
'‘But won’t it be lonely up there on the large plantations 
that are miles in extent? And you have such tender 
parents, so many fine friends, so many balls and gayeties, 
and the pleasant walks down around the Plaza when the 
band is playing. Do you love him so well that you will 
be content there alone ” 
Claire gave a soft, satisfied, amused laugh as she in- 
terrupted Angelique with : 
“Alone ! Why, I shall have Eugene all the time,” and 
her eyes were suiTused with a tender, triumphant light. 
“Now, it is only a brief while, now and then, he has to 
come down the river and cannot stay long, and” — blushing 
in a spasm of self-surrender — “there can be so little talk. 
But our eyes say, ‘Do you love me?’ We both ask the 
same question, chcrie Angel, and both give the same 
answer from our full hearts, and understand. And the 
clasp of the hand, the gift of flowers, the little murmurs 
that are the music of love’s tongue! Marnan is very 
good, she has little errands away, or chatters to Felice, 
but when we have each other all the time!” and Claire 
sighed with a sensation of anticipated bliss that seemed to 
exhale the delight of hope from every pulse. 
Angelique looked and wondered. Had Gervaise been 
older, could she have loved him so supremely, or Henri de 
Longpre ? Both had given her a boy’s worship. 
“And there will be Papa Fleurien to cherish and make 
happy. He might not have approved me, or he might 
have chosen some one else, so I must be sweet and grate- 
ful. He loves me, and if a girl cannot be content with the 
adoration of two men, she must be ungrateful indeed ! Ah, 
Mademoiselle, perhaps the girls brought up in New France 
— for it will always be that to us as long as it bears the 
name of King Louis — are not so cold by nature, have not 
been so trained — how shall I put it ? — are not ashamed to 
dream of love, which must be a woman’s crown always. 
Oh, yes, I shall be very happy and not lonely. And if • 
the good God should send us children ” 
No, Angel could never have cared for or wanted to 
spend days and weeks with Sehor Torres. 
It was odd Claire should recall the same person. 
‘‘We were all so sorry about Monsieur Torres. You 
do not understand how love comes when one has the 
right; it is like the plant that flowers when its time 
arrives and everything is appropriate. And did you hear 
— I suppose you do not mind” — with a deprecating 
glance out of her half-raised eyes — “that Monsieur is to 
marry Mam’selle Aurore, whose aunt is rich and very 
fond of her, and does not deny that she will give her 
handsome settlements ?” 
“He was very generous then to want me without any 
dot,” and Angel paid him a sudden, heartfelt respect. 
“Well — there was the good birth — the cousin of a 
Marquis,” laughed Claire. “And who knows but a 
fortune may come some day ?” 
While the marriage was to be quite an aflPair in one 
respect, there was no great display as in modern times. 
The trousseau was simple and serviceable ; she was to wear 
all gra’mere’s jewels to church, then they were to be re- 
stored to the strong box until Zenobie needed them, and 
at gra’mere’s death were to be divided among the three 
girls. There would be some jewels awaiting Madame at 
Pointe Coupee, the gift of her father-in-law. 
“It is such a sorrow you cannot be one of the maids,” 
Claire said, delicately, a fortnight beforehand. “But there 
will be a mass, which you do not use. We think it right 
to begin our lives with that blessing of the good God. 
But you are to visit me, you and the little Sylvie, and we 
will go over to M. Poydras, whom you will like so much. 
He has books and music, and is so charming one wonders 
why he never married. He has been so good to some 
young people, putting them on their feet, and helping 
them to win homes. Oh, yes, you will come often, and 
the dear Madame Champe. And we will wait for what 
the good Father has in store for you. I know you will 
be happy, you are so amiable and devoted.” 
The marriage was indeed a pretty occasion. The 
Cathedral was mostly finished now, and already boasted 
some fine gifts from various patrons. And then there 
was the journey to the wharf, and though the mode of 
conveyance was only a flatboat, one of M. Poydras’s own 
that he had kindly proffered his neighbor, there was a 
new tent spread out on it, and flags were flying, while the 
slaves were attired in their best and gayest, and full of 
grinning mirth. It was quite a gala day, and the happy 
young couple started with a freight of good wishes that 
were given in sincerity. 
“Oh, dear!” cried Sylvie as they entered the old gate, 
“how lonesome it will be now ! I wish some one else 
would marry. I saw Laure among the school children, 
and I expect she will talk about it for a month. Zenobie 
looked very grand, didn’t she, Angel ? And now she will 
be Mademoiselle Lavalette. Laure says she is sure to 
marry Henri.” 
“What nonsense you children do talk I” said Barbe. 
CHAPTER XIV. 
Yes, it was lonely; Angelique felt sometimes that she 
could hardly endure it. Madame Henriade was as 
charming as ever, but there was no Gervaise to shield 
her with brotherly attentions when others became 
obtrusive. So she went less into society. 
Education among women was not at all advanced at 
this period. The French schools had been quite dis- 
countenanced, and they taught about the same branches 
as the Ursulines, except that they did aim to keep 
alive a certain knowledge of French and its literature. 
But to be sweet, amiable, and vivacious, to receive com- 
pliments gracefully, to dress prettily, to lower the eyes 
in modest delight when a man talked to you, to be able 
to make a good impression as much on some one’s father 
or mother as on himself, was about all the aims a woman 
needed. And yet it is true they made delightful wives 
and devoted mothers. Of the undercurrent even then 
seething in New Orleans they were supposed to know 
nothing. They heard the band on the Plaza, attended by 
some male relatives as well as a chaperon, they went dec- 
orously to the theatre when the plays were moral ; but 
the husbands and sons attended dances where beautiful 
quadroons in the airiest of raiment disported themselves 
as paid dancers, and sometimes there was quite a rivalry 
between managers for these attractions. 
Angelique had met with an adventure one day ; a pale, 
rather care-worn-looking woman had been making some 
purchases at a store kept by a Spaniard who had the 
reputation of underselling his brethren. It was a miser- 
able place and seemed to have a strange assortment. She 
was looking at a beautiful vase that some poor body had 
doubtless sold at a sacrifice. A fierce sound on the one 
side, a beseeching appeal on the other, and she glanced at 
the disputants. The man was small, savage-eyed, with 
great earrings in his ears, and a long black beard; the 
woman slim and fair, frightened to the last degree. 
‘'Oh, Madame,” she cried, ‘T have lost my purse. I 
am quite sure I had it when I entered the store. I would 
give back the articles, but he will not have them, and 
threatens me with arrest. Oh, what shall I do?” 
“She is a swindler,” cried the man, in a jargon of both 
French and Spanish. “They come in here often. They 
lose their purses ! She shall be arrest ! I will not suffer 
any longer.” 
Jaques stood talking with an acquaintance a few doors 
away. Angelique had wandered on. She glanced at 
him, then said to the woman : 
“How much is it?” 
She tremblingly mentioned the sum. 
' “It is a lie,” he shouted. “You mean to cheat. I will 
have you taken to jail !” 
“What do you say the amount is?” Angelique asked 
with an air of authority as she saw Jaques approaching. 
“I will not be cheated, I tell you ” 
“Monsieur Champe, will you inquire into this matter 
and pay the man what is due?” she requested with 
dignity. “Hear the woman’s story first.” 
The shopkeeper curbed his furious passion, though he 
still contradicted the woman. “Come,” said Angelique, 
leading her into the narrow street which seemed to be an 
offshoot. 
“Oh, how can I thank you ” 
“You are not French,” remarked Angelique. 
“No, Madame, an American. I ought not have gone 
in that place, but I bought some articles last week very 
cheap, and saw something else I needed. I went there 
to-day. I am sure I laid my purse down. He tumbled 
some goods over it, and when I looked he was angry and 
called me names. I don’t know what I would have done 
but for you. Oh, God reward you !” 
“Was it all the money you had with you?” Angelique 
asked, delicately. 
“All I had in the world, Madame. I bought my bread 
and a bit of meat first — I have two hungry boys,” and 
she flushed. 
“Jaques rejoined them. He had beaten the man down 
to his customer’s amount, but the purse had not been 
found. They walked on together. 
“Do you live in this direction?” Angelique questioned. 
“Yes, Madame. A little street called Beauvier. My 
husband is a boatman. He is seldom away so long as 
this, and there are so many stories of pirates about the 
Gulf. I have been much worried. My two boys are at 
work in one of the warehouses on the levee. It is not 
good, but boys cannot starve. And I give lessons some- 
times. But so few people care to learn English. Oh, I 
desire to go East again. We thought there were better 
chances here, but ” 
The tears that she was too proud to wipe away over- 
flowed her eyes. 
“I have been trying to learn a little English,” said 
Angelique, “but my cousin went away.” 
“Oh, if Madame would allow me to restore the money 
that way ” 
“You are quite welcome to it. I am glad we rescued 
you. Do not go into the shop again.” 
“Indeed, I shall not. But, Madame, can you not under- 
stand how much better satisfied I would be to pay the 
debt ? I am honest,” with an accent of pride. 
Something in the face interested Angelique, and she 
had so few sources of interest now. 
“If you like to have it so. Afterward you may con- 
tinue them,” with her charming smile that warmed the 
troubled heart. “But it is a long way out — on the 
St. John road.” 
She was too delicate to propose to come into town, yet 
the woman looked so worn she was sorry to put her to 
the trouble. 
“It is so beautiful in that direction, Madame — I am 
not sure it is Madame ” coloring deeply. 
“No,” Angelique smiled with charming grace. 
“I said so in the shop because I did not see that you 
were attended. Marriage carries so much weight here, 
and that beast might have insulted a young girl.” 
“Thank you for that thoughtfulness.” 
“Girls marry so young here. Oh, I like the East 
much better. I could have courage to walk all the way 
back, but one must needs eat. And there are the boys. 
Mam’selle, will you allow me to come to-morrow ?” 
“If you prefer, yes.” 
“We sometimes walk out that way on Sundays. There 
is no Protestant Church, you see, and the way is so 
beautiful one can worship God by the roadside. In that 
direction there is a very pretty girl who has a hound 
which belonged to an American, a Mr. Norton.” 
“Oh, do you know him ?” 
“My husband did a little. He is a very fine, generous 
man. My boys thought the dog so splendid, and they 
have seen it with the child.” 
“She is my cousin. We will both study English.” 
“You are so good, Mam’selle. I can never thank 
you.” 
“It was only a little thing.” Angelique colored now. 
“It is the little things that show people’s goodness. 
Great things may be done from any other motive. Here 
is my street, not a very fine situation, but the house is not 
bad, and I could not endure the crowded rows. Why, 
when there was so much room, did they build so close 
together?” 
“They had then to think of defence from enemies. 
And it is improving all the time ; Jaques” — who was 
walking behind, — “this lady is to come up to-morrow. 
I shall explain to Aunt.” 
The woman made her adieus in a manner that showed 
she was not ignorant of the usages of society. Then the 
two walked on. 
“Are you quite sure, Mam’selle, it is the proper thing 
to do? You know nothing about the woman,” Jaques 
began in an anxious tone. 
“No, I am not sure it is. She is an American, and 
certainly shows some breeding. I felt very sorry for her. 
We found so many friends on our coming here, and we 
ought to help others if we can. I am tired of my little 
round and long for something different. Shall I marry, 
Monsieur Jaques?” 
She turned her face archly and smiled out of sparkling 
eyes. 
“There is no one now that Master Gervaise is gone — 
and all demoiselles need looking after.” 
“Oh, yes, you are a host in yourself. See how soon 
you brought that beast of a shopkeeper to terms. And 
Barbel Then there is the American’s dog.” 
“And Carlos would tear any one in pieces. But every 
day I think how wild it was to let M’sieu Gervaise go 
away. For I know Sieur Hugh must be dead.” 
Angelique sighed. She was losing faith herself. 
Barbe hesitated a little over the new acquaintance. 
Sylvie was all curiosity and eagerness. 
“I know quite a good many English words,” she said. 
“I repeat them to Hylas. Do you suppose he was bom 
in America ?” 
“Why, it is all America, Sylvie. I wish we knew a 
little more about the country. If it was the fashion to 
learn a great many things !” 
Angelique sighed. A girl’s life bounded only by 
needlework, French and Spanish, a few pleasures, balls 
and dancing, festas in which they only looked on, and 
marriage, seemed narrow. A curious discontent stirred 
within her, a kind of awakening that she longed for and 
dreaded. Did ever a young girl before want things and 
not know what they were ? 
Mrs. Murch came the next morning. She had a rather 
faded gingham gown, and a white kerchief about her 
shoulders. Now they could see a striking difference 
between her and most of the women they met. She had 
none of the languorous softness of the South. She had 
not even that sort of repressed dignity that characterized 
Barbe. Her complexion was fair ; now her skin seemed 
full of minute blue veins that gave it a striking pallor. 
Her hair was brown and worn smoothly, not indebted 
to the hair-dresser’s art or ideas. Her face was thin and 
long, her features rather aquiline, her voice smooth, low, 
but rather weak. She was not at all effusive, though one 
could see the gratitude in her eyes. 
Before her marriage she had been a school-teacher in 
an Eastern town. Everything was so different here, she 
admitted. A few accomplishments and the catechism 
seemed all that was necessary. “But at the East you 
learned about countries, products, what people had done, 
what they were doing, the principles of government, 
y 
the true purposes of religion, the advancement of 
humanity.” 
“But are women never laughed at? There was the 
Hotel Rambouillet and La Precieuses in Paris ” 
Yes. Mrs. Murch knew about them. And kings and 
queens and wars and conquests. 
“But that is not learning English,” said Mrs. Murch, 
with a faint smile. “I have brought a primer with me. 
Have you any books ?” 
Gervaise had left one of his. 
Sylvie was delighted and eager. She too was a little 
tired of the round, of Laure’s inconsequent complaining, 
of Hortense’s passionate adoration. As for Zenobie, she 
held her head loftily these days. And the crane appeared 
to have reached the limit of his educational faculties. 
Hylas alone never wearied her. 
Mrs. Murch was to come three days in a week. The 
salary seemed much too high for the services she de- 
clared. Angelique thought it rather meagre, but their 
own income was not large. Barbe was quite stiff at first, 
but she soon became interested in the poor woman, who 
must at one time have been such a lady. They could 
hardly understand how a person of so much refinement 
could cheerfully consent to take up menial employments 
even in her own home. 
Hylas approved of her. He was rather aristocratic 
too. And when one Sunday the boys were allowed to 
come up and renew acquaintance with him, they were 
wild with delight. Anthon had once carried Mr. Nor- 
ton’s valise for him, though the little negroes or big ones 
either, generally took such jobs as their share. Dick was 
younger ; both were blue-eyed and sunburned, even as to 
hair. No one knew what their mother suffered when 
they started off in their shrunken white suits, and bare- 
footed ; still they were clean and merry, and thought New 
Orleans a marvellous place. 
“But we’re sure to go back,” said Anthon, decidedly. 
“I shouldn’t want to live here always unless I could have 
a garden and a house like this.” 
“I never saw such a funny crane,” laughed Dick. “I’ve 
seen performing dogs, and I think you could teach Hylas 
anything, only he is so fine and grand you would hate to 
see him do ridiculous things ! Think of his trying to 
dance like Telano!” and the boy laughed heartily. 
The conversation was carried on in a rather funny 
