the Shoals now, for the breeze was stiff, and the yacht ran at a
spanking pace.  The wind was not going down with the sun, but rose
strongly.  The landsman began to be a little seasick, which somehow
added to his moral discomfort.
"How can I get a telegram off?" he asked abruptly, much in the tone in
which he would have called for a district messenger in the court-house.
"Oh, I might tap a cable for you, I suppose," returned his host, with
twitching mustache.  "Look here," added Romer.  "What is it--mal de
mer? or nostalgia?  Do you want to be put ashore?"
"Not at all," replied Avery, with the pugnacity which men are
accustomed to mistake for high ethical obligations to their own sex.
"I only want to get a message to my wife.  You see, I promised her."
"We 'll run into Wood's Hole in the morning, by all means," said Romer
cordially.  "It's a great place for ducks, anyhow, off there."
"Oh--ducks?" repeated Avery stupidly.  He had forgotten that they came
to kill ducks.
"We 're goin' to have a breeze o' wind," observed one of the crew, who
was lowering the jib-topsail.
"I'd like to take the dispatch myself, when we get there, if I may,"
the seasick lawyer hazarded, somewhat timidly.  But next morning, when
the Dream dropped anchor off Wood's Hole, and the tender was lowered,
he was flat in his berth.  He could not take the dispatch, and a detail
of two from the crew bounced off with it, pounding over the choppy sea.
The frail and fashionable tender looked like one of the little Florida
shells that are sold by the quart; there was now a considerable sea;
the yacht herself was pretty wet.  Romer was in excellent spirits.
"We might get a duck or two before breakfast, if it isn't too rough,"
he suggested.  "Sorry you 're laid up."
"Oh--ducks?" repeated Avery again.  He wished he could have a chance
to forget that he had left his wife too ill to lift her head, and had
come wallowing out here to kill ducks.
"I can't remember that a duck ever did me any harm," he said savagely,
aloud.
He heard the occasional report of guns over his head with a sense of
personal injury.  Nobody hit any ducks, and he was glad of it.  The
Dream cruised about, he did not know where.  He had ceased to feel any
interest in her movements.  He did not even ask where they had anchored
for the night.  The wind rose steadily throughout the day.  As the
force of the blow increased, his physical miseries ascended and his
moral consciousness declined.  His anxiety for his wife blurred away in
a befuddled sense of his own condition.
"I don't believe she's any worse off than I am," he thought.  This
reflection gave him some comfort.  He slept again that night the
shattered sleep of the seasick and unhappy, and woke with a cry.
A port-hole of gray dawn darkened by green waters was in the stateroom,
which seemed to be standing on its experienced and seaworthy head.  The
yacht was keeling and pitching weakly.  Tom Romer stood beside the
berth, looking at his guest; he did not smile.  It was an uncommon
thing to see Tom Romer without a smile.  The yachtsman wore oilskins
and a sou'wester, and dripped with salt water like a Grand Banker.
"God!  Romer, what's the matter?"  Avery got to his feet at once.  He
forgot that he was seasick.  His bodily distresses fled before the
swift, strong lash of fright.
"The fact is," replied Romer slowly, "we 've struck a confounded
gale--a November gale," he added.  "It's turned easterly.  She 's
been dragging her anchor since two.  Now"--
"Now what?" demanded Avery sharply.  He staggered into his clothes
without waiting for an answer.
"Well--we 've snapped our road."
"Road?"  The landsman struggled to recall his limited stock of nautical
phrases.  "That's the rope you tie your anchor to?  Oh!  What are you
going to do?" he asked, with unnatural humility.  The fatal
helplessness of ignorance overwhelmed him.  If he ever lived to get
back, he would turn the tables, and conduct Romer through a complicated
lawsuit.
"Run into the Sound if I can," returned Romer.  "It won't do to get
caught on some of these shoals round here."
"Of course not," replied Avery, who did not know a shoal from a siren.
"Say, Romer, what's the amount of danger?  Out with it!"
"Oh, she's good for it," said the yachtsman lightly.  Then his voice
and manner changed.  His insouciant black eyes peered suddenly at his
guest as if from a small, keen, marine lens.
"Say,  old fellow," he said slowly, "I hope there was n't any sort of a
quarrel,--you know,--any domestic unpleasantness, before you came on
this trip?  I wish to blank I 'd left you ashore."
"Quarrel?  A demon could n't quarrel with my wife!" exploded Avery.
"That was my impression," returned his host.  "Beg pardon, Avery.  You
see--to be honest, I can't say exactly how we 're coming out of this.
There are several things which might happen.  I thought"--the sportsman
stammered, and stopped.
"If you should pull through and I should n't," said Avery, lifting a
gray face,--"I 'm not a swimmer, and you are,--tell her I 'd give my
immortal soul if I had n't left her.  Tell her--I--God!  Romer, she was
very sick!  She did n't want me to go."
"I 've always thought," said the bachelor, "that if I had a wife--a
woman like that"--  His face hardened perceptibly, dripping under his
sou'wester.  "You fellows don't know what you 've got," he added
abruptly.  He scrambled up the companionway without looking back.
Avery followed him abjectly.
At this moment the yacht groaned, grated, and keeled suddenly.  Water
poured over the rail.  The deck rang with cries.  Avery got up, and
held on to something.  It proved to be the main-sheet.  It ran through
his fingers like a saw, and escaped.  Confusedly he heard the mate
crying:--
"We 've struck, sir!  She 's stove in!"
"Well," replied the owner coolly, "get the boats over, then."
He did not look at his guest.  Avery looked at the water.  It seemed to
leap up after him, hike a beast amused with a ghastly play.  Oddly, he
recalled at that moment coming in one day--it was after she knew what
ailed her--and finding Jean with a book face down on her lap.  He
picked it up and read, "The vision of sudden death."  He had laughed
at her, and scolded her for filling her mind with such things.
"You don't quite understand, dear," she had answered.
"Come," said Romer, whose remarkable self-possession somehow increased
rather than diminished Avery's alarm, "we have n't as much time to
spare as I would like.  Hold hard there while Mr. Avery gets aboard!"
The tender was prancing like a mustang on a prairie, for there was
really a swamping sea.  The landsman was clumsy and nervous, missed his
footing, and fell.
As he went under he cried, in a piercing voice, "Tell my wife"--
When the water drove into his throat and lungs, he thought how he had
seen her fight for her breath, patiently, hours at a time.  She had
told him once that it was like drowning.
It was two days after this that a man who attracted some attention
among the passengers got off the Shore train at the old station in the
city.
Marshall Avery seemed to himself to see this man as if he saw another
person, and felt a curious interest in his appearance and movements.
The man was dressed in borrowed clothes that did not fit; his face was
haggard and heavily lined; he had no baggage, and showed some
excitement of manner, calling several hackmen at once, and berating the
one he selected for being too slow.  A kind of maniacal hurry possessed
him.
"Drive for your life!" he said.  He did not lean back in the carriage,
but sat up straight, as if he could not spare time to be comfortable.
When the hack door slammed Avery saw the man no more, but seemed to
crouch and crawl so far within his personality that it was impossible
to observe the traveler from the outside.
Avery had never in his life before been in the throat of death, and
been spewed out, like a creature unwelcome, unfit to die.  The rage of
the gale was in his ears yet; the crash of the waves seemed to crush
his chest in.  Occasionally he wiped his face or throat, as if salt
water dashed on it still.  He had made up his mind definitely--he would
never tell Jean the details.  She would not be able to bear them.  It
might do her a harm.  He would simply say that the yacht got caught in
a blow, and struck, and that the tender brought him ashore.  She would
not understand what this meant.  Why should she know that he went
overboard in the process?  Or what a blank of a time they had to fish
him out?  Or even to bring him to, for that matter?  Why tell her how
long the tender had tossed about like a chip  in  that whirlpool?  It
was unnecessary to explain hell to her.  To say, "We snapped an oar; we
had to scull in a hurricane," would convey little idea to her.  And she
would be so distressed that one of the crew was lost.  The Dream was
sunk.  Romer had remained on the Cape to try to recover the body of his
mate.  He, Marshall Avery, her husband, had been saved alive, and had
come back to her.  What else concerned, or, indeed, what else could
interest her?  In ten minutes nothing would interest either of them,
except that he had her in his arms again....  Jean!  He thrust his face
out of the hack window and cried:--
"Drive faster, man!  I 'm not going to a funeral."
The driver laid the whip on and put the horse to a gallop.  The
passenger leaned back on the cushions now for the first time and drew a
full breath.
"Jean!" he repeated, "Jean!  Jean!"
The tower of the Church of the Happy Saints rose before his straining
eyes against the cold November sky.  It was clear and sunny after the
storm; bleak, though.  He shivered a little as he came in sight of the
club.  A sick distaste for the very building overcame him.  A flash of
the river where the Dream had anchored glittered between the houses.
He turned away his face.  He thought:--
"I wonder when she got the telegrams?"  The first one must have reached
her by noon of the second day out.  This last, sent by night delivery
from the little Cape village where the shipwrecked party had landed (he
had routed out the operator from his bed to do it)--this last telegram
ought to have found her by breakfast-time.  She would know by now that
he was safe.  She might have had--well, admit that she must have had
some black hours.  Possibly the papers--but he had seen no papers.  It
had been a pity about the telephone.  He had searched everywhere for
the Blue Bell.  He had found one in a grocery, but the tempest had
gnawed the long-distance wire through.  He would tell her all about it
now in six minutes--in five--poor Jean!
No--stop.  He would carry her some flowers.  It would take but a
minute.  She thought so much of such little attentions.  The driver
reined up sharply at the corner florist's; it was Avery's own florist,
but the salesman was a stranger, a newcomer.  He brought a dozen
inferior tea-roses out with an apology.
"Sorry, sir, but they are all we have left.  We 've been sending
everything to Mr. Avery's."
Avery stared at the man stupidly.  Was Jean entertaining?  Some ladies'
lunch?  Then she was much better.  Or was she so ill that people were
sending flowers, as people do, for lack of any better way of expressing
a useless sympathy?  He felt his hands and feet turn as cold as the
seas of Cape Cod.
"Drive slower," he said.  But the fellow did not hear him, and the hack
rushed on.  At the passenger's door it stopped with a lurch.  Avery got
out slowly.  The house looked much as usual, except that a shade in
Jean's bedroom was drawn.  It was just the hour when she sometimes
tried to sleep after an ill night.  The husband trod softly up the long
steps.  He felt for his latch-key, but remembered that he had never
seen it since he went overboard.  He turned to ring the bell.
As he did so something touched his hand disagreeably; a gust of
November wind twisted it around and around his wrist.  Avery threw the
thing off with a cry of horror.
He had leaned up heavily against the door, and when Molly opened it
suddenly, he well-nigh fell into the house.
"Oh, sir!" said Molly.  She had been crying, and looked worn.  He stood
with his tea-roses in his hand staring at her; he did not speak.  He
heard the baby crying in the nursery, and Pink's little feet trotting
about somewhere.  The house was heavy with flowers,--roses, violets,
tuberoses,--a sickening mixture of scents.  He tried several times to
speak, but his dry throat refused.
"What's happened?" he managed to demand at last, fiercely, as if that
would help anything.
"The doctor's here.  He 'll tell you, sir," said Molly.  She did not
look him in the eye, but went softly and knocked at the library door.
Avery started to go upstairs.
"Oh, Mr. Avery," cried Molly, "don't you do that; don't you, sir!"
Then Dr. Thorne stepped out of the library.  "Wait a minute, Avery," he
said, in a quiet, matter-of-fact tone, which at once restored Avery's
composure.  "Just come in here before you go up, will you?"
Marshall Avery obeyed.  He stepped into the library.  And Dr. Thorne
shut the door.
The two men regarded each other for a moment in surcharged silence.
The distracted husband stood trembling pitiably.  He passed his left
hand over his eyes, then pushed it over his right wrist several times,
as if he were pushing away an obstruction.
"I don't seem to be quite right in the head, Thorne," he pleaded.  "I
thought there was--something on the doorbell....  I 've been
shipwrecked.  I 'm not--just myself....  Why don't you speak to me?
Doctor!  Doctor!"
"I find it--difficult," replied the experienced physician, with
embarrassment.  "The case is--unusual.  Mrs. Avery"--
"Give me the worst!" cried the tortured man.
"That is impossible," said Esmerald Thorne, in a deep voice.  He turned
away and went to the window, where he stood looking out into the back
yard.  Kate was hanging out some sheets and other bedding.  Avery
noticed this circumstance--he had got up and stood behind the
doctor--as people notice the pettiest items in the largest crises of
their lives.  A small fluttering white thing on the line arrested his
attention.  It was the silk Spanish shawl which he had given his wife.
He put out his hand--groped, as a seeing man suddenly smitten blind
will grope--and, fumbling, found the doctor's arm and clutched it.
Then he toppled; his weight came heavily, and the physician caught him
before he struck the floor.
He pushed the brandy away from his lips and struggled up.  Even at that
moment it occurred to him that Esmerald Thorne looked at him with
something like aversion.
"When did she die?"
"Yesterday."
"What time?"
"At the ebb of the tide.  It was eleven o'clock in the morning."
"Who was with her?"
"The servants."
"Oh, my God, Thorne!  Nobody else?  Were n't you there?"
"I got there....  I doubt if she knew it....  It was only twenty
minutes before the end.  Hush!  Avery, hush!  Don't groan like that,
man.  Nobody is to blame.  If only--you"--  Dr. Thorne checked himself,
savagely, as he did when he was moved beyond endurance.
"Oh, I take it all!" cried Avery.  He stooped as if he bent his broad
shoulders to receive some mighty burden.  "I shall carry it all ...
forever.  Men have gone mad," he added, more calmly, "for much less
than I have got to face."
"If you find yourself strong enough," said the physician, "I shall try
to put you in possession of the facts."  Again, as before, Avery
thought he noticed an expression of aversion on the countenance of his
old friend.  Cowering, he bowed before it.  It was part of his
punishment; and he had already begun to feel that nothing but a
consciousness of punishment could give him any comfort now.
"Will you go up and see her first?" asked Dr. Thorne, as if to gain
time.  "She looks very lovely," he added, with quivering lip.
But the room rang to such a cry as the man of mercy--used to human
emergency, and old before his time in the assuagement of human
anguish--had never heard.
It softened Dr. Thorne a little, and he tried to be more gentle.  He
did not succeed altogether.  Iron and fire were in the doctor's nature,
and the metal did not melt for Marshall Avery.
He began quietly, with a marked reserve.  Mrs. Avery, he said, had been
very ill on the morning that her husband started.  He had hurried to
the house, as requested; her condition was so alarming that, after
doing what he could to relieve her, he had driven rapidly to the
river-wall back of the club, hoping to signal the yacht before it was
out of reach; he had even dispatched some one in a row-boat, and some
one else on a bicycle, hoping to overtake the Dream at the draw.  The
patient must have been low enough all night; and being subject to such
attacks--
"I had warned you," said the physician coldly.  "I explained to you the
true nature of her condition.  I have done my best for a year to
prevent just this catastrophe....  No.  I don't mean to be a brute.  I
don't want to dwell on that view of it.  You don't need my reproaches.
Of course you know how she took that trip of yours.  When the storm
came up, she--well, she suffered," said the doctor grimly.  "And the
wreck got into the papers.  We did our best to keep them from her.  But
you know she was a reading woman.  And then her anxiety....  And you
hadn't given us any address to telegraph to.  When she began to sink,
we could not notify you.  I should have sent a tug after you if it had
n't been for the gale--  What do you take me for?  Of course I
provided a nurse.  And my wife would have been here, but she was out of
town.  She only returned last night.  Helen did n't get here in time,
either.  It was most unfortunate.  I sent the best woman I could
command.  My regular staff were all on duty somewhere.  That was the
infernal part of it.  I had to take this stranger.  I gave her every
order.  But Mrs. Avery seemed to rally that morning.  She deceived us
all.  She deceived me; I admit it.  The woman must needs take her two
hours off just then--and Mrs. Avery got hold of the paper.  That's the
worst of it.  She read the account of the wreck all through.  You see,
the reporters gave the party up.  She was unconscious when I got here.
Once she seemed to know me.  But I cannot honestly say that I believe
she did.  I don't think I have anything more to say.  Not just now,
anyhow."  Esmerald Thorne turned away and looked out of the window
again, tapping on the sill with his fingers--scornfully one might have
said.
"We made the best arrangements we could.  Some relatives telegraphed.
And the interment"--
"Oh, have some mercy, Thorne!  I have borne all I can--from you." ...
"Esmerald?"  As if a spirit had stirred it, the library door opened
inwards slowly.  A womanly voice embodied in a fair and stately
presence melted into the room.
"Oh, my dear! my dear!" said Helen Thorne.  "Leave him to me."
As the stricken man lifted his face from the lash of his fellow-man,
the woman put out her hands and gathered his, as if he had been a
broken child.
"Oh," she said, "don't take it so!  Don't think of it that way.  It
would break Jean's heart....  She loved you so! ... And she knew you
did n't know how sick she was.  Any wife would know that--if her
husband loved her, and if she loved him.  And you did love her.  And
she knew you did.  She used to tell me how sure she was of your true
love--and how precious it was to her, and how much she ... cared for
you."
Helen's voice faltered on these last three words; she pronounced them
with infinite tenderness; it was the pathos of woman pleading for
womanhood, or love defending love.
"And she would n't want you to be tortured so--now.  Oh, she would be
the first of us all to forgive you for any mistake you made, or any
wrong you did.  She would understand just how it all came about, better
than any of us can--better than you do yourself.  Jean always
understood.  She wanted nothing, nothing in this world, but for you to
be happy.  She was so grieved because she was sick, and could not go
about with you, and make it as cheerful for you at home as she used to
do.  She used to tell me--oh, she used to tell me so many things about
how she felt, and every feeling she ever had was purer and tenderer and
truer than the feeling of any other woman that I ever knew!  She was
the noblest woman--the loveliest, ... and she loved you....  Why, she
could n't bear it--she could n't bear it, dead up there as she is, if
we let you suffer like this, and did not try ... if I did not try to
comfort you."
Helen's own tears broke her choking words.  But the heart-break of the
man's sobs came now at last; and they had such a sound that the doctor
covered his eyes, and stood with bowed head, as if he had been the
culprit, not the judge, before the awful courts of human error,
remorse, and love, in which no man may doom his fellow, since God's
verdict awaits.
"Come, Mr. Avery," said Helen.  She stooped and picked up the
tea-roses, which had fallen and were scattered on the floor, put them
into his cold hand--and then drew away.  "She 'd rather you would go up
alone," said Helen Thorne.
He passed out through the open door.  His two friends fell back.  The
children could be heard in the dining-room: Molly was trying to keep
them quiet there.  It seemed to him as if he waded through hot-house
flowers, the air was so thick with their repugnant scent.  He crawled
upstairs, steadying himself by the banister.  The hall below looked
small and dark, like a pit.  His head swam, and it occurred to him that
if he fell he would fall to a great depth.  He clung to the wretched
tea-roses that he had brought her.  He remembered that this was the
last thing he could ever do for her.
Outside the door of her room he stopped.  His lips stirred.  He found
himself repeating the old, commonplace words wrung from the despair of
mourners since grief was young in the story of the world:--
"It is all over.  This is the end."
"No," said a distinct voice near him, "it is not the end."
Starting, he stared about him.  The hall was quite empty, above and
below.  The nursery door was closed.  The children and Molly could be
heard in the dining-room.  No person was within the radius of speech
with him.  The door of Jean's chamber was shut.
The roses shook in his hand.
PART III
Avery stood irresolute.  "It is one of those hallucinations," he
thought.  "This shock--following the wreck--has confused me."  The
voice was not repeated; and after a few moments' hesitation he opened
the door of his wife's room.
It was neither dark nor light in the chamber; something like twilight
filled the room, which, unlike the house, was not heavy with the
excessive perfume of flowers.  A handful of violets (modest, winning,
and like Jean) was all that had been admitted; these stood on a table
beside her Bible and prayer-book, her little portfolio, and her pen and
inkstand.
In his wretchedness Marshall duly perceived the delicate thought which
had ordered that his should be the first flowers to touch her dear body.
He came up with his poor roses in his hand.  Jean seemed to have waited
for them.  He could have said that she uttered a little, low laugh when
she saw him cross the room....  Impossible to believe that she did not
see him!  She lay so easily, so vitally, that the conviction forced
itself upon him that there was some hideous mistake.  "Perhaps I am
still in the water," he thought, "and this is one of the visions that
come to drowning people."
"I may be dead, myself," he added.  "Who knows?  But Jean is not
dead."  He thrust up the shade, and let the November day full into the
room.  It fell strongly upon her bright hair and her most lovely face.
He called her by her name two or three times.  It might be said that he
expected her to stir and stretch out her hands to him.
"I never thought you would die," he argued.  "You know I did n't, Jean.
Why, you told me yourself you should live for years....  Jean, my girl!
they 've blundered somehow.  You could n't die, you would n't die,
Jean, while I was on that cruel trip....  I was sorry I went.  I was
ashamed of myself for leaving you....  I hurried back--and I was
shipwrecked--I was almost drowned.  I 'll never leave you again, dear
darling!  I 'll never leave you again as long as I live!"
These words ached through his mind.  He could hardly have said whether
he spoke them aloud or not.  He sat down on the edge of the bed beside
her.  By some carefulness, probably Helen Thorne's, the usual ghastly
circumstance of death was spared Jean.  She lay quite naturally and
happily in her own bed, in her lace-frilled night-dress, with her
bright hair braided as she used to braid it for the night.  Except for
her pallor--and she had been a little pale so long that this was not
oppressive--she wore one of her charming looks.  The conviction that
she was not dead persisted in the husband almost to the point of
pugnacity.  It occurred to him that if he lifted her she would cling to
him, and comfort herself against his heart.
"Come, Jean!" he said.  He held out his arms.  "Forgive me, Jean....  I
shall never forgive myself."
Then he stooped to kiss her; and then he slid to his knees, and hid
his face in his shaking hands, and uttered no cry, nor any word or
sound.
He was so still, and he was still so long, that his friends took alarm
for him, and Helen Thorne quietly opened the door.  When she saw him,
she retreated as quietly, went downstairs, and called his little girl.
Pink trotted up noisily as Pink always did, hurried to her mother's
room, and hesitated on the threshold.  When she said "Hullo, Papa!" her
father turned and saw her standing there.  He made an instinctive
movement towards her; the child ran to him; he caught her, and kissed
her little hands and hair, and Pink said: "Crying, Papa?  Have you got
'e toofache? ... Come to Mummer Dee.  She 'll comfort you."
Into the Church of the Happy Saints, where Jean was used to worship
(for she was a religious woman, in her quiet, unobtrusive way), they
carried her for her last prayer and chant.  And it was noticed how many
people there were among the mourners of this gentle lady to whom she
had done some kindness, forgotten by every one except themselves, or,
more likely, not known to any one else; obscure people, those who had
not many friends, and especially sick people, the not helpless, but not
curable, whom life and death alike pass by.  In her short, invalid life
Jean had remembered everybody within her reach who bore this fate; and
it would never be known now in what sweet fashion she had contrived to
make over to these poor souls a precious portion of her abounding
courage, or the gift of Jean's own sympathy.  This was something quite
peculiar to herself.  It was finer than the shading of words in a poem,
as reverent as the motion of feeling in a prayer, and always as womanly
as Jean.
He who followed her to her burial in such a trance of anguish as few
men know who love a wife and cherish her (as so many do, that women may
well thank Heaven for their manly number),--he who had loved, but had
not cherished, looked into Jean's open grave, and believed that in all
the world he stood most desolate among afflicted men.
"I left her to die alone," he said.  He grasped Pink's little hand till
he hurt the child, and she wrenched it away.  He did not even notice
this, and his empty hand retained its shape as the little girl's
fingers had left it.  "I went on a gunning trip.  And she asked me not
to go.  And she died alone." ...
The clergyman's voice intoning sacred words smote upon and did not
soothe this comfortless man.
"He that believeth on Me." ...
"Jean believed on me.  And I failed her.  And she is dead."
Pink crept up to his side again, and put her fingers back into his
still outstretched hand.  Perhaps it was the child's touch;
perhaps--God knew--it was some effluence from the unseen life within
whose mystery the deathless love of the dead wife had ceased from the
power of expression; but something at that instant poured vigor into
the abjectly miserable man.  His first consciousness that Jean was not
dead rushed back upon him at the mouth of her grave.  It seemed,
indeed, no grave, but a couch cut in a catafalque of autumn leaves.
"There is some mistake," he thought, as he had thought before.  He
lifted his bared head to the November sky in a kind of exaltation.
This did not fail him until he came back into his desolate home.  He
stood staring at the swept and garnished house.  The disarray of the
funeral was quite removed.  His wife's room was ordered as usual; its
windows stood open.  Some of the dreadful flowers were still left about
the house.  He pulled them savagely from their places and threw them
away.  The servants stood crying in the hall; and the strange
professional nurse, who had remained with the baby, came up and offered
him the child--somewhat as if it had been a Bible text, he thought.  He
took the little thing into his arms, piously; but the baby began to
cry, and hit him in the eyes with both fists.
"It's after her he do be cryin'," said Molly.
Avery handed her the child in silence.  As he turned to go upstairs,
Pink ran after him.
"Papa," said Pink, "do you expect Mummer Dee to make a very long
visit in heaven?  I should fink it was time for her to come home, by
supper, shouldn't you, Papa?"
In their own rooms Marshall Avery sat him down alone.  He bolted all
the doors, and walked from limit to limit of the narrow space--his room
and hers, with the door open between that he used to close because the
baby bothered him.  It stood wide open now.  In his room some of his
neckties and clothes were lying about; Jean used to attend to his
things herself, even after she was ill--too ill, perhaps; he remembered
reminding her rather positively if any of these trifles were neglected;
once she had said, "I 'm not quite strong enough to-day."
On his bureau stood her photograph, framed in silver--a fair picture,
in a white gown, with lace about the throat.  It had Jean's own eyes;
but nothing ever gave the expression of her mouth.  He stood looking at
her picture.
Presently he put it down, and came back into his wife's room.  He shut
the windows, for he shivered with cold, and stared about.  The empty
bed was made, straight and stark.  The violets were drooping on the
table beside her Bible, her basket, and her portfolio.  He picked these
things up, and laid them down again.  He went mechanically to the
bureau and opened the upper drawer.  All her little dainty belongings
were folded in their places,--her gloves, her handkerchiefs, the laces
that she fancied, and the blond ribbons that she wore--the blue, the
rose, the lavender, and the corn.
In this drawer a long narrow piece of white tissue-paper lay folded
carefully across the glove box.  He opened it idly.  Something fell
from it and seemed to leap to his fingers, and cling as if it would not
leave them.  It was a thick lock of her own long bright hair.
He caught it to his breast, his cheek, his lips.  He cherished it
wildly, as he would now have cherished her.  The forgotten tenderness,
the omitted gentleness of life, lavished itself on death, as remorse
will lavish what love passed by.  The touch of her hair on his hands
smote the retreating form of his illusion out of him.  He could not
deceive himself any longer.
"Jean is dead," he said distinctly.
He threw himself down on her lounge and tried to collect himself, as he
would for any other event of life--that he might meet it manfully.
"She is really dead," he repeated.  "I have got to live without her,
... and those children ... no mother.  I must arouse myself.  I must
bear it, as other men do."
Even as the words turned themselves like poisoned wires through his
mind the conviction that his sorrow was not like the sorrow of other
men rushed upon him.  What had he done to her?  Oh, what had he been to
her--his poor Jean?  He turned his head and thrust his face into the
depths of her blue pillow.  A delicate breath stole from it--the violet
perfume that Jean used about her bedroom because he fancied it.  He
sprang from the lounge, and began to pace the room madly to and fro.
Now there rose about him, wave by wave, like the rising of an awful
tide, the overlooked but irresistible force of the common life which
married man and woman share--incidents that he would rather have died
than recall, words, looks, scenes, which it shattered his soul and body
to remember.
A solemn sea, they widened and spread about him.  He felt himself torn
from his feet and tossed into the surge of them.
It seemed to him that every tenderness he had shown his wife was
drowning out of his consciousness.  But every hard thing he had ever
done rose and rolled upon him--an unkind look, a harsh word, a little
neglect here, a certain indifference there; an occasion when he had
made her miserable and could just as easily have made her happy; a time
when she had asked--Jean so seldom asked--for some trifling attention
which he had omitted to bestow; the desolate look she wore on a given
day; the patient eyes she lifted, heart-sick with sore surprise, once
when he ...
The worst of it was in thinking how it was when she began to be weak
and ill.  Jean was not a complaining woman, never a whining invalid,
but resolute, sweet, and cheerful.  Like an air-plant on oxygen, she
existed on his tenderness.  He had offered it to her when he felt like
it.  Well, busy, bustling man--out of his bounteous health and freedom,
what comfort had he given to this imprisoned woman?  The passing of his
moods?  The attention of his whims?  The fragments of his time?  The
blunt edge of his sympathy?
One night he had come in late, when he could quite as well have come
two hours before; he found her by the open window, gasping for breath
in the cold night air, in her blue gown, with her braided hair, her
lovely look, the dear expression in her eyes.  She had not reproached
him ... he wished from his soul, now, that she had reproached him,
sometimes; it would have done him good; it would have dashed cold water
on his fainting sense of duty to her; he was the kind of man who would
have responded to it like a man.  But she was not the kind of woman to
do it.  And she never had.  So he had slid into those easy habits of
accepting the invalid, anyhow; as a fact not to be put too much in the
foreground of his daily life ... not to intrude too much.  And she had
not protested, had not cried out against the frost that gathered in his
heart.
She had trodden her via dolorosa alone.  As she had endured, so she
had died.  He thought that if he had only been with her then, he could
have borne it all.
His mind veered off from this swiftly, almost as if it were unhinged,
and began to dwell upon what he would do for her if he had her again,
living, warm, breathing, sweet.  The only comfort he could get was in
thinking how he would comfort her ... now; how he would cherish her ...
now; the love he would waste, the tenderness he would invent--new forms
of it, that no husband in the world had ever thought of, to make a wife
happy.  Oh, the honor in which he would hold her least and lightest
wish!  The summer of the heart in which she should blossom!--she who
had perished in the winter of his neglect; she who was under the
catafalque of autumn leaves out there in the gathering November storm.
Terrible that it should storm the first night that Jean lay in her
grave!
"God!  God!" he cried.  "If I could have her back for one hour--for one
instant!"
"This way, Avery--turn your head this way.  Here is the air.  The
window is open.  Don't struggle so.  It is all right.  Breathe
naturally," added the dentist.  "Come, take it quietly.  There is no
harm done.  The tooth is out.  I never knew the gas work more easily."
Marshall Avery battled up and pushed his friend away.  The cold air,
dashing in from the open window, chafed his face smartly.  He drank it
in gulps before he could manage to speak.  It was raining, and the
storm wet the sill.  A few drops spattered over and hit his hand.
"Armstrong!--for Heaven's sake!--if there's any mercy in you"--
"That's a large phrase for a small occasion, Avery.  I have n't
committed murder, you know."
"I 'm not so sure of it," muttered Avery, staring about.  "I don't
understand.  Did I have another tooth out--after all that--happened?"
"I should hope not.  I must say you make as much fuss over this one
molar as a child or a clergyman," answered the dentist brusquely.  "We
regard those as our most troublesome classes."
"Did you give me chloroform?"
"I don't give chloroform."
"Gas, then?"
"Why, certainly, I gave gas."
"Did I ask for it?"
"Yes.  You asked for it.  Even if you had n't--You don't bear pain, you
know, Avery, with that composure"--
"Armstrong?  Say, Armstrong.  When you went over to the club with me"--
The dentist twisted his mustache.
--"was Romer's yacht lying out in the river then?  I seem to remember
that you did n't want me to take that trip.  And you did n't know it
would blow a gale, either.  And you did n't know that she"--
"Get up, Avery, and walk about the room.  You come to slowly."
"And when the wreck got into the papers--she could n't bear that....
She was so ill when I left her ...  Armstrong!  Was it you kept me here
in this blanked chair while my wife was dying?"
Dr. Armstrong laughed aloud.  Avery sprang towards him.  He had a muddy
intention of seizing the dentist by the throat.  But a thought occurred
to him which held him back.  Now, as his consciousness clarified, he
saw brilliant and beautiful light throbbing about him; he seemed to
float in it, as if he were poised in mid-heaven.  A scintillation in
his brain shot into glory, and broke as it fell into a thousand rays
and jets of joy.
"Do you mean to tell me I never went on that accursed cruise--with a
fool gun--to murder ducks ... and left my wife dangerously sick?  Do
you mean that Jean ... is n't ...  Say, Armstrong, you would n't make
game of a man in a position like mine, if you knew...  Armstrong!"
piteously, "my wife is n't living--is she, Armstrong?"
"She was, the last I heard," replied the dentist, sterilizing his
instruments with a cool and scientific attention.  "That was when you
sat down in this chair to have your tooth out."
As Avery dashed by him the dentist put out a detaining hand.
"Wait a second, Avery.  I don't consider you quite fit to go yet.
Here--wait a minute!"
But the horses of Aurora, flying and flaming through the morning skies,
could not have held the man back.  A madman--delirious with joy--he
swept through the hall and flung the door open.  Dr. Armstrong ran
after him to give him his hat, but Avery paid no attention to the
dentist.
Bareheaded, fleet-footed, with quivering lip, with shining eye, he fled
down the street.  Like the hurricane that had never sunk the Dream, he
swept past the club.  He saw the fellows through the window; their
cigars gleamed in their mouths and in their hands; they looked to him
like marionettes moving on a mimic stage; he felt as if he would like
to kick them over, and see if they would rattle as they rolled.  As he
rushed, hatless, past the Church of the Happy Saints, an officer on
night duty recognized the lawyer, and touched his helmet in surprise,
but did not follow the disordered figure--Mr. Avery was not a drinking
man.  He was allowed to pursue his eccentricity undisturbed.  He met
one or two men he knew, and they said, "Hilloa, Avery!"  But he did not
answer them.  He ran on in the rain; his heart sang:--
"I did n't do it--I never did it!  I did not treat her so.  I was
not that fellow.  Oh, thank God, I was not that brute!"  He hurried on
till he lost his breath; then collected himself, and came up more
quietly to his own door.
He felt for his latch-key, and was relieved to find it in his pocket,
as usual; the impression that it lay off the Shoals somewhere at the
bottom had not entirely vanished yet.  He opened the door and closed it
softly.  The hall gas was burning.  Otherwise the house was dark.  It
was perfectly still.  The silence somewhat checked his mood, and the
violence of his haste abated; with it abated an indefinable measure of
his happiness.  He raised his hand to take off his hat; then found that
he had not worn any.  It occurred to him that he had better not waken
Jean too abruptly--it might hurt her: he was going to be very
thoughtful of Jean.  She must not be startled.  He went upstairs
quietly.
In the upper hall he paused.  Pink, in the nursery, was grinding her
teeth in her sleep.  The baby was not restless, and Molly was sleeping
heavily.  From his wife's room there came no sound.
Jean almost always waked when he came home late, if indeed she had
slept at all before she heard his step.  But this was not inevitable.
Sometimes he did not arouse her.  And he remembered that to-night she
had been feeble, and had not got to sleep as early as usual.  As he
stood uncertain before her door the clock on the mantel struck eleven.
He passed on, and into his own room.  He wondered if he ought to
undress and go to bed without disturbing her.  But he could not bring
himself to do this.  He was still too much agitated; and the necessity
of keeping quiet did not tend to calm him.  He turned up his gas, and
the light rose warmly.  Then he saw that the door into his wife's room
was partly open.  "Jean!" he said softly.  She did not answer him.
Sometimes, if she were sleepy, or exhausted, she did not incline to
talk when he came home.
"Jean?" he repeated, "are you awake, my darling?  I want to speak to
you....  I must speak to you," added the husband impetuously, when
Jean did not reply.
He pushed the door wide and went in.  The only light in the room came
from the night candle, which was burning dimly.  It was a blue candle,
and it had a certain ghastly look to him, as he stood gazing across the
little table at the bed.
"After all," he thought, "I suppose I ought not to wake her--just
because I 've got all that to tell her."
He stood, undecided what to do.
Jean was lying on the bed in her lace-frilled nightdress, with her
bright hair braided in long braids, as she wore it for the night.
Something in her attitude and expression startled him.  So she had
lain--so she had looked--  His temples throbbed suddenly.  The blood
froze at his heart.
"Jean!" he cried loudly.  "Dear Jean!"
But Jean did not reply.  He sprang to her, and tore open the nightdress
at her throat; he crushed at her hands; they were quite cold.  He put
his ear to her heart; he could not hear it beat.  Jean lay in her
loveliness, with gentle, half-open eyes, and a desolate little smile on
her sweet lips, as she might have looked when she called him and asked
him to come back and kiss her good-night.  And he had not come.  One of
her hands clasped the cord of the electric bell.  But no one had heard
Jean's bell.
Now, the truth smote the man like the hammer of Thor.  His wandering
spirit--gone; who knew how? who knew where? while the brain drifted
into anæsthesia--had sought out and clutched to itself the terrible
fact.  At the instant when this perception reached his consciousness
