which comes from a blow in the stomach, I prepared to return to the
fray, which had now taken on a more sinister aspect. Bayonets had
already been used, not as clubs but as daggers; a man was leaning
against a tree near me, bleeding from a wound in the neck, and another
reeled past, tugging at a bayonet which had transfixed his shoulder.
But the end came suddenly now; horsemen were galloping up behind the
jaded soldiers; I saw Shemuel dart out of the swaying throng and take
to his heels, not even stopping to gather up hats, handkerchiefs, and
wigs, of which the sack on his back was full to the top.
When Shemuel left a stricken field it was time for others to think of
flight; this I perceived at once when the Weasel came scurrying past
and called out to me. Mount followed, lumbering on at full speed; the
throng melted and scattered in every direction, and I with them. Trust
me, there was fine running done that night in Pittsburg streets, and
many a tall fellow worked his legs as legs are seldom worked, for the
gentlemen of the Governor's horse-guards were riding us hard, and we
legged it for cover, each fox to his own spinny, each rabbit to the
first unstopped earth. Tally-ho! Stole away! Faith, it was merry
hunting that night in Pittsburg town, with the towns-people at every
window and the town-watch bawling at our heels, and the gentlemen
riders pelting down the King's Road till those who could double back
doubled, and walked panting to cover, with as innocent mien as they
could muster.
Mount, Renard, Shemuel, and I had crossed the Boundary at respectable
speed, and were now headed for the dirty alley which conducted to the
rear door of Shemuel's den, the "Bear and Cubs." We were about to
enter this lane, no longer fearing pursuit--and I remember that Mount
was laughing, poking the Weasel in his short-ribs--when, without
warning, five men rushed at us in a body, overturning us all save Jack
Mount. The next moment we were locked in a struggle; there was not a
cry, not an oath, not a sound but the strained gasp and heavy
breathing, at first; but presently a piercing yell echoed through the
alley, and Shemuel ran squattering into the inn. He had stuck a
handful of needles into his assailant's leg, and the man bounded madly
about, while the alley re-echoed with his howls of dismay.
As for me, I found myself clutched by that villain, Wraxall, and I
would have shouted with joy had he not held me by the windpipe until I
was nigh past all shouting. The creature was powerful; he held me
while Toby Tice tried to tie my wrists; but the Weasel fell upon them
both and kicked them so heartily that they left me and took to their
heels perdu.
And now came the host of the "Bear and Cubs," lanthorn in one hand, a
meat-knife in the other, and after him a tap-boy, an hostler, a frowzy
maid, and finally Shemuel, white with fear. But reinforcements had
arrived too late--too late to help us take the impudent band, which
had fled--too late to bring to life that dark mass lying at the foot
of the wall in the filth of the alley.
Mount seized the lanthorn and lowered it beside the shape on the
ground.
"His neck is broken," he said, briefly. It was his quarry; he ought to
know.
One by one we took the lanthorn and looked in turn on the dead.
"Greathouse," whispered Mount, moving the body with his foot.
"Greathouse, eh?" grumbled the host of the "Bear and Cubs." "Well, he
can't lie here behind my house." And he caught him by the heels and
dragged him to a black spot under a rotten shed. There was a cistern
there. I moved away, feeling strangely faint. Mount linked his arm in
mine.
Presently there sounded a dull noise under the ground, a shock and
thick splashing.
"Greathouse, eh?" muttered the shaggy innkeeper, winking at us. "Well,
Greathouse is in a small house behind a pot-house now, and the devil,
no doubt, will see that he lands in a hot-house!"
Mount shrugged his shoulders and turned away indifferently. He had
done his part; he had no slur for the dead. The Weasel and I followed,
and together we traversed the market-square unmolested, and headed for
the "Virginia Arms," discussing the utterly unprovoked attack on us by
Butler's band.
There had been five of them; I had recognized Wraxall and Tice, the
Weasel identified Murdy, Shemuel had thrust half his stock of needles
into one fellow's leg, whom I knew to be the man who had supped on his
own hatchet, and Mount had sternly accounted for his assailant.
"So Greathouse is dead," muttered the Weasel.
"One thing is clear: they were after you," observed Mount, turning on
me.
"It is strange," I said, "that Butler was not there. He must know
what it means for him unless he can strike me from behind, because I
shall never miss him, face to face."
I spoke not in boast, nor in angry heat; I meant what I said, and
devoutly believed that nothing on earth could shield such a man from
the man he had so foully misused.
Coming into Pitt Street we found all empty and dark save for the
lanthorn hanging on its pole from every seventh house, and a lone
watchman who lifted his light to scan us, but durst not question or
stop us, though we bore marks enough of the fray to satisfy any
friendly jury of our guilt.
As for Mount, his shirt and leggings were in rags, for he had played
Orlando Furioso to his simple heart's satisfaction, and now one naked
arm peeped coyly from a flapping sleeve, and his great legs twinkled
white under the tattered nether-garments. The Weasel, who had a genius
for keeping himself neat under distressing circumstances, appeared to
be none the worse for wear, but guiltless he could not be, for he
carried a soldier's mitre-cap in his hand and obstinately refused to
part with the proof of his valour. As for me, there were some seams
which needed a thread, and somebody's blood on my shirt which water
would wash away.
"I went this noon to a tailor-woman on the Buckeye Road, and did
command me new deer-skins," said Mount. "I will borrow their cost of
you," he added, naïvely.
I felt for my money-belt and luckily found it safe. Mount accepted the
money cheerfully, promising to show me on the morrow how fine he could
be in new clothes, and mourning the fact that his greasy garments had
cost him a cruel epithet that day from a maid he had attempted to kiss
behind a barn on three minutes' acquaintance.
"Faith, she mocked me for a tankard-tip and called me pottle-pot," he
said, sadly. "God knows I drink little for my height, and so I told
her, too!"
We were already at the "Virginia Arms," and I took him by the elbow
and drew him firmly past the tap-room.
"Are we not to sniff a posset?" he demanded, in injured surprise. But
he surrendered without a scene, for the late fighting had cleared his
head of alcohol, and we mounted to my chamber, bidding a servant to
fetch ink-horn, wax, sand, quill, and three sheets of good, clean
paper.
When I had lighted my candle, and the materials for writing had been
brought, I sat down on the bed and drew the table up before me.
"What are we to do while you write?" asked Mount, sulkily.
"Keep out o' mischief and the tap-room," said I, mending the quill
with my hunting-knife.
They stood around rather blankly for a spell while I was composing the
first letter, but presently I noticed they had squatted on the floor
and were playing at jack-straws with pine splinters from the boards.
My three letters cost me great labour; writing and composition do ever
rack me, mind and body, for I know that I spell not as others spell,
nor write as I ought to write in the Boston style, and, moreover,
those little dots which warn the wise reader that a phrase is ended
mean little to me; so I pepper my sheet well with them and trust to
God that they fall not on barren soil.
Thus armed with my quill, and doubly armed in the innocence of my
ignorance, I made out to accomplish my three letters. The first was
this:
      "Sir William Johnson, Bart.
      "HONOURED AND BELOVED SIR,--My mission I have discharged and
      It hath come to naut. i return to johnsonhall Tomorrow,
      setting out with Felicity. i, will explane all. War is
      brocken out, ye Senecas, Lenape, Wyandot, and Showanese dugg
      up ye hatchett Cresap is fled ye fort and camp burnt Logans
      famly foully murderd with my duties and respects to Ant Molly
      and my duties and respectfull affections for you. I have the
      honnour to subscribe myself your dutyfull deputy and kinsman
         "MICHAEL CARDIGAN
         "Cornet, Border Horse."
My second letter read thus:
      "My deer Kinswoman Mistress Warren.
      "DEER COZZEN,--I write to say that I write to acquaint you
      that it Is my determination to set out for johnsonhall
      tomorrow morning therefore Pray be prepared to accompanie me
      with Black Betty and Your boxes i will command a post-chaise,
      escort, and horses for such is my right as deputy of Sir
      William. if I ketch enny fools who seek to mate you I will
      harm them. i will find a suitable husband for you never fear
      cozzen i sign myself your affectnate cozzen
         "MICHAEL CARDIGAN
         "Cornet of Border Horse."
My third letter was brief:
      "To the Hon: the Earl of Dunmore,
      Royal Governor of Virginia, etc.
      "MY LORD,--My kinswoman Misstress Felicity Warren is my
      betrothed and She will leave Pitt tomorrow with me and under
      the escort which it is my right to demand and your lordship's
      dutie to furnish, with post-chaise, forage, and provisions.
      Escort and conveyance should be at the Virginia Arms by noon.
         "I have, sir, the honour
         to subscribe myself y'r
         ob't servant
            "MICHAEL CARDIGAN
         "Special deputy of Sir Wm. Johnson, Bart.,
         and cornet in the Royal American Legion of
         Border Horse."
CHAPTER XV
I was awakened shortly after daylight by a hubbub and stirring in the
street outside, and I lay in bed, listening, half asleep. About six
o'clock the Weasel opened my chamber door, saying that Pittsburg was
filling with refugees from the frontier, and that a battalion of
militia under Cresap had just left to scout on the Monongahela.
I asked him whether messengers had brought me answers to my letters
from Lord Dunmore and Miss Warren, and he replied in the negative and
shut the door.
About seven I arose and dressed, standing by the window and looking
out over the square. The streets of Fort Pitt were lively enough at
this early hour; apparently since daybreak hundreds of refugees, men,
women, and toddling infants, fleeing from the red scourge on the outer
frontiers, had been coming into Pittsburg town. Many were almost
naked, proving their dire peril and hasty night retreat, some drove a
few sheep or calves, some carried geese or chickens in their arms,
others, more fortunate, guided oxen yoked to wagons, on which were
piled bedding, kettles, dishes, and what poor household furniture they
dared linger to gather before leaving their homes to the Cayugas and
their fields to the timber wolf.
At dawn, when the vanguard of this wretched procession had first
appeared, straggling through Pittsburg streets, the town-watch took
charge of the dazed fugitives and found shelter for them in the
fortress; but, as the town awoke and rubbed its eyes to find the
streets swarming with exhausted strangers dragging their numbed limbs
or sitting on steps and porches, the people threw open their doors and
took the outcasts to their firesides. But the houses of the Samaritans
were filled to overflow ere the cloaked watchman had called his last
hour:
"Four o'clock! A sweet June morning and sad tidings from the
frontier!"
And, as the fugitive creatures still came creeping in past the
fortress, the double guard was called out and squads told off to
conduct the unfortunates to the barracks, court-house, "Governor's
Hall," market-sheds, and finally into the churches. And it was pitiful
to see them making their way painfully into the square, where many sat
down on the turf, and some fell down in the street, and others slept,
leaning upright against fences and trees, clasping some poor household
relic to their breasts.
Bareheaded children lay slumbering on stone steps; young women, with
infants at suck, sat dumb and vacant-eyed on the ground, too weak to
reply to those who offered aid. Haggard men, dragging their rifles,
turned sunken, perplexed eyes, slowly answering in monosyllables, as
though stunned by the swift ruin which had overwhelmed them.
And the story repeated was always the same: burning and butchery
everywhere; the frontier a charred, blood-soaked desert; homes, crops,
cattle, the very soil itself had gone roaring up in smoke, and all
behind was blackness--hopeless, unutterable devastation.
The living fled, the dead lay where they had fallen--and the dead were
many. Scarcely a family but had lost a child or a father; few of the
aged escaped; neighbours had fallen under hatchet and knife; friends
had disappeared.
To and fro the good people of Pitt hastened on their errands of pity;
others, having done their part, gathered in groups discussing openly
the riot of the previous evening and the scenes in "Governor's Hall."
It was, truly enough, not the first time that Pittsburg streets had
been filled with fugitives from the far frontiers; but last night's
riot was the first which had ever disturbed the little town, although
there had been a disturbance when, early in the week, a runner from
Cresap came in to announce the fate of Logan's children and the rising
of the Cayugas.
But this new outbreak was very different: people and soldiers had come
to blows; blood had flowed, although nobody exactly understood for
what reason it had been shed. Patched pates and plastered cheeks were
plentiful about the streets; there were rumours, too, of tragedies,
but these rumours proved baseless when the morning wore away. As for
the death of Greathouse, nobody suspected it, because nobody, except
Dunmore and his followers, was aware that Greathouse had fled to Fort
Pitt. It is probable that even Wraxall and Murdy and Tice supposed
that Greathouse had escaped from us, and that he was somewhere in
close cover, waiting an opportunity to rejoin them.
There appeared to be no effort on the part of the town-watch or of the
soldiers to arrest any citizen whose body or apparel bore marks of the
conflict. Citizens and soldiers eyed each other askance, but
apparently without rancour or malice, like generous adversaries who
appreciate a fight for its own sake, and respect each other for stout
blows given and returned.
Certainly neither could complain of the scarcity of knocks. Scores of
noddles had been laid open by citizens' cudgels or by the brass
buckles on the soldiers' belts; scores of pates bore brave bumps and
pretty protuberances, coyly hiding under patches that exhaled the
aroma of vinegar. Many a respectable wig knew its rightful owner no
longer; many a pair of spectacles had been gathered into Shemuel's
basket; many, many hats had vanished into memory, probably, however,
to reappear, peddled by this same Shemuel, when safe opportunity
offered and peace once more smiled her commercial smile.
That morning I had reckoned with my host of the "Virginia Arms." As he
appeared somewhat uneasy about the reckoning of Jack Mount and the
Weasel, I settled that, too, my means permitting me.
However, I observed to Rolfe that the friends of liberty ought to
trust each other implicitly, and he answered that they did, especially
when cash payments were made.
"Is that the Boston creed?" I asked, scornfully.
"I guess it is," said he, with a shrewd wink.
I began to detest the fellow, and was curt with him as he left my
room; but, when Cade Renard strolled in a few moments later, I was
astonished to learn that this same James Rolfe had aided Mount to
throw the tea-chests into the sea, and had beggared himself in
contributing to every secret patriotic society in Boston.
That was my first lesson in ethics. I began to understand why it was
that generous people turned niggards when it came to paying tuppence
tax on tea; how a man might exact what was his due and yet be no
miser; and how he might beggar himself nor stain his name as a
spendthrift.
"He'll lend me what he has," said the Weasel, sitting down to lace his
hunting-shirt; "but he would be unpleasant if I attempted to escape
from here without a reckoning. I am glad you paid; we have no money.
We were speaking of tapping our fat Tory magistrate again--"
"Taking the road?" I exclaimed.
"No, taking the judge's purse. He is so fat, positively he disgusts
us."
I looked at the little man in horror. He returned my gaze mildly, and
tied the leather laces under his chin.
"If," said I, stiffly, "you or Mount require money, I beg you will
borrow it from me, as long as we travel together. Also," I continued,
angrily, "you may as well know that I do not care to figure with you
and Jack Mount in any book or ballad or pamphlet decorated with a
picture of a gallows!"
"Do you suppose we like that picture either?" asked the Weasel, in
astonishment. "Why, Mr. Cardigan, that picture is perfectly repulsive
to us."
"Then why do you take the King's highway?" I asked, blankly.
"You are hurting my feelings," said the Weasel. "Why do you use such
terms? Besides, we discriminate; we only offer ourselves some slight
recompense for the disgust which overpowers us when we meet with fat
Tory magistrates on a moonlit highway."
I stared at him, indignant at the levity with which he used me; but
after a moment I was obliged to believe that he intended no levity,
for never had I seen such guileless innocence in any features. Clearly
the man's past sorrows had been too much for his mind. He was simple.
There was little profit in continuing the subject; if Renard and Mount
chose to justify their reputations I could not prevent them. As far as
I was concerned they had proved kindly and loyal, and, now that I was
so soon to part with them, I desired to do so in gratitude and
friendship.
It was already past eight o'clock by the Weasel's large silver watch,
and still no reply came to me from either Dunmore or Silver Heels.
Renard and I looked out of the window, watching the soldiers
conducting the homeless frontier families to the barracks. We spoke of
last night's riot, computing the casualties suffered by the soldiers
and wondering what proclamation Dunmore would issue, or if he would
have the courage to issue any, considering how the people had shown
their detestation of him.
"If you were not a deputy of Sir William Johnson, Dunmore would have
jailed you for what you said," observed the Weasel. "You have cast the
last grain into the scales and they have tipped him out, repudiated
and dishonoured. Hic jacet Dunmoreus, in articulo mortis. But Walter
Butler lives, friend Michael. Beware, sir! Latet anguis in
herba!--there lies the snake perdu!"
"Who are you, Weasel?" I asked, curiously. "Truly, you are smoother in
Latin than am I; but I confess myself disguised in this hunting-shirt,
whereas you wear it to the manner born. Yet, I swear you are no
forest-runner withal."
"I was born a gentleman," said the Weasel, simply. "I read the
classics for my pleasure--but I am forgetting, Mr. Cardigan, I am
forgetting so many, many things. It is sixteen years now since I met
with my trouble--sixteen years to forget in--and that with a mind
which is not quite clear, sir, not quite clear. However, I have
remembered enough Latin to entertain you, and that is something, after
all, if it is not an answer to your question."
He spoke gently, but there was a sting in the tail of his speech which
I certainly deserved for my impertinent prying into his past, and I
very promptly asked his pardon for my thoughtlessness.
"I am certain it was nothing more than that," he said, cheerfully;
"pray you, my dear sir, believe me that I took no offence. Sometimes
my tongue is sharp; my infirmity is my poor apology. I do not wonder
at your amusement to hear a shabby forest-runner stammer Latin. But I
shall forget my Latin, too; I shall forget all save what I pray to
forget."
With his forefinger he quietly obliterated a tear in each eye.
"You know I had a wife?" he asked.
"And baby," I added, mechanically.
"Exactly, sir; a wife and baby girl--the sweetest little maid--"
And, following his mania, to which I lent myself out of pity, he
repeated the fragments of the tale I had come to know so well, adding
nothing new, nor casting any light on anything he said.
Mount came in noisily while the Weasel was speaking, but, though the
big fellow was impatient and burning to exhibit the new clothes which
he wore, he sat down quietly until Renard had finished the familiar
tale. Heaven alone knows how many times Mount had heard it, but his
sympathy never failed, and now he looked so tenderly and lovingly at
the Weasel that I almost loved him for it, swaggering, tippling,
graceless purse-taker that he was.
However, after maintaining for a full minute that sober silence which
decency as well as his loyal affection for the Weasel required, he
ventured to call our attention to his new buckskins, fitted, cut, and
stitched in twenty-four hours by four tailor-women, whom he described
as modest and yet no bigots, as they had appreciated the kiss apiece
which he had joyously bestowed upon them.
"No saucy maid durst call me pottle-pot now!" he said, triumphantly,
smoothing his soft, new garments with his fingers, and regarding his
deeply fringed legs with naïve delight. "Which brings to mind that I
have drunk no morning draught this day," he added, clacking his tongue
and winking at the Weasel.
"Mr. Cardigan is in some trouble," observed the Weasel, hesitating.
"Oh, then we won't drink while a friend is in trouble," said Mount,
sitting down on the bed.
"It is only that I have no letter from Dunmore or from Miss Warren," I
muttered, looking out into the street to spy if a messenger were
coming our way.
We sat there in silence, gnawing our knuckles, and it did not please
me to wait Lord Dunmore's pleasure like a servant.
That Silver Heels had not yet written also displeased me, for I was
not then habituated to the ways of a maid.
"Do you think the runner I hired to carry my letter to Sir William
will be scalped?" I asked, turning to look at Mount.
"He has been scalped," said Mount, quietly.
Thunderstruck, I sprang to my feet, and finally found tongue to ask
how he had heard such news.
"Why, lad," he said, modestly, "I followed your runner last night when
he left you abed here, and he had not gone ten paces from this inn ere
a man left the shadow of the trees yonder to dog us both. It was what
I feared; but, Lord!--I caught the fellow by the market yonder, and
trounced him till he could neither stand nor sit. I was a fool; I
should have followed your runner and brought him back. I did follow,
but he had struck a fast pace, and besides they delayed me at the
fortress gate with questions about my business. When I cleared the
sentries I started to run; but my journey was short enough, God
knows!"
He paused, looking down at the fur cap he was slowly twirling on his
thumb.
"Your messenger lay dead by the wood's edge," he added, abruptly.
"I had not dreamed the savages were so near," said I, horrified.
"Some savages are," he observed.
"Was he scalped?" I asked.
"In Mohawk style, lad."
"Impossible!" I cried.
"Not at all. I say he was scalped in Mohawk fashion, leaving the raw
strip over the forehead, but I did not say that Mohawks scalped him."
"What do you mean?" I asked, huskily.
"I mean that Walter Butler's men did this, and that your letter is now
in Dunmore's hands."
Rage blinded me. Doubtless I made some noise and talked wildly of
seeking Dunmore, and I know I found myself struggling with Mount to
leave the room. But I was an infant in his grasp, and presently I sat
down again, perforce, while Mount and Renard reasoned with me somewhat
sternly.
"The sooner you leave Pitt the safer for you," said Mount. "The town
talks of little but your accusation of Dunmore last night. You may
think yourself safe because you are Sir William Johnson's deputy, but
I know that Dunmore and Butler will treat you as they did your
messenger if you give them half a chance. What's to prove that the
Cayugas be not your murderers? Tush, lad! This is no time for boyish
fury. Get your kinswoman, Miss Warren, out of this town. Get her out
to-night. Are you waiting for Dunmore's escort and horses? You will
see neither, save perhaps in pursuit of you. Why, lad, the Governor is
crazed with the disgrace you have brought upon him! Trust me, he will
stop at nothing where he can strike unseen."
"You mean he will not answer my letter or accord me escort?" I asked,
astonished.
"If he furnished you escort, it would be an escort of murderers who
would take care you never saw Johnstown," said the Weasel.
"Can't you feel that you are in a trap?" asked Mount. "Gad! it should
pinch you ere this!"
"And you leave it to us to open it for you," added the Weasel, sagely.
"We are none too safe here ourselves. Mayhap some of those same
pamphlets and ballads and books may be sold hereabouts to our
discredit."
"I also think that Cade and I have outstayed our welcome," said Mount,
with a grin. "If we meet your friend Butler, run we must."
At that moment Rolfe came up from below, bearing in his hand a letter
for me, and saying that it had been brought hither by a servant in
Lady Shelton's livery.
I took the letter; the seal had already been broken, and I glared at
Rolfe and pointed to it.
"Ay," he observed, shaking his head; "the slavering servant fetched it
so. It may be accident; it may be design, Mr. Cardigan. You best know,
sir, who may be your foes in Pittsburg town, and what they might gain
by a knowledge of your letters."
"The inn, here, is closely spied," observed Mount, coolly. "Doubtless
my lady Shelton's lackeys can be bribed as well as the King's
ministers."
"The sooner we leave the happier we shall be," said the Weasel,
cheerfully. "Jimmy Rolfe, that stout post-chaise, well provisioned,
and four strong horses might help us to-night--eh, friend?"
"I cannot pay for that," I said, blankly, looking up from my letter.
"The chaise is yours," said Rolfe, resentfully. "Pay when you can,
sir; I trade not with friends in need." And he went out,
disrespectfully slamming the door.
"A rare man," said Mount, "but touchy, lad, touchy. Give the devil his
due and Jim Rolfe would wear shillings on his coat-tails."
"He is a loyal friend," I said, reddening. "I have much to learn of
men."
"And men have much to learn of you, lad!" said Mount, heartily. "Come,
sir, read your nosegay, and may it bring you happiness! Weasel, turn
thy back and make pretence to catch flies."
I went over to the window, and, leaning against the bars, opened the
violated letter and read it carefully:
      "DEAR COZZEN MICHAEL,--I am not permitted to accompany you
      today to Johnstown it being a racing day and I pledged to
      attend with Lady Shelton and divers respectable ladies and
      gentlemen.
      "And oh Micky why did you say such things to Lord Dunmore
      last night? I have been ill of it all night and in a fever
      for fear they may harm you, though Lady Shelton assures me
      your person is safe, being a deputy of Sir William, and
      further says that you are an unmannerly and bold rebel and
      desires not your presence in her house, and desires me to
      inform you. Oh Micky what have you done? I do not desire any
      longer to wed Lord Dunmore and be a Countess, but I had not
      thought to have you speak so to Lord Dunmore. He came here
      last evening in a white fury and showed me the letter you had
      written to him. He says that you are not the messenger he
      expected, though you may be a deputy, and he vows he will not
      be so vilely used, and he will not give me up but will
      publish the banns to-day in Pitt, come what may. Which has
      frightened me so I write to you that I do not wish to be a
      countess any more and would be glad to go to Aunt Molly and
      Sir William.
      "I will rise from bed at eleven o'clock to-night and go out
      into the orchard with Black Betty. Pray you cozzen, greet me
      with a post-chaise and take me away from these dreadful,
      dreadful people.
        "Your cozzen,
           "FELICITY.
      "Postscriptum
      "To witt, I will not wed you though we be affianced, and I
      will wed no man upon your recommendation. With your own
      affairs I pray you be dilligently active and concern yourself
      not with mine hereafter."
When I had again read the letter I examined the wax. The paper had
been carelessly folded and more carelessly sealed; and I called to
Mount and the Weasel, pointing out that, though the letter was
unsealed, the wax itself had not been broken.
"I do not think," said I, "that this letter has deliberately been
tampered with. This is only carelessness."
"It was certainly sealed and folded in haste," remarked the Weasel,
poking at the wax with his forefinger.
Mount also pretended to believe that negligence or haste accounted for
the open letter, and, satisfied, we sat down to discuss the measures
to be taken for a fortnight flight.
I had a mind to follow Silver Heels to the races, trusting that I
might find a moment to warn her most solemnly not to fail us. Mount
thought the idea most wise, offering to bear me company, and the
Weasel agreed to remain and assist Rolfe to equip and furnish our
post-chaise with the necessaries for a long journey.
It was understood between us that Silver Heels and Black Betty were to
ride in the chaise, and I with them; that Mount and the Weasel would
sit the horses as postilions, and that Shemuel should ride atop. It
was further decided that, as the northern and western frontier were
impassable in view of the border war, we should take the post-road to
the Virginia border, make for Williamsburg, and from there turn north
across Maryland and the Jerseys, reaching Johnstown through New York
and Albany.
I gave the Weasel money to purchase powder and ball, which we all
lacked, and to buy for me a silver watch and a rifle or firelock to
replace the loss of my own. Also, I charged him to purchase pistols
for me and for Shemuel, with flint and ball for the same, and to
sharpen our knives and hatchets against need.
"You waste breath," observed Mount, yawning. "The Weasel never
neglects to file his claws for battle."
"Very well," said I, wincing; "it seems that of us all I alone know
nothing of my own affairs."
"You will learn," said the Weasel, kindly, and I was obliged to
swallow their well-meant patronage and follow Mount to the street.
"If I had my way," said I, resentfully, "I would take Miss Warren from
the races and set out by noon."
"If I had my way," observed Mount, "I should not try to escape
to-night at all."
"Why not?" I asked, in surprise.
"Because of that unsealed letter."
"But we agreed it was accident!"
"Ay, we agree, but mayhap there are others yet to disagree."
"Nonsense!" I said.
"Doubtless," said Mount, with the faintest trace of irony, enough to
flavour his mild smile with that mockery which hurts the pride of very
young men.
Offended, I strode on beside him, and neither he nor I offered to
speak again until Mount suddenly stopped in the middle of the King's
Road and looked back.
"What's amiss?" I asked, forgetting my sulks.
"Oh, we are followed again," said Mount, wearily.
I stared about but could see nobody who appeared to be observing us.
There were numbers of people on the King's Road, trudging through the
dust as were we, and doubtless also bound for the races on Roanoke
Plain. I saw no vehicles or horsemen: the quality in their chairs and
coaches would go by the fashionable Boundary; the fox-hunting horsemen
met at the "Buckeye Tavern," a resort for British officers and
gentlemen; unpretentious folk must foot it by the shortest route,
which was to pass the fortress by the King's Road.
"Are you sure we are followed?" I asked.
"Not quite," said Mount, simply. "I shall know anon. Trust me in this,
lad, and take pains to do instantly what I do. Perhaps my life may pay
for this day's pleasure."
"I will take care to imitate you," said I, anxiously. "You know how
deeply in your debt I stand confessed."
"Good lad," he said, gravely; "I do not doubt you, friend Michael. As
for any debt, your courtesy has long cancelled it."
The quaint compliment had a pretty savour, coming from one whose world
was not my own.
We were now passing that angle of the fortified works through which
the King's Road passes between two block-housen. The sentries,
standing in the shadow of the stockade, watched us without visible
interest, turning their idle heads to scan the next comer, and stare
impudently if it were some petticoat.
So, unquestioned, we passed out into the country, where a few heavily
stockaded farms flanked the road, always built on heights, and always
free from trees or any cover that might shelter an attacking enemy.
Beyond these farms the road became a turnpike, and we stopped at the
toll-gate to pay tuppence to the keeper's wife, who sat nursing a
baby, one hand on a rifle, which she never let go until the evening
brought her husband to keep his perilous vigil there all night.
"No," she said, listlessly, "no Indians have troubled us. Yet, God
knows I sleep not while my man is out here in the night, though they
send a patrol from the fortress every hour."
Mount earnestly advised her to give up the toll-gate until the border
had quieted; but she only stared, saying, "How, then, are we to live?"
And we passed on in silence, side by side.
Beyond the toll-gate a broad road curved out from the turnpike,
running south, and Mount pointed it out as the road we were to travel
that night.
"It crosses the Virginia border by that blue hill yonder," he said,
then suddenly jerked his head over his shoulder.
"I think I am right; I think I know the jade," he said, calmly.
"Is it a woman who follows us?" I asked, amazed.
"Ay, a bit of a lass, maybe eighteen or thereabouts."
"You know her?"
"And she me," said Mount, grimly. "Harkee, friend Michael, if you must
needs know the truth, her father is--Gad! I can scarce say it to you,
but--well--her father is what they call a thief-taker."
"What has that to do with us?" I asked.
Mount spoke with an effort: "Because I have stopped some few
purse-proud magistrates upon the highway, they say evil things o' me.
That lass behind us means to follow me and tell her lout of a father
where I may be found."
I was horrified, and he saw it and stopped short in his tracks.
"You are right," he said, simply; "a gentleman cannot be found in such
company. Go on alone, lad; it is right, and I shall bear no malice."
"Jack!" I said, hotly; "do you believe I would cry quits now?
Damnation! Come on, sir! I would as soon take the King's highway
myself!"
His firm mouth relaxed and quivered a little; he hesitated, then
walked forward beside me with a touch of that old swagger, muttering
something about gentle blood and what's bred in the bone.
"It's all very well," he said; "it's all very well for some of our
people to say that we men are created equal. There's no truth in it. A
broodhound never cast whippets, let them say what they will!"
We were now in sight of the flag-covered pavilion on Roanoke Plain,
and on either side of us the road was lined with those drinking-booths
and peddler-stands and cheap-jack tents which had pitched camps here
for the day rather than pay the tax required to sell their wares
within the racing-grounds.
Around them the townspeople clustered, some munching gingerbread and
pies, some watching the gilded wheel of fortune spin their pennies
into another man's pockets, some paying for a peep into a dark shed
where doubtless wonders were to be seen for a penny. Ragged children
sold colours and cards for the races; peddlers assailed our ears at
every step; fortune-tellers followed us, predicting unexpected
blessings, which turned to curses when we passed along unheeding;
acrobats, tumblers, jugglers, strong men, and merry-andrews hailed us
as their proper prey. And, in sooth, had it not been for the sickening
knowledge of Mount's peril, I should have found keen pleasure in
spending all I had, to see everybody and everything at this show; for
I do dearly love strange sights, and in Johnstown I have always viewed
them all, with Silver Heels and Esk and Peter, when the season of
racing brought these gay folk to our town.
But now I had no stomach for pleasure, nor had Mount, for he scarcely
glanced at the booths as we passed, though there was ale there, and
sweet Virginia wines, which drew the very honey-bees themselves.
Suddenly Mount said, "This will not do; I have been hunted long
enough!"
"What are you going to do?" I asked.
"Hunt in my turn," he said, grimly.
"Hunt--what?"
"The lass who hunts me. Follow, lad. On your life, do as I do. Now,
then! Gay! Gay! Ruffle it, lad! Cut a swagger, cock your cap, and woe
to the maid who is beguiled by us!"
The change in him was amazing; his airs, his patronage, his chaff, his
lightening wit!--it was the old Mount again, quaffing a great cup of
ale, pledging every pretty face that passed, hammering his pewter to
emphasize his words, talking with all who would answer him; glorious
in his self-esteem, amusing in his folly, a dandy, a ruffler, a
careless, wine-bibbing, wench-bussing coureur-de-bois, and king of
them all without an effort.
Peddler and gypsy were no match for him; his banter silenced the most
garrulous, his teasing pleased the wenches, his gay gallantries made
many a girl look back at him, and many a smile was returned to him
with delicate surplus of interest.
"Which is the maid?" I asked, under my breath.
"Yonder, stopping to stare at gingerbread as though she had never
beheld such a sweet before. Now she turns; mark! It is she with the
pink print and chip hat on her hair, tied with rose ribbons under the
chin."
"I see her," said I.
She was a healthy, red-cheeked, blue-eyed girl, with lips a trifle
over-full and bosom to match withal. She appeared uneasy and
uncertain, watching Mount when he raised a laugh, and laughing herself
as excuse, though her mirth appeared to me uneasy, now that I
understood her purpose.
She had been edging nearer, and now stood close to us, at the entrance
to an arbour wherein were set benches in little corners, hidden from
prying eyes by strips of painted cloth.
"Will no maid pity me!" exclaimed Mount. "I am far, far too young to
drink my wine alone in yonder arbour!"
"I have not been invited," cried a saucy wench, laughing at us over
the shoulder of her companion, who backed away, half laughing, half
frightened.
"God helps those who help themselves," said Mount, turning to find her
who had followed him close to his elbow.
He smiled in her face and made her a very slow and very low bow,
drawing a furrow through the dust with the fluffy tail on his
coon-skin cap.
"If I knew your name," he said, "I might die contented. Otherwise I
shall content myself with a life of ignorance."
She seemed startled and abashed, fingering her gown and looking at her
shoe-buckles, while Mount bent beside her to whisper and smile and
swagger until he entreated her to taste a glass of currant wine with
us in the arbour.
I do not know to this day why she consented. Perhaps she thought to
confirm her suspicions and entrap some admission from Mount; perhaps,
in the light of later events, her purpose was very different. However,
we three sat in the arbour behind our screens of painted cloth, and
Mount did set such a pace for us that ere I was aware there remained
not a drop of currant in the decanter, no more cakes on the plate, and
he had his arm around the silly maid.
Intensely embarrassed and ill at ease with this pot-house gallantry,
which was ever offensive to my tastes, I regarded them sideways in
silence, impatient for Mount to end it all.
The end had already begun; Mount rose lightly to his feet and drew the
girl with him, turning her quietly by the shoulders and looking
straight into her eyes.
"Why do you follow me?" he asked, coolly.
The colour left her face; her eyes flew wide open with fright.
"I shall not hurt you, little fool," he said; "I had rather your
father, the thief-taker, took me, than harm you. Yes, I am that same
Jack Mount. You are poor; they will pay you for compassing my arrest.
Come, shall we seek your father, Billy Bishop, the taker of thieves?"
He drew her towards the gate, but she fell a-whimpering and caught his
arm, hiding her face in his buckskin sleeve.
Disgusted, I waited a moment, then turned my back and walked out into
the sunshine, where I paced to and fro, until at last Mount joined me,
