make her do anything, direct her as he directed his own hand. When she
had met him in the house of the Vestals, she had been sure that if she
stood a moment longer where he had come upon her, he would take her in
his arms and kiss her, and she would not resist. It was of no use to
argue about it, to tell herself that she would have been safe on a
desert island with Guido's trusted friend; the conviction was strong. At
the Villa Madama, he had made her say what he pleased, go with him where
he chose, tell him her secret. It was too horrible for words. She had
asked him to come to see her at an hour when there would be no visitors,
and she knew that she had meant to see him alone, in spite of her
mother, and even by stealth if need were. When he was out of her sight,
his influence was gone with him, and she thanked heaven that he had not
come, and that he apparently took care never to be alone with her for a
moment now. He had only to look at her in a certain way, and she must
obey him; if he ever touched her hand she would be his slave, powerless
to resist him.
Sometimes she could not help looking at him, but then he never turned
his eyes towards her, and she was thankful when she could turn hers
away. When he was not present, she hoped that she might never see his
face again, except in dreams, for there he was not the same. There, but
for that one passionate kiss that told all, he was tender, and gentle,
and true, and he listened to her, and in the end he lived as she wished
him to live. But he had come back to life with the same face, another
man--one whom she feared as she feared nothing in the world, and few
things beyond it, for he was born her master, and was strong, and had
ruthless eyes. Even Guido could not save her from him, she was sure.
Yet in spite of all this, she could meet him with outward indifference
in the world, before other people. She felt that there was no danger so
long as she was not alone with him, because he would not dare to use his
power, and the world protected her by its cheerful, careless presence.
She did not hate him, she only feared him, with every part of her, body
and soul.
She was sure that he knew it, but she was not grateful to him for
avoiding her. She could not be grateful to any one of whom she was in
terror. It was merely his will to avoid her, or perhaps, as Guido seemed
to think, he did not like her; or possibly it was for Guido's sake,
because Guido trusted him, and he was a man of honour.
He was that beyond doubt, for every one said so, and she knew that he
was brave; but though he might possess every quality and virtue under
the sun, she could never be less afraid of him. Her fear had nothing to
do with his character; it was bodily and spiritual, not reasonable. She
had found out that he was perfectly truthful, for nothing he said
escaped her, and Guido told her that he was kind, but that was hard to
believe of any one with those eyes. Yet the man in the dream was
gentleness itself, and his eyes never glittered when they looked at her.
To think that she could ever love Lamberti was utterly absurd. When she
was married to Guido she would tell him that she feared his friend. Now,
it was impossible. He would smile quietly and tell her there was nothing
to be afraid of; he would smile, too, if she told him that she had a
dual existence, and dreamed herself into the other every day.
And now she was smiling, too, as she thought of him, for she had thought
too long about Lamberti, and it was soothing to go back to Guido's
companionship and to all that her real affection for him meant to her.
It was like coming home after a dangerous journey. There he was, always
the same, his hands stretched out to welcome her back. She would have
just that sensation presently when he came to luncheon, and he would
have just that look. She and he were made to spend endless days
together, sometimes talking, sometimes thoughtful and silent, always
happy, and calm, and utterly peaceful.
After all, she thought, what more could a woman ask? With each other's
society and her fortune, they would have all the world held that was
pleasant and beautiful around them, and they would enjoy it together, as
long as it lasted, and it would never make the least difference to them
that they should grow old, and older, until the end came; and at
eighteen it was of no use to think of that.
Surely this was love, at its best, and of the kind that must last; and
if, after all, in order to get such happiness as that seemed, there was
no way except to marry, why then, she must do as others did and be Guido
d'Este's wife.
What could she know? That she loved him, in a way not at all like what
she had supposed to be the way of love, but sincerely and truly. What
should she do? She should marry him, since that was necessary. What
might she hope? She could hope for a lifetime of happiness. Should she
then have acted so as to deserve it? Yes. Why not? Might the reason for
her marriage be a rule for others? Yes, for others in exactly the same
case.
So she smilingly answered the mightiest questions of transcendental
philosophy as if they all referred to the pleasant world in which she
lived, instead of to the lofty regions of Pure Reason. In that, indeed,
she knew that she was playing with them, or applying them empirically,
if any one chose to define in those terms what she was doing. After all,
why should she not? Of the three questions, the first only was
"speculative," and the other two were "practical." The philosopher
himself said so.
Besides, it did not matter, for Guido d'Este was coming to luncheon, and
afterwards her mother would go and write notes, unless she dozed a
little in her boudoir, as she sometimes did while the two talked; and
then Cecilia would say something quite natural, but quite new, and she
would let her look linger in Guido's a little longer than ever before,
and then he would ask her to marry him. It was all decided beforehand in
her small head.
She was glad that it was, and she felt much happier at the prospect of
what was coming than she had expected. That must be a sign that she
really loved Guido in the right way, and the pleasant little thrill of
excitement she felt now and again could only be due to that; it would be
outrageous to suppose that it was caused merely by the certainty that
for the first time in her life she was going to receive an offer of
marriage. Why should any young girl care for such a thing, unless she
meant to marry the man, and why in the world should it give her any
pleasure to hear a man stammer something that would be unintelligible if
it were not expected, and then see him wait with painful anxiety for the
answer which every woman likes to hesitate a little in giving, in order
that it may have its full value? Such doings are manifestly wicked,
unless they are sheer nonsense!
Cecilia rose and rang for her maid; for it was twelve o'clock, and
Romans lunch at half-past twelve, because they do not begin the day
between eight and nine in the morning with ham and eggs, omelets and
bacon, beefsteak and onions, fried liver, cold joints, tongue, cold ham
and pickles, hot cakes, cold cakes, hot bread, cold bread, butter, jam,
honey, fruit of all kinds in season, tea, coffee, chocolate, and a
tendency to complain that they have not had enough, which is the
unchangeable custom of the conquering races, as everybody knows. It is
true that the conquerors do not lunch to any great extent; they go on
conquering from breakfast till dinner time without much intermission,
because that is their business; but it is believed that their women, who
stay at home, have a little something at twelve, luncheon at half-past
two, tea between five and six, dinner at eight, and supper about
midnight, when they can get it.
Cecilia rang for the excellent Petersen, and said that she would wear
the new costume which had arrived from Doucet's two days ago.
There was certainly no reason why she should not wish to look well on
this day of all others, and as she turned and saw herself in the glass,
she had not the least thought of making a better impression than usual
on Guido. She was far too sure of herself for that. If she chose, he
would ask her to marry him though she might be dressed in an old
waterproof and overshoes. It was merely because she was happy and was
sure that she was going to do the right thing. When a normal woman is
very happy, she puts on a perfectly new frock, if she has one, in real
life or on the stage, even when she is not going to be seen by any one
in particular. In this, therefore, Cecilia only followed the instinct of
her kind, and if the pretty new costume had not chanced to have come
from Paris, she would not have missed it at all, but would have worn
something else. As it happened to be ready, however, it would have been
a pity not to put it on, since she expected to remember that particular
day all the rest of her life.
Petersen said it was perfection, and Cecilia was not far from thinking
so, too.
                              CHAPTER XIII
Guido d'Este was already in the drawing-room with the Countess when
Cecilia entered, but she knew by their faces and voices that they had
not been talking of her, and was glad of it; for sometimes, when she was
quite sure that they had, she felt a little embarrassment at first, and
found Guido a trifle absent-minded for some time afterwards.
She took his hand, and perhaps she held it a second longer than usual,
and she looked into his eyes as she spoke to her mother. Yesterday she
would have very likely looked at her mother while speaking to him.
"I hope I am not late," she said, "Have I kept you waiting?"
"It was worth while, if you did," Guido said, looking at her with
undisguised admiration.
"It really is a success, is it not?" Cecilia asked, turning to her
mother now, for approval.
Then she turned slowly round, raised herself on tiptoe a moment, came
back to her original position, and smiled happily. Guido waited for the
Countess to speak.
"Yes--yes," the latter answered critically, but almost satisfied. "When
one has a figure like yours, my dear, one should always have things
quite perfect. A woman who has a good figure and is really well dressed,
hardly ever needs a pin. Let me see. Does it not draw under the right
arm, just the slightest bit? Put your arm down, child, let it hang
naturally! So. No, I was mistaken, there is nothing. You really ought to
keep your arm in the right position, darling. It makes so much
difference! You are not going to play tennis, or ride a bicycle in that
costume. No, of course not! Well, then--you understand. Do be careful!"
Cecilia looked at Guido and smiled again, and her lips parted just
enough to show her two front teeth a little, and then, still parted,
grew grave, which gave her an expression Guido had never seen. For a
moment there was something between a question and an appeal in her face.
"It is very becoming," he said gravely. "It is a pleasure to see
anything so faultless."
"I am glad you really like it," she answered. "I always want you to like
my things."
Everything happened exactly as she had expected and wished, and the
Countess, when she had sipped her cup of coffee after luncheon, went to
the writing table in the boudoir, and though the door was open into the
great drawing-room, she was out of sight, and out of hearing too.
Cecilia did not sit down again at once, but moved slowly about, went to
one of the windows and looked down at the white street through the slats
of the closed blinds, turned and met Guido's eyes, for he was watching
her, and at last stood still not far from him, but a little further from
the open door of the boudoir than he was. At the end of the room a short
sofa was placed across the corner; before it stood a low table on which
lay a few large books, of the sort that are supposed to amuse people who
are waiting for the lady of the house, or who are stranded alone in the
evening when every one else is talking. They are always books of the
type described as magnificent and not dear; if they were really
valuable, they would not be left there.
"How you watch me!" Cecilia smiled, as if she did not object to being
watched. "Come and sit down," she added, without waiting for an answer.
She established herself in one corner of the short sofa behind the
table, Guido took his place in the other, and there would not have been
room for a third person between them. The two had never sat together in
that particular place, and there was a small sensation of novelty about
it which was delightful to them both. There was not the least
calculation of such a thing in Cecilia's choice of the sofa, but only
the unerring instinct of woman which outwits man's deepest schemes at
every turn in life.
"Yes," Guido said, "I was watching you. I often do, for it is good to
look at you. Why should one not get as much aesthetic pleasure as
possible out of life?"
The speech was far from brilliant, for Guido was beginning to feel the
spell, and was not thinking so much of what he was saying as of what he
longed to say. Most clever men are dull enough to suppose that they bore
women when they suddenly lose their cleverness and say rather foolish
things with an air of conviction, instead of very witty things with a
studied look of indifference. The hundred and fifty generations of men,
more or less, that separate us moderns from the days of Eden, never
found out that those are the very moments at which a woman first feels
her power, and that it is much less dangerous to bore her just then than
before or afterwards. It is a rare delight to her to feel that her mere
look can turn careless wit to earnest foolishness. For nothing is ever
more in earnest than real folly, except real love.
"You always say nice things," Cecilia answered, and Guido was pleasantly
surprised, for he had been quite sure that the silly compliment was
hardly worth answering.
"And you are always kind," he said gratefully. "Always the same," he
added after a moment, with a little accent of regret.
"Am I? You say it as if you wished I might sometimes change. Is that
what you mean?"
She looked down at her hands, that lay in her lap motionless and white,
one upon the other, on the delicate dove-coloured stuff of her frock;
and her voice was rather low.
"No," Guido answered. "That is not what I mean."
"Then I do not understand," she said, neither moving nor looking up.
Guido said nothing. He leaned forwards, his elbows on his knees, and
stared down at the Persian rug that lay before the sofa on the smooth
matting. It was warm and still in the great room.
"Try and make me understand."
Still he was silent. Without changing his position he glanced at the
open door of the boudoir. The Countess was invisible and inaudible.
Guido could hear the young girl's soft and regular breathing, and he
felt the pulse in his own throat. He knew that he must say something,
and yet the only thing he could think of to say was that he loved her.
"Try and make me understand," she repeated. "I think you could."
He started and changed his position a little. He had been accustomed so
long to the belief that if he spoke out frankly the thread of his
intercourse with her would be broken, that he made a strong effort to
get back to the ordinary tone of their conversation.
"Do you never say absurd things that have no meaning?" he asked, and
tried to laugh.
"It was not what you said," Cecilia answered quietly. "It was the way
you said it, as if you rather regretted saying that I am always the
same. I should be sorry if you thought that an absurd speech."
"You know that I do not!" cried Guido, with a little indignation. "We
understand each other so well, as a rule, but there is something you
will never understand, I am afraid."
"That is just what I wish you would explain," replied the young girl,
unmoved.
"Are you in earnest?" Guido asked, suddenly turning his face to her.
"Of course. We are such good friends that it is a pity there should ever
be the least little bit of misunderstanding between us."
"You talk about it very philosophically!"
"About what?" She had felt that she must make him lose patience, and she
succeeded.
"After all, I am a man," he said rather hoarsely. "Do you suppose it is
possible for me to see you day after day, to talk with you day after
day, to be alone with you day after day, as I am, to hear your voice, to
touch your hand--and to be satisfied with friendship?"
"How should I know?" Cecilia asked thoughtfully. "I have never known any
one as well as I know you. I never liked anyone else well enough," she
added after an instant.
A very faint colour rose in her cheeks, for she was afraid that she had
been too forward.
"Yes. I am sure of that," he said. "But you never feel that mere liking
is turning into something stronger, and that friendship is changing into
love. You never will!"
She said nothing, but looked at him steadily while he looked away from
her, absorbed in his own thought and expecting no answer. When at last
he felt her eyes on him, he turned quickly with a start of surprise,
catching his breath, and speaking incoherently.
"You do not mean to tell me--you are not----"
Again her lips parted and she smiled at his wonder.
"Why not?" she asked, at last.
"You love me? You?" He could not believe his ears.
"Why not?" she asked again, but so low that he could hardly hear the
words.
He turned half round, as he sat, and covered her crossed hands with his,
and for a while neither spoke. He was supremely happy; she was convinced
that she ought to be, and that she therefore believed that she was, and
that her happiness was consequently real.
But when she heard his voice, she knew, in spite of all, that she did
not feel what he felt, even in the smallest degree, and there was a
doubt which she had not anticipated, and which she at once faced in her
heart with every argument she could use. She must have done right, it
was absolutely necessary that what she had done should be right, now
that it was too late to undo it. The mere suggestion that it might turn
out to be a mistake was awful. It would all be her fault if she had
deceived him, though ever so unwittingly.
His hands shook a little as they lay on hers. Then they took one of hers
and held it, drawing it slowly away from the other.
"Do you really love me?" Guido asked, still wondering, and not quite
convinced.
"Yes," she answered faintly, and not trying to withdraw her hand.
She had been really happy before she had first answered him. A minute
had not passed, and her martyrdom had begun, the martyrdom by the doubt
which made that one "yes" possibly a lie. Guido raised her hand to his
lips, and she felt that they were cold. Then he began to speak, and she
heard his voice far off and as if it came to her through a dense mist.
"I have loved you almost since we first met," he said, "but I was sure
from the beginning that you would never feel anything but friendship for
me."
A voice that was neither his nor hers, cried out in her heart:
"Nor ever can!"
She almost believed that he could hear the words. She would have given
all she had to have the strength to speak them, to disappoint him
bravely, to tell him that she had meant to do right, but had done wrong.
But she could not. He did not pause as he spoke, and his soft, deep
voice poured into her ear unceasingly the pent-up thoughts of love that
had been gathering in his heart for weeks. She knew that he was looking
in her face for some response, and now and then, as her head lay back
against the sofa cushion, she turned her eyes to his and smiled, and
twice she felt that her fingers pressed his hand a little.
It was not out of mere weakness that she did not interrupt him, for she
was not weak, nor cowardly. She had been so sure that she loved him,
until he had made her say so, that even now, whenever she could think at
all, she went back to her reasoning, and could all but persuade herself
again. It was when she was obliged to speak that her lips almost refused
the word.
For she was very fond of him. It would have been pleasant to sit there,
and even to press his hand affectionately, and to listen to his words,
if only they had been words of friendship and not of love, and spoken in
another tone--in his voice of every day. But she had waked in him
something she could not understand, and to which nothing in herself
responded, nothing thrilled, nothing consented; and the inner voice in
her heart cried out perpetually, warning her against something unknown.
He was eloquent now, and spoke without doubt or fear, as men do when
they have been told at last that they are loved; and her occasional
glance and the pressure of her hand were all he wanted in return. He
said everything for her, which he wished to hear her say, and it seemed
to him that she spoke the words by his lips. They would be happy
together always, happy beyond volumes of words to say, beyond thought to
think, beyond imagination to imagine. Quick plans for the future, near
and far, flashed into words that were pictures, and the pictures showed
him a visible earthly paradise, in which they two should live always, in
which he should always be speaking as he was speaking now, and she
listening, as she now listened.
He forgot the time, and forgot to glance at the open door of the
boudoir, but at last Cecilia started, and drew back her hand from his,
and blushed as she raised her head from the back of the sofa. Her mother
was standing in the doorway watching, and hearing, an expression of rapt
delight on her face, not daring to move forwards or backwards, lest she
should interrupt the scene.
Cecilia started, and Guido, following the direction of her eyes, saw the
Countess, and felt that small touch of disappointment which a man feels
when the woman he is addressing in passionate language is less
absent-minded than he is. He rose to his feet instantly, and went
forwards, as the Countess came towards him.
"My dear lady," he said, "Cecilia has consented to be my wife."
Cecilia did not afterwards remember precisely what happened next, for
the room swam with her as she left her seat, and she steadied herself
against a chair, and saw nothing for a moment; but presently she found
herself in her mother's arms, which pressed her very hard, and her
mother was kissing her again and again, and was saying incoherent
things, and was on the point of crying. Guido stood a few steps away,
apparently seeing nothing, but looking the picture of happiness, and
very busy with his cigarette case, of which he seemed to think the
fastening must be out of order, for he opened it and shut it again
several times and tried it in every way.
Then Cecilia was quite aware of outward things again, and she kissed her
mother once or twice.
"Let me go, mother dear," she whispered desperately. "I want to be
alone--do let me go!"
She slipped away, pale and trembling, and had disappeared almost before
Guido was aware that she was going towards the door. She heard her
mother's voice just as she reached the threshold.
"We will announce it this evening," the Countess said to Guido.
Cecilia sped through the long suite of rooms that led to her own. She
met no one, not even Petersen, for the servants were all at dinner. She
locked the door, stood still a moment, and then went to the tall glass
between the windows, and looked at herself as if trying to read the
truth in the reflection of her eyes. It seemed to her that her beauty
was suddenly gone from her, and that she was utterly changed. She saw a
pale, drawn face, eyes that looked weak and frightened, lips that
trembled, a figure that had lost all its elasticity and half its grace.
She did not throw herself upon her bed and burst into tears. Old
Fortiguerra had taught her that it was not really more natural for a
woman to cry than it is for a man; and she had overcome even the very
slight tendency she had ever had towards such outward weakness. But like
other people who train themselves to keep down emotion, she suffered
much more than if she had given way to what she felt. She turned from
the reflection of herself with a sort of dumb horror, and sat down in
the place where she had come to her great decision less than two hours
ago.
The room looked very differently now; the air was not the same, the June
sunshine was still beating on the blinds, but it was cruel now, and
pitiless, as all light is that shines on grief.
She tried to collect her thoughts, and asked herself whether it was a
crime that she had committed against her will, and many other such
questions that had no answer. Little by little reason began to assert
itself again, as emotion subsided.
                               CHAPTER XIV
The news of Cecilia Palladio's engagement to Guido d'Este surprised no
one, and was generally received with that satisfaction which society
feels when those things happen which are appropriate in themselves and
have been long expected. A few mothers of marriageable sons were
disappointed, but no mothers of marriageable daughters, because Guido
had no fortune and was so much liked as to have been looked upon rather
as a danger than a prize.
Though it was late in the season, and she was about to leave Rome, the
Princess Anatolie gave a dinner party in honour of the betrothed pair,
and by way of producing an impression on Cecilia and her mother, invited
all the most imposing people who happened to be in Rome at that time;
and they were chiefly related to her in some way or other, as all
semi-royal personages, and German dukes and grand-dukes and mediatised
princes, and princes of the Holy Empire, seemed to be. Now all these
great people seemed to know Cecilia's future husband intimately and
liked him, and called him "Guido"; and he called some of them by their
first names, and was evidently not the least in awe of any of them. They
were his relations, as the Princess was, and they acknowledged him; and
they were inclined to be affectionate relatives, because he had never
asked any of them for anything, and differed from most of them in never
having done anything too scandalous to be mentioned. They were his
family, for his mother had been an only child; and Princess Anatolie,
who was distinctly a snob in soul, in spite of her royal blood, took
care that the good Countess Fortiguerra should know exactly how matters
stood, and that her daughter ought to be thankful that she was to marry
among the exalted ones of the earth--at any price.
Now, when she had been an ambassadress, the Countess had met two or
three of those people, and had been accustomed to look upon them as
personages whom the Embassy entertained in state, one at a time, when
they condescended to accept an invitation, but who lived in a region of
their own, which was often, and perhaps fortunately so, beyond the
experience of ordinary society. She was therefore really pleased and
flattered to find herself in their intimacy and to hear what they had to
say when they talked without restraint. Her position was certainly very
good already, but there was no denying that her daughter's marriage
would make it a privileged one.
In the first place, Guido and Cecilia were clearly expected to visit
some of his relations during their wedding trip and afterwards, and at
some future time the Countess would go with them and see wonderful
castles and palaces she had heard of from her childhood. That would be
delightful, she thought, and the excellent Baron Goldbirn of Vienna
would die of envy. Not that she wished him to die of envy, nor of
anything else; she merely thought of his feelings.
Then--and perhaps that was what gave her the most real
satisfaction--Cecilia was to take the place for which her beauty and her
talents had destined her, but which her birth had not given her. The
mother's heart was filled with affectionate pride when she realised that
the marvel she had brought into the world, the most wonderful girl that
ever lived, her only child, was to be the mother of kings' and queens'
second cousins. It was quite indifferent that she should be called plain
Signora d'Este, and not princess, or duchess, or marchioness. The
Countess did not care a straw for titles, for she had lived in a world
where they are as plentiful as figs in August; but to be the mother of a
king's second cousin was something worth living for, and she herself
would be the mother-in-law of an ex-King's son, which would have made
her the something-in-law of the ex-King himself, if he had been alive.
Yet she cared very little for herself in comparison with Cecilia. She
was only a vicarious snob, after all, and a very motherly and loving
one, with harmless faults and weaknesses which every one forgave.
The Princess Anatolie saw that the impression was made, and was
satisfied for the present. She meant to have a little serious
conversation with the Countess before they parted for the summer, and
before the first impression had worn off, but it would have been a great
mistake to talk business on such an occasion as the present. The fish
was netted, that was the main thing; the next was to hasten the marriage
as much as possible, for the Princess saw at once that Cecilia was not
really in love with Guido, and as the fortune was hers, the girl had the
power to draw back at the last moment; that is to say, that all the
mothers of marriageable sons would declare that she was quite right in
doing what Italian society never quite pardons in ordinary cases. An
Italian girl who has broken off an engagement after it is announced does
not easily find a husband at any price.
Cecilia noticed that Monsieur Leroy was not present at the dinner, and
as she sat next to Guido she asked him the reason in an undertone.
"I do not know," he answered. "He is probably dining out. My aunt's
relations do not like him much, I believe."
The Countess was affectionately intent on everything her daughter said
and did, and was possessed of very good hearing; she caught the exchange
of question and answer, and it occurred to her that an absent person
might always be made a subject of conversation. She was not far from the
Princess at table.
"By-the-bye," she asked, agreeably, "where is Monsieur Leroy?"
Every one heard her speak, and to her amazement and confusion her words
produced one of those appalling silences which are remembered through
life by those who have accidentally caused them. Cecilia looked at
Guido, and he was gravely occupied in digging the little bits of truffle
out of some pâté de foie gras on his plate, for he did not like
truffles. Not a muscle of his face moved.
"I suppose he is at home," the Princess answered after a few seconds, in
her most disagreeable and metallic tone.
As Monsieur Leroy had told Cecilia that he lived in the house, she
opened her eyes. Nobody spoke for several moments, and the Countess got
very red, and fanned herself. A stout old gentleman of an apoplectic
complexion and a merry turn of mind struggled a moment with an evident
desire to laugh, then grasped his glass desperately, tried to drink,
choked himself, and coughed and sputtered, just as if he had not been a
member of an imperial family, but just a common mortal.
"You are a good shot, Guido," said a man who was very much like him, but
was older and had iron-grey hair, "you must be sure to come to us for
the opening of the season."
"I should like to," Guido answered, "but it is always a state function
at your place."
"The Emperor is not coming this year," explained the first speaker.
"Why not?" asked the Princess Anatolie. "I thought he always did."
The man with the iron-grey hair proceeded to explain why the Emperor was
not coming, and the conversation began again, much to the relief of
every one. The Countess listened attentively, for she was not quite sure
which Emperor they meant.
"Please ask your mother not to talk about Monsieur Leroy," Guido said,
almost in a whisper.
Cecilia thought that the advice would scarcely be needed after what had
just happened, but she promised to convey it, and begged Guido to tell
her the reason for what he said when he should have a chance.
"I am sorry to say that I cannot," he answered, and at once began to
talk about an indifferent subject.
Cecilia answered him rather indolently, but not absently. She was at
least glad that he did not speak of their future plans, where any one
might hear what he said.
She was growing used to the idea that she had promised to marry him, and
that everybody expected the wedding to take place in a few weeks, though
it looked utterly impossible to her.
It was as if she had exchanged characters with him. He had become
hopeful, enthusiastic, in love with life, actively exerting himself in
every way. In a few days she had grown indolent and vacillating, and was
willing to let every question decide itself rather than to force her
decision upon circumstances. She felt that she was not what she had
believed herself to be, and that it therefore mattered little what
became of her. If she married Guido she should not live long, but it
would be the same if she married any one else, since there was no one
whom she liked half as much.
On the day after the engagement was announced Lamberti came, with Guido,
to offer his congratulations. Cecilia saw that he was thin and looked as
if he were living under a strain of some sort, but she did not think
that his manner changed in the least when he spoke to her. His words
were what she might have expected, few, concise, and well chosen, but
his face was expressionless, and his eyes were dull and impenetrable. He
stayed twenty minutes, talking most of the time with her mother, and
then took his leave. As soon as he had turned to go, Cecilia
unconsciously watched him. He went out and shut the door very softly
after him, and she started and caught her breath. It was only the
shutting of a door, of course, and the door was like any other door, and
made the same noise when one shut it--the click of a well-made lock when
the spring pushes the bevelled latch-bolt into the socket. But it was
exactly the sound she thought she heard each time her dream ended.
The impression had passed in a flash, and no one had noticed her nervous
movement. Since then, she had not met Lamberti, for after the engagement
was made known she went out less, and Guido spent much more of his time
at the Palazzo Massimo. Many people were leaving Rome, too, and those
who remained were no longer inclined to congregate together, but stayed
at home in the evening and only went out in the daytime when it was
cool. Some had boys who had to pass their public examinations before the
family could go into the country. Others were senators of the Kingdom,
obliged to stay in town till the end of the session; some were connected
with the ministry and had work to do; and some stayed because they liked
it, for though the weather was warm it was not yet what could be called
hot.
The Countess wished the wedding to take place in July, and Guido agreed
to anything that could hasten it. Cecilia said nothing, for she could
not believe that she was really to be married. Something must happen to
prevent it, even at the last minute, something natural but unexpected,
something, above all, by which she should be spared the humiliation of
explaining to Guido what she felt, and why she had honestly believed
that she loved him.
And after all, if she were obliged to marry him, she supposed that she
would never be more unhappy than she was already. It was her fate, that
was all that could be said, and she must bear it, and perhaps it would
not be so hard as it seemed. A character weaker than hers might perhaps
have turned against Guido; she might have found her friendly affection
suddenly changed into a capricious dislike that would soon lead to
positive hatred. But there was no fear of that. She only wished that he
would not talk perpetually about the future, with so much absolute
confidence, when it seemed to her so terribly problematic.
Such conversations were made all the more difficult to sustain by the
fact that if they were married, she, as the possessor of the fortune,
would be obliged to decide many questions with regard to their manner of
life.
"For my part," Guido said, "I do not care where we live, so long as you
like the place, but you will naturally wish to be near your mother."
"Oh yes!" cried Cecilia, with more conviction than she had shown about
anything of late. "I could not bear to be separated from her!"
Lamberti had once observed to Guido that she was an indulgent daughter;
and Guido had smiled and reminded his friend of the younger Dumas, who
once said that his father always seemed to him a favourite child that
had been born to him before he came into the world. Cecilia was
certainly fond of her mother, but it had never occurred to Guido that
she could not live without her. He was in a state of mind, however, in
which a man in love accepts everything as a matter of course, and he
merely answered that in that case they would naturally live in Rome.
"We could just live here, for the present," she said. "There is the
Palazzo Massimo. I am sure it is big enough. Should you dislike it?"
She was thinking that if she could keep her own room, and have Petersen
with her, and her mother, the change would not be so great after all.
Guido said nothing, and his expression was a blank.
"Why not?" Cecilia insisted, and all sorts of practical reasons
suggested themselves at once. "It is a very comfortable house, though it
is a little ghostly at night. There are dreadful stories about it, you
know. But what does that matter? It is big, and in a good part of the
city, and we have just furnished it; so of what use in the world is it
to go and do the same thing over again, in the next street?"
"That is very sensible," Guido was obliged to admit.
"But you do not like the idea, I am sure," Cecilia said, in a tone of
disappointment.
"I had not meant that we should live in the same house with your
mother," Guido said, with a smile. "Of course, she is a very charming
woman, and I like her very much, but I think that when people marry they
had much better go and live by themselves."
"Nobody ever used to," objected Cecilia. "It is only of late years that
they do it in Rome. Oh, I see!" she cried suddenly. "How dull of me!
Yes. I understand. It is quite natural."
"What?" asked Guido with some curiosity.
"You would feel that you had simply come to live in our house, because
you have no house of your own for us to live in. I ought to have thought
of that."
She seemed distressed, fancying that she had hurt him, but he had no
false pride.
"Every one knows my position," he answered. "Every one knows that if we
live in a palace, in the way you are used to live, it will be with your
money."
There was a little pause, for Cecilia did not know what to say. Guido
continued, following his own thoughts:
"If I did not love you as much as I do, I could not possibly live on
your fortune," he said. "I used to say that nothing could ever make me
marry an heiress, and I meant it. One generally ends by doing what one
says one will never do. A cousin of mine detested Germans and had the
most extraordinary aversion for people who had any physical defect. She
married a German who had lost the use of one leg by a wound in battle,
and was extremely lame."
"Did she love him?" asked Cecilia.
"Devotedly, to his dying day. They were the most perfectly loving couple
I ever knew."
"Would you rather I were lame than rich?" Cecilia asked, with a little
laugh.
Guido laughed too.
"That is one of those questions that have no answers. How could I wish
anything so perfect as you are to have any defect? But I will tell you a
story. An Englishman was very much in love with a lady who was lame, and
she loved him but would not marry him. She said that he should not be
tied to a cripple all his life. He was one of those magnificent
Englishmen you see sometimes, bigger and better looking than other men.
When he saw that she was in earnest he went away and scoured Europe till
he found what he wanted--a starving young surgeon who was willing to cut
off one of his legs for a large sum of money. That was before the days
of chloroform. When the Englishman had recovered, he went home with his
wooden leg, and asked the lady if she would marry him, then. She did,
and they were happy."
"Is that true?" Cecilia asked.
"I have always believed it. That was the real thing."
"Yes. That was the real thing."
Cecilia's voice trembled a very little, and her eyes glistened.
"The truth is," said Guido, "that it is easier to have one's leg cut off
than to make a fortune."
He was amused at his thought, but Cecilia was wondering what she would
be willing to suffer, and able to bear, if any suffering could buy her
freedom. At the same time, she knew that she would do a great deal to
help him if he were in need or distress. She wondered, too, whether
there could be any fixed relation between a sacrifice made for love and
one made for friendship's sake.
"There must never be any question of money between us," she said, after
a pause. "What is mine must be ours, and what is ours must be as much
yours as mine."
"No," Guido answered gently. "That is not possible. I have quite enough
for anything I shall ever need, but you must live in the way you like,
and where you like, with your own fortune."
"And you will be a sort of perpetual guest in my house!"
For the first time there was a little bitterness in her laugh, and he
looked at her quickly, for after the way she had spoken he had not
thought that what he had said could have offended her. Of the two, he
fancied that his own position was the harder to accept, the position of
the "perpetual guest" in his wife's palace, just able to pay for his
gloves, his cigarettes, and his small luxuries. He did not quite
understand why she was hurt, as she seemed to be.
On her part she felt as if she had done all she could, and was angry
with herself, and not with him, because all her fortune was not worth a
tenth of what he was giving her, nor a hundredth part. For an instant
she was on the point of speaking out frankly, to tell him that she had
made a great mistake. Then she thought of what he would suffer, and once
more she resolved to think it all over before finally deciding.
So nothing was decided. For when she was alone, all the old reasons came
and arrayed themselves before her, with their hopeless little faces,
like poor children standing in a row to be inspected, and trying to look
their best though their clothes were ragged and their little shoes were
out at the toes.
But they were the only reasons she had, and she coaxed them into a sort
of unreal activity till they brought her back to the listless state in
which she had lived of late, and in which it did not matter what became
of her, since she must marry Guido in the end.
Her mother paid no attention to her moods. Cecilia had always been
subject to moods, she said to herself, and it was not at all strange
that she should not behave like other girls. Guido seemed satisfied, and
that was the main thing, after all. He was not, but he was careful not
to say so.
The preparations for the wedding went on, and the Countess made up her
mind that it should take place at the end of July. It would be so much
more convenient to get it over at once, and the sooner Cecilia returned
from her honeymoon, the sooner her mother could see her again. The good
lady knew that she should be very unhappy when she was separated from
the child she had idolised all her life; but she had always looked upon
marriage as an absolute necessity, and after being married twice
herself, she was inclined to consider it as an absolute good. She would
no more have thought of delaying the wedding from selfish considerations
than she would have thought of cutting off Cecilia's beautiful hair in
order to have it made up into a false braid and wear it herself. So she
busied herself with the dressmakers, and only regretted that both
Cecilia and Guido flatly refused to go to Paris. It did not matter quite
so much, because only three months had elapsed since the last interview
with Doucet, and all the new summer things had come; and after all one
could write, and some things were very good in Rome, as for instance all
the fine needle-work done by the nuns. It would have been easier if
Cecilia had shown some little interest in her wedding outfit.
The girl tried hard to care about what was being made for her, and was
