Lottie and Boyne were in their rooms before she 
could bring herself to say that Ellen had gone 
to the theatre with Bittridge. 
It was some relief to have him take it in the dull 
way he did, and to say nothing worse than, "Did 
you think it was well to have her?" 
"You may be sure I didn 't want her to. But 
what would she have said if I had refused to let 
her go? I can tell you it isn 't an easy matter to 
manage her in this business, and it 's very easy 
for you to criticise, without taking the respon 
sibility." 
"I 'm not criticising," said Kenton. "I know 
you have acted for the best." 
" The children," said Mrs. Kenton, wishing to be 
justified further, "think she ought to have had a 
chaperon. I didn 't think of that; it isn 't the cus 
tom at home; but Lottie was very saucy about it, 
and I had to send Boyne to bed. I don 't think 
our children are very much comfort to us." 
" They are good children," Kenton said, provision 
ally. 
"Yes, that is the worst of it. If they were bad, 
we wouldn 't expect any comfort from them. Ellen 
is about perfect. She 's as near an angel as a child 
can be, but she could hardly have given us more 
 
anxiety if she had been the worst girl in the 
world." 
" That 's true," the father sadly assented. 
" She didn 't really want to go with him to-night, 
I 'll say that for her, and if I had said a single word 
against it she wouldn 't have gone. But all at once, 
while she sat there trying to think how I could ex 
cuse her, she began asking me what she should wear. 
There 's something strange about it, Rufus. If I 
believed in hypnotism, I should say she had gone 
because he willed her to go." 
"I guess she went because she wanted to go 
because she 's in love with him," said Kenton, hope- 
"Yes," Mrs. Kenton agreed. "I don 't see how 
she can endure the sight of him. He 's handsome 
enough," she added, with a woman 's subjective logic. 
"And there 's something fascinating about him. 
He 's very graceful, and he 's got a good figure." 
" He 's a hound !" said Kenton, exhaustively. 
" Oh yes, he 's a hound" she sighed, as if there 
could be no doubt on that point. "It don 't seem 
right for him to be in the same room with Ellen. 
But it 's for her to say. I feel more and more that 
we can 't interfere without doing harm. I suppose 
that if she were not so innocent herself she would 
realize what he was better. But I do think he 
appreciates her innocence. He shows more rever 
ence for her than for any one else." 
" How was it his mother didn 't go ?" asked Ken- 
ton. 
 
" She had a headache, he said. But I don 't believe 
that. He always intended to get Ellen to go. And 
that 's another thing Lottie was vexed about; she 
says everybody is laughing at Mrs. Bittridge, and 
it 's mortifying to have people take her for a friend 
of ours." 
" If there were nothing worse than that," said 
Kenton, "I guess we could live through it. Well, 
I don 't know how it 's going to all end." 
They sat talking sadly, but finding a certain com 
fort in their mutual discouragement, and in their 
knowledge that they were doing the best they could 
for their child, whose freedom they must not in 
fringe so far as to do what was absolutely best; and 
the time passed not so heavily till her return. This 
was announced by the mounting of the elevator to 
their landing, and then by low, rapid pleading in 
a man 's voice outside. Kenton was about to open 
the door, when there came the formless noise of 
what seemed a struggle, and Ellen 's voice rose in a 
muffled cry : " Oh ! Oh ! Let me be ! Go away ! I 
hate you!" Kenton flung the door open, and Ellen 
burst in, running to hide her face in her mother 's 
breast, where she sobbed out, " He he kissed me !" 
like a terrified child more than an insulted woman. 
Through the open door came the clatter of Bit- 
tridge 's feet as he ran down-stairs. 
VII 
WHEN Mrs. Kenton came from quieting the hys 
terical girl in her room she had the task, almost as 
delicate and difficult, of quieting her husband. 
She had kept him, by the most solemn and ex 
haustive entreaty, from following Bittridge down 
stairs and beating him with his stick, and now 
she was answerable to him for his forbearance. " If 
you don 't behave yourself, Kufus," she had to say, 
"you will have some sort of stroke. After all, 
there 's no harm done." 
"No harm! Do you call it no harm for that 
hound to kiss Ellen?" 
" He wouldn 't have attempted it unless something 
had led up to it, I suppose." 
" Sarah! How can you speak so of that angel?" 
" Oh, that angel is a girl like the rest. You kissed 
me before we were engaged." 
"That was very different." 
" I don 't see how. If your daughter is so sacred, 
why wasn 't her mother? You men don 't think your 
wives are sacred. That 's it!" 
"No, no, Sarah! It 's because I don 't think of 
you as apart from myself, that I can 't think of you 
as I do of Ellen. I beg your pardon if I seemed 
 
to set her above you. But when I kissed you we 
were very young, and we lived in a simple day, when 
such things meant no harm; and I was very fond 
of you, and you were the holiest thing in the world 
to me. Is Ellen holy to that fellow?" 
" I know," Mrs. Kenton relented. " I 'm not com 
paring him to you. And there is a difference with 
Ellen. She isn 't like other girls. If it had been 
Lottie" 
"I shouldn 't have liked it with Lottie, either," 
said the major, stiffly. "But if it had been Lottie 
she would have boxed his ears for him, instead of 
running to you. Lottie can take care of herself. 
And I will take care of Ellen. When I see that 
scoundrel in the morning " 
" What will you do, an old man like you ? I can 
tell you, it 's something you ve just got to bear if 
you don 't want the scandal to fill the whole hotel. 
It 's a very fortunate thing, after all. It'll put an 
end to the whole affair." 
"Do you think so, Sarah? If I believed that 
What does Ellen say?" 
" Nothing; she won 't say anything just cries and 
hides her face. I believe she is ashamed of having 
made a scene before us. But I know that she 's so 
disgusted with him that she will never look at him 
again, and if it 's brought her to that I should think 
his kissing her the greatest blessing in the world 
to us all. Yes, Ellen!"! 
Mrs. Kenton hurried off at a faint call from the 
girl 's room, and when she came again she sat down 
 
to a long discussion of the situation with her hus 
band, while she slowly took down her hair and 
prepared it for the night. Her conclusion, which 
she made her husband s, was that it was most fort 
unate they should be sailing so soon, and that it 
was the greatest pity they were not sailing in the 
morning. She wished him to sleep, whether she 
slept herself or not, and she put the most hopeful 
face possible upon the matter. " One thing you can 
rest assured of, Rufus, and that is that it 's all 
over with Ellen. She may never speak to you 
about him, and you mustn 't ever mention him, 
but she feels just as you could wish. Does that 
satisfy you? Some time I will tell you all she 
says " 
" I don 't care to hear," said Kenton. " All I want 
is for him to keep away from me. I think if he 
spoke to me I should kill him." 
"Rufus!" 
"I can 't help it, Sarah. I feel outraged to the 
bottom of my soul. I could kill him." 
Mrs. Kenton turned her head and looked stead 
fastly at him over her shoulder. " If you strike 
him, if you touch him, Mr. Kenton, you will undo 
everything that the abominable wretch has done 
for Ellen, and you will close my mouth and tie my 
hands. Will you promise that under no provoca 
tion whatever will you do him the least harm? I 
know Ellen better than you do, and I know that 
you will make her hate you unless " 
" Oh, I will promise ! You needn 't be afraid. Lord 
 
help me !" Kenton groaned. " I won 't touch him. 
But don 't expect me to speak to him." 
" No, I don 't expect that. He won 't offer to speak 
to you." 
They slept, and in the morning she stayed to 
breakfast with Ellen in their apartment, and let 
her husband go down with their younger children. 
She could trust him now, whatever form his further 
trial should take, and he felt that he was pledging 
himself to her anew, when Bittridge came hilarious 
ly to meet him in the reading-room, where he went 
for a paper after breakfast. 
" Ah, judge !" said the young man, gayly. " Hello, 
Boyne !" he added to the boy, who had come with his 
father; Lottie had gone directly up-stairs from the 
breakfast-room. " I hope you 're all well this morn 
ing ? Play not too much for Miss Ellen ?" 
Kenton looked him in the face without answering, 
and then tried to get away from him, but Bittridge 
followed him up, talking, and ignoring his silence. 
" It was a splendid piece, judge. You must take 
Mrs. Kenton. I know you 'll both like it. I haven 't 
ever seen Miss Ellen so interested. I hope the 
walk home didn 't fatigue her. I wanted to get a 
cab, but she would walk." The judge kept moving 
on, with his head down. He did not speak, and Bit 
tridge was forced to notice his silence. " Nothing 
the matter, I hope, with Miss Ellen, judge?" 
" Go away," said the judge, in a low voice, fum 
bling the head of his stick. 
"Why, what 's up?" asked Bittridge, and he 
managed to get in front of Kenton and stay him 
at a point where Kenton could not escape. It 
was a corner of the room to which the old man 
had aimlessly tended, with no purpose but to avoid 
him. 
"I wish you to let me alone, sir," said Kenton 
at last. " I can 't speak to you." 
"I understand what you mean, judge," said Bit- 
tridge, with a grin, all the more maddening because 
it seemed involuntary. " But I can explain every 
thing. I just want a few words with you. It 's 
very important; it 's life or death with me, sir," 
he said, trying to look grave. " Will you let me 
go to your rooms with you?" 
Kenton made no reply. 
Bittridge began to laugh. " Then let 's sit down 
here, or in the ladies parlor. It won 't take me 
two minutes to make everything right. If you don 't 
believe I 'm in earnest I know you don 't think 
I am, but I can assure you Will you let me speak 
with you about Miss Ellen?" 
Still Kenton did not answer, shutting his lips 
tight, and remembering his promise to his wife. 
Bittridge laughed, as if in amusement at what 
he had done. " Judge, let me say two words to you 
in private! If you can 't now, tell me when you 
can. We 're going back this evening, mother and 
I are; she isn 't well, and I 'm not going to take 
her to Washington. I don 't want to go leaving 
you with the idea that I wanted to insult Miss 
Ellen. I care too much for her. I want to see you 
 
and Mrs. Kenton about it. I do, indeed. And 
won 't you let me see you, somewhere?" 
Kenton looked away, first to one side and then 
to another, and seemed stifling. 
" Won 't you speak to me ? Won 't you answer 
me? See here! I d get down on my knees to you 
if it would do you any good. Where will you talk 
with me?" 
"Nowhere!" shouted Kenton. "Will you go 
away, or shall I strike you with my stick?" 
" Oh, I don 't think," said Bittridge, and sudden 
ly, in the wantonness of his baffled effrontery, he 
raised his hand and rubbed the back of it in the 
old man 's face. 
Boyne Kenton struck wildly at him, and Bit 
tridge caught the boy by the arm and flung him 
to his knees on the marble floor. The men reading 
in the arm-chairs about started to their feet; a 
porter came running, and took hold of Bittridge. 
" Do you want an officer, Judge Kenton ?" he panted. 
" No, no !" Kenton answered, choking and trem 
bling. "Don 't arrest him. I wish to go to my 
rooms, that 's all. Let him go. Don 't do anything 
about it." 
"I 'll help you, judge," said the porter. "Take 
hold of this fellow," he said to two other porters 
who came up. " Take him to the desk, and tell 
the clerk he struck Judge Kenton, but the judge 
don 't want him arrested." 
Before Kenton reached the elevator with Boyne, 
who was rubbing his knees and fighting back the 
 
tears, he heard the clerk 's voice saying, formally, 
to the porters, "Baggage out of 35 and 37," and 
adding, as mechanically, to Bittridge : " Your rooms 
are wanted. Get out of them at once!" 
It seemed the gathering of neighborhood about 
Kenton, where he had felt himself so unfriended, 
against the outrage done him, and he felt the 
sweetness of being personally championed in a place 
where he had thought himself valued merely for 
the profit that was in him; his eyes filled, and hia 
voice failed him in thanking the elevator-boy for 
running before him to ring the bell of his apart 
ment. 
VIII 
THE next day, in Tuskingum, Richard Kenton 
found among the letters of his last mail one which 
he easily knew to be from his sister Lottie, by the 
tightly curled-up handwriting, and by the unliterary 
look of the slanted and huddled address of the en 
velope. The only doubt he could have felt in open 
ing it was from the unwonted length at which she 
had written him; Lottie usually practised a laconic 
brevity in her notes, which were suited to the 
poverty of her written vocabulary rather than the 
affluence of her spoken word. 
" Dear Dick " [her letter ran, tripping and stumbling 
in its course], "I have got to tell you about something 
that has just happened here, and you needent laugh at 
the speling, or the way I tell it, but just pay attention 
to the thing itself, if you please. That disgusting Bit- 
tridge has been here with his horrid wiggy old mother, 
and momma let him take Ellen to the theatre. On the 
way home he tried to make her promise she would 
marry him, and at the door he kissed her. They had an 
awful night with her hissterics, and I heard momma go 
ing in and out, and trying to comfort her till daylight, 
nearly. In the morning I went down with poppa and 
Boyne to breakfast, and after I came up, father went to 
the reading-room to get a paper, and that Bittridge was 
there waiting for him, and wanted to speak with him 
about Ellen. Poppa wouldent say a \vord to him, and he 
kept following poppa up, to make him. Boyne says he 
wouldent take no for an ansir, and hung on and hung 
 
on, till poppa threatened to hitt him with his cane. Then 
he saw it was no use, and he took his hand and rubbed 
it in poppa 's face, and Boyne believes he was trying to 
pull poppa 's nose. Boyne acted like I would have done; 
he pounded Bittridge in the back; but of course Bit- 
tridge was too strong for him, and threw him on the 
floor, and Boyne scraped his knee so that it bledd. Then 
the porters came up, and caught Bittridge, and wanted 
to send for a policeman, but father wouldent let them, 
and the porters took Bittridge to the desk and the 
clerk told him to get out instantly and they left as soon 
as old Wiggy could get her things on. I dont know 
where they went, but he told poppa they were going 
home to-day any way. Now, Dick, I don 't know what 
you will want to do, and I am not going to put you up 
to anything, but I know what I would do, pretty well, 
the first time Bittridge showed himself in Tuskingum. 
You can do just as you please, and I don 't ask you to 
believe me if you 're think I 'm so exciteable that I cant 
tell the truth. I guess Boyne will say the same. Much 
love to Mary. Your affectionate sister, 
" LOTTIE. 
" P. S. Every word Lottie says is true, but I am 
not sure he meant to pull his nose. The reason why 
he threw me down so easily is, I have grown about a foot, 
and I have not got up my strength. BOYNE. 
" This is strictly confidential. They don 't know we 
are writing. LOTTIE." 
After reading this letter, Richard Kenton tore it 
into small pieces, so that there should not be even 
so much witness as it bore to facts that seemed 
to fill him with fury to the throat. His fury was, 
in agreement with his temperament, the white kind 
and cold kind. He was able to keep it to himself 
for that reason; at supper his wife knew merely 
that he had something on his mind that he did 
not wish to talk of; and experience had taught 
 
her that it would be useless to try making him 
He slept upon his wrath, and in the morning 
early, at an hour when he knew there would be 
no loafers in the place, he went to an out-dated 
saddler 's shop, and asked the owner, a veteran of 
his father 's regiment, " Welks, do you happen to 
have a cowhide among your antiquities?" 
"Regular old style?" Welks returned. "Kind 
they make out of a cow 's hide and use on a 
man s?" 
" Something of that sort," said Richard, with a 
slight smile. 
The saddler said nothing more, but rummaged 
among the riff-raff on an upper shelf. He got down 
with the tapering, translucent, wicked-looking thing 
in his hand. " I reckon that 's what you 're after, 
squire." 
"Reckon it is, Welks," said Richard, drawing 
it through his tubed left hand. Then he buttoned 
it under his coat, and paid the quarter which Welks 
said had always been the price of a cowhide ever 
since he could remember, and walked away towards 
the station. 
"How 's the old colonel?" Welks called after 
him, having forgotten to ask before. 
"The colonel 's all right," Richard called back, 
without looking round. 
He walked up and down in front of the station. 
A local train came in from Ballardsville at 8.15, 
and waited for the New York special, and then 
 
returned to Ballardsville. Richard had bought a 
ticket for that station, and was going to take the 
train back, but among the passengers who descended 
from it when it drew in was one who saved him the 
trouble of going. 
Bittridge, with his overcoat hanging on his arm, 
advanced towards him with the rest, and contin 
ued to advance, in a sort of fascination, after his 
neighbors, with the instinct that something was 
about to happen, parted on either side of Richard, 
and left the two men confronted. Richard did not 
speak, but deliberately reached out his left hand, 
which he caught securely into Bittridge 's collar; 
then he began to beat him with the cowhide 
wherever he could strike his writhing and twisting 
shape. Neither uttered a word, and except for the 
whir of the cowhide in the air, and the rasping 
sound of its arrest upon the body of Bittridge, the 
thing was done in perfect silence. The witnesses 
stood well back in a daze, from which they recovered 
when Richard released Bittridge with a twist of 
the hand that tore his collar loose and left his 
cravat dangling, and tossed the frayed cowhide 
away, and turned and walked homeward. Then one 
of them picked up Bittridge 's hat and set it aslant 
on his head, and others helped pull his collar to 
gether and tie his cravat. 
For the few moments that Richard Kenton 're 
mained in sight they scarcely found words coherent 
enough for question, and when they did, Bittridge 
had nothing but confused answers to give to the 
 
effect that he did not know what it meant, but he 
would find out. He got into a hack and had him 
self driven to his hotel, but he never made the in 
quiry which he threatened. 
In his own house Richard Kenton lay down 
awhile, deadly sick, and his wife had to bring him 
brandy before he could control his nerves sufficient 
ly to speak. Then he told her what he had done, 
and why, and Mary pulled off his shoes and put a 
hot-water bottle to his cold feet. It was not exactly 
the treatment for a champion, but Mary Kenton 
was not thinking of that, and when Richard said 
he still felt a little sick at the stomach she wanted 
him to try a drop of camphor in addition to the 
brandy. She said he must not talk, but she wished 
him so much to talk that she was glad when he 
began. 
"It seemed to be something I had to do, Mary, 
but I would give anything if I had not been obliged 
to do it." 
"Yes, I know just how you feel, Dick, and I 
think it 's pretty hard this has come on you. I do 
think Ellen might" 
" It wasn 't her fault, Mary. You mustn 't blame 
her. She 's had more to bear than all the rest of 
us." Mary looked stubbornly unconvinced, and she 
was not moved, apparently, by what he went on to 
say. " The thing now is to keep what I ve done 
from making more mischief for her." 
"What do you mean, Dick? You don 't believe 
he 'll do anything about it, do you?" 
 
" No, I 'm not afraid of that. His mouth is shut. 
But you can 't tell how Ellen will take it. She may 
side with him now." 
"Dick! If I thought Ellen Kenton could be 
such a fool as that !" 
" If she 's in love with him she 'll take his part." 
" But she can 't be in love with him when she 
knows how he acted to your father." 
" We can 't be sure of that. I know how he act 
ed to father; but at this minute I pity him so that 
I could take his part against father. And I can 
understand how Ellen Anyway, I must make a 
clean breast of it. What day is this? Thursday? 
And they sail Saturday! I must write " 
He lifted himself on his elbow, and made as 
if to throw off the shawl she had spread upon 
him. 
" No, no ! I will write, Dick ! I will write to 
your mother. What shall I say?" She whirled 
about, and got the paper and ink out of her writing- 
desk, and sat down near him to keep him from 
getting up, and wrote the date, and the address, 
"Dear Mother Kenton," which was the way she 
always began her letters to Mrs. Kenton, in order 
to distinguish her from her own mother. "Now 
what shall I say?" 
" Simply this," answered Kichard. " That I knew 
of what had happened in New York, and when I 
met him this morning I cowhided him. Ugh!" 
"Well, that won 't do, Dick. You ve got to tell 
all about it. Your mother won 't understand." 
" Then you write what you please, and read it 
to me. It makes me sick to think of it." Richard 
closed his eyes, and Mary wrote: 
" DEAR MOTHER KENTON, I am sitting by Richard, 
writing at his request, about what he has done. He 're 
ceived a letter from New York telling him of the Bit- 
tridges performances there, and how that wretch had 
insulted and abused you all. He bought a cowhide, 
meaning to go over to Ballardsville, and use it on him 
there, but B. came over on the Accommodation this 
morning, and Richard met him at the station. He did 
not attempt to resist, for Richard took him quite by 
surprise. Now, Mother Kenton, you know that Richard 
doesn 't approve of violence, and the dear, sweet soul is 
perfectly broken-down by what he had to do. But he 
had to do it, and he wishes you to know at once that 
he did it. He dreads the effect upon Ellen, and we 
must leave it to your judgment about telling her. Of 
course, sooner or later she must find it out. You need 
not be alarmed about Richard. He is just nauseated 
a little, and he will be all right as soon as his stomach 
is settled. He thinks you ought to have this letter be 
fore you sail, and with affectionate good-byes to all, in 
which Dick joins, 
" Your loving daughter, 
"MARY KENTON." 
"There! Will that do?" 
"Yes, that is everything that can be said," an 
swered Richard, and Mary kissed him gratefully 
before sealing her letter. 
" I will put a special delivery on it," she said, 
and her precaution availed to have the letter de 
livered to Mrs. Kenton the evening the family left 
the hotel, when it was too late to make any change 
in their plans, but in time to give her a bad night 
on the steamer, in her doubt whether she ought to 
let the family go, with this trouble behind them. 
 
But she would have had a bad night on the steamer 
in any case, with the heat, and noise, and smell of 
the docks; and the steamer sailed with her at six 
o clock the next morning with the doubt still open 
in her mind. The judge had not been of the least 
use to her in helping solve it, and she had not been 
able to bring herself to attack Lottie for writing to 
Richard. She knew it was Lottie who had made 
the mischief, but she could not be sure that it was 
mischief till she knew its effect upon Ellen. The 
girl had been carried in the arms of one of the 
stewards from the carriage to her berth in Lottie 's 
room, and there she had lain through the night, 
speechless and sleepless. 
IX 
ELLEN did not move or manifest any conscious 
ness when the steamer left her dock and moved 
out into the stream, or take any note of the tu 
mult that always attends a great liner 's depart 
ure. At breakfast-time her mother came to her 
from one of the brief absences she made, in the 
hope that at each turn she should find her in a 
different mood, and asked if she would not have 
something to eat. 
"Pm not hungry," she answered. "When will 
it sail?" 
" Why, Ellen ! We sailed two hours ago, and the 
pilot has just left us." 
Ellen lifted herself on her elbow and stared 
at her. " And you let me !" she said, cruelly. 
" Ellen ! I will not have this !" cried her mother, 
frantic at the reproach. " What do you mean by my 
letting you? You knew that we were going to sail, 
didn 't you ? What else did you suppose we had come 
to the steamer for?" 
"I supposed you would let me stay, if I wanted 
to. But go away, momma, go away! You 're all 
against me you, and poppa, and Lottie, and Boyne. 
Oh, dear ! oh, dear !" She threw herself down in her 
 
berth and covered her face with the sheet, sobbing, 
while her mother stood by in an anguish of pity 
and anger. She wanted to beat the girl, she wanted 
to throw herself upon her, and weep with her in 
the misery which she shared with her. 
Lottie came to the door of the state-room with 
an arm-load of long-stemmed roses, the gift of 
the young Mr. Plumpton, who had not had so 
much to be entreated to come down to the steamer 
and see her off as Boyne had pretended. " Momma," 
she said, "I have got to leave these roses in here, 
whether Ellen likes it or not. Boyne won 't have 
them in his room, because he says the man that 's 
with him would have a right to object; and this 
is half my room, anyway." 
Mrs. Kenton frowned and shook her head, but 
Ellen answered from under the sheet, " I don 't mind 
the roses, Lottie. I wish you d stay with me a little 
while." 
Lottie hesitated, having in mind the break 
fast for which the horn had just sounded. But 
apparently she felt that one good turn deserved 
another, and she answered : " All right ; I will, Nell. 
Momma, you tell Boyne to hurry, and come to 
Ellen as soon as he 's done, and then I will go. 
Don 't let anybody take my place." 
" I wish," said Ellen, still from under the sheet, 
" that momma would have your breakfast sent here. 
I don 't want Boyne." 
Women apparently do not require any explana 
tion of these swift vicissitudes in one another, each 
 
knowing probably in herself the nerves from which 
they proceed. Mrs. Kenton promptly assented, in 
spite of the sulky reluctance which Lottie 's blue eyes 
looked at her; she motioned her violently to si 
lence, and said: "Yes, I will, Ellen. I will send 
breakfast for both of you." 
When she was gone, Ellen uncovered her face 
and asked Lottie to dip a towel in water and give 
it to her. As she bathed her eyes she said, "You 
don 't care, do you, Lottie?" 
"Not very much," said Lottie, unsparingly. "I 
can go to lunch, I suppose." 
"Maybe I 'll go to lunch with you," Ellen sug 
gested, as if she were speaking of some one 
else. 
Lottie wasted neither sympathy nor surprise on 
the question. "Well, maybe that would be the 
best thing. Why don 't you come to breakfast ?" 
" No, I won 't go to breakfast. But you go." 
When Lottie joined her family in the dining- 
saloon she carelessly explained that Ellen had said 
she wanted to be alone. Before the young man, 
who was the only other person besides the Kentons 
at their table, her mother could not question her 
with any hope that the bad would not be made 
worse, and so she remained silent. Judge Kenton 
sat with his eyes fixed on his plate, where as yet 
the steward had put no breakfast for him; Boyne 
was supporting the dignity of the family in one 
of those moments of majesty from which he was 
so apt to lapse into childish dependence. Lottie 
 
offered him another alternative by absently laying 
hold of his napkin on the table. 
" That 's mine," he said, with husky gloom. 
She tossed it back to him with prompt disdain 
and a deeply eyelashed glance at a napkin on her 
right. The young man who sat next it said, with 
a smile, "Perhaps that 's yours unless I ve taken 
my neighbor s." 
Lottie gave him a stare, and when she had suffi 
ciently punished him for his temerity said, rather 
sweetly, " Oh, thank you," and took the napkin. 
"I hope we shall all have use for them before 
long," the young man ventured again. 
"Well, I should think as much," returned the 
girl, and this was the beginning of a conversation 
which the young man shared successively with the 
judge and Mrs. Kenton as opportunity offered. He 
gave the judge his card across the table, and when 
the judge had read on it, "Rev. Hugh Breckon," 
he said that his name was Kenton, and he intro 
duced the young man formally to his family. Mr. 
Breckon had a clean-shaven face, with an habitual 
smile curving into the cheeks from under a long, 
straight nose; his chin had a slight whopper-jaw 
twist that was charming; his gay eyes were blue, 
and a full vein came down his forehead between 
them from his smooth hair. When he laughed, 
which was often, his color brightened. 
Boyne was named last, and then Mr. Breckon 
said, with a smile that showed all his white teeth, 
"Oh yes, Mr. Boyne and I are friends already 
 
ever since we found ourselves room-mates," and but 
for this, as Lottie afterwards noted, they might 
never have known Boyne was rooming with him, 
and could easily have made all sorts of insulting 
remarks about Mr. Breckon in their ignorance. 
The possibility seemed to delight Mr. Breckon; 
he invited her to make all the insulting remarks 
she could think of, any way, and professed himself 
a loser, so far as her real opinion was withheld 
from him by reason of his rashness in giving the 
facts away. In the electrical progress of their 
acquaintance she had begun walking up and down 
the promenade with him after they came up from 
breakfast; her mother had gone to Ellen; the judge 
had been made comfortable in his steamer-chair, 
and Boyne had been sent about his business. 
" I will try to think some up," she promised him, 
"as soon as I have any real opinion of you," and 
he asked her if he might consider that a beginning. 
She looked at him out of her indomitable blue 
eyes, and said, " If it hadn 't been for your card, 
and the Keverend on it, I should have said you 
were an actor." 
"Well, well," said Mr. Breckon, with a laugh, 
"perhaps I am, in a way. I oughtn 't to be, of 
course, but if a minister ever forces himself, I 
suppose he 's acting." 
" I don 't see," said Lottie, instantly availing her 
self of the opening, " how you can get up and pray, 
Sunday after Sunday, whether you feel like it or 
not." 
 
The young man said, with another laugh, hut not 
so gay, " Well, the case has its difficulties." 
" Or perhaps you just read prayers," Lottie sharp 
ly conjectured. 
"No," he returned, "I haven 't that advantage 
if you think it one. I 'm a sort of a Unitarian. Very 
advanced, too, I 'm afraid." 
" Is that a kind of Universalis* " 
"Not not exactly. There 's an old joke I 'm 
not sure it 's very good which distinguishes be- 
tween the sects. It 's said that the Universalists 
think God is too good to damn them, and the Uni 
tarians think they are too good to be damned." 
Lottie shrank a little from him. "Ah!" he cried, 
"you think it sounds wicked. Well, I 'm sorry. 
I 'm not clerical enough to joke about serious 
