projected, hung, at any rate, over Milly's companion the whole week,
and Kate Croy's handsome face smiled out of it, under bland skylights,
in the presence alike of old masters passive in their glory and of
thoroughly new ones, the newest, who bristled restlessly with pins and
brandished snipping shears.
It was meanwhile a pretty part of the intercourse of these young ladies
that each thought the other more remarkable than herself--that each
thought herself, or assured the other she did, a comparatively dusty
object and the other a favourite of nature and of fortune. Kate was
amused, amazed at the way her friend insisted on "taking" her, and
Milly wondered if Kate were sincere in finding her the most
extraordinary--quite apart from her being the most charming--person she
had come across. They had talked, in long drives, and quantities of
history had not been wanting--in the light of which Mrs. Lowder's niece
might superficially seem to have had the best of the argument. Her
visitor's American references, with their bewildering immensities,
their confounding moneyed New York, their excitements of high pressure,
their opportunities of wild freedom, their record of used-up relatives,
parents, clever, eager, fair, slim brothers--these the most loved--all
engaged, as well as successive superseded guardians, in a high
extravagance of speculation and dissipation that had left this
exquisite being her black dress, her white face and her vivid hair as
the mere last broken link: such a picture quite threw into the shade
the brief biography, however sketchily amplified, of a mere
middle-class nobody in Bayswater. And though that indeed might be but a
Bayswater way of putting it, in addition to which Milly was in the
stage of interest in Bayswater ways, this critic so far prevailed that,
like Mrs. Stringham herself, she fairly got her companion to accept
from her that she was quite the nearest approach to a practical
princess Bayswater could hope ever to know. It was a fact--it became
one at the end of three days--that Milly actually began to borrow from
the handsome girl a sort of view of her state; the handsome girl's
impression of it was clearly so sincere. This impression was a tribute,
a tribute positively to power, power the source of which was the last
thing Kate treated as a mystery. There were passages, under all their
skylights, the succession of their shops being large, in which the
latter's easy, yet the least bit dry manner sufficiently gave out that
if she had had so deep a pocket----!
It was not moreover by any means with not having the imagination of
expenditure that she appeared to charge her friend, but with not having
the imagination of terror, of thrift, the imagination or in any degree
the habit of a conscious dependence on others. Such moments, when all
Wigmore Street, for instance, seemed to rustle about and the pale girl
herself to be facing the different rustlers, usually so
undiscriminated, as individual Britons too, Britons personal, parties
to a relation and perhaps even intrinsically remarkable--such moments
in especial determined in Kate a perception of the high happiness of
her companion's liberty. Milly's range was thus immense; she had to ask
nobody for anything, to refer nothing to any one; her freedom, her
fortune and her fancy were her law; an obsequious world surrounded her,
she could sniff up at every step its fumes. And Kate, in these days,
was altogether in the phase of forgiving her so much bliss; in the
phase moreover of believing that, should they continue to go on
together, she would abide in that generosity. She had, at such a point
as this, no suspicion of a rift within the lute--by which we mean not
only none of anything's coming between them, but none of any definite
flaw in so much clearness of quality. Yet, all the same, if Milly, at
Mrs. Lowder's banquet, had described herself to Lord Mark as kindly
used by the young woman on the other side because of some faintly-felt
special propriety in it, so there really did match with this,
privately, on the young woman's part, a feeling not analysed but
divided, a latent impression that Mildred Theale was not, after all, a
person to change places, to change even chances with. Kate, verily,
would perhaps not quite have known what she meant by this reservation,
and she came near naming it only when she said to herself that, rich as
Milly was, one probably wouldn't--which was singular--ever hate her for
it. The handsome girl had, with herself, these felicities and
crudities: it wasn't obscure to her that, without some very particular
reason to help, it might have proved a test of one's philosophy not to
be irritated by a mistress of millions, or whatever they were, who, as
a girl, so easily might have been, like herself, only vague and fatally
female. She was by no means sure of liking Aunt Maud as much as she
deserved, and Aunt Maud's command of funds was obviously inferior to
Milly's. There was thus clearly, as pleading for the latter, some
influence that would later on become distinct; and meanwhile,
decidedly, it was enough that she was as charming as she was queer and
as queer as she was charming--all of which was a rare amusement; as
well, for that matter, as further sufficient that there were objects of
value she had already pressed on Kate's acceptance. A week of her
society in these conditions--conditions that Milly chose to sum up as
ministering immensely, for a blind, vague pilgrim, to aid and
comfort--announced itself from an early hour as likely to become a week
of presents, acknowledgments, mementos, pledges of gratitude and
admiration that were all on one side. Kate as promptly embraced the
propriety of making it clear that she must forswear shops till she
should receive some guarantee that the contents of each one she entered
as a humble companion should not be placed at her feet; yet that was in
truth not before she had found herself in possession, under whatever
protests, of several precious ornaments and other minor conveniences.
Great was the absurdity, too, that there should have come a day, by the
end of the week, when it appeared that all Milly would have asked in
definite "return," as might be said, was to be told a little about Lord
Mark and to be promised the privilege of a visit to Mrs. Condrip. Far
other amusements had been offered her, but her eagerness was
shamelessly human, and she seemed really to count more on the
revelation of the anxious lady of Chelsea than on the best nights of
the opera. Kate admired, and showed it, such an absence of fear: to the
fear of being bored, in such a connection, she would have been so
obviously entitled. Milly's answer to this was the plea of her
curiosities--which left her friend wondering as to their odd direction.
Some among them, no doubt, were rather more intelligible, and Kate had
heard without wonder that she was blank about Lord Mark. This young
lady's account of him, at the same time, professed itself as frankly
imperfect; for what they best knew him by at Lancaster Gate was a thing
difficult to explain. One knew people in general by something they had
to show, something that, either for them or against, could be touched
or named or proved; and she could think of no other case of a value
taken as so great and yet flourishing untested. His value was his
future, which had somehow got itself as accepted by Aunt Maud as if it
had been his good cook or his steam-launch. She, Kate, didn't mean she
thought him a humbug; he might do great things--but they were all, as
yet, so to speak, he had done. On the other hand it was of course
something of an achievement, and not open to every one, to have got
one's self taken so seriously by Aunt Maud. The best thing about him,
doubtless, on the whole, was that Aunt Maud believed in him. She was
often fantastic, but she knew a humbug, and--no, Lord Mark wasn't that.
He had been a short time in the House, on the Tory side, but had lost
his seat on the first opportunity, and this was all he had to point to.
However, he pointed to nothing; which was very possibly just a sign of
his real cleverness, one of those that the really clever had in common
with the really void. Even Aunt Maud frequently admitted that there was
a good deal, for her view of him, to come up in the rear. And he wasn't
meanwhile himself indifferent--indifferent to himself--for he was
working Lancaster Gate for all it was worth: just as it was, no doubt,
working him, and just as the working and the worked were in London,
as one might explain, the parties to every relation.
Kate did explain, for her listening friend: every one who had anything
to give--it was true they were the fewest--made the sharpest possible
bargain for it, got at least its value in return. The strangest thing,
furthermore, was that this might be, in cases, a happy understanding.
The worker in one connection was the worked in another; it was as broad
as it was long--with the wheels of the system, as might be seen,
wonderfully oiled. People could quite like each other in the midst of
it, as Aunt Maud, by every appearance, quite liked Lord Mark, and as
Lord Mark, it was to be hoped, liked Mrs. Lowder, since if he didn't he
was a greater brute than one could believe. She, Kate, had not yet, it
was true, made out what he was doing for her--besides which the dear
woman needed him, even at the most he could do, much less than she
imagined; so far as all of which went, moreover, there were plenty of
things on every side she had not yet made out. She believed, on the
whole, in any one Aunt Maud took up; and she gave it to Milly as worth
thinking of that, whatever wonderful people this young lady might meet
in the land, she would meet no more extraordinary woman. There were
greater celebrities by the million, and of course greater swells, but a
bigger person, by Kate's view, and a larger natural handful every
way, would really be far to seek. When Milly inquired with interest if
Kate's belief in her was primarily on the lines of what Mrs. Lowder
"took up," her interlocutress could handsomely say yes, since by the
same principle she believed in herself. Whom but Aunt Maud's niece,
pre-eminently, had Aunt Maud taken up, and who was thus more in the
current, with her, of working and of being worked? "You may ask," Kate
said, "what in the world I have to give; and that indeed is just what
I'm trying to learn. There must be something, for her to think she can
get it out of me. She will get it--trust her; and then I shall see
what it is; which I beg you to believe I should never have found out
for myself." She declined to treat any question of Milly's own "paying"
power as discussable; that Milly would pay a hundred per cent.--and
even to the end, doubtless, through the nose--was just the beautiful
basis on which they found themselves.
These were fine facilities, pleasantries, ironies, all these luxuries
of gossip and philosophies of London and of life, and they became
quickly, between the pair, the common form of talk, Milly professing
herself delighted to know that something was to be done with her. If
the most remarkable woman in England was to do it, so much the better,
and if the most remarkable woman in England had them both in hand
together, why, what could be jollier for each? When she reflected
indeed a little on the oddity of her wanting two at once, Kate had the
natural reply that it was exactly what showed her sincerity. She
invariably gave way to feeling, and feeling had distinctly popped up in
her on the advent of her girlhood's friend. The way the cat would jump
was always, in presence of anything that moved her, interesting to see;
visibly enough, moreover, for a long time, it hadn't jumped anything
like so far. This, in fact, as we already know, remained the marvel for
Milly Theale, who, on sight of Mrs. Lowder, found fifty links in
respect to Susie absent from the chain of association. She knew so
herself what she thought of Susie that she would have expected the lady
of Lancaster Gate to think something quite different; the failure of
which endlessly mystified her. But her mystification was the cause for
her of another fine impression, inasmuch as when she went so far as to
observe to Kate that Susan Shepherd--and especially Susan Shepherd
emerging so uninvited from an irrelevant past--ought, by all the
proprieties, simply to have bored Aunt Maud, her confidant agreed with
her without a protest and abounded in the sense of her wonder. Susan
Shepherd at least bored the niece--that was plain; this young woman saw
nothing in her--nothing to account for anything, not even for Milly's
own indulgence: which little fact became in turn to the latter's mind a
fact of significance. It was a light on the handsome girl--representing
more than merely showed--that poor Susie was simply as nought to her.
This was, in a manner too, a general admonition to poor Susie's
companion, who seemed to see marked by it the direction in which she
had best most look out.
It just faintly rankled in her that a person who was good enough and to
spare for Milly Theale shouldn't be good enough for another girl;
though, oddly enough, she could easily have forgiven Mrs. Lowder
herself the impatience. Mrs. Lowder didn't feel it, and Kate Croy felt
it with ease; yet in the end, be it added, she grasped the reason, and
the reason enriched her mind. Wasn't it sufficiently the reason that
the handsome girl was, with twenty other splendid qualities, the least
bit brutal too, and didn't she suggest, as no one yet had ever done for
her new friend, that there might be a wild beauty in that, and even a
strange grace? Kate wasn't brutally brutal--which Milly had hitherto
benightedly supposed the only way; she wasn't even aggressively so, but
rather indifferently, defensively and, as might be said, by the habit
of anticipation. She simplified in advance, was beforehand with her
doubts, and knew with singular quickness what she wasn't, as they said
in New York, going to like. In that way at least people were clearly
quicker in England than at home; and Milly could quite see, after a
little, how such instincts might become usual in a world in which
dangers abounded. There were more dangers, clearly, round about
Lancaster Gate than one suspected in New York or could dream of in
Boston. At all events, with more sense of them, there were more
precautions, and it was a remarkable world altogether in which there
could be precautions, on whatever ground, against Susie.
IX
She certainly made up with Susie directly, however, for any allowance
she might have had privately to extend to tepid appreciation; since the
late and long talks of these two embraced not only everything offered
and suggested by the hours they spent apart, but a good deal more
besides. She might be as detached as the occasion required at four
o'clock in the afternoon, but she used no such freedom to any one about
anything as she habitually used about everything to Susan Shepherd at
midnight. All the same, it should with much less delay than this have
been mentioned, she had not yet--had not, that is, at the end of six
days--produced any news for her comrade to compare with an announcement
made her by the latter as a result of a drive with Mrs. Lowder, for a
change, in the remarkable Battersea Park. The elder friends had
sociably revolved there while the younger ones followed bolder fancies
in the admirable equipage appointed to Milly at the hotel--a heavier,
more emblazoned, more amusing chariot than she had ever, with "stables"
notoriously mismanaged, known at home; whereby, in the course of the
circuit, more than once repeated, it had "come out," as Mrs. Stringham
said, that the couple at Lancaster Gate were, of all people, acquainted
with Mildred's other English friend--the gentleman, the one connected
with the English newspaper (Susie hung fire a little over his name) who
had been with her in New York so shortly previous to present
adventures. He had been named of course in Battersea Park--else he
couldn't have been identified; and Susie had naturally, before she
could produce her own share in the matter as a kind of confession, to
make it plain that her allusion was to Mr. Merton Densher. This was
because Milly had at first a little air of not knowing whom she meant;
and the girl really kept, as well, a certain control of herself while
she remarked that the case was surprising, the chance one in a
thousand. They knew him, both Maud and Miss Croy knew him, she gathered
too, rather well, though indeed it was not on any show of intimacy that
he had happened to be mentioned. It had not been--Susie made the
point--she herself who brought him in: he had in fact not been brought
in at all, but only referred to as a young journalist known to Mrs.
Lowder and who had lately gone to their wonderful country--Mrs. Lowder
always said "your wonderful country"--on behalf of his journal. But
Mrs. Stringham had taken it up--with the tips of her fingers indeed;
and that was the confession: she had, without meaning any harm,
recognised Mr. Densher as an acquaintance of Milly's, though she had
also pulled herself up before getting in too far. Mrs. Lowder had been
struck, clearly--it wasn't too much to say; then she also, it had
rather seemed, had pulled herself up; and there had been a little
moment during which each might have been keeping something from the
other. "Only," said Milly's mate, "I luckily remembered in time that I
had nothing whatever to keep--which was much simpler and nicer. I don't
know what Maud has, but there it is. She was interested, distinctly, in
your knowing him--in his having met you over there with so little loss
of time. But I ventured to tell her it hadn't been so long as to make
you as yet great friends. I don't know if I was right."
Whatever time this explanation might have taken, there had been moments
enough in the matter now--before the elder woman's conscience had done
itself justice--to enable Milly to reply that although the fact in
question doubtless had its importance she imagined they wouldn't find
the importance overwhelming. It was odd that their one Englishman
should so instantly fit; it wasn't, however, miraculous--they surely
all had often seen that, as every one said, the world was
extraordinarily "small." Undoubtedly, too, Susie had done just the
plain thing in not letting his name pass. Why in the world should there
be a mystery?--and what an immense one they would appear to have made
if he should come back and find they had concealed their knowledge of
him! "I don't know, Susie dear," the girl observed, "what you think I
have to conceal."
"It doesn't matter, at a given moment," Mrs. Stringham returned, "what
you know or don't know as to what I think; for you always find out the
very next moment, and when you do find out, dearest, you never really
care. Only," she presently asked, "have you heard of him from Miss
Croy?"
"Heard of Mr. Densher? Never a word. We haven't mentioned him. Why
should we?"
"That you haven't, I understand; but that she hasn't," Susie opined,
"may mean something."
"May mean what?"
"Well," Mrs. Stringham presently brought out, "I tell you all when I
tell you that Maud asks me to suggest to you that it may perhaps be
better for the present not to speak of him: not to speak of him to her
niece, that is, unless she herself speaks to you first. But Maud thinks
she won't."
Milly was ready to engage for anything; but in respect to the facts--as
they so far possessed them--it all sounded a little complicated. "Is it
because there's anything between them?"
"No--I gather not; but Maud's state of mind is precautionary. She's
afraid of something. Or perhaps it would be more correct to say she's
afraid of everything."
"She's afraid, you mean," Milly asked, "of their--a--liking each other?"
Susie had an intense thought and then an effusion. "My dear child, we
move in a labyrinth."
"Of course we do. That's just the fun of it!" said Milly with a strange
gaiety. Then she added: "Don't tell me that--in this for
instance--there are not abysses. I want abysses."
Her friend looked at her--it was not unfrequently the case--a little
harder than the surface of the occasion seemed to require; and another
person present at such times might have wondered to what inner thought
of her own the good lady was trying to fit the speech. It was too much
her disposition, no doubt, to treat her young companion's words as
symptoms of an imputed malady. It was none the less, however, her
highest law to be light when the girl was light. She knew how to be
quaint with the new quaintness--the great Boston gift; it had been,
happily, her note in the magazines; and Maud Lowder, to whom it was new
indeed and who had never heard anything remotely like it, quite
cherished her, as a social resource, for it. It should not therefore
fail her now; with it in fact one might face most things. "Ah, then let
us hope we shall sound the depths--I'm prepared for the worst--of
sorrow and sin! But she would like her niece--we're not ignorant of
that, are we?--to marry Lord Mark. Hasn't she told you so?"
"Hasn't Mrs. Lowder told me?"
"No; hasn't Kate? It isn't, you know, that she doesn't know it."
Milly had, under her comrade's eyes, a minute of mute detachment. She
had lived with Kate Croy for several days in a state of intimacy as
deep as it had been sudden, and they had clearly, in talk, in many
directions, proceeded to various extremities. Yet it now came over her
as in a clear cold way that there was a possible account of their
relations in which the quantity her new friend had told her might have
figured as small, as smallest, beside the quantity she hadn't. She
couldn't say, at any rate, whether or no she had made the point that
her aunt designed her for Lord Mark: it had only sufficiently come
out--which had been, moreover, eminently guessable--that she was
involved in her aunt's designs. Somehow, for Milly, brush it over
nervously as she might and with whatever simplifying hand, this abrupt
extrusion of Mr. Densher altered all proportions, had an effect on all
values. It was fantastic of her to let it make a difference that she
couldn't in the least have defined--and she was at least, even during
these instants, rather proud of being able to hide, on the spot, the
difference it did make. Yet, all the same, the effect for her was,
almost violently, of Mr. Densher's having been there--having been where
she had stood till now in her simplicity--before her. It would have
taken but another free moment to make her see abysses--since abysses
were what she wanted--in the mere circumstance of his own silence, in
New York, about his English friends. There had really been in New York
little time for anything; but, had she liked, Milly could have made it
out for herself that he had avoided the subject of Miss Croy, and that
Miss Croy was yet a subject it could never be natural to avoid. It was
to be added at the same time that even if his silence had been
labyrinthe--which was absurd in view of all the other things too he
couldn't possibly have spoken of--this was exactly what must suit her,
since it fell under the head of the plea she had just uttered to Susie.
These things, however, came and went, and it set itself up between the
companions, for the occasion, in the oddest way, both that their
happening all to know Mr. Densher--except indeed that Susie didn't, but
probably would,--was a fact belonging, in a world of rushing about, to
one of the common orders of chance; and yet further that it was
amusing--oh, awfully amusing!--to be able fondly to hope that there was
"something in" its having been left to crop up with such suddenness.
There seemed somehow a possibility that the ground or, as it were, the
air might, in a manner, have undergone some pleasing preparation;
though the question of this possibility would probably, after all, have
taken some threshing out. The truth, moreover--and there they were,
already, our pair, talking about it, the "truth!"--had not in fact
quite cropped out. This, obviously, in view of Mrs. Lowder's request to
her old friend.
It was accordingly on Mrs. Lowder's recommendation that nothing should
be said to Kate--it was on this rich attitude of Aunt Maud's that the
idea of an interesting complication might best hope to perch; and when,
in fact, after the colloquy we have reported Milly saw Kate again
without mentioning any name, her silence succeeded in passing muster
with her as the beginning of a new sort of fun. The sort was all the
newer by reason of its containing a small element of anxiety: when she
had gone in for fun before it had been with her hands a little more
free. Yet it was, none the less, rather exciting to be conscious of a
still sharper reason for interest in the handsome girl, as Kate
continued, even now, pre-eminently to remain for her; and a
reason--this was the great point--of which the young woman herself
could have no suspicion. Twice over, thus, for two or three hours
together, Milly found herself seeing Kate, quite fixing her in the
light of the knowledge that it was a face on which Mr. Densher's eyes
had more or less familiarly rested and which, by the same token, had
looked, rather more beautifully than less, into his own. She pulled
herself up indeed with the thought that it had inevitably looked, as
beautifully as one would, into thousands of faces in which one might
one's self never trace it; but just the odd result of the thought was
to intensify for the girl that side of her friend which she had
doubtless already been more prepared than she quite knew to think of as
the "other," the not wholly calculable. It was fantastic, and Milly was
aware of this; but the other side was what had, of a sudden, been
turned straight towards her by the show of Mr. Densher's propinquity.
She hadn't the excuse of knowing it for Kate's own, since nothing
whatever as yet proved it particularly to be such. Never mind; it was
with this other side now fully presented that Kate came and went,
kissed her for greeting and for parting, talked, as usual, of
everything but--as it had so abruptly become for Milly--the thing.
Our young woman, it is true, would doubtless not have tasted so sharply
a difference in this pair of occasions had she not been tasting so
peculiarly her own possible betrayals. What happened was that
afterwards, on separation, she wondered if the matter had not mainly
been that she herself was so "other," so taken up with the unspoken;
the strangest thing of all being, still subsequently, that when she
asked herself how Kate could have failed to feel it she became
conscious of being here on the edge of a great darkness. She should
never know how Kate truly felt about anything such a one as Milly
Theale should give her to feel. Kate would never--and not from
ill-will, nor from duplicity, but from a sort of failure of common
terms--reduce it to such a one's comprehension or put it within her
convenience.
It was as such a one, therefore, that, for three or four days more,
Milly watched Kate as just such another; and it was presently as such a
one that she threw herself into their promised visit, at last achieved,
to Chelsea, the quarter of the famous Carlyle, the field of exercise of
his ghost, his votaries, and the residence of "poor Marian," so often
referred to and actually a somewhat incongruous spirit there. With our
young woman's first view of poor Marian everything gave way but the
sense of how, in England, apparently, the social situation of sisters
could be opposed, how common ground, for a place in the world, could
quite fail them: a state of things sagely perceived to be involved in
an hierarchical, an aristocratic order. Just whereabouts in the order
Mrs. Lowder had established her niece was a question not wholly void,
as yet, no doubt, of ambiguity--though Milly was withal sure Lord Mark
could exactly have fixed the point if he would, fixing it at the same
time for Aunt Maud herself; but it was clear that Mrs. Condrip was, as
might have been said, in quite another geography. She would not, in
short, have been to be found on the same social map, and it was as if
her visitors had turned over page after page together before the final
relief of their benevolent "Here!" The interval was bridged, of course,
but the bridge, verily, was needed, and the impression left Milly to
wonder whether, in the general connection, it were of bridges or of
intervals that the spirit not locally disciplined would find itself
most conscious. It was as if at home, by contrast, there were
neither--neither the difference itself, from position to position, nor,
on either side, and particularly on one, the awfully good manner, the
conscious sinking of a consciousness, that made up for it. The
conscious sinking, at all events, and the awfully good manner, the
difference, the bridge, the interval, the skipped leaves of the social
atlas--these, it was to be confessed, had a little, for our young lady,
in default of stouter stuff, to work themselves into the light literary
legend--a mixed, wandering echo of Trollope, of Thackeray, perhaps
mostly of Dickens--under favour of which her pilgrimage had so much
appealed. She could relate to Susie later on, late the same evening,
that the legend, before she had done with it, had run clear, that the
adored author of The Newcomes, in fine, had been on the whole the
note: the picture lacking thus more than she had hoped, or rather
perhaps showing less than she had feared, a certain possibility of
Pickwickian outline. She explained how she meant by this that Mrs.
Condrip had not altogether proved another Mrs. Nickleby, nor even--for
she might have proved almost anything, from the way poor worried Kate
had spoken--a widowed and aggravated Mrs. Micawber.
Mrs. Stringham, in the midnight conference, intimated rather yearningly
that, however the event might have turned, the side of English life
such experiences opened to Milly were just those she herself seemed
"booked"--as they were all, roundabout her now, always saying--to miss:
she had begun to have a little, for her fellow-observer, these moments
of fanciful reaction--reaction in which she was once more all Susan
Shepherd--against the high sphere of colder conventions into which her
overwhelming connection with Maud Manningham had rapt her. Milly never
lost sight, for long, of the Susan Shepherd side of her, and was always
there to meet it when it came up and vaguely, tenderly, impatiently to
pat it, abounding in the assurance that they would still provide for
it. They had, however, to-night, another matter in hand; which proved
to be presently, on the girl's part, in respect to her hour of Chelsea,
the revelation that Mrs. Condrip, taking a few minutes when Kate was
away with one of the children, in bed upstairs for some small
complaint, had suddenly, without its being in the least "led up to,"
broken ground on the subject of Mr. Densher, mentioned him with
impatience as a person in love with her sister. "She wished me, if I
cared for Kate, to know," Milly said--"for it would be quite too
dreadful, and one might do something."
Susie wondered. "Prevent anything coming of it? That's easily said. Do
what?"
Milly had a dim smile. "I think that what she would like is that I
should come a good deal to see her about it."
"And doesn't she suppose you've anything else to do?"
The girl had by this time clearly made it out. "Nothing but to admire
and make much of her sister--whom she doesn't, however, herself in the
least understand--and give up one's time, and everything else, to it."
It struck the elder friend that she spoke with an almost unprecedented
approach to sharpness; as if Mrs. Condrip had been rather specially
disconcerting. Never yet so much as just of late had Mrs. Stringham
seen her companion as exalted, and by the very play of something
within, into a vague golden air that left irritation below. That was
the great thing with Milly--it was her characteristic poetry; or at
least it was Susan Shepherd's. "But she made a point," the former
continued, "of my keeping what she says from Kate. I'm not to mention
that she has spoken."
"And why," Mrs. Stringham presently asked, "is Mr. Densher so dreadful?"
Milly had, she thought, an hesitation--something that suggested a
fuller talk with Mrs. Condrip than she inclined perhaps to report. "It
isn't so much he himself." Then the girl spoke a little as for the
romance of it; one could never tell, with her, where romance would come
in. "It's the state of his fortunes."
"And is that very bad?"
"He has no 'private means,' and no prospect of any. He has no income,
and no ability, according to Mrs. Condrip, to make one. He's as poor,
she calls it, as 'poverty,' and she says she knows what that is."
Again Mrs. Stringham considered, and it presently produced something.
"But isn't he brilliantly clever?"
Milly had also then an instant that was not quite fruitless. "I haven't
the least idea."
To which, for the time, Susie only answered "Oh!"--though by the end of
a minute she had followed it with a slightly musing "I see"; and that
in turn with: "It's quite what Maud Lowder thinks."
"That he'll never do anything?"
"No--quite the contrary: that he's exceptionally able."
"Oh yes; I know"--Milly had again, in reference to what her friend had
already told her of this, her little tone of a moment before. "But Mrs.
Condrip's own great point is that Aunt Maud herself won't hear of any
such person. Mr. Densher, she holds that's the way, at any rate, it was
explained to me--won't ever be either a public man or a rich man. If he
were public she'd be willing, as I understand, to help him; if he were
rich--without being anything else--she'd do her best to swallow him. As
it is, she taboos him."
"In short," said Mrs. Stringham as with a private purpose, "she told
you, the sister, all about it. But Mrs. Lowder likes him," she added.
"Mrs. Condrip didn't tell me that."
"Well, she does, all the same, my dear, extremely."
"Then there it is!" On which, with a drop and one of those sudden,
slightly sighing surrenders to a vague reflux and a general fatigue
that had recently more than once marked themselves for her companion,
Milly turned away. Yet the matter was not left so, that night, between
them, albeit neither perhaps could afterwards have said which had first
come back to it. Milly's own nearest approach, at least, for a little,
to doing so, was to remark that they appeared all--every one they
saw--to think tremendously of money. This prompted in Susie a laugh,
not untender, the innocent meaning of which was that it came, as a
subject for indifference, money did, easier to some people than to
others: she made the point in fairness, however, that you couldn't have
told, by any too crude transparency of air, what place it held for Maud
Manningham. She did her worldliness with grand proper silences--if it
mightn't better be put perhaps that she did her detachment with grand
occasional pushes. However Susie put it, in truth, she was really, in
justice to herself, thinking of the difference, as favourites of
fortune, between her old friend and her new. Aunt Maud sat somehow in
the midst of her money, founded on it and surrounded by it, even if
with a clever high manner about it, her manner of looking, hard and
bright, as if it weren't there. Milly, about hers, had no manner at
all--which was possibly, from a point of view, a fault: she was at any
rate far away on the edge of it, and you hadn't, as might be said, in
order to get at her nature, to traverse, by whatever avenue, any piece
of her property. It was clear, on the other hand, that Mrs. Lowder was
keeping her wealth as for purposes, imaginations, ambitions, that would
figure as large, as honourably unselfish, on the day they should take
effect. She would impose her will, but her will would be only that a
person or two shouldn't lose a benefit by not submitting if they could
be made to submit. To Milly, as so much younger, such far views
couldn't be imputed: there was nobody she was supposable as interested
for. It was too soon, since she wasn't interested for herself. Even the
richest woman, at her age, lacked motive, and Milly's motive doubtless
had plenty of time to arrive. She was meanwhile beautiful, simple,
sublime without it--whether missing it and vaguely reaching out for it
or not; and with it, for that matter, in the event, would really be
these things just as much. Only then she might very well have, like
Aunt Maud, a manner. Such were the connections, at all events, in which
the colloquy of our two ladies freshly flickered up--in which it came
round that the elder asked the younger if she had herself, in the
afternoon, named Mr. Densher as an acquaintance.
"Oh no--I said nothing of having seen him. I remembered," the girl
explained, "Mrs. Lowder's wish."
"But that," her friend observed after a moment, "was for silence to
Kate."
"Yes--but Mrs. Condrip would immediately have told Kate."
"Why so?--since she must dislike to talk about him."
"Mrs. Condrip must?" Milly thought. "What she would like most is that
her sister should be brought to think ill of him; and if anything she
can tell her will help that--" But Milly dropped suddenly here, as if
her companion would see.
Her companion's interest, however, was all for what she herself saw.
"You mean she'll immediately speak?" Mrs. Stringham gathered that this
was what Milly meant, but it left still a question. "How will it be
against him that you know him?"
"Oh, I don't know. It won't be so much one's knowing him as one's
having kept it out of sight."
"Ah," said Mrs. Stringham, as if for comfort, "you haven't kept it
out of sight. Isn't it much rather Miss Croy herself who has?"
"It isn't my acquaintance with him," Milly smiled, "that she has
dissimulated."
"She has dissimulated only her own? Well then, the responsibility's
hers."
"Ah but," said the girl, not perhaps with marked consequence, "she has
a right to do as she likes."
"Then so, my dear, have you!" smiled Susan Shepherd.
Milly looked at her as if she were almost venerably simple, but also as
if this were what one loved her for. "We're not quarrelling about it,
Kate and I, yet."
"I only meant," Mrs. Stringham explained, "that I don't see what Mrs.
Condrip would gain."
"By her being able to tell Kate?" Milly thought. "I only meant that I
don't see what I myself should gain."
"But it will have to come out--that he knows you both--some time."
Milly scarce assented. "Do you mean when he comes back?"
"He'll find you both here, and he can hardly be looked to, I take it,
to 'cut' either of you for the sake of the other."
This placed the question at last on a basis more distinctly cheerful.
"I might get at him somehow beforehand," the girl suggested; "I might
give him what they call here the tip--that he's not to know me when we
meet. Or, better still, I mightn't be here at all."
"Do you want to run away from him?"
It was, oddly enough, an idea Milly seemed half to accept. "I don't
know what I want to run away from!"
It dispelled, on the spot--something, to the elder woman's ear, in the
sad, sweet sound of it--any ghost of any need of explaining. The sense
was constant for her that their relation was as if afloat, like some
island of the south, in a great warm sea that made, for every
conceivable chance, a margin, an outer sphere of general emotion; and
the effect of the occurrence of anything in particular was to make the
sea submerge the island, the margin flood the text. The great wave now
for a moment swept over. "I'll go anywhere else in the world you like."
But Milly came up through it. "Dear old Susie--how I do work you!"
"Oh, this is nothing yet."
"No indeed--to what it will be."
"You're not--and it's vain to pretend," said dear old Susie, who had
been taking her in, "as sound and strong as I insist on having you."
"Insist, insist--the more the better. But the day I look as sound and
strong as that, you know," Milly went on--"on that day I shall be just
sound and strong enough to take leave of you sweetly for ever. That's
where one is," she continued thus agreeably to embroider, "when even
one's most 'beaux moments' aren't such as to qualify, so far as
appearance goes, for anything gayer than a handsome cemetery. Since
I've lived all these years as if I were dead, I shall die, no doubt, as
if I were alive--which will happen to be as you want me. So, you see,"
she wound up, "you'll never really know where I am. Except indeed when
I'm gone; and then you'll only know where I'm not."
"I'd die for you," said Susan Shepherd after a moment.
"'Thanks awfully'! Then stay here for me."
"But we can't be in London for August, nor for many of all these next
weeks."
"Then we'll go back."
Susie blenched. "Back to America?"
"No, abroad--to Switzerland, Italy, anywhere. I mean by your staying
here for me," Milly pursued, "your staying with me wherever I may be,
even though we may neither of us know at the time where it is. No," she
insisted, "I don't know where I am, and you never will, and it
doesn't matter--and I dare say it's quite true," she broke off, "that
everything will have to come out." Her friend would have felt of her
that she joked about it now, had not her scale from grave to gay been a
thing of such unnamable shades that her contrasts were never sharp. She
made up for failures of gravity by failures of mirth; if she hadn't,
that is, been at times as earnest as might have been liked, so she was
certain not to be at other times as easy as she would like herself. "I
must face the music. It isn't, at any rate, its 'coming out,'" she
added; "it's that Mrs. Condrip would put the fact before her to his
injury."
Her companion wondered. "But how to his?"
"Why, if he pretends to love her----!"
"And does he only 'pretend'?"
"I mean if, trusted by her in strange countries, he forgets her so far
as to make up to other people."
The amendment, however, brought Susie in, as if with gaiety, for a
comfortable end. "Did he make up, the false creature, to you?"
"No--but the question isn't of that. It's of what Kate might be made to
believe."
"That, given the fact that he evidently more or less followed up his
acquaintance with you, to say nothing of your obvious weird charm, he
must have been all ready if you had at all led him on?"
Milly neither accepted nor qualified this; she only said, after a
moment, as with a conscious excess of the pensive: "No, I don't think
she'd quite wish to suggest that I made up to him; for that I should
have had to do so would only bring out his constancy. All I mean is,"
she added--and now at last, as with a supreme impatience "that her
being able to make him out a little a person who could give cause for
jealousy would evidently help her, since she's afraid of him, to do him
in her sister's mind a useful ill turn."
Susan Shepherd perceived in this explanation such signs of an appetite
for motive as would have sat gracefully even on one of her own New
England heroines. It was seeing round several corners; but that was
what New England heroines did, and it was moreover interesting for the
moment to make out how many really her young friend had undertaken to
see round. Finally, too, weren't they braving the deeps? They got their
amusement where they could. "Isn't it only," she asked, "rather
probable she'd see that Kate's knowing him as (what's the pretty old
word?) volage----?"
"Well?" She hadn't filled out her idea, but neither, it seemed, could
Milly.
"Well, might but do what that often does--by all our blessed little
laws and arrangements at least; excite Kate's own sentiment instead of
depressing it."
The idea was bright, yet the girl but beautifully stared. "Kate's own
sentiment? Oh, she didn't speak of that. I don't think," she added as
if she had been unconsciously giving a wrong impression, "I don't think
Mrs. Condrip imagines she's in love."
It made Mrs. Stringham stare in turn. "Then what's her fear?"
"Well, only the fact of Mr. Densher's possibly himself keeping it
up--the fear of some final result from that.
"Oh," said Susie, intellectually a little disconcerted--"she looks far
ahead!"
At this, however, Milly threw off another of her sudden vague "sports."
"No--it's only we who do."
"Well, don't let us be more interested for them than they are for
themselves!"
"Certainly not"--the girl promptly assented. A certain interest
nevertheless remained; she appeared to wish to be clear. "It wasn't of
anything on Kate's own part she spoke."
"You mean she thinks her sister does not care for him?"
It was still as if, for an instant, Milly had to be sure of what she
meant; but there it presently was. "If she did care Mrs. Condrip would
have told me."
What Susan Shepherd seemed hereupon for a little to wonder was why then
they had been talking so. "But did you ask her?"
"Ah, no!"
"Oh!" said Susan Shepherd.
Milly, however, easily explained that she wouldn't have asked her for
the world.
