help growing, as it were, still more residuary. Charming people,
conscious Venice-lovers, evidently, had given up their house to her,
and had fled to a distance, to other countries, to hide their blushes
alike over what they had, however briefly, alienated, and over what
they had, however durably, gained. They had preserved and consecrated,
and she now--her part of it was shameless--appropriated and enjoyed.
Palazzo Leporelli held its history still in its great lap, even like a
painted idol, a solemn puppet hung about with decorations. Hung about
with pictures and relics, the rich Venetian past, the ineffaceable
character, was here the presence revered and served: which brings us
back to our truth of a moment ago--the fact that, more than ever, this
October morning, awkward novice though she might be, Milly moved slowly
to and fro as the priestess of the worship. Certainly it came from the
sweet taste of solitude, caught again and cherished for the hour;
always a need of her nature, moreover, when things spoke to her with
penetration. It was mostly in stillness they spoke to her best; amid
voices she lost the sense. Voices had surrounded her for weeks, and she
had tried to listen, had cultivated them and had answered back; these
had been weeks in which there were other things they might well prevent
her from hearing. More than the prospect had at first promised or
threatened she had felt herself going on in a crowd and with a
multiplied escort; the four ladies pictured by her to Sir Luke Strett
as a phalanx comparatively closed and detached had in fact proved a
rolling snowball, condemned from day to day to cover more ground. Susan
Shepherd had compared this portion of the girl's excursion to the
Empress Catherine's famous progress across the steppes of Russia;
improvised settlements appeared at each turn of the road, villagers
waiting with addresses drawn up in the language of London. Old friends
in fine were in ambush, Mrs. Lowder's, Kate Croy's, her own; when the
addresses weren't in the language of London they were in the more
insistent idioms of American centres. The current was swollen even by
Susie's social connexions; so that there were days, at hotels, at
Dolomite picnics, on lake steamers, when she could almost repay to Aunt
Maud and Kate with interest the debt contracted by the London "success"
to which they had opened the door.
Mrs. Lowder's success and Kate's, amid the shock of Milly's and Mrs.
Stringham's compatriots, failed but little, really, of the
concert-pitch; it had gone almost as fast as the boom, over the sea, of
the last great native novel. Those ladies were "so
different"--different, observably enough, from the ladies so appraising
them; it being throughout a case mainly of ladies, of a dozen at once
sometimes, in Milly's apartment, pointing, also at once, that moral and
many others. Milly's companions were acclaimed not only as perfectly
fascinating in themselves, the nicest people yet known to the
acclaimers, but as obvious helping hands, socially speaking, for the
eccentric young woman, evident initiators and smoothers of her path,
possible subduers of her eccentricity. Short intervals, to her own
sense, stood now for great differences, and this renewed inhalation of
her native air had somehow left her to feel that she already, that she
mainly, struck the compatriot as queer and dissociated. She moved such
a critic, it would appear, as to rather an odd suspicion, a benevolence
induced by a want of complete trust: all of which showed her in the
light of a person too plain and too ill-clothed for a thorough good
time, and yet too rich and too befriended--an intuitive cunning within
her managing this last--for a thorough bad one. The compatriots, in
short, by what she made out, approved her friends for their expert
wisdom with her; in spite of which judicial sagacity it was the
compatriots who recorded themselves as the innocent parties. She saw
things in these days that she had never seen before, and she couldn't
have said why save on a principle too terrible to name; whereby she saw
that neither Lancaster Gate was what New York took it for, nor New York
what Lancaster Gate fondly fancied it in coquetting with the plan of a
series of American visits. The plan might have been, humorously, on
Mrs. Lowder's part, for the improvement of her social position--and it
had verily in that direction lights that were perhaps but half a
century too prompt; at all of which Kate Croy assisted with the cool
controlled facility that went so well, as the others said, with her
particular kind of good looks, the kind that led you to expect the
person enjoying them would dispose of disputations, speculations,
aspirations, in a few very neatly and brightly uttered words, so
simplified in sense, however, that they sounded, even when guiltless,
like rather aggravated slang. It wasn't that Kate hadn't pretended too
that she should like to go to America; it was only that with this
young woman Milly had constantly proceeded, and more than ever of late,
on the theory of intimate confessions, private frank ironies that made
up for their public grimaces and amid which, face to face, they wearily
put off the mask.
These puttings-off of the mask had finally quite become the form taken
by their moments together, moments indeed not increasingly frequent and
not prolonged, thanks to the consciousness of fatigue on Milly's side
whenever, as she herself expressed it, she got out of harness. They
flourished their masks, the independent pair, as they might have
flourished Spanish fans; they smiled and sighed on removing them; but
the gesture, the smiles, the sighs, strangely enough, might have been
suspected the greatest reality in the business. Strangely enough, we
say, for the volume of effusion in general would have been found by
either on measurement to be scarce proportional to the paraphernalia of
relief. It was when they called each other's attention to their ceasing
to pretend, it was then that what they were keeping back was most in
the air. There was a difference, no doubt, and mainly to Kate's
advantage: Milly didn't quite see what her friend could keep back, was
possessed of, in fine, that would be so subject to retention; whereas
it was comparatively plain sailing for Kate that poor Milly had a
treasure to hide. This was not the treasure of a shy, an abject
affection--concealment, on that head, belonging to quite another phase
of such states; it was much rather a principle of pride relatively bold
and hard, a principle that played up like a fine steel spring at the
lightest pressure of too near a footfall. Thus insuperably guarded was
the truth about the girl's own conception of her validity; thus was a
wondering pitying sister condemned wistfully to look at her from the
far side of the moat she had dug round her tower. Certain aspects of
the connexion of these young women show for us, such is the twilight
that gathers about them, in the likeness of some dim scene in a
Maeterlinck play; we have positively the image, in the delicate dusk,
of the figures so associated and yet so opposed, so mutually watchful:
that of the angular pale princess, ostrich-plumed, black-robed, hung
about with amulets, reminders, relics, mainly seated, mainly still, and
that of the upright restless slow-circling lady of her court who
exchanges with her, across the black water streaked with evening
gleams, fitful questions and answers. The upright lady, with thick dark
braids down her back, drawing over the grass a more embroidered train,
makes the whole circuit, and makes it again, and the broken talk, brief
and sparingly allusive, seems more to cover than to free their sense.
This is because, when it fairly comes to not having others to consider,
they meet in an air that appears rather anxiously to wait for their
words. Such an impression as that was in fact grave, and might be
tragic; so that, plainly enough, systematically at last, they settled
to a care of what they said.
There could be no gross phrasing to Milly, in particular, of the
probability that if she wasn't so proud she might be pitied with more
comfort--more to the person pitying; there could be no spoken proof, no
sharper demonstration than the consistently considerate attitude, that
this marvellous mixture of her weakness and of her strength, her peril,
if such it were, and her option, made her, kept her, irresistibly
interesting. Kate's predicament in the matter was, after all, very much
Mrs. Stringham's own, and Susan Shepherd herself indeed, in our
Maeterlinck picture, might well have hovered in the gloaming by the
moat. It may be declared for Kate, at all events, that her sincerity
about her friend, through this time, was deep, her compassionate
imagination strong; and that these things gave her a virtue, a good
conscience, a credibility for herself, so to speak, that were later to
be precious to her. She grasped with her keen intelligence the logic of
their common duplicity, went unassisted through the same ordeal as
Milly's other hushed follower, easily saw that for the girl to be
explicit was to betray divinations, gratitudes, glimpses of the felt
contrast between her fortune and her fear--all of which would have
contradicted her systematic bravado. That was it, Kate wonderingly saw:
to recognise was to bring down the avalanche--the avalanche Milly lived
so in watch for and that might be started by the lightest of breaths;
though less possibly the breath of her own stifled plaint than that of
the vain sympathy, the mere helpless gaping inference of others. With
so many suppressions as these, therefore, between them, their
withdrawal together to unmask had to fall back, as we have hinted, on a
nominal motive--which was decently represented by a joy at the drop of
chatter. Chatter had in truth all along attended their steps, but they
took the despairing view of it on purpose to have ready, when face to
face, some view or other of something. The relief of getting out of
harness--that was the moral of their meetings; but the moral of this,
in turn, was that they couldn't so much as ask each other why harness
need be worn. Milly wore it as a general armour.
She was out of it at present, for some reason, as she hadn't been for
weeks; she was always out of it, that is, when alone, and her
companions had never yet so much as just now affected her as dispersed
and suppressed. It was as if still again, still more tacitly and
wonderfully, Eugenio had understood her, taking it from her without a
word and just bravely and brilliantly in the name, for instance, of the
beautiful day: "Yes, get me an hour alone; take them off--I don't care
where; absorb, amuse, detain them; drown them, kill them if you will:
so that I may just a little, all by myself, see where I am." She was
conscious of the dire impatience of it, for she gave up Susie as well
as the others to him--Susie who would have drowned her very self for
her; gave her up to a mercenary monster through whom she thus purchased
respites. Strange were the turns of life and the moods of weakness;
strange the flickers of fancy and the cheats of hope; yet lawful, all
the same--weren't they?--those experiments tried with the truth that
consisted, at the worst, but in practising on one's self. She was now
playing with the thought that Eugenio might inclusively assist her:
he had brought home to her, and always by remarks that were really
quite soundless, the conception, hitherto ungrasped, of some complete
use of her wealth itself, some use of it as a counter-move to fate. It
had passed between them as preposterous that with so much money she
should just stupidly and awkwardly want--any more want a life, a
career, a consciousness, than want a house, a carriage or a cook. It
was as if she had had from him a kind of expert professional measure of
what he was in a position, at a stretch, to undertake for her; the
thoroughness of which, for that matter, she could closely compare with
a looseness on Sir Luke Strett's part that--at least in Palazzo
Leporelli when mornings were fine--showed as almost amateurish. Sir
Luke hadn't said to her "Pay enough money and leave the rest to
me"--which was distinctly what Eugenio did say. Sir Luke had appeared
indeed to speak of purchase and payment, but in reference to a
different sort of cash. Those were amounts not to be named nor
reckoned, and such moreover as she wasn't sure of having at her
command. Eugenio--this was the difference--could name, could reckon,
and prices of his kind were things she had never suffered to scare
her. She had been willing, goodness knew, to pay enough for anything,
for everything, and here was simply a new view of the sufficient
quantity. She amused herself--for it came to that, since Eugenio was
there to sign the receipt--with possibilities of meeting the bill. She
was more prepared than ever to pay enough, and quite as much as ever to
pay too much. What else--if such were points at which your most trusted
servant failed--was the use of being, as the dear Susies of earth
called you, a princess in a palace?
She made now, alone, the full circuit of the place, noble and peaceful
while the summer sea, stirring here and there a curtain or an outer
blind, breathed into its veiled spaces. She had a vision of clinging to
it; that perhaps Eugenio could manage. She was in it, as in the ark
of her deluge, and filled with such a tenderness for it that why
shouldn't this, in common mercy, be warrant enough? She would never,
never leave it--she would engage to that; would ask nothing more than
to sit tight in it and float on and on. The beauty and intensity, the
real momentary relief of this conceit, reached their climax in the
positive purpose to put the question to Eugenio on his return as she
had not yet put it; though the design, it must be added, dropped a
little when, coming back to the great saloon from which she had started
on her pensive progress, she found Lord Mark, of whose arrival in
Venice she had been unaware, and who had now--while a servant was
following her through empty rooms--been asked, in her absence, to wait.
He had waited then, Lord Mark, he was waiting--oh unmistakeably; never
before had he so much struck her as the man to do that on occasion with
patience, to do it indeed almost as with gratitude for the chance,
though at the same time with a sort of notifying firmness. The odd
thing, as she was afterwards to recall, was that her wonder for what
had brought him was not immediate, but had come at the end of five
minutes; and also, quite incoherently, that she felt almost as glad to
see him, and almost as forgiving of his interruption of her solitude,
as if he had already been in her thought or acting at her suggestion.
He was some-how, at the best, the end of a respite; one might like him
very much and yet feel that his presence tempered precious solitude
more than any other known to one: in spite of all of which, as he was
neither dear Susie, nor dear Kate, nor dear Aunt Maud, nor even, for
the least, dear Eugenio in person, the sight of him did no damage to
her sense of the dispersal of her friends. She hadn't been so
thoroughly alone with him since those moments of his showing her the
great portrait at Matcham, the moments that had exactly made the
high-water-mark of her security, the moments during which her tears
themselves, those she had been ashamed of, were the sign of her
consciously rounding her protective promontory, quitting the blue gulf
of comparative ignorance and reaching her view of the troubled sea. His
presence now referred itself to his presence then, reminding her how
kind he had been, altogether, at Matcham, and telling her,
unexpectedly, at a time when she could particularly feel it, that, for
such kindness and for the beauty of what they remembered together, she
hadn't lost him--quite the contrary. To receive him handsomely, to
receive him there, to see him interested and charmed, as well, clearly,
as delighted to have found her without some other person to spoil
it--these things were so pleasant for the first minutes that they might
have represented on her part some happy foreknowledge. She gave an
account of her companions while he on his side failed to press her
about them, even though describing his appearance, so unheralded, as
the result of an impulse obeyed on the spot. He had been shivering at
Carlsbad, belated there and blue, when taken by it; so that, knowing
where they all were, he had simply caught the first train. He explained
how he had known where they were; he had heard--what more
natural?--from their friends, Milly's and his. He mentioned this
betimes, but it was with his mention, singularly, that the girl became
conscious of her inner question about his reason. She noticed his
plural, which added to Mrs. Lowder or added to Kate; but she presently
noticed also that it didn't affect her as explaining. Aunt Maud had
written to him, Kate apparently--and this was interesting--had written
to him; but their design presumably hadn't been that he should come and
sit there as if rather relieved, so far as they were concerned, at
postponements. He only said "Oh!" and again "Oh!" when she sketched
their probable morning for him, under Eugenio's care and Mrs.
Stringham's--sounding it quite as if any suggestion that he should
overtake them at the Rialto or the Bridge of Sighs would leave him
temporarily cold. This precisely it was that, after a little, operated
for Milly as an obscure but still fairly direct check to confidence. He
had known where they all were from the others, but it was not for the
others that, in his actual dispositions, he had come. That, strange to
say, was a pity; for, stranger still to say, she could have shown him
more confidence if he himself had had less intention. His intention so
chilled her, from the moment she found herself divining it, that, just
for the pleasure of going on with him fairly, just for the pleasure of
their remembrance together of Matcham and the Bronzino, the climax of
her fortune, she could have fallen to pleading with him and to
reasoning, to undeceiving him in time. There had been, for ten minutes,
with the directness of her welcome to him and the way this clearly
pleased him, something of the grace of amends made, even though he
couldn't know it--amends for her not having been originally sure, for
instance at that first dinner of Aunt Maud's, that he was adequately
human. That first dinner of Aunt Maud's added itself to the hour at
Matcham, added itself to other things, to consolidate, for her present
benevolence, the ease of their relation, making it suddenly delightful
that he had thus turned up. He exclaimed, as he looked about, on the
charm of the place: "What a temple to taste and an expression of the
pride of life, yet, with all that, what a jolly home!"--so that, for
his entertainment, she could offer to walk him about though she
mentioned that she had just been, for her own purposes, in a general
prowl, taking everything in more susceptibly than before. He embraced
her offer without a scruple and seemed to rejoice that he was to find
her susceptible.
IV
She couldn't have said what it was, in the conditions, that renewed the
whole solemnity, but by the end of twenty minutes a kind of wistful
hush had fallen upon them, as before something poignant in which her
visitor also participated. That was nothing verily but the perfection
of the charm--or nothing rather but their excluded disinherited state
in the presence of it. The charm turned on them a face that was cold in
its beauty, that was full of a poetry never to be theirs, that spoke
with an ironic smile of a possible but forbidden life. It all rolled
afresh over Milly: "Oh the impossible romance--!" The romance for her,
yet once more, would be to sit there for ever, through all her time, as
in a fortress; and the idea became an image of never going down, of
remaining aloft in the divine dustless air, where she would hear but
the plash of the water against stone. The great floor on which they
moved was at an altitude, and this prompted the rueful fancy. "Ah not
to go down--never, never to go down!" she strangely sighed to her
friend.
"But why shouldn't you," he asked, "with that tremendous old staircase
in your court? There ought of course always to be people at top and
bottom, in Veronese costumes, to watch you do it."
She shook her head both lightly and mournfully enough at his not
understanding. "Not even for people in Veronese costumes. I mean that
the positive beauty is that one needn't go down. I don't move in fact,"
she added--"now. I've not been out, you know. I stay up. That's how you
happily found me."
Lord Mark wondered--he was, oh yes, adequately human. "You don't go
about?"
She looked over the place, the storey above the apartments in which she
had received him, the sala corresponding to the sala below and fronting
the great canal with its gothic arches. The casements between the
arches were open, the ledge of the balcony broad, the sweep of the
canal, so overhung, admirable, and the flutter toward them of the loose
white curtain an invitation to she scarce could have said what. But
there was no mystery after a moment; she had never felt so invited to
anything as to make that, and that only, just where she was, her
adventure. It would be--to this it kept coming back--the adventure of
not stirring. "I go about just here."
"Do you mean," Lord Mark presently asked, "that you're really not well?"
They were at the window, pausing, lingering, with the fine old faded
palaces opposite and the slow Adriatic tide beneath; but after a
minute, and before she answered, she had closed her eyes to what she
saw and unresistingly dropped her face into her arms, which rested on
the coping. She had fallen to her knees on the cushion of the
window-place, and she leaned there, in a long silence, with her
forehead down. She knew that her silence was itself too straight an
answer, but it was beyond her now to say that she saw her way. She
would have made the question itself impossible to others--impossible
for example to such a man as Merton Densher; and she could wonder even
on the spot what it was a sign of in her feeling for Lord Mark that
from his lips it almost tempted her to break down. This was doubtless
really because she cared for him so little; to let herself go with him
thus, suffer his touch to make her cup overflow, would be the
relief--since it was actually, for her nerves, a question of
relief--that would cost her least. If he had come to her moreover with
the intention she believed, or even if this intention had but been
determined in him by the spell of their situation, he mustn't be
mistaken about her value--for what value did she now have? It throbbed
within her as she knelt there that she had none at all; though, holding
herself, not yet speaking, she tried, even in the act, to recover what
might be possible of it. With that there came to her a light: wouldn't
her value, for the man who should marry her, be precisely in the ravage
of her disease? She mightn't last, but her money would. For a man in
whom the vision of her money should be intense, in whom it should be
most of the ground for "making up" to her, any prospective failure on
her part to be long for this world might easily count as a positive
attraction. Such a man, proposing to please, persuade, secure her,
appropriate her for such a time, shorter or longer, as nature and the
doctors should allow, would make the best of her, ill, damaged,
disagreeable though she might be, for the sake of eventual benefits:
she being clearly a person of the sort esteemed likely to do the
handsome thing by a stricken and sorrowing husband.
She had said to herself betimes, in a general way, that whatever habits
her youth might form, that of seeing an interested suitor in every bush
should certainly never grow to be one of them--an attitude she had
early judged as ignoble, as poisonous. She had had accordingly in fact
as little to do with it as possible and she scarce knew why at the
present moment she should have had to catch herself in the act of
imputing an ugly motive. It didn't sit, the ugly motive, in Lord Mark's
cool English eyes; the darker side of it at any rate showed, to her
imagination, but briefly. Suspicion moreover, with this, simplified
itself: there was a beautiful reason--indeed there were two--why her
companion's motive shouldn't matter. One was that even should he desire
her without a penny she wouldn't marry him for the world; the other was
that she felt him, after all, perceptively, kindly, very pleasantly and
humanly, concerned for her. They were also two things, his wishing to
be well, to be very well, with her, and his beginning to feel her as
threatened, haunted, blighted; but they were melting together for him,
making him, by their combination, only the more sure that, as he
probably called it to himself, he liked her. That was presently what
remained with her--his really doing it; and with the natural and proper
incident of being conciliated by her weakness. Would she really have
had him--she could ask herself that--disconcerted or disgusted by it?
If he could only be touched enough to do what she preferred, not to
raise, not to press any question, he might render her a much better
service than by merely enabling her to refuse him. Again, again it was
strange, but he figured to her for the moment as the one safe
sympathiser. It would have made her worse to talk to others, but she
wasn't afraid with him of how he might wince and look pale. She would
keep him, that is, her one easy relation--in the sense of easy for
himself. Their actual outlook had meanwhile such charm, what surrounded
them within and without did so much toward making appreciative
stillness as natural as at the opera, that she could consider she
hadn't made him hang on her lips when at last, instead of saying if she
were well or ill, she repeated: "I go about here. I don't get tired of
it. I never should--it suits me so. I adore the place," she went on,
"and I don't want in the least to give it up."
"Neither should I if I had your luck. Still, with that luck, for one's
all--! Should you positively like to live here?"
"I think I should like," said poor Milly after an instant, "to die
here."
Which made him, precisely, laugh. That was what she wanted--when a
person did care: it was the pleasant human way, without depths of
darkness. "Oh it's not good enough for that! That requires picking.
But can't you keep it? It is, you know, the sort of place to see you
in; you carry out the note, fill it, people it, quite by yourself, and
you might do much worse--I mean for your friends--than show yourself
here a while, three or four months, every year. But it's not my notion
for the rest of the time. One has quite other uses for you."
"What sort of a use for me is it," she smilingly enquired, "to kill me?"
"Do you mean we should kill you in England?"
"Well, I've seen you and I'm afraid. You're too much for me--too many.
England bristles with questions. This is more, as you say there, my
form."
"Oho, oho!"--he laughed again as if to humour her. "Can't you then buy
it--for a price? Depend upon it they'll treat for money. That is for
money enough."
"I've exactly," she said, "been wondering if they won't. I think I
shall try. But if I get it I shall cling to it." They were talking
sincerely. "It will be my life--paid for as that. It will become my
great gilded shell; so that those who wish to find me must come and
hunt me up."
"Ah then you will be alive," said Lord Mark.
"Well, not quite extinct perhaps, but shrunken, wasted, wizened;
rattling about here like the dried kernel of a nut."
"Oh," Lord Mark returned, "we, much as you mistrust us, can do better
for you than that."
"In the sense that you'll feel it better for me really to have it over?"
He let her see now that she worried him, and after a look at her, of
some duration, without his glasses--which always altered the expression
of his eyes--he re-settled the nippers on his nose and went back to the
view. But the view, in turn, soon enough released him. "Do you remember
something I said to you that day at Matcham--or at least fully meant
to?"
"Oh yes, I remember everything at Matcham. It's another life."
"Certainly it will be--I mean the kind of thing: what I then wanted it
to represent for you. Matcham, you know," he continued, "is symbolic. I
think I tried to rub that into you a little."
She met him with the full memory of what he had tried--not an inch, not
an ounce of which was lost to her. "What I meant is that it seems a
hundred years ago."
"Oh for me it comes in better. Perhaps a part of what makes me remember
it," he pursued, "is that I was quite aware of what might have been
said about what I was doing. I wanted you to take it from me that I
should perhaps be able to look after you--well, rather better. Rather
better, of course, than certain other persons in particular."
"Precisely--than Mrs. Lowder, than Miss Croy, even than Mrs. Stringham."
"Oh Mrs. Stringham's all right!" Lord Mark promptly amended.
It amused her even with what she had else to think of; and she could
show him at all events how little, in spite of the hundred years, she
had lost what he alluded to. The way he was with her at this moment
made in fact the other moment so vivid as almost to start again the
tears it had started at the time. "You could do so much for me, yes. I
perfectly understood you."
"I wanted, you see," he despite this explained, "to fix your
confidence. I mean, you know, in the right place."
"Well, Lord Mark, you did--it's just exactly now, my confidence, where
you put it then. The only difference," said Milly, "is that I seem now
to have no use for it. Besides," she then went on, "I do seem to feel
you disposed to act in a way that would undermine it a little."
He took no more notice of these last words than if she hadn't said
them, only watching her at present as with a gradual new light. "Are
you really in any trouble?"
To this, on her side, she gave no heed. Making out his light was a
little a light for herself. "Don't say, don't try to say, anything
that's impossible. There are much better things you can do."
He looked straight at it and then straight over it. "It's too monstrous
that one can't ask you as a friend what one wants so to know."
"What is it you want to know?" She spoke, as by a sudden turn, with a
slight hardness. "Do you want to know if I'm badly ill?"
The sound of it in truth, though from no raising of her voice, invested
the idea with a kind of terror, but a terror all for others. Lord Mark
winced and flushed--clearly couldn't help it; but he kept his attitude
together and spoke even with unwonted vivacity. "Do you imagine I can
see you suffer and not say a word?"
"You won't see me suffer--don't be afraid. I shan't be a public
nuisance. That's why I should have liked this: it's so beautiful in
itself and yet it's out of the gangway. You won't know anything about
anything," she added; and then as if to make with decision an end: "And
you don't! No, not even you." He faced her through it with the
remains of his expression, and she saw him as clearly--for
him--bewildered; which made her wish to be sure not to have been
unkind. She would be kind once for all; that would be the end. "I'm
very badly ill."
"And you don't do anything?"
"I do everything. Everything's this," she smiled. "I'm doing it now.
One can't do more than live."
"Ah than live in the right way, no. But is that what you do? Why
haven't you advice?"
He had looked about at the rococo elegance as if there were fifty
things it didn't give her, so that he suggested with urgency the most
absent. But she met his remedy with a smile. "I've the best advice in
the world. I'm acting under it now. I act upon it in receiving you, in
talking with you thus. One can't, as I tell you, do more than live."
"Oh live!" Lord Mark ejaculated.
"Well, it's immense for me." She finally spoke as if for amusement;
now that she had uttered her truth, that he had learnt it from herself
as no one had yet done, her emotion had, by the fact, dried up. There
she was; but it was as if she would never speak again. "I shan't," she
added, "have missed everything."
"Why should you have missed anything?" She felt, as he sounded this,
to what, within the minute, he had made up his mind. "You're the person
in the world for whom that's least necessary; for whom one would call
it in fact most impossible; for whom 'missing' at all will surely
require an extraordinary amount of misplaced good will. Since you
believe in advice, for God's sake take mine. I know what you want."
Oh she knew he would know it. But she had brought it on herself--or
almost. Yet she spoke with kindness. "I think I want not to be too much
worried."
"You want to be adored." It came at last straight. "Nothing would worry
you less. I mean as I shall do it. It is so"--he firmly kept it up.
"You're not loved enough."
"Enough for what, Lord Mark?"
"Why to get the full good of it."
Well, she didn't after all mock at him. "I see what you mean. That full
good of it which consists in finding one's self forced to love in
return." She had grasped it, but she hesitated. "Your idea is that I
might find myself forced to love you?"
"Oh 'forced'--!" He was so fine and so expert, so awake to anything the
least ridiculous, and of a type with which the preaching of passion
somehow so ill consorted--he was so much all these things that he had
absolutely to take account of them himself. And he did so, in a single
intonation, beautifully. Milly liked him again, liked him for such
shades as that, liked him so that it was woeful to see him spoiling it,
and still more woeful to have to rank him among those minor charms of
existence that she gasped at moments to remember she must give up. "Is
it inconceivable to you that you might try?"
"To be so favourably affected by you--?"
"To believe in me. To believe in me," Lord Mark repeated.
Again she hesitated. "To 'try' in return for your trying?"
"Oh I shouldn't have to!" he quickly declared. The prompt neat accent,
however, his manner of disposing of her question, failed of real
expression, as he himself the next moment intelligently, helplessly,
almost comically saw--a failure pointed moreover by the laugh into
which Milly was immediately startled. As a suggestion to her of a
healing and uplifting passion it was in truth deficient; it wouldn't
do as the communication of a force that should sweep them both away.
And the beauty of him was that he too, even in the act of persuasion,
of self-persuasion, could understand that, and could thereby show but
the better as fitting into the pleasant commerce of prosperity. The way
she let him see that she looked at him was a thing to shut him out, of
itself, from services of danger, a thing that made a discrimination
against him never yet made--made at least to any consciousness of his
own. Born to float in a sustaining air, this would be his first
encounter with a judgement formed in the sinister light of tragedy. The
gathering dusk of her personal world presented itself to him, in her
eyes, as an element in which it was vain for him to pretend he could
find himself at home, since it was charged with depressions and with
dooms, with the chill of the losing game. Almost without her needing to
speak, and simply by the fact that there could be, in such a case, no
decent substitute for a felt intensity, he had to take it from her that
practically he was afraid--whether afraid to protest falsely enough, or
only afraid of what might be eventually disagreeable in a compromised
alliance, being a minor question. She believed she made out besides,
wonderful girl, that he had never quite expected to have to protest
about anything beyond his natural convenience--more, in fine, than his
disposition and habits, his education as well, his personal moyens,
in short, permitted. His predicament was therefore one he couldn't
like, and also one she willingly would have spared him hadn't he
brought it on himself. No man, she was quite aware, could enjoy thus
having it from her that he wasn't good for what she would have called
her reality. It wouldn't have taken much more to enable her positively
to make out in him that he was virtually capable of hinting--had his
innermost feeling spoken--at the propriety rather, in his interest, of
some cutting down, some dressing up, of the offensive real. He would
meet that halfway, but the real must also meet him. Milly's sense of
it for herself, which was so conspicuously, so financially supported,
couldn't, or wouldn't, so accommodate him, and the perception of that
fairly showed in his face after a moment like the smart of a blow. It
had marked the one minute during which he could again be touching to
her. By the time he had tried once more, after all, to insist, he had
quite ceased to be so.
By this time she had turned from their window to make a diversion, had
walked him through other rooms, appealing again to the inner charm of
the place, going even so far for that purpose as to point afresh her
independent moral, to repeat that if one only had such a house for
one's own and loved it and cherished it enough, it would pay one back
in kind, would close one in from harm. He quite grasped for the quarter
of an hour the perch she held out to him--grasped it with one hand,
that is, while she felt him attached to his own clue with the other; he
was by no means either so sore or so stupid, to do him all justice, as
not to be able to behave more or less as if nothing had happened. It
was one of his merits, to which she did justice too, that both his
native and his acquired notion of behaviour rested on the general
assumption that nothing--nothing to make a deadly difference for
him--ever could happen. It was, socially, a working view like
another, and it saw them easily enough through the greater part of the
rest of their adventure. Downstairs again, however, with the limit of
his stay in sight, the sign of his smarting, when all was said,
reappeared for her--breaking out moreover, with an effect of
strangeness, in another quite possibly sincere allusion to her state of
health. He might for that matter have been seeing what he could do in
the way of making it a grievance that she should snub him for a
charity, on his own part, exquisitely roused. "It's true, you know, all
the same, and I don't care a straw for your trying to freeze one up."
He seemed to show her, poor man, bravely, how little he cared.
"Everybody knows affection often makes things out when indifference
doesn't notice. And that's why I know that I notice."
"Are you sure you've got it right?" the girl smiled. "I thought rather
that affection was supposed to be blind."
"Blind to faults, not to beauties," Lord Mark promptly returned.
"And are my extremely private worries, my entirely domestic
complications, which I'm ashamed to have given you a glimpse of--are
they beauties?"
"Yes, for those who care for you--as every one does. Everything about
you is a beauty. Besides which I don't believe," he declared, "in the
seriousness of what you tell me. It's too absurd you should have any
trouble about which something can't be done. If you can't get the right
thing, who can, in all the world, I should like to know? You're the
first young woman of your time. I mean what I say." He looked, to do
him justice, quite as if he did; not ardent, but clear--simply so
competent, in such a position, to compare, that his quiet assertion had
the force not so much perhaps of a tribute as of a warrant. "We're all
in love with you. I'll put it that way, dropping any claim of my own,
if you can bear it better. I speak as one of the lot. You weren't born
simply to torment us--you were born to make us happy. Therefore you
must listen to us."
She shook her head with her slowness, but this time with all her
mildness. "No, I mustn't listen to you--that's just what I mustn't do.
The reason is, please, that it simply kills me. I must be as attached
to you as you will, since you give that lovely account of yourselves. I
give you in return the fullest possible belief of what it would be--"
And she pulled up a little. "I give and give and give--there you are;
stick to me as close as you like and see if I don't. Only I can't
listen or receive or accept--I can't agree. I can't make a bargain. I
can't really. You must believe that from me. It's all I've wanted to
say to you, and why should it spoil anything?"
He let her question fall--though clearly, it might have seemed,
because, for reasons or for none, there was so much that was spoiled.
"You want somebody of your own." He came back, whether in good faith or
in bad, to that; and it made her repeat her headshake. He kept it up as
if his faith were of the best. "You want somebody, you want somebody."
She was to wonder afterwards if she hadn't been at this juncture on the
point of saying something emphatic and vulgar--"Well, I don't at all
events want you!" What somehow happened, nevertheless, the pity of it
being greater than the irritation--the sadness, to her vivid sense, of
his being so painfully astray, wandering in a desert in which there was
nothing to nourish him--was that his error amounted to positive
wrongdoing. She was moreover so acquainted with quite another sphere of
usefulness for him that her having suffered him to insist almost
convicted her of indelicacy. Why hadn't she stopped him off with her
first impression of his purpose? She could do so now only by the
allusion she had been wishing not to make. "Do you know I don't think
you're doing very right?--and as a thing quite apart, I mean, from my
listening to you. That's not right either--except that I'm not
listening. You oughtn't to have come to Venice to see me--and in fact
you've not come, and you mustn't behave as if you had. You've much
older friends than I, and ever so much better. Really, if you've come
at all, you can only have come--properly, and if I may say so
honourably--for the best friend, as I believe her to be, that you have
in the world."
When once she had said it he took it, oddly enough, as if he had been
more or less expecting it. Still, he looked at her very hard, and they
had a moment of this during which neither pronounced a name, each
apparently determined that the other should. It was Milly's fine
coercion, in the event, that was the stronger. "Miss Croy?" Lord Mark
asked.
It might have been difficult to make out that she smiled. "Mrs.
Lowder." He did make out something, and then fairly coloured for its
attestation of his comparative simplicity. "I call her on the whole
the best. I can't imagine a man's having a better."
Still with his eyes on her he turned it over. "Do you want me to marry
Mrs. Lowder?"
At which it seemed to her that it was he who was almost vulgar! But she
wouldn't in any way have that. "You know, Lord Mark, what I mean. One
isn't in the least turning you out into the cold world. There's no cold
world for you at all, I think," she went on; "nothing but a very warm
and watchful and expectant world that's waiting for you at any moment
you choose to take it up."
He never budged, but they were standing on the polished concrete and he
had within a few minutes possessed himself again of his hat. "Do you
want me to marry Kate Croy?"
"Mrs. Lowder wants it--I do no wrong, I think, in saying that; and she
understands moreover that you know she does."
Well, he showed how beautifully he could take it; and it wasn't obscure
to her, on her side, that it was a comfort to deal with a gentleman.
"It's ever so kind of you to see such opportunities for me. But what's
the use of my tackling Miss Croy?"
Milly rejoiced on the spot to be so able to point out. "Because she's
the handsomest and cleverest and most charming creature I ever saw, and
because if I were a man I should simply adore her. In fact I do as it
is." It was a luxury of response.
"Oh, my dear lady, plenty of people adore her. But that can't further
the case of all."
"Ah," she went on, "I know about 'people.' If the case of one's bad,
the case of another's good. I don't see what you have to fear from any
one else," she said, "save through your being foolish, this way, about
me."
So she said, but she was aware the next moment of what he was making of
what she didn't see. "Is it your idea--since we're talking of these
things in these ways--that the young lady you describe in such
superlative terms is to be had for the asking?"
"Well, Lord Mark, try. She is a great person. But don't be humble." She
was almost gay.
It was this apparently, at last, that was too much for him. "But don't
you really know?"
As a challenge, practically, to the commonest intelligence she could
pretend to, it made her of course wish to be fair. "I 'know' yes, that
a particular person's very much in love with her."
"Then you must know by the same token that she's very much in love with
a particular person."
"Ah I beg your pardon!"--and Milly quite flushed at having so crude a
blunder imputed to her. "You're wholly mistaken."
"It's not true?"
"It's not true."
His stare became a smile. "Are you very, very sure?"
"As sure as one can be"--and Milly's manner could match it--"when one
has every assurance. I speak on the best authority."
He hesitated. "Mrs. Lowder's?"
