and full of hot kisses, and I do not want to marry. Oh, save me if you
have any pity! Help me to escape!"
She slipped down at the Indian girl's feet and caught at the garment of
feathers so smooth and soft it seemed like satin.
"See here." The visitor put her hand in her bosom and drew forth a small
dagger with a pearl hilt in which was set jewels. Jeanne shuddered, but
remained on her knees, glancing up piteously.
"See here. I came to kill you. I said no French girl, be she beautiful
as moonlight on the lake, shall marry Louis Marsac. He belongs to me. No
woman shall be folded in his arms or lie on his breast or rejoice in the
kisses of his mouth and live! I cannot understand. When one has tasted
the sweetness--and he is so handsome, not so different from his mother's
race but that I am a fit mate for him. My father was a chief, and there
was a quarrel between him and a relative who claimed the right, and he
was killed. Ah, you can never know how good and tender Louis was to me,
so different from most of the clumsy Canadian traders; next, I think, to
the great White Chief of the island; yes, handsomer, though not as
large. All the winter and spring he loved me. And this cabin was mine. I
came here many times. He loves me unless you have stolen his heart with
some evil charm. Stand up; see. I am as tall as you. My skin is fine and
clear, if not as pale as the white faces; and yours--pouf! you have no
rose in your cheeks. Is not my mouth made for kisses? I like those that
burn as fire running through your veins. And my hand--" she caught
Jeanne's hand and compared them. "It is as slim and soft, and the pink
is under the nails. And my hair is like a veil, reaching to my knees.
Yes, I am a fitter mate than you, who are naught but a child, with no
shape that fills a man with admiration. Is it that you have worked some
evil charm?"
Jeanne's eyes were distended with horror. Now that death and escape were
near she shrank with the fear of all young things who have known naught
of life but its joy. She could not even beg, her tongue seemed
paralyzed.
They would have made a statue worthy of a sculptor as they stood there,
the Indian girl in her splendid attire and the utmost beauty of her
race, with the dagger in one hand; and the girl, pale now as a snow
wreath, at her feet.
"Would you go away, escape?" Some curious thoughts had flashed into
Owaissa's brain.
"Oh, help me, help me! I will beg my way back to Detroit. I will pray
that all his love may be given to you; morning and night I will pray on
my knees. Oh, believe, believe!"
The Indian girl could not doubt her sincerity. But with the injustice of
a passionate, jealous love she did not so much blame her recreant
lover. Some charm, some art, must have been used, perhaps by a third
person, and the girl be guiltless. And if she could send her away and
remain in her stead--
She gave a soft, musical ripple of laughter. So pretty Minnehaha must
have laughed when Longfellow caught the sound in his charmed brain. She
put up her dagger. She raised Jeanne, wondering, but no longer afraid.
This was the miracle she had prayed for and it had come to pass.
"Listen. You shall go. The night comes on and it is a long sail; but you
will not be afraid. The White Chief will take you in, but when you tell
your story say it was Indians who stole you. For if you bring any harm
to Louis Marsac I will follow you and kill you even if it were leagues
beyond sunset, in the wild land that no one has penetrated. Remember.
Promise by the great Manitou. Kiss my hand;" and she held it out.
Jeanne obeyed. Could escape be so near? Her heart beats almost strangled
her.
"Wanita is my faithful slave. He will do my bidding and you need not be
afraid. My canoe lies down below there," and she indicated the southern
end with a motion of her head. "You will take this ring to him and he
will know that the message comes from me. Oh, you will not hesitate?"
Jeanne raised her head proudly. "I will obey you to the letter. But--how
will I find him?"
"You will go off the boat and walk down below the dock. There is a clump
of scrub pines blown awry; then a little cove; the boat lies there; you
will say 'Wanita,' twice; he will come and you will give him the ring;
then he will believe you."
"But how shall I get off the boat? And how did you get the key? And
Noko--"
"I had a key. It was mine all the early spring. I used to come and we
sailed around, but I would not be a wife until a French priest could
marry us, and he said 'wait, wait,' and an Indian girl is proud to obey
the man she loves. And when it was time for him to return I came down
from the Strait and heard--this--that his heart had been stolen from me
and that when Father Hugon did not come he was very angry and has gone
up to the island. They have much illness there it seems."
"Then I give you back all I ever had, oh, so gladly."
"Your father, perhaps, wanted him and saw some woman who dealt in
charms?"
"I have no father or mother. A poor old Indian woman cares for me. She
was my nurse, everything. Oh, her heart will be broken! And this White
Chief will surely let me go to Detroit?"
"He is good and gracious to all, and just. That is why you must not
mention Marsac's name, for he might not understand about the wicked
go-between. There are shil loups, spirits of wretched people who
wander about making mischief. But I must believe thee. Thine eyes are
truthful."
She brushed Jeanne's hair from her forehead and looked keenly,
questioningly into them. They met the glance with the shine of
innocence and truth that never wavered in their heavenly blue.
"The White Chief has boats that go up and down continually. You will get
safely to Detroit."
"And you?" inquired Jeanne.
CHAPTER XVI.
RESCUED.
"And you?" repeated Jeanne Angelot when Owaissa seemed lost in thought.
"I shall remain here. When Louis Marsac comes I will break the fatal
spell that bound him, and the priest will marry us. I shall make him
very happy, for we are kindred blood; happier than any cool-blooded,
pale-face girl could dream. And now you must set out. The sun is going
down. You will not be faint of heart?"
"I shall be so glad! And I shall be praying to the good Christ and his
Mother to make you happy and give you all of Louis Marsac's heart. No, I
shall not be afraid. And you are quite sure the White Chief will
befriend me?"
"Oh, yes. And his wife is of Indian blood, a great Princess from Hudson
Bay, and the handsomest woman of the North, the kindest and most
generous to those in sorrow or trouble. The White Queen she is called.
Oh, yes, if I had a sister that needed protection, I should send her to
the White Queen. Oh, do not be afraid." Then she took both of Jeanne's
hands in hers and kissed her on the forehead. "I am glad I did not have
to kill you," she added with the naïve innocence of perfect truth. "I
think you are the kind of girl out of whom they make nuns, who care for
no men but the fathers, and yet they must adore some one. In thy convent
cell pray for me that I may have brave sons."
Jeanne made no protest against the misconstruction. Her heart was filled
with gratitude and wonder, yet she could hardly believe.
"You must take my blanket," and Owaissa began draping it about her.
"But--Noko?" said the French girl.
"Noko is soundly asleep. And the sailors are throwing dice or drinking
rum. Their master cannot be back until dark. Go your way proudly, as if
you had the blood of a hundred braves in your veins. They are often a
cowardly set, challenging those who are weak and fearful. Do not mind."
"Oh, the good Father bless you forevermore." Jeanne caught the hands and
covered them with kisses. "And you will not be afraid of--of his
anger?"
"I am not afraid. I am glad I came, though it was with such a desperate
purpose. Here is my ring," and she slipped it on Jeanne's finger. "Give
it to Wanita when you are landed. He is faithful to me and this is our
seal."
She unlocked the door. Noko was in a little heap on the mat, snoring.
"Go straight over. Never mind the men. You will see the plank, and then
go round the little point. Adieu. I wish thee a safe voyage home."
Jeanne pressed the hands again. She was like one in a dream. She felt
afraid the men would question her, perhaps order her back. Two of them
were asleep. She tripped down the plank, turned the corner of the dock
and saw the clump of trees. Still she hardly dared breathe until she had
passed it and found the canoe beached, and a slim young Indian pacing up
and down.
"Wanita, Wanita!" she exclaimed, timorously.
He studied her in surprise. Yes, that was her blanket. "Mistress--"
going closer, and then hesitating.
"Here is her ring, Owaissa's ring. And she bade me--she stays on the
boat. Louis Marsac comes with a priest."
"Then it was a lie, an awful black lie they told my mistress about his
marrying a French girl! By all the moons in a twelvemonth she is his
wife. And you--" studying her with severe scrutiny.
"I am the French girl. It was a mistake. But I must get away, and she
sends me to the White Chief. She said one could trust you to the death."
"I would go to the death for my beautiful mistress. The White
Chief--yes."
Then he helped her into the canoe and made her comfortable with the
blankets.
"I wish it were earlier," he exclaimed. "The purple spirits of the night
are stretching out their hands. You will not be afraid? It is a long
pull."
"Oh, no, no!" She drew a relieved breath, but every pulse had been so
weighted with anxiety for days that she could not realize her freedom.
Oh, how good the blessed air felt! All the wide expanse about her
brought a thrill of delight, still not unmixed with fear. A boat came
bearing down upon them and she held her breath, but the canoe moved
aside adroitly.
"They were drunken fellows, no doubt," said Wanita. "It is told of the
Sieur Cadillac that he weakened the rum and would allow a man only so
much. It is a pity there is no such strictness now. The White Chief
tries."
"Is he chief of the Indians?" she asked, vaguely.
"Oh, no. He is in the great council of the fur traders, but he has ever
been fair to the Indians; strict, too, and they honor him, believe in
him, and do his bidding. That is, most of them do. He settles many
quarrels. It is not now as it used to be. Since the coming of the white
men tribes have been split in parts and chiefs of the same nation fight
for power. He tries to keep peace between them and the whites. There
would be many wars without him."
"But he is not an Indian?"
"Oh, no. He came from Canada to the fur country. He had known great
sorrow. His wife and child had been massacred by the red men. And then
he married a beautiful Indian princess somewhere about Hudson Bay. He
had so many men under him that they called him the White Chief, and
partly, I think, because he was so noble and large and grand. Then he
built his house on the island where one side is perpendicular rocks, and
fortified it and made of it a most lovely home for his beautiful wife.
She has everything from all countries, it is said, and the house is
grand as the palaces at Montreal. They have two sons. They come over to
Fort St. Ignace and Michilimackinac, and he has taken her to Quebec,
where, it is said, she was entertained like a queen. He is very proud of
her and adores her. Ah, if you could see him you would know at once that
he was a grand man. But courageous and high spirited as he is, he is
always counseling peace. There is much bitter feeling still between the
French and English, and now, since the Americans have conquered, the
English are stirring up strife with the Indians, it is said. He advises
them to make homes and settle peaceably, and hunt at the north where
there is still plenty of game. He has bought tracts of land for them,
but my nation are not like the white men. They despise work." Jeanne
knew that well.
Then Wanita asked her about Detroit. He had been up North; his mistress
had lived at Mackinaw and St. Ignace. All the spring she had been about
Lake Superior, which was grand, and the big lake on the other side, Lake
Michigan. Sometimes he had cared for M. Marsac's boat.
"M. Marsac was your lady's lover."
"Oh, Mam'selle, he was devoted before he went to Detroit. He is rich and
handsome, you see, and there are many women smiling on him. There were
at Mackinaw. The white ladies do not mind a little Indian blood when
there is money. But Owaissa is for him, and she will be as grand a lady
as the White Queen."
Wanita wished in his secret soul Louis Marsac was as grand as the White
Chief. But few men were.
And now the twilight was gone and the broad sheet of water was weird,
moving blackness. The canoe seemed so frail, that used as she was to it
Jeanne drew in fear with every breath. If there were only a moon! It was
cold, too. She drew the blanket closer round her.
"Are we almost there?" she inquired.
"Oh, no, Mam'selle. Are you tired? If you could sing to pass away the
time."
Jeanne essayed some French songs, but her heart was not light enough.
Then they lapsed into silence. On and on--there was no wind and they
were out of the strongest current, so there was no danger.
What was Owaissa doing, thinking? Had Louis Marsac returned with the
priest? Was it true she had come to kill her, Jeanne? How strange one
should love a man so deeply, strongly! She shuddered. She had only cared
for quiet and pleasant wanderings and Pani. Perhaps it was all some
horrid dream. Or was it true one could be bewitched?
Sometimes she drowsed. She recalled the night she had slept against the
Huron's knee. Would the hours or the journey ever come to an end? She
said over the rosary and all the prayers she could remember,
interspersing them with thanksgivings to the good God and to Owaissa.
Something black and awful loomed up before her. She uttered a cry.
"We are here. It is nothing to be afraid of. We go around to this side,
so. There is a little basin here, and a sort of wharf. It is almost a
fort;" and he laughed lightly as he helped her out on to dry ground,
stony though it was.
"I will find the gate. The White Chief has this side well picketed, and
there are enough within to defend it against odds, if the odds ever
come. Now, here is the gate and I must ring. Do not be frightened, it is
always closed at dusk."
The clang made Jeanne jump, and cling to her guide.
There was a step after a long while. A plate was pushed partly aside and
a voice said through the grating:--
"What is it?"
"It is I, Wanita, Loudac. I have some one who has been in danger, a
little maid from Detroit, stolen away by Indians. My mistress Owaissa
begs shelter for her until she can be returned. It was late when she was
rescued from her enemies and we stole away by night."
"How many of you?"
"The maid and myself, and--our canoe," with a light laugh. "The canoe is
fastened to a stake. And I must go back, so there is but one to throw
upon your kindness."
"Wait," said the gate keeper. There were great bolts to be withdrawn and
chains rattled. Presently the creaking gate opened a little way and the
light of a lantern flared out. Jeanne was dazed for an instant.
"I will not come in, good Loudac. It is a long way back and my mistress
may need me. Here is the maid," and he gave Jeanne a gentle push.
"From Detroit?" The interlocutor was a stout Canadian and seemed
gigantic to Jeanne. "And 'scaped from the Indians. Lucky they did not
spell, it with another letter and leave no top to thy head. Wanita, lad,
thou hadst better come in and have a sup of wine. Or remain all night."
But Wanita refused with cordial thanks.
"Here is the ring;" and Jeanne pressed it in his hand. "And a thousand
thanks, tell your brave mistress."
With a quick adieu he was gone.
"I must find shelter for you to-night, for our lady cannot be
disturbed," he said. "Come this way."
The bolts and chains were put in place again. Jeanne followed her guide
up some steps and through another gate. There was a lodge and a light
within. A woman in a short gown of blue and a striped petticoat looked
out of the doorway and made a sharp inquiry.
"A maid who must tell her own story, good dame, for my wits seem
scattered. She hath been sent by Owaissa the Indian maiden and brought
by her servitor in a canoe. Tell thy story, child."
"She is shivering with the cold and looks blue as a midwinter icicle.
She must have some tea to warm her up. Stir a fire, Loudac."
Jeanne sat trembling and the tears ran down her cheeks. In a moment
there was a fragrant blaze of pine boughs, and a kettle swung over them.
"A little brandy would be better," said the man.
Now that the strain was over Jeanne felt as if all her strength had
given way. Was she really safe? The hearty French accent sounded like
home; and the dark, round face, with the almost laughing black eyes,
albeit there were wrinkles around them, cheered her inmost heart. The
tea was soon made and the brandy added a piquant flavor.
"Thou wert late starting on thy journey," said the woman, a tint of
suspicion in her voice.
"It was only this afternoon that the Indian maid Owaissa found me and
heard my story. For safety she sent me away at once. Perhaps in the
daytime I might have been pursued."
"True, true. An Indian knows best about Indian ways. Most of them are a
treacherous, bad lot, made much worse by drink, but there are a few. The
maiden Owaissa comes from the Strait."
"To meet her lover it was said. He is that handsome half or quarter
breed, Louis Marsac, a shrewd trader for one so young, and who, with his
father, is delving in the copper mines of Lake Superior. Yes. What went
before, child?"
She was glad to leave Marsac. Could she tell her story without
incriminating him? The first part went smoothly enough. Then she
hesitated and felt her color rising. "It was at Bois Blanc," she said.
"They had left me alone. The beautiful Indian girl was there, and I
begged her to save me. I told her my story and she wrapped me in her
blanket. We were much the same size, and though I trembled so that my
knees bent under me, I went off the boat without any question. Wanita
was waiting with the canoe and brought me over."
"Were you not afraid--and there was no moon?"
Jeanne raised her eyes to the kindly ones.
"Oh, yes," she answered with a shiver. "Lake Huron is so large, only
there are islands scattered about. But when it grew very dark I simply
trusted Wanita."
"And he could go in a canoe to the end of the world if it was all lakes
and rivers," exclaimed Loudac. "These Indians--did you know their
tribe?"
"I think two were Hurons. They could talk bad French," and she smiled.
"And Chippewa, that I can understand quite well."
"Were your relatives in Detroit rich people?"
"Oh, no, I have none." Then Jeanne related her simple story.
"Strange! strange!" Loudac stroked his beard and drew his bushy eyebrows
together. "There could have been no thought of ransom. I mistrust,
pretty maid, that it must have been some one who watched thee and wanted
thee for his squaw. Up in the wild North there would have been little
chance to escape. Thou hast been fortunate in finding Owaissa. Her
lover's boat came in at Bois Blanc. I suppose she went to meet him.
Dame, it is late, and the child looks tired as one might well be after a
long journey. Canst thou not find her a bed?"
The bed was soon improvised. Jeanne thanked her protectors with
overflowing eyes and tremulous voice. For a long while she knelt in
thanksgiving, her simple faith discerning a real miracle in her escape.
Surely God had sent Owaissa. She forgot the fell purpose of the Indian
girl, and wondered at her love for Louis Marsac.
There was much confusion and noise among the children the next morning
while the dame was giving them their breakfast, but Jeanne slept soundly
until they were all out at play. The sun shone as she opened her eyes,
and one ray slanted across the window. Oh, where was she, in prison
still? Then, by slow degrees, yesterday came back to her.
The dame greeted her cheerily, and set before her a simple breakfast
that tasted most delicious. Loudac had gone up to the great house.
"For when the White Chief is away, Loudac has charge of everything. Once
he saved the master's life, he was his servant then, and since that time
he has been the head of all matters. The White Chief trusts him like a
brother. But look you, both of them came from France and there is no
mixed blood in them. Rough as Loudac seems his mother was of gentle
birth, and he can read and write not only French but English, and is a
judge of fine furs and understands business. He is shrewd to know people
as well," and she gave a satisfied smile.
"The White Chief is away--"
"He has gone up to Michilimackinac, perhaps to Hudson Bay. But all goes
on here just the same. Loudac has things well in hand."
"I would like to return to Detroit," ventured Jeanne, timidly, glancing
up with beseeching eyes.
"That thou shalt, ma petite. There will be boats going down before
cold weather. The winter comes early here, and yet it is not so cold as
one would think, with plenty of furs and fire."
"And the--the queen--" hesitatingly.
The dame laughed heartsomely.
"Thou shalt see her. She is our delight, our dear mistress, and has many
names given her by her loving chief. It is almost ten years ago that he
found her up North, a queen then with a little band of braves who adored
her. They had come from some far country. She was not of their tribe;
she is as white almost as thou, and tall and handsome and soft of voice
as the sweetest singing bird. Then they fell in love with each other,
and the good père at Hudson Bay married them. He brought her here. She
bought the island because it seemed fortified with the great rocks on
two sides of it. Often they go away, for he has a fine vessel that is
like a palace in its fittings. They have been to Montreal and out on
that wild, strange coast full of islands. Whatever she wishes is hers."
Jeanne sighed a little, but not from envy.
"There are two boys, twins, and a little daughter born but two years
ago. The boys are big and handsome, and wild as deer. But their father
will have them run and climb and shout and play ball and shoot arrows,
but not go out alone in a boat. Yet they can swim like fishes. Come, if
you can eat no more breakfast, let us go out. I do not believe Detroit
can match this, though it is larger."
There was a roadway about the palisades with two gates near either end,
then a curiously laid up stone wall where the natural rocks had failed.
Here on this plateau were cottages and lodges. Canadians, some trusty
Indians, and a sprinkling of half-breeds made a settlement, it would
seem. There were gardens abloom, fruit trees and grapevines, making a
pleasant odor in the early autumnal sun. There were sheep pasturing, a
herd of tame, beautiful deer, cows in great sheds, and fowl
domesticated, while doves went circling around overhead. Still another
wall almost hid the home of the White Chief, the name he was best known
by, and as one might say at that time a name to conjure with, for he was
really the manipulator of many of the Indian tribes, and endeavored to
keep the peace among them and deal fairly with them in the fur trading.
To the English he had proved a trusty neighbor, to the French a true
friend, though his advice was not always palatable.
"Oh, it is beautiful!" cried Jeanne. "Something like the farms outside
of the palisades at home. Inside--" she made a pretty gesture of
dissatisfaction,--"the town is crowded and dirty and full of bad smells,
except at the end where some of the officers and the court people and
the rich folk live. They are building some new places up by the military
gardens and St. Anne's Church, and beside the little river, where
everything keeps green and which is full of ducks and swans and herons.
And the great river is such a busy place since the Americans came. But
they have not so many soldiers in the garrison, and we miss the glitter
of the scarlet and the gold lace and the music they used to have. Still
the flag is beautiful; and most people seem satisfied. I like the
Americans," Jeanne said proudly.
The dame shook her head, but not in disapprobation altogether.
"The world is getting much mixed," she said. "I think the English still
feel bitter, but the French accept. Loudac hears the White Chief talk of
a time when all shall live together peaceably and, instead of trying to
destroy each other and their cities and towns, they will join hands in
business and improvement. For that is why the Indians perish and leave
so few traces,--they are bent upon each other's destruction, so the
villages and fields are laid waste and people die of starvation. There
are great cities in Europe, I have heard, that have stood hundreds of
years, and palaces and beautiful churches, and things last through many
generations. Loudac was in a town called Paris, when he was a little
boy, and it is like a place reared by fairy hands."
"Oh, yes, Madame, it is a wonderful city. I have read about it and seen
pictures," said Jeanne, eagerly.
"There are books and pictures up at the great house. And here comes
Loudac."
"Ha! my bright Morning Star, you look the better for a night's sleep. I
have been telling Miladi about our frightened refugee, and she wishes to
see you. Will it please you to come now?"
Jeanne glanced from one to the other.
"Oh, you need not feel afraid, you that have escaped Indians and crossed
the lake in the night. For Miladi, although the wife of the great White
Chief, and grand enough when necessary, is very gentle and kindly; is
she not, dame?"
The dame laughed. "Run along, petite," she said. "I must attend to the
house."
Inside this inclosure there was a really beautiful garden, a tiny park
it might be justly called. Birds of many kinds flew about, others of
strange plumage were in latticed cages. The walks were winding to make
the place appear larger; there was a small lake with water plants and
swans, and beds of brilliant flowers, trees that gave shade, vines that
distributed fragrance with every passing breeze. Here in a dainty nest,
that was indeed a vine-covered porch, sat a lady in a chair that
suggested a throne to Jeanne, who thought she had never seen anyone so
beautiful. She was not fair like either English or French, but the
admixture of blood had given her a fine, creamy skin and large brownish
eyes that had the softness of a fawn's. Every feature was clearly cut
and perfect. Jeanne thought of a marble head that stood on the shelf of
the minister's study at Detroit that was said to have come from a far
country called Italy.
As for her attire, that was flowered silk and fine lace, and some jewels
on her arms and fingers in golden settings that glittered like the rays
of sunrise when she moved them. There were buckles of gems on her
slippers, and stockings of strangely netted silk where the ivory flesh
shone through.
Jeanne dropped on her knees at the vision, and it smiled on her. No
saint at the Recollet house was half as fair.
"This is the little voyager cast upon our shore, Miladi," explained
Loudac with a bow and a touch of his hand to his head. "But Wanita did
not wreck her, only left her in our safe keeping until she can be
returned to her friends."
"Sit here, Mam'selle," and Miladi pointed to a cushion near her. Her
French was musical and soft. "It is quite a story, and not such an
unusual one either. Many maidens, I think, have been taken from home and
friends, and have finally learned to be satisfied with a life they would
not have chosen. You came from Detroit, Loudac says."
"Yes, Miladi," Jeanne answered, timidly.
"Do not be afraid." The lady laughed with ripples like a little stream
dropping over pebbly ways. "There is a story that my mother shared a
like fate, only she had to grow content with strange people and a
strange land. How was it? I have a taste for adventures."
Jeanne's girlish courage and spirits came back in a flash. Yet she told
her story carefully, bridging the little space where so much was left
out.
"Owaissa is a courageous maiden. It is said she carries a dagger which
she would not be afraid to use. She has some strange power over the
Indians. Her father was wronged out of his chieftaincy and then
murdered. She demanded the blood price, and his enemies were given up to
the tribe that took her under their protection. Yet I wonder a little
that she should choose Louis Marsac. The White Chief, my husband, does
not think him quite true in all his dealings, especially with women. But
if he trifled with her there would be a tragedy."
Jeanne shuddered. The tragedy had come so near.
Miladi asked some questions hard for Jeanne to answer with truth; how
she had come up the lake, and if her captors had treated her well.
"It seems quite mysterious," she said.
Then they talked about Detroit, and Jeanne's past life, and Miladi was
more puzzled than ever.
A slim young Indian woman brought in the baby, a dainty girl of two
years old, who ran swiftly to her mother and began chattering in French
with pretty broken words, and looking shyly at the guest. Then there was
a great shout and a rush as of a flock of birds.
"I beat Gaston, maman, six out of ten shots."
"But two arrows broke. They were good for nothing," interrupted the
second boy.
"And can't Antoine take us out fishing--" the boy stopped and came close
to Jeanne, wonderingly.
"This is Mademoiselle Jeanne," their mother said, "Robert and Gaston.
Being twins there is no elder."
They were round, rosy, sunburned boys, with laughing eyes and lithe
figures.
"Can you swim?" queried Robert.
"Oh, yes," and a bright smile crossed Jeanne's face.
"And paddle a canoe and row?"
"Yes, indeed. Many a time in the Strait, with the beautiful green shores
opposite."
"What strait, Mackinaw?"
"Oh, no. It is the river Detroit, but often called a strait."
"You can't manage a bow!" declared Robert.
"Yes. And fire a pistol. And--run."
"And climb trees?" The dark eyes were alight with mirth.
"Why, yes." Then Jeanne glanced deprecatingly at Miladi, so elegant, so
refined, if the word had come to her, but it remained in the chaos of
thought. "I was but a wild little thing in childhood, and there was no
one except Pani--my Indian nurse."
"Then come and run a race. The Canadians are clumsy fellows."
Robert grasped her arm. Gaston stood tilted on one foot, as if he could
fly.
"Oh, boys, you are too rough! Mam'selle will think you worse than wild
Indians."
"I should like to run with them, Miladi." Jeanne's eyes sparkled, and
she was a child again.
"As thou wilt." Miladi smiled and nodded. So much of the delight of her
soul was centered in these two handsome, fearless boys beloved by their
father. Once she remembered she had felt almost jealous.
"I will give you some odds," cried Jeanne. "I will not start until you
have reached the pole of the roses."
"No! no! no!" they shouted. "Girls cannot run at the end of the race.
There we will win," and they laughed gayly.
They were fleet as deer. Jeanne did not mean to outstrip them, but she
was seized with enthusiasm. It was as if she had wings to her feet and
they would not lag, even if the head desired it. She was breathless,
with flying hair and brilliant color, as she reached the goal and turned
to see two brave but disappointed faces.
"I told you it was not fair," she began. "I am larger than you, taller
and older. You should have had odds."
"But we can always beat Berthê Loudac, and she is almost as big as you.
And some of the Indian boys."
"Let us try it again. Now I will give you to the larch tree."
They started off, looking back when they reached that point and saw her
come flying. She was not so eager now and held back toward the last.
Gaston came in with a shout of triumph and in two seconds Robert was at
the goal. She laughed joyously. Their mother leaning over a railing
laughed also and waved her handkerchief as they both glanced up.
"How old are you?" asked Robert.
"Almost sixteen, I believe."
"And we are eight."
"That is twice as old."
"And when we are sixteen we will run twice as fast, faster than the
Indians. We shall win the races. We are going up North then. Don't you
want to go?"
Jeanne shook her head.
"But then girls do not go fur hunting. Only the squaws follow, to make
the fires and cook the meals. And you would be too pretty for a squaw.
You must be a lady like maman, and have plenty of servants. Oh, we will
ask father to bring you a husband as strong and nice and big as he is!
And then he will build you a lodge here. No one can have such a splendid
house as maman; he once said so."
"Come down to the palisade."
They ran down together. The inhabitants of the cottages and lodges
looked out after them, they were so gay and full of frolic. The gate was
open and Robert peered out. Jeanne took a step forward. She was anxious
to see what was beyond.
"Don't." Gaston put out his arm to bar her. "We promised never to go
outside without permission. Only a coward or a thief tells lies and
breaks his word. If we could find Loudac."
Loudac had gone over to Manitou. The dame had been baking some brown
bread with spice seeds in it, and she gave them all a great slice. How
good it tasted! Then they were off again, and when they reached the
house their mother had gone in, for the porch was hot from the sun.
Jeanne had never seen anything like it. The walls seemed set with
wonderful stones and gems, some ground to facets. Long strips of
embroidery in brilliant colors and curious designs parted them like
frames. Here a border of wampum shells, white, pale grayish, pink and
purple; there great flowers made of shells gathered from the shores of
lakes and rivers. At the far end of the room were two Indian girls
working on bead embroidery, another sewing rows of beautiful feathers in
a border.
The boys were eager to rehearse their good time.
"If they have not tired you to death," said their mother.
Jeanne protested that she had enjoyed it quite as much.
"It is a luxury to have a new playfellow now that their father is away.
They are so fond of him. Sometimes we all go."
"When will he return, Madame?"
"In a fortnight or so. Then he takes the long winter journey. That is a
more dreary time, but we shut ourselves up and have blazing fires and
work and read, and the time passes. There is the great hope at the end,"
and she gave an exquisite smile.
"But--Miladi--how can I get back to Detroit?"
"Must thou go?" endearingly. "If there are no parents--"
"But there is my poor Pani! And Detroit that I am so familiar with. Then
I dare say they are all wondering."
"Loudac will tell us when he comes back."
Loudac had a budget of news. First there had been a marriage that very
morning on the "Flying Star," the pretty boat of Louis Marsac, and
Owaissa was the bride. There had been a feast given to the men, and the
young mistress had stood before them to have her health drunk and
receive the good wishes and a belt of wampum, with a lovely white
doeskin cloak that was like velvet. Then they had set sail for Lake
Superior.
Jeanne was very glad of the friendly twilight. She felt her face grow
red and cold by turns.
"And the maiden Owaissa will be very happy," she said half in assertion,
half inquiry.
"He is smart and handsome, but tricky at times, and overfond of brandy.
But if a girl gets the man she wants all is well for a time, at least."
The next bit of news was that the "Return" would go to Detroit in four
or five days.
"Not direct, which will be less pleasant. For she goes first over to
Barre, and then crosses the lake again and stops at Presque Isle. After
that it is clear sailing. A boat of hides and freight goes down, but
that would not be pleasant. To-morrow I will see the captain of the
'Return.'"
"Thou wouldst not like a winter among us here?" inquired the dame. "It
is not so bad, and the boys at the great house are wild over thee."
"Oh, I must go," Jeanne said, with breathless eagerness. "I shall
remember all your kindness through my whole life."
"Home is home," laughed good-humored Loudac.
Very happy and light-hearted was Jeanne Angelot. There would be nothing
more to fear from Louis Marsac. How had they settled it, she wondered.
Owaissa had said that she sent the child home under proper escort. Louis
Marsac ground his teeth, and yet--did he care so much for the girl only
to gratify a mean revenge for one thing?--the other he was not quite
sure of. At all events Jeanne Angelot would always be the loser. The
Detroit foundling,--and he gave a short laugh like the snarl of a dog.
Delightful as everything was, Jeanne counted the days. She was up at the
great house and read to its lovely mistress, sang and danced with baby
Angelique, taking hold of the tiny hands and swinging round in graceful
circles, playing games with the boys and doing feats, and trying to
laugh off the lamentations, which sometimes came near to tears.
"How strange," said Miladi the last evening, "that we have never heard
your family name. Or--had you none?"
"Oh, yes, Madame. Some one took good care of that. It was written on a
paper pinned to me; and," laughing, "pricked into my skin so I could not
deny it. It is Jeanne Angelot. But there are no Angelots in Detroit."
Miladi grasped her arm so tightly that Jeanne's breath came with a
flutter.
"Are there none? Are you quite sure?" There was a strained sound in her
voice wont to be so musical.
"Oh, yes. Father Rameau searched."
Miladi dropped her arm.
"It grows chilly," she said, presently. "Shall we go in, or--" Somehow
her voice seemed changed.
"I had better run down to the dame's. Good night, Miladi. I have been so
happy. It is like a lovely dream of the summer under the trees. I am
sorry I cannot be content to stay;" and she kissed the soft hand, that
now was cold.
Miladi made no reply. Only she stood still longer in the cold, and
murmured, "Jeanne Angelot, Jeanne Angelot." And then she recalled a
laughing remark of Gaston's only that morning:--
"Jeanne has wintry blue eyes like my father's! Look, maman, the frost
almost sparkles in them. And he says his came from the wonderful skies
above the Arctic seas. Do you know where that is?"
No, Jeanne did not know where that was. But there were plenty of
blue-eyed people in Detroit.
She ran down the steps in the light of the young crescent moon, and
rubbed her arm a little where the fingers had almost made a dent.
The next day the "Return" touched at the island. It was not at all out
of her way, and the captain and Loudac were warm friends. The boys clung
to Jeanne and would hardly let her go.
"I wish my father could buy you for another sister," exclaimed Gaston
hanging to her skirt. "If he were here he would not let you go, I am
quite sure. It will take such a long while for Angelique to grow up, and
then we shall be men."
Did Miladi give her a rather formal farewell? It seemed as if something
chilled Jeanne.
Loudac and the dame were effusive enough to make amends. The "Return"
was larger but not as jaunty as the "Flying Star," and it smelled
strongly of salt fish. But Jeanne stepped joyously aboard--was she not
going to La Belle Detroit? All her pulses thrilled with anticipation.
Home! How sweet a word it was!
CHAPTER XVII.
A PÆAN OF GLADNESS.
Jeanne's little cabin was very plain, but the window gave a nice lookout
and could be opened at will. They would cross the lake and go down to
Barre on the Canada side, and that would give a different view. Was the
ocean so very much larger, she wondered in her inexperienced fashion.
They passed a few boats going up. It was curiously lonely, with great
reaches of stunted pines and scrubby hemlocks, then a space of rather
sandy shore and wiry grasses that reared themselves stiffly. There was
nothing to read. And now she wished for some sewing. She was glad enough
when night came. The next morning the sky was overcast and there was a
dull, threatening wind.
"If we can make Barre before it storms," said Captain Mallard. "There is
a good harbor, and a fierce east wind would drive us back to the other
side."
They fortunately made Barre before the storm broke in all its
fierceness, but it was terrible! There was a roar over the lake as if a
drove of bisons were tearing madly about. The great waves pounded and
battered against the sides of the vessel as if they would break through,
and the surf flew up from the point that jutted out and made the harbor.
Gulls and bitterns went screaming, and Jeanne held her breath in very
terror. Earth and lake and sky were one vast picture of desolation, for
where the eye stopped the mind went on.
All night and all the next day the storm continued beating and bruising.
But at evening the wind fell, and Jeanne gave thanks with a hearty and
humble mind, and slept that night. When she woke the sun was struggling
through a sky of gray, with some faint yellow and green tints that came
and went as if not sure of their way. By degrees a dull red commingled
with them and a sulky sun showed his face.
"It is well we were in a safe port, Mam'selle, for the storm has been
terrible," explained the worthy captain. "As it is, in the darkness we
have lost one man overboard, and a day must be spent in repairing. The
little town is not much, but it might be a rest to go ashore."
"Yes," said Jeanne, rather absently.
"If you have a good blanket--the cold has sprung up suddenly. It is
squaw winter, which comes sooner you know, like a woman's temper, and
spends itself, clearing the way for smiles again."
Dame Loudac had given her a fur cap with lappets that made a hood of it.
She had Owaissa's blanket, and some warm leggings. The captain helped
her ashore, but it was a most uncheerful outlook. A few streets with
roughly built cottages, some shops at the wharf, a packing house with
the refuse of fish about, and a wide stretch of level land on which the
wind had swept the trees so fiercely that most of them leaned westward.
"Oh, how can anyone live here!" cried Jeanne with a shiver, contrasting
it with the beautiful island home of the White Chief.
