With which interesting bit of information--presented gratis--the Parson
carefully laid his beloved "Dana" on the ground and sat down on it for
safety.
"Why can't you plebes mind your business, anyhow?" snarled Gus Murray.
"That's what I say, too!" cried Bull.
"Curious coincidence!" laughed Dewey. "Reminds me of a story I once
heard, b'gee--I guess it's most too long a story to tell through. Remind
me of it, Mark, and I'll tell it to you some day. One of the most
remarkable tales I ever heard, that! Told me by a fellow that used to
run a sausage factory. It was right next door to a 'Home for Homeless
Cats,' though, b'gee, I couldn't ever see how the cats were homeless if
they had a home there. They didn't stay very long, though. That was the
funniest part of it. They used to sit on the fence near the sausage
factory, b'gee----"
Dewey could have prattled on that way till doomsday with unfailing good
humor. It made the yearlings mad and that was all he cared about. But by
this time Bull had perceived that he was being guyed, and he turned away
with an angry exclamation.
"You fellows may stay if you choose;" he said, "I'm going back to camp.
And those plebes shall pay for this!"
"Cash on demand!" laughed Mark, as the discomfited crowd turned and
slunk off.
CHAPTER XIX.
THE ALLIANCE IS COMPLETED.
Having been thus easily rid of their unpleasant enemies, the plebes set
out in high feather for home.
"I must get back in time to dress for dinner, don't ye know," said the
dude.
"I'm 'bliged to yew fellows," put in the farmer, getting up from his
seat with a lazy groan. "My name's Methusalem Zebediah Chilvers, and
I'll shake hands all raound."
"And mine's Chauncey Van Rensallear Mount-Bonsall, don't ye know," said
the other, putting on his immaculate white gloves. "Bah Jove! I've lost
a cuff button, quarreling with those deuced yearlings!"
Chauncey's cuff button was found at last--he vowed he wouldn't go to
dinner without it--and then the party started in earnest, the two
strangers giving a graphic and characteristic account of the scrimmage
we have just witnessed.
Mark in the meantime was doing some thinking, wondering if here were
not two more eligible members of the "alliance." While he was debating
this question the "dude" approached him privately and began thus:
"I want to say something to you," he said. "Dye know, I can't see why we
plebes suffer so, bah Jove! I was thinking aw, don't ye know, if some of
us would band together we could--aw--chastise the deuced cadets and----"
Master Chauncey Van Rensallear Mount-Bonsall got no further, for Mark
came out then and told the secret. In a few moments the alliance had
added Number Six and Number Seven.
"And now, b'gee, I say let's organize, b'gee!" cried Dewey.
The sound of a drum from barracks put a stop to further business then,
but before supper there was a spare half hour, and during that time the
seven conspirators met in Mark's room to "organize." Indian was there,
too, now calm and meek again.
"In the first place," said Mark, "we want to elect a leader."
"Wow!" cried Texas, "what fo'? Ain't you leader?"
"I say, Mark, b'gee!" cried Dewey.
"Mark," said the Parson, solemnly.
"Mark," murmured Indian from the corner, and "Mark" chimed in the two
newcomers.
"It seems to be unanimous," said Mark, "so I guess I'll have to let it
go. But I'm sure I can't see why you think of me. What shall we call
ourselves?"
That brought a lengthy discussion, which space does not permit of being
given. The Loyal Legion, the Sons of the Revolution, the Independents,
the Cincinnati--suggested by the classic Parson--and also the Trojan
Heroes--from the same source--all these were suggested and rejected.
Then somebody moved the Seven Rebels, which was outvoted as not
expressive enough, but which led to another one that took the whole
crowd with a rush. It came from an unexpected source--the unobtrusive
Indian in the corner.
"Let's name it 'The Seven Devils'!" said he.
And the Seven Devils they were from that day until the time when the
class graduated from the Point.
"Three cheers for the Seven Devils!" cried Dewey, "b'gee!"
"Now," said the Parson, rising with a solemn look, "let us swear eternal
fealty by all that man holds holy. Let us swear by the Stygian Shades
and the realms of Charon, whence all true devils come. Yea, by Zeus!"
"And we'll stand by one another to the death, b'gee," cried Dewey.
"Remember, we're organized for no purpose on earth but to do those
yearlings, and we'll lick 'em, b'gee, if they dare to look at us."
"Show 'em no mercy, don't ye know," said "Chauncey."
"And let's have a motto," cried Indian, becoming infected with the
excitement. "'Down with the yearlings.'"
"I suggest 'We die but we never surrender,' b'gee."
"'Veni, vidi, vici,'" remarked the Parson, "or else 'Dulce et decorum
est pro patria mori,' in the immortal words of Horace, poet of the
Sabine farm."
"A motto should be brief," laughed Mark. "I can beat you all. I'll give
you a motto in three letters of the alphabet."
"Three letters!" echoed the crowd. "Three letters! What is it?"
"It expresses all our objects in forming," said Mark, "and we'll have
lots of fun if we obey it. My motto is 'B. B. J.'"
"Bully, b'gee!" cried Dewey, and the rest echoed his approval with a
rush.
That was, all except the unobtrusive Indian in the corner.
"I--I don't quite," he stammered, "quite see it. Why is----"
"Ahem!" Mark straightened himself up and put on his best professional
air in imitation of the Parson. "Ahem! If you had lived in Boston, and
devoted yourself to the cultivation of the intellectualities--yea, by
Zeus!--instead of learning to lose your temper and chase yearlings like
a wild Texan---- However, I'll explain it."
"Please do!" cried Indian, innocently. "I'll never chase the yearlings
again."
"That's good! B. J. stands for 'before June,' and is West Point slang
for 'fresh.'"
"I knew what B. J. means," put in Indian.
"What! Then why didn't you say so and save me the trouble? The other B.
is the present imperative of the verb to be; he was, being, been, is,
am, ain't. And the only way I can explain what B. B. J. means is to say
that it means be B. J., be B. J. with a vengeance, and when you get
tired of being B. J., B. B. J. some more. Do you see?"
"Er, yes," said Indian.
"And now," laughed Mark, "since we're through, three cheers for the
Seven Devils!"
And that is the story of the forming of West Point's first and only
secret society, a society which was destined to introduce some very,
very exciting incidents into West Point's dignified history, the Seven
Devils, B. B. J.
CHAPTER XX.
INDIGNATION OF THE YEARLINGS.
"By George, he's the freshest plebe that ever struck this place!"
The speaker was Bull Harris, and he was sitting on the steps of the
library building along with half a dozen classmates, excitedly and
angrily discussing the fight.
"Now I tell you Mark Mallory's got to be put out of this place in a
week," continued the first speaker. "And I don't care how it's done,
either, fair or foul."
"That's just what I say, too!" chimed in Baby Edwards. "He's got to be
put out in a week!"
Bull Harris smiled benignly upon his toadying echo, while the rest of
the gang nodded approvingly.
"I'm sure everybody agrees that he's got to be taken down," put in
somebody else. "The only trouble is I don't see how on earth it is to be
done."
"That's the worst of it!" snarled Bull. "That fellow Mallory seems to
get the best of us everything we try; confound him!"
"I'm sure such a thing has never been known at West Point," said
another. "Just think of it! Why, it's the talk of the post, and
everybody's laughing at us, and the plebes are getting bolder every
minute. One of them actually dared to turn up his nose at me to-day.
Think of it--at me--a yearling, and he a vile beast!"
"It's perfectly awful," groaned Bull. "Perfectly awful! Imagine a crowd
of yearlings allowing themselves to be stopped while hazing a
plebe--stopped, mind you, by half as many plebes--and then to make it a
thousand times worse to have the fellow they were hazing taken away!"
"And the yearlings all chased back to camp by a half-crazy Texan,"
chimed in another, who hadn't been there and so could afford to mention
unpleasant details.
"Yet what can we do?" cried Baby. "We can't offer to fight him. He's as
good as licked Billy Williams, and Bill's the best man we could put up.
That Mallory's a regular terror."
"Mark Mallory's got to be taken down."
This suggestion was good, only rather indefinite, which indefiniteness
was remarked by one of the crowd, Merry Vance, the cadet who had
interposed the same objection before. Merry was a tall, slender youth,
with a whitish hue that suggested dissipation, and a fine, scornful
curve to his lips that suggested meanness no less clearly.
"It's all very well to say we've got to do him," said he, "but that
don't say how. As I said, we can't find a man in our class to whip him
fair. And we can't tackle him in a crowd because in the first place he
seems to have his own gang, and in the second place none of us dares to
touch him. I know I don't, for one."
"Pooh!" laughed Bull, scornfully. "I'm not afraid of him."
"Me either!" chimed in the little Baby, doubling up his fists.
"All right," said the other. "Only I noticed you both kept good and
quiet when he stepped up to loosen Indian."
There was an awkward silence for a few minutes after that; Bull Harris
could think of nothing to say, for he knew the charge was true; and as
for Baby Edwards, he never said anything until after his big friend had
set him an example.
"We can't get him into any trouble with the authorities, either,"
continued Vance at last. "In fact, I don't know what we are to do."
"He's simply turned West Point's customs topsy-turvy," groaned another.
"Why, when we were plebes nobody ever dared to think of defying a
yearling. And this Mallory and his gang are running the place. No one
dares to haze a plebe any more."
"Talking about that," said Gus Murray, another yearling who had just
strolled up. "Talking about that, just see what happened to me not five
minutes ago. Met one of the confounded beasts--that fellow, by the way,
we did up, though it don't seem to have done him the least bit of
good--just as B. J. as ever. You know who I mean, the rather handsome
chap they call Dewey. He went to pass the color guard up at camp just
now and he didn't raise his hat. The sentry called him down for it, and
then as he went off I said to him: 'You ought to know better than that,
plebe.' 'Thank you,' says he, and when I told him he should say 'sir' to
a higher cadet, what on earth do you suppose he had the impudence to
say?"
"What?" inquired the crowd, eagerly.
"Said he wouldn't do it because I hadn't said 'sir' to him!"
"What!"
"Yes, indeed! Did you ever hear of such impudence? Why, I'll leave the
academy to-morrow if that kind of thing keeps up."
And with that dire threat Gus Murray seated himself on the steps and
relapsed into a glum silence.
"I heard you sat down on that Mallory last Saturday," observed some one
at last.
"That's what I did!" responded Murray, brightening up at the mention of
a less discouraging incident. "Mary Adams introduced me to him and I cut
him dead. Gee, but he was mad!"
"Wonder, if he'll try to make you apologize," said Bull.
"It would be just like him," put in Merry.
The other looked as if he didn't relish the possibility one bit; he
turned the conversation quickly.
"Wait till he tries it," said he. "In the meantime I'm more interested
in the great question, what are we going to do to take him down?"
"Can't think of a thing," said Vance, flatly. "Not a thing!"
"By George!" cried Bull. "I'm going to think of something if I die for
it."
"I'll shake with you on that," put in Murray. "We won't rest till we get
a plan."
"Let me in too," said Vance.
"And me too!" cried Baby.
And so it happened that when the informal assembly dissolved for supper
it dissolved with but one idea in the mind of every cadet in the
party--that Mark Mallory must be taken down!
A plan came at last, one which was enough to do for any one; and when it
came it came from a most unexpected source, none other than the Baby,
who never before in the memory of Bull had dared to say anything
original. The baby's sweet little brain, evolving the interesting
problem, struck an idea which, so to speak, brought down the house.
"I'll tell you what!" he cried. "I've a scheme!"
"What is it?" inquired Bull, incredulously.
"Let's soak him on demerits!"
And with a look of delight Bull turned and stared at Murray.
"By the lord!" he cried, "that's it. We'll soak him on demerits!"
Then the precious trio locked arms and did a war on the campus.
"Just the thing!" gasped Bull, breathlessly. "Murray's a corporal and he
can do it! Whoop!"
"Yes!" cried the Baby. "And he was put over plebes to-day. Will you do
it, Murray?"
And Murray lost no time in vowing that he would; Bull Harris felt then
that at last he was on the road to victory.
It is necessary to explain the system of discipline which prevails at
West Point. A cadet is allowed to receive only one hundred "demerits"
during the first six months of his stay. These demerits are assigned
according to a regular and inflexible schedule; thus for being late at
roll call, a minor offense, a cadet receives two demerits, while a
serious offense, such as disobedience of orders or sitting down on post
while on sentry duty, brings ten units of trouble in its wake. These
demerits are not given by the instructor or the cadet who notices the
offense; but he enters the charge in a book which is forwarded to
headquarters. The report is read out after parade that same day and
posted in a certain place the next day; and four days later the
superintendent assigns the demerits in all cases where "explanations"
have not been received.
The following is an example of an explanation:
      "West Point, N. Y., ---- --, 18--. Report--Bedding not
      properly folded at police inspection.
      "Explanation--Some one disarranged my bedding after I
      had piled it. I was at the sink at the time of
      inspection, and I readjusted the bedding upon my
      return.
      "Respectfully submitted,
      "---- ----,
      "Cadet ----, Co. ----, ---- Class.
      "To the Commandant of Cadets."
Cadets usually hand in explanations, though the explanations are not
always deemed satisfactory.
Reports are made by the army officers, and also by cadets themselves,
file closers, section marchers and others. It was in this last fact that
Bull Harris and his friend Murray saw their chance.
It very seldom happens that a cadet reports another except where the
report is deserved; a man who does otherwise soon gets into trouble. But
Bull and his gang saw no obstacle in that; most of them were always
head over heels in demerits themselves, including Murray--though he was
a "cadet-corporal." Being thus, and in consequent danger of expulsion,
they were reckless of possible trouble. And besides, Bull had sworn to
haze that plebe, and he meant to do it.
The plan in brief was simply this: Mark Mallory must be demerited right
and left, everywhere and upon every possible pretext, just or
unjust--and that was all. The thing has been done before; there is talk
of doing it whenever a colored lad is admitted to the Point. And Murray
was the man to do it, too, because he had just been transferred and put
"on duty over plebes." It was only necessary to give one hundred
demerits. One hundred demerits is a ticket of leave without further
parley or possibility of return.
CHAPTER XXI.
A MILD ATTEMPT AT HAZING.
If Cadet Corporal Murray had any doubts about the necessity for putting
this very dirty scheme into practice, or if his not over squeamish
conscience was the least bit troubled by the prospect, something
happened that same evening which effectually squelched such ideas. It
was after supper, during half an hour of so-called "rest," which is
allowed to the over-drilled plebe. Mr. Murray, in whose manly breast
still burned a fire of rage at the insult which "B. J." Dewey had
offered him, resolved in his secret heart that that same insult must and
should be avenged. That evening he thought an especially favorable time,
for Dewey was still an "invalid," as a result of his last B. J. effort.
With this purpose in view, Cadet Murray stole away from his companions
and set out for barracks, around which the luckless plebes were
clustered. Arriving there, he hunted; he spent quite a while in hunting,
for the object of his search was nowhere to be seen. He caught sight of
Mark and his "gang," but Dewey was not among them. When he did find him
at last it was a good way from that place--way up on Flirtation Walk;
and then Cadet Murray got down to business at once.
"Look a here, B. J. beast!" he called.
The object of this peremptory challenge turned, as also did his
companion, the terrified Indian--once more about to be hazed. The two
stared at the yearling; a lady and gentleman passing glanced at him
also, probably wondering what was in store for the luckless plebes; and
then they passed on, leaving the place lonely, and deserted, just the
spot for the proposed work. So thought the yearling, as he rubbed his
hands gleefully and spoke again.
"Beast!" said he, "I want to tell you that you were very impudent to me
to-day!"
"Strange coincidence!" cried Dewey, with one of his merry laughs.
"Reminds me of a story I once heard, b'gee. Two old farmers got stuck in
a snowdrift--five feet deep, and getting deeper. Says one of 'em, b'gee,
'It's c-c-c-cold!' 'B'gee!' cried the other. 'B'gee, naow ain't that
pecooliar! Jes' exactly what I was goin' to say myself, b'gee!'"
Cadet Murray listened to this blithe recital with a frowning brow.
"You think that's funny, don't you!" he sneered.
"No, b'gee!" laughed Dewey, "because I didn't write it. 'Nother fellow
told me that--the queerest chap I think I ever knew, he was. Had a
mother-in-law that used to----"
"Shut up!" cried Murray, in anger, seeing that he was being "guyed."
"B'gee!" cried Dewey, "that's just what she didn't!"
There was an ominous silence after that, during which the yearling
glared angrily, and Indian muttered "Bless my soul!"
"It's quite evident," began the former, at last, "that you are inclined
to be fresh."
"Ink-lined to be fresh," added Dewey, "as the stamped egg remarked when
it was dated three days after it was laid. That's another far-fetched
joke, though. Still I've heard some more far-fetched than that--one a
friend of mine read on an Egyptian pyramid and brought home to tell for
new. Queer fellow that friend of mine was, too. He didn't have a
mother-in-law, this one, but he slept in a folding bed, and, b'gee, that
bed used to shut up oftener than the mother-in-law didn't. Handsome
bed, too--an inlaid bed--and it shut up whenever it was laid in, b'gee."
Dewey could have prattled on at this merry rate for an hour, for he knew
more jokes--good ones--and could make up more bad ones on the spur of
the moment than half a dozen ordinary mortals. But he was brought to a
sudden halt just then, and muttered a suppressed "B'gee!" For the
yearling, wild with anger, leaped forward and aimed a savage blow at his
head.
The plebe ducked; he was quick and agile in body as he was in mind. And
then as the big cadet aimed another blow, he put up his one well
arm--the other was in a sling--and defended himself to the best of his
ability, at the same time calling Indian to his aid.
But before there was time for another move something else happened.
Dewey was debating whether discretion were not really the whole of
valor, and whether it were not better to "run away and live to fight--or
run away--some other day;" and Indian was actually doubling up his fat
little fists about to strike the first blow in his fat little life; when
suddenly came a shout behind them, and a moment later a strong hand
seized the advancing yearling by the back of his collar and flung him
head first to the ground.
Cadet Murray sprang to his feet again and turned purple with rage and
soiled with dirt, to confront the stalwart form of Mark, and Mark
rubbing his hands together and smiling cheerfully.
"Will you have any more?" he inquired, politely. "Step right up if you
will--and by the way, stop that swearing."
"A very timely arrival," remarked Dewey, smoothing his jacket. "Very
timely, b'gee! Reminds me----"
"Bless my soul!" cried Indian.
"Going, are you?" put in Mark, as the discomfited Murray started to
slink away. "Well, good-evening. I've had my satisfaction for being
called a coward by you."
"You shall pay for this," the furious cadet muttered. "Pay for it as
sure as I'm alive!"
His threat was taken lightly by the plebes; they had little idea of what
he meant when he spoke. And they were chatting merrily about the
adventure as they turned and made their way back to barracks.
"It only goes to show," was Mark's verdict, "that an alliance is a
first-rate idea. I saw that fellow prowling around barracks and I knew
right away what he was up to. We've one more enemy, that's all."
That was not all, by a good sight. The angry yearling hurried back to
camp, nursing his feelings as he went; there he poured out the vials of
his wrath into the ears of his two sympathetic companions, Bull and the
Baby. And the three of them spent the rest of that evening, up to
tattoo, discussing their revenge, thinking up a thousand pretexts upon
which Cadet Mallory might be "skinned." There was a bombshell scheduled
to fall into the midst of the "alliance" the next day.
CHAPTER XXII.
THE BOMBSHELL FALLS.
Nothing happened that evening; Mark and his friends passed their time in
serene unconsciousness of any danger, merrily discussing the latest
hazing effort of the enemy. Bull Harris and his crowd did not put in
appearance, or try to put their plot into execution, for the simple
reason that there was no chance. The first "whack," so to speak, was
scheduled for the A. M. inspection the next day. The only inspection at
night is made by a "tac"--a practical officer--who goes the rounds with
a dark lantern after taps to make sure that no plebes have been run away
with.
Reveille and roll call the next morning passed without incident, except
that Cadet Mallory was reported "late" at the latter function; the
charge being true, no suspicions were awakened. After that came the
march to mess hall, the plebe company, which was by this time able to
march presentably though rather stiffly, falling in behind the rest of
the corps. During that march "File Closer" Vance had occasion to rebuke
Cadet Mallory for loud talking in ranks. It hadn't been loud, at least
not very loud, but Mark swallowed it and said nothing.
Breakfast passed without incident, and the plebes were marched back to
barracks, there breaking ranks, and scattering to quarters to "spruce
up" for inspection. Mark and Texas, who shared the same room, lost no
time in getting to work at the sweeping and dusting and arranging.
It seems scarcely necessary to say that there are no chambermaids at
West Point. Cadets do their own room cleaning, "policing," as it is
called, and they do it well, too. A simpler, barer place than a room in
barracks it would be hard to imagine. Bare white walls--no pictures
allowed--and no wall paper--a black fireplace, a plain table, an iron
bedstead, a washstand, two chairs, and a window is about the entire
inventory. And every article in that room must be found placed with
mathematical precision in just such a spot and no other. There is a
"bluebook"--learned by heart--to tell where; and there are penalties for
every infringement. Demerits are the easiest things in the world to
get; enough might be given at one inspection to expel.
The signal, dreaded like poison by all plebes, that the time for
inspection has come, is a heavy step in the hall and a single tap upon
the door. It came that morning while the two victims-to-be were still
hard at work. In accordance with orders each sprang up, stood at
attention--heels together, head up, eyes to the front, chest out,
etc.--and silently awaited developments.
Mark gasped for breath when he saw who it was that entered; Cadet
Corporal Jasper had been transferred and the man who was to do the work
this time was none other than Murray, next to Bull Harris, Mark's
greatest enemy on earth.
Cadet Murray looked handsome in his spotless uniform of gray and white,
with his chevrons of gold; he strode in with a stern and haughty look
which speedily changed to one of displeasure as he gazed about him at
the room. He took a rapid mental count of the possible charges he could
make; and then glanced up at the name which is posted on the wall,
telling who is "room orderly" for the week--and so responsible for the
faults. It was Mallory, and the yearling could scarcely hide a smile of
satisfaction.
"You plebes have had nearly two weeks now," he began, frowning with
well-feigned displeasure, "in which to learn to arrange your rooms. The
disorder which I see shows not only carelessness but actual
insubordination. And I propose to make an example of you two for once
and for all."
The two victims were expected to say nothing; and they said it. But Mark
did a pile of thinking and his heart sank as he realized what his enemy
might do if he chose. It is possible to find a thousand faults in the
most perfect work if one only hunts long enough and is willing to split
hairs.
Cadet Corporal Murray took out a notebook and pencil with obvious
meaning.
"In the first place," said he, "where should that broom be? Behind the
door, should it not? Why is it not? I find that your bedding is piled
carelessly, very carelessly. The blanket is not evenly folded; moreover,
the bluebook states particularly that the blanket is to be placed at the
bottom of the pile. You may see that it is not so. Why, Mr. Mallory, I
do not think it has ever happened to me to find a room so utterly
disorderly, or a cadet so negligent! Look at that bluebook; it belongs
upon the mantelpiece, and I see it on the bed----"
"I was reading it," put in Mark, choking down his anger by a violent
effort.
And as he spoke the corporal's face grew sterner yet.
"In the first place, sir," said he, "you have no business to be reading
while awaiting inspection, and you know it--though I must say a more
frequent study of that book would save you much trouble. In the second
place, you are not expected to answer under such circumstances; the
proper thing for you to do is to hand in the explanation to the
authorities, and you know that, too. I am sent here to notice and report
delinquencies and not to argue about them with you. I regret now that I
shall be obliged to mention the fact that you remonstrated with an
officer during inspection, a most serious charge indeed."
And Cadet Corporal Murray made another note in his book, chuckling
inwardly as he did it.
"What next?" thought the two plebes.
There was lots more. The yearling next stepped over to the mantelpiece
and ran his finger, with its spotless white glove, along the inner
edge. Texas had rubbed that mantel fiercely; yet, to get it so clean as
not to soil the glove was almost impossible, and so the corporal first
held up the finger to show the mark of dirt and then--wrote down "dust
on mantel."
There is no need to tell the rest in detail, but simply to say that
while Mark and his roommate gazed on in blank despair, their jubilant
enemy made out a list of at least a dozen charges, which he knew would
aggregate to at least half of the demerit maximum, and for every one of
which there was some slight basis of justification. The yearling was
shrewd enough to suspect this fact would prevent their being excused,
for he did not think that Mark would sign his name to a lie in his
explanation.
The disastrous visit was closed with a note--"floor unswept"--because
three scraps of paper were observed peering out from under the table;
and then without another word the cadet turned on his heel and marched
out of the room. And Mark and Texas stood and stared at each other in
utter and abject consternation.
It was a minute at least before either of them spoke; they were both
too dumfounded. The bombshell had struck, and had brought ruin in its
path. Mark knew now what was the power of his enemies; knew that he was
gone. For with such a weapon as the one the cowardly Murray had struck
his dismissal was the matter of a week or less. Already he was more than
halfway to expulsion; already the prize for which he had fought so long
and so hard was slipping from his grasp. And all on account of a
cowardly crowd he had made his enemies because he had been strong and
manly enough to do what he knew was right.
It was a cruel fact and Mark felt pretty bitter toward West Point just
then. As for Texas, his faithful friend and roommate, Texas said not one
word; but he went to the chimney, up which he had hidden his sixteen
revolvers for safety, calmly selected two of the biggest, and having
examined the cartridges, tucked them safely away in his rear pockets.
Then he sat down on the bed and gave vent to a subdued "Durnation!"
About this same time Cadet Corporal Murray, having handed in his reports
at headquarters, was racing joyfully back to camp, there to join his
friend, Bull Harris, with a shout of victory.
"Rejoice! Rejoice!" he cried, slapping his chum on the back. "We've got
him! I soaked him for fifty at least!"
CHAPTER XXIII.
IN THE SHADOW OF DISMISSAL.
The rest of that day passed without incident. Mark managed after a good
deal of trouble to postpone Texas' hunting trip; and the two struggled
on through the day's drills disconsolately, waiting to see what would
happen next.
Evening came, and the plebes being lined up in barracks area the roll
was called, the "orders" read, and then the reports of the day. The
cadet who did the reading rattled down the list in his usual hurried,
breathless style. But when he came to M he paused suddenly; he gazed at
the list incredulously, then cleared his throat, took a long foreboding
breath and began:
"Mallory--Late at roll call.
"Same--Laughing loud in ranks.
"Same--Bedding improperly arranged at A. M. inspection.
"Same--Broom out of place at A. M. inspection.
"Same--Remonstrating with superior officer at A. M. inspection."
And so the cadet officer went on, the whole plebe class listening with
open-eyed amazement while one charge after another was rattled off, and
gazing out of the corners of their eyes at the object of the attack, who
stood and listened with a look of calm indifference upon his face.
The list was finished at last, when the listeners had about concluded
that it was eternal; the rest of the reports were quickly disposed of,
and then: "Break ranks, march!" and the line melted into groups of
excited and eagerly talking cadets, discussing but one subject--the ruin
of Mallory.
Of course it was known to every one that this was simply one more effort
of the yearlings to subdue him; and loud were the threats and
expressions of disapproval. Mark's bravery in making a fight for his
honor had won him the admiration of his class, and the class felt that
with his downfall came a return of the old state of affairs and the
complete subjection of the "beasts" once more.
There were jealous ones who rejoiced secretly, and there were timid ones
who declared that they had always said that Mallory was too B. J. to
last. But in the main there was nothing but genuine anger at the upper
classmen's "rank injustice," and wild talk of appealing to the
superintendent to bring it to a stop.
The utter consternation of the seven allies is left to the reader's
imagination. After the first shock of horror had passed the crowd had
sat down and made a calculation; they found fifty-five demerits due that
day, which, together with ten previously given, left thirty-five to go,
and then--why it made them sick to think of what would happen!
Having striven to realize this for half an hour, they got together and
swore a solemn oath, first, that if Mark were dismissed, a joint
statement of the reasons thereof, incidentally mentioning each and every
act of hazing done by the yearlings, naming principals, witnesses, time
and place, should be forwarded to the superintendent, signed by the six;
and second, that every yearling who gave a demerit should be "licked
until he couldn't stand up."
Texas also swore incidentally that he'd resign if Mark were "fired," and
take him down to Texas to make a cowboy of him. And after that there was
nothing to do but wait and pray--and clean up for next day's
inspection, a task at which the whole seven labored up to the very last
minute before tattoo.
       *       *       *       *       *
It was the afternoon of the following day; the rays of a scorching July
sun beat down upon the post, and West Point seemed asleep. Up by Camp
McPherson the cadets were lounging about in idleness, and it was only
down at barracks that there was anything moving at all. Inside the area
the hot and shimmering pavement echoed to the tread of the plebe company
at drill; outside the street was deserted except for one solitary figure
with whom our story has to do. The figure was a cadet officer in
uniform, Captain Fischer, of the first class, resplendent in his
chevrons and sash.
He was marching down the street with the firm, quick step that is second
nature to a West Pointer; he passed the barracks without looking in and
went on down to the hospital building; and there he turned and started
to enter. The door opened just as he reached it, however, and another
cadet came out. The officer sprang forward instantly and grasped him by
the hand.
"Williams!" he cried. "Just the fellow I was coming to see. And what a
beautiful object you are!"
Williams smiled a melancholy smile; he was beautiful and he knew it. His
face was covered in spots with Greek crosses of court-plaster, and
elsewhere by startling red lumps. And he walked with a shy, retiring
gait that told of sundry other damages. Such were the remains of
handsome "Billy," all-round athlete and favorite of his class, defeated
hero.
Williams had waited scarcely long enough for this thought to flash over
the young officer before he spoke again, this time with some anxiety.
"Tell me! Tell me about Mallory! I hear they're skinning him on
demerits."
"Yes, they are," returned Fischer, "and they've soaked him twenty more
this morning!"
"Twenty more! Then how many has he?"
"Eighty-five."
"What!" cried Williams. "You don't mean it! Why, he'll be out in a week.
Say, Fischer, that's outrageous!"
"Perfectly outrageous!" vowed the officer.
And Williams brought his hand down on his knee with a bang.
"By George!" he cried, "I'm going around to see him about it!"
With which words he sprang down the stairs and, leaving the cadet
officer to gaze at him in surprise, hurried up the street to barracks.
Squad drill was just that moment over; without wasting any time about
it, Williams hurried into the building and made his way to Mallory's
room. He found the plebe, and got right to work to say what he had to
say.
"Mr. Mallory," he began, "I've come up in the first place to shake hands
with you, and to say there's no hard feeling."
"Thank you," said Mark, and his heart went with the grip of his hand.
"You made a good fight, splendid!" continued the yearling. "And some day
I'll be proud to be your friend."
"I'm afraid," returned Mark, with a sad smile, "that I'll not be here
that long."
"That's the second thing I've come to see you about," vowed Williams.
"Mr. Mallory, I want you to understand that the decent men of this
class don't approve of the work that Mur--er, I suppose you know who's
back of it. And I tell you right now that I'm going to stop it if it's
the last act I ever do on this earth!"
"I'm afraid it won't do much good," responded the other, shaking his
head. "I could never pass six months without getting fifteen demerits."
"It's a shame!" cried the other. "And you have worked for your
appointment, too."
"I have worked," exclaimed Mark, something choking his voice that
sounded suspiciously near a sob, "worked for it as I have never worked
for anything in my life. It has been the darling ambition of my heart to
come here. And I came--and now--and now----"
He stopped, for he could think of no more to say. Williams stood and
regarded him in silence for some moments, and then he took him by the
hand again.
"Mr. Mallory," said he, "just as sure as I'm alive this thing shall
stop! Keep up heart now, and we'll make a fight for it! While there's
life there's hope, they say--and, by Heaven, you shan't be expelled!"
The following evening, when the reports were read, Mark's list of
demerits had reached a total of ninety-five.
The excitement among plebes and cadets alike was intense, and it was
known far and wide that Mark Mallory, the "B. J." plebe, stood at last
"in the shadow of dismissal."
CHAPTER XXIV.
A LETTER.
      "MY DEAR FISCHER: I promised to drop you a line just
      to let you know how I'm getting along, though it does
      take a tremendous pile of energy to write a letter on
      a hot afternoon like this. I'm sure I shall go to
      sleep in the middle of it, and naturally, too, for
      even writing to you is enough to bore anybody. I can
      almost imagine you leaning over to whack at me in
      return for that compliment.
      "Well, I am home on furlough; and I don't know whether
      I wish I were back or not, for I fear that you will
      have cut me out on all the girls, especially since you
      are a high and mighty first captain this year.
      Speaking of girls, you just ought to be here. The
      girls at West Point are blasé on cadets, for they
      see so many; but here a West Point officer is cock of
      the walk, and I have to fight a jealous rival once a
      week."
Cadet Captain Fischer dropped the letter at this stage of it and lay
back and laughed.
"Wicks Merritt's evidently forgotten I was on furlough once myself," he
said. "He's telling me all about how it goes."
"What's he got to say?" inquired Williams, the speaker's tentmate,
looking up from the gun he was cleaning.
"Oh, nothing much; only a lot of nonsense--jollying as usual. Wicks
always is."
And then Fischer picked up the letter again, and went on.
The two were seated near the door of a tent in "Company A Street," at
Camp McPherson. Fischer was lying in front of the tent "door," which was
open to admit the morning breeze that swept across the parade ground.
His friend sat over in an opposite corner and rubbed away.
There was silence of some minutes, broken only by the sound of the
polishing and the rustling of Fischer's paper. And then the latter spoke
again.
"Oh, say!" said he. "Here's something that'll interest you, Billy.
Something about your friend Mallory."
"Fire away," said Williams.
      "'By the way, when you answer this let me know
      something about my pet and protégé, future football
      captain of the West Point eleven. The last time I
      heard from where you are, Mark Mallory was raising
      Cain. I heard that he was a B. J. plebe for fair; that
      he'd set to work to make war on the yearlings, and had
      put them to rout in style; also, incidentally, that
      he was scheduled to fight Billy Williams, the
      yearling's pet athlete. Tell Billy I hope the plebe
      does him; tell him I say that if Mallory once whacks
      him on the head with that right arm of his he'll see
      more stars from the lick than the Lick telescope can
      show----'"
"Billy" broke in just then with a dismal groan.
"I don't know whether that's because of the pun," laughed Fischer, "or
because of your recollection of the blow. However, I'll proceed.
      "'Now, I don't care how much you fellows haze my
      Mallory; he's tough and he can stand it. He'll
      probably give you tit for tat every time, anyhow. But
      I do want to say this--watch out that nobody tries any
      foul play on him, skins him on demerits or reports him
      unfairly. Do me a favor and keep your eye out for
      that. Watch particularly Bull Harris, who is, I think,
      the meanest sneak in the yearling class, and also his
      chum, Gus Murray.
      "'I know it for a fact that Mallory caught Bull in a
      very dirty act about a month ago and knocked spots out
      of him for it. I can't tell you what the act was; but
      Bull has sworn vengeance and he'll probably try to get
      it, so watch for me. If you let Mallory get into
      trouble, mind what I say, I'll never forgive you as
      long as you live. I'll cut you out with Bessie Smith,
      who, they say, is your fair one at present. Mallory is
      a treasure, and when you know him as well as I you'll
      think so, too.'"
Cadet Captain Fischer dropped the letter, sat up, and stared at
