           Cadet Edmund S. Harris----
Mark read not another word; he stared at the paper in amazement and
incredulity, rapidly changing to glee. Harris! Bull Harris delivering an
oration! Mark turned and faced his companions, feeling about ready to
burst with hilarity.
"Listen here, fellows!" he cried. "Here's a chance, a chance of a
lifetime! Oh, say! Bull's going to make a speech! Gee whiz! We'll----"
"Didn't you fellows know about that?" put in a voice in the doorway, as
Dewey's face appeared there. "I heard the yearlings talking about it.
They say Bull's a fine orator, that he's been working at an elegant
speech for months. And, b'gee, he means to bring down the house."
Mark's face was simply a picture of merriment at that.
"Fellows," he said, as soon as he could manage to get breath to say
anything at all. "Fellows, I'll go you just one bargain more."
"What is it?" cried the others.
"It's very simple. It's just that we spoil that beautiful speech of Bull
Harris', if we have to bust to do it."
And the seven cried "Done!" in one breath.
CHAPTER III.
A NEW ALLY.
The more they thought over that scheme the better they liked it; the
more they imagined Bull Harris, pompous and self-conscious, spouting his
magnificent periods and then brought to an ignominious and ridiculous
conclusion, the more they chuckled with glee. They felt no prickings of
conscience in the matter, for Bull was not a personage to inspire such.
His devices had been cowardly and desperate; only last night he had been
on the point of lashing Mark with a rope when the latter was helplessly
tied to a tree. With such a man ordinary standards of fairness did not
hold good.
The only trouble with the "scheme" was its general indefiniteness. And
that the seven recognized. It was all very well to say you were going to
"bust up" Bull Harris' speech. But how? It would not do to guy him, or
to use any device of which the authors might be found out. It was quite
a problem.
Texas suggested an alarm of fire, which was outvoted as dangerous,
likely to produce a panic. Some one else wondered how about kidnaping
Bull and tying him up. This suggestion was put on file as being
possible, to be consulted in case no better appeared, which bid fair
just then to be the case.
Mark and his friends marched down to dinner without any further ideas
appearing. The plebes still marched separate from the rest of the corps,
though they were allowed to share the privilege of the spirited band
which enlivened the proceedings. They still sat at separate tables, too,
which made most of them feel very much outcast indeed.
The command "Break ranks," after the march from mess hall again, marked
the beginning of that holiday during which the seven had vowed to do so
much. And still nobody had seemed to hit upon any suitable plan for the
discomfiture of Bull Harris.
"We've got to hurry up about it, too," Mark declared. "For, if there's
any fixing up to be done, we ought to be doing it now."
"Where's the thing to be, anyway?" inquired Dewey.
"In the big gymnasium building, they say," was the answer. "They'll
probably cover the floor with seats. But I don't think we can do
anything inside the place. I think we ought to kick up some sort of
rumpus outside."
And with this advice the seven heads got to work again.
Ideas come slowly when you want them badly. It would seem that with
those seven minds busy on the same subject something should have
resulted. But it didn't. The seven strolled away from camp and wandered
about the grounds cudgeling their brains and calling themselves names
for their stupidity. And still no plan came forward.
They strolled down to the gymnasium building in hopes that proximity to
the scene itself would prove efficacious. They stared at the vestibule
and the windows blankly, wondering what the place might be like inside,
wondering if there would be much of a crowd, wondering if Bull would
have much of a speech--wondering about everything except the matter in
hand.
"Plague take it all!" they muttered. "Let's walk out Professor's Row and
find some quiet place to sit down. Perhaps we can think better sitting."
Professor's Row is a street that bounds the parade ground on the west.
It is cool and shady, with benches and camp chairs on the lawn. But
there were plenty of people to occupy the seats, and so the seven found
no place there to cogitate.
They had not gotten much farther before all ideas of plots and orations
were driven from Mark's head a-flying. They were passing a group of
people standing on the opposite side of the street, and suddenly one of
them, a girl, hurried away from the others, and cried out:
"Mr. Mallory! Oh, Mr. Mallory!"
Mark turned the moment he heard the voice, and, when he saw who it was,
he promptly excused himself from his friends and crossed the street. The
six strolled on, smiling and winking knowingly at one another.
"Hope he'll remember what Wicks Merritt said, b'gee!" laughed Dewey.
Mark had no time to remember anything much. He was too busy, watching
the vision that was hurrying to meet him.
Grace Fuller certainly was a beautiful girl, beyond a doubt. She was a
blonde of the fairest type; her complexion was matchless, and set off by
a wealth of wavy golden hair. She was dressed in white, and made a
picture that left no room to wonder why "half the cadets in the place
were wild over her."
"I'm glad I swam out to save her," was the thought in Mark's mind.
A moment later he took the small white hand that was held out to him.
"Mr. Mallory," said the girl, gazing at him earnestly, "I shall not wait
for any one to introduce you to me. I must tell you that I appreciate
your bravery."
Mark bowed and thanked her; he could think of nothing more to say.
"They just let me out of the hospital to-day," she continued, "and I
made up my mind that the very first thing I was going to do was to tell
you what I thought of your courageous action on my behalf. I want to
know you better, Mr. Mallory."
She said it in a plain and simple way that Mark liked, and he told her
that nothing would please him more.
"I would ask you to take a walk with me now," said Grace, "but for all
those cadets who are with me. I don't think they'd relish that, you
being a fourth class man."
"I don't think they would," responded Mark, with a queer smile which the
girl did not fail to notice.
"I don't care!" she exclaimed, suddenly. "They can get mad if they want
to. I think a great deal more of some plebes than I do of yearlings.
Excuse me just a moment."
And then, to Mark's infinite glee, this beautiful creature hurried over
and said something to the group of cadets, at which they all bowed and
walked off rather stiffly, sheepishly, Mark thought. The girl rejoined
him, with a smile.
"I told them they'd have to excuse me," she said, as she took Mark's
arm. "I told them I owed you a debt of gratitude, and I hoped they
wouldn't mind."
"Probably they won't," observed Mark, smiling again.
"I don't care if they do," vowed Grace, pouting prettily. "They'll get
over it. And they're awfully stupid, anyway. I hope you're not stupid."
With which Mark quite naturally agreed.
"I don't think the cadets like you much," she went on, laughing. "I had
such fun teasing them by talking about your heroism. They didn't like it
a bit, and they'd try all sorts of ways to change the subject, but I
wouldn't let them. They say you are terribly B. J. Are you?"
"I suppose they think so," answered Mark. "I'm nothing like as B. J. as
I shall be before I get through."
"That's right!" vowed the girl, shaking her head. "I like B. J. plebes.
I think I should be B. J. if I were a plebe. I don't like these mild,
obedient fellows, and I think the plebes stand entirely too much."
"I wish you were one to help me," laughed Mark, noticing the contrast
between the girl's frail figure and her energetic look.
"I'm stronger than you think," said she. "I could do a lot." And then
suddenly she broke into one of her merry, animated laughs, during which
Mark thought her more charming than ever. "If I can't fight," she said,
"you must let me be a Daughter of the Revolution. You must let me make
clothes and bake bread the way the colonists' daughters did. It's just
appropriate for to-day, too."
"I don't want any bread----" began Mark, looking at her thoughtfully.
"Perhaps not," she put in, with a peal of laughter. "If you saw the
bread I make, you'd be still more emphatic. It's like the fruit of the
tree of knowledge--'Whoso eateth thereof shall surely die.'"
"I see you read the Bible," said Mark, laughing. "But to get back where
I was. I'll let the tailor make my clothes, also. What I need most just
now are tricks to play on the yearlings."
"Do you?" inquired Grace. "I can tell you of lots of tricks the cadets
have played. But that's the first time I ever heard of a plebe playing
tricks on yearlings. It's usually the other way."
"Variety is the spice of life," said Mark. "The yearlings have tried
rather contemptible tricks on me once or twice, very contemptible! I
could tell you what several of those cadets who were with you did to me
last night, and I think you'd be angry. Anyway, I'm going to make them
miserable in return."
"I helped the yearlings get up a beautiful joke last year," said Grace,
looking at Mark in ill-concealed admiration. "Wicks Merritt was the
ringleader. He wrote to me, by the way, and told me to be very nice to
you now that you'd saved my life--just as if he thought I wouldn't!
Anyway, I got them some powder to use for the scheme."
"Powder!" echoed Mark. "How did you get powder?"
"They couldn't manage to run off with any around here, so I got George
to buy some. George is our butler. You'll see George when you come over
to visit me, which I hope you will."
"I thought you lived across the river, beyond cadet limits," put in
Mark.
"So I do, but the cadets come, all the same, lots of them."
"So will I, then!" laughed the other. "But you haven't told me what you
did with the powder."
"Do you see that big gun over there?" she answered, indicating Trophy
Point. "Well, they stood that upon end and fired it off late one night.
Wasn't that a fine joke?"
"Ye-es," said Mark, very slowly. "Ye-es, it was."
He was staring at the girl, a look as of an inspiration on his face.
"They stood that gun up on end and fired it off late one night," he
repeated, scarcely heeding what he was saying, so rapt was he in his
thought.
"Yes," said Grace, gazing at him curiously, and meeting his eyes. "Yes.
Why?"
Mark studied her look for a moment; he saw mischief and fun dancing in
it, and, in a moment more, he had made up his mind.
"Tell me, Miss Fuller," he said, speaking very low. "Would you--would
you like to have 'George' buy some more powder?"
"More powder!" she echoed. "What do you----"
And then she caught the gleam in her escort's eye.
"Are you--do you mean you want to do it?" she cried.
"Yes," said Mark, simply. "Will you help?"
"Yes, yes!"
"Do you mean it?"
"I'll give you my hand on it," responded Grace.
Mark took it.
"When?" asked she.
And Mark answered, with a laugh, almost a shout of triumph.
"To-night!" he said. "To-night! Ye gods!"
CHAPTER IV.
A SURPRISE FOR THE SEVEN.
Six disconsolate plebes sat on a bench at the extreme northern end of
Professor's Row late that afternoon, gazing unappreciatively at the
magnificent view of the upper Hudson. Those plebes had been cudgeling
their stupid heads ever since dinner time to no purpose.
"Durnation!" growled one of them. "I dunno what we air goin' to do. Mark
won't let us blow up the durnation ole building. He won't let me hold up
the crowd, cuz they'd expel me. He don't want to kidnap Bull, cuz Bull
would tell. I dunno what!"
"B'gee!" added another. "I wish he'd come help us think instead of
chasing around town with girls. He's been with her all afternoon----"
"Here they come now!" interrupted Texas, pointing down the street.
"Yea, by Zeus!" assented the Parson. "And our friend is much smitten
already."
"Who wouldn't be?" laughed Dewey. "Isn't she a beauty, though? B'gee, I
wish he'd bring her over and introduce her."
"Reckon she ain't a-hankerin' after plebes," drawled Sleepy, who, as
usual, had half the bench for his tired form to cover.
This observation put a damper on Dewey's enthusiasm. It was true, and,
besides that, it came from the silent member of the firm.
"She's beautiful, all the same," he vowed, as the two drew nearer still.
"And, b'gee, she seems to be lively, too."
"If I mistake not," put in the Parson, gravely, "our friend is vastly
excited over something."
This last observation seemed to be correct. The two were laughing; in
fact, their faces seemed to express about as much glee as they could
very well express, and once Mark was seen to slap his knee excitedly.
The six were carried away by curiosity, which curiosity changed suddenly
to the wildest alarm. For when the two were just opposite, what must
Mark do but turn and lead the girl over to his friends?
The effect upon the latter was amusing. Chauncey made a wild grab for
his collar to see if it were straight; Sleepy sat up and rubbed his
eyes; the Parson cleared his throat--"ahem!" Indian gave vent to a
startled "Bless my soul!" Dewey exclaimed "b'gee!" and poor Texas turned
pale and trembled in his bold cowboy legs.
A moment later the vision in white was upon them.
"Miss Fuller," said Mark, "allow me to present my friends," etc., etc.
The Parson inclined his head gravely, with dignity becoming the immortal
discoverer of a cyathophylloid coral in a sandstone of Tertiary origin;
Chauncey put on his best Fifth Avenue salute; Indian gasped and hunted
in vain for his hat; the "farmer" swept the ground with his; Dewey
looked all broke up and Texas hid behind everybody.
There was vague uncertainty after that, changing to horror at the next
speech.
"Miss Fuller," said Mark, smiling, "has proclaimed herself an ardent
sympathizer and admirer of the purposes and principles of the Banded
Seven. Miss Fuller desires to be known as a 'Daughter of the
Revolution.' Miss Fuller knows about Bull Harris, and doesn't like him,
and suggests a first-rate method of busting--if you will pardon my
slang, Miss Fuller--to-night's celebration. Miss Fuller likes to hear
cannon go off at night. She offers to procure the powder if we will do
the loading; she even offers to fire it, if we'll allow her. Also,
gentlemen, allow me to propose member number eight of the seven, and
incidentally to suggest that the name Banded Seven be changed and that
in future we go down to posterity as----"
Mark paused one solemn moment, and cleared his throat----
"The Banded Seven and One Angel!"
And after that there was a deep, long, wide, and altogether
comprehensive silence, while the six stared at Mark and his thoroughly
amused friend in incredulity, amazement, alarm, horror--who can say
what?
It was fully a minute before any of them found breath. And then a
perfect torrent of Bah Joves! Durnations! B'gees! Bless my souls! and By
Zeuses! burst out upon the air, to be followed by another silence even
longer and larger than the last.
What on earth had happened! The six couldn't seem to get it through
their heads. Could it be possible that this girl, the belle of West
Point, the beauty over whom half the cadets were wild, the daughter of a
famous judge, was sympathizing with a few, poor, miserable plebes in an
effort to upset West Point? And that she had actually offered to help
them in a trick, the boldness of which was enough to make the boldest
hesitate? Good stars! The world must be coming to an end! No wonder the
amazed plebes gasped and stared, and then stared and gasped, unable to
believe that they stood on the same earth as half a minute previously.
Mark and his companion, who understood their perplexity entirely, and
who seemed to have gotten amazingly in sympathy during a brief
afternoon's conversation, stood and regarded them meanwhile with
considerable amusement.
Well, it must be true! Mark said so, and the girl heard him and seemed
to say "yes" with her laughing blue eyes.
That was the conviction which finally forced itself upon the incredulous
and befuddled six, and with it came a dim, undefined consciousness of
the fact that possibly they were not doing the very politest thing in
the world in staring at their "angel."
First to realize it was Texas, last of all to whom one would have looked
for any species of gallantry.
Texas sprang forward and seized the girl's fair white hand in his own
mighty paw.
"Hi, Miss Fuller!" he cried, "I'm glad to have you join! Whoop!"
Which broke the ice.
CHAPTER V.
THE SCHEME SUCCEEDS.
Dress parade in all its Fourth of July holiday splendor had passed, and
the sunset gun marked the ending of that day of celebration. Through the
dusk of evening the battalion had marched back from supper, to the tune
of "Marching Through Georgia" from the band and the popping of sundry
small firecrackers from mischievous small boys on the way. And then the
cadets had scattered, still in their dress uniforms, each to join his
own party of friends and go to the evening's entertainment.
Cadets are famous as "ladies' men," and during the gay holiday season,
which was now on, West Point was crowded with girls, so that every cadet
had his opportunities for gallantry, excepting, of course, the plebes,
who do not go into "society."
As the hour approached, the big gymnasium hall took on a lively aspect.
It ceased to be a gymnasium for a while; rings and trapezes were hung
up, and rows of seats occupied the floor, instead of parallel bars. The
big West Point Band was seated in front, and the rest of the room was
devoted to pretty girls and their cadet escorts. The Fourth of July
celebration was a cadet affair; the "president" occupied the small
platform in solitary grandeur; the commandant and his staff were
present, but they sat among the audience.
The plebes were there, too, on sufferance. The gallery was given up to
their use, and they filled it entirely, and gazed on the scene below.
The room with its decorations of flags and bunting, making them feel
very patriotic indeed.
The plebes we are interested in were there with the rest. They sat off
in one corner where they could whisper and keep their secret all to
themselves. If any one had overheard them, which they took good care
should not happen, he would have learned, to his amazement, that the
night's plot was all perfected. He might have learned that "George" had
done his duty with fully as much delight as any of the Seven.
He might have learned that having been taken into the secret "George"
had not only gotten the powder, but had volunteered to do the work
himself, to save the seven "young gintlemen" all danger of discovery. He
might have learned that down in a secluded woody hollow just east of
camp lay three big siege guns in "Battery Knox," loaded and stuffed to
the muzzle with powder and paper and rags.
There was lots more he might have learned. He might have learned that at
the present moment the jolly, red-faced butler was lurking about the
neighborhood of the Battery, anxiously surveying his watch at intervals
of every minute or so, waiting for half-past nine, the precise minute
when he was to touch off the fuse and run. Also that Grace was down with
her father, in the audience, occasionally stealing a sly glance at Mark;
also that Mark was bearing a good deal of merry banter upon his
conquest; also that the Seven, having spent two hours or so with Grace,
were vowing her the most original, daring and altogether charming girl
that ever was anywhere, a most undoubtable and valuable ally of Mark and
his anti-hazing society.
The seven were about as nervous and anxious as seven plebes could
possibly be. What if "George" should be found out? What if the guns
should not go off? It was such a colossal and magnificent plot that the
mere thought of its failure was enough to make one's hair turn gray.
What if the thing should begin too late, the guns go off before Bull
started? Or on the other hand, suppose his speech was short and he
shouldn't be interrupted!
Mark had calculated the time carefully. He had allowed five minutes for
the "prelude." But suppose it should be longer, or shorter, or should
begin after eight-thirty? As the hour drew near Mark and his friends
sat and wriggled in their seats and glanced at their watches and----
"It's half past now," growled Texas. "Durnation, it's a minute after
that! Ain't they ever--ah!"
The bandmaster arose from his seat, and raised his baton in the air. It
was the "Star Spangled Banner," and the sound shook the flags that
graced the walls and shook the hearts of the audience, too, and made
them rise as one man.
  "'Tis the Star Spangled Banner
      And long may it wave.
    O'er the land of the free
      And the home of the brave!"
The notes died out and the Seven remembered that for a moment they had
forgotten to be nervous.
The grave young chaplain arose, and raised his hands. His prayer was
earnest, and his voice trembled as he spoke of the flag and its country.
But alas! our friends had no eye or ear for beauty. It was time--time!
Would he take more than the calculated five minutes? It was time for him
to stop! Plague take it--six!--six and a half!--ah! There he had said
"Finally," no, he was going off on another tack! Gee whiz--eight--thank
heavens!
The sigh of relief that came at last from the Seven almost shook the
roof.
Then came "music;" that had been problematical. Music might mean
anything from two minutes to twenty. But there is no need of torturing
the reader, even if the seven were tortured correspondingly. The piece
took some ten minutes of agony, and then Cadet Captain Fischer stepped
forward on the platform.
Fischer was an immensely popular man with his class, and they applauded
him to the echo. He looked handsome, too, in his chevrons and sash. He
read "The Declaration of Independence," and he read it in the voice that
had made him first captain, a voice that was clear and deep and ringing,
a voice that sounded in the open above the thunder and rattle of
artillery drill, and that sounded still better in the hall, as it spoke
the words that had made a continent tremble.
There was nothing in that to worry the Seven--they had gotten a copy of
the "Declaration" and practiced it by the watch. Fischer finished on
schedule time; but then came the tussle. And some poor plebes up in the
gallery nearly had apoplexy from waiting.
There were fifteen minutes left. That allowed say ten minutes for the
music, and five for Bull to get warmed up to his work.
The bandmaster arose; he played "Hail Columbia." The audience, wild with
fervor, stormed and shouted; he played it again. The minutes fled by.
The Seven gasped! The audience kept up their applause, and the music
struck up "My Country, 'Tis of Thee," while the time fled yet faster
still.
Great heavens! and still the fools--the fools!--in that crowd clapped
and waved handkerchiefs--would they never stop, would they never let
Bull step forward? He was dying to. The Seven could see him in his seat,
half-risen, waiting doubtless as impatiently as they. And still the
people wouldn't behave themselves.
Bull rose up. Ah, at last. There was a cessation in the infernal racket!
The amount of torture the plebes suffered during those brief moments
cannot be told. The gun might go off at any moment now! It might go off
before Bull started, might ruin the whole thing. Plague take him, what
made him walk so slowly? Would he never get up on that platform? And the
foolish audience, why didn't they stop and let him start? What did they
want to be applauding that ugly old yearling for? And why didn't he stop
that fool bowing and scraping? Some people are such chumps!
The applause stopped at last. An expectant hush fell upon the crowd.
Bull Harris stood pompous and self-conscious, gazing upon the scene for
a moment, and then began. The Seven gasped: "We've got him."
"Ladies and Gentlemen: We have assembled upon this memorable occasion to
celebrate (Now let that gun go, b'gee!) one of the most glorious
achievements (You bet we have!) that ever was attained by man. We have
assembled (What on earth's the matter with "George?") to applaud with
the voices of the present, words that echo from memories of the past,
(Can his watch have stopped?) words that will ring through the halls of
time (Plague take the luck!) as long as time shall be counted in the
heart throbs of living men. The deeds of our ancestors live in the----"
At last!
With a boom and a rattle and a crash gun No. 1 of Battery Knox thundered
out upon the still night air. Bull stopped in amazement; the audience
sprang up in alarm; the seven shrieked--silently--for joy. And then----
Boom!
It was No. 2. The room rang with shouts of confusion; cadets stared and
ran hastily about; women cried out in alarm.
Boom!
It was No. 3, and at the same instant from a hundred throats came the
dreaded cry of "Fire!"
Three guns is West Point's fire alarm. Quick as a flash, before the
audience had time to think of flight, of panic, the commandant of cadets
sprang to the platform.
"Company fire battalion form on the street outside, immediately!"
At the same moment, in response to a command from outside, a drum
orderly sounded the "long roll." The band struck up a quick march, and
tramp, tramp, tramp, the grave cadets marched out of the hall,
forgetting friends and entertainment, forgetting everything in the one
important thought--discipline--obedience to orders.
And in half a minute more the gymnasium was empty; the street was
crowded with the anxious audience, and the battalion was tramping
steadily across the parade ground in a vain search for an imaginary
fire.
In that battalion were seven wildly delighted plebes. They hugged
themselves for joy; they gasped, choked with repressed laughter. They
punched each other in the ribs and whispered:
"Didn't we do it? Oh, didn't we do it? Three cheers for the Banded
Seven--B. B. J.!"
The fire, of course was not found. Near camp the corps halted, to wait
for the person who fired the alarm guns to come out and lead the way. He
didn't do it, and gradually it began to dawn upon the commandant and the
assembled "tacs" that the whole thing was a hoax. "And then indeed the
Philistines were wroth."
Captain Quincey, the commandant, stepped to the head of the line,
determined to investigate the matter on the spot. Roll call disclosed
the fact that no one was absent; that made him think the guns were fired
with a time fuse, and so he tried another way to find out the culprits.
It is not good form in West Point to lie; cadets who do soon find
themselves cut by the class. So Captain Quincey, knowing that, gave this
order:
"Parties who fired those guns will remain standing. Those who are
innocent will advance one step. March!"
Now that any plebe had dared to do such a bold trick had never occurred
to the cadets. They were convinced that some of their number were
guilty, and they protected them in the usual way. Not a man moved. They
refused to obey the order.
The commandant was furious, of course. He tried it the other way,
ordered the guilty ones to advance. Whereupon the whole corps stepped
forward to share the blame. To punish them he tried the dodge of keeping
them standing at attention for half an hour or so, but several dropped
from well-feigned exhaustion, which stopped that scheme.
He ordered one of the "tacs" to march them around the parade ground. The
cadets, who were out for fun by this time and angry besides, guyed the
unpopular "tac" with a vengeance. It was too dark for him to distinguish
any one, and so every one obeyed orders wrong, producing chaos and
finally compelling him to summon the commandant to preserve order.
With the commandant watching, those weary cadets marched for an hour
more. Then he asked some questions and again got no answers. And finally
in disgust he sent them off to their tents, most of them still puzzled
as to who did it, some of them wild with joy.
These last were the Banded Seven--"B. B. J."
CHAPTER VI.
WHAT MARK OVERHEARD.
"Now, captain, there are no two ways about it, this business has got to
stop, and stop right where it is."
The speaker was Colonel Harvey, superintendent of the West Point
Military Academy. He was sitting in the guardhouse tent of the camp and
talking to Captain Quincey.
"Yes," he repeated, slapping his leg for emphasis, "it's got to stop."
"I quite agree with you, colonel," responded the other, deprecatingly.
"Quite. But the only question is to find out the offenders."
"If the offenders are not found out," cried the other, "I shall punish
the whole class until they confess. Discipline shall not be laughed at
while I am in command of this academy. And that is just exactly what
that matter amounts to."
"It certainly does seem," admitted the other, "that the yearling class
has such an idea in mind."
"Never since I have been here has a class of yearlings dared to
celebrate their release from plebehood by such a set of lawless acts. It
began the very first night that the plebes entered camp. I do not know
what had been going on before that, but the yearlings had evidently
become entirely reckless of consequences, and careless of discovery.
They woke the camp by a series of outrageous noises; one of them fired
off a gun, I believe."
"Lieutenant Allen," put in the other, "told me that he made an
investigation on the spot and could find nothing suspicious."
"The yearlings had probably seen to it that he wouldn't. Then night
before last Lieutenant Allen, who was again on duty, reported to me
personally that he was awakened about midnight by a shout, and going
outside of his tent found that about half the cadets had been out of bed
and over in Fort Clinton, probably hazing some one. They were all
rushing back to camp; he says that it was so dark he could recognize no
one."
"It is perfectly outrageous!" exclaimed the commandant.
"It has got to be stopped, too," vowed the other. "That incident of the
gun last night capped the climax. I have heard of the cadets playing
that prank before, loading one of the guns and firing it at night. But
this time they did it for the evident purpose of breaking up the
entertainment, and moreover, they fired three so as to make people think
it was an alarm of fire. I think myself that was carrying the matter a
trifle too far. And as I said, I propose to see that it is punished."
The above was meant to be private. Neither the superintendent nor the
commandant meant that their conversation should reach any one but
themselves. There was one other auditor, however, and it was Mark.
He was a sentry and his beat lay by the tent. As he paced up and down
every word that was said was audible to him.
Early that same morning, after having been spruced up and polished by
his friends, he had turned out and received an elaborate set of
instructions from a yearling corporal. Now he was putting them into
effect during his two hours' turn "on guard."
One of his instructions had been silence. Yet he was only human--and as
the angry remarks of the high and mighty Colonel Harvey reached his ears
it must be confessed that between chuckles and grins he was far from
silent indeed. And a few minutes later when he was relieved from duty
till his next turn, he rushed off with unconcealed excitement to his
tent.
There were three seated therein; and Mark greeted them with a burst of
long-repressed merriment.
"Hello, fellows!" he cried. "Oh, say, I've got the greatest news of the
century!"
"What's up?" they inquired eagerly.
"I thought I'd die laughing," responded Mark. "You know all the tricks
we've been playing on the yearlings? Well, I just overheard the
superintendent talking to the commandant of cadets and he's blamed it
all on the yearlings."
"What?"
"Yes, I heard it. And he may punish them. You see, it's always the
yearlings who have played pranks before. The plebes have never dared.
And so the superintendent doesn't think of blaming us. Isn't that fine?
And, oh, say! won't the yearlings be mad!"
The Parson arose solemnly to his feet.
"Yea, by Zeus," said he. "Gentlemen, I propose three cheers for the
Banded Seven."
They were given with a will--and in a whisper.
"Wow!" roared Texas. "An' to think that the ole man--Colonel Harvey, if
you please--went an' blamed the firin' o' them guns on the yearlin's!
Whoop! Say, didn't it come out great? It scared the place most blue; an'
that coward, Bull Harris, the feller that wanted to lick Mark when he
was tied to a tree, had his ole speech busted up in the middle, too.
Whoop!"
"I think," laughed Mark, "I shall have to go around and carry this news
to Grace Fuller."
That remark started Texas on another speech no less vehement.
"I tell you, sah, she's a treasure!" he vowed. "Jes' think of a girl
that had sense enough to think up that air scheme fo' firin' the gun an'
nerve enough to offer to do it, too. An' she's jined with us to bust
them ole yearlings. Whoop! It's all on account o' Mark, though."
"Yea, by Zeus," put in the Parson, gravely. "As I have said before, our
friend is much smitten, and she likewise. I do not blame her, since he
saved her life."
A rattle of drums interrupted the conversation just then, summoning the
plebes to drill. Mark alone had an hour of leisure, he having been on
guard duty, and during that hour having secured a permit, he set out for
the hotel in search for the object of all their talk.
Grace Fuller was sitting on the piazza as he approached. She was dressed
in white and the color just seemed to set off the brightness and beauty
of her complexion. She greeted her friend with one of her pleasant
smiles that seemed to make every one near her feel happy.
"Come up and sit down," she said. "I've been waiting for you all
morning. I'm just dying to have some one to talk to about our adventure
last night."
Mark ascended the steps with alacrity and took a seat. And for the next
half hour the two talked about nothing else but their glorious triumph,
and the way they had fooled everybody, and how mad the commandant was,
and how puzzled the cadets.
"I suppose you noticed," said the girl, "that George was about two
minutes late? Well, it seems there were two people sitting on one of the
guns, and he didn't know what to do. He waited and waited, and finally
crept up and lit the fuse and ran. The gun went off while those two were
sitting on it."
There was a hearty laugh over this rather ludicrous picture.
And then a few moment's silence, during which the girl gazed
thoughtfully into space.
"I've got something important to tell you, by the way," she said,
suddenly. "Last night the cadets all thought one of themselves had
played the joke. Well, it seems that they've found out since."
"They have! How do you know?"
"I was talking to Corporal Jasper this morning. Jasper's a mighty nice
boy, only he thinks he's a man. All the yearlings are that way, so
pompous and self-conscious! I think plebes are delicious for a change. I
told Mr. Jasper that and he didn't like it a bit. Anyhow, they must have
inquired among themselves and found out that nobody in their class had
anything to do with it. For the 'corporal'--ahem!--was pretty sure you
were the guilty one, and he said the class was mad as hops about it."
"That's good," laughed Mark, rubbing his hands gleefully. "Perhaps we'll
have some fun now."
"You will. That's just the point. I don't know that I ought to tell you
this, but I didn't promise Mr. Jasper I wouldn't, and I suppose my
duties as a member of the Seven are paramount to all others."
"Yes," responded Mark, "we'll expel you if you play us false. But don't
keep me in suspense. What's all this about?"
"I like to get you excited," laughed the girl, teasingly. "I think I'll
hold off a while so as to be sure you're interested, so as to make you
realize the importance of what I have to say. For you must know that
this is a really important plot that I've discovered, a plot that
will----"
"I think it is going to rain," remarked the cadet, gazing off dreamily
into space. "I hope it will not, because it is liable to damage the corn
crop, the farmers say that----"
"I'll give up," laughed the girl. "I'll tell you right away. You are to
be on sentry duty to-night, aren't you?"
"Yes," said Mark, "I am. I wouldn't be here now if I were not."
"And your post is No. 3, isn't it?"
"Yes! How did you know?"
"All this is what my small boy friend the corporal told me. You see that
my information comes right from headquarters. I suppose you know that
Post No. 3 runs along Fort Clinton ditch."
"But what's that got to do with the plot?" cried Mark.
"Everything. The plot is to 'dump' you, as the slang has it."
"Dump me?"
"Yes; take away your gun and roll you head over heels into the mud."
"Oh!" responded Mark, thoughtfully, "I see. Take my gun away and roll me
head over heels into the mud. Well, well!"
There was a silence for a few moments after that during which Mark
tapped the chair reflectively.
"Are you going to let them do it?" inquired Grace at last.
"From what you know of me," inquired he, "do you suppose I will?"
"Hardly."
"And I won't, either. I think the yearlings that try it will have some
fun. I only hope there are enough of them."
"There will be," said the girl. "There'll be three."
"I'm very glad you told me," said Mark, "very. I'm beginning to perceive
that our ally will be a very serviceable ally indeed."
"She will be faithful anyway," said the girl. "The Daughters of the
Revolution always are. She has a debt of gratitude to pay to the chief
rebel which she will not very soon forget; and she hopes he will not,
either."
Whereupon Mark bowed and arose to take his leave.
"I must get back to camp," he explained, "to tell the Seven about this
new plan. We shall find a way to circumvent it, I think; we always do.
And I'll promise you that the yearlings who 'dump' me will have a very
lively evening of it. Good-by."
And Mark left.
Now it must be explained that the plebes had lately been given guns.
The instruction in marching, halting, etc., which they had gotten in
barracks was supplemented by all sorts of evolutions, and by drill in
the manual of arms.
This latter of course necessitated guns; and great was the joy of the
ambitious and warlike plebe on the momentous day that "guns" were given
out. The guns were regulation army muskets, heavy beyond imagination. So
the plebe soon wished he hadn't wished for them. Besides drilling with
them, which he found harder work than digging trenches, he had to clean
them daily; and cleaning a gun under the watchful eye of a merciless
yearling proved to be a matter of weeping and gnashing of teeth. It had
to be done; for he had a number on his gun, so that he couldn't steal
his neighbor's well-cleaned one; and if his own wasn't clean he got
into trouble at the very next inspection.
Besides the three drills a day, there were other duties galore. There
was policing twice a day, "policing" meaning the sweeping clean of the
acre or two of ground within the limits of Camp McPherson. Then also
there was "guard-mounting."
Guard-mounting is the daily ceremony of placing the sentries about the
camp; the cadets who go on duty then remain until the following morning.
This ceremony has already been described within the pages of this
series; it will have much to do with our present story.
The plebes of course were not put on guard until they had been fairly
well trained in other duties. They had to know how to march, halt,
salute, present arms, etc. Also they had to be accoutered in their dress
uniforms, which were issued about this time.
Mark Mallory had been notified to report for guard duty that morning,
greatly to the joy of his friends, the Seven, who had rubbed and
polished him till he shone. He had "fallen in" at the summons and
received a long and appalling list of instructions from his corporal.
Then he had been put on Post No. 3 for his first tour of duty.
The sentries about the camp march for two hours, and then have four
hours off duty, thus having eight hours "on" in the twenty. During this
time they speak to no one, except to challenge parties who cross their
beats. This last duty is where the yearlings have all the fun with the
new plebe.
"Deviling" sentries is an old, old amusement at West Point. The plebe
goes on duty, solemn and anxious, awed to silence and gravity by the
sternness of his superiors. He is proud of his important office and
thoroughly resolved to do his duty, come what may, and to die in the
last ditch. He seizes his gun resolutely; feels of the bayonet point
valiantly; puts on his sternest and most forbidding look; strides forth
with a step that is bold and unwavering. And the yearlings "don't do a
thing" to him.
What they did to Mark and his friends will be described later on.
CHAPTER VII.
MARK'S COUNTERPLOT.
Mark returned to the camp to find his six friends just returned from
drill and enjoying a brief respite until the summons came for their next
duty. He gathered them together in solemn conclave, and then in whisper
imparted to them the information he had just received from the "angel."
The effects of Mark's announcement upon his friends varied considerably
with each.
Indian was terrified beyond measure; the possibility of such tricks
being tried upon him, too, made his fat eyes bulge. Texas, on the other
hand, was wild with excitement and joy, and a little good-natured envy.
"Wow! Mark," he cried. "Why is it you always have all the fun? Them ole
cadets always go fo' you; nobody else kin ever do anything. Ef them
