the first to speak.
“Your cousin,” he said, “affords every indication of insanity. What say
you, Dr. Jones?”
“I fully agree with you,” replied Dr. Jones, in a nasal tone.
“I see, gentlemen, you have got the whole thing cut and dried,” said
William Penrose, in a tone of agitation. “These tools of yours have
learned their part well. All they need is to look at me to pronounce me
insane. Even a renowned doctor would hardly venture to come to so quick
a decision merely from a momentary inspection.”
“They have both been connected with establishments for the insane. I
have called them as experts who cannot be deceived.”
“What do you pay them for aiding and abetting you in this villainy?”
By this time Mr. Wilson, the landlord, appeared upon the scene. He
looked from one to the other in surprise.
“What does all this mean?” he asked.
“Merely that you have been harboring a lunatic,” said James Roque.
“Who is a lunatic?”
“William Penrose.”
“I cannot believe it.”
“It is hard to believe. Like all of his class he is very cunning. Why,
should you keep him here, he might set fire to your house during the
night.”
“Is this true?” asked the landlord, who was a timid man.
“It is a base lie!” exclaimed Penrose indignantly. “Don’t believe him.
He wants to have me adjudged insane that he may get control of my
property.”
The landlord looked bewildered.
“Is that true?” he repeated doubtfully.
“No, it is a lie. My poor cousin has no property. He is dependent upon
me. I am willing to pay his expenses in an asylum, and this is his
return.”
“Heaven give me patience!” ejaculated Penrose. “This black villain is
lying in an infamous manner. He is himself a man of no means, and wants
to get possession of my fortune.”
“Dr. Brown, is this true?” asked James Roque, turning to his subservient
tool.
“No,” answered Brown, shaking his head.
“The man doesn’t know me,” said Mr. Penrose in a tone of contempt. “I
never saw him before.”
“I used to go to school with him,” retorted Brown, unabashed.
“I see you are determined to lie it out.”
“I appeal to my distinguished brother, Dr. Jones.”
“You are quite right, Dr. Brown. We both know Mr. Penrose.”
“You will bear me out in my statement,” interposed Roque, “that he
escaped from the asylum in Buffalo where I recently placed him?”
“Certainly.”
“I was never in an asylum!” said William Penrose.
“Really, gentlemen----” put in the landlord.
“My dear sir, I will see that your bill is paid,” said James Roque, “but
I depend upon you not to interfere with me, now that I have succeeded in
overtaking my unfortunate cousin.”
“Of course, if what you say is true----”
“Don’t these eminent physicians substantiate my statement?”
“To be sure,” said the landlord, who was greatly influenced by the
assurance that his bill would be paid.
“I see you take a sensible view. William Penrose, you must go back with
us.”
“Never!” exclaimed Penrose vehemently.
“You see his excitement. Can there be any clearer indication of
insanity? Dr. Brown and Dr. Jones, give me your assistance, and we will
secure my unfortunate cousin. Bring the cord from the carriage.”
Dr. Brown produced a stout cord which the party had brought with them,
and the precious trio approached their unfortunate victim.
“Mr. Wilson,” exclaimed Penrose, “will you stand by and allow such an
outrage to be enacted under your own roof?”
“I think you had better go with your cousin,” said the landlord
soothingly. “As you are crazy, it will be better for you.”
“But I am not crazy.”
“Undoubtedly the man is crazy,” broke in Mr. Snowdon. “I have had an
interview with him in which he claimed to be a former pupil of mine, and
told an absurd story of my being ridden on a rail.”
“I see you are a sensible man,” said James Roque. “I might have known as
much from your intelligent appearance.”
“Moreover he has aided and abetted a pupil of mine to escape from my
rightful authority.”
“The case seems to be pretty clear,” said Roque, with a malicious smile.
“Cousin Penrose, you may as well resign yourself to circumstances. You
must go back with us. I trust you will not compel us to use force. Come,
gentlemen, whatever is to be done must be done quickly.”
“Stop a minute, gentlemen!” said the landlord. “You promised to pay my
bill.”
“I will do it as soon as my cousin is secured. You don’t want me to
leave him here to burn down the house about your ears?”
“No, no!” said the landlord hastily.
“Come along, gentlemen!”
The three closed in about William Penrose, and producing the cord were
about to tie him when he called out in desperation, “Will no one save me
from these villains?”
“I will help you!” said Bernard, kicking Dr. Brown in the shins with
such force that he dropped the cord, and yelled with pain.
“And I, too!” added a new voice.
All eyes were turned upon a long, wiry, loose-jointed man, an
unmistakable Yankee, dressed as a Western miner, who had been sitting on
the piazza, and had been an interested witness of what had been going
on.
CHAPTER VIII.  THE CONSPIRATORS ARE FOILED.
|Roque and the doctors loosened their hold of William Penrose when they
heard the new voice. Then Roque in a supercilious tone said, “You had
better attend to your business if you have any.”
He clutched his cousin once more.
“Let us lose no time,” he whispered to the doctors.
“Look here!” said the miner, striding to the group, “you’re trying to
kidnap an inoffensive man, and are going clear against the law. This is
a free country, and it can’t be done.”
“Sir,” said Roque, “this is an escaped lunatic, and I propose to carry
him back to the asylum. I don’t owe you any explanation, but I don’t
mind telling you that. Now, get out of the way!”
“He’s no more a lunatic that I am.”
“Thank you, sir,” said Penrose, with reviving hope. “It is a cruel
attempt at abduction. Save me from a fate worse than death.”
“I will!” responded the Yankee miner resolutely.
“No man is going to be abducted when Josh Staekpole is around.”
“Clear out!” said James Roque, incensed.
“Clear out, or----”
“Or what?”
“I’ll have you arrested.”
“And I’d have you lynched if you were out in Colorado.”
“You are officious and impertinent.”
“Call me all the hard names you like, squire. It won’t do me any harm.”
“I will do you harm. Landlord, are you going to permit this impertinent
person to interfere with me?”
“Really, gentlemen, I don’t know what to say,” answered the landlord,
who was a weak and vacillating man. “If I knew the law----”
“I’ll tell you what the law is,” said the miner. “Before I went out West
I spent a year in a law office at Burlington, Vermont. These men haven’t
shown any papers--they haven’t proved this gentleman to be out of his
mind. It’s just a high-handed violation of the law they are trying.”
“In that case, I guess you’d better stop,” said the landlord. “This
gentleman is probably right, and----”
“He’s a fool!” interposed Roque angrily.
“Haven’t these eminent physicians declared my cousin to be a lunatic?”
“They look more like tramps than eminent physicians,” remarked Joshua
Stackpole.
“We have wasted time enough with this fool,” said Roque. “Dr. Brown,
take one arm, and you, Dr. Jones, take the other, and we will soon put
an end to this foolery.”
“Do it at your peril!” exclaimed Joshua Stackpole sternly.
The doctors looked somewhat apprehensive, but at a nod from James Roque,
and confident in the realization that they were three to one, they
proceeded to obey orders. Then something unexpected happened.
Joshua Stackpole sprang upon James Roque and pitched him headlong from
the piazza. Then he started for Dr. Brown, and that luckless physician
followed his principal.
The miner was about to turn his attention to Dr. Jones when the latter
threw up his hands and begged for mercy.
“This is an outrage!” exclaimed Mr. Snowdon, much disconcerted. “Isn’t
there a constable at hand, landlord, to arrest this bold ruffian?
Bernard Brooks, I want you.”
“Aha!” said Stackpole, “what do you want him for? Is he another
lunatic?”
“No; but he is my pupil, who has rebelled against my lawful authority,
and run away from his happy home at Snowdon Institute.”
“How is that, sonny?” asked Joshua Stackpole.
“He tried to horsewhip me,” said Bernard.
“And I will do it yet,” cried Mr. Snowdon, with more anger than
prudence.
“Ha! It seems there is more work for me to do. You are an old man, and I
don’t want to hurt you, but if you don’t get into your wagon and hurry
home, I’ll----”
Joshua Stackpole looked so determined that Mr. Snowdon was alarmed.
“Come, Septimus,” he said; “we’d better be going. I’ll go to a
magistrate and get a warrant for this man’s arrest.”
By this time James Roque had risen from his recumbent position.
“Dr. Brown and Dr. Jones,” he exclaimed in a passion, “are we to be
worsted by a single man? Seize William Penrose.”
“Excuse me!” said Dr. Brown, rubbing his shins.
“And me, too!” added Dr. Jones, with an apprehensive look at Joshua
Stackpole.
“Sir,” said James Roque, addressing Mr. Snowdon, “as I can get no help
from these cowards, will you lend me your co-operation?”
“I wish you success, sir,” replied Snowdon hurriedly, “but I ought to
return to Snowdon Institute, where my presence is imperatively
required.”
“I think, squire, you’d better give it up for a bad job,” said
Stackpole. “If you make another attempt to abduct this man I’ll treat
you worse than before.”
With a look of baffled rage James Roque entered his carriage, followed
by the two doctors.
“You have escaped this time,” he said to William Penrose, “but I will
have you yet.”
Penrose shuddered as he saw the evil look on his cousin’s face.
“I’ve got something to say to that, squire,” remarked
Joshua Stackpole coolly. “Do you see that?” and he displayed a revolver.
“Don’t shoot!” exclaimed James Roque, falling back, his face assuming a
sickly pallor.
“I don’t intend to--now,” said Stackpole composedly, “but I can’t answer
for what I would do if I heard of your trying to abduct your cousin.”
“I should like to lock you up in an insane asylum,” said Roque, with an
ugly look.
“So you think me insane, do you?”
“You are stark, staring mad!”
“Thank you, squire. If I should happen to shoot you accidentally,
that’ll let me off.”
James Roque did not think it wise to reply, but drove off hurriedly.
“My friend,” said Penrose, offering his hand, “you have done me a great
favor. But for you that man would have carried me to an asylum.”
“What is his object?”
“Unfortunately I am rich and he is poor. As a near relative, he wants to
get control of my property. Your brave interference has saved me.”
“Don’t mention it! There wasn’t anything brave about it. The whole pack
of them are cowards. Have those doctors ever seen you before?”
“Never.”
“Yet after a mere glance they are ready to pronounce you insane. I don’t
believe they are doctors at all.”
“Nor I. They are tools of my cousin. But nothing is easier than to throw
a sane man into an asylum on the evidence of such creatures.”
“They’d have a lively time making out me to be insane.”
“James Roque says you are stark, staring mad,” said Penrose, with a
smile.
“He’d have reason to think so if I got hold of him,” returned Stackpole
grimly. “And now, my friend. I am going to give you a piece of advice.”
“What is it?”
“Get out of this as soon as you can. There’s an ugly look about your
cousin’s face, and he may make you trouble yet. Of course, he has no
legal right to interfere with you, but that won’t stop a man like him.
He hasn’t got hold of your property yet?”
“No.”
“Then if you have money at command, go off where he will not be able to
track you. Why not go to Europe, or to Colorado, my State? If he tried
any of his tricks there, we’d soon stop him with a rope.”
“Your advice is good and I will follow it. But I don’t like to leave my
young friend here. He, too, is in a tight place.”
“Don’t trouble about him. I’ll look after him for a time. It will be
better for you to part, as your cousin will probably describe you as
traveling in his company.”
“All right! I will make my way at once to New York and take passage for
Europe. I have long intended to go there, and this is a favorable
opportunity. But I must first show my good will to Bernard by offering
him this.”
He drew a ten-dollar bill from his pocketbook and handed it to Bernard.
“Ought I to take so much, Mr. Penrose?” asked Bernard, in a tone of
hesitation.
“I am rich. I can spare it,” said William Penrose. “You need not
hesitate.”
“Then, I will take it with thanks, for I have got to make my own way,
and I have no one to depend upon. My guardian will be angry when he
learns that I have run away from Mr. Snowdon.”
“You can adopt me for your guardian for a short time,” said Mr.
Stackpole. “And now I move that we get away from Poplar Plains as soon
as possible.” A carriage was secured, and within fifteen minutes the
three were on their way to the nearest railroad station.
CHAPTER IX.  ON THE HUDSON RIVER BOAT.
|William Penrose kept on his way to New York, but Bernard and Mr.
Stackpole stopped at Albany.
“I have a little business to attend to here,” said Mr. Stackpole, “so if
you don’t mind, we’ll stay over here a day.”
“All right, sir; I have no pressing business to hurry me on. I have
never been in Albany, and shall be glad to go about and see the city.”
The next morning they took the day boat down the Hudson. The great
steamer was a floating palace, and had every accommodation that could be
desired.
Just before going aboard Bernard bought from a newsboy a copy of the
Albany Argus. He glanced rapidly over the contents of the paper, and
his attention was arrested by the account of the mysterious
disappearance of a package of government bonds--five thousand
dollars--from the banking house of Murdock & Co.
“The loss was not discovered till about the close of business,” said the
account. “No one in the office could throw any light upon the matter.
Whether it was an employee or an outside party is uncertain. Mr. Murdock
remembers seeing the package on a desk, but assuming that the clerk was
preparing to put it in the safe, gave no more thought to it till it was
found to be missing. Detectives have the matter in charge, and it is
hoped that the thief will be captured within twenty-four hours.”
Bernard read the account with languid interest. He knew none of the
parties, and had no special reason to dwell on the paragraph.
“Will you allow me to look at your paper?” asked a young man of
twenty-five, dressed in showy style, and carrying a small satchel in his
hand.
“Certainly, sir,” answered Bernard politely.
“Anything interesting in it?” asked the young man languidly.
“There is an account of the theft of some government bonds from Murdock
& Co.”
“Ah, that is a prominent house!”
“I don’t know anything about Albany firms,” said Bernard.
“Then you don’t live in Albany?”
“I never saw the city till yesterday.”
The young man read the paragraph.
“Rather a clever robbery,” he said, in a tone of indifference.
“I think any robbery is foolish,” responded Bernard.
“Yes, of course; that is the proper view to take of it. I suppose you
attend Sunday school?”
There was a lurking sneer in the young man’s tone, as Bernard thought.
“I am not connected with a Sunday school at present,” he said.
“I don’t think Sunday school boys are better than any other.”
“They ought to be.”
“True, but we have to consider facts. Won’t you go down-stairs and drink
a glass of beer?”
“No, thank you.”
“Oh, I forgot that you were a Sunday school boy. Well, ta, ta! I’ll see
you again.”
There was something peculiar about the young man. Though it was a warm
day he wore an ulster, which he never took off. Then he carried round
his portmanteau with him all the time.
During the next two or three hours Bernard saw him several times.
There was something else also that drew his attention to the young man.
He scanned his fellow passengers attentively, rather as if he was afraid
of meeting some objectionable person. He seemed very restless also. He
would seldom stay more than fifteen minutes in one spot.
Bernard had asked him his destination, but he evaded a straightforward
reply.
“I am going wherever the boat does,” he said, with a smile. “How is it
with you?”
“I suppose I shall land in New York.”
“Do you know any one there?”
“Yes, I know Mr. Cornelius McCracken.”
“Never heard of him. Is he an uncle of yours?”
“No, he is my guardian.”
“Your guardian?” repeated the young man, with interest. “Then you have
property?”
“I don’t think so. Mr. McCracken says I have none.”
“Then what is the use of a guardian?”
“Not much. Probably he will throw me off.”
“Why?”
“Because I have run away from a school where he placed me.”
“Humph! Why did you do that?”
“I was not well treated. The teacher wanted to whip me.”
“And you objected?” said the young man, laughing.
“Yes.”
“I can’t blame you. I should have acted in the same way probably. Who is
that man I have seen with you--he looks like a Yankee.”
“He is an acquaintance I made yesterday.”
“Are you traveling with him?”
“Yes.”
“He has a Western look.”
“I think he has been a miner in Colorado.”
“So. Has he much money, do you think?” Bernard began to think his
companion too inquisitive, and he answered shortly, “I don’t know.”
“Hasn’t told you, I suppose. Well, I shouldn’t mind going out West
myself and trying mining.”
“What business are you in?” asked Bernard, thinking he had a right to
ask questions also.
“I am a traveling man,” answered the young man, after a slight
hesitation.
They passed Newburg early in the afternoon. Shortly after reaching this
place, as Bernard was sitting on a bench on the upper deck, his friend
in the ulster came up to him hurriedly.
“Please take charge of my portmanteau a few minutes,” he said, “if it
won’t be too much trouble.”
“No trouble at all,” replied Bernard politely.
The portmanteau was a small one, and it was hard to conjecture from its
appearance what it might contain. Upon this point, however, Bernard was
not curious.
“It can’t contain anything very valuable,” he reflected, “or the owner
would hardly trust a stranger with it.”
They reached Newburg, and remained some time. Bernard thought of going
down to the lower deck, but it occurred to him that the owner of the
portmanteau might come back for it and be unable to find him. This was
rather embarrassing and he felt sorry that he had been so obliging as to
assume charge of property not his own.
As they left Newburg he went to the rear part of the boat, and took a
look at the place. He knew from the history he studied in school that
Washington had at one time had his headquarters here. If there had been
time he would have liked to have gone on shore. But even then he could
hardly have done so with the portmanteau in charge.
He fixed his eyes carelessly upon the historic town, not expecting to
see anything of special interest.
He was destined to a great surprise. There on the pier stood the young
man in the ulster. He could not mistake him. Not alone the ulster, but
the scanty yellowish mustache and pallid complexion betrayed him.
“He must have been left behind!” thought Bernard, “and I have his
portmanteau!”
He took another look at the young man in the ulster. Certainly be
betrayed no signs of having been left against his will. He stood in a
careless position with a quiet and composed face, looking at the great
steamer as it steadily widened the distance between him and his late
companion.
Bernard was very much puzzled.
“He doesn’t seem to care. Does he remember that I have his portmanteau?”
 he asked himself.
He tried to attract the young man’s attention, but in vain.
“What shall I do?” he asked himself. “I don’t know the name of the man
who intrusted me with the valise. I wonder if there is any name on it.”
He examined it, but found nothing to indicate the identity of the owner.
“I must ask Mr. Stackpole what to do,” thought Bernard. “It is certainly
a queer position to be in. I may find it necessary to open the
portmanteau, and ascertain the contents.”
He looked around the boat in search of Mr. Stackpole; but the steamer
was large and quite crowded. Then there were so many divisions to it
that somehow he missed seeing his mining friend. There was nothing now
to interfere with his going where he liked, as there was no chance of
the young man in the ulster looking for him.
At length he sat down again, and became interested in a German family
where there were three or four young children. He got on quite sociable
terms with a roguish looking young boy named Herman. Bernard was fond of
children, and easily won their sympathy and attachment.
A small man dressed in a drab suit came upstairs and looked keenly about
him. Finally his glance rested upon Bernard and his portmanteau.
He stepped up to Bernard and said, in a tone of quiet authority, “Young
man, I would like to examine that portmanteau.”
Bernard looked up in surprise.
“The portmanteau is not mine,” he said. “What do you want of it?”
“Nevertheless, I must look at it.”
Bernard still hesitated.
“Come,” said the other firmly, “it won’t be wise for you to object. I am
a detective.”
CHAPTER X.  HATCH, DETECTIVE.
|Bernard was startled. He had heard of detectives and read about them,
but this was the first time he had been brought face to face with one.
It must be confessed that the quiet little man hardly came up to his
expectations.
“You can open it if you like,” he said.
“Where is the key?”
“I haven’t got it.”
“Young man,” said the detective sternly, “I advise you not to throw any
obstacles in my way. It may do you harm.”
“But,” said Bernard earnestly, “I am speaking the truth. The owner of
the portmanteau no doubt has the key, but he didn’t give it to me.”
“The owner? Isn’t it yours?”
“No, sir.”
“Whose is it, then?”
“It belongs to a young man in an ulster, who handed it to me for safe
keeping.”
“Where is the young man?” asked the detective searchingly.
“He got off at Newburg.”
“Leaving the portmanteau with you?”
“Yes.”
“When is he going to get it back from you?”
“I don’t know.”
“And you don’t know his name?”
“No, sir.”
“That seems a very probable story. Young man, there seems to be a good
deal that you don’t know. How long have you known the young man you
speak of?”
“Only since I came on board the boat.”
“I will open the satchel and then will question you further.”
He drew from his pocket a bunch of keys, and finally found one that
fitted the lock. Opening the portmanteau, he drew out some bonds.
“Aha!” he said, “it is as I suspected. These are some of the bonds that
were stolen from Murdock & Co. yesterday.”
“Is it possible?” asked Bernard, in amazement. “That is the robbery I
was reading about in the Argus.”
“Exactly,” said the detective, with a sharp look. “Where are the rest?”
“Where are the rest? I am sure I don’t know.”
“Young man, there is no use in trying to deceive me.”
“I am not deceiving you. It is as much a mystery to me as to you.”
“Here are fifteen hundred dollars in bonds. The amount-taken was five
thousand. That leaves a balance of thirty-five hundred dollars.”
“The young man must have taken them out and concealed them in his
ulster.”
“So he wore an ulster?” said the detective, who had not at first noted
this item in Bernard’s description.
“Yes. I told you so.”
“You may be right. On such a warm day as this he would not have worn an
ulster unless he had some object in it. You say he got off at Newburg?”
“Yes, sir.”
“Did he tell you he was going to do so?”
“No. He only told me to keep the portmanteau for him.”
“Then how did you know he got off there?”
“After the steamer had started I saw him on the wharf.”
“Did he look as if he had got left?”
“No. He looked as if he had decided to remain there.”
“You positively know nothing of this man?”
“No, sir.”
“How do you account for his leaving the portmanteau in your charge?”
“We had sat and talked together considerably. Perhaps he wanted to have
it found on me,” suggested Bernard, with a sudden thought.
“This may be, although it looks queer. I shall have to place you under
arrest.”
“Why?” asked Bernard, in alarm.
“Because I have found a portion of the missing securities in your
possession.”
“But I told you how that happened.”
“Very true, and your account may be correct--or it may not.”
“You will find it is.”
“What’s your name?”
“Bernard Brooks.”
“Where are you going?”
“To New York.”
“What friends have you there?”
“A guardian.”
“His name.”
“Cornelius McCracken.”
“Are you alone on the boat?”
“No, sir. I have a friend with me--Mr. Joshua Stackpole. There he comes
now.”
Mr. Stackpole looked surprised as he saw Bernard and the detective
together.
“What’s all this?” he asked.
“Mr. Stackpole, I have been under the painful necessity of arresting
your young friend.”
“Arresting Bernard? What on earth has he been doing?”
“I have found some of the bonds taken from Murdock & Co. in his
possession.”
Mr. Stackpole looked the picture of amazement.
“Well, that beats me!” he exclaimed. “Where did you get them, Bernard?”
“A young man in an ulster gave me the portmanteau which contained them,
and asked me to keep them for him.”
“That’s straight. I saw the young man myself, and I saw the portmanteau
in his hand. He landed at Newburg; I saw him on the wharf.”
“Yes.”
“Why did he land without them?”
“I don’t know.”
“A part of the bonds were found in the portmanteau--a little less than
one-third,” said the detective. “The rest----”
“Are probably in the young man’s possession.”
“I presume so.”
“Very well! Of course, you know your business, but it seems to me you
ought to have him arrested.”
“I shall telegraph from the next landing to the chief of police at
Newburg to detain him.”
“That is proper.”
“And I shall want your young friend here to testify against him.”
“I can guarantee that he will be ready. It’s a queer thing that the boy
should be mixed up in this affair.”
“I think so myself,” said the detective, not wholly without suspicion.
At the next landing the detective got off, and sent the following
telegram:
“Chief of Police, Newburg:
“Look for a young man about average height, wearing a brown ulster.
Suspected in connection with the Murdock robbery in Albany. Search him.
“Hatch, Detective.
“Wire to me at central office, New York.”
In due time the boat reached New York. By special favor Bernard was
allowed to go to the Grand Union Hotel with Mr. Stackpole on the
guarantee of the latter that his young charge would be ready when
wanted.
At the central office Detective Hatch found the following despatch from
Newburg:
“Party in ulster under arrest. Bonds have been found in inside pockets
of ulster--thirty-five hundred dollars.
“Smith,
“Chief of Newburg Police.”
Detective Hatch rubbed his hands in glee. He telegraphed to Murdock &
Co.: “Bonds recovered and thief in custody.”
While upon this subject it may be stated that the thief was tried,
convicted, and sentenced to a term of imprisonment. Bernard received the
following letter from Murdock & Co.:
“Bernard Brooks:
“We are apprised by Detective Hatch that you have aided him in securing
the bonds of which we were robbed. This has occasioned you some trouble
and inconvenience, and we wish to make you some acknowledgment. We send
you herewith a Waltham gold watch, and hope it may please you.
“Murdock & Co.,
“Bankers and Brokers.”
The watch was a very handsome one, and proved to be a good timekeeper.
It was what Bernard had long desired, but had had very little hope of
securing. Mr. Stackpole bought him a chain to go with it.
“This is my contribution,” he said.
Bernard had been a week in New York, and he thought it high time to call
upon his guardian. He ascertained from the directory that Cornelius
McCracken had an office in Pine Street, and he accordingly betook
himself there one morning.
He went up-stairs to a room on the third floor. On a door he saw the
name Cornelius McCracken, Agent.
He ventured to open the door, and found himself in a room of moderate
size, provided with the usual office furniture.
At a desk in the right hand corner, beside a window, sat a man of medium
size, rather portly, with scanty locks that had once been red, but were
now sprinkled plentifully with gray.
Bernard paused in the doorway and finally said: “Is this Mr. McCracken?”
“Yes,” answered the agent. “Who wants me?”
“I am your ward--Bernard Brooks.”
Mr. McCracken wheeled round in his chair quickly, and fixed a pair of
sharp, ferret-like eyes on Bernard.
“So you have found me at last!” he said. “And now what have you to say
in extenuation of your shameful conduct?”
CHAPTER XI. MR. SNOWDON LOSES HIS PUPIL.
|Bernard colored, partly with indignation.
“What shameful conduct do you refer to?” he Risked.
“I have received a letter from Mr. Snowdon, your respected preceptor,
telling me how you have behaved.”
“Would you allow me to read the letter?”
“Yes, though I think you won’t find it very pleasant reading.”
He lifted the lid of his desk and drew out a letter which he handed to
Bernard.
Bernard opened and read it.
It ran thus:
“Cornelius McCracken, Esq.:
Respected Sir: It gives me keen anguish to reveal to you the unworthy
conduct of the boy whom you intrusted to my charge. It may not wholly
surprise you, for, if I remember rightly, you described Bernard Brooks
to me as a “bad lot.” In truth he is so. He has been mutinous and
disagreeable, and has bullied my son Septimus, whom for some reason he
seems to dislike strongly. Septimus is of a very amiable disposition--he
is very like me--but he was constrained to complain of Bernard’s
overbearing conduct. I felt that the boy needed castigation. You
remember that King Solomon approved corporal punishment. Accordingly I
prepared to inflict it. Getting wind of my intention, Bernard ran away.
He led me a long chase into the marshy lands to the rear of my farm, and
managed to entrap me into a ditch where my wardrobe received
considerable injury. Then he stayed away all night. In the morning,
however, my boy Septimus found him in a hayloft in my barn and notified
me.
“I immediately took a horsewhip and went out to the barn. I ascended to
the loft, but he, being active and agile, managed to elude me, and
escaped from the barn, removing the ladder so that I could not descend
for some time. I won’t go into details, but I will mention that he ran
away to the neighboring town of Poplar Plains, where I found him in the
company of an escaped lunatic. I should have been able to capture him
but for the presence and interference of a Western desperado, who
produced a revolver and threatened my life. He is still at large and
probably still in the company of this lunatic, who seems at present
disposed to befriend him, but may at any time murder him, as his cousin,
now in pursuit of him, gives him a very bad character.
“I have felt it my duty to lay these facts before you for your
consideration. I may add that I was put to considerable expense in
hiring a horse to pursue Bernard. This and some other items amount to
about five dollars, which I shall be glad if you will remit to me, as my
means are straitened and I cannot bear the loss.
“Yours sincerely,
“Ezekiel Snowdon.”
“What have you to say to this?” asked Mr. McCracken severely.
“Only that Mr. Snowdon is unfit to teach, and is as brutal as he dares
to be. I was fully justified in running away. I don’t allow any man to
horsewhip me.”
“So you abused his son, Sep----” and Mr. McCracken referred to the
letter to refresh his memory as to the name.
“Septimus? He is worse, if anything, than his father.”
“Do you expect me to send you to another school, where you can have your
own way?”
“No; I would prefer to earn my own living.”
“Are you still with the lunatic?”
“Mr. Penrose is no lunatic, though he has a cousin who is trying to get
him into an insane asylum in order to gain possession of his money.”
“Very plausible! I suppose he tells you so. Are you still with him?”
“No, sir. I am with a miner from Colorado--a Mr. Stackpole.”
“Is he the desperado referred to by Mr. Snowdon in his letter?”
“Yes, sir.”
“Upon my word, I congratulate you on your choice of associates. Where is
he now?”
“In New York, at the Grand Union Hotel. I have been staying there with
him.”
“Has he adopted you?”
“No, sir. Mr. McCracken, there is one question I would like to ask you.”
“What is it?”
“You are my guardian. Have you charge of my property for me?”
“No. Who told you that I had?” demanded Mr. McCracken suspiciously.
“No one, but I thought my father might have left something.”
“He left about a hundred and fifty dollars, but it was gone long ago.”
“And have you been paying my expenses out of your own pocket ever
since?”
“Yes,” answered Mr. McCracken, but he looked somewhat embarrassed.
“Then I thank you for your liberality, sir. I don’t like to impose upon
it, and would like to make my own living.”
“That sounds very well, but what can you do?”
“I don’t know yet, but I am sure I can earn my board. I am young and
strong.”
“Where did you get that gold watch?” asked Mr. McCracken, as Bernard
drew it to consult the time.
“It was given me by a firm of bankers in Albany--Murdock & Co.”
“What induced them to give it to you?”
“I helped them to recover some bonds which had been stolen from them.”
“Humph! You seem to be fond of adventures.”
“The adventure was forced upon me.”
“Let me know what you want.”
“If you could help me to find a place where I can earn a living I should
feel deeply indebted to you, and it would save you from supporting me
out of your own pocket.”
“I will think of it. Where are you staying?”
“At the Grand Union Hotel.”
“Who is paying your bills?”
“Mr. Joshua Stackpole.”
“You can come to my house. In a few days I shall probably find you a
place.”
“Thank you, sir. Where do you live?”
Mr. McCracken gave an address on Lexington Avenue.
“I will go there this afternoon.”
“I shall be home at five. You may present yourself then.”
Bernard was about to leave the office when Mr. McCracken called him
back.
“Wait a minute. Did you notice what Mr. Snowdon said about his expense
in getting you back?”
“Yes, sir,” answered Bernard with a smile. “Do you think he expended
five dollars?”
“No, sir. I know he did not. The horse he hired is about twenty-five
years old, and he can have it whenever he please for seventy-five
cents.”
“So Mr. Snowdon wishes to make a little profit out of the transaction.”
“So it appears.”
“Very well, that will do.”
The next day Mr. Snowdon received the following letter:
“Dear Sir:
“I have delayed answering your letter till I could see my ward. He
called on me this morning. He charges you with an attempt to horsewhip
for insufficient cause. Into the merits of this controversy between you
I will not enter. I doubt if it will be advisable to send him back to
Snowdon Institute, and at his request I shall find him some employment.
“As to the charge you make for expenses in pursuing him I think you have
greatly overcharged. I inclose two dollars, which Bernard tells me is
considerably more than your horse hire cost you.
“Your obedient servant,
“Cornelius McCracken.”
Ezekiel Snowdon read this letter with a perturbed brow.
“Such is gratitude!” he exclaimed, raising his eyes to heaven in
protest. “The mental anguish that that boy has cost me ought to count
for something. Yet his guardian has sent me a paltry two-dollar bill.
Truly the virtuous are persecuted in this world. They must seek their
reward in a better sphere.”
“Has the crazy man been caught, pa?”
“Not that I have heard. That good man, his cousin, has been foiled in
his efforts probably. I shall miss the money I have been accustomed to
receive from Bernard’s guardian. Unless we can fill his place, I shall
be obliged to cut down the rations of butter, and have it only every
other day.”
“I can’t do without butter, pa. You needn’t give any at all to the
boarders.”
“True, the suggestion is a good one. Competent medical authorities say
that butter is apt to bring humors to children. They will be better off
without it.”
Bernard reported to Mr. Stackpole the interview he had had with his
