heart. Was it not tearing out my very soul? 
But the voice cried out to me: " You have 
been a slave to the world! You have been a 
slave to life! You have been crucified upon the 
cross of Art! " — Yes, and all things a man may 
sacrifice to Art but one thing; he may not sac- 
rifice his soul! 
" What! " it rushed on. " Have you so much 
faith in your art, and no faith in your God? Is it 
for Him that you have so much need to fear, to 
crouch and tremble, to plot and to plan — for 
Him? And when he made you, when he gave 
you your inspiration — his soul was faint? " 
" He that sendeth forth the surging spring- 
time, and covereth all the earth with new life! 
He that is the storm upon the sea, the wind upon 
the mountains, the sun upon the meadows! He 
that poureth the races from his lap! He that 
made the ages, the suns and the systems through- 
out all space — he that maketh them forever and 
smiteth them into dust again for play! He that 
is infinite, unthinkable, all-glorious, all-sufficient 
— He hath need of thee! 
" He hath need that thy wonderful books 
should be written, that mankind should hear thy 
wonderful songs! Thy books, thy songs, that 
are to last through the ages! And when this 
earth shall have withered, when the sun shall have 
touched it with his fiery finger, when it shall 
roll through space as silent and bare as the desert, 
when the comet shall have smitten it and hurled 
it into dust, when the systems to which it belongs 
— the sun into which it melted — shall be no more 
known to time — where then will be thy hooks and 
thy songs? Where then will be these things for 
which thou didst crouch and tremble, didst plot 
and plan? For which thou didst lick the feet of 
vile men — for which thou didst give up thy God! " 
And then I leaped up and stretched out my 
arms. " No! No! " I cried aloud: " I have done 
with it! Have I not fought this fight once, and 
did I not win it — this fight of The Captive? And 
can I not fight it and win it again? Away, away 
with you, world, for I am a free man again, and 
no slave! Soul am I, will am I, unconquerable, 
all-defying! In His arms I lie, in His breath I 
breathe, in His life I live — I am He! Fear I 
know not, death I know not, slavery and sin and 
doubt and fear I will never know again! " 
Nay, — nay. Go thy road, proud world, and 
I go mine ! — 
In dem wogenden Schwall, 
in dem tonenden Schall, 
in des Welt-Athems 
wehendem AH ! — 
ertrinken — 
versinken — 
unbewusst — 
hbchste Lust I 
Oh, think not of that poetry! Think of the 
music! The surging, drunken, overwhelming 
waves of music! Do you not hear them — do you 
not hear them? — 
Wie sie schwellen, 
mich umrauschen ! 
Soil ich athmen, 
soil ich lauschen I 
So the thing went; and I panted and 
throbbed, and sank down upon the ground for 
weakness. There came to me all that mad poetry 
that I had written myself, all that victory that I 
had won, that freedom, that vision, that glory! 
It came to me ten times over, for was it not every- 
thing to me now? It was more than I could 
bear, it split my brain. 
And it would not leave me. All through the 
long, long night I prayed and wept with it; and 
in the morning I reeled through the street with 
it, and men stared at me. 
But here was one time when I did not fear 
men! I was free — I was a soul at last. I had 
won the victory, I went my way as a god. I had 
renounced, I had given up fear, I had given up 
my self. My mind was made up, and I never 
change my mind. I had passed the death-sen- 
tence upon myself, I walked through the streets 
as a disembodied soul — as the Captive dragged 
to the banquet-hall. 
But no, I went to my torture of myself. 
I went to the store. It was early Sunday 
morning, and the place was just open. — I got my 
papers and put them under my arm — my original 
draft of The Captive, and all my journal. I went 
down the street and came to a place where a man 
was burning some trash. 
I was a demon in my strength just then; my 
head reeled, but I went with the dancing step of 
new-born things. I stood upon the heights, I 
" laughed at all Sorrow-play and Sorrow-real- 
ity " ! " Ho, sir," I cried, " I have things here 
that will make a fire for you ! " 
And so I knelt down and unwrapped The 
Captive. " There is much fire in this," I said; 
" once I thought it would explode, I did. It was 
a shot that would have been heard around the 
world, sir! Only I could not pull the trigger." 
The man stared at me, and so I burned it, page 
by page, and laughed, and sang a foolish song 
that I thought of: Stride la vampa! 
And afterward I unwrapped the journal. I 
laughed at my journal — 'tis a foolish thing; but 
then all at once my conscience touched me. I 
said: " Is it not a shame? Is it not small of you? 
They would not heed you! — fool, what of it? 
Perhaps it is not their fault — certainly it is their 
sorrow. But you will not get much higher than 
you are now by trampling upon them." 
And so I stopped; and I wrapped up my 
journal again. " You have fire enough now, sir," 
I said to the man. " I will keep this to build an- 
other fire with." 
I went on. " Let them have it," I said, " let 
them make what they can out of it." And then I 
laughed aloud: "And they will discuss it! And 
there will be reviews of it! And wise articles 
about it ! And learned scholars will write tomes 
upon it, showing how many sentences there are 
in it ending with a punctuation mark; and old 
ladies and Methodist ministers will shake their 
heads over it and say: ' See what comes of not 
believing in Adam! ' " 
I walked on, singing the Ride of the Valkyr- 
ies, the children staring at me, going to Sunday- 
school. 
But I was glad that there was another copy of 
The Captive left. I love even that wicked editor 
now. 
— All that was a day and a half ago. I am not 
so happy now, but I am very calm. I have found 
my righteousness again, and I can take whatever 
comes. 
And tasks in hours of insight willed 
Can be in hours of gloom fulfilled ! 
June 3d. 
I have now three days more to wait, to learn 
if The Captive is accepted. I have money 
enough to last me till then. If it is not accepted 
I should obviously have to starve, should I not? 
For I will never serve the world again. And 
am I a sheep that must be driven? No, I shall 
find a quicker way of dying than by starvation. 
In the meanwhile I live my life and say my 
prayer. 
I have thought a great deal about the thing, 
and it seems by no means best for the world that 
it should treat all the men who have my gift as 
it has treated me. Let the world take notice that 
I perish because I have not cheap qualities. Be- 
cause I was born to sing and to worship! Be- 
cause I have no alloy, because I will not compro- 
mise, because I do not understand the world, and 
do not serve its uses! If I only knew all the 
book-gossip of the hour, and all the platitvides of 
the reviews! If only I knew anything of all the 
infinite frivolity and puerility that occupies the 
minds of men! But I do not, and so I am an out- 
cast, and must work as a day laborer for my 
bread. 
— The infinite irrationality of it seems to me 
notable. Why, upon the men of genius of the 
past you feed your lives, you blind and foolish 
men ! They are the bread and meat of your souls 
— they make your civilizations — they mold your 
thoughts — they put into you all that little life 
which you have. And your reviews have use 
enough for them! Your publishers pubHsh 
enough of them! But what thoughts have you 
about the NEW teacher, the NEW inspirer? 
The madness of the thing! I read books 
enough, it seems to me, telling of the sufiferings 
of the poets of a century ago! — of the indififer- 
ence of the critics, the blindness of the public, of 
a century ago. And those things pain you all so 
cruelly! But the possibility of their happening 
to the poets of the present — it never seems to 
enter into your heads ! Why, that very man who 
sent me back his curt refusal by his secretary — 
he writes about the agonies of Shelley and Keats 
in a way that brings the tears into your eyes! 
And that is only one example among thou- 
sands. 
What do these men think? Is it their idea 
that the public and the critics are now so true 
and so eager that the poets have nothing more to 
fear? That stupidity and blindness and indiffer- 
ence are quite entirely gone out of the world? 
That aspiration and fervor are now so much the 
rule that the least penny-a-liner can judge the 
new poet? 
And they think that the soul is dead then! 
And that God has stopped sending into this 
world new messages and new faiths! 
Oh you civilization! You society! You 
critics and lovers of books! Why, that new mes- 
sage and that new faith ought to be the one thing 
in all this world that you bend your faculties to 
save! It is that upon which all your life is built 
— it is that by which this Republic, for one thing, 
is to be made a factor in the history of mankind. 
But what do you do? What have you done? 
Here I am; and come now and tell me what it is 
that you think you have done. For I have the 
message! — I have the faith! And you have 
starved me, and you have beaten me, until I am 
too ill to drag myself about! 
And what can I do? Where can I turn? 
What hope have I, except, as Swift's phrase has 
it, to "die like a poisoned rat in a hole"? I 
could wish that you would think over that phrase 
a little while, cultivated ladies and gentlemen. It 
is not pleasant — to die like a poisoned rat in a 
hole. 
You ask me to believe in your civilization; 
you ask me to believe in your love of light! Let 
me tell you when I would believe in your civiliza- 
zation and your love of light. 
I say that the last and the highest thing in 
this world is Genius. I say that Religion and 
Art and Progress and Enlightenment — that all 
these things are made out of Genius; and that 
Genius is first and last, highest, and best, and 
fundamental. And I say that when you recog- 
nize that fact — when you believe in Genius — 
when you prepare the way for it and make 
smooth the paths for it — I say that then and then 
alone may you tell me that you are civilized. 
The thing shrieks against heaven — your 
cruelty, your stupidity. Since ever the first poet 
came into this world it has been the same story 
of agony, indignity, and shame. And what do 
you do? 
It is poverty that I talk about, poverty alone! 
The poet wants nothing in this world but to be 
let alone to listen to the voices of his soul. He 
wants nothing from you in all this world but that 
you give him food while he does it — while he 
does it, miserable people — not for himself, but 
for you. 
This is the shame upon you — that you expect 
— that you always have expected — that the poet, 
besides doing the fearful task his inspiration lays 
upon him — that he shall go out into the coarse, 
ruthless world and slave for his bread! That is 
the shame! That is the indignity, that is the 
brutality, the stupidity, the infamy! Shame 
upon you, shame upon you, world! 
The poet ! He comes with a heart trembling 
with gladness; he comes with tears of rapture in 
his eyes! He comes with bosom heaving and 
throat choking and heart breaking. He comes 
with tenderness and with trust, with joy in the 
beauty that he beholds. He comes a minstrel, 
with a harp in his hand — and you set your dogs 
upon him — you drive him torn and bleeding from 
your gates! 
The poet! You make him go out into the 
market and chaffer for his bread! You subject 
him to the same law to which you subject your 
loafers and your louts — that he who will not work 
can not eat! Your drones, and your drunkards 
— and your poets! Every man must earn for 
himself, every man must pay his way! No man 
must ask favors, no man must be helped, no man 
shall be any dififerent from other men! For 
shame ! For shame ! 
And you love letters! You love poetry! 
You are civilized, you are liberal, you are en- 
lightened! You are fools! 
I tell you the agony of this thing is in me yet 
— it has heaped itself up in my soul all my days. 
It was my life, it was my life that cried out ! And 
now that I can not save my own self — oh, let me 
at least save the others! O God, let me not die 
till I have said one word that reaches their hearts, 
till I have done something to change this ghastly 
thing! The voices of the ages cry out to me. 
Not only the hundreds who have gone before — 
but the hundreds and the thousands who are to 
come! What are we to do? they cry — who shall 
save usf Are we to share the same fate — are we 
too to struggle and die in vain? And in this world 
that is civilized! In this world that seeks prog- 
ress! In this world that wants nothing but light! 
Not to the mob I speak, not to those who 
once mocked me; if none but they lived, I should 
hold my tongue and go. But you men who are 
leaders, you men who stand upon the top, you 
men who see! — can I not find some word to 
reach you? You men who really love books — 
who have money — who want nothing but to 
put it to use! — can I not find some word to 
reach youf 
God! And it is all so simple. 
Itell you this land will never be civilized, 
this land will never lead mankind, it will never be 
anything but the torture-house that I have found 
it, until it makes some provision for its men of 
Genius! Until this simple fundamental thing be 
true — that a man may know that if he have Genius 
— that the day he shows he has Genius — he will 
be honored and protected by society and not 
trampled and kicked like a dog. That he will not 
have to go out into the market-place and vend 
his wares! That he will not have to make sick 
his soul haggling for his bread ! That if he turns 
his strength to higher things, and exposes him- 
self to the world thereby, he will not be trodden 
down in the struggle for existence! That he will 
not have to bear indignities and insults; that he 
will not have to write till he be ripe, or be stunted 
and deformed by early deprivation. 
Genius. And am I not to die now? — And 
what matters the world? 
Therefore let me write it: that I was a man 
of Genius. And that you have trodden me down 
in the struggle for existence. That I saw things 
that no other man has ever seen, I would have 
written things that no other man can ever write. 
And that you have trodden me down in the strug- 
gle for existence — that you have trodden me 
down because I could not earn my bread! 
This is what I tell you — this is what I cry 
out to you, that the man of Genius can not earn 
his bread! That the work by which he develops 
his power is something absolutely and utterly 
dififerent from the work by which he earns his 
bread! And that every hour which he gives to 
the one, he lessens his power and his capacity for 
the other! Every hour that he gives to the earn- 
ing of his bread, he takes from his soul, he weak- 
ens his work, he destroys beauty which never 
again can he know or dream ! 
And this again is what I tell you, this again 
is what I cry out to you: that the power by 
which a man of Genius does his work, and the 
power by which he earns his bread, are things 
so entirely distinct that they may not occur together 
at all! The man may have both, but then again 
he may only have the former. — And in that case 
he will die like a poisoned rat in a hole. 
What is the first principle of the democracy 
of which we boast, if it be not that excellence, 
that power, that Genius, is not the attribute of 
the rich or the nable, but that it may make its ap- 
pearance anywhere among men? And you who 
sigh for men of talent to raise American letters 
— what do you do about it? I will tell you some- 
thing right now, to begin with; it will startle you, 
perhaps, and you may not believe it; but I mean 
to prove it later on. For the present I say this: 
that of the seven poets who constitute the glory 
of the literature of England in the nineteenth 
century, four of them were rich men, five of them 
were independent, one of them was endowed 
when he was a youth, and the seventh, the 
greatest of them all, died like a poisoned rat 
in a hole. 
And what do you do about it? What you do 
is to lean back in your chair and say : " The Uter- 
ary market was never so wide-awake as it is now, 
and the publishers never so anxious for new tal- 
ent"! 
Fools ! And you think that the publishers are 
in business for the developing of talent, and for 
the glory of literature! And that they care about 
whether a man of Genius dies in the streets, or 
not! Why, have I not heard them tell me, with 
their own lips, that " a publisher who published 
books that the trade did not want would be 
driven out of business in a year"? 
And you tell me that the author is an inde- 
pendent man nowadays! And can earn his liv- 
ing with his books! 
It is your privilege to think that, if you 
choose; but perhaps you will not mind hearing 
what I tell you — that the author can find no way 
to a living more degrading to him than the earn- 
ing of it with his books. I have shoveled snow, 
and shoveled manure too, in the streets, and 
shoveled food for swine in a restaurant.. But I 
never did anything so degrading as I should have 
had to do if I had tried to earn my Hving with 
my books. 
Oh, the author may be independent, may he! 
And you will escape with that fine platitude, 
and with that bitter mockery ! And never think 
that the author's independence is but the fine 
phrase for your own indifference! 
Again it is your privilege to think what you 
choose; but again perhaps you will not mind 
hearing what I tell you — that there can never 
be any man in this world more dependent than 
an author, if he be a true author. A true au- 
thor is the singer and dreamer of society; and 
who is there more dependent than the singer 
and the dreamer — who is there less powerful and 
less cunning in the things of the body? 
Why, the author gives up his whole life for 
your joy and help, he consecrates himself, he 
lashes and burns and tortures himself — for your 
sake! And you spurn him from you, and tell 
him he is "independent "! 
Here is the truth, here is the crux, here is the 
whole thing in" a sentence.-- A publisher is hot in 
business for the furtherance of Art, or for the up- 
lifting of humanity, or for the worship of God. 
He doesn't mind doing these things incidentally, 
of course, when the fortunate occasion arises; 
but do you think if he had his choice between 
publishing a new Paradise Lost to be read fifty 
years from date, and publishing a biography of 
a reigning prince, or a treatise on gastronomy, 
or a new dime novel by Marie Corelli in a first 
edition of a hundred thousand copies — do you 
think he would hesitate, now really? 
You say that " literary excellence is identical 
with publishing availability"! I tell you that 
they are as far apart — why, that they are just 
exactly this far apart — as far as what mankind 
likes is from what mankind ought to like. 
And you ask the man of Genius to cringe 
and tremble before the standard of what the 
reading public likes! You ask him to tame the 
frenzy of his inspiration, to pull your pleasure- 
carriages with his winged steed! He shall be no 
more the seer and the prophet and the leader — 
he shall be mountebank and public-entertainer. 
And you call yourself civilized! O God! 
And the poet! Again the poet! Is he not 
vital to your society? Is he not, in the last analy- 
sis, the lawmaker, the law-enforcer — this seeker, 
this inspirer, this man with the new vision of 
right? I look at this society — body enough I 
see, bone and muscle, and a good, large, capable 
stomach. Brain enough I see, too, or nearly 
enough; but Soul? Soul? Who will dare to tell 
me that there is Soul enough? And your poet — 
why, he is your Soul! He is the man who fills the 
millions with the breath of life, who makes the 
whole vast machine a living, rejoicing, beautiful 
thing. He — every noble impulse that you have 
has come originally from him — the memory of 
his words thrill in the hearts of men — pupils 
gather to study them — tired hearts seek them for 
refreshment — they grow and they fill all the 
earth — and never through the centuries do they 
die! They blossom into noble impulses, into new 
movements, — into reforms that reach down to 
the lowest wretches of the gutter, who never 
even heard of a poet. Why, they have reached 
to the very dogs, that are beaten less than they 
were. 
And what is it that makes civilization in the 
end? What is it that the world really honors in 
the end? You Americans, you who love your 
country, you who believe in your country's insti- 
tutions, who believe that your country holds in 
her womb the future of mankind ! You who want 
the world to believe that! — how are you going to 
get the world to believe that? Is it — poor, im- 
potent, foolish creatures — by covering your land 
until it is a maze of twenty-story office buildings? 
By lining it with railroads six feet apart? — Do you 
not know that this very hour the reason why Eu- 
rope does not believe in America is that it has 
not a man to sing its Soul? That it has been a 
century in the eyes of the world, and has not yet 
brought forth one single poet or thinker of the 
first rank? 
The poet! And I sought to be that man, 
my heart burned to sing that song! And look 
at me! 
Who will dare to say that I might not have 
sung it? What chance have I had — have I not 
been handicapped and stunted, beaten and dis- 
couraged, punished as if I had been a loafer — by 
you, the world? Here I am — I am only a boy — 
and thrilling with unutterable things! And I am 
going: down,- down to destruction! Why, for 
what I had to say I needed years and years to 
ripen; and how can I tell now — how can any 
man tell now — what those things would have 
been? 
And I — what am I? — a worm, an atom! But 
what happens to me to-day may happen to an- 
other to-morrow, and may happen to a hundred 
in a century. And who knows? — who cares? 
'hat do you do with your railroad presi- 
dents? You take good care that they get their 
work done, don't you? They have secretaries to 
catch every word, they have private cars to carry 
them where they would go, men to run and serve 
them, to make smooth their paths and save their 
every instant for them ! But your poet, your man 
of genius — who makes smooth his paths, who 
helps himf He needs nobody to run and serve 
him — he needs no cars and no palaces, no gold 
and precious raiment — no, nor even praise and 
honor! What he needs — I have said it once — 
he needs but to be left alone, to listen to the 
voices of his soul, and to have some one bring 
him food to keep him alive while he does it. That 
— only that! — think of it — for the most precious 
things of this life, the things that alone save- this- 
life from being a barren mockery and a grinning 
farce! And he can not have them — and you, you 
enlightened society, you never care about it, you 
never think of it! 
If he comes a master, he can force his way; 
or if he be rich, or if some one honor him, then 
he can live his life and heed nothing. But when 
he is poor! And when he is weak ! And when he 
is young! God help him, God help him! — for 
you, you great savage world, you crush him. 
You send him to the publishers! And he is 
young, and crude, and inexperienced! He has 
not found himself, he has not found his voice, 
he stammers, he falters, he is weak! And you 
send him to the publishers ! 
I have said it once, I say it again: that the 
publisher is part of the world and his law is a 
law of iron — he publishes the books that will 
sell. And this feeble voice, this young love, this 
tender aspiration, this holy purpose — oh, it is a 
thing to make one shudder! 
And these things higher yet, these things 
so precious that we dare not whisper them — this 
new awe of righteousness — this new rage at what 
the world loves best — this flash of insight that 
will astound a new age! 
You send it all to the publisher! 
But what can you do? I will tell you what 
you can do — I will tell you what you will do when 
you come finally to honor what is truly precious 
in this life — when you are really civilized and en- 
lightened — when you really believe in and value 
Genius. 
You will provide it that your young poet, 
your young worshiper, come elsewhere to receive 
a judgment than to the money-making publisher, 
and to the staring, vulgar crowd. You will pro- 
vide it that he does not measure his voice against 
the big-drum thumping of the best-selling pom- 
posities of the hour. You will provide it that he 
come, with all honor and all dignity, to the best 
and truest men that you can engage for the serv- 
ice; and that he come to be judged by one stand- 
ard, and that not the standard of sales. Whether 
it be true, whether it be noble, whether it be sin- 
cere; whether it show imagination, whether it 
have melody, beauty, love, aspiration, knowl- 
edge; whether, in short, in those forms or in 
any other forms, it have power! Whether the 
man who wrote it is a man worth training, 
whether he will repay society for its trust, 
whether he will bring new beauty into the world! 
— And then, if these things be true, so long as 
he works, and grows, and proves his value, so 
long shall he have the pittance that he needs until 
he be the master of his voice. 
Yes, you never thought of that before! I 
read everything — everywhere — and I never 
heard it before. And what does that tell about 
the poverty and blindness and stupidity of this 
world? Are we not rich enough? Are we not 
the richest nation in the world? Have we not 
railroads and houses, food and clothing and bank- 
stocks enough to make the brain reel? And do 
we not call ourselves a Christian land? And wor- 
ship as divine the Teacher who said that " man 
shall not live by bread alone, but by every word 
that proceedeth out of the mouth of God "? 
Oh, you world! 
And what would it do? What would it mean ? 
I will tell you a few things that it would mean. 
First of all it would mean that the man who 
felt in him the voice of God would know that 
there was a road he could travel, would know 
that there was a home for him. He would no 
longer face the fearful alternative of mediocrity 
or starvation. He would no longer be tempted, 
he would no longer be forced to turn from his 
faith, and stunt his development, and wreck his 
plans, by base attempts to compromise between 
his highest and what the world will pay for. Can 
you have any idea what that would mean to 
an artist? You say that you love art! Can you 
have any idea of the eflfect which that would have 
upon art? Upon the art of your country — upon 
American literature ! To have a band of perhaps 
a hundred — perhaps a thousand, proved and 
chosen — the best and strongest that could be 
found — and set free and consecrated to the search 
for beauty! Try it for fifty years — try it for ten 
years — try the method of raising your poets in 
your gardens instead of flinging them into your 
weed-beds — and see what the result would be! 
See if in fifty years American literature would not 
have done more than all the rest of the world ! 
And what would it cost? — O God! Is there 
a railroad in this country so small that its earnings 
would not pay for it — for the whole of the thou- 
sand? Why, pay a poet five hundred dollars a 
year, and he is a rich man; if he is not, he is no 
poet, but a knave. 
And there would be waste? — Yes — where is 
there not waste? But grant that in the whole 
thousand there is just one who is a master mind; 
and that him you set free and keep from defeat — 
that him with all his glory you make yours — and 
then tell me if there be any other way in this 
world that you could have done so much for man 
with your money! 
— No, these are not your ways, oh you cruel 
world! You let every man go his way — you let 
him starve, you let him die in any hole that he 
can find. The poet — tenderest and most sensi- 
tive of all men! The poet — the master of the 
arts of sufifering! Exposed on every side, nerv- 
ous, haunted, unused to the world, knowing 
how to feel and knowing that alone! Is not his 
life an agony under any conditions, — is he not 
tortured for you — the world? And you leave 
him helpless, despairing! 
What is the matter with you? — How can you 
be so blind? There are some of you who really 
love books — look and see the story of genius — 
if it be not a thing to make you shudder and 
turn sick. It has been so through all the ages, 
and it will be so through all the ages to come, 
until society has a conscience and a soul. Tell 
me if there is anything in this world more fright- 
ful than the lot of the poets who have been born 
poor — of Marlowe and Chatterton and Gold- 
smith, Johnson and Burns and Keats! And who 
can tell how many were choked before even their 
first utterance? 
I can not talk of that, for it makes me sick; 
but I will talk of the poets who were born rich. 
Is it not singular — is it not terrible — how many 
of the great stalwart ones were rich? To be edu- 
cated, to own books, to hear music, to dwell in 
the country, to be free from men and men's judg- 
ments! Oh, the words break my heart! 
— But was not Goethe rich, and did he not 
have these things? And was not Hugo rich? 
And Milton? When he left college he spent five 
years at his father's country place and wrote four 
poems that have done more to make men happy 
than if they had cost many milHons of dollars. 
But let me come to what I spoke of before, 
the seven poets of this century in England. 
I name Wordsworth and Byron, Tennyson, 
Browning and Swinburne, Shelley and Keats. I 
said that six of them were independent, and that 
the other — the greatest — died like a dog. 
Wordsworth came first; he was young and 
poor and struggling, and a friend left him just 
such an independence as I have cried for; and 
he consecrated himself to art, and he revolution- 
ized English poetry, he breathed truth into a 
whole nation again. And when he was clear and 
looked back, he made such statements as these: 
that " a poet has to create the taste by which he 
is to be enjoyed," and that " my poetry has never 
brought me enough to pay for my shoe-strings." 
And see how the publishers and critics — how 
the literary world — received him! How they 
jeered and jibed, and took fifty years to under- 
stand him! Oh think of these things, think what 
they mean, you who love literature! Think that 
the world owes its possession of Wordsworth's 
poetry to the accident that a friend died and left 
him some money! 
I name Byron; he was a rich man. I name 
Tennyson; he had a little competence, and he 
gave up the idea of marriage and for ten years 
devoted himself to art; and when he was thirty- 
two he published his work — and then they gave 
him a pension! 
I name Browning; Browning went his own 
way, heeding no man; and he never had to think 
about money. I name Swinburne; and the same 
was true of him. 
I name Shelley; and Shelley was wealthy. 
They kept him poor for a time, but his poems do 
not date from then. When he wrote the poetry 
that has been the spiritual food of the high souls 
of this century, he lived in a beautiful villa in 
Italy, and wandered about the forest with his 
