embodied influence, the definite adversary, who had, by
a stroke of her own, failed him, and on a fond theory
of whose palpable presence he had, under Mrs. Newsome'; 
inspiration, altogether proceeded. He had once or twice, in
secret, literally expressed the irritated wish that she would 
come out and find her. 
He couldn't quite yet force it upon Woollett that such a
career, such a perverted young life, showed after all a 
certain plausible side, du in the case before them flaunl 
something like an impunity for the social man ; but he 
could at least treat himself to the statement that would 
prepare him for the sharpest echo. This echo — as distinct 
over there, in the dry, thin air, as some shrill " heading " 
above a column of print — seemed to reach him even as he 
wrote. " He says there's no woman," he could hear Mrs. 
Newsome report, in capitals almost of newspaper size, to 
Mrs. Pocock ; and he could focus in Mrs. Focock the 
response of the reader of the journal. He could see in 
the younger lady's face the earnestness of her attention 
and catch the full scepticism of her but slightly delayed 
"What is there then?" Just so he could again as little 
mis the mother's clear decision : " There's plenty of disposition, no doubt, to pretend there isn't." Strether had, 
after posting his letter, the whole scene out ; and it was a 
scene during which, coming and going, as befell, he kept 
his eye not least upon the daughter. He had his fine 
sense of the conviction Mrs. Pocock would take occasion 
to reafifirm — a conviction bearing, as he had from the first 
deeply divined it to bear, on Mr. Strether's essential in- 
aptitude. She had looked him in his conscious eye even 
before he sailed, and that she didn't believe he would find 
the woman had been written in her look. Hadn't she, at 
the best, but a scant faith in his ability to find women ? It 
wasn't even as if he had found her mother — so much more, 
to her fearless sense, had her mother performed the finding. 
Her mother had, in a case her private judgment of which 
remained educative of Mrs. Pocock's critical sense, found 
the man. The man owed his unchallenged state in general 
to the fact that Mrs. Newsome's discoveries were accepted 
at Woollett ; but he knew in his bones, our friend did, how 
almost irresistibly Mrs. Pocock would now be moved to 
show what she thought of his own. Give her a free hand, 
would be the moral, and the woman would soon be found. 
His impression of Miss Gostrey after her introduction 
to Chad was meanwhile the impression of a person almost 
unnaturally on her guard. He struck himself as at first 
unable to extract from her what he wished ; though indeed 
<?/" what he wished at this special juncture he would doubt- 
less have contrived to make but a crude statement. It 
sifted and settled nothing to put to her toui bctement, as 
she often said, "Do you like him, eh?" — thanks to his t 
feeling it actually the least of his needs to heap up the f 
evidence in the young man's favour. He repeatedly 
knocked at her door to let her have it afresh that Chad's 
case — whatever else of minor interest it might yield — was, 
first and foremost, a miracle almost monstrous. It was the 
alteration of the entire man, and was so signal an instance 
that nothing else, for the intelligent observer, could — could
it i" — signify. " It's a plot," he declared — " there's more in   
it than meets the eye." He gave the rein to his fancy. - 
" It's a plant!"  
His fancy seemed to please her. " Whose then ? " 
" Well, the party responsible is, I suppose, the fate that I 
waits for one, the dark doom that rides. What I mean is I 
that with such elements one can't count. I've but my poor 
individual, my modest, human means. It isn't playing the 
game to turn on the abnormal. All one's energy goes to ; 
facing it, to tracking it. One wants, confound it, don't you 
see ? " he confessed with a queer face — " one wants to ! 
enjoy anything so rare. Call it then life" — he puzzled it 
out — "call it poor dear old life simply that springs the 
surprise. Nothing alters the fact that the surprise is 
paralysing, or at any rate engrossing — all, practically, 
hang it, that one sees, that one can see." 
Her silences were never dull. " Is that what you've
written home?"' 
He tossed it off. " Oh dear, yes ! " 
She had another pause while, over her carpets, he had ; 
another walk. " If you don't look out you'll have them 
straight over." 
" Oh, but I've said he'll go back."   
" And will he ? " Miss Gostrey asked. 
The special tone of it made him, pulling up, look at her 
long. " What's that but just the question I've spent I 
treasures of patience and ingenuity in giving  fou, by the 
sight of him — after everything had led up — every facility 
to answer .-  What is it but just the thing I came here 
to-day to get out of you ? Will he?" 
" No — he won't," she said at last. " He's not free." 
The air of it held him. " Then you've all the while 
known ? " 
" I've known nothing but what I've seen ; and I wonder," 
she declared with some impatience, " that you didn't see as 
much. It was enough to be with him there " 
" In the box? Yes?" he rather blankly urged. 
" Well— to feel sure." 
" Sure of what? " 
She got up from her chair, at this, with a nearer approach 
than she had ever yet shown to dismay at his dimness. 
She even, fairly pausing for it, spoke with a shade of pity. 
" Guess ! " 
It was a shade, fairly, that brought a flush into his face ; 
so that, for a moment as they stood there, their difference 
was between them. "You mean that just your hour with 
him told you so much of his story? Very good ; I'm not 
such a fool, on my side, as that I don't understand you, or 
as that I didn't in some degree understand him. That he 
has done what he liked most isn't, among any of us, a 
matter the least in dispute. There's equally little question 
at this time of day of what it is he does like most. But 
I'm not talking," he reasonably explained, " of any mere 
brute he may still pick up. I'm talking of some person 
who, in his present situation, may have held her own, may 
really have counted." 
" That's exactly what I am ! " said Miss Gostrey. But 
she as quickly made her point. " I thought you thought — 
or that they think at VVoollett — that that's what mere 
brutes necessarily do. Mere brutes necessarily don't !" she 
declared with spirit. " There must, behind every appear- 
ance to the contrary', still be somebody — somebody who's 
not a mere brute, since we accept the miracle. What else 
but such a somebody can such a miracle be ? " 
He took it in. " Because the fact itself is the woman ? " 
"A woman. Some woman or other. It's one of the 
things that have to be." 
" But you mean then at least a good one." 
"A good woman? " She threw up her arms with a laugh. 
" I should call her excellent ! " 
" Then why does he deny her ? " 
Miss Gostrey thought a moment. " Because she's too 
good to admit ! Don't you see," she went on, " how she 
accounts for him ? " 
Strether clearly, more and more, did see ; yet it made  
him also see other things. " But isn't what we want that
he shall account for her ? " ; 
" Well, he does. What you have before you is his way.  
You must forgive him if it isn't quite outspoken. In Paris 
such debts are tacit." 
Strether could imagine ; but still ! " Even when the   
woman's good ? " 
Again she laughed out. " Yes, and even when the man ' 
is ! There's always a caution in such cases," she more 
seriously explained, " for what it may seem to show. ; 
There's nothing that's taken as showing so much here as 
sudden unnatural goodness."   
"Ah, you're speaking then now," Strether said, "of ' 
people who are not nice." 
" I delight," she replied, " in your classifications. But do 
you want me," she asked, " to give you in the matter, on 
this ground, the wisest advice I'm capable of? Don't con- 
sider her, don't judge her at all in herself. Consider her 
and judge her only in iwi."  
He had the courage at least of his companion's logic. 
" Because then I shall like her ? " He almost looked, with 
his quick imagination, as if he already did, though seeing 
at once also the full extent of how little it would suit his 
book. " But is that what I came out for ? " I 
She had to confess indeed that it wasn't. But there was 
something else. " Don't make up your mind. There are 
all sorts of things. It may really become extraordinary. 
You haven't seen him all." 
This, on his side, Strether recognised ; but his acuteness 
none the less showed him the danger. " Yes, but if the 
more I see the better he seems ? " 
Well, she found something. " That may be — but his 
disavowal of her isn't, all the same, pure consideration. 
There's a hitch." She made it out. " It's the effort to 
sink her." 
Strether winced at the image. " To ' sink ' ? " 
" Well, I mean there's a struggle, and a part of it is just 
what he hides. Take time — that's the only way not to 
make some mistake that you'll regret ; then you'll see. 
He does really want to shake her off. " 
Our friend had by this time so p ot into the vision that 
he almost gasped. " After all she has done for him ? " 
Miss Gostrey gave him a look which broke the next 
moment into a wonderful smile. " He's not so good as 
you think ! " 
They remained with him, these words, promising him, 
in their character of warning, considerable help ; but the 
support he tried to draw from them found itself, on each 
renewal of contact with Chad, defeated by something else. 
What could it be, this disconcerting force, he asked 
himself, but the sense, constantly renewed, that Chad tuas 
— quite, in fact, insisted on being — as good as he thought? 
It seemed somehow as if he couldn't dui be as good from 
the moment he wasn't as bad. There was a succession of 
days, at all events, when contact with him — and in its 
immediate effect, as if it could produce no other — elbowed 
out of Strether's consciousness everything but itself. 
Little Bilham once more pervaded the scene, but little 
Bilham became, even in a higher degree than he had 
originally been, one of the numerous forms of the inclusive 
relation ; a consequence promoted, to our friend's sense, 
by two or three incidents with which we have yet to make 
 acquaintance. Waymarsh himself, for the occasion, was 
drawn into the eddy ; it absolutely, though but temporarily, 
swallowed him down, and there were days when Strether 
I seemed to bump against him as a sinking swimmer might 
'brush a submarine object. The fathomless medium held 
'them — Chad's manner was the fathomless medium ; and 
iDur friend felt as if they passed each other, in their deep 
(immersion, with the round, impersonal eye of silent fish. 
It was practically produced between them that Waymarsh 
 was giving him then his chance ; and the shade of dis- 
comfort that Strether drew from the allowance resembled 
not a little the embarrassment he had known, at school, as 
a boy, when members of his family had been present at 
exhibitions. He could perform before strangers, but 
'datives were fatal, and it was now as if comparatively 
Waymarsh were a relative. He seemed to hear him say, 
'Strike up then!" and to enjoy a foretaste of conscien- 
ous domestic criticism. He struck up, so far as he 
ictually could ; Chad knew by this time in profusion what 
he wanted ; and what vulgar violence did his fellow-   
pilgrim expect of him when he had really emptied his;i 
mind? It went somehow to and fro that what poors 
Waymarsh meant was "I told you so — that you'd lose 
your immortal soul !" But it was also fairly explicit that 
Strether had his own challenge and that, since they must 
go to the bottom of things, he wasted no more virtue in   
watching Chad than Chad wasted in watching him. Hisii 
dip for duty's sake — where was it worse than Waymarsh's  
own ? For he needn't have stopped resisting and refusing 
needn't have parleyed, at that rate, with the foe. 
The strolls, in Paris, to see something or call somewhere 
were, accordingly, inevitable and natural, and the late 
sessions in the wondrous troisieme  the lovely home, when 
men dropped in and the picture composed more sugges- 
tively through the haze of tobacco, of music more or less 
good and of talk more or less polyglot, were on a prin-  
ciple not to be distinguished from that of the mornings and 
the afternoons. Nothing, Strether had to recognise as he
leaned back and smoked, could well less resemble a scent   
of violence than even the liveliest of these occasions 
They were occasions of discussion, none the less, and ; 
Strether had never in his life heard so many opinions or 
so many subjects. There were opinions at Woollett, bui  
only on three or four. The differences were there to match  
if they were doubtless deep, though few, they were quiel   
— they were, as might be said, almost as shy as if people 
had been ashamed of them. People showed little diffidence about such things, on the other hand, in the Boule- 
vard Malesherbes, and were so far from being ashamed of 
them — as indeed of anything else — that they often seemed 
to have invented them to avert those agreements thai ; 
destroy the taste of talk. No one had ever done that at 
Woollett, though Strether could remember times when he 
himself had been tempted to it without quite knowing 
why. He saw why at present — he had but wanted to 
promote intercourse. 
These, however, were but parenthetic memories ; and 
the turn his affair had, on the whole, taken was positively 
that, if his nerves were on the stretch, it was because he 
missed violence. When he asked himself if none would 
then, in connection with it, ever come at all, he might 
almost have passed as wondering how to provoke it. It 
would be too absurd if such a vision as that should have 
to be invoked for relief; it was already marked enough 
as absurd that he should actually have begun with flutters 
and dignities on the score of a single accepted meal. 
What sort of a wretch had he expected Chad to be, any- 
way? — Strether had occasion to make the inquiry, but he 
was careful to make it in private. He could himself, 
comparatively recent as it was — it was truly but the fact of 
a few days since — focus his primal crudity ; but he would, 
on the approach of an observer, as if handling an illicit 
possession, have slipped the reminiscence out of sight. 
There were echoes of it still in Mrs. Newsome's letters, 
and there were moments when these echoes made him 
exclaim on her want of tact. He blushed of course, at 
once, still more for the explanation than for the ground of 
it : it came to him in time to save his manners that she 
couldn't at the best become tactful as quickly as he. Her 
tact had to reckon with the Atlantic Ocean, the General 
Post Office and the extravagant curve of the globe. 
Chad had one day offered tea, in the Boulevard Males- 
herbes, to a chosen few, a group again including the 
unobscured Miss Barrace ; and Strether had, on coming 
out, walked away with the acquaintance whom, in his 
letters to Mrs. Newsome, he always spoke of as the little 
artist-man. He had had full occasion to mention him as 
the other party, so oddly, to the only close personal 
alliance observation had as yet detected in Chad's exist- 
ence. Little Bilham's way this afternoon was not Strether's, 
but he had none the less kindly come with him, and it 
was somehow a part of his kindness that, as, deplorably, 
it had begun to rain, they suddenly found themselves 
seated for conversation at a cafe in which they had taken 
refuge. He had passed no more crowded hour in Chad's 
society than the one just ended ; he had talked with Miss 
Barrace, who had reproached him with not having come 
to see her, and he had above all hit on a happy thought 
or causing Waymarsh's tension to relax. Something 
night possibly be done, for the latter, with the idea of his 
success with that lady, whose quick apprehension of what 
might amuse her had given Strether a free hand. What 
had she meant if not to ask whether she couldn't help him 
with his splendid encumbrance, and mightn't the sacred 
rage at any rate be kept a little in abeyance by thus 
creating in his comrade's mind, even in a world of irrelevance, the possibility of a relation ? What was it but a 
relation to be regarded as so decorative, and, in especial, 
on the strength of it, to be whirled away, amid flounces 
and feathers, in a coup  lined, by what Strether could make 
out, with dark blue brocade? He himself had never been 
whirled away — never, at least, in a coupe and behind a 
footman. He had driven with Miss Gostrey in cabs, with 
Mrs. Pocock a few times in an open buggy, with Mrs. ; 
Newsome in a four-seated cart, and occasionally, in the 
mountains, on a buckboard ; but his friend's actual adventure transcended his personal experience. He now showed ' 
his companion soon enough, indeed, how inadequate, aj . 
a general monitor, this last queer quantity could once more 
feel itself. 
" What game under the sun is he playing ? " He signified the next moment that his allusion was not to the fair 
gentleman immersed in dominoes, on whom his eye 
had begun by resting, but to their host of the previous   
hour, as to whom, there on the velvet bench, with a final 
collapse of all consistency, he treated himself to the comfort 
of indiscretion. "When shall I really catch him ?" 
Little Bilham, in meditation, regarded him with a kind 
ness almost paternal. " Don't you like it over here? " 
Strether laughed out, for the tone was indeed droll. He
let himself go. "What has that to do with it? The 
only thing I've any business to like is to feel that I'a 
moving him. That's why I ask you whether you believ< 
I am. Is the creature " — and he did his best to show tha 
he simply wished to ascertain — " honest ? " 
His companion looked responsible, but looked it througl 
a small, dim smile. " What creature do you mean ? " 
It was on this that they did have for a little a mut 
interchange. " Is it untrue that he's free ? How, then, 
Strether asked, wondering, " does he arrange his life? " 
' Is the creature you mean Chad himself?" little Bilbao 
said. 
Strether here, with a rising hope, just thought. "We 
must take one of them at a time." But his coherence 
lapsed. "/$ there some woman — of whom he's really 
afraid, of course, I mean, or who does with him what she 
likes?" 
" It's awfully charming of you," Bilham presently re- 
marked, " not to have asked me that before ? " 
" Oh, I'm not fit for my job ! " 
The exclamation had escaped our friend, but it made 
little Bilham more deliberate. "Chad's a rare case," he 
luminously observed. " He's awfully changed," he added. 
" Then you see it too ? " 
" The way he has improved ? Oh, yes, I think every- 
one must see it. But I'm not sure," said little Bilham, 
"that I didn't like him about as well in his other state." 
" Then this is really a new state altogether ? " 
"Well," the young man after a moment returned, " I'm 
not sure he was really meant by nature to be quite so 
good. It's like the new edition of an old book that one 
has been fond of, revised and amended, brought up to 
date, but not quite the thing that one knew and loved. 
However that may be, at all events," he pursued, " I don't 
think, you know, that he's really playing, as you call it, 
any game. He really wants, I believe, to go back and 
take up a career. He's capable of one, you know, that 
will improve and enlarge him still more. He won't then," 
little Bilham continued to remark, " be my pleasant, well- 
rubbed, old-fashioned volume at all. But of course I'm 
beastly immoral. I'm afraid it would be a funny world 
altogether — a world with things the wa ' I like them. 
I ought, I dare say, to go home and go into business 
myself. Only I'd simply rather die — simply. And I've 
not the least diflficulty in making up my mind not to, and 
in knowing exactly why, and in defending my ground 
against all comers. All the same," he wound up, " I assure 
you I don't say a word against it, for himself, I mean — to 
Chad. I seem to see it as much the best thing for him. 
You see, he's not happy." 
"Do I?" — Strether stared. "I've been supposing I see 
just the opposite — an extraordinary case of the equilibrium 
arrived at and preserved." 
" Oh, there's a lot behind it." 
" Ah, there you are ! " Strether exclaimed. " That's just 
want I want to get at. You speak of your familiar volume 
altered out of recognition. VVell, who's the editor?" 
Little Bilham, for a minute, looked before him in silence. 
" He ought to get married. That would do it. And he 
wants to," 
" Wants to marry her ? " 
Again, for a moment, Bilham waited, and, with his sense 
that he had information, Strether scarce knew what was 
coming. " He wants to be free. He isn't used, you see," 
the young man explained in his lucid way, " to being so 
good." 
Strether hesitated. " Then I may take it from you that 
he is good ? " 
Bilham had, on his own side, a pause ; but there was 
a quiet fulness in the way he made it up. "You take it 
from me." 
" Well then, why isn't he free ? He swears to me he is, 
but meanwhile does nothing — except of course that he's 
so kind to me — to prove it ; and couldn't really act much 
otherwise if he weren't. My question to you just now was 
exactly on this queer impression of his diplomacy ; as if, 
instead of really giving ground, his line were to keep me 
on here and set me a bad example." 
As the half-hour meanwhile had ebbed, Strether had 
paid his score, and the waiter was now in the act of 
counting out change. Our friend pushed back to him a 
fraction of it, with which, after an emphatic recognition, 
the personage in question retreated. 
" You give too much," little Bilham permitted himself 
benevolently to observe. 
" Oh, I always give too much ! " Strether helplessly 
sighed. " But you don't," he went on, as if to get quickly 
away from the contemplation of that doom, "answer my 
question. Why isn't he free ? " 
Little Bilham had got up as if the transaction with the 
waiter had been a signal, and had already edged out 
between the table and the divan. The effect of this was 
that a minute later they had quitted the place, the gratified 
waiter alert again at the open door. Strether had found 
himself deferring to his companion's abruptness as to a 
hint that he should be answered as soon as they were more 
isolated. This happened when, after a few steps in the 
outer air, they had turned the next corner. There our 
friend had kept it up. " Why isn't he free if he's good ? " 
Little Bilham looked him full in the face. " Because it's 
a virtuous attachment." 
This had settled the question so effectually for the time 
— that is for the next few days — that it had given Strether 
almost a new lease of life. It must be added, however, 
that, thanks to his constant habit of shaking the bottle in 
which life handed him the wine of experience, he presently 
found the taste of the lees rising, as usual, into his draught. 
His imagination had in other words already dealt with his 
young friend's assertion ; of which it had made something 
that sufficiently came out on the very next occasion of his 
seeing Maria Gostrey. This occasion, moreover, had been 
determined promptly by a new circumstance — a circumstance he was the last man to leave her for a day in 
ignorance of. " When I said to him last night," he immediately began, " that without some definite word from 
him now that will enable me to speak to them over there 
of our sailing — or at least of mine, giving them some sort 
of date — my responsibility becomes uncomfortable and my 
situation awkward ; when I said that to him, what do you 
think was his reply ? " And then as, this time, she gave it 
up : " Why, that he has two particular friends, two ladies, 
mother and daughter, about to arrive in Paris — coming 
back from an absence; and that he wants me so furiously 
to meet them, know them, and like them, that I shall oblige 
him by kindly not bringing our business to a crisis till he 
has had a chance to see them again himself Is that," 
Strether inquired, " the way he's going to try to get off? 
These are the people," he explained, " that he must have 
gone down to see before I arrived. They're the best friends 
he has in the world, and they take more interest than any- 
one else in what concerns him. As I'm his next best, he 
sees a thousand reasons why we should comfortably meet. 
He hasn't broached the question sooner because their 
return was uncertain — seemed, in fact, for the present, 
impossible. But he more than intimates that — if you can 
believe it — their desire to make my acquaintance has had 
to do with their surmounting difficulties." 
" They're dying to see you ? " Miss Gostrey asked. 
" Dying. Of course," said Strether, " they're the virtuous 
attachment." He had already told her about that — had 
seen her the day after his talk with little Bilham ; and they 
had then threshed out together the bearing of the revela- 
tion. She had helped him to put into it the logic in which 
little Bilham had left it slightly deficient. Strether had 
not pressed him as to the object of the preference so un- 
expectedly described ; feeling in the presence of it, with 
one of his irrepressible scruples, a delicacy from which he 
had, in the quest of the quite other article, worked himselt 
sufficiently free. He had held off, as on a small principle 
of pride, from permitting his young friend to mention a 
name ; desiring to make the great point, with this, that 
Chad's virtuous attachments were none of his business. 
He had not wanted, from the first, to think too much of 
his dignity ; but that was not a reason for not allowing it 
any little benefit that might turn up. He had often enough 
wondered to what degree his interference might pass for 
interested ; so that there was no want of luxury in letting 
it be seen whenever he could that he didn't interfere. That 
had of course, at the same time, not deprived him of the 
further luxury of much private astonishment ; which, how- 
ever, he had reduced to some order before communicating 
his knowledge. When he had done this at last, it was 
with the remark that, surprised as Miss Gostrey might, like 
himself, at first be, she would probably agree with him on 
reflection that such an account of the matter did, after all, 
fit the confirmed appearances. Nothing, certainly, on all 
the indications, could have been a greater change for him 
than a virtuous attachment, and since they had been in 
search of the " word," as the French called it, of that 
change, little Bilham's announcement — though so long and 
so oddly delayed — would serve as well as another. She 
had assured Strether in fact, after a pause, that the more 
she thought of it the more it did serve ; and yet her 
assurance had not so weighed with him as that, before they 
parted, he had not ventured to challenge her sincerity. 
Didn't she believe the attachment icas virtuous? — he had 
made sure of her again with the aid of that question. The 
tidings he brought her on this second occasion were, more- 
over, such as would help him to make surer still. She 
showed at first, none the less, as only amused. 
" You say there are two ? An attachment to them both 
then would, I suppose, almost necessarily be innocent." 
Our friend took the point, but he had his clue. " Mayn't 
he be still in the stage of not quite knowing which of them, 
mother or daughter, he likes best ? " 
She gave it more thought. " Oh, it must be the daughter 
— at his age." 
" Possibly. Yet what do we know," Strether asked, 
" about her? She may be old enough." 
" Old enough for what ? " 
" Why, to marry Chad. That may be, you know, what 
they want. And if Chad wants it too, and little Bilham 
wants it, and even tve, at a pinch, could do with it — that is 
if she doesn't prevent repatriation — why, it may be plain 
sailing yet." 
It was always the case for him in these councils that 
each of her remarks, as it came, seemed to drop into a 
deeper well. He had at all events to wait a moment to 
hear the slight splash of this one. " I don't see why, if 
Mr. Newsome wants to marry the young lady, he hasn't 
already done it, or hasn't been prepared with some state- 
ment to you about it. And if he wants both to marry her 
and is on good terms with them, why isn't he ' free ' ? " 
Strether, responsively, wondered indeed. " Perhaps the 
girl doesn't like him." 
" Then why does he speak of them to you as he does ? " 
Strether's mind echoed the question, but also again met 
it. " Perhaps it's with the mother that he's on good terms." 
" As against the daughter ? " 
"Well, if she's trying to persuade the daughter to con- 
sent to him, what could make him like the mother more? 
Only," Strether threw out, " why shouldn't the daughter 
consent to him ?" 
" Oh," said Miss Gostrey, " mayn't it be that everyone 
else isn't quite so struck with him as you ? " 
"Doesn't regard him, you mean, as such an 'eligible' 
young man ? Is that what I've come to? " he audibly and 
rather gravely wondered. " However," he went on, " his 
marriage is what his mother most desires — that is if it 
will help. And oughtn't any marriage to help? They 
must want him " — he had already worked it out — " to be 
better off. Almost any girl he may marry will have a 
direct interest in his taking up his chances. It won't suit 
her at least that he shall miss them." 
Miss Gostrey debated. " No — you reason well ! But of 
course, on the other hand, there's always dear old Woollett 
itself." 
" Oh yes," he mused, " there's always dear old Woollett 
itself." 
She waited a moment. " The young lady mayn't find 
herself able to swallow tJiat quantity. She may think it's 
paying too much. She may weigh one thing against 
another." 
Strether, ever restless in these councils, took a turn 
about. " It will all depend on who she is. That of course 
— the proved ability to deal with dear old Woollett, since 
I'm sure she does deal with it ! — is what makes so strongly 
for Mamie." 
" Mamie ? " 
He stopped short, at her tone, before her ; then, though 
seeing that it represented not vagueness, but a momentary 
embarrassed fulness, he let his exclamation come. " You 
surely haven't forgotten about Mamie!" 
" No, I haven't forgotten about Mamie," she smiled. 
" There's no doubt whatever that there's ever so much to 
be said for her. Mamie's my girl ! " she roundly declared. 
Strether resumed for a minute his walk. " She's really 
perfectly lovely, you know ; far prettier than any girl I've 
seen over here yet." 
" That's precisely on what I perhaps most build." And 
she mused a moment in her friend's way. " I should 
positively like to take her in hand ! " 
He humoured the fancy, though indeed finally to deprecate it. " Oh, but don't, in your zeal, go over to her ! I 
need you most and can't, you know, be left" 
But she kept it up. "If only, for the excellent use I 
could make of her, they would send her out to me!" 
" If they knew you," lie returned, "they would." 
"Ah, but don't they? — after all that, as I've understood 
you, you've told them about me?" 
He had paused before her again, but he continued his 
course. "Theyzf/// — before, as you say, I've done." Then 
he came out with the point he had wished, after all, most 
to make. "It seems to give away, now, his game. This 
is what he has been doing — keeping me along for. He has 
been waiting for them." 
Miss Gostrey drew in her lips. " You see a good deal 
in it!" 
" I doubt if I see as much as you. Do you pretend," he 
went on, " that you don't see ? " 
" Well, what ? " — she pressed him as he paused. 
" Why, that there must be a lot between them — and 
that it has been going on from the first, even from before I 
came." 
She took a minute to answer. " Who are they then — 
if it's so grave ? " 
" It may not be grave — it may be gay. But at any rate 
  it's marked. Only I don't know," Strether had to confess, 
 " anything about them. Their name, for instance, was a 
 thing that, after little Bilham's information, I found it a 
kind of refreshment not to feel obliged to follow up." 
" Oh," she returned, " if you think you've got off ! " 
Her laugh produced in him a momentary gloom. " I 
don't think I've got off. I only think I'm breathing for 
! about five minutes. I daresay I shall have, at the best, 
still to get on." A look, over it all, passed between them, 
 and the next minute he had come back to good-humour. 
r " I don't, meanwhile, take the smallest interest in their 
 name." 
" Nor in their nationality ? — American, French, English, 
i Polish ? " 
I " I don't care the least little ' hang,' " he smiled, " for 
their nationality. It would be nice if they're Polish ! " he 
almost immediately added. 
"Very nice indeed." The transition kept up her spirits. 
"So you see you do care." 
He did this contention a modified justice. " I think I 
should if they were Polish. Yes," he thought, " there 
I might be joy in thatr 
" Let us then hope for it." But she came, after this, 
nearer to the question. " If the girl's of the right age, of 
course the mother can't be. I mean for the virtuous 
attachment. If the girl's twenty — and she can't be less — 
the mother must be at least forty. So it puts the mother 
out. She's too old for him." 
Strether, arrested again, considered and demurred. 
"Do you think so? Do you think anyone would be too 
old for him? I'm eighty and I'm too young. But per- 
haps the girl," he continued, " isn't twenty. Perhaps she's 
only ten — but such a little dear that Chad finds himself 
counting her in as an attraction of the acquaintance. 
Perhaps she's only five. Perhaps the mother's but five- 
and-twenty — a charming young widow." 
Miss Gostrey entertained the suggestion. " She is a I 
widow then ? " 
" I haven't the least idea." They once more, in spite of  
this vagueness, exchanged a look — a look that was perhaps  
the longest yet. It seemed in fact, the next thing, to s 
require to explain itself; which it did as it could. " I only 
feel what I've told you — that he has some reason." 
Miss Gostrey's imagination had taken its own flight, 
" Perhaps she's tiot a widow." 
Strether seemed to accept the possibility with reserve. 
Still, he accepted it. " Then that's why the attachment — ' 
if it's to her — is virtuous." 
But she looked as if she scarce followed. " Why is it 
virtuous if — since she's free — there's nothing to impose on ' 
it any condition ?" 
He laughed at her question. " Oh, I perhaps don't , 
mean as virtuous as that! Your idea is that it can be I 
virtuous — in any sense worthy of the name — only if she's 
not free ? But what does it become then," he asked, " for 
her?" 
"Ah, that's another matter." He said nothing for a I 
moment, and she soon went on. " I dare say you're right, 
at any rate, about Mr. Newsome's little plan. He has been 
trying you — has been reporting on you to these friends." 
Strether, meanwhile, had had time to think more, 
" Then where's his straightness ? " ' 
" Well, as we say, it's struggling up, breaking out, 
asserting itself as it can. We can be on the side, you see, 
of his straightness. We can help him. But he has made 
out," said Miss Gostrey, "that you'll do." 
" Do for what ? " 
" Why, for them — for ccs dames. He has watched you, 
studied you, liked you — and recognised that they must. 
It's a great compliment to you, my dear man ; for I'm sure 
they're particular. You came out for a success. Well," 
she gaily declared, "you're having a success ! " 
He took it from her with momentary patience and then 
turned abruptly away. It was always convenient to him 
that there were so many fine things in her room to look at. 
But the examination of two or three of them appeared 
soon to have determined a speech that had little to do 
with them. " You don't believe in it ! " 
"In what?" 
" In the character of the attachment. In its innocence." 
But she defended herself. " I don't pretend to know 
anything about it Everything's possible. We must see." 
" See ? " he echoed with a groan. " Haven't we seen 
enough ? " 
" I haven't," she smiled. 
" But do you suppose then little Bilham has lied ? " 
"You must find out." 
It made him almost turn pale. " Find out any more?" 
He had dropped on a sofa for dismay ; but she seemed, 
as she stood over him, to have the last word. " Wasn't 
what you came out for to find out all ? " 
THE Sunday of the next week was a wonderful day, 
and Chad Nevvsome had let his friend know in 
advance that he had provided for it. There had already 
been a question of his taking him to see the great 
Gloriani, who was at home on Sunday afternoons and 
at whose house, for the most part, fewer bores were to 
be met than elsewhere ; but the project, through some 
accident, had not had instant effect. It had now, however, 
revived in happier conditions. Chad had made the point 
that the celebrated sculptor had a queer old garden, for 
which the weather — spring at last, frank and fair — was 
propitious ; and two or three of his other allusions had 
confirmed for Strether the expectation of something 
special. He had by this time, for all introductions and 
adventures, let himself recklessly go, cherishing the sense 
