"No; but you can lose it, and at present it is very precious to me.  He
refused?  The vicomte has sound judgment."
"Oh, he and I shall be killing each other one of these fine days; but
not wholly on your account, Paul," gloom wrinkling his brow, as if the
enlightening finger of prescience had touched it.  "It is fully one
o'clock; you will be wanting sleep."
"Sleep?"  The ironist twisted his mouth.  "It will be many a day ere
sleep makes contest with my eyes . . . unless it be cold and sinister
sleep.  Sleep?  You are laughing!  Only the fatuous and the
self-satisfied sleep . . . and the dead.  So be it."  He took the tongs
and stirred the log, from which flames suddenly darted.  "I wonder what
they are doing at Voisin's to-night?" irrelevantly.  "There will be
some from the guards, some from the musketeers, and some from the
prince's troops.  And that little Italian who played the lute so well!
Do you recall him?  I can see them now, calling Mademoiselle Pauline to
bring Voisin's old burgundy."  The Chevalier continued his reminiscence
in silence, forgetting time and place, forgetting Victor, who was
gazing at him with an expression profoundly sad.
The poet mused for a moment, then tiptoed from the room.  An idea had
come to him, but as yet it was not fully developed.
"Should I have said 'good night'?  Good night, indeed!  What mockery
there is in commonplaces!  That idea of mine needs some thought."  So,
instead of going to bed he sat down on one of the chimney benches.
A sleepy potboy went to and fro among the tables, clearing up empty
tankards and breakage.  Maître le Borgne sat in his corner, reckoning
up the day's accounts.
Suddenly Victor slapped his thigh and rose.  "Body of Bacchus and horns
of Panurge!  I will do it.  Mazarin will never look for me there.  It
is simple."  And a smile, genuine and pleasant, lit up his face.  "I
will forswear Calliope and nail my flag to Clio; I will no longer write
poetry, I will write history and make it."
He climbed to his room, cast off his hostler's livery and slid into
bed, to dream of tumbling seas, of vast forests, of mighty rivers . . .
and of grey masks.
Promptly at seven he rejoined the Chevalier.  Breton was packing a
large portmanteau.  He had gathered together those things which he knew
his master loved.
"Monsieur," said the lackey, holding up a book, "this will not go in."
"What is it?" indifferently.
"Rabelais, Monsieur."
"Keep it, lad; I make you a present of it.  You have been writing,
Victor?"
Victor was carelessly balancing a letter in his hand.  "Yes.  A
thousand crowns,--which I shall own some day,--that you can not guess
its contents," gaily.
"You have found Madame de Brissac and are writing to her?" smiling.
For a moment Victor's gaiety left him.  The Chevalier's suggestion was
so unexpected as to disturb him.  He quickly recovered his poise,
however.  "You have lost.  It is a letter to my good sister, advising
her of my departure to Quebec.  Spain is too near Paris, Paul."
"You, Victor?" cried the Chevalier, while Breton's face grew warm with
regard for Monsieur de Saumaise.
"Yes.  Victor loves his neck.  And it will be many a day ere
monseigneur turns his glance toward New France in quest."
"But supposing he should not find these incriminating papers?  You
would be throwing away a future."
"Only temporarily.  I have asked my sister to watch her brother's
welfare.  I will go.  Come, be a good fellow.  Let us go and sign the
articles which make two soldiers of fortune instead of one.  I have
spoken to Du Puys and Chaumonot.  It is all settled but the daub of
ink.  Together, Paul; you will make history and I shall embalm it."  He
placed a hand upon the Chevalier's arm, his boyish face beaming with
the prospect of the exploit.
"And Madame de Brissac?" gently.
"We shall close that page," said the poet, looking out of the window.
She would be in Spain.  Ah well!"
"Monsieur," said Breton, "will you take this?"
The two friends turned.  Breton was holding at arm's length a grey
cloak.
"The cloak!" cried Victor.
"Pack it away, lad," the Chevalier said, the lines in his face
deepening, "It will serve to recall to me that vanity is a futile
thing."
"The devil! but for my own vanity and miserable purse neither of us
would have been here."  Victor made as though to touch the cloak, but
shrugged, and signified to Breton to put it out of sight.
When Breton had buckled the straps he exhibited a restlessness,
standing first on one foot, then on the other.  He folded his arms,
then unfolded them, and plucked at his doublet.  The Chevalier was
watching him from the corner of his eye.
"Speak, lad; you have something to say."
"Monsieur, I can not return to the hôtel.  Monsieur le Marquis has
forbidden me."  Breton's eyes filled with tears.  It was the first lie
he had ever told his master.
"Have you any money, Victor?" asked the Chevalier, taking out the fifty
pistoles won from the vicomte and dividing them.
"Less than fifty pistoles; here is half of them."
The Chevalier pushed the gold toward the lackey.  "Take these, lad;
they will carry you through till you find a new master.  You have been
a good and faithful servant."
Breton made a negative gesture.  "Monsieur," timidly, "I do not want
money, and I could never grow accustomed to a new master.  I was born
at the château in Périgny.  My mother was your nurse and she loved you.
I know your ways so well, Monsieur Paul.  Can I not accompany you to
Quebec?  I ask no wages; I ask nothing but a kind word now and again,
and a fourth of what you have to eat.  I have saved a little, and out
of that I will find my clothing."
The Chevalier smiled at Victor.  "We never find constancy where we look
for it.  Lad," he said to Breton, "I can not take you with me.  I am
going not as a gentleman but as a common trooper, and they are not
permitted to have lackeys.  Take the money; it is all I can do for you."
Breton stretched a supplicating hand toward the poet.
"Let him go, Paul," urged Victor.  "Du Puys will make an exception in
your case.  Let him go.  My own lad Hector goes to my sister's, and she
will take good care of him.  You can't leave this lad here, Paul.  Take
him along."
"But your future?" still reluctant to see Victor leave France.
"It is there," with a nod toward the west.
"The vicomte . . ."
"We have signed a truce till we return to French soil."
"Well, if you will go," a secret joy in his heart.  How he loved this
poet!
"It is the land of fortune, Paul; it is calling to us.  True, I shall
miss the routs, the life at court, the plays and the gaming.  But,
horns of Panurge!  I am only twenty-three.  In three years I shall have
conquered or have been conquered, and that is something.  Do not
dissuade me.  You will talk into the face of the tempest.  Rather make
the going a joy for me.  You know that at the bottom of your heart you
are glad."
"Misery loves company; we are all selfish," replied the Chevalier, "My
selfishness cries out for joy, but my sense of honesty tells me not to
let you go.  I shall never return to France.  You will not be happy
there."
"I shall be safer; and happiness is a matter of temperament, not of
time and place.  You put up a poor defense.  Look! we have been so long
together, Paul; eight years, since I was sixteen, and a page of her
Majesty's.  I should not know what to do without you.  We have shared
the same tents on the battlefield; I have borrowed your clothes and
your money, and you have borrowed my sword, for that is all I have.
Listen to me.  There will be exploits over there, and the echo of them
will wander back here to France.  Fame awaits us.  Are we not as brave
and inventive as De Champlain, De Montmagny, De Lisle, and a host of
others who have made money and name?  Come; take my hand.  Together,
Paul, and what may not fortune hold for us!"
There was something irresistible in his pleading; and the Chevalier
felt the need of some one on whom to spend his brimming heart of love.
His face showed that he was weighing the matter and viewing it from all
points.  Presently the severe lines of his face softened.
"Very well, we shall go together, my poet," throwing an arm across
Victor's shoulders.  "We shall go together, as we have always gone.
And, after all, what is a name but sounding brass?  'Tis a man's arm
that makes or unmakes his honesty, not his thrift; his loyalty, rather
than his self-interest.  We shall go together.  Come; we'll sign the
major's papers, and have done with it."
Victor threw his hat into the air.
"And I, Monsieur Paul?" said Breton, trembling in his shoes, with
expectancy or fear.
"If they will let you go, lad," kindly; and Breton fell upon his knees
and kissed the Chevalier's hand.
The articles which made them soldiers, obedient first to the will of
the king and second to the will of the Company of the Hundred
Associates, were duly signed.  Breton was permitted to accompany his
master with the understanding that he was to entail no extra expense.
Father Chaumonot was delighted; Brother Jacques was thoughtful; the
major was neutral and incurious.  As yet no rumor stirred its ugly
head; the Chevalier's reasons for going were still a matter of
conjecture.  None had the courage to approach the somber young man and
question him.  The recruits and broken gentlemen had troubles of
sufficient strength to be unmindful of the interest in the Chevalier's.
The officers from Fort Louis bowed politely to the Chevalier, but came
not near enough to speak.  Excessive delicacy, or embarrassment, or
whatever it was, the Chevalier appreciated it.  As for the civilians
who had enjoyed the hospitality of the Hôtel de Périgny, they remained
unobserved on the outskirts of the crowd.  The vicomte expressed little
or no surprise to learn that Victor had signed.  He simply smiled; for
if others were mystified as to the poet's conduct, he was not.  Often
his glance roved toward the stairs; but there were no petticoats going
up or coming down.
"Monsieur le Vicomte," said Brother Jacques, whose curiosity was eating
deeply, "will you not explain to me the cause of the Chevalier's
extraordinary conduct?"
"Ah, my little Jesuit!" said the vicomte; "so you are still burning
with curiosity?  Well, I promise to tell you all about it the first
time I confess to you."
"Monsieur, have you any reason for insulting me?" asked Brother
Jacques, coldly, his pale cheeks aflame.
"Good! there is blood in you, then?" laughed the vicomte, noting the
color.
"Red and healthy, Monsieur," in a peculiar tone.  Brother Jacques was
within an inch of being as tall and broad as the vicomte.
The vicomte gazed into the handsome face, and there was some doubt in
his own eyes.  "You have not always been a priest?"
"Not always."
"And your antecedents?"
"A nobler race than yours, Monsieur," haughtily.  "You also have grown
curious, it would seem.  I shall be associated with the Chevalier, and
I desired to know the root of his troubles in order to help him.  But
for these robes, Monsieur, you would not use the tone you do."
"La, la!  Take them off if they hamper you.  But I like not curious
people, I am not a gossip.  The Chevalier has reasons in plenty.  Ask
him why he going to Quebec;" and the vicomte whirled on his heels,
leaving the Jesuit the desire to cast aside his robes and smite the
vicomte on the mouth.
"Swashbuckler!" he murmured.  "How many times have you filched the
Chevalier of his crowns by the use of clogged dice? . . .  God pardon
me, but I am lusting for that man's life!"  His hand clutched his
rosary and his lips moved in prayer, though the anger did not
immediately die out of his eyes.  He wandered among the crowds.  Words
and vague sentences filtered through the noise.  Two gentlemen were
conversing lowly.  Brother Jacques neared them unconsciously, still at
his beads.
"On my honor, it is as I tell you.  The Chevalier . . ."
Brother Jacques raised his eyes,
"What! forfeited his rights in a moment of madness?  Proclaimed himself
to be . . . before you all?  Impossible!"
The beads slipped through Brother Jacques's fingers.  He leaned against
the wall, his eyes round, his nostrils expanded.  A great wave of pity
surged over him.  He saw nothing but the handsome youth who had spoken
kindly to him at the Candlestick in Paris.  That word!  That invisible,
searing iron!  He straightened, and his eyes flashed like points of
steel in the sunshine.  That grim, wicked old man; not a thousand times
a thousand livres would give him the key to Heaven.  Brother Jacques
left the tavern and walked along the wharves, breathing deeply of the
vigorous sea-air.
Victor encountered the vicomte as the latter was about to go aboard.
"Ah," said the vicomte; "so you ran about with a drawn sword last
night?  Monsieur, you are only a boy."  The vicomte never lost his
banter; it was a habit.
"I was hot-headed and in wine."  Victor had an idea in regard to the
vicomte.
"The devil is always lurking in the pot; so let us not stir him again."
"Willingly."
"I compliment you on your good sense.  Monsieur, I've been thinking
seriously.  Has it not occurred to you that Madame de Brissac has that
paper?"
"Would she seek Spain?" said Victor.
"True.  But supposing Mazarin should be seeking her, paper or no paper,
to force the truth from her?"
"The supposition, does not balance.  She knows no more than you or I."
"And Monsieur le Comte's play-woman?"
"Horns of Panurge!" excitedly.  "You have struck a new note, Vicomte.
I recollect hearing that she was confined in some one of the city
prisons.  The sooner the Saint Laurent sails, the better."
"Would that some one we knew would romp into town from Paris.  He might
have news."  The vicomte bit the ends of his mustache.
The opening of the tavern door cut short their conversation.  A man
entered rudely.  He pressed and jostled every one in his efforts to
reach Maître le Borgne.  He was a man of splendid physical presence.
His garments, though soiled and bedraggled by rough riding, were costly
and rich.  His spurs were bloody; and the dullness of the blood and the
brightness of the steel were again presented in his fierce eyes.  The
face was not pleasing; it was too squarely hewn, too emotional; it
indexed the heart too readily, its passions, its loves and its hates.
There was cunning in the lips and caution in the brow; but the face was
too mutable.
"The Comte d'Hérouville!" exclaimed the vicomte.  "Saumaise, this looks
bad.  He is not a man to run away like you and me."
The new-comer spoke to the innkeeper, who raised his index finger and
leveled it at Victor and the vicomte.  On seeing them, D'Hérouville
came over quickly.
"Messieurs," he began, "I am gratified to find you."
"The news!" cried the poet and the gamester.
"Devilish bad, Monsieur, for every one.  The paper . . ."
"It is not here," interrupted the vicomte.
The count swore.  "Mazarin has mentioned your name, Saumaise.  You were
a frequent visitor to the Hôtel de Brissac.  As for me, I swore to a
lie; but am yet under suspicion.  Has either of you seen Madame de
Brissac?  I have traced her as far as Rochelle."
The vicomte looked humorously at the poet.  Victor scowled.  Of the two
men he abhorred D'Hérouville the more.  As for the vicomte, he laughed.
"You laugh, Monsieur?" said D'Hérouville, coldly.  His voice was not
unpleasant.
"Why, yes," replied the vicomte.  "Has Mazarin published an edict
forbidding a man to move his diaphragm?  You know nothing about the
paper, then?"
"Madame de Brissac knows where it is," was the startling declaration.
"I ask you again, Messieurs, have you seen her?"
"She is in Rochelle," said the vicomte.  How many men, he wondered, had
been trapped, by madame's eyes?
"Where is she?" eagerly.
"He lies!" thought Victor.  "He knows madame has no paper."
"Where she is just now I do not know."
"She is to sail for Quebec at one o'clock," said the poet.
There was admiration in the vicomte's glance.  To send the count on a
wild-goose chase to Quebec while madame sauntered leisurely toward
Spain!  It was a brilliant stroke, indeed.
"What boat?" demanded D'Hérouville.
"The Saint Laurent," answered the vicomte, playing out the lie.
Victor's glance was sullen.
"Wait a moment, man!" cried the vicomte, catching the count's cloak.
"You can not mean to go running after madame in this fashion.  You will
compromise her.  Besides, I have some questions to ask.  What about De
Brissac's play-woman?"
"Died in prison six days ago.  She poisoned herself before they
examined her."  The count looked longingly toward the door.
"What!  Poisoned herself?  Then she must have loved that hoary old
sinner!"  The vicomte's astonishment was genuine.
The chilling smile which passed over the count's face was sinister.  "I
said she poisoned herself, advisedly."
"Oho!"  The vicomte whistled, while Victor drew back.
"Now, Messieurs, will you permit me to go?  It is high time you both
were on the way to Spain."  D'Hérouville stamped his foot impatiently.
"And you will go to Quebec?" asked the vicomte.
"Certainly."
"Well then, till Monsieur de Saumaise and I see you on board.  We are
bound in that direction."
"You?" taken aback like a ship's sail.
"Why not, Monsieur," said Victor, a bit of irony in his tones, "since
you yourself are going that way?"
"You took me by surprise."  The count's eye ran up and down the poet's
form.  He moved his shoulders suggestively.  "Till we meet again,
then."  And he left them.
"My poet," said the vicomte, "that was a stroke.  Lord, how he will
love you when he discovers the trick!  What a boor he makes of himself
to cover his designs!  Here is a bag of trouble, and necessity has
forced our hands into it.  For all his gruffness and seeming
impatience, D'Hérouville has never yet made a blunder or a mistake.
Take care."
"Why do you warn me?"  Victor was full to the lips with rage.
"Because, hang me, I like your wit.  Monsieur, there is no need of you
and me cutting each other's throats.  Let us join hands in cutting
D'Hérouville's.  And there's the Chevalier; I had forgotten him.  He
and D'Hérouville do not speak.  I had mapped out three dull months on
the water, and here walks in a comedy of various parts.  Let us try a
pot of canary together.  You ought to change that livery of yours.
Somebody will be insulting you and you will be drawing your sword."
Victor followed the vicomte to a table.  After all, there was something
fascinating about this man, with that devil-may-care air of his, his
banter and his courage.  So he buried a large part of his animosity,
and accepted the vicomte's invitation.
All within the tavern was marked by that activity which precedes a
notable departure.  Seamen were bustling about, carrying bundles,
stores, ammunition, and utensils.  Here and there were soldiers
polishing their muskets and swords and small arms.  There was a calling
to and fro.  The mayor of the city came in, full of Godspeed and cheer,
and following him were priests from the episcopal palace and wealthy
burghers who were interested in the great trading company.  All
Rochelle was alive.
The vicomte, like all banterers, possessed that natural talent of
standing aside and reading faces and dissecting emotions.  Three faces
interested him curiously.  The Chevalier hid none of his thoughts; they
lay in his eyes, in the wrinkles on his brow, in the immobility of his
pose.  How easy it was to read that the Chevalier saw nothing, save in
a nebulous way, of the wonderful panorama surrounding.  He was with the
folly of the night gone, with Paris, with to-day's regrets for vanished
yesterday.  The vicomte could see perfectly well that Victor's gaiety
was natural and unassumed; that the past held him but loosely, since
this past held the vision of an ax.  The analyst passed on to Brother
Jacques, and received a slight shock.  The penetrating grey eyes of the
priest caught his and held them menacingly.
"Ah!" murmured the vicomte, "the little Jesuit has learned the trick,
too, it would seem.  He is reading my face.  I must know more of this
handsome fellow whose blood is red and healthy.  He comes from no such
humble origin as Father Chaumonot.  Bah! and look at those nuns: they
are animated coffins, holding only dead remembrances and dried,
perfumeless flowers."
A strong and steady east wind had driven away all vestige of the storm.
The sea was running westward in long and swinging leaps, colorful,
dazzling, foam-crested.  The singing air was spangled with frosty
brine-mist; a thousand flashes were cast back from the city windows;
the flower of the lily fluttered from a hundred masts.  A noble vision,
truly, was the good ship Saint Laurent, standing out boldly against the
clear horizon and the dark green of the waters.  High up among the
spars and shrouds swarmed the seamen.  Canvas flapped and bellied as it
dropped, from arm to arm, sending the fallen snow in a flurry to the
decks.  On the poop-deck stood the black-gowned Jesuits, the sad-faced
nuns, several members of the great company, soldiers and adventurers.
The wharves and docks and piers were crowded with the curious:
bright-gowned peasants, soldiers from the fort, merchants, and a
sprinkling of the noblesse.  It was not every day that a great ship
left the harbor on so long and hazardous a voyage.
The Chevalier leaned against the railing, dreamily noting the white
faces in the sunshine.  He was still vaguely striving to convince
himself that he was in the midst of some dream.  He was conscious of an
approaching illness, too.  When would he wake? . . . and where?  A hand
touched his arm.  He turned and saw Brother Jacques.  There was a
kindly expression on the young priest's face.  He now saw the Chevalier
in a new light.  It was not as the gay cavalier, handsome, rich,
care-free; it was as a man who, suffering a mortal stroke, carried his
head high, hiding the wound like a Spartan.
"A last look at France, Monsieur le Chevalier, for many a day to come."
The Chevalier nodded.
"For many days, indeed. . . .  And who among us shall look upon France
again in the days to come?  It is a long way from the Candlestick in
Paris to the deck of the Saint Laurent.  The widest stretch of fancy
would not have brought us together again.  There is, then, some
invisible hand that guides us surely and certainly to our various ends,
as the English poet says."  The Chevalier was speaking to a thought
rather than to Brother Jacques.  "Who among us shall look upon these
shores again?"
"What about these shores, Paul?" asked Victor, coming up.  "They are
not very engaging just now."
"But it is France, Victor; it is France; and from any part of France
Paris may be reached."  He turned his face toward the north, in the
direction of Paris.  His eyes closed; he was very pale.  "Do we not die
sometimes, Victor, while yet the heart and brain go on beating and
thinking?"
Victor grasped the Chevalier's hand.  There are some friendships which
are expressed not by the voice, but by the pressure of a hand, a
kindling glance of the eye.  Brother Jacques moved on.  He saw that for
the present he had no part in these two lives.
"Look!" Victor cried, suddenly, pointing toward the harbor towers.
"Jehan?" murmured the Chevalier.  "Good old soul!  Is he waving his
hand, Victor?  The sun . . .  I can not see."
"Do you suppose your father . . ."
"Who?" calmly.
"Ah!  Well, then, Monsieur le Marquis: do you suppose he has sent Jehan
to verify the report that you sail for Quebec?"
"I do not suppose anything, Victor.  As for Monsieur le Marquis, I have
already ceased to hate him.  How beautiful the sea is!  And yet,
contemplate the horror of its rolling over your head, beating your life
out on the reefs.  All beautiful things are cruel."
"But you are glad, Paul," affectionately, "that I am with you?"
"Both glad and sorry.  For after a time you will return, leaving me
behind."
"Perhaps.  And yet who can say that we both may not return, only with
fame marching on ahead to announce us in that wonderfully pleasing way
she has?"
"It is your illusions that I love, Victor: I see myself again in you.
Keep to your ballades, your chant-royals, your triolets; you will write
an epic whenever you lose your illusions; and epics by Frenchmen are
dull and sorry things.  When you go below tell Breton to unpack my
portmanteau."
On the wharf nearest the vessel stood two women, hooded so as to
conceal their faces.
"There, Gabrielle; you have asked to see the Chevalier du Cévennes,
that is he leaning against the railing."
"So that is the Chevalier.  And he goes to Quebec.  In mercy's name,
what business has he there?"
"You are hurting my arm, dear.  Victor would not tell me why he goes to
Quebec."
"Ah, if he goes out of friendship for Victor, it is well."
"Is he not handsome?"
"Melancholy handsome, after the pattern of the Englishman's Hamlet.  I
like a man with a bright face.  When does the Henri IV sail?" suddenly.
"Two weeks from to-morrow.  To-morrow is Fools' Day."
"Why, then, do not those on yonder ship sail to-morrow instead of
to-day?"
"You were not always so bitter."
"I must have my jest.  To-morrow may have its dupes as well as its
fools. . . .  Silence!  The Comte d'Hérouville in Rochelle?  I am lost
if he sees me.  Let us go!"  And Madame de Brissac dragged her
companion back into the crowd.  "That man here?  Anne, you must hide me
well."
"Why do you ask about the gloomy ship which is to take me to Quebec?"
asked Anne, her curiosity aroused of a sudden.
Madame put a finger against her lips.  "I shall tell you presently.
Just now I must find a hiding place immediately.  He must not know that
I am here.  He must have traced me here.  Oh! am I not in trouble
enough without that man rising up before me?  I am afraid of him, Anne."
The two soon gained their chairs and disappeared.  Neither of them saw
the count go on board the ship.
On board all was activity.  There came a lurch, a straining of ropes
and a creaking of masts, and the good ship Saint Laurent swam out to
sea.  Suddenly the waters trembled and the air shook: the king's
man-of-war had fired the admiral's salute.  So the voyage began.
Priests, soldiers, merchants, seamen, peasants and nobles, all stood
silent on the poop-deck, watching the rugged promontory sink, turrets
and towers and roofs merge into one another, black lines melt into
grey; stood watching till the islands became misty in the sunshine and
nothing of France remained but a long, thin, hazy line.
"The last of France, for the present," said the poet.
"And for the present," said the vicomte, "I am glad it is the last of
France.  France is not agreeable to my throat."
The Chevalier threw back his shoulders and stood away from the rail.
The Comte d'Hérouville, his face purple with rage and chagrin, came up.
He approached Victor.
"Monsieur," he said, "you lied.  Madame is not on board."  He drew back
his hand to strike the poet in the face, but fingers of iron caught his
wrist and held it in the air.
"The day we land, Monsieur," said the Chevalier, calmly.  "Monsieur de
Saumaise is not your equal with the sword."
"And you?" with a sneer.
"Well, I can try."
CHAPTER XII
ACHATES WRITES A BALLADE OF DOUBLE REFRAIN
The golden geese of day had flown back to the Master's treasure house;
and ah! the loneliness of that first night at sea!--the low whistling
song of the icy winds among the shrouds; the cold repellent color tones
which lay thinly across the west, pressing upon the ragged, heaving
horizon; the splendor and intense brilliancy of the million stars; the
vast imposing circle of untamed water, the purple of its flowing
mountains and the velvet blackness of its sweeping valleys; the
monotonous seething round the boring prow and the sad gurgle of the
speeding wake; the weird canvas shadows rearing heavenward; and above
all, that silence which engulfs all human noises simply by its
immensity!  More than one stout heart grew doubtful and troubled under
the weight of this mystery.
Even the Iroquois Indian, born without fear, stoic, indifferent to
physical pain, even he wrapped his blanket closer about his head, held
his pipe pendent in nerveless fingers, and softly chanted an appeal to
the Okies of his forebears, forgetting the God of the black-robed
fathers in his fear of never again seeing the peaceful hills and
valleys of Onondaga or tasting the sweet waters of familiar springs.
For here was evil water, of which no man might drink to quench his
thirst; there were no firebrands to throw into the face of the North
Wind; there was no trail, to follow or to retrace.  O for his mat by
the fire in the Long House, with the young braves and old warriors
sprawling around, recounting the victories of the hunt!
Only the seamen and the priests went about unconcerned, untroubled,
tranquil, the one knowing his sea and the other his God.  There was
something reassuring in the serenity of the black cassocks as they went
hither and thither, offering physical and spiritual assistance.  They
inspired the timid and the fearful, many of whom still believed that
the world had its falling-off place.  And seasickness overcame many.
With some incertitude the Vicomte d'Halluys watched the Jesuits.  After
all, he mused, it was something to be a priest, if only to possess this
calm.  He himself had no liking for this voyage, since the woman he
loved was on the way to Spain.  Whenever Brother Jacques passed under
the ship's lanterns, the vicomte stared keenly.  What was there in this
handsome priest that stirred his antagonism?  For the present there
seemed to be no solution.  Eh, well, all this was a strange whim of
fate.  Fortune had as many faces as Notre Dame has gargoyles.  To bring
the Comte d'Hérouville, himself, and the Chevalier du Cévennes together
on a voyage of hazard!  He looked around to discover the whereabouts of
the count.  He saw him leaning against a mast, his face calm, his
manner easy.
"There is danger in that calm; I must walk with care.  My faith! but
the Chevalier will have his hands full one of these days."
Mass was celebrated, and a strange, rude picture was presented to those
eyes accustomed to the interior of lofty cathedrals: the smoky
lanterns, the squat ceiling, the tawdry woodwork, the kneeling figures
involuntarily jostling one another to the rolling of the ship, the
resonant voice of Father Chaumonot, the frequent glitter of a
breast-plate, a sword-hilt, or a helmet.
The Chevalier knelt, not because he was in sympathy with Chaumonot's
Latin, but because he desired not to be conspicuous.  God was not in
his heart save in a shadowy way; rather an infinite weariness, a sense
of drifting blindly, a knowledge of a vague and futile grasping at the
end of things.  And winding in and out of all he heard was that
mysterious voice asking: "Whither bound?"  Aye, whither bound, indeed!
Visions of golden days flitted across his mind's eye, snatches of his
youth; the pomp and glory of court as he first saw it; the gallant
epoch of the Fronde; the warm sunshine of forgotten summers; and the
woman he loved! . . .  The Chevalier was conscious of a pain of
stupendous weight bearing down upon his eyes.  Waves of dizziness,
accompanied by flashes of fire, passed to and fro through his aching
head.  His tongue was thick and his lips were cracked with fever.  It
seemed but a moment gone that he had been shaking with the cold.  He
found himself fighting what he supposed to be an attack of seasickness,
but this was not the malady which was seizing him in its pitiless grasp.
Chaumonot's voice rose and fell.  Why had the marquis given this man a
thousand livres?  What evil purpose lay behind it?  The marquis gave to
the Church?  He was surprised to find himself struggling against a wild
desire to laugh.  Sometimes the voice sounded like thunder in his ears;
anon, it was so far away that he could hear only the echo of it.
Presently the mass came to an end.   The worshipers rose by twos and
threes.  But the Chevalier remained kneeling.  The next roll of the
ship toppled him forward upon his face, where he lay motionless.
Several sprang to his aid, the vicomte and Victor being first.
Together they lifted the Chevalier to his feet, but his knees doubled
up.  He was unconscious.
"Paul?" cried Victor in alarm.  "He is seasick?" turning anxiously
toward the vicomte.
"This is not seasickness; more likely a reaction.  Here comes
Lieutenant Nicot, who has some fame as a leech.  He will tell us what
the trouble is."
A hasty examination disclosed that the Chevalier was in the first
stages of brain fever, and he was at once conveyed to his berthroom.
Victor was inconsolable; the vicomte, thoughtful; and even the Comte
d'Hérouville showed some interest.
"What brought this on?" asked Nicot, when the Chevalier was stretched
on his mattress.
The vicomte glanced significantly at Victor.
"He . . .  The Chevalier has just passed through an extraordinary
mental strain," Victor stammered.
"Of what nature?" asked Nicot.
"Never mind what nature, Lieutenant," interrupted the vicomte.  "It is
enough that he has brain fever.  The question is, can you bring him
around?"
Nicot eyed his patient critically.  "It is splendid flesh, but he has
been on a long debauch.  I'll fetch my case and bleed him a bit."
"Poor lad!" said Victor.  "God knows, he has been through enough
already.  What if he should die?"
"Would he not prefer it so?" the vicomte asked.  "Were I in his place I
should consider death a blessing in disguise.  But do not worry; he
will pull out of it, if only for a day, in order to run his sword
through that fool of a D'Hérouville.  The Chevalier always keeps his
engagements.  I will leave you now.  I will call in the morning."
For two weeks the Chevalier's mind was without active thought or sense
of time.  It was as if two weeks had been plucked from his allotment
without his knowledge or consent.  Many a night Victor and Breton were
compelled to use force to hold the sick man on his mattress.   He
horrified the nuns at evening prayer by shouting for wine, calling the
main at dice, or singing a camp song.  At other times his laughter
broke the quiet of midnight or the stillness of dawn.  But never in all
his ravings did he mention the marquis or the tragedy of the last rout.
Some secret consciousness locked his lips.  Sometimes Brother Jacques
entered the berthroom and applied cold cloths, and rarely the young
priest failed to quiet the patient.  Often Victor came in softly to
find the Chevalier sleeping that restless sleep of the fever-bound and
the priest, a hand propping his chin, lost in reverie.  One night
Victor had been up with the Chevalier.   The berthroom was close and
stifling.  He left the invalid in Breton's care and sought the deck for
a breath of air, cold and damp though it was.  Glancing up, he saw
Brother Jacques pacing the poop-deck, his hands clasped behind him, his
head bent forward, absorbed in thought.  Victor wondered about this
priest.  A mystery enveloped his beauty, his uncommunicativeness.
Presently the Jesuit caught sight of the dim, half-recognizable face
below.
"The Chevalier improves?" he asked.
"His mind has just cleared itself of the fever's fog, thank God!" cried
Victor, heartily.
"He will live, then," replied Brother Jacques, sadly; and continued his
pacing.  After a few moments Victor went below again, and the priest
mused aloud: "Yes, he will live; misfortune and misery are long-lived."
All about him rolled the smooth waters, touched faintly with the first
pallor of dawn.
On the sixteenth of April the Chevalier was declared strong enough to
be carried up to the deck, where he was laid on a cot, his head propped
with pillows in a manner such as to prevent the rise and fall of the
ship from disturbing him.  O the warmth and glory of that spring
sunshine!  It flooded his weak, emaciated frame with a soothing heat, a
sense of gladness, peace, calm.  As the beams draw water from the
rivers to the heavens, so they drew forth the fever-poison from his
veins and cast it to the cleansing winds.  He was aware of no desire
save that of lying there in the sun; of watching the clouds part, join,
and dissolve, only to form again, when the port rose; of measuring the
bright horizon when the port sank.  From time to time he held up his
white hands and let the sun incarnadine them.  He spoke to no one,
though when Victor sat beside him he smiled.  On the second day he
feebly expressed a desire for some one to read to him.
"What shall I read, Paul?" asked  Victor, joyously.
"You will find my Odyssey in the berthroom.  Read me of Ulysses when he
finally arrived at Ithaca and found Penelope still faithful."
"Monsieur," said Chaumonot, who overheard the request, "would you not
rather I should read to you from the life of Loyola?"
"No, Father," gently; "I am still pagan enough to love the thunder of
Homer."
"If only I might convince you of the futility of such books!" earnestly.
"Nothing is futile, Father, which is made of grace and beauty."
So Victor read from the immortal epic.  He possessed a fine voice, and
being a musician he knew how to use it.  The voice of his friend and
the warmth of the sun combined to produce a pleasant drowsiness to
which the Chevalier yielded, gratefully.  That night he slept soundly.
The following day was not without a certain glory.  The wind was mild
and gentle like that which springs up suddenly during a summer's
twilight and breathes mysteriously among the tops of the pines or stirs
a murmur in the fields of grain.  The sea wrinkled and crinkled its
ancient face, not boisterously, but rather kindly; like a giant who had
forgotten his feud with mankind and lay warming himself in the
sunshine.  From the unbroken circle of the horizon rose a cup of
perfect turquoise.  Victor, leaning against the rail, vowed that he
sniffed the perfume of spices, blown up from the climes of the eternal
summer.
"I feel it in my bones," he said, solemnly, "that I shall write verses
to-day.  What is it the presence of spring brings forth from us?--this
lightness of spirit, this gaiety, this flinging aside of worldly cares,
this longing to laugh and sing?"
"Well, Master Poet," and Major du Puys clapped the young man on the
shoulder and smiled into his face.  "Let them be like 'Henri at
Cahors,' and, my faith! you may read them all day to me."
"No, I have in mind a happy refrain.  'Where are the belles of the
balconies?'  This is the time of year when life awakens in the gardens.
Between four and five the ladies will come out upon the balconies and
pass the time of day.  Some one will have discovered a new comfit, and
word will go round that Mademoiselle So-and-So, who is a great lady,
has fallen in love with a poor gentleman.  And lackeys will wander
forth with scented notes of their mistresses, and many a gallant will
furbish up his buckles.  Heigho!  Where, indeed, are the belles of the
balconies?  But, Major, I wish to thank you for the privileges which
you have extended the Chevalier and myself."
"Nonsense, my lad!" cried the good major.  "What are we all but a large
family, with a worldly and a spiritual father?  All I ask of you, when
we are inside the fort at Quebec, is not to gamble or drink or use
profane language, to obey the king, who is represented by Monsieur de
Lauson and myself, to say your prayers, and to attend mass regularly.
And your friend, the Chevalier?"
"On my word of honor, he laughed at a jest of mine not half an hour
ago.  Oh, we shall have him in his boots again ere we see land.  If we
are a big family, as you say, Major, will you not always have a
fatherly eye upon my friend?  He survives a mighty trouble.  His heart
is like a king's purse, full of gold that rings sound and true.  Only
give him a trial, and he will prove his metal.  I know what lieutenants
and corporals are.  Sometimes they take delight in pricking a fallen
lion.  Let his orders come from you till he has served his time."
"And you?"
"I have nothing to ask for myself."
"Monsieur, no man need ask favors of me.  Let him not shirk his duty,
and the Chevalier's days shall be as peaceful as may be.  And if he
serves his time in the company, why, he shall have his parcel of land
on the Great River.  I shall not ask you any questions.  His past
troubles are none of my affairs.  Let him prove a man.  I ask no more
of him than that.  Father Chaumonot has told me that Monsieur le
Marquis has given a thousand livres to the cause.  The Chevalier will
stand in well for the first promotion."
"Thank you, Major.  It is nine.  I will go and compose verses till
noon."
"And I shall arrange for some games this afternoon, feats of strength
and fencing.  I would that my purse were heavy enough to offer prizes."
"Amen to that."
The major watched the poet as he made for the main cabin.  "So the
Chevalier has a heart of gold?" he mused.  "It must be rich, indeed, if
richer than this poet's.  He's a good lad, and his part in life will
have a fine rounding out."
Victor passed into the cabin and seated himself at the table in the
main cabin.  Occasionally he would nod approvingly, or rumple the
feathery end of the quill between his teeth, or drum with his fingers
in the effort to prove a verse whose metrical evenness did not quite
satisfy his ear.  There were obstacles, however, which marred the
sureness of his inspiration.  First it was the face of madame as he had
seen it, now here, now there, in sunshine, in cloud.  Was hers a heart
of ice which the warmth of love could not melt?  Did she love another?
Would he ever see her again?  Spain!  Ah, but for the Chevalier he
might be riding at her side over the Pyrenees.  The pen moved
desultorily.  Line after line was written, only to be rejected.  The
envoi first took shape.  It is a peculiar habit the poet has of
sometimes putting on the cupola before laying the foundation of his
house of fancy.  Victor read over slowly what he had written:
  "Prince, where is the tavern's light that cheers?
