cleaned, since it could be easily emptied, and in which 
the supply could be kept at a permanent level, conven- 
ient for drawing it from above. In the days when all 
the ancient aqueducts of Rome were broken, a well of 
the " lost water " was a valuable possession in houses 
that were turned into fortresses at a moment's notice 
and were sometimes exposed to long and desperate 
sieges. 
In order to reach the horizontal opening, Malipieri 
had climbed upon Masin's sturdy shoulders, steadying 
himself as well as he might till he had laid his hands on 
the edge of the orifice. As he hung there, Masin had 
held up the handle of a pickaxe as high as he could 
reach against the smooth wall, as a crossbar on which 
Malipieri had succeeded in getting a slight foothold, 
enough for a man who was not heavy and was extraor- 
dinarily active. A moment later he had drawn him- 
self up and inward. At the imminent risk of his life, 
as he afterwards found, he had crawled on in total dark- 
ness till the way widened enough for him to turn round 
and get back. He had then lowered a string he had 
with him, and had drawn up a lantern first, then the 
end of a coil of rope, then the tools for carrying on the 
exploration. The rest had been easy. Masin had 
climbed up by the rope, after making knots in it and 
when Malipieri had called out, from the inner place to 
which he had retired with the end, that it was made 
fast. But the light showed the architect that in turn- 
ing round, he had narrowly escaped falling into an open 
shaft, of which he could not see the bottom, but which 
was evidently meant for the final escape of the over- 
flowing water. 
There was room to pass this danger, however, and 
they had since laid a couple of stout boards over it, 
weighted with stones to keep them in place. Beyond, 
the passage rose till it was high enough for a man to 
 
walk upright. Judging from the elevation now reached 
this passage was hollowed in the thickness of one of the 
main walls of the palace, and it was clear that the water 
could not reach it. A few yards from the chasm, it 
inclined quickly downwards, and at the end there were 
half a dozen steps, which evidently descended to a 
greater depth than the floor of the first outer chamber. 
So far as it had hitherto been possible to judge, there 
was no way of getting to these last steps, except that 
opened by the two men, and leading through the dry 
well. In former times, there might have been an en- 
trance through the wall at the highest level, but if it 
had ever existed it had been so carefully closed that no 
trace of it could now be found. 
This tedious explanation of a rather complicated 
construction has been necessary to explain what after- 
wards happened. Reducing it to its simplest terms, it 
becomes clear that if the water rose, a person in the 
passage, or anywhere beyond the overflow shaft, could 
not possibly get back through the well, though he 
would apparently be safe from drowning if he stayed 
where he was ; and to the best of Malipieri's know- 
ledge there was no other way out. Any one caught 
there would have to wait till the water subsided, and if 
that did not happen he v^ould starve to death. 
The two men stood still and listened. They could 
'-still distinguish the faint gurgling of the water, very 
far off, but that was all. 
"I believe you heard a rat," said Malipieri, discon- 
tentedly, after a long pause. 
" Rats do not carry English wax matches," observed 
Masin. 
" They eat them when they can find them," answered 
Malipieri. " They carry them off, and hide them, and 
drop them, too. And a big rat running away makes a 
noise very like a man's footsteps." 
" That is true," assented Masin. " There were many 
of them in the prison, and I sometimes thought they 
were the keepers when I heard them at night." 
" At all events, we will go to the end," said Malipieri, 
beginning to walk down the inclined way, and carrying 
his lantern low, so as not to be dazzled by the light. 
Masin followed closely, grasping his drilling-iron, 
and still expecting to use it. The end of the passage 
had once been walled up, but they had found the frag- 
ments of brick and mortar lying much as they had 
fallen when knocked away. It was impossible to tell 
from which side the obstacle had been destroyed. 
Going further, they stepped upon the curve of a 
tunnel vault, and were obliged to stoop low to avoid 
striking against another overhead. The two vaults 
had been carefully constructed, one outside the other, 
leaving a space of about five feet between them. The 
one under their feet covered the inner chamber in 
which Malipieri had seen the bronze statue. He and 
Masin had made a hole a little on one side of the 
middle, in order not to disturb the keystones, working 
very carefully lest any heavy fragments should fall 
through ; for they had at once been sure that if any- 
thing was to be found, it must be concealed in that 
 
place. Before making the opening, they had thoroughly 
explored the dark curved space from end to end and 
from side to side, but could discover no aperture. The 
inner vault had never been opened since it had been 
built. 
Malipieri, reconstructing the circumstances of the 
accident in the last century, came to the conclusion 
that the mason who had been drowned had been already 
between the vaults, when some of the men behind had 
discovered that the water was rising in the well, and 
that they had somehow got out in time, but that their 
unfortunate companion had come back too late, or had 
perished while trying to break his way out by the slit, 
through which the water must have been rushing in. 
How they had originally entered the place was a 
mystery. Possibly they had been lowered from above, 
down the well-shaft, but it was all very hard to explain. 
The only thing that seemed certain was that the treas- 
ure had never been seen by any one since it had been 
closed in under the vault, ages ago. Malipieri had not 
yet found time to make a careful plan of all the places 
through which he had passed. There were so many 
turns and changes of level, that it would be impossible 
to get an accurate drawing without using a theodolite 
or some similar instrument of precision. From the 
measurements he had taken, however, and the rough 
sketches he had made, he believed that the double vault 
was not under the palace itself, but under the open 
courtyard, at the depth of about forty feet, and there- 
fore below the level of the Tiber at average high water. 
Both men now knelt by the hole, and Masin thrust 
his lantern down to the full length of his arm. The 
light shone upon the vast hand of the statue, and made 
a deep reflection in the great ruby of the ring, as if the 
gem was not a stone, but a little gold cup filled with 
rich wine. The hand itself, the wrist and the great 
muscles of the chest on which it lay, seemed of pure 
gold. But Malipieri's eyes fixed themselves on some- 
thing else. There were marks on the bright surface of 
the metal which had not been there when he had looked 
at it in the afternoon ; there were patches of dust, and 
there were several small scratches, which might have 
been made by the nails of heavy shoes. 
"You were right after all," said Malipieri, with- 
drawing the lantern and setting it down beside him. 
" The man is here." 
Masin's china-blue eyes brightened at the thought of a 
possible fight, and his hold tightened again on his drill. 
" What shall we do with him ? " he asked, looking 
down into the hole. 
Cunning, as the Italian peasant is by nature, Masin 
made a sign to his master that the man, if he were 
really below, could hear all that was said. 
" Shall I go down and kill him, sir ? " Masin en- 
quired with a quiet grin and raising his voice a little. 
" I am not sure," Malipieri answered, at once enter- 
ing into his man's scheme. " He is caught in his own 
trap. It is not midnight yet, and there is plenty of 
time to consider the matter. Let us sit here and talk 
about it." 
 
He now turned himself and sat beside the hole, 
placing his lantern near the edge. He took out a 
cigar and lit it carefully. Masin sat on the other 
side, his drill in his hand. 
"If he tries to get out while we are talking," he 
said,' "I can break his skull with a touch of this." 
"Yes," Malipieri answered, puffing at his cigar. 
"There is no hurry. Keep your iron ready." 
" Yes, sir. " Masin made the heavy drill ring on the 
stones of the vault. 
A pause followed. 
"Have you got your pipe with you?" asked Mali- 
pieri presently. " We must talk over this quietly." 
"Yes, sir. Will you hold the iron while I get a 
light ? He might try to jump out, and he may have 
firearms. Thank you, sir." 
Masin produced a short black pipe, filled it and 
lighted it. 
" I was thinking, sir," he said, as he threw away the 
wooden match, "that if we kill him here we may 
have trouble in disposing of his body. Thank you, 
sir," he added as he took over the drill again and 
made it clang on the stones. 
"There will be no trouble about that," Malipieri 
answered, speaking over the hole. "We can drop 
him down the overflow shaft in the passage." 
"Where do you think the shaft leads, sir?" asked 
Masin, grinning with delight. 
" To some old drain and then to the Tiber, of course. 
The body will be found in a week or two, jammed 
against the pier of some bridge, probably at the island 
of Saint Bartholomew." 
"Yes, sir. But the drain is dry now. The body 
will lie at the bottom of the shaft, where we drop it, 
and in a few days the cellars will be perfumed." 
He laughed roughly at his horrible joke, which was 
certainly calculated to affect the nerves of the intruder 
who was meant to hear it. Malipieri began to wonder 
when the man would give a sign of life. 
" We can fill the •tvell by plugging the arch in the 
outer chamber," he suggested. " Then the water will 
pour down the shaft and wash the body away." 
"Yes, sir," assented Masin. "That is a good idea. 
Shall I go down and kill him now, sir ? " 
"Not yet," Malipieri answered, knocking the ash 
from his cigar. " We have not finished smoking, and 
there is no hurry. Besides, it occurs to me that if we 
drive anything into the hole when the water runs out, 
we shall not be able to get the plug away afterwards. 
Then we ourselves could never get here again." 
A long silence followed. From time to time Masin 
made a little noise with the drill. 
"Perhaps the fellow is asleep," he observed pleas- 
antly at last. " So much the better, he will wake in 
Paradise ! " 
"It is of no use to run any risks," said Malipieri. 
" If we go down to kill him he may kill one of us first, 
especially if he has a revolver. There is no hurry, I 
tell you. Do you happen to know how long it takes 
to starve a man to death ? " 
 
"Without water, a man cannot live a week, sir. 
That is the best idea you have had yet." 
" Yes. We will wall him up in the vault. That is 
easy enough. Those boards that are over the shaft 
will do to make a little frame, and the stones are all 
here, just as we got them out. We can fasten up the 
frame with ends of rope." 
" We have no mortar, sir." 
" Mud will do as well for such a small job," answered 
Malipieri. "We can easily make enough. Give me 
your iron, in case he tries to get out, and go and get 
the boards and the rope." 
Masin began to rise. 
" In a week we can come and take him out," he re- 
marked in a matter-of-fact way. "By that time he 
will be dead, and we can have his grave ready." 
He laughed again, as he thought of the sensations 
his cheerful talk must produce in the mind of the man 
below. 
" Yes," said Malipieri. " We may as well do it at 
once and go to bed. It is of no use to sit up all night 
talking about the fellow's body. Go and get the rope 
and the boards." 
Masin was now on his feet and his heavy shoes made 
a grinding noise on the stones. At that moment a 
sound was heard from below, and Malipieri held up a 
finger and listened. Somebody was moving in the vault. 
" You had better stay where you are," said Malipieri, 
speaking down. " If you show yourself I will drop a 
stone on your head." 
A hollow voice answered him from the depths. 
"Are you Christians," it asked, "to wall a man up 
alive ? " 
"That is what we are going to do," Malipieri 
answered coolly. " Have you anything to say ? It 
will not take us long to do the job, so you had better 
speak at. once. How did you get in ? " 
"If I am to die without getting out, why should I 
tell you ? " enquired the voice. 
Malipieri looked at Masin. 
" There is a certain sense in what the man says, sir," 
Masin said thoughtfully. 
" My good man," said Malipieri, speaking down, " we 
do not want anybody to know the way to this place 
for a few days, and as you evidently know it better 
than we do, we intend to keep you quiet." 
" If you will let me out, I can serve you," answered 
the man below. " There is nobody in Rome who can 
serve you as I can." 
" Who are you ? " asked Malipieri. 
"Are you going to let me out, Signor Malipieri?" 
enquired the man. " If you are, I will tell you." 
" Oh, you know my name, do you ? " 
"Perfectly. You are the engineer engaged by the 
Senator Volterra to find the treasure." 
" Yes. Quite right. What of that ? " 
" You have found it," answered the other. " Of 
what use will it be to kill me ? I cannot take that 
statue away in my waistcoat pocket, if you let me out, 
can I ? " 
 
" You had better not make too many jokes, my man, 
or we will put tlie boards over tbis bole in five minutes. 
If you can really be of use to me, I will let you out. 
Wbat is your name ? " 
" Toto," answered the voice sullenly. 
"Yes. That means Theodore, I suppose. Now 
make haste, for I am tired of waiting. What are you, 
and how did you get in ? " 
" I was the mason of the palace, until the devil flew 
away with the people who lived in it. I know all the 
secrets of the house. I can be very useful to you. " 
" That changes matters, my friend. I have no 
doubt you can be useful if you like, though we have 
managed to find one of the secrets without you. It 
happens to be the only one we wanted to know." 
" No," answered Toto. " There are two others. 
You do not know how I got in, and you do not know 
how to manage the ' lost water.' " 
" That is true," said Malipieri. " But if I let you out 
you may do me harm, by talking before it is time. The 
government is not to know of this discovery until I 
am ready." 
" The government ! " exclaimed Toto contemptu- 
ously, from his hiding-place. " May an apoplexy seize 
it ! Do you take me for a spy ? I am a Christian." 
" I begin to think he is, sir," put in Masin, knock- 
ing the ash from his pipe. 
"I think so, too," said Malipieri. "Throw away 
that iron, Masin. He shall show himself, at all events, 
and if we like his face we can talk to him here." 
Masin dropped the drill with a clang. Toto's hairy 
hand appeared, grasping the golden wrist of the statue, 
as he raised himself to approach the hole. 
"He is a mason, as he says," said Masin, catching 
sight of the rough fingers. 
" Did you take me for a coachman ? " enquired Toto, 
thrusting his shaggy head forward cautiously, and 
looking up through the aperture. 
"Before you come up here," Malipieri answered, 
" tell me how you got in." 
" You seem to know so much about the overflow 
shaft that I should think you might have guessed. 
If you do not believe that I came that way, look at my 
clothes ! " 
He now crawled upon the body of the statue, and 
Malipieri saw that he was covered with half-dried mud 
and ooze. 
" You got through some old drain, I suppose, and 
found your way up." 
" It seems so," answered Toto, shaking his shoulders, 
as if he were stiff. 
"Are you going to let him go free, sir?" asked 
Masin, standing ready. " If you do, he will be down 
the shaft, before you can catch him. These men know 
their way underground like moles." 
" Moles, yourselves ! " answered Toto in a growl, 
putting his head up above the level of the vault. 
Masin measured him with his eye, and saw that he 
was a strong man, probably much more active than he 
looked in his heavy, mud-plastered clothes. 
 
" Get up here," said Malipieri. 
Toto obeyed, and in a moment he sat on the edge of 
the hole, his legs dangling down into it. 
" Not so bad," he said, settling himself with a grunt 
of satisfaction. 
" I like you. Master Toto," said Malipieri. " You 
might have thought that we really meant to kill you, 
but you did not seem much frightened." 
" There is no woman in the affair," answered Toto. 
" Why should you kill me ? And I can help you." 
"How am I to know that you will?" asked Mali- 
pieri. 
" I am a man of honour," Toto replied, turning his 
stony face to the light of the lanterns. 
" I have not a doubt of it, my friend," returned 
Malipieri, without conviction. " Just now, the only 
help I need of you, is that you should hold your tongue. 
How can I be sure that you will do that ? Does any 
one else know the way in through the drain ? " 
" No. I only found it to-night. If there is a day's 
rain in the mountains, and the Tiber rises even a little, 
nobody can pass through it. The lower part is barely 
above the level of the river now." 
" How did you guess that you could get here by that 
way ? " 
" We know many secrets in our trade, from father to 
son," answered Toto gruffly. 
" You must have lifted the boards, with the stones 
on them, to get out of the shaft. Why did you put 
them back in their place ? " 
" You seem to think I am a fool ! I did not mean 
to let you know that I had been here, so I put them 
back, of course. I supposed that I could get out 
through the cellars, but you have put a padlock on the 
inner door." 
" Is there any way of turning water into that 
shaft?" 
"Only by filling the well, I think. If the Tiber 
rises, the water will back up the shaft through the 
drain. That is why the ancients who built the well 
made another way for the water to run off. When 
the river is swollen in a flood it must be much higher 
in the shaft than the bottom of the well, and if the 
' lost water ' were running in all the time, the air would 
probably make it back, so that the shaft would be use- 
less and the well would be soiled with the river water." 
"You evidently know your trade. Master Toto," 
said Masin, with some admiration for his fellow-crafts- 
man's clear understanding. 
" You know yours," retorted Toto, who was seldom at 
a loss, "for just now you talked of killing like a pro- 
fessional assassin." 
This pleasing banter delighted Masin, who laughed 
heartily, and patted Toto on the back. 
" We shall be good friends," he said. 
" In this world one never knows," Toto answered 
philosophically. " What are you going to do ? " 
" You must come back with us to my apartment," 
said Malipieri, who had been considering the matter. 
" You must stay there a couple of days, without going 
 
out. I will pay you for your time, and give you a 
handsome present, and plenty to eat and drink. After 
that you will be free to go where you please and say 
what you like, for the secret will be out." 
" Thank you," answered Toto without enthusiasm. 
"Are you going to tell the government about the 
treasure ? " 
" The Senator will certainly inform the government, 
which has a right to buy it." 
To this Toto said nothing, but he lifted his legs out 
of the hole and stood up, ready to go. Malipieri and 
Masin took up their lanterns. 
CHAPTER XI 
Masin led the way back, Toto followed and Mali- 
pieri went last, so that the mason was between his two 
captors. They did not quite trust him, and Masin was 
careful not to walk too fast where the way was so 
familiar to him, while Malipieri was equally careful 
not to lag behind. In this order they reached the 
mouth of the overflow shaft, covered with the loaded 
boards. Masin bent down and examined them, for he 
wished to convince himself that the stones had been 
moved since he had himself placed them there. A 
glance showed that this was the case, and he was about 
to go on, when he bent down again suddenly and lis- 
tened, holding up his hand, 
" There is water," he said, and began to lift off the 
stones, one by one. 
Toto helped him quickly. There were only three 
or four, and they were not heavy. When the mouth 
of the shaft was uncovered all three knelt down and 
listened, instinctively lowering their lanterns into the 
blackness below. The shaft was not wider than a 
good-sized old-fashioned chimney, like those in Roman 
palaces, up and down which sweeps can just manage 
to climb. 
The three men listened, and distinctly heard the 
 
steady falling of a small stream of water upon the 
stones at the bottom. 
" It is raining," Toto said confidently, but he was 
evidently as much surprised by the sound as the others. 
" There must be some communication with the gutters 
in the courtyard," he added. 
" There is probably a thunderstorm," answered Mali- 
pieri. " We can hear notlaing down here." 
" If I had gone down again, I should have been 
drowned," Toto said, shaking his head. " Do you hear ? 
Half the water from the courtyard must be running 
down there ! " 
The sound of the falling stream increased to a hol- 
low roar. 
" Do you think the water can rise in the shaft ? " 
asked Malipieri. 
" Not unless the river rises and backs into it," re- 
plied Toto. " The drain is large below." 
" That cannot be ' lost water,' can it ? " 
" No. That is impossible." 
" Put the boards in their place again," Malipieri 
said. " It is growing late." 
It was done in a few moments, but now the dismal 
roar of the water came up very distinctly through the 
covering. Malipieri had been in many excavations, 
and in mines, too, but did not remember that he had 
ever felt so strongly the vague sense of apprehension 
that filled him now. There is something especially 
gloomy and mysterious about the noise of unexplained 
water heard at a great depth under the earth and com- 
ing out of darkness. Even tlie rougli men with him 
felt that. 
" It is bad to hear," observed Masin, putting one 
more stone upon the boards, as if the weight could keep 
the sound down. 
" You may say that ! " answered Toto. " And in this 
tomb, too ! " 
» They went on, in the same order as before. The 
passage to the dry well had been so much enlarged 
that by bending down they could walk to the top of 
the rope ladder. Malipieri went down first, with his lan- 
tern. Toto followed, and while Masin was descending, 
stood looking at the bones of the dead mason, and at the 
skull that grinned horribly in the uncertain yellow glare. 
He took a half -burnt candle from his pocket, and 
some sulphur matches, and made a light for himself, 
with which he carefully examined the bones. Mali- 
pieri watched him. 
" The man who was drowned over sixty years ago," 
said the architect. 
" This," answered Toto, with more feeling than ac- 
curacy, " is the blessed soul of my grandfather." 
"He shall have Christian burial in a few days," 
Malipieri said gravely. 
Toto shrugged his shoulders, not irreverently, but as 
if to say that when a dead man has been without 
Christian burial sixty years, it cannot make any dif- 
ference whether he gets it after all or not. 
"The crowbar is still good," Toto said, stooping 
down to disengage it from the skeleton's grasp. 
 
But Malipieri laid a hand on his shoulder, for it 
occurred to him that the mason, armed with an iron 
bar, might be a dangerous adversary if he tried to 
escape. 
" You do not need that just now," said the architect. 
Toto glanced at Malipieri furtively and saw that he 
was understood. He stood upright, affecting indiffer- 
ence. They went on, through the breach to which the 
slit had been widened. Toto moved slowly, and held 
his candle down to the running water in the channel. 
" There is plenty of it," he observed. 
" Where does it come from ? " asked Malipieri, 
suddenly, in the hope of an unguarded answer. 
" From heaven," answered Toto without hesitation ; 
"and everything that falls from heaven is good," he 
added, quoting an ancient proverb. 
" What would happen if we closed the entrance, so 
that it could not get in at all ? " 
" The book of wisdom," Toto replied, " is buried 
under Pasquino. How should I know what would 
happen ? " 
" You know a good many things, my friend." 
Malipieri understood that the man would not say 
more, and led the way out. 
" Good-bye, grandpapa," growled Toto, waving his 
hairy hand towards the well. " Who knows whether 
we shall meet again?" 
They went on, and in due time emerged into the 
upper air. It was raining heavily, as Toto had guessed, 
and before they had reached the other end of the court- 
yard they were drenched. But it was a relief to be 
out of doors, and Malipieri breathed the fresh air with 
keen delight, as a thirsty man drinks. The rain poured 
down steadily and ran in rivers along the paved gutters, 
and roared into the openings that carried it off. 
Malipieri could not help thinking how it must be roar- 
ing now, far down at the bottom of the old shaft, 
led thither through deep-buried and long-forgotten 
channels. 
Upstairs, Masin was inclined to be friendly with his 
fellow-craftsman, and gave him dry clothes to sleep 
in, and bread and cheese and wine in liis own room. 
In spite of his experiences, Masin had never known how 
to be suspicious. But as Malipieri looked once more at 
the man's stony face and indistinguishable eyes, he 
thought differently of his prisoner. He locked the 
outer door and took the key of the patent lock with him 
when he went to bed at last. 
It does not often rain heavily in Rome, late in the 
spring, for any long time, but when Malipieri looked 
out the next morning, it was still pouring steadily, and 
the sky over the courtyard was uniformly grey. It is 
apparently a law of nature that exceptions should come 
when least wanted. 
In spite of the weather Malipieri went out, however, 
and did not even send for a cab. The porter was in a 
particularly bad humour and eyed him distrustfully, for 
he had been put to the trouble of cleaning the stairs 
where the three men had left plentiful mud in their 
track during the night. Malipieri nodded to the old 
 
man as usual, and was about to go out, but turned back 
and gave him five francs. Thus mollified the porter at 
once made a remark about the atrocious weather and 
proceeded to ask how the work was progressing. 
"I have explored a good deal," answered Malipieri. 
" The Senator is coming to-morrow, and you had better 
sweep carefully. He looks at everything, you know." 
He went out into the pouring rain, keeping a sharp 
lookout from under the edge of the umbrella he held 
low over his head. He had grown cautious of late. 
As he expected, he came upon one of the respectable 
men he now met so often, before he had turned into the 
Piazza Agonale. The respectable man was also carry- 
ing his umbrella low, and looking about him as he 
walked along at a leisurely pace. Malipieri hailed a 
cab. 
Even in wet weather there are no closed cabs in that 
part of Rome. One is protected from the wet, more or 
less, by the hood and by a high leathern apron which is 
hooked to it inside. The cabman, seated under a huge 
standing umbrella, bends over and unhooks it on one 
side for you to get in and out. 
Malipieri employed the usual means of eluding pur- 
suit. He gave an address and told the man to drive 
fast, got out quickly on reaching the house, enquired 
for an imaginary person with a foreign name, who, he 
was of course told, did not live there, got in again and 
had himself driven to Sassi's door, sure of losing his 
pursuer, if the detective followed him in another cab. 
Then he paid the man two fares, to save time, and 
went in. He had never taken the trouble to do such a 
thing since his political adventures, but he was now 
very anxious not to let it be known that he had any 
dealings with the former agent of the Conti family. 
The matter was settled easily enough and to his 
satisfaction. Old Sassi worshipped Sabina, and was 
already fully persuaded that whatever could be found 
under the palace should belong to her, as also that she 
had a right to see what was discovered before Volterra 
did, and before anything was moved. He was at least 
as quixotic in his crabbed fashion as Malipieri himself ; 
and besides, he really could not see that there was the 
least harm or danger in the scheme. It certainly 
would have been improper for Malipieri to go and fetch 
the young lady himself, but it was absurd to suppose 
that a man over sixty could be blamed for accompany- 
ing a girl of eighteen on a visit to her old home, in her 
own interest, especially when the man had been all 
his life employed by her family in a position of trust 
and confidence. Finally, Sassi hated Volterra with all 
his heart, as the faithful adherents of ruined gentle- 
folks often hate those who have profited by their ruin. 
Sassi, as an old Roman, predicted that the weather 
would improve in the afternoon. Malipieri advised 
him nevertheless to keep the hood of his cab raised 
when he brought Sabina to the palace. To this Sassi 
answered that he should of course get a closed carriage 
from a livery stable, and an argument followed which 
took some time. In the opinion of the excellent old 
agent, it would be almost an affront to fetch the very 
 
noble Donna Sabina in a vehicle so plebeian as a cab, 
and it was with the greatest difficulty that Malipieri 
made him understand that a cab was much safer on 
such an occasion. 
What was important was that the weather should be 
fine, for otherwise the Baroness might not go out, and 
the whole scheme would fail. In that case, it must be 
arranged for the following day, and Malipieri would 
find an excuse for putting off Volterra's visit. 
He left the house on foot. So far, he had not 
allowed himself to think too much of the future, and 
had found little time for such reflection. He was a 
man who put all his energy into what he was doing, 
and was inclined to let consequences take care of them- 
selves rather than waste thought in providing for them. 
He believed he was doing what was just and honour- 
able, and if there was a spice of adventure and romance 
in it, that only made it the more easy to do. The only 
danger he could think of was that Sabina might slip in 
one of the difficult passages and hurt her foot a little, 
or might catch cold in the damp vaults. Nothing else 
could happen. 
He congratulated himself on having got Toto in his 
power, since Toto was the only man who understood 
the ways of the " lost water." If he had before sus- 
pected that there was any one at large in Rome who 
knew as much he would have hesitated. But he had 
made the discovery of the man and had taken him 
prisoner at the same moment, and all danger in that 
quarter seemed to be removed. 
As for the material difficulty, he and Masin could 
smooth the way very much in two or three hours, and 
could substitute a solid wooden ladder for the one 
of rope in the well. Sabina was young, slight, and 
probably active, and with a little help she would have 
no difficulty in reaching the inner chamber. It might 
be well to cover the skeletons. Young girls were sup- 
posed to be sensitive about such things, and Malipieri 
had no experience of their ways. Nevertheless he had 
an inward conviction that Sabina would not go into 
hysterics at the sight. 
Old Sassi might not be able to get up the ladder, but 
once beyond the reach of social observation, he would 
trust Sabina to Malipieri and Masin for a quarter of an 
hour, and he could wait in the outer cellar. Malipieri 
had prepared him for this, and he had made no ob- 
jection, only saying that he should like to see the 
treasure himself if it could possibly be managed. In 
his heart, Malipieri hoped that it would prove too much 
for the old man and that he might have the pleasure of 
showing Sabina what he had found without having the old 
agent at his elbow. Toto would be locked in, upstairs, 
for the day. He could not get out by the door, and he 
would not risk breaking his legs by jumping from the 
window. The intermediate story of the Palazzo Conti 
was far too high for that. 
Malipieri calculated that if Sassi were punctual, 
Sabina would be at the door of the palace at a quarter- 
past five. At five minutes past, he came down, and 
sent the porter on an errand which would occupy at 
 
least half an hour even if executed with despatch. 
Masin would keep the door, he said. The old man was 
delighted to have an excuse for going out, and promised 
himself to spend a comfortable hour in a wine shop if he 
could find a friend. His wife, as there was so little to 
do, had found some employment in a laundry, to which 
she went in the morning and which kept her out all 
day. No one would see Sabina and Sassi enter, and if 
it seemed advisable they could be got out in the same 
way. No one biit Masin and Malipieri himself need 
ever know that they had been in the palace that 
afternoon. 
It was all very well prepared, by a man well accus- 
tomed to emergencies, and it was not easy to see how 
anything could go wrong. Even allowing more time 
