of the noblest representatives of the medical 
profession — men of aspiration, self-denial, and 
consecration ; men on whom the sick leaned, 
and whom the dying trusted; men whom wo- 
men honored, and children loved, and the 
poor blessed ; men who hesitated at no sacri- 
fice, halted at no danger, and who would hurl 
away their own lives without a thought, to 
save a patient. These men, too busy in heal- 
ing the sick to inflict the ingenuities of a de- 
cadent science upon small, speechless creatures, 
thought little and knew less about what was 
going on in the fastnesses of their own medical 
school. Yet, the moment when her fair fame 
should be touched, they would spring to her 
defense like soldiers blindly following the 
 
colors through a fight in a fog. So widely 
scattered and so deeply united were the alumni 
of this celebrated school that they carried its 
powerful influence everywhere, and sustained 
in the public mind a respect for the institution 
amounting to idealization. Among the first to 
recognize and respond to this pervasive influ- 
ence had been the men of fortune. A multi- 
millionaire, who had devoted his superfluous 
thousands for some years to the endowment 
of societies for the prevention of cruelty to 
animals, one summer day upon a yachting 
cruise fell under the beguiling influence of 
the old professor of physiology at Galen 
— since gathered to his fate in a world where 
he may look long for a congenial occupation. 
The result was that Galen, although, as we 
say, a very ancient school, had a very modern 
building. This — a gift outright from the 
philanthropic capitalist who had devoted him- 
self hitherto to the interests of animals — was 
new from roof to cellar. It was not intended 
necessarily to be a replica of other buildings 
of its kind. The old professor had full swing, 
and had carried into execution some ideas of 
his own. 
 
The first floor of the school was given up 
to the lecture-rooms, offices, and so on, and 
to the physiological laboratory. This was sep- 
arated from the lecture-room which we shall 
call the amphitheatre by a short passageway, 
and by double and deadened walls. Every de- 
vice that the modern building art could offer 
for the dulling of sound had been employed. 
Floors and ceilings were tremendously thick, 
and heavily lined with mineral wool. In the 
basement of the building the unhappy crea- 
tures who furnished the material for experi- 
mental physiology were confined. The room 
where the dumb prisoners were incarcerated 
was in a wing ; some of its windows looked upon 
a yard that separated it from the hospital. 
This lower room could be reached in several 
ways ; for instance, by two flights of stairs — 
one running from the physiological labora- 
tory — and by a corridor that led out to the 
rear of the building. This corridor, which 
ramified in more than one direction, led to a 
low door (one of several exits) somewhat hid- 
den from observation by a porch or balcony 
whose purpose seemed to be ornamental only. 
This door, which opened upon an alle} r , was 
 
used by the janitor and laboratory assistants. 
Most of the students knew nothing of its ex- 
istence, and a casual passer would not have 
noticed it. The corridor of which mention has 
been made contained two closets ; one was 
used for the disposal of brooms, mops, snow- 
shovels, pails, and so on ; another for hanging 
coats and hats. This latter closet was not far 
from the low door of which we have spoken. 
It was now eleven o'clock. In the hospital 
the sick slept, or prayed that they might do 
so before dawn. In the school of the arts 
the silent studio, at night given over to the 
shades and shapes of beautiful things, aroused 
slowly to the consciousness of itself. The 
antiques regarded each other solemnly ; the 
statue of Pity seemed to breathe and turn 
its face ; but the figure of the Christ did not 
stir ; it hung at about the height of a cross, 
upon the wall. In the medical school a few 
stray students had finished their work in the 
dissecting room and had gone for the night. 
With the exception of the janitor and the 
engineer, the building was deserted now of 
human presence, and in its upper stories quiet. 
In the basement it could seldom be called 
quiet. In that inferno the circles of misery 
gave out the inarticulate expression of a doom 
worse because neither understood, elected, nor 
deserved. For the most part these signs of 
anguish were gentle and docile, and at night 
were much in abeyance. Now and then a dog 
howled, or, if not badly injured, barked ; and 
broken moans of pain answered from some 
awakened or some dreaming creature ; but 
most of the victims endured with the silence 
and patience by which the suffering animal 
shames the human race. 
The room was dark, and the atmosphere 
heavy, as has been said. Creatures accustomed 
to freedom and to fresh air gasped the night 
away. The large place was lined with cages, 
each occupied by its little prisoner. The in- 
oculated victims were many — rabbits, guinea 
pigs, and the like — all vicariously, and for 
the most part uselessly, enduring for the va- 
garies of science the maladies of man. Sights 
which the readers of these pages could not 
bring their delicate sensibilities to witness, 
facts which you who follow this narrative 
would not permit its writer to relate, crowded 
that den of anguish. 
 
Those four walls, packed with suffering I, 
kept their secrets well. Into this tragic place 
no curious reporter was admitted ; from it the 
omnipotence of the press was excluded ; into 
this pit no sister of mercy stepped ; to these 
wounded no hospital nurse brought the ministrations 
of her gentle art ; into this lair no 
preacher entered, and, leaving it, challenged 
Christian civilization with its existence ; into 
this hell no Christ descended. 
It was well after midnight when a slight 
disturbance occurred in the animal room. A 
newcomer, who had not yet been operated 
upon, and who was not caged, but tied, awoke 
whining. Restless calls of response echoed 
throughout the large room. The little white 
dog that had caused the trouble pulled franti- 
cally at its rope, and in its most pathetic way 
called for its master. A low reply came from 
an adjoining cage, and a black muzzle pressed 
itself against the netting. The white poodle 
returned a few sympathetic remarks, and the 
two carried on a short conversation. The 
debutante in that sad society, who though 
sometimes leashed, was not, until her recent 
 
unhappy experience, accustomed to be tied, 
resented her captivity with intolerable aston- 
ishment. She pulled and pulled again at the 
stout rope, and then, yielding to the stifling 
closeness of the room, stopped, panting and 
exhausted. Low whines from the black spaniel 
in the nearest cage greeted this failure. 
Most dogs, even the most intelligent and 
the best educated, are numbed by despair 
when they are lost. Their very powers of 
thought or recognition are affected by the su- 
preme catastrophe. For two weeks the French 
poodle had been bewildered by the agony of 
homesickness. Torn from its master, from its 
home, from its occupation, it had fallen into 
a lethargy that had dispossessed it of its nat- 
ural reason. Now, after the last desperate 
and futile attempt to break or gnaw the rope, 
the baffled creature had cast itself upon the 
floor. In that moment of exhaustion, memory 
flooded its brain. With a bound the dog 
leaped to its feet. It uttered a short, piercing 
bark of triumph. Suddenly Trixy had found 
herself. 
It now occurred to her for the first time 
that, no matter what might be the case with 
 
more ignorant dogs, it was quite unnecessary 
for her to remain a prisoner. She could slip 
her collar, as she had done scores of times 
before. She bent her head down, put her 
paws up to her neck, and with a wriggle or 
two, deftly drew the collar over her ears. 
Contemptuously she picked it up and tossed 
it away. Trixy's intellect, although close on 
the keenest order known to her race, paused 
on the hither side of the facts that an attempt 
had been made to remove the plate from her 
collar, and that, this having failed, the name 
of her master had been scratched into partial 
illegibility. 
The little actress now had the freedom of 
the room. The first use that she made of it 
was to examine its occupants, her companions 
in misfortune. She addressed herself at the 
outset to her neighbor, the black spaniel ; but 
he, for some reason which was beyond Trixy's 
power to fathom, responded only by feeble 
moans. Hoping to find some more sociable 
playmate, Trixy made a tour of the room. 
She was especially interested in a cat, to whom 
some extraordinary thing had happened, for 
it neither spit nor scratched, nor, in fact, 
 
made any reply to Trixy's advances. In point 
of fact, this was considered upstairs a very 
interesting case. The cat had been subjected 
for five hours to a treatment of which it is 
impossible on a page like this to speak in de- 
tail. The downstairs view of the experiment 
was another matter, and the cat was as much 
in the dark as Trixy as to the why and where- 
fore of her suffering. 
Discouraged by her reception there, Trixy 
sought the acquaintance of a few guinea pigs 
and rabbits, one monkey, and a pigeon or 
two. These were too ill to respond, and, as 
Trixy had not learned their language, she 
passed on. 
Dogs, like human beings, make their friends 
instinctively, and stick to them. In the dark, 
and in what she half consciously perceived to 
be danger, Trixy craved companionship. She 
trotted back to the only place where this could 
be found. She sat up on her hind legs hi front 
of the spaniel's cage, and prettily begged him 
to come out. Grieved at his indifference, Trixy 
began to whine and scratch at the cage door. 
Her higher intelligence now grasped the fact 
that the dog was in suffering of some kind, 
 
for some reason, and she proceeded to inves- 
tigate both these mysteries ; but it was too 
dark to make much headway with them, and 
she lay down in front of the spaniel's cage. 
Here she remained patiently until the first 
gray sign of dawn entered the window. 
Trixy had been transferred the evening be- 
fore from another part of the cellar, which, 
had she but known it, though more dismal, 
was to be preferred to her present quarters, 
and for a sinister reason that fortunately was 
beyond the scope of her power to forecast, 
because it was outside the range of her ex- 
perience. In that other prison she had found 
no opportunity for society ; she now stood up, 
and in the fast-growing light began to inspect 
her new acquaintance closely. 
Through the netting of the cage she saw a 
cocker spaniel, black, with a white shirt-frill, 
and what seemed to be a white part in the 
middle of his forehead, but of this it was dif- 
ficult to be sure, for the dog's head was bound 
with a bandage of cloth. This perplexed Trixy, 
and struck her as a novel circumstance. In- 
deed, the whole situation of the spaniel mysti- 
fied and saddened her. One thing only was 
 
c l ear — the clog was in pain, and she, gen- 
erously sharing his misery, for the moment, 
as human philanthropists do in similar cases, 
forgot her own. 
Among animals of the higher class feelings 
are more contagious than with men. Lacking 
a system of intricate communication, they 
catch emotion instinctively. The black spaniel 
now began to respond to Trixy's advances. It 
arose, wagged its tail feebly, and came to the 
door of its cage, looking at its new friend 
with great, mournful, mystified eyes. This 
attention Trixy received with little yelps of 
ecstasy. 
She stood up again on her hind legs and 
tried to kiss the spaniel, but could not, for 
the wire forbade the caress ; which, besides, 
tasted metallic. 
Yet Trixy could not be denied. She made 
a few desperate scratches, but found the cage 
too strong for penetration. That it must have 
an opening she did not doubt. Her black eyes 
began to snap and glisten. Her hot, black 
nose dilated with eager sniffs as she investi- 
gated the front of the cage. Ah ! Here the 
scent of man ! Here must be the opening of 
 
the door — this wooden, much-worn pin. 
Trixy began to work furiously on that new 
thought. She tugged with her teeth, every 
now and then scratching the side of the cage 
to see if the entrance yielded. 
All the while the spaniel stood patiently. 
At each of Trixy's efforts his dulled eyes took 
on a lighter shade of intelligence. For two 
years he had never known a free hour — a 
moment of happiness — a sign of tenderness. 
If he had ever had a home, the memory of its 
delight was only a clot on the brain. For 
misery was his life, and torment his pastime. 
He had been existing in a black cloud, and 
the interest of this little white poodle was the 
only thing his incarceration had offered to 
show that all breathing creatures were not 
inquisitors or victims. 
Suddenly with a jerk Trixy fell back. In 
her mouth was the wooden pin. This she had 
pulled out like an under tooth from the top. 
She regarded the round piece of wood with 
intense hatred. She bit at it, and then, in a 
moment of inspiration, ran away with it and 
hid it — where, no man to this day knows. 
Then she came back triumphant. Now, her 
 
poor friend was free. She pushed at the door, 
but this diabolical contrivance was made to 
open out — not in. All the while the black 
spaniel looked on stolidly. He wanted to re- 
spond, to help, but he did not know how. 
Then Trixy began a course of instruction. 
She put her right paw up and patted the door 
sharply, and looked at the prisoner with a 
pleading whine. " Do what I do ! " she said, 
as plainly as articulation could have said it. 
Her imprisoned friend was a stupid fellow in 
her critical estimation, and responded to her 
teaching slowly. But at length he learned the 
lesson, and pushed the cage door open. 
With the instinct which might or might not 
be called forethought, Trixy, with a light 
bound, closed the door of the cage. She did 
not wish to lose her playmate, and so made 
sure that he could not return to his cage. It 
is not impossible that she desired to conceal 
the fact of his escape. 
The freed spaniel was evidently not relieved 
from his suffering by this release. Puzzled by 
the fact, Trixy inspected her new friend care- 
fully, uttering, as she did so, low cries of sym- 
pathy. To these the spaniel replied with moans. 
 
Overwhelmed with pity, Trixy conducted him 
on a tour of the room, seeking an exit. 
She had not yet discovered the door. Her 
attention, in fact, was diverted from it by the 
condition of her companion, whose evident 
pain did not lessen under exercise. Trixy now 
examined the bandage on the clog's head, and 
thinking that the trouble must be there, gently 
tore the cloth off, and licked the wound. This 
hospital treatment the spaniel received grate- 
fully, but, as he did not recover his health 
and spirits under it, Trixy now devoted her- 
self once more to her search for a means of 
escape. 
It was now so hVht that she could see the 
door plainly, and to this she ran, the spaniel 
following slowly. 
It was one of the boasts of the faculty of 
Galen that the animals " dedicated " to the 
rack of science were treated with great con- 
sideration during their imprisonment, previous 
to their sacrifice ; and with even more con- 
sideration and greater tenderness after their 
wounds had been inflicted. Incidentally, this 
was good economy, as well as good surgery. 
With a regard for the feelings of the vie- 
 
tims in itself worthy of note, Professor Steele 
had directed that some air should be admitted 
into the animal room on nights when the 
windows were closed. The college carpenter 
had ingeniously devised a strong wire netting 
about a couple of feet high, which, hasped 
both to the door and to the jamb, kept the 
door ajar, and yet allowed no egress for small 
creatures. 
Trixy proceeded to study this invention 
curiously. She had been educated to hasps, 
but had never seen a door fastened in this 
manner. She was quite familiar with the 
nature of a hook and screw-eye, and had 
been taught to open them. Indeed, to release 
herself from a little cage that had been 
hasped tight had been one of the most dra- 
matic accomplishments of her stage career. 
Stimulated rather than discouraged by this 
obstacle, the trick dog now concentrated her 
intelligence upon the carpenter's skillful de- 
sign. It was by this time quite light, and 
footsteps were heard stirring in the building. 
Spurred by the consciousness of danger and 
the necessity of haste, Trixy thrust up the 
upper hook from its socket ; the lower one 
 
stuck. She could easily have leaped the whole 
obstruction, but she knew her friend could 
not. With a few more tugs, Trixy released 
the lower hook, and the netting fell back. 
The performing dog was so pleased with this 
achievement that she stood up on her hind 
legs and bowed to the caged audience which 
the freed prisoners were leaving behind them. 
Trixy was surprised to notice the absence of 
applause. 
The two now found themselves in the cor- 
ridor of which we have spoken, Trixy lead- 
ing with impatient slowness, and the wounded 
spaniel following painfully. Trixy made at 
once for the large outer door. This was 
latched, locked, and barred. No canine skill 
could prevail against that inexorable human 
barrier. 
By this time the spaniel was tired out, and 
lay down. Trixy stood over the poor crea- 
ture in despair. Was all her super-canine 
effort to be in vain ? At this tragic moment 
the footfalls of the janitor were heard de- 
scending the stairs. Trixy scampered up and 
down the corridor in desperation. The door 
of the closet nearest to the outside entrance 
 
was slightly ajar. With one of those inspira- 
tions which are given only to hunted crea- 
tures, Trixy ran back to her companion, and 
prodded him to his feet. This was done in 
perfect silence ; as silently, the spaniel obeyed 
her. Trixy led the way to the closet door. 
The bewildered and wounded dog followed 
her. They had scarcely hidden themselves in 
the darkest corner of the closet behind some 
rubbish — collars, rubbers, and the like — 
when the janitor reached the foot of the 
stairs, and entered the animal room. There 
he paused with some expression of surprise, 
and examined the door. Other steps were 
now heard upon the stairway, and a sleepy 
and scowling boy appeared in the wake of 
the janitor, who was plainly an important 
personage, and carried himself with a lordly 
air. He gave a few sharp directions, to which 
the boy responded, grumbling. 
Trixy — she who had always loved and 
trusted man the friend — now with ears erect, 
breath held, listened with agonizing appre- 
hension to each manoeuvre of man the foe. 
She was perfectly self-possessed. But the 
spaniel, at every thud of the janitor's heavy 
 
feet, had a fit of nervous shivering, as if its 
poor body were being disrupted on an elec- 
tric rack. 
To these two spirits in prison moments be- 
came eternity, and ignorant hope wrestled 
with instinctive despair. The terror of the 
fugitive, strained through canine sensitive- 
ness, is a doom apart. 
Now the shuffling steps of the boy were 
heard coming from the animal room. Trixy 
let her whole weight of seven pounds drop 
protectingly upon the spaniel's shoulder. The 
boy had a pail and a mop. He slammed the 
door of the animal room behind him and went 
to the low door at the end of the corridor. 
This door he unlocked and left open. The 
fresh morning air swept in, penetrating even 
the dark closet. Trixy sniffed joyously, but 
the black spaniel beneath her feet breathed 
hard ; he still had spasms of violent trem- 
bling. 
The boy began to mop the floor, morosely 
whistling as he did so. He left the outside 
door open to air the corridor, and slammed 
himself again into the animal room. The cor- 
ridor was quiet. 
 
Now Trixy allowed herself the luxury of a 
joyful yelp. She tugged at her friend, lead- 
ing hirn hy the ear to the closet door. Here, 
on the threshold, these two prisoners of man's 
misguided convictions stopped and listened, 
palpitating. 
The white poodle did not hesitate any 
longer. It was as if she gave the word of 
command. Beyond that open door were lib- 
erty, and the hope of love, and home. 
Dazed, the spaniel deferred to her. What 
was release to that suffering creature ? He 
had been held too long to grasp its meaning. 
Almost the last instinct for locality and home 
had been trephined out of him. But Trixy 
passionately urged him on. Hers was the 
saving mission, and it had, as all salvation, 
whether of the higher or the lower being, 
must have, its element of potential sacrifice. 
Perhaps — who can say ? — she knew that she 
was risking her own chance. But Trixy waited 
for the weaker dog. She uttered low sounds 
of encouragement to which the spaniel replied 
by feeble wags. Trixy, looking out, could see 
the sunshine, sky, and liberty. Under the low, 
projecting balcony, what hiding-places ! Be- 
 
yond was the walled yard, but here was an 
alley or narrow roadway, leading — oh, joy ! 
— to freedom. Trixy had happened upon the 
only egress by means of which she could have 
escaped. She pushed her friend over the sill 
upon the ground, and herself crouched to 
spring and follow. 
At the very moment when her courage and 
resource, worthy of a higher organization, had 
won her liberty, the catastrophe occurred. A 
gust of wind took the door and slammed it 
with a crash in her white face. 
This tragic accident, un dreaded because 
undreamed of, shut out the sun, and shut 
her in to a nameless fate. 
CHAPTER IX 
Dr. Bernard approached his private operat- 
ing table. It was a little after ten o'clock, 
and he was impatiently awaiting some guests 
of the medical fraternity whom he had invited 
to witness a novel and interesting experiment. 
He was clad in a white blouse, and was puff- 
ing stolidly at a black cigar. His face had 
coarsened visibly in the last six months. Take 
the man away from the protection of his posi- 
tion, and put him in the slums — how would 
he have been classified ? From his brutal 
mouth, his muddy complexion, his hard, shift- 
ing eyes, his spiny red hair, and his massive, 
prehensile hands, the average police officer 
would have picked him out as the type of a 
defective bent towards crime. As it was, some 
looked upon him through smoked glasses, as 
one of the saviors of mankind. 
He took up one instrument after another 
and tested the edge on his broad thumb. By 
his smile the most careless observer could 
 
have seen that he was satisfied. Bernard con- 
sulted his watch again and turned to his as- 
sistant. 
" You might as well bring up the dog. Is 
it properly shaved ? You need not put it on 
the board. I will attend to that myself." 
While he waited, smoking vigorously, his 
guests — three in number — were ushered in ; 
they fell to talking briskly upon the subject 
of the experiment. One of the visitors was a 
middle-aged man ; the others were young ; 
and all looked absorbed and eager. 
" I suppose we have got to wait for the 
professor," Bernard explained somewhat ill- 
naturedly. " I expect him here any minute. 
He is a good deal out of sorts to-day. There 's 
been a mishap in the animal room, and he 's 
lost his favorite material. You know that se- 
ries of his upon the brain ? " 
" The basis of that essay he 's been at work 
on for a year ? " interrupted one of the younger 
men. " What a pity ! " 
" It must overthrow the whole scheme," 
observed the other. 
" Well, yes," admitted Bernard, without 
heartiness. " I suppose it does. Anyhow he 's 
 
so put out about it he 's gone himself to or- 
ganize a search, and he 's got all his fellows at 
work. He may not turn up at all. I suppose 
he thought more of that dog than of anything 
else in the world. You see the value of the 
continuity of his experiments lies in their be- 
ing confined to one subject." 
" Such research is as rare as it is priceless," 
suggested one of the younger men. 
" If the dog had held out," said Bernard, 
" we should have finished the series in two 
months." 
The assistant put Trixy down upon the 
table, and patted her head as he did so. It 
would be difficult to say when this servant of 
science had done such a thing before, at least 
in the presence of his superior officer. 
The four men looked at the little white dog 
with curiosity. Its smallness, its helplessness, 
its beauty, its evident intelligence appealed to 
them in their own despite. The physiologists 
were attracted towards the pretty sprite who 
looked from one to the other expectantly. 
Bernard alone remained unimpressed. 
Trixy walked around the edge of the table, 
and as a preliminary to further acquaintance 
 
sat up and solemnly shook hands with the 
gentlemen, each in succession. She paused 
at Bernard last, and as she offered him her 
white paw, she looked up into his sinister eyes 
with an elfish intuition, and then backed away. 
She had instinctively discerned the enemy ; 
but she was too much of a lady to snarl at the 
discovery. 
Then the little actress, feeling the dark 
menace in Dr. Bernard's countenance, turned 
her back upon the operator, stood up on her 
hind legs, and began to perform for her life. 
It was not as large an audience as she was 
accustomed to, but none had ever watched 
her with greater interest. Here were minds 
trained in the exact tenets of science. Here 
was another illustration of the possibility of 
brain development. These men cared much 
for reflex action, little for personality. They 
had much admiration for the evidence of 
muscle control, but little mercy for the indi- 
vidual. Modern science deifies the experiment, 
but ignores the subject. 
Trixy was rather spurred than daunted by 
the terrible circumstances in which she found 
herself, and went through her little repertoire 
 
brilliantly. She turned several somersaults 
with neatness and dispatch ; she picked up a 
long pair of pincers, held it over her shoulder 
as if it were a gun, and marched through a 
few military evolutions with a soldierly bear- 
ing. She waltzed with an imaginary partner, 
and went through her skirt dance gracefully, 
although pained by the absence of drapery. 
She did the best she could without any of the 
stage accessories to which she was used. 
The middle-aged doctor had been watching 
her silently. He did not smile as the others 
did, and a line between his brows deepened. 
He thought : " What a pity ! My little boy 
would like that dog." But when he glanced 
at Bernard's cold, repulsive face, he felt that 
it would be useless as well as embarrassing to 
make his wishes known ; at any rate, the pro- 
fessional esprit de corps restrained their ex- 
pression. The physician could not, however, 
or did not help asking : 
" Where did you pick that pretty creature 
up ( 
" Oh, it came in the usual way. We can't 
keep track of them all," Bernard answered 
peevishly. 
 
Trixy, with the canine instinct for sympathy 
which is so much stronger than human reason, 
had now crossed the table, and approached 
the middle-aged doctor. She felt that this 
was the only friend she had in the room. She 
stood up to her full height, put both her 
hands on both of his, and looked into his face 
eloquently. At this moment there was a knock 
at the door, and the janitor came in. 
" Dr. Steele has telephoned that he cannot 
come, and not to delay the experiment any 
longer, sir." 
Bernard, with a relieved expression, turned 
to his assistant. 
" Well, let 's get to work, John. It's getting 
late, and what I propose to demonstrate to 
you, gentlemen, will take some time." 
The assistant took a step forward. Trixy 
still kept her paws in the gray-haired gentle- 
man's hands. This representative of modern 
science experienced within himself an unex- 
pected civil war. There was a pang at his 
heart, and a blush on his face ; he did not 
look at the operator. 
" Why not give the little creature five 
minutes more ? " he said. " I don't think 
 
she has come to the end of her perform- 
ance." 
Reprieved for the moment, Trixy looked 
the doctor steadily in the eyes ; out of her 
own the elf-look had gone, never from that 
moment to return. 
She had a strained expression, and her little 
face seemed to wizen and wrinkle as if she 
had suddenly aged many years. Now, Trixy 
lifted her head. There was only one thing 
left for her to do that she had not done. She 
was more proud of her musical education than 
of any other of her accomplishments, and, rent 
between hope and despair, she began to sing. 
Although her master — the God of little 
lost dogs knew why — was not there to ac- 
company her, she kept along with her part of 
the duet that she had sung with him before a 
hundred houses — 
She 's my lady, 
And I 'll love her 
Till I die. 
By one of those mysterious insights given 
to all creatures who are doomed to death, did 
Trixy know that she was singing her swan 
song? Her little claws grasped at the warm 
