was a nice, steady, business fellow, but Mr. Harris ad 
mitted that Norman was worth two of him. 
Mrs. Hayne was always sweet and motherly to me, 
but she was growing stouter and less energetic, though 
she kept her passion for cooking. 
"If I had you down to the hotel !" Clement Ward 
used to say. "Though I d'now, you cook so all fired 
tasty an' temptin' that I might be et out of house an' 
home afore I knew jest what was the matter. There's 
no one in fifty mile that can give jest the fla voracity to 
victuals that you do. When I've et a meal here the 
taste stays in my mouth fer days. An sech pie crust !" 
"Well, I've been cooking for men and boys all my 
life, afore I was married and since. An' Dan an' his 
father are powerful eaters. So 'twould be a poor story 
if I couldn't hit it jest right." 
There was always plenty to cook, meat and game 
and several fine kinds of fish. 
Then the day when the mail steamer came in was 
beginning to be one of expectation. I did not care for 
the ones that came down the lake, though they often 
brought valuable mail, but this came from the East. 
I had looked for a letter such a long while, it seemed 
to me, and early as I was the long line appalled me. 
"You're John Gaynor's little girl!" said a friendly 
voice as I was peering about. "Come here, I'll make 
a little room, and he thrust out his arm, drawing me 
into the line just before him. "Father got any folks 
in York State?" 
"No, but a letter may come from Canada.," 
"Whew!" he ejaculated. "Let me see G isn't 
it?" 
They were sorting letters in the small room, and lay 
ing the piles on the floor. 
"Denby," said my friend, "and John Gaynor." 
"Here's a Gaynor, but it's a woman. Oh, yes, care 
of John, twenty cents postage." 
You could not always pay postage through and no 
one made it a matter of compliment in those days. I 
had a quarter and some pennies beside. 
"Here, I'll make change," he said, and I thanked 
him most sincerely. He smiled and nodded as I 
stepped out of the line and ran swiftly home. Norman 
had said the next letter would be all to myself. 
It went in the great fire with hundreds of other 
choice treasures, but oh, what a delight it was to me ! 
I had looked at the flag token in the morning, so I 
had not gone to school. Joe was playing about the 
door step, emulating the old monarch by eating grass. 
M'liss was washing out under the apple-tree, so I 
slipped into the room and threw my sunbonnet on the 
floor. 
There were no envelopes, no dainty sheets of paper. 
This was "foolscap," written on three sides, and little 
spaces rescued on the fourth. Ah! what a delight it 
was. So much about the historic old city, the French 
residents, the English officers, the government and 
business, the picturesque houses with their pathetic 
stories. Norman could talk French almost like a 
native. And the business ! Chicago would be amazed 
at the volume of it. 
 
There was a great deal about Mr. Le Moyne, his 
kindly care, "almost as if I was a son," was the eager 
confession. The journeys they were taking about, the 
friends Mr. Le Moyne met, the charming and cultivated 
women, who played the piano and sang in the most 
delightful manner. It was like living in a story book. 
And he had to go everywhere, to do almost everything 
for Mr. Le Moyne, whose eyesight was poorer than 
ever. Presently when the business was all finished 
they would go to New York. And then he hoped to 
be able to come home. It seemed almost a lifetime 
to him. 
"You are such a dear, sweet letter writer," he said. 
"The boys only send messages by mother, and she 
hasn't the fashion of telling me all the little things 
about them that you do. You picture everything so that 
I can see it. Mr. Harris writes about business and 
books, and what the American and what the Democrat 
says, and the squabbles of the city government. But 
I like to go down to the very heart of things, to know 
when you have a new frock, and the little companies 
you attended, and the plays and the walks, and the 
new wild flowers you have found. Is there any place 
like the boyhood home, any other little girl like you? 
Not if I should search the world over. 
"I have been reading some wonderful plays by 
Shakespeare. Mr. Harris has a copy, I know. Ask 
him to let you see 'Midsummer Night's Dream.' We 
went to a theatre here in Quebec and saw it played. 
I can't tell why, but I thought of you all the time. 'If 
she were here, if she were here,' I kept saying to every 
turn. It was enchanting. I cannot do it any justice in 
a letter, and I have written so much already. Oh, why 
can't people talk through space? I sometimes send 
messages on the wind do you get them, dear ? Send 
me back some. And can you believe at Christmas 
or thereabout I shall see you ? I measure six feet now, 
and sometimes I think I begin to look like Dan, only 
I shall never be as handsome. Tell me all about his 
girls. It's high time he was married." 
It was written very closely, and oh, what a delight 
it was ! I sat there all of a tremble hugging it to my 
heart. Joe was hammering on the steps with the new 
potato masher that Homer had made, and I never heard 
him. M'liss came in wringing her hands as if she was 
squeezing the suds out of them. 
"Fer the land sakes ! Haven't you done a bit about 
dinner? I see you come in, an' sez I, 'She'll peel the 
'taters sure an' here you're sittin' calm as if dinners 
come to hand already cooked. Ye might as well bin 
in school, then I'd a-knowed jest what to do." 
"I'm sorry," I said penitently. "But I had such a 
splendid long letter from Norman." Then I jumped 
up and there was a sound like a pistol. A continual 
dripping will wear away a stone saith the adage the 
steady pounding on the stone had split my masher. 
"Drat that young un !" M'liss gave him two or three 
slaps, and the roar of little Joe was terrific. 
"Oh don't!" I cried, and went to comfort him. 
"You'll jes' spile that fatherless child, who'll need a 
man to govern him 'fore long, he's that deestructive. 
You goin' to peel the 'taters or me?" 
 
I smiled at the question, but went for the potatoes, 
and soon had them over the fire. 
"Ther's beans to heat up, an' that ther huckleberry 
puddin' to steam over. People can't have much to do 
whenst they write letters so long it takes a whole 
mornin' to read 'em. I've got the clothes to hang up." 
Joe had rolled over on the grass and was trying to 
catch "hoppers," laughing at the way they eluded him. 
I set the table, brought out the boiled ham and sliced 
it, and when father came in everything was ready. 
He was intensely interested in the letter. 
"I do wonder how Chicago will look to him after 
all the fine cities he's seen. I sometimes think I was 
a fool to come out here. Then when I see the wheat 
standing so thick with great golden heads, and the corn 
rushing along like a regiment, and the pigs fattening, 
and the hens laying eggs, I say it's about as good a 
country as the Lord has made anywhere. Only if he'd 
raised the ground a little higher just around 'twould a 
been more to my liking, and there are plenty of 
mountains that could have spared a slice off of 
them." 
I went over to the Haynes' in the afternoon. Mother 
Haynes's letter had come too. She was beginning to 
have trouble with her eyesight, and her spectacles didn't 
seem to fit rightly. So she was glad to have me read 
it aloud to her. Mr. Le Moyne had raised Norman's 
salary, and said he would never be able to spare him. 
And Norman was very happy, only he did want to see 
all the home folks. Did father keep well, and was 
little Chris growing? Why didn't some of the boys 
write to him ? With all the pleasure and the business 
it was hard to be away from everybody. 
"Harder for him than for us," and the mother sighed. 
I read her my letter except some paragraphs that 
had a kind of sacred feeling to me, though there was 
nothing very secret in them. 
And if we could see him by Christmas ! 
CHAPTER X 
A WILD RIDE 
IT was truly a gay summer for the grown-ups. There 
were rowing parties on the lake, and picnics came 
quite in vogue. Dan Hayne was doing a little of 
everything, buying and selling lots, interested in lead, 
in cattle, taking short journeys here and there to view 
coming prospects. Withal he found time for girls, 
went to dances, drove them out, and just when 
some one thought him caught, he was off with the old 
fancy. 
Miss Gamier seemed to like him very much, or was 
it the spirit of coquetry ? For in August a young Ken- 
tuckian of one of the first families suddenly appeared 
on the scene, and then it was said they had been lovers 
and quarrelled, and now made up again. A date was 
set for a speedy marriage in St. James' Church, to the 
great surprise of everybody. 
How would Dan Hayne take it? 
He took it with a jaunty indifference, and not only 
went to the wedding, but led the procession that saw the 
bride start on her journey to her new home. 
"She was an awful flirt," declared Polly Morrison, 
"but I knew he didn't mean to marry her." 
Even Polly held her head quite high in those days, 
and seemed to take pleasure in parading her numerous 
admirers. 
The school girls were playing under a group of -cot- 
tonwood trees one afternoon, when Polly and two or 
three of the older ones paused and joined the merri 
ment. Sophie Piaget was telling charms. They 
should have gone out on St. John's night and walked 
three times around the church. On the way home you 
would hear a name called, and that would be the 
name of your future husband. Then you counted nine 
stars nine nights in succession, and you were sure to 
marry the first man you shook hands with. 
"But what if you didn't like him, or if he was mar 
ried," suggested some one. 
"Then you mustn't shake hands with him," laughed 
Polly. "Save your shake for some one you do like." 
"Oh, let's go out and get Shubenca to tell our for 
tunes." 
They all rose in eagerness. Shubenca was an old 
Indian woman who did predict remarkable events, and 
they sometimes came true. 
It was not far to the tepee, though two or three girls 
suggested it might be better to go home and help get 
supper. 
"Will you have y,our fortune told?" Several of the 
girls were hanging on Polly. 
"Yes, first of all, I've a silver shilling to cross her 
hand, so it's sure to come true." 
 
"Oh, dear, but will we have to pay?" exclaimed a 
chorus in vexation of spirit. 
"I'll make her tell a lot for the shilling." Polly was 
in high spirits and a generous mood. 
We found Shubenca sitting by the side of the tepee, 
thumbing a pack of cards. She gave a careless nod 
and went on. Polly stated the purport of the visit 
and displayed the shilling. The black eyes snapped 
with desire. 
"How many?" in her guttural tone. 
"Let me see Sophy and you, Letty, and Caroline 
well, say six." 
The woman shook her head. "Too little, too little," 
she said with a frown. 
"Oh, very well. I can tell the fortunes myself for 
nothing," and Polly turned with a toss of the head. 
The woman caught her skirt. 
"Three," she said "three," in an eager voice. 
"No, six," in a decisive tone. 
"Too much for the money." 
Polly threw it from hand to hand, catching it in a 
tempting manner. 
"Well, well," with a reluctant grunt. "You first?" 
giving her a piercing glance. 
"Yes, so the others can take courage." 
She looked at her hand and nodded curiously. 
"You get your heart's desire after a long while," she 
said in her broken English. "You want it very much, 
but you go past it and then sorrow. A fair girl picks 
up what you have thrown away, and you hate her." 
How the eyes gleamed! It made me shudder. 
I had gone past the old woman to where a younger 
one sat doing some bead work. Little ones played 
about in their noiseless fashion. I caught sentences at 
intervals. She would have two husbands and journeys, 
go away and come back, and meet the man she loved 
and be happy with him. "He throw away the fair 
one for you she too pale, too thin, she not love 
enough." 
"Well, so that I get him at last." 
"You be wild for very joy." 
"Yes, that is good. That is what I like." 
Sophie Piaget came next. A husband of course. 
First she thinks she cannot have him, for he love 
another, then "it is not love, no, no!" shaking her 
head. 
Some one came galloping over the stubble, and we 
all knew the horse and rider. He reined up suddenly. 
Polly nodded indifferently. 
"You promised me a ride on Chita," began Nannie 
Piaget, patting the beautiful creature, who tossed her 
head gayly. 
"Did I ? Well, now is a good time. Can you jump 
up? And you won't squeal for fright? If you do 
I shall let you drop." 
"Oh, are you in earnest?" in a delighted tone. 
"To be sure. Now step on my foot and spring." 
That was successfully achieved. He settled her in 
front of him, put one arm around her, and off they 
sped. What a beautiful sight she was, and her rider 
sat her proudly. They appeared smaller and smaller as 
we watched them. I had lost interest in the fortune 
 
telling. Then the moving speck grew larger, and they 
came in sight again until Chita trotted up to the throng 
with what seemed a laugh in her eye. 
"Oh, that's splendid! It's like going on the wings 
of the wind." 
Surely it was. I had watched them until it stirred 
every pulse within me. Chita seemed human in her 
enjoyment. 
Old Shubenca's inspiration seemed to give out, 
though she eyed Polly suspiciously. The last two 
fortunes might have pleased little girls. They were 
of new frocks and surprises, and a great pleasure com 
ing this way, and some one who cared for you, listened 
to with girlish giggles. 
Dan set down Letty Dole, who was profuse in her 
expressions of delight. I don't know whether I looked 
wistful. I wanted to hug Chita and she turned and 
put her nose in my hand. What mystery was there in 
her eyes? 
"We must all go home," began Polly, peremptorily, 
turning the girls in a kind of squad. 
"Here's one who has not ridden Chita, nor any other 
creature, I think this little Gaynor girl." 
"It's too late, Dan. And then she's such a timid 
little thing. No, let her alone." 
"It's time she had some courage put in her then," 
and he laughed gayly. 
I was not a coward. I often ran over the wretched 
bridges when the logs tilted so that you were in danger 
of falling in. And I really was not afraid of ghosts 
nor cows, not even mice. 
"No, no. Let her alone. Come, children. Come, 
Ruth." 
Dan Hayne was fond of having his own way, and 
crossing other people's wills. There was an imperious 
note in Polly's tone. How it happened in an instant no 
one perhaps could have told. I turned, Chita backed 
a step or two, and then a strong arm caught me just 
above the waist line, and I was whirled up on Chita's 
back in front of Dan. 
"Oh, don't, don't!" I cried. 
"Dan, put her down !" commanded Polly. 
The only reply was a gay laugh as we bounded away. 
Dan slackened a moment and settled me, holding one 
arm tight about me, and then we went on that loping 
gait that seems like the motion of long swells. It 
almost took my breath away. 
The sun had set in vague levels of dun, purple clouds, 
now making a gradual darkening of the atmosphere, 
though it did not betoken any coming storm. All 
about was softened, not like a fog, but a tenuous veil. 
The stubble stretched out like a sea, and seemed to 
light the path, but presently we came to the coarse 
prairie grass, at which Chita gave a snort of disdain. 
On and on we flew. It was unlike anything in my nar 
row experience. I had no thought, no care, no fear, 
it was exhilarating, fascinating. Were we riding into 
the night and the unknown? For the pale yellow 
edges of the level bars had vanished, it was all smooth 
darkness over to the westward. And then a narrow 
golden crescent hung out in the sky. All the east- 
 
ward was growing bluer with the suggestion of infinite 
space. 
It was afterward, many a time, that I recalled this 
wild ride, the weird loneliness, the penetrating silence 
in which one feels what bated breath means. 
"So, girlie, so," said a soft voice that recalled Nor 
man, and Chita slackened her pace, came to a stand 
still. 
"Are you afraid?" He almost pressed the breath 
out of me. 
There was a cry of some wild animal. It seemed 
to smite the night like blows, growing fainter at the 
end, but I shivered. 
Dan drew me up closer. I could feel his heart beat 
against my back. 
"No, I am not afraid." Somehow I was not with 
him. 
"Well, you are plucky," with an oath. "And you 
don't even want to scream?" 
"Why no," yet I was confused and bewildered. 
"Suppose I dropped you down here and rode off?" 
"But you wouldn't," I returned confidently. 
He gave me still a tighter squeeze. "No, I 
might murder the man I hated in hot blood, but I 
couldn't be cruel to a kitten if it was entrusted to my 
care." 
"Oh, Dan, you could do a worse thing than leave 
me there on the lonely prairie to perish. But I like to 
think that you did not dream of it then." 
"Now, Chita, take it easy. This little girl isn't any 
more afraid pf the dark than you," 
Chita gave an answering whinny. We turned 
toward the east, where the stars were faintly stealing 
through the space that seemed tintless at first and then 
grew bluer. How curiously timid they seemed, how 
they blossomed out in amber and opal and chrysoprase. 
Afterward I came to know their names, their path to 
the summit of glory and their decline, to wander for 
years, perhaps, and then reign again in new effulgence. 
I was almost sorry to come back to sordid civiliza 
tion, crooked streets and mean houses and dark ways. 
Taverns and hotels hung out lights ; the rest of the 
town was buried in darkness. Here and there some one 
had raised a sidewalk ; you went up two or three steps 
and then went down again. But there was often a 
candle burning in a window. 
Father was pacing up and down the path. We had 
a front fence now to keep out strays, though we could 
drive them to the pen. 
"I began to think you were never coming back. 
Nanny Piaget came and told me. Dan Hayne, you 
must have been struck in a new spot, gallivantin' a lot 
of young ones round ; and you so choice of that mare 
you hardly let a stray hand touch her. She's splendid, 
but my advice to you is to give up racing and all that 
and settle down, marry and have young ones of your 
own; but I'll venture a five months' shoot you won't 
be careering round prairies half the night with them. 
Ruth, ain't you going to light and let Dan go 
home?" 
I held out my arms to father. Dan bent over and 
kissed me on the mouth, then handed me down. 
 
"Gaynor, I think you're long headed buying all 
prairie land," he said. "It'll be a fortune for the Little 
Girl some day." 
"Meanwhile it'll raise corn and feed hogs," father 
said with a chuckle. "Ruth, ain't you going to give a 
word of thanks for your safe return ? Why Dan might 
have broken both your necks." 
"Dan ain't that kind," laughed the young fellow in 
his proud strength. "Good-night, little one. John, I 
wish you'd go down to the Wabash with me and look 
at some cattle say, in about ten days." 
"I'll see," returned father. 
I felt stiff and strange, as if I must walk on a sort 
of gallop and had no strength to do it. M'liss was all 
curiosity and insisted that we must have gone to the 
end of the world, and the supper was cold and not fit 
to eat because she had "het it over and over." 
I did not want much and went to bed very soon. I 
still felt bewitched. 
We all talked of our rides the next day at 
school, and thought Chita the most splendid horse in 
Chicago. 
After Sunday School Polly Morrison came over 
with a curious glitter in her eyes and snatched at my 
hand. 
"That was a pretty caper you cut up with Dan 
Hayne!" she said in a sharp, angry tone. "If you 
begin this way you'll be the talk of the town in a year 
or two." 
"I didn't want to go at first," I answered rather 
resentfully. "But then it was splendid." 
"My advice to you is to keep out of Dan Hayne's 
way. Still, you're nothing but a chit! Set your cap 
for Homer or Ben." 
"I don't want to set it for anybody," I returned, 
jerking my arm away. 
One confessed to liking boys, and boys and girls 
played together, but lovers were quite different, not to 
be expected until you were grown up, and most of the 
courtships were very pronounced and rather brief. It 
was a sort of settled matter that Dan and Polly, who 
were unlike the average, would make a match some 
day. They sparred, and, like the smaller children, 
"made up," danced, went out riding she had a saddle 
horse and then for weeks tossed their heads loftily at 
each other. He went off down the Wabash and then 
to Cahokia, but Polly did not lack for attendants. 
How busy the town seemed. Now the canal started 
afresh. Some of the old indebtedness was wiped out. 
The land along the border was sold in plots, and men 
set to work on a new basis. To hear them talk, it 
sounded as if values increased daily. 
Sophie Piaget and I became very dear friends. I am 
not sure but I ought to include Homer. If he came to 
our house first we walked down to the Piagets; if 
Sophie came up we spent the evening in some simple 
games. Neither she nor Homer cared much for books. 
But she was very industrious and handy, with a cer 
tain French ingenuity, I suppose I ought to call it. 
She and her mother did fine dyeing and they made 
Over gowns, or indeed concocted new ones. Sophie 
could tie a bow to perfection, straighten out crumpled 
 
artificial flowers, and give them a touch of fresh color 
that made them blossom anew. She really had the 
beautiful side of an artist without the intellectuality. 
But new countries have little demand for this. The 
fine arts came later. 
There was a long pleasant fall. Business was thriv 
ing. Father built two new rooms on the house. We 
were beginning to have parlors, though the old-fash 
ioned keeping room, where you sit and work and talk 
to your friends, the spinning wheel in one corner, the 
dresser with its drawers holding table linen, the shelves 
above for the best dishes, the commodious settle 
and the Boston rocker, hold a charm that modern 
rooms cannot give, for they had the heart of family 
life. 
The winter brought great changes to me, set my 
life in a different key, the octave above childhood, girl 
hood, before the woman begins to unfold. I had been 
undersized, a truly little girl. Now I suddenly shot up 
like a sapling, not particularly thin, but slim, and out 
grew all my skirts. I felt very, very sorry. I did not 
want to be grown up. 
Sophie was delighted. Nanette kept pace with me. 
So did Letty Dole and Bessy Hale. We were not 
going to school. Fourteen was considered old enough 
to begin the real work of life. I was not quite that, 
but the house seemed to demand me. For M'liss, with 
all her sorrow of widowhood, had consoled herself and 
was to give her boy the strong hand to guide him 
through perilous ways. On the other side, she was 
to undertake two girls, six and eight. Mr. Weaver had 
a farm down south branch, kept cows and supplied 
people with milk. 
I was very sorry to have her go. I had grown fond 
of the baby, who was a great chatterbox and extremely 
funny little chap, and M'liss was an excellent cook, 
good and strong, and housework was hard for girls 
and women in those days. 
There was all the new part to clean and set to rights. 
We had a fine whitewashed wall and a thick soft rag 
carpet. My chamber opened on this room as well as 
father's. Then there was a big room upstairs that we 
did not need at present. 
M'liss was married in the morning and went to her 
new home at once. We both cried at the parting, for 
we were to be nearly two miles apart. 
"I don't mind anything so much as that," she said. 
"If I could run in every day or two and cook a meal 
for you. I don't believe that old Jolette will be worth 
her salt, and you've studied books so much that I am 
afraid your poor father'll starve." 
Jolette was not so very old, perhaps forty, of rather 
mixed Indian and negro extraction, quite tattooed by the 
Indians. She had come up from Vincennes some years 
before, and had three children, who were bound out 
in various families. 
"She'll do for the present," said father. "But I'd 
like to have some nice kind of white woman who could 
be motherly, and know what was fitting for a girl." 
Father kept a boy now, a rather loutish young lad, 
just the kind to do the rough work, chop wood and feed 
the stock. Andy always came for me with a lantern 
 
if I was out in the evening where the Hayne boys 
could not see me home. 
All the fall I had one happy thought in my mind 
Norman would be home when the winter broke up. 
They had gone to New York, and were to visit Wash 
ington. Mr. Le Moyne was deeply interested in some 
trade relations that he expected to lay before the 
governing powers at Washington. Norman was de 
lighted. To see the President and both houses of Con 
gress was beyond his wildest dream. 
There was quite a merry making at Christmas. 
March or before, Norman had said. And now what 
with railroads coming to the fore and stage coaches, 
journeys were more readily made, and letters reached 
one oftener. 
Then came the heart-breaking tidings. A long let 
ter beginning so bravely. New York had proved very 
interesting with its landmarks of earlier times and its 
peculiar location. Washington had still many signs of 
newness. It had not grown by accretion, but been 
planned at once, and all the plans had not been exe 
cuted as yet. But the capital and the White House 
were superb. And the great squares that were to be 
embellished in the future, the historic points, the adorn 
ments progressing slowly, the Senate Chamber and 
House of Representatives, and the great men of that 
day were vividly described. 
And then the change in all Norman's plans, the part 
ing for years instead of the happy meeting. 
Mr. Le Moyne was going to France, charged with 
some quite important and extensive trade matters that 
he understood thoroughly, and that might lead to 
advantageous relations. That was sort of sub rosa 
not to be generally announced. An intelligent secre 
tary might perhaps do the work, but Mr. Le Moyne 
needed more than this. His eyesight was failing fast 
with some obscure trouble that did not in the least 
affect their appearance. He had written to an eminent 
surgeon at Paris, who held out some hope of help. At 
New York the leading doctors had said there was no 
possibility of arresting total blindness. Mr. Le Moyne 
was still in the prime of middle life, and this verdict 
was appalling. 
And now he really could not do without Norman. 
They were like father and son. He was an excellent 
French scholar, and had also taken up Latin. He read 
to Mr. Le Moyne, wrote his letters, accompanied him 
everywhere. "I watch all that goes on as well as read 
the papers daily, and am really eyes to him. He is 
sensitive on the point and scarcely acknowledges his 
misfortune, but you can see how very dependent he 
must be on some one. And he has trained me to his 
habits and methods. He has the loveliest and most sin 
cere nature, his friendship is the greatest boon a young 
fellow can have. I should be an ingrate to leave him 
now when he has pleaded for me to stay. It is not alto 
gether for the advantages, though they are many, but 
my sympathies go out to him in the strongest manner. 
I could not refuse, although I longed to fly back to you 
all. And it is the uncertainty that pains me most. 
It may be a year it may be I dare not think. But 
he likes America, and expects to return even if the 
 
worst happens. I have had a delightful time it would 
take weeks to recount the pleasures and satisfactions. 
If I could only see you for an hour. Are you still a 
little girl? I cannot think of you as being large, as 
ever being what people call grown up. Oh, keep little 
until I come back, which must be in another year or 
two." 
I could not talk it over at first. I was glad when 
father came in that he was in a great hurry to go to 
some meeting, where they were considering measures 
to be put into execution for the benefit of the city as 
soon as spring opened, of broadening the river to give 
it a better current, of building new wharves and 
bridges. Improvement seemed to be the watchword 
everywhere. I listened with a thankful heart. I was 
so glad not to have him ask about a letter as he had 
several times of late. So I brushed his coat and pulled 
his stock around straight, and found him a clean hand 
kerchief. Then I went to bed with my sorrow, telling 
Jolette I had a headache, and could see no one. Homer 
came over I heard his voice. 
I re-read my letter the next morning. It was dull 
and gray, with now and then little spits of snow, too 
cold to snow, pedestrians said one to another. Jolette's 
great comfort was smoking a pipe in the chimney cor 
ner. Sometimes I quite longed for M'liss's inconse 
quent talk, but I was glad to be alone to-day. 
About mid-afternoon Mrs. Hayne came over. 
"You poor child !" she cried. "Are you ill ?" 
The tears rushed to my eyes. 
"Oh, Ruth, dear, don't take it so hard. I was 
afeared you would. The people who go away are always 
more to us than we are to them in their new lives. 
But this is such a splendid thing that we oughtn't 
grudge him the chance. It's a thousand pities for Mr. 
Le Moyne, of course, and dreadful to be blind, but just 
think of all the advantages. Seeing the President, and 
actually going to a levee did he tell you ? and wear 
ing a tail coat the old fashions coming round. I 
wonder if they have brass buttons! My gran'ther 
had. Why, I never s'posed a son of mine would be 
there or go to Paris ! And you can't tell but what one 
of the boys will be President !" 
She laughed gayly at the conceit. 
"Then the salary! Of course people are making 
money here, but seem's to me property's up one day 
and down the next. Chris got out his map, and we 
looked up Paris. It's hundreds of years old, but my ! 
France can't begin with the United States, though 
we're not half settled. And it's a great thing ! They'll 
go to England, too, and he will see kings and queens 
and high dukes. Why, I think it's just grand. Only 
I hope he won't forget us all or get up to such a degree 
he will never want to come back." 
"Oh, he can't do that ! He can't forget us !" I cried 
with a rending pang at my heart. 
"Well, not exactly that, but don't you see, Ruth, 
that his life is going to be altogether different from 
ours? Of course you can't understand how a mother 
feels. She is glad to have her sons prosper, improve, 
even if it does take them away from her. She gets old 
and dies, and they have their new lives to live, so it is 
 
all right. Betty Collins's son married a girl whose 
father owned miles and miles of live oak timber, and 
they've made a fortune somewhere in the Carolinas. 
She's a great lady and wears velvet gowns and some 
kind of lace that was forty dollars a yard think of it ! 
And how she'd look setting foot in this muddy old 
Chicago. It's good enough for us who live here right 
straight along, but for ladies !" 
She threw back her head and laughed. She was not 
at all dismayed, rather elated. 
Well, it was a fine opportunity. And then to be held 
in such high esteem ! 
"How are you getting along with your black woman ? 
And your new rooms! Husband's talking of build 
ing, our house is old, and we're crowded, and no mis 
take. I do wish Dan would see some nice girl out 
there," nodding her head, "and marry her. Homer's 
counting on getting married when he's twenty-one, 
but I tell him to get his cage first. Birds are easily 
captured. Homer's nice and steady, and he's saving, 
too. He will make a first-class husband. I have my 
eye on a girl for Ben," and her smile brought a warm 
color to my cheek. 
"I hear your father's taking great interest in all the 
goings on. They talked high in '37. Why, you'd 
think the earth would be so full of people there'd 
hardly be standing room, and there's all to the Missis 
sippi River. Not but what the town wants clearing up 
bad, but we don't want another panic." 
She had been knitting as she talked. I liked to hear 
the rattle of her needles, they kept such exact time. 
"Would you mind reading your letter? You're do 
ing nothing, I observe." 
I went in the other room and laid out the page that 
had the most tenderness and longing in it. 
"Yes, yes," she subjoined in a pause. "It's pretty 
much the same as mine, only those things about books 
and his learning Latin, I don't sense that," was her 
comment. 
" 'Twould be awful if that nice man should go 
blind. Then I s'pose Norman would think to stay 
with him as long as he lived. Well, he will have a 
good time, no doubt, and we mustn't murmur s'long as 
