desisted from questioning, but they said among themselves that, although
Folco had been an admirable husband and stepfather while his wife had
lived, he had not shown as much good sense after her death as they had
been led to expect. Meanwhile, no one had any right to interfere, and
Marcello did as he pleased.
Children instinctively attach themselves to whichever of their parents
gives them the most liberty. It is sheer nonsense to deny it. Marcello
had loved his mother dearly, but she had always been the one to hinder
him from doing what he wished to do, because she had been excessively
anxious about his bodily health, and over-desirous of bringing him up to
manhood in a state of ideal moral perfection. Folco, on the other hand,
had been associated with all the boy's sports and pleasures, and had
always encouraged him to amuse himself, giving as a reason that there
was no medicine like healthy happiness for a boy of delicate
constitution. Corbario, like Satan, knew the uses of truth, which are
numerous and not all good. Though Marcello would not have acknowledged
it to himself, his stepfather had been nearer to him, and more necessary
to him, than his mother, during several years; and besides, it was less
hard to bear the loss of which he learned when he recovered, because it
had befallen him during that dark and uncertain period of his illness
that now seemed as if it had lasted for years, and whereby everything
that had been before it belonged to a remote past.
Moreover, there was Regina, and there was youth, and there was liberty;
and Corbario was at hand, always ready to encourage and satisfy his
slightest whim, on the plea that a convalescent must be humoured at any
cost, and that there would be time enough to consider what should be
done with Regina after Marcello was completely recovered. After all,
Corbario told him, the girl had saved his life, and it was only right to
be grateful, and she should be amply rewarded for all the trouble she
had taken. It would have been sheer cruelty to have sent her away to the
country; and what was the cost of a quiet lodging for her in Trastevere,
and of a few decent clothes, and of a respectable middle-aged
woman-servant to take care of her? Nothing at all; only a few francs,
and Marcello was so rich! Regina, also, was so very unusually
well-behaved, and so perfectly docile, so long as she was allowed to see
Marcello every day! She did not care for dress at all, and was quite
contented to wear black, with just a touch of some tender colour.
Corbario made it all very easy, and saw to everything, and he seemed to
know just how such things were arranged. He was so fortunate as to find
a little house that had a quiet garden with an entrance on another
street, all in very good condition because it had lately been used by a
famous foreign painter who preferred to live in Trastevere, away from
the interruptions and distractions of the growing city; and by a very
simple transaction the house became the property of the minor, Marcello
Consalvi, to do with as he thought fit. This was much more convenient
than paying rent to a tiresome landlord who might at any time turn his
tenant out. Corbario thought of everything. Twice a week a gardener
came, early in the morning, and soon the garden was really pretty; and
the respectable woman-servant watered the flowers every evening just
before sunset. There was a comfortable Calcutta chair for Marcello in a
shady corner, the very first time he came there, and Regina had learned
how to make tea for him; for the respectable woman-servant knew how to
do all sorts of things belonging to civilised life. She was so intensely
respectable and quiet that Marcello was almost afraid of her, until it
occurred to him that as she took so much trouble, he ought to give her a
present of money; and when he had done this twice, he somehow became
aware that she was his devoted slave--middle-aged and excessively
respectable. Folco was really a very good judge of character, Marcello
thought, since he could at once pick out such a person from the great
horde of the unemployed.
Her name was Settimia, and it was wonderful to see how she quietly
transformed Regina into a civilised creature, who must attract attention
by her beauty and carriage, but who might have belonged to a
middle-class Roman family so far as manners and dress were concerned. It
is true that the girl possessed by nature the innate dignity of the
Roman peasant, with such a figure and such grace as any aristocrat might
have envied, and that she spoke with the Roman accent which almost all
other Italians admire; but though her manners had a certain repose, they
were often of an extremely unexpected nature, and she had an
astonishingly simple way of calling things by their names which
sometimes disconcerted Marcello and sometimes amused him. Settimia
civilised her, almost without letting her know it, for she was quick to
learn, like all naturally clever people who have had no education, and
she was imitative, as all womanly women are when they are obliged to
adapt themselves quickly to new surroundings. She was stimulated, too,
by the wish to appear well before Marcello, lest he should ever be
ashamed of her. That was all. She never had the least illusion about
herself, nor any hope of raising herself to his social level. She was
far too much the real peasant girl for that, the descendant of thirty or
more generations of serfs, the offspring of men and women who had felt
that they belonged body and soul to the feudal lord of the land on which
they were born, and had never been disturbed by tempting dreams of
liberty, equality, fraternity, and the violent destruction of ladies and
gentlemen.
So she lived, and so she learned many things of Settimia, and looked
upon herself as the absolute property of the man she loved and had
saved; and she was perfectly happy, if not perfectly good.
"When I am of age," Marcello used to say, "I shall buy a beautiful
little palace near the Tiber, and you shall live in it."
"Why?" she always asked. "Are we not happy here? Is it not cool in
summer, and sunny in winter? Have we not all we want? When you marry,
your wife will live in the splendid villa on the Janiculum, and when you
are tired of her, you will come and see Regina here. I hope you will
always be tired of her. Then I shall be happy."
Marcello would laugh a little, and then he would look grave and
thoughtful, for he had not forgotten Aurora, and sometimes wondered what
she was doing, as a young man does who is losing his hold upon himself,
and on the things in which he has always believed. He who has never
lived through such times and outlived them, knows neither the world nor
himself.
Marcello wondered whether Aurora would ever meet Regina face to face,
and what would happen if he were called upon to choose between the two.
He would choose Regina, he said to himself, when he was going down the
steep way from the villa to the little house, eager for her touch, her
voice, her breath, and feeling in his pocket the key that opened the
garden gate. But when the hours had passed, and he slowly walked up the
road under the great plane-trees, in the cool of the late evening,
glancing at the distant lights of Rome beyond the Tiber, and dimly
conscious that something was still unsatisfied, then he hesitated and he
remembered his boyish love, and fancied that if he met Aurora in the way
they would stand still, each finding the other in the other's eyes, and
silently kiss, as they had kissed long ago. Yet, with the thought, he
felt shame, and he blushed, alone there under the plane-trees.
But Aurora had never come back to Rome, and the small apartment that
overlooked the Forum of Trajan had other tenants. It was strange that
the Contessa and her daughter should not have returned, and sometimes
Marcello felt a great longing to see them. He said "them" to himself at
such times, but he knew what he meant.
So time went on. Corbario said that he himself must really go to San
Domenico, to look after the Calabrian property, but added that it would
be quite useless for Marcello to go with him. Marcello could stay in
Rome and amuse himself as he pleased, or he might make a little journey
to the north, to Switzerland, to the Tyrol--there were so many places.
Settimia would take care of Regina, and perhaps Regina herself had
better make a little trip for a change. Yes, Settimia had travelled a
good deal; she even knew enough French to travel in a foreign country,
if necessary. Corbario said that he did not know where she had learned
French, but he was quite sure she knew it tolerably well. Regina would
be safe under her care, in some quiet place where the air would do her
good.
Thereupon Corbario went off to the south, leaving Marcello plentifully
supplied with money and promising to write to him. They parted
affectionately.
"If you wish to go away," Corbario said, as he was leaving, "it might be
as well to leave your next address, so that you may get letters. But
please don't fancy that I want to know everything you do, my dear boy.
You are quite old enough to take care of yourself, and quite sensible
enough, too. The only thing you had better avoid for a few years is
marriage!"
Folco laughed softly as he delivered this piece of advice, and lit a
cigar. Then he looked critically at Marcello.
"You are still very pale," he observed thoughtfully. "You have not got
back all your strength yet. Drink plenty of champagne at luncheon and
dinner. There is nothing like it when a man is run down. And don't sit
up all night smoking cigarettes more than three times a week!"
He laughed again as he shook hands and got into the carriage, and
Marcello was glad when he was gone, though he was so fond of him. It was
a bore to be told that he was not strong, because it certainly was true,
and, besides, even Folco was sometimes a little in the way.
In a week Marcello and Regina were in Venice; a month later they were in
Paris. The invaluable Settimia knew her way about, and spoke French with
a fluency that amazed Marcello; she even taught Regina a few of those
phrases which are particularly useful at a dressmaker's and quite
incomprehensible anywhere else. Marcello told her to see that Regina was
perfectly dressed, and Settimia carried out his instructions with taste
and wisdom. Regina had arrived in Paris with one box of modest
dimensions; she left with four more, of a size that made the railway
porters stagger.
One day Marcello brought home a string of pearls in his pocket, and
tried to fasten it round her throat; but she would not let him do it.
She was angry.
"Keep those things for your wife!" she said, with flashing eyes and
standing back from him. "I will wear the clothes you buy for me, because
you like me to be pretty and I don't want you to be ashamed of me. But I
will not take jewels, for jewels are money, just as gold is! You can buy
a wife with that stuff, not a woman who loves you!"
Her brows were level and stern, her face grew whiter as she spoke, and
Marcello was suddenly aware, for the first time in his life, that he did
not understand women. That knowledge comes sooner or later to almost
every man, but many are spared it until they are much older than he was.
"I did not mean to offend you," he said, in a rather injured tone, as he
slipped the pearls into his pocket.
"Of course not," she answered. "But you do not understand. If I thought
you did, I would go back to the inn and never see you again. I should
die, but it would not matter, for I should still respect myself!"
"I only wished to please you," said Marcello apologetically.
"You wish to please me? Love me! That is what I want. Love me as much as
you can, it will always be less than I love you, and as long as you can,
it will always be less long than I shall love you, for that will be
always. And when you are tired of me, tell me so, heart of my heart, and
I will go away, for that is better than to hang like a chain on a young
man's neck. I will go away, and God will forgive me, for to love you is
all I know."
His kisses closed her flashing eyes, and her lips parted in a faint,
expectant smile, that was not disappointed.
So time passed, and Marcello heard occasionally from Corbario, and wrote
to him once or twice, when he needed money. Folco never alluded to
Regina, and Marcello wondered whether he guessed that she had left Rome.
He was never quite sure how much Folco knew of his life, and Folco was
careful never to ask questions.
But the existence Marcello was leading was not calculated to restore his
strength, which had never been great, even before his illness. Though
Regina did not understand the language, she grew very fond of the
theatre, for Marcello translated and explained everything; and it was
such a pleasure to give her pleasure, that he forgot the stifling air
and the late hours. Moreover, he met in Paris a couple of acquaintances
a little older than himself, who were only too glad to see something of
the beautiful Regina, so that there were often supper-parties after the
play, and trips in motorcars in the morning, horse races in the
afternoon, and all manner of amusements, with a general tendency to look
upon sleep as a disease to be avoided and the wish to rest as a foolish
weakness. It was true that Marcello never coughed, but he was very thin,
and his delicate face had grown perfectly colourless, though he
followed Corbario's advice and drank a good deal of champagne, not to
mention other less harmless things, because the quick stimulant was as
pleasant as a nap and did not involve such a waste of time.
As for Regina, the life suited her, at least for a while, and her beauty
was refined rather than marred by a little bodily weariness. The
splendid blush of pleasure rarely rose in her cheeks now, but the clear
pallor of her matchless complexion was quite as lovely. The constitution
of a healthy Roman peasant girl does not break down easily under a
course of pleasure and amusement, and it might never have occurred to
Regina that Marcello was almost exhausted already, if her eyes had not
been opened to his condition by some one else.
They were leaving the Théâtre Français one evening, intending to go home
on foot as the night was fine and warm. They had seen _Hernani_, and
Regina had naturally found it hard to understand the story, even with
Marcello's explanations; the more so as he himself had never seen the
play before, and had come to the theatre quite sure that it must be
easily comprehensible from the opera founded on it, which he had heard.
Regina's arm was passed through his, and as they made their way through
the crowd, under the not very brilliant lights in the portico, Marcello
was doing his best to make the plot of the piece clear, and Regina was
looking earnestly into his face, trying to follow what he said. Suddenly
he heard an Italian voice very near to him, calling him by name, in a
tone of surprise.
"Marcello!"
He started, straightened himself, turned his head, and faced the
Contessa dell' Armi. Close beside her was Aurora, leaning forward a
little, with an expression of cold curiosity; she had already seen
Regina, who did not withdraw her hand from Marcello's arm.
"You here?" he cried, recovering himself quickly.
As he spoke, the Contessa realised the situation, and at the same moment
Marcello met Aurora's eyes. Regina felt his arm drop by his side, as if
he were disowning her in the presence of these two smart women who were
friends of his. She forgave him, for she was strangely humble in some
ways, but she hated them forthwith.
The Contessa, who was a woman of the world, nodded quietly and smiled as
if she had seen nothing, but she at once began to steer her daughter in
a divergent direction.
"You are looking very ill," she said, turning her head back as she moved
away. "Come and see us."
"Where?" asked Marcello, making half a step to follow, and looking at
the back of Aurora's head and at the pretty hat she wore.
The Contessa named a quiet hotel in the Rue Saint Honoré, and was gone
in the crowd. Marcello stood quite still for a moment, staring after the
two. Then he felt Regina's hand slipping through his arm.
"Come," she said softly, and she led him away to the left.
He did not speak for a long time. They turned under the arches into the
Palais Royal, and followed the long portico in silence, out to the Rue
Vivienne and the narrow Rue des Petits Champs. Still Marcello did not
speak, and without a word they reached the Avenue de l'Opéra. The light
was very bright there, and Regina looked long at Marcello's face, and
saw how white it was.
"She said you were looking very ill," said she, in a voice that shook a
little.
"Nonsense!" cried Marcello, rousing himself. "Shall we have supper at
Henry's or at the Café de Paris? We are near both."
"We will go home," Regina answered. "I do not want any supper to-night."
They reached their hotel. Regina tossed her hat upon a chair in the
sitting-room and drew Marcello to the light, holding him before her, and
scrutinising his face with extraordinary intensity. Suddenly her hands
dropped from his shoulders.
"She was right; you are ill. Who is this lady that knows your face
better than I?"
She asked the question in a tone of bitterness and self-reproach.
"The Contessa dell' Armi," Marcello answered, with a shade of
reluctance.
"And the girl?" asked Regina, in a flash of intuition.
"Her daughter Aurora." He turned away, lit a cigarette, and rang the
bell.
Regina bit her lip until it hurt her, for she remembered how often he
had pronounced that name in his delirium, many months ago. She could
not speak for a moment. A waiter came in answer to the bell, and
Marcello ordered something, and then sat down. Regina went to her room
and did not return until the servant had come back and was gone again,
leaving a tray on the table.
"What is the matter?" asked Marcello in surprise, as he caught sight of
her face.
She sat down at a little distance, her eyes fixed on him.
"I am a very wicked woman," she said, in a dull voice.
"You?" Marcello laughed and filled the glasses.
"I am letting you kill yourself to amuse me," Regina said. "I am a very,
very wicked woman. But you shall not do it any more. We will go away at
once."
"I am perfectly well," Marcello answered, holding out a glass to her;
but she would not take it.
"I do not want wine to-night," she said. "It is good when one has a
light heart, but my heart is as heavy as a stone. What am I good for?
Kill me. It will be better. Then you will live."
"I should have died without you long ago. You saved my life."
"To take it again! To let you consume yourself, so that I may see the
world! What do I care for the world, if you are not well? Let us go away
quickly."
"Next week, if you like."
"No! To-morrow!"
"Without waiting to hear Melba?"
"Yes--to-morrow!"
"Or Sarah Bernhardt in Sardou's new play?"
"To-morrow! To-morrow morning, early! What is anything compared with
your getting well?"
"And your new summer costume that Doucet has not finished? How about
that?"
Marcello laughed gaily and emptied his glass. But Regina rose and knelt
down beside him, laying her hands on his.
"We must go to-morrow," she said. "You shall say where, for you know
what countries are near Paris, and where there are hills, and trees, and
waterfalls, and birds that sing, where the earth smells sweet when it
rains, and it is quiet when the sun is high. We will go there, but you
know where it is, and how far."
"I have no doubt Settimia knows," laughed Marcello. "She knows
everything."
But Regina's face was grave, and she shook her head slowly.
"What is the use of laughing?" she asked. "You cannot deceive me, you
know you cannot! I deceived myself and was blind, but my eyes are open
now, and I can only see the truth. Do you love me, Marcello?"
His eyes looked tired a moment ago, even when he laughed, but the light
came into them now. He breathed a little faster and bent forward to kiss
her. She could feel the rising pulse in his thin hands. But she leaned
back as she knelt, and pressed her lips together tightly.
"Not that," she said, after they had both been motionless ten seconds.
"I don't mean that! Love is not all kisses. There is more. There are
tears, but there is more too. There is pain, there is doubting, there is
jealousy, and more than that! There is avarice also, for a woman who
loves is a miser, counting her treasure when others sleep. And she would
kill any one who robbed her, and that is murder. Yet there is more,
there are all the mortal sins in love, and even then there is worse. For
there is this. She will not count her own soul for him she loves, no,
not if the saints in Paradise came down weeping and begging her to think
of her salvation. And that is a great sin, I suppose."
Marcello looked at her, thinking that she was beautiful, and he said
nothing.
"But perhaps a man cannot love like that," she added presently. "So what
is the use of my asking you whether you love me? You love Aurora too, I
daresay! Such as your man's love is, and of its kind, you have enough
for two!"
Marcello smiled.
"I do not love Aurora now," he said.
"But you have, for you talked to her in your fever, and perhaps you will
again, or perhaps you wish to marry her. How can I tell what you think?
She is prettier than I, for she has fair hair. I knew she had. I hate
fair women, but they are prettier than we dark things ever are. All men
think so. What does it matter? It was I that saved your life when you
were dying, and the people meant you to die. I shall always have that
satisfaction, even when you are tired of me."
"Say never, then!"
"Never? Yes, if I let you stay here, you will not have time to be tired
of me, for you will grow thinner and whiter, and one day you will be
breathing, and not breathing, and breathing a little again, and then not
breathing at all, and you will be lying dead with your head on my arm. I
can see how it will be, for I thought more than once that you were dead,
just like that, when you had the fever. No! If I let that happen you
will never be tired of me while you are alive, and when you are dead
Aurora cannot have you. Perhaps that would be better. I would almost
rather have it so."
"Then why should we go away?" asked Marcello, smiling a little.
"Because to let you die would be a great sin, much worse than losing my
soul for you, or killing some one to keep you. Don't you see that?"
"Why would it be worse?"
"I do not know, but I am sure it would. Perhaps because it would be
losing your soul instead of mine. Who knows? It is not in the catechism.
The catechism has nothing about love, and I never learned anything else.
But I know things that I never learned. Every woman does. How? The heart
says them, and they are true. Where shall we go to-morrow?"
"Do you really want to leave Paris?"
To impress upon him that she was in earnest Regina squeezed his hands
together in hers with such energy that she really hurt him.
"What else have I been saying for half an hour?" she asked impatiently.
"Do you think I am playing a comedy?" She laughed. "Remember that I
have carried you up and down stairs in my arms," she added, "and I could
do it again!"
"If you insist on going away, I will walk," Marcello answered with a
laugh.
She laughed too, as she rose to her feet. He put out his hand to fill
his glass again, but she stopped him.
"No," she said, "the wine keeps you awake, and makes you think you are
stronger than you are. You shall sleep to-night, and to-morrow we will
go. I am so glad it is settled!"
She could do what she would with him, and so it turned out that Marcello
left Paris without going to see the Contessa and Aurora; and when he was
fairly away he felt that it was a relief not to be able to see them,
since it would have been his duty to do so if he had stayed another day.
Maddalena dell' Armi had not believed that he would come, but she
stopped at home that afternoon on the bare possibility. Aurora made up
her mind that if he came she would shut herself up in her own room. She
expected that he would certainly call before the evening, and was
strangely disappointed because he did not.
"Who was that lady with him last night?" she asked of her mother.
"I do not know that--lady," answered the Contessa, with a very slight
hesitation before pronouncing the last word.
But they had both heard of Regina already.
CHAPTER X
The Contessa wrote to Corbario two days later, addressing her letter to
Rome, as she did not know where he was. It was not like her to meddle in
the affairs of other people, or to give advice, but this was a special
case, and she felt that something must be done to save Marcello; for she
was a woman of the world, with much experience and few illusions, and
she understood at a glance what was happening to her dead friend's son.
She wrote to Folco, telling him of the accidental meeting in the portico
of the Théâtre Français, describing Marcello's looks, and saying pretty
clearly what she thought of the extremely handsome young woman who was
with him.
Now Paris is a big city, and it chanced that Corbario himself was there
at that very time. Possibly he had kept out of Marcello's way for some
reason of his own, but he had really not known that the Contessa was
there. Her letter was forwarded from Rome and reached him four days
after it was written. He read it carefully, tore it into several dozen
little bits, looked at his watch, and went at once to the quiet hotel in
the Rue Saint Honoré. The Contessa was alone, Aurora having gone out
with her mother's maid.
Maddalena was glad to see him, not because she liked him, for she did
not, but because it would be so much easier to talk of what was on her
mind than to write about it.
"I suppose you are surprised to see me," said Folco, after the first
conventional greeting.
"No, for one may meet any one in Paris, at any time of the year. When I
wrote, I thought Marcello must be alone here--I mean, without you," she
added.
"I did not know he had been here, until I heard that he was gone. He
left three or four days ago. I fancy that when you wrote your letter he
was already gone."
"Do you let him wander about Europe as he pleases?" asked the Contessa.
"He is old enough to take care of himself," answered Corbario. "There is
nothing worse for young men than running after them and prying into
their affairs. I say, give a young fellow his independence as soon as
possible. If he has been brought up in a manly way, with a feeling of
self-respect, it can only do him good to travel alone. That is the
English way, you know, and always succeeds."
"Not always, and besides, we are not English. It is not 'succeeding,' as
you call it, in Marcello's case. He will not live long, if you let him
lead such a life."
"Oh, he is stronger than he looks! He is no more threatened with
consumption than I am, and a boy who can live through what happened to
him two years ago can live through anything."
Not a muscle of his face quivered as he looked quietly into the
Contessa's eyes. He was quite sure that she did not suspect him of
having been in any way concerned in Marcello's temporary disappearance.
"Suppose him to be as strong as the strongest," Maddalena answered. "Put
aside the question of his health. There is something else that seems to
me quite as important."
"The moral side?" Corbario smiled gravely. "My dear lady, you and I know
the world, don't we? We do not expect young men to be saints!"
Maddalena, who had not always been a saint, returned his look coldly.
"Let us leave the saints out of the discussion," she said, "unless we
speak of Marcello's mother. She was one, if any one ever was. I believe
you loved her, and I know that I did, and I do still, for she is very
real to me, even now. Don't you owe something to her memory? Don't you
know how she would have felt if she could have met her son the other
night, as I met him, looking as he looked? Don't you know that it would
have hurt her as nothing else could? Think a moment!"
She paused, waiting for his answer and watching his impenetrable face,
that did not change even when he laughed, that could not change, she
thought; but she had not seen him by Marcello's bedside at the hospital,
when the mask had been gone for a few seconds. It was there now, in all
its calm stillness.
"You may be right," he answered, almost meekly, after a little pause.
"I had not looked at it in that light. You see, I am not a very
sensitive man, and I was brought up rather roughly. My dear wife went to
the other extreme, of course. No one could really be what she wished to
make Marcello. He felt that himself, though I honestly did all I could
to make him act according to his mother's wishes. But now that she is
gone--" he broke off, and was silent a moment. "You may be right," he
repeated, shaking his head thoughtfully. "You are a very good woman, and
you ought to know."
She leaned back in her chair, and looked at him in silence, wondering
whether she was not perhaps doing him a great injustice; yet his voice
rang false to her ear, and the old conviction that he had never loved
his wife came back with increased force and with the certainty that he
had been playing a part for years without once breaking down.
"I will join Marcello, and see what I can do," he said.
"Do you know where he is?"
"Oh, yes! He keeps me informed of his movements; he is very good about
writing. You know how fond of each other we are, too, and I am sure he
will be glad to see me. He is back in Italy by this time. He was going
to Siena. We were to have met in Rome in about a month, to go down to
San Domenico together, but I will join him at once."
"If you find that--that young person with him, what shall you do?"
"Send her about her business, of course," answered Folco promptly.
"Suppose that she will not go, what then?"
"It can only be a question of money, my dear lady. Leave that to me.
Marcello is not the first young fellow who has been in a scrape!"
Still Maddalena did not trust him, and she merely nodded with an air of
doubt.
"Shall I not see Aurora?" he asked suddenly.
"She is out," answered the Contessa. "I will tell her that you asked
after her."
"Is she as beautiful as ever?" inquired Folco.
"She is a very pretty girl."
"She is beautiful," Folco said, with conviction. "I have never seen such
a beautiful girl as she was, even when she was not quite grown up. No
one ever had such hair and such eyes, and such a complexion!"
"Dear me!" exclaimed Maddalena with a little surprise. "I had no idea
that you thought her so good-looking!"
"I always did. As for Marcello, we used to think he would never have
eyes for any one else."
"Young people who have known each other well as children rarely fall in
love when they grow up," answered Maddalena.
"So much the better," Folco said. "Aurora and Marcello are not at all
suited to one another."
"That is true," answered the Contessa.
"And besides, he is much too young for her. They are nearly of the same
age."
"I never thought of their marrying," replied Maddalena, with a little
emphasis, "and I should certainly not choose this time to think of it!"
"I fancy few men can look at your daughter without wishing that they
might marry her, my dear lady," said Corbario, rising to go away. "Pray
present my homage to her, and tell her how very sorry I am not to have
seen her."
He smiled as if he were only half in earnest, and he took his leave. He
was scarcely gone when Aurora entered the sitting-room by another door.
"Was it Marcello?" she asked quietly enough, though her voice sounded a
little dull.
"No, dear," answered her mother. "It was Folco Corbario. I wrote to him
some days ago and he came to see me. Marcello has left Paris. I did not
know you had come home."
Aurora sat down rather wearily, pulled out her hatpins, and laid her hat
on her knee. Then she slowly turned it round and round, examining every
inch of it with profound attention, as women do. They see things in hats
which we do not.
"Mamma--" Aurora got no further, and went on turning the hat round.
"Yes? What were you going to say?"
"Nothing--I have forgotten." The hat revolved steadily. "Are we going to
stay here long?"
"No. Paris is too expensive. When we have got the few things we want we
will go back to Italy--next week, I should think."
"I wish we were rich," observed Aurora.
"I never heard you say that before," answered her mother. "But after
all, wishing does no harm, and I am silly enough to wish we were rich
too."
"If I married Marcello, I should be very rich," said Aurora, ceasing to
turn the hat, but still contemplating it critically.
Maddalena looked at her daughter in some surprise. The girl's face was
quite grave.
"You had better think of getting rich in some other way, my dear," said
the Contessa presently, with an asperity that did not escape Aurora, but
produced no impression on her.
"I was only supposing," she said. "But if it comes to that, it would be
much better for him to marry me than that good-looking peasant girl he
has picked up."
The Contessa sat up straight and stared at her in astonishment. There
was a coolness in the speech that positively horrified her.
"My dear child!" she cried. "What in the world are you talking about?"
"Regina," answered Aurora, looking up, and throwing the hat upon the
table. "I am talking about Marcello's Regina. Did you suppose I had
never heard of her, and that I did not guess that it was she, the other
night? I had a good look at her. I hate her, but she is handsome. You
cannot deny that."
"I do not deny it, I'm sure!" The Contessa hardly knew what to say.
"Very well. Would it not be much better for Marcello if he married me
than if he let Regina marry him, as she will!"
"I--possibly--you put it so strangely! But I am sure Marcello will never
think of marrying her."
"Then why does he go about with her, and what is it all for?" Aurora
gazed innocently at her mother, waiting for an answer which did not
come. "Besides," she added, "the girl will marry him, of course."
"Perhaps. I daresay you are right, and after all, she may be in love
with him. Why should you care, child?"
"Because he used to be my best friend," Aurora answered demurely. "Is it
wrong to take an interest in one's friends? And I still think of him as
my friend, though I have never had a chance to speak to him since that
day by the Roman shore, when he went off in a rage because I laughed at
him. I wonder whether he has forgotten that! They say he lost his memory
during his illness."
"What a strange girl you are! You have hardly ever spoken of him in all
this time, and now"--the Contessa laughed as if she thought the idea
absurd--"and now you talk of marrying him!"
"I have seen Regina," Aurora replied, as if that explained everything.
The Contessa returned no answer, and she was rather unusually silent and
preoccupied during the rest of that day. She was reflecting that if
Aurora had not chanced to meet Marcello just when Regina was with him
the girl might never have thought of him again, except with a
half-amused recollection of the little romantic tenderness she had once
felt for the friend and playfellow of her childhood. Maddalena was a
wise woman now, and did not underestimate the influence of little things
when great ones were not far off. That is a very important part of
worldly wisdom, which is the science of estimating chances in a game of
which love, hate, marriage, fortune, and social life and death may be
the stakes.
Her impulse was to prevent Aurora from seeing Marcello for a long time,
for the thought of a possible marriage had never attracted her, and
since the appearance of Regina on the scene every instinct of her nature
was against it. Her pride revolted at the idea that her daughter might
be the rival of a peasant girl, quite as much as at the possibility of
its being said that she had captured her old friend's son for the sake
of his money. But she remembered her own younger years and she judged
Aurora by herself. There had been more in that little romantic
tenderness for Marcello than any one had guessed, much of it had
remained, it had perhaps grown instead of dying out, and the sight of
Regina had awakened it to something much stronger than a girlish fancy.
Maddalena remembered little incidents now, of which the importance had
escaped her the more easily because the loss of her dearest friend had
made her dull and listless at the time. Aurora had scarcely asked about
Marcello during the weeks that followed his disappearance, but she had
often looked pale and almost ill just then. She had been better after
the news had come that he had been found, though she had barely said
that she was glad to hear of him. Then she had grown more restless than
she used to be, and there had sometimes been a dash of hardness in the
things she said; and her mother was now quite sure that Aurora had
intentionally avoided all mention of Marcello. To-day, she had suddenly
made that rather startling remark about marrying him. All this proved
clearly enough that he had been continually in her thoughts. When very
young people take unusual pains to ignore a certain subject, and then
unexpectedly blurt out some very rough observation about it, the chances
are that they have been thinking of nothing else for a long time.
A good deal had happened on that afternoon, for what Corbario had said
about Aurora, half playfully and half in earnest, had left Maddalena
under the impression that he had been trying a little experiment on his
own account, to feel his way. Aurora had more than once said in the
preceding years that she did not like his eyes and a certain way he had
of looking at her. He had admired her, even then, and now that he was a
widower it was not at all unlikely that he should think of marrying her.
He was not much more than thirty years old, and he had a singularly
youthful face. There was no objection on the score of his age. He was
rich, at least for his life-time. He had always been called a model
husband while his wife had been alive, and was said to have behaved
with propriety since. Maddalena tried to look at the matter coolly and
dispassionately, as if she did not instinctively dislike him. Why should
he not wish to marry Aurora? No one of the Contessa's acquaintances
would be at all surprised if he did, and most people would say that it
was a very good match, and that Aurora was fortunate to get such a
husband.
This was precisely what Folco thought; and as it was his nature to think
slowly and act quickly, it is not impossible that he may have revolved
the plan in his mind for a year or two while Aurora was growing up. The
final decision had perhaps been reached on that evening down by the
Roman shore, when Professor Kalmon had held up to his eyes the sure
means of taking the first step towards its accomplishment; and it had
been before him late on the same night when he had stood still in the
verandah holding the precious and terrible little tablet in the hollow
of his hand; and the next morning when he had suddenly seen Marcello
close before him, unconscious of his presence and defenceless. He had
run a great risk in vain that day, since Marcello was still alive, a
risk more awful than he cared to remember now; but it had been safely
passed, and he must never do anything so dangerous again. There was a
far safer and surer way of gaining his end than clumsy murder, and from
what the Contessa had told him of the impression she had received the
accomplishment was not far off. She had said that Marcello had looked
half dead; his delicate constitution could not bear such a life much
longer, and he would soon be dead in earnest.
Marcello did not write as regularly as Folco pretended, but the latter
had trustworthy and regular news of him from some one else. Twice a
week, wherever he might be, a square envelope came by the post addressed
in a rather cramped feminine hand, the almost unmistakable writing of a
woman who had seen better days and had been put to many shifts in order
to keep up some sort of outward respectability. The information conveyed
was tolerably well expressed, in grammatical Italian; the only names
contained in the letters were those of towns, and hotels, and the like,
and Marcello was invariably spoken of as "our dear patient," and Regina
as "that admirable woman" or "that ideal companion." The writer usually
said that the dear patient seemed less strong than a month ago, or a
week ago, and expressed a fear that he was slowly losing ground.
Sometimes he was better, and the news was accompanied by a conventional
word or two of satisfaction. Again, there would be a detailed account of
his doings, showing that he had slept uncommonly little and had no
appetite, and mentioning with a show of regret the sad fact that he
lived principally on cigarettes, black coffee, and dry champagne. The
ideal companion seemed to be always perfectly well, showed no tendency
to be extravagant, and gave proof of the most constant devotion. The
writer always concluded by promising that Corbario's instructions with
regard to the dear patient should be faithfully carried out in future as
they had been in the past.
This was very reassuring, and Folco often congratulated himself on the
wisdom he had shown in the selection of Settimia as a maid for Regina.
The woman not only did what was required of her with the utmost
exactitude; she took an evident pleasure in her work, and looked forward
to the fatal result at no very distant time with all the satisfaction
which Corbario could desire. So far everything had gone smoothly.
CHAPTER XI
It was high summer again, and the Roman shore was feverish. In the hot
afternoon Ercole had tramped along the shore with his dog at his heels
as far as Torre San Lorenzo to have a chat with the watchman. They sat
in the shade of the tower, smoking little red clay pipes with long
wooden stems. The chickens walked about slowly, evidently oppressed by
the heat and by a general lack of interest in life, since not a single
grain of maize from the morning feed remained to be discovered on the
disused brick threshing-floor or in the sand that surrounded it. From
some dark recess came the occasional grunt of the pig, attending in
solitude to the business of getting fat before October. Now and then the
watchman's wife moved a chair in the lower room of the tower, or made a
little clatter with some kitchen utensils, and the sounds came out to
the solitude sharply and distinctly.
There had been a flat calm for several days. Forty yards below the tower
the sea lay along the sandy beach like a strip of glistening white
glass, beyond which was a broader band of greenish blue that did not
glitter; and beyond that, the oily water stretched out to westward in an
unending expanse of neutral tints, arabesqued with current streaks and
struck right across by the dazzling dirty-white blaze of the August sun.
Swarms of flies chased each other where the two men sat, settled on
their backs and dusty black hats, tried to settle on their faces and
were brushed away, crawled on the ground, on the walls, even on the
chickens, and on the rough coat of Nino, the dog. He followed the
motions of those he saw before him with one bloodshot eye; the other
seemed to be fast asleep.
From time to time the men exchanged a few words. Ercole had apparently
come over to enjoy the novelty of seeing a human being, and Padre
Francesco, the watchman, was glad to talk with some one besides his
wife. He enjoyed the title of "Padre," because he had once been master
of a small martingane that traded between Cività Vecchia and the south.
In still earlier days he had been in deep water and had been boatswain
of a square-rigger, yet there was nothing about his appearance now to
