week, earned in a large savings-bank of which he was one of many
book-keepers, covered the family's needs. Mr. Webb had died when his son
was sixteen, leaving something under two thousand dollars and a
furnished flat in Harlem. For a time the outlook was gloomy. Andrew left
school and went to work. Good at figures, stoically steady, he rose by
degrees to command a fair remuneration. A brother of Mrs. Webb,
currently known as "Uncle Sandy Armstrong," lived in miserly fashion on
the old homestead in New Jersey. Occasionally he sent his sister a
ten-dollar bill. Mrs. Webb, believing him to be as straitened as
herself, albeit without a family, never applied to him for assistance.
Twice a year she dutifully visited him and put his house in order. Her
children rarely could be induced to accompany her. They detested their
fat garrulous unkempt uncle, and only treated him civilly out of the
goodness of their hearts and respect for their mother. On Christmas Day
he invariably dined with them, and his meagre presents by no means
atoned for his atrocious table-manners.
The family in the flat was a happy one, despite the old carpets, the
faded rep furniture, the general air of rigid economy, and the
inevitable visits of Uncle Sandy. Mrs. Webb was sweet of temper, firm of
character, sound of health. Her cheeks and eyes were faded, her black
dress was always rusty, her general air that of a middle-class
gentlewoman who bore her reverses bravely. Polly was a plump bright-eyed
girl, with a fresh complexion and her mother's evenness of temper. In
spite of her small allowance, she managed to dress in the prevailing
style. She had barely emerged from short frocks when she took a course
of lessons in dress-making, she knew how to bargain, and spent the
summer months replenishing her own and her mother's wardrobe. Mrs. Webb
did the work of the flat, assisted by an Irish maiden who came in by the
day: there was no place in the flat for her to sleep.
Andrew was the idol of the family. He supported them, and he was a
thoroughly good fellow; he had no bad habits, and they had never seen
him angry. His neighbors were regularly made acquainted with the proud
fact that he walked home from his office in lower Broadway every
afternoon in the year, "except Sundays and during his vacation," as his
mother would add. She was a conscientious woman. Moreover, they thought
him very handsome. He was five feet ten, lean, and athletic in
appearance. It is true that his head was narrow and his face cast in a
heavy mould; but there was no superfluous flesh in his cheeks, and his
thick skin was clean. Like his sister, he managed to dress well. He was
obliged to buy his clothes ready-made, but he had the gift of selection.
When the subtle change came, his mother and sister uneasily confided to
each other the fear that he was in love. As the years passed, however,
and he brought them no new demand upon their affections and resources,
they ceased to worry, and finally to wonder. Andrew was not the old
Andrew; but, if he did not choose to confide the reason, his reserve
must be respected. And at least it had affected neither his generosity
nor his good temper. He still spent his evenings at home, listened to
his mother or Polly read aloud, and never missed the little supper of
beer and crackers and cheese before retiring.
II
One morning, while Webb was still one with his little family, he read,
as was usual with him on the long ride down-town, his Harlem edition of
one of the New York dailies. He finished the news, the editorials, the
special articles: nothing was there to upset the equilibrium of his
life. His attention was attracted, as he was about to close the paper,
by a long leaded "story" of a ball given the night before by some people
named Webb. Their superior social importance was made manifest by the
space and type allotted them, by the fact that their function was not
held over for the Sunday issue, and by the imposing rhetoric of the
head-lines.
Andrew read the story with a feeling of personal interest. From that
moment, unsuspected by himself, the readjustment of his mind to other
interests began--the divorce of his inner life from the simple
conditions of his youth.
Thereafter he searched the Society columns for accounts of the doings of
the Webb folk. Thence, by a natural deflection, he became generally
interested in the recreations of the great world: he acquired a habit,
much to his sister's delight, of buying the weekly chronicles of
Society, and all the Sunday issues of the important dailies.
At first the sparkle and splendor, the glamour and mystery of the world
of fashion dazzled and delighted him. It was to him what fairy tales of
prince and princess are to children. For even he, prosaic, phlegmatic,
with nerves of iron and brain of shallows, had in him that germ of the
picturesque which in some natures shoots to high and full-flowered
ideals, in others to lofty or restless ambitions, coupled with a true
love of art; and yet again develops a weed of tenacious root and coarse
enduring fibre which a clever maker of words has named snobbery.
Gradually within Andrew's slow mind grew a dull resentment against Fate
for having played him so sinister a trick as to give him the husk
without the kernel, a title without a story that any one would ever
care to read. Why, when one of those Webb babies was due,--the family
appeared to be a large one,--could not his little wandering ego have
found its way into that ugly but notable mansion on Fifth Avenue instead
of having been spitefully guided to a New Jersey farm? Not that Andrew
expressed himself in this wise. Had he put his thoughts into words, he
would probably have queried in good terse English: "Why in thunder can't
I be Schuyler Churchill Webb instead of a nobody in Harlem? He's just my
age, and I might as well have been he as not."
His twenty-third birthday cake, prepared by loving hands, had scarcely
been eaten when the waves of snobbery first lapped his feet. At
twenty-five they had broken high above his head, and the surge was ever
in his ears. He was not acutely miserable: his health was too perfect,
his appetite too good. But deeper and deeper each week did he bury his
perplexed head in the social folk-lore of New York and Newport. Oftener
and oftener during the city season did he promenade central Fifth Avenue
from half-past four until half-past five in the afternoon of pleasant
days. He lived for the hour which would find him sauntering from
Forty-first Street to the Park and back again. He knew all the
fashionable men and women by sight. There was no one to tell him their
names, but the names themselves were more familiar than the rows of
figures in his books down-town. He fitted them to such presences as
seemed to demand them as their right. He grew into a certain intimacy
with the slender trimly accoutred girls who held themselves so erectly
and wore their hair with such maidenly severity. They were so different
in appearance from all the women he had known or seen, and from the
languishing creatures in his mother's cherished Book of Beauty, that
he came to look upon them as a race apart, which they were; as something
not quite human, which was a slander. As they stalked along so briskly
in their tailor-made frocks, their cheeks and eyes brilliant with
health, the average observer would have likened them to healthy
high-bred young race-horses.
On the whole, however, Andrew gave the full measure of his admiration to
the women who took their exercise less violently. When the spring came,
and the Park was green, he would stand in the plaza, surrounded by its
great hotels, the deep rumble of the avenue behind him, forgetting even
the phalanxes of tramping girls, with their accessories of boys and
poodles. Before him were the wide gates of the Park, the green wooded
knolls rolling away--almost to his home in Harlem. Just beyond the gates
was a bend in the driveway, and he never tired of watching the stream of
carriages wind as from a cavern and roll out to the avenue. The vivid
background claimed as its own those superb traps with their dainty
burdens of women who held their heads so haughtily, whose plumage was so
brilliant. The horses glittered and pranced. The parasols fluttered like
butterflies above the flower-faces beneath. Webb would stand entranced,
bitterly thankful that there was such a scene for him to look upon,
choking back a sob that he had no part in it.
When summer came and Society flitted to Newport, that paradise in which
he only half believed, he was more lonely and glum than the loneliest
and glummest and most blasé clubman, who clung to his window because
he hated Newport and could not afford London. Quite accidentally, when
his infatuation was about three years old, he came into a singular
compensation. In the summer, during his ten days' vacation, when he was
tramping through the woods, he fell in with a party of Western people,
who manifested much interest in New York. To Andrew there was only one
New York, and with that his soul was identified. Insensibly, he began
to talk of New York Society as if it were part of his daily experience.
His careful, if restricted, study of its habits had made him
sufficiently familiar with it to enable him to deceive the wholly
ignorant. He described the people, their brilliant "functions," the
individualities of certain of its members. He talked freely of Ward
McAllister, and imitated that gentleman's peculiarities of thought and
speech, so familiar to the newspaper reader. For the time he deceived
himself as well as his hearers; and so fascinating did he find this
delusion, that he remained with the inquisitive and guileless party
until the end of his vacation. After that he made it a point each year
to attach himself to some party of tourists, and to tell them of New
York Society, plus Andrew Webb. He was not a liar in the ordinary sense
of the word. In his home and in the bank where he played his daily game
of give-and-take, his reputation for veracity was enviable. Every mortal
not an idiot has his day-dreams. Webb merely dreamed his aloud to an
audience. And these summers were the oases of his life.
He had one other pleasure equally keen. On the first day of each month
he dined at Delmonico's. In the beginning it meant the forfeit of his
usual stand-up luncheon, but he had decided that the cause was worthy
of the sacrifice. One evening, however, he lingered on upper Fifth
Avenue longer than usual, and entered late. The restaurant was crowded.
He stood at the door, hesitating, knowing that he would not be permitted
to seat himself at a table already occupied by even one person. Suddenly
a small common-looking little man came forward and touched his arm.
"Won't you share my table?" he said, effusively. "My name's Slocum, and
I've seen you here often. You mustn't go away. Come in."
Andrew gratefully accepted, and followed Mr. Slocum over to the little
table on the other side of the room.
"I say," said Slocum, after Webb had ordered his dinner, "I've hit on a
plan. It's been in my head for some time. How often do you come here?"
"Once a month."
"That's my game exactly. I'm a clerk on a small salary; but I must have
one good dinner a month, if I don't have my hair cut. Now, suppose we
dine together. One portion's enough for two, and the same dinner'll only
cost each of us half what it does now. See?"
Andrew did not take kindly to Mr. Slocum: the vulgar young man was so
different from the magnificent creatures about him. But the offer was
not to be ignored, and he closed with it. For the following three years,
until he was twenty-eight, he dined regularly at Delmonico's, and in
that rarefied atmosphere his head gently swam. He forgot the flat in
Harlem,--forgot that he was Andrew, not Schuyler Churchill Webb.
III
One day word came that "Uncle Sandy Armstrong" was dead. Andrew could
not get away, nor Polly, who was then a teacher; but Mrs. Webb hastily
packed an old carpet-bag and went over to superintend her brother's
funeral. That evening the young people discussed the death of their
relative in a business-like manner, which their mother would have
resented, but which was justifiable from their point of view.
"I suppose ma will have the farm," remarked Polly, still a plump, rosy,
and well-dressed Polly, albeit with an added air of importance and a
slightly didactic enunciation. "How much do you suppose it's worth?"
Andrew, who was lying on the sofa smoking a pipe, protruded his upper
lip. "Four thousand,--not a cent more. The orchard's all gone to seed,
and the house too."
"We might mortgage the land, and fit the house up for summer boarders."
Andrew frowned heavily. His sister was absently tapping a pile of
compositions on the table beside her, and did not see the frown. She
would not have suspected the cause if she had.
"As well that as anything," he replied, indifferently. "No one will buy
it, that's positive, with all that marsh."
Two days later he returned home to find the very atmosphere of the place
quivering with excitement. Bridget stood in the doorway of the kitchen,
which faced the end of the narrow hallway personal to the Webb abode.
Her round eyes glittered in a purple face. She waved her arms wildly.
[Transcriber's Note: In the original, "She waved her alms wildly."]
"Oh, Mr. Webb!" she began.
"Andrew, come here," shrieked Polly from the other end of the hall.
"Come here, quick!"
It was not Webb's habit to move rapidly; but, fearing that his mother
was ill, he walked briskly to the parlor. Mrs. Webb, trembling as from a
recent nervous shock, her face flushed, a legal document in her lap, sat
in an upright chair, apparently in the best of health. Polly was on the
verge of hysterics.
"What do you think has happened?" she cried. "Tell him, ma; I can't."
Then she flung herself face downward on the sofa and kicked her heels
together.
"We are rich, Andrew," said Mrs. Webb, with a desperate effort at
calmness. "Your Uncle Sandy has been investing and doubling money these
twenty years. He has left one hundred and fifty thousand dollars,--fifty
thousand to each of us."
Andrew's knees gave way. He sat down suddenly. He had but one thought. A
radiant future flashed the little room out of vision. That would be his
which for five years he had desired with all the insidious force of a
fixed idea.
"Say something, Andrew, for heaven's sake!" cried Polly, "or I shall
scream. Fifty thousand dollars all my own! No more school, no more
dress-making! We'll all go to Europe. Ma says it's well invested, and we
shall have four thousand a year each. Goodness--goodness--goodness me!"
"I should like to fit up the old house and live there," said Mrs. Webb.
"But--yes--I should like to see Europe first. That was one of the dreams
of my youth."
"And I'll have a sealskin! At last! You shall have a magnificent black
silk and a pair of diamond earrings--"
"Polly!" exclaimed her mother, "what should I do with diamonds? A new
black silk--a rich one--yes, I shall like that. Poor Sandy!"
Andrew leaned forward and took the document and laid it on his knee. He
stroked it as tenderly as if it had been a woman's head and he another
man. There was no sentiment in his nature, although he was an admirer of
beauty--New York beauty. After a time he detached himself from his
thoughts and talked the matter over with his mother and sister. When
they asked him what he should do he replied, confusedly, that he did not
know. But the plans of neither were so well defined as his.
All that night he sat on the edge of his bed staring at the worn
outlines of the boy and the dog on the rug under his feet. Fifty
thousand dollars! It seemed a great fortune to him. Such a sum had been
familiar enough in figures for many years. But that it might represent a
concrete wad of bills was a fact which had never presented itself to his
imagination before. Fifty thousand dollars! He did not know what the
objects of his idolatry were worth, merely that they were idle and
luxurious. These fifty thousand dollars would enable him to be idle and
luxurious--and to meet society at last on its own ground.
IV
The interval between that night and the day upon which the estate was
settled, Andrew passed in a sort of impatient dream. Never before had
days, weeks, months seemed so long; never had he so dissociated himself
from his little world and melted into that luminous circle of which he
was to become a component part. How he was to obtain his passport into
fashionable society was a question that did not concern him. Its portals
were typified to him by the wide gates of Central Park, through which
all might roll upon whom fortune smiled. One blessed fact possessed his
mind: by the first of July he should be master of his future, liberated
from his desk, free to go to Newport. When his foot actually pressed
that reservation, all the rest would come about quite naturally. At this
time he still preserved his self-respect. He felt quite the equal of the
men he had brushed elbows with at Delmonico's--the pink-faced youths
with their butter-colored tops, the affable elderly men with their
bulbous stomachs and puffy eyes. And he had caught many of their little
fads. He had risen in the night, and opening the door connecting the
kitchen and dining-room, that he might have sufficient scope, he had
practised the remarkable gait of the New York youth of fashion: that
slight forward inclination of the shoulders, that slighter crab-like
angle of the body, that ponderous thoughtful tread: the only difference
from the walk of the "tough" being in the length of the step. One hand
was in a pocket, the other absently manipulated a stick. He had also
witnessed the hand-shake, and of his proficiency in this accomplishment
he felt assured.
On the third day of July, one hour after the law had yielded up its
temporary foundling, he ordered an elaborate outfit from the most
fashionable tailor in New York. This order and others drilled a large
hole in his first quarter's income, but he regarded that as a trifling
detail. His mother and sister were meanwhile selling the homely
necessities of their flat at auction, as the first step to a year
abroad. They wondered at Andrew's desire to go to Newport, but had heard
that it was a pretty place with a good bathing-beach, and much visited
by tourists. They spent the last night together in a hotel; and Mrs.
Webb, in spite of a faint protest from Andrew, ordered beer and crackers
and cheese. They had eaten this little supper for many years, and the
women, who were very tearful, insisted that this last evening together
must be as much like the dear old evenings as possible. It was a sad
meal.
V
It was a profoundly hot August day when Andrew left the steamboat and
actually stood upon Newport soil. More properly, he stood upon a plank
wharf, and was not impressed with the dock. But as the omnibus rolled
through the town his heart began to swell, his rather dull eyes to glow.
The hour was two, and the city asleep under its ivy and flowers. After
New York, it seemed deliciously quiet, and old, and aristocratic. The
pounding of the horses' hoofs, the voices of the people in the omnibus,
were desecrating. He had glimpses of long avenues, dark, green, dim; a
flash of villa top or imposing gateway behind the stately trees. He felt
that he was in paradise.
He was in a mood to admire the hotel, plain and unpretending structure
as it was; it was so old and still and highly respectable. He descended
from the omnibus nervously and went into the office. A clerk handed him
a pen, and he registered his name in a clerkly hand, "A. Armstrong
Webb." He had decided to acknowledge his debt to his uncle and add a
cubit to his stature at the same time. The clerk wheeled the book round,
glanced indifferently at the name, and handed a key to a bell-boy. Webb,
conscious of a faint chill, followed the boy up-stairs. The room to
which he was conducted was an ordinary one overlooking the area. He had
been treated as any commonplace and unknown traveller would be. The
thought increased the chill; then he philosophically concluded that a
nobleman travelling incognito would be treated in the same way, and went
down-stairs to the dining-room. There he was somewhat surprised to find
that dinner was being served instead of luncheon. He had supposed that
dinner in a Newport hotel would be served at eight o'clock.
After dinner he went out to the veranda, sat himself on one of the
chairs by the railing, and smoked an expensive cigar. He was beginning
to feel strangely lonely. There seemed to be very few people in the
hotel, and he experienced his first pang of helplessness, of doubt. He
had supposed that the hotel would be full of great people. As he glanced
down the avenue, those big houses seemed like tombs, buried, themselves,
under a rank growth of foliage. And it was so wondrous quiet!
His cigar cheered him somewhat, and he sauntered back to the office and
entered into conversation with the clerk, a good-humored little
Englishman with cheeks like his own apples. The clerk knew at a glance
that the stranger was neither a "swell" nor a frequenter of Newport;
but he liked his manly appearance, and readily met his advances. To his
dismay, Webb learned that the "swells" no longer went to the hotels; or,
if obliged to do so for a short period, secluded themselves in their
rooms. They lived in cottages. Oh yes! all those fine houses were called
cottages. It was a sort of fad--American modesty, the clerk supposed.
There was not much run of any sort at the hotel until the fifteenth,
when a good many tourists came. Oh yes! there were some people there,
mostly old ones, who had come every season for many years, he believed.
Rather depressing parties, these; they looked so old-fashioned, and
didn't do much to brighten up things.
Webb, with growing dejection, left the hotel and strolled up the avenue.
There his spirits revived. The avenue was so beautiful, so gloomy, so
old! He drew in deep inhalations of its unmistakably aristocratic
atmosphere. He felt its subtle possessing influence. Once more his
imagination awakened. He leaned on a Gothic gateway and gazed upon a
superb Queen Anne cottage with Tudor towers. Incongruities in
architecture mattered nothing to him. He precipitated his astral part
through the massive door and wandered, with ponderous, thoughtful tread,
over the deep carpets of the drawing-rooms and corridors. He drank tea
on the back veranda with languid dames and with men who had never stood
at desks. He threw himself into an arm-chair and listened to a
slim-waisted smooth-haired girl coquetting with the piano. He sat with
the haughty chatelaine and talked of--there his imagination failed him.
He hardly knew what these people talked of, although he had read many
society novels. As far as his memory served him, they talked of nothing
in particular. He wandered down the avenue, dreaming his dream at many
gate-posts. He saw no one, but thereby was the illusion deepened.
Newport for the hour was his.
He returned to the hotel veranda, lit another cigar, and was about to
meditate upon some plan of campaign, when suddenly an odd and delightful
thing happened. It was four-and-thirty of the clock. As if to the
ringing of a bell and the rising of a curtain, Bellevue Avenue became
suddenly alive with carriages. The big gates seemed to yawn
simultaneously and discharge their expensive freight. It was as if these
actors in the Newport drama would lose their weekly salary did they step
on the boards a moment too late. The avenue, with its gay frocks and
parasols, was like a long flower-bed in spring. Webb's cigar went out.
He leaned forward eagerly, straining his eyes.
In some of the superb traps were decrepit old dowagers wagging their
feeble heads, wondering, perhaps, how much longer their millions would
keep them alive. Sometimes their young heirs were with them, patient and
placid. Others were pitifully alone. Several men were on horseback,
riding in the agonized fashion of the day. There were carriages full of
girls with complexions of ivory and claret, air of ineffable daintiness.
Now and then a victoria would roll by in which women lolled, heavily
veiled with crape. Webb wondered if they really could sorrow like common
folks. Mingling with the superb turnouts were barouches unmistakably
hired, occupied by people dressed with a certain cheap smartness. Here
and there a girl, probably of the people, cantered half defiantly down
the line, a sailor-hat on her head, her jacket open over a shirt and
"four-in-hand." Once a yoke of oxen, driven by a bareheaded maid,
straggled into the throng.
The avenue before the hotel became deserted once more. The upper end was
blocked with carriages, all apparently bent in the same direction.
Andrew ran down the steps, half inclined to follow, half fearing they
would never return. A number of open hacks stood before the hotel. A
driver immediately approached Andrew.
"Like a drive, sir?"
"Yes," said Webb. "Go where the others are going."
"Certainly, sir. And, if you be a stranger, I can tell you most of the
names."
Andrew could have tipped him on the spot. He should be able to identify
those people at last! He felt that he had advanced another step!
"We'll drive slow and meet them on their return," said the driver. He
indicated with a gesture of contempt a passing carriage.
"You see them, sir? They be people that comes to the hotels and goes
away and talks about spending the summer in Newport. But any one could
tell that they're just hotel people, and that the hack is hired. They
don't deceive nobody here."
The words gave Andrew a hint for which he was thankful. He understood
that he must not stay at the hotel. Where should he go, however? He must
take a "cottage," he supposed.
They rolled down a thick-leaved avenue and out over the stubby
sand-hills by the sea. Here and there a large mansion crowned the
heights, and Andrew was glad to see the traditional cottage in full
relief. He paid it scant attention, however. The procession of carriages
had already turned, and his faithful guide uttered many a name which
sounded like old sweet music in his ears. Some of the younger faces were
unfamiliar; but they, too, bore names that the newspapers had made
famous.
"Now look with all your eyes," cried the driver, suddenly. "Here's Mrs.
Johnny Belhaven. She's worth more millions than all the rest put
together, and is an A1 whip."
A plump but distinguished-looking woman bore down on them in what
appeared to be a chariot. Andrew had never seen anything so high on
wheels before. Mrs. Belhaven looked down upon her "Order" as from a
throne, and wore a slightly supercilious expression.
"And there's Ward McAllister," continued the driver, excitedly; "him as
is the leader of the Four Hundred, you know."
Andrew almost raised himself from his seat. He stared with bulging eyes
at the tired carelessly dressed elderly man with whom he had been
intimate so many years.
He returned to the hotel. His spirits were normal again. He had taken
his part in a fragment of the daily life of Newport. As he passed
through the office on his way to the elevator, the clerk beckoned to
him.
"As you seem a stranger, sir," he said, apologetically, "I thought I
would introduce you to Mr. Chapman. He's the correspondent of several
New York papers, and could tell you how to amuse yourself."
A short thick-set amiable young man shook Andrew's hand heartily. Mr.
Chapman was not the sort of person Andrew had gone to Newport to meet,
but he was glad of any friendship, temporarily.
The two young men went out to the veranda. Andrew proffered his new
cigar-case. The other accepted gratefully. He was the free-lance
correspondent of several New York weekly papers, and his salary was not
large. He tipped his chair back, put his feet on the railing, and
confided to Webb that he hated Newport.
"I wouldn't have come here this summer if I could have got out of it,"
he said, gloomily. "It's my third year, and the place gets worse every
season. These people are so stuck-up there's no approaching them for
news. Even Lancaster, who has a sort of entrée because he is connected
with a swagger family, admits that it's as much as his life is worth to
get anything out of them. He's the correspondent of the New York Eye.
What's worse, they don't do anything. Here it is the third of August,
and not a ball has been given--just little things among themselves that
you can't get at. It's enough to drive a fellow to drink. I've faked
till my poor imagination is worn to a thread; the papers have to have
news. But I've done one big thing this summer,--a corking beat. Did you
notice half-way down the avenue a new house surrounded by a big stone
wall? That's the new Belhaven house. They'd sworn that no reporter
should so much as pass the gates, no paper should ever show an eager
world the interior of that marble mausoleum. The newspapers were wild.
Even Lancaster had no show. I was bound that I'd get into that house, if
I had to go as a burglar. And I did, but not that way. I bribed their
butcher to let me dress up as his boy; took a camera, and photographed
the house and grounds from the seclusion of the meat-wagon. I flirted
with the cook and got her to show me the drawing-rooms. It was early,
and the family wasn't up. I dodged the butler and took snap-shots. The
other newspaper men were ready to brain me. I felt sorry for some of
them, but I had joy over Lancaster. He'd bribed the caterer and florist
to keep their best bits of news for him. A low trick that; not but what
I'd do it myself if I had his salary. He got a scoop last year, and you
couldn't speak to him for a month after. Mrs. Foster,--she's one of the
biggest guns, you know, a regular cannon,--refurnished her house last
summer, and all the New York papers wanted photographs. She went
cranky, and said they shouldn't have them. Wouldn't even listen to
Lancaster's pleadings. But he hadn't jollied the butler for nothing. She
didn't stop here last summer--only came down every two weeks and
rearranged every stick of the furniture. The butler was nearly
distracted. It was as much as his place was worth to have her find any
of the chairs out of place, and the rooms had to be swept. So he hit on
a plan. He bought a camera and photographed the rooms every time Mrs.
Foster came down. One day he met Lancaster on the avenue and confided
his method of keeping up with the old lady. You may be sure Lancaster
was not long getting a set of those photos. It cost the newspaper a pot
of money, for the butler was no fool. But there they were next Sunday.
And Mrs. Foster doesn't know to this day how it was done."
Webb listened with mingled amusement and dismay. He was slowly beginning
to realize the determined segregation, from the common herd, of these
people, to whom he had come so confidently to offer homage. He changed
the subject.
"I don't want to stay here, don't you know," he said, glancing
scornfully over his shoulder at the hotel which in its day had housed
the most distinguished in the land. "What would you advise? Take a
cottage?"
"Take a cottage!" Mr. Chapman fairly gasped. "Are you a millionaire in
disguise? If you were, I don't believe you could get one. The swells
shut up theirs when they don't come, or let them to their friends. The
others are mostly taken year after year by the same people. No; I'll
tell you what you want--a bachelor's apartment. They are not so easy to
get either, but I happen to know of one. It was rented four years ago by
Jack Delancy, but he blew in most of his money, and then tried to
recuperate on cordage. The bottom fell out of that, and now goodness
knows where he is. At all events, his apartment is to let. Suppose we go
now and see it. There's no time to lose."
Andrew assented willingly, profoundly thankful that he had met Mr.
Chapman. The apartment was near the hotel. They found it still vacant,
furnished with a certain bold distinction. The rent was high, but Andrew
stifled the economic promptings of his nature, and manfully signed a
check. That night there was nothing to be seen in Newport, not even a
moon. The city was like a necropolis. Andrew gratefully employed his
leisure hunting for servants. The following day he was comfortably
installed and had invited the fortunate Mr. Chapman to dinner. He found
that gentleman next morning on the beach, taking snap-shots at the
bathers.
"This sort of thing goes," Chapman said, "although these people are just
plain tourists. I label them 'the beautiful Miss Brown,' or 'the famous
Miss Jones,' and the average reader swallows it, to say nothing of the
fact that it makes the paper look well. The swells won't go in with the
common herd, and want the ocean fenced in too, as it were. There are
some of them over there in their carriages, taking a languid interest in
the scene because they've nothing better to do. But they'd no more think
of getting out and sitting on this balcony, as they do at Narragansett,
than they'd ride in a street-car. Want to go up to the Casino and see
the stage go off? That's one of the sights."
Andrew had spent a half-hour the evening before gazing at the graceful
brown building which had long been a part of his dreams. He welcomed the
prospect of seeing a phase of its brilliant life.
They reached the Casino a few minutes before the coach started. A large
round-shouldered man, with face and frame of phlegmatic mould, occupied
the seat and swung his whip with a bored and absent air. Two or three
girls, clad in apotheosized organdie, and close hats, were already on
top of the coach. An elderly beau was assiduously attending upon a young
woman who was about to mount the ladder. She was a plain girl, with an
air of refined health, and simply clad in white.
"She's worth sixteen million dollars in her own right," said Chapman,
with a groan.
On the sidewalk, between the Casino and the coach, were two groups of
girls. One group gazed up at their friends on the coach, wishing them
good-fortune; the other gazed upon the first, eagerly and enviously.
Andrew looked from one to the other. The girls who talked to those on
the coach wore organdie frocks of simple but marvellous construction.
Shading their young pellucid eyes, their bare polished brows, were large
Leghorn hats covered with expensive feathers or flowers. Air, carriage,
complexion, manner, each was a part of the unmistakable uniform of the
New York girl of fashion. But the others? Andrew put the question to
Chapman.
"Oh, they're natives. We call them that to distinguish them from the
cottagers. They get close whenever they get a chance, and copy the
cottagers' clothes and manners. But it doesn't take a magnifying-glass
to see the difference."
Andrew looked with a pity he did not admit was fellow-feeling at the
pretty girls with their bright complexions, their merely stylish
clothes--which reminded him of Polly's--the inferior feathers in their
chip hats. The sharp contrast between the two groups of girls was almost
painful.
"I've got to leave you," said Chapman; "but I'll see you later. Take
care of yourself."
The horn tooted, the whip cracked, the coach started. The men on the
club balcony above the Casino watched it lazily. The street between the
coach and the green wall opposite had been blocked with carriages that
now rolled away.
Webb turned his attention to the group of cottagers. One of the girls
wore a yellow organdie trimmed with black velvet ribbons, a large
Leghorn covered with yellow feathers and black velvet. She was not
pretty, but she had "an air," and that was supremest beauty in Andrew's
eyes. Another was in lilac, another in pink. Each had the same sleek
brown hair, the same ivory complexion. In attendance was a tall clumsily
built but very imposing young man with sleepy blue eyes and a mighty
mustache. The girls paid him marked attention.
They chatted for a few moments, then walked through the entrance of
the Casino, over the lawn, towards the lower balcony of the horseshoe
surrounding it. Andrew followed, fascinated. The young man in
attendance walked after the manner of his kind, and Andrew,
unconsciously imitating him, ascended the steps, seated himself with
an air of elaborate indifference opposite the party in the narrow
semicircle, and composed his face into an expression of blank
abstraction. His trouble was wasted: they did not see him. They had an
air of seeing no one in the world but their kind. One of the girls, to
Andrew's horror, crossed her knees and swung her foot airily. The young
man sank into a slouching position. Another girl joined the group, but
he did not rise when introduced, nor offer to get her a chair. She was
obliged to perform that office, at some difficulty, for herself.
The band began to play. Andrew leaned forward, gazing at the floor,
intent upon hearing these people actually converse. But their talk only
came to him in snatches between the rise and fall of the music. Like
many other New-Yorkers, he had a deaf ear.
"My things disappear so"--(from the yellow girl) ... "I suspect my maid
wears them.... Don't really know what I have.... Don't dare say
anything." This was said with a languid drawl which Andrew thought
delicious.
All laughed.
"Shall you go to Paris this year?"
"I don't know ... till time comes.... Then we keep four servants up all
night packing.... Must have some new gowns.... You know how you have to
talk to Ducet and Paquin yourself."
The young man went to sleep. The girls put their heads together and
whispered. After a time they arose with a little capricious air, which
completed Andrew's subjugation, and strolled away.
VI
That evening, as he sat with Chapman over the coffee in the stately
little dining-room of the victim of cordage, the journalist remarked
suddenly:
"I say, old fellow, you don't seem to be in it. Don't you know anybody
here at all?"
Andrew shook his head gloomily.
"Well, you'll have a stupid time, I'm afraid. There are only three
classes of people that come to Newport--the swells, the people who want
to see the swells, and the correspondents whose unhappy fate it is to
report the doings of the swells. Now, what on earth did you come here
for?"
Andrew had not a confiding nature, but he could not repress a dark
flush. The astute little journalist understood it.
"It's too bad you didn't bring a letter or two. One would have made it
easy work. You look as well as any of them, and you've got the boodle.
Where did you come from, anyway?"
"New York."
Chapman puckered his lips about his cigar. "That's bad. It's harder for
a non-commissioned New-Yorker to get into society than for a
district-attorney to get into heaven. Didn't you make any swagger
friends at college?"
"I never went to college."
"Too bad! A man should always strain a point to get to college. If he's
clever he can make friends there that he can 'work' for the rest of his
life."
Little by little, with adroit use of the detective faculty of the modern
reporter, he extracted from Webb the tale of his years--even the extent
of his fortune. The young aspirant's ingenuousness made him gasp more
than once; but he had too kindly a nature to state to Webb the
hopelessness of his case. His new friend was manly and generous, and had
won from him a sincere liking, tempered with pity. Better let him find
out for himself how things stood; then, when his eyes were open, steer
him out of his difficulties.
He rose in a few moments. "Well," he said, cheerily, "I wish I were
Lancaster. I might be able to do something for you: but I'm not in
it--not for a cent. You may as well take in the passing show, however.
The first Casino hop is on to-night. Put on your togs and go."
"Anybody there?" asked Andrew, loftily.
"Oh, rather. All the cottagers will be there, or a goodly number of
them. And it's a pretty sight."
"But how can I get in?"
"By paying the sum of one dollar, old man."
Andrew's cigar dropped from his mouth.
"Do you mean to say that they go to a place and dance--in full
dress--on the floor--with everybody? Why, any one can pay a dollar."
Chapman laughed. "Oh!--well--go and see how it is for yourself. Meet me
in the gallery at ten, and I'll tell you who's who. Au revoir."
       *       *       *       *       *
At half-past nine Andrew stood before his mirror and regarded himself
meditatively. Without vanity, he could admit that so far as appearance
counted he would be an ornament to any ballroom. His strong young figure
carried its evening clothes with the air of a gentleman, not of a
waiter. He had seen fashionable men in Delmonico's who needed their
facial tresses to avoid confusion. Chapman had that day pointed out to
him two scions of distinguished name whose "sideboards" had caused him
to mistake them for coachmen. He stroked his own mustache. It had never
been cut, and was as silken as the hair of the ladies he worshipped. His
head had been cropped by the most fashionable barber in New York. He
wore no jewels. In a word, he was correct, and he assured himself of the
fact with proud humility. Nevertheless, his heart was heavy behind his
irreproachable waistcoat.
From his apartment it was but a few steps to the Casino. He walked there
without injury to his pumps, bought his ticket at the office, half
fearing that it would be refused him, and sauntered across the lawn to
the inner door of the ballroom. The horseshoe was brilliantly lighted,
and, with its airy architecture, looked as if awaiting a revel of the
fairies. The cottagers, Andrew understood, would alight at an outside
door. They were subscribers, and the office was not for them.
He went up to the gallery to await his friend. It was less than a fourth
occupied by pretty girls--"natives," he recognized at once. Some wore
hats, others were in local substitute for full dress--a muslin or Indian
silk turned away at the throat, a flower in the hair. He took a chair
before the railing. The one beside him was occupied by a handsome
dark-eyed girl who had made a brave attempt to be smart. She wore a red
silk frock and a red rose in her rough abundant hair. Round her white
throat she had gracefully arranged some silk lace. Andrew paid that
tribute to her charms of one whose eyes have been too long accustomed to
great works of art to take any interest in the chromo. Nevertheless, he
was young and she was young. They flirted mildly until Chapman came in
and introduced them.
"Miss Leslie is an old friend of mine, Webb," he said in his hearty way.
"I hope you will be friends too."
Miss Leslie bowed and beamed and flashed her pretty teeth. Andrew made
some vague remark, wondering at the spite of fate, then forgot her
utterly. Chapman had whispered to him that the cottagers were coming.
He leaned eagerly over the rail. A number of buxom dames, accompanied by
slender girls, were filing in. Some of the old women were in white
satin, with many jewels on their platitudinous bosoms. The slim
sisterhood, with their deerlike movements, their curried hair arranged
to simulate a walnut on the crown of their little heads, their tiny
waists and white necks and arms, riveted Andrew's gaze as ever. Some
looked like Easter lilies in their pure white gowns, others like
delicate orchids. One beautiful young woman, evidently a matron, wore a
gown of black gauze, with a row of sparkling crescents, stars, and
clusters, about the low line of the corsage.
"Isn't she lovely?" whispered Miss Leslie. "She got a French Duke. But
she deserved her luck. She's sweet."
All were very décolletée.
"Reminds one of the days when slaves were put up on sale at the mart,
not far from this very spot," murmured Chapman.
One sprightly matron entered with an imperious air, and was immediately
surrounded.
"Who's she?" inquired Andrew, scornfully. "Why, her frock and gloves are
soiled, and her hair's dyed."
"Oh, she's out of sight, my boy! Once in a while they do look like that.
She's going to lead things this summer. Wish she'd hurry up!" Then he
named a number of people to Webb.
The band on the platform facing the triple row of seats at the far end
began a waltz. Most of the men were elderly and well preserved. They
danced with the girls. The half-dozen youths improved their chances by
assiduous attentions to the unwieldy dames. Andrew thought that his
princesses danced very badly. Many of them were taller than the men, and
looked about to go head first over the shoulders whose support they
seemed to disdain. The little ones bounded like rubber balls. The old
women formed groups and gossiped. A number sat about a plethoric lady,
whose diamonds made her look like a crystal chandelier. Chapman informed
Webb that she was a duchess.
"You see that fellow over there!" he exclaimed, suddenly, indicating
