sharp oversight, and the rest his clean New England stamina, the
wrecks had filled him with disgust and repulsion.

All the old friends met, of course. Mrs. Dawson was rosy and plump,
and had retired to a stylish house with servants and carriage. The
Dawson Café was one of the better-class institutions of the town, and
coining money. Miss Gaines stood at the head of fashionable modistes,
and there was no appeal from her dictum. You could accept her style or
go elsewhere. There had been offers of marriage, too, she laughingly
admitted to her friends. "Ten years ago I should have accepted one of
them gratefully; now I value my independence."

Dick Folsom went over to Laverne.

"I haven't seen you in so long and you have grown so, I hardly knew
you," he said. "May I beg the honor of your hand for this quadrille?"

She was quite longing to dance and accepted.

"We oughtn't forget each other after that five months' journey
together," he remarked in one of the pauses. "Does it ever seem queer
to you, as if it was something you dreamed? I can't make it real. But
they've improved the overland so much, and when we get the
railroad--presto; you will see a change! If we were only nearer
England. But there's China, if we are not swamped by the pigtails and
pointed slippers! How queer they are! We don't need to go to foreign
lands to study the nations. I sometimes wonder what the outcome of all
this conglomeration will be!"

"We are so far off," she replied in a sort of tentative fashion. "It's
almost like another town."

"Yes. They'll tumble you down presently, as they did before. You
wouldn't know the old place, would you? They've carted away stones and
débris to fill up the marshy edges of the bay. And there's a long,
straight street, a drive out to fine country ways. Is there any other
land so full of flowers, I wonder!"

"And they are so royally lovely. Think of great patches of callas in
blossom nearly all the time. Miss Holmes said when she was at home she
used to nurse up one to blossom about Easter. If she had two flowers
she thought it quite a marvel."

What a soft, musical laugh the child had! They used to run races on
the boat, he remembered, and he had enough boyish gallantry to let her
win. They ought to be dear old friends.

"Do you ever go out to drive on Sunday afternoon?"

"It's Uncle Jason's day, the only leisure he has. And we spend it
together."

"He's had stunning luck, too. Getting to be a rich man."

"Is he?" she said simply.

"Is he? Well, you ought to know," laughing.

"He doesn't talk much about business."

"A great country this is for making fortunes! The trouble is that you
can spend them so easily. But I'm bound to hold on to mine, when I get
it made."

Some one else took her. He looked after her. She would be a pretty
girl presently and quite worth considering. He had a good opinion of
himself, and was not going to be lightly thrown away.

They trudged up the hill just after midnight. Laverne was gay and
chatty, recounting her good times. It seemed as if she had as much
attention as Olive from the younger men, and Olive was always so proud
of that.

Uncle Jason gave a sigh.

"Oh," she cried, "you look tired. Don't you like parties? I thought it
splendid!"

"I'm getting old, dear----"

"Oh, you mustn't get old!" she interrupted impulsively. "Why can't
people turn back a little somewhere along, and be young again? For,
you know, I can't get old very fast, and I think--yes, I am quite sure
I don't want to. I'm having such a splendid time since you were so
lovely to Carmen, and made her happy. I sometimes think if you had
sent her back to Monterey--but you couldn't have done that, could
you?"

"No, dear," he answered softly.

He had heard a point discussed this evening that did trouble him a
little. They were talking of lowering Telegraph Hill again. He was not
ready to go yet. In two years maybe. She would not have any lovers by
that time, and then they could start off together. He must not grow
old too fast.

The next happening in their little circle did interest her a good
deal. Howard Personette had finished his year's term at college, and
come home quite unexpectedly, when his father had intended him to
finish and take a degree.

"I'm not a student, I'm convinced of that," he announced rather
doggedly. "I don't see any sense in keeping at what you don't like,
and don't mean to follow. I want the stir and rush of business instead
of splitting hairs about this and that. I've been awfully homesick the
last year, and dissatisfied, but I knew you would not agree to my
coming home, so I just came. And if there's nothing else for me to do,
I'll go to work on the streets."

Students were expected to study in those days. Athletics had not come
in for their diversion. Mr. Personette was disappointed. He wanted to
make a lawyer out of his son, and to lay a good foundation for the
years to come.

Mrs. Personette rather sympathized with the eager young fellow, who
was ready to take up any active life.

"The East is so different," he explained. "Perhaps if I hadn't been
born here and breathed this free, exhilarating air all my life, I
might have toned myself down and stayed. But I had begun to hate
books, and what was the use maundering away several years?"

Olive thought him quite a hero. Captain Franklin said if there was any
lack of employment in the city he could come out to Alcantraz. They
would be very glad to have a fellow who was not afraid to work.

"Why, I should feel proud of him, shouldn't you?" Laverne asked of
Uncle Jason.

"That depends," he answered, with a shake of the head.

But if one came home from an indifference to study, another was going
to take a greater absence. Four years without coming home at all! The
journey was long and expensive, and there seemed a better use for
vacations.

This was Victor Savedra, who had many student longings. And so one
afternoon the two sat out under the pine, their favorite place, and he
was explaining to Laverne his plans for a few years to come.

"Father wanted me to go to Paris," he said. "If I meant to be a
physician, I think I would. But first and last and always I mean to be
an American citizen. I suppose I might go to Yale or Harvard, but that
seems almost as far away, and my choice appears more satisfactory all
around," smiling a little. "We like the new, but we have a hankering
for the old civilizations, and the accretions of knowledge."

They both looked out over the Golden Gate, the ocean. There were
dancing sails, jungles of masts, cordage like bits of webs, tossing
whitecaps in strong contrast to the blue, and over beyond, the green,
wooded shores. The old semaphore's gaunt arms were dilapidated, and
it was to come down. But it had thrilled hundreds of hearts with its
tidings that friends, neighbors, and greatest joy of all, letters from
loved ones in lands that seemed so distant then.

Now the lack of rain had dried up vegetation, except the cactus and
some tufts of hardy grass. The little rivulet was spent, there was
only a bed of stones. But they had managed to keep something green and
inviting about the house. A riotous Madeira vine flung out long
streamers of fragrant white blooms that seemed to defy fate
laughingly. Down below they were levelling again, this time for a last
grade, it was said.

"It will all be so changed when I return. I wonder where you will go?
For you cannot climb up to this eyrie. You would be perhaps a hundred
feet up. They want the sand and the débris to fill in the big piers
they are building. Why, they will almost sweep the great hill away,
but they will have to leave the rocks by the sea. It will be a new San
Francisco."

"Why, it is almost new now," and she smiled.

"Everything will have changed. And we shall change, too. I shall be
twenty-three when I come back."

Laverne looked at him wonderingly. They had all been big boys to her,
and she had been a little girl. True, he had grown to man's estate in
height, and there was a dainty line of darkness on his upper lip. It
had been so imperceptible that just now it seemed new to her.

"And I shall be--why, I shall be past nineteen then," she commented in
surprise.

"And--and married," he hazarded. The thought gave him a pang, for that
was new, too.

"No," she returned, looking up at him out of innocent eyes, while the
faint rose tint in her cheek never deepened. "No, I shall not be
married in a long, long time. Presently Uncle Jason and Miss Holmes
and I are to set out on a journey, just as they do in some of the
stories. We shall go to the strange lands he tells me about, we shall
see the people in their native element," and she smiled at the
conceit, "where we see only a dozen or two here. What do you suppose
draws them to California?"

"Why, the stories of gold, of course." Their coming and going did not
interest him. "I wonder if you will be in London?" he inquired.

"Oh, of course. I want to see the Queen and the palaces, and
Edinburgh, and Holyrood, and all the places those proud old Scots
fought over, and poor Marie Stuart! And Sweden and Norway, and the
midnight sun, and the Neva, and St. Petersburg----"

She paused, out of breath.

"London is what interests me," he interposed. "And if you could come
over next summer----"

She shook her head. "No, it won't be next summer, but it may be the
year after," she returned gravely.

"And if it was my vacation. Then I might join you for a few weeks."

"That would be splendid." Her soft eyes glowed.

"I shall keep thinking of that."

"Oh, will you? Then I will think of it, too. And it is queer how time
runs away. You hardly notice it until the bells ring out for New
Year's."

"I wonder--if you will miss me any?" and his voice fell a trifle,
though he tried to keep anxiety out of it.

"Miss you? Why, of course!" She was full of wondering, and to him,
delicious surprise. "We have been such friends, haven't we? Ever since
that night you showed me about the dancing? I've been amazed since
that I had the courage, when I hardly knew a step, but after all it
was very much like dancing to the singing of the birds, and I had
often done that. Olive didn't like it. We were not good friends for
ever so long afterwards."

"Olive wants to be head and front of everything, and have the main
attention. I'm sorry not to stay to the wedding--it will be a grand
affair. And no doubt next year Olive will go off. You haven't many
girl friends, have you?"

"Well,"--she hesitated delicately and smiled in a half absent but
adorable fashion,--"I do not believe I have. You see, we seem to live
a little apart up on this hill, and there have been lessons, and
riding about on the pony, and going over to your house, and most of
the girls are larger----"

"The children all adore you. Oh, I hope you will go over often. I
don't know what Isola would do without you."

"Yes, I shall," she said. "I'm so fond of music. If I were a poet, a
real poet, you know," and she flushed charmingly, "I should write
little songs to her music. They go through my brain with lovely words,
and I can see them, but they don't stay long enough to be written
down. Oh, yes, I shall go over often. And we shall talk about you. Of
course, you will write to your father, and we shall hear."

"Yes." Something, perhaps not quite new, but deeper and stronger than
any emotion he had ever known before, stirred within him. If he were
going to stay here he would insist upon being her best friend, her
admirer, her---- He choked down some poignant pain that was delicious
in spite of the hurt. He hated to think of leaving her behind, two
long years. She would be seventeen then; yes, old enough for any man
to marry--but she did not mean to marry, that was the comfort. And he
believed it because he wanted to so very much. She was such an
innocent child. If this tumult within him was love, it would frighten
her, she would not know what it meant.

She slipped her hand in his. "We shall all be so sorry to have you go,
but then you will return. And perhaps--oh, yes, I shall beg to go to
London first," she cried eagerly.

He was different from an impulsive American. He had been trained to
have great respect for the sacredness of young girls, and he owed a
duty to his father, who had planned out a prosperous life for him.

The sun was dropping down into the ocean, and the fog, creeping along,
sent gray and soft purplish dun tints to soften and almost hide the
gold. And, oh, how the birds sang, freed most of them from family
cares. The meadowlark, the oriole, the linnets, and the evening
grosbeak, with a clear whistling chorus after the few melodious notes
of his song. They both rose, and went scrambling down the winding path
that defied Pablo's efforts to keep in order. The shifting sand and
the stones so often loosened and made rough walking, so he held her
up, and she skipped from one solid place to another.

Down below they were moving some houses on the newly cut street, so as
to prepare for the next.

"They ought to begin at the top," she said, "but I am glad they
didn't. What a great city it is!"

"And if one could see the little town it was twenty years ago!"

He would not stay to supper--he did sometimes. He wanted to be alone,
to disentangle his tumultuous thoughts, and wonder if this thing that
had swept over him was the romance of love.

The next fortnight was very full. They went over to Alcantraz to view
the foundations for the new fortress. They went up to Mare's Island,
where, in days to come, was to be the splendid navy yard, and then on
a day's excursion down the bay. There was no railroad all along the
coast line, though it was talked of. And after a little they left the
shipping and the business behind them. All along were little clusters
of houses that were some day to be thriving cities. Then long
stretches of field where sheep were browsing, the wheat and oats
having been cut long before, clumps of timber reaching back to the
mountain ridge, clothed in a curious half shade from the slanting sun.

They left the boat at the little cove, and found a fine level where
they spread out the luncheon, and decorated it with flowers, wild
geranium, or rather geraniums growing wild, some of it in tall trees.
Vines creeping everywhere, grapes ripening, figs and fruits of
various kinds, that later, under cultivation, were to be the marvels
of the world.

Isabel and her betrothed, Olive and a young lieutenant, were
chaperoned by Mrs. Personette. Mrs. Savedra, the governess, and all
the children, with the two from "the Hill," and Isabel's dearest
friend and chosen first bridesmaid. And now Olive cared very little
for her cousin, if he was a handsome young man. He was going away, and
she would be married before his return, then he was too much of a
student, although an elegant dancer. So he could well be apportioned
to his sister and Laverne, neither in the realm of real womanhood, or
society.

They sailed up the western side of the bay, following some of the
indentations, and in the clear air the Pacific did not seem so far
away. The elders had enjoyed the converse with each other. The young
people were merry, not even the lovers were unduly sentimental. Mrs.
Savedra watched her daughter and noted a great improvement.

"If we could have Miss Holmes and Laverne all the time," she thought.




CHAPTER XV

THE ENCHANTMENT OF YOUTH


They went to wish Victor bon voyage. Laverne was learning to play on
the guitar, and another event happened to interest her very much. Mr.
Chadsey had used his influence to obtain a position of first mate on a
vessel bound for Shanghai for Joseph Hudson, who was expected in daily
with his wife. No word had come from the Estenegas. The two children
had been sent to Monterey, the old house dismantled, and now swallowed
up by the fine street that would some day make a great driveway. For
anything else the world might have swallowed them up.

Mrs. Hudson had been quite Americanized, but was more deeply in love
than ever. There was a certain piquancy and dainty freedom that was
very attractive, quite unlike her former stiffness. She was not afraid
to go anywhere with José now--to the very ends of the earth if there
was need.

Captain Blarcom was delighted to secure the services of so trusty a
man and good seaman as Joseph Hudson for his first mate. Being a
trading vessel, they might be gone two years or more.

"I shall send mamma a letter, and tell her the whole story," said
Carmen. "I have been so happy I think she will soften her anger and
not curse me as mothers sometimes do. And perhaps, when I come back,
she may admit me to her again, since I was married lawfully and by a
priest of our Holy Church. For in quiet moments one longs for the
mother of all one's earlier years. Only the life here is so much
broader and earnest, and every one seems working to some end, not
trifles that become monotonous."

"Yes," Miss Holmes returned, "I should write by all means."

They kept her very close; indeed, she was rather afraid to venture
down in the town. And at last, the ship was laden and ready, and
another friend went out of Laverne's life for a while at least.

Nearly a year later they heard the sequel of the Estenegas' fortunes.
Pascuel Estenega had been most savagely angry that this young bride
should have slipped out of his reach, and left no clew. He blamed the
Convent Superior, he threatened vengeance on any daring lover who had
circumvented him. But no lover or maiden was found, they had covered
their flight so securely. He grew more and more ill-tempered, until
hardly a servant would accept a position with him. And on one
occasion, for some trifling fault, he had beaten his coachman so
severely that he himself had fallen into a fit, and never recovered
consciousness, dying a few days after. Then the Señora and her
daughters had gone to care for the elder man, who had been made quite
ill from the shock.

Isabel Personette's marriage was one of the events of the early
season. Even Major Barnard honored the occasion with his presence, and
the younger military men were in their most notable array. There was
an elegant reception afterward, and Olive was in her glory as the
only Miss Personette. Howard's bent was mechanical, and his father
presently admitted that he had chosen wisely.

Indeed, there was much call for ability in every direction. A railroad
had been projected to Sacramento. Congress had established a line of
mail steamers between San Francisco and Shanghai. Between the city and
the Hawaiian Islands there was frequent communication. Coal was being
brought now from Bellingham Bay, gas was furnished about the city,
there were rows of handsome dwellings. The new Merchants' Exchange was
begun, the Custom House would be massive and beautiful. The shipping
and mercantile part of the city seemed to settle itself about Clark's
Point, on account of the great advantages it offered for wharves.

Then there were several fine theatres and a large music hall, erected
by a Mr. Henry Meiggs, where people of the more quiet and intellectual
order could patronize concerts, oratorios, and lectures. Private balls
were quite the thing, and people struggled to get within the charmed
circle, where an invitation could be secured.

If the little girl had lost one friend, two came in his place. Howard
Personette constituted himself her knight when they met at any
gathering, and brought them tickets for concerts, and new books or
magazines, when he found Miss Holmes was much interested in them.
There was indeed a library association that readers found very useful,
and the daily papers were good news purveyors.

Richard Folsom felt he had something of a claim on her friendship, and
was importuning them both to come to dinner and go to some
entertainment.

"You show the result of your quiet life and freedom from care," Mrs.
Folsom said to Miss Holmes. "You're younger looking to-day than when
we met on shipboard. I half envy you your easy time, and I
occasionally wonder if the money one piles up is worth the hard work
and anxiety. Only I had a son to look after and place in the world. He
was crazy to go to the gold fields, but I think he saw enough at the
Dawsons. It's hard work to keep a boy from going to the bad in a place
like this, but Dick has grown up into a pretty nice fellow. Now, if he
can only marry a sensible girl, one of the home kind, who isn't all
for show and pleasure! I wouldn't mind if she hadn't anything but her
wedding clothes. An early marriage steadies a fellow."

But Dick wasn't thinking particularly about marriage. He couldn't have
told just why he liked to climb Telegraph Hill an hour or so before
sundown and chat a while, bringing some rare fruit, or a new kind of
flower, and have a talk and a ramble about. There were girls that were
lots more fun, girls who jumped at a chance for a drive behind his
fine trotter, Hero, and who didn't even disdain the Sunday drive to
the races. Miss Holmes never went to these.

Sometimes of a Sunday they all went over to Oaklands. Mr. Savedra was
much interested in the quaint, intelligent man who was not only making
a reputation for honesty and fair dealing, but fortune as well. The
place was so lovely and restful.

The agricultural resources of the outlying places were beginning to be
appreciated. Gardens and farms were found to be largely profitable
since people must be fed. Fruit, too, could be improved upon and bring
in abundant returns.

After several conversations with Miss Holmes, it was deemed advisable
to have an English governess, since French and Spanish were as native
tongues to the children. Isola was improving in health, but quite
backward for her age, except for her really wonderful gift in music.

"I can't seem to make up my mind to send either of them away," she
said to Miss Holmes. "We miss Victor so much. And a mother's joy
centres largely in her children. I could not live without them. If I
could find some one like you."

"There are some still better adapted to the undertaking than I should
be," Miss Holmes returned with a half smile. "I sometimes feel that I
have been out of the world of study so long, that I am old-fashioned."

"That is what I like. The modern unquiet flurry and ferment annoys me.
And pleasure continually. As if there were no finer graces to life, no
composure, nothing but dress and going about. And you have made such a
charming child of Miss Laverne. How pretty she grows."

And now she was growing tall rapidly. Miss Holmes wondered
occasionally what would happen in a year or two, if, indeed, the idea
of travel was a settled purpose. Mr. Chadsey seldom spoke of it,
except to the child. He was very much engrossed with his business.
But presently she would need different environment. She could not
always remain a little girl. And she was pretty with a kind of
modest fairness that had an attractive spirituality in it, yet it did
not savor of convent breeding. It was the old New England type. She
seemed to take so little from her surroundings, she kept so pure to
the standard.

They were at Mrs. Folsom's to dinner one day. Uncle Jason had found it
necessary to be away late on business, and would come for them. He did
not quite like to leave them alone in Pablo's care, though Bruno was a
good keeper. But an evil-disposed person might shoot the dog. He began
to realize that it was more exposed up on the hill now that there were
so many rough workmen about. Another year of it, and then----

They had a delightful little dinner in a "tea room," there was a great
deal of coming and going in the large dining room. And Mrs. Folsom
said:

"I'm going to ask a guest in to share your company. She's rather
lonely, as her husband is away on some business. They have been here a
fortnight or so. Laverne will like to hear her talk. She's been most
all over."

So she brought in Mrs. Westbury, and introduced her.

"I hope I haven't intruded," the newcomer said, in a peculiarly
attractive voice. In a young girl it would have been pronounced
winsome. "I have been taking some meals in my own room; I tired of
going to the public table when Mr. Westbury was not here. But I do get
so lonely. I generally go with him, but this was up to the mines,
where the roughness and wickedness of the whole world congregates, I
believe."

"You are quite welcome," Miss Holmes replied, with a certain New
England reserve in her voice.

"You came from the East?" with an appreciative smile, as if that was
in her favor.

"From Boston; yes." Miss Holmes was always proud of that.

"And I from southern New Hampshire; we're not so very far apart. I
married Mr. Westbury in New York, but we have been about--almost
everywhere," in a tired voice. "I had wanted to travel, and I've had
it."

Laverne's eyes kindled. "And were you abroad?" she asked rather
timidly.

"Well--yes," smiling. "I've lived longest in London. And there's been
Paris and Berlin, and, oh, ever so many German towns, where they're
queer and slow, and wouldn't risk a dollar a month if they could make
ten by it. Most of the Eastern cities, too, but I think this is the
strangest, wildest, most bewildering place I ever was in; as if the
whole town was seething and had no time to settle."

"I think that is it. You see, we are used to age in our New England
towns; permanent habits, and all that. Yet, one would hardly believe
so much could have been done towards a great city in a dozen years."

Mrs. Westbury raised her brows. "Is it as young as that?"

"And we have people from everywhere who will presently settle into a
phase of Americanism, different from all other cities. Most places
begin poor and accumulate slowly. San Francisco has begun rich."

"And the newly rich hardly know what to do with their money. You have
some fine buildings, and queer old ones, that look as if they had
stood hundreds of years."

There was something peculiar in the voice, and that had been born with
the girl, and had needed very little training. It had an appealing
quality; it indicated possibilities, that fixed it in one's memory.
She might have suffered, had strange experiences, but one deeply
versed in such matters would have said that she had come short of
entire happiness, that hers was not the tone of rich content. She had
a delicate enunciation that charmed you; she passed from one subject
to another with a grace that never wearied the listener.

Mrs. Folsom came in to see if all was agreeable. She had taken a fancy
to Mrs. Westbury, she had such an air of refinement and good-breeding.
Mr. Westbury seemed a fine, hearty, wholesome man, prosperous yet no
braggart. That was apt to be the fault out here. He had commended his
wife to Mrs. Folsom's special care, and paid liberally in advance,
besides depositing money at a banker's for his wife's needs.

They were having a pleasant, social time. When the dinner was through
they retired to Mrs. Folsom's private parlor. In the large one there
were card playing and piano drumming and flirtations going on.

Perhaps Mrs. Westbury did most of the talking, but she made sundry
halts to give her listeners opportunity to answer, and she never
seemed aggressive. Laverne listened, charmed over the delightful
experiences.

She had learned that these were more attractive than one's troubles or
perplexities, and she had set out to be a charming woman. There was
only one terror to her life now--she was growing so much older every
year. She had kept her youth uncommonly, but alas, no arts could bring
the genuine article back.

Some lives go purling along like a simple stream that encounters
nothing much larger than pebbles in its course, others wind in and
out, tumble over rocks, widen and narrow, and take in every variety.
She had been a mill hand, pretty, graceful, modest. After having been
a widower two years and married to a woman older than himself, a
bustling, busy worker who lived mostly in her kitchen, Mr. Carr, the
mill owner, married this pretty girl, installed her in the big, gloomy
mansion, and made her the envy of the small town where many of the
families were related to him. He had some peculiar views in this
marriage. He meant to rule, not to be ruled; he hoped there would be
children to heir every dollar of his estate. He succeeded in the
first, but in the twelve years there were no children. She was
miserable and lonely; there were times when she would have preferred
the old mill life. Her only solace came to be reading. There was a
fine library, histories, travels, and old English novels, and it
really was a liberal education.

Then Mr. Carr died suddenly, having made a will that tied up
everything just as far as the law allowed. She was to live in the
house, a brother and a cousin were to run the mill on a salary that
was made dependent on the profits. A shrewd lawyer discovered flaws,
and it was broken. The heirs paid her very well to step out of it all
and have no litigation. She was extremely glad. She took her money and
went to New York, and for three years had a really enjoyable time.

She was thirty-seven when she married David Westbury, who was
thirty-five. She set herself back five years and no one would have
questioned. After several years of ill-luck, fortune had smiled on him
and whatever he touched was a success. He bought up some valuable
patents and exploited them, he formed stock companies, he had been
sent abroad as an agent, he was shrewd, sharp, long-headed, and not
especially tricky. Honesty paid in the long run. And now she had
enjoyed seven happy, prosperous years. She had proved an admirable
co-partner, she had a way of attracting men that he wanted to deal
with and not lowering her dignity by any real overt act. Her
flirtations never reached off-color. But of late she felt she had lost
a little of her charm. She was not inclined to play the motherly to
young men, nor to flatter old men. Those between went to the charming
young girls.

"Oh, dear, I'm so sorry to go," Laverne exclaimed, when word was sent
up that Mr. Chadsey was waiting for them. "I've had such a splendid
time listening to you. It's been like travelling. And to see so many
celebrated people and places, and queens."

"I'm glad you enjoyed it. I hope you will come again. Oh, I like you
very much," and she leaned over and kissed her, though she was not an
effusive woman.

Jason Chadsey had been sorely bothered. A young fellow he had had high
hopes of had proved recreant and gone off with considerable money. He
had been straightening accounts, and trying to decide whether to set
the officers on his track or let him go--to do the trick over again on
some one else. So he only half listened, glad to have his darling gay
and full of delight. He really did not notice when she said "Mrs.
Westbury."

That lady had a talk with Dick the next morning. He thought she was
"quite nice for an old girl," so far off does youth remove itself.
Could she get a carriage and ask Miss Holmes and her young charge to
go out with her?

"Why, I'll take you, ma'am, and be glad to. Oh, yes, we're such old
friends. It's odd, but we may be called old settlers, really. A party
of us came round the Horn just at the last of '51. She was such a
little thing, the only child on board. And we all stayed and are
settled just about here. Tell you what I'll do. We'll stop at school
for her and take her home, and then go on."

"But, Miss Holmes"--hesitatingly--"she ought to have notice," smiling
deprecatingly.

"Oh, that won't count. You just take my word, Laverne will be glad
enough."

He was glad enough. He had a vague idea somehow that Miss Holmes
rather fenced him out. This time he would have Laverne on the front
seat with him. Not that he really was in love with her now, but in
time to come----

His plan worked admirably. Laverne was delighted and greeted her new
friend cordially. They drove around a little at first, then up to the
hill, and now the road was broken up unless one went a long way
round.

"I can run up," Laverne said eagerly. "I won't be many minutes," and
she sprang out.

"They're going to lower this hill," Dick explained. "They started it
once, but land! only a goat can climb it now."

"Say a deer or an antelope," with a light laugh, as both watched the
child threading her way in a zig-zag fashion, the shortest.

"It must be awfully lonely up there."

"But the prospect is wonderful. And there is Golden Gate and the
ocean. Still, I should like to be more with folks. Chadsey doesn't
mind. He's a queer Dick, and his mind is all on making money."

"She is his niece. Are there any others?"

"No, I guess not. I never heard of any. All her folks--family are
dead."

"And Miss Holmes isn't related?"

"Oh, no."

They watched and saw them coming down presently, but they took a
better pathway. Miss Holmes seemed pleased with the plan. Laverne
sprang in beside Mrs. Westbury.

"Perhaps the ladies----" Dick was disappointed.

"I want to sit here," the girl said rather imperiously. "And you know
you won't let me drive."

"You'd be like that fellow you told of driving the chariot to the sun,
I'm afraid. I don't dare trust any one except Nervy, the jockey, to
ride her. It was immense on Sunday. You saw that she won. Mother's
against having me enter her, and I don't do it often. But jimini! I'd
like to. And ride her myself."

Mrs. Westbury had seen the Derby, where all the style of London went,
and fortunes were lost and won. Dick was fascinated by the account.

