blue shallows sparkling with coquetry met a wild and eager flash never
encountered before. A blue silk handkerchief was knotted loosely about
her dishevelled golden head, she wore a blue soft cotton blouse, and her
cheeks were pink. Dainty and sweet and gracious, what wonder that she
dazzled the rustic accustomed to maidens as swarthy as himself?
“Madre de Dios!” he muttered.
“A dulce, señor?” said Lydia, with the charming hesitation of the
imperfect linguist.
Then the peasant rose, and with the grace and courtesy of a grandee
possessed himself of a bonbon. But he did not know, perhaps, that it was
intended to go the road of black bread and garlic, for he fumbled in the
pocket of his blouse, brought forth an envelope, rolled up the
sweetmeat, and tenderly secreted it. Lydia gave him a radiant smile,
shook her head, and still held out the box.
“Eat one,” she said; and as the man only stared at her with deepening
color, she put one of the bonbons into her own mouth and motioned to him
to follow suit. This time he obeyed her, and for the moment they had the
appearance, and perhaps the sensation, of breaking bread together.
“Dios de mi alma!” muttered the man, and then Lydia bowed to him gravely
and turned slowly, reluctantly, and rejoined her panting family. Mrs.
Moulton’s face was scarlet; she was sitting upright; the air-cushions
were in a heap on the floor. Mr. Moulton’s bland visage expressed solemn
indignation, an expression which he had the ability to infuse into the
review of a book prudence warned him to condemn.
“Lydia Moulton!” exclaimed her mother.
“I am grieved and ashamed,” said her father.
“Why?” asked Lydia, flippantly. “It is the custom in Spain to share with
your travelling companions, and last night you said you had rather I
married a Spanish peasant than a Spanish gentleman.”
“I am ashamed of you!” repeated Mr. Moulton, with dignity. “Are you
looking for a husband, may I ask? If so, we will go direct to Gibraltar
and take the first steamer for America.”
Lydia colored, but she was still in a naughty mood, and, encouraged by a
sympathetic flash from Catalina, she retorted:
“No, I don’t want to marry, but I do want to be able to look at a man
unchaperoned by the entire family. I haven’t had the liberty of a
convent girl since I arrived in Europe. I feel like running off with the
first man that finds a chance to propose to me.”
Mrs. Moulton, whose complexion during this outburst had faded to its
normal gray tones, the little lines of cultivated worries and invalidism
quivering on the surface, turned her pale gaze upon Catalina. She stared
mutely, but volumes rolled into the serene, contemptuous orbs two seats
away.
Mr. Moulton, in his way, was a rapid thinker. “My dear,” he said,
gently, to the revolutionist, “if we have surrounded you it has not been
from distrust, but because you are far too pretty to be alone among
foreigners for a moment. At home, as you know, you often receive your
young friends alone. I am sure that when you think the matter over you
will regret your lapse from dignity, particularly as you have no doubt
disturbed that poor young man’s peace of mind.”
Lydia seldom rebelled, but she had learned that when her father became
diplomatic she might as well smite upon stone; so she refrained from
further sarcasm, and, retreating to a seat behind the others, stared
sullenly out of the window. She was not unashamed of herself, but
longed, nevertheless, to meet again the fiery gaze of the Catalan—“the
anarchist,” she called him; it sounded far better than peasant. Zuñiga
dwindled out of her memory as the poor, artificial thing he no doubt
was. At last she had seen a blaze of admiration in the eyes of a real
man. She was not wise enough to know that it was nothing in her meagre
little personality that had roused the lightnings in a manly bosom,
merely a type of prettiness made unconventional by the setting and the
man. But the impression was made, and had she dared she would have sent
an occasional demure glance towards the young peasant behind her; as it
was she adjusted her charming profile for his delectation.
They entered the long tunnel which the train traverses before skirting
the bluffs of Tarragona. Spain does not light its railway carriages
before dark. Lydia had thrown her arm along the seat. Suddenly she
became aware that some one, as lithe and noiseless as a cat, had entered
the seat behind her. She was smitten with sudden terror, and held her
breath. A second later a pair of young and ardent lips passed as lightly
as a passing flame along her rigid hand.
“Dueño adorado!” The voice was almost at her ear. Then she knew that the
seat was empty again. Her first impulse had been to cry out; she was
terrified and furious. But she had a quick vision of a mêlée of knives
and pistols, the Guardia Civile and peasant, reinforcements from the
next car, and the death of all her party. It was the imaginative feat of
her life, and as the train ran out of the tunnel she congratulated
herself warmly and put on her hat as indifferently as Jane, who had
never known the kiss of man. She swept past her admirer with her head
high and her lids—with their curling lashes—low.
                                  VII
“Ah!” exclaimed Captain Over, “this is Spain! Who is going to sit with
me in front?”
Catalina made no reply, but she ran swiftly to the big, canvas-covered
diligence, climbed over the high wheel before Over could follow to
assist her, and seated herself beside the driver with the most
ingratiating manner that any of her party had seen her assume. Over
placed himself beside her, the others took possession of the rear, the
driver cracked his whip, and the six mules, jingling with half a hundred
bells, leaped down the dusty road towards the steep and rocky heights
where Tarragona has defied the nations of the earth. Then it was that
Over laughed softly, and the innocent Moultons learned what depths of
iniquity may lie at the base of a ranch-girl’s blandishments. As they
reached the foot of the bluff the delighted youth who was answerable to
Heaven for his precious freight abandoned the reins. Catalina gathered
them in one hand, half rose from her seat, and with a great flourish
cracked the long whip, not once, but thrice, delivering herself of
sharp, peremptory cries in Spanish. The mules needed no further
encouragement. They tore up the steep and winding road, whisked round
curves, strained every muscle to show what a Spanish mule could do. They
even shook their heads and tossed them in the air that their bells might
jingle the louder. Mrs. Moulton and Jane screamed, clinging to each
other, the portmanteaus bounced to the floor, and Mr. Moulton would have
grasped Catalina’s arm but Over intercepted and reassured him. And,
indeed, there were few better whips than Catalina in a state notorious
for a century of reckless and brilliant driving. She drove like a
cowboy, not like an Englishwoman, Over commented, but he felt the
exhilaration of it, even when the unwieldy diligence bounded from side
to side in the narrow road and the dust enveloped them. In a moment he
shifted his eyes to her face. Her white teeth were gleaming through the
half-open bow of her mouth, tense but smiling, and her splendid eyes
were flashing, not only with the pleasure of the born horsewoman, but
with a wicked delight in the consternation behind her. She looked,
despite the mules and the dusty old diligence, like a goddess in a
chariot of victory, and Over, who rarely imagined, half expected to see
fire whirling in the clouds of dust about the wheels.
As they reached the top of the bluff the driver indicated the way, and
they flew down the Rambla San Carlos, past the astounded soldiers
lounging in front of the barracks, and stopped with a grand flourish in
front of the hotel.
Catalina turned to Over, her lips still parted, her eyes glittering.
“That is the first time I have been really happy since I left home,” she
announced, ignoring her precipitately descending relatives. “I feel
young again, and I’ve felt as old as the hills ever since I’ve been in
Europe. I’ll like you forever because you approve of me, and I haven’t
seen that expression on anybody’s face for months.”
“Oh, I approve of you!” said the Englishman, laughing.
They descended, and she challenged him to race her to the parapet that
they might limber themselves. He accepted, and, in spite of her
undepleted youth, he managed to beat by means of a superior length of
limb. The victory filled him with a quite unreasoning sense of
exultation, and as they hung over the parapet and looked out upon the
liquid turquoise of the sea, sparkling under a cloudless sky, its little
white sail-boats dancing along with the pure joy of motion, he felt
younger and happier than he had since his cricket days.
“I think we had better not go to the hotel for a time,” he suggested. “I
am afraid that Mr. and Mrs. Moulton are in a bit of a wax. Perhaps after
they have rested and freshened up they will forgive you, and meanwhile
we can explore.”
So they wandered off to the old town until they stood at the foot of a
flight of ancient stone steps, wider than three streets, that led up to
the plaza before the cathedral. Crouching in the shallow corners of the
stair were black-robed old crones who looked as if they might have
begged of Cæsar. Passing up and down, or in and out of the narrow
streets, to right and left were young women of languid and insolent
carriage, in bright cotton frocks and yellow kerchiefs about their
heads, young men in small clothes and wide hats, loafing along as if all
time were in their little day, and troops and swarms of children. These
attached themselves to the strangers, encouraged by the caressing
Spanish words of the girl, followed them through the cathedral, and out
into a side street, chattering like magpies.
“You look like a comet with a long tail,” said Over. “I’ll scatter them
with a few coppers.” He paused as she turned her head over her shoulder
and regarded him with a wondering reproach. For the moment her large
brown eyes looked bovine. “Do you want these little demons to follow us
all over the place?” he asked, curiously.
“Why not?”
“Tarragona is theirs,” said Over, lightly. “They would annoy most
women.” He hoped to provoke her to further revelation, but she made no
reply, and they rambled with occasional speech through the ancient
narrow streets, followed by their noisy retinue, the little Murillo
faces sparkling with curiosity and foresight of illimitable wealth in
coppers.
But even Catalina forgot them at times, as she and her companion stopped
to decipher the Roman inscription on the foundation blocks of many of
the houses. Although the houses themselves may have been younger than
the huge blocks with their legends of the Scipios and the Cæsars, they
were old enough, and the steep and winding streets, with the women
hanging out of the high windows and sitting before the doors, all bits
of color against the mellow stone, were no doubt much the same in effect
as when Augustus and his hosts marched by with eagles aloft.
Catalina, who had the historic sense highly developed and had found her
happiness in the past, infected Over with her enthusiasm, and he
followed her without protest to the outskirts of the town, and looked
down over the great valley beneath the heights of Tarragona, then up
past the Cyclopean walls, those stupendous, unhewn blocks of masonry
which still, for a sweep of two miles or more, surround the old town.
“What a place to hide from the world!” said Catalina. They had turned
into a little street just within the wall, and seated themselves on an
odd block to rest, their exhausted retinue camping all the way along the
line. Opposite them was a high and narrow house, its upper balcony full
of flowers, and an arcade behind suggesting the dim quiet of patio with
its palms and fountain, its shadows haunted with incommunicable memories
of an ancient past. “The new town we drove through with its fine houses
is too commonplace; but this—any one of these eyries—what a nest! I
could live quite happy up there, couldn’t you?”
“For a time.” He was too frankly modern to yield unconditionally. “But I
must confess I can’t think what artists are about.”
When they reached the plaza, Catalina turned to the children and
solemnly thanked them for the great pleasure and service they had
rendered two belated strangers. They accepted the tribute in perfect
good faith and then scrambled for the coppers.
                                  VIII
Over and Catalina walked hastily to the hotel; they had but half an hour
in which to make themselves presentable for dinner. Preparation for this
function, however, was not elaborate. A tub and a change of shirt and
blouse was all that could be expected of weary tourists travelling with
one portmanteau each; their trunks were not to leave the stations until
they reached Granada. Catalina invariably appeared in her hat, ready to
go out again the moment the meal was over if she could induce Mr.
Moulton to take her. Tonight the others sat down to their excellent
repast in the cool dining-room without her. Mrs. Moulton and Jane were
disposed to treat Over with hauteur, but thawed after the soup and fish.
Mr. Moulton had long since recovered his serenity and expressed regret
that he had not accompanied the more enterprising members of the party.
Only Lydia, who had put on her prettiest blouse and fluffed her hair
anew, was interested in neither dinner nor Tarragona.
“Off your feed?” Over was asking, sympathetically, when Mrs. Moulton,
who was helping herself to the roast, dropped the fork on her plate. The
others followed the direction of her astonished eyes and beheld
Catalina—but not the Catalina of their habit. Hers was the largest of
the portmanteaus, and it was evident that she had excavated it at last.
Gone were the stiff, short skirt and ill-fitting blouse, the drooping
hat and shapeless coat. She wore a girlish gown of white nun’s-veiling,
made with a masterly simplicity that revealed her figure in all its long
grace, its gentle curves, and supple power of endurance. Only the round
throat and forearms were revealed, but the lace about them and the calm
stateliness of her carriage produced the impression of full dress. Her
mass of waving chestnut hair, with a sheen of gold like a web on its
surface, was parted and brushed back from her oval face into a heavy
knot at the base of the head. Around her throat she wore a string of
pearls, and falling from her shoulders a crimson scarf.
She walked down the long room with a perfect simulation of
unconsciousness, except for the lofty carriage of her head, which
concealed much inward trepidation. Her broad brow was as bland as a
child’s, and her eyes wore what an admirer had once called her
“wondering look.” Never had her remarkable mouth looked so like a bow,
the bow of her Indian ancestors. A beauty she was at last, fulfilling
the uneasy prediction of her relatives. The few other people in the
dining-room stared, and Captain Over, who had risen, stared at her hard.
“Ripping! Ripping!” he thought. Then, with a shock of personal pride:
“She no longer looks like a cow-boy. She might be on her way to court.”
It was characteristic of Catalina that she did not even sink into her
seat with one of those airy remarks with which woman demonstrates her
ease in unusual circumstances. She made no remark whatever, but helped
herself to the roast and fell to with a hearty appetite. Neither did she
send a flash of coquetry to Captain Over; and he, with an odd sense that
in her incongruity, and the hostility aroused in two of the party, she
stood in need of a protector, began talking much faster than was his
wont, and even condescended to tell Mr. Moulton an anecdote of the late
campaign. Having gone so far he hardly could retreat, and indeed his
reluctance seemed finally to be overcome. Very soon the company had
forgotten Catalina, and Catalina came forth from herself and hung upon
his words. Given her own way she would have been a man and a soldier,
and like all normal women she exalted heroism to the head of the manly
virtues. Over told no stories wherein he was the hero, but unwittingly
he unrolled a panorama of infinite possibilities for the brave race of
whose best he was a type. At all events, he made himself extremely
interesting, and when he was finally left to Mr. Moulton and cigars,
Catalina walked blindly out of the front door of the hotel, reinvoking
the pictures that had stimulated her imagination. She was recalled by
the pressure of a small but bony hand on her bare arm. She turned to
meet the cold, blue gaze of Mrs. Moulton. That gentlewoman was very
erect and very formal.
“You cannot go out alone!” she said, with disgust in her voice. “I am
surprised to be forced to remind you that this is not—California. It
would be impossible in your travelling costume, but dressed as for an
evening’s entertainment in a private house you would be insulted at
once. As long as you travel with us I must insist that you give as
little trouble as possible.”
If she hoped for war, feeling herself for once secure, she was
disappointed. Catalina merely shrugged her shoulders and, re-entering
the hall, ascended the stair. She recalled that her room opened upon a
balcony, which would answer her purpose.
The balcony hung above a garden overflowing with flowers, surrounded on
three sides by the hotel and its low outbuildings, and secluded from the
sloping street by a high wall. She paced up and down watching the
servants under the veranda washing their dishes. They all wore a bit of
the bright color beloved of the Iberian, and they made a great deal of
noise. Suddenly Lydia took possession of her arm and related the
adventure of the afternoon.
“Is it not dreadful?” she concluded. “A peasant! But to save my life I
cannot be as furious as I should—nor help thinking of it. I feel like
one of those princesses in the fairy tales beloved of the poor but
wonderful youth.”
“It is highly romantic,” replied Catalina, dryly. “The setting was not
all that it might have been, and I have seen too many picturesque
vaqueros all my life to be deeply impressed by a handsome peasant in a
blouse; but I suppose any romance is better than none in this Old
World.”
She felt vaguely alarmed, and half a generation older than this silly
little cousin whose suburban experience made her peculiarly susceptible
to any semblance of romance in Europe; but as Lydia, repelled in her
girlish confidence, drew stiffly away from her, Catalina relented with a
gush of feminine sympathy.
“I really mean that a bit of romance like that makes life more
endurable,” she asserted. “And you may be sure that your marquis would
not have been so delicate. I wonder who he is! He certainly is a
personage in his way. Of course, you’ll never see him again, but it will
be something to think about when you are married to an author and
correcting his type-written manuscripts!”
Lydia, mollified, laughed merrily. “I’m never going to marry any old
author. Let the recording angel take note of that. I’m sick of mutual
admiration societies—and all the rest of it. If I can’t do any better
I’ll manage to marry some enterprising young business man and help him
to grow rich.”
Catalina, who had had her own way all her life, nevertheless appreciated
the colorless shallows in which her cousin had splashed of late in the
vain attempt to reach a shore, and replied, sympathetically:
“Come back to California when I go and live on my ranch for a while.
Out-of-doors is what you want; a far-away horizon is as good for the
soul as for the eyes. And you’ll get enough of the picturesque and all
the liberty you can carry—”
She paused abruptly and Lydia caught her breath. In the street below was
the sound of a guitar, then of a man’s impassioned voice.
The girls stole to the edge of the balcony and looked over. There was no
moon, and the vines were close. The street was thick with shadows, but
they could see the lithe, active figure of a man clad in velvet jacket
and smallclothes. His head was flung back and his quick, rich notes
seemed to leap to the balcony above. Catalina had forgotten that her
candles still burned. Their rays fell directly on the girls. The man saw
them and his voice burst forth in such peremptory volume, ringing
against the walls of the narrow street, that heads began to appear at
many windows.
“It is that peasant we saw on the train to-day,” said Over’s amused
voice behind the girls. “He was in the café a moment ago and is got up
in full peasant finery. You made a conquest, Miss Lydia.”
Catalina felt her companion give an ecstatic shiver, but omitted to pull
her back as she leaned recklessly over the rail. Her own spirit seemed
to swirl in that glorious tide. She threw back her head, staring at the
black velvet skies of Spain with their golden music, then turned slowly
and regarded the old white walls and gardens about her, the palms and
the riot of flowers and vine, invoking the image of Cæsar himself
prowling in the night to the lattice of inviting loveliness in a
mantilla. She wished she had draped her own about her head, and wondered
if Over shared her vision.
But he was merely marvelling at her beauty, and wondering if he should
ever get as far as California. He would like to see her in that patio
she had described to him, with its old mission fountain, its gigantic
date-palms through whose bending branches the sun never penetrated, the
big-leaved banana-tree heavy with yellow fruit, the scarlet hammock, the
mountains rising just behind the old house. She had described it to him
only that afternoon, and he had received a vivid impression of it all,
and of the deep verandas and the cool, austere rooms within. It had
struck him as a delightful retreat after the strife of the world, and he
wondered if under that eternally blue sky, in that Southern land of
warmth and color, where the very air caressed, he could not forget even
the broad demesne of his ancestors, a demesne that would never be his,
but where he was always a welcome guest. She had told him that her
estate—her “ranch”—went right down to the sea; it was, in fact, a wide
valley, closed with the Pacific at one end, and a range of mountains
immediately behind the house. It had seemed to him the ideal existence
as she described it, a perfect balance of the intellectual and the
out-door life, of boundless freedom and unvarying health; and all in an
atmosphere of perfect peace. He had envied her at the moment, but had
philosophically concluded that in the long run a man’s club most nearly
filled the bill. He fancied, however, that he should correspond with
her, and one of these days pay her a visit.
“Best remember that this is the land of passion, not of idle flirtation,
Miss Lydia,” he said, warningly, as the music ceased for a moment. “What
is play to you might be death to that Johnny down there.”
For answer Lydia plucked a rose and dropped it into a lithe brown hand
that shot up to meet it.
                                   IX
Catalina threw on her dressing-gown and leaned far out of her window.
The very air felt as if it had been drenched by the golden shower of the
morning sun, and so clear it was, it glittered like the sea. Across the
narrow way was a stately white house, doubtless the “palace” of a rich
man, and behind it, high above the street, was a beautiful garden, at
whose very end, in an angle of the stone wall, stood a palm-tree. Beyond
that palm-tree, so delicate and graceful in its peculiar stiffness, was
a glimpse of blue water. Far below was a cross street in which no one
moved as yet, and beside her were the balcony and garden of the hotel
and the vines hanging over the wall.
Catalina sang, in the pure joy of being alive, a snatch of one of the
Spanish songs still to be heard in Southern California.
“Buenas dias, señorita,” broke in a low and cautious voice, and
Catalina, turning with a start and frown, saw that Captain Over was
looking round the corner of the balcony.
“If you will come out here,” he continued, “I will make you a cup of
coffee, and then we can go for a walk.”
Catalina nodded amiably, and, hastily dressing herself, opened her long
window and joined him. He had brought his travelling-lamp and
coffee-pot, and the water was simmering. With the exception of a man who
was cleaning harness in the court below, they seemed to be the only
persons awake. The air was heavy laden with sweet scents, and the garden
in the fresh morning light was a riot of color. The Mediterranean was
murmuring seductively to the shore.
“This is heaven,” sighed Catalina. “Why can’t one always be free from
care like this—the Moultons, to be exact. Let’s you and I and Lydia run
away from the rest.”
“When I run away with a woman I shall not take a chaperon,” said Over,
coolly.
Catalina could assume the blankness of a mask, but upon repartee she
never ventured. “Am I not to do any of the work?” she asked. “I am sick
of being waited on. At home I often make my own breakfast before my lazy
Mexicans are up, and saddle my horse. I do a great deal of work on the
ranch, first and last, for I believe in work—and I didn’t get the idea
from Tolstoï, either. I don’t like Tolstoï,” she added, defiantly. “He’s
one of those gigantic fakes the world always believes in.”
“Well, I’ve never read a line of Tolstoï,” admitted Captain Over, who
was carefully revolving his coffee-machine, “so I can’t argue with you.
But work! This is all the work I want.”
“Don’t you love work?”
“I don’t.”
“But you do work.”
“At what?”
“Oh, in the army and all that.”
“My orderly does the work.”
“You are so provoking. There is all sorts of work you must do yourself.”
“Well, why do you remind me of anything so painful, when I am doing my
best to forget it? You are not an altruist or a socialist, are you?”
“I’m not anything that some one else has invented. I believe in work,
because idleness horrifies me; some primal instinct in me wars against
it. The civilization that permits idleness in the rich and in those with
just enough to relieve them from work, with none of the responsibilities
and diversions of great fortunes, is no civilization at all, to my mind.
Of course, I believe in progress, but I believe in hanging on to the
conditions which first made progress possible; and when I saw those
carriage-loads of ridiculous women and finery in Paris I wanted to go
home and till the soil and restore the balance. How good that coffee
smells!”
He poured her out a steaming cup. He had raided the kitchen for cream
and bread, and he carried sugar with him. No orderly had ever made
better coffee.
“What women?” he asked, smiling into her still angry eyes. They were
seated at a little table close to the railing and the vines hung down in
her hair. Her theories might be crude and somewhat vague, but at least
she thought for herself.
She described the morning in the Rue de Rivoli and the procession of
American butterflies.
“What can you expect in a new republic of sudden fortunes?” he asked.
“Some one must spend the money, and the men haven’t time.”
“Then are your women something besides nerves and clothes—your leisure
women?”
“I don’t wish to be rude, but they are. I am, of course, only comparing
them with your idle class. I have had no chance to meet any other until
now. But I have met scores of rich American women and girls in London
and at country-houses, and I’ve come to the conclusion that what is the
matter with them—aside from lack of traditions—is that their men leave
them nothing to do but spend money and amuse themselves. With us rich
women and poor are helpmeets, and what saves our fast set from being as
empty-headed as yours is that they have grown up among men of affairs,
have heard the great questions discussed all their lives. Then, of
course, they are far better educated, and often extremely
clever—something more than bright and amusing. Many of them are pretty
hard cases, I’m not denying that; but few are silly. They have not had
the chance to be, and that is where ancestors come in, too—serious
ancestors. Personally, I have never been sensible to the famous charm of
the American woman, and although there are exceptions, naturally—I am
only generalizing—they strike me in the mass as being shallow, selfish,
egotistical, nervous. I suppose the fundamental trouble is that they
have so much that an impossible ideal of happiness is the result, and
they are restless and dissatisfied because they can’t get it. Possibly
in another generation or two they may develop the sort of brain that
makes the women of the Old World well balanced and philosophical.”
“Weren’t you ever tempted to marry an heiress?”
“I never saw one that would look at me, so I’ve been spared one
temptation, at least.”
Catalina had finished her coffee. She leaned her chin on her hands and
gazed at him reflectively. “I should think you could get one,” she said,
quite impersonally. “If you weren’t such a practical soul you’d be
almost romantic looking, and you’re quite the ideal soldier, besides
being a guardsman and well-born. I think if you came to Santa Barbara I
could find you a rich girl. Quantities come there for the winter, and
they are always delighted to be asked to a ranch.”
“All women are match-makers,” he said, testily. “A poor fellow I left
out in South Africa got off just one epigram in his life—‘There are two
kinds of women, living women and dead women.’ I believe he was right.
Shall we go and see if they will let us into the archbishop’s palace?”
                                   X
“Quien quiere agua? Quien quiere agua?”
The shrill cries of the water-carriers smote upon grateful ears as the
dusty, sun-baked train paused at Fuente, a little station on the zigzag
between Valencia and Albacete. They were young, misshapen girls, the hip
that supported the gourd at least three inches higher than the other,
with a corresponding elevation of shoulder. All along the train, hands
were waving encouragingly, accompanied by cries of “Aqui! Aqui!” and the
glasses were rapidly filled and emptied. But few ran over to the
cantina where the wine of the country was sold; and the amount of
water that is dispensed at every station in Spain should encourage those
whose war-cry is temperance and who are prone to believe that the
southern races are lost. But water is precious in Spain, and must be
paid for. At every station old women are waiting with buckets to catch
the discharge from the engine—not, it is to be hoped, for traffic.
Even the Moultons, who had exhausted Captain Over’s aluminum bottle and
had prejudices against uncertified water, passed out their own cups and
drank thirstily. No one was in his best temper. Valencia is a dirty,
noisy, ill-mannered city, and after two sleepless nights they had been
forced to rise early or remain another day. Moreover, the handsome
peasant had followed them with a melodious persistence that was causing
Mr. Moulton serious uneasiness. It was impossible to appeal to the
Guardia Civile, for the man did nothing that was not within his rights;
for the matter of that the stranger in Spain is practically without
rights. The man—his name, it was now known, was Jesus Maria—a name
common enough in a land without humor—never even offered them the usual
courtesies of travel. Nevertheless, he managed to make his presence felt
in a hundred ways independently of his voice and guitar, as well as the
subtle intimation that for the stern frown on Mr. Moulton’s brow he
cared nothing.
“I don’t wish any trouble, of course,” Mr. Moulton had said to Over that
morning, “but I am seriously considering the plan of continuing the
journey to Granada in a first-class carriage. Lydia has already begun to
suffer from the annoyance, and it is abominable that a refined,
carefully brought up girl should be subjected to such an experience. The
marquis was bad enough—but this! Even when her back is to him I am sure
she feels his rude stare. I can assure you, Over, a pretty daughter is a
great responsibility; but although I have had to dispose—diplomatically,
of course—of several undesirable suitors, I never even anticipated
anything like this. It is preposterous.”
“The first-class idea is not bad; it would emphasize the difference
between them; it is rather a puzzle to him, I fancy—he is a Spaniard,
remember—that we travel in his own way and yet regard him from a
superior plane.”
Captain Over, as he stood with Catalina at a booth on the platform
buying substantial tortillas made of eggs, meat, and potatoes, repeated
the conversation. “He thinks they have never communicated in any way,”
he added. “What is the best thing to do? I don’t fancy telling tales,
but it seems to me Mr. Moulton should be warned.”
“Oh, Lydia can take care of herself,” said Catalina, carelessly. “She is
a little flirt and quite intoxicated with what she calls an intrigue. It
is the first time she has ever done any thinking for herself—you can see
what Cousin Lyman is; he’d feed us if we’d let him. If we were Moultons,
we’d be taking a little fling ourselves. Here she comes.”
Lydia found a place beside them in the crowd that was clamoring for the
old woman’s hot tortillas.
“Mother says there is not enough bread,” she said. “Jane is afraid of
the beggars and father has disappeared, or I suppose I should not have
got this far alone. Talk about the freedom of the American girl! I’d
like to write a book to tell the world how many different kinds of
Americans there are.”
“You can’t deny that you are a spoiled child, though,” said Over,
banteringly, and then he scowled. The young peasant had joined the group
and was quietly demanding a tortilla. He no longer wore his peasant
blouse, but the gala costume he had bought or borrowed in Tarragona. He
was a superb figure of a man, and every woman on the platform stared at
him. He looked haughtily aloof, even from Lydia, but Over saw her hand
seek her little waist-bag and suspected that a note passed.
“He certainly is a man,” he said to Catalina, as they walked back to the
train; “looks more of a gentleman, for that matter, than a good many we
dine with. Still, it can’t go on; so set your wits to work, and we’ll
get rid of him between us.”
But for Jesus Maria the afternoon would have been delightful. They were
ascending, and the air was cooler; the great plain of La Mancha was
studded with windmills, and its horizon gave up the welcome and lofty
ridges of the Sierra de Alcatraz. But the cavalier—when not smoking the
eternal cigarito—strummed his guitar and sang all the love-songs he
knew. Mr. Moulton coughed and frowned and ordered Lydia to turn her
back; but open remonstrance might have meant the flashing of knives,
certainly the vociferating protest of female voices, for the car was
crowded and the peasants were delighted with the concert. At Chinchilla,
however, there was a diversion, and love moved rearward.
A man leaped into the train. He wore a belt of three tiers, and each
tier was stuck full of knives. Mrs. Moulton screamed; but he was
immediately surrounded by the peasants, who snatched at the knives and
bargained shamelessly. In a moment he thrust them aside, and, making his
way to the strangers, protested that he had reserved his best for them,
and flourished in their faces some of the finest specimens of
Albacete—long, curved blades of steel and long, curved handles of ebony
or ivory inlaid with bits of colored glass and copper. Catalina and
Captain Over bought several at a third of the price demanded. The
Catalan had followed the huckster, and under Mr. Moulton’s very nose he
bought the longest and most deadly of the collection. After several
playful thrusts at the vender, and severing a lock of his hair, he
thrust it conspicuously into his sash, and with a lightning glance at
poor Mr. Moulton returned to his seat. Here it was evident that he
related deeds of prowess; once more he flourished the knife, and his
audience uttered high staccato notes of approval.
                                   XI
They arrived at Albacete before nightfall. It was too small a place for
the omnibus, but several enterprising boys appropriated the hand-luggage
and, without awaiting instructions, made for the one hotel of the Alto.
This proved to be so far superior to the hotel of the small American
town that it appeared palatial to the weary travellers. It stood, large
and white and cool, on the Alameda, whose double row of plane-trees
formed an avenue down the middle of the long, wide street. It is true
the beds were not made, water appeared to be as precious as at the
stations, and the servants as weak of head as of ambulatory muscle; but
the rooms were large and lofty and clean, and the supper was eatable.
Mrs. Moulton and Jane, after a brief ramble, sought what to both was
become the end and aim of all travelling—bed and quiet; and Mr. Moulton,
leaving the other two girls in charge of Over, soon followed their
example.
“I saw that scoundrel leave the train,” he murmured, as he left Over at
the foot of the staircase, “but he has gone off to the diversions of the
new town, no doubt, and will be occupied for a few hours at least.”
The girls had wandered to the doorway and were looking out into the dark
Alameda. Over exchanged a glance with Catalina and drew Lydia’s hand
through his arm.
“Miss Shore is tired,” he said, “but I am sure you will enjoy another
stroll. At all events don’t leave me to moon by myself.” And Lydia,
flattered by the unusual attention, surrendered with her charming
animation of word and feature.
They walked beside the Alameda down to the quaint old plaza, surrounded
by white houses of varied architecture, deserted and dimly lit with the
infrequent lamp. When Englishmen are diplomatic they are the most subtle
and sinuous of mankind, but when they are not they are the bluntest.
Over said nothing whatever until he had enjoyed the half of his pipe,
and then he remarked, “I say, you must drop that man—send him about his
business without any more loss of time.”
Lydia, who had been prattling amiably, stiffened and attempted to
withdraw her arm.
“What are my affairs to you?” she asked, haughtily.
“For this trip I am your big brother. I should not merit the friendship
of your father if I did not make this affair my own. Brothers are always
privileged to be rude, you know: you are not only playing a silly game,
but a dangerous one. That man will try to kidnap you—he is only one
degree removed from a bandit.” Lydia’s eyes flashed, and he hastened to
rectify a possible misstep. “How would you like to live in the side of a
hill with your lord—to escape taxes—and cook his frijoles three hundred
and sixty-five days of the year? If he didn’t beat you, he certainly
would not serenade you; and even in a country where water is more
plentiful than in Spain—suppose you induced him to emigrate—it is
doubtful if he would ever take a bath—”
“You are a brute!”
“Merely practical. He would insist upon having his beans flavored with
garlic, and he doubtless smokes all night as well as all day. He may be
a good enough sort in the main, but there is no hope here for a man to
rise above his station in life. If there were a revolution he would
probably be in the thick of it and get himself killed; and if he
followed you to America—failing to kidnap you—he would probably open a
cigar-shop on the Bowery.”
He had expected tears, but Lydia drew herself up and said, coldly: “I
don’t think I am in danger of being kidnapped. Strange as it may appear,
I feel quite well able to take care of myself, and if with you on one
side and father on the other I can’t vary the monotony of life with a
little flirtation—well, if you were a girl, surrounded by goody-goody
people as I have always been, you might be tempted a little way by
something that had the glamour of romance.”
“Girls must find life rather a bore,” said Over, sympathetically. “And I
only wish your hero were worthy of you, but, take my word for it, his
romantic picturesqueness is only skin—clothes deep. No man is romantic,
if it comes to that. I met a long-haired poet once, and when we got him
in the smoking-room he was the prosiest of the lot.”
“There is no such thing as romance, then?” asked Lydia, with a sigh.
“Not when you are ‘up against it,’ to use a bit of your own slang.”
As the radiating streets were dark they paced slowly about the plaza.
For a time Lydia was silent, and Over drew thoughtfully at his pipe.
Finally he asked, curiously:
“Do you women really get any satisfaction out of that sort of
thing—talking with your eyes and exchanging an occasional note? I mean,
of course, unless you have a definite idea that it is going to lead to
something?”
“We like any little excitement,” said Lydia, dryly, “and the littlest is
better than none. I suppose you are too masculine—too British—to
understand that!”
“Well, yes, I am, rather. I fancy what is the matter with girls is that
they don’t have to work as hard as boys—don’t have so many opportunities
to work off steam. As for this Johnny, he must be a silly ass if he is
content with singing and sighing and rigging himself out. If he
isn’t—there lies the danger. He’ll rally his friends and carry you off.
Nothing could be simpler.”
“I should be quite like Helen—or Mary, Queen of Scots!”
“Good Lord!”
She flushed under the lash of his voice, but in a moment raised her eyes
softly to his. “You are so good,” she murmured. “Really like a brother,
so I don’t mind telling you that I am fearfully interested—but not so
much in the mere man as in the whole thing. It has all seemed so
romantic, at least. I don’t believe an American girl ever had such an
experience before. However, I will set your mind at rest—since you are
so good as to take an interest in poor little me—I haven’t the slightest
desire really to know the man. I should be disenchanted, of course, for
I could not stand commonness in the most beautiful husk. But—there is
something in one quite independent of all that—of one’s upbringing,
one’s prejudices, of common-sense—can’t you understand?—the primeval
attraction of man and woman. I have been quite aware that all this could
come to nothing, but it has been something to have felt that way for
once in a well-regulated lifetime; to have been primal for a fleeting
moment is something, I can assure you.”
Over groped in the depths of his masculine understanding. “Well, I
suppose so. But what of the man? It is a mere experience to you, but it
may be a matter of life and death to a poor devil who is nine-tenths
fire and sentiment.”
“He, too, has something to think about for the rest of his life.”
“And you fancy that will satisfy him?”
“It will have to.”
“You might have spared him.”
“There can be no romance without a hero.”
“Upon my word, you are the greater savage of the two!”
“I told you I enjoyed being a savage for once in my life.”
Over made no reply, and if Lydia’s glance had not dropped to the uneven
pavement, she would have seen his eyes open wide with incredulous
amazement and then flash with anger. As it was, she wondered why he
hurried her back to the hotel and then practically ordered her up to her
room. He stood on the lower step of the stair until he heard her greet
Jane; then he left the hotel and walked rapidly down the street again.
In a moment he met Catalina.
“Oh,” he said, with an awkward attempt at masculine indifference,
although his eyes were blazing. “Are you out—alone—as late as this?
Isn’t it rather risky?”
“I’ve been walking with Jesus Maria,” she replied, coolly. “What a baby
you were to walk off through these lonely streets with Lydia! I
supposed, of course, that you would talk to her in the hotel. Don’t you
know that man would have been mad with jealousy if he had seen you? Then
there would have been a fine rough-and-tumble if he hadn’t got a knife
into your back first. He came along with that everlasting guitar under
his arm just after you left, and I told him that Lydia was ill, and
asked him to take a walk with me. We’d better give him the slip as soon
as possible; he’s off his head about her.”
“What a little brick you are! What did he have to say?”
“I explained to him that he could never hope to marry Lydia, and
elevated the family to the ancient aristocracy of America. It made no
impression on him whatever. He expressed contempt for the entire race,
barring Lydia, whom he takes to be an angel. I concluded that disloyalty
was the better part, and told him that Lydia was nothing but a little
American flirt trying to have a sensation. That made even less
impression on him—he believes that she is ready to fly with him at a
moment’s notice. I did more harm than good, and I shall speak to Cousin
Lyman to-night.”
Over stared hard at her. “That was very brave of you. Aren’t you afraid
