" If she were my daughter I'd do it, too ! " 
Sylvia did not stir. 
" Little idiot ! Going into a man's house in the face 
of all Fifth Avenue and the teeth of decency ! " 
" She has courage," said Sylvia, still very white. 
"Courage! Do you mean fool-hardiness.''" 
" No, courage — the courage I lacked. I knew he 
was too ill to leave his room and I lacked the courage 
to go and see him." 
" You mean, alone .? " 
" Certainly, alone." 
" You dare tell me you ever contemplated " 
" Oh, yes. I think I should have done it yet, but — 
but Marion " 
Suddenly she bent forward, resting her face in her 
hands ; and between the fingers a bright drop ran, glim- 
mered, and fell. 
" O Lord ! " breathed Mrs. Ferrall, and sank back, 
nerveless, into her own corner of the rocking brougham. 
CHAPTER XII 
 
SiWARD, at his desk, over which the May sunshine 
streamed, his crutches laid against his chair, sat poring 
over the piles of papers left there by Beverly Plank 
some days before with a curt recommendation that he 
master their contents. 
Some of the papers were typewritten, some appeared 
to be engraved certificates of stock, a few were in 
Plank's heavy, squat handwriting. There were several 
packages tied in pink tape, evidently legal papers of 
some sort ; and also a pile of scrap-books containing 
newspaper clippings to which Siward referred occa- 
sionally, or read them at length, resting his thin, fa- 
tigued face between two bony hands. 
The curious persistence of youth in his features 
seemed unaccountable in view of the heavy marks im- 
printed there ; but they were marks, not lines ; bluish 
hollows under eyes still joung, marred contours of the 
cheek-bone; a hardness about the hollow temples above 
which his short, bright hair clustered with all its soft, 
youthful allure undimmed; and in every movement, 
every turn of his head, there still remained much of 
that indefinable attractiveness which had always charac- 
terised his race — much of the unconscious charm usually 
known as breeding. 
In men of Mortimer's fibre, dissipation produced 
coarser symptoms — distended veins, and sagging flesh 
 
— where in Siward it seemed to bruise and harden, 
driving the colour of blood out of him and leaving the 
pallor of marble, and the bluish shadows of it staining 
the hollows. Only the eyes had begun to change radi- 
cally ; something in them had been quenched. 
That he could never hope to become immune he had 
learned at last when he had returned, physically whole- 
some, from his long course of training under the famous 
Irish specialist on the Hudson. He had expected to be 
immune, spite of the blunt and forcible language of 
Mulqueen when he turned him out into the world again : 
" Ye'll be afther notin'," said Mr. Mulqueen, " that 
a poonch in the plexis putts a man out; but it don't 
kill him. That's you\ Whin a man mixes it up wid 
the booze, I'ave him come here an' I'll tache him a 
thrick. But it's not murther I tache; it's the hook on 
the jaw that shtops, an' the poonch in the plexis that 
putts the booze-divil on the bum ! L'ave him take the 
count ; he'll niver rise to the chune o' the bell av ye 
l'ave him lie. But he ain't dead, Misther Sayward; 
mark that, me son ! An' don't ye be afther sayin', ' Th' 
inimy is down an' out fur good ! Pore lad ! Sure, I'll 
shake hands over a dhrink wid him, for he can do me 
no hurrt anny more ! ' No, sorr ! L'ave him lie, an' l'ave 
the years av yer life count him out ; fur the day you 
die, he dies, an' not wan shake o' the mixer sooner! 
G'wan, now, fur the rub-down, Ye've f aught yer lasht 
round, if ye ain't a fool ! " 
He had been a fool. He had imagined that he could 
control himself, and practise the moderation that other 
men practised when they chose. The puerile restraint 
annoyed him ; his implied inability to master himself 
humiliated him. the more so because, secretly, he was 
horriblj' afraid in the remote depths of his heart. 
 
Exactly how it happened he did not remember, ex- 
cept that he had gone down town on business and had 
lunched with several men. There was clai-et. Later he 
remembered another cafe, farther up town, and another, 
more brilliantly lighted. After that there were vague 
hours — the fierce fever of debauch wrapping night and 
day in flame through which he moved, unseeing, un- 
heeding, deafened, drenched soul and body in the living 
fire; or dreaming, feeling the subsiding fury of desire 
pulse and ebb and flow, rocking him to unconsciousness. 
His father's old servants had found him again, this 
time in the area; and this time the same ankle, not yet 
strong, had been broken. 
Through the waning winter days, as he lay brooding 
in bitterness, realising that it was all to do over again, 
Plank's shy visits became gradually part of the routine. 
But it was many days before Siward perceived in the 
big, lumbering, pink-fisted man anything to attract him 
beyond the faintlj amused curiosity of one man for an- 
other who is in process of establishing himself as the 
first of a race. 
As for reciprocation in other forms except the most 
superficial, or of permitting a personal note to sound 
ever so discreetly, Siward tolerated no such idea. Even 
the tentative advances of Plank hinting on willingness, 
and perhaps abihty, to help Siward in the Amalgamated 
tangle were pleasantly ignored. Unpaid services ren- 
dered by men like Plank were impossible; any obliga- 
tion to Plank was utterly' out of the question. Mean- 
while they began to like one another — at least Siward 
often found himself looking forward with pleasure to 
a visit from Plank. There had never been any question 
of the latter's attitude toward Siward. 
Plank began to frequent the house, but never in- 
f
 
formall3% It is doubtful whether he could have prac- 
tised informahty in that house even at Siward's invita- 
tion. Something of the attitude of a college lower 
classman for a man in a class above seemed to typify their 
relations; and that feeling is never entirely eradicated 
between men, no matter how close their relationship in 
after-life. 
One very bad night Plank came to the house and 
was admitted by Gumble. Wands, the second man, stood 
behind the aged butler; both were apparently fright- 
ened. 
That something was amiss appeared plainly enough ; 
and Plank, instinctively producing a card, dropped it 
on a table and turned to go. It may have been that the 
old butler recognised the innate delicacy of the motive, 
or it may have been a sudden confidence bom of the 
necessities of the case, for he asked Plank to see his 
young master. 
And Plank, looking him in the eyes, considered, until 
his courage began to fail. Then he went up-stairs. 
It was a bad night outside, and it was a bad night 
for Siward. The master-vice had him by the throat. 
He sat there, clutching the arms of his chair, his broken 
\Qg, in its plaster casing, extended in front of him ; and 
when he saw Plank enter he glared at him. 
Hour after hour the two men sat there, the one white 
with rage, but helpless ; the other, stolid, inert, deaf to 
demands for intercession with the arch-vice, dumb under 
pleadings for a compromise. He refused to interfere 
with the butler, and Siward insulted him. He refused 
to go and find the decanters himself, and Siward delib- 
erately cursed him. 
Outside the storm raged all night. Inside that 
house Plank faced a more awful tempest. There was 
 
a sedative on the mantel and he offered it to Si ward, 
who struck it from his hand. 
Once, toward morning, Siward feigned sleep, and 
Plank, lieavy head on his breast, feigned it, too. Then 
Siward bent over stealthily and opened a drawer in his 
desk; and Plank was on his feet like a flash, jerking the 
morphine from Siward's fingers. 
The doctor arrived at daylight, responding to 
Plank's summons by telephone, and Plank went away 
with the morphine and Siward's revolver bulging in the 
side-pockets of his dinner coat. 
He dad not come again for a week. A short note 
from Siward started him toward lower Fifth Avenue. 
There was little said when he came into the room : 
" Hello, Plank ! Glad to see you." 
" Hello! Are you all right? " 
" All right. . . . Much obliged for pulling me 
through. Wish you'd pull me through this Amalga- 
mated Electric knot-hole, too — some day ! " 
"Do — do you mean it.''" ventured Plank, turning 
red with delight. 
" Mean it ? Indeed I do — if you do. Sit here ; ring 
for whatever you want — or perhaps you'd better go 
down to the sideboard. I'm not to be trusted with the 
odour in the room just yet." 
" I don't care for anything," said Plank. 
" Whenever you please, then. You know the house, 
and you don't mind my being unceremonious, do you.'' " 
" No," said Plank. 
"Grood!" rejoined Siward, laughing. "I expect 
the same friendly lack of ceremony from you." 
But that, for Plank, was impossible. All he could 
do was to care the more for Siward without crossing the 
border line so suddenly made free; all he could do was 
 
to sit there rolling and unrolling his gloves into wads 
with his clumsy, highly coloured hands, and gaze con- 
sciously at everything in the room except Siward. 
On that day, at Plank's shy suggestion, they talked 
over Siward's business affairs for the first time. After 
that day, and for many days, the subject became the 
key-note to their intercourse ; and Siward at last under- 
stood that this man desired to do him a service absolutely 
and purely from a disinterested liking for him, and as 
an expression of that liking. Also he was unexpectedly 
made aware of Plank's serenely unerring business sa- 
gacity. 
That surface cynicism which all must learn, sooner 
or later, or remain the victims of naive credulity, was, 
in Siward, nothing but an outer skin, as it is in all who 
acquire wisdom with their cynicism. It was not long 
proof against Plank's simple attitude and undisguised 
pleasure in doing something for a man he liked. Under 
that simplicity no motive, no self-interest could skulk ; 
and Siward knew it. 
As for the quid pro quo, Siward had insisted from 
the first on a business arrangement. The treachery of 
Major Belwether through sheer fright had knocked the 
key-stone from the syndicate, and the dam which made 
the golden pool possible collapsed, showering Plank's 
brokers who worked patiently with buckets and mops. 
The double treachery of Quarrier was now perfectly 
apparent to Plank. Siward, true to his word, held his 
stock in the face of ruin. Kemp Ferrall, furious with 
the major, and beginning to suspect Quarrier, came to 
Plank for consultation. 
Then the defence formed under Plank. Legal ma- 
chinery was set in motion, meeting followed meeting, until 
Harrington cynically showed his hand and Quarrier 
 
smiled his rare smile ; and the fight against Inter-County 
was on in the open, preceded by a furious clamour of 
charge and counter-charge in the columns of the daily 
press. 
That Quarrier had been guilty of something or other 
was the vague impression of that great news-reading 
public which, stunned by the reiteration of figures in the 
millions, turns to the simpler pleasures of a murder trial. 
Besides, whatever Quarrier had done was no doubt done 
within the chalk-marked courts of the game, though 
probabh his shoes may have become a little dust}'. 
But who could hope to bring players like Quarrier 
before the ordinary umpire, or to investigate his methods 
with the ever3'day investigations reserved for everyday 
folk, whose road through business life lay always be- 
tween State's prison and the penitentiary and whose 
guide-posts were policemen.'' 
Let the great syndicates join in battle; they could 
only slay each other. Let the millions bury their mil- 
lions; the public, though poorer, could never be the 
wiser. 
Siward, at his desk, the May sunshine pouring over 
him, sat conning the heaps of typewritten sheets, 
striving to see between the lines some sign of fortune 
for his investments, some promise of release from the 
increasing financial stringency, some chance of justice 
being done on those high priests who had been perform- 
ing marvellous tricks upon their altar so that by miracle, 
mine and thine spelled " ours," and all the tablets of 
the law were lettered upside down and hind-side before, 
like the Black Mass. 
Gumble knocked presently. Siward raised his per- 
plexed eyes. 
 
" Miss Page, sir." 
"Oh," said Siward doubtfully; then, "Ask Miss 
Page to come up." 
Marion strolled in a moment later, exchanged a vig- 
orous hand shake with Siward, pulled up a chair and 
dropped into it. She was in riding-habit and boots, 
faultlessly groomed as usual, her smooth, pale hair sleek 
in its thick knot, collar and tie immaculate as her gloves. 
" Well," she said, " any news of your ankle, 
Stephen.?" 
" I inquired about my ankle," said Siward, amused, 
" and they tell me it is better, thank you." 
" Sit a horse pretty soon.'' " she asked, dropping 
one leg over the other and balancing the riding-crop 
across her knee. 
" Not for awhile. You have a fine day for a gallop, 
Marion," looking askance at the sunshine filtering 
through the first green leaves of the tree outside his 
window. 
" It's all right— the day. I'm trying Tom O'Hara's 
new mare. They say she's a little devil. I never saw 
a devil of a horse — did you.' There may be some out 
West." 
" Don't break that pretty neck of yours, Marion," 
he said. 
She lifted her eyes ; then, briefly, " No fear." 
" Yes, there is," he said. " There's no use looking 
for trouble in a horse. Women who hunt as you hunt 
take all that's legitimately coming to them. Why doesn't 
Tom ride his own mare.'' " 
" She rolled on him," said Marion simply. 
"Oh. Is he hurt.?" 
" Ribs." 
" Well, he's lucky ! " 
 
" Isn't he ! He'll miss a few drills with his precious 
squadron, that's all." 
She was looking about her, preoccupied. " Where 
are your cigarettes, Stephen.'' Oh, I see. Don't try to 
move — don't be silly." 
She leaned over the desk, her fresh young face close 
to his, and reached for the cigarettes. The clean-cut 
head, the sweetness of her youth and femininity, boyish 
in its allure, were very attractive to him — more so, per- 
haps, because of his isolation from the atmosphere of 
women. 
" It's all very well, Marion, your coming here — and 
it's very sweet of you, and I enjoy it immensely," he 
said ; " but it's a deuced imprudent thing for you to do, 
and I feel bound to say so for your sake every time 
you come." 
She leaned back in her chair and coolly blew a wreath 
of smoke at him. 
" All right," he said, unconvinced. 
" Certainly it's all right. I've done what suited me 
all my life. This suits me." 
" It suits me, too," he said, " only I wish you'd tell 
your mother before somebody around this neighbour- 
hood informs her first." 
" Let 'em. You'll be out by that time. Do you 
think I'm going to tell my mother now and have her 
stop it .'' " 
" Oh, Marion, you know perfectly well that it won't 
do for a girl to ignore first principles. I'm horribly 
afraid somebody will talk about you." 
" What would you do, then? " 
" I.? " he asked, disturbed. " What could I do.? " 
" Why, I suppose," she said slowly, " you'd have 
to man'y me." 
 
" Then," he rejoined with a laugh, " I should think 
you'd be scared into prudence by the prospect." 
" I am not easily — scared," she said, looking down. 
" Not at that prospect.? " he said jestingly. 
She looked up at him ; and he remembered afterward 
the poise of her small head, and the slow, clear colour 
mounting; remembered that it conveyed to him, some- 
how, a hint of courage and sincerity. 
" I am not frightened," she said gravely. 
Gravity fell upon him, too. In this young girl's 
eyes there was no evasion. For a long while he had 
felt vaguely that matters were not perfectly balanced 
between them. At moments, even, he had felt an in- 
definable uneasiness in her presence. The situation 
troubled him, too ; and though he had known her from 
childhood and had long ago learned to discount her 
vagaries of informality, her manners san faon, her 
careless ignoring of convention, and the unembarrassed 
terms of her speech, his common-sense could not coun- 
tenance this defiance of social usage, sure to involve even 
such a privileged girl as she in some unpleasantness. 
This troubled him; and now, partly sceptical, yet 
partly conscious, too, of her very frank liking for himself, he looked at her, perplexed, apprehensive, unwilling to credit her with any deeper meaning than her words 
expressed. 
She had grown pink and restless under his gaze, 
using her cigarette frequently, and continually flicking 
the ashes to the floor, until the little finger of her glove 
was blackened. 
But courage characterised her race. It had required 
more than he knew for her to come into his house ; and 
now that she was there loyalty to her professed prin- 
ciples — that a man and a woman were by right endowed 
 
with equal privileges — forced her to face the conse- 
quences of her theory in the practise. 
She had, with calm face and quivering heart, given 
him an opening. That was a concession to her essential 
womanhood and a cowardice on her part; and, lest she 
turn utterly traitor to herself, she faced him again, cool, 
quiet, and terror in her heart : 
" I'd be very glad to marry you — if you c-cared 
to," she said. 
" Marion ! " 
"Yes.?" 
" Oh — I — it is — of course it's a joke." 
" No ; I'm serious." 
" Serious ! Nonsense ! " 
" Please don't say that." 
He looked at her, appalled. 
" But I — but you don't love — can't be in love with 
me ! " he stammered. 
" I am." 
Gloved hands tightening on either end of her riding- 
crop, she bent her knee against it, balancing there, look- 
ing straight at him. 
" I meant to tell you so," she said, " if you didn't 
tell me first. So — I was rather — tired waiting. So I've 
told you." 
" It is only a fancy," he said, scarcely knowing what 
he was saying. 
" I don't think so, Stephen." 
But he could not meet her candour, and he sat, silent, 
miserable, staring at the papers on his desk. 
After a while she drew a deep, even breath, and rose 
to her feet. 
" I'm sorry," she said simply. 
" Marion — I never dreamed that " 
 
" You should dream truer," she said. There was a 
suspicion of mist in her clear eyes ; she turned abruptly 
to the window and stood there for a few moments, look- 
ing down at her brougham waiting in front of the house. 
" It can't be helped, can it ! " she said, turning suddenly. 
He found no answer to her question. 
" Good-bye," she said, walking to him with out- 
stretched hand ; " it's all in a lifetime, Steve, and that's 
too short for a good, clean friendship like ours to die 
in. I don't think I'd better come again. Look me up 
for a gallop when you're fit. And you might drop 
me a line to say how you're getting on. Is it all right, 
Stephen ? " 
" All right," he said hoarsely. 
Their hands tightened in a crushing clasp ; then she 
swung on her spurred heel and walked out, leaving him 
haggard, motionless. He heard the front door close, 
and he swayed forward, dropping his face in his hands, 
arms half buried among the papers on his desk. 
Plank found him there, an hour later, fumbling 
among the papers, and at first feared that he read in 
Siward's drawn and sullen face a premonition of the 
ever-dreaded symptoms. 
" Quarrier has telephoned asking for a conference at 
last," he said abruptly, sitting down beside Siward. 
" Well," inquired Siward, " how do you interpret 
that — favourably.'' " 
" I am inclined to think he is a bit uneasy," said 
Plank cautiously. " Harrington made a secret trip to 
Albany last week. You didn't know that." 
" No." 
" Well, he did. It looks to me as though there were 
going to be a ghost of a chance for an investigation. 
That is how I am inclined to consider Harrington's trip 
 
and Quarrier's flag of truce. But — I don't know. 
There's nothing definite, of course. You are as con- 
versant with the situation as I am." 
" No, I am not. That is Hke you. Plank, to ascribe 
to me the same business sense that you possess, but I 
haven't got it. It's very nice and considerate of you, 
but I haven't it, and you know it." 
" I think you have." 
" You think so because you think generously. That 
doesn't alter the facts. Now tell me what you have con- 
cluded that we ought to do and I'll say ' Amen,' as usual." 
Plank laughed, and looked over several sheets of the 
typewritten matter on the desk beside him. 
" Suppose I meet Quarrier.'' " he said. 
" All right. Did he suggest a date.? " 
" At four, this afternoon." 
" Do you think jou had better go ? " 
" I think it might do no harm," said Plank. 
" Amen ! " observed Siward, laughing, and touched 
the electric button for the early tea, which Plank adored 
at any hour. 
For a while they dropped business and discussed 
their tea, chatting very comfortably together. Long ago 
Siward had found out something of the mental breadth 
of the man beside him, and that he was worth listening 
to as well as talking to. For Plank had formed opinions 
upon a great many subjects; and whatever culture he 
possessed was from sheer desire for self-cultivation. 
" You know, Siward," he was accustomed to say with 
a smile, " you inherit what I am qualifying myself to 
transmit." 
" It will be all one in a thousand years," was Siward's 
usual rejoinder. 
" That is not going to prevent my efforts to become 
 
a good ancestor to my descendants," Plank would say 
laughingly. " They shall have a chance, every one of 
them. And it will be up to them if they don't make 
good." 
Sipping their tea in the pleasant, sunny room, they 
discussed matters of common interest — Plank's recent 
fishing trip on Long Island and the degeneracy of liver- 
fed trout ; the North Side Club's Experiments with Euro- 
pean partridges ; Bilh Fleetwood's new stables ; forestry, 
and the chance of national legislation concerning it — 
a subject of which Plank was very fond, and on w hich 
he had exceedingly sound ideas. 
Drifting from one topic to another through the haze 
of their cigars, silent when it pleased them to be so, 
there could be no doubt of their liking for each other 
upon a basis at least superficially informal; and if 
Plank's manner retained at times a shade of quaint re- 
serve, Siward's was perhaps the more frankly direct for 
that reason. 
" I think," observed Plank, laying his half-consumed 
cigar on the silver tray, " that I'd better go down town 
and see what our pre-glacial friend Quarrier wants. I 
may be able to furnish him with a new sensation." 
" I wonder if Quarrier ever experienced a genuine 
sensation," mused Siward, arranging the papers before 
him into divisional piles. 
"Plenty," said Plank drily. 
" I don't think so." 
" Plenty," repeated Plank. " It's your thin-lipped, 
thin-nosed, pasty-pale, symmetrical brother who is closer 
to the animal under his mask than any of us imagine. 
I — " He hesitated. " Do you want to know my opin- 
ion of Quarrier? I've never told you. I don't usually 
talk about my — dislikes. Do you want to know.'' " 
 
" Certainly," said Siward curiously. 
" Then, first of all, he is a sentimentalist." 
" Oh ! oh! " jeered Siward. 
" A sentinientaHst of the weakest type," continued 
Plank obstinately ; " because he sentimentalises over him- 
self. Siward, look out for the man with elaborate whis- 
kers ! Look out for a pallid man with eccentric hair 
and a silky beard ! He's a sentimentalist of the sort 
I told you, and is usually utterly remorseless in 
his dealings with women. I suppose you think me a 
fool." 
" I think Quarrier is indifferent concerning women," 
said Siward. 
" You are wrong. He is a sensualist," insisted 
Plank. 
" Oh, no, Plank— not that ! " 
" A sensualist. His sentimental vanity he lavishes 
upon himself — the animal in him on women. His cau- 
tion, born of self-consideration, is the caution of a 
beast. Such men as he believe they live in the focus 
of a million eyes. Part of his vanity is to deceive those 
eyes and be what he is under the mask he wears ; and 
to do that one must be the very master of caution. 
That is Quarrier's vanity. To conceal, is his mono- 
mania." 
" I cannot see how you draw that conclusion." 
" Siward, he is a bad man, and crafty — every inch 
of him." 
" Oh, come, now ! Only characters in fiction have 
no saving qualities. You never heard of anybody in real 
life being entireW bad." 
" No, I didn't ; and Quarrier isn't. For example, 
he is kind to valuable animals — I mean, his own." 
" Good to animals ! The bad man's invariable char- 
 
acteristic ! " laughed Siward. " I'm kind to 'em, too. 
What else is he good to ? " 
" Everybody knows that he hasn't a poor relation 
left; not one. He is loyal to them in a rare way; he 
filled one subsidiary company full of them. It is known 
down town as the ' Home for Destitute Nephews.' " 
" Seriously, Plank, the man must have something 
good in him." 
" Because of your theory ? " 
" Yes. I believe that nobody is entirely bad. So do 
the great masters of fiction." 
Plank said gravely : " He is a good son to his father. 
That is perfectly true — kind, considerate, dutiful, loyal. 
The financial world is perfectly aware that Stanley 
Quarrier is to-day the most unscrupulous old scoundrel 
who ever crushed a refinery or debauched a railroad! 
and his son no more believes it than he credits the 
scandalous history of the Red Woman of Wall Street. 
Why, when I was making arrangements for that chapel 
Quarrier came to me, very much perturbed, because he 
understood that all the memorial chapels for the cathe- 
dral had been arranged for, and he had desired to build 
one to the memory of his father! His father \ Isn't 
it awful to think of! — a chapel to the memory of the 
briber of judges and of legislatures, the cynical defier 
of law ! — this hoary old thief, who beggared the widow 
and stripped the orphan, and whose only match, as a 
great unpunished criminal, was that sinister little pre- 
decessor of his, who dreamed even of debauching the 
executive of these United States ! " 
Siward had never before seen Plank aroused, and he 
said so, smiling. 
" That is true," said Plank earnestly ; " I waste little 
temper over my likes and dislikes. But what I. know, 
 
and what I legitimately infer concerning the younger 
Quarrier is enough to rouse any man's anger. I won't 
tell you what I know. I can't. It has nothing to do 
with his financial methods, nothing to do with this busi- 
ness; but it is bad — bad all through! The blow his 
father struck at the integrity of the bench the son strikes 
at the very key-stone of all social safeguard. It isn't my 
business ; I cannot interfere ; but Siward, I'm a damned 
restless witness, and the old, primitive longing comes 
back on me to strike — to take a stick and use it to splin- 
ters on that man whom I am going down town to politely 
confer with ! . . . And I must go now. Good-bye. . . . 
Take care of that ankle. Any books I can send you — 
anything you want.'' No.'' All right. And don't worry 
over Amalgamated Electric, for I really believe we are 
beginning to frighten them badly." 
" Good-b}'"," said Siward. " Don't forget that I'm 
always at home." 
" You must get out," muttered Plank ; " you must 
get well, and get out into the sunshine." And he went 
ponderously down-stairs to the square hall, where Gumble 
held his hat and gloves ready for him. 
He had come in a big yellow and black touring-car ; 
and now, with a brief word to his mechanic, he climbed 
into the tonneau, and away they sped down town — a glit- 
ter of bull's-eye, brass, and varnish, with the mellow, 
horn notes floating far in their wake. 
It was exactly four o'clock when he was ushered into 
Quarrier's private suite in the great marble Algonquin 
Loan and Trust Building, the upper stories of which 
were all golden in the sun against a sky of sapphire. 
Quarrier was alone, gloved and hatted, as though 
on the point of leaving. He showed a slight surprise 
at seeing Plank, as if he had not been expecting liim; 
i:G 
 
and the manner of offering his hand subtly emphasised 
it as he came forward with a trace of inquiry in his 
greeting. 
" You said four o'clock, I believe," observed Plank 
bluntly. 
" Ah, yes. It was about that — ah — matter — ah — I 
beg your pardon; can you recollect? " 
" I don't know what it is you want. You requested 
this meeting," said Plank, yawning. 
" Certainly. I recollect it perfectly now. Will you 
sit here, Mr. Plank — for a moment " 
" If it concerns Inter-County, it will take longer than 
a moment — unless you cannot spare the time now," said 
Plank. " Shall we call it off.? " 
" As a matter of fact I am rather short of time 
just now." 
" Then let us postpone it. I shall probably be at 
my office if you are anxious to see me." 
Quarrier looked at him, then laid aside his hat and 
sat down. There was little to be done in diplomacy with 
an oaf like that. 
" Mr. Plank," he said, without any emphasis at all, 
" there should be some way for us to come together. 
Have you considered it.? " 
" No, I haven't," replied Plank. 
" I mean, for you and me to try to understand each 
other." 
" For us? " asked Plank, raising his blond eyebrows. 
" Do you mean Amalgamated Electric and Inter-County, 
impersonally .'' " 
" I mean for us, pesonallJ" 
" There is no way, said Plank, with conviction. 
" I think there is." 
" You are wasting time thinking it, Mr. Quarrier." 
 
Quarrier's velvet-fringed eyes began to narrow, but 
his calm voice remained unchanged : " We are merely 
wasting energy in this duel," he said. 
" Oh, no ; I don't feel wasted." 
" We are also wasting opportunities," continued 
Quarrier slowly. " This whole matter is involving us 
in a tangle of litigation requiring our constant effort, 
constant attention." 
" I beg your pardon, Mr. Quarrier, but you take it 
too seriously. I have found, in this affair, nothing ex- 
cept a rather agreeable mental exhilaration." 
" Mr. Plank, if you are not inclined to be ser- 
ious " 
" I aw," said Plank so savagely that Quarrier, 
startled, could not doubt him. " I like this sort of thing, 
Mr. Quarrier. Anything that is hard to overcome, I 
like to overcome. The pleasure in life, to me, is to 
win out. I am fighting you with the greatest possible 
satisfaction to myself." 
" Perhaps you see victory ahead," said Quarrier 
calmly. 
" I do, Mr. Quarrier, I do. But not in the manner 
you fear I may hope for it." 
" Do you mind saying in zchat manner you are al- 
ready discounting your victory, Mr Plank.'' " 
" No, I don't mind telling you. I have no batteries 
to mask. I don't care how much you know about my 
resources; so I'll tell you what I see, Mr. Quarrier. I 
see a parody of the popular battle between razor-back 
and rattler. The rattler only strives to strike and kill, not 
to swallow. Mr. Quarrier, that old razor-back isn't 
going home hungry; but — he's going home." 
" I'm afraid I am not familiar enough with the nat- 
ural history you quote to follow you," said Quarrier 
 
with a sneer, his long fingers busy with the silky point 
of his beard. 
" No, you won't follow me home ; you'll come zenith 
me, when it's all over. Now is it very plain to you, 
Mr. Quarrier? " 
Quarrier said, without emotion : " I repeat that it 
would be easy for you and me to merge our differences 
on a basis absolutely satisfactory to you and to me 
— and to Harrington." 
" You are mistaken," said Plank, rising. " Good 
afternoon." 
Quarrier rose, too. " You decline to discuss the mat- 
ter.' " he asked. 
" It has been discussed sufficiently." 
" Then why did you come here.'' " 
" To see for myself how afraid of me you really 
are," said Plank. " Now I know, and so do you." 
" You desire to make it a personal matter.'' " in- 
quired Quarrier, in a low voice, his face dead white in 
the late sunlight which illuminated the room. 
" Personal.' No — impersonal; because there could 
be absolutely nothing personal between us, Mr. Quarrier ; 
and the only tiling in the world that there ought to 
