‘My dear,’ rejoined Giuliana, with the unconscious humour of a
virtue beyond all attack, ‘seventy times seven would be a great
many, in practice. Besides, there is danger, I am sure. A woman
capable of rising to the moral height you talk of must certainly
feel an insurmountable horror of seeing the other man as long as
her husband is alive. If she can forgive herself and him, she has
not a very delicate conscience, it seems to me! She might possibly
see him once, but after that she would beg him to stay away, out
of respect for her absent husband, against whom any more meetings
would be an offence. And besides, every one knows that there is
nothing more absolutely false, and ridiculous, and impossible than
a friendship based on love! I’m sorry if you do not like what I
say, Maria, but I tell you just what I think!’
‘You do, indeed!’ answered the younger woman, in a hurt tone.
‘I cannot help it,’ said Giuliana. ‘You have told me some things
about yourself this evening which I never dreamt of, but nothing
you have told me has had any effect on what I thought from the
first. You are doing very wrong in letting Castiglione come back.
You ought never to see him while your husband is alive. That is
what I think, and I shall never say it again, for it is of no use
to give the same advice more than once.’
Giuliana rose to go home, for it was half-past ten. Her face was
grave and calm, and a little severe. Maria rose too, feeling as if
a conflict had begun which must in the end force her to give up
either Giuliana or Castiglione.
‘Giuliana,’ she said sadly, ‘you will not throw over our friendship
because you do not approve of everything I do, will you?’
Giuliana faced her and held out her hand frankly.
‘No,’ she answered. ‘I’m not that sort of friend. But if I see you
are going wrong I shall try to save you in spite of yourself.’
‘Thank you, dear,’ said Maria, trying to feel grateful; ‘but I
shall not go wrong. You don’t quite understand me--that’s all.’
‘I hope you are right,’ replied Giuliana, ‘but I believe you are
quite mistaken.’
They did not part very cordially, and when Giuliana was alone in
her carriage she almost made up her mind to save her friend by
force. She thought of writing to Castiglione himself, to tell him
frankly that it was his duty as a man of honour to stay away. He
might possibly have accepted the warning if she had carried out
her intention, but she soon saw many reasons for not interfering so
directly.
‘Beware of first impulses,’ says the cynic, ‘for they are
generally good ones.’
CHAPTER VIII
Two days later Maria received a letter from Castiglione saying
that his return was now a matter of certainty, but that there were
formalities to be fulfilled which would take some little time.
Most fortunately there was a step in the regiment. The crabbed old
major of the Piedmont Lancers was promoted to be lieutenant-colonel
of another regiment, the senior captain was gazetted major, and
Castiglione himself would come back as the junior captain, probably
during the next month.
Maria’s heart beat fast, and she smiled as she thought of
Giuliana’s expressed determination to ‘save her in spite of
herself.’ It was morning, and she went out alone for a walk. It
was good to live to-day, and to move swiftly through the bright
spring air was to be twice alive. She went by the cross streets
to the Via del Veneto and through the Porta Pinciana to the Villa
Borghese. She skirted the racecourse below the Dairy, and stood
still a moment to watch the riders go by. Not far from her she saw
Angelica Campodonico and her young brother Mario riding on each
side of their teacher. The slim young girl sat straight and square
and was enjoying herself, but the boy grabbed the pommel of his
saddle whenever the riding-master looked away, and seemed to stick
on by his heels. He was the boy whom Leone had ‘hammered,’ as he
expressed it, and Maria smiled as she thought of her own little
son’s sturdy back and small, hard fists.
Presently a young lieutenant of the Piedmont Lancers cantered up
on a beautiful English mare. He rode very well, as many Italian
officers now do, and he was evidently aware of it. The familiar
uniform fascinated Maria, and her eyes lingered on it as the young
man rode past her. He saw that she was a woman of the world, and
that she was still young and pretty; and in spite of the deep black
she wore, it at once occurred to him that this was the best place
in the wide ring for jumping his mare in and out of the meadow over
the rather stiff fence. Still Maria watched him, and he might not
have been so pleased with himself if he could have guessed that
she was thinking of another officer who was an even better rider
than he, but who would certainly not have cared to show off before
a pretty lady whom he did not know. And Maria knew that before
long Baldassare del Castiglione would sometimes come and exercise
his horses in the same place, and that she would very probably
happen to be walking that way and would see him. And he would stop
and salute her, and draw up by the outer fence and shake hands
with her and exchange a few words; and his eyes would be as blue
as sapphires, and she would be the proudest woman in the world,
almost without knowing it. So she unconsciously smiled at the young
lieutenant and turned away.
She walked on, and before long she was sitting under the ilex-trees
above the Piazza di Siena. There was a new bench there; or perhaps
it had only been painted. There was water in the fountain, leaping
up and sparkling under the deep green trees. The basin had been dry
on that winter’s afternoon long ago, and the evergreen oaks had
looked much darker. That had been like death; this was life itself.
The past did not exist; it had never existed at all, because it
had all been a horrible mistake, an untruth, and a loathsome sin;
a sin confessed now, an untruth forgiven, a mistake explained and
condoned. In the future all was love; and yet all was right and
truthful and straightforward, as justice itself. Giuliana’s warning
was but the well-meant preaching of a good friend who could never
understand; the grim old monk’s words were far away. Where was the
deadly risk, or the mortal sin? God was strong and good, and would
make all good deeds seem easy; and she and the man she loved would
rise far beyond this dying body, by that good, to be united for
ever in light and peace. Baldassare would believe, as she did, and
in the end they would find heaven together.
She leaned back, and her eyes looked upwards as she sat there
alone, and in all her being there was not the least thought that
was not innocent and pure and beautiful. She communed with herself
as with an angel, and with the image of the man she loved as with
a saint. She felt as she felt sometimes when she knelt at early
morning before the altar rail of the little oratory near her
house, and the young priest with his martyr’s face came softly down
and ministered to her.
She almost trembled when she rose at last to leave the place where
she had been lifted up from the world, the place where she had once
spoken such bitter and cruel words to him who was now once more the
heart of her heart and the soul of her soul. She walked homewards
in a deep, sweet dream of refreshment.
The footman opened the door, and as she entered the small bright
hall she saw a big letter with a black border and Spanish stamps
lying upon some others, and she knew Montalto’s large, stiff
handwriting. Her heart sank, though she had expected the letter for
two days.
She took it with no outward show of emotion, for she felt that
the servant was watching and that he guessed whence it came. In
a steady voice she asked if Leone had come in from his walk with
old Agostino, and the footman told her they were still out. Her
Excellency would remember that the Signorino was gone to the
gardens of the Palazzo Trasmondo to play with his little friends.
Maria went to her sitting-room without calling her maid, and sat
down to read her husband’s letter with closed doors. She felt
strong and brave, and resolved to think of the absent man with all
the respect Giuliana Parenzo could have exacted from her.
It was a very long letter, filling several big black-edged sheets;
but the handwriting was large and stiff, and easy to read, and at
first her eyes followed the words quickly and unhesitatingly.
Montalto was deeply affected by his mother’s death; that was
evident in the short, strained sentences that were painfully formal
save for a heart-broken word here and there. Conscientiously he
told his wife the short story of the illness during the last
days, the last hours, at the last minute, at the end. She read
with a sort of reverence, but she wondered why he gave her every
detail. Had he come to her for sympathy, after all the stern and
unforgiving years that had passed?
Then she took the next sheet, and the truth broke upon her. So far,
he had given her an account of what had happened, of how his mother
had suddenly begun to sink and had died peacefully after receiving
all the Sacraments. But he had not told what her last words had
been.
‘My dear son,’ she had said just before she had closed her eyes for
ever, ‘I have been very unforgiving towards your wife. Perhaps I
have helped to make you so. Promise me that you will go to her and
ask her pardon for me. And be reconciled with her, if God wills
that it be possible.’
She had said all these words with great distinctness, for she had
been calm and fully conscious, and able to speak until the last
moment of her life; and then her heart had stopped beating and
death had come quietly.
Maria held the sheet before her with both her hands, trying to go
on, and determined to read bravely to the end, but it was a long
time before she got to the next words, and she felt as if she had
been unexpectedly condemned to die.
The man she had injured meant to fulfil his mother’s last request
to the letter. For he asked his erring wife’s pardon for the dead
woman who had not been able to forgive her till the end. He asked
her to write out the message to the dead and send it to him.
That would be the easiest part. How could Maria find it hard to say
that she forgave what she had deserved? But the rest was different.
He went on to say that it was not only for his mother’s sake that
he wished to be reconciled: it was for his own. In spite of all, he
loved Maria dearly. He had known how she had lived, how her whole
life since he had finally left her had been an atonement for one
fault; and that one fault he now freely forgave her. He would never
speak of it again, he said, for he was sure that she had suffered
more from it than he himself.
She guessed, as she read, what it must have cost him to say that
much. He earnestly desired a reconciliation. He wished to come back
to Rome to live in his own house, with his wife, before all the
world. With a pathetic inability to put his feelings into words, he
said that he would try to make her happy ‘by all means acceptable
to her.’ Yet he did not wish to force this reconciliation upon
her, for he was well aware that in leaving her he had conferred
on her a measure of independence and had given her good reason to
suppose that he would never come back. Unless she willingly agreed
to what he now offered, he would never come back to Rome; for it
had been one thing to stay with his invalid mother, leaving his
wife to live where she pleased, but it would be quite another
in the eyes of the world if he returned to his own house and his
wife continued to stay in a hired house. Hitherto there had been
no scandal which his authority could not now put down, no open
break which might not still be repaired with dignity. Then, on a
sudden, the writing became less stiff and clear, and the lonely
man’s full heart overflowed. He loved her so dearly--he did not
repeat ‘in spite of all’--why might he not hope to make her happy
at last? In the past he had not known how to show her how tenderly,
how devotedly, he had loved her; he had been but a dull companion
for her; she had been made to marry him almost against her will.
Without again speaking of her fault he was finding excuses for what
he had forgiven. And the burden came back again and again, he loved
her with all his heart. It was no mere empty show of reconciliation
that he offered her, for the sake of his name, for what the world
might say or think. He wished, he asked to be allowed, to take her
back altogether, wholly, as if there had been no division.
Maria held the sheet tight between her upraised hands, but a
painful tremor ran through her to the tips of her fingers, and the
paper shook before her eyes.
She had reached the end now. He had poured out his soul as he
had never done before then to any living being; but quite at the
last line his natural formality returned, he ‘begged the favour
of a speedy reply at her convenience,’ and he signed his name in
full--‘Diego Silani di Montalto.’
After a long time Maria rose from her seat, and her face was almost
grey. She went to her writing-table and opened a small desk with a
simple little gold key she wore on her watch chain. The receptacle
was already half full of Castiglione’s letters, and she laid her
husband’s on top of the heap, shut down the lid, and turned the key
again.
Just then Leone burst into the room, lusty and radiant. He stopped
short when he saw his mother’s face.
‘You have been to see the bad priest again!’ he cried angrily.
‘No, dear, I shall not go to see him again. I have had a great--a
great surprise. Papa is coming back soon.’
CHAPTER IX
Maria did not hesitate, though she felt as if her heart must break
with every throbbing beat. Whether Giuliana Parenzo was just or not
in telling her that she had not a very delicate conscience, she
had at least a strong will and a lasting determination to do what
she thought right, which more than made up for the absence of that
sensitiveness on which her happier friend laid so much stress.
Until Leone asked her what was the matter, her thoughts whirled in
a chaos of pain and darkness, but there was little or no hesitation
in her answer to his question. She wished with all her heart that
she had put him off until there had been nothing in her face to
betray her, and that he might never have connected her too evident
distress with the news she had just received. But she had spoken
because her mind was made up in that moment, and her determination
found words at once; and the child at once hated the man who was
coming back.
She was going to accept the proffered reconciliation outright, if
it killed her, and she really believed that it might. Her dream of
light and peace ended then; she had atoned, perhaps, but that was
not enough. Atonement means reconciling, and such a reconciling
meant to Maria an expiation more dreadful than she had dreamed of.
She remembered only too vividly the material repulsion for Montalto
that had grown upon her quickly in the first months of their life
together, and she knew that it would be stronger now than it had
been then. Yet she must live through it and hide it. To her it
seemed inconceivable that he should wish to come back to her at
all. The nobler sort of women can never understand that men they
dislike can love them, and to be given in marriage to one of them
is a torment and feels like an outrage.
Maria meant to bear it all as well as she could. A woman able to
dream of such a lofty and spiritual love as had appeared possible
to her in a short and unforgettable vision was not one to hesitate
at a sacrifice, much less if justice demanded it. In old Jerusalem
would she not have been stoned to death? Yet that would have been
the quick end of all suffering, whereas Montalto’s return was only
the beginning of something much worse.
It is often easier to forgive than to accept forgiveness. After
Maria had read her husband’s letter there were times when she
wished that all his love for her could be turned into hatred.
He might come back then, to show the world a comedy of a
reconciliation, though he might frankly detest the sight of her; he
might come back and behave to her as he had after she had admitted
her guilt, and never speak to her except from necessity, while
treating her always with that same formal courtesy he had learned
from his Spanish mother. It would have been easy to bear that;
it would have been far easier then to live without seeing the man
of her heart. But to be taken back to be loved, to be cherished
and caressed, to be the instrument of happiness in the life of the
husband she had dishonoured, and whose mere presence and slightest
touch made her writhe--that was going to be hard indeed. Yet she
meant to bear it. In her simple faith she prayed only that it might
be counted to her hereafter as a part of her purgatory.
Castiglione received her letter telling him all the truth and
bidding him stay where he was, if he could, or at least not try to
see her if he were obliged to come to Rome. His first impulse was
to ask for leave again, if only for three days, and to go to her at
once to implore her to refuse Montalto’s offer, to risk anything
rather than let her accept an existence which he knew would be one
of misery. He felt and believed that it would kill her.
In some ways the thought of it was even more revolting to him than
to her. He had been faithful for years to the memory of the love
which he believed he had destroyed in her; but now that all was
changed, now that he knew how she loved him, she was his, his very
own, far more than she had ever been. He felt, too, that she had
really raised him above his old self; that he could really live
near her, see her, talk with her, and touch her hand, and love her
as he had promised, with no shame, or thought of shame, to her
or to himself. Long years of clean living had already made him
different from his comrades, and his unchanging will made a law
for himself which he had never transgressed. Does the world think
that beyond the pale of holy orders, of whatsoever persuasion,
there are no men who live as he did, faithful and true to one dear
memory to the very end? Sometimes what we call the world seems to
know more of its patent evil than of its own hidden good. And where
the good is strong and rules a man’s secret life, it may lead him
far.
But Castiglione was only human, and his jealousy of Montalto was
cruel when it woke again. It had been great in old days, but it
was ten times more dangerous now, for it had been long asleep in
security and it awoke in anger. Maria had not been his own, but
throughout that time no other man had called her his, and now
Montalto claimed her, under his right to forgive an injury if he
chose, and she was going to submit and surrender herself.
He wrote her a passionate letter, imploring her not to ruin both
their lives by giving herself back to her husband, and beseeching
her to see him at once that he might tell her all he could not
write. If he could not get leave again so soon he would come
without, if it cost him a long arrest. Maria was to telegraph her
answer, and if no message came within two days he would start,
whatever happened. As for declining the exchange he had asked, he
could not do that; he would be ordered to join his old regiment in
Rome during the next ten days at the latest, and it was impossible
that he should not meet her sometimes.
For a moment Maria hesitated, for she felt that he was desperate,
and she herself was not far from despair. But something human on
which she had never counted helped her a little. If Castiglione
came suddenly to Rome, it would be known, and it would surely be
said that he had come to see her; if no one else knew it, Teresa
Crescenzi surely would, and would tell every one. She thought of
Montalto’s letter, telling her that he had known of her quiet life,
and that the dignity she had shown had appealed to him. He should
not come back now to be told that he had been deceived, and that
Castiglione made long journeys expressly to see her. Her pride
would not suffer that.
She went out on foot and entered the small telegraph office outside
the railway station, for she could not have sent her message by a
servant’s hand. She took the ink-crusted pen and a flimsy blank
form, and thought of what she should say. The shabby young clerk
at the little sliding window would have to read the telegram, and
perhaps he knew her by sight. She thought a moment longer, and then
wrote a few words:--
‘Impossible. If you really wish to help a person in great distress,
be patient. Await letter.’
This looked very cold when it was written, but she thought it would
do, and she felt sure that Castiglione would obey her request. At
least, he could not leave Milan until he received the letter she
was about to write to him.
It reached him on the following evening, and in the tender,
beseeching words he read what was worse than a sentence of exile.
But he submitted then, for it was as if she spoke to him, and he
could hear every tone of her voice in the silence of his room.
Since she had taken him back to her heart she dominated him by the
nobility of her love, and by her touching trust in his. He read her
letter twice, and then burnt it in the empty fireplace, carefully
setting a second match to the last white shreds that showed at the
edges of the thin black ashes.
‘You are a saint on earth,’ he said to her in his thoughts. ‘You
are good enough to make a man believe in God.’
Perhaps he rose one step higher in that moment, for he was in
earnest. But it had cost him much. For three days he had kept his
valise packed and ready to start at any moment, and he saw it lying
in a corner as he turned from the fireplace. Once again the strong
temptation came upon him to take it and go downstairs. That would
be the irrevocable step, for he knew well enough that if he went so
far as that he would not turn back.
His big jaw thrust itself forward rather savagely as he crossed the
room, picked up the valise, and set it on a chair to unpack it.
When he had put his things away he threw it into a corner, lit a
cigar, and sat down by the open window to watch the people in the
broad street. He hoped that he might not think for a little while.
There was a knock at the door and his orderly came in with a
telegram. He almost started at the sight of the brownish yellowish
little square of folded paper in the man’s hand.
‘Join us at once to ride in military races on Thursday. War
Office telegraphs order exchange to your colonel to-night.
Make haste, in order to rest your horses. Welcome back to the
regiment.--CASALMAGGIORE, Colonel.’
Castiglione’s hand dropped upon his knee, holding the open
telegram. The orderly stood motionless, stolidly waiting to be sent
away. He would have waited in the same position till he dropped,
but it seemed a long time before the officer turned his head.
‘Pack everything to-night,’ he said. ‘Telephone in my name to the
station and order a box for the horses as far as Pisa, and be ready
to start with them by the first train to-morrow. I am to join the
Piedmont Lancers in Rome at once. You will spend the night in Pisa
to rest the horses, and come on with them the next day. I will
attend to your leave and pass. Take what you need for yourself for
four days. You will have a day and a night in Rome.’
The orderly was a good man and could be trusted. Castiglione got
into his best tunic, buckled on his sabre, took his cap and gloves,
thrust the telegram into his breast pocket, and went to take leave
of his colonel and his brother officers, wherever he might find
them. He was in no hurry, but it was a relief to get out of doors,
and he walked slowly along the broad pavement, returning the
salutes of the many soldiers who passed him.
It would be quite out of the question to disobey such a summons
as he had just received. Nothing short of a feigned illness
could have excused a short delay, and besides, the wording of
the telegram showed that he was wanted for the honour of his old
regiment in the coming races. He had always been the best rider
of them all, and if the Piedmont Lancers did not make a good
appearance, owing to his voluntary absence, he would not be easily
forgiven; indeed, he would hardly have forgiven himself.
But he would not write or telegraph to Maria that he was coming,
and he was sure that she would not write to him again unless
he answered her letter. Once in Rome, he meant to send her the
telegram he had in his pocket, to prove that he had been ordered
back, and that his coming had not been voluntary. She would see him
then, for it would be different; she could not refuse, as she might
if she thought he had come in spite of her letter. His exchange had
been at most but a matter of days; it had become a matter of hours.
So much the better, since fate condescended to help him a little.
The vision of hope he had enjoyed so short a time rose before him
again. Montalto might not return after all, or he might break his
neck on the way, but Castiglione doubted the probability of such a
termination to his own troubles.
CHAPTER X
The workmen were very busy at the Palazzo Montalto, and the rich
widow from Chicago who occupied one of the large apartments was a
little nervous, for there is a clause in all leases of portions of
Roman palaces to the effect that the owner may turn any tenant out
at short notice if he needs the rooms for his own use; and as the
good lady had not the slightest idea of the real size of the place,
she had long supposed that she was living in the state apartment.
But she need not have disturbed herself and her friends about
that. Montalto would as soon have let the place where his mother
and his wife had lived with him as he would have put up his titles
at auction. He had sent orders that the vast suite was to be got
ready in a month’s time, and as no one had expected that he would
ever come back to live there, the accumulation of dust was found to
be portentous. Moreover, all the carpets had disappeared, no one
knew how, the upholstered furniture was all moth-eaten, the window
fastenings would not work, the mirrors were hopelessly tarnished,
and the ceiling of the ballroom had been badly damaged by the
bursting of a water-pipe in the apartment over it.
To make matters worse, the old steward of the Roman estates, whose
business it was to keep the palace in order, was in his dotage, and
was expected to have a stroke of apoplexy at any moment.
Then one morning a business-like young man arrived from Montalto,
the great family seat on the Austrian frontier, with instructions
to put matters right, and to lose no time about it. The old Roman
steward flew into a frightful rage because the Montalto steward was
his superior, and promptly had his stroke of apoplexy, which helped
things a little without killing him. The business-like young man
spent one whole day in watching the people at work and never said a
word, but when the evening came, he had them all paid and he turned
them out, to their amazement and mortification. Then he took a cab
and drove to the Via San Martino and asked to see the Countess,
just before she dressed for dinner. He was a very modest young man,
and he waited in the hall for her answer; and when Agostino came
back to inquire more particularly who he was and what he wanted, he
said that he was the chief steward of Montalto and had a message
from His Excellency the Count to Her Excellency the Countess, if
she would be so kind as to receive him. In the eyes of the butler
he at once became an important personage, and many apologies were
offered for having let him wait in the outer hall.
Maria received him in her sitting-room. In her deep mourning she
looked unnaturally pale, and her dark eyes seemed very big. She
pointed to a chair and sat down herself.
The young man lost no time and told her at once that the Count had
sent him to see that the palace was made habitable at once, and
desired that the Countess should be consulted on every point about
which she was willing to give her opinion. She was to select her
own rooms and direct that they should be hung and furnished to her
taste, and the Count would esteem it a great favour if she would
take the trouble to order everything else to be changed as she
thought best, excepting only the late Dowager Countess’s rooms,
which he desired should not be touched. Her Excellency doubtless
knew which those rooms were, and would she be so very kind as
to say when it would be convenient for her to meet her obedient
servant at the palace and to give him her orders. He was instructed
to spare no trouble or expense in order to please her if possible.
Maria recognised her husband’s formal expressions in what the quiet
young man said so fluently. Doubtless Montalto had written every
word of his orders with his own hand, and the steward had read them
over till he knew them by heart. She thanked him and said she would
meet him at the palace the next morning at ten o’clock.
She did not take Leone with her, for she was sure that the great
neglected house would be gloomy beyond description, and she did not
wish him to have a sad impression of the house in which he had been
born, and in which he was now to live. Besides, she could not quite
trust herself, and the small boy’s eyes were marvellously quick to
detect any change in her face.
The places where things very good or very bad to remember have
happened to us are ever afterwards inhabited by invisible ghosts,
kind or malignant, who show themselves to us when we revisit the
spots they haunt, though they never disturb any one else. Maria
knew that; an evil genius had long dwelt under those ilex-trees
in the Villa Borghese, and she had exorcised it, but there were
spectres in her former home that would not be laid. She bit her
lip as she entered the once familiar hall, and saw room after room
opening out beyond it in a long perspective that ended in a closed
door adorned with mirrors in its panels. That door had always been
kept shut when all the others were open; it led into the room that
had been her boudoir. Even at that great distance Maria could see
how dim the old glasses in the panels had become.
She walked slowly through the apartment, looking to the right and
left. Something had been done, but not much. There was a ladder
against a wall in one room and the hangings were half torn down;
a dozen rolls of new carpet lay in confusion in another, redolent
of that extraordinary odour which only perfectly new carpets have;
in one of the halls beyond, a quantity of more or less decrepit
sofas and chairs had been collected and disembowelled, and the
moth-eaten wool and musty horse-hair lay about them in mouldering
heaps; the portraits were still in their places on the walls, and
Montalto seemed to look sadly down from half a dozen frames at his
young wife as she went by in black; there was Montalto in armour
and Montalto in black velvet and ruffles, Montalto in a Spanish
cloak and Montalto in a flowered silk French coat, with a powdered
wig; but it was always Montalto; the likeness between them all from
generation to generation had been amazing, and the old pictures
made Maria nervous.
The young steward, whose name was Orlando Schmidt, walked by her
left, hat in hand, glancing respectfully at her now and then to see
whether she was going to say anything. But her lips were pressed
together, and he fancied that the rings round her eyes grew darker
as she neared the end of the long suite, and still went on towards
the closed door with its tarnished mirrors. She looked very pale
and tired.
‘Will your Excellency sit down and rest a while?’ he asked.
‘Not yet, thank you. Presently.’
And she went slowly on, slowly and steadily, towards the closed
door, till she laid her hand on the chiselled handle and turned it
and pushed against the panel. But it would not move.
‘Perhaps it is locked,’ suggested Schmidt. ‘I had not taken it for
a real door. I thought the apartment ended here.’
‘No,’ Maria answered in a low tone. ‘This used to be my boudoir.
Try and open it. I want to go in.’
The young man tried the handle, put his eye to the keyhole, and
tried again. Then he shook his head.
‘It is not a very strong door,’ said Maria. ‘I think we could break
it open. I want to go in.’
‘I can certainly break it,’ answered Schmidt.
He threw his shoulder against the crack and pushed with all his
might, but though the door creaked a little it would not move.
‘Is there no other way?’ asked Maria impatiently. ‘I must get in!’
‘Oh, yes,’ Schmidt answered, ‘there is another way. I can smash the
lock.’
‘I wish you would!’
He stood back and made a little gesture with his hand for her to
move aside, and before she knew what he was going to do, the heel
of his heavy walking boot struck the lock with the force of a
small battering-ram. The door flew back on its hinges into total
darkness, and there was a crash of broken glass as one of the
mirrors fell from its panel to the marble Venetian pavement.
Maria uttered a little cry of hurt surprise, for what Schmidt had
done seemed brutal to her; but she passed him quickly and went on
into the dark, and the bits of broken mirror cracked under her
tread. She was sure that the room had never been opened since she
had left it, and she went straight to one of the windows without
running against the furniture; the familiar fastenings had rusted
and she could not move them quickly. Schmidt lit a wax-light and
followed, but before he reached her side she had succeeded in
opening the inner shutters, and the bright light from the slits in
the blinds shone into the room through the dim panes.
Maria turned from the window and looked about her. The furniture
stood as she had last seen it. A moment later Schmidt threw open
the glass and the blinds and the violent sunshine flooded the dusty
marble floor, the faded pink silk on the walls, the tarnished
inlaid tables, the chairs, and a little sofa near the fireplace.
‘It is too much!’ cried Maria nervously. ‘There is too much light!’
Schmidt drew the blinds near together without quite shutting them.
When he looked behind him again Maria was sitting on the little
sofa near the fireplace, her face turned from him, and her fingers
were nervously pulling at a rent in the pink silk which tore under
her touch. But the young steward did not notice the action, and was
already making a mental list of the repairs that would be necessary
to make the boudoir habitable again. Maria looked ill, and he
thought she was tired.
But the evil spirit that haunted the place was there, beside her on
the little sofa, and she could hear its demon whisper in her ear.
That was a part of her expiation, and she knew it. Then she spoke
to Schmidt steadily, but without turning her head.
‘I wish everything taken out of this room,’ she said, and she
listened to her own voice to be sure that it did not shake.
‘Everything must be new, the hangings, the ceiling, the furniture,
the fireplace. You see how dilapidated it all is, don’t you?’
She asked the question as if to justify her orders.
‘There is nothing fit to keep,’ answered the steward, ‘except that
inlaid writing-table and the bookcase.’
‘I prefer to have them changed, too,’ said Maria quickly.
‘Everything! Let the new things be dark. There is too much light
here. Not red, either. I hate red. Let everything be dark grey.’
‘A greenish grey, perhaps?’ suggested Schmidt diffidently.
‘Yes, yes! But dark, very dark, with black furniture. Paint this
marble fireplace black----’
‘Black?’ exclaimed the young man, with a polite interrogation.
‘Perhaps it would be better to have a new one of black marble then?’
‘Yes--anything, provided it is changed, and everything is new and
quite different! That is all I want. And my dressing-room was
there.’ She pointed to a second door. ‘My bedroom was beyond it.
I’m sure that door is locked, too. Could you go round by the other
way and see if the key is on that side?’
She turned her white face to Schmidt. He guessed that she had been
moved by some strong association and wished to be alone to recover
herself, and in a moment he was gone; for he was a tactful person.
When she was alone she did not bury her face in the corner of the
tattered little sofa, nor did any tears rise in her tired eyes; she
only sat there quite still, and her head fell forward as if she had
fainted; but her fingers slowly tore little shreds from the faded
pink silk of the sofa.
Schmidt stayed away a long time. She heard his footsteps at last on
a tiled floor in the distance, and raised her hand quickly to cover
her eyes, while her lips moved for a moment. When the steward
unlocked the second door and came in, she was standing quietly by
the window waiting for him.
The worst was over for that day, and though she was still very
pale, she was no longer deadly white, and the haunted look that had
come back suddenly to her eyes was gone. She went through the house
systematically after that, conscientiously fulfilling her husband’s
requests; she gave clear directions about her own rooms and the
one she meant to give Leone, and made many suggestions about the
rest. She showed Schmidt the little apartment once occupied by
her mother-in-law, and advised the steward to have it carefully
cleaned and set in order, since nothing was to be changed in it.
At present, she said, it looked neglected, and the Count would
certainly not like to find it so. Schmidt nodded gravely, as if he
quite understood. She was so quiet and calm now, that he thought
he had been mistaken in thinking her disturbed by some poignant
memory. She had probably felt ill.
When she left the palace at last, she told him to let her know when
the refurnishing was so far advanced as to make a visit from her
necessary, and she thanked him so kindly for his attention that he
blushed a little.
For Orlando Schmidt was a modest and well-educated young man, of a
respectable Austrian family by his father’s side, but an Italian
as to his nationality. He had been to good schools, he had studied
scientific farming at an agricultural institute in Upper Austria,
and he had followed a commercial course in Milan; he had also
learned something about practical building, and was naturally
possessed of tolerably good taste.
‘I hope you will stay here and take charge of the Roman estate,’
said the Countess. ‘I fancy the lands are in as bad a condition as
the apartment upstairs.’
She smiled graciously, and Schmidt blushed again.
‘Your Excellency is very kind,’ he said modestly, as he stood
beside her low phaeton with his hat in his hand. ‘I am lodged here
in the palace, if you need me.’
She drove away, and before the carriage turned the corner of
the palace on the way to the more central part of the city, she
had quite forgotten Orlando Schmidt, though he had made such a
favourable impression upon her.
But the young man stood before the great arched entrance and
watched her till she was out of sight, with an expression she could
not have understood; and afterwards he whistled softly as he turned
back to ascend the stairs again in order to make careful notes of
all she had said about each room. He began in the boudoir, and he
sat down on the little sofa near the fireplace, with his large
note-book on his knee, and wrote busily while her words were still
fresh in his memory. Once or twice he looked towards the door,
which he could see as he sat, and the broken pieces of mirror
caught his eye. He remembered that his Italian mother had once told
him when he was a boy that it was very unlucky to break a mirror.
But he smiled at the recollection, for he was not a superstitious
young man, and had received a half-scientific education.
It was nearly twelve o’clock when Maria left the palace. She had
not realised that it was so late, and she had told the coachman
to take her to a dressmaker’s far down the Corso, near the Piazza
del Popolo. She was to have tried on a couple of frocks which were
necessary to complete her mourning; but the gun-fire from the
Janiculus and the clashing of all the church bells told her that
it was noon already, and too late, for Leone always had his dinner
with her at half-past twelve. She touched Telemaco’s broad black
back with the edge of her parasol to call his attention, and she
told him to go home instead of stopping at the dressmaker’s.
He asked whether he should pass through the Villa by Porta
Pinciana, that being as near a way as any other, and easy for the
horses, and she nodded her assent. She had not been in the Villa
since the day when she had walked there alone, and had gone home
and found Montalto’s letter.
It was a warm spring morning, but the horses trotted briskly up
the main avenue that leads in from the gate, glad to be in the
pleasant shade. Maria lowered her parasol to the bottom of the
phaeton without shutting it, for she knew she should need it again
in a few minutes. There was no other carriage in the avenue just
then, but several riders were walking their horses slowly towards
the gate after exercising them on the course. The first she met
were two civilians, and one of them was Oderisio Boccapaduli. He
recognised her from a distance, and before he was near enough to
bow he glanced quickly behind him, as if he expected to see some
one. She did not know the other man. Oderisio took off his hat, and
she smiled and nodded. Then came a captain of artillery on a strong
Hungarian horse that was evidently in a bad temper and hard to
manage. Maria turned her head to watch them after she had passed,
but her carriage was going at a smart pace and she soon looked
before her again. Not far ahead were two officers of the Piedmont
Lancers, walking their horses and talking together.
One was the same young lieutenant who had jumped his English mare
in and out of the ring for her benefit on that morning when she had
been on foot. She might have met him there any day. The other was
Baldassare del Castiglione, and she had not known that he was in
Rome.
She was so startled that she made a movement to raise her open
parasol and hide her face; but she instantly understood the
absurdity of doing such a thing and dropped it again, and looked
steadily towards the advancing horsemen, though for a few seconds
she could not see them. They were hidden in a fiery mist that rose
between her and them. It dissolved suddenly, and Castiglione was
gravely saluting her; his face was calm, but his eyes were blazing
blue. The young lieutenant raised his hand to his cap almost at the
same instant. With infinite difficulty Maria slowly bent her head
in answer, but she did not turn her eyes as the two men passed her,
and in another moment she had left them behind.
Then she felt that her heart was beating again, for she was sure
that it had quite stopped. But at the same instant her hand
unconsciously relaxed, and her open parasol, which was already half
over the step of the phaeton, flew out, rolled a little way, and
