follows, without saying, that whenever Sage found an opportunity to play
a joke upon Harris, Harris was sure to suffer.
Along about 1873 Sage fell a victim to an illness which reduced him to a
skeleton, and defied all the efforts of the physicians to cure it. He
went to the Adirondacks and took Harris with him. Sage had always been
an active man, and he couldn't idle any day wholly away in inanition,
but walked every day to the limit of his strength. One day, toward
nightfall, the pair came upon a humble log cabin which bore these words
painted upon a shingle: "Entertainment for Man and Beast." They were
obliged to stop there for the night, Sage's strength being exhausted.
They entered the cabin and found its owner and sole occupant there, a
rugged and sturdy and simple-hearted man of middle age. He cooked supper
and placed it before the travellers--salt junk, boiled beans, corn bread
and black coffee. Sage's stomach could abide nothing but the most
delicate food, therefore this banquet revolted him, and he sat at the
table unemployed, while Harris fed ravenously, limitlessly, gratefully;
for he had been chaplain in a fighting regiment all through the war, and
had kept in perfection the grand and uncritical appetite and splendid
physical vigor which those four years of tough fare and activity had
furnished him. Sage went supperless to bed, and tossed and writhed all
night upon a shuck mattress that was full of attentive and interested
corn-cobs. In the morning Harris was ravenous again, and devoured the
odious breakfast as contentedly and as delightedly as he had devoured
its twin the night before. Sage sat upon the porch, empty, and
contemplated the performance and meditated revenge. Presently he
beckoned to the landlord and took him aside and had a confidential talk
with him. He said,
"I am the paymaster. What is the bill?"
"Two suppers, fifty cents; two beds, thirty cents; two breakfasts, fifty
cents--total, a dollar and thirty cents."
Sage said, "Go back and make out the bill and fetch it to me here on the
porch. Make it thirteen dollars."
"Thirteen dollars! Why, it's impossible! I am no robber. I am charging
you what I charge everybody. It's a dollar and thirty cents, and that's
all it is."
"My man, I've got something to say about this as well as you. It's
thirteen dollars. You'll make out your bill for that, and you'll take
it, too, or you'll not get a cent."
The man was troubled, and said, "I don't understand this. I can't make
it out."
"Well, I understand it. I know what I am about. It's thirteen dollars,
and I want the bill made out for that. There's no other terms. Get it
ready and bring it out here. I will examine it and be outraged. You
understand? I will dispute the bill. You must stand to it. You must
refuse to take less. I will begin to lose my temper; you must begin to
lose yours. I will call you hard names; you must answer with harder
ones. I will raise my voice; you must raise yours. You must go into a
rage--foam at the mouth, if you can; insert some soap to help it along.
Now go along and follow your instructions."
The man played his assigned part, and played it well. He brought the
bill and stood waiting for results. Sage's face began to cloud up, his
eyes to snap, and his nostrils to inflate like a horse's; then he broke
out with--
"Thirteen dollars! You mean to say that you charge thirteen dollars
for these damned inhuman hospitalities of yours? Are you a professional
buccaneer? Is it your custom to--"
The man burst in with spirit: "Now, I don't want any more out of
you--that's a plenty. The bill is thirteen dollars and you'll pay
it--that's all; a couple of characterless adventurers bilking their way
through this country and attempting to dictate terms to a gentleman! a
gentleman who received you supposing you were gentlemen yourselves,
whereas in my opinion hell's full of--"
Sage broke in--
"Not another word of that!--I won't have it. I regard you as the
lowest-down thief that ever--"
"Don't you use that word again! By ----, I'll take you by the neck
and--"
Harris came rushing out, and just as the two were about to grapple he
pushed himself between them and began to implore--
"Oh, Dean, don't, don't--now, Mr. Smith, control yourself! Oh, think
of your family, Dean!--think what a scandal--"
But they burst out with maledictions, imprecations and all the hard
names they could dig out of the rich accumulations of their educated
memories, and in the midst of it the man shouted--
"When gentlemen come to this house, I treat them as gentlemen. When
people come to this house with the ordinary appetites of gentlemen, I
charge them a dollar and thirty cents for what I furnished you; but when
a man brings a hell-fired Famine here that gorges a barrel of pork and
four barrels of beans at two sittings--"
Sage broke in, in a voice that was eloquent with remorse and
self-reproach, "I never thought of that, and I ask your pardon; I am
ashamed of myself and of my friend. Here's your thirteen dollars, and my
apologies along with it."
[Dictated March 12, 1906.] I have always taken a great interest in
other people's duels. One always feels an abiding interest in any heroic
thing which has entered into his own experience.
In 1878, fourteen years after my unmaterialized duel, Messieurs Fortu
and Gambetta fought a duel which made heroes of both of them in France,
but made them rather ridiculous throughout the rest of the world. I was
living in Munich that fall and winter, and I was so interested in that
funny tragedy that I wrote a long account of it, and it is in one of my
books, somewhere--an account which had some inaccuracies in it, but as
an exhibition of the spirit of that duel, I think it was correct and
trustworthy. And when I was living in Vienna, thirty-four years after my
ineffectual duel, my interest in that kind of incident was still strong;
and I find here among my Autobiographical manuscripts of that day a
chapter which I began concerning it, but did not finish. I wanted to
finish it, but held it open in the hope that the Italian ambassador, M.
Nigra, would find time to furnish me the full history of Señor
Cavalotti's adventures in that line. But he was a busy man; there was
always an interruption before he could get well started; so my hope was
never fulfilled. The following is the unfinished chapter:
     As concerns duelling. This pastime is as common in Austria to-day
     as it is in France. But with this difference, that here in the
     Austrian States the duel is dangerous, while in France it is not.
     Here it is tragedy, in France it in comedy; here it is a solemnity,
     there it is monkey-shines; here the duellist risks his life, there
     he does not even risk his shirt. Here he fights with pistol or
     sabre, in France with a hairpin--a blunt one. Here the desperately
     wounded man tries to walk to the hospital; there they paint the
     scratch so that they can find it again, lay the sufferer on a
     stretcher, and conduct him off the field with a band of music.
     At the end of a French duel the pair hug and kiss and cry, and
     praise each other's valor; then the surgeons make an examination
     and pick out the scratched one, and the other one helps him on to
     the litter and pays his fare; and in return the scratched one
     treats to champagne and oysters in the evening, and then "the
     incident is closed," as the French say. It is all polite, and
     gracious, and pretty, and impressive. At the end of an Austrian
     duel the antagonist that is alive gravely offers his hand to the
     other man, utters some phrases of courteous regret, then bids him
     good-by and goes his way, and that incident also is closed. The
     French duellist is painstakingly protected from danger, by the
     rules of the game. His antagonist's weapon cannot reach so far as
     his body; if he get a scratch it will not be above his elbow. But
     in Austria the rules of the game do not provide against danger,
     they carefully provide for it, usually. Commonly the combat must
     be kept up until one of the men is disabled; a non-disabling slash
     or stab does not retire him.
     For a matter of three months I watched the Viennese journals, and
     whenever a duel was reported in their telegraphic columns I
     scrap-booked it. By this record I find that duelling in Austria is
     not confined to journalists and old maids, as in France, but is
     indulged in by military men, journalists, students, physicians,
     lawyers, members of the legislature, and even the Cabinet, the
     Bench and the police. Duelling is forbidden by law; and so it seems
     odd to see the makers and administrators of the laws dancing on
     their work in this way. Some months ago Count Bodeni, at that time
     Chief of the Government, fought a pistol-duel here in the capital
     city of the Empire with representative Wolf, and both of those
     distinguished Christians came near getting turned out of the
     Church--for the Church as well as the State forbids duelling.
     In one case, lately, in Hungary, the police interfered and stopped
     a duel after the first innings. This was a sabre-duel between the
     chief of police and the city attorney. Unkind things were said
     about it by the newspapers. They said the police remembered their
     duty uncommonly well when their own officials were the parties
     concerned in duels. But I think the underlings showed good
     bread-and-butter judgment. If their superiors had carved each other
     well, the public would have asked, Where were the police? and their
     places would have been endangered; but custom does not require them
     to be around where mere unofficial citizens are explaining a thing
     with sabres.
     There was another duel--a double duel--going on in the immediate
     neighborhood at the time, and in this case the police obeyed custom
     and did not disturb it. Their bread and butter was not at stake
     there. In this duel a physician fought a couple of surgeons, and
     wounded both--one of them lightly, the other seriously. An
     undertaker wanted to keep people from interfering, but that was
     quite natural again.
     Selecting at random from my record, I next find a duel at Tarnopol
     between military men. An officer of the Tenth Dragoons charged an
     officer of the Ninth Dragoons with an offence against the laws of
     the card-table. There was a defect or a doubt somewhere in the
     matter, and this had to be examined and passed upon by a Court of
     Honor. So the case was sent up to Lemberg for this purpose. One
     would like to know what the defect was, but the newspaper does not
     say. A man here who has fought many duels and has a graveyard, says
     that probably the matter in question was as to whether the
     accusation was true or not; that if the charge was a very grave
     one--cheating, for instance--proof of its truth would rule the
     guilty officer out of the field of honor; the Court would not allow
     a gentleman to fight with such a person. You see what a solemn
     thing it is; you see how particular they are; any little careless
     act can lose you your privilege of getting yourself shot, here. The
     Court seems to have gone into the matter in a searching and careful
     fashion, for several months elapsed before it reached a decision.
     It then sanctioned a duel and the accused killed his accuser.
     Next I find a duel between a prince and a major; first with
     pistols--no result satisfactory to either party; then with sabres,
     and the major badly hurt.
     Next, a sabre-duel between journalists--the one a strong man, the
     other feeble and in poor health. It was brief; the strong one drove
     his sword through the weak one, and death was immediate.
     Next, a duel between a lieutenant and a student of medicine.
     According to the newspaper report these are the details. The
     student was in a restaurant one evening: passing along, he halted
     at a table to speak with some friends; near by sat a dozen military
     men; the student conceived that one of these was "staring" at him;
     he asked the officer to step outside and explain. This officer and
     another one gathered up their caps and sabres and went out with the
     student. Outside--this is the student's account--the student
     introduced himself to the offending officer and said, "You seemed
     to stare at me"; for answer, the officer struck at the student with
     his fist; the student parried the blow; both officers drew their
     sabres and attacked the young fellow, and one of them gave him a
     wound on the left arm; then they withdrew. This was Saturday night.
     The duel followed on Monday, in the military riding-school--the
     customary duelling-ground all over Austria, apparently. The weapons
     were pistols. The duelling terms were somewhat beyond custom in the
     matter of severity, if I may gather that from the statement that
     the combat was fought "unter sehr schweren Bedingungen"--to wit,
     "Distance, 15 steps--with 3 steps advance." There was but one
     exchange of shots. The student was hit. "He put his hand on his
     breast, his body began to bend slowly forward, then collapsed in
     death and sank to the ground."
     It is pathetic. There are other duels in my list, but I find in
     each and all of them one and the same ever-recurring defect--the
     principals are never present, but only their sham
     representatives. The real principals in any duel are not the
     duellists themselves, but their families. They do the mourning, the
     suffering, theirs is the loss and theirs the misery. They stake all
     that, the duellist stakes nothing but his life, and that is a
     trivial thing compared with what his death must cost those whom he
     leaves behind him. Challenges should not mention the duellist; he
     has nothing much at stake, and the real vengeance cannot reach him.
     The challenge should summon the offender's old gray mother, and his
     young wife and his little children,--these, or any to whom he is a
     dear and worshipped possession--and should say, "You have done me
     no harm, but I am the meek slave of a custom which requires me to
     crush the happiness out of your hearts and condemn you to years of
     pain and grief, in order that I may wash clean with your tears a
     stain which has been put upon me by another person."
     The logic of it is admirable: a person has robbed me of a penny; I
     must beggar ten innocent persons to make good my loss. Surely
     nobody's "honor" is worth all that.
     Since the duellist's family are the real principals in a duel, the
     State ought to compel them to be present at it. Custom, also, ought
     to be so amended as to require it; and without it no duel ought to
     be allowed to go on. If that student's unoffending mother had been
     present and watching the officer through her tears as he raised his
     pistol, he--why, he would have fired in the air. We know that. For
     we know how we are all made. Laws ought to be based upon the
     ascertained facts of our nature. It would be a simple thing to make
     a duelling law which would stop duelling.
     As things are now, the mother is never invited. She submits to
     this; and without outward complaint, for she, too, is the vassal of
     custom, and custom requires her to conceal her pain when she learns
     the disastrous news that her son must go to the duelling-field, and
     by the powerful force that is lodged in habit and custom she is
     enabled to obey this trying requirement--a requirement which exacts
     a miracle of her, and gets it. Last January a neighbor of ours who
     has a young son in the army was wakened by this youth at three
     o'clock one morning, and she sat up in bed and listened to his
     message:
     "I have come to tell you something, mother, which will distress
     you, but you must be good and brave, and bear it. I have been
     affronted by a fellow officer, and we fight at three this
     afternoon. Lie down and sleep, now, and think no more about it."
     She kissed him good night and lay down paralyzed with grief and
     fear, but said nothing. But she did not sleep; she prayed and
     mourned till the first streak of dawn, then fled to the nearest
     church and implored the Virgin for help; and from that church she
     went to another and another and another; church after church, and
     still church after church, and so spent all the day until three
     o'clock on her knees in agony and tears; then dragged herself home
     and sat down comfortless and desolate, to count the minutes, and
     wait, with an outward show of calm, for what had been ordained for
     her--happiness, or endless misery. Presently she heard the clank of
     a sabre--she had not known before what music was in that
     sound!--and her son put his head in and said:
     "X was in the wrong, and he apologized."
     So that incident was closed; and for the rest of her life the
     mother will always find something pleasant about the clank of a
     sabre, no doubt.
     In one of my listed duels--however, let it go, there is nothing
     particularly striking about it except that the seconds interfered.
     And prematurely, too, for neither man was dead. This was certainly
     irregular. Neither of the men liked it. It was a duel with cavalry
     sabres, between an editor and a lieutenant. The editor walked to
     the hospital, the lieutenant was carried. In this country an editor
     who can write well is valuable, but he is not likely to remain so
     unless he can handle a sabre with charm.
     The following very recent telegram shows that also in France duels
     are humanely stopped as soon as they approach the (French)
     danger-point:
     "Reuter's Telegram.--PARIS, March 5.--The duel between Colonels
     Henry and Picquart took place this morning in the Riding School of
     the Ecole Militaire, the doors of which were strictly guarded in
     order to prevent intrusion. The combatants, who fought with swords,
     were in position at ten o'clock.
     "At the first reengagement Lieutenant-Colonel Henry was slightly
     scratched in the fore arm, and just at the same moment his own
     blade appeared to touch his adversary's neck. Senator Ranc, who was
     Colonel Picquart's second, stopped the fight, but as it was found
     that his principal had not been touched, the combat continued. A
     very sharp encounter ensued, in which Colonel Henry was wounded in
     the elbow, and the duel terminated."
     After which, the stretcher and the band. In lurid contrast with
     this delicate flirtation, we have this fatal duel of day before
     yesterday in Italy, where the earnest Austrian duel is in vogue. I
     knew Cavalotti slightly, and this gives me a sort of personal
     interest in his duel. I first saw him in Rome several years ago. He
     was sitting on a block of stone in the Forum, and was writing
     something in his note-book--a poem or a challenge, or something
     like that--and the friend who pointed him out to me said, "That is
     Cavalotti--he has fought thirty duels; do not disturb him." I did
     not disturb him.
     Onteora was situated high up in the
Catskill Mountains, in the centre of a far-reaching solitude. I do not
mean that the region was wholly uninhabited; there were farmhouses here
and there, at generous distances apart. Their occupants were descendants
of ancestors who had built the houses in Rip Van Winkle's time, or
earlier; and those ancestors were not more primitive than were this
posterity of theirs. The city people were as foreign and unfamiliar and
strange to them as monkeys would have been, and they would have
respected the monkeys as much as they respected these elegant
summer-resorters. The resorters were a puzzle to them, their ways were
so strange and their interests so trivial. They drove the resorters over
the mountain roads and listened in shamed surprise at their bursts of
enthusiasm over the scenery. The farmers had had that scenery on
exhibition from their mountain roosts all their lives, and had never
noticed anything remarkable about it. By way of an incident: a pair of
these primitives were overheard chatting about the resorters, one day,
and in the course of their talk this remark was dropped:
"I was a-drivin' a passel of 'em round about yisterday evenin', quiet
ones, you know, still and solemn, and all to wunst they busted out to
make your hair lift and I judged hell was to pay. Now what do you reckon
it was? It wa'n't anything but jest one of them common damned yaller
sunsets."
In those days--
[Tuesday, October 16, 1906.] ... Warner is gone. Stockton is gone. I
attended both funerals. Warner was a near neighbor, from the autumn of
'71 until his death, nineteen years afterward. It is not the privilege
of the most of us to have many intimate friends--a dozen is our
aggregate--but I think he could count his by the score. It is seldom
that a man is so beloved by both sexes and all ages as Warner was. There
was a charm about his spirit, and his ways, and his words, that won all
that came within the sphere of its influence. Our children adopted him
while they were little creatures, and thenceforth, to the end, he was
"Cousin Charley" to them. He was "Uncle Charley" to the children of more
than one other friend. Mrs. Clemens was very fond of him, and he always
called her by her first name--shortened. Warner died, as she died, and
as I would die--without premonition, without a moment's warning.
Uncle Remus still lives, and must be over a thousand years old. Indeed,
I know that this must be so, because I have seen a new photograph of him
in the public prints within the last month or so, and in that picture
his aspects are distinctly and strikingly geological, and one can see he
is thinking about the mastodons and plesiosaurians that he used to play
with when he was young.
It is just a quarter of a century since I have seen Uncle Remus. He
visited us in our home in Hartford and was reverently devoured by the
big eyes of Susy and Clara, for I made a deep and awful impression upon
the little creatures--who knew his book by heart through my nightly
declamation of its tales to them--by revealing to them privately that he
was the real Uncle Remus whitewashed so that he could come into people's
houses the front way.
He was the bashfulest grown person I have ever met. When there were
people about he stayed silent, and seemed to suffer until they were
gone. But he was lovely, nevertheless; for the sweetness and benignity
of the immortal Remus looked out from his eyes, and the graces and
sincerities of his character shone in his face.
It may be that Jim Wolf was as bashful as Harris. It hardly seems
possible, yet as I look back fifty-six years and consider Jim Wolf, I am
almost persuaded that he was. He was our long slim apprentice in my
brother's printing-office in Hannibal. He was seventeen, and yet he was
as much as four times as bashful as I was, though I was only fourteen.
He boarded and slept in the house, but he was always tongue-tied in the
presence of my sister, and when even my gentle mother spoke to him he
could not answer save in frightened monosyllables. He would not enter a
room where a girl was; nothing could persuade him to do such a thing.
Once when he was in our small parlor alone, two majestic old maids
entered and seated themselves in such a way that Jim could not escape
without passing by them. He would as soon have thought of passing by one
of Harris's plesiosaurians ninety feet long. I came in presently, was
charmed with the situation, and sat down in a corner to watch Jim
suffer, and enjoy it. My mother followed a minute later and sat down
with the visitors and began to talk. Jim sat upright in his chair, and
during a quarter of an hour he did not change his position by a
shade--neither General Grant nor a bronze image could have maintained
that immovable pose more successfully. I mean as to body and limbs; with
the face there was a difference. By fleeting revealments of the face I
saw that something was happening--something out of the common. There
would be a sudden twitch of the muscles of the face, an instant
distortion, which in the next instant had passed and left no trace.
These twitches gradually grew in frequency, but no muscle outside of the
face lost any of its rigidity, or betrayed any interest in what was
happening to Jim. I mean if something was happening to him, and I knew
perfectly well that that was the case. At last a pair of tears began to
swim slowly down his cheeks amongst the twitchings, but Jim sat still
and let them run; then I saw his right hand steal along his thigh until
half-way to his knee, then take a vigorous grip upon the cloth.
That was a wasp that he was grabbing! A colony of them were climbing
up his legs and prospecting around, and every time he winced they
stabbed him to the hilt--so for a quarter of an hour one group of
excursionists after another climbed up Jim's legs and resented even the
slightest wince or squirm that he indulged himself with, in his misery.
When the entertainment had become nearly unbearable, he conceived the
idea of gripping them between his fingers and putting them out of
commission. He succeeded with many of them, but at great cost, for, as
he couldn't see the wasp, he was as likely to take hold of the wrong end
of him as he was the right; then the dying wasp gave him a punch to
remember the incident by.
If those ladies had stayed all day, and if all the wasps in Missouri had
come and climbed up Jim's legs, nobody there would ever have known it
but Jim and the wasps and me. There he would have sat until the ladies
left.
When they finally went away we went up-stairs and he took his clothes
off, and his legs were a picture to look at. They looked as if they were
mailed all over with shirt buttons, each with a single red hole in the
centre. The pain was intolerable--no, would have been intolerable, but
the pain of the presence of those ladies had been so much harder to bear
that the pain of the wasps' stings was quite pleasant and enjoyable by
comparison.
     DEAR MRS. H.,--I am forever your debtor for reminding me of that
     curious passage in my life. During the first year or two after it
     happened, I could not bear to think of it. My pain and shame were
     so intense, and my sense of having been an imbecile so settled,
     established and confirmed, that I drove the episode entirely from
     my mind--and so all these twenty-eight or twenty-nine years I have
     lived in the conviction that my performance of that time was
     coarse, vulgar and destitute of humor. But your suggestion that you
     and your family found humor in it twenty-eight years ago moved me
     to look into the matter. So I commissioned a Boston typewriter to
     delve among the Boston papers of that bygone time and send me a
     copy of it.
     It came this morning, and if there is any vulgarity about it I am
     not able to discover it. If it isn't innocently and ridiculously
     funny, I am no judge. I will see to it that you get a copy.
                Address of Samuel L. Clemens ("Mark Twain")
            From a report of the dinner given by the Publishers
                 of the Atlantic Monthly in honor of the
                      Seventieth Anniversary of the
         Birth of John Greenleaf Whittier, at the Hotel Brunswick,
                         Boston, December 17, 1877,
                            as published in the
                         BOSTON EVENING TRANSCRIPT,
                             December 18, 1877
     Mr. Chairman--This is an occasion peculiarly meet for the digging
     up of pleasant reminiscences concerning literary folk; therefore I
     will drop lightly into history myself. Standing here on the shore
     of the Atlantic and contemplating certain of its largest literary
     billows, I am reminded of a thing which happened to me thirteen
     years ago, when I had just succeeded in stirring up a little
     Nevadian literary puddle myself, whose spume-flakes were beginning
     to blow thinly Californiawards. I started an inspection tramp
     through the southern mines of California. I was callow and
     conceited, and I resolved to try the virtue of my nom de guerre.
     I very soon had an opportunity. I knocked at a miner's lonely log
     cabin in the foothills of the Sierras just at nightfall. It was
     snowing at the time. A jaded, melancholy man of fifty, barefooted,
     opened the door to me. When he heard my nom de guerre he looked
     more dejected than before. He let me in--pretty reluctantly, I
     thought--and after the customary bacon and beans, black coffee and
     hot whiskey, I took a pipe. This sorrowful man had not said three
     words up to this time. Now he spoke up and said, in the voice of
     one who is secretly suffering, "You're the fourth--I'm going to
     move." "The fourth what!" said I. "The fourth littery man that has
     been here in twenty-four hours--I'm going to move." "You don't tell
     me!" said I; "who were the others!" "Mr. Longfellow, Mr. Emerson
     and Mr. Oliver Wendell Holmes--consound the lot!"
     You can easily believe I was interested. I supplicated--three hot
     whiskeys did the rest--and finally the melancholy miner began. Said
     he--
     "They came here just at dark yesterday evening, and I let them in
     of course. Said they were going to the Yosemite. They were a rough
     lot, but that's nothing; everybody looks rough that travels afoot.
     Mr. Emerson was a seedy little bit of a chap, red-headed. Mr.
     Holmes as fat as a balloon; he weighed as much as three hundred,
     and double chins all the way down to his stomach. Mr. Longfellow
     built like a prize-fighter. His head was cropped and bristly, like
     as if he had a wig made of hair-brushes. His nose lay straight down
     his face, like a finger with the end joint tilted up. They had been
     drinking, I could see that. And what queer talk they used! Mr.
     Holmes inspected this cabin, then he took me by the buttonhole, and
     says he--
     "'Through the deep cares of thought
     I hear a voice that sings,
     Build thee more stately mansions,
     O my soul!'
     "Says I, 'I can't afford it, Mr. Holmes, and moreover I don't want
     to.' Blamed if I liked it pretty well, either, coming from a
     stranger, that way. However, I started to get out my bacon and
     beans, when Mr. Emerson came and looked on awhile, and then he
     takes me aside by the buttonhole and says--
     "'Give me agates for my meat;
     Give me cantharids to eat;
     From air and ocean bring me foods,
     From all zones and altitudes.'
     "Says I, 'Mr. Emerson, if you'll excuse me, this ain't no hotel.'
     You see it sort of riled me--I warn't used to the ways of littery
     swells. But I went on a-sweating over my work, and next comes Mr.
     Longfellow and buttonholes me, and interrupts me. Says he,
     "'Honor be to Mudjekeewis!
     You shall hear how Pau-Puk-Keewis--'
     "But I broke in, and says I, 'Beg your pardon, Mr. Longfellow, if
     you'll be so kind as to hold your yawp for about five minutes and
     let me get this grub ready, you'll do me proud.' Well, sir, after
     they'd filled up I set out the jug. Mr. Holmes looks at it and then
     he fires up all of a sudden and yells--
     "'Flash out a stream of blood-red wine!
     For I would drink to other days.'
     "By George, I was getting kind of worked up. I don't deny it, I was
     getting kind of worked up. I turns to Mr. Holmes, and says I,
     'Looky here, my fat friend, I'm a-running this shanty, and if the
     court knows herself, you'll take whiskey straight or you'll go
     dry.' Them's the very words I said to him. Now I don't want to sass
     such famous littery people, but you see they kind of forced me.
     There ain't nothing onreasonable 'bout me; I don't mind a passel of
     guests a-treadin' on my tail three or four times, but when it comes
     to standing on it it's different, 'and if the court knows
     herself,' I says, 'you'll take whiskey straight or you'll go dry.'
     Well, between drinks they'd swell around the cabin and strike
     attitudes and spout; and pretty soon they got out a greasy old deck
     and went to playing euchre at ten cents a corner--on trust. I began
     to notice some pretty suspicious things. Mr. Emerson dealt, looked
     at his hand, shook his head, says--
     "'I am the doubter and the doubt--'
     and ca'mly bunched the hands and went to shuffling for a new
     layout. Says he--
     "'They reckon ill who leave me out;
     They know not well the subtle ways I keep.
     I pass and deal again!'
     Hang'd if he didn't go ahead and do it, too! O, he was a cool one!
     Well, in about a minute, things were running pretty tight, but all
     of a sudden I see by Mr. Emerson's eye he judged he had 'em. He had
     already corralled two tricks and each of the others one. So now he
     kind of lifts a little in his chair and says--
     "'I tire of globes and aces!--
     Too long the game is played!'
     --and down he fetched a right bower. Mr. Longfellow smiles as sweet
     as pie and says--
     "'Thanks, thanks to thee, my worthy friend,
     For the lesson thou hast taught,'
     --and blamed if he didn't down with another right bower! Emerson
     claps his hand on his bowie, Longfellow claps his on his revolver,
     and I went under a bunk. There was going to be trouble; but that
     monstrous Holmes rose up, wobbling his double chins, and says he,
     'Order, gentlemen; the first man that draws, I'll lay down on him
     and smother him!' All quiet on the Potomac, you bet!
     "They were pretty how-come-you-so, by now, and they begun to blow.
     Emerson says, 'The nobbiest thing I ever wrote was Barbara
     Frietchie.' Says Longfellow, 'It don't begin with my Biglow
     Papers.' Says Holmes, 'My Thanatopsis lays over 'em both.' They
     mighty near ended in a fight. Then they wished they had some more
     company--and Mr. Emerson pointed to me and says--
     "'Is yonder squalid peasant all
     That this proud nursery could breed?'
     He was a-whetting his bowie on his boot--so I let it pass. Well,
     sir, next they took it into their heads that they would like some
     music; so they made me stand up and sing 'When Johnny Comes
     Marching Home' till I dropped--at thirteen minutes past four this
     morning. That's what I've been through, my friend. When I woke at
     seven, they were leaving, thank goodness, and Mr. Longfellow had my
     only boots on, and his'n under his arm. Says I, 'Hold on, there,
     Evangeline, what are you going to do with them! He says, 'Going
     to make tracks with 'em; because--
     "'Lives of great men all remind us
     We can make our lives sublime;
     And, departing, leave behind us
     Footprints on the sands of time.'
     As I said, Mr. Twain, you are the fourth in twenty-four hours--and
     I'm going to move; I ain't suited to a littery atmosphere."
     I said to the miner, "Why, my dear sir, these were not the
     gracious singers to whom we and the world pay loving reverence and
     homage; these were impostors."
     The miner investigated me with a calm eye for a while; then said
     he, "Ah! impostors, were they? Are you?
     I did not pursue the subject, and since then I have not travelled
     on my nom de guerre enough to hurt. Such was the reminiscence I
     was moved to contribute, Mr. Chairman. In my enthusiasm I may have
     exaggerated the details a little, but you will easily forgive me
     that fault, since I believe it is the first time I have ever
     deflected from perpendicular fact on an occasion like this.
What I have said to Mrs. H. is true. I did suffer during a year or two
from the deep humiliations of that episode. But at last, in 1888, in
Venice, my wife and I came across Mr. and Mrs. A. P. C., of Concord,
Massachusetts, and a friendship began then of the sort which nothing but
death terminates. The C.'s were very bright people and in every way
charming and companionable. We were together a month or two in Venice
and several months in Rome, afterwards, and one day that lamented break
of mine was mentioned. And when I was on the point of lathering those
people for bringing it to my mind when I had gotten the memory of it
almost squelched, I perceived with joy that the C.'s were indignant
about the way that my performance had been received in Boston. They
poured out their opinions most freely and frankly about the frosty
attitude of the people who were present at that performance, and about
the Boston newspapers for the position they had taken in regard to the
matter. That position was that I had been irreverent beyond belief,
beyond imagination. Very well, I had accepted that as a fact for a year
or two, and had been thoroughly miserable about it whenever I thought of
it--which was not frequently, if I could help it. Whenever I thought of
it I wondered how I ever could have been inspired to do so unholy a
thing. Well, the C.'s comforted me, but they did not persuade me to
continue to think about the unhappy episode. I resisted that. I tried to
get it out of my mind, and let it die, and I succeeded. Until Mrs. H.'s
letter came, it had been a good twenty-five years since I had thought of
that matter; and when she said that the thing was funny I wondered if
possibly she might be right. At any rate, my curiosity was aroused, and
I wrote to Boston and got the whole thing copied, as above set forth.
I vaguely remember some of the details of that gathering--dimly I can
see a hundred people--no, perhaps fifty--shadowy figures sitting at
tables feeding, ghosts now to me, and nameless forever more. I don't
know who they were, but I can very distinctly see, seated at the grand
table and facing the rest of us, Mr. Emerson, supernaturally grave,
unsmiling; Mr. Whittier, grave, lovely, his beautiful spirit shining out
of his face; Mr. Longfellow, with his silken white hair and his
benignant face; Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes, flashing smiles and affection
and all good-fellowship everywhere like a rose-diamond whose facets are
being turned toward the light first one way and then another--a charming
man, and always fascinating, whether he was talking or whether he was
sitting still (what he would call still, but what would be more or
lees motion to other people). I can see those figures with entire
distinctness across this abyss of time.
One other feature is clear--Willie Winter (for these past thousand years
dramatic editor of the "New York Tribune," and still occupying that high
post in his old age) was there. He was much younger then than he is now,
and he showed it. It was always a pleasure to me to see Willie Winter at
a banquet. During a matter of twenty years I was seldom at a banquet
where Willie Winter was not also present, and where he did not read a
charming poem written for the occasion. He did it this time, and it was
up to standard: dainty, happy, choicely phrased, and as good to listen
to as music, and sounding exactly as if it was pouring unprepared out of
heart and brain.
Now at that point ends all that was pleasurable about that notable
celebration of Mr. Whittier's seventieth birthday--because I got up at
that point and followed Winter, with what I have no doubt I supposed
would be the gem of the evening--the gay oration above quoted from the
Boston paper. I had written it all out the day before and had perfectly
memorized it, and I stood up there at my genial and happy and
self-satisfied ease, and began to deliver it. Those majestic guests,
that row of venerable and still active volcanoes, listened, as did
everybody else in the house, with attentive interest. Well, I delivered
myself of--we'll say the first two hundred words of my speech. I was
expecting no returns from that part of the speech, but this was not the
case as regarded the rest of it. I arrived now at the dialogue: 'The old
miner said, "You are the fourth, I'm going to move." "The fourth what?"
said I. He answered, "The fourth littery man that has been here in
twenty-four hours. I am going to move." "Why, you don't tell me," said
I. "Who were the others?" "Mr. Longfellow, Mr. Emerson, Mr. Oliver
Wendell Holmes, consound the lot--"'
Now then the house's attention continued, but the expression of
interest in the faces turned to a sort of black frost. I wondered what
the trouble was. I didn't know. I went on, but with difficulty--I
struggled along, and entered upon that miner's fearful description of
the bogus Emerson, the bogus Holmes, the bogus Longfellow, always
hoping--but with a gradually perishing hope--that somebody would laugh,
or that somebody would at least smile, but nobody did. I didn't know
enough to give it up and sit down, I was too new to public speaking, and
so I went on with this awful performance, and carried it clear through
to the end, in front of a body of people who seemed turned to stone with
horror. It was the sort of expression their faces would have worn if I
had been making these remarks about the Deity and the rest of the
Trinity; there is no milder way in which to describe the petrified
condition and the ghastly expression of those people.
When I sat down it was with a heart which had long ceased to beat. I
shall never be as dead again as I was then. I shall never be as
miserable again as I was then. I speak now as one who doesn't know what
the condition of things may be in the next world, but in this one I
shall never be as wretched again as I was then. Howells, who was near
me, tried to say a comforting word, but couldn't get beyond a gasp.
There was no use--he understood the whole size of the disaster. He had
good intentions, but the words froze before they could get out. It was
an atmosphere that would freeze anything. If Benvenuto Cellini's
salamander had been in that place he would not have survived to be put
into Cellini's autobiography. There was a frightful pause. There was an
awful silence, a desolating silence. Then the next man on the list had
to get up--there was no help for it. That was Bishop--Bishop had just
burst handsomely upon the world with a most acceptable novel, which had
appeared in the "Atlantic Monthly," a place which would make any novel
respectable and any author noteworthy. In this case the novel itself was
recognized as being, without extraneous help, respectable. Bishop was
away up in the public favor, and he was an object of high interest,
consequently there was a sort of national expectancy in the air; we may
say our American millions were standing, from Maine to Texas and from
Alaska to Florida, holding their breath, their lips parted, their hands
ready to applaud when Bishop should get up on that occasion, and for the
first time in his life speak in public. It was under these damaging
conditions that he got up to "make good," as the vulgar say. I had
spoken several times before, and that in the reason why I was able to go
on without dying in my tracks, as I ought to have done--but Bishop had
had no experience. He was up facing those awful deities--facing those
other people, those strangers--facing human beings for the first time in
his life, with a speech to utter. No doubt it was well packed away in
his memory, no doubt it was fresh and usable, until I had been heard
from. I suppose that after that, and under the smothering pall of that
dreary silence, it began to waste away and disappear out of his head
like the rags breaking from the edge of a fog, and presently there
wasn't any fog left. He didn't go on--he didn't last long. It was not
many sentences after his first before he began to hesitate, and break,
and lose his grip, and totter, and wobble, and at last he slumped down
in a limp and mushy pile.
Well, the programme for the occasion was probably not more than
one-third finished, but it ended there. Nobody rose. The next man hadn't
strength enough to get up, and everybody looked so dazed, so stupefied,
paralyzed, it was impossible for anybody to do anything, or even try.
Nothing could go on in that strange atmosphere. Howells mournfully, and
without words, hitched himself to Bishop and me and supported us out of
the room. It was very kind--he was most generous. He towed us tottering
away into some room in that building, and we sat down there. I don't
know what my remark was now, but I know the nature of it. It was the
kind of remark you make when you know that nothing in the world can help
your case. But Howells was honest--he had to say the heart-breaking
things he did say: that there was no help for this calamity, this
shipwreck, this cataclysm; that this was the most disastrous thing that
had ever happened in anybody's history--and then he added, "That is, for
you--and consider what you have done for Bishop. It is bad enough in
your case, you deserve to suffer. You have committed this crime, and you
deserve to have all you are going to get. But here is an innocent man.
Bishop had never done you any harm, and see what you have done to him.
