If she told the truth, which he knew, he would show surprise and press
her with another question; if she answered with an untruth he should
gain that much knowledge of her character for future use.
Quick-witted, she did neither.
'It pleased my lord to remind me a while ago that a slave's oath is
never to be believed,' she said. 'It is the law that a slave must be
tortured when giving evidence, is it not?'
'I believe it is,' answered Zeno, with a smile. 'But you are quite
safe! I only ask you how long you were in Rustan's house.'
'One night and part of a day,' Zoë answered after a moment.
Zeno pretended surprise.
'So short a time! Then he only bought you yesterday?'
'Yesterday evening.'
'And of whom? Will you tell me that?'
Zoë reflected a moment and then smiled.
'Yes. I will tell you that. He bought me of a lady of Constantinople,
in whose closest intimacy I was brought up. She is just of my own age
and we are much alike.'
'I see,' said Zeno, completely deceived, and speaking almost to
himself. 'Poor girl! The same father, I suppose--hence the----'
Zoë drooped her eyes and looked at the carpet.
'Yes--since you have guessed it, sir. We had the same father, though
we never knew him. He died of the plague when we were a few months
old.'
Zeno was perfectly satisfied with this logical explanation which
entirely explained Zoë's aristocratic beauty, her nobility of manner,
and the delicate rearing that was so apparent in all her ways, as well
as the fearlessness which had made her turn upon him and tell him that
she hated him. The only point he could not understand, was that Zoë
should have smiled. But he thought, as was quite possible, that there
might have been jealousy and even hatred between the mistress and her
slave-born sister, and he would not enquire too closely yet, since all
was so clear to him. Such unnatural doings were not rare in a city
half-filled with slaves. Zoë's mistress had probably sold her in a fit
of anger, or perhaps deliberately and with a cruel purpose, or even
out of avarice, to buy a string of pearls.
The girl did not offer to say more, but she looked away from her owner
and seemed to be thinking of the past, as indeed she was, though it
was so different from that which his imagination was inventing for
her.
He, on his side, peeled another walnut thoughtfully, and looked at her
from time to time, sure that he knew the truth, and wondering what he
ought to do, and above all what he really wished to do. He had
believed her deeply wronged, and had paid a great sum to redress that
wrong, almost without hesitating, because it was his nature to help
any one in distress, and because he, who counted neither life nor limb
when his cause was good, had never counted such stuff as gold in a
like case.
But now, it was all clear. She was a slave, in spite of all
appearances. She had suffered no injustice; her smile had told him
that the change in her life had not been to greater unhappiness. That
she should fear to be sent back to Rustan was only natural; she, who
had no doubt always lived delicately in the great house where she had
been born, must have felt the sordidness and the degradation of the
slave-prison, in spite of the special care she had received in
consideration of her beauty and value. Very likely, too, she had not
much real feeling, in spite of her behaviour; slave women rarely
have.
What should he do with her? He was passionate rather than material or
pleasure-loving; he was consequently an optimist and an idealist where
women were concerned, and was full of a vague belief in the romantic
side of love. He could no more really love a slave-girl than he could
have loved a hired maid, though she might be beautiful beyond
comparison, for he was incapable of attaching himself to beauty alone.
Only his equal could be his mate, and he never could care long or
truly for any creature that was less. At twenty, the youth in him
would have boiled up and over for a week, or a month; but he was
verging on thirty, his thirty years that had been crammed with the
deeds of many a daring man's whole life-time, and his nature had
hardened in a nobler mould than his early youth had promised. He would
not make a plaything of any woman now; and since he would not, he
wondered what he should do with Zoë, now that she was his.
In this mood of uncertainty he rose to leave her, more or less
resolved not to see her again until he had come to some conclusion as
to her future; for in spite of all he still felt himself attracted to
her, and the line of her cheek and throat when her face was
half-turned away was of exquisite beauty. Standing beside her for a
moment, he knew that if ever again in his life he stooped to take a
woman for a toy, lovelessly, stupidly, contemptibly, the plaything
would be this Arethusa whom he had bought of a scoundrelly Bokharian
dealer.
'Good-night,' he said, looking down into her upturned eyes. 'If you
need anything, if you want anything, send for Omobono, and you shall
have it. Good-night, Arethusa.'
It was the first time he had called her by her name, as he knew it. He
did not even hold out his hand. She looked up steadily.
'What shall you do with me?' she asked, very anxiously, surprised by
his sudden leave-taking.
She was so lovely then that he felt a despicable impulse to take her
into his arms, just for her loveliness, and close her sad eyes with
kisses. Instead, he shook his head and turned away.
'I do not know,' he said, half-aloud. He reached the door. 'I do not
know,' he repeated, as if the problem were very hard to solve; and he
went out, not turning back to look at her.
Thus ended the first hour the slave spent with her master; and when he
was gone she felt suddenly exhausted, as if she had fought with her
hands; and strangely enough she knew all at once that she was weak
from want of food, and that the thought of eating no longer disgusted
her. Half-ashamed of herself, she glanced at the door through which
Zeno had disappeared, as if she thought he might come back, and
listened, as though expecting his footstep. Then, not seeing or
hearing anything, she began to eat quickly, and almost ravenously, as
if she were doing something to be a little ashamed of, and she hoped
that the maids would not come in and see her.
She was soon satisfied, for it had been a nervous craving rather than
anything else, and every woman who reads these lines knows precisely
how Zoë felt, or will know one of these days; for in all that belongs
to the instinctive side of life, women are much more alike than men
are; whereas, because they are not led, pushed, or dragged through one
average course of teaching, as most men are, but are left to think and
above all, to guess at truth for themselves, they are much more unlike
in their way of looking at things. This also is the reason why many
gifted men and a good many really learned ones would rather talk to
women than to men; for among men they hear the same things
everlastingly, but women always have something new to say, which is
flattering, pleasant, amusing, or irritating--perhaps, as they choose.
Women have also a sort of mock-humble, wholly appealing way of asking
the great man how it is possible that he can really care to talk with
a poor, ignorant, little woman, when he might be engaged in a
memorable conversation with the other great man, who is talking to the
other poor, ignorant little woman with lovely eyes, on the other side
of the room. In this way we learn that life is full of contradictions.
Zoë slept ten hours without dreaming, and awoke refreshed and rested,
to wonder presently why her mood had changed so much. But Zeno was
restless in the night, and dissatisfied with himself and with what he
had done; when he lay awake he found fault with his impulsive action,
but when he fell asleep for half-an-hour Zoë haunted his dreams. More
than once he got up and walked barefoot on the marble mosaic pavement
of his room, and he threw open the shutters and looked out. The night
was calm and clear, and the air was almost wintry. To the left of
Pera's towering outline the northern constellations shone bright and
cold. Each time he looked he wondered at the slow motion of the Bear;
the seven stars hung above the Pole, for it was springtime, and they
hardly seemed to have moved a handbreadth to their westward sinking in
a whole hour, when he looked again. When morning came his face was a
little paler than usual, and he felt that he was in a bad humour.
Omobono only guessed it from a certain increase of his natural
reserve, but that was enough for the experienced secretary, who was
wonderfully careful not to speak unless Zeno spoke to him, and, above
all, not to mention the existence of the women's apartment upstairs.
On the other hand, although it was a Sunday, he had expected to be
sent by his master to draw the money from the house of Cornèr,
according to Pesaro's letter, of which he had thoroughly mastered the
contents. But the order was not given, and as Zeno was neither
forgetful of details nor slack in matters of business, Omobono began
to wonder what had happened.
On Monday Zeno's mood had not changed, nor did he send for the money,
and the secretary's curiosity grew mightily; on Tuesday it became
almost unbearable. So far as he knew, and he knew most things that
went on in the house, Zeno had only once gone upstairs, when he had
supped with Zoë on Saturday evening, and had remained barely an hour.
Since then he had not even asked after the slave, and no one had seen
her except the two little maids, who came out upon the landing to
receive the meals at regular hours, but never spoke to the
men-servants. The secretary could have asked to see Zoë, to enquire if
she needed anything, and she would certainly have received him; but he
was afraid to do so without orders, and Zeno gave none, and might come
in at the very moment when Omobono was there. The industrious
secretary had fits of abstraction over his letters and accounts, and
stared out of the window, stroking his neatly-trimmed grey beard very
thoughtfully.
On Wednesday, a little before noon, Zoë was sitting in her window, and
she again saw Zeno go down the steps to the water and get into his
skiff. It was always there now, even at dawn, for since there had been
women in the house Zeno had been rowed to another place for his
morning plunge in the Golden Horn. To-day he was dressed with
particular care, Zoë thought, as she caught sight of him, and she did
not draw back from the window, as she had done the first time, but
stayed where she was, and she wished in her heart that he would look
up and see her. He did not even turn as he stepped into the boat, and
she thought he held his head lower than when she had last seen him,
and looked down, and raised his shoulders a little like a person
determined not to look to the right or the left. Then the two men
pulled the skiff away upstream, and she watched it till she could no
longer distinguish it from many others that moved about on the water
in the direction of the palace. She wondered where he went.
He had not been gone ten minutes when a man came to the gate of the
fore-court on the other side of the house, and asked to see the
secretary. He was simply dressed in a clean brown woollen tunic, that
hung almost to the ground. It had wide sleeves, and they hid his
joined hands as he stood waiting, in the attitude monks often take
before a superior, or when reciting prayers before meals. But the man
was not a monk, for he wore a broad belt of dark red leather, in which
he carried a sheathed knife, a Syrian ink-horn, and a small
cylindrical case of hammered brass, which held his reed pens. On his
head he wore a tall felt cap, such as dervishes now wear.
The slave at the door looked at him attentively before admitting him.
There was something unusual in his expression, though his features
were not very marked, and he had the rather pasty complexion that is
so common in the East. His eyes were perhaps a little longer and more
almond-shaped than those of the average Greek or Bokharian, and he
kept them half-closed. His scanty black beard had a few grey hairs in
it. His nostrils curved sharply, but the nose was neither very large
nor markedly aquiline. A commonplace face enough in Constantinople;
but there was something oddly fixed in its expression, that made the
slave feel uncomfortable and yet submissive. Many persons of all
conditions came to the merchant's house on business during the day,
and it was the rule to send them to Omobono. The slave's business was
to keep out thieves, beggars, and suspicious characters; he stood
aside, admitted the visitor to the court which separated the house
from the street, and shut the gate again.
One of the free house-servants, of whom two or three were always
waiting, came forward--a square-shouldered Venetian named Vito, who
had been a sailor and had followed Zeno for years. He enquired the
stranger's name and business.
'I am Gorlias Pietrogliant,' was the answer. 'My business with the
secretary is private.'
The serving-man disappeared, and returned a moment later to conduct
the visitor to the private room of the counting-house on the ground
floor, where Omobono sat behind a high desk covered with papers and
slips of parchment.
Omobono straightened himself on his stool and eyed the newcomer with a
look of enquiry, at the same time drawing from his right arm the half
sleeve of grey cotton which he always put on when he was going to
write long, lest a spot of ink should stain the soft linen wrist-band
which just showed below the tight cuff of his coat. He was a careful
man. He looked at his visitor keenly, till he suddenly became aware
that his scrutiny was returned with a rather disquieting fixedness.
'I am Gorlias Pietrogliant,' said the stranger.
Omobono bent his head politely, and wondered whether he should be able
to repeat such an outlandish name.
'I am Messer Zeno's secretary,' he answered. 'What is your business,
Master Porlias Dietroplant?'
'Gorlias,' corrected the other, quite unmoved. Gorlias Pietrogliant.'
'Master Gorlias--I beg your pardon.'
'I am an astrologer,' observed the visitor, seating himself on a high
stool at Omobono's elbow, and relapsing into silence.
'You are an astrologer,' said the secretary tentatively, after a long
pause, for he did not know what to say.
'Yes, I told you so,' replied Gorlias; and for a few seconds longer it
did not seem to occur to him that there was anything else to be said.
There was something so oddly fixed in his look and so dull in his
voice that Omobono began to fear that he might be a lunatic, which was
indeed, in the secretary's opinion, much the same as an astrologer,
for the Venetians were never great believers in the influence of the
stars. But the visitor soon made him forget his suspicions by reviving
his curiosity.
'The matter which brings me to you is of a very delicate nature,' said
Gorlias, all at once speaking fluently and in a low voice. 'I have
reason to believe that we are interested in the same business.'
'Are we?' asked the secretary in some surprise.
'I think we are. I think we are, by four toes and by five toes!'
'Over the water,' answered Omobono promptly, and hoping to learn more.
'Both salt and fresh,' returned Gorlias. 'By these tokens I shall
trust to your fidelity and discretion.'
  [Illustration: There was something so oddly fixed in his look and so
   dull in his voice that Omobono began to fear that he might be a
   lunatic.]
'Implicitly,' replied the Venetian, who was sure of being discreet,
but wondered what the matter might be to which his fidelity was
pledged beforehand. He inwardly hoped that his visitor was not going
to ask him for money, for he suspected that some awful fate must be in
store for those who refused a service when appealed to by the
mysterious passwords, of which he had now learnt one more.
'Messer Carlo is gone out,' said Gorlias. 'By this time he is in the
house of Messer Sebastian Polo, who wishes to marry him to his
daughter. He will not come home till after dinner.'
Omobono stared at the speaker.
'You know more than I do,' he observed.
'Of course. I am an astrologer. You are in charge of the house and all
it contains, and the servants and slaves are afraid of you because you
have the master's ear, but they love you because you are kind to them.
Therefore, whatever you do is right in their eyes. Upstairs there are
three female slaves; one is Arethusa, the other two are called Yulia
and Lucilla, and wait on her. You see, I know everything. Now, for the
sake of that business in which we are both interested, you must take
me up to their apartment, for I must speak with the one called
Arethusa.'
Omobono wished that Gorlias had asked him for his coat, or his money,
or anything that was his, rather than for such a favour; and he was
about to risk refusing it, whatever the penalty might be, when a
luminous idea revealed itself to him.
'There is only one condition,' he answered, after a moment's thought.
'I must be present while you talk with her.'
'That need not disturb you,' said Gorlias calmly. 'I have seen the
room where she is by virtue of my knowledge of the stars. It has a
small covered balcony with an outer lattice against the sun, on the
south side. There I will talk with Arethusa, while you stand by the
door and watch us. I will draw figures, and appear to explain them to
her, so that the two girl-slaves may think that I have come to amuse
her by setting up her horoscope. Even Messer Carlo could not object to
that, and Arethusa can veil herself, so that I shall not be able to
see her face.'
Omobono reflected a moment, but could now see no good reason for
refusing the request, whereas he saw a prospect of learning something
more about the mystery that interested him. Zoë herself had prompted
him with the second password of the chain, in Rustan's house, and he
was almost sure that in some way she knew the rest, and the meaning of
them all.
The two went up the marble stairs to the second story, and Omobono
tapped at the entrance to the women's apartment. There came a little
pattering of slippered feet, and Lucilla opened the door just enough
to put her head out, for it was not yet time for the mid-day meal, and
she wondered what was wanted.
'Bid your mistress veil herself, my child,' said Omobono. 'Here is a
famous astrologer come to tell her the future, which will help her to
pass the time.'
Lucilla glanced at Gorlias with curiosity and smiled, showing all her
teeth.
'Indeed it is very dull here,' she observed, and disappeared, shutting
the door behind her.
While the two men waited Gorlias produced from the folds of his wide
tunic a big roll of parchment, which he unrolled a foot or two,
displaying a multitude of incomprehensible signs and figures; he also
took out a large brass compass, a sheet of cotton paper from Padua,
also rolled up, and an Arabic almanack with a silver clasp. Omobono
surveyed these preparations with mingled curiosity and sceptical
amusement, till Lucilla opened the door again and ushered both men
into Zoë's presence. The astrologer made cabalistic signs with his
right hand while he advanced, as if he were drawing imaginary figures
in the air with his extended forefinger. Zoë's face was quite
concealed in the double folds of a white gauze veil, but she seemed to
watch him attentively as he came towards her.
CHAPTER VIII
Zoë and the astrologer sat in the covered balcony in full view of the
secretary, who remained near the door, straining his sharp ears in
vain to catch some words of the whispered conversation. The maids had
been dismissed. From time to time Gorlias spoke aloud, pointing with
his compass to different parts of the figure, but what he said only
made it more impossible to guess at what he whispered. Zoë sat almost
motionless, but she had opened the folds of her veil so as to uncover
her mouth, and after her companion had been speaking some time she
bent down and answered in his ear, pretending, however, to point to
the figures on the paper, as if she were asking questions.
The substance of what Gorlias told her was that he and his friends
were interested in a mighty enterprise, and had often tried to sound
Carlo Zeno with regard to helping them to carry it out, but they had
met with no success, for he either did not understand, or he would
not. Messer Sebastian Polo, whose house he frequented, was a timid
man, and was not to be trusted with such a secret; moreover, he was so
extremely anxious to make Zeno marry his daughter, that he would
certainly never allow him to run any risks.
All this he put very clearly, and Omobono might have been surprised
to learn that he had not used any password. Then Zoë bent down to his
ear.
'What is the name of Sebastian Polo's daughter?' she asked.
'Giustina,' whispered the astrologer. 'The sun near to mid-heaven,' he
continued aloud, 'and in trine aspect to Mars, signifies fine horses
and a retinue of servants.' He dropped his voice again. 'She is
thirty, and has had the smallpox,' he whispered.
'The master has only been here once since I came,' said Zoë, bending
to his ear again. 'I have no influence with him.'
Gorlias turned his face towards her in slow surprise.
'Had he not seen you before he bought you, Kokóna Arethusa?' he
enquired.
'Yes, indeed!'
'Oh! I thought that you also might have had the smallpox,' was the
whispered answer.
Zoë could not help laughing a little. The pretty notes, muffled by the
veil, seemed to come from far away. It was the first time she had
laughed naturally since many weeks. The astrologer bent nearer to her
when she was silent again, and spoke aloud, pointing to his figure.
'Venus is in the Seventh House in benign aspect to the Moon,' he said
aloud. 'You will be fortunate in love.' Then he whispered again, 'I
will give you a philtre that has never failed. The next time he
comes----'
Zoë shook her head decidedly, with something that looked like
indignation.
'It is for a good matter, Kokóna,' Gorlias answered. 'If you will
help us, you shall have pearls and diamonds, and gold and liberty.'
'Liberty? How?'
Gorlias thought that he had tempted her with that, at least.
'If you will promise your help with Messer Carlo, I will tell you.'
'How can I promise what is not mine to give?' asked the girl.
The astrologer was not discouraged, and after more talk about the
planets, in a tone loud enough to be heard by the maids if they were
listening at the door, he went on quickly again.
'Messer Carlo is a man who loves adventures, who has led desperate and
forlorn hope to victory, both in Italy and Greece, who has the gift of
the leader, if ever a man had it. Surely, you knew all this.'
'I know he has been a soldier,' Zoë answered, for Zeno had told her
so.
'He also possesses some fortune, and has great connexions in Venice.
Moreover, I can tell you, Kokóna, that this is no small matter. If he
succeeds, he will earn gratitude of the Serene Republic and honour
everywhere.'
'As much as that?' asked Zoë, looking attentively at the astrologer
through her veil. 'How am I to believe you?'
'I thought I had spoken clearly enough,' Gorlias answered, 'but lest
you should doubt my word and promise, take these.'
He had furtively slipped his hand into the bosom of his tunic, and
when he withdrew it his fingers closed over something he held gathered
in his palm. Cleverly turning the sheet of paper on which he had shown
his astrological figures, so as to hinder Omobono from seeing, he
disclosed to Zoë a short string of very large and beautiful pearls.
'In your nativity,' he rattled on, aloud, 'the beneficent influences
altogether outweigh the malefic ones.'
He said much more to the same effect, and while he was speaking he let
the pearls slip down upon the skirts of Zoë's over-garment on the side
away from the secretary.
'They are yours,' he whispered. 'You shall have a hundred strings like
them if you succeed.'
'Give such things to my maids,' Zoë answered, 'not to me! If you are
in earnest make a sign, that I may know whence you come.'
'A sign?' repeated Gorlias, as if not understanding.
'Yes, where?' Her mouth was close to his ear as she whispered the
question, and she turned her ear towards him for the answer.
He hesitated, and for the first time the dull fixedness of his
expression was momentarily dispelled by a very faint look of surprise.
'I ask, where?' Zoë repeated, with strong emphasis, bending to him
again.
'Over the water,' he answered at last.
'Both salt and fresh,' she replied instantly.
Gorlias looked at her veiled face long.
'Who are you?' he asked at length. 'Who taught you these things?' He
glanced suspiciously at Omobono, who, as he had reason to believe, was
acquainted with the secret.
Zoë shook her head.
'No,' she answered. 'One greater than he taught me what I know. You
may go now, for your message is delivered. What I can do, I will do,
and there is no more to say, for it is my own cause as well as
his--the cause of justice, and God is with it.'
Gorlias spoke aloud again, and brought his explanation of the
horoscope to a conclusion by informing Zoë that if she wished to know
the smaller details of her wonderful future, she must consult him at
intervals, as the phases of the moon had a great influence on her
fate.
'When the Kokóna wishes to see me,' he said, rising, 'Messer Omobono
will send for me, and I will come.'
Before Zoë realised that he had not picked up the string of pearls, he
had made his obeisance and was at the door with Omobono, who bowed low
to her, and ushered him out.
When she was alone she took the necklace from the folds of her dress,
where it had lain, and looked at it a moment before she hid it in her
bosom. For she would not allow the maids to see it, and was already
debating how she should hide it till she could find an opportunity of
giving it back. But when the cold pearls touched her flesh they sent a
little chill to her heart, and she thought it was somehow like a
warning.
She understood well enough what had happened, for she was
quick-witted. Rustan, who had shown that he knew the secret, and his
wife, who had spoken to him of Gorlias, had told the latter that Carlo
Zeno was in love with a beautiful Greek slave, who could, of course,
be easily induced by gifts to use her influence with her master. For
Zeno's past deeds had already woven a sort of legend about his name,
so that even the soldiers talked of him among themselves, and told
stories of the desperate bravery and amazing skill with which he had
kept a small Turkish army at bay in Greece with a handful of men for
nearly a whole year, and many other tales, of which the most fantastic
was less strange than much that afterwards happened to him in his
life.
It must have seemed easy enough to the astrologer, and even to Omobono
perhaps; but it looked strangely impossible to Zoë herself, when she
remembered her only interview with the man whom she was now pledged to
win over.
The whole situation was known to her. A conspiracy was on foot to take
the Emperor Johannes from his prison and restore him to the throne,
imprisoning his son Andronicus in the Amena tower in his stead.
Thousands of John's loyal subjects recognised each other by passwords,
and talked secretly of a great rising, in which some foresaw vengeance
for the wrongs they had suffered, while others, like the Bokharian
Rustan, hoped for fortune, reward, and perhaps honour. But the body of
the army was not with them yet, the disaffected men lacked skill or
courage to preach the cause of the lawful Emperor to their comrades,
and the revolution had no guiding spirit. It is far easier to choose a
general among soldiers than to pick out a leader of revolt amongst
untried and untrained men.
Before he lost his liberty the Emperor had known Zeno, and though a
weak man, had judged him rightly. In his prison he possessed means of
communicating occasionally with his friends, and he had instructed
them to ask Zeno's help; but so far his message had either not been
delivered or Zeno had been deaf to the appeal, perhaps judging that
the time was not come for the attempt, or that, after all, the cause
was not a good one. Having failed to move him in all other ways, the
revolutionaries had seized the unexpected opportunity that now
presented itself.
The thought that such a man might turn the tide of history, restore
the rightful sovereign to the throne, and avenge the awful death of
Michael Rhangabé, had crossed Zoë's mind when she had first seen her
purchaser in Rustan's house, for the born leader and fighting man
generally has something in his face that is not to be mistaken; but to
influence Carlo was another matter, as she had understood when he had
supped with her. It would be as hard to induce him to do anything he
was not inclined to do of his own accord as it would be impossible to
hinder him from attempting whatever he chose to try. As for winning
him to the cause by gentler means, the high-born girl blushed at the
suggestion. He was certainly not in love with her at first sight; of
that she was as sure as that she did not love him either.
Yet while she was thinking, she suddenly wondered whether Gorlias had
spoken the truth about Giustina Polo. Was she really thirty, and was
her face pitted like a cheese-grater, as Gorlias had told her? If she
was ugly, why did Zeno go to Polo's house so often? For Zoë had no
doubt but that he went there every time he was rowed up the Golden
Horn in his pretty skiff. He was always carefully dressed when he
stepped into his boat; it was not for old Polo that he wore such fine
clothes.
She was very lonely now. During the first two days she had rested
herself in her luxurious surroundings, not without the excitement of
expecting another visit from Zeno, and she had thought with
satisfaction of all the comfort her sacrifice must have brought to her
adopted mother, to the little boys, and to poor old Nectaria. But now
she wished she could at least be sure that all was well with them,
though she was rather sadly conscious that she did not miss them as
she had thought she must. During many months she had nursed Kyría
Agatha most tenderly, and had helped the old slave to take care of the
children; the last weeks had been spent in abject misery, the last
days in the final struggle with starvation and sickness, and still she
had bravely done her best. Yet she had long felt that Kyría Agatha had
not much real affection for her, and would let her starve herself to
death to feed her and the boys. It would have been otherwise if
Rhangabé had lived; she would have willingly died of hunger for him,
but he was gone, and though she had done and borne the impossible, it
had not been for her own blood, but for the sake of the good and brave
man's memory. He was in peace, after the agony of his death, his wife
and his sons were provided for, so far as Zoë could provide by giving
her freedom and her life for them. As far as she could she had paid
her debt of gratitude to the dead, and the debt that was not wiped out
was due to her; those who had murdered Rhangabé owed her his
unspeakable sufferings and every precious drop of his heart's blood.
They should pay. If she lived, they should pay all to the uttermost.
And now, fate had placed within her reach the instrument of vengeance,
the bravest, rashest, wisest, most desperate of mankind. Her heart had
silently and joyfully drunk in every word that Gorlias had said about
the man who owned her as he owned the carpet under her feet, the roof
over her head, and the clothes that covered her.
He was within her reach, but he was not within her power. Not yet. Her
mood had changed, and for a while, not knowing what she dreamt of, she
wished that she were indeed one of those Eastern enchantresses of whom
she had often heard, without half understanding, who roused men to
frenzy, or lulled their lovers to sleep and ruin, as they would; she
wished she were that wicked Antonina, for whom brave, pure-hearted
Belisarius had humbled himself in the dust; she wished she were
Theodora, shamelessly great and fair, an imperial Vision of Sin,
compelling to her heel the church-going, priest-haunted master of half
the known world--Justinian. She knew the story of her adopted
country. What had either of those women that she had not, wherewith
to master a man?
Then the tide of shame came back, and she turned her face away from
the empty room, as if it had guessed her thoughts; and then, to get
away from them, she called her maids, clapping her hands sharply. They
came running in and stood before her.
'Go, Yulia,' she said, 'find the secretary and beg him to come to me.'
While she waited, she made Lucilla arrange her veil again so that it
hid her face, and this was scarcely done when Omobono was ushered in
by the other girl. He bowed to Zoë and gravely stroked his pointed
beard.
'What is the Kokóna's pleasure?' he asked, after a pause.
'Do you speak Latin?' Zoë enquired, in that language.
The little man drew himself up proudly, and cleared his throat.
'In my family we have been notaries for five generations,' he
answered, in language that was comprehensible but would have filled an
average Churchman with vague uneasiness, and would have made Cicero's
ashes rattle in their urn.
Zoë was satisfied, however, for though her maids might understand
Italian, she was quite sure that Latin was beyond them. She herself
spoke it far more correctly than Omobono, though with a rather lisping
Greek accent. She could not have helped saying 'vonus' for 'bonus,'
'eyo' for 'ego,' and 'Thominus' for 'Dominus.'
'Where is Thominus Carolus?' she enquired, so suddenly that the
secretary was almost taken off his guard.
'He is--he is gone out,' he answered.
'Yes. He is gone to dine with Messer Sebastian Polo. He goes there two
or three times a week.'
Zoë watched the secretary's face with amusement; his surprise was
comical.
'Then the man is really an astrologer,' he said, in a wondering tone,
'and star-gazing is not all nonsense!'
'Sebastian Polo's daughter is young and beautiful,' observed Zoë, who
apparently did not place implicit faith in astrology.
Omobono's face and gesture expressed a qualified assent, but he said
nothing.
'Tell me at once,' said Zoë, 'that she is thirty, that her complexion
resembles the dust when it is pitted by raindrops after a shower----'
'That would not be true,' cried the secretary. 'Giustina Polo is not
supremely beautiful, but she is young and pretty, and as fresh as
roses.'
'But she is very poor,' suggested Zoë. 'She has no dowry.'
'Who says so?' asked Omobono indignantly. 'The house of Sebastian Polo
is as prosperous as any in Constantinople! He is as rich as any
Venetian here except, perhaps, Marin Cornèr!'
'Then it is true that the master is going to marry his daughter,' Zoë
replied, as if stating a fact that could no longer be denied.
She was rapidly working the secretary into a state of excitement in
which his Latin grammar went to the winds.
'No, indeed!' he cried. 'It is altogether a lie! Who has told you such
things?'
'She is young, pretty, fresh as roses, and very rich,' said Zoë,
recapitulating. 'Did you not say so?'
'Yes----'
'And the master goes to dine in her father's house three times a
week----'
'Perhaps----'
'Do you suppose that Polo would invite the master so often unless he
wanted him for his daughter?'
'Perhaps not----'
'Or that the master would wilfully deceive Polo and the girl?'
'What are you saying?'
'Simply that Thominus Carolus is going to marry Thomna Justina.'
'But I tell you----'
'Either you are very simple, or you think I am,' interrupted Zoë, with
crushing logic. 'Which shall it be, Master Secretary?'
Omobono thought her a terrible young person just then. He spread out
his hands and looked up to the ceiling in despair, but still
protesting.
'And meanwhile,' she continued, 'what is the master going to do with
me? Am I to be locked up here for ever?'
If anything could further disturb Omobono's equanimity it was this
question. His gentle temper was beginning to be ruffled.
'How can I tell?' he asked. 'He will do what he thinks best! Ask him
yourself!'
After all, she was only a slave, he said in his heart, and he was the
descendant of five generations of notaries. What right had she to
cross-examine him? He was the more angry with her for asking the
question, because his own curiosity had tormented him for days to find
an answer to it.
'Omobono,' Zoë said, affecting a very grave tone, 'you know very well
what the master means to do. Now I ask you solemnly, and you are
warned that you must answer me--by four----'
'No, no!' cried the secretary, in sudden distress. 'Do not ask me by
that!'
'I must, Omobono; and of course you have been told what you have to
expect if you refuse to help a friend over the water.'
She emphasised the last words in a way that made him tremble.
'Yes, yes--I know----' he said feebly, though he had not the least
notion of the penalty.
'You will be broken to pieces by inches with a small hammer, beginning
at the tips of your fingers till there is not a whole bone in your
body. That is only the beginning.'
Omobono's knees knocked together.
'Then your skin will be turned inside out over your head and your
living heart will be cut out of your body, Omobono, and you will die.'
The secretary had already such belief in the power of those who knew
the magic words that he turned pale and the cold sweat stood on his
forehead.
'If all this were to be done to me now,' he faltered, 'I could not
tell you what the master intends!'
She saw that it was the truth.
'Very well,' she said; 'then you must manage that he shall come here
to-day as soon as he returns from Polo's house.'
'I will tell him that you have asked to see him----'
'No. Tell him that I shall fall ill if I am shut up in these rooms any
longer, and that if he does not believe it, he had better come and see
how I am. He will probably take your advice. I do not choose to show
you my face, but I assure you I am very pale, and I have no appetite.'
'He will come,' said the secretary confidently.
'You can also do me another service, Omobono,' continued Zoë. 'I have
learned that last Friday, when you went to find Rustan about buying
me, you came upon him in the beggars' quarter, near the church of
Saint Sergius and Saint Bacchus, at a house where some very poor
people lived. This is true, is it not?'
Omobono nodded, wondering how she knew of the circumstance.
'A poor woman lay there ill, with children and a very old nurse, and
Rustan gave them something. I wish to know how these poor people are,
and where they live, if they have left that house. I am sure the
master is charitable, and will let you give them something if they are
still in need. There were two little boys, and there was a grown girl
besides the sick woman and the other.'
'You know everything!' cried Omobono. 'The man must be a great
astrologer! I will go myself to the beggars' quarter and do your
bidding.'
Zoë had played her little comedy because she had by this time guessed
the man's character, and wished to make sure that she could rely on
his help in anything she decided to do; for it was clear that whenever
Zeno was absent, the secretary was in charge of the whole
establishment, and the servants would obey him without hesitation. As
Gorlias had told him, whatever he did was right in their eyes.
That he was in haste to do her bidding she discovered before the
afternoon was half over, for as she sat in her window she saw him go
down to wait for his master at the marble steps, and he walked slowly
on the strip of black and white pavement by the water's edge.
At last he stood still, and looked towards Blachernæ, for the skiff
was in sight. Zoë drew her veil across her face and rested her head
against the right-hand side of the open window as if she were very
tired, and she did not move from this position as the boat came near.
Zeno was leaning back in the stern, and could not help seeing her as
he approached the house, but from her attitude he thought she did not
see him, and he looked up at her steadily for two or three seconds.
She was quite motionless.
Omobono stood by the water's edge as Zeno stepped ashore, and asked
permission to say a few words to him at once. Zeno dismissed the boat
by a gesture.
'Has anything happened?' he asked, glancing up at the window again.
Zoë had not moved, but she could see him through her veil. Then the
two men walked up and down, while Omobono spoke in a low tone, but
though she could not hear the words she knew what the substance was.
Then came Zeno's voice, cold and clear.
'Certainly not,' he said decidedly. 'I shall do nothing of the sort!
If she has no appetite send for a doctor. Do you take me for one? Send
for old Solomon the Jewish physician. He is the best, and he is an old
man. If he says the girl needs air, take her out in the boat, her and
the maids, on fine mornings.'
A question from Omobono followed, which Zoë could not hear distinctly.
Zeno was evidently annoyed.
'Omobono, you are a good man,' he said; 'but you have no more sense
than a cackling hen! Never think! It is not your strong point. When
you do just what I tell you, you never make a mistake.'
The secretary's voice was heard again, low and indistinct.
'No,' answered Zeno. 'You need not go and tell her what I have said,
for she has probably heard every word of it herself, from the window.
It is useless ever to tell women anything. They always know before
they are told.'
Thereupon Zeno went in, apparently in a bad temper. If anything can
make a woman angry when she is overhearing a conversation about
herself, it is to hear it said that she is undoubtedly listening. Zoë
had not hidden herself, and Zeno must have meant her to hear what he
was saying, but she felt the more deeply insulted. Her cheek burned,
and she drew back her veil to feel the cool air. So he had no
intention of coming to see her again! A Jewish doctor and an airing in
the boat, with Omobono for company! And she had been told that she had
been listening--it was not to be borne! She threw her veil on one
