
“If spiritual conclusions are separated from their premises, the
nexus is lost, and the argument with its rightful conclusions, becomes
correspondingly obscure.” Page 34.

We shall never know why she put the word “correspondingly” in
there. Any fine, large word would have answered just as well:
psychosuperintangibly--electroincandescently--oligarcheologically--
sanchrosynchro-stereoptically--any of these would have answered,
any of these would have filled the void.

“His spiritual noumenon and phenomenon silenced portraiture.” Page 34.

Yet she says she forgot everything she knew, when she discovered
Christian Science. I realize that noumenon is a daisy; and I will not
deny that I shall use it whenever I am in a company which I think I can
embarrass with it; but, at the same time, I think it is out of place
among friends in an autobiography. There, I think a person ought not
to have anything up his sleeve. It undermines confidence. But my
dissatisfaction with the quoted passage is not on account of noumenon;
it is on account of the misuse of the word “silenced.” You cannot
silence portraiture with a noumenon; if portraiture should make a noise,
a way could be found to silence it, but even then it could not be done
with a noumenon. Not even with a brick, some authorities think.

“It may be that the mortal life-battle still wages,” etc. Page 35.

That is clumsy. Battles do not wage, battles are waged. Mrs. Eddy has
one very curious and interesting peculiarity: whenever she notices that
she is chortling along without saying anything, she pulls up with a
sudden “God is over us all,” or some other sounding irrelevancy, and for
the moment it seems to light up the whole district; then, before you can
recover from the shock, she goes flitting pleasantly and meaninglessly
along again, and you hurry hopefully after her, thinking you are going
to get something this time; but as soon as she has led you far enough
away from her turkey lot she takes to a tree. Whenever she discovers
that she is getting pretty disconnected, she couples-up with an
ostentatious “But” which has nothing to do with anything that went
before or is to come after, then she hitches some empties to the
train-unrelated verses from the Bible, usually--and steams out of sight
and leaves you wondering how she did that clever thing. For striking
instances, see bottom paragraph on page 34 and the paragraph on page
35 of her Autobiography. She has a purpose--a deep and dark and artful
purpose--in what she is saying in the first paragraph, and you guess
what it is, but that is due to your own talent, not hers; she has
made it as obscure as language could do it. The other paragraph has
no meaning and no discoverable intention. It is merely one of her
God-over-alls. I cannot spare room for it in this place.

“I beheld with ineffable awe our great Master’s marvelous skill in
demanding neither obedience to hygienic laws nor,” etc. Page 41.

The word is loosely chosen-skill. She probably meant judgment,
intuition, penetration, or wisdom.

“Naturally, my first jottings were but efforts to express in feeble
diction Truth’s ultimate.” Page 42.

One understands what she means, but she should have been able to say
what she meant--at any time before she discovered Christian Science and
forgot everything she knew--and after it, too. If she had put “feeble”
 in front of “efforts” and then left out “in” and “diction,” she would
have scored.

“... its written expression increases in perfection under the guidance
of the great Master.” Page 43.

It is an error. Not even in those advantageous circumstances can
increase be added to perfection.

“Evil is not mastered by evil; it can only be overcome with Good.
This brings out the nothingness of evil, and the eternal Somethingness
vindicates the Divine Principle and improves the race of Adam.” Page 76.

This is too extraneous for me. That is the trouble with Mrs. Eddy when
she sets out to explain an over-large exhibit: the minute you think the
light is bursting upon you the candle goes out and your mind begins to
wander.

“No one else can drain the cup which I have drunk to the dregs, as the
discoverer and teacher of Christian Science” Page 47.

That is saying we cannot empty an empty cup. We knew it before; and we
know she meant to tell us that that particular cup is going to remain
empty. That is, we think that that was the idea, but we cannot be sure.
She has a perfectly astonishing talent for putting words together
in such a way as to make successful inquiry into their intention
impossible.

She generally makes us uneasy when she begins to tune up on her
fine-writing timbrel. It carries me back to her Plague-Spot and Poetry
days, and I just dread those:

“Into mortal mind’s material obliquity I gazed and stood abashed.
Blanched was the cheek of pride. My heart bent low before the
omnipotence of Spirit, and a tint of humility soft as the heart of
a moonbeam mantled the earth. Bethlehem and Bethany, Gethsemane and
Calvary, spoke to my chastened sense as by the tearful lips of a babe.”
 Page 48.

The heart of a moonbeam is a pretty enough Friendship’s-Album
expression--let it pass, though I do think the figure a little strained;
but humility has no tint, humility has no complexion, and if it had it
could not mantle the earth. A moonbeam might--I do not know--but she
did not say it was the moonbeam. But let it go, I cannot decide it, she
mixes me up so. A babe hasn’t “tearful lips,” it’s its eyes. You find
none of Mrs. Eddy’s kind of English in Science and Health--not a line of
it.




CHAPTER III

Setting aside title-page, index, etc., the little Autobiography begins
on page 7 and ends on page 130. My quotations are from the first forty
pages. They seem to me to prove the presence of the ‘prentice hand. The
style of the forty pages is loose and feeble and ‘prentice-like. The
movement of the narrative is not orderly and sequential, but rambles
around, and skips forward and back and here and there and yonder,
‘prentice-fashion. Many a journeyman has broken up his narrative and
skipped about and rambled around, but he did it for a purpose, for
an advantage; there was art in it, and points to be scored by it; the
observant reader perceived the game, and enjoyed it and respected it, if
it was well played. But Mrs. Eddy’s performance was without intention,
and destitute of art. She could score no points by it on those terms,
and almost any reader can see that her work was the uncalculated
puttering of a novice.

In the above paragraph I have described the first third of the booklet.
That third being completed, Mrs. Eddy leaves the rabbit-range,
crosses the frontier, and steps out upon her far-spreading big-game
territory--Christian Science and there is an instant change! The style
smartly improves; and the clumsy little technical offenses disappear. In
these two-thirds of the booklet I find only one such offence, and it has
the look of being a printer’s error.

I leave the riddle with the reader. Perhaps he can explain how it is
that a person-trained or untrained--who on the one day can write nothing
better than Plague-Spot-Bacilli and feeble and stumbling and wandering
personal history littered with false figures and obscurities and
technical blunders, can on the next day sit down and write fluently,
smoothly, compactly, capably, and confidently on a great big thundering
subject, and do it as easily and comfortably as a whale paddles around
the globe.

As for me, I have scribbled so much in fifty years that I have become
saturated with convictions of one sort and another concerning a
scribbler’s limitations; and these are so strong that when I am familiar
with a literary person’s work I feel perfectly sure that I know enough
about his limitations to know what he can not do. If Mr. Howells should
pretend to me that he wrote the Plague-Spot Bacilli rhapsody, I should
receive the statement courteously; but I should know it for a--well, for
a perversion. If the late Josh Billings should rise up and tell me that
he wrote Herbert Spencer’s philosophies; I should answer and say that
the spelling casts a doubt upon his claim. If the late Jonathan Edwards
should rise up and tell me he wrote Mr. Dooley’s books, I should answer
and say that the marked difference between his style and Dooley’s is
argument against the soundness of his statement. You see how much I
think of circumstantial evidence. In literary matters--in my belief--it
is often better than any person’s word, better than any shady
character’s oath. It is difficult for me to believe that the same hand
that wrote the Plague-Spot-Bacilli and the first third of the little
Eddy biography wrote also Science and Health. Indeed, it is more than
difficult, it is impossible.

Largely speaking, I have read acres of what purported to be Mrs. Eddy’s
writings, in the past two months. I cannot know, but I am convinced,
that the circumstantial evidence shows that her actual share in the
work of composing and phrasing these things was so slight as to be
inconsequential. Where she puts her literary foot down, her trail
across her paid polisher’s page is as plain as the elephant’s in a
Sunday-school procession. Her verbal output, when left undoctored by
her clerks, is quite unmistakable It always exhibits the strongly
distinctive features observable in the virgin passages from her pen
already quoted by me:

Desert vacancy, as regards thought. Self-complacency. Puerility.
Sentimentality. Affectations of scholarly learning. Lust after eloquent
and flowery expression. Repetition of pet poetic picturesquenesses.
Confused and wandering statement. Metaphor gone insane. Meaningless
words, used because they are pretty, or showy, or unusual. Sorrowful
attempts at the epigrammatic. Destitution of originality.

The fat volume called Miscellaneous Writings of Mrs. Eddy contains
several hundred pages. Of the five hundred and fifty-four pages of prose
in it I find ten lines, on page 319, to be Mrs. Eddy’s; also about a
page of the preface or “Prospectus”; also about fifteen pages scattered
along through the book. If she wrote any of the rest of the prose, it
was rewritten after her by another hand. Here I will insert two-thirds
of her page of the prospectus. It is evident that whenever, under the
inspiration of the Deity, she turns out a book, she is always allowed to
do some of the preface. I wonder why that is? It always mars the work.
I think it is done in humorous malice I think the clerks like to see
her give herself away. They know she will, her stock of usable materials
being limited and her procedure in employing them always the same,
substantially. They know that when the initiated come upon her first
erudite allusion, or upon any one of her other stage-properties, they
can shut their eyes and tell what will follow. She usually throws off
an easy remark all sodden with Greek or Hebrew or Latin learning; she
usually has a person watching for a star--she can seldom get away
from that poetic idea--sometimes it is a Chaldee, sometimes a Walking
Delegate, sometimes an entire stranger, but be he what he may, he is
generally there when the train is ready to move, and has his pass in his
hat-band; she generally has a Being with a Dome on him, or some other
cover that is unusual and out of the fashion; she likes to fire off a
Scripture-verse where it will make the handsomest noise and come nearest
to breaking the connection; she often throws out a Forefelt, or a
Foresplendor, or a Foreslander where it will have a fine nautical
foreto’gallant sound and make the sentence sing; after which she is
nearly sure to throw discretion away and take to her deadly passion,
Intoxicated Metaphor. At such a time the Mrs. Eddy that does not
hesitate is lost:

“The ancient Greek looked longingly for the Olympiad. The Chaldee
watched the appearing of a star; to him no higher destiny dawned on the
dome of being than that foreshadowed by signs in the heavens. The meek
Nazarene, the scoffed of all scoffers, said, ‘Ye can discern the face
of the sky; but can ye not discern the signs of the times?’--for He
forefelt and foresaw the ordeal of a perfect Christianity, hated by
sinners.

“To kindle all minds with a gleam of gratitude, the new idea that comes
welling up from infinite Truth needs to be understood. The seer of this
age should be a sage.

“Humility is the stepping-stone to a higher recognition of Deity. The
mounting sense gathers fresh forms and strange fire from the ashes
of dissolving self, and drops the world. Meekness heightens immortal
attributes, only by removing the dust that dims them. Goodness reveals
another scene and another self seemingly rolled up in shades, but
brought to light by the evolutions of advancing thought, whereby we
discern the power of Truth and Love to heal the sick.

“Pride is ignorance; those assume most who have the least wisdom or
experience; and they steal from their neighbor, because they have so
little of their own.”--Miscellaneous Writings, page 1, and six lines at
top of page 2.

It is not believable that the hand that wrote those clumsy and affected
sentences wrote the smooth English of Science and Health.




CHAPTER IV

It is often said in print that Mrs. Eddy claims that God was the Author
of Science and Health. Mr. Peabody states in his pamphlet that “she says
not she but God was the Author.” I cannot find that in her autobiography
she makes this transference of the authorship, but I think that in
it she definitely claims that she did her work under His
inspiration--definitely for her; for as a rule she is not a very
definite person, even when she seems to be trying her best to be clear
and positive. Speaking of the early days when her Science was beginning
to unfold itself and gather form in her mind, she says (Autobiography,
page 43):

“The divine hand led me into a new world of light and Life, a fresh
universe--old to God, but new to His ‘little one.’”

She being His little one, as I understand it.

The divine hand led her. It seems to mean “God inspired me”; but when
a person uses metaphors instead of statistics--and that is Mrs. Eddy’s
common fashion--one cannot always feel sure about the intention.

[Page 56.] “Even the Scripture gave no direct interpretation of the
Scientific basis for demonstrating the spiritual Principle of healing,
until our Heavenly Father saw fit, through the Key to the Scriptures, in
Science and Health, to unlock this ‘mystery of godliness.’”

Another baffling metaphor. If she had used plain forecastle English,
and said “God wrote the Key and I put it in my book”; or if she had said
“God furnished me the solution of the mystery and I put it on paper”;
or if she had said “God did it all,” then we should understand; but her
phrase is open to any and all of those translations, and is a Key
which unlocks nothing--for us. However, it seems to at least mean “God
inspired me,” if nothing more.

There was personal and intimate communion, at any rate we get that
much out of the riddles. The connection extended to business, after the
establishment of the teaching and healing industry.

[Page 71.] “When God impelled me to set a price on my instruction,” etc.
Further down: “God has since shown me, in multitudinous ways, the wisdom
of this decision.”

She was not able to think of a “financial equivalent”--meaning a
pecuniary equivalent--for her “instruction in Christian Science
Mind-healing.” In this emergency she was “led” to charge three hundred
dollars for a term of “twelve half-days.” She does not say who led her,
she only says that the amount greatly troubled her. I think it means
that the price was suggested from above, “led” being a theological term
identical with our commercial phrase “personally conducted.” She “shrank
from asking it, but was finally led, by a strange providence, to accept
this fee.” “Providence” is another theological term. Two leds and
a providence, taken together, make a pretty strong argument for
inspiration. I think that these statistics make it clear that the price
was arranged above. This view is constructively supported by the fact,
already quoted, that God afterwards approved, “in multitudinous
ways,” her wisdom in accepting the mentioned fee. “Multitudinous
ways”--multitudinous encoring--suggests enthusiasm. Business enthusiasm.
And it suggests nearness. God’s nearness to his “little one.” Nearness,
and a watchful personal interest. A warm, palpitating, Standard-Oil
interest, so to speak. All this indicates inspiration. We may assume,
then, two inspirations: one for the book, the other for the business.

The evidence for inspiration is further augmented by the testimony of
Rev. George Tomkins, D.D., already quoted, that Mrs. Eddy and her book
were foretold in Revelation, and that Mrs. Eddy “is God’s brightest
thought to this age, giving us the spiritual interpretation of the Bible
in the ‘little book’” of the Angel.

I am aware that it is not Mr. Tomkins that is speaking, but Mrs. Eddy.
The commissioned lecturers of the Christian Science Church have to be
members of the Board of Lectureship. (By-laws Sec. 2, p. 70.) The Board
of Lectureship is selected by the Board of Directors of the Church.
(By-laws, Sec. 3, p. 70.) The Board of Directors of the Church is the
property of Mrs. Eddy. (By-laws, p. 22.) Mr. Tomkins did not make that
statement without authorization from headquarters. He necessarily got it
from the Board of Directors, the Board of Directors from Mrs. Eddy, Mrs.
Eddy from the Deity. Mr. Tomkins would have been turned down by that
procession if his remarks had been unsatisfactory to it.

It may be that there is evidence somewhere--as has been claimed--that
Mrs. Eddy has charged upon the Deity the verbal authorship of Science
and Health. But if she ever made the charge, she has withdrawn it (as it
seems to me), and in the most formal and unqualified; of all ways. See
Autobiography, page 57:

“When the demand for this book increased... the copyright was infringed.
I entered a suit at Law, and my copyright was protected.”

Thus it is plain that she did not plead that the Deity was the (verbal)
Author; for if she had done that, she would have lost her case--and with
rude promptness. It was in the old days before the Berne Convention and
before the passage of our amended law of 1891, and the court would have
quoted the following stern clause from the existing statute and frowned
her out of the place:

“No Foreigner can acquire copyright in the United States.”

To sum up. The evidence before me indicates three things:

1. That Mrs. Eddy claims the verbal author ship for herself. 2. That she
denies it to the Deity. 3. That--in her belief--she wrote the book under
the inspiration of the Deity, but furnished the language herself.

In one place in the Autobiography she claims both the language and
the ideas; but when this witness is testifying, one must draw the line
somewhere, or she will prove both sides of her case-nine sides, if
desired.

It is too true. Much too true. Many, many times too true. She is a most
trying witness--the most trying witness that ever kissed the Book, I am
sure. There is no keeping up with her erratic testimony. As soon as you
have got her share of the authorship nailed where you half hope and half
believe it will stay and cannot be joggled loose any more, she joggles
it loose again--or seems to; you cannot be sure, for her habit of
dealing in meaningless metaphors instead of in plain, straightforward
statistics, makes it nearly always impossible to tell just what it
is she is trying to say. She was definite when she claimed both the
language and the ideas of the book. That seemed to settle the matter.
It seemed to distribute the percentages of credit with precision between
the collaborators: ninety-two per cent. to Mrs. Eddy, who did all the
work, and eight per cent. to the Deity, who furnished the inspiration
not enough of it to damage the copyright in a country closed against
Foreigners, and yet plenty to advertise the book and market it at famine
rates. Then Mrs. Eddy does not keep still, but fetches around and comes
forward and testifies again. It is most injudicious. For she resorts to
metaphor this time, and it makes trouble, for she seems to reverse the
percentages and claim only the eight per cent. for her self. I quote
from Mr. Peabody’s book (Eddyism, or Christian Science. Boston: 15 Court
Square, price twenty-five cents):

“Speaking of this book, Mrs. Eddy, in January last (1901) said: ‘I
should blush to write of Science and Health, with Key to the Scriptures,
as I have, were it of human origin, and I, apart from God, its author;
but as I was only a scribe echoing the harmonies of Heaven in
divine metaphysics, I cannot be supermodest of the Christian Science
text-book.”’

Mr. Peabody’s comment:

“Nothing could be plainer than that. Here is a distinct avowal that the
book entitled Science and Health was the work of Almighty God.”

It does seem to amount to that. She was only a “scribe.” Confound the
word, it is just a confusion, it has no determinable meaning there, it
leaves us in the air. A scribe is merely a person who writes. He may be
a copyist, he may be an amanuensis, he may be a writer of originals, and
furnish both the language and the ideas. As usual with Mrs. Eddy, the
connection affords no help--“echoing” throws no light upon “scribe.” A
rock can reflect an echo, a wall can do it, a mountain can do it, many
things can do it, but a scribe can’t. A scribe that could reflect
an echo could get over thirty dollars a week in a side-show. Many
impresarios would rather have him than a cow with four tails. If we
allow that this present scribe was setting down the “harmonies of
Heaven”--and certainly that seems to have been the case then there was
only one way to do it that I can think of: listen to the music and put
down the notes one after another as they fell. In that case Mrs.
Eddy did not invent the tune, she only entered it on paper. Therefore
dropping the metaphor--she was merely an amanuensis, and furnished
neither the language of Science and Health nor the ideas. It reduces her
to eight per cent. (and the dividends on that and the rest).

Is that it? We shall never know. For Mrs. Eddy is liable to testify
again at any time. But until she does it, I think we must conclude
that the Deity was Author of the whole book, and Mrs. Eddy merely His
telephone and stenographer. Granting this, her claim as the Voice of God
stands-for the present--justified and established.




POSTSCRIPT

I overlooked something. It appears that there was more of that utterance
than Mr. Peabody has quoted in the above paragraph. It will be found
in Mrs. Eddy’s organ, the Christian Science Journal (January, 1901) and
reads as follows:

“It was not myself... which dictated Science and Health, with Key to the
Scriptures.”

That is certainly clear enough. The words which I have removed from that
important sentence explain Who it was that did the dictating. It was
done by

“the divine power of Truth and Love, infinitely above me.”

Certainly that is definite. At last, through her personal testimony,
we have a sure grip upon the following vital facts, and they settle the
authorship of Science and Health beyond peradventure:

1. Mrs. Eddy furnished “the ideas and the language.” 2. God furnished
the ideas and the language.

It is a great comfort to have the matter authoritatively settled.




CHAPTER V

It is hard to locate her, she shifts about so much. She is a shining
drop of quicksilver which you put your finger on and it isn’t there.
There is a paragraph in the Autobiography (page 96) which places in
seemingly darkly significant procession three Personages:

1. The Virgin Mary 2. Jesus of Nazareth. 3. Mrs. Eddy.

This is the paragraph referred to:

“No person can take the individual place of the Virgin Mary. No person
can compass or fulfil the individual mission of Jesus of Nazareth.
No person can take the place of the author of Science and Health, the
discoverer and founder of Christian Science. Each individual must fill
his own niche in time and eternity.”

I have read it many times, but I still cannot be sure that I rightly
understand it. If the Saviour’s name had been placed first and the
Virgin Mary’s second and Mrs. Eddy’s third, I should draw the inference
that a descending scale from First Importance to Second Importance and
then to Small Importance was indicated; but to place the Virgin first,
the Saviour second, and Mrs. Eddy third, seems to turn the scale the
other way and make it an ascending scale of Importances, with Mrs. Eddy
ranking the other two and holding first place.

I think that that was perhaps the intention, but none but a seasoned
Christian Scientist can examine a literary animal of Mrs. Eddy’s
creation and tell which end of it the tail is on. She is easily the most
baffling and bewildering writer in the literary trade.

Eddy is a commonplace name, and would have an unimpressive aspect in the
list of the reformed Holy Family. She has thought of that. In the book
of By-laws written by her--“impelled by a power not one’s own”--there is
a paragraph which explains how and when her disciples came to confer a
title upon her; and this explanation is followed by a warning as to what
will happen to any female Scientist who shall desecrate it:

“The title of Mother. Therefore if a student of Christian Science shall
apply this title, either to herself or to others, except as the term for
kinship according to the flesh, it shall be regarded by the Church as an
indication of disrespect for their Pastor Emeritus, and unfitness to be
a member of the Mother-Church.”

She is the Pastor Emeritus.

While the quoted paragraph about the Procession seems to indicate that
Mrs. Eddy is expecting to occupy the First Place in it, that expectation
is not definitely avowed. In an earlier utterance of hers she is
clearer--clearer, and does not claim the first place all to herself, but
only the half of it. I quote from Mr. Peabody’s book again:

“In the Christian Science Journal for April, 1889, when it was her
property, and published by her, it was claimed for her, and with her
sanction, that she was equal with Jesus, and elaborate effort was made
to establish the claim.

“Mrs. Eddy has distinctly authorized the claim in her behalf that she
herself was the chosen successor to and equal of Jesus.”

In her Miscellaneous Writings (using her once favorite “We” for “I”) she
says that “While we entertain decided views... and shall express them as
duty demands, we shall claim no especial gift from our divine origin,”
 etc.

Our divine origin. It suggests Equal again. It is inferable, then,
that in the near by-and-by the new Church will officially rank the Holy
Family in the following order:

1. Jesus of Nazareth.--1. Our Mother. 2. The Virgin Mary.




SUMMARY

I am not playing with Christian Science and its founder, I am examining
them; and I am doing it because of the interest I feel in the inquiry.
My results may seem inadequate to the reader, but they have for me
clarified a muddle and brought a sort of order out of a chaos, and so I
value them.

My readings of Mrs. Eddy’s uninspired miscellaneous literary efforts
have convinced me of several things:

1. That she did not write Science and Health. 2. That the Deity did (or
did not) write it. 3. That She thinks She wrote it. 4. That She believes
She wrote it under the Deity’s inspiration. 5. That She believes She is
a Member of the Holy Family. 6. That She believes She is the equal of
the Head of it.

Finally, I think She is now entitled to the capital S--on her own
evidence.




CHAPTER VI

Thus far we have a part of Mrs. Eddy’s portrait. Not made of fictions,
surmises, reports, rumors, innuendoes, dropped by her enemies; no, she
has furnished all of the materials herself, and laid them on the canvas,
under my general superintendence and direction. As far as she has gone
with it, it is the presentation of a complacent, commonplace, illiterate
New England woman who “forgot everything she knew” when she discovered
her discovery, then wrote a Bible in good English under the inspiration
of God, and climbed up it to the supremest summit of earthly grandeur
attainable by man--where she sits serene to-day, beloved and worshiped
by a multitude of human beings of as good average intelligence as is
possessed by those that march under the banner of any competing cult.
This is not intended to flatter the competing cults, it is merely a
statement of cold fact.

That a commonplace person should go climbing aloft and become a god or
a half-god or a quarter-god and be worshiped by men and women of average
intelligence, is nothing. It has happened a million times, it will
happen a hundred million more. It has been millions of years since the
first of these supernaturals appeared, and by the time the last one in
that inconceivably remote future shall have performed his solemn little
high-jinks on the stage and closed the business, there will be enough
of them accumulated in the museum on the Other Side to start a heaven of
their own-and jam it.

Each in his turn those little supernaturals of our by-gone ages and
aeons joined the monster procession of his predecessors and marched
horizonward, disappeared, and was forgotten. They changed nothing,
they built nothing, they left nothing behind them to remember them by,
nothing to hold their disciples together, nothing to solidify their work
and enable it to defy the assaults of time and the weather. They passed,
and left a vacancy. They made one fatal mistake; they all made it,
each in his turn: they failed to organize their forces, they failed to
centralize their strength, they failed to provide a fresh Bible and a
sure and perpetual cash income for business, and often they failed to
provide a new and accepted Divine Personage to worship.

Mrs. Eddy is not of that small fry. The materials that go to the
making of the rest of her portrait will prove it. She will furnish them
herself:

She published her book. She copyrighted it. She copyrights everything.
If she should say, “Good-morning; how do you do?” she would copyright
it; for she is a careful person, and knows the value of small things.

She began to teach her Science, she began to heal, she began to gather
converts to her new religion--fervent, sincere, devoted, grateful
people. A year or two later she organized her first Christian Science
“Association,” with six of her disciples on the roster.

She continued to teach and heal. She was charging nothing, she says,
although she was very poor. She taught and healed gratis four years
altogether, she says.

Then, in 1879-81 she was become strong enough, and well enough
established, to venture a couple of impressively important moves. The
first of these moves was to aggrandize the “Association” to a “Church.”
 Brave? It is the right name for it, I think. The former name suggests
nothing, invited no remark, no criticism, no inquiry, no hostility; the
new name invited them all. She must have made this intrepid venture on
her own motion. She could have had no important advisers at that early
day. If we accept it as her own idea and her own act--and I think we
must--we have one key to her character. And it will explain subsequent
acts of hers that would merely stun us and stupefy us without it. Shall
we call it courage? Or shall we call it recklessness? Courage observes;
reflects; calculates; surveys the whole situation; counts the cost,
estimates the odds, makes up its mind; then goes at the enterprise
resolute to win or perish. Recklessness does not reflect, it plunges
fearlessly in with a hurrah, and takes the risks, whatever they may be,
regardless of expense. Recklessness often fails, Mrs. Eddy has never
failed--from the point of view of her followers. The point of view of
other people is naturally not a matter of weighty importance to her.

The new Church was not born loose-jointed and featureless, but had a
defined plan, a definite character, definite aims, and a name which was
a challenge, and defied all comers. It was “a Mind-healing Church.” It
was “without a creed.” Its name, “The Church of Christ, Scientist.”

Mrs. Eddy could not copyright her Church, but she chartered it, which
was the same thing and relieved the pain. It had twenty-six charter
members. Mrs. Eddy was at once installed as its pastor.

The other venture, above referred to, was Mrs. Eddy’s Massachusetts
Metaphysical College, in which was taught “the pathology of spiritual
power.” She could not copyright it, but she got it chartered. For
faculty it had herself, her husband of the period (Dr. Eddy), and her
adopted son, Dr. Foster-Eddy. The college term was “barely three
weeks,” she says. Again she was bold, brave, rash, reckless--choose for
yourself--for she not only began to charge the student, but charged him
a hundred dollars a week for the enlightenments. And got it? some may
ask. Easily. Pupils flocked from far and near. They came by the hundred.
Presently the term was cut down nearly half, but the price remained as
before. To be exact, the term-cut was to seven lessons--price,
three hundred dollars. The college “yielded a large income.” This is
believable. In seven years Mrs. Eddy taught, as she avers, over four
thousand students in it. (Preface to 1902 edition of Science and
Health.) Three hundred times four thousand is--but perhaps you can
cipher it yourself. I could do it ordinarily, but I fell down yesterday
and hurt my leg. Cipher it; you will see that it is a grand sum for a
woman to earn in seven years. Yet that was not all she got out of her
college in the seven.

At the time that she was charging the primary student three hundred
dollars for twelve lessons she was not content with this tidy
assessment, but had other ways of plundering him. By advertisement she
offered him privileges whereby he could add eighteen lessons to his
store for five hundred dollars more. That is to say, he could get a
total of thirty lessons in her college for eight hundred dollars.

Four thousand times eight hundred is--but it is a difficult sum for a
cripple who has not been “demonstrated over” to cipher; let it go.
She taught “over” four thousand students in seven years. “Over” is not
definite, but it probably represents a non-paying surplus of learners
over and above the paying four thousand. Charity students, doubtless. I
think that as interesting an advertisement as has been printed since the
romantic old days of the other buccaneers is this one from the Christian
Science Journal for September, 1886:


“MASSACHUSETTS METAPHYSICAL COLLEGE

“Rev. MARY BAKER G. EDDY, PRESIDENT

“571 Columbus Avenue, Boston

“The collegiate course in Christian Science metaphysical healing
includes twelve lessons. Tuition, three hundred dollars.

“Course in metaphysical obstetrics includes six daily lectures, and is
open only to students from this college. Tuition, one hundred dollars.

“Class in theology, open (like the above) to graduates, receives six
additional lectures on the Scriptures, and summary of the principle and
practice of Christian Science, two hundred dollars.

“Normal class is open to those who have taken the first course at this
college; six daily lectures complete the Normal course. Tuition, two
hundred dollars.

“No invalids, and only persons of good moral character, are accepted
as students. All students are subject to examination and rejection; and
they are liable to leave the class if found unfit to remain in it.

“A limited number of clergymen received free of charge.

“Largest discount to indigent students, one hundred dollars on the first
course.

“No deduction on the others.

“Husband and wife, entered together, three hundred dollars.

“Tuition for all strictly in advance.”

There it is--the horse-leech’s daughter alive again, after a
three-century vacation. Fifty or sixty hours’ lecturing for eight
hundred dollars.

