"Tell me about Russia. What do you foresee?"
A reporter had asked him the same question a few hours before, and the
answer would be in the evening paper. He smiled at her, and spread out
his hands in a disclaiming gesture.
"You know what I foresee. You know what you foresee yourself. It is the
same thing."
"Yes," said Electra, "it is the same thing."
But there were times when MacLeod wanted to escape from posturing, even
though it brought him adulation.
"I haven't apologized for breaking in on you like this," he said, with
his engaging smile. "They told me at Grant's that I should probably find
him over here, in the garden. The next house they said. This is the next
house?"
"Oh, yes," returned Electra. "He has not been here, but I will send for
him. He shall come to luncheon. You must stay."
"Shall I?" He was all good-nature, all readiness and adaptability.
Electra excused herself to give the maid an order, and while she stood
in the hall, talking to the woman, temptation came upon her. Yet it was
not temptation, she told herself. This was the obvious thing to do.
"Tell Mr. Grant I wish him particularly to come to luncheon," she said,
"and to bring"--she hesitated at the name and shirked it, "and to bring
the young lady,--the lady who is staying there."
Then she returned to MacLeod. But she was not altogether at ease.
Electra was accustomed to examine her motives, and she had the
disquieting certainty that, this time, though they would do for the
literal eye, they had not been entirely pure. Still, was it her fault if
Rose, confronted by the newcomer, proved unprepared and showed what was
fragile in her testimony? But she was not to be thrown off the scent of
public affairs.
"Talk about Russia," she entreated. She had never felt so spontaneously
at ease with any one.
MacLeod was used to making that impression, and he smiled on her the
more kindly, seeing how the old charm worked.
"I'd rather talk about America," he said, "about this place of yours.
It's a bully place."
Electra was devoted to academic language, and to her certainty that all
great souls expressed themselves in it. She winced a little but
recovered herself when he asked with a new conversational seriousness,
"and how is my friend Grant?"
"Well." She found some difficulty in answering more fully, because it
somehow became apparent to her that he had not really placed her. Peter
was his only clue in the town. It hardly looked as if he expected to
find a daughter here.
"Is he painting?" MacLeod went on.
Electra frowned a little. Peter was doing nothing but idling, she
suspected, up to yesterday, and then, driving past, she had caught a
glimpse of him in the garden before a canvas and of Rose lying before
him in her long chair. That had given her a keener, a more bitter
curiosity than she was prepared for in herself. She had shrunk back a
little from it, timid before the suspicion that she might like Peter
more tempestuously and unreasonably than was consonant with
self-mastery. But while these thoughts ran through her head she gazed at
MacLeod with her clear eyes and answered,--
"I fancy he looks upon this as his vacation. He must have worked very
hard in Paris."
MacLeod entered into that with fluency. Peter must have worked hard, he
owned, but that was in the days before they met. When they met, Peter's
talent was at its blossoming point. It was more than talent. It was
genius, it was so free, so strong, so unconsidered. He implied that
Peter had everything that belonged to a fortunate youth.
Electra's eyes glowed. Here was some one to justify her choice. The
newspapers had done it, but she had not yet heard Peter's praises from
the mouth of man.
"You have had an enormous influence over him," she ventured.
He deprecated that.
"He has an enormous affection for me, if you like," he owned, "but
influence! My dear young lady, I couldn't influence a nature like that.
I'm nowhere beside it. All I could hope for is that it would think some
of the things I think, feel some of the things I feel. Then we could get
on together."
Billy Stark, coming in at the door, thought that sounded like poppycock,
but Electra knew it was the wisdom of the chosen. She rose and indicated
Billy.
"You know Mr. Stark?"
The two men recurred humorously to their meeting in the garden, and
owned their willingness to continue the acquaintance. At the moment
there were steps and MacLeod turned to see Rose coming into the room.
Electra's heart beat thickly. She felt choked by it. And there was, she
could not help owning, a distinct drop of disappointment when MacLeod,
with an exclamation of delighted wonder, went forward and kissed Rose on
the cheek. Then he kept her hand while he gave the other one to Peter,
and regarded them both with expansive kindliness. Rose was the one who
had blenched under the ordeal. Yet she had herself immediately in hand.
She let her fingers stay in MacLeod's grasp. She looked at him, not
affectionately nor in pride, but with a sad steadfastness, as if he were
one of the monumental difficulties of life, not to be ignored. Peter was
ecstasy itself.
"How did you get here?" he was insisting. "How did you know I might be
over here? You hadn't met Electra."
Then the stranger dropped the hands he held and turned to her.
"I haven't met her yet," he said, with a humorous consideration that
stirred her heart. "Is this Electra?" He put out his hand, and she laid
hers in the waiting palm. She felt bound to something by the magnetic
grasp. The certainty was not weakened by any knowledge that other men
and women felt the same.
Madam Fulton came in then. She had removed the traces of past emotion,
but with the red still burning in her cheeks she looked very pretty.
MacLeod greeted her with an extreme deference, which presently slipped
into the ordinary courtesy of man to woman as he found she had no desire
to exact any special consideration. They went out to luncheon with that
air of accelerated life which contributes to the success of an occasion,
and then MacLeod talked. Rose sat silent, looking on with a sad
indifference, as at a scene she had witnessed many times before, to no
good end, and Madam Fulton listened rather satirically. But Electra and
Peter glowed and could hardly eat, and MacLeod addressed himself chiefly
to them. Now he did exactly what was expected of him. The brotherhood of
man was his theme, and it was no mere effusion of sympathetic
propaganda. His memory was his immense storehouse behind emotion, his
armory. He could mobilize facts and statistics until the ordinary mind
owned itself cowed by them. When they rose from the table, the
millennium was imminent, and it had been brought by the sword. At the
library door, Peter, beside Electra for an instant, irrepressibly seized
her hand, as it hung by her side, and gave it passionate pressure.
Instantly she looked at him, responsive. The sympathy they lacked in
their personal relation sprang to life under MacLeod's trumpeting.
Electra was in a glow, and Peter, with a surprised delight, felt all his
old allegiance to his imperial lady.
MacLeod would not sit down.
"I must catch my train," he said.
There was outcry at once from two quarters. He was not to return to the
city. He was to stay here, Peter declared. It was absurd, it was
unthinkable that he should do anything else. MacLeod took it with a
friendly smile and the air of deprecating such undeserved cordiality;
but he looked at Electra, who was frankly beseeching him from brilliant
eyes. It was settled finally that he should go back to his hotel for a
day or two, see some newspaper men and meet a few public engagements,
and then return for a little stay.
"Get your hat," he said to Rose, in affectionate suggestion, "and walk
with me to the station."
And as it became apparent that father and daughter had had no time for
intimate talk, they were allowed to go away together, Peter following
them with impetuous stammering adjurations to MacLeod to rattle through
his business and come back. When they were out upon the highroad,
MacLeod turned to Rose.
"Well," he said, "you don't look very fit."
Rose had one of her frequent impulses to tell him the crude truth: to
say now, "I did until you came." But she answered indifferently,--
"I'm very well."
They walked along in silence for a moment, and she felt the return of
old aches, old miseries he always summoned for her. In the first moment
of seeing him, she always recurred to the other days when to be with him
was to be in heaven. Nobody ever had so blest a time as she in the
simple charm of his good-will. No matter what she was doing, for him to
call her, to hold out a finger, had been enough. She would forsake the
world and run, and she never remembered the world again until he loosed
the spell. It was broken now, she thought, effectively, but still at
these first moments her heart yearned back to the old playgrounds, the
old lure.
"What did she call you," he was asking--"Madam Fulton? Mrs. Tom?"
"Yes," said Rose, with a quiet bitterness, "Mrs. Tom."
"Have they accepted you?"
She raised her eyebrows and looked at him.
"You heard," she answered.
"Extraordinary people! Who is Electra? I couldn't call her anything.
Everybody was saying Electra."
"She is Madam Fulton's granddaughter. She and Peter are engaged."
"Ah! I'd forgotten that. I rather fancied it was you--with Peter."
She summoned the resolution to meet him bluntly.
"Don't do that, please. Don't assume anything of the sort about me."
He went on with unbroken good humor. She had never seen him angry, but
the possibility of it, some hidden force suspected in him, quelled her,
of late, when she considered the likelihood of rousing it.
"No, of course not," he said, with his habitual geniality. "Why aren't
you staying with them?"
She temporized, only from the general certainty that it was unsafe for
him to know too much.
"Peter asked me to stay there. His grandmother is very kind. I like
her."
"Ah! Have these people money?"
"What people?"
"Electra. Tom's family in general."
"I don't know."
"They must have. They have the air. Will they do anything for you?"
Her face contracted. The look of youth had fled and left her haggard.
"I have not accepted anything."
"Have they offered it?"
"No."
"There! you see! No doubt they will."
"Why did you come over here?" she cried irrepressibly.
But he ignored the question.
"The prince is much disturbed about you," he volunteered, throwing it
into the talk as if it were of no particular validity, but only
interesting as one chose to take it.
"Ah! that's why you came!"
"I saw him two weeks ago, in Milan. He was greatly troubled. I had to
own that you had left Paris without seeing me, without even telling me
your whereabouts."
"Then--" said Rose.
She knew what else had happened. The prince had urged, "Go over to
America. Influence her. Bring her back with you." But this she did not
say. The unbroken cordiality of his attitude always made his best
defense. If she had ever known harshness from him, she might brave it
again. But many forces between them were as yet unmeasured. She did not
dare.
"You must remember," he said, with the air of talking over reasonably
something to which he was not even persuading her, "the prince is
exceptionally placed. He could give you a certain position."
"I have a certain position now. Don't forget that, will you?" She seemed
to speak from an extremity of distaste.
"He offers a private marriage. He is not likely to set it aside; the
elder line is quite assured, so far as anything can be in this world.
Besides"--he looked at her winningly--"you believe in love. He loves
you."
"I did believe in it," she said haltingly, as if the words were
difficult. "I should find it hard now to tell what I believe."
"Well!" He took off his hat to invite the summer breeze. It stirred the
hair above his noble forehead, and Rose, in a sickness at old affection
dead, knew, without glancing at him, how he looked, and marveled that
any one so admirably made could seem to her so persistently ranged with
evil forces. Yet, she reflected, it was only because he arrogated power
to himself. He put his hands upon the wheels of life and jarred them.
"Well! I believe in it. Isn't that enough for you?"
"Not now, not now!" She had to answer, though it might provoke stern
issues. "Once it would have been. There is nothing you could have told
me that I would not have believed. But you delivered me over to the
snare of the fowler." Grandmother had read those words in her morning
chapter, and they had stayed in her ears as meaning precisely this
thing. He had known that it was a snare, and he had cast her into it.
She turned her moved face upon him. "We mustn't talk about these things.
Nobody knows where it will end. And you mustn't talk to me about the
prince."
"If it doesn't mean anything to you, wouldn't it move you if I told you
it meant something to me?"
"What?"
"It would mean a great deal if you formed an alliance there."
She answered bitterly.
"You are humorous. Alliance! An alliance is for princes. There are other
words for these things you propose. I try not to think what they are. I
dare say I don't know all of them. But there are words."
"It would make me solid with the prince. He would get several
concessions from his brother. They would be slight, but they would mean
a great deal to the Brotherhood."
"I see. You would pull a wire or two in Germany. In Russia, too,
perhaps? You think you would disarm suspicion, if the prince stood by
you. Maybe you'd get into Russia, even. Is that it? It would be dramatic
to get into Russia after you'd been warned."
She was following his mind along, as she often did, creeping with
doubtful steps where he had taken wing. "But still!" She looked at him,
smiling rather wistfully. "Still, you wouldn't throw me to the wolves
for that, would you?"
He met her look with one as candid, and little as she believed in the
accompanying smile, she felt her heart warmed by it. Now he was gazing
about him at the summer prospect.
"I am delighted to find you here," he volunteered. "It's a change. It
will do you good--do us both good."
"Are you quite well?" She hesitated slightly in asking that, but he
turned upon her as if the words had given him a shock of terror or
dismay. In her surprise she even fancied he paled a little.
"What makes you ask that?" he cried. "What do you mean by it?"
"Why, I don't know! You look well, but not quite yourself,
perhaps,--somehow different."
MacLeod took off his hat and wiped his forehead beaded with a moisture
come on it, he knew, at that moment.
"I should like to ask," he said peevishly, "what in the devil you mean.
Have you--heard anything?"
"No," said Rose, entirely amazed. "What is there to hear?"
They had reached the station, and she led him to the bench under a tree
where lovers and their lasses assembled at dusk to see the train come
in. She sat down, dispirited and still wondering, and he stood before
her, all strength, now, and candor, as if he had thrown off his dubious
mood and resolved to be himself.
"About the prince," he was saying. "I want you to think of him. He would
give you experiences such as I never could. You'd live on velvet. You'd
have art, music, a thousand things. He likes your voice. He'd insist on
fostering that. You would meet men of rank, men of note--"
She interrupted him.
"Men of rank! I've no doubt of it. How about their wives?"
He shook his head. A look of what seemed noble pain was on his face,
impatience at the shallowness of things.
"Rose," he said, "you know how little I respect society as it is. Take
out of it what good you can, the play of emotion, the charm, the
inspiration. Don't undervalue the structure, my dear. Live, in spite of
it."
She looked at him wearily and thought how handsome he was, and that
these were platitudes. Then his train came, and he left her with a
benedictory grace, standing on the step hat in hand, majestic in his
courtesy. But as she watched him, suddenly, an instant before the train
was starting she saw him yield and sway. He leaned upon the rail with
both hands and then, as if by a quick decision, stepped to the platform
again. She hurried to him, and found him with an unfamiliar look on his
face. It might have been dread anticipation; it was surely pain.
"What is it?" she asked him. "Tell me."
He did not answer, but involuntarily he stretched out his hand to her.
"Rub it," he said. "Hold it tight. Infernal! oh, infernal!"
As she rubbed the hand he suddenly recovered his old manner. The color
came back to his face, and he breathed in a deep relief.
"That's over," he said, almost recklessly, she thought. "Queer how quick
it goes!"
"What is it?" She was trembling. It seemed to her that they had each
passed through some mysterious crisis.
"Is there another train to town?" he was asking an official, who had
kept a curious eye on him. There would be in three minutes, an
accommodation crawling after the express he had lost.
"Good-by again," he called to Rose, with a weaker transcript of his
usual manner. "I'm to be down in a few days, you know. Good-by."
This time he walked into the car, and she saw him take his seat and lie
back against the window-casing. But he recovered himself and smiled,
when his eyes met hers. If anything was the matter, she was evidently
not to know.
XIV
As the two had walked away, Peter turned to Electra, stammering forth,--
"Isn't he a great old boy?"
He was tremendous, she owned, in language better chosen; and this new
community of feeling was restful to her.
"Come out into the garden," he said, and as they went along the path to
the grape arbor he took her hand and she left it to him. They seemed
restored to close relations, as if MacLeod had wrought some spell upon
them. By the time they reached the liquid greenness of the arbor light,
Peter was sure he loved her. He could turn to her quite passionately.
"Electra," he said, holding both her hands now, "I've missed you all
these days."
She smiled a little and that, with her glowing color, made her splendid.
"You have been here every day," she said, conceding him the grace of
having done his utmost.
"Yes, but it hasn't been right. There's been something between
us--something unexplained."
She knew, so she reflected, what that was. Rose had been between them.
But she listened with an attentive gravity.
"We must go back to Paris," Peter was urging. "I shall work there. We
will live simply and turn in everything to the Brotherhood. We must be
married--dear." He looked direct and manly, not boyish, now, and she
felt a sudden pride in him. "Electra, you'll go with me?"
She withdrew from him and sat down, indicating the other chair.
"Something very queer has happened," she said. "I must tell you about
it." It had just come to her again as it had been doing at moments
through the absorbing hour at luncheon, that she was in a difficult
place with grandmother, and that here was the one creature whom she had
the right to count upon. Rapidly she told him the facts of the case,
ending with her conclusion,--
"The house belongs to grandmother."
Peter was frowning comically. In his effort to think, he looked as if
the sun were in his eyes.
"I don't believe I understand," he said, and again she told him.
"You don't mean you are building all this on a casual sentence in a
book?" He frowned the harder.
Electra was breathing pleasure at the beauty of the case.
"It is not a casual sentence," she insisted. "It's an extract from a
letter."
Peter had no intimate acquaintance with the business of the world, but
he knew its elements. He regarded her with tenderness, as a woman
attractively ignorant of harsh details.
"But Electra, dear, that isn't legal. It doesn't have the slightest
bearing on what you should give or what she could exact from you--if she
were that kind."
"No," she said, "it isn't legal. But it is--ethical." She used the large
word with a sense of safety, loving the sound of it and conscious that
Peter would not choke her off.
"But it isn't that. You don't know how your grandfather wrote that
letter. He may have done it in a fit of temper, or malice, or
carelessness, or a dozen things, and forgotten it next day. A letter's
the idlest thing on earth. There's no reason for your considering it a
minute."
"I am bound to consider it," said Electra. "There it is, in black and
white. I shall make over the place to grandmother."
"Well!" Peter felt like whistling, and then unpursed his lips because,
according to Electra, whistling was not polite. He had no restrictions
relative to her giving away her property; but he felt very seriously
that she must not be allowed to indulge herself in any form of insanity,
however picturesque. A detail occurred to him, and he said quickly, with
a look at her,--
"But Electra, you and Tom inherited this place together."
She knew what was coming and her color deepened. Again Rose had stepped
between them, and Electra felt herself back in their old atmosphere of
constraint.
"I have inherited it from Tom," she rejoined.
"You ignore his wife?"
Electra was silent for a long time. It was a hard struggle. But she
spoke at last and in a tone which made the difficulty of speech
apparent.
"Since Mr. MacLeod has been here--"
"Well?"
"I must recognize her as his daughter."
"Didn't you believe that, Electra? Not even that?"
"I am forced to believe it now. When he comes back, I shall ask him to
corroborate her story. If he does--I shall be obliged to--give her what
is just."
"Not otherwise, Electra? You believe him."
"I believe him implicitly." Her tone rang out in an astonishing
assurance. She might have been pledging fealty to some adored intimate.
"You believe him. You would not believe me?"
She hedged a little here. "You gave me no proof--only the woman's word."
"Would you believe him without proof?"
She was silent, yet she knew she must.
"But," she said, with the haste of finishing an unwelcome subject, "I
shall settle the matter as soon as possible after he comes back. If he
tells me his daughter was married to my brother, she shall be paid every
cent she is entitled to. But she shall not share this house--not an inch
of it."
"Why not?"
Electra seemed to be carried on by a wave. Hurt pride found its
voice,--all the revulsion she had felt in these days of Peter's divided
allegiance.
"The house is ours. It belongs to the family. I shall make it over to
grandmother, but not to that girl. She shall never own a timber in it."
Peter spoke involuntarily, with an unpremeditated wonder:--
"What makes you hate her so?"
Tears came slowly into Electra's eyes. They surprised her as much as
they did him. She was not used to crying, and she held them from
falling, with a proud restraint. Electra felt very lonely at that moment
in a world which would not understand. She was upholding truth and
justice, and she was accused of mean personal motives. She had proposed
a picturesque sacrifice for the sake of abstract right, and she could
not be unconscious that the act ought to look rather beautiful. Yet
Peter saw no beauty in it, and grandmother had called her a fool. Peter,
seeing the tears, was enormously embarrassed by them. He could only kiss
her hand in great humility. He, on his part, put justice cheerfully
aside.
"How could I?" he murmured, with the contrition of the male who has
learned that tears are to be stanched without delay. "How could I?" But
Electra, on her feet, had drawn her hand away from him. She felt only
haste, haste to conclude her abnegation, perhaps even to forestall any
question of the house by getting the matter out of her hands before
MacLeod came back and she had to reckon with his testimony.
"I am not crying," she said proudly. "I must go and talk to grandmother.
Promise me this. Don't tell her"--she hesitated.
"Rose?"
"Don't tell her I have spoken of this."
She had gone, and Peter helplessly watched her walking up the path. Then
he took his own way home. "My stars!" he muttered from time to time. His
chief desire at the moment was to escape from anything so strenuous as
Electra's moral life. It made a general and warm-hearted obliquity the
only possible condition of conduct in a pretty world. Peter looked round
at it admiringly then, as the shadow of Electra's earnestness withdrew
into the distance. It was such a darling world, there were such dear
shadows and beguiling lights and all things adorable to paint. He cast
off the mood that teased him, and walking faster, began to whistle. It
seemed to him that there were so many agreeable deeds to do, and so much
time to do them in, that he must simply bestir himself to use half the
richness of things. But when he got into the garden, the honeysuckle
smelled so sweet that he sat down at its foot and breathed it until he
went to sleep.
Electra walked into the library, where Madam Fulton sat at her tatting
and Billy Stark read aloud to her from an idle book. Electra felt that
she could not possibly delay. All her affairs must be settled at once
and the ends knit up.
"I beg your pardon," she said. "Grandmother, may I speak to you a
moment?"
Madam Fulton laid down her work.
"Is it the same old story?" she inquired.
"Yes, grandmother. I don't feel that I can wait."
"Electra," said the old lady kindly, "I can't listen to you. It's all
fudge and nonsense. If we talk about it any more, we shall be insane
together. Don't go, Billy."
"I should like to put it before Mr. Stark," said Electra, with her clear
gaze upon him, as if she summoned him to some exalted testimony.
Billy stirred uneasily in his chair. He had confided to Florrie the
night before that Electra's hypothetical cases made him as nervous as
the devil. Madam Fulton cast him a comical look. It had begun to occur
to her that a ball, once rolling, is difficult to stop.
"Go ahead, then," she agreed. "I wash my hands of it. Billy, keep a
tight grip on yourself. You'll die a-laughing."
Then Electra stated her case; but Billy did not laugh. Like Peter, he
looked at her frowningly, and owned he did not understand. Electra
stated it again, and this time he repeated the proposition after her.
Madam Fulton sat in a composed aloofness and made no comment.
"But, my dear young lady," said Billy Stark, "you quite misunderstand.
An extract from a letter has no legal value compared with a document
signed and sealed in proper form."
"I know," said Electra, "not legal, but--" She was aware that Madam
Fulton's eye was upon her and she dared not finish. "It was at least my
grandfather's expressed wish," she concluded firmly. "I shall carry it
out."
"But--" Billy sought about for a simile, "my dear child,"--Electra, in
the weakness of her lofty reasoning, seemed to him pathetically to be
protected,--"don't you see you're putting yourself through all kinds of
discomfort for nothing, simply nothing? You've gone and got a big
sword--you call it justice--to cut a thread. Why, it's not even that.
There's nothing, absolutely nothing there. It's very admirable of
you"--Electra's waiting attitude quickened at this--"but it's
fantastic."
She spoke decisively.
"It is the thing to do."
Now Madam Fulton entered the field. She looked from one to the other, at
Electra with commiseration, at Billy in a community of regret over that
young intellect so dethroned.
"Now you see what I told you," she warned them. "Here we are, all crazy
together. We've let you say it, and we've addled our own brains
listening to it for a minute. I'll tell you what, Electra!" She had
discovered. "If you're so anxious to get rid of the place, I'll tell you
what I'll do. I'll buy it."
"Buy it, grandmother? what belongs to you already?"
"Don't say that again. It gives me a ringing in my ears. That's what
I'll do. You're going to marry Peter Grant and go abroad. I'll take the
place off your hands. I've always wanted it. I've made a shocking sum
out of my book, shocking. I can well afford it. There's an offer for
you!"
Electra shook her head.
"I couldn't," she said gently. "How could I sell you what is yours
already? The letter--"
"The letter!" repeated the old lady, as if it were an imprecation. She
looked at Billy. He returned the glance with a despairing immobility.
She reflected that the case must be worse even than she had thought,
since Billy had not smiled. Electra must be madder than she had
imagined, and her own culpability was the greater for weaving such a
coil. "Shall I tell her, Billy?" she asked faintly.
He nodded.
"I should," he said commiseratingly, and got up to leave the room. It
seemed to Billy this summer that he was constantly trying to escape
situations with a delicacy which was more than half cowardice, only to
be dragged back into the arena. The mandate he had expected promptly
came.
"Don't go, Billy," cried the old lady. "Sit down." Madam Fulton
continued, in a hesitating humility Electra had never seen in her,
"Electra, I don't believe you'll quite understand when I tell you
there's something queer about the letter. You see there never was any
letter. I--made it up."
The boot was on the other foot. All the values of the scene had shifted.
Now it was Electra who doubted the general sanity. Electra was smiling
at her.
"No, grandmother," she was saying, with a pretty air of chiding, "you
mustn't talk that way. You think that convinces me. It's very dear of
you, very dear and generous. But I know why you do it."
"Bless my sinful soul!" ejaculated the old lady. "Oh--you tell her,
Billy."
Billy shook his head. He was not going to be dragged as far as that. He
was sorry for her, but she had had her whistle and she must pay for it.
The old lady was beginning again in a weak voice,--
"You see, Electra, that book isn't what you think. It isn't what anybody
thinks. I--I made it up."
Electra was about to speak, but her grandmother forestalled her.
"Don't you go and offer me wine. You get it into your head once and for
all that I'm telling you a fact and that you've got to believe it. I
made up my book of recollections. They're not true, not one of them. As
I remember, there isn't one. The letters I wrote myself."
Electra was staring at her in a neutrality which was not even wonder.
Finally she spoke; her awed voice trembled.
"The Brook Farm letters!"
Perhaps it was this reverent hesitation which restored Madam Fulton to
something of her wonted state.
"For heaven's sake, Electra," she fulminated, "what is there so sacred
about Brook Farm? If anybody is going to make up letters from anywhere,
why shouldn't it be from there?"
Electra was looking at Billy Stark as if she bade him save her from
these shocks or tell her the whole world was rocking. But Billy twirled
his eyeglass, and watched it twirling. Finally he had to meet her eye.
"Yes," he said, with a composure he did not feel, "the book is
apparently not quite straight--a kind of joke, in fact."
Electra rose. She looked very thoughtful and also, Madam Fulton thought,
with a quaking at her guilty heart, rather terrible. She was pinched at
the nostrils and white about the lips.
"What I must do first," she was saying, as if to herself, "is to notify
the club we cannot possibly have our inquiry afternoon."
"Notify them!" repeated Madam Fulton, in a spasm of fearful admiration.
"Are you going to tell all those women?"
Electra included her in that absent glance. Now that there were things
to arrange, dates to cancel, topics to consider, she was on her own
ground. She spoke with dignity:--
"I shall most certainly tell nobody. A thing like that had better die as
soon as possible. I cannot"--she turned upon her grandmother, a look of
passionate interrogation on her face--"I cannot understand you."
Madam Fulton answered humbly, yet with some eagerness, as if Electra
might readily be excused from so stiff a task,
"You never would, Electra, not if you lived a hundred years."
Electra was the accuser now, age and kinship quite forgotten.
"Why did you do a thing like that?"
"For fun," said the old lady faintly.
"For fun!" The tree of sin grew and flowered as she thought upon it.
"You offered to buy this house with that money, unclean money from the
sales of that fraudulent book!"
Madam Fulton turned to Billy Stark with a childlike gesture of real
surprise.
"Is it unclean money, Billy?" she asked. "Do you call it that?"
"We mustn't go too far," Billy temporized, with a warning look at
Electra.
She was on the way to the door. There she paused.
"I do not fully understand it yet," she was saying. "It is monstrous. I
dare say I never shall understand it." Then they heard her rustling up
the stairs.
Madam Fulton and her old friend looked at each other. When a door closed
overhead, Billy's face relaxed and Madam Fulton put a hand over her
lips.
"Billy," said she weakly, "am I so bad?"
"You're a dear, Florrie. Don't you worry."
"But, Billy, is she right?"
"Oh, yes, my dear, she's right."
"I'm a shocking person, then!"
"Yes, you're truly shocking. But you're a dear, Florrie, you're a dear."
XV
And now it was night again and Rose hurried away to the tryst. She made
no doubt that she should find him there.
"Playmate!" she called.
"Here," answered the voice. "There's your chair. There's your throne."
She plunged into the thick of the confidence intended for him.
"He has come."
"I know it. Peter told me."
"It's all as bad as I thought. Playmate, I'm afraid I shall have to go
away."
"Can't you stand up to it?"
"I don't know. It's pretty bad."
"I guess it will have to come to your telling me about it."
"Yes. You see, the worst of it is, he wants to make me love somebody I
can't love."
"Peter?"
"No, no, not Peter. Not nice, like Peter."
"Could you love Peter?"
"Why should you ask me that? Peter belongs to Electra."
"Not so very much. Could you love him if he asked you to?"
"Oh, that's not fair, playmate!"
"Yes, it is, when the night's as dark as this and it's only you and me.
Could you love Peter?"
"Why do you want to know?"
"I want to know everything about you. Could you love Peter?"
For some reason, she felt constrained to use one of her small
obstinacies.
"I couldn't love any man when another woman stood between us."
"That's a good girl. Did you love your husband?"
"My husband!" She choked upon the word. "Tom Fulton! Did you know him?"
"Oh, yes, I knew him."
"Was it likely I loved him?"
He was considering, it seemed.
"Yes," he said then, "it's very likely. Tom was a handsome devil."
"But he was--a devil."
"A woman wouldn't know that, not at first."
"No. I didn't, at first."
"Who is this other man?"
"A prince."
"So you would be a princess."
"No, I should not be a princess." Her voice had a curious sound.
"What has your father to do with it?"
"Everything. The prince can advance him in certain ways. My father plays
for high stakes."
"Are you sure you don't want to be a princess?" The voice seemed to coax
her. "Even if you do want it very much," it seemed to say, "why not
relinquish it and stay here under the tree?"
"No," she said, "I don't want to be a princess, even if I could be. And
I don't want anything my father can offer me, or buy for me, or steal
for me."
"Then, playmate, when he comes back, you'll have to stand up to him
or--cut."
At that moment he saw before him the imagined picture of her face with
the tears upon it.
"It isn't easy," she was saying. "If you knew my father, you would see.
You can't withstand him, he looks so kind. You can't refuse him, because
he seems to want nothing but your good. You can't say you won't have a
splendid time with him, because you simply have it."
"Are you sure he is so bad?"
"I am sure," she answered gravely. "He is very bad. And it is not
because he wills to be bad. It is because he wills to have power, and as
if he were better fitted to have power than almost anybody--except that
he is not good. Why, do you know what power he has? He wears a ring, the
seal of the Brotherhood. Whatever order is stamped with that seal is
carried out, even if it is thousands of miles away. When Ivan Gorof
died"--she stopped, shuddering.
"What was that?"
"I can't tell you. It is too dreadful. He withstood my father. And when
he was found, they picked up in the chamber a bit of red wax on a shred
of paper--there was nothing else--but I know and we all know it was a
part of the seal that held the warrant they read to him--the
assassins--before he died."
"Did your father sentence him to death?"
"Who else? Sometimes I get thinking about it at night, and then it seems
to me as if all the people in the world had been delivered into his
hand. That is because I know I have grown to be afraid of him."
"Was he always cruel to you?"
"Oh, never! never in the world! When I was little, I traveled about with
him, and I had the best time a child ever had. I was fêted, and carried
on shoulders, and made much of because I was his daughter. Then I grew
up and it all--changed." Her voice fell. She remembered the snare of the
fowler, but that she could not tell him.
"Is he unkind to you now?"
"Never! it is unbroken kindness,--a benevolence, shall I call it? But it
terrifies me. For under it all is that unbending will. And I keep
hardening myself against it, and yet I know the time will come when he
will have his way, because he is stronger than I."
"You must not let him be stronger than you. The birch bends, but it can
resist."
"You don't know! If he were outwardly cruel, I could defy him. But he is
like the sun that nourishes and then burns. He seems to have such life
in himself, such great inborn power, no one can resist it. You almost
feel as if you were going against natural laws when you go against him;
and you know you'll be beaten because the laws are inevitable."
"That wasn't what you said of him that first night down in the shack."
"No! I scoffed at him then a little. He was so far away! Now I have been
near him again and I tremble."
"But as you picture him, he's all good, all benevolence. You could
convince a man like that."
"Never! He hasn't any soul. He is this great natural force that radiates
power."
"Power!" echoed Osmond. "No wonder he's drunk on it. I could go down on
my knees and worship it."
"Not such as his!"
"Such as anybody's, so long as it is power."
For the first time she began to comprehend his mortal hunger.
"Don't you go over to him, too," she said jealously. "Peter is under his
foot. So is Electra. If you go over, I shall be alone."
"I shall never go anywhere to leave you alone." Then, after a moment, he
continued, "So you are not sure whether the prince loves you?"
"He would call it that. It is not that to me."
"Of course he loves you!"
"Don't be too sure, playmate. I know the world. You know your garden."
"Then why does he want you?"
"It's a game. My father wants to buy him. He may want to buy my father.
Then maybe he wants the prestige of owning the woman with the most
beautiful hair in Europe."
"Is that your hair, playmate?"
"He says so."
"Well, a man might do worse than gamble for a thing like that."
"You amaze me." But he would not continue that, and presently she asked
him, "What have you been thinking about lately?"
"About you."
