you wanted to induce a man to give you the benefit of his abilities and
influence during an election, you held out hopes of preferment, and he
took your word if he knew your word was good, and worked with a decent
sort of ambition--all things being relative. What happens now? Few find
anything promising or attractive in the competitive examination. You ask
a man--the professional politician he is now, sure enough--to help you
get your candidate, or yourself, in, and what happens? The gentleman
coolly demands, 'How much?' and holds out his hand. You fill it or he
turns his back and walks off. There is just that much less of good left
to appeal to in this particular brand of human nature. Ours is a much
more complicated civilization than yours, Mr. Gwynne. You were dealing
with Britishers only, in 1832. We are trying to digest the riffraff of
the world, and can't do it, in spite of such incorrigible optimists as
Judge Leslie. Immigrants in the first generation have just about as much
feeling for the American flag as a chicken has for Rosewater. They look
upon vote-selling as a legitimate way of improving their fortunes, and
they are the easy prey of such agitators as Colton, because they had
nothing in their own countries, and want the earth in this. Of course
their children go to the public schools, and become Americans, but we
always have the problem of fresh hordes to deal with. And new and
old--it is easy to plant the weevil in their brains that the rich have
corralled all the money, and the laborer--even in California, where he
gets the highest wages paid on this earth--is a miserable victim, and
entitled to all he doesn't make. They never remember that nearly every
capitalist in the country has risen from their own ranks, and that their
dreams are mainly occupied with doing the same. But you might as well
talk to the trade-winds, especially with such men as Tom Colton stirring
the caldron. 'Get rich quick; and selling votes is as good a starter as
any.' There you have the moral sickness of the country in a nutshell.
And few professions pay better than that of the politician. The pettiest
division leader, who does the Boss's dirtiest work, and has fewer
redeeming virtues than the midnight burglar, makes such a good thing out
of it that the prettiest Salvation Army lass couldn't convince him of
the error of his ways. And he enjoys himself. To hang around saloons,
prize-fights, help out shyster lawyers with their tricks, and play the
game hard during election times--that satisfies him until he sees a
chance of stepping into a bigger pair of boots of the same make. But,
thank God, there are more honest men out of politics than in. That is
the trouble, but there they are, and it will be a part of your business
to round them up. Well, I guess I've held forth long enough. I'll send
you round a few volumes from my Lincoln library to-morrow. I always go
to it when I lose my faith in human nature. Good-night."
And he gathered up his long legs and went out.
       *       *       *       *       *
In his many talks with his friends in San Francisco, Gwynne had received
practically the same suggestions. The lawyer who advised this group in
its necessarily intermittent campaign against the San Francisco
politicians was one of the ablest in the United States. He had offered
Gwynne a place in his office, a 'courtesy partnership,' when he was
ready to move to the city. But Gwynne deliberately remained undecided
for the present, although half inclined to practise in the country for
some years. If he could not have the inestimable education of the old
days, when lawyers jogged about the country with the circuit judges for
months at a time, he could at least get into close contact with the
plain people in a manner that in a city would be practically impossible.
Until the rains began, and after his definite understanding with Colton,
he had, during his hours of exercise, formed the habit of "dropping in"
upon the small farmers of his political district, under pretence of
asking their advice; gauging and sowing. Upon the men that had bought
land of him he was able to bestow many small favors, and his old
experience with the tenantry of Capheaton gave him an instinctive
knowledge of their wants that added to the sum of his popularity. To his
inferiors he had never shown the arrogance of his nature, and he
welcomed these small toilers as a substitute for his old tenants; for he
had missed the poor that kept the sympathies quick--and, perhaps, gave
richer shadows to life.
His long lank American figure and slight resemblance to Hiram Otis, who
had been an institution if not a favorite, his readiness to stand drinks
to his farmer acquaintances, and others, whom he happened to meet in
Main Street, the approachableness he had cultivated with some effort,
combined with the subtle suggestion that he would not permit a liberty;
a characteristic that every true man respects; his reputation for being
"dead straight," and his insistence upon receiving his just dues--"all
that was coming to him"--in spite of the easy terms he made with several
to whom he sold land; all this, in addition to the dignity of being the
largest rancher in the county, and a law partner of Judge Leslie, had
quickly made him a marked as well as a popular figure. Even his accent
was unnoted in that State of many accents.
He had thought out for himself all that Mr. Wheaton had suggested, and
if he still had his moments of depression and disgust, and even of
revolt, much of his old confidence was returning; although he sometimes
reflected, with a sort of whimsical bitterness, upon the difficulty of
sustaining an impression of innate greatness unaided by an occasional
demonstration. But he had, at least, learned to see people merely as
human beings without taking their shells into account; and he also
realized that in those storms of spirit, which, at the time, he had
deprecated as ebullitions from a too mercurial nature, he had developed
more rapidly and precisely than many a man does by the exterior
catastrophe. And impersonally his admiration for the land of one set of
forefathers grew, although personally he remained cold. But he
cultivated all sorts and conditions of men, and hopefully trained
himself for the enthusiastic moment.
There were even times when, surrounded by his Rosewater friends, with
their lapses into quaint American speech and their intense localism, the
old Otis blood stirred in him very strongly; he caught himself using
phrases and figures that no doubt were an inheritance with his brain
cells. When the walls and furnishings of his room were obscured by
smoke, and there were half a dozen pairs of boots against his stove, it
was not difficult to fancy himself back in the old corner grocery on a
winter's night: his companions drinking apple cider, instead of rye
whiskey, and the orator of the moment sitting, by preference, on a
barrel, and munching crackers.
In San Francisco, which he visited twice a week on his return from
Berkeley, when alone in the long sloping streets swept with the
wind-driven rain, when the gutters roared and the houses looked as
deserted as their huddled beaten gardens, stories Isabel had told him of
the days of the Argonauts rose like ghosts in his brain, and he would
suddenly experience an overwhelming sensation of being at home. His
mother promptly dispelled these visions.
On the whole his time was too fully occupied to leave him more than
stray moments for the subtler mood; but as day after day, finally week
after week passed, with no prospect of fair weather, the monotony and
confinement affected his nerves, he tired of the unrelieved
companionship of men, and wished that Isabel would move in to Rosewater
for the winter months. He rang her up, when this brilliant idea occurred
to him, but was informed by Chuma that she was not in the house. On the
following day he telephoned again, and learned that she slept, on the
third that she was engaged in the delicate operation of extracting some
deleterious substance from the crop of a valuable hen. Whereupon he
swore vigorously, and vowed that he would forget her until the skies
cleared. But "the skies they were ashen and sober," and he caught
himself dreaming over his "Torts," or during one of Mr. Boutts's
ecstatic visions of Rosewater with a great hotel in the style of the old
Missions, and an electric railway. (Mr. Boutts, by-the-way, never
elevated his feet to the railing of the stove, but always sat on the
edge of his chair, a hand on either knee.) He took the train impulsively
to San Francisco, one afternoon, and talked of reinforced concrete with
his contractor, and San Francisco politics with Hofer. He even called
upon several young ladies, who interested him less than ever, and
returned to Rosewater at the end of four days with a sense of duties
neglected and a slip in his self-mastery. This put him in such a bad
humor that he directed his Asiatic to refuse him to the members of his
informal Club, and wished he were back in San Francisco doing the town
with Stone.
III
He was glowering into the open door of the stove and wondering why on
earth he had not remained in town over Sunday at least, when he became
aware that his noiseless Jap was standing at his elbow.
"What is it?" he demanded, testily. "I wish you would get a pair of
creaky boots."
"A gentleman," replied the impervious Oriental.
"I told you I would not see anybody."
"But he has a card." It was not often that the cool even tones of Imura
Kisabura Hinomoto fluctuated, but Gwynne detected a faint accent of
respect. Somewhat surprised himself, he glanced at the card. It bore the
name of one of the judges of one of the benches provided for by the
constitutions of both nation and State. He had a summer home on the
mountain opposite and relatives in Rosewater, so there was nothing
remarkable in his being in the little town on a rainy winter Sunday.
Nevertheless, Gwynne's instinct of caution, more active than usual
during the past year, stirred sharply.
"Show him in," he said. "And bring the whiskey--both Rye and Scotch."
This was the most perfect specimen of the bluff, hearty, breezy, almost
ingenuous Westerner that Gwynne had encountered. The judge, who had been
relieved of his hat and overcoat by the admirable Imura, advanced with
both hands outstretched, and Gwynne could do no less than surrender
his, although he had never fancied any one less. The judge was a big man
with a round jolly face, set with a sensual mouth, a pendulous nose, and
merry twinkling eyes. Although possibly no more than fifty-five years of
age, the baldness of his head had amplified the common noble domelike
American brow: behind which Gwynne had so often groped and found
nothing. This man was indubitably clever, and to a less educated eye
than Gwynne's his face would appeal and fascinate. His magnetism was
superlative.
"My dear Mr. Gwynne!" he exclaimed. "Believe me when I say that this is
one of the most satisfactory moments of my life. I was forced to come to
this God-forsaken hole last night, and had it not been for you I should
have taken the morning train back to the city. But when I heard that you
were in town--you were pointed out to me as we both left the train--I
knew that my opportunity had come. And--my dear young gentleman--I throw
away no opportunities; I throw away no opportunities."
By this time Gwynne had steered him into the largest of the chairs, and
offered him his choice of the whiskies. The judge, after an instant's
hesitation, accepted the Scotch; and Gwynne felt that he had a tactful
and dangerous man to deal with.
"Excellent!" exclaimed the judge, and he smacked his lips. He inhaled
the aroma of the cigar voluptuously. "But my dear old friend, Judge
Leslie, whom I ran in to see for a few moments this morning, told
me--with his customary humor--that you were as remarkable for the
superior quality of your whiskey and tobacco as for the many personal
qualities that have so rapidly endeared you to the citizens of
Rosewater."
"Thanks," said Gwynne.
The judge changed his tactics instantly. "I cannot beat about in the
dark and merely turn myself loose in pleasant generalities, Mr. Gwynne,"
he said, gravely. "I am going to tell you at once that I am positive you
are Elton Gwynne. Judge Leslie would give me no satisfaction this
morning, but I needed none. I happened to be employed in old Colton's
bank in my younger days--as secretary--and although that was a long time
ago--a long time ago!--it came back to me, when I began to hear so much
about our new rancher, that his full name was John Elton Cecil Gwynne,
and that he was the only son of his mother. Or--if impressions are
confused after so long an interval--I may have gathered the last fact
from James Otis, whom I knew very well. He and Hi, indeed, I may
honestly say, were among my few intimate friends, despite some disparity
in years. So, I have a double interest and, I modestly hope, claim upon
you. The former at least has been accentuated since yesterday, when your
likeness to Hi struck me very painfully. You are a vast improvement, I
grant, for Hi was as ugly as mud and as cross as two sticks, but the
resemblance is acute, odd as it may appear. Those things are very
subtle, very subtle."
Gwynne had heard the keys of his secret weakness tinkle for a full bar,
but while it improved his humor it did not cloud his judgment, and he
applied himself to finding out the purpose of the man's visit.
"I regret very much that I have come too late to know any of my male
relatives," he said, affably. "Hiram Otis, from all I hear, was an able
man, if somewhat soured, and his unfortunate brother one of the most
brilliant lawyers of his day. Terrible thing, this reckless drinking in
San Francisco. I was told yesterday that when--a few years ago--an
editor was sent out from New York to assume charge of one of your most
flourishing dailies, he made the entire staff go down to Los Gatos and
take the Keeley cure. Then, for a time, he had relays of sober men, at
least, but until then he had felt himself a lonely Philistine--besides
taking a hand in every department of the 'shop,' even setting type at
times. But it's a fascinating old town, all the same. Too fascinating, I
fear." And he managed to fetch a remorseful sigh.
The judge, who had laughed heartily at the anecdote, dismissed his
twinkle for a moment, and looked at the young man with concern.
"For God's sake," he said, softly, "don't tell me that you have
inherited that microbe."
"Oh no, indeed!" said Gwynne, cheerfully. "I never could take to drink
now--a man's character is pretty well formed at thirty-two, I fancy, and
I scarcely ever touch spirits when alone--prefer the lighter wines.
Only, as San Francisco is so convivial, one naturally imbibes a good
deal, especially with friends addicted to the 'cocktail route'--and I am
afraid I shall have to give up the city for the present and stick to
work."
"The judge tells me that your legal powers are really amazing--that you
have accumulated more law in four months--"
"Tut! Tut!" cried Gwynne, springing to his feet and reaching the table
in a stride. "Have some more whiskey, judge. And don't flatter me any
more. I am afraid that vanity is my besetting weakness--"
"Thank God it is not the other!" said the older man, fervently. "And
vanity keeps the heart younger than anything I know of. Lose the power
of being tickled by a compliment and inflated by success, and you lose
the salt of life. But I am delighted that you have taken to the law. I
know your English career like a book, and although I do not pretend even
to guess at the motives which induced you to fling aside not only the
most promising career in England, but one of the noblest of her titles,
I may say, sir--and I may speak for my fellow-citizens, the whole
million of them--I am deeply flattered, and gratified, that, whatever
your motive, which could only be an honorable one, you have chosen this
fair State as the theatre of your future triumphs. I hope I shall see
you beside me on the bench--unless, to be sure, you have higher
ambitions than the mere practice of law."
"The first men in the country have been lawyers," said Gwynne, politely.
"Why aspire higher?"
"Why, indeed? But I think you will. The law frequently leads either to
one of the benches or into the more active field of politics. And
you--with your enormous energies--you will never be content with the
law, pure and simple, no matter how brilliant a reputation you might
achieve."
"But honest lawyers are so rare!" exclaimed Gwynne, boyishly. "I do
believe I should be an honest one. That, at least, is the intention I
have set beside my ambition. I am ambitious, judge, as no doubt you have
divined, and the prospect of being shelved among the lords sickened me.
I wanted to make a career for myself, so cut the whole business and came
here where my American properties were. Besides, as it happened, I
inherited practically nothing with which to keep up my English estates.
There! You have my reasons, judge, and you are welcome to them. Titles
without money are mere embarrassments. Still, I really should have left,
had it been otherwise--I am certain I should. I never could stand the
inaction of the Upper House. Nor do I care for those compensatory honors
that my position and family influence might have secured for me. And now
I feel more the American every day. I have even grown keen on making
money--which I rather disdained at home; for the matter of that, thought
little about it. You may not know that I am--in partnership, as it were,
with my mother and cousin--putting up a large Class A building in San
Francisco?"
He inferred that there was little about him the judge did not know, but
accepted the interested "Ah!" and rhapsodized over his new interests.
The Judge listened with a benignant smile and a twinkling eye, every
once in a while giving the tip of his long fleshy nose an abrupt shove,
as if it impeded his breathing.
"Just so!" he exclaimed. "Just so! It is the Otis blood. No better
pioneer blood in the State. Jim was the wild one. The others were as
steady as rocks. Their father and grandfather--your ancestors,
sir--helped to make this great State what it is. Their names will always
be honored in the annals of California. Terrible pity Jim and Hi got
away with so much. If they'd hung on as your mother and her mother did,
Miss Isabel would be one of the heiresses. But she seems able to take
care of herself, and with that face and form, I guess she can redeem her
fortunes any way she chooses. I hear that young Harry Hofer can't talk
of anything else."
Gwynne wondered if this were what the judge had come for, but
exonerated him, concluding that he was merely rambling on in the hope of
an opening.
"No doubt!" he said, heartily. "Miss Otis could marry any one she
pleased. One of the best titles in England was hers for the asking,
by-the-way. But like myself she is too good an American--shall I say
Californian?--to live anywhere but here. She is immensely successful
with her chickens, and we shall all make money on this new deal--I am
certain of that."
"No doubt, no doubt. Things are booming in San Francisco. You'll get a
huge rent from a building of that size--in time. Pity it has to be
divided among three of you. And there will be a big mortgage to pay off
first, I suppose; and it is in a very precarious district, a very
precarious district." And once more the twinkle retired and he gazed
dreamily at the fire.
"Oh, even golden apples have to ripen. And I have taken every precaution
against fires. Have some more whiskey, Judge."
"Don't care if I do." Gwynne knew that the Scotch scalded a throat
caressed these many years with the oily rye, and put as little seltzer
in it as he dared. But the judge sipped it heroically. Suddenly the
twinkle danced back to his eye as he turned it upon Gwynne.
"You can't delude me!" he cried. "You can't, sir. I know you intend to
go in for politics. Nothing else would ever satisfy your genius. Own up,
now."
"Well," said Gwynne, modestly. "I have thought of it. After my five
years are up, of course--makes one feel rather like a convict. Meanwhile
I can make some headway with the law: or, shall I say, build up a
reputation that may be useful to me when I am able to run for office."
"Ah! Just so! Great pity you were ever discharged from your American
indigenate. Then one year in California would settle the matter. Which
of our parties makes the strongest appeal to you?"
Gwynne's eyes had contracted and he was staring at the stove. But his
abstraction was too brief to be noticed, and he answered in a
confidential tone, "Well, Judge, to tell you the truth--" And then he
stopped and laughed.
"I see. You think one is about as bad as the other."
"Well, I am afraid that is it."
"Oh, my boy, they're not nearly as bad as they are made out to be--our
American politics. Judge Leslie is dotty on that subject, and so are a
good many of the other old fossils of Rosewater. I don't say but that
San Francisco would be the better for a good spring cleaning, but the
State's not nearly so bad as it's painted, not nearly so bad as it's
painted."
He delivered his repeated phrases with an unctuous indulgent roll that
made Gwynne long to grind his teeth. But the prospective American merely
raised an interrogative eyebrow. "I don't hear much good in any
direction," he murmured.
"Of course, I can understand that you have seen through Tom Colton, and
that he has appalled you as much as the fossils. He's in a hurry, and if
he isn't mighty careful the machine will throw him down. For all his
affected simplicity he's too fond of the limelight: loves to see his
name in print; and when he makes a donation to a charity or an
improvement scheme he uses up all the fireworks in the State."
"I was under the impression that he was in high favor with the district
Boss--"
"The district Boss is getting old, and Tom, one way or another, has
acquired a great influence over him; but I happen to know that he
doesn't stand any too well with the State Democratic Boss."
"If Tom were really earnest in his reforms, really had the interest of
the common people at heart--although I never saw common people so well
off in my life--but the point is that if Tom were really sincere he
might form an independent party."
"Well, he can. It won't do him any good. It wouldn't do even you any
good to work up a reform party, and your abilities are to his as a
thousand to one. In fact a man like yourself would have far less chance.
They would let Tom amuse himself, but they would find you really
dangerous, and the upshot would be that the two parties would unite and
crush you. Crush you flat. You might be a George Washington, Alexander
Hamilton, and Abraham Lincoln rolled into one, and you would emerge from
the swift and simultaneous impact of those two cast-iron walls flatter
than the sole of your boot. Even if you made a good running on a reform
wave, so much the worse. Reform waves merely serve the purpose of making
some poor devil conspicuous and recklessly optimistic, then subside and
leave him high and dry--at the mercy of the ever-recuperating machine.
It's enough to make a man wish he'd never been born. I've seen it more
than once. There's only one of two results. They are either so disgusted
with politics that they stay out of them for the rest of their lives, or
they pick themselves up and make a bolt for the machine they think most
likely to give them a career. Look at some of our most illustrious
incumbents. Great bluff on the outside--which the machine don't mind
one little bit--and the best sort of a party man inside; walking a
chalked line with no rebellious wings on his feet. Wings don't grow on
clay. But they are right, Mr. Gwynne, and not because they are wrong,
either. In this great country organization is absolutely essential, and
in all vast complicated organizations some chicanery will creep in. But
take them all in all, American politics are not half as bad as they are
painted, not half as bad as they are painted."
"Well, that is a relief. You certainly should know. But what of the
great corporations that rule this State--as well as the country? The
State Democratic or Republican Boss is president or treasurer of one of
them, is he not? I haven't taken the trouble to be very specific as yet.
My time is so far off. Of course I do not need to be told that
organizations, trusts, or whatever you like to call them, are
inevitable--because they are in the line of progress; and unabused, they
would be as much to the advancement of the individual as of the country.
But they have been abused, from all I can make out--quite shockingly. I
am taking the course on 'The Law of Corporations' at the University,
partly because I want to understand so vital a question as thoroughly as
possible--and partly--well--at least, I fancied I should--for a
time--for what money there might be in it--But really!"
"Oh, I don't say that some trusts are not reprehensible, and the sooner
they are exposed the better. But they are sensational cases. The
majority of the great complex aggregations of capital are monuments to
American genius and progress; I am sure that if you waste any time on
the yellow press you know how to discount it. Some of even the best of
the trusts may have swollen to a size that renders them practically
unmanageable, as well as injudiciously provocative of much jealousy and
unrest. But the principle is sound, as you have admitted, and the great
law of adjustment will correct all that is undesirable, and in a very
few years. Meanwhile, get rich yourself, Mr. Gwynne. I'm delighted to
learn that corporation law has appealed to you so strongly, for the
money is there. I'm glad I came. I'd like to do one of your blood a good
turn, to say nothing of yourself. Perfect yourself in corporation law
and Leslie says you accumulate more rapidly than any hundred ordinarily
well-equipped men one might name--and I can put you in the way of
clearing a hundred thousand a year."
"Could you?"
"Yes, sir. What the great corporations want, and want badly, even with
all the good legal talent they've got, is an attorney of extraordinary
abilities, and this you have. I understand that the legal luminary of
that reform set in San Francisco has offered to take you into his
office. That's about as great a compliment as even you could have, but
there's nothing in it. They're playing a losing game. They ought to win,
but they won't. The San Francisco Boss may be what we elegantly term a
shyster lawyer, but there never was as clever a one; and there's no
trick he doesn't know. He'll beat them at every turn. You'd only make
one more of that estimable Don Quixote band. Don't waste your youth.
Study corporation law with all your might and main, and I'll place you
where you'll make a big income from the start--and it'll grow bigger
every year. Then when your turn comes to vote and run for office--why,
the whole field will be open to you to pick and choose from.
Corporations are not ungrateful, and with a mighty one behind you, I
guess you wouldn't whistle for anything, long."
Gwynne regarded the thin sole of his house shoe with so rueful a
countenance that the judge laughed outright. "Have you really had
thoughts of working up a reform party?" he cried, the dancing imps in
his eyes almost escaping.
"Well, I may have dreamed a bit that way. You see, I come of a family of
reformers." And he gave the judge a rapid sketch of the part his English
forefathers had played in the great reform acts of their country. The
judge nodded sympathetically.
"Just so. I understand your point of view perfectly. Perfectly. But
those great movements in England are matched here by spasms only. This
country is too big and too heterogeneous. Don't set yourself between two
cast-iron walls, Mr. Gwynne, because when they do get a concerted move
on, they fly like hell. Join either of the parties, and you will find
not only that it is not half as bad as it is painted, but that it
accomplishes far more good than harm, many real reforms, that are
systematically ignored by the press."
"I thought you said that reforms were impossible in this country."
"Oh, bless my soul, no. That would mean that we were going straight to
the dogs. Reforms are going on every minute. The country is more
tolerable and civilized every decade. What I mean is that no reform can
be accomplished until the time is ripe for it. That is the reason why
our spasms amount to nothing. They are always premature. But if you
really want to do this country a service throw in your lot with the
regulars. You would always be an influence for good, and when you saw
the first opening for the correction of some crying abuse, you would
have powerful machinery at hand to work with. What you want to do, Mr.
Gwynne, is to become a powerful factor in the machine, not waste your
time on windmills."
"Which machine?" asked Gwynne, ingenuously. "I don't fancy I could ever
make up my mind. They seem precisely alike to me."
"Well," said the judge, slowly, although he brushed the tip of his nose
aside with more violence than usual. "I don't like advising,
particularly a young man of your distinguished abilities and
achievements. But I really think I am better able to advise you than
Leslie, and certainly every man of us should feel a sense of
responsibility to the old Otis--and Adams!--blood. I will say frankly
that in your place I should join the party that owns this State--and
shows no signs of letting go; in other words, the Republican. I can well
understand, that having been a Liberal--and to the extent of renouncing
your titles!--the Democratic would appeal to you. But don't waste your
time, Mr. Gwynne. You are thirty-two. You don't want to throw away the
next ten years on a losing game, and then, tired out, arrive nowhere.
You would fight so hard that all your energies would be second-rate by
that time. You want to begin right now and swim with the tide. Nurse
your great energies for the exactions of the victorious career. You'll
need them. And need them fresh."
"That sounds like good advice, but the whole political game appals me
when I consider that it will be six years before I can even run for the
House of Representatives--"
"True! True! Pity your parents didn't lose you. But everything turns
out for the best. Meanwhile, you can make name and fortune as a
corporation lawyer. And you can't have too much money in this world,
sir. You can't have too much money in this world."
It was on the tip of Gwynne's tongue to ask him bluntly what corporation
he had in mind, but not only did his already boiling humor recoil from
the indignity of a deliberately worded bribe, but he doubted if it would
be proffered so early in the game. He had a very clever man to deal
with; it was not likely he would make the mistake of a direct approach.
Gwynne flattered himself that he looked as ingenuous as Tom Colton, but
as he had seen through the complacent judge, it was possible that the
judge might entertain suspicions of a man with his reputation. He was
glad he had not spoken when his visitor rose abruptly to his feet.
"Bless my soul!" he exclaimed. "I shall miss my train if I don't hurry.
And heaven forbid that I spend another night in this mud-hole. My
address is on my card--when do you come down again?"
"There is a lecture at Berkeley on Wednesday--"
"Good! Now, you will dine with me next Wednesday night--and I hope on
many other nights. We must have several long talks--and all about your
future, young man. I am too old to talk about my own, but I remember
what I was at your age. Tactful, hey? But no," dropping his voice
gravely. "I want to help you. And I can. Whatever branch of the law you
specialize upon, you must leave Rosewater and come to San Francisco. I
can place you in an office--even should you decide upon general
practice--that will carry you swifter and further than our reform friend
can, because he is playing a losing game--a losing game, sir. But we'll
talk of all that later. I must hasten."
Gwynne escorted him to the head of the staircase, where he resisted an
impulse to kick him down, then, after a hasty glance into the
dictionary, encased himself in rubber and went up the hill to the home
of Judge Leslie. He was to dine there, and it was but a quarter-past
four, but what he had to say and ask would not keep for an hour and
three-quarters.
IV
On his way to the house he decided that he could not confide even to
Judge Leslie that he had been singled out as likely spoil by the
"grafters." No doubt that in a way it was a compliment to his abilities,
this early-conceived determination to whisk him out of the reform field
and engross his abilities, killing two birds with one stone. Probably he
would be approached in a similar manner very often, until he became a
definite quantity, and in time would grow accustomed to it; and callous.
But at present he was hot and sickened, the more so as he felt that he
had received a new impulse to believe in himself. These vast
corporations--the railroad, street railways, lighting, and telephone
companies, were the ones that dictated to San Francisco, and were
supposed to have debauched the Board of Supervisors, all of them small
laborers, elevated by the Boss to serve his ends--counted their capital
by the millions; in one case, at least, by the hundred million. They had
already bought much of the best talent in the country, and they wasted
no time on the second-rate. Gwynne could easily guess in whose teeming
and orderly brain the scheme to seduce and attach himself had been
shaped, and, with the American contempt for the perspicacity of any
foreigner, had selected this judge, with his breezy direct tactful
manner, as certain to edge the newcomer into the fold. To Gwynne the
only saving grace in the whole interview was that he had not been
tempted. Had he been he should have felt utterly demoralized, disposed
to take himself at the valuation of the business-like unsentimental
brains in power.
He found his judge awakening from a nap before his library fire and
dusting the crumbs from his beard.
"This is an unexpected pleasure," the old gentleman began, then stopped
short. "What is the matter?" he asked, anxiously. "Sit down."
"What does indigenate mean?"
"Why--a purely technical term for citizenship."
"A friend of yours called upon me to-day, on the strength of having
known the Otises, and remarked that it was a pity I was ever discharged
from my American indigenate."
"That you renounced American citizenship upon coming of age. It is a
pity."
"But I remember doing no such thing. I did no such thing. I certainly
should remember it."
"You mean that you made no formal act of renunciation of your American
birthright, obtained no certificate of British nationality?"
"I did nothing of the sort. It is possible that my father did it for
me--"
"Your father could do nothing." Judge Leslie was staring at him.
Suddenly he laughed. "You are British! I am almost inclined to believe
you hopeless. How did I get the impression that you had formally
expatriated yourself? From Isabel, who, no doubt, woman-like, jumped at
the conclusion--having known you when you were more British still. And
you never brought up the subject--"
"Don't regard me as wholly an idiot. I read the Constitution of the
United States half a dozen times while making up my mind to come here,
and it is not likely that Article XIV.--'All persons born in the United
States, etc., are citizens of the United States, etc.'--escaped me. I
consulted my solicitor, and he read me from some chapter on
Expatriation, as plainly as may be, that the forfeiture of native
citizenship was accomplished not only by a formal act of renunciation,
but followed a long severance with the relations of the government under
which the person was born, or--acceptance of service under a foreign
government. Considering that I had left the United States when I was
five weeks old, and had fought and bled for Great Britain, besides
serving in her Parliament--where, of course I took my oath of
allegiance--and that I had been an Englishman to every possible intent
and purpose, even wearing my titles for some weeks, it seemed to me--and
to my solicitor--that I would have rather a hard time obtaining an
American passport."
The judge nodded. "Quite right. All the same, I can't understand why
your father did not bring the question up when you attained your
majority, or why you, an ardent Britisher, did not think of it
yourself."
"You would understand if you lived among us for a few years. In the
first place my being born in the United States was such a mere incident
that it was rarely mentioned, and then in the most casual manner. I
don't suppose my mother ever volunteered a piece of information in her
life, and my father rarely gave a thought to any matter but sport. My
grandfather probably disliked the idea--he detested America--at all
events he never alluded to the subject, and was far too British to dream
that the child of British parents could be other than British were he
born in heaven itself. I don't think the matter had entered my mind for
ten years, when the subject came up the first night of Isabel's visit to
Capheaton--and I stupefied every one by announcing that I had been born
in America; but otherwise it made no impression upon them. It is quite
possible that had there been any prospect of my becoming the heir, when
I reached my majority, some member of the family would have recalled the
fact of my birthplace; but Zeal was well then, his wife was bearing
children rapidly, there was every reason to suppose she would have half
a dozen boys. Do you mean to say that I have never been an Englishman?"
"Oh, you are all right as far as the British law goes. And you were a
good and bona fide British subject for thirty years. Don't feel any
discouragement on that score."
"Then am I an American citizen? Is there to be no long period of waiting
and of comparative inaction?"
"I am not so sure. There is no provision of the Constitution so open to
various construction. And none has been so variously construed. I could
cite a hundred instances--that is, I could read them to you to-morrow.
But I recall two, and they are fair samples. One child, born in the
United States, of French parents, returned to France, and after serving
his term in the French army wished to become an American citizen, and
obtained his passport without difficulty. A full-grown American citizen
went to Mexico and fought for Maximilian, and lost not only his own
citizenship, but that of his children, who had been born in the United
States. There you are, and there you are again, as dear old Dickens
would say. But I must think a minute." He transferred his gaze to the
coals, and was silent for a few moments.
"There is a pretty strong case on both sides," he resumed, in a musing
tone. "You left this country when an infant, you practically forgot it,
you entered the service of Great Britain heart and soul, and achieved
high distinction. You inherited a title and wore it as a matter of
course. For thirty years you never set foot on American soil, nor at any
time demanded the protection of the United States, as you might easily
have done in your foreign wanderings. There is hardly a doubt that if
England had gone to war with us at any time during the last ten years
and needed your services you would have given them. However, that
contingency did not arise, so let it pass. But with an unsympathetic
State Department and an active enemy or two, all the other points cited
would make up as clear a case of voluntary expatriation as any on
record. But there is a pretty good balance on the other side. You were
born in the United States, you did not renounce at any time your
allegiance, you have the blood of two Presidents in your veins,
and--here is the important point: you have been one of the heaviest
tax-payers in California for thirty-two years. Now, as I have intimated,
these expatriation cases have all been decided on their individual
merits. I should advise you to go at once to Washington, and enlist the
influence of the British Ambassador to get you personal and private
interviews with the powers that be. Then plead your own case. One of two
things will happen. Either there will be much hemming and hawing, and
much virtuous and judicial weighing of your peculiar case, article by
article, or the President himself will decide one way or another
off-hand--he being what he is. For that reason I think it would be well
to approach him by degrees, let him digest it a bit. He may be delighted
that you have thrown over your titles and your brilliant and promising
career to become an American citizen, invite you to take the oath of
allegiance forthwith, and order the State Department to issue a
passport. On the other hand he may fly off at a tangent and be
righteously indignant that a man with the blood of the Otises and
Adamses in him, who had the good-fortune to be born on American soil,
hesitated a moment after reaching man's estate--more particularly that
he never gave the matter a thought. Nothing could be more problematical.
I wouldn't bet a twenty-dollar gold piece either way. But, I repeat, you
must go yourself. Otherwise the affair would hang on interminably.
Moreover, you must tell no one the object of your journey. Tom Colton
would pull every wire within his reach, and he is no mean rival, to
postpone your admission to citizenship, and so, I fancy, would others."
He shot a keen glance at Gwynne. "I think I know who your visitor was,
to-day, and what he came to Rosewater for. That speech of yours, and its
effect on the crowd, never escaped the attention of the party bosses,
and of course you are a marked man in this small community--to say
nothing of your intimacy with the reform set in town. The judge, who
started somewhere in this neighborhood as a poor boy, rose from various
minor situations to be the secretary of Colton's bank, saved his dimes
and studied law. So far so good; the average self-made American. The law
leads a good many of us into politics and it wasn't long leading him. He
was an invaluable party man, with that bluff honest exterior, that
superabundant magnetism, and that twinkling eye. The world always
associates a fine upright nature with a twinkling eye. I have one myself
and I believe that is the main reason why I have always been afraid to
do wrong. Well, our friend got the bench when he wanted it, and he has
been a mighty good friend to the corporation that put him there. And it
has done well by him. He owns a fine house in San Francisco, entertains,
goes into the best society, has visited Europe several times, and,
although he is now rising sixty, continues to fool all but a few. He
might climb higher and become a United States Senator, but the
corporation finds him too useful here. He rather resents that, but they
make the sacrifice worth his while. I can well conceive they have
spotted you, and you may be sure there is little about you they don't
know. Of course they have made up their minds you are erratic, and have
not the least doubt that they can manipulate that loose screw. They have
bought thousands, these ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----
---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- (it was not often the judge swore, but
when he did he took some time). Grafters, that are debauching the
country and will soon make it impossible for an honest man to live; and
although they will no doubt have the grace to approach you with less
brutal directness than commonly, I knew that was what they were after
the moment that old rascal began to talk to me this morning. He never
fooled me. Well, we'll fool him. You go to Washington and get your
passport, and if you can't hasten matters don't let an outsider know
what you are after. Plunge into society and let them think you need a
change from California. Of course you will give your real name. Cat's
out, anyhow. Perhaps they will think you are on your way home to
England. Flirt with the girls and be a frivolous young blood. The judge
asked you to dinner, I suppose? I thought so. You would meet more than
the judge; if not the first time, then the second and third. Write him a
note, telling him you are obliged to go south to take a look at your
mother's ranch. Then obey a sudden impulse and go East by the southern
route. In Washington be seen as much with your ambassador as possible. I
don't think these rascals will suspect, for they take for granted that
you were duly 'discharged from your American indigenate'--I can hear
him! If they did there would be the devil to pay, but I don't think they
will. However, don't waste any time."
Gwynne was staring at the fire, his inner being chaos, but he replied in
a moment that he would start for Washington on the following day.
V
There had been no stormier night during the winter. Isabel's old house
creaked and rattled and groaned like a ship in a whole gale, and the
wind sent great waves of rain along the veranda. A northern window had
been blown in and hastily patched. Although but nine o'clock the sky was
as black as midnight. For several days there had been merely a quiet
steady fall, but during the afternoon the northern rain belt had sent
down another great storm and it had been rising ever since.
Isabel, unable to go out, had washed her hair, and was still sitting on
the hearth-rug, drying it, when she heard a shout outside, then the slam
of a door at the back of the house, and voices in the kitchen. She was
too warm and comfortable to be interested. If it were a tramp he was
