" I am glad you don't think it was funny. Chance- 
ford did. But I am not sure that I understand why 
you don't." 
" Probably because it is your baby. Do you think 
I should mangle it if I held it a minute ? I kept 
one a whole afternoon once, on a parish call, to let 
a poor woman go out and get the air. It cried two 
hours." 
Cara laid the child in her cousin's arms, and he 
returned the little creature, as he had held it, 
without remark. Across his face there passed a sensi- 
tive expression, half feeling, half light. 
" You are well ? " he asked abruptly. " That is, 
I mean, you are gaining all the time? " 
" I am perfectly well ! " cried Cara, girlishly. " I 
am to be let out on the piazza next week — with 
the baby. And then I am to go to drive — with the 
baby. But the only thing is, Clyde can't go. We 
have to tie Clyde up. Did you notice ? He is 
jealous. He is frightfully jealous. So Chanceford 
chained him. He snapped at the baby; I mean, 
 
Clyde did. That is, he pretended to. I am sure 
Clyde couldn't really. He cares too much ; for 
me, I mean." 
" It does not occur to you that there might be a 
relation between caring and snapping," interrupted 
the preacher. " Do you still keep to the name you 
chose for the child ? " 
" It was my husband's mother's name, you know. 
It seems to me a beautiful name. But we shall 
always call him Joy," said Cara. She repeated the 
word, fondling the baby with the two liquid vowels.
" Joy ! Joy ! " she cried. There was that in her 
rapture which dazzled Sterling Hart, and his own 
eyes filled, as if they had been struck sun blind or 
snow blind. Cara did not look at him. She kissed 
the child. Under the tender ardency of her caress 
the baby cried, and when she began to remember 
that the world contained any other form of human 
life except that which she had contributed to it, 
Mr. Hart had left the room. 
Cara thought that he might have supposed it 
was pins. It did not occur to the Madonna of the 
Roses that the surging of her own happiness could 
have risen to the tide mark of emotion in her cousin's 
feeling. She listened dreamily to his retreating 
footsteps, and turned her cheek upon the baby's 
head. 
" Miss Black ? " she called. " Before my husband 
 
comes up, will you get me some fresh lace? This 
one at my throat is crumpled. And Miss Black? 
You haven't heard him come in, have you ? " 
The preacher went down the stairs quietly. His 
high head was bowed. Was he musing or praying? 
It would not have been easy for him to say. He 
was conscious of breathing rarefied air. It seemed 
to him that he had found a wayside altar on some 
mountain of snow. His mood was remote and 
elate. 
It was with a sense of disturbance to it that he 
found himself repeating : — 
" The Children of Alice call Bartrum Father." 
He came down and into the hall with grave, de- 
vout eyes, and that tender curve upon his Roman 
lips which those who knew him loved and watched 
for. He was about to open the front door when he 
remembered that he had come in by the side 
piazza and left something in the dining-room — 
a book or a cane, in his abstraction he could not 
recall what — and turned in at the open door to 
capture the truant impression. As he did so, he 
was aware of the odor of cigarettes, and the 
subsidence of subdued voices. 
The room was occupied. Mrs. Douce Marriot 
sat in one of the tall carved chairs, languidly 
puffing at an Egyptian sultana; her free hand played 
 
with a long, slender glass, half full, upon the table; 
she assumed a graceful pose ; her fading face, still to 
be called handsome, had an attractive vivacity ; her 
tailor-made gown of bright dark cloth expressed 
her celebrated figure. Dr. Dane stood near her at 
the sideboard. The glass in his hand was emptied. 
His color was slightly raised, and his laughing eyes 
amused themselves. 
The two turned as the preacher entered. He 
stood for a moment and regarded them. He did 
not smile. But Mrs. Marriot scintillated: — 
"Oh, Mr. Hart! Such a pleasure!" She rose 
and made as if to extend her hand, but changed 
her mind. The preacher returned her bow coldly. 
Douce Marriot did not commit the mistake of of- 
fering explanations. She talked about the baby, 
whom, she observed, she had hoped to be allowed 
to see. 
"At least, incidentally," added Mrs. Marriot. 
"And now, Dr. Dane, about that prescription. 
Can I have it filled here, or must one send to 
town? I have such a picturesque neuralgia! " she 
suggested. " It is worthy of framing. I have to tie 
my face up in Portuguese silk shawls." 
" I am sorry," said Sterling Hart, speaking rap- 
idly and mechanically, " to have intruded upon a 
professional call." 
Mrs. Marriot felt that the preacher studiously 
 
avoided an emphasis upon the adjective. She 
followed his retreating figure with a shrewd, brilliant 
glance. Dane put down the decanter, which he 
had lifted. 
" Howdid you find her?" he asked lightly. " And 
the boy? How do you like the fellow ? " 
Mr. Hart did not reply. There was that in the 
young father's tone which was offensive to him ; it 
had the modern irreverence, the spirit of the age, 
which is capable of saying : The mother and the 
kid. The preacher took his book — it was "The 
Essays of Elia" — went out to the side piazza, and 
closed the door between himself and the two. 
They crossed his imagination like bacchantes 
on a piece of pottery. As he stepped out upon 
the lawn he found himself repeating dully: — 
" The Children of Alice call Bartrum Father? 
The descending sun flung out one of the ban- 
ners of advancing autumn upon a windy sky, whose 
clouds marched and countermarched with the dis- 
order of retreat. Upon the sea the color was wild 
and capricious, escaping from pure yellow to blood 
red, and before the eye had named the tint, drop- 
ping to cold purples and surly bronze. As the 
preacher trod the worn grass path which led from 
the lawn to the bridge, a gleam like an arrow of 
vengeance shot across the horizon, and made, to 
 
his fancy, as if it tried to enter the ravine. The 
tide was high and heavy ; it had its savage tone ; 
this deepened as he approached the gorge, and 
raged so that it quite muffled to his ear the sound 
of human voices rising from a source unseen, and 
not audient to him until he had pushed past a 
tangle of overreaching shrubbery, and come, in 
fact, almost to the bridge. This was wet with spray, 
and trembled stolidly, as iron does under shock, 
with the reverberation of the surf below. As he 
hurried on, uncomfortably conscious of inexpli- 
cable tragedy, the cries increased and became 
articulate. 
" Blank you ! you ! you to ! I 'll 
fling your carcass to blank and good 
riddance to it ! " 
Then came the answering yell : — 
" Help ! Help ! Help ! Murder ! Help ! Dr. Dane ! 
Mr. Hart ! Somebody ! Anybody ! Murder ! Mur- 
der!" 
" you to ! you to ! " 
Between gasps of rage the first voice returned 
this monotonous anathema with the persistence 
of a savage whose imagination is incapable of 
varying his profanity. 
Crouched beneath a group of lindens, whose 
low-lying, well-trimmed branches, sweeping to the 
ground, almost covered him from sight, knelt a 
 
white-haired, hard-faced man. This was Solomon 
Hops. He had no coat; his woolen shirt-sleeves 
were rolled to his shoulders; his sturdy arms 
gripped at something which he was holding over 
the edge of the chasm. His face, purple with pas- 
sion, glared down. 
Mr. Hart had pushed, running through the lin- 
dens ; but when he saw what he saw, he stopped and 
trod quietly. For he perceived how tremendous 
would be the consequences of any mistake on his 
part. He dared not excite the old man by startling 
him, but not to interfere was out of the question. 
Writhing in the clutches of Solomon Hops — 
oaths above, and death below — a human figure 
hung partly supported by a strip of shelving rock 
a few feet below the edge of the ravine. This shot 
one hundred feet down to the cauldron that boils 
through the deepest and angriest fissure in the 
granite of the East Shore. 
Although the twilight was closing fast, it was 
not so dark but that Sterling Hart was able to 
recognize the figure of the doomed and shrieking 
man. It was Timothy George, the caterer. His 
cry came up, raucous and wheezing, like the cry 
of a dying animal : — 
"Mr. Hart! Mr. Hart! Save me! He's a ma- 
niac ! He 's a murderer ! Oh, save me ! " 
"And he's a brute beast!" raved Solomon 
 
Hops. " I histed him over, and I 'll heave him 
down. Lemme alone, Mr. Hart. This ain't your 
business. It ain't anybody's but mine and his'n. 
Lemme be, sir. I don't care if I do swing for it. 
I am goin' to send this fellow to , so help me 
God!'' 
" Oh, come, come, Mr. Hops ! " said Hart, 
quietly. He spoke with what might be called the 
peremptory tact of one who is accustomed to con- 
trolling masses of men. " Whatever wrong he has 
done you I 'll see righted. But if you don't look 
out you 'll let him fall. It isn't possible that you 
really mean to commit murder, of course. You 
have given him a good round scare — why not let 
him go at that ? Here, I 'll help you. Firmly now, 
gentle there ! It 's going to be harder getting him 
up than it was letting him down. Perhaps it is 
just as well I happened along." 
While he was speaking the preacher had thrown 
himself flat upon the brow of the rocks, and thrust 
down his mighty arms. 
" Blank him to ! " repeated Solomon Hops. 
" Lemme heave him over. He ain't fit to live. He 
ain't fit to trod the solid yearth again." 
" If that is the case," said the preacher, 
soothingly, " I 'll back you up, Mr. Hops, and you shall 
settle your quarrel, man to man. You shan't settle 
it this way. Ease off a little till I get a firm grip. 
 
No? You won't? Stand back, there then!" cried 
Sterling Hart, commandingly. " Back, I say. I 
won't have you commit murder — not before my 
eyes. Back there ! I 'll get him up alone." 
This, with the giant in his arms, the clergyman 
did. The scramble, the struggle, the shouts, the 
cries, the tremendous strain of muscle answering 
to muscle — these occupied one of the immeasurable
atoms of time in which lives or souls may be 
saved or lost. A wave from the churning chasm 
clambered a hundred feet after the cowering 
creature who had escaped it, and soaked him as he 
crawled from the edge of the gulf, and fell
sprawling. The fellow's face was scarcely whiter than 
that of the preacher, who stood towering above 
him. Solomon Hops made a gurgling noise in his 
throat. 
" There 's other ways. I kicked him offen my 
doorsteps, and he run. I chased him and then I 
done it. But there 's other ways." 
" If you 'll tell me what the trouble is," began 
Sterling Hart, with authoritative persuasion. " But 
you see you haven't." 
He still stood between the two men, whom, 
unnoticed by them, he was gradually drawing from 
the edge of the ravine. It was darkening so fast 
that the three figures melted into the dusk, and 
looked like trees or shrubbery fantastically cut in 
 
the human form and endowed with human pas- 
sions, and the voices that expressed them. 
" T ain't fit to tell," gasped Solomon Hops. " It 
has to do with a lady. It has to do with a girl — 
mine — my girl." 
" Ah ! " said Hart, in a tone of stinging con- 
tempt. " It is that, is it ? " 
The scorn in his voice was like the lash of a 
whip in the hands of an archangel. In all his life 
Timothy George had never known what it was to 
feel such shame before. He cowered visibly. 
" I 'd been drinking," he muttered. 
" He insulted her," panted the old man. " My 
girl ! He took her to Sandasket on that there 
blank trolley line. If her mother 'd been a-livin' — 
but livin' mothers let 'em do it, and there you are. 
She didn't take any money with her — the way 
girls do when they go off with a fellow. She 
trusted him. She was keepin' company with him. 
She said, ' Father, we 'll take the nine o'clock car.' 
It come to be ten o'clock ; it come to be eleven, 
and got to be midnight. Mr. Hart, I set watchin' 
for her all that night. 'Long about five o'clock, 
when the birds were singin', she come crawlin' 
home. ' He let the last train go,' she said. ' Father, 
he insulted me, and he 's the only man that ever 
did.' (Blank you to you !) She darsn't 
go to the police because of the talk and the news- 
 
papers. She — she — she — I don't know how she 
done it, for she don't tell. Maybe she'd 'a' told 
her mother more. But Nannie got away and run. 
She got out into the road and she began to run. 
Nannie she run till she dropped, and fell, and up 
and run again — in the country, in the dark, at 
one o'clock at night — and so she struck the 
trolley line and walked it — through the woods and 
cross the meaders — thirteen miles the whole way 
home, and tumbled down come mornin' on her 
father's steps. . . . My girl ! Her that everybody 
set so much by — so pretty, and gradooated at the 
high school — and dressed so delicate, and has 
such ways — like a lady — and could of had her 
pick of anybody — not a fellow in Balsam Groves 
but would of asked her if he darst — and never a 
word ag'in her all her days more'n ag'in the Virgin 
Mary settin' on a star in heaven. . . . Nannie ! 
And now it 's all over this town — " 
The preacher's clutch tightened on the coat col- 
lar of the collapsing figure that he held at arm's 
length from the reach of the old man's fury. As 
if he had been a rat, and the distinguished divine 
a terrier, Timothy George felt himself shaken to 
and fro in two tremendous hands. 
" What have you got to say for yourself ? " 
thundered Mr. Hart. 
" I 'd been drinking," pleaded Timothy. " If 
 
there 's any talk, I 'll marry her ; I 'm ready any 
time." 
" You ! " A voice like the voice of a formless 
spirit vibrated out of the dark. " Marry you ? If 
you were the only man left upon this earth, — and 
the whole world were packed with women talking 
about me, — I 'd be cut in inch pieces by their 
scissors, — I 'd be stung to death by their tongues ; 
before I 'd marry — you." 
Pale and panting, for she had run all the way 
from home, Nannie, in her gray skirt and white 
blouse, stood swaying in the wind that blew rudely 
from the sea. 
" Send him away, Mr. Hart," she said more 
quietly. " That 's all I want. Don't let Father do 
him a harm — the scandal — men don't think. It 
would make everything worse. He hasn't hurt 
me . . . only my reputation," added Nannie, 
drearily. " I guess I can stand that somehow. There 's 
only one thing I can't stand, — that is his ever 
setting his foot in Balsam from this day on forever." 
" If he ever does," interpolated Solomon Hops, 
grimly, " I 'll kill him on the spot, and all the
parsons this side of hell shan't stop me, either." 
"You're hard on me, Nan," pleaded Timothy 
George. " Rum done it." 
With one scornful white finger Nannie pointed 
into the night. She made no other answer. 
 
Timothy hung his head and cowered away. His 
drenched clothes, soaked from the surf in the 
chasm, spattered her as he passed her by. He 
thought how she used to worry over him if he wet 
his feet on a stormy night. Nannie had been very 
fond of him. He experienced the surprise of a low 
man before the incredible scorn of a high-hearted 
woman whom he has alienated by one fatal act 
of brutality. He turned like the cur he was, and 
crawled. The girl put her hand through her fa- 
ther's shaking arm and led the old man away, and 
no member of this singular group spoke an articu- 
late word. 
Solomon Hops might have been heard mutter- 
ing: " him to " But his utterance was 
thick ; he was drunk with anger, and staggered. 
When Timothy George had slunk over the lawn 
by a cross-cut to the street, he felt a hand upon 
his shoulder. The preacher, who remembered that 
the Founder of his faith lived and died for the 
contemptible as well as for the respectable, stood 
high above the cringing figure. 
" Nevertheless, Timothy," he said, " it is not 
necessary to go to perdition for this." 
" Ain't it ? " asked Timothy. " What place else 
is there ? " 
He stared stupidly at the minister, and turned 
on his heel. 
 
" Rum done it," he repeated monotonously. 
" Rum done it." 
Sterling Hart returned slowly to the chasm, and 
was about to cross the bridge to his own house, 
when Clyde dashed out of the shrubbery, barking 
with the ferocity of a collie who has arrived upon 
the scene of excitement too late to be of use. 
" I had to unchain him," observed Dane, 
stepping up rapidly. " He would have broken his neck. 
What was all that noise — the cries, and the rest 
of it ? It sounded like a fight. Were you in at the 
death?" 
" Pretty nearly," replied Hart. He related the 
circumstances in a few words. " Was your wife 
disturbed by it ? " he asked anxiously. " Did she 
know anything about it ? I was afraid she might." 
" I don't think so," returned Dane. " Excepting 
Clyde, of course ; she must have heard Clyde — 
he shrieked so. I have just been down the avenue 
and back. Mrs. Marriot came without her horses, 
and she was afraid — you know how dark our 
avenue is. I took her to the end of it." 
" Then you haven't seen Cousin Carolyn yet ? 
You are not sure that she knows nothing of this 
unfortunate disturbance ? " 
" Why, no," said Dane. " I haven't seen her 
yet. I am going to her now, at once." 
 
" If she should inquire," suggested Mr. Hart, 
hesitating a little, " perhaps you will be so good 
as to tell her to feel no concern about the matter. 
It is all in my hands. I will attend to it. She is 
rather fond of the girl, and this will distress her. 
We must keep it from her for the present." 
" Oh, certainly," said Dane in his light way. 
" It was a confounded scene. I didn't know the 
fellow drank to that depth." 
The two men parted without further conversation. 
The preacher passed over the gulf that sepa- 
rated his home from the other. The iron bridge 
vibrated gently beneath his slow, restrained tread. 
He still walked as if he were afraid of disturbing 
somebody. His head fell forward on his breast. 
He was sick at soul, nauseated with life, and with 
that which is called love. 
CHAPTER IX 
The collie Clyde ran the length of the avenue, 
nose down and sniffing anxiously. At the road 
he planted his feet, and stood, like the iron dogs 
that are set to guard old-fashioned estates. One 
ear pointed upwards and forwards ; but the other 
lopped down — as a collie's ears will disagree when 
he is perplexed. The dog's eyes were heavy with 
speculation ; he experienced unshared and unshar- 
able responsibilities. 
The street was almost deserted, and cracked 
with frost, for it was late November, and the morn- 
ing bleakly cold. Far in the crisp distance, driven 
rapidly through the village, a solitary carriage 
whirled; it was drawn by a cream-white horse, 
and without coachman or footman ; its single oc- 
cupant a gentleman who looked neither to right 
nor left, but rode abstractedly. The collie had not 
arrived in season to observe whether the man, 
who had driven from the direction of the city, 
had glanced at the Sterling place as he went by. 
Charged by some powerful sense of canine duty, 
the dog began to examine the hoof marks and 
wheel marks of this team; nosing them thoroughly, 
and scenting the air through which they 
had passed. After a few moments' hesitation he 
began to follow them, slowly at first; then he 
broke into a long, loping gait, which increased as 
he reached the village square. One or two trades- 
men who met the dog spoke to him : — 
" Clyde ? Why, Clyde ! You 're going the wrong 
way." 
A grocer called out : " Better go home, Clyde. 
Your folks will be thinking you 're lost." 
Disdainfully disregarding these impertinences, 
the collie ran on. The distance between himself 
and the open phaeton with the solitary occupant 
had lessened perceptibly ; he found it a mortification 
to admit that he could not overtake the car- 
riage, and cantered after it with an angry anxiety. 
Beyond the chocolate eclair house of Solomon 
Hops, a road turned abruptly from the highway, 
skirting along the cranberry swamps of Balsam 
Groves, and slightly ascending as it made for the 
great woods, known by the name of the county — 
the densest, the largest, in the eastern part of the 
state. Towards this forest the phaeton, slowing a 
little as the road climbed, began to move steadily. 
The dog, but not rapidly, gained upon it. The 
road had now narrowed to a cart path, and branches 
of oaks and chestnuts, pines and maple, closed 
about the head of the rider. A wild-apple bough 
 
swept so low as almost to hit him in the face, 
and he pushed it aside with all his strength. He 
did not appear to have very much, and grappled 
with the stout branches weakly. In doing so he 
turned his head, and looked back down the rough 
way on which he had begun to climb the hill 
known by the country folk as Balsam Mountain. 
But the apple bough rebounded behind him and 
screened from his sight the view of a pursuing 
dog — a breathing, moving spot of black and tan, 
whose pantings, though they could neither be 
seen nor heard, were somehow to be inferred and 
felt. 
The dog, however, in that critical instant, and 
at that baffled distance, had seen the man. It has 
been said that dogs, in all probability, regard the 
master of the household as the chief of the tribe. 
Clyde, who had never taken the oath of allegiance 
to Dr. Dane, had recognized the countenance of 
his chief, — the white and rigid features of Mr. 
Sterling. He gave a yelp of joy, and cantered up 
the climbing road. But the collie was not a young 
dog, and had run far and fast. It was a personal 
humiliation to admit that he could not take Bal- 
sam Mountain on the gallop, but this fact was 
forced upon him ; he lost ground, fell back, and 
indeed found himself obliged to stop for his breath, 
drop flat on his side, and rest. By this delay he 
 
lost time, and the chief of the tribe disappeared 
from his strained and anxious sight. 
Rollinstall Sterling drove on slowly. Now and 
then he spoke to his horse — very kindly ; he was 
a man who loved horses — and encouraged it up 
the rough road. After a time he reached, as he 
had known that he should, the spot where wheels 
could climb no farther ; he got out of the phaeton 
with the slow motions of an elderly man to whom 
life and limb have become objects of caution, and 
fastened the horse by a rope halter to a tree. After 
some reflection he thought better of this, and re- 
moved the tie rein, turning the team so that it 
faced towards the bottom of the hill, and standing 
it carefully on such level as he could find. The 
woods were sprinkled with small stones, mouthf uls 
bitten from the granite of the Cape, and he stooped 
and placed some of these under the wheels, so that 
the weight should not come too heavily upon the 
animal in its constrained position. 
The spot where the team had halted was a clear- 
ing, and gave an open outlook upon the meadows. 
In fact, an important object in the clearing could 
be seen from certain points below, and Solomon 
Hops, conducting a surveyor over his most hope- 
ful cranberry lot, made a telescope of his hands, 
peered through it, and said : — 
:  
" Looks like Death 'n' the pale horse up yonder." 
When Mr. Sterling had removed the tie rein, 
he replaced it by a bit of light cord or stout string. 
The pale horse was a cribber, and if occasion called, 
could gnaw the string, and would. The master 
patted the horse, and turned away up the 
" Mountain." When he had climbed a short distance, he 
returned and blanketed the animal tenderly. 
The man climbed on: quickly at first, then he 
began to lag ; his breath shortened, and he sat 
down. He was in the heart of the forest and on 
the height of the hill. The woods closed in around 
him solemnly. Their dampness struck to his aging 
blood, and he felt very cold. He shivered, and 
buttoned his overcoat to his thin throat. Suddenly 
it occurred to him that before very long he should 
be colder. 
His hand crept to his breast pocket, and with- 
drew a small object, which he laid upon the moss 
at his side. It was red-cup moss, and he noticed 
the tiny tapers of color that burned and broke 
where they were crushed. An acorn fell from some- 
where with a soft thud, and a squirrel scampered 
after it. The squirrel stopped, and regarded the 
man, who saw that the little creature's heart beat 
wildly. 
"A bird shot would stop it," he thought. "How 
little it takes ! " 
 
After a while he said aloud : — 
"What's the use of waiting?" His shaking 
hand stole to the thing upon the red-cupped moss, 
picked it up, and laid it down. 
" I don't know that there 's any hurry about it, 
after all," he thought. He took out his pencil and 
pocket memorandum, and began to cast up some 
accounts. This absorbed him for a time — probably
a very short one, but he could not have told. 
He put the book and pencil down presently, and 
sat staring at the underbrush. The forest was heavy 
at that point, and pressed upon him, as if it had 
pursued and surrounded him. He could not see 
the sky, and on reflection was glad that he could 
not. The muscles of his frozen face stiffened ; he 
looked straight before him ; a little snake crawled 
from somewhere and slid away, watching him with 
cold and narrow eyes; he did not observe the 
snake. His head fell upon his breast, and then into 
his hands. 
No one could hear — oh, no one could hear him, 
and the man began to sob. As he sobbed, he 
groaned. All the signs of suffering that civilization 
teaches us to repress fought their way to the 
surface of him, in the savage solitude of uncompanioned 
Nature. Terrible sounds, such as the 
deepest human tenderness never witnesses from 
any man of us — sounds which friend nor wife 
 
nor daughter may ever hear — confided themselves 
to the silence of the forest. This escape of emo- 
tion is the refuge of those whose life is broken at 
the roots; it is the last right of the despairing, 
as it was the first instinct of the wailing infant. 
Rollinstall Sterling wept with the freedom 'of a 
child and the anguish of a disgraced and aging 
man. 
He was so absorbed in his misery that he had 
not heard the crackling of the moss and twigs ; 
and when a soft, wet tongue lapped his hand, he 
started with superstitious terror, cried out, and 
sprang. 
The motion knocked the pistol, which lay at full 
cock ; it went off, and the woods rang and 
reverberated with the shot. 
At the report the collie leaped in fright, and 
cuddled against his master like a lap dog. Mr. 
Sterling stroked him kindly. 
" Never mind it, Clyde ! There are four car- 
tridges left. But I won't bother you with them. 
You can go back the way you came. Clyde ! Go 
home, sir. I do not want you, Clyde. Go home, I 
say." 
The collie wagged his tail pleasantly, but did 
not move. 
" Go home ! " repeated the master. " Go home to 
your mistress. There is nothing that you can do 
 
for me; kisses won't help me now. I never was 
very fond of dogs' kisses. You know she taught 
you not to bother me. Go home, Clyde!" 
Clyde had always obeyed Mr. Sterling, of whom 
he stood in considerable awe; but this time he 
refused outright. Into the animal's beautiful eyes 
a strange entreaty leaped. He put his paws about 
the old man's neck, and delicately began to lap his 
ear. 
Mr. Sterling stared at him, trembling. He 
thought : " I never can do it with the dog looking 
on. I must get rid of him somehow." He gave the 
creature a rough push. Clyde answered it with 
grieved reproach, but he did not stir. After a few 
moments he crawled up, and with the timidity of 
a rebuffed collie licked the master's hand again. 
Neither the man nor the dog spoke, and this pan- 
tomime of advance and repulse continued for some 
moments. Then Mr. Sterling, with his natural 
stateliness, began to argue with the dog. 
" You don't understand, sir. You have mistaken 
my meaning, sir. I don't want you, Clyde. Go 
home, I say!" 
The dog crept up and laid his head in the collie 
fashion, in perfect silence, on his master's knee. 
He had the appearance of having come there to 
stay. He was a heavy dog, and it was difficult to 
move him. After some thought Mr. Sterling tore 
 
a leaf from his note-book, hunted for his pencil, 
and wrote : — 
To the Reverend Sterling Hart, 
Balsam Groves. 
Dear Sterling, — I sent you a letter from town 
by private hand. My man will bring it out, but it 
would not reach you till noon. Clyde has followed 
me, God knows how. I cannot get rid of him any 
other way, and I am sending him down with this. 
In view of possible accident to the note, I cannot 
explain myself further. You will find my white 
mare in the clearing halfway up Balsam Moun- 
tain. Please see that she is given a good supper, 
if you find her before dark. My letter will give you 
full particulars. 
Yours, 
Rollinstall Sterling. 
He took an old envelope from his pocket, read- 
dressed and resealed it, and showed it to the dog, 
who sniffed at it slowly and intelligently. 
"Clyde, go home. Go home with this letter. 
Don't take it to your mistress. Take it to Mr. 
Hart. Understand, Clyde ! Not mistress, but Mr. 
Hart. Don't stay here any longer. Don't stop with 
the horse. The horse doesn't want you. I don't 
want you, sir. Go home, sir. Carry the letter home 
— to Mr. Hart." 
 
These words, articulated very slowly and dis- 
tinctly, were repeated two or three times. The 
collie listened to them, at first with one ear up and 
the other down ; but presently both shot upwards 
and forwards, and comprehension fell on every 
feature of his alert and handsome face. He seized 
the note and trotted off. After he had gone a few 
steps he returned, dropped the paper, and humbly 
kissed the old man's trembling hands. Then his 
jaws closed upon the letter with a snap that the 
most celebrated fighters in Balsam could not have 
loosened, and he shot down the cart path at a gait 
which rapidly took him out of Mr. Sterling's sadly 
pursuing eyes. The white mare, tethered by her 
piece of twine, whinnied as the collie cantered by. 
But Clyde, though he recognized the salutation 
by a civil swish of the tail, did not stop. He took 
the descent of Balsam Mountain mightily, with 
tremendous strides and leaps. Two or three times, 
to get his breath, he had to drop the letter, but 
he put a paw upon it, bit it up again, and bounded 
on. 
In the village no one happened to observe him, 
and the collie made his way through the square, 
undisturbed and undiverted from his purpose. 
This took him doggedly homewards. At the ave- 
nue of the Sterling place he seemed confused, 
paused, and looked about with a troubled air. 
 
After some hesitation, he walked up the avenue 
perplexedly, glancing towards the house where 
the dearest mistress in the world with the newest 
and the most objectionable baby was sitting on 
