
'Very much. Her father was my father's best friend.'

'I don't believe in atavism,' observed the American, 'but that's
neither here nor there. You know what you wrote me. Do you believe
she'll be miserable with Logotheti or not?'

'I think she will,' Lady Maud answered truthfully. 'But I may be
wrong.'

'No; you're right. I know it. But marriage is a gamble anyway, as you
know better than any one. Are you equally sure that she would be
miserable with me? Dead sure, I mean.'

'No, I'm not sure. But that's not a reason----'

'It's a first-rate reason. I care for that lady, and I want her to be
happy, and as you admit that she will have a better chance of
happiness with me than with Logotheti, I'm going to marry her myself,
not only because I want to, but because it will be a long sight better
for her. See? No fault in that line of reasoning, is there?'

'So far as reasoning goes----' Lady Maud's tone was half an admission.

'That's all I wanted you to say,' interrupted the American. 'So that's
settled, and you're going to help me.'

'No,' answered Lady Maud quietly; 'I won't help you to break off that
engagement. But if it should come to nothing, without your
interfering--that is, by the girl's own free will and choice and
change of mind, I'd help you to marry her if I could.'

'But you admit that she's going to be miserable,' said Van Torp
stubbornly.

'I'm sorry for her, but it's none of my business. It's not honourable
to try and make trouble between engaged people, no matter how
ill-matched they may be.'

'Funny idea of honour,' observed the American, 'that you're bound to
let a friend of yours break her neck at the very gravel pit where you
were nearly smashed yourself! In the hunting field you'd grab her
bridle if she wouldn't listen to you, but in a matter of marriage--oh,
no! "It's dishonourable to interfere," "She's made her choice and she
must abide by it," and all that kind of stuff!'

Lady Maud's clear eyes met his angry blue ones calmly.

'I don't like you when you say such things,' she said, lowering her
voice a little.

'I didn't mean to be rude,' answered the millionaire, almost humbly.
'You see I don't always know. I learnt things differently from what
you did. I suppose you'd think it an insult if I said I'd give a large
sum of money to your charity the day I married Madame Cordova, if
you'd help me through.'

  [Illustration: "'Funny idea of honour,' observed the American."]

'Please stop.' Lady Maud's face darkened visibly. 'That's not like
you.'

'I'll give a million pounds sterling,' said Mr. Van Torp slowly.

Lady Maud leaned back in her corner of the sofa, clasping her hands
rather tightly together in her lap. Her white throat flushed as when
the light of dawn kisses Parian marble, and the fresh tint in her
cheeks deepened softly; her lips were tightly shut, her eyelids
quivered a little, and she looked straight before her across the room.

'You can do a pretty good deal with a million pounds,' said Mr. Van
Torp, after the silence had lasted nearly half a minute.

'Don't!' cried Lady Maud, in an odd voice.

'Forty thousand pounds a year,' observed the millionaire thoughtfully.
'You could do quite a great deal of good with that, couldn't you?'

'Don't! Please don't!'

She pressed her hands to her ears and rose at the same instant.
Perhaps it was she, after all, and not her friend who had been brought
suddenly to a great cross-road in life. She stood still one moment by
the sofa without looking down at her companion; then she left the room
abruptly, and shut the door behind her.

Van Torp got up from his seat slowly when she was gone, and went to
the window, softly blowing a queer tune between his closed teeth and
his open lips, without quite whistling.

'Well----' he said aloud, in a tone of doubt, after a minute or two.

But he said no more, for he was much too reticent and sensible a
person to talk to himself audibly even when he was alone, and much too
cautious to be sure that a servant might not be within hearing, though
the door was shut. He stood before the window nearly a quarter of an
hour, thinking that Lady Maud might come back, but as no sound of any
step broke the silence he understood that he was not to see her again
that day, and he quietly let himself out of the house and went off,
not altogether discontented with the extraordinary impression he had
made.

Lady Maud sat alone upstairs, so absorbed in her thoughts that she did
not hear the click of the lock as he opened and shut the front door.

She was much more amazed at herself than surprised by the offer he had
made. Temptation, in any reasonable sense of the word, had passed by
her in life, and she had never before understood what it could mean to
her. Indeed, she had thought of herself very little of late, and had
never had the least taste for self-examination or the analysis of her
conscience. She had done much good, because she wanted to do it, and
not at all as a duty, or with that idea of surprising the Deity by the
amount of her good works, which actuates many excellent persons. As
for doing anything seriously wrong, she had never wanted to, and it
had not even occurred to her that the opportunity for a wicked deed
could ever present itself to her together with the slightest desire to
do it. Her labours had taken her to strange places, and she knew what
real sin was, and even crime, and the most hideous vice, and its still
more awful consequences; but one reason why she had wrought fearlessly
was that she felt herself naturally invulnerable. She knew a good many
people in her own set whom she thought quite as bad as the worst she
had ever picked up on the dark side of the Virtue-Curtain; they were
people who seemed to have no moral sense, men who betrayed their wives
wantonly, young women who took money for themselves and old ones who
cheated at bridge, men who would deliberately ruin a rival in
politics, in finance, or in love, and ambitious women who had driven
their competitors to despair and destruction by a scientific use of
calumny. But she had never felt any inclination towards any of those
things, which all seemed to her disgusting, or cowardly, or otherwise
abominable. Her husband had gone astray after strange gods--and
goddesses--but she had never wished to be revenged on them, or him,
nor to say what was not true about any one, nor even what was true and
could hurt, nor to win a few sovereigns at cards otherwise than
fairly, nor to wish anybody dead who had a right to live.

She was eight-and-twenty years of age and a widow, when temptation
came to her suddenly in a shape of tremendous strength, through her
trusted friend, who had helped her for years to help others. It was
real temptation. The man who offered her a million pounds to save
miserable wretches from a life of unspeakable horror, could offer her
twice as much, four, five, or ten millions perhaps. No one knew the
vast extent of his wealth, and in an age of colossal fortunes she had
often heard his spoken of with the half-dozen greatest.

The worst of it was that she felt able to do what he asked; for she
was inwardly convinced that the great singer did not know her own mind
and was not profoundly attached to the man she had accepted. Of the
two women, Margaret was by far the weaker character; or, to be just,
the whole strength of her nature had long been concentrated in the
struggle for artistic supremacy, and could not easily be brought to
exert itself in other directions. Lady Maud's influence over her was
great, and Logotheti's had never been very strong. She was taken by
his vitality, his daring, his constancy, or obstinacy, and a little by
his good looks, as a mere girl might be, because the theatre had made
looks seem so important to her. But apart from his handsome face,
Logotheti was no match for Van Torp. Of that Lady Maud was sure.
Besides, the Primadonna's antipathy for the American had greatly
diminished of late, and had perhaps altogether given place to a
friendly feeling. She had said openly that she had misjudged him,
because he had pestered her with his attentions in New York, and that
she even liked him since he had shown more tact. Uncouth as he was in
some ways, Lady Maud knew that she herself might care for him more
than as a friend, if her heart were not buried for ever in a soldier's
grave on the Veldt.

That was the worst of it. She felt that it was probably not beyond her
power to bring about what Van Torp desired, at least so far as to
induce Margaret to break off the engagement which now blocked his way.
Under cover of roughness, too, he had argued with a subtlety that
frightened her now that she was alone; and with a consummate knowledge
of her nature he had offered her the only sort of bribe that could
possibly tempt her, the means to make permanent the good work she had
already carried so far.

He had placed her in such a dilemma as she had never dreamed of. To
accept such an offer as he made, would mean that she must do something
which she felt was dishonourable, if she gave 'honour' the meaning an
honest gentleman attaches to it, and that was the one she had learned
from her father, and which a good many women seem unable to
understand. To refuse, was to deprive hundreds of wretched and
suffering creatures of the only means of obtaining a hold on a decent
existence which Lady Maud had ever found to be at all efficacious. She
knew that she had not done much, compared with what was undone; it
looked almost nothing. But where law-making had failed altogether,
where religion was struggling bravely but almost in vain, where
enlightened philanthropy found itself paralysed and bankrupt, she had
accomplished something by merely using a little money in the right
way.

'You can do quite a great deal of good with forty thousand pounds a
year.'

Van Torp's rough-hewn speech rang through her head, and somehow its
reckless grammar gave it strength and made it stick in her memory,
word for word. In the drawer of the writing-table before which she was
sitting there was a little file of letters that meant more to her than
anything else in the world, except one dear memory. They were all from
women, they all told much the same little story, and it was good to
read. She had made many failures, and some terrible ones, which she
could never forget; but there were real successes, too, there were
over a dozen of them now, and she had only been at work for three
years. If she had more money, she could do more; if she had much, she
could do much; and she knew of one or two women who could help her.
What might she not accomplish in a lifetime with the vast sum her
friend offered her!--the price of hindering a marriage that was almost
sure to turn out badly, perhaps as badly as her own!--the money value
of a compromise with her conscience on a point of honour which many
women would have thought very vague indeed, if not quite absurd in
such a case. She knew what temptation meant, now, and she was to know
even better before long. The Primadonna had said that she was going to
marry Logotheti chiefly because he insisted on it.

The duel for Margaret's hand had begun; Van Torp had aimed a blow that
might well give him the advantage if it went home; and Logotheti
himself was quite unaware of the skilful attack that threatened his
happiness.




CHAPTER III


A few days after she had talked with Lady Maud, and before Mr. Van
Torp's arrival, Margaret had gone abroad, without waiting for the
promised advice in the matter of the wedding-gown. With admirable
regard for the proprieties she had quite declined to let Logotheti
cross the Channel with her, but had promised to see him at Versailles,
where she was going to stop a few days with her mother's old American
friend, the excellent Mrs. Rushmore, with whom she meant to go to
Bayreuth to hear Parsifal for the first time.

Mrs. Rushmore had disapproved profoundly of Margaret's career, from
the first. After Mrs. Donne's death, she had taken the forlorn girl
under her protection, and had encouraged her to go on with what she
vaguely called her 'music lessons.' The good lady was one of those
dear, old-fashioned, kind, delicate-minded and golden-hearted American
women we may never see again, now that 'progress' has got civilisation
by the throat and is squeezing the life out of it. She called Margaret
her 'chickabiddy' and spread a motherly wing over her, without the
least idea that she was rearing a valuable lyric nightingale that
would not long be content to trill and quaver unheard.

Immense and deserved success had half reconciled the old lady to what
had happened, and after all Margaret had not married an Italian tenor,
a Russian prince, or a Parisian composer, the three shapes of man
which seemed the most dreadfully immoral to Mrs. Rushmore. She would
find it easier to put up with Logotheti than with one of those, though
it was bad enough to think of her old friend's daughter marrying a
Greek instead of a nice, clean Anglo-Saxon, like the learned Mr.
Donne, the girl's father, or the good Mr. Rushmore, her lamented
husband, who had been an upright pillar of the church in New York, and
the president of a Trust Company that could be trusted.

After all, though she thought all Greeks must be what she called
'designing,' the name of Konstantin Logotheti was associated with
everything that was most honourable in the financial world, and this
impressed Mrs. Rushmore very much. Her harmless weakness had always
been for lions, and none but the most genuine ones were allowed to
roar at her garden-parties or at her dinner table. When the Greek
financier had first got himself introduced to her more than two years
earlier, she had made the most careful inquiries about him and had
diligently searched the newspapers for every mention of him during a
whole month. The very first paragraph she had found was about a new
railway which he had taken under his protection, and the writer said
that his name was a guarantee of good faith. This impressed her
favourably, though the journalist might have had reasons for making
precisely the same statement if he had known Logotheti to be a
fraudulent promoter. One of the maxims she had learned in her youth,
which had been passed in the Golden Age of old New York, was that
'business was a test of character.' Mr. Rushmore used to say that, so
it must be true, she thought; and indeed the excellent man might have
said with equal wisdom that long-continued rain generally produces
dampness. He would have turned in his well-kept grave if he could have
heard a Wall Street cynic say that nowadays an honest man may get a
bare living, and a drunkard has been known to get rich, but that
integrity and whisky together will inevitably land anybody in the
workhouse.

Logotheti was undoubtedly considered honest, however, and Mrs.
Rushmore made quite sure of it, as well as of the fact that he had an
immense fortune. So far as the cynic's observation goes, it may not be
equally applicable everywhere, any more than it is true that all
Greeks are blacklegs, as the Parisians are fond of saying, or that all
Parisians are much worse, as their own novelists try to make out. If
anything is more worthless than most men's opinion of themselves, it
is their opinion of others, and it is unfortunately certain that the
people who understand human nature best, and lead it whither they
will, are not those that labour to save souls or to cure sickness, but
demagogues, quacks, fashionable dressmakers, and money-lenders. Mrs.
Rushmore was a judge of lions, but she knew nothing about humanity.

At Versailles, with its memories of her earlier youth, the Primadonna
wished to be Margaret Donne again, and to forget for the time that she
was the Cordova, whose name was always first on the opera posters in
New York, London, and Vienna; who covered her face with grease-paint
two or three times a week; who loved the indescribable mixed smell of
boards, glue, scenery, Manila ropes and cotton-velvet-clad chorus,
behind the scenes; who lived on applause, was made miserable now and
then by a criticism which any other singer would have thought
flattery, and who was, in fact, an extraordinary compound of genius
and simplicity, generosity and tetchiness, tremendous energy in one
direction and intellectual torpidity and total indifference in all
others. If she could have gone directly from Covent Garden to another
engagement, the other self would not have waked up just then; but she
meant to take a long holiday, and in order not to miss the stage too
much, it was indispensable to forget it for a while.

She travelled incognito. That is to say, she had sent her first maid
and theatrical dresser Alphonsine to see her relations in Nancy for a
month, and only brought the other with her; she had, moreover, caused
the stateroom on the Channel boat to be taken in the name of Miss
Donne, and she brought no more luggage to Versailles than could be
piled on an ordinary cart, whereas when she had last come from New
York her servants had seen eighty-seven pieces put on board the
steamer, and a hat-box had been missing after all.

Mrs. Rushmore came out to meet her on the steps in the hot sunshine,
portly and kind as ever, and she applied an embrace which was
affectionate, yet imposing.

'My dearest child!' she cried. 'I was sure I had not quite lost you
yet!'

'I hope you will never think you have,' Margaret answered, almost
quite in her girlish voice of old.

She was very glad to come back. As soon as they were alone in the cool
drawing-room, Mrs. Rushmore asked her about her engagement in a tone
of profound concern, as though it were a grave bodily ailment which
might turn out to be fatal.

'Don't take it so seriously,' Margaret answered with a little laugh;
'I'm not married yet!'

The elderly face brightened.

'Do you mean to say that--that there is any hope?' she asked eagerly.

Margaret laughed now, but in a gentle and affectionate sort of way.

'Perhaps, just a little! But don't ask me, please. I've come
home--this is always home for me, isn't it?--I've come home to forget
everything for a few weeks.'

'Thank heaven!' ejaculated Mrs. Rushmore in a tone of deep relief.
'Then if--if he should call this afternoon, or even to-morrow--may I
tell them to say that you are out?'

She was losing no time; and Margaret laughed again, though she put her
head a little on one side with an expression of doubt.

'I can't refuse to see him,' she said, 'though really I would much
rather be alone with you for a day or two.'

'My darling child!' cried Mrs. Rushmore, applying another embrace,
'you shall! Leave it to me!'

Mrs. Rushmore's delight was touching, for she could almost feel that
Margaret had come to see her quite for her own sake, whereas she had
pictured the 'child,' as she still called the great artist, spending
most of her time in carrying on inaudible conversations with Logotheti
under the trees in the lawn, or in the most remote corners of the
drawing-room; for that had been the accepted method of courtship in
Mrs. Rushmore's young days, and she was quite ignorant of the changes
that had taken place since then.

Half-an-hour later, Margaret was in her old room upstairs writing a
letter, and Mrs. Rushmore had given strict orders that until further
notice Miss Donne was 'not at home' for any one at all, no matter who
might call.

When the letter already covered ten pages, Margaret laid down her pen
and without the least pause or hesitation tore the sheets to tiny
bits, inking her fingers in the process because the last one was not
yet dry.

'What a wicked woman I am!' she exclaimed aloud, to the very great
surprise of Potts, her English maid, who was still unpacking in the
next room, the door being open.

'Beg pardon, ma'am?' the woman asked, putting in her head.

'I said I was a wicked woman,' Margaret answered, rising; 'and what's
more, I believe I am. But I quite forgot you were there, Potts, or I
probably should not have said it aloud.'

'Yes, ma'am,' answered Potts meekly, and she went back to her
unpacking.

Margaret had two maids, who were oddly suited to her two natures. She
had inherited Alphonsine from her friend the famous retired soprano,
Madame Bonanni, and the cadaverous, clever, ill-tempered, garrulous
dresser was as necessary to Cordova's theatrical existence as paint,
limelight, wigs, and an orchestra. The English Potts, the meek,
silent, busy, and intensely respectable maid, continually made it
clear that her mistress was Miss Donne, an English lady, and that
Madame Cordova, the celebrated singer, was what Mr. Van Torp would
have called 'only a side-show.'

Potts was quite as much surprised when she heard Miss Donne calling
herself a wicked woman as Alphonsine would have been if she had heard
Madame Cordova say that she sang completely out of tune, a statement
which would not have disturbed the English maid's equanimity in the
very least. It might have pleased her, for she always secretly hoped
that Margaret would give up the stage, marry an English gentleman with
a nice name, and live in Hans Crescent or Cadogan Gardens, or some
equally smart place, and send Alphonsine about her business for ever.

For the English maid and the French maid hated each other as
whole-heartedly as if Cressy or Agincourt had been fought yesterday.
Potts alluded to Alphonsine as 'that Frenchwoman,' and Alphonsine
spoke of Potts as 'l'Anglaise,' with a tone and look of withering
scorn, as if all English were nothing better than animals. Also she
disdained to understand a word of their 'abominable jargon'; and Potts
quietly called the French language 'frog-talk,' but spoke it quite
intelligibly, though without the least attempt at an accent.
Nevertheless, each of the two was devoted to Margaret, and they were
both such excellent servants that they never quarrelled or even
exchanged a rude word--to Margaret's knowledge. They treated each
other with almost exaggerated politeness, calling each other
respectively 'Meess' and 'Mamzell'; and if Alphonsine's black eyes
glared at Potts now and then, the English maid put on such an air of
sweetly serene unconsciousness as a woman of the world might have
envied.

The letter that had been torn up before it was finished was to have
gone to Lady Maud, but Margaret herself had been almost sure that she
would not send it, even while she was writing. She had poured out her
heart, now that she could do so with the consoling possibility of
destroying the confession before any one read it. She had made an
honest effort to get at the truth about herself by writing down all
she knew to be quite true, as if it were to go to her best friend; but
as soon as she realised that she had got to the end of her positive
knowledge and was writing fiction--which is what might be true, but is
not known to be--she had the weakness to tear up her letter, and to
call herself names for not knowing her own mind, as if every woman
did, or every man either.

She had written that she had done very wrong in engaging herself to
Logotheti; that was the 'wickedness' she accused herself of,
repeating the self-accusation to her astonished maid, because it was a
sort of relief to say the words to somebody. She had written that she
did not really care for him in that way; that when he was near she
could not resist a sort of natural attraction he had for her, but that
as soon as he was gone she felt it no longer and she wished he would
not come back; that his presence disturbed her and made her
uncomfortable, and, moreover, interfered with her art; but that she
had not the courage to tell him so, and wished that some one else
would do it for her; that he was not really the sort of man she could
ever be happy with; that her ideal of a husband was so and so, and
this and that--and here fiction had begun, and she had put a stop to
it by destroying the whole letter instead of crossing out a few
lines,--which was a pity; for if Lady Maud had received it, she would
have told Mr. Van Torp that he needed no help from her since Margaret
herself asked no better than to be freed from the engagement.

Logotheti did not come out to Versailles that afternoon, because he
was plentifully endowed with tact where women were concerned, and he
applied all the knowledge and skill he had to the single purpose of
pleasing Margaret. But before dinner he telephoned and asked to speak
with her, and this she could not possibly refuse. Besides, the day had
seemed long, and though she did not wish for his presence she wanted
something--that indescribable, mysterious something which disturbed
her and made her feel uncomfortable when she felt it, but which she
missed when she did not see him for a day or two.

'How are you?' asked his voice, and he ran on without waiting for an
answer. 'I hope you are not very tired after crossing yesterday. I
came by Boulogne--decent of me, wasn't it? You must be sick of seeing
me all the time, so I shall give you a rest for a day or two.
Telephone whenever you think you can bear the sight of me again, and
I'll be with you in thirty-five minutes. I shall not stir from home in
this baking weather. If you think I'm in mischief you're quite
mistaken, dear lady, for I'm up to my chin in work!'

'I envy you,' Margaret said, when he paused at last. 'I've nothing on
earth to do, and the piano here is out of tune. But you're quite
right, I don't want to see you a little bit, and I'm not jealous, nor
suspicious, nor anything disagreeable. So there!'

'How nice of you!'

'I'm very nice,' Margaret answered with laughing emphasis. 'I know it.
What sort of work are you doing? It's only idle curiosity, so don't
tell me if you would rather not! Have you got a new railway in Brazil,
or an overland route to the other side of beyond?'

'Nothing so easy! I'm brushing up my Tartar.'

'Brushing up what? I didn't hear.'

'Tartar--the Tartar language--T-a-r--'he began to spell the word.

'Yes, I hear now,' interrupted Margaret. 'But what in the world is
the use of knowing it? You must be awfully hard up for something to
do!'

'You can be understood from Constantinople to the Pacific Ocean if you
can speak Tartar,' Logotheti answered in a matter-of-fact tone.

'I daresay! But you're not going to travel from Constantinople to the
Pacific Ocean----'

'I might. One never can tell what one may like to do.'

'Oh, if it's because Tartar is useful "against the bites of sharks,"'
answered Margaret, quoting Alice, 'learn it by all means!'

'Besides, there are all sorts of people in Paris. I'm sure there must
be some Tartars. I might meet one, and it would be amusing to be able
to talk to him.'

'Nonsense! Why should you ever meet a Tartar? How absurd you are!'

'There's one with me now--close beside me, at my elbow.'

'Don't be silly, or I'll ring off.'

'If you don't believe me, listen!'

He said something in a language Margaret did not understand, and
another voice answered him at once in the same tongue. Margaret
started slightly and bent her brows with a puzzled and displeased
look.

'Is that your teacher?' she asked with more interest in her tone than
she had yet betrayed.

'Yes.'

'I begin to understand. Do you mind telling me how old she is?'

'It's not "she," it's a young man. I don't know how old he is. I'll
ask him if you like.'

Again she heard him speak a few incomprehensible words, which were
answered very briefly in the same tongue.

'He tells me he is twenty,' Logotheti said. 'He's a good-looking young
fellow. How is Mrs. Rushmore? I forgot to ask.'

'She's quite well, thank you. But I should like to know----'

'Will you be so very kind as to remember me to her, and to say that I
hope to find her at home the day after to-morrow?'

'Certainly. Come to-morrow if you like. But please tell me how you
happened to pick up that young Tartar. It sounds so interesting! He
has such a sweet voice.'

There was no reply to this question, and Margaret could not get
another word from Logotheti. The communication was apparently cut off.
She rang up the Central Office and asked for his number again, but the
young woman soon said that she could get no answer to the call, and
that something was probably wrong with the instrument of Number
One-hundred-and-six-thirty-seven.

Margaret was not pleased, and she was silent and absent-minded at
dinner and in the evening.

'It's the reaction after London,' she said with a smile, when Mrs.
Rushmore asked if anything was the matter. 'I find I am more tired
than I knew, now that it's all over.'

Mrs. Rushmore was quite of the same opinion, and it was still early
when she declared that she herself was sleepy and that Margaret had
much better go to bed and get a good night's rest.

But when the Primadonna was sitting before the glass and her maid was
brushing out her soft brown hair, she was not at all drowsy, and
though her eyes looked steadily at their own reflection in the mirror,
she was not aware that she saw anything.

'Potts,' she said suddenly, and stopped.

'Yes, ma'am?' answered the maid with meek interrogation, and without
checking the regular movement of the big brush.

But Margaret said no more for several moments. She enjoyed the
sensation of having her hair brushed; it made her understand exactly
how a cat feels when some one strokes its back steadily, and she could
almost have purred with pleasure as she held her handsome head back
and moved it a little in real enjoyment under each soft stroke.

'Potts,' she began again at last, 'you are not very imaginative, are
you?'

'No, ma'am,' the maid answered, because it seemed to be expected of
her, though she had never thought of the matter.

'Do you think you could possibly be mistaken about a voice, if you
didn't see the person who was speaking?'

'In what way, ma'am?'

'I mean, do you think you could take a man's voice for a woman's at a
distance?'

'Oh, I see!' Potts exclaimed. 'As it might be, at the telephone?'

'Well--at the telephone, if you like, or anywhere else. Do you think
you might?'

'It would depend on the voice, ma'am,' observed Potts, with caution.

'Of course it would,' assented Margaret rather impatiently.

'Well, ma'am, I'll say this, since you ask me. When I was last at home
I was mistaken in that way about my own brother, for I heard him
calling to me from downstairs, and I took him for my sister Milly.'

'Oh! That's interesting!' Margaret smiled. 'What sort of voice has
your brother? How old is he?'

'He's eight-and-twenty, ma'am; and as for his voice, he has a sweet
counter-tenor, and sings nicely. He's a song-man at the cathedral,
ma'am.'

'Really! How nice! Have you a voice too? Do you sing at all?'

'Oh, no, ma'am!' answered Potts in a deprecating tone. 'One in the
family is quite enough!'

Margaret vaguely wondered why, but did not inquire.

'You were quite sure that it was your brother who was speaking, I
suppose,' she said.

'Oh, yes, ma'am! I looked down over the banisters, and there he was!'

Margaret had the solid health of a great singer, and it would have
been a serious trouble indeed that could have interfered with her
unbroken and dreamless sleep during at least eight hours; but when she
closed her eyes that night she was quite sure that she could not have
slept at all but for Potts's comforting little story about the brother
with the 'counter-tenor' voice. Yet even so, at the moment before
waking in the morning, she dreamt that she was at the telephone again,
and that words in a strange language came to her along the wire in a
soft and caressing tone that could only be a woman's, and that for the
first time in all her life she knew what it was to be jealous. The
sensation was not an agreeable one.

The dream-voice was silent as soon as she opened her eyes, but she had
not been awake long without realising that she wished very much to see
Logotheti at once, and was profoundly thankful that she had torn up
her letter to Lady Maud. She was not prepared to admit, even now, that
Konstantin was the ideal she should have chosen for a husband, and
whom she had been describing from imagination when she had suddenly
stopped writing. But, on the other hand, the mere thought that he had
perhaps been amusing himself in the society of another woman all
yesterday afternoon made her so angry that she took refuge in trying
to believe that he had spoken the truth and that she had really been
mistaken about the voice.

It was all very well to talk about learning Tartar! How could she be
sure that it was not modern Greek, or Turkish? She could not have
known the difference. Was it so very unlikely that some charming
compatriot of his should have come from Constantinople to spend a few
weeks in Paris? She remembered the mysterious house in the Boulevard
Péreire where he lived, the beautiful upper hall where the statue of
Aphrodite stood, the doors that would not open like other doors, the
strangely-disturbing encaustic painting of Cleopatra in the
drawing-room--many things which she distrusted.

Besides, supposing that the language was really Tartar--were there not
Russians who spoke it? She thought there must be, because she had a
vague idea that all Russians were more or less Tartars. There was a
proverb about it. Moreover, to the English as well as to the French,
Russians represent romance and wickedness.

She would not go to the telephone herself, but she sent a message to
Logotheti, and he came out in the cool time of the afternoon. She
thought he had never looked so handsome and so little exotic since she
had known him. To please her he had altogether given up the terrific
ties, the lightning-struck waistcoats, the sunrise socks, and the
overpowering jewellery he had formerly affected, and had resigned
himself to the dictation of a London tailor, who told him what he
might, could, should, and must wear for each circumstance and hour of
daily life, in fine gradations, from deer-stalking to a royal
garden-party. The tailor, who dressed kings and made a specialty of
emperors, was a man of taste, and when he had worked on the Greek
financier for a few weeks the result was satisfactory; excepting for
his almond-shaped eyes no one could have told Logotheti from an
Englishman by his appearance, a fact which even Potts, who
disapproved of Margaret's choice, was obliged to admit.

Mrs. Rushmore was amazed and pleased.

'My dear,' she said afterwards to Margaret, 'what a perfectly
wonderful change! Think how he used to look! And now you might almost
take him for an American gentleman!'

He was received by Mrs. Rushmore and Margaret together, and he took
noticeable pains to make himself agreeable to the mistress of the
house. At first Margaret was pleased at this; but when she saw that he
was doing his best to keep Mrs. Rushmore from leaving the room, as she
probably would have done, Margaret did not like it. She was dying to
ask him questions about his lessons in Tartar, and especially about
his teacher, and she probably meant to cast her inquiries in such a
