more convinced that the unknown visitor had not been Wyant.
On the fourth day she received a letter from Amherst. He hoped to be
back on the morrow, but as his plans were still uncertain he would
telegraph in the morning--and meanwhile she must keep well, and rest,
and amuse herself....
Amuse herself! That evening, as it happened, she was going to the
theatre with Mrs. Ansell. She and Mrs. Ansell, though outwardly on
perfect terms, had not greatly advanced in intimacy. The agitated,
decentralized life of the older woman seemed futile and trivial to
Justine; but on Mr. Langhope's account she wished to keep up an
appearance of friendship with his friend, and the same motive doubtless
inspired Mrs. Ansell. Just now, at any rate, Justine was grateful for
her attentions, and glad to go about with her. Anything--anything to get
away from her own thoughts! That was the pass she had come to.
At the theatre, in a proscenium box, the publicity, the light and
movement, the action of the play, all helped to distract and quiet her.
At such moments she grew ashamed of her fears. Why was she tormenting
herself? If anything happened she had only to ask her husband for more
money. She never spoke to him of her good works, and there would be
nothing to excite suspicion in her asking help again for the friend
whose secret she was pledged to keep.... But nothing was going to
happen. As the play progressed, and the stimulus of talk and laughter
flowed through her veins, she felt a complete return of confidence. And
then suddenly she glanced across the house, and saw Wyant looking at
her.
He sat rather far back, in one of the side rows just beneath the
balcony, so that his face was partly shaded. But even in the shadow it
frightened her. She had been prepared for a change, but not for this
ghastly deterioration. And he continued to look at her.
She began to be afraid that he would do something conspicuous--point at
her, or stand up in his seat. She thought he looked half-mad--or was it
her own hallucination that made him appear so? She and Mrs. Ansell were
alone in the box for the moment, and she started up, pushing back her
chair....
Mrs. Ansell leaned forward. "What is it?"
"Nothing--the heat--I'll sit back for a moment." But as she withdrew
into the back of the box, she was seized by a new fear. If he was still
watching, might he not come to the door and try to speak to her? Her
only safety lay in remaining in full view of the audience; and she
returned to Mrs. Ansell's side.
The other members of the party came back--the bell rang, the foot-lights
blazed, the curtain rose. She lost herself in the mazes of the play. She
sat so motionless, her face so intently turned toward the stage, that
the muscles at the back of her neck began to stiffen. And then, quite
suddenly, toward the middle of the act, she felt an undefinable sense of
relief. She could not tell what caused it--but slowly, cautiously, while
the eyes of the others were intent upon the stage, she turned her head
and looked toward Wyant's seat. It was empty.
Her first thought was that he had gone to wait for her outside. But
no--there were two more acts: why should he stand at the door for half
the evening?
At last the act ended; the entr'acte elapsed; the play went on
again--and still the seat was empty. Gradually she persuaded herself
that she had been mistaken in thinking that the man who had occupied it
was Wyant. Her self-command returned, she began to think and talk
naturally, to follow the dialogue on the stage--and when the evening was
over, and Mrs. Ansell set her down at her door, she had almost forgotten
her fears.
The next morning she felt calmer than for many days. She was sure now
that if Wyant had wished to speak to her he would have waited at the
door of the theatre; and the recollection of his miserable face made
apprehension yield to pity. She began to feel that she had treated him
coldly, uncharitably. They had been friends once, as well as
fellow-workers; but she had been false even to the comradeship of the
hospital. She should have sought him out and given him sympathy as well
as money; had she shown some sign of human kindness his last letter
might never have been written.
In the course of the morning Amherst telegraphed that he hoped to settle
his business in time to catch the two o'clock express, but that his
plans were still uncertain. Justine and Cicely lunched alone, and after
luncheon the little girl was despatched to her dancing-class. Justine
herself meant to go out when the brougham returned. She went up to her
room to dress, planning to drive in the park, and to drop in on Mrs.
Ansell before she called for Cicely; but on the way downstairs she saw
the servant opening the door to a visitor. It was too late to draw back;
and descending the last steps she found herself face to face with Wyant.
They looked at each other a moment in silence; then Justine murmured a
word of greeting and led the way to the drawing-room.
It was a snowy afternoon, and in the raw ash-coloured light she thought
he looked more changed than at the theatre. She remarked, too, that his
clothes were worn and untidy, his gloveless hands soiled and tremulous.
None of the degrading signs of his infirmity were lacking; and she saw
at once that, while in the early days of the habit he had probably mixed
his drugs, so that the conflicting symptoms neutralized each other, he
had now sunk into open morphia-taking. She felt profoundly sorry for
him; yet as he followed her into the room physical repulsion again
mastered the sense of pity.
But where action was possible she was always self-controlled, and she
turned to him quietly as they seated themselves.
"I have been wishing to see you," she said, looking at him. "I have felt
that I ought to have done so sooner--to have told you how sorry I am for
your bad luck."
He returned her glance with surprise: they were evidently the last words
he had expected.
"You're very kind," he said in a low embarrassed voice. He had kept on
his shabby over-coat, and he twirled his hat in his hands as he spoke.
"I have felt," Justine continued, "that perhaps a talk with you might be
of more use----"
He raised his head, fixing her with bright narrowed eyes. "I have felt
so too: that's my reason for coming. You sent me a generous present some
weeks ago--but I don't want to go on living on charity."
"I understand that," she answered. "But why have you had to do so? Won't
you tell me just what has happened?"
She felt the words to be almost a mockery; yet she could not say "I read
your history at a glance"; and she hoped that her question might draw
out his wretched secret, and thus give her the chance to speak frankly.
He gave a nervous laugh. "Just what has happened? It's a long story--and
some of the details are not particularly pretty." He broke off, moving
his hat more rapidly through his trembling hands.
"Never mind: tell me."
"Well--after you all left Lynbrook I had rather a bad break-down--the
strain of Mrs. Amherst's case, I suppose. You remember Bramble, the
Clifton grocer? Miss Bramble nursed me--I daresay you remember her too.
When I recovered I married her--and after that things didn't go well."
He paused, breathing quickly, and looking about the room with odd,
furtive glances. "I was only half-well, anyhow--I couldn't attend to my
patients properly--and after a few months we decided to leave Clifton,
and I bought a practice in New Jersey. But my wife was ill there, and
things went wrong again--damnably. I suppose you've guessed that my
marriage was a mistake. She had an idea that we should do better in New
York--so we came here a few months ago, and we've done decidedly worse."
Justine listened with a sense of discouragement. She saw now that he did
not mean to acknowledge his failing, and knowing the secretiveness of
the drug-taker she decided that he was deluded enough to think he could
still deceive her.
"Well," he began again, with an attempt at jauntiness, "I've found out
that in my profession it's a hard struggle to get on your feet again,
after illness or--or any bad set-back. That's the reason I asked you to
say a word for me. It's not only the money, though I need that badly--I
want to get back my self-respect. With my record I oughtn't to be where
I am--and you can speak for me better than any one."
"Why better than the doctors you've worked with?" Justine put the
question abruptly, looking him straight in the eyes.
His glance dropped, and an unpleasant flush rose to his thin cheeks.
"Well--as it happens, you're better situated than any one to help me to
the particular thing I want."
"The particular thing----?"
"Yes. I understand that Mr. Langhope and Mrs. Ansell are both interested
in the new wing for paying patients at Saint Christopher's. I want the
position of house-physician there, and I know you can get it for me."
His tone changed as he spoke, till with the last words it became rough
and almost menacing.
Justine felt her colour rise, and her heart began to beat confusedly.
Here was the truth, then: she could no longer be the dupe of her own
compassion. The man knew his power and meant to use it. But at the
thought her courage was in arms.
"I'm sorry--but it's impossible," she said.
"Impossible--why?"
She continued to look at him steadily. "You said just now that you
wished to regain your self-respect. Well, you must regain it before you
can ask me--or any one else--to recommend you to a position of trust."
Wyant half-rose, with an angry murmur. "My self-respect? What do you
mean? I meant that I'd lost courage--through ill-luck----"
"Yes; and your ill-luck has come through your own fault. Till you cure
yourself you're not fit to cure others."
He sank back into his seat, glowering at her under sullen brows; then
his expression gradually changed to half-sneering admiration. "You're a
plucky one!" he said.
Justine repressed a movement of disgust. "I am very sorry for you," she
said gravely. "I saw this trouble coming on you long ago--and if there
is any other way in which I can help you----"
"Thanks," he returned, still sneering. "Your sympathy is very
precious--there was a time when I would have given my soul for it. But
that's over, and I'm here to talk business. You say you saw my trouble
coming on--did it ever occur to you that you were the cause of it?"
Justine glanced at him with frank contempt. "No--for I was not," she
replied.
"That's an easy way out of it. But you took everything from me--first my
hope of marrying you; then my chance of a big success in my career; and
I was desperate--weak, if you like--and tried to deaden my feelings in
order to keep up my pluck."
Justine rose to her feet with a movement of impatience. "Every word you
say proves how unfit you are to assume any responsibility--to do
anything but try to recover your health. If I can help you to that, I am
still willing to do so."
Wyant rose also, moving a step nearer. "Well, get me that place,
then--I'll see to the rest: I'll keep straight."
"No--it's impossible."
"You won't?"
"I can't," she repeated firmly.
"And you expect to put me off with that answer?"
She hesitated. "Yes--if there's no other help you'll accept."
He laughed again--his feeble sneering laugh was disgusting. "Oh, I don't
say that. I'd like to earn my living honestly--funny preference--but if
you cut me off from that, I suppose it's only fair to let you make up
for it. My wife and child have got to live."
"You choose a strange way of helping them; but I will do what I can if
you will go for a while to some institution----"
He broke in furiously. "Institution be damned! You can't shuffle me out
of the way like that. I'm all right--good food is what I need. You
think I've got morphia in me--why, it's hunger!"
Justine heard him with a renewal of pity. "Oh, I'm sorry for you--very
sorry! Why do you try to deceive me?"
"Why do you deceive me? You know what I want and you know you've got
to let me have it. If you won't give me a line to one of your friends at
Saint Christopher's you'll have to give me another cheque--that's the
size of it."
As they faced each other in silence Justine's pity gave way to a sudden
hatred for the poor creature who stood shivering and sneering before
her.
"You choose the wrong tone--and I think our talk has lasted long
enough," she said, stretching her hand to the bell.
Wyant did not move. "Don't ring--unless you want me to write to your
husband," he rejoined.
A sick feeling of helplessness overcame her; but she turned on him
firmly. "I pardoned you once for that threat!"
"Yes--and you sent me some money the next day."
"I was mistaken enough to think that, in your distress, you had not
realized what you wrote. But if you're a systematic blackmailer----"
"Gently--gently. Bad names don't frighten me--it's hunger and debt I'm
afraid of."
Justine felt a last tremor of compassion. He was abominable--but he was
pitiable too.
"I will really help you--I will see your wife and do what I can--but I
can give you no money today."
"Why not?"
"Because I have none. I am not as rich as you think."
He smiled incredulously. "Give me a line to Mr. Langhope, then."
"No."
He sat down once more, leaning back with a weak assumption of ease.
"Perhaps Mr. Amherst will think differently."
She whitened, but said steadily: "Mr. Amherst is away."
"Very well--I can write."
For the last five minutes Justine had foreseen this threat, and had
tried to force her mind to face dispassionately the chances it involved.
After all, why not let him write to Amherst? The very vileness of the
deed must rouse an indignation which would be all in her favour, would
inevitably dispose her husband to readier sympathy with the motive of
her act, as contrasted with the base insinuations of her slanderer. It
seemed impossible that Amherst should condemn her when his condemnation
involved the fulfilling of Wyant's calculations: a reaction of scorn
would throw him into unhesitating championship of her conduct. All this
was so clear that, had she been advising any one else, her confidence in
the course to be taken might have strengthened the feeblest will; but
with the question lying between herself and Amherst--with the vision of
those soiled hands literally laid on the spotless fabric of her
happiness, judgment wavered, foresight was obscured--she felt
tremulously unable to face the steps between exposure and vindication.
Her final conclusion was that she must, at any rate, gain time: buy off
Wyant till she had been able to tell her story in her own way, and at
her own hour, and then defy him when he returned to the assault. The
idea that whatever concession she made would be only provisional, helped
to excuse the weakness of making it, and enabled her at last, without
too painful a sense of falling below her own standards, to reply in a
low voice: "If you'll go now, I will send you something next week."
But Wyant did not respond as readily as she had expected. He merely
asked, without altering his insolently easy attitude: "How much? Unless
it's a good deal, I prefer the letter."
Oh, why could she not cry out: "Leave the house at once--your vulgar
threats are nothing to me"--Why could she not even say in her own heart:
I will tell my husband tonight?
"You're afraid," said Wyant, as if answering her thought. "What's the
use of being afraid when you can make yourself comfortable so easily?
You called me a systematic blackmailer--well, I'm not that yet. Give me
a thousand and you'll see the last of me--on what used to be my honour."
Justine's heart sank. She had reached the point of being ready to appeal
again to Amherst--but on what pretext could she ask for such a sum?
In a lifeless voice she said: "I could not possibly get more than one or
two hundred."
Wyant scrutinized her a moment: her despair must have rung true to him.
"Well, you must have something of your own--I saw your jewelry last
night at the theatre," he said.
So it had been he--and he had sat there appraising her value like a
murderer!
"Jewelry--?" she faltered.
"You had a thumping big sapphire--wasn't it?--with diamonds round it."
It was her only jewel--Amherst's marriage gift. She would have preferred
a less valuable present, but his mother had persuaded her to accept it,
saying that it was the bride's duty to adorn herself for the bridegroom.
"I will give you nothing--" she was about to exclaim; when suddenly her
eyes fell on the clock. If Amherst had caught the two o'clock express he
would be at the house within the hour; and the only thing that seemed
of consequence now, was that he should not meet Wyant. Supposing she
still found courage to refuse--there was no knowing how long the
humiliating scene might be prolonged: and she must be rid of the
creature at any cost. After all, she seldom wore the sapphire--months
might pass without its absence being noted by Amherst's careless eye;
and if Wyant should pawn it, she might somehow save money to buy it back
before it was missed. She went through these calculations with feverish
rapidity; then she turned again to Wyant.
"You won't come back--ever?"
"I swear I won't," he said.
He moved away toward the window, as if to spare her; and she turned and
slowly left the room.
She never forgot the moments that followed. Once outside the door she
was in such haste that she stumbled on the stairs, and had to pause on
the landing to regain her breath. In her room she found one of the
housemaids busy, and at first could think of no pretext for dismissing
her. Then she bade the woman go down and send the brougham away, telling
the coachman to call for Miss Cicely at six.
Left alone, she bolted the door, and as if with a thief's hand, opened
her wardrobe, unlocked her jewel-box, and drew out the sapphire in its
flat morocco case. She restored the box to its place, the key to its
ring--then she opened the case and looked at the sapphire. As she did
so, a little tremor ran over her neck and throat, and closing her eyes
she felt her husband's kiss, and the touch of his hands as he fastened
on the jewel.
She unbolted the door, listened intently on the landing, and then went
slowly down the stairs. None of the servants were in sight, yet as she
reached the lower hall she was conscious that the air had grown suddenly
colder, as though the outer door had just been opened. She paused, and
listened again. There was a sound of talking in the drawing-room. Could
it be that in her absence a visitor had been admitted? The possibility
frightened her at first--then she welcomed it as an unexpected means of
ridding herself of her tormentor.
She opened the drawing-room door, and saw her husband talking with
Wyant.
XXXV
AMHERST, his back to the threshold, sat at a table writing: Wyant stood
a few feet away, staring down at the fire.
Neither had heard the door open; and before they were aware of her
entrance Justine had calculated that she must have been away for at
least five minutes, and that in that space of time almost anything
might have passed between them.
For a moment the power of connected thought left her; then her heart
gave a bound of relief. She said to herself that Wyant had doubtless
made some allusion to his situation, and that her husband, conscious
only of a great debt of gratitude, had at once sat down to draw a cheque
for him. The idea was so reassuring that it restored all her clearness
of thought.
Wyant was the first to see her. He made an abrupt movement, and Amherst,
rising, turned and put an envelope in his hand.
"There, my dear fellow----"
As he turned he caught sight of his wife.
"I caught the twelve o'clock train after all--you got my second wire?"
he asked.
"No," she faltered, pressing her left hand, with the little case in it,
close to the folds of her dress.
"I was afraid not. There was a bad storm at Hanaford, and they said
there might be a delay."
At the same moment she found Wyant advancing with extended hand, and
understood that he had concealed the fact of having already seen her.
She accepted the cue, and shook his hand, murmuring: "How do you do?"
Amherst looked at her, perhaps struck by her manner.
"You have not seen Dr. Wyant since Lynbrook?"
"No," she answered, thankful to have this pretext for her emotion.
"I have been telling him that he should not have left us so long without
news--especially as he has been ill, and things have gone rather badly
with him. But I hope we can help now. He has heard that Saint
Christopher's is looking for a house-physician for the paying patients'
wing, and as Mr. Langhope is away I have given him a line to Mrs.
Ansell."
"Extremely kind of you," Wyant murmured, passing his hand over his
forehead.
Justine stood silent. She wondered that her husband had not noticed that
tremulous degraded hand. But he was always so blind to externals--and he
had no medical experience to sharpen his perceptions.
Suddenly she felt impelled to speak "I am sorry Dr. Wyant has
been--unfortunate. Of course you will want to do everything to help him;
but would it not be better to wait till Mr. Langhope comes back?"
"Wyant thinks the delay might make him lose the place. It seems the
board meets tomorrow. And Mrs. Ansell really knows much more about it.
Isn't she the secretary of the ladies' committee?"
"I'm not sure--I believe so. But surely Mr. Langhope should be
consulted."
She felt Wyant's face change: his eyes settled on her in a threatening
stare.
Amherst looked at her also, and there was surprise in his glance. "I
think I can answer for my father-in-law. He feels as strongly as I do
how much we all owe to Dr. Wyant."
He seldom spoke of Mr. Langhope as his father-in-law, and the chance
designation seemed to mark a closer tie between them, to exclude Justine
from what was after all a family affair. For a moment she felt tempted
to accept the suggestion, and let the responsibility fall where it
would. But it would fall on Amherst--and that was intolerable.
"I think you ought to wait," she insisted.
An embarrassed silence settled on the three.
Wyant broke it by advancing toward Amherst. "I shall never forget your
kindness," he said; "and I hope to prove to Mrs. Amherst that it's not
misplaced."
The words were well chosen, and well spoken; Justine saw that they
produced a good effect. Amherst grasped the physician's hand with a
smile. "My dear fellow, I wish I could do more. Be sure to call on me
again if you want help."
"Oh, you've put me on my feet," said Wyant gratefully.
He bowed slightly to Justine and turned to go; but as he reached the
threshold she moved after him.
"Dr. Wyant--you must give back that letter."
He stopped short with a whitening face.
She felt Amherst's eyes on her again; and she said desperately,
addressing him: "Dr. Wyant understands my reasons."
Her husband's glance turned abruptly to Wyant. "Do you?" he asked after
a pause.
Wyant looked from one to the other. The moisture came out on his
forehead, and he passed his hand over it again. "Yes," he said in a dry
voice. "Mrs. Amherst wants me farther off--out of New York."
"Out of New York? What do you mean?"
Justine interposed hastily, before the answer could come. "It is because
Dr. Wyant is not in condition--for such a place--just at present."
"But he assures me he is quite well."
There was another silence; and again Wyant broke in, this time with a
slight laugh. "I can explain what Mrs. Amherst means; she intends to
accuse me of the morphine habit. And I can explain her reason for doing
so--she wants me out of the way."
Amherst turned on the speaker; and, as she had foreseen, his look was
terrible. "You haven't explained that yet," he said.
"Well--I can." Wyant waited another moment. "I know too much about her,"
he declared.
There was a low exclamation from Justine, and Amherst strode toward
Wyant. "You infernal blackguard!" he cried.
"Oh, gently----" Wyant muttered, flinching back from his outstretched
arm.
"My wife's wish is sufficient. Give me back that letter."
Wyant straightened himself. "No, by God, I won't!" he retorted
furiously. "I didn't ask you for it till you offered to help me; but I
won't let it be taken back without a word, like a thief that you'd
caught with your umbrella. If your wife won't explain I will. She's,
afraid I'll talk about what happened at Lynbrook."
Amherst's arm fell to his side. "At Lynbrook?"
Behind him there was a sound of inarticulate appeal--but he took no
notice.
"Yes. It's she who used morphia--but not on herself. She gives it to
other people. She gave an overdose to Mrs. Amherst."
Amherst looked at him confusedly. "An overdose?"
"Yes--purposely, I mean. And I came into the room at the wrong time. I
can prove that Mrs. Amherst died of morphia-poisoning."
"John!" Justine gasped out, pressing between them.
Amherst gently put aside the hand with which she had caught his arm.
"Wait a moment: this can't rest here. You can't want it to," he said to
her in an undertone.
"Why do you care...for what he says...when I don't?" she breathed back
with trembling lips.
"You can see I am not wanted here," Wyant threw in with a sneer.
Amherst remained silent for a brief space; then he turned his eyes once
more to his wife.
Justine lifted her face: it looked small and spent, like an extinguished
taper.
"It's true," she said.
"True?"
"I did give...an overdose...intentionally, when I knew there was no
hope, and when the surgeons said she might go on suffering. She was very
strong...and I couldn't bear it...you couldn't have borne it...."
There was another silence; then she went on in a stronger voice, looking
straight at her husband: "And now will you send this man away?"
Amherst glanced at Wyant without moving. "Go," he said curtly.
Wyant, instead, moved a step nearer. "Just a minute, please. It's only
fair to hear my side. Your wife says there was no hope; yet the day
before she...gave the dose, Dr. Garford told her in my presence that
Mrs. Amherst might live."
Again Amherst's eyes addressed themselves slowly to Justine; and she
forced her lips to articulate an answer.
"Dr. Garford said...one could never tell...but I know he didn't believe
in the chance of recovery...no one did."
"Dr. Garford is dead," said Wyant grimly.
Amherst strode up to him again. "You scoundrel--leave the house!" he
commanded.
But still Wyant sneeringly stood his ground. "Not till I've finished. I
can't afford to let myself be kicked out like a dog because I happen to
be in the way. Every doctor knows that in cases of spinal lesion
recovery is becoming more and more frequent--if the patient survives the
third week there's every reason to hope. Those are the facts as they
would appear to any surgeon. If they're not true, why is Mrs. Amherst
afraid of having them stated? Why has she been paying me for nearly a
year to keep them quiet?"
"Oh----" Justine moaned.
"I never thought of talking till luck went against me. Then I asked her
for help--and reminded her of certain things. After that she kept me
supplied pretty regularly." He thrust his shaking hand into an inner
pocket. "Here are her envelopes...Quebec...Montreal...Saranac...I know
just where you went on your honeymoon. She had to write often, because
the sums were small. Why did she do it, if she wasn't afraid? And why
did she go upstairs just now to fetch me something? If you don't believe
me, ask her what she's got in her hand."
Amherst did not heed this injunction. He stood motionless, gripping the
back of a chair, as if his next gesture might be to lift and hurl it at
the speaker.
"Ask her----" Wyant repeated.
Amherst turned his head slowly, and his dull gaze rested on his wife.
His face looked years older--lips and eyes moved as heavily as an old
man's.
As he looked at her, Justine came forward without speaking, and laid the
little morocco case in his hand. He held it there a moment, as if hardly
understanding her action--then he tossed it on the table at his elbow,
and walked up to Wyant.
"You hound," he said--"now go!"
XXXVI
WHEN Wyant had left the room, and the house-door had closed on him,
Amherst spoke to his wife.
"Come upstairs," he said.
Justine followed him, scarcely conscious where she went, but moving
already with a lighter tread. Part of her weight of misery had been
lifted with Wyant's going. She had suffered less from the fear of what
her husband might think than from the shame of making her avowal in her
defamer's presence. And her faith in Amherst's comprehension had begun
to revive. He had dismissed Wyant with scorn and horror--did not that
show that he was on her side already? And how many more arguments she
had at her call! Her brain hummed with them as she followed him up the
stairs.
In her bedroom he closed the door and stood motionless, the same heavy
half-paralyzed look on his face. It frightened her and she went up to
him.
"John!" she said timidly.
He put his hand to his head. "Wait a moment----" he returned; and she
waited, her heart slowly sinking again.
The moment over, he seemed to recover his power of movement. He crossed
the room and threw himself into the armchair near the hearth.
"Now tell me everything."
He sat thrown back, his eyes fixed on the fire, and the vertical lines
between his brows forming a deep scar in his white face.
Justine moved nearer, and touched his arm beseechingly. "Won't you look
at me?"
He turned his head slowly, as if with an effort, and his eyes rested
reluctantly on hers.
"Oh, not like that!" she exclaimed.
He seemed to make a stronger effort at self-control. "Please don't heed
me--but say what there is to say," he said in a level voice, his gaze on
the fire.
She stood before him, her arms hanging down, her clasped fingers
twisting restlessly.
"I don't know that there is much to say--beyond what I've told you."
There was a slight sound in Amherst's throat, like the ghost of a
derisive laugh. After another interval he said: "I wish to hear exactly
what happened."
She seated herself on the edge of a chair near by, bending forward, with
hands interlocked and arms extended on her knees--every line reaching
out to him, as though her whole slight body were an arrow winged with
pleadings. It was a relief to speak at last, even face to face with the
stony image that sat in her husband's place; and she told her story,
detail by detail, omitting nothing, exaggerating nothing, speaking
slowly, clearly, with precision, aware that the bare facts were her
strongest argument.
Amherst, as he listened, shifted his position once, raising his hand so
that it screened his face; and in that attitude he remained when she had
ended.
As she waited for him to speak, Justine realized that her heart had been
alive with tremulous hopes. All through her narrative she had counted on
a murmur of perception, an exclamation of pity: she had felt sure of
melting the stony image. But Amherst said no word.
At length he spoke, still without turning his head. "You have not told
me why you kept this from me."
A sob formed in her throat, and she had to wait to steady her voice.
"No--that was my wrong--my weakness. When I did it I never thought of
being afraid to tell you--I had talked it over with you in my own
mind...so often...before...."
"Well?"
"Then--- when you came back it was harder...though I was still sure you
would approve me."
"Why harder?"
"Because at first--at Lynbrook--I could not tell it all over, in
detail, as I have now...it was beyond human power...and without doing
so, I couldn't make it all clear to you...and so should only have added
to your pain. If you had been there you would have done as I did.... I
felt sure of that from the first. But coming afterward, you couldn't
judge...no one who was not there could judge...and I wanted to spare
you...."
"And afterward?"
She had shrunk in advance from this question, and she could not answer
it at once. To gain time she echoed it. "Afterward?"
"Did it never occur to you, when we met later--when you first went to
Mr. Langhope----"?
"To tell you then? No--because by that time I had come to see that I
could never be quite sure of making you understand. No one who was not
there at the time could know what it was to see her suffer."
"You thought it all over, then--decided definitely against telling me?"
"I did not have to think long. I felt I had done right--I still feel
so--and I was sure you would feel so, if you were in the same
circumstances."
There was another pause. Then Amherst said: "And last September--at
Hanaford?"
It was the word for which she had waited--the word of her inmost fears.
She felt the blood mount to her face.
"Did you see no difference--no special reason for telling me then?"
"Yes----" she faltered.
"Yet you said nothing."
"No."
Silence again. Her eyes strayed to the clock, and some dim association
of ideas told her that Cicely would soon be coming in.
"Why did you say nothing?"
He lowered his hand and turned toward her as he spoke; and she looked up
and faced him.
"Because I regarded the question as settled. I had decided it in my own
mind months before, and had never regretted my decision. I should have
thought it morbid...unnatural...to go over the whole subject again...to
let it affect a situation that had come about...so much later...so
unexpectedly."
"Did you never feel that, later, if I came to know--if others came to
know--it might be difficult----?"
"No; for I didn't care for the others--and I believed that, whatever
your own feelings were, you would know I had done what I thought right."
She spoke the words proudly, strongly, and for the first time the hard
lines of his face relaxed, and a slight tremor crossed it.
"If you believed this, why have you been letting that cur blackmail
you?"
"Because when he began I saw for the first time that what I had done
might be turned against me by--by those who disliked our marriage. And I
was afraid for my happiness. That was my weakness...it is what I am
suffering for now."
"Suffering!" he echoed ironically, as though she had presumed to apply
to herself a word of which he had the grim monopoly. He rose and took a
few aimless steps; then he halted before her.
"That day--last month--when you asked me for money...was it...?"
"Yes----" she said, her head sinking.
He laughed. "You couldn't tell me--but you could use my money to bribe
that fellow to conspire with you!"
"I had none of my own."
"No--nor I either! You used her money.--God!" he groaned, turning away
with clenched hands.
Justine had risen also, and she stood motionless, her hands clasped
against her breast, in the drawn shrinking attitude of a fugitive
overtaken by a blinding storm. He moved back to her with an appealing
gesture.
"And you didn't see--it didn't occur to you--that your doing...as you
did...was an obstacle--an insurmountable obstacle--to our ever ...?"
She cut him short with an indignant cry. "No! No! for it was not. How
could it have anything to do with what...came after...with you or me? I
did it only for Bessy--it concerned only Bessy!"
"Ah, don't name her!" broke from him harshly, and she drew back, cut to
the heart.
There was another pause, during which he seemed to fall into a kind of
dazed irresolution, his head on his breast, as though unconscious of her
presence. Then he roused himself and went to the door.
As he passed her she sprang after him. "John--John! Is that all you have
to say?"
"What more is there?"
"What more? Everything!--What right have you to turn from me as if I
were a murderess? I did nothing but what your own reason, your own
arguments, have justified a hundred times! I made a mistake in not
telling you at once--but a mistake is not a crime. It can't be your real
feeling that turns you from me--it must be the dread of what other
people would think! But when have you cared for what other people
thought? When have your own actions been governed by it?"
He moved another step without speaking, and she caught him by the arm.
"No! you sha'n't go--not like that!--Wait!"
She turned and crossed the room. On the lower shelf of the little table
by her bed a few books were ranged: she stooped and drew one hurriedly
forth, opening it at the fly-leaf as she went back to Amherst.
"There--read that. The book was at Lynbrook--in your room--and I came
across it by chance the very day...."
It was the little volume of Bacon which she was thrusting at him. He
took it with a bewildered look, as if scarcely following what she said.
"Read it--read it!" she commanded; and mechanically he read out the
words he had written.
"La vraie morale se moque de la morale.... We perish because we follow
other men's examples.... Socrates called the opinions of the many
Lamiæ.--Good God!" he exclaimed, flinging the book from him with a
gesture of abhorrence.
Justine watched him with panting lips, her knees trembling under her.
"But you wrote it--you wrote it! I thought you meant it!" she cried, as
the book spun across a table and dropped to the floor.
He looked at her coldly, almost apprehensively, as if she had grown
suddenly dangerous and remote; then he turned and walked out of the
room.
       *       *       *       *       *
The striking of the clock roused her. She rose to her feet, rang the
bell, and told the maid, through the door, that she had a headache, and
was unable to see Miss Cicely. Then she turned back into the room, and
darkness closed on her. She was not the kind to take grief passively--it
drove her in anguished pacings up and down the floor. She walked and
walked till her legs flagged under her; then she dropped stupidly into
the chair where Amherst had sat....
All her world had crumbled about her. It was as if some law of mental
gravity had been mysteriously suspended, and every firmly-anchored
conviction, every accepted process of reasoning, spun disconnectedly
through space. Amherst had not understood her--worse still, he had
judged her as the world might judge her! The core of her misery was
there. With terrible clearness she saw the suspicion that had crossed
his mind--the suspicion that she had kept silence in the beginning
because she loved him, and feared to lose him if she spoke.
And what if it were true? What if her unconscious guilt went back even
farther than his thought dared to track it? She could not now recall a
time when she had not loved him. Every chance meeting with him, from
their first brief talk at Hanaford, stood out embossed and glowing
against the blur of lesser memories. Was it possible that she had loved
him during Bessy's life--that she had even, sub-consciously, blindly,
been urged by her feeling for him to perform the act?
But she shook herself free from this morbid horror--the rebound of
health was always prompt in her, and her mind instinctively rejected
every form of moral poison. No! Her motive had been normal, sane and
justifiable--completely justifiable. Her fault lay in having dared to
rise above conventional restrictions, her mistake in believing that her
husband could rise with her. These reflections steadied her but they did
not bring much comfort. For her whole life was centred in Amherst, and
she saw that he would never be able to free himself from the traditional
view of her act. In looking back, and correcting her survey of his
character in the revealing light of the last hours, she perceived that,
like many men of emancipated thought, he had remained subject to the old
conventions of feeling. And he had probably never given much thought to
women till he met her--had always been content to deal with them in the
accepted currency of sentiment. After all, it was the currency they
liked best, and for which they offered their prettiest wares!
But what of the intellectual accord between himself and her? She had not
been deceived in that! He and she had really been wedded in mind as well
as in heart. But until now there had not arisen in their lives one of
those searching questions which call into play emotions rooted far below
reason and judgment, in the dark primal depths of inherited feeling. It
is easy to judge impersonal problems intellectually, turning on them the
full light of acquired knowledge; but too often one must still grope
one's way through the personal difficulty by the dim taper carried in
long-dead hands....
But was there then no hope of lifting one's individual life to a clearer
height of conduct? Must one be content to think for the race, and to
feel only--feel blindly and incoherently--for one's self? And was it not
from such natures as Amherst's--natures in which independence of
judgment was blent with strong human sympathy--that the liberating
impulse should come?
Her mind grew weary of revolving in this vain circle of questions. The
fact was that, in their particular case, Amherst had not risen above
prejudice and emotion; that, though her act was one to which his
intellectual sanction was given, he had turned from her with instinctive
repugnance, had dishonoured her by the most wounding suspicions. The
