tween cheek and shoulder, and cried, to the 
detriment of Helen’s fresh stock. 
“ I can’t do it ! I can’t ! Will I be sent 
home in disgrace, I wonder? And I’ve come 
to like it so. I’ve heard of high-up schools 
where they took parlor boarders; isn’t there 
any such thing in colleges? I tried and tried 
over those geometry problems until I felt my- 
self turning into all kinds of many-sided things 
and my brain nearly burst. Not one of them 
was right. Are there not some people who 
can’t learn certain things? And what use will 
they be to me? ” 
“ Do not take it so hard. Was nothing well 
done?” asked Helen, in a cool, tranquillizing 
tone. 
“ Oh, that about Greek art ! But you see, 
I really love that. And then the Anabasis, but 
I’d read the translations so much; only I’m 
not very expert in Greek writing. And French 
grammar was ‘ Passable. Go over again.’ 
I’m willing to stay in the freshman class, if 
I only squeeze through, but they were talk- 
ing last night about girls that had been 
dropped.” 
“ We will go over the geometry. It is hard 
for an unmathematical brain,” smiling. 
Shirley began to mop up her eyes. “ You’re 
my good angel, and yet you refuse the adora- 
tion I can offer. Even the Greek gods were 
not so cruel as that,” and a gleam of sunshine 
began to break over the child-face. 
“ Here is something that may comfort you. 
I think it a great compliment. I had one 
article in my freshman year, and one this De- 
cember. You may do quite as well.” 
She began with a puzzled look, glanced at 
Helen incredulously, then read on, and a radi- 
ance illumined her countenance, her lips quiv- 
ered, her eyes grew moist, it seemed, with both 
pain and pleasure struggling in them. 
“ They are my verses and they aren’t. It’s 
the poem you and Miss Brooks made me write. 
And I'd rather have mine to you, for that 
came from my very heart. You see, I don’t 
care what Strephon said to Phyllis; they’re 
not my people at all. They don’t touch my 
soul. Is it the soul that enjoys? Since that 
lesson in physiology about the heart and the 
circulation, you can’t have a bit of romance 
about it, or really believe any sentiment comes 
out of it. Science is just going to spoil every- 
thing beautiful in life,” she said, in a dissatis- 
fied, complaining tone. 
 
“ And you are not a bit grateful for this 
compliment?”  
“Oh! is it a compliment?” She looked 
bewildered. 
“ I suppose you never had anything printed 
before? ” 
“ Why, no ! I never dreamed any one 
would care until I could write something really 
splendid. I didn't suppose any one would 
want to print a little thing like that! It isn't 
as fine as that first one.” 
“ But you see general readers are not so 
much interested in personal admiration.” 
“ Why, I didn't care to have any one know 
it, but just you. That was the charm.” 
“ You are a little dear! ” exclaimed Helen, 
warmly, touched by the abnegation of self. 
“ Some day, if you cultivate your talent, you 
will understand all these necessary points that 
give delicate flavors. And when you have a 
lover, he may be glad of this poetic adoration.” 
“ If one could write Portuguese sonnets to 
him! But he would have to be Browning to 
inspire one.” 
What a curious compound she was. Was it 
real genius? Helen’s knowledge of geniuses 
was limited. 
“Well — what am I to do? Go to these 
magazine people and thank them on my 
bended knees ? " 
A sense of mirth quivered about her rosy 
lips. She had the sunny temper of a June day, 
and the drifts of wounds or hurts dissolved 
like the airy clouds in the sky. 
“No. You will no doubt hear from the 
editorial corps. And now if you can come 
down to every-day, troublesome things, sup- 
pose we look at the geometry.” 
“Oh, please do not think me ungrateful! 
It was a lovely thing for you and Miss Brooks 
to do, and I do not know what to say,” in 
bewilderment. 
“ Then let us devote the known and un- 
known quantities to problems.” 
CHAPTER VIII 
IN A STRAIT BETWIXT TWO 
Miss Chardavoyne was cordially invited 
to Miss M inturn’s room to a tea at eight 
o’clock on Tuesday evening. She came to 
Helen with the note in her hand. 
“ Miss Minturn is editor-in-chief of the 
Miscellany , and we are all sure she will be on 
the honor list, and no doubt have one of the 
essays. Of course, it is about the poem." 
“ But I am frightened. I don't know any 
of the high-up girls, except Miss Brooks and 
a Miss Weeks who came from Petersburg. 
And — what am I expected to do ? Oh, can 
you go? ” 
“ Of course, your sponsors will be there,” 
replied Helen, laughing in a pleasant, friendly 
manner. “ And you have only to be your 
natural self; it is no formidable ordeal. The 
seniors make a good deal of allowance. They 
have been on the foundation lines them- 
selves.” 
“And how shall I dress?” 
“ Wear something pretty and poetic. You 
have a soft, pale green gown that makes you 
look like a naiad, only I believe they have 
yellow hair.” 
Shirley had an incomprehensible fit of shy- 
ness as she entered. Miss Minturn’s room was 
quite large and handsomely furnished with the 
trophies of four years of college life. She was 
rather tall, with fine contours, and had been 
a renowned athlete in her junior days, but she 
smiled out of clear, hazel eyes as she proffered 
her hand to Shirley and then introduced her 
to the assembled group. 
There was a touch of arch, deprecating 
sweetness in the young girl’s face, and grace 
being her birthright, even the strangeness did 
not make her awkward. 
“ We are so glad to discover you,” began 
Miss Minturn. “ I had no idea those charm- 
ing verses were from so young a poet. I hope 
you will fulfil the promise given in them, but 
 
you must remember that the climb up Parnas- 
sus is rather steep.” 
“ Maybe it is best not to keep your eyes 
fixed on the very top, you might get dizzy. 
And the meadows and fields have the most 
bloom and the warmest welcome. I am not 
so ambitious; I should only care to write for 
those ” — who appreciate me, she was about 
to say, but hesitated and substituted, “ liked 
me.” 
“ The modesty of a true poet. Come over 
here; I want to talk to you — ” 
“ She goes round the circle first,” inter- 
rupted Miss Minturn. “ She is the guest of 
honor this evening, and you cannot monopolize 
her and drain her dry. It will not make a 
poet of you,” laughed the hostess. 
“ Surely I am content to be the plain prose 
of this august body. But if some day you 
should see me amassing a fortune by writing 
advertisements, how you will regret having 
flouted me in my unsophisticated youth.” 
“ Hear! hear! ” and another rapped on the 
table. 
Shirley made the rounds of the young 
women, who did not seem so formidable after 
all. Their laughs precluded all idea of stiff- 
ness. She seated herself next to Helen, but 
the girl who had spoken for her came over and 
pushed her companion on the other side a little, 
squeezing herself in beside her. 
“ I am always anxious to know how verses 
are written," she began, in a complaining tone, 
as if she had been wronged out of some quali- 
fication. “ I have a long list of words that 
rhyme, but the puzzle is to get the beautiful 
ideas to go in between. College ought to sup- 
ply them, but it doesn’t." 
Shirley looked amazed an instant, then the 
face above her softened to a smile and set the 
girl at ease. She felt at once the atmosphere 
of refinement, instead of the crudeness of the 
freshmen; it was of the quality she had been 
accustomed to and was native air. 
She had lived and revelled in poetry. No, 
she had never been away from home except 
on visits, and she was not quite sure how much 
she liked college. If it was not for the awful 
tasks! Oh, she wrote the things that came 
to her, but she had never thought of having 
them praised ! Her father considered two or 
three verses of no account; just a whiff of a 
passing breeze. 
“ Did he set you at reading ponderous Mil- 
ton ?” asked another of the seniors. “It 
would be harnessing a butterfly to a cart.” 
“ But I liked L’ Allegro,” she interposed. 
“ Father hasn’t much opinion of a girl’s in- 
tellect, and thinks he doesn't care for women's 
books, but he reads George Eliot. He took up 
Greek with me, but was disgusted. I revel in 
the translations, but I think I shall not go 
on with the language, French is so much 
easier.” 
“ But about the verses. I’m interested in 
the beginning of things, in the first exquisite 
thrill — ” 
“ Oh, stop your nonsense and don’t tease 
the child! Your poem was dainty and lovely, 
new and fresh, and we were glad to have it. 
You might venture upon another if you can 
do as well.” 
“ If you were older and wiser we might 
accuse you of knowing about Strephon under 
another name. Did some one tell you a 
charming love-story, or did you just imagine 
it?” asked another. 
Shirley turned a bewitching rose color. 
Helen’s heart came up in her throat lest Shir- 
ley should overstep discretion, but the regard 
for her ideal was too sacred to be brought out 
to promiscuous eyes. 
Miss Minturn made some tea that diffused 
a fragrance through the room, and brought 
out a few dainties. Her china was the envy 
of more than one, and she didn't always dis- 
play her rarest cups that had been sent her 
from many quarters of the globe. To-night 
she was generous. They drank to Miss Char- 
davoyne’s future success; they passed best 
wishes around, and if there was a famine in 
the absolute wisdom that might be supposed to 
emanate from seniors who were on their way 
to degrees, it was made up by the outflow of 
fun and jests that were cast around with the 
harmlessness of confetti. 
The good night was most cordial. Leslie 
and Helen escorted their guest to her hall. 
“ It was just charming, like the evenings 
mamma sometimes tells about. After the first. 
I didn’t feel at all afraid, though they must 
all be wise young women if they can pass those 
awful examinations. I was looking over the 
official circular and I’m glad I didn’t start to 
go through. I should get buried in oceans of 
knowledge that would never be the slightest 
good to me. You have both been lovely, and 
I thank you.” 
“ She is a rather curious compound, and 
certainly is well-bred and charmingly modest. 
Why, she didn't seem at all elated by the com- 
pliments and the interest that would have 
given some girls an attack of mental vertigo ! 
I wish Lorraine had been here.” 
Helen echoed that. A few days later they 
heard from her. The pneumonia had not been 
severe, but she was to go to Florida for several 
weeks. It was too bad to lose all that time 
and to be out a year. 
Helen missed her very much. There were 
other friends, to be sure, but she was learning 
that the interchange of thought and feeling, 
or even the commonplaces of an intimate ac- 
quaintance, took a good deal of time. She 
was willing to be helpful, but there were girls 
who drained one, who took all, and gave noth- 
ing back. 
Easter came with its glorious rejoicing, its 
grand music, its other side of college, tests and 
games, and now the strain began for the ex- 
aminations. The commencement exercises 
were discussed, the grand field-day, the finals. 
The girls wondered who would win the fresh- 
man prize; half a dozen girls were in hot 
competition. Then the juniors had one to be 
awarded for the best essay on Shakespeare. 
Helen had wondered whether she should try. 
She had made some notes. 
But one afternoon she was summoned to 
the students’ parlor and surprised at the sight 
of Willard Bell. His grave face shocked her, 
and the black gloves he held in his hand struck 
a chill to her heart. 
“Daisy!” she cried. 
“ Our dear Daisy has been brought home 
for the last time. They reached the city this 
morning, and will leave for the burial to-mor- 
row. I did not see her alive, but she was so 
changed that I could hardly make our pretty 
darling out of her. And she was so resolved 
to get better she would not hear a word of 
dying. So young, and with everything to live 
for ! She really did seem better a fortnight 
before she went, then suddenly she dropped 
down. I was on my way to New York, and 
there father met me with the sad news. Then, 
as I said, mother and Mr. Duer returned with 
the body. And now they want you. You 
seem to take Daisy's place in father’s heart, 
and you must not refuse him. Mother wishes 
it, too. There is a train by which we can 
reach the city at ten if you can get ready in 
an hour.” 
Helen made an effort to speak, but her 
throat filled up and her eyes were heavy with 
pain, rather than tears. It seemed heartless 
not to have been thinking through all these 
weeks of Daisy, the radiant, eager, wilful little 
queen. Had her marriage been very happy, 
Helen wondered. Had Mr. Duer been with 
her all the winter ? 
“ We cannot take no, Helen." Willard rose 
as he said this. He seemed taller, more manly, 
with a much more vivid personality and 
strength than she had credited him with be- 
fore. Yes, he had improved, in some inde- 
scribable manner he had gone beyond her ; she 
felt that. 
“Oh!” she cried, “I cannot tell you! I 
cannot express my sorrow ! I have somehow 
been afraid of the end, but it did not seem so 
near. And we were such friends in our girl- 
hood — at school — ” 
She had uttered this in broken sentences, 
and as the old memories rushed over her, the 
tears flowed. 
“Yes; mother was very anxious you 
should come. There were some messages and 
— and gifts. Oh, they both want to see you 
so ! Father is fairly heart-broken.” Then he 
took out his watch. “ There is only an hour,” 
wistfully. “ Will you get ready? ” 
There was a certain sound of gentle author- 
ity in his voice. Yes; she must go. Fortu- 
nately she had her thesis ready, her study of 
governments was almost completed and would 
not have to be sent in under a fortnight, and 
Goethe’s “ Egmont ” with Schiller’s sketch of 
Egmont’s life — oh, she could soon catch up 
in the few matters, but they must not be con- 
sidered just now! Love and duty both called. 
“ Then you must excuse me while I make 
arrangements,” she said in a low tone, the 
traces of tears still in her eyes as she glanced 
up, and his were bent upon her with a new 
tenderness. 
There were professors to see, explanations 
to be made, and to Miss Brooks she rehearsed 
a little of the story. 
“ Oh, wasn't that your friend’s admirer? I 
remember now ; they were at commencement. 
And a schoolmate. Is it the first break in 
your ranks of friendship? You are a fortu- 
nate girl. Yes; I'll see to the loose ends. And 
you’ll be sure to come back in time to finish 
your work.” 
“ By Monday, at the latest,” returned 
Helen, with her good-by. “ Tell Miss Char- 
davoyne how it was. She is at recitation. 
And tell some of the others.” 
Less than two years ago she had taken the 
same journey with Willard at Daisy’s impera- 
tive summons. The pretty, sweet, captious 
lips were silent now ; they would never speak 
again. It was dreadful to go out of the world 
in youth. She could not imagine any one being 
even reconciled at that period. Death seemed 
for old age. And how few she had cared for 
had gone out of her life ! One was her first 
friend, Mrs. Van Dorn, and that memory had 
been sweetened by time. 
Willard was most attentive in an unobtru- 
sive way. How manly he had grown ; the 
boyish crudenesses seemed to have ripened and 
fallen off, leaving a serenity of mien, a finer 
outlook, a touch of tenderness that no longer 
needed words. His silence was very grateful 
to her, for she was brooding over the terrible 
side of death as it always appears to youth. 
The darkness settled down ; lamps were 
lighted. They whirled through cities where 
all was bustle and noise, with rows of still busy 
streets; small towns, with here and there a 
glow from some store; flying past stations 
with express speed; long reaches of darkness, 
towns again, rattling over bridges, echoing by 
rocky heights. The coach was not very full. 
Now and then a passenger came in or passed 
out. Then, as the silence seemed unsocial, 
she spoke of his visit to New Orleans, and he 
was quite eloquent over the strange old town 
with its still picturesque inhabitants, of the 
great river rolling through it, the lake and 
delta, with the old legends. 
“ And Bermuda, I suppose, was beautiful, 
but one need not ask that.” 
“ A land of flowers. People going and 
coming continually. Gaiety and pleasure and 
health-seekers, and a charming climate. They 
had not meant to remain there, but they were 
delightfully situated and found some most 
agreeable Americans, two young girls full of 
health and spirits who were there with an 
invalid aunt who was very cheerful herself. 
Then she liked the young doctor who watched 
over her as a brother. Mr. Duer had one most 
excellent quality; he never was jealous. He 
liked Daisy to have hosts of friends and be 
admired. He took little trips off now and 
then; a young fellow with no special business 
habits and plenty of money must be in search 
of amusement most of the time. I really can’t 
see why he married Daisy. A domestic life 
would have been so much better for her, and 
he really didn't need a wife at all. Women 
were always making much of him. He was 
a great hand to get up pleasure parties. A 
friend lent him his yacht for a month and he 
took different ones cruising around. Water 
journeys did not seem to hurt Daisy, she really 
enjoyed sailing. And there were so many 
lovely islands about. I almost envied the fel- 
low, but I wouldn’t want a whole life of it. 
Daisy used to be taken around in a wheeled 
chair when I was there; it tired her to walk. 
And these two girls were so entertaining. 
Well, I do suppose she was happy and she 
really didn't think of dying in years to come. 
She counted on having a settled home some 
time. But mother knew. Poor mother ! And 
father takes it very hard. He has always been 
especially fond of girls.” 
Helen was winking away the slow-gathering 
tears that would come. She was infinitely 
sorry for the life that had gone out, but it 
seemed as if she had had very little part in it. 
She tried to feel pained for herself, as if she 
had lost some worthy and lovely friendship. 
It had come very near that twice, and she was 
thankful to recall it. She had grown much 
more discriminating; she could see that in 
herself. The exactness in many branches of 
study had given her a clearer and more accu- 
rate insight into character. She wished just 
now that she could not gauge so clearly. But 
she understood that the sunniness, the moods 
of sweetness, were as the events and people 
affected Daisy. She wanted her little world 
revolving about her until she was ready to let 
those who composed it drop out of her orbit, 
displace them by some one new. She gave for 
the return she got; there was nothing wide or 
generously outflowing in her nature, she never 
thought of making another happy, of radiating 
a living blessedness. Helen had seen devotion 
of girls in college, even back at school, where 
there was a certain equality of tenderness. 
Now and then Willard inquired if she was 
comfortable. She was too stunned and sore 
to talk about Daisy and blamed herself for a 
certain hardness of heart. 
They came into the station at length in the 
glare of lights and confusion. Mr. Duer was 
there with the carriage. He had grown some- 
what stouter, and certainly was fine-looking, 
a splendid example of health and good breed- 
ing. Ah, it was no wonder Daisy, who was 
affected so by the outward and visible signs, 
should have loved him. 
“ Oh, Miss Grant! ” holding her hand in a 
warm pressure, “ I am so glad you could 
come. You will be such a great comfort to 
Mr. and Mrs. Bell. It is a sad time for us all, 
but we have been in a certain sense prepared 
for it. Daisy was delicate always, and pos- 
sessed the intense nature that wears one out 
rapidly. She was very sweet and tender and 
won a great deal of love. She could not have 
lived without it.” 
Then the brothers-in-law exchanged some 
conversation regarding the arrangements. 
The Newells had come in town; there would 
be church services at eleven in the morning; 
Daisy would be taken to Woodlawn; the 
Townes had a plot there, and his family had 
a large one, so they thought it better than 
the little country burying-ground. 
Mr. Bel! was down in the hall watching for 
them. He simply took Helen in his arms and 
kissed her. 
“ We must have some supper," Willard said. 
“ I am absolutely starved, and I think Helen 
must be, after the long journey.'’ 
“I ordered it before I went!" exclaimed 
Mr. Duer. “ Come this way.” 
Mr. Bell sat by the table beside Helen. Mrs. 
Bell had gone to bed very much worn out. 
Helen found that she was hungry, but it was 
a silent meal, and then Mr. Bell with great 
tenderness conducted her to the room adjoin- 
ing theirs. 
“ I am so thankful you could come," he said 
with his good night. “ You seem like our very 
own.” 
The interview with Mrs. Bell the next morn- 
ing was sorrowful indeed. She showed her 
fatigue plainly and seemed very delicate her- 
self. Willard and Mr. Duer were very atten- 
tive to her, while Mr. Bell seemed to gravitate 
to Helen. Mr. and Mrs. Hollis came, and 
then the coaches took them to the church. 
There in the front of the chancel stood the 
little mound covered with a black velvet pall. 
A cluster of half-blown white roses lay on it 
in simple beauty. Helen could imagine Daisy 
asleep underneath in the silent mystery. It 
seemed as if she must come out of this tran- 
quil rest. Where was she now? Would one 
feel alone in heaven? 
The beautiful service was said over her with 
its solemn chants and inspired lessons, and 
then they moved slowly out, Willard escorting 
Helen, and took the last journey to the burial 
plot. 
“ It doesn't seem as if one is really dead 
until one is hidden away for the last time,’ 
Willard said in a low tone. “ I don’t know 
whether this is the usual feeling when you 
have lost some one dear to you, but it seems 
as if Daisy mast come back, as if we should 
find her up home when we went there. You 
can't reconcile death with youth. It seems 
abnormal, even if it does occur so often.” 
The Newells were quite insistent that the 
Bells should spend a day or two with them. 
They had always been most cordial with 
Daisy. 
“ I am anxious to get home,” Mrs. Bell said 
in answer to the pressing invitation, as well 
as to that of her daughters. 
“If you like, I will come up and stay 
awhile," said Marjorie. 
“ Come to-morrow,” returned the mother. 
There was spring in the air, although the 
sun was hiding under a soft roof of clouds. 
They turned away from the flower-covered 
mound and said a quiet good-by to each 
other. Helen realized that it was not possible 
to make the break of a return to college at 
once, though she felt that she ought to go. A 
soft spirit seemed brooding everywhere, the 
green herbage showed here and there a bloom, 
the early violets were pricking through, tiny 
leaves were hugging the brown twigs as if 
almost afraid to venture out, birds were twit- 
tering and consulting, and now and then one 
poured out a trill that seemed to shake the 
very air. 
The house had been put in order by an effi- 
cient woman. There was a window filled with 
blooming flowers, everything was natural and 
homelike, as Helen remembered it. But how 
long ago it seemed! Yes, she had loved Daisy 
then. Had she changed so herself? 
After supper Mrs. Bell begged to be ex- 
cused. 
“ I leave you in good hands,’ she said to 
Helen, with a faint smile. “ To-morrow we 
will have our talk.” 
Willard lighted his cigar presently and 
sauntered out. His case would lose nothing 
by this advocate. He had a tender and son- 
like feeling toward both parents in their be- 
reavement. 
Helen sat silent for some moments. Then 
Mr. Bell motioned her beside him, and almost 
without volition, she rose and went. 
He put his arm over her shoulder. 
“ I do not just understand how it is, Helen, 
but you seem so near, so like one of us. Daisy 
had other schoolmate visitors and they were 
nice girls, too, and they went out of our minds, 
but we talked of you so often. You impress 
yourself upon one with an unusual individual- 
ity, or else — yes, I think it is that — you fit 
in a niche that has stood empty waiting for 
you, and no other person could have filled it. 
 
I wish you had been Daisy’s cousin, then when 
your father died, I should have claimed you.’’ 
»“You have always been so tender to me, 
so sympathetic." Her voice trembled a little 
and she could not help thinking of the place 
made for her, that she was reluctant to fill. 
“ I have never felt quite satisfied about 
Daisy’s life,” he went on after a pause, and 
there was a peculiar sound of sadness in his 
voice. “ I think we indulged her too much, 
partly because she was not very strong, and 
partly because of her winsome, coaxing man- 
ner. Every one gave in to her at the end, 
sometimes against his better judgment. 
There is a responsibility in every close rela- 
tion, and one cannot always see clearly to the 
end. If we could not trust in God and leave 
our burdens in His hands, we would go sor- 
rowing all the rest of our lives.” 
“ But her life had many joys in it. She 
gathered up a great deal of love on every 
hand.” 
“ I never felt quite sure hers was the high- 
est love that can come to a woman. The 
other girls seem perfectly mated. One’s de- 
light is the centre of a family; the other one 
is continually reaching out to sow some seed 
in the great world that shall bear fruit, four- 
fold, perhaps. They were so dissimilar, Daisy 
and Harlan Duer. He was always generous 
and indulgent to her, but he was a very thor- 
ough man of the world, and when he married 
he did not give up his old personal desires and 
pleasures. She could have her friends, her 
pleasures, her amusements, and he would take 
his. He gave just so much of himself; they 
were not one, but always two. Perhaps you 
knew we did not quite approve of the mar- 
riage. If we had thwarted it, and she had 
dropped down, gone into a decline, and died 
after a few years, we should have blamed our- 
selves severely. She had her desire, and it 
happened. I hope she never knew she was 
feeding upon husks, yet it was the best Mr. 
Duer had to give. Some women would not 
have minded, would have taken outside pleas- 
ures to fill up the craving, and they would 
have kept themselves morally good, too. But 
I think it fretted Daisy. She was right in be- 
lieving a wife should be all to her husband, 
not only a part of his life. I cannot think they 
were meant for each other in the great allot- 
ment, and yet it seems as if nothing could 
come to pass without God’s guiding hand in 
it. My dear, I ought not sadden you with 
my misgivings — ” 
“ Oh, I think Daisy must have been 
happy!” she cried impulsively, wanting to 
comfort. Yet, she understood what was in 
the father’s heart. 
“ Do you know how dear you are to us, 
Helen?” and Mr. Bell pressed her closer. 
“ But now you must tell me about yourself. 
We were so proud that you went in the 
juniors. One more year, and you will be 
through. You have been happy, I know. I
hope you have not lost the romance of a girl’s 
life. There is so much sweetness that buds 
along these years, and if it does not come to 
blossoming it withers slowly. I want you to 
have all the happiness of a true woman’s life, 
and that is in loving and being loved. I need 
not ask if you have met friends.” 
Helen was quite enthusiastic about her hap- 
penings, her standing, and her hopes for an- 
other year. Willard came in. 
“ It is raining a little,” he said. “ A gentle 
springlike rain, and an old line came into my 
mind : 
“ ‘ Blessed is the corpse that the rain falls on.’ ” 
“ Poor, dear Daisy,” murmured the father. 
CHAPTER IX 
THE HIGH RESOLVES OF YOUTH 
Helen felt she ought to go the next day, 
but Mrs. Bell claimed her. The luggage had 
been sent up. Mr. Duer had refused utterly 
to keep any of the gifts he had made his wife, 
and there were some very beautiful ones. 
Daisy had spoken to her mother of several 
for Helen, and they had been made into a 
parcel with a number Mrs. Bell had added. 
“ I think she kept you nearer her heart than 
almost any one she knew. She was fond of 
variety, and often thought she saw more in 
people than there really was, as she found 
when she knew them well. But during those 
last weeks her heart turned to you. Of course 
it would not have been possible for you to 
give up your plans, nor necessary either, but 
your strength and energy were an inspiration 
to her. I wish, Helen, that it could have been 
so that she had gone to college with you. Her 
health would not have permitted it, but I be- 
lieve it tides many girls over those uncertain 
years and shapes character and matures judg- 
ment. There were two such charming girls 
at our hotel, and one enters college next year. 
I was so glad for Daisy to find friends." 
