
'No,' she answered, at last. 'Not dead for you--alive for you.'

He would have caught at a straw, and the joy came into his face as he
quickly held out his hand to her; but she would not take it: hers were
both hidden under her white cloth scapular and she shrank from him.
The light went out of his eyes.

'I might have known!' he said, deeply disappointed. 'You do not mean
it. I suppose you will explain that you are alive to pray for me!'

'You promised to listen quietly, whatever I might say.'

'Yes.' He controlled himself. 'I will,' he added, after a moment. 'Go
on.'

'I am not changed,' said Sister Giovanna, 'but my life is. That is
what I meant by the inevitable. No person can undo what I have
done'--Giovanni moved impatiently--'no power can loose me from my vows.'

In spite of himself, the man's temper broke out.

'You are mad,' he answered roughly, 'or else you do not know that you
can be free.'

'Hush!' cried the nun, trying once more to check him. 'Your
promise--remember it!'

'I break it! I will not listen meekly to such folly! Before you took
the vow, you had given me your word, as I gave you mine, that we would
be man and wife, and since I am not dead, no promise or oath made
after that is binding! I know that you love me still, as you did then,
and if you will not try to free yourself, then by all you believe, and
by all I honour, I will set you free!'

It was a challenge if it was not a threat, and Sister Giovanna
defended herself as she could. But she was painfully conscious that
something in her responded with a thrill to the cry of the pursuer.
Nevertheless, she answered with a firm refusal.

'You cannot make me do what I will not,' she said.

'I can and I will!' he retorted vehemently. 'It is monstrous that you
should be bound by a promise made in ignorance, under a wretched
mistake, on a false report that I was dead!'

'We were not even formally betrothed----'

'We loved each other,' interrupted Giovanni, 'and we had told each
other so. That is enough. We belong to each other just as truly as if
we were man and wife----'

'Even if we were,' said the nun, interrupting him in her turn, 'if I
had taken my vows in the belief that my husband had been dead for
years, I would not ask to be released!'

He stared at her, his temper suddenly chilled in amazement.

'But if it were a mistake,' he objected, 'if the Pope offered you a
dispensation, would you refuse it?'

Sister Giovanna was prepared, for she had thought of that.

'If you had given a man your word of honour to pay a debt you owed
him, would you break your promise if you suddenly found that you could
use the money in another way, which would give you the keenest
pleasure?'

'That is quite different! How can you ask such an absurd question?'

'It is not absurd, and the case is not so different as you think. I
have given my word to God in heaven, and I must pay my debt.'

Giovanni was indignant again, and rebelled.

'You used to tell me that your God was just!'

'And I have heard you say that your only god was honour!' retorted the
nun.

'Yes!' he answered hotly. 'It is! Honour teaches that the first promise
given must be fulfilled before all others!'

'I have been taught that vows made to God must not be broken.'

She rose, as if the speech were final. Though they had been talking only
a few minutes, she already felt that she could not bear much more.

'Surely you are not going already!' he cried, starting to his feet.

Sister Giovanna turned so that she was face to face with him.

'What is there left to say?' she asked, with a great effort.

'Everything! I told you that I would answer when you had finished, and
now that you have nothing left to say, you must hear me! You said you
would----'

'I said that there could be no answer.' Nevertheless she waited,
motionless.

'But there is! The answer is that I will free you from the slavery to
which you have sold your soul! The answer is, I love you, and it is
yourself I love, the woman you are now, not the memory of your shadow
from long ago, but you, you, your very self!'

Half out of his mind, he tried to seize her by the arm, to draw her to
him; but he only caught her sleeve, and dropped it as she sprang back
with a lightness and maiden grace that almost drove him mad. She drew
herself up, offended and hurt.

'Remember what I am, and where you are!'

Giovanni's manner changed so suddenly that she would have been
suspicious, if she had not been too much disturbed to reason. She
fancied that she still controlled him.

'You are right,' he said; 'I beg your pardon. Only tell me when I may
see you again.'

'Not for a long time--not till you can give me your word that you will
control yourself. Till then, we must say good-bye.'

He was so quiet, all at once, that it was easier to say the word than
she had expected.

'No,' he answered, 'not good-bye, for even if you will not see me, I
shall be near you.'

'Near? Where?'

'I am living in my brother's rooms at the Magazine. I am in charge till
he gets well. I asked permission to take his place on the day I arrived,
from the Minister himself.'

'You have taken his place!' She could not keep her anxiety out of her
voice.

'Yes, and I hope to get a shot at the fellow who wounded Ugo. But the
post suits me, for the upper part of this house is in sight of my
windows. If you look out towards the river, you can see where I live.'

He spoke so gently that she lingered instead of leaving him at once, as
she had meant to do.

'And besides,' he went on, in the same tone, 'I shall come here every
day until my brother can go home. I may meet you at any moment, in going
to his room. You will not refuse to speak to me, will you?'

He smiled. He seemed quite changed within a few moments. But she shook
her head.

'You will not see me here again,' she answered, 'for my week's turn as
supervising nurse will be over this evening and I am going to a private
case.'

'To-night?' Giovanni asked, with a little surprise.

'Yes, to-night.'

'Do you mean to say that you do not even have a day's rest after being
on duty a whole week? What a life! But they must give you a few hours,
surely! What time do you go off duty, and at what time do you go to your
new patient? I suppose they send for you?'

'Yes, at about eight o'clock. That is the usual time, but I never know
long beforehand. Arrangements of that sort are all made by the Mother
Superior.'

It did not seem unnatural that he should ask questions about her
occupation, now that he was calmer, nor could she think it wrong to
answer them. Any one might have listened to what they were saying.

'I daresay you do not even know where you are going this evening?'
Giovanni said.

She thought that he was talking only to keep her with him a little
longer. Overstrained as she had been, it was a relief to exchange a few
words quietly before parting from him.

'It is true,' she answered, after a moment's thought. 'I daresay the
Mother Superior mentioned the name of the family, but if she did I have
forgotten it. I shall get my instructions before I leave the house, as
usual. I only know that it is a new case.'

'Yes,' Giovanni said, as if it did not interest him further. 'All the
same, it is a shame that you should be made to work so hard! Before I
go, tell me that you have forgiven me for losing my head just now. I
think you have, but I want to hear you say so. Will you?'

It seemed little enough to forgive. Sister Giovanna felt so much
relieved by his change of manner that she was even able to smile
faintly. If he would always be as gentle, she could perhaps ask leave to
see him again in six months. Now that the storm was over, it was a pure
and innocent happiness to be with him.

'You will not do it again,' she said simply. 'Of course I forgive you.'

'Thank you. It is all I can expect, since you have told me that I was
asking the impossible. You see Madame Bernard sometimes, do you not?'

'Yes. Almost every week.'

'She will give me news of you. I suppose I must not send you a message
by her. That would be against the rules!'

'The message might be!' Sister Giovanna actually smiled again. 'But if
it is not, there is no reason why she should not bring me a greeting
from you.'

'But not a letter?'

'No. I would not take it from her. It would have to be given to the
Mother Superior. If she were willing to receive it at all, it would be
her duty to read it, and she would judge whether it should be given to
me or not.'

'Is that the rule?' Giovanni asked, more indifferently than she had
expected.

'Yes. It is the rule in our order. If it were not, who could prevent any
one from writing to a nun?'

'I was not finding fault with it. I must not keep you standing here any
longer. If you will not sit down and talk a little more, I had better be
going.'

'Yes. You have been here long enough, I think.'

He did not press her. He was so submissive that if he had begged
permission to stay a few minutes more she would have consented, and she
wished he would, when she saw him holding out his hand to say good-bye;
but she was too well pleased at having dominated his wild temper to make
a suggestion which might betray weakness in herself.

She took his hand and was a little surprised to find it as cold as hers
had been when he came; but his face was not pale--she forgot that five
years of Africa had bronzed it too much for paleness--and he was very
quiet and collected. She went to the door of the hall with him and
opened it before he could do so for himself.

They parted almost like mere acquaintances, he bowing on the step, she
bending her head. The Mother Superior and Monsignor Saracinesca had been
sitting by the table, talking, but both had risen and come forward as
soon as the pair appeared outside the glass door. It all passed off very
satisfactorily, and the Mother Superior gave a little sigh of relief
when the churchman and the soldier went away together, leaving her and
Sister Giovanna standing in the hall. She felt that Monsignor
Saracinesca had been right, after all, in approving the meeting, and
that she had been mistaken in thinking that it must endanger the nun's
peace.

She said nothing, but she was quietly pleased, and a rare, sweet smile
softened her marble features. She asked no questions about what had
passed, being quite sure that all was well, and that if there had ever
been anything to fear, it was gone.

The prelate and Giovanni walked along the quiet street in silence for
some distance; then Severi stopped suddenly, as many Italians do when
they are going to say something important.

'You will help me, I am sure,' he said, speaking impetuously from the
first. 'Though I never knew you well in old times, I always felt that
you were friendly. You will not allow her to ruin both our lives, will
you?'

'What sort of help do you want from me?' asked the tall churchman,
bending his eyes to the energetic young face.

'The simplest thing in the world!' Giovanni answered. 'We were engaged
to be married when I left with that ill-fated expedition. She thought me
dead. She must be released from her vows at once! That is all.'

'It is out of the question,' answered Monsignor Saracinesca, with
supernal calm.

'Out of the question?' Giovanni frowned angrily. 'Do you mean that it
cannot be done? But it is only common justice! She is as much my wife as
if you had married us and I had left her at the altar to go to Africa!
You cannot be in earnest!'

'I am. In the first place, there is no ground for granting a
dispensation.'

'No ground?' cried Severi indignantly. 'We loved each other, we meant to
marry! Is that no reason?'

'No. You were not even formally betrothed, either before your parish
priest or the mayor. Without a solemn promise in the proper form and
before witnesses, there is no binding engagement to marry. That is not
only canonical law, but Italian common law, too.'

'We had told each other,' Giovanni objected. 'That was enough.'

'You are wrong,' answered Monsignor Saracinesca gently. 'The Church will
do nothing that the law would not do, and the law would not release
Sister Giovanna, or any one else, from a legal obligation taken under
the same circumstances as the religious one she has assumed.'

'What do you mean?'

'This. If, instead of becoming a nun, Angela had married another man
after you were lost, Italian law would not annul the marriage in order
that she might become your wife.'

'Of course not!'

'Then why should the Church annul an obligation which is quite as solemn
as marriage?'

Giovanni thought he had caught the churchman in a fallacy.

'I beg your pardon,' he replied. 'I was taught as a boy that marriage is
a sacrament, but I never heard that taking the veil was one!'

'Quite right, in principle. In reality, it is considered, for women, the
equivalent of ordination, and therefore as being of the nature of a
sacrament.'

'I am not a theologian, to discuss equivalents,' retorted Giovanni
roughly.

'Very true, but a man who knows nothing of mathematics may safely accept
the statement of a mathematician about a simple problem. That is not the
point, however. If you remember, I said that "under the same
circumstances" the Church would not do what the law would not. The
Church considers a nun's final vows to be as binding under its
regulations as the law considers that any civil contract is. The
"circumstances" are therefore exactly similar.'

Giovanni was no match for his cool antagonist in an argument. He cut the
discussion short by a direct question.

'Is it in the Pope's power to release Sister Giovanna from her vows, or
not?'

'Yes. It is--in principle.'

'Then put your principles into practice and make him do it!' cried the
soldier rudely.

Monsignor Saracinesca was unmoved by this attack, which he answered with
calm dignity.

'My dear Captain,' he said, 'in the first place, no one can "make" the
Pope do things. That is not a respectful way of speaking.'

Giovanni was naturally courteous and he felt that he had gone too far.

'I beg your pardon,' he answered. 'I mean no disrespect to the Pope,
though I tell you frankly that I do not believe in much, and not at all
in his authority. What I ask is common justice and your help as a
friend. I ask you to go to him and lay the case before him fairly, as
before a just man, which I heartily believe him to be. You will see that
he will do what you admit is in his power and give Sister Giovanna her
dispensation.'

'If you and she had been married before your disappearance,' argued the
churchman, 'His Holiness would assuredly not refuse. If you had been
solemnly betrothed before your parish priest as well as legally promised
in marriage at the Capitol, he might make an exception, though a civil
betrothal is valid only for six months, under Italian law. But there was
no marriage and no such engagement.'

Giovanni found himself led into argument again.

'We had intended to bind ourselves formally,' he objected. 'I have heard
it said by priests that everything depends on the intention and that
without it the most solemn sacrament is an empty show! Will you doubt
our intention if I give you my word that it was mine, and if Sister
Giovanna assures you that it was hers?'

'Certainly not! The Pope would not doubt you either, I am sure.'

'Then, in the name of all that is just and right, what is the obstacle?
If you admit that the intention is the one important point, and that it
existed, what ground have you left?'

'That is begging the question, Captain. It is true that without the
intention a sacrament is an empty show, but the intention without the
sacrament is of no more value than intention without performance would
be in law. Less, perhaps. There is another point, however, which you
have quite overlooked. If a request for a dispensation were even to be
considered, it ought to come from Sister Giovanna herself.'

'And you will never allow her to ask for her freedom!' cried Giovanni
angrily. 'That settles it, I suppose! Oh, the tyranny of the Church!'

Monsignor Saracinesca's calm was not in the least disturbed by this
outbreak, and he answered with unruffled dignity.

'That is easily said, Captain. You have just been speaking with Sister
Giovanna and I daresay you talked of this. What was her answer?'

'She is under the influence of her surroundings, of course! What could I
expect?'

But the churchman had a right to a more direct reply.

'Did she refuse to listen to your suggestion that she should leave her
order?' he asked.

Giovanni did not like to admit the fact, and paused a moment before
answering; but he was too truthful to quibble.

'Yes, she did.'

'What reason did she give for refusing?'

'None!'

'Did she merely say, "No, I will not"?'

'You are cross-examining me!' Giovanni fancied that he had a right to be
offended.

'No,' protested Monsignor Saracinesca, 'or at least not with the
intention of catching you in your own words. You made an unfair
assertion; I have a right to ask a fair question. If I were not a
priest, but simply Ippolito Saracinesca, and if you accused me or my
family of unjust dealings, you would be glad to give me an opportunity
of defending my position, as man to man. But because I am a priest you
deny me that right. Are you just?'

'I did not accuse you personally,' argued the younger man. 'I meant that
the Church would never allow Sister Giovanna to ask for her freedom.'

'The greater includes the less,' replied the other. 'The Church is my
family, it includes myself, and I claim the right to defend it against
an unjust accusation. Sister Giovanna is as free to ask for a
dispensation as you were to resign from the army when you were ordered
to join an expedition in which you nearly lost your life.'

'You say so!' Severi was incredulous.

'It is the truth. Sister Giovanna has devoted herself to a cause in
which she too may risk her life.'

'The risk a nurse runs nowadays is not great!'

'You are mistaken. If she carries out her intention, she will be exposed
to a great danger.'

'What intention?' asked Giovanni, instantly filled with anxiety.

'She has asked permission to join the other Sisters of the order who are
going out to Rangoon to nurse the lepers there.'

'Lepers!' Severi's features were convulsed with horror. 'She, nurse
lepers! It is not possible! It is certain death.'

'No, it is not certain death, by any means, but you will admit the
risk.'

Giovanni was beside himself in an instant.

'She shall not go!' he cried furiously. 'You shall not make her kill
herself, make her commit suicide, for your glorification--that what you
call your Church may add another martyr to its death-roll! You shall
not, I say! Do you hear me?' He grasped the prelate's arm roughly. 'If
you must have martyrs, go yourselves! Risk your own lives for your own
glory, instead of sacrificing women on your altars--women who should
live to be wives and mothers, an honour to mankind!'

'You are utterly unjust----'

'No, I am human, and I will not tolerate your human sacrifice! I am a
man, and I will not let the woman I love be sent to a horrible death, to
delight your Moloch of a God!'

'Captain Severi, you are raving.'

Giovanni's fiery rage leapt from invective to sarcasm.

'Raving! That is your answer, that is the sum of your churchman's
argument! A man who will not let you make a martyr of the woman he
adores is raving! Do you find that in Saint Thomas Aquinas, or in Saint
Augustine, or in Saint Jerome?' He dropped his voice and suddenly spoke
with cold deliberation. 'She shall not go. I swear that I will make it
impossible.'

Monsignor Saracinesca shook his head.

'If that is an oath,' he said, 'it is a foolish one. If it is a threat,
it is unworthy of you.'

'Take it how you will. It is my last word.'

'May you never regret it,' answered the prelate, lifting his
three-cornered hat; for Giovanni was saluting, with the evident
intention of leaving him at once.

So they parted.




CHAPTER XV


A carriage came early for Sister Giovanna that evening, and the
footman sent in a message by the portress. The patient was worse, he
said, and the doctor hoped that the nurse would come as soon as she
conveniently could. She came down in less than five minutes, in her
wide black cloak, carrying her little black bag in her hand. It was
raining heavily and she drew the hood up over her head before she left
the threshold, though the servant was holding up a large umbrella.

The portress had asked the usual questions of him as soon as he
presented himself, but Sister Giovanna repeated them. Was the carriage
from the Villino Barini? It was. To take the nurse who was wanted for
Baroness Barini? Yes; the Signora Baronessa was worse, and that was
why the carriage had come half-an-hour earlier. The door of the
brougham was shut with a sharp snap, the footman sprang to the box
with more than an average flunkey's agility, and the nun was driven
rapidly away. Knowing that the house she was going to was one of those
little modern villas on the slope of the Janiculum which have no
arched entrance and often have no particular shelter at the front
door, she did not take the trouble to push her hood back, as she would
need it again so soon.

In about ten minutes the carriage stopped, the footman jumped down
with his open umbrella in his hand, and let her into the house. Before
she could ask whether she had better leave her cloak in the hall, the
man was leading the way upstairs; it was rather dark, but she felt
that the carpet under her feet was thick and soft. She followed
lightly, and a moment later she was admitted to a well-lighted room
that looked like a man's library; the footman disappeared and shut the
door, and the latch made a noise as if the key were being turned; as
she supposed such a thing to be out of the question, however, she was
ashamed to go and try the lock.

She thought she was in the study of the master of the house and that
some one would come for her at once, and she stood still in the middle
of the room; setting down her bag on a chair, she pushed the hood back
from her head carefully, as nuns do, in order not to discompose the
rather complicated arrangement of the veil and head-band.

She had scarcely done this when, as she expected, a door at the end of
the room was opened. But it was not a stranger that entered; to her
unspeakable amazement, it was Giovanni Severi. In a flash she
understood that by some trick she had been brought to his brother's
dwelling. She was alone with him and the door was locked on the
outside.

She laid one hand on the back of the nearest chair, to steady herself,
wondering whether she were not really lying ill in her bed and
dreaming in the delirium of a fever. But it was no dream; he was
standing before her, looking into her face, and his own was stern and
dark as an Arab's. When he spoke at last, his voice was low and
determined.

'Yes. You are in my house.'

Her tongue was loosed, with a cry of indignation.

'If you are not a madman, let me go!'

'I am not mad.'

His eyes terrified her, and she backed away from him towards the
locked door. She almost shrieked for fear.

'If you have a spark of human feeling, let me out!'

'I am human,' he answered grimly, but he did not move to follow her.

'By whatever you hold sacred, let me go!' She was wrenching at the
lock in despair with both hands, but sideways, while she kept her eyes
on his.

'I hold you sacred--nothing else.'

'Sacred!' Her anger began to outbrave her terror now. 'Sacred, and you
have trapped me by a vile trick!'

'Yes,' he answered, 'I admit that.'

He had not moved again and there was a window near her. She sprang to
it and thrust the curtains aside, hoping to open the frame before he
could stop her. But though she moved the fastenings easily, she could
do no more, with all her strength, and Giovanni still stood
motionless, watching her.

'You cannot open that window,' he said quietly. 'If you scream, no one
will hear you. Do you think I would have brought you to a place where
you could get help merely by crying out for it? The risk was too
great. I have made sure of being alone with you as long as I choose.'

The nun drew herself up against the red curtains.

'I did not know that you were a coward,' she said.

'I am what you have made me, brave, cowardly, desperate--anything you
choose to call it! But such as I am, you must hear me to the end this
time, for you have no choice.'

Sister Giovanna understood that there was no escape and she stood
quite still; but he saw that her lips moved a little.

'God is not here,' he said, in a hard voice, for he knew that she was
praying.

'God is here,' she answered, crossing her hands on her breast.

He came a step nearer and leaned on the back of a chair; he was
evidently controlling himself, for his movements were studiedly
deliberate, though his voice was beginning to shake ominously.

'If God is with you, Angela, then He shall hear that I love you and
that you are mine, not His! He shall listen while I tell you that I
will not give you up to be murdered by priests for His glory! Do what
He will, He shall not have you. I defy Him!'

The nun shrank against the curtain, not from the man, but at the
words.

'At least, do not blaspheme!'

'I must, if it is blasphemy to love you.'

'Yours is not love. Would to heaven it were, as I thought it was to-day.
Love is gentle, generous, tender----'

'Then be all three to me; for you love me, in spite of everything!'

'You have taught me to forget that I ever did,' she answered.

'Learn to remember that you did, to realise that you do, and forget
only that I have used a trick to bring you here--a harmless trick, one
carriage for another, my brother's orderly for a servant. I found out
from Madame Bernard where you were going and I sent for you before the
hour. You are as safe here as if you were praying in your chapel; in a
few minutes the carriage will take you back, you will say you got into
the wrong one by mistake, which is quite true, and the right one will
take you where you are to go; you will be scarcely half-an-hour late
and no one will ever know anything more about it.'

Sister Giovanna had listened patiently to his explanation, and
believed what he said. He had always been impulsive to rashness, but
now that her first surprise had subsided she was less afraid. He had
evidently yielded to a strong temptation with the idea of forcing her
to listen to him, and in reality, if she had understood herself, she
was not able to believe that he would hurt her or bring any disgrace
upon her.

'If you are in earnest,' she said, when he had finished, 'then let me
go at once.'

'Presently,' he answered. 'This afternoon you made me promise to hear
quietly what you had to say, and I did my best. I could not help your
being frightened just now, I suppose--after all, I have carried you off
from the door of your Convent, and I meant you to understand that you
were helpless, and must listen. I ought to have put it differently,
but I am not clever at such things. All I ask is that you will hear
me. After all, that is what you asked of me to-day.'

He had begun to walk up and down before her, while he was speaking;
but he did not come near her, for the chair stood between her and the
line along which he was pacing backwards and forwards. Something in
his way of speaking reassured her, as he jerked out the rather
disconnected sentences. Women often make the mistake of thinking that
when we men begin to stumble away from the straight chalk-line of that
logic in which we are supposed by them to take such pride, our purpose
is wavering, whereas the opposite is often the case. Men capable of
sudden, direct, and strong action are often poor talkers, particularly
when they are just going to spring or strike. A little hesitation is
more often the sign of a near outbreak than of any inward weakening.
But Sister Giovanna was deceived.

'I shall be forced to listen, if you insist,' she said, moving half a
step forward from the curtain, 'but how can I trust you, while I am
your prisoner?'

'You can trust me, if you will be generous,' Giovanni answered.

'I do not know what you mean by the word,' replied the nun cautiously.
'If I am not generous, as you mean it, what then?'

Severi stopped in his walk; his face began to darken again, and his
voice was rough and hard.

'What then? Why then, remember what I am and where you are!'

Sister Giovanna drew back again.

'I would rather trust in God than trust you when you speak in that
tone,' she said.

He had used the very words she had spoken in the cloister when he had
tried to take her by the arm, but they had a very different meaning
now; his dangerous temper was rising again and he was threatening her.
Yet her answer produced an effect she was far from expecting. He
turned to the writing-table near him, opened one of the drawers and
took out an army revolver. Sister Giovanna watched him. If he was only
going to kill her she was not afraid.

'I will force you to trust me,' he said, quickly examining the charge
as he came towards her.

