hung to cut off a dressing-room for the improvisatrice, who had already
got into her own clothes and was gone away with old Nena and the
handsome young man.

Stradella met his wife with a happy smile and nodded a greeting to Don
Alberto, who remained in the door-way.

'Can you take me home at once?' Ortensia asked. 'Or must you go in?'

Stradella saw her look of distress as he took her outstretched hand in
both of his.

'I am not wanted, am I?' he asked, looking at young Altieri. 'My wife
wishes to go home, you see----'

'I will make your excuses to the Queen,' Don Alberto answered readily.
'My carriage is waiting and shall take you to the palace and come back
for me.'

'How kind of you!'

Ortensia thought he was already beginning to fulfil his promise of
friendship to her. He had, in fact, brought the couple to the Palazzo
Riario in his own carriage, for there were no hackney coaches in Rome in
that century, and people who owned no equipage were obliged to have
themselves carried in sedan-chairs, from one end of the city to the
other if necessary, unless they preferred to ride on mules or donkeys,
which was not convenient in full dress.

In five minutes Stradella and his wife were driving rapidly over the
cobble-stones towards Ponte Sisto, and Ortensia was telling the
astonished musician what had taken place between her and Don Alberto,
with all he had told her about Pina, Trombin, and Gambardella.




CHAPTER XVII


Two days after the affair at the Palazzo Riario, Don Alberto sauntered
out of his palace gate before the sun was high, and as he was merely
going for a stroll to breathe the morning air he was alone. As a matter
of fact, the air smelt of cabbage, broccoli, and other green things, for
a hawker of vegetables had set down his three baskets at the corner of
the Via del Gesù, and was bawling his cry to the whole neighbourhood at
the top of his lusty voice. There had been a light shower before dawn,
and the wet cobble-stones sent up a peculiar odour of their own, which
mingled with that of the green stuff. Don Alberto did not like it and
turned to his left, towards the Palazzo di Venezia, which was then the
Venetian Embassy.

Where the street narrows between the Altieri palace and the church, a
serving-man in grey overtook him and spoke to him.

'Excellency,' the man said in an obsequious tone, his hat in his hand,
'I pray the favour of a word.'

Don Alberto stopped in some surprise, for he had not noticed any one but
the vegetable hawker in the deserted square when he had left his own
door a moment earlier.

'What do you want?' he asked suspiciously, and stopping to face the man.

It was Tommaso, the ex-highwayman who served the Bravi, and the
expression of his eyes was not reassuring.

'Your Excellency does not remember me,' he said. 'How should the Most
Illustrious remember a poor valet? I served the Bishop of Porto for
seven years, and often accompanied him to the palace here when he
visited His Eminence Cardinal Altieri, who is now our Most Holy Father,
Pope Clement. Your Excellency was only a boy then, and once did me the
honour to speak to me.'

'What did I say to you?' asked Don Alberto incredulously.

'I should not dare to repeat such a word,' answered Tommaso in a humble
tone, 'but your Excellency kicked me at the same time, and with great
strength for one so very young, for I tumbled downstairs.'

Don Alberto's lips twitched with amusement.

'I believe I remember you by that, you scoundrel,' he said with a smile.
'And what do you want of me now? Shall I give you another kick?'

'May that never be, Excellency! I can feel the first one still!'

Don Alberto laughed at the comically significant gesture that
accompanied this speech, and felt in his pocket for his purse.

'I suppose you want a paul to drink my health,' he said.

'That is too much for anything so common as a kick, Excellency, and too
little if you will accept my service.'

'I have servants enough,' answered Altieri, slipping his purse into his
pocket again. 'But since you think a paul is too much for one kick, I
shall give you a florin's worth for nothing at all if you pester me with
any more nonsense. So now be off, and waste no time about it!'

Tommaso suddenly drew himself up and squared his broad shoulders, which
made him look rather formidable, for he was an uncommonly strong and
active fellow.

'If you say the word,' he answered, dropping his obsequious manner, 'I
will give Maestro Stradella's wife into your hands within a fortnight.'

Don Alberto started visibly. His high-born instinct was not quite dead
yet, and he slightly moved his right hand as if he would lift the ebony
stick he carried; but Tommaso had one of cornel-wood and iron-shod, and
he also made a very slight movement, and he was square and strong and
had a jaw like a bull-dog. Don Alberto's instinctive desire to knock him
down disappeared suddenly.

'And how do you propose to accomplish such an impossible feat?' asked
the young noble with some contempt.

'That is my affair,' answered Tommaso quietly. 'What will you give me
when I have shut the lady up safely and shall bring you the key of her
prison? That is the only question, but please remember that I must risk
my neck, while you will only risk your money.'

'If you think I will give you any money in hand for such a silly offer,
you take me for a fool,' retorted Don Alberto.

'I ask nothing in advance. How much will you give me in cash for the
lady when I hand her over to you? I am in earnest. Name your price.'

'What is yours?'

'A thousand gold florins and the Pope's pardon,' said Tommaso boldly.
'You could not buy her like in Venice, if you had your pick of the
latest cargo from Georgia!'

'You shall have the pardon and a thousand in gold,' Don Alberto
answered, for he was much too fine a gentleman to bargain with a
cut-throat, especially as the money would come out of his uncle's
strong-box. 'I do not believe that you can do what you offer; but if you
succeed, how shall I hear from you?'

'On the Eve of Saint John you will find me waiting for you with two
saddled mules behind the Baptistery of the Lateran, when the bells ring
the first hour of the night. Bring your money and I will take you to the
house and to the lady and leave you the key.'

'I would rather you should come here,' said Don Alberto, suspecting a
trap.

'Bring a guard with you if you think I mean to rob you,' answered
Tommaso. 'Bring a squadron of cavalry, if you like! Besides, you know
that there will be thousands of people about the Lateran all night on
Saint John's Eve, eating and drinking on the grass to keep the witches
out of their bodies for the rest of the year!'

'That is true,' Don Alberto answered. 'I will be there.'

'But if your Excellency should accidentally see me in the meantime,'
continued Tommaso, 'your Excellency had better not notice me, nor be
seen to recognise me.'

He had resumed his obsequious tone, and was already bowing to take his
leave.

'I have one thing to tell you,' said Altieri. 'If you fail, I will have
you locked up in Tor di Nona for prying into my affairs and making an
infamous proposal to me, and it may be a long time before you get out.'

'At the pleasure of your Most Illustrious Excellency! I shall not make
the least resistance if I fail.'

'You had better not,' returned Altieri, haughtily enough, as he turned
away and left Tommaso bowing to the ground.

'Your Most Illustrious Excellency's most humble and dutiful servant!'
said the man.

Then he went off in the opposite direction, passed the Altieri palace,
turned to his right, and in due time reached the Sign of the Bear, where
his masters lodged. He found them in Trombin's room, sitting near the
open window with their coats off, and eating fruit from a huge blue and
yellow majolica basket that stood between them on the end of the table.
There were oranges, ripe plums, and very dark red cherries in handsome
profusion, and the serving-girl, who cherished a secret but hopeless
admiration for Gambardella, had brought a pretty bunch of violets in a
coarse Roman tumbler.

Both the Bravi were of opinion that a little fruit taken in the morning
was cooling to the blood in spring. Trombin had cut a hole in the top of
an orange and was solemnly sucking it--a process for which his small
round mouth seemed to be expressly formed--and his pink cheeks
contracted and expanded like little bellows as he alternately drew in
the sweet juice and took breath. Gambardella could not have sucked an
orange to save his life, because his long nose was directly in the way;
he ate cherries slowly, and looked like a large brown bird of prey
pecking at them with his beak.

'Come in,' he said between two pecks, as some one tapped at the
entrance.

'I have seen him, sirs,' Tommaso said, after shutting the door behind
him. 'It is a thousand gold florins in cash, on the Eve of Saint John. I
am to meet him behind the Baptistery of the Lateran at the first hour of
the night and take him to the house.'

'Well done!' said Gambardella.

Trombin nodded his approval, for he was still at work on his orange, and
was well aware that if the contact were broken for purposes of speech
before the fruit was dry, the perfection of the satisfaction would be
seriously compromised.

'Tommaso,' Gambardella continued, 'I think you know Rome well. Are you
aware that in the Via di Santa Sabina there is a small house which is
almost always uninhabited, except in the month of October, when the
owner goes there himself to see his wine made? Do you happen to remember
that house?'

'No, sir,' answered the ex-highwayman, whose admiration for his
employers' wide knowledge increased daily. 'But I can easily find it,
for I know the road. It is a lonely place.'

'A very lonely place,' said Trombin, at last detaching himself from the
shrivelled yellow shell which was all that was left of the orange. 'It
is so lonely that I may say there is never any one there, and there is
rarely any one within hearing after dark. No thief goes near that road
at night, Tommaso, because there is never any one to rob. Most people
are fools, Tommaso, and suppose that robbers lurk in lonely and
unfrequented spots, where they could not possibly find a purse to cut.
Therefore, as we are no fools, Tommaso, but very intelligent persons, we
feel quite secure in such places. Do you fully understand my meaning,
Tommaso?'

'I have practised a part of what you preach, sir,' answered Tommaso with
a grin.

'No doubt. Very good, Tommaso. When you have found the house, go on some
distance farther, say a hundred steps or so, and you will see a door in
the wall, which evidently gives access to the vineyard. The door was
painted red when I last saw it. Perhaps you will find it ajar, but if
not, knock two or three times with the head of your stick, not roughly
or noisily, but in a sober fashion; and then wait awhile, and if nobody
comes, knock again. If you cannot get in to-day, go back to-morrow and
the next day. The best time is a little before noon, when the man is not
yet at dinner.'

'Or asleep,' suggested Tommaso.

'Precisely. When he lets you in, you will know him because he has a
reddish beard that is turning white on the left side. He cultivates the
vineyard, and the owner takes half the produce; but for a consideration
the man lets the small house in the Via di Santa Sabina to persons who
are fond of vineyards and solitude. The only condition is that the
shutters of the windows looking on the road must not be opened, lest the
owner should pass that way.'

'I understand, sir,' said Tommaso, grinning again. 'I dare say the man
is deaf at night.'

'Only at night, Tommaso, but then completely so,' answered Trombin. 'You
will say that a gentleman of fortune desires the use of the little house
for a week, with the keys, from the twenty-first to the twenty-eighth of
June.'

'At one Apostolic florin a day,' put in Gambardella.

'But you must on no account let him know our names,' said Trombin. 'You
can give him two florins in hand as earnest money----'

'One is quite enough,' interrupted Gambardella.

'Be guided by your judgment, Tommaso,' said Trombin, beginning to cut a
hole in another orange. 'I take you to be a sensible and economical
person, but we must not lose the use of the house for the sake of a
florin or two. For I dare say you have guessed what we need the house
for.'

'Partly, sir, partly. No doubt I am to take the young gentleman there on
the Eve of Saint John.'

'Yes, amongst other things, you will do that. But indeed, Tommaso, you
yourself will be surprised at the extraordinary number of things you
will do on that evening, all to your great advantage. It is not in my
power to tell you everything now, my good fellow, because I am going to
enjoy this orange in my usual way, by means of suction. But you shall
know all in good time, all in good time, Tommaso!'

Therewith Trombin opened his round eyes to their fullest extent, clapped
his lips to the aperture he had cut in the peel, and grasping the fruit
firmly with both hands, he began the long and delicious process of
extracting the juice.

'And as you will have to receive the thousand gold ducats from Don
Alberto,' said Gambardella, speaking to Tommaso, 'you will have a very
substantial guarantee in hand. For though we shall never be far from you
on that evening, we shall not be able to hinder you from running away
and robbing us if you choose to do so.'

'What have I done to deserve such an insinuation?' asked the
ex-highwayman indignantly, for he felt that his honour was assailed.

'Nothing whatever,' answered the Bravo calmly, 'and I insinuated nothing
that should shock your sensibilities, my good man. The profession has
two branches, to one of which we belong, while you have followed the
other. We take lives, you take purses, and you should not feel any more
hurt at my suggesting that you might take mine, than I should if you
suggested that I might cut your throat.'

'That is true, sir.'

Tommaso spoke almost humbly, for he felt that if it should occur to the
Bravi to exercise their 'branch of the profession' upon him, he should
have no more chance of life than a kitten amongst bloodhounds. He
was strong and active, no doubt, and could use most weapons fairly well,
but he had neither the endurance of his terrible masters, nor their
supreme skill in fencing; as for taking them unawares, they never rested
without bolting their doors, and when they walked abroad they never
heard footsteps behind them without looking round, nor passed the corner
of a narrow street without drawing towards the middle of the road far
enough to allow room for sword-play. A poor fellow like Tommaso, who had
spent his early years as valet to a churchman, would make but a poor
figure against such men in a fight; he was proud enough to be allowed to
help them, almost without a thought of profit, and their money would be
as safe in his hands as it would be in Chigi's bank.

[Illustration: '"The profession has two branches. We take lives, you
take purses"']

He was ready to obey them blindly, too, which was what they wanted, for
the plan they had at last decided upon was a complicated one, and would
certainly miscarry if anything went wrong during the night in which it
was to be carried out; on the other hand, they did not trust him enough
to tell him what they meant to do, though he had to trust to their
promises that Ortensia should be already a prisoner in the little house
in Via di Santa Sabina when he should bring Don Alberto to the door; and
he knew that, if they failed, his only chance of safety would lie in
instant flight, before young Altieri could have him laid by the heels in
prison. Neither the money nor the papal safe-conduct would be
forthcoming until the young noble had actually seen Ortensia in the
little house.

After the last words he had spoken, Tommaso quietly prepared to shave
Gambardella, while Trombin was finishing the second orange. He had
brought hot water with him in a bright copper can, and he now proceeded
to tie a large towel round Gambardella's neck, after which he made a
rich lather of Spanish soap, which he conscientiously rubbed into the
Bravo's hard brown cheeks and sinewy throat; last of all, he stropped
his razor with the air and flourish of an accomplished barber and set to
work.

Trombin finished his orange and looked on.

'Did you ever cut a man's throat while you were shaving him, Tommaso?'
he asked idly.

'Only once, sir,' Tommaso answered quietly, and he turned Gambardella's
head a little on one side, in order to get below his jaw.

'Why did you do it?' inquired Trombin, dipping the tips of his large
pink fingers into a bowl of water and carefully rinsing his lips.

'It was to save my neck, sir. The man was one of the cleverest sbirri I
ever had after me, but he did not know me by sight. It was in the March
of Ancona, at a small village near Fermo. He had tracked me all the way
from Modena, and he came to the inn on the evening of the third day. He
sent for the village barber before he had supper; but the barber was a
friend of mine and was hiding me, and he let me go in his place. I told
the landlord of the inn that I was the barber's new apprentice, and so I
was admitted to shave the officer in his own room. You see, sir, both
our horses were worn out, but his was still far better than mine, so it
was safer that he should go no farther. That is the whole story, sir. I
was over the frontier before morning.'

Gambardella smiled while Tommaso went on shaving him, and Trombin
laughed as if the jest were very good.

'It was not strictly in your branch of the profession, Tommaso,' he
said, 'but under the circumstances you acted with great tact.
Nevertheless, even in an extreme case, avoid shaving Don Alberto in that
manner, for there is no telling what the consequences might be if he
were found with his throat cut in the little house in Via di Santa
Sabina!'




CHAPTER XVIII


Cucurullo had his own opinion of what he saw during those days, and he
kept it to himself for some time, though he and Pina talked together a
good deal in the evenings over their late supper, in the little room
next to the kitchen. The woman had interested the hunchback from the
first, and when any one roused his interest he pondered much upon that
person's character and ways, and asked questions with considerable
cunning. On the other hand, Pina, who was not given to exhibiting much
liking for any one, seemed to have taken a fancy to her
fellow-servant--either out of pity for his deformity or from natural
sympathy. They treated each other with a good deal of formality,
however; Cucurullo, who was a Neapolitan, addressed her as Donna Pina,
as if she were a lady born, and she usually called him 'Sor Antonino,'
as though he were at least a clerk or a small shop-keeper.

'Tell me,' he said, one evening when they were eating the salad left
over from their masters' supper, 'what is your opinion of this young
gentleman who admires our mistress?'

'What opinion can I have?' asked Pina, picking up a small leaf of
lettuce on her two-pronged iron fork; for she ate delicately, and her
fine manners were Cucurullo's despair.

'This is a wicked world,' he sighed, rather enigmatically.

'If you mean also that Don Alberto is one of those who make it so, I am
inclined to agree with you,' Pina answered. 'I have seen other young
gentlemen like him.'

'You have had great experience of high life, Donna Pina. That is the
reason why I asked your opinion. This young gentleman may be like others
you have known, but besides that he is very powerful in Rome, and can do
what he likes with impunity. He is so much in love with our mistress
that he no longer understands, as we say in the South. He has lost his
senses.'

'But he has his wits left,' observed Pina sharply.

'And he owes a grudge for that scratch in the arm,' added Cucurullo
thoughtfully.

'He does not know who gave it to him.'

'Therefore he means the Lady Ortensia to pay him for it.'

'Yes,' Pina answered. 'That is just like a man. Because he was hurt in
serenading a lady, it must needs be her fault, and she must give
satisfaction! First, he would like to carry her off to some lonely
castle he must have, somewhere in the mountains, and at the end of a
week, or a month, he would turn her out of doors and say it served her
right because he had been wounded under her window. Yes, Sor Antonino,
you may well say that I have some experience of high life!'

Cucurullo heard the bitter note that rang in the last words, and he
partly understood, for he had known her long enough to guess that she
had a sad story of her own.

'We ought to watch the signs for the masters,' he said. 'They see
nothing, hear nothing, and think of nothing but each other. One of these
days the young gentleman will lay a snare and they will step into it
like a pair of sparrows.'

'What can we do?' asked Pina in a dull voice. 'Whatever is fated will
happen.'

'That is heresy, Donna Pina,' said Cucurullo gravely, for he was much
shocked to hear a fellow-servant express such a highly unorthodox
sentiment. 'It is a heresy condemned by the Fathers of the Church, and
especially by Saint Thomas.'

'He never lived my life!' objected Pina with a sharp little laugh; and
she poured out two fingers of sour white wine and drank it.

'If the Maestro had thought as you do when I was thrown overboard, I
should have drowned,' said Cucurullo quietly.

'When did that happen?' asked Pina, interested at once.

'It was on a small vessel coming from Naples to Cività Vecchia, five
years ago, after my mother died,' said Cucurullo. 'I was coming to Rome
because I hoped to get some clerk's work, having had some little
instruction, and the Maestro was one of the two or three passengers in
the cabin. He was hardly known then, being very young, and indeed he was
running away from a Neapolitan princess who was too much in love with
him. Well, at first the captain was glad to have me on board, and the
crew made much of me, believing that the hunchback would bring them luck
and a quick passage. But we had not got as far as Gaeta when a storm
came up and we were driven out to sea. It grew worse and worse for two
days and nights, and our sails were torn, and other accidents happened,
which I did not understand. Then the crew and the captain began to look
askance at me, and I heard them say among themselves that I was the
wrong kind of hunchback and had the Evil Eye; and just when it seemed as
if the weather were moderating, and the sun had shone out for half an
hour, the clouds in the south-west got as black as ink, and one could
see the white foam driving towards us below them. Then, when the captain
saw that there was no time to be lost, he ordered the men to throw me
overboard, saying that I was Jonah and Judas Iscariot in one, and that
nothing else could save the ship. They took me by my arms and feet and
swung me twice and then threw me clean over the side; but I had already
shut my eyes and was beginning to say the De profundis as well as I
could. I had hardly finished the first versicle when I struck the water,
and I was indeed crying unto the Lord out of the depths, for I cannot
swim, and my end was clearly at hand.'

'How awful!' cried Pina in a low voice.

'I never was in greater danger,' said Cucurullo gravely, 'and my mouth
was already full of salt water. But I did not say then "whatever is
fated will happen," Donna Pina, for I was anxious to say the second
versicle of the Psalm before I was drowned, and I tried what I could to
keep my head up long enough for that. Then, just as a big wave was
breaking, I saw something flying through the air, and as it was a dark
thing I was afraid it was the devil coming for my soul, because my
mother, blessed soul, when she was dying, had recommended me to pay
three Carlini which she owed for milk, and I had wickedly forgotten it.
But I have since paid it. However, it was not the devil, but Maestro
Stradella, who had thrown himself into the sea, as he was, to save my
life, only because he had spoken two or three times to me on the voyage.
The ship was not going on fast, but though one of the sailors threw him
a rope he could not catch it, for he was holding up my head and telling
me not to be frightened, as well as he could amongst the waves, and not
to catch hold of him, for he would save me. Then the passengers and
sailors took a great board ten ells long that was on the deck, and
served for landing, and they threw it over; and somehow the Maestro got
me to it and we climbed upon it, while the ship was getting farther and
farther away, and the black squall was coming nearer and nearer.'

'The master swims like a water-rat,' said Pina. 'I remember that night
in Venice, when the Signors of the Night were after him!'

'Ah, you should have seen him in the sea, God bless him!' answered
Cucurullo. 'He had the strength and the long wind of a dolphin. When the
squall came upon us we held each other fast, sitting astride of the
plank, for it was a very heavy one, and did not sink with us. Then came
the rain. Lord, how it rained, Donna Pina! You have never seen rain like
that!'

'I remember how it rained that night when the master climbed into our
balcony! That was enough for me!'

'Imagine ten times that, Donna Pina. The wind had blown the plank round,
so that we got the rain in our backs, but even then I had to keep my
mouth shut to hinder the water from running down my throat! And it must
have lasted two hours, but the sea went down like magic in that time,
and there was only a long, smooth, swelling motion, and the wind came
from another quarter and carried us with it. That was how we were
saved.'

'The ship came back and picked you up, I suppose?'

'After the squall we did not see the ship again, though the clouds
rolled away and the sun shone brightly. She went to the bottom of the
sea, Donna Pina, and was never heard of again, but we drifted for many
hours, half dead with cold, and were washed upon the Roman shore.'

'And what was fated, happened,' said Pina with a smile. 'For if you had
not been thrown overboard you would have been drowned with the rest, Sor
Antonino!'

Cucurullo smiled too, very quietly, and helped Pina to the last
drumstick left over from a cold chicken.

'Well, well, Donna Pina,' he said, 'that is your way of believing, I
dare say, but I have told you what happened to me; and now you will
understand better why I should be glad to serve the master with my life,
if I might.'

'You are a good man,' said Pina in a thoughtful tone. 'If there were
more like you, this would not be such a bad world as it is. What you say
about Don Alberto is true, and if I could see any way of being useful in
watching him I would do all I could. Are the two Venetian gentlemen who
helped us in Ferrara still in Rome? I do not know what they are, and
sometimes I was afraid of them, but they would be strong allies if they
knew that our lady was in danger and if they were willing to help us.'

'They are still in Rome, for I saw them only to-day, going into the
Gesù. They must be very devout gentlemen, for I often see them in
churches, and their servant has been valet to a bishop, and understands
the ceremonials perfectly. It is a pleasure to talk with him. He can
tell the meaning of every vestment and of every change in a pontifical
high mass, and I think he knows half the Roman Breviary by heart, and
all the Psalms!'

Pina was not so sure about the piety of the Bravi and their servant, and
as she nibbled her last bit of bread, she looked thoughtfully across the
clothless deal table at the hunchback's trusting and spiritual face. In
the dramatic vicissitudes of her own youth she had not learned to put
her faith in men, nor in women either; and if there had ever been a
gentle and affectionate side to her strong nature, it had been trodden
and tormented till it had died, leaving scarcely a memory of itself
behind.

As he sat on the kitchen chair, Cucurullo's head was not much above the
edge of the table, and she looked down at him, meeting his sad eyes as
they gazed up to hers. She liked him, and was glad that he did not know
what was passing through her mind; for she foresaw trouble in the near
future, and was afraid for herself. In some way she might yet be made to
pay for what she had done in wreaking her vengeance on Pignaver.
Cardinal Altieri might protect Stradella and Ortensia if the Senator
tried to have them murdered, but if he demanded that Pina, his household
servant, should be arrested and sent back to Venice to be punished for
helping the runaways, who would protect her? At the mere thought she
often turned very pale and bent nearly double, as if she felt bodily
pain. For of all things, she feared that most. Sooner than suffer it
again she would betray Ortensia into Alberto Altieri's hands, as she had
almost forced her into Stradella's arms in order to be revenged on
Pignaver himself.

'I have been thinking,' she said after a long pause. 'It would be well
for you to go to those Venetian gentlemen and beg them to help us, if
they will. You need not say that I suggested it, Sor Antonino.'

'Why should I speak of you at all, Donna Pina?' asked the hunchback, a
little surprised.

'Exactly! There is no need of it, and you are very tactful. You will
find out if they suspect anything, for after the affair of the serenade
I am sure that they must have watched Don Alberto anxiously, to be sure
that he had not found out who wounded him.'

'Perhaps I had better talk to Tommaso first. We are on very good terms,
you know.'

'By all means, talk with him first.'

A distant handbell tinkled, and as Pina heard it through the open door
she rose to her feet, for it was Ortensia's means of calling her.

Cucurullo thought over the conversation and reasoned about it with
himself most of the night, and, so far as Pina was concerned, the more
he reflected the farther he got from the truth. For he was grateful
because she was kind to him in their daily life, and he could not
possibly have believed that she was no more really attached to Ortensia
than she was to the Queen of Sweden, and was even now meditating a
sudden flight from Rome, which should put her beyond the reach of
justice, if the law ever made search for her. In his heart he was sure
that she must be as devoted to her mistress as he was to Stradella,
though it was true that Ortensia had never saved her life. But Cucurullo
saw good in every one, and thought it the most natural thing in the
world that a faithful servant should be ready to die for his master.

On the following day he lay in wait for Tommaso near the main entrance
of the inn, where the Via dell' Orso meets the Via di Monte Brianzo,
which then bore the name of Santa Lucia.

It was long before the man appeared, and then he seemed to be in a great
hurry, and did not see Cucurullo till the latter overtook him and spoke
to him, for the hunchback had long legs and could walk quite as fast as
any able-bodied young man.

'I have been waiting a long time in the hope of seeing you this
morning,' he said.

'And now I am in such haste that I have no time to talk with you,'
replied the other, going on.

'We can talk while we are walking,' suggested Cucurullo, keeping pace
with him easily. 'How are the masters, Tommaso? Quite well, I hope?'

'Oh, perfectly well, thank you,' answered Tommaso, increasing his speed.
'I am sorry that I am in such a hurry, my friend, but it cannot be
helped.'

'Do not mention it,' said Cucurullo, breathing quietly. 'I generally
walk briskly myself.' Thereupon he quickened his stride a little.

'You certainly walk surprisingly fast,' said the ex-highwayman, who now
had to make an effort himself in order to keep up with his companion.

The people in the street stared at the two in surprise, for they seemed
to be walking for a match, and it looked as if the hunchback were
getting the better of it.

'I trust,' he said in a quiet undertone, 'that Count Trombin is in no
apprehension owing to his having wounded the Pope's nephew under our
windows the other night?'

'Not at all,' answered the other. 'So you saw it, did you?'

'I saw it with satisfaction, for I was at the window, and I recognised
the Count's voice at once. What do you think, my friend? Will that young
gentleman come serenading again?'

'How can I tell?' Tommaso was by this time a little short of breath.

'You might have heard your two gentlemen say something about it,'
Cucurullo said. 'Am I walking too fast for you? You said you were in a
hurry, you know.'

'Yes,' Tommaso said, rather breathlessly. 'I was--that is--I am in--in a
moderate hurry!'

'My reason for going with you is that I want your valuable advice,'
Cucurullo went on, still keeping up the tremendous pace without the
least apparent difficulty.

'About what?' gasped the highwayman, ashamed to be beaten by a
hunchback.

'Your gentlemen have already helped my master and mistress so much, that
even without the Maestro's knowledge I should like to ask their
protection for his wife. That is, if you approve, my friend. I want your
advice, you see.'

'You will have to--to walk slower--if you--want to get it!'

Tommaso was by this time puffing like a porpoise, for he was not as
young as when he had been the terror of the Bologna road, and he had
been living on the fat of his masters' plentiful leavings for weeks,
with a very liberal allowance of the white wine of Marino. Moreover,
knowing what he did of the Bravi's intentions, Cucurullo's suggestion
seemed at once highly comic and extremely valuable. But Cucurullo
himself, good soul, was pleased at having forced Tommaso to slacken his
