is considered the finest specimen of its kind. The Italian government
has offered fabulous sums for it."
"I thought the government could force the sale of these things?"
"There has been some litigation over this property, consequently the
government can do nothing till the courts have settled the matter,"
recited O'Mally glibly.
"Oh."
The quintet consulted their guide-books, but before they had located the
paragraph referring to this work, O'Mally was cunningly leading them on
to the Della Robbias which hung in the ruined pavilion. With a grand yet
familiar air he declaimed over the marvelous beauties of this peculiar
clay with an eloquence which was little short of masterful. He passed on
to the antique marbles, touching them lightly and explaining how this
one was Nero's, that one Caligula's, that one Tiberius'. He lied so
easily and gracefully that, wherever it rested, the tomb of Ananias must
have rocked. And whenever his victims tried to compare his statements
with those in the guide-books, he was extolling some other treasure.
They finally put the guide-books under their arms and trusted in the
kindness of Providence.
"Do you know," said the woman who had not yet spoken, "you speak English
remarkably well? There is an accent I do not quite understand."
O'Mally shivered for a moment. Was she going to spring Dago on him? "I
am Italian," he said easily. "I was born, however, in County Clare. My
father and mother were immigrants to Ireland." His face was as solemn as
an owl's.
"That explains it."
O'Mally took a new lease of life. "Now let me show you the Hadrian
mosaic, from the Villa Hadrian in Tivoli, out of Rome." He swept back
the sand. "Is it not magnificent?"
"Looks like a linoleum pattern," was the comment of one of the men.
"You are not far from right," said O'Mally. "It was from this very
mosaic that the American linoleums were originally designed."
"Indeed!" said the woman with the glasses.
"Yes, Signora."
"Ma," whispered the girl, "ask him for one of those buttons."
The stage-whisper was overheard by O'Mally. "These buttons," he
explained, "cost a lira each; but if the signorina really wishes
one--" And thus another lira swelled the profits of the day. O'Mally
wondered if he ought not to keep this one lira since it was off his own
coat and not Pietro's.
On the balcony of the villa appeared two women. The woman with the
glasses at once discovered them.
"Who is that handsome woman?" she demanded.
O'Mally paled slightly. "That," touching his cap respectfully, "is her
Highness, La Principessy d' Monty Bianchy, the owner of the Villa
Ariadne." Ha! He had them here.
The tourists stared at the balcony. A real live princess! They no longer
regretted the two lire fifty. This was something worth while.
"We did not know that the princess lived here."
"It is but a temporary visit. She is here incognito. You must not repeat
what I have told you," was O'Mally's added warning.
On the balcony the two women were talking quietly.
"What in the world is that man O'Mally up to now?" said La Signorina
curiously.
"Can't you see?" replied Kitty. "He is acting as guide in Pietro's
place."
"Merciful heavens!" La Signorina retired, stifling her laughter.
At the gates O'Mally received his  pourboire  of twenty centesimi, saw
his charge outside, closed and locked the gates, and returned to Pietro,
who was in a greatly agitated state of mind.
" Quando! " he cried.
O'Mally handed him the exact amount, minus the lira for the button.
" Santa Maria!  All thees? How? No more I take dem; you!"
O'Mally sat down on the bench and laughed. It was as good a part as he
had ever had.
       *       *       *       *       *
Early evening. La Signorina leaned over the terrace wall, her hand idly
trailing over the soft cool roses. Afar down the valley shimmered the
lights of Florence. There were no outlines; no towers, no domes, no
roofs were visible; nothing but the dim haze upon which the lights
serenely floated. It might have been a harbor in the peace of night. To
the south, crowning the hills with a faint halo, the moon, yet hidden,
was rising across the heavens. Stretched out on either hand, white and
shadowy, lay the great road. She was dreaming. Presently upon the
silence came the echo of galloping horses. She listened. The sound came
from the north. It died away, only to return again sharply, and this
time without echo. Two horsemen came cantering toward the Villa Ariadne.
They drew down to a walk, and she watched them carelessly. It was not
long before they passed under her. She heard their voices.
"Jack, this has been the trip of my life. Verona, Padua, Bologna, and
now Florence! This is life; nothing like it."
"I am glad, Dan. It has been enjoyable. I only hope our luggage will be
at the hotel for us. Twelve days in riding-breeches are quite enough for
a single stretch."
La Signorina's hand closed convulsively over a rose, and crushed it. The
vine, as she did so, gave forth a rustling sound. The men turned and
glanced up. They saw a woman dimly. That was all.
"A last canter to Fiesole!"
"Off she goes!"
The two went clattering down the road.
La Signorina released the imprisoned rose, and, unmindful of the prick
of the thorn, walked slowly back to the villa. It was fatality that this
man should again cross her path.
CHAPTER XX
KITTY DROPS A BANDBOX
"What's the matter, Jack? Whenever you smoke, your cigar goes out; you
read a newspaper by staring over the top of it; you bump into people on
the streets, when there is plenty of room for you to pass; you leave
your watch under the pillow and have to hike back for it; you forget,
you are absent-minded. Now, what's the matter?"
"I don't know, Dan," said Hillard, relighting his cigar.
"Or you won't tell."
"Perhaps that's more like it."
"It's that woman, though you will not acknowledge it. By George, I'd
like to meet her face to face; I'd give her a piece of my mind."
"Or a piece of your heart!"
"Bah!" cried Merrihew, flipping his cigar-ash to the walk below,
careless whether it struck any of the leisurely-going pedestrians or
not.
"You have not seen her face, Dan; I have."
"Oh, she may be a queen and all that; but she has an evil influence over
all the people she meets. Here's Kitty, following her round, and the
Lord knows in what kind of trouble. She has hooked you, and presently
you'll be leaving me to get back home the best way I can."
"It is quite possible, my boy." And Hillard did not smile.
"Come, Jack, have you really got it? If you have, why, we'll pack up and
leave by the next steamer. I don't care to wander about Italy with a
sick man on my hands."
"Don't be hard on me, Dan," pleaded Hillard, smiling now. "Think of all
the Kitty Killigrews you've poured into my uncomplaining ears!"
"I got over it each time." But Merrihew felt a warmth in his cheeks.
"Happy man! And, once you see the face of this adventuress, as you call
her, Kitty Killigrew will pass with all the other lasses."
"I?" indignantly. "Rot! She won't hold a candle to Kitty."
"No, not a candle, but the most powerful light known to the human
eye--perfect beauty." Hillard sighed unconsciously.
"There you go again!" laughed Merrihew. "You tack that sigh to
everything you say; and that's what I've been complaining about."
Hillard was human; he might be deeply in love, but this had not
destroyed his healthy sense of humor. So he laughed at himself.
Then they mused silently for a while. On either side, from their
window-balcony, the lights of Lungarno spread out in a brilliant
half-circle, repeating themselves, after the fashion of women, in the
mirror of the Arno. On the hill across the river the statue of David was
visible above the Piazza Michelangelo.
"You never told me what she was like," said Merrihew finally.
"Haven't I? Perhaps you never asked. We went through the Pitti Palace
to-day. I couldn't drag you from Raphael's  Madonna of the Chair . She
is as beautiful as that."
"Imagination is a wonderful thing," was Merrihew's solitary comment.
"Mine has not been unduly worked in this instance," Hillard declared
with emphasis. "Beauty in women has always been to me something in the
abstract, but it is so no longer. There is one thing which I wish to
impress upon you, Dan. She is not an adventuress. She has made no effort
to trap me. On the contrary, she has done all she could to keep out of
my way."
"It's a curious business; the dinner, the mask, the veil, the mystery. I
tell you frankly, Jack, something's wrong, and we shall both live to
find it out."
"But what? Heaven on earth, what? Haven't I tried to figure it out till
my brain aches? I haven't gone forward a single inch. On the steps of
the Formosa I told her that I loved her. There, you have it! I was in
doubt till I looked at her face, and then I knew that I had met the one
woman, and that there was a barrier between us that was not
self-imposed. Not even friendship, Dan; not even an ordinary thing like
that. I have spoken to this woman on only two occasions, and only once
have I seen her face. I am not a disciple of the theory of love at first
sight. I never shall be. An educated, rational man must have something
besides physical beauty; there must be wit, intellect, accomplishments.
Usually we recognize the beauty first, and then the other attributes,
one by one, as the acquaintance ripens. With me the things have been
switched round. The accomplishments came first; I became fascinated by a
voice and a mind. But when I saw her face.... Oh, well! Mrs. Sandford
warned me against her; the woman herself has warned me; the primal
instinct of self-preservation has warned me; yet, here I am! I had not
intended to bother you, Dan."
"It doesn't bother me, it worries me. If I have hurt you with any of my
careless jests, forgive me." Merrihew now realized that his friend was
in a bad way. Still, there was a hidden gladness in his heart that
Hillard, always railing at his (Merrihew's) affairs, was in the same
boat now, and rudderless at that.
"You haven't hurt me, Dan. As a matter of fact, your gibes have been a
tonic. They have made me face the fact that I was on the highroad to
imbecility."
"What shall you do?"
"Nothing. When we have seen Florence we'll drop down to Perugia and
Rome, then up to the Italian lakes; after that, home, if you say. The
bass season will be on then, and we've had some good sport on Lake
Ontario."
"Bass!" Merrihew went through the pleasant foolery of casting a line, of
drawing the bait, of lifting the hook, and of reeling in. "Four pounds,
Jack. He fit hard, as old Joe used to say. Remember?"
And so naturally they fell to recounting the splendid catches of the
gamiest fish in water. When the interest in this waned, Hillard looked
at his watch.
"Only nine," he said. "Let's go over to Gambrinus' and hear the music."
"And drink a boot of beer. Better than moping here."
The Hotel Italie was but a few blocks from the Piazza Vittorio Emanuele.
They found the  Halle  crowded, noisy and interesting. The music was
good, as it always is in Italy, and the beer had the true German flavor,
Münchener. Handsome uniforms brightened the scene; and there was
flirting and laughter, in which Merrihew found opportunity to join.
"If Kitty should see you!"
"Well, what if she did? When I'm married to her it will be mutually
understood that so long as I do not speak to them I may look at pretty
women."
"You seem very sure of marrying her."
"It's only a matter of time. The man who hangs on wins finally."
Merrihew had lost none of his confidence.
"I see; they marry you to get rid of you," said Hillard. "Yes, the man
who hangs on finally wins, in love or war or fortune. But I haven't
anything to hang on to."
"Who knows?" said Merrihew, wagging his head.
From the  Halle  they went down-stairs to the billiard-room. The pockets
in the table bothered Merrihew; he did not care particularly for the
English game; and the American table was occupied by a quartet of young
Americans who were drinking champagne like Pittsburg millionaires. The
ventilation was so bad that the two friends were forced to give up the
game. Under the arcade they found a small table. It was cool and
delightful here, and there was a second boot of Munich beer.
Officers passed to and fro, in pairs or with women. Presently two
officers, one in the resplendent uniform of a colonel, went past.
Merrihew touched Hillard with his foot excitedly. Hillard nodded, but
his pulse was tuned to a quicker stroke.
"I hope he doesn't see us," he said, tipping his panama over his eyes.
Merrihew curled the ends of his juvenile mustache and scowled fiercely.
"This is his post evidently," he said. "What a smacking uniform! He must
have had a long furlough, to be wandering over Europe and America. If I
get a chance I'm going to ask a waiter who he is."
"So long as he doesn't observe us," said Hillard, "I have no interest in
his affairs." Had he none? he wondered. "A lady? Grace of Mary, that is
droll!" The muscles in his jaws hardened.
"But you twisted his cuffs for him that night in Monte Carlo. Monte
Carlo!" reminiscently. "Eighteen hundred dollars, my boy, and a good
fourteen still in my inside pocket. Wasn't I lucky? But I'll never
forgive Kitty for running away from us. That's got to be explained fully
some day."
"He is coming this way again, Dan," Hillard observed quietly.
"Ah!"
They waited. Hillard changed his mind; he pushed back his hat and held
up his chin. If the man with the scar saw him and spoke he would reply.
The colonel, glancing at the pair casually, halted. At first he was not
certain, but as he met the steady eyes of Hillard he no longer doubted.
It was true. He turned and spoke to his brother officer. Merrihew's
throat grew full, but not from fear. The man with the scar stepped over
to the table and leaned with his hands upon it. There was a savage humor
in his dark eyes.
"Did I not tell you that we should meet again?" he said to Hillard.
"This is a pleasant moment." He stood back again.
"Are you speaking to me?" asked Hillard, not the least perturbed. He had
not stirred in his chair, though every muscle in his body was alert and
ready at a moment's call.
"Certainly I am speaking to you. You understand Italian sufficiently
well. This is the fellow," speaking to his companion, at the same time
drawing off his gloves, "this is the fellow I spoke to you about."
"I object to the word fellow," said Hillard, smiling grimly. "Besides, I
do not know you."
"Ah, discreet!" sneered the man with the scar.
"Be careful, Enrico," warned the brother officer. "There are many about,
and a scene is not wise. Ask the American to take a walk. You could
arrange with more ease."
"Thank you," said Hillard, "but I am perfectly comfortable where I am.
If this gentleman has anything to say, he must say it here and now."
"Colonel!" cried the subaltern, as his senior smoothed the gloves and
placed them carefully in his left hand, closing his fingers over them.
"Oh, I am calm. But I have been dreaming of this moment. Now!" The
colonel readdressed Hillard. "You meddled with an affair that night in
which you had no concern," he began truculently.
"Are you quite sure?"
Merrihew eyed Hillard nervously. He did not understand the words, worse
luck, but the tone conveyed volumes. It was crisp and angry. Hillard
possessed a temper which was backed by considerable strength, and only
on rare occasions did this temper slip from his control. Thoroughly
angry, Hillard was not a happy man to antagonize.
"Yes, I am sure. And yet, as I think it over, as I recollect the
woman," went on the colonel, with a smile which was evil and
insinuating.... "Well, I shall not question you. The main thing is, you
annoyed me. In Monte Carlo I was practically alone. Here the scene is
different; it is Florence. Doubtless you will understand." He struck out
with the gloves.
But they never touched Hillard's face. His hand, expectant of this very
movement, caught the assailant's wrist, and, with a quick jerk, brought
him half-way across the table. He bore down on the wrist so fiercely
that the Italian cried faintly. Hillard, with his face but a span from
the other's, spoke tensely, but in an undertone.
"Listen carefully to what I have to say, signore. I understand
perfectly, but I shall fight no duel. It is an obsolete fashion, and
proves nothing but mechanical skill. I do not know what kind of
blackguard you are, but blackguard I know you to be. If you ever address
me again I promise on the word of a gentleman to give you a whipping
which will have a more lasting effect upon your future actions than a
dozen sermons. If that will not serve, I shall appeal to the police."
"Poltroon!"
"As often as you please!" Hillard flung him off roughly.
A small but interested crowd had gathered by now, and Merrihew saw
visions of Italian jails. Through the crowd the ever-present
 carabinieri  shouldered their way.
"It is nothing," said the colonel, motioning them to stand back, which
they did with a sign of respect. This sign gave Hillard some food for
thought. His antagonist was evidently a personage of some importance.
"Figure of an American pig!"
Hillard laughed. "I might have broken your wrist, but did not. You are
not grateful."
The  carabinieri  moved forward again.
"The affair is over," said Hillard amiably. "This officer has mistaken
me for some one he knows."
The scar was livid on the Italian's cheek. He stood undecided for a
space. His companion laid a restraining hand on his arm. He nodded, and
the two made off. What might in former days have been a tragedy was
nothing more than a farce. But it spoiled the night for Merrihew, and he
was for going back to the hotel. Hillard agreed.
"At first I wanted you to give him a good stiff punch," said Merrihew,
"but I am glad you didn't."
"We should have slept in the lockup over night if I had. The
 carabinieri  would not have understood my excuses. If our friend is
left-handed, he'll be inconvenienced for a day or two. I put some force
into that grip. You see, Dan, the Italian still fights his duels.
Dueling is not extinct in the army here. An officer who refuses to
accept a challenge for a good or bad cause is practically hounded out of
the service. It would have been a fine joke if I had been fool enough to
accept his challenge. He would have put daylight through me at the first
stroke."
"I don't know about that," replied Merrihew loyally. "You are the crack
fencer in New York."
"But New York isn't Florence, my boy. I'll show you some fencing
to-morrow. If my old fencing master, Foresti Paoli, is yet in Florence,
I'll have him arrange some matches. New York affairs will look tame to
you then."
"But what has he to do with your vanishing lady?"
"I should like to know."
"I wish I had thought to ask a waiter who the duffer is. Did you notice
how respectful the  carabinieri  were?"
"It set me thinking. Oh, I've a premonition that we haven't seen the
last of this distinguished gentleman. Perhaps we'll find out who he is
sooner than we care to."
"When the time comes," said Merrihew with a laugh, "be sure you soak it
to him, and an extra one for me."
Early on the morrow they rode out to the Cascine, formerly a dairy-farm,
but now a splendid park. The bridle-paths are the finest in the world,
not excepting those in the Bois de Bologne in Paris. They are not so
long, perhaps, but they are infinitely more beautiful. Take, for
instance, the long path under a tunnel of enormous trees, a bridle-path
where ten men may ride abreast with room to spare, and nearly half a
mile in length; there is nothing like it.
"I tell you what it is, Jack; Italy may put a tax on salt and sea-water,
but always gives something in return; she puts up a picture-gallery or a
museum, or a park like this. What do we get back in America?  Niente! "
For two hours they romped through the park, running races, hurdling, and
playing rough pranks upon each other, such as only expert riders dare
attempt. They were both hardened by the long ride down to Florence, a
pair of animals as healthy as their mounts. They had determined not to
sell the horses till the last moment. A riding-master in the Via Lorenzo
ii Magnifico agreed to board them against the time of sale.
In the three days in Florence they had been through the galleries and
the museums; and Merrihew, to his great delight, began to find that he
could tell a Botticelli from a Lippi at first glance. He was beginning
to understand why people raved over this style or that. There was
something so gentle, so peaceful in a Botticelli that he really
preferred it to some of the famed colorists, always excepting Veronese,
to whom he had given his first admiration.
For luncheon this day Hillard took him to Paoli's in the Via dei
Tavolini--the way of the little tables. Here Merrihew saw a tavern such
as he had often conjured up while reading his Dumas; sausages and hams
and bacons and garlic and cheeses and dried vegetables hanging from the
ceiling, abrupt passages, rough tables and common chairs and strange
dishes; oil, oil, oil, even on the top of his coffee-cup, and magnums of
red and white Chianti. Hillard informed him that this was the most
famous Bohemian place in the city, the rendezvous of artists, sculptors,
writers, physicians, and civil authorities. The military seldom
patronized it, because it was not showy enough. Merrihew enjoyed the
scene, with its jabber-jabber and its clatter-clatter. And he was still
hungry when he left, but he would not admit it to Hillard, who adapted
himself to the over-abundance of oil with all the zest of an expatriated
Tuscan.
At three o'clock they went to the fencing academy of Foresti Paoli, near
the post-office. Foresti was a fine example of the military Italian of
former days. He was past sixty, but was as agile as any of his
celebrated pupils. As Hillard had written him the night before, he was
expected. He had been a pupil of Foresti's, and the veteran was glad to
see him. Merrihew saw some interesting bouts, and at length Foresti
prevailed upon Hillard to don the mask against an old pupil, a physician
who had formerly been amateur champion of Italy. Hillard, having been in
the saddle and the open air for two weeks, was in prime condition; and
he gave the ex-champion a pretty handful. But constant practice told in
the end, and Hillard was beaten. It was fine sport to Merrihew; the
quick pad-pad of the feet on the mat, the short triumphant cries as the
foil bent almost double, and the flash of the whites of their eyes
behind the mask. Merrihew knew that he should love Florence all the rest
of his days.
They were entering the Via Tornabuoni, toward the Havana cigar-store,
when a young woman came out of the little millinery shop a few doors
from the tobacconist's. Immediately Hillard stepped to one side of her
and Merrihew to the other.
"You can not run away this time, Kitty Killigrew!" cried Merrihew
joyously.
Kitty closed her eyes for a second, and the neat little bandbox slipped
to the sidewalk.
CHAPTER XXI
AN INVITATION TO A BALL
In the Villa Ariadne the wonderful fountain by Donatello was encircled
by a deep basin in which many generations of goldfish swam about. Only
the old gardener knew the secret of how these fish lived through the
chill Florentine winters. Yet, every spring, about the time when the
tourists began to prowl round, the little goldfish were to be seen
again, ready for bread-crumbs and bugs of suicidal tendencies. Forming a
kind of triangle about the basin were three ancient marble benches, such
as the amiable old Roman senators were wont to lounge upon during the
heat of the afternoon, or such as Catullus reclined upon while reading
his latest lyric to his latest affinity. At any rate, they were very
old, earth-stained and time-stained and full of unutterable history, and
with the eternal cold touch of stone which never wholly warms even under
warmest sun. The kind of bench which Alma-Tadema usually fills with
diaphanous maidens.
At this particular time a maiden, not at all diaphanous, but mentally
and physically material, sat on one of these benches, her arms thrown
out on either side of the crumbling back, her chin lowered, and her eyes
thoughtfully directed toward the little circle of disturbed water where
the goldfish were urging for the next crumb. Now, as Phoebus was
somewhere near four in the afternoon, he was growing ruddy with effort
in the final spurt for the western horizon. So the marbles and the
fountain and the water and the maiden all melted into a harmonious
golden tone.
Merrihew was not so poetical as to permit this picture to go on
indefinitely; so he stole up from behind with all the care of a
practised hunter till he stood directly behind the maiden. She still
dreamed. Then he put his hands over her eyes. She struggled for a brief
moment, then desisted.
"It is no puzzle at all," she declared. "I can smell horse, horse, and
again horse. Mr. Merrihew--"
"Yes, I know all about it. I should have fetched along a sachet-powder.
I never remember anything but one thing, Kitty, and that's you." He came
round and sat down beside her. "There's no doubt that I reek of the
animal. But the real question is," bluntly, "how much longer are you
going to keep me dangling on the string? I've been coming up here for
ten days, now, every afternoon."
"Ten days," Kitty murmured. She was more than pretty to-day, and there
was malice aforethought in all the little ribbons and trinkets and
furbelows. She had dressed expressly for this moment, but Merrihew was
not going to be told so. "Ten days," she repeated; and mentally she
recounted the pleasant little journeys into the hills and the
cherry-pickings.
"And dangling, dangling. I've been hanging in mid-air for nearly a year
now. When are you going to put me out of my misery?" His tone was
chiding and moody.
"But am I to be blamed if, after having refused twice to marry you, you
still persist?" Kitty assumed a judicial air.
"All you have to do," sadly, "is to tell me to clear out."
"That's just it," cried Kitty wrathfully. "If I tell you to go it will
be for good; and I don't want you to go that way. I like you; you are
cheerful and amusing, and I find pleasure in your company. But every day
in the year, breakfast and dinner!" She appealed to the god in the
fountain. What unreasonable beings men were!
"But you haven't refused me this time."
"Because I wish to make it as easy as possible for you." Which of the
two meanings she offered him was lost upon Merrihew; he saw but one, nor
the covert glance, roguish and mischievous withal. "Come, let us be
sensible for ten minutes."
Merrihew laid his watch on the bench beside him. Kitty dimpled.
"Don't you love it in Florence?" she asked.
"Oh, yes," scraping the gravel with his crop. "Hillard says I'm
finishing my bally education at a canter. I can tell a saint from a
gentleman in a night-gown, a halo from a barrel-hoop, and I can drink
Chianti without making a face."
Kitty laughed rollickingly. For beneath her furbelows and ribbons and
trinkets she was inordinately happy and light of heart. Her letter had
come; she was only waiting for the day of sailing; and she was to take
back with her the memory of the rarest adventure which ever befell a
person, always excepting those of the peripatetic sailor from Bagdad.
"I want to go home," said Merrihew, when her laughter died away in a
soft mutter.
"What! leave this beautiful world for the sordid one yonder?"
"Sordid it may be, but it's home. I can speak to and understand every
man I meet on the streets there; there are the theaters and the club and
the hunting and fishing and all that. Here it's nothing but pictures and
concierges and lying cabbies. If I could collect all my friends and
plant 'em over here, why, I could stand it. But I'm lonesome. Did you
ever try to spread frozen butter on hot biscuits? Well, that's the way I
feel."
This metaphor brought tears of merriment to Kitty's eyes. She would have
laughed at anything this day.
"Daniel, you are hopeless."
"I admit it."
"How beautiful the cypresses are in the sunshine!" she exclaimed,
standing.
He reached out and caught her hand, gently pulling her down to the
bench.
"The ten minutes are up," he said.
"Oh, I said let us be sensible for ten minutes," she demurred.
"I've been telling you the truth; that's sensible enough. Kitty, will
you marry me?"
"Could you take care of me?"
"I have these two hands. I'll work."
"That would be terrible! Oh, if you were only rich!"
"You don't mean that, Kitty."
"No," relenting, "I don't. But you bother me."
"All right. This will be the last time. Will you marry me? I will do all
a man can to make you happy. I love you with all my heart. I know.
You're afraid; you've an idea that I am fickle. But not this time,
Kitty, not this time. Will you?"
"I can not give up the stage." She knew very well that she could, but
she had an idea.
"I don't ask even that. I'll travel with you and make myself useful."
"You would soon tire of that." But Kitty eyed him with a kindly look. He
 was  good to look at. Kitty was like the timid bather; she knew that
she was going to take the plunge, but she must put one foot into the
water, withdraw it, shudder, and try it again.
"Tire?" said Merrihew. "If I did I shouldn't let you know it. I'm a
homeless beggar, anyhow; I've always been living in boarding-houses and
clubs and hotels; it won't matter so long as you are with me."
Kitty threw a crust to the goldfish and watched them swirl about it
greedily. Merrihew had no eyes but for her. Impulsively he held out his
hand. Kitty looked at it with thought; this would be the final plunge.
Then, without further hesitance, indifferent to the future or the past,
conscious only of the vast happiness of the present, Kitty laid her hand
in his. He would have drawn her into his arms had not they both seen
O'Mally pushing through the box-hedge, followed by some belated
tourists. Merrihew swore softly and Kitty laughed.
On the terrace the tea-table dazzled the eye with its spotless linen,
its blue Canton, and its bundle of pink roses. Hillard extended his cup
for a second filling, vaguely wondering where Merrihew was. They had
threshed continental politics, engineering, art and the relative crafts,
precious stones, astronomy and the applied sciences, music, horses, and
geology, with long pauses in between. Both knew instinctively that this
learned discourse was but a makeshift, a circuitous route past
danger-points. "Have you ever heard of telling fortunes in tea-grounds?"
he asked.
"Yes. It is a pleasant fallacy, and nothing ever comes true." And La
Signorina vaguely wondered where Kitty was. She needed Kitty at this
moment, she who had never needed anybody.
The tramp of feet beyond the wall diverted them for a space. A troop of
marksmen from the range were returning cityward. They were dirty and
tired, yet none seemed discontented with his lot. They passed in a haze
of dust.
The man and woman resumed their chairs, and Hillard bent his head over
the cup and stared at the circling tea-grounds in the bottom. The
movement gave her the opportunity she desired: to look freely and
without let at his shapely head. Day after day, serene and cloudless
Florentine days, this same scene or its like had been enacted. It took
all her verbal skill to play this game safely; a hundred times she saw
something in his eyes that warned her and armed her. When he passed that
evening on horseback she knew that these things were to be. She had two
battles where he had only one; for she had herself to war against. Each
night after he had gone she fought with innocent desire; argument after
argument she offered in defense. But these were all useless; she must
send him away. And yet, when he came, as she knew he would, she offered
him tea! And in rebellion she asked, Why not? What harm, what evil? Was
it absolutely necessary that she should let all pleasure pass, thrust it
aside? The suffering she had known, would not that be sufficient penance
for this little sin? But on his side, was this being fair to him? This
man loved her, and she knew it. Up to this time he had met her but
twice, and yet he loved her, incredible as it seemed. And though he
never spoke of this love with his lips, he was always speaking it with
his eyes; and she was always looking into his eyes.
She never looked into her own heart; wisely she never gave rein to
self-analysis; she dared not. And so she drifted on, as in some sunny
dream of remote end.
How inexplicable were the currents and cross-currents of life! She had
met a thousand men, handsomer, more brilliant; they had not awakened
more than normal interest. And yet this man, quiet, humorous, ordinarily
good-looking, aroused in her heart discord and penetrated the barriers
to the guarded sentiment. Why? Always this query. Perhaps, after all, it
was simply the initial romance which made the impression so lasting. Ah,
well; to-morrow or the next day the end would come; so it did not
matter.
There was one bit of light in this labyrinth: Worth had spoken; that
disagreeable incident was closed. And this present dream, upon what reef
would it carry her? She shrugged. This action brought Hillard back to
earth, for he, too, had been dreaming. He raised his head.
"Why did you do that?" he asked.
"Do what?"
"Shrug."
"Did I shrug? I did so unconsciously. Perhaps I was thinking of O'Mally
and his flock of tourists."
"Doesn't it annoy you?"
"Not in the least. It has been a fine comedy. I believe he is the most
accomplished prevaricator I ever met. He remembers the lie of yesterday
and keeps adding to it. I don't see how he manages to do it. He is
better than Pietro. Pietro used to bring them into the house." She
gathered up a handful of the roses and pressed them against her face,
breathing deeply.
Hillard trembled. She was so beautiful; the glow of the roses on her
cheeks and throat, the sun in her hair, and the shadows in her eyes. To
smother the rush of words which were gathering at his lips, he raised
his cup and drank. Ten days! It was something. But the battle was
wearing; the ceaseless struggle not to speak from his full heart was
weakening him. Yet he knew that to speak was to banish the dream,
himself to be banished with it.
"If I were a poet, which I am not--" He paused irresolutely.
"You would extemporize on the beauty of the perspective," she
supplemented. "How the Duomo shines! And the towers, and the Arno--"
"I was thinking of your hair," he interrupted. "I have never seen
anything quite like it. It isn't a wig, is it?" jestingly.
"No, it is my own," with an answering smile.
"Ah, that night! It is true, as you said; it is impossible to forget the
charm of it."
She had recourse to the roses again. Dangerous ground.
"You have not told me the real reason why you sang under my window that
night."
"Have I not? Well, then, there can be no harm in telling you that. I had
just signed the contract to sing with the American Comic Opera Company
in Europe. I saw the world at my feet, for it would be false modesty to
deny that I have a voice. More disillusions! The world is  not  at my
feet," lightly.
"But I am," he replied quietly.
She passed this declaration. "I might have more successfully applied to
the grand opera in New York; but my ambition was to sing here first."
"But in comic opera?"
"Another blunder, common of its kind to me. Have I not told you that I
am always making missteps such as have no retracing?"
"Will you answer a single question?"
She stroked the roses.
"Will you?"
"I can make no promise. Rather ask the question. If I see the wisdom of
answering it, I shall do so."
"Is there another man?" He did not look at her but rather at her fingers
embedded in the roses. Silence, which grew and lengthened.
"What do you mean?" she asked evenly, when she realized that the silence
was becoming too long.
"In Venice you told me that there was a barrier. I ask now if this
barrier be a man."
"Yes."
A wrinkle of pain passed over his heart. "If you love him--"
"Love him? No, no!... I had hoped you would not speak like this; I
relied upon your honor."
"Is it dishonorable for me to love you?"
"No, but it is for me--to permit you to say so!"
He could hear the birds twittering in the boughs of the oak. A lizard
paused on the damp stone near-by. A bee hovered over the roses, twirled
a leaf impatiently, and buzzed its flight over the old wall. He was
conscious of recognizing these sounds and these objects, but with the
consciousness of a man suddenly put down in an unknown country, in an
unknown age, far away from all familiar things.
"I deplore the misfortune which crossed your path and mine again," she
went on relentlessly, as much to herself as to him. "But I am something
of a fatalist. We can not avoid what is to be."
He was pale, but not paler than she.
"I offer you nothing, Mr. Hillard, nothing; no promise, no hope,
nothing. A few days longer, and we shall separate finally."
She was about to rise and ask him to excuse her and retire, when
Merrihew and Kitty came into view. There was nothing now to do but wait.
She sought ease from the tenseness of the moment in sorting the roses.
Hillard stirred the cold dregs in his tea-cup. Cold dregs, indeed! The
light of the world was gone out.
Merrihew's face was as broad and shining as the harvest moon. He came
swinging down the path, Kitty's arm locked in his. And Kitty's face was
rosy. Upon reaching the table Merrihew imitated the bow of an old-time
courtier.
"It is all over," he said, swallowing. "Kitty has promised to marry me
as soon as we land in America. I'm a lucky beggar!"
"Yes, you are," said Hillard. "Congratulations to both of you."
La Signorina took hold of Kitty's hands. This was a much-needed
diversion.
"Is it true, Kitty?"
"Yes, ma'am," Kitty answered, with a stage courtesy. "I have promised to
marry him, for there seemed no other way of getting rid of him."
Hillard forced a smile. "It's a shame to change such a pretty name as
yours, Miss Killigrew."
"I realize that," replied Kitty with affected sadness.
"Go to!" laughed the happy groom-elect. "Merrihew and Killigrew; there's
not enough difference to matter. And this very night I shall cable to
America."
"Cable to America?" echoed a tri-chorus.
"Yes; to have a parson in the custom-shed when we land. I know Kitty,
and I am not going to take any chances."
This caused real laughter. La Signorina relighted the tea-lamp, and
presently they were all talking together, jesting and offering
suggestions. No matter how great the ache in the heart may be, there is
always some temporary surcease. Hillard was a man.
They laughed quietly as they saw O'Mally gravely conducting his charge
to the gates. He returned with Smith. Both were solemn-visaged.
"Well, noble concierge?" inquired La Signorina. "Why, you look as if you
were the bearer of ill-tidings."
"Perhaps I am," said O'Mally. He tossed his cap on the stones and sat
down with Smith on the iron bench. "No, no tea, thank you. What I need
is a glass, a whole glass, of good Irish whisky. This thing has been on
my mind since noon, but I concluded to wait rather than spoil the whole
day. I should have known nothing about it if it hadn't been for old
Pietro."
"What has happened?" asked Merrihew.
"Enough," said O'Mally laconically. He directed his next words to La
Signorina. "You are sure of this friend of yours, the princess?"
"Certainly," answered La Signorina, her astonishment increasing.
"She gave you the right authority?"
"Absolutely," more and more astonished.
"Agreed that we could remain here as long as we pleased?"
"Yes, yes!" impatiently.
"Well, before I swing the thunder, let me tell you something," said
O'Mally. "I was in Florence a few days ago. I made some inquiries."
"About my friend the princess?"
"Yes. It was impertinent, I know. I interviewed four or five hotel
concierges. Only one of them ever heard of the name; and then it was an
old prince, not a woman. This concierge directed me to another, but as
he spoke only Italian, we could not make things fit. But when I
mentioned the princess' name, he shrugged and laughed, as if something
highly amusing had hit him."
"Go on, Mr. O'Mally; go on. This is interesting. Your doubt is not at
all complimentary to me. The police have recognized my authority."
"And that's what feazes me. But the main thing is this: your princess
has played us all rather a shabby trick. In the letter you read to us in
Venice she said that she had never visited this villa."
"Only in her youth," replied La Signorina, her brows drawing together in
a frown. "But I know her so well; she is not in the habit of making
misstatements. To the point at once. What has happened to bring about
all this pother?"
"It is simply this: our little jig is up," responded O'Mally. "Read
these and see for yourself." He gave to her a broad white envelope and a
clipping from  La Nazione  of the day before.
She seized the clipping eagerly, but the eagerness died from her face
quickly, leaving it pale and stony. The clipping fluttered unheeded from
her fingers to the ground. Her gaze passed from one face to another, all
