which is almost as fine as Hunsdon Towers. In town she has her own
house in Grosvenor Square. Hunsdon House in Piccadilly--one of the
greatest mansions in London--would be all your own."
But she could not command the attention of her niece again, and
permitting herself to conclude that the maiden was lost in a pleasing
reverie, she subsided into silence, closed her eyes to the beauty of
land and sea, and also declined into reverie, drowsy reverie in which
pictures of herself in all the glory of near kinship to a beautiful
and wealthy young peeress, were mixed with speculations upon her
possible luck at cards that night. She had lost heavily of late and it
was time she retrieved her fortunes.
At dinner and in the saloon later the talk was all of the poet's
disappearance. Some held out for the known eccentricities of genius,
others avowed themselves in favour of the theory that respectable
society had risen to its surfeit the night before. The natural
reaction had set in and he was enjoying himself once more in his own
way and wondering that he had submitted to be bored so long. Anne went
to bed her mind a chaos of doubt and terror.
CHAPTER XVI
She would have overslept again had it not been for the faithful maid
with her coffee. She sprang out of bed at once, a trifle disburdened
by the thought of a long ramble alone in the early morning, and,
postponing her swim in the tanks below until her return, dressed so
hurriedly that had hats been in vogue hers no doubt would have gone
on back foremost. She was feverishly afraid of being intercepted,
although such a thing had never occurred, the other women being far
too elegant to rise so early, and a proper sense of decorum forbidding
the young men to offer their escort.
The sea had never been a stiller, hotter blue, the mountain more
golden, the sky more like an opening rose. But she strode on seeing
nothing. Sleep had given her no rest and she was in a torment of
spirit that was a new experience in her uneventful life. She recalled
the angry astonished eyes of Warner as she danced with all the abandon
of a girl at her first ball. No doubt he had thought her vain and
frivolous, the average young lady at whose approach he fled when he
could. No doubt he thought her in love with Abergenny, whose habit of
turning female heads was well known to him, and upon whom she had
certainly beamed good will. No doubt he had expected her to manage to
pass him, knowing his diffidence, and offer her congratulations;
whereas she had taken no notice of him whatever. No doubt--oh, no
doubt--he had rushed off in a fury of disappointment and disgust, and
all the good work of the past weeks had been undone, all her plans of
meeting him a year hence as handsome and fine a man as he had every
right to be, were frustrated. She had for some time past detected
signs that apathy was gradually relieving a naturally fine spirit of
its heavy burden, that his weary indifference was giving place to a
watchful alertness, which in spite of the old mask he continued to
wear, occasionally manifested itself in a flash of the eye or a quiver
of the nostril. Anne could not doubt that he loved her, inexperienced
in such matters as she might be. However she may have kept him at a
distance her thoughts had seldom left him, and he had betrayed
himself in a hundred ways.
Had she been half interested in Hunsdon or Abergenny and they had been
so unreasonable as to rush off and disappear merely because she had
enjoyed her first ball-room triumphs as any girl must, she would have
been both derisive and angry at the liberty; but Warner inspired no
such feminine ebullition. He was a great and sacred responsibility,
one, moreover, that she had assumed voluntarily. That he had
unexpectedly fallen in love with her but deepened this responsibility,
and she had betrayed her trust, she had betrayed her trust!
She left the road suddenly and struck upward into one of the sheltered
gorges, sat down in the shadow of the jungle and wept with the brief
violence of a tropical storm in summer. Relief was inevitable. When
the paroxism was over she found a shaded seat under a cocoanut tree
and determined not to return to the hotel for breakfast, nor indeed
until she felt herself able to endure the sight of mere people; and
endeavoured to expel all thought of Warner from her still tormented
mind. In the distance she could see Monserrat and Antigua, gray blurs
on the blue water, she could hear the singing of negroes in the cane
fields far away, but near her no living thing moved save the monkeys
in the tree tops, the blue butterflies, the jewelled humming-birds. On
three sides of her was a dense growth of banana, cocoanut and palm
trees, cactus, and a fragrant shrub covered with pink flowers. Almost
overhanging her was the collar of forest about the cone, and the
ever-faithful snow-white cloud that only left the brow of Nevis to
creep down and embrace her by night. She took off her bonnet and
wished as she had rarely done before that she might never leave this
warm fragrant poetic land. It was made for such as she, whose whole
nature was tuned to poetry and romance, even if denied the gift of
expression--or of consummation! Why should she not remain here? She
had some money, quite enough to rent or even build a little house in
one of these high solitudes, where she could always look from her
window and see the sapphire sea, that so marvellously changed to
chrysoprase near the silver palm-fringed shore, inhale these delicious
scents, and dream and dream in this caressing air. She hated the
thought of London. The world had no real call for her. She wondered
at her submission to the will of a woman who had not the least
comprehension of her nature. On Nevis would she stay, live her own
life, find happiness in beauty and solitude, since the highest
happiness was not for her; and at this point she heard a step in the
jungle.
She sprang to her feet startled, but even before the heavy leaves
parted she knew that it was Warner. When he stood before her he lifted
his hat politely and dropped it on the ground, and although he did not
smile he certainly was sober.
The relief, the reaction, was so great that the blood rushed to Anne's
brow, the tears to her eyes. She made no attempt to speak at once and
he looked at her in silence. Perhaps it was the mountain solitude that
gave his spirit greater freedom; perhaps it was merely the effect of
the beneficial régime of the past two months; there might be another
reason less easy of analysis; but she had never seen him so assured,
so well, so much a man of his own world. His shoulders were quite
straight, his carriage was quite erect, there was colour in his face
and his eyes were bright. Nor did the haunted, tormented expression
she had so often seen look out at her. These were the eyes of a man
who had returned to his place among men. He looked young, buoyant.
She spoke finally. "I--we all thought--you disappeared so
abruptly--what am I saying?"
"You believed that I had returned to the pit out of which you--you
alone, mind you--had dragged me. You might have known me better."
"You should not put such a burden on me. You have character
enough----"
"Oh yes, I had character enough, but doubtless you noticed when you
first met me that I had ceased to exercise it. I went to the dogs
quite deliberately, and, with my enfeebled will and frame, I should
have stayed there, had not you magnetised me into your presence, where
I was forced to behave if I would remain. Later, for reasons both
prosaic and sentimental, I remained without effort. I have never had
any real love of spirits, although I loved their effect well enough."
"You must have loved that oth--that woman very much."
"She made a fool of me. There is always a time in a man's life when he
can be made a complete ass of if the woman with the will to make an
ass of him happens along coincidently. I fancied myself sated with
fame, tired of life, a remote and tragic figure among men--the trail
of Byron is over us all. That was the moment for the great and fatal
passion, and the woman was all that a malignant fate could devise;
not only to inspire the passion, but to transform a frame of mind
arbitrarily imagined into a sickening reality. From a romantic
solitary being I became a prosaic outcast. Nor could I recall anything
in the world I had left worth the sacrifice of the magician that gave
me brief spells of happiness and oblivion. Nobody pretended that it
injured my work, and I remained in the pit."
"And your self-respect? You were satisfied? Oh surely--you
looked--when I first saw you----"
"I loathed myself, of course. My brain was unaffected, was it not? I
abhorred my body, and would willingly have slashed it off could I have
gone on writing without it. Either I compelled my soul to stand aside,
or I was made on that plan--I cannot tell; but my inner life was
never polluted by my visible madness. I have been vile but I have
never had a vile thought. I fancy you understand this. And when I am
writing my ego does not exist at all--my worst enemies have never
accused me of the egoism common to poets. I have lived in another
realm, where I have remembered nothing of this. Had it been otherwise
no doubt I should have put it all at an end long ago."
Anne had averted her eyes, caught in one of those inner crises where
the faculties are almost suspended. She faltered out: "And after--when
I come back next year, shall I find you like this?"
He paused so long before replying that she moved with uncontrollable
excitement, and as she did so his eyes caught hers and held them.
The intensity of his gaze did not waver but he said, unsteadily, until
his own excitement mastered him, "I have assured myself again and
again that I never should dare to tell you that I loved you; that I
was not fit to approach you; that I must let you go, and try to live
with the memory of you. But now I remember nothing but that I love
you. I can speak of what I have been, but I cannot recall it. I feel
nothing but that I am a man in the restored vigour of youth in the
presence of the woman I want. If love is egoistical then I am rampant
this moment with egoism. If I could have the bliss of marrying you I
never should return to the past even in thought. I am a poet no
longer. I am nothing but a lover. I remember nothing, want nothing,
but the perfection of human happiness I should find with you."
The words poured from his lips before he finished, and the trained
monotony of his voice had gone to the winds. His face was violently
flushed, his eyes flashing. "I dare!" he cried exultingly. "I dare! It
would be heaven of a sort to have broken through those awful barriers
even if you told me to go and never enter your presence again."
"I cannot do that! I cannot!" And then she flung her arms out from her
deep womanly figure with a gesture expressive as much of maternal
yearning as of youthful and irresistible passion. "I will stay with
you forever," she said.
CHAPTER XVII
Several hours later Miss Ogilvy, who was riding slowly along the road
after a call at Bath House, suddenly drew rein and stared at an
approaching picture. She had a pretty taste in art, had Miss Medora,
and had painted all her island friends. Never had she longed more than
at this moment for palette and brush. A tall supple figure was coming
down the white road between the palms and the cane fields, clad in
white, the bonnet hanging on the arm, the sun making a golden web on
the chestnut hair. Never had the Caribbean Sea looked as blue as this
girl's eyes. Even her cheeks were as pink as the flowers in her belt.
She seemed to float rather than walk, and about her head was a cloud
of blue butterflies. Miss Ogilvy had seen Anne striding many a
morning, and it was the ethereal gait that challenged her attention
as much as the beauty of the picture.
They were abreast in a moment, and although Miss Ogilvy prided herself
upon the correctness of her deportment, she cried out impulsively,
and with no formal greeting: "What, in heaven's name, dear Anne, has
happened? I never saw any one look so beautiful--so--happy!"
"I am going to marry Byam Warner," said Anne.
Miss Ogilvy turned pale. She had intended to scheme for this very
result, but confronted with the fact, her better nature prevailed, and
she faltered out,
"Oh--oh--it is too great a risk! No woman should go as far as
that. We are all willing to help him, but that you should be
sacrificed--you--you of all----"
"I am not sacrificing myself. Do you fancy I am so great a fool as
that? No--no--that is not the reason I shall marry him!"
"He certainly is a great poet and has improved vastly in appearance.
I never should have believed it to be possible." The inevitable was
working in Miss Ogilvy. "But Mrs. Nunn? All her friends? There will be
dreadful scenes. Oh Anne, dear, they will rush you off. They will
never permit it."
"My aunt controls nothing but my property, and not the interest of
that. If she refuses her consent I shall simply walk up to Fig Tree
Church and marry Mr. Warner."
Miss Ogilvy recovered herself completely. "You will do nothing of the
sort," she cried, warm with friendship and the prospect of figuring in
the most sensational episode Nevis had known this many a year. "Come
to me. Be my guest until the banns have been properly published, and
marry from Ogilvy Grange. Everything must be de rigueur, or I should
never forgive myself. And it would give me the greatest happiness,
dear Anne. Mama and papa do everything I wish, and papa is one of Mr.
Warner's father's oldest friends. Mrs. Nunn will not consent. So
promise that you will come to me."
"I am very grateful. I had not thought much about Aunt Emily's
opposition, but no doubt she will turn me out of Bath House. You may
see me at the Grange to-night."
"Send one of the grooms with a note as soon as you have had the
inevitable scene. I only hope the result will be that I send the coach
for you to-day. I do hope you'll be happy. Why shouldn't you? Byam
Warner would not be the first man to settle down in matrimony. But
can you stand living your life on Nevis."
"I should have wished to live here had I never met Byam Warner."
"Oh--well--you are not to be pitied. I shall paint you while you are
at the Grange, all in white--only in a smarter gown--in this setting,
and with those blue butterflies circling about your head. You cannot
imagine what a picture you made. What a pity I frightened them away.
Now, mind you write me at once."
She kissed her radiant friend with a sigh, doubting that even conquest
of Lord Hunsdon would make herself look like a goddess, and rode on.
Anne went her way, even more slowly than before. She was in no haste
to face Mrs. Nunn, and she would re-live the morning hours before
other mere mortals scattered those precious images in her mind. Warner
had taken her up to his hut concealed in a hollow of the mountain and
surrounded on all sides by the jungle, then, while she sat on the one
chair the establishment boasted, he had cooked their breakfast, a
palatable mess of rice and plantains, and the best of coffee. They
had consumed it with great merriment under a banana tree, then washed
the dishes in a brook. Afterward he had shaken down several young
cocoanuts and they had pledged themselves in the green wine. Then they
had returned to the shade and talked--what had they not talked about?
Anne opened the sealed book of the past five years of which he had
been the hero. He read it with amazement and delight, but contrite
that he had received no message from that turbulent young brain by the
North Sea. But he atoned by confessing that he had recognised her as
his own the moment he laid eyes on her, that she was all and more than
he had once modelled in the mists of his brain. He demanded every
detail of that long union, so imaginative and so real, and told Anne
that never before had a poet had the fortune to meet a woman who was a
locked fountain of poetry, yet who revealed the sparkling flood by a
method of her own with which no words could compete.
"And will you write my poems?" Anne had asked eagerly. But he had
drawn down a broad leaf between his face and hers. "I told you that I
was a poet no longer--merely a lover. To know absolute happiness in
two forms in this world you must take them in turn. I shall write no
more."
"Were you perfectly happy when you wrote?" asked Anne, a little
jealously.
"Perfectly."
"I can almost understand it."
"I can no more express it than I have ever been able to tell in verse
the half of what I blindly conceived."
"I should think that might have clouded your happiness."
"Yes--when a poem was revolving and seething in my distracted head.
Never tempt me to write, for while the thing is gestating I am a
brute, moody, irritable, unhappy. The whole poem seems to work itself
out remorselessly before I can put pen to paper, and at the same time
is enveloped in a mist. I catch glimpses like will-o'-the-wisps in a
fog bank, sudden visions of perfect form that seem to turn to grinning
masks. It is maddening! But when the great moment arrives and I am at
my desk I am the happiest man on earth."
By tacit consent the subject of the stimulants under which he had
always written was ignored, as well as the terrible chapter of his
life which it was her blessed fortune to close. They had discussed the
future, talked of practical things. He had told her that his house
could be put in order while they travelled among the islands, and that
he made quite enough to support her properly if they lived on Nevis.
She had three hundred a year and would have more did she consent to
let the manor for a longer term, and he had assured her that hers was
a fortune on Nevis outside of Bath House. They finally decided to
marry at once that he might show her the other islands before the
hurricane season began.
In spite of loitering Anne arrived at the hotel quite two hours before
luncheon, and after divesting herself of a frock that would send Mrs.
Nunn into hysterics if her news did not, she went to her aunt's room.
Mrs. Nunn, fresh from her sulphur bath, was reclining on a sofa in her
large cool room, where the jalousies were half closed, and dawdling
over Godey's Lady's Book, a fashion magazine printed in the United
States, which found great favour in her eyes.
"My dear Anne," she said languidly, "I suppose you breakfasted with
Miss Ogilvy. La! La! You are more burnt than ever. Your face is quite
red. And I would have you well bleached before the London season. Pray
sit down. It affects my nerves to see you wander about like that."
Anne took a chair facing her aunt. "I did not breakfast with Miss
Ogilvy. I have been talking to Mr. Warner all the morning."
"Heavens! what a waste of time, when you might have been talking to
Hunsdon in the morning-room. It was quite empty. Maria has Mr. Warner
in charge. I hope you have not been walking about with him. You know I
told you----"
"No one saw us. We talked up in one of the jungles."
"One of the jungles!" Mrs. Nunn sat up. "I never heard anything sound
so horrid. Do you tell me that you have the habit of sitting in
jungles--dear me--with young gentlemen! I forbid you to go out again
unattended."
"This was the first time."
"It assuredly will be the last."
"I think not. Mr. Warner has a hut in the jungle and I am going to
marry him."
"What--you----" And then as she met Anne's eyes she gave a piercing
scream, and her maid rushed in. "The sal volatile!" she gasped. "The
salts."
She fell back limp, and Anne, who was unaccustomed to the easy fainting
of fine ladies, was terrified and administered the restoratives. But
Mrs. Nunn may have been less time reviving than Anne fancied, for
when she finally opened her eyes they were very hard and her features
singularly composed.
"You may go, Claire," she said to the maid. "Return in an hour and
pack my boxes. We leave by the packet to-morrow. Now," she added,
turning to Anne, "I am prepared to talk to you. Only kindly remember,
if you have anything further of a startling nature to communicate,
that I am accustomed to less direct and brutal methods."
"I am sorry," said Anne humbly. Mrs. Nunn waved apology aside.
"Of course you know that I shall never give my consent. Are you
determined to marry without it?"
"Yes."
"Your father all over. It was his expression of inhuman obstinacy in
your eyes that gave me even more of a shock than your words. Many a
time I endeavoured to gain his consent to your visiting London where
you would have seen the world and been sensibly married by this
time. Never under my earlier tutelage would you have made a fool of
yourself. And you have used Hunsdon abominably ill."
"I have given him no encouragement whatever----"
"Do not argue. My nerves will not stand it. Now this much I have the
right to demand: You are of age, I cannot prevent your marrying this
outcast, but you owe it to me as well as to yourself to return to
London, be presented to Her Majesty, and do a London season----"
"I never expect to leave the West Indies again, unless to be sure, Mr.
Warner should feel obliged to go to London himself. If you sail
to-morrow I shall go to Medora Ogilvy----"
"You have planned it all out!" shrieked Mrs. Nunn. Anne hastily poured
out another dose of sal volatile.
"I met Medora on my way home. She fancied how you would take it and
offered me shelter."
"I am gratified that my sense of propriety is so well known. You can
go to her. I proclaim to the world that I wash my hands of the
disgraceful affair by leaving to-morrow. Great God! What a victory for
Maria Hunsdon. I believe she plotted it all along."
Then she plunged into worldly argument, abuse of Warner, awful
pictures of the future. Finally Anne rose.
"I don't wish to do your nerves a real injury, so I shall leave you
until you are calmer," she said.
"I never wish to see you again."
CHAPTER XVIII
Mrs. Nunn, although she had talked with much heat, was still collected
enough to console herself with the reflection that Anne would be
terrified into sailing with her on the morrow; it was incomprehensible
to her well-regulated mind that any young lady in her niece's position
in life would consent to a scandal.
To do her justice, she had no wish to precipitate Anne into an act
which she believed must be fatal to her happiness, and she trusted to
further argument to persuade her to return to London if only for the
trousseau. With her niece and the poet on different sides of the
equator she would answer for the result.
Nevertheless, she called in Lady Hunsdon and Lady Constance Mortlake,
and fairly enjoyed the consternation visible upon the bright satisfied
countenance of her Maria. Lady Hunsdon, indeed, thought it a great
pity that Anne had not spared her son by selecting one of the beaux
of Bath House instead of the dissolute poet.
"It is quite a tragedy!" she said with energy, "and I for one cannot
permit it. I feel as if it were my fault----"
"It is," said Lady Constance.
"But is it? I am inclined to blame my son, as he brought me here to
reform Mr. Warner--and that part of the work I take credit for----"
"Devil a bit. He never would have come to Bath House without Anne
Percy as a bait. I have learned that he was several times seen staring
through the windows of the saloon before he accepted your invitation."
"In that case he would have managed to meet her even had I not taken
him in hand."
"Logical but doubtful. He had long since lost the entrée to Bath House
and to all the Great Houses. Only you, worse luck, had the power to
bring him into a circle where he was able to meet the girl."
"Then you must admit that I have done some good. Had he not been able
to meet her, he no doubt would have gone from bad to worse. I at least
have been the medium in his reform, the necessary medium."
"I don't believe in reform."
"You were brought up at the court of George IV."
"So were you, and therefore should have more sense. Warner is
temporarily set up. No doubt of that. He feels a new man and looks
like one. No doubt he has sworn never to drink again and means it.
But wait till the honeymoon has turned to green cheese. Wait till he
begets another poem. Poets to my mind have neither more nor less than
a rotten spot in the brain that breaks out periodically, as hidden
diseases break out in the body. Look at poor Byron."
It was Lady Hunsdon's turn to be satiric. "Poor dear Byron must have
had a row of rotten spots one of which was always in eruption. One may
judge not so much by his achievements as by his performances."
"Never mind!" cried Lady Constance, the colour deepening in her
pendulous cheeks streaked with purple. "He was the most beautiful
mortal that ever breathed and I was in love with him and am proud of
it."
"I feel much more original that I was not----"
"Oh, dear friends," cried Mrs. Nunn, pathetically. "We have to do
with a living poet--unhappily. Byron has been in Hucknall-Torkard
church these twenty years. Do advise me."
"Stay and see it through," said Lady Constance. "I know love when I
see it. It is so rare nowadays that it fairly wears a halo. By and by
it will be extinct on earth and then we shall be kneeling to St. Eros
and St. Venus and forget all the naughty stories about them, just as
we have forgotten the local gossip about the present saints. You
cannot prevent this match. You cannot even postpone it. I regret it as
much as you do, but I cannot help sympathising with them! So young and
so full of high and beautiful ideals! They will be happy for a time.
Who knows? He really may be a new man. Maria can convince herself of
anything she chooses; I feel disposed to take a leaf out of her book."
Mrs. Nunn set her lips, thrust her bust up and her chin out. She
looked obstinate and felt implacable. "I go to-morrow. Upon that I
am resolved. I should be criminal to encourage her----"
There was a tap at the door. A servant entered with a note.
"From Anne!" announced Mrs. Nunn. She dismissed the servant and read
it aloud:
      DEAR AUNT EMILY:
      Miss Ogilvy has sent the coach for me, feeling sure that I
      have incurred your displeasure, and asking me to go at once
      to the Grange. I have no wish to leave you if you remain at
      Bath House, but if you are resolved upon going to-morrow, I
      shall accept her invitation. Will you not let me come in
      and say good bye, dear aunt? Be sure that I am deeply
      grateful for all you have done for me and only wish that I
      might spare you so much pain.
                              ANNE.
Mrs. Nunn called in her maid and sent a verbal refusal to see her
niece.
"I would have saved her if I could." She was now quite composed, in
the full sense of duty done. "But it is imperative that I go to-morrow
and announce aloud my disapproval of this unfortunate marriage. I
shall renounce my guardianship of her property the day I return to
London. I cannot save her, so I wash my hands."
"I shall stay for the wedding," said Lady Constance, "and all London
can know it."
"It is my duty also to remain," said Lady Hunsdon, "and my son must be
best man. But Emily is quite right to go."
CHAPTER XIX
Anne, during the ensuing month, had her first experience since
childhood of home life. Mrs. Ogilvy lay on a sofa in one of her great
cool rooms all day, but she made no complaint and diffused an
atmosphere of peace and gentleness throughout the house. The younger
children were pretty creatures, well trained by their English
governess, and Mr. Ogilvy, richly coloured by sun and port, spent much
of his time on horseback; amiable at home when his will was not
crossed. The large stone house, painted a dazzling white, and
surrounded by a grove of tropical trees, stood so high on the mountain
that the garden terraces behind it finished at the entrance to the
evergreen forest. It was fitted up with every Antillian luxury: fine
mahogany furniture--the only wood that defied the boring of the West
Indian worm--light cane chairs, polished floors of pitch pine,
innumerable cabinets filled with bibelôts collected during many
English visits, tables covered with newspapers and magazines, the
least possible drapery, and a good library. In the garden was a
pavilion enclosing a marble swimming tank. Plates of luscious fruits
and cooling drinks were constantly passed about by the coloured
servants, who looked as if they had even less to do than their
masters. Anne was given a large room at the top of the house from
which she could see the water, the white road where the negro women,
with great baskets on their heads and followed by their brood, passed
the fine carriages from Bath House; and, on all sides, save above, the
rich cane fields. Byam Warner came to breakfast and remained to
dinner.
Miss Ogilvy was in her element. To use her own expression, Nevis and
Bath House were in an uproar. The unforeseen engagement following on
the heels of the famous poet's transformation, the haughty departure
of Mrs. Nunn, and the manifest approval of Lady Hunsdon and Lady
Constance, who called assiduously at The Grange, the distinguished
ancestry and appearance of Miss Percy, and the fact that the wedding
was to take place on the island instead of in London, combined to make
a sensation such as Nevis had not known since the marriage of Nelson
and Mrs. Nisbet in 1787. Strange memories of Byam Warner were
dismissed. He was a great poet and Nevis's very own. Never had Nevis
so loved Medora. The Grange overflowed with visitors every afternoon,
the piano tinkled out dance music half the night.
It was quite a week before Lord Hunsdon called at the Grange, nor did
Anne and Medora meet him, even when lunching at Bath House. But one
morning he rode out, and after a few moments of constrained politeness
in the drawing-room, deliberately asked Anne to walk with him in the
garden. She followed him with some apprehension. He was pale, his lips
were more closely pressed, his eyes more round and burning, than ever.
When they were beyond the range of Miss Medora's attentive eye, he
began abruptly:
"I have not come here before, dear Miss Percy, because I had to
conquer my selfish disappointment. You cannot fail to know what my own
hopes were. But I have conquered and we will never allude to the
matter again. My friendship for Warner is now uppermost and it is of
him I wish to speak."
"Yes? Yes?"
"Last night I sat late with him. He is full of hope, of youth--renewed
youth must seem a wonderful possession to a man: we are so prone to
let it slip by unheeded! Well, he is changed. I never hoped for half
as much. He tells me that the demon has fled. He has never a sting of
its tail. That may be because he never really craved drink save when
writing--until these last years. It is this I wish to talk to you
about. You have the most solemn responsibility that ever descended
upon a woman: a beautiful soul, a beautiful mind in your keeping. If
you ever relax your vigilance--ever love him less----"
"I never shall."
"No," he said with a sigh, "I don't fancy you will. But you must never
leave him. He is not weak in one sense, but in loneliness he might
turn to composition again, and there could be but one result."
"But if he had done without stimulant for a long while--was quite
happy--well, do not you think I might be stimulant enough?" She
laughed and blushed, but she brought it out.
Lord Hunsdon shook his head. "No, I do not believe that even you
could work that miracle. I have known him since we were at Cambridge
together, and I am convinced that there is some strange lack in that
marvellous brain which renders his creative faculty helpless until
fired by alcohol. If the human brain is a mystery how much more so is
genius? Much is said and written, but we are none the wiser. But this
peculiar fact I do know. The island records and traditions tell us
that all his forefathers save one were abstemious, dignified, normal
men, mentally active and important. But his grandfather, who spent the
greater part of his time in London, was one of the most dissolute men
of the Regency. He was a wit at court, a personal friend of the Prince
Regent. There was no form of dissipation he did not cultivate, and he
died of excess at a comparatively early age. By what would seem to be
a special tinkering of the devil with the work of Almighty God those
lusts have taken possession of one section of Byam Warner's brain
only, diseased it, redistributed its particles in a manner that has
resulted in the abnormal faculty we call genius, but deprived it of
that final energy which would permit those great powers to find their
outlet without artificial stimulant. These may be fanciful ideas, but
they have become fixed in my mind, and I have come here to-day to ask
you to make me a solemn promise."
"Yes?"
"That you will never permit him to write again. You are not the woman
to loosen your hold on a man's strongest feelings when the novelty has
passed. You can hold, influence him, forever. When you see signs of
recurring life in that faculty, divert him and it will subside. He has
fame enough. Nor do I think that he was ever untowardly ambitious.
You--you can always persuade him to let the pen alone."
"But you make no allowance for those creative energies. They may still
be very strong, demand their rights. That cry may in time be as
irresistible as any of his more normal instincts."
"He has written enough," said Lord Hunsdon firmly. "He must rest on
his laurels. You must persuade him that he cannot add to his fame.
With feminine arts you will induce him to believe that it is best to
let well alone."
"I have given little thought to all this----"
"But you will now! Give me your promise, dear Miss Percy, or I cannot
leave this island in peace."
"But do you believe that Byam Warner will be content to settle down
for the rest of his mortal life to an existence of mere domestic
happiness?"
"By no means. He delights in literature, and although he is well read,
there are tomes which not even a Bacon could master in one lifetime.
Moreover, he should buy back his cane fields. That would keep him much
out of doors, as overseers are of little more worth than negroes."
Then Lord Hunsdon had an inspiration. "Encourage him to write prose.
There need be no fury of creation in that. The greater part of his
mind is capable of accomplishing anything unassisted. Interest him in
politics. He is a Tory and he loves me. Remind him constantly of the
Whig inferno from which we have just emerged. I am sure he would write
political pamphlets of incomparable influence. I have never heard
Warner talk politics, but I don't doubt that his mind would illuminate
that subject as it does everything else it touches. Fill the house
with quarterlies and newspapers."
"He might write a political romance, after the pattern of Disraeli,"
said Anne, who wondered why Lord Hunsdon did not take to romantic
composition himself.
"Oh, not fiction, not by any means. Work that requires the exercise of
the merely intellectual powers, not that fatal creative-spot. But will
you promise, Miss Percy? Will you permit me to make sure that you
understand your solemn responsibility?"
He faced her, his eyes flashing with that fanatical fire that would
have sent him to the stake three centuries since. They seemed to
retreat, become minute, bore through her. Anne, whose mind was in
confusion, and not a little angered, stirred uneasily, but she
replied in a calm decided tone.
"I fully realise my responsibility. Make no doubt of that. I know what
I have done, what I am undertaking, I shall live for him, never for
myself. I promise you that, if you think the promise necessary."
"And you will never let him write another line of poetry?"
"Not if I believed it would do him more hurt than good."
"That is not enough," cried Hunsdon passionately. "You must be
unconditional. One surrender and he is lost. If it were a mere case of
brandy while he was writing--but you have not the least idea what it
leads to. He is transformed, another man--not a man at all. And when
he emerged, did he enter that horror again, he would loathe himself as
he never did before. He would be without one shred of self-respect. I
shudder to think what would be the final result."
"You will admit that as his wife I may find better opportunities to
understand that complicated nature than you have had."
"Will you not make me that promise?"
"I will only promise to be guided by my judgment, not by my feelings.
I hear Byam's voice. After all, it is hardly fair to talk him over
like this."
CHAPTER XX
Hunsdon did not give up the siege, and rode out daily, much to the
complacency of Miss Ogilvy, to whom Anne contrived to turn him over.
Lady Constance, who found Medora amusing, was still further amused by
the subtle currents beneath the surface, blind only to the shrewd
young Colonial's court of herself, and was finally inspired to invite
her to London for the season. Miss Ogilvy, in her own way, was as
happy as Anne. A younger sister was returning from England and could
take over her duties at the Grange; Lady Mary, riding dashingly about
the island with the spirit of eighteen, was caught in a shower,
neglected to change her garments at once, had a fever, and arose as
yellow as a lemon; Medora was nineteen and as white as an amaryllis.
The day of the wedding arrived. Never was there such a ringing of
bells, so splendid an array of equipages and gowns. Fig Tree Church
could hardly hold the planters and their wives, the guests from Bath
House, as well as those from St. Kitts, and the Byams and Warners that
had sailed over from half a dozen islands. Outside, the churchyard,
the road, the fields were crowded with the coloured folk, humble and
ambitious. Bonnets and parasols gave this dense throng the effect of a
moving tropical garden, and if the women were too mindful of their new
manners to shout as the Ogilvy coach rolled past containing the bride
hardly visible under clouds of tulle, the men set up a wild roar as
they caught sight of Warner hastily approaching the rear of the church
by a side path. Mr. Ogilvy gave the bride away, Lord Hunsdon was best
man, and Medora the only bridesmaid. Anne had pleaded for a quiet
wedding at the Grange, but to this her young hostess would not harken;
and the festival was vastly to her credit, from the beautiful
decorations of the chancel to the wedding-breakfast at the Grange.
Lord Hunsdon was much interested to learn that the dainty, varied, and
appetising repast was ordered and partly cooked by the accomplished
creature beside him--whose eyes certainly had a most attractive
Oriental slant. It so happened that his lordship was deeply concerned
with the Orient, and hoped that the cares of state, now that the
Tories were safely planted, would permit him to visit it.
The negroes were dined on a platform in one of the bare cane fields,
and danced afterward until the bridal party started for the beach
before Charlestown; then all, high and low, followed in the wake of
the Grange coach with its four horses decorated with white ribbons and
driven by postillions. One of the wedding presents had been a fine
little sloop, and in it Warner and his bride set off at four in the
afternoon, almost the entire population of Nevis, white and black,
crowding the sands and cheering good will.
       *       *       *       *       *
That honeymoon among the islands was so replete with beauty and bliss
and the fulfilment of every romantic and ardent dream, that when it
was finished it was almost a relief to Anne to adjust her faculties to
the homely details of housekeeping. For two months they wandered
amongst that chain of enchanted islands set in a summer sea, the
sympathetic trade winds filling their sails and tempering the heat on
shore. St. Thomas with its little city on three hills like a painted
fairy tale; St. Croix with its old Spanish arcades and palm avenues;
the red-roofed Dutch village in the green crater of St. Bartholomew,
which shot straight out of the sea without a hand's width of shore;
Antigua with its English landscapes and tropical hospitality; St.
Lucia, looking like an exploded mountain chain, that had caught the
bright plains and forests of another island while the earth was in its
throes, green as a shattered emerald by day, flaming with the long
torches of gigantic fireflies by night; St. Vincent with its smoking
volcanoes and rich plantations; Martinique, that bit of old France,
with its almost perpendicular flights of street-steps cut in the rock,
lined with ancient houses; beautiful honey-coloured women always
passing up and down with tall jars or baskets on their stately heads;
Dominica, with its rugged mountains, roaring cataracts, and brilliant
verdure; Trinidad, with its terrible cliffs, infinitely coloured
valleys, mountain masses; its groves of citron, and hedges of scarlet
hybiscus and white hydrangea, towns set in the green amphitheatres of
gentle hills, impenetrable forests, and lakes of boiling pitch:
Warner and Anne lingered on all of them, climbed to the summit of
volcanoes hidden in the clouds and gazed into awful craters evil of
smell and resounding with the menace of deep, imprisoned, persistent
tides; sailed on the quiet lake in the crater of Mt. Pelée; rode on
creole ponies for days through scented chromatic forests with serrated
heights frowning above them, and companioned by birds as vivid as the
flowers and as silent. There were no wild beasts, nothing to mar days
and nights so heavy laden with beauty that Anne wondered if the cold
North existed on the same planet, and sometimes longed for the scent
of English violets. In Trinidad they were entertained in great state
by the most distinguished of Warner's relatives, a high official of
the island. Anne wore for an evening the famous ring, and was nearly
prostrated with excitement and the fear of losing it. If she had not
been half drugged with happiness and the ineffable beauty which
scarcely for a moment deserted her waking senses, she would have
attempted to define the quiver of terror that crossed her nerves now
and again; for life at white heat has been embolismal since the death
of the gods. As to Warner, he who had written many poems, now devoted
himself to living one, and achieved a perfect success.
CHAPTER XXI
Hamilton House had been repaired during their absence, without and
within. It was not necessary to refurnish, for the fine old mansion
was set thick with mahogany four-posters, settles, chests, tables and
chairs--more stately than comfortable. They arrived without warning,
but the servants, under the merciless driving of Mr. Ogilvy, had been
on the alert for several days, and as the sloop was becalmed for two
hours not three miles from shore, until the lagging evening breeze
filled the sails, when Warner and Anne finally landed and were led in
triumph to their home by some twenty of their friends, every room of
the upper story was flooded with the light of wax candles set in long
polished globes, the crystal and silver of the wedding presents was on
the great mahogany dining-table laden with the plenty of the tropics,
muslin curtains fluttered in the evening wind, the pitch-pine floors
shone like glass, and flowers were on every stand and table.
There was a very long and very gay dinner, and many more guests came
during the evening. When the last of them had gone and Anne went to
her own pink room, the only luxurious room in the house, she felt
happier than even during the past enchanted weeks, for she was at home
and the home was her own.
She had never been permitted to interfere with the ancient and
