original progenitor of the Wallings tried to buy the control away from
him, and Havens issued ten or twenty millions of new stock overnight,
in the face of a court injunction, and got away with most of his money.
It reads like opera bouffe, you know--they had a regular armed camp
across the river for about six months--until Captain Kidd went up to
Albany with half a million dollars' worth of greenbacks in a satchel,
and induced the legislature to legalize the proceedings. That was just
after the war, you know, but I remember it as if it were yesterday. It
seems strange to think that anyone shouldn't know about it."
"I know about Havens in a general way," said Montague.
"Yes," said the Major. "But I know in a particular way, because I've
carried some of that railroad's paper all these years, and it's never
paid any dividends since. It has a tendency to interfere with my
appreciation of John's lavish hospitality."
Montague was reminded of the story of the Roman emperor who pointed out
that money had no smell.
"Maybe not," said the Major. "But all the same, if you were
superstitious, you might make out an argument from the Havens fortune.
Take that poor girl who married the Count."
And the Major went on to picture the denouement of that famous
international alliance, which, many years ago, had been the sensation
of two continents. All Society had attended the gorgeous wedding, an
archbishop had performed the ceremony, and the newspapers had devoted
pages to describing the gowns and the jewels and the presents and all
the rest of the magnificence. And the Count was a wretched little
degenerate, who beat and kicked his wife, and flaunted his mistresses
in her face, and wasted fourteen million dollars of her money in a
couple of years. The mind could scarcely follow the orgies of this
half-insane creature--he had spent two hundred thousand dollars on a
banquet, and half as much again for a tortoise-shell wardrobe in which
Louis the Sixteenth had kept his clothes! He had charged a diamond
necklace to his wife, and taken two of the four rows of diamonds out of
it before he presented it to her! He had paid a hundred thousand
dollars a year to a jockey whom the Parisian populace admired, and a
fortune for a palace in Verona, which he had promptly torn down, for
the sake of a few painted ceilings. The Major told about one outdoor
fete, which he had given upon a sudden whim: ten thousand Venetian
lanterns, ten thousand metres of carpet; three thousand gilded chairs,
and two or three hundred waiters in fancy costumes; two palaces built
in a lake, with sea-horses and dolphins, and half a dozen orchestras,
and several hundred chorus--girls from the Grand Opera! And in between
adventures such as these, he bought a seat in the Chamber of Deputies,
and made speeches and fought duels in defence of the Holy Catholic
Church--and wrote articles for the yellow journals of America. "And
that's the fate of my lost dividends!" growled the Major.
There were several automobiles to meet the party at the depot, and they
were whirled through a broad avenue up a valley, and past a little
lake, and so to the gates of Castle Havens.
It was a tremendous building, a couple of hundred feet long. One
entered into a main hall, perhaps fifty feet wide, with a great
fireplace arid staircase of marble and bronze, and furniture of gilded
wood and crimson velvet, and a huge painting, covering three of the
walls, representing the Conquest of Peru. Each of the rooms was
furnished in the style of a different period--one Louis Quatorze, one
Louis Quinze, one Marie Antoinette, and so on. There was a drawing-room
and a regal music-room; a dining-room in the Georgian style, and a
billiard-room, also in the English fashion, with high wainscoting and
open beams in the ceiling; and a library, and a morning-room and
conservatory. Upstairs in the main suite of rooms was a royal bedstead,
which alone was rumoured to have cost twenty-five thousand dollars; and
you might have some idea of the magnificence of things when you learned
that underneath the gilding of the furniture was the rare and precious
Circassian walnut.
All this was beautiful. But what brought the guests to Castle Havens
was the casino, so the Major had remarked. It was really a private
athletic club--with tan-bark hippodrome, having a ring the size of that
in Madison Square Garden, and a skylight roof, and thirty or forty
arc-lights for night events. There were bowling-alleys, billiard and
lounging-rooms, hand-ball, tennis and racket-courts, a completely
equipped gymnasium, a shooting-gallery, and a swimming-pool with
Turkish and Russian baths. In this casino alone there were rooms for
forty guests.
Such was Castle Havens; it had cost three or four millions of dollars,
and within the twelve-foot wall which surrounded its grounds lived two
world-weary people who dreaded nothing so much as to be alone. There
were always guests, and on special occasions there might be three or
four score. They went whirling about the country in their autos; they
rode and drove; they played games, outdoor and indoor, or gambled, or
lounged and chatted, or wandered about at their own sweet will. Coming
to one of these places was not different from staying at a great hotel,
save that the company was selected, and instead of paying a bill, you
gave twenty or thirty dollars to the servants when you left.
It was a great palace of pleasure, in which beautiful and graceful men
and women played together in all sorts of beautiful and graceful ways.
In the evenings great logs blazed in the fireplace in the hall, and
there might be an informal dance--there was always music at hand. Now
and then there would be a stately ball, with rich gowns and flashing
jewels, and the grounds ablaze with lights, and a full orchestra, and
special trains from the city. Or a whole theatrical company would be
brought down to give an entertainment in the theatre; or a minstrel
show, or a troupe of acrobats, or a menagerie of trained animals. Or
perhaps there would be a great pianist, or a palmist, or a trance
medium. Anyone at all would be welcome who could bring a new thrill--it
mattered nothing at all, though the price might be several hundred
dollars a minute.
Montague shook hands with his host and hostess, and with a number of
others; among them Billy Price who forthwith challenged him, and
carried him off to the shooting-gallery. Here he took a rifle, and
proceeded to satisfy her as to his skill. This brought him to the
notice of Siegfried Harvey, who was a famous cross-country rider and
"polo-man." Harvey's father owned a score of copper-mines, and had
named him after a race-horse; he was a big broad-shouldered fellow, a
favourite of every one; and next morning, when he found that Montague
sat a horse like one who was born to it, he invited him to come out to
his place on Long Island, and see some of the fox-hunting.
Then, after he had dressed for dinner, Montague came downstairs, and
found Betty Wyman, shining like Aurora in an orange-coloured cloud. She
introduced him to Mrs. Vivie Patton, who was tall and slender and
fascinating, and had told her husband to go to hell. Mrs. Vivie had
black eyes that snapped and sparkled, and she was a geyser of animation
in a perpetual condition of eruption. Montague wondered if she would
have talked with him so gaily had she known what he knew about her
domestic entanglements.
The company moved into the dining-room, where there was served another
of those elaborate and enormously expensive meals which he concluded he
was fated to eat for the rest of his life. Only, instead of Mrs. Billy
Alden with her Scotch, there was Mrs. Vivie, who drank champagne in
terrifying quantities; and afterward there was the inevitable grouping
of the bridge fiends.
Among the guests there was a long-haired and wild-looking foreign
personage, who was the "lion" of the evening, and sat with half a dozen
admiring women about him. Now he was escorted to the music-room, and
revealed the fact that he was a violin virtuoso. He played what was
called "salon music"--music written especially for ladies and gentlemen
to listen to after dinner; and also a strange contrivance called a
concerto, put together to enable the player to exhibit within a brief
space the utmost possible variety of finger gymnastics. To learn to
perform these feats one had to devote his whole lifetime to practising
them, just like any circus acrobat; and so his mind became atrophied,
and a naive and elemental vanity was all that was left to him.
Montague stood for a while staring; and then took to watching the
company, who chattered and laughed all through the performance.
Afterward, he strolled into the billiard-room, where Billy Price and
Chauncey Venable were having an exciting bout; and from there to the
smoking-room, where the stout little Major had gotten a group of young
bloods about him to play "Klondike." This was a game of deadly hazards,
which they played without limit; the players themselves were silent and
impassive, but the spectators who gathered about were tense with
excitement.
In the morning Charlie Carter carried off Alice and Oliver and Betty in
his auto; and Montague spent his time in trying some of Havens's
jumping horses. The Horse Show was to open in New York on Monday, and
there was an atmosphere of suppressed excitement because of this
prospect; Mrs. Caroline Smythe, a charming young widow, strolled about
with him and told him all about this Show, and the people who would
take part in it.
And in the afternoon Major Venable took him for a stroll and showed him
the grounds. He had been told what huge sums had been expended in
laying them out; but after all, the figures were nothing compared with
an actual view. There were hills and slopes, and endless vistas of
green lawns and gardens, dotted with the gleaming white of marble
staircases and fountains and statuary. There was a great Italian walk,
leading by successive esplanades to an electric fountain with a basin
sixty feet across, and a bronze chariot and marble horses. There were
sunken gardens, with a fountain brought from the South of France, and
Greek peristyles, and seats of marble, and vases and other treasures of
art.
And then there were the stables; a huge Renaissance building, with a
perfectly equipped theatre above. There was a model farm and dairy; a
polo-field, and an enclosed riding-ring for the children; and
dog-kennels and pigeon-houses, greenhouses and deer-parks--one was
prepared for bear-pits and a menagerie. Finally, on their way back,
they passed the casino, where musical chimes pealed out the
quarter-hours. Montague stopped and gazed up at the tower from which
the sounds had come.
The more he gazed, the more he found to gaze at The roof of this
building had many gables, in the Queen Anne style; and from the midst
of them shot up the tower, which was octagonal and solid, suggestive of
the Normans. It was decorated with Christmas-wreaths in white stucco,
and a few miscellaneous ornaments like the gilded tassels one sees upon
plush curtains. Overtopping all of this was the dome of a Turkish
mosque. Rising out of the dome was something that looked like a
dove-cot; and out of this rose the slender white steeple of a Methodist
country church. On top of that was a statue of Diana.
"What are you looking at?" asked the Major.
"Nothing," said Montague, as he moved on. "Has there ever been any
insanity in the Havens family?"
"I don't know," replied the other, puzzled. "They say the old man never
could sleep at night, and used to wander about alone in the park. I
suppose he had things on his conscience."
They strolled away; and the Major's flood-gates of gossip were opened.
There was an old merchant in New York, who had been Havens's private
secretary. And Havens was always in terror of assassination, and so
whenever they travelled abroad he and the secretary exchanged places.
"The old man is big and imposing," said the Major, "and it's funny to
hear him tell how he used to receive the visitors and be stared at by
the crowds, while Havens, who was little and insignificant, would
pretend to make himself useful. And then one day a wild-looking
creature came into the Havens office, and began tearing the wrappings
off some package that shone like metal--and quick as a flash he and
Havens flung themselves down on the floor upon their faces. Then, as
nothing happened, they looked up, and saw the puzzled stranger gazing
over the railing at them. He had a patent churn, made of copper, which
he wanted Havens to market for him!"
Montague could have wished that this party might last for a week or
two, instead of only two days. He was interested in the life, and in
those who lived it; all whom he met were people prominent in the social
world, and some in the business world as well, and one could not have
asked a better chance to study them.
Montague was taking his time and feeling his way slowly. But all the
time that he was playing and gossiping he never lost from mind his real
purpose, which was to find a place for himself in the world of affairs;
and he watched for people from whose conversation he could get a view
of this aspect of things. So he was interested when Mrs. Smythe
remarked that among his fellow-guests was Vandam, an official of one of
the great life-insurance companies. "Freddie" Vandam, as the lady
called him, was a man of might in the financial world; and Montague
said to himself that in meeting him he would really be accomplishing
something. Crack shots and polo-players and four-in-hand experts were
all very well, but he had his living to earn, and he feared that the
problem was going to prove complicated.
So he was glad when chance brought him and young Vandam together, and
Siegfried Harvey introduced them. And then Montague got the biggest
shock which New York had given him yet.
It was not what Freddie Vandam said; doubtless he had a right to be
interested in the Horse Show, since he was to exhibit many fine horses,
and he had no reason to feel called upon to talk about anything more
serious to a stranger at a house party. But it was the manner of the
man, his whole personality. For Freddie was a man of fashion, with all
the exaggerated and farcical mannerisms of the dandy of the comic
papers. He wore a conspicuous and foppish costume, and posed with a
little cane; he cultivated a waving pompadour, and his silky moustache
and beard were carefully trimmed to points, and kept sharp by his
active fingers. His conversation was full of French phrases and French
opinions; he had been reared abroad, and had a whole-souled contempt
for all things American-even dictating his business letters in French,
and leaving it for his stenographer to translate them. His shirts were
embroidered with violets and perfumed with violets--and there were
bunches of violets at his horses' heads, so that he might get the odour
as he drove!
There was a cruel saying about Freddie Vandam--that if only he had had
a little more brains, he would have been half-witted. And Montague sat,
and watched his mannerisms and listened to his inanities, with his mind
in a state of bewilderment and dismay. When at last he got up and
walked away, it was with a new sense of the complicated nature of the
problem that confronted him. Who was there that could give him the key
to this mystery--who could interpret to him a world in which a man such
as this was in control of four or five hundred millions of trust funds?
CHAPTER VII
It was quite futile to attempt to induce anyone to talk about serious
matters just now--for the coming week all Society belonged to the
horse. The parties which went to church on Sunday morning talked about
horses on the way, and the crowds that gathered in front of the church
door to watch them descend from their automobiles, and to get "points"
on their conspicuous costumes--these would read about horses all
afternoon in the Sunday papers, and about the gowns which the women
would wear at the show.
Some of the party went up on Sunday evening; Montague went with the
rest on Monday morning, and had lunch with Mrs. Robbie Walling and
Oliver and Alice. They had arrayed him in a frock coat and silk hat and
fancy "spats"; and they took him and sat him in the front row of
Robbie's box.
There was a great tan-bark arena, in which the horses performed; and
then a railing, and a broad promenade for the spectators; and then,
raised a few feet above, the boxes in which sat all Society. For the
Horse Show had now become a great social function. Last year a visiting
foreign prince had seen fit to attend it, and this year "everybody"
would come.
Montague was rapidly getting used to things; he observed with a smile
how easy it was to take for granted embroidered bed and table linen,
and mural paintings, and private cars, and gold plate. At first it had
seemed to him strange to be waited upon by a white woman, and by a
white man quite unthinkable; but he was becoming accustomed to having
silent and expressionless lackeys everywhere about him, attending to
his slightest want. So he presumed that if he waited long enough, he
might even get used to horses which had their tails cut off to stumps,
and their manes to rows of bristles, and which had been taught to lift
their feet in strange and eccentric ways, and were driven with burred
bits in their mouths to torture them and make them step lively.
There were road-horses, coach-horses, saddle-horses and hunters,
polo-ponies, stud-horses--every kind of horse that is used for
pleasure, over a hundred different "classes" of them. They were put
through their paces about the ring, and there was a committee which
judged them, and awarded blue and red ribbons. Apparently their highly
artificial kind of excellence was a real thing to the people who took
part in the show; for the spectators thrilled with excitement, and
applauded the popular victors. There was a whole set of conventions
which were generally understood--there was even a new language. You
were told that these "turnouts" were "nobby" and "natty"; they were
"swagger" and "smart" and "swell."
However, the horse was really a small part of this show; before one had
sat out an afternoon he realized that the function was in reality a
show of Society. For six or seven hours during the day the broad
promenade would be so packed with human beings that one moved about
with difficulty; and this throng gazed towards the ring almost
never--it stared up into the boxes. All the year round the discontented
millions of the middle classes read of the doings of the "smart set";
and here they had a chance to come and see them-alive, and real, and
dressed in their showiest costumes. Here was all the grand monde, in
numbered boxes, and with their names upon the programmes, so that one
could get them straight. Ten thousand people from other cities had come
to New York on purpose to get a look. Women who lived in
boarding-houses and made their own clothes, had come to get hints; all
the dressmakers in town were present for the same purpose.. Society
reporters had come, with notebooks in hand; and next morning the
imitators of Society all over the United States would read about it, in
such fashion as this: "Mrs. Chauncey Venable was becomingly gowned in
mauve cloth, made with an Eton jacket trimmed with silk braid, and
opening over a chemisette of lace. Her hat was of the same colour,
draped with a great quantity of mauve and orange tulle, and surmounted
with birds of paradise to match. Her furs were silver fox."
The most intelligent of the great metropolitan dailies would print
columns of this sort of material; and as for the "yellow" journals,
they would have discussions of the costumes by "experts," and half a
page of pictures of the most conspicuous of the box-holders. While
Montague sat talking with Mrs. Walling, half a dozen cameras were
snapped at them; and once a young man with a sketch-book placed himself
in front of them and went placidly to work.--Concerning such things the
society dame had three different sets of emotions: first, the one which
she showed in public, that of bored and contemptuous indifference;
second, the one which she expressed to her friends, that of outraged
but helpless indignation; and third, the one which she really felt,
that of triumphant exultation over her rivals, whose pictures were not
published and whose costumes were not described.
It was a great dress parade of society women. One who wished to play a
proper part in it would spend at least ten thousand dollars upon her
costumes for the week. It was necessary to have a different gown for
the afternoon and evening of each day; and some, who were adepts at
quick changes and were proud of it, would wear three or four a day, and
so need a couple of dozen gowns for the show. And of course there had
to be hats and shoes and gloves to match. There would be robes of
priceless fur hung carelessly over the balcony to make a setting; and
in the evening there would be pyrotechnical displays of jewels. Mrs.
Virginia Landis wore a pair of simple pearl earrings, which she told
the reporters had cost twenty thousand dollars; and there were two
women who displayed four hundred thousand dollars' worth of
diamonds--and each of them had hired a detective to hover about in the
crowd and keep watch over her!
Nor must one suppose, because the horse was an inconspicuous part of
the show, that he was therefore an inexpensive part. One man was to be
seen here driving a four-in-hand of black stallions which had cost
forty thousand; there were other men who drove only one horse, and had
paid forty thousand for that. Half a million was a moderate estimate of
the cost of the "string" which some would exhibit. And of course these
horses were useless, save for show purposes, and to breed other horses
like them. Many of them never went out of their stables except for
exercise upon a track; and the cumbrous and enormous; expensive coaches
were never by any possibility used elsewhere--when they were taken from
place to place they seldom went upon their own wheels.
And there were people here who made their chief occupation in life the
winning of blue ribbons at these shows. They kept great country estates
especially for the horses, and had private indoor exhibition rings.
Robbie Walling and Chauncey Venable were both such people; in the
summer of next year another of the Wallings took a string across the
water to teach the horse-show game to Society in London. He took twenty
or thirty horses, under the charge of an expert manager and a dozen
assistants; he sent sixteen different kinds of carriages, and two great
coaches, and a ton of harness and other stuff. It required one whole
deck of a steamer, and the expedition enabled him to get rid of six
hundred thousand dollars.
All through the day, of course, Robbie was down in the ring with his
trainers and his competitors, and Montague sat and kept his wife
company. There was a steady stream of visitors, who came to
congratulate her upon their successes, and to commiserate with Mrs.
Chauncey Venable over the sufferings of the un-happy victim of a
notoriety-seeking district attorney.
There was just one drawback to the Horse Show, as Montague gathered
from the conversation that went on among the callers: it was public,
and there was no way to prevent undesirable people from taking part.
There were, it appeared, hordes of rich people in New York who were not
in Society, and of whose existence Society was haughtily unaware; but
these people might enter horses and win prizes, and even rent a box and
exhibit their clothes. And they might induce the reporters to mention
them--and of course the ignorant populace did not know the difference,
and stared at them just as hard as at Mrs. Robbie or Mrs. Winnie. And
so for a whole blissful week these people had all the sensations of
being in Society! "It won't be very long before that will kill the
Horse Show," said Mrs. Vivie Patton, with a snap of her black eyes.
There was Miss Yvette Simpkins, for instance; Society frothed at the
mouth when her name was mentioned. Miss Yvette was the niece of a
stock-broker who was wealthy, and she thought that she was in Society,
and the foolish public thought so, too. Miss Yvette made a speciality
of newspaper publicity; you were always seeing her picture, with some
new "Worth creation," and the picture would be labelled "Miss Yvette
Simpkins, the best-dressed woman in New York," or "Miss Yvette
Simpkins, who is known as the best woman whip in Society." It was said
that Miss Yvette, who was short and stout, and had a rosy German face,
had paid five thousand dollars at one clip for photographs of herself
in a new wardrobe; and her pictures were sent to the newspapers in
bundles of a dozen at a time. Miss Yvette possessed over a million
dollars' worth of diamonds--the finest in the country, according to the
newspapers; she had spent a hundred and twenty-six thousand dollars
this year upon her clothes, and she gave long interviews, in which she
set forth the fact that a woman nowadays could not really be well
dressed upon less than a hundred thousand a year. It was Miss Yvette's
boast that she had never ridden in a street-car in her life.
Montague always had a soft spot in his heart for the unfortunate Miss
Yvette, who laboured so hard to be a guiding light; for it chanced to
be while she was in the ring, exhibiting her skill in driving tandem,
that he met with a fateful encounter. Afterward, when he came to look
back upon these early days, it seemed strange to him that he should
have gone about this place, so careless and unsuspecting, while the
fates were weaving strange destinies about him.
It was on Tuesday afternoon, and he sat in the box of Mrs. Venable, a
sister-in-law of the Major. The Major, who was a care-free bachelor,
was there himself, and also Betty Wyman, who was making sprightly
comments on the passers-by; and there strolled into the box Chappie de
Peyster, accompanied by a young lady.
So many people had stopped and been introduced and then passed on, that
Montague merely glanced at her once. He noticed that she was tall and
graceful, and caught her name, Miss Hegan.
The turnouts in the ring consisted of one horse harnessed in front of
another; and Montague was wondering what conceivable motive could
induce a human being to hitch and drive horses in that fashion. The
conversation turned upon Miss Yvette, who was in the ring; and Betty
remarked upon the airy grace with which she wielded the long whip she
carried. "Did you see what the paper said about her this morning?" she
asked. "' Miss Simpkins was exquisitely clad in purple velvet,' and so
on! She looked for all the world like the Venus at the Hippodrome!"
"Why isn't she in Society?" asked Montague, curiously.
"She!" exclaimed Betty. "Why, she's a travesty!"
There was a moment's pause, preceding a remark by their young lady
visitor. "I've an idea," said she, "that the real reason she never got
into Society was that she was fond of her old father."
And Montague gave a short glance at the speaker, who was gazing fixedly
into the ring. He heard the Major chuckle, and he thought that he heard
Betty Wyman give a little sniff. A few moments later the young lady
arose, and with some remark to Mrs. Venable about how well her costume
became her, she passed on out of the box.
"Who is that?" asked Montague.
"That," the Major answered, "that's Laura Hegan--Jim Hegan's daughter."
"Oh!" said Montague, and caught his breath. Jim Hegan--Napoleon of
finance--czar of a gigantic system of railroads, and the power behind
the political thrones of many states.
"His only daughter, too," the Major added. "Gad, what a juicy morsel
for somebody!"
"Well, she'll make him pay for all he gets, whoever he is!" retorted
Betty, vindictively.
"You don't like her?" inquired Montague; and Betty replied promptly, "I
do not!"
"Her daddy and Betty's granddaddy are always at swords' points," put in
Major Venable.
"I have nothing to do with my granddaddy's quarrels," said the young
lady. "I have troubles enough of my own."
"What is the matter with Miss Hegan?" asked Montague, laughing.
"She's an idea she's too good for the world she lives in," said Betty.
"When you're with her, you feel as you will before the judgment throne."
"Undoubtedly a disturbing feeling," put in the Major.
"She never hands you anything but you find a pin hidden in it," went on
the girl. "All her remarks are meant to be read backward, and my life
is too short to straighten out their kinks. I like a person to say what
they mean in plain English, and then I can either like them or not."
"Mostly not," said the Major, grimly; and added, "Anyway, she's
beautiful."
"Perhaps," said the other. "So is the Jungfrau; but I prefer something
more comfortable."
"What's Chappie de Peyster beauing her around for?" asked Mrs. Venable.
"Is he a candidate?"
"Maybe his debts are troubling him again," said Mistress Betty. "He
must be in a desperate plight.--Did you hear how Jack Audubon proposed
to her?"
"Did Jack propose?" exclaimed the Major.
"Of course he did," said the girl. "His brother told me." Then, for
Montague's benefit, she explained, "Jack Audubon is the Major's nephew,
and he's a bookworm, and spends all his time collecting scarabs."
"What did he say to her?" asked the Major, highly amused.
"Why," said Betty, "he told her he knew she didn't love him; but also
she knew that he didn't care anything about her money, and she might
like to marry him so that other men would let her alone."
"Gad!" cried the old gentleman, slapping his knee. "A masterpiece!"
"Does she have so many suitors?" asked Montague; and the Major replied,
"My dear boy--she'll have a hundred million dollars some day!"
At this point Oliver put in appearance, and Betty got up and went for a
stroll with him; then Montague asked for light upon Miss Hegan's remark.
"What she said is perfectly true," replied the Major; "only it riled
Betty. There's many a gallant dame cruising the social seas who has
stowed her old relatives out of sight in the hold."
"What's the matter with old Simpkins?" asked the other.
"Just a queer boy," was the reply. "He has a big pile, and his one joy
in life is the divine Yvette. It is really he who makes her
ridiculous--he has a regular press agent for her, a chap he loads up
with jewellery and cheques whenever he gets her picture into the
papers."
The Major paused a moment to greet some acquaintance, and then resumed
the conversation. Apparently he could gossip in this intimate fashion
about any person whom you named. Old Simpkins had been very poor as a
boy, it appeared, and he had never got over the memory of it. Miss
Yvette spent fifty thousand at a clip for Paris gowns; but every day
her old uncle would save up the lumps of sugar which came with the
expensive lunch he had brought to his office. And when he had several
pounds he would send them home by messenger!
This conversation gave Montague a new sense of the complicatedness of
the world into which he had come. Miss Simpkins was "impossible"; and
yet there was--for instance--that Mrs. Landis whom he had met at Mrs.
Winnie Duval's. He had met her several times at the show; and he heard
the Major and his sister-in-law chuckling over a paragraph in the
society journal, to the effect that Mrs. Virginia van Rensselaer Landis
had just returned from a successful hunting-trip in the far West. He
did not see the humour of this, at least not until they had told him of
another paragraph which had appeared some time before: stating that
Mrs. Landis had gone to acquire residence in South Dakota, taking with
her thirty-five trunks and a poodle; and that "Leanie" Hopkins, the
handsome young stock-broker, had taken a six months' vow of poverty,
chastity, and obedience.
And yet Mrs. Landis was "in" Society! And moreover, she spent nearly as
much upon her clothes as Miss Yvette, and the clothes were quite as
conspicuous; and if the papers did not print pages about them, it was
not because Mrs. Landis was not perfectly willing. She was painted and
made up quite as frankly as any chorus-girl on the stage. She laughed a
great deal, and in a high key, and she and her friends told stories
which made Montague wish to move out of the way.
Mrs. Landis had for some reason taken a fancy to Alice, and invited her
home to lunch with her twice during the show. And after they had got
home in the evening, the girl sat upon the bed in her fur-trimmed
wrapper, and told Montague and his mother and Mammy Lucy all about her
visit.
"I don't believe that woman has a thing to do or to think about in the
world except to wear clothes!" she said. "Why, she has adjustable
mirrors on ball-bearings, so that she can see every part of her skirts!
And she gets all her gowns from Paris, four times a year--she says
there are four seasons now, instead of two! I thought that my new
clothes amounted to something, but my goodness, when I saw hers!"
Then Alice went on to describe the unpacking of fourteen trunks, which
had just come up from the custom-house that day. Mrs. Virginia's
couturiere had her photograph and her colouring (represented in actual
paints) and a figure made up from exact measurements; and so every one
of the garments would fit her perfectly. Each one came stuffed with
tissue paper and held in place by a lattice-work of tape; and attached
to each gown was a piece of the fabric, from which her shoemaker would
make shoes or slippers. There were street-costumes and opera-wraps,
robes de chambre and tea-gowns, reception-dresses, and wonderful ball
and dinner gowns. Most of these latter were to be embroidered with
jewellery before they were worn, and imitation jewels were sewn on, to
show how the real ones were to be placed. These garments were made of
real lace or Parisian embroidery, and the prices paid for them were
almost impossible to credit. Some of them were made of lace so filmy
that the women who made them had to sit in damp cellars, because the
sunlight would dry the fine threads and they would break; a single yard
of the lace represented forty days of labour. There was a pastel
"batiste de soie" Pompadour robe, embroidered with cream silk flowers,
which had cost one thousand dollars. There was a hat to go with it,
which had cost a hundred and twenty-five, and shoes of grey
antelope-skin, buckled with mother-of-pearl, which had cost forty.
There was a gorgeous and intricate ball-dress of pale green chiffon
satin, with orchids embroidered in oxidized silver, and a long court
train, studded with diamonds--and this had cost six thousand dollars
without the jewels! And there was an auto-coat which had cost three
thousand; and an opera-wrap made in Leipsic, of white unborn baby lamb,
lined with ermine, which had cost twelve thousand--with a thousand
additional for a hat to match! Mrs. Landis thought nothing of paying
thirty-five dollars for a lace handkerchief, or sixty dollars for a
pair of spun silk hose, or two hundred dollars for a pearl and
gold-handled parasol trimmed with cascades of chiffon, and made, like
her hats, one for each gown.
"And she insists that these things are worth the money," said Alice.
"She says it's not only the material in them, but the ideas. Each
costume is a study, like a picture. 'I pay for the creative genius of
the artist,' she said to me--'for his ability to catch my ideas and
apply them to my personality--my complexion and hair and eyes.
Sometimes I design my own costumes, and so I know what hard work it
is!'"
Mrs. Landis came from one of New York's oldest families, and she was
wealthy in her own right; she had a palace on Fifth Avenue, and now
that she had turned her husband out, she had nothing at all to put in
it except her clothes. Alice told about the places in which she kept
them--it was like a museum! There was a gown-room, made dust-proof, of
polished hardwood, and with tier upon tier of long poles running
across, and padded skirt-supporters hanging from them. Everywhere there
was order and system--each skirt was numbered, and in a
chiffonier-drawer of the same number you would find the waist--and so
on with hats and stockings and gloves and shoes and parasols. There was
a row of closets, having shelves piled up with dainty lace-trimmed and
beribboned lingerie; there were two closets full of hats and three of
shoes. "When she went West," said Alice, "one of her maids counted, and
found that she had over four hundred pairs! And she actually has a
cabinet with a card-catalogue to keep track of them. And all the
shelves are lined with perfumed silk sachets, and she has tiny sachets
sewed in every skirt and waist; and she has her own private
perfume--she gave me some. She calls it Occur de Jeannette, and she
says she designed it herself, and had it patented!"
And then Alice went on to describe the maid's work-room, which was also
of polished hardwood, and dust-proof, and had a balcony for brushing
clothes, and wires upon which to hang them, and hot and cold water, and
a big ironing-table and an electric stove. "But there can't be much
work to do," laughed the girl, "for she never wears a gown more than
two or three times. Just think of paying several thousand dollars for a
costume, and giving it to your poor relations after you have worn it
only twice! And the worst of it is that Mrs. Landis says it's all
nothing unusual; you'll find such arrangements in every home of people
who are socially prominent. She says there are women who boast of never
appearing twice in the same gown, and there's one dreadful personage in
Boston who wears each costume once, and then has it solemnly cremated
by her butler!"
"It is wicked to do such things," put in old Mrs. Montague, when she
had heard this tale through. "I don't see how people can get any
pleasure out of it."
"That's what I said," replied Alice.
"To whom did you say that?" asked Montague. "To Mrs. Landis?"
"No," said Alice, "to a cousin of hers. I was downstairs waiting for
her, and this girl came in. And we got to talking about it, and I said
that I didn't think I could ever get used to such things."
"What did she say?" asked the other.
"She answered me strangely," said the girl. "She's tall, and very
stately, and I was a little bit afraid of her. She said, 'You'll get
used to it. Everybody you know will be doing it, and if you try to do
differently they'll take offence; and you won't have the courage to do
without friends. You'll be meaning every day to stop, but you never
will, and you'll go on until you die.'"
"What did you say to that?"
"Nothing," answered Alice. "Just then Mrs. Landis came in, and Miss
Hegan went away."
"Miss Hegan?" echoed Montague.
"Yes," said the other. "That's her name--Laura Hegan. Have you met her?"
CHAPTER VIII
The Horse Show was held in Madison Square Garden, a building occupying
a whole city block. It seemed to Montague that during the four days he
attended he was introduced to enough people to fill it to the doors.
Each one of the exquisite ladies and gentlemen extended to him a
delicately gloved hand, and remarked what perfect weather they were
having, and asked him how long he had been in New York, and what he
thought of it. Then they would talk about the horses, and about the
people who were present, and what they had on.
He saw little of his brother, who was squiring the Walling ladies most
of the time; and Alice, too, was generally separated from him and taken
care of by others. Yet he was never alone--there was always some young
matron ready to lead him to her carriage and whisk him away to lunch or
dinner.
Many times he wondered why people should be so kind to him, a stranger,
and one who could do nothing for them in return. Mrs. Billy Alden
undertook to explain it to him, one afternoon, as he sat in her box.
There had to be some people to enjoy, it appeared, or there would be no
fun in the game. "Everything is new and strange to you," said she, "and
you're delicious and refreshing; you make these women think perhaps
they oughtn't to be so bored after all! Here's a woman who's bought a
great painting; she's told that it's great, but she doesn't understand
it herself--all she knows is that it cost her a hundred thousand
dollars. And now you come along, and to you it's really a painting--and
don't you see how gratifying that is to her?"
"Oliver is always telling me it's bad form to admire," said the man,
laughing.
"Yes?" said the other. "Well, don't you let that brother of yours spoil
you. There are more than enough of blase people in town--you be
yourself."
He appreciated the compliment, but added, "I'm afraid that when the
novelty is worn off, people will be tired of me."
"You'll find your place," said Mrs. Alden--"the people you like and who
like you." And she went on to explain that here he was being passed
about among a number of very different "sets," with different people
and different tastes. Society had become split up in that manner of
late--each set being jealous and contemptuous of all the other sets.
Because of the fact that they overlapped a little at the edges, it was
possible for him to meet here a great many people who never met each
other, and were even unaware of each other's existence.
And Mrs. Alden went on to set forth the difference between these
"sets"; they ran from the most exclusive down to the most "yellow,"
where they shaded off into the disreputable rich--of whom, it seemed,
there were hordes in the city. These included "sporting" and theatrical
and political people, some of whom were very rich indeed; and these
sets in turn shaded off into the criminals and the demi-monde--who
might also easily be rich. "Some day," said Mrs. Alden "you should get
my brother to tell you about all these people. He's been in politics,
you know, and he has a racing-stable."
And Mrs. Alden told him about the subtle little differences in the
conventions of these various sets of Society. There was the matter of
women smoking, for instance. All women smoked, nowadays; but some would
do it only in their own apartments, with their women friends; and some
would retire to an out-of-the-way corner to do it; while others would
smoke in their own dining-rooms, or wherever the men smoked. All agreed
however, in never smoking "in public"--that is, where they would be
seen by people not of their own set. Such, at any rate, had always been
the rule, though a few daring ones were beginning to defy even that.
Such rules were very rigid, but they were purely conventional, they had
nothing to do with right or wrong: a fact which Mrs. Alden set forth
with her usual incisiveness. A woman, married or unmarried, might
travel with a man all over Europe, and every one might know that she
did it, but it would make no difference, so long as she did not do it
in America. There was one young matron whom Montague would meet, a
raging beauty, who regularly got drunk at dinner parties, and had to be
escorted to her carriage by the butler. She moved in the most exclusive
circles, and every one treated it as a joke. Unpleasant things like
this did not hurt a person unless they got "out"--that is, unless they
became a scandal in the courts or the newspapers. Mrs. Alden herself
had a cousin (whom she cordially hated) who had gotten a divorce from
her husband and married her lover forthwith and had for this been
ostracized by Society. Once when she came to some semi-public affair,
fifty women had risen at once and left the room! She might have lived
with her lover, both before and after the divorce, and every one might
have known it, and no one would have cared; but the convenances
declared that she should not marry him until a year had elapsed after
the divorce.
One thing to which Mrs. Alden could testify, as a result of a
lifetime's observation, was the rapid rate at which these conventions,
even the most essential of them, were giving way, and being replaced by
a general "do as you please." Anyone could see that the power of women
like Mrs. Devon, who represented the old regime, and were dignified and
austere and exclusive, was yielding before the onslaught of new people,
who were bizarre and fantastic and promiscuous and loud. And the
younger sets cared no more about anyone--nor about anything under
heaven, save to have a good time in their own harum-scarum ways. In the
old days one always received a neatly-written or engraved invitation to
dinner, worded in impersonal and formal style; but the other day Mrs.
Alden had found a message which had been taken from the telephone:
"Please come to dinner, but don't come unless you can bring a man, or
we'll be thirteen at the table."
And along with this went a perfectly incredible increase in luxury and
extravagance. "You are surprised at what you see here to-day," said
she--"but take my word for it, if you were to come back five years
later, you'd find all our present standards antiquated, and our present
pace-makers sent to the rear. You'd find new hotels and theatres
opening, and food and clothing and furniture that cost twice as much as
