tie:
"In the cultiwation of the indiwidool," he began harshly, and checked
himself, when Geraldine flushed to her ear tips and stamped her foot.
Self-control had gone at last.
"I won't listen to that!" she said, breathless; "I've listened to it for
ten years--as long as I can remember. Answer me honestly, Mr. Tappan!
Can I have what other women have--silk underwear and stockings--real
lace on my night dresses--and plenty of it? Can I have suitable gowns
and furs, and have my hair dressed properly? I want you to answer; can I
make my début this winter and have the gowns I require--and the liberty
that girls of my age have?" She turned on Colonel Mallett: "The liberty
that Naïda has had is all I want; the sort of things you let her have
all I ask for." And appealing to Magnelius Grandcourt, who stood pursing
his thick lips, puffed out like a surprised pouter pigeon: "Your
daughter Catherine has more than I ask; why do you let her have what you
consider bad for me? Why?"
Mr. Grandcourt swallowed several times, and spoke in an undertone to
Joshua Hogg. But he did not reply to Geraldine.
Remsen Tappan turned his iron visage toward Colonel Mallett--ignoring
Geraldine's questions.
"In the cultiwation of the indiwidool," he began again dauntlessly----
"Isn't there anybody to answer me?" asked Geraldine, turning from one to
another.
"Concerning the cultiwation----"
"Answer me!" she flashed back. There were tears in her voice, but her
eyes blazed.
"Miss Seagrave," interposed old Mr. Montross gravely, "I beg of you to
remember----"
"Let him answer me first! I asked him a perfectly plain question.
It--it is silly to ignore me as though I were a foolish child--as though
I didn't know my mind."
"I think, Mr. Tappan, perhaps if you could give Miss Seagrave a
qualified answer to her questions--make some preliminary statement--"
began Mr. Cray cautiously.
"Concerning what?" snapped Tappan with a grim stare.
"Concerning my stockings and my underwear," said Geraldine fiercely.
"I'm tired of dressing like a servant!"
Mr. Tappan's rugged jaw opened and shut with another snap.
"I'm opposed to any such innowation," he said.
"And--my coming out this winter? And my quarterly allowance? Answer me!"
"Time enough when you turn twenty-one, Miss Seagrave. Cultiwation of
mind concerns you now, not cultiwation of raiment."
"That--that--" stammered Geraldine, "is s-su-premely s-silly." The tears
reached her eyes; she brushed them away angrily.
Mallett coughed and glanced at Myndert Beekman, then past the secretary,
Mr. Varick, directly at Mr. Tappan.
"If you could see your way to--ah--accede to some--a number--perhaps, in
a measure, to all of Miss Seagrave's not unreasonable requests, Mr.
Tappan----"
[Illustration: "'Can I have what other women have--silk underwear and
stockings?'"]
He hesitated, looked dubiously at Mr. Montross, who nodded. Mr. Cray,
also, made an almost imperceptible sign of concurrence. Magnelius
Grandcourt, the sixty-year enfant terrible of the company, dreaded
for his impulsive outbursts--though the effect of these outbursts was
always very carefully considered before-hand--stepped jauntily across
the floor, and lifting Geraldine's hand to his rather purplish lips,
saluted it with a flourish.
"Oh, I say, Tappan, let Miss Seagrave have what she wants!" he exclaimed
with a hearty disregard of caution, which outwardly disturbed but
inwardly deceived nobody except Geraldine and Mrs. Severn.
Colonel Mallett thought: "The acquisitive beast is striking attitudes on
his fool of a son's account."
Mr. Tappan's small iron-gray eyes bored two holes through the inward
motives of Mr. Grandcourt, and his mouth tightened till the seamed lips
were merely a line.
"I think, Magnelius," said Colonel Mallett coldly, "that it is, perhaps,
the sense of our committee that the time has practically arrived for
some change--perhaps radical change--in the--in the--ah--the hitherto
exceedingly wise regulations----"
"May I have real lace?" cried Geraldine--"Oh, I beg your pardon,
Colonel Mallett, for interrupting, but I was perfectly crazy to know
what you were going to say."
Other people have been crazier and endured more to learn what hope the
verdict of ponderous authority might hold for them.
Colonel Mallett, a trifle ruffled at the interruption, swallowed several
times and then continued without haste to rid himself of a weighty
opinion concerning the début and the petticoats of the Half Moon's ward.
He might have made the child happy in one word. It took him twenty
minutes.
Concurring opinions were then solemnly delivered by every director in
turn except Mr. Tappan, who spoke for half an hour, doggedly dissenting
on every point.
But the days of the old régime were evidently numbered. He understood
it. He looked across at the crackled portrait of his old friend Anthony
Seagrave; the faded, painted features were obliterated in a bar of
slanting sunlight.
So, concluding his dissenting opinion, and having done his duty, he sat
down, drawing the skirts of his frock-coat close around his bony thighs.
He had done his best; his reward was this child's hatred--which she
already forgot in the confused delight of her sudden liberation.
Dazed with happiness, to one after another Geraldine courtesied and
extended the narrow childlike hand of amity--even to him. Then, as
though treading on invisible pink clouds, she floated out and away
up-stairs, scarcely conscious of passing her brother on the stairway,
who was now descending for his turn before the altar of authority.
       *       *       *       *       *
When Scott returned he appeared to be unusually red in the face.
Geraldine seized him ecstatically:
"Oh, Scott! I am to come out, after all--and I'm to have my quarterly,
and gowns, and everything. I could have hugged Mr. Grandcourt--the dear!
I was so frightened--frightened into rudeness--and then that beast of a
Tappan scared me terribly. But it is all right now--and what did they
promise you, poor dear?"
Scott's face still remained flushed as he stood, hands in his pockets,
head slightly bent, tracing with the toe of his shoe the carpet pattern.
"You want to know what they promised me?" he asked, looking up at his
sister with an unpleasant laugh. She poured a few drops of cologne onto
a lump of sugar, placed it between her lips, and nodded:
"They did promise you something--didn't they?"
"Oh, certainly. They promised to make it hot for me if I ever again
borrowed money on notes."
"Scott! did you do that?"
"Give my note? Certainly. I needed money--I've told old tabby Tappan so
again and again. In a year I'll have all the money I need--so what's the
harm if I borrow a little and promise to pay when I'm of age?"
Geraldine considered a moment: "It's curious," she reflected, "but do
you know, Scott, I never thought of doing that. It never occurred to me
to do it! Why didn't you tell me?"
"Because," said her brother with an embarrassed laugh, "it's not exactly
a proper thing to do, I believe. Anyway, they raised a terrible row
about it. Probably that's why they have at last given me a decent
quarterly allowance; they think it's safer, I suppose--and they're
right. The stingy old fossils."
The boyish boast, the veiled hint of revolt and reprisal vaguely
disturbed Geraldine's sense of justice.
"After all," she said, "they have meant to be kind. They didn't know
how, that's all. And, Scott, do let us try to be better now. I'm ashamed
of my rudeness to them. And I'm going to be very, very good to Kathleen
and not do one single thing to make her unhappy or even to bother Mr.
Tappan.... And, oh, Scott! my silks and laces! my darling clothes! All
is coming true! Do you hear? And, Scott! Naïda and Duane are back and
I'm dying to see them. Duane is twenty-three, think of it!"
She seized him and spun him around.
"If you don't hug me and tell me you're fond of me, I shall go mad. Tell
me you're fond of me, Scott! You do love me, don't you?"
He kissed his sister with preoccupied toleration: "Whew!" he said, "your
breath reeks of cologne!
"As for me," he added, half sullenly, "I'm going to have a few things I
want, now.... And do a few things, too."
But what these things were he did not specify. Nor did Geraldine have
time to speculate, so occupied was she now with preparations for the
wonderful winter which was to come true at last--which was already
beginning to come true with exciting visits to that magic country of
brilliant show-windows which, like an enchanted city by itself, sparkles
from Madison Square to the Plaza between Fourth Avenue and Broadway.
       *       *       *       *       *
Into this sparkling metropolitan zone she hastened with Kathleen; all
day long, week after week, she flitted from shop to shop, never
satisfied, always eager to see, to explore. Yet two things Kathleen
noticed: Geraldine seemed perfectly happy and contented to view the
glitter of vanity fair without thought of acquiring its treasures for
herself; and, when reminded that she was there to buy, she appeared to
be utterly ignorant of the value of money, though a childhood without it
was supposed to have taught her its rarity and preciousness.
The girl's personal tastes were expensive; she could linger in ecstasy
all the morning over piles of wonderful furs without envy, without even
thinking of them for herself; but when Kathleen mentioned the reason of
their shopping, Geraldine always indicated sables as her choice, any
single piece of which would have required half her yearly allowance to
pay for.
And she was for ever wishing to present things to Kathleen; silks that
were chosen, model gowns that they examined together, laces, velvets,
jewels, always her first thought seemed to be that Kathleen should have
what they both enjoyed looking at so ardently; and many a laughing
contest they had as to whether her first quarterly allowance should be
spent upon herself or her friends.
On the surface it would appear that unselfishness was the key to her
character. That was impossible; she had lived too long alone. Yet
Geraldine was clearly not acquisitive; though, when she did buy, her
careless extravagance worried Kathleen. Spendthrift--in that she cared
nothing for the money value of anything--her bright, piquant, eager face
was a welcome sight to the thrifty metropolitan shopkeeper at
Christmas-tide. A delicate madness for giving obsessed her; she bought a
pair of guns for Scott, laces and silks for Kathleen, and for the
servants everything she could think of. Nobody was forgotten, not even
Mr. Tappan, who awoke Christmas morning to gaze grimly upon an antique
jewelled fob all dangling with pencils and seals. In the first flush of
independence it gave her more pleasure to give than to acquire.
Also, for the first time in her life, she superintended the distribution
of her own charities, flying in the motor with Kathleen from church to
mission, eager, curious, pitiful, appalled, by turns. Sentiment
overwhelmed her; it was a new kind of pleasure.
       *       *       *       *       *
One night she arose shivering from her warm bed, and with ink and paper
sat figuring till nearly dawn how best to distribute what fortune she
might one day possess, and live an exalted life on ten dollars a week.
Kathleen found her there asleep, head buried in the scattered papers,
limbs icy to the knees; and there ensued an interim of bronchitis which
threatened at one time to postpone her début.
But the medical profession of Manhattan came to the rescue in
battalions, and Geraldine was soon afoot, once more drifting
ecstatically among the splendours of the shops, thrilling with the
nearness of the day that should set her free among unnumbered hosts of
unknown friends.
Who would these unknown people turn out to be? What hearts were at that
very moment destined to respond in friendship to her own?
Often lying awake, nibbling her scented lump of sugar, the darkness
reddening, at intervals, as embers of her bedroom fire dropped glowing
to the hearth, she pictured to herself this vast, brilliant throng
awaiting to welcome her as one of them. And her imagination catching
fire, through closed lids she seemed to see heavenly vistas of youthful
faces--a thousand arms outstretched in welcome; and she, advancing, eyes
dim with happiness, giving herself to this world of youth and
friendship--crossing the threshold--leaving for ever behind her the past
with its loneliness and isolation.
It was of friendships she dreamed, and the blessed nearness of others,
and the liberty to seek them. She promised herself she would never,
never again permit herself to be alone. She had no definite plans,
except that. Life henceforth must be filled with the bright shapes of
comrades. Life must be only pleasure. Never again must sadness come near
her. A miraculous capacity for happiness seemed to fill her breast,
expanding with the fierce desire for it, until under the closed lids
tears stole out, and there, in the darkness, she held out her bare arms
to the world--the kind, good, generous, warm-hearted world, which was
waiting, just beyond her threshold, to welcome her and love her and
companion her for ever.
CHAPTER III
THE THRESHOLD
She awoke tired; she had scarcely closed her eyes that night. The fresh
odour of roses filled her room when her maid arrived with morning gifts
from Kathleen and Scott.
She lay abed until noon. They started dressing her about three. After
that the day became unreal to her.
       *       *       *       *       *
Manhattan was conventionally affable to Geraldine Seagrave, also
somewhat curious to see what she looked like. Fifth Avenue and the
neighbouring side streets were jammed with motors and carriages on the
bright January afternoon that Geraldine made her bow, and the red and
silver drawing-rooms, so famous a generation ago, were packed
continually.
What people saw was a big, clumsy house expensively overdecorated in the
appalling taste of forty years ago, now screened by forests of palms and
vast banks of flowers; and they saw a number of people popularly
identified with the sort of society which newspapers delight to revere;
and a few people of real distinction; and a young girl, noticeably pale,
standing beside Kathleen Severn and receiving the patronage of dowagers
and beaux, and the impulsive clasp of fellowship from fresh-faced young
girls and nice-looking, well-mannered young fellows.
The general opinion seemed to be that Geraldine Seagrave possessed all
the beauty which rumour had attributed to her as her right by
inheritance, but the animation of her clever mother was lacking. Also,
some said that her manners still smacked of the nursery; and that,
unless it had been temporarily frightened out of her, she had little
personality and less charm.
Nothing, as a matter of fact, had been frightened out of her; for weeks
she had lived in imagination so vividly through that day that when the
day really arrived it found her physically and mentally unresponsive;
the endless reiteration of names sounded meaninglessly in her ears, the
crowding faces blurred. She was passively satisfied to be there, and
content with the touch of hands and the pleasant-voiced formalities of
people pressing toward her from every side.
       *       *       *       *       *
Afterward few impressions remained; she remembered the roses' perfume,
and a very fat woman with a confusing similarity of contour fore and aft
who blocked the lines and rattled on like a machine-gun saying
dreadfully frank things about herself, her family, and everybody she
mentioned.
Naïda Mallett, whom she had not seen in many years, she had known
immediately, and now remembered. And Naïda had taken her white-gloved
hand shyly, whispering constrained formalities, then had disappeared
into the unreality of it all.
Duane, her old playmate, may have been there, but she could not remember
having seen him. There were so many, many youths of the New York sort,
all dressed alike, all resembling one another--many, many people flowing
past her where she stood submerged in the silken ebb eddying around her.
       *       *       *       *       *
These were the few hazy impressions remaining--she was recalling them
now while dressing for her first dinner dance. Later, when her maid
released her with a grunt of Gallic disapproval, she, distraite, glanced
at her gown in the mirror, still striving to recall something definite
of the day before.
"Was Duane there?" she asked Kathleen, who had just entered.
"No, dear.... Why did you happen to think of Duane Mallett?"
"Naïda came.... Duane was such a splendid little boy.... I had hoped----"
Mrs. Severn said coolly:
"Duane isn't a very splendid man. I might as well tell you now as
later."
"What in the world do you mean, Kathleen?"
"I mean that people say he was rather horrid abroad. Some women don't
mind that sort of thing, but I do."
"Horrid? How?"
"He went about Europe with unpleasant people. He had too much money--and
that is ruinous for a boy. I hate to disillusion you, but for several
years people have been gossipping about Duane Mallett's exploits abroad;
and they are not savoury."
"What were they? I am old enough to know."
"I don't propose to tell you. He was notoriously wild. There were
scandals. Hush! here comes Scott."
"For Heaven's sake, pinch some colour into your cheeks!" exclaimed her
brother; "we're not going to a wake!"
And Kathleen said anxiously: "Your gown is perfection, dear; are you a
trifle tired? You do look pale."
"Tired?" repeated Geraldine--"not in the least, dearest.... If I seem
not to be excited, I really am, internally; but perhaps I haven't
learned how to show it.... Don't I look well? I was so preoccupied with
my gown in the mirror that I forgot to examine my face."
Mrs. Severn kissed her. "You and your gown are charming. Come, we are
late, and that isn't permitted to débutantes."
       *       *       *       *       *
It was Mrs. Magnelius Grandcourt who was giving the first dinner and
dance for Geraldine Seagrave. In the cloak-room she encountered some
very animated women of the younger married set, who spoke to her
amiably, particularly a Mrs. Dysart, who said she knew Duane Mallett,
and who was so friendly that a bit of colour warmed Geraldine's pallid
cheeks and still remained there when, a few minutes later, she saluted
her heavily jewelled hostess and recognised in her the fat fore-and-aft
lady of the day before.
Mrs. Magnelius Grandcourt, glittering like a South American scarab,
detained her with the smallest and chubbiest hands she had ever seen
inside of gloves.
"My dear, you look ghastly," said her hostess. "You're probably scared
to death. This is my son, Delancy, who is going to take you in, and I'm
wondering about you, because Delancy doesn't get on with débutantes, but
that can't be helped. If he's pig enough not to talk to you, it wouldn't
surprise me--and it's just as well, too, for if he likes anybody he
compromises them, but it's no use your ever liking a Grandcourt, for all
the men make rotten husbands--I'm glad Rosalie Dysart threw him over for
poor Jack Dysart; it saved her a divorce! I'd get one if I could; so
would Magnelius. My husband was a judge once, but he resigned because he
couldn't send people up for the things he was doing himself."
Mrs. Grandcourt, still gabbling away, turned to greet new arrivals,
merely switching to another subject without interrupting her steady
stream of outrageous talk. She was celebrated for it--and for nothing
else.
Geraldine, bewildered and a little horrified, looked at her billowy,
bediamonded hostess, then at young Delancy Grandcourt, who, not
perceptibly abashed by his mother's left-handed compliments, lounged
beside her, apparently on the verge of a yawn.
"My mother says things," he explained patiently; "nobody minds 'em....
Shall we exchange nonsense--or would you rather save yourself until
dinner?"
"Save myself what?" she asked nervously.
"The nuisance of talking to me about nothing. I'm not clever."
Geraldine reddened.
"I don't usually talk about nothing."
"I do," he said. "I never have much to say."
"Is that because you don't like débutantes?" she asked coldly.
"It's because they don't care about me.... If you would talk to me, I'd
really be grateful."
He flushed and stepped back awkwardly to allow room for a slim, handsome
man to pass between them. The very ornamental man did not pass, however,
but calmly turned toward Geraldine, and began to talk to her.
She presently discovered his name to be Dysart; and she also discovered
that Mr. Dysart didn't know her name; and, for a moment after she had
told him, surprise and a confused sense of resentment silenced her,
because she was quite certain now that they had never been properly
presented.
That negligence of conventions was not unusual in this new world she
was entering, she had already noticed; and this incident was evidently
another example of custom smilingly ignored. She looked up
questioningly, and Dysart, instantly divining the trouble, laughed in
his easy, attractive fashion--the fashion he usually affected with
women.
"You seemed so fresh and cool and sweet all alone in this hot corner
that I simply couldn't help coming over to hear whether your voice
matched the ensemble. And it surpasses it. Are you going to be
resentful?"
"I'm too ignorant to be--or to laugh about it as you do.... Is it
because I look a simpleton that you come to see if I really am?"
"Are you planning to punish me, Miss Seagrave?"
"I'm afraid I don't know how."
"Fate will, anyway, unless I am placed next you at dinner," he said with
his most reassuring smile, and rose gracefully.
"I'm going to fix it," he added, and, pushing his way toward his
hostess, disappeared in the crush.
Later young Grandcourt reappeared from the crush to take her in. Every
table seated eight, and, sure enough, as she turned involuntarily to
glance at her neighbour on the right, it was Dysart's pale face, cleanly
cut as a cameo, that met her gaze. He nodded back to her with unfeigned
satisfaction at his own success.
"That's the way to manage," he said, "when you want a thing very much.
Isn't it, Miss Seagrave?"
"You did not ask me whether I wanted it," she said.
"Don't you want me here? If you don't--" His features fell and he made a
pretence of rising. His pale, beautifully sculptured face had become so
fearfully serious that she coloured up quickly.
"Oh, you wouldn't do such a thing--now! to embarrass me."
"Yes, I would--I'd do anything desperate."
But she had already caught the flash of mischief, and realising that he
had been taking more or less for granted in tormenting her, looked down
at her plate and presently tasted what was on it.
"I know you are not offended," he murmured. "Are you?"
She knew she was not, too; but she merely shrugged. "Then why do you ask
me, Mr. Dysart?"
"Because you have such pretty shoulders," he replied seriously.
"What an idiotic reply to make!"
"Why? Don't you think you have?"
"What?"
"Pretty shoulders."
"I don't think anything about my shoulders!"
"You would if there was anything the matter with them," he insisted.
Once or twice he turned his handsome dark gaze on her while she was
dissecting her terrapin.
"They tip up a little--at the corners, don't they?" he inquired
anxiously. "Does it hurt?"
"Tip up? What tips up?" she demanded.
"Your eyes."
She swung around toward him, confused and exasperated; but no
seriousness was proof against the delighted malice in Dysart's face; and
she laughed a little, and laughed again when he did. And she thought
that he was, perhaps, the handsomest man she had ever seen. All
débutantes did.
Young Grandcourt turned from the pretty, over-painted woman who, until
that moment, had apparently held him interested when his food failed to
monopolise his attention, and glanced heavily around at Geraldine.
All he saw was the back of her head and shoulders. Evidently she was not
missing him. Evidently, too, she was having a very good time with
Dysart.
"What are you laughing about?" he asked wistfully, leaning forward to
see her face.
Geraldine glanced back across her shoulder.
"Mr. Dysart is trying to be impertinent," she replied carelessly; and
returned again to the impertinent one, quite ready for more torment now
that she began to understand how agreeable it was.
But Dysart's expression had changed; there was something vaguely
caressing in voice and manner as he murmured:
"Do you know there is something almost divine in your face."
"What did you say?" asked Geraldine, looking up from her ice in its nest
of spun sugar.
"You so strenuously reject the truthful compliments I pay you, that
perhaps I'd better not repeat this one."
"Was it really more absurd flattery?"
"No, never mind...." He leaned back in his chair, absently turning the
curious, heavily chiselled ring on his little finger, but every few
moments his expressive eyes reverted to her. She was eating her ice with
all the frank enjoyment of a schoolgirl.
"Do you know, Miss Seagrave, that you and I are really equipped for
better things than talking nonsense."
"I know that I am," she observed.... "Isn't this spun sugar delicious!"
"Yes; and so are you."
But she pretended not to hear.
He laughed, then fell silent; his dreamy gaze shifted from vacancy to
her--and, casually, across the room, where it settled lightly as a
butterfly on his wife, and there it poised for a moment's inexpressive
examination. Scott Seagrave was talking to Rosalie; she did not notice
her husband.
After that, with easy nonchalance approaching impudence, he turned to
his own neglected dinner partner, Sylvia Quest, who received his tardy
attentions with childish irritation. She didn't know any better. And
there was now no time to patch up matters, for the signal to rise had
been given and Dysart took Sylvia to the door with genuine relief. She
bored him dreadfully since she had become sentimental over him. They
always did.
Lounging back through the rising haze of tobacco-smoke he encountered
Peter Tappan and stopped to exchange a word.
"Dancing?" he inquired, lighting his cigarette.
Tappan nodded. "You, too, of course." For Dysart was one of those types
known in society as a "dancing man." He also led cotillions, and a
morally blameless life as far as the more virile Commandments were
concerned.
He said: "That little Seagrave girl is rather fetching."
Tappan answered indifferently:
"She resembles the general run of this year's output. She's weedy. They
all ought to marry before they go about to dinners, anyway."
"Marry whom?"
"Anybody--Delancy, here, for instance. You know as well as I do that no
woman is possible unless she's married," yawned Tappan. "Isn't that so,
Delancy?" clapping Grandcourt on the shoulder.
Grandcourt said "yes," to be rid of him; but Dysart turned around with
his usual smile of amused contempt.
"You think so, too, Delancy," he said, "because what is obvious and
ready-made appeals to you. You think as you eat--heavily--and you miss a
few things. That little Seagrave girl is charming. But you'd never
discover it."
Grandcourt slowly removed the fat cigar from his lips, rolled it
meditatively between thick forefinger and thumb:
"Do you know, Jack, that you've been saying that sort of thing to me for
a number of years?"
"Yes; and it's just as true now as it ever was, old fellow."
"That may be; but did it ever occur to you that I might get tired
hearing it.... And might, possibly, resent it some day?"
For a long time Dysart had been uncomfortably conscious that Grandcourt
had had nearly enough of his half-sneering, half-humourous frankness.
His liking for Grandcourt, even as a schoolboy, had invariably
been tinged with tolerance and good-humoured contempt. Dysart had
always led in everything; taken what he chose without considering
Grandcourt--sometimes out of sheer perversity, he had taken what
Grandcourt wanted--not really wanting it himself--as in the case of
Rosalie Dene.
"What are you talking about resenting?--my monopolising your dinner
partner?" asked Dysart, smiling. "Take her; amuse yourself. I don't want
her."
Grandcourt inspected his cigar again. "I'm tired of that sort of thing,
too," he said.
"What sort of thing?"
"Contenting myself with what you don't want."
Dysart lit a cigarette, still smiling, then shrugged and turned as
though to go. Around them through the smoke rose the laughing clamour of
young men gathering at the exit.
"I want to tell you something," said Grandcourt heavily. "I'm an ass to
do it, but I want to tell you."
Dysart halted patiently.
"It's this," went on Grandcourt: "between you and my mother, I've never
had a chance; she makes me out a fool and you have always assumed it to
be true."
Dysart glanced at him with amused contempt.
A heavy flush rose to Grandcourt's cheek-bones. He said slowly:
"I want my chance. You had better let me have it when it comes."
"What chance do you mean?"
"I mean--a woman. All my life you've been at my elbow to step in. You
took what you wanted--your shadow always falls between me and anybody
I'm inclined to like.... It happened to-night--as usual.... And I tell
you now, at last, I'm tired of it."
"What a ridiculous idea you seem to have of me," began Dysart, laughing.
"I'm afraid of you. I always was. Now--let me alone!"
"Have you ever known me, since I've been married--" He caught
Grandcourt's eye, stammered, and stopped short. Then: "You certainly
are absurd. Delancy! I wouldn't deliberately interfere with you or
disturb a young girl's peace of mind. The trouble with you is----"
"The trouble with you is that women take to you very quickly, and you
are always trying to see how far you can arouse their interest. What's
the use of risking heartaches to satisfy curiosity?"
"Oh, I don't have heartaches!" said Dysart, intensely amused.
"I wasn't thinking of you. I suppose that's the reason you find it
amusing.... Not that I think there's any real harm in you----"
"Thanks," laughed Dysart; "it only needed that remark to damn me
utterly. Now go and dance with little Miss Seagrave, and don't worry
about my trying to interfere."
Grandcourt looked sullenly at him. "I'm sorry I spoke, now," he said. "I
never know enough to hold my tongue to you."
He turned bulkily on his heel and left the dining-hall. There were
others, in throngs, leaving--young, eager-faced fellows, with a
scattering of the usual "dancing" men on whom everybody could always
count, and a few middle-aged gentlemen and women of the younger married
set to give stability to what was, otherwise, a débutante's affair.
Dysart, strolling about, booked a dance or two, performed creditably,
made his peace, for the sake of peace, with Sylvia Quest, whose ignorant
heart had been partly awakened under his idle investigations. But this
was Sylvia's second season, and she would no doubt learn several things
of which she heretofore had been unaware. Just at present, however, her
heart was very full, and life's outlook was indeed tragic to a young
girl who believed herself wildly in love with a married man, and who
employed all her unhappy wits in the task of concealing it.
A load of guilt lay upon her soul; the awful fact that she adored him
frightened her terribly; that she could not keep away from him terrified
her still more. But most of all she dreaded that he might guess her
secret.
"I don't know why you thought I minded your not--not talking to me
during dinner," she faltered. "I was having a perfectly heavenly time
with Peter Tappan."
"Do you mean that?" murmured Dysart. He could not help playing his part,
even when it no longer interested him. To murmur was as natural to him
as to breathe.
She looked up piteously. "I would rather have talked to you," she said.
"Peter Tappan is only an overgrown boy. If you had really cared to talk
to me--" She checked herself, flushing deeply.
O Lord! he thought, contemplating in the girl's lifted eyes the damage
he had not really expected to do. For it had, as usual, surprised him to
realise, too late, how dangerous it is to say too much, and look too
long, and how easy it is to awaken hearts asleep.
Dancing was to be general before the cotillion. Sylvia would have given
him as many dances as he asked for; he danced once with her as a great
treat, resolving never to experiment any more with anybody.... True, it
might have been amusing to see how far he could have interested the
little Seagrave girl--but he would renounce that; he'd keep away from
everybody.
But Dysart could no more avoid making eyes at anything in petticoats
than he could help the tenderness of his own smile or the caressing
cadence of his voice, or the subtle, indefinite something in him which
irritated men but left few women indifferent and some greatly perturbed
as he strolled along on his amusing journey through the world.
He was strolling on now, having managed to leave Sylvia planted; and
presently, without taking any particular trouble to find Geraldine,
discovered her eventually as the centre of a promising circle of men,
very young men and very old men--nothing medium and desirable as yet.
For a while, amused, Dysart watched her at her first party. Clearly she
was inexperienced; she let these men have their own way and their own
say; she was not handling them skilfully; yet there seemed to be a charm
about this young girl that detached man after man from the passing
throng and added them to her circle--which had now become a half circle,
completely cornering her.
Animated, shyly confident, brilliant-eyed, and flushed with the
excitement of attracting so much attention, she was beginning to lose
her head a little--just a little. Dysart noticed it in her nervous
laughter; in a slight exaggeration of gesture with fan and flowers; in
the quick movement of her restless little head, as though it were
incumbent upon her to give to every man confronting her his own
particular modicum of attention--which was not like a débutante, either;
and Dysart realised that she was getting on.
So he sauntered up, breaking through the circle, and reminded Geraldine
of a dance she had not promised him.
She knew she had not promised, but she was quite ready to give it--had
already opened her lips to assent--when a young man, passing, swung
around abruptly as though to speak to her, hesitating as Geraldine's
glance encountered his without recognition.
But, as he started to move on, she suddenly knew him; and at the same
moment Kathleen's admonition rang in her ears. Her own voice drowned it.
"Oh, Duane!" she exclaimed, stretching out her hand across Dysart's line
of advance.
"You are Geraldine Seagrave, are you not?" he asked smilingly,
retaining her hand in such a manner as practically to compel her to step
past Dysart toward him.
"Of course I am. You might have known me had you been amiable enough to
appear at my coming out."
He laughed easily, still retaining her hand and looking down at her from
his inch or two of advantage. Then he casually inspected Dysart, who,
not at all pleased, returned his gaze with a careless unconcern verging
on offence. Few men cared for Dysart on first inspection--or on later
acquaintance; Mallett was no exception.
Geraldine said, with smiling constraint:
"It has been so very jolly to see you again." And withdrew her hand,
adding: "I hope--some time----"
"Won't you let me talk to you now for a moment or two? You are not going
to dismiss me with that sort of come-back--after all these years--are
you?"
He seemed so serious about it that the girl coloured up.
"I--that is, Mr. Dysart was going to--to--" She turned and looked at
Dysart, who remained planted where she had left him, exceedingly wroth
at experiencing the sort of casual treatment he had so often meted out
to others. His expression was peevish. Geraldine, confused, began
hurriedly:
"I thought Mr. Dysart meant to ask me to dance."
"Meant to?" interrupted Mallett, laughing; "I mean to ask for this
dance, and I do."
Once more she turned and encountered Dysart's darkening gaze, hesitated,
then with a nervous, gay little gesture to him, partly promise, partly
adieu, she took Mallett's arm.
It was the first glimmer of coquetry she had ever deliberately
displayed; and at the same instant she became aware that something new
had been suddenly awakened in her--something which stole like a glow
through her veins, exciting her with its novelty.
"Do you know," she said, "that you have taken me forcibly away from an
exceedingly nice man?"
"I don't care."
"Oh--but might I not at least have been consulted?"
"Didn't you want to come?" he asked, stopping short. There was something
overbearing in his voice and his straight, unwavering gaze.
She didn't know how to take it, how to meet it. Voice and manner
required some proper response which seemed to be beyond her experience.
She did not answer; but a slight pressure of her bare arm set him in
motion again.
The phenomenon interested her; to see what control over this abrupt
young man she really had she ventured a very slight retrograde
arm-pressure, then a delicate touch to right, to left, and forward once
more. It was most interesting; he backed up, guided right and left, and
started forward or halted under perfect control. What had she been
afraid of in him? She ventured to glance around, and, encountering a
warmly personal interest in his gaze, instantly assumed that cold,
blank, virginal mask which the majority of young girls discard at her
age.
However, her long-checked growth in the arts of womanhood had already
recommenced. She had been growing fast, feverishly, and was just now
passing that period where the desire for masculine admiration innocently
rules all else, but where the discovery of it chills and constrains.
She passed it at that moment. The next time their glances met she smiled
a little. A new epoch in her life had begun.
"Where are you taking me?" she asked. "Are we not going to dance?"
"I thought we might sit out a dance or two in the conservatory--one or
two----"
"One," she said decidedly. "Here are some palms. Why not sit here?"
There were a number of people about; she saw them, too, noted his
hesitation, understood it.
"We'll sit here," she said, and stood smilingly regarding him while he
lugged up two chairs to the most retired corner.
Slowly waving her fan, she seated herself and surveyed the room.
It is quite true that reunion after many years usually ends in
constraint and indifference. If she felt slightly bored, she certainly
looked it. Neither of them resembled the childish recollections or
preconceived notions of the other. They found themselves inspecting one
another askance, as though furtively attempting to surprise some
familiar feature, some resemblance to a cherished memory.
But the changes were too radical; their eyes, looking for old comrades,
encountered the unremembered eyes of strangers--for they were
strangers--this tall young man, with his gray eyes, pleasantly fashioned
mouth, and cleanly moulded cheeks; and this long-limbed girl, who sat,
knees crossed, one long, slim foot nervously swinging above its shadow
on the floor.
In spite of his youth there was in his manner, if not in his voice,
something tinged with fatigue. She thought of what Kathleen had said
about him; looked up, instinctively questioning him with curious,
uncomprehending eyes; then her gaze wandered, became lost in smiling
retrospection as she thought of Dysart, peevish; and she frankly
regretted him and his dance.
Young Mallett stirred, passed a rather bony hand over his shaven upper
lip, and said abruptly: "I never expected you'd grow up like this.
You've turned into a different kind of girl. Once you were chubby of
cheek and limb. Do you remember how you used to fight?"
"Did I?"
"Certainly. You hit me twice in the eye because I lost my temper
sparring with Scott. Your hands were small but heavy in those days.... I
imagine they're heavier now."
She laughed, clasped both pretty hands over her knee, and tilted back
against the palm, regarding him from dark, velvety eyes.
"You were a curiously fascinating child," he said. "I remember how fast
you could run, and how your hair flew--it was thick and dark, with
rather sunny high lights; and you were always running--always on the
go.... You were a remarkably just girl; that I remember. You were
absolutely fair to everybody."
"I was a very horrid little scrub," she said, watching him over her
gently waving fan, "with a dreadful temper," she added.
"Have you it now?"
"Yes. I get over it quickly. Do you find Scott very much changed?"
"Well, not as much as you. Do you find Naïda changed?"
"Not nearly as much as you."
They smiled. The slight embarrassment born of polite indifference
brightened into amiable interest, tinctured by curiosity.
"Duane, have you been studying painting all these years?"
"Yes. What have you been doing all these years?"
"Nothing." A shadow fell across her face. "It has been lonely--until
