those yet humbler men who have been knighted for 
their merits and services in medicine, in literature, 
in art. The greater and greatest nobles are estab- 
lished in a fear which is very like what the fear of 
God used to be when the common people feared Him; 
and, though they are potent political magnates, they 
mainly rule as the King himself does, through the 
secular reverence of those beneath them for their titles 
and the visible images of their state. They are wealthy 
men, of course, with so much substance that, when one 
now and then attempts to waste it, he can hardly do 
so; but their wealth alone would not establish them in 
the popular regard. His wealth does no such effect for 
Mr. Astor in England; and mere money, though it is 
much desired by all, is no more venerated in the per- 
son of its possessor than it is with us. It is ancestry, 
it is the uncontested primacy of families first in their 
place, time out of mind, that lays its resistless hold 
upon the fancy and bows the spirit before it. By 
means of this comes the sovereign effect in the political 
as well as the social state; for, though the people vote 
into or out of power those who vote other people into 
or out of the administration, it is always or so nearly 
always that the exception proves the rule family that 
rules, from the King down to the least attache of the 
most unimportant embassy. No doubt many of the 
English are restive under the fact; and, if one had 
asked their mind about it, one might have found them 
frank enough ; but, never asking it, it was with amuse- 
ment that I heard said once, as if such a thing had 
never occurred to anybody before, " Yes, isn't it strange 
 
that those few families should keep it all among them- 
selves !" It was a slender female voice, lifted by a 
young girl with an air of pensive surprise, as at a 
curious usage of some realm of faery. 
England is in fact, to the American, always a realm 
of faery, in its political and social constitution. It 
must be owned, concerning the government by family, 
that it certainly seems to work well. That justifies it, so 
far as the exclusion of the immense majority from the 
administration of their own affairs can be justified by 
anything; though I hold that the worst form of graft 
in office is hardly less justifiable: that is, at least, one 
of the people picking their pockets. But it is the uni- 
versal make-believe behind all the practical virtue of 
the state that constitutes the English monarchy a realm 
of faery. The whole population, both the great and 
the small, by a common effort of the will, agree that 
there is a man or a woman of a certain line who can 
rightfully inherit the primacy amongst them, and can 
be dedicated through this right to live the life of a god, 
to be so worshipped and flattered, so cockered about 
with every form of moral and material flummery, that 
he or she may well be more than human not to be made 
a fool of. Then, by a like prodigious stroke of voli- 
tion, the inhabitants of the enchanted island universal- 
ly agree that there is a class of them which can be 
called out of their names in some sort of title, be- 
stowed by some ancestral or actual prince, and can 
forthwith be something different from the rest, who 
shall thenceforth do them reverence, them and their 
heirs and assigns, forever. By this amusing process, 
the realm of faery is constituted, a thing which could 
not have any existence in nature, yet by its existence 
in fancy becomes the most absolute of human facts. 
It is not surprising that, in the conditions which 
ensue, snobbishness should abound; the surprising 
thing would be if it did not abound. Even with our- 
selves, who by a seven years' struggle burst the faery 
dream a century ago, that least erected spirit rears its 
loathly head from the dust at times, and in our polite 
press we can read much if we otherwise see nothing 
of its subtle influence. But no evil is without its com- 
pensating good, and the good of English snobbishness 
is that it has reduced loyalty, whether to the prince or 
to the patrician, from a political to a social significance. 
That is, it does so with the upper classes; with the 
lower, loyalty finds expression in an unparalleled pa- 
triotism. An Englishman of the humble or the humbler 
life may know very well that he is not much in him- 
self ; but he believes that England stands for him, and 
that royalty and nobility stand for England. Both of 
these, there, are surrounded by an atmosphere of rev- 
erence wholly inconceivable to the natives of a country 
where there are only millionaires to revere. 
IV 
The most curious thing is that the persons in the 
faery dream seem to believe it as devoutly as the sim- 
plest and humblest of the dreamers. The persons in 
the dream apparently take themselves as seriously as if 
there were or could be in reality kings and lords. They 
could not, of course, do so if they were recently dream- 
ed, as they were, say, in the Erance of the Third Em- 
pire. There, one fancies, these figments must have 
 
always been smiling in each other's faces when they 
were hy themselves. But the faery dream holds solidly 
in England because it is such a very old dream. Be- 
sides, the dream does not interfere with the realities; 
it even honors them. If a man does any great thing 
in England, the chief figure of the faery dream recog- 
nizes his deed, stoops to him, lifts him up among the 
other figures, and makes him part of the dream forever. 
After that he has standing, such as no man may have 
with us for more than that psychological moment, when 
all the papers cry him up, and then everybody tries to 
forget him. But, better than this, the dream has the 
effect, if it has not the fact, of securing every man in 
his place, so long as he keeps to it. Xowhere else in 
the world is there so much personal independence, with- 
out aggression, as in England. There is apparently 
nothing of it in Germany; in Italy, every one is so 
courteous and kind that there is no question of it ; in the 
French Republic and in our own, it exists in an excess 
that is molestive and invasive ; in England alone does it 
strike the observer as being of exactly the just measure. 
Very likely the observer is mistaken, and in the pres- 
ent case he will not insist. After all, even the surface 
indications in such matters are slight and few. But 
what I noted was that, though the simple and humble 
have to go to the wall, and for the most part go to it 
unkicking, in England they were, on their level, re- 
spectfully and patiently entreated. At a railroad junc- 
tion one evening, when there was a great hurrying up 
stairs and down, and a mad seeking of wrong trains 
by right people, the company's servants who were tak- 
ing tickets, and directing passengers this way and that, 
were patiently kind with futile old men and women, 
who came up, in the midst of their torment, and pes- 
tered them with questions as to the time when trains 
that had not arrived would leave after they did arrive. 
I shuddered to think what would have at least verbally 
happened to such inquirers with us; but, there, not 
only their lives but their feelings were safe, and they 
could go away with such self-respect as they had quite 
intact. 
In no country less good-hearted than England could 
anything so wrong-headed as the English baggage sys- 
tem be suffered. But, there, passengers of all kinds 
help the porters to sort their trunks from other people's 
trunks, on arrival at their stations, and apparently 
think it no hardship. The porters, who do not seem 
especially inspired persons, have a sort of guiding in- 
stinct in the matter, and wonderfully seldom fail to 
get the things together for the cab, or to get them off 
the cab, and, duly labelled, into the luggage-van. Once, 
at a great junction, my porter seemed to have missed 
my train, and after vain but not unconsidered appeals 
to the guard, I had to start without it. At the next 
station, the company telegraphed back at its own cost 
the voluminous message of my anxiety and indignation, 
and I was assured that the next train would bring my 
valise from Crewe to Edinburgh. When I arrived at 
Edinburgh, I casually mentioned my trouble to a guard 
whom I had not seen before. He asked how the bags 
were marked, and then he said they had come with us. 
My porter had run with them to my train, but in 
despair of getting to my car with his burden, had put 
them into the last luggage-van, and all I had to do was 
now to identify them at my journey's end. 
Why one does not, guiltily or guiltlessly, claim other 
people's baggage, I do not know; but apparently it is 
 
not the custom. Perhaps in this, the deference for any 
one within his rights, peculiar to the faery dream, oper- 
ates the security of the respective owners of baggage 
that could otherwise easily be the general prey. While 
I saw constant regard paid for personal rights, I saw 
only one case in which they were offensively asserted. 
This was in starting from York for London, when we 
attempted to take possession of a compartment we had 
paid for from the nearest junction, in order to make 
certain of it. We found it in the keeping of a gentle- 
man who had turned it from a non - smoking into a 
smoking compartment, and bestrewn it with his cigar 
ashes. When told by the porters that we had engaged 
the compartment, he refused to stir, and said that he 
had paid for his seat, and he should not leave it till 
he was provided with another. In vain they besought 
him to consider our hard case, in being kept out of our 
own, and promised him another place as good as the 
one he held. He said that he would not believe it till 
he saw it, and as he would not go to see it, and it could 
not be brought to him, there appeared little chance of 
our getting rid of him. I thought it best to let him 
and the porters fight it out among themselves. When 
a force of guards appeared, they were equally inef- 
fective against the intruder, who could not, or did not, 
say that he did not know the compartment was engaged. 
Suddenly, for no reason, except that he had sufficiently 
stood, or sat, upon his rights, he rose, and the others 
precipitated themselves upon his hand-baggage, mainly 
composed of fishing-tackle, such as a gentleman carries 
who has been asked to somebody's fishing, and bore it 
away to another part of the train. They left one piece 
behind, and the porter who came back for it was radi- 
antly smiling, as if the struggle had been an agreeable 
exercise, and he spoke of his antagonist without the 
 
least exasperation; evidently, lie regarded him as one 
who had justly defended himself from corporate ag- 
gression; his sympathies were with him rather than 
with us, perhaps because we had not so vigorously as- 
serted ourselves. 
VI 
A case in which a personal wrong rather than a per- 
sonal right was offensively asserted, was that of a lady, 
young and too fair to be so unfair, in a crowded train 
coming from the Doncaster Races to York. She had 
kept a whole first-class compartment to herself, putting 
her maid into the second-class adjoining, and heaping 
the vacant seats with her hand-baggage, which had also 
overflowed into the corridor. At the time the train 
started she was comforting herself in her luxurious soli- 
tude with a cup of tea, and she stood up, as if to keep 
other people out. But, after waiting, seven of us, in 
the corridor, until she should offer to admit us, we all 
swarmed in upon her, and made ourselves indignantly 
at home. When it came to that she offered no pro- 
test, but gathered up her belongings, and barricaded 
herself with them P Among the rest there was a type- 
writing-machine, but what manner of young lady she 
was, or whether of the journalistic or the theatrical 
tribe, has never revealed itself to this day. We could 
not believe that she was very high-born, not nearly so 
high, for instance, as the old lady who helped dis- 
possess her, and who, when we ventured the hope that 
it would not rain on the morrow, which was to be St. 
Leger Day, almost lost the kindness for us inspired by 
some small service, because we had the bad taste to 
suggest such a possibility for so sacred a day. 
I never saw people standing in a train, except that 
 
once which I have already noted, when in a very 
crowded car in Wales, two women, decent elderly 
persons, got in and were suffered to remain on foot by 
the young men who had comfortable places; no one 
dreamed, apparently, of offering to give up his seat. 
But, on the other hand, a superior civilization is shown 
in what I may call the manual forbearance of the trolley 
and railway folk, who are so apt to nudge and punch 
you at home here, when they wish your attention. The 
like happened to me only once in England, and that 
was at Liverpool, where the tram conductor, who laid 
hands on me instead of speaking, had perhaps been 
corrupted by the unseen American influences of a port 
at which we arrive so abundantly and indiscriminately. 
I did not resent the touch, though it is what every 
one is expected to do, if aggrieved, and every one else 
does it in England. Within his rights, every one is 
safe; though there may be some who have no rights. 
If there were, I did not see them, and I suppose that, 
as an alien, I might have refused to stand up and un- 
cover when the band began playing God Save the King, 
as it did at the end of every musical occasion ; I might 
have urged that, being no subject of the King, I did 
not feel bound to join in the general prayer. But that 
would have been churlish, and, where every one had 
been so civil to me, I did not see why I should not be 
civil to the King, in a small matter. In the aggregate 
indeed, it is not a small matter, and I suppose that 
the stranger always finds the patriotism of a country 
molestive. Patriotism is, at any rate, very disagree- 
able, with the sole exception of our own, which we are 
constantly wishing to share with other people, especial- 
ly with English people. We spare them none of it, 
even in their own country, and yet many of us ob- 
ject to theirs; I feel that I am myself being rather 
offensive about it, now, at this distance from them. 
Upon the whole, not caring very actively for us, one 
way or the other, they take it amiably ; they try to get 
our point of view, and, as if it were a thorn, self- 
sacrificially press their bosoms against it, in the pres- 
ent or recent entente cordiale. None of their idiosyn- 
crasies is more notable than their patience, their kind- 
ness with our divergence from them ; but I am not sure 
that, having borne with us when we are by, they do not 
take it out of us when we are away. 
We are the poetry of a few, who, we like to think, 
have studied the most deeply into the causes of our be- 
ing, or its excuses. But you cannot always be enjoying 
poetry, and I could well imagine that our lovers must 
sometimes prefer to shut the page. The common gen- 
tleness comes from the common indifference, and from 
something else that I will not directly touch upon. 
What is certain is that, with all manner of strangers, 
the English seem very gentle, when they meet in chance 
encounter. The average level of good manners is high. 
My experience was not the widest, and I am always 
owning it was not deep ; but, such as it was, it brought 
me to the distasteful conviction that in England I did 
not see the mannerless uncouthness which I often see 
in America, not so often from high to low, or from 
old to young, but the reverse. There may be much 
more than we infer, at the moment, from the modulated 
voices, which sweetens casual intercourse, but there are 
certain terms of respect, almost unknown to us, which 
more obviously do that effect. It is a pity that de- 
mocracy, being the fine thing it essentially is, should 
behave so rudely. Must we come to family govern- 
ment, in order to be filial or fraternal in our bearing 
with one another ? Why should we be so blunt, so 
sharp, so ironical, so brutal in our kindness ? 
VII 
The single-mindedness of the English is beautiful. 
It may not help to the instant understanding of our 
jokes; but then, even we are not always joking, and 
it does help to put us at rest and to make us feel safe. 
The Englishman may not always tell the truth, but he 
makes us feel that we are not so sincere as he; per- 
haps there are many sorts of sincerity. But there is 
something almost caressing in the kindly pause that 
precedes his perception of your meaning, and this is 
very pleasing after the sense of always having your 
hearer instantly onto you. When, by a chance in- 
definitely rarer than it is with us at home, one meets 
an Irishman in England, or better still an Irishwoman, 
there is an instant lift of the spirit; and, when one 
passes the Scotch border, there is so much lift that, on 
returning, one sinks back into the embrace of the Eng- 
lish temperament, with a sigh for the comfort of its 
soft unhurried expectation that there is really some- 
thing in what you say which will be clear by-and-by. 
Having said so much as this in compliance with the 
frequent American pretence that the English are with- 
out humor, I wish to hedge in the interest of truth. 
They certainly are not so constantly joking as we; it 
does not apparently seem to them that fate can be 
propitiated by a habit of pleasantry, or that this is so 
merry a world that one need go about grinning in it. 
Perhaps the conditions with most of them are harder 
than the conditions with most of us. But, thinking of 
certain Englishmen I have known, I should be ashamed 
to join in the cry of those story-telling Americans whose 
jokes have sometimes fallen effectless. It is true that, 
wherever the Celt has leavened the doughier Anglo- 
 
Saxon lump, the expectation of a humorous sympathy 
is greater; but there are subtile spirits of Teutonic 
origin whose fineness we cannot deny, whose delicate 
gayety is of a sort which may well leave ours impeach- 
ing itself of a heavier and grosser fibre. 
~No doubt you must sometimes, and possibly oftenest, 
go more than half-way for the response to your humor- 
ous intention. Those subtile spirits are shy, and may 
not offer it an effusive welcome* They are also of such 
an exquisite honesty that, if they do not think your wit 
is funny, they will not smile at it, and this may grieve 
some of our jokers. But, if you have something fine 
and good in you, you need not be afraid they will fail 
of it, and they will not be so long about finding it out 
as some travellers say. When it comes to the grace of 
the imaginative in your pleasantry, they will be even 
beforehand with you. But in their extreme of imper- 
sonality they will leave the initiative to you in the mat- 
ter of humor as in others. They will no more seek out 
your peculiar humor than they will name you in speak- 
ing with you. 
VIII 
Nothing in England seeks you out, except the damp. 
Your impressions, you have to fight for them. What 
you see or hear seems of accident. The sort of people 
you have read of your whole life, and are most intimate 
with in fiction, you must surprise. They no more court 
observance than the birds in whose seasonable slaughter 
society from the King down delights. In fact, it is 
probable that, if you looked for both, yon would find 
the gunner shyer than the gunned. The pheasant and 
the fox are bred to give pleasure by their chase; they 
are tenderlv cared for and watched over and kept from 
 
harm at the hands of all who do not wish to kill them 
for the joy of killing, and they are not so elusive but 
they can be seen by easy chance. The pheasant es- 
pecially has at times all but the boldness of the barn- 
yard in his fearless port. Once from my passing train, 
I saw him standing in the middle of a ploughed field, 
erect, distinct, like a statue of himself, commemorative 
of the long ages in which his heroic death and martyr 
sufferance have formed the pride of princes and the 
peril of poachers. But I never once saw him' shot, 
though almost as many gunners pursue him as there 
are pheasants in the land. This alone shows how shy 
the gunners are: and when once I saw the trail of a 
fox-hunt from the same coign of vantage without see- 
ing the fox, I felt that I had almost indecently come 
upon the horse and hounds, and that the pink coats and 
the flowery spread of the dappled dogs over the field 
were mine by a kind of sneak as base as killing a fox 
to save my hens. 
IX 
Equally with the foxes and the pheasants, the royal- 
ties and nobilities abound in English novels, which 
really form the chief means of our acquaintance with 
English life; but the chances that reveal them to the 
average unintroduced, unpresented American are rarer. 
By these chances, I heard, out of the whole peerage, 
but one lord so addressed in public, and that was on a 
railroad platform where a porter was reassuring him 
about his luggage. Similarly, I once saw a lady of 
quality, a tall and girlish she, who stood beside her 
husband, absently rubbing with her glove the window 
of her motor, and whom but for the kind interest of 
our cabman we might never have known for a duchess, 
It is by their personal uninsistence largely, no doubt, 
that the monarchy and the aristocracy exist ; the figures 
of the faery dream remain blent with the background, 
and appear from it only when required to lay corner- 
stones, or preside at races, or teas or bazars, or to repre- 
sent the masses at home and abroad, and invisibly hold 
the viewless reins of government. 
Yet it must not be supposed that the commoner sort 
of dreamers are never jealous of these figments of their 
fancy. They are often so, and rouse themselves to self- 
assertion as frequently as our Better Element flings off 
the yoke of Tammany. At a fair, open to any who 
would pay, for some forgotten good object, such as is 
always engaging the energies of society, I saw moving 
among the paying guests the tall form of a nobleman 
who had somehow made himself so distasteful to his 
neighbors that they were not his friends, and regularly 
voted down his men, whether they stood for Parliament 
or County Council, and whether they were better than 
the popular choice or not. As a matter of fact, it was 
said that they were really better, but the people would 
not have them because they were his; and one of the 
theories of English manliness is that the constant pres- 
sure from above has toughened the spirit and enabled 
Englishmen to stand up stouter and straighter each in 
his place, just as it is contended elsewhere that the aes- 
thetic qualities of the human race have been heightened 
by its stresses and deprivations in the struggle of life. 
For my own part, I believe neither the one theory 
nor the other. People are the worse for having people 
above them, and are the ruder and coarser for having 
to fight their way. If the triumph of social inequality 
is such that there are not four men in London who are 
not snobs, it cannot boast itself greater than the suc- 
cess of economic inequality with ourselves, among 
 
whom the fight for money has not produced of late a 
first-class poet, painter, or sculptor. The English, if 
they are now the manliest people under the sun, have 
to thank not their masters but themselves, and a nature 
originally so generous that no abuse could lastingly 
wrong it, no political absurdity spoil it. But if this 
nature had been left free from the beginning, we might 
see now a nation of Englishmen who, instead of being 
bound so hard and fast in the bonds of an imperial pa- 
triotism, would be the first in a world-wide altruism. 
Yet their patriotism is so devout that it may well pass 
itself off upon them for a religious emotion, instead of 
the superstition which seems to the stranger the im- 
plication of an England in the next world as well as 
in this. 
We fancy that, because we have here an Episcopal 
Church, with its hierarchy, we have something equiva- 
lent to the English Church. But that is a mistake. 
The English Church is a part of the whole of English 
life, as the army or navy is; in English crowds, the 
national priest is not so frequent as the national soldier, 
but he is of as marked a quality, and as distinct from 
the civil world, in uniform, bearing, and aspect ; in the 
cathedral towns, he and his like form a sort of spiritual 
garrison. At home here you may be ignorant of the 
feasts of the Episcopal Church without shame or in- 
convenience ; but in England you had better be versed 
in the incidence of all the holy days if you would stand 
well with other men, and would know accurately when 
the changes in the railroad time-tables will take place. 
It will not do to have ascertained the limits of Lent; 
you must be up in the Michaelmases and Whitmon- 
 
days, and the minor saints' days. When once you 
have mastered this difficult science, you will realize 
what a colossal transaction the disestablishment of the 
English Church in England would be, and how it would 
affect the whole social fabric. 
But, even when you have learned your lesson, it will 
not be to you as that knowledge which has been lived, 
and which has no more need ever to question itself than 
the habitual pronunciation of words. If one has moved 
in good English society, one has no need ever to ask 
how a word is pronounced, far less to go to the diction- 
ary; one pronounces it as one has always heard it pro- 
nounced. The sense of this gives the American a sort 
of despair, like that of a German or French speaking 
foreigner, who perceives that he never will be able to 
speak English. The American is rather worse off, for 
he has to subdue an inward rebellion, and to form even 
the wish to pronounce some English words as the Eng- 
lish do. He has, for example, always said " financier' 
with the accent on the last syllable ; and if he has con- 
sulted his Webster he has found that there was no 
choice for him. Then, when he hears it pronounced 
at Oxford by the head of a college with the accent on 
the second syllable, and learns on asking that it is 
never otherwise accented in England, his head whirls 
a little, and he has a sick moment, in which he thinks 
he had better let the verb " to be " govern the ac- 
cusative as the English do, and be done with it, or 
else telegraph for his passage home at once. Or stop ! 
He must not " telegraph," he must " wire." 
XI 
As for that breathing in the wrong place which is 
known as dropping one's aitches, I found that in the 
 
long time between the first and last of my English 
sojourns, there had arisen the theory that it was a vice 
purely cockney in origin, and that it had grown upon 
the nation through the National Schools. It is gross- 
ly believed, or boldly pretended, that till the National 
School teachers had conformed to the London standard 
in their pronunciation the wrong breathing was almost 
unknown in England, but that now it was heard every- 
where south of the Scottish border. Worse yet, the 
teachers in the National Schools had scattered far and 
wide that peculiar intonation, that droll slip or twist 
of the vowel sounds by which the cockney alone former- 
ly proclaimed his low breeding, and the infection is 
now spread as far as popular learning. Like the wrong 
breathing, it is social death " to any he that utters it," 
not indeed that swift extinction which follows having 
your name crossed by royalty from the list of guests 
at a house where royalty is about to visit, but a slow, 
insidious malady, v which preys upon its victim, and 
finally destroys him after his life - long struggle to 
shake it off. It is even worse than the wrong breath- 
ing, and is destined to sweep the whole island, where 
you can nowhere, even now, be quite safe from hearing 
a woman call herself " a lydy." It may indeed be the 
contagion of the National School teacher, but I feel 
quite sure, from long observation of the wrong breath- 
ing, that the wrong breathing did not spread from Lon- 
don through the schools, but was everywhere as surely 
characteristic of the unbred in England as nasality is 
with us. Both infirmities are of national origin and 
extent, and both are individual or personal in their 
manifestation. That is, some Americans in every part 
of the Union talk through their noses; some English- 
men in every part of the kingdom drop their aitches. 
The English-speaking Welsh often drop their aitches, 
as the English-speaking French do, though the Scotch 
and Irish never drop them, any more than the Amer- 
icans, or the English of the second generation among us ; 
but the extremely interesting and great little people of 
Wales are otherwise as unlike the English as their moth- 
er-language is. They seem capable of doing anything 
but standing six feet in their stockings, which is such a 
very common achievement with the English, but that is 
the fault of nature which gave them dark complexions 
and the English fair. Where the work of the spirit 
comes in, it effects such a difference between the two 
peoples as lies between an Eisteddfod and a horse-race. 
While all the singers of Wales met in artistic emulation 
at their national musical festival at Rhyl, all the gam- 
blers of England met in the national pastime of playing 
the horses at Doncaster. More money probably changed 
hands on the events at Doncaster than at Rhyl, and it 
was characteristic of the prevalent influence in the com- 
mon civilization (if there is a civilization common to 
both races) that the King was at Doncaster and not 
at Rhyl. But I do not say this to his disadvantage, 
for I was myself at Doncaster and not at Rhyl. You 
cannot, unless you have a very practised ear, say which 
is the finer singer at an Eisteddfod, but almost any 
one can see which horse comes in first at a race. 
XII 
What is most striking in the mixture of strains in 
England is that it apparently has not ultimately mixed 
them; and perhaps after a thousand years the racial 
traits will be found marking Americans as persistent- 
ly. We now absorb, and suppose ourselves to be as- 
similating, the different voluntary and involuntary im- 
 
migrations ; but doubtless after two thousand years the 
African, the Celt, the Scandinavian, the Teuton, the 
Gaul, the Hun, the Latin, the Slav will be found 
atavistically asserting his origin in certain of their 
common posterity. The Pennsylvania Germans have 
as stolidly maintained their identity for two centuries 
as the Welsh in Great Britain for twenty, or, so far 
as history knows, from the beginning of time. The 
prejudices of one British stock concerning another are 
as lively as ever, apparently, however the enmities may 
have worn themselves away. One need not record any 
of these English prejudices concerning the Scotch or 
Irish ; they are too well known ; but I may set down the 
opinion of a lively companion in a railroad journey 
that the Welsh are " the prize liars of the universe." 
He was an expert accountant by profession, and his 
affairs took him everywhere in the three Kingdoms, and 
this was his settled error; for the Welsh themselves 
know that, if they sometimes seem the prey of a lively 
imagination, it is the philologically noted fault of their 
language, which refuses to lend itself to the accurate 
expression of fact, but which would probably afford 
them terms for pronouncing the statement of my ac- 
countant inexact. He was perhaps a man of convic- 
tions rather than conclusions, for, though he was a 
bright intelligence, of unusually varied interests, 
there were things that had never appealed to him. 
We praised together the lovely September landscape 
through which we were running, and I ventured some 
remark upon the large holdings of the land: a thing 
that always saddened me in the face of nature with the 
reflection that those who tilled the soil owned none of it ; 
though I ought to have remembered the times when the 
soil owned them, and taken heart. My notion seemed 
to strike him for the first time, but he dismissed the 
fact as a necessary part of the English system; it had 
never occurred to him that there could be question of 
that system. There must be many Englishmen to whom 
it does occur, but if you do not happen to meet them 
you cannot blame the others. 
I fancied that one of the Englishmen to whom it 
might have occurred was he whom I met in Wales at 
Aberystwyth, where we spoke together a moment in the 
shadow of the co - educational University there, and 
who seemed at least of a different mind concerning 
the Welsh. " These Welsh farmers," he said, " send 
their sons and daughters to college as if it were quite 
the natural thing to do. But just imagine a Dorset- 
shire peasant sending his boy to a University!" 
We suppose that the large holdings of land are the 
effect of wrongs and abuses now wholly in the past, 
and that the causes for their increase are no longer 
operative, but are something like those geological laws 
by which the strata under them formed themselves. 
Once, however, in driving through the most beautiful 
part of England, which I will not specify because 
every part of England is the most beautiful, I came 
upon an illustration of the reverse, as signal as the 
spectacle of a landslide. It was the accumulation, not 
merely within men's memories, but within the actual 
generation, of vast bodies of land in the hold of a great 
nobleman who had contrived a title in them by the 
simple device of enclosing the people's commons. It 
was a wrong, but there was no one of the wronged who 
was brave enough or rich enough to dispute it through 
the broken law, and no witness public-spirited enough 
to come to their aid. Such things make us think pa- 
tiently, almost proudly, of our national foible of graft, 
which may really be of feudal origin. Doubtless the 
aggression was attacked in the press, but we all know 
 
what the attacks of the press amount to against the 
steadfast will of a powerful corporation, and a great 
nobleman in England is a powerful corporation. In 
this instance he had not apparently taken the people's 
land without some wish to make them a return for it. 
He had built a handsome road through their property, 
which he maintained in splendid condition, and he 
allowed them to drive over his road, and to walk free- 
ly in certain portions of their woods. He had also 
built a magnificent hospital for them, and it seemed 
rather hard, then, to hear that one of the humblest of 
them had been known to speak of him in whispered 
confidence as a " Upas tree." 
XIII 
Probably he was not personally a Upas tree, prob- 
ably the rancor toward him left from being bawled 
after by one of his gatemen at a turning we had taken 
in his enclosure, " That's a private path !" was unjust. 
There was no sign, such as everywhere in England 
renders a place secure from intrusion. The word 
" Private " painted up anywhere does the effect of 
bolts and bars and of all obsolete man-traps beyond 
it, and is not for a moment that challenge to the way- 
faring foot which it seems so often with us; but the 
warnings to the public which we make so mandatory, 
the English language with unfailing gentleness. You 
are not told to keep your foot or your wheel to a cer- 
tain pathway ; you are " requested," and sometimes 
even " kindly requested " ; I do not know but once I 
was " respectfully requested." Perhaps that noble- 
man's possession of these lands was so new that his 
retainers had to practise something of unwonted rude- 
 
ness in keeping it wholly his where he chose. At any 
rate, the rule of civility is so universal that the polite- 
ness from class to class is, for what the stranger sees, 
all but unfailing. I dare say he does not see every- 
thing, even the Argus-eyed American, but apparently 
the manners of the lower class, where they have been 
touched by the upper, have been softened and polished 
to the same consistence and complexion. When it comes 
to the proffers, and refusals, and insistences, and ac- 
ceptances between people of condition, such as I wit- 
nessed once in a crowded first-class carriage from Lon- 
don on an Oxford holiday, nothing could be more 
gently urgent, more beautifully forbearing. If the 
writers of our romantic novels could get just those 
manners into their fiction, I should not mind their 
dealing so much with the English nobility and gentry; 
for those who intend being our nobility and gentry, 
by-and-by, could not do better than study such high- 
breeding. 
'If we approach the morals of either superiors or in- 
