makes it so terrible. She's got to the point where it's ingrain. 
She says things without an object." 
" She told you," Bess reminded her. The color had not 
come back to her face. She looked stony with pain. "She 
said it was a joke." 
" It isn't a joke. John says she 's no sense of humor. 
It was the other thing. O Bess, it seems as if I could die 
if I could keep her from doing that." 
" I could die, too," the girl's inner self responded, but her 
lips answered, " The caller has gone. Mr. Winterbourne 
has gone with him. Now you can run up to bed." 
Winterbourne, going to the door, had found there, on 
the other side of the screen, a short globular man, dressed 
faultlessly in a light gray summer suit, with correct tie and 
 
every evidence that he prized the toilet even in its lesser 
niceties. He took off his hat ceremoniously and showed 
that he was bald save for a little curling wisp, made for 
comedy, on the top of his poll. His face was pink and 
shining. 
" I beg your pardon," said he, " but can you tell me how 
to find the Valley of Birds ? " 
No man less likely to seek out a poetic valley had ever 
entered Winterbourne's ken. He stepped outside and asked 
unbelievingly, — 
" Did you say the Valley of Birds ? " 
Whereupon, at the first indication of his lips to open, the 
stranger whipped up an ear-trumpet and presented the 
mouth to Winterbourne. Winterboume fell back in wild 
amaze. 
" My God, man," he bellowed, " where did you get my 
trumpet ? " 
He had not omitted to speak into it, and the stranger, in 
his turn, fell back. His spectacled blue eyes popped with 
an absurd terror. Now Winterbourne remembered that he 
had a voice of dry, toneless quality, one of the voices of the 
deaf. He was turning about with a conclusive dignity, in 
haste, also, as if the outcome of the affair had not been 
what he hoped. 
" I am sorry to have troubled you," said he. " I won't 
intrude upon you." 
But Winterbourne was after him. He arrested him with 
a hand on his shoulder and violently pulled about the arm 
that had seemed to be concealing pan-pipes at his side
Winterbourne forced it to the stranger's ear and spoke 
into it. 
" The Valley of Birds," he said, " is down through my 
lane and through my carrot-field. I'll show it to you." 
 
He finished after pan-pipes had left the stranger's ear. " But 
that 's my trumpet, and I can just as well kill you in the 
Valley of Birds as here. Better." 
Therefore the stranger apprehensively, and Winterbourne 
with decision, walked off together, and once, on their way 
through the lane, the stranger caught a bright yellow flash 
from bough to bough of the elm tree in the neighboring 
field. He stole a look at Winterbourne, a child's look of 
guilt, of temptation not to be denied, and whipped out pan- 
pipes and put it to his ear. He stopped and stood en- 
tranced. The oriole sang. 
" Ah ! " It was acute delight. However he had come upon 
pan-pipes, Winterbourne forgave him. 
 
XXIX 
WHEN they reached the circle of the grove, the 
little man turned to Winterbourne and asked, yet 
as if he already knew, — 
"Valley of Birds?" 
Winterbourne nodded, entirely tamed, whoever had his 
ear-trumpet, by curiosity. The little man sat down on a 
bank, his plump legs sticking out, and set the trumpet to 
his ear. He listened beatifically. Winterbourne also sat, 
slipped down an incline slightly on the pine-needles, found 
himself a more commodious hollow adapted to his frame, 
and watched. The other man had forgotten him. He sat 
in a rapt communion with sound. And yet there was not so 
very much sound either. It was getting late for birds. Once 
he turned the trumpet up into the tree, and his mouth 
widened. He shook his head in ecstasy, as if to say, " That 's 
the boy for me," and Winterbourne wondered whether he 
could possibly have caught the pother of a squirrel running 
up and down excitedly, put about, it seemed, by man's in- 
vasion. Winterbourne, brimming with interest and satis- 
faction, thought he should be content to watch the stranger 
everlastingly. He had never seen a creature more mysteri- 
ously happy. And the trumpet was his own trumpet. 
There could be no doubt about it. There was even the 
little irregular dent in the rim, this from the time his mother 
dropped it on the fender. 
Winterbourne had a great many illuminating thoughts. 
He had never considered that hearing was especially valu- 
able as a factor of happiness to a man over forty. It would 
 
be practically a mistake to lose it, he knew, — but happi- 
ness ! Was the singing of birds so much to mortal man, 
when by diving into a book the sea of oblivion to this time 
could close over him and he could be on Hymettus with 
the bees ? He felt that he had a great deal to think about, 
while his silent companion was listening. He was learning 
things about life itself, and this, when he could escape from 
books, was his game. Suddenly the stranger drew a long, 
open-mouthed breath of satisfaction. He put down the 
trumpet and his hand with it on the ground at his side, and 
shut his eyes tight a minute, as if to rest them from the 
ecstasy that had been pouring in through all the senses. 
Then he opened them, — he had sudden ways for so rotund 
a man, — clapped pan-pipes to his ear, and presented it to 
Winterbourne. 
" My name is Gregory," said he. " I haven't had the 
pleasure of meeting you." 
Winterbourne wanted to know many things far more than 
he wanted to fulfil the convention of telling his own name. 
"How did you hear about the Valley of Birds?" he 
hastened to inquire. 
"Article in the Sutiy' said Gregory, "signed by a man 
named Lovell." 
"I told him — " said Winterbourne, meaning to add, 
" I told him how it would be." But he cut it short, remem- 
bering the ecstasy on his visitor's face. Did he wish to shut 
off any creature just born into the delights of sound ? " You 
enjoy it ? " he remarked tritely. 
Gregory nodded. 
"The amount of it was this," said he. "Since I've had 
my trumpet — this trumpet — I've been on a prolonged 
spree." 
Winterbourne looked at him the more questioningly, his 
 
correct clothes, the freshness of his face. Gregory, accus- 
tomed to calling on his eyes to help his ears> read the look 
and shook his head. 
" No, no," said he, " figurative, figurative. I 've given up 
work, that 's all. I go to the ofiice an hour every morning. 
Then I escape, sir, 1 escape. I take this trumpet and run 
away. I go to vaudeville; I get into the country. I came 
down here because that fellow said there were more birds 
here to the square inch than in any other bit of woods in 
New England. I 'm on the loose. I can hear, man, and I 'm 
going to hear every sound that peeps for fear the thing shuts 
down again. I haven't heard for thirty-eight years. How 
I 've carried on my business, God only knows. If I hadn't 
a good son and a clerk that 's worth his weight in gold, I 
could n't, that 's all. What?" 
Winterbourne seemed about to speak, but he hesitated 
gravely. Could he say to this creature new-born into the world 
of satisfactions, " Where did you get my trumpet ? " Was it 
not indeed, by the law of equity, Gregory's own trumpet? 
Winterbourne felt a little awed at himself for inventing such 
a thing. When his mother used it, he had settled down with 
great pleasure to her satisfaction in reentering family inter- 
course. But here was a sane middle-aged man drunk with 
delight because he was new-born again into a world worth 
living in. Winterbourne felt like a creator, in a small way. 
He wondered, too, how many other brokers, hungry for the 
song of birds, might have been using it if he had spread 
it broadcast. Was this another chamber of life he should 
have entered instead of running oflF to his own games in the 
forest of plenty ? 
" May I see that ? " he compromised with curiosity, hold- 
ing out his hand. 
Gregory misunderstood him. wilfuUv. Winterbourne saw. 
 
He would not let the thing go out of his grasp. He lifted it 
again and smiled at Winterbourne. 
"When I tell you," said he confidentially, "that this is 
the only trumpet ever invented that doesn't change the 
human voice, that gives you TrovatorCy by Jove I as you 
heard it when you were fifteen — well, I wouldn't part from 
it for all the money in the Standard Oil." 
Winterbourne dropped his hand. It was Gregory's trum- 
pet, he understood. The gods had given it to him. 
" Who owns this place?" Gregory was asking. 
" I do." 
" Indeed 1 Let me congratulate you, sir. May I inquire 
your name ? " 
" Winterbourne. John Winterbourne." 
He was by no means prepared for the eflfect of this as a 
facer. What less moving than telling his own unmarked name? 
But Gregory dropped the trumpet, hid it, Winterbourne 
saw, in the pocket of his loose coat. With some difliculty 
he got on his short legs. 
"I'll be going," said he. 
Now Winterbourne was roused. What did the shade of 
pallor mean overspreading the rounded cheek ? What that 
gleam of the blue eyes, a moment before so trusting? He 
also came upon his feet and towered. 
" No, you don't," said he. " What is there in my name to 
set you off? Where did you get that trumpet? " 
Gregory was walking, hands in his coat-pockets, — that, 
Winterbourne knew, to keep a grip of one on pan-pipes, — 
he was walking off. But Winterbourne was in face of him, 
a hand rhetorically extended. 
" Where," he roared, forgetting that to Gregory without 
his magic servitor the thunder might be rumbling the same 
question without avail, "where did you get my trumpet? " 
Gregory could not, without the loss of some dignity, con- 
tinue. He might dodge on the wood-path, but his legs were 
short and he was no sprinter. The red surged back into his 
face. He swelled a little with a sudden anger, and plucked the 
trumpet from his pocket. Again he set it to his ear. 
" I thank you, sir," said he stiffly, " for one of the most 
enjoyable hours of my life. Good-morning." 
Winterbourne, without scruple, laid a hand upon his arm 
and kept the trumpet in its place. 
" Where," said he, in the modified tone adapted, he knew, 
to pan-pipes, " where did you get that trumpet ? " 
Gregory looked him for more than an instant in the 
eyes, appraising him. He made his hasty resolution. 
" Come," said he. " We might as well talk it over." And 
it was he who led the way back into the grove, Winterbourne 
following. Gregory sat down on a tree-trunk this time, and 
Winterbourne gravely took a place beside him, near, also, 
judging that the trumpet, in some fashion, might escape him 
if it were not within reach. Gregory turned to him with a 
dash of appeal. 
" Come, now," said he, " put yourself in my place. I 
hadn't heard a word for thirty-eight years. The minute I 
put that thing to my ear, 1 was bewitched. Do you suppose 
1 could let it go out of my hands into a mechanic's, to fiddle 
with it, to make diagrams and models ? He might spoil it. 
God ! you don't expect a man that 's been deaf for thirty- 
eight years to do a thing like that, do you ? " 
" By Jupiter, no ! " Winterbourne understood it all no 
more than the dead, but Gregory looked as if he were going 
to cry. He could read the signs of that, and wanted to say 
to him, " Don't do that. Catherine does that." 
"Well!" said Gregory. He was in a measure relieved, 
but he seemed to be pouring out his grievances at once, the 
 
thirty-eight years he had been shut out from paradise and the 
ironic chance that brought him a trumpet only to snatch it 
from him. " Nobody 's understood it. Even my wife ain't. 
' Why can't you 'tend to your business if you have got an 
ear-trumpet?' she says; 'why can't you 'tend to it better?' 
My son don't understand it. It's he and the head clerk 
that's keeping the house running. My son comes to me, 
and says, ' Father, can't you give us half a day? You don't 
need to be off every day, do you ? ' And I say to him, ' I 've 
given you every day for thirty-eight years and I 've written 
out my orders and it 's cost me blood. And now,' says I, 
' I can hear. Can't see what that means to a man, can ye ? I 
can hear. And I 'm going to hear,' I says, ' every blessed 
thing that 's going.' Why, man, when I wake up now, I can 
hear my watch tick on thie little stand, head o' my bed. First 
time I heard it, 1 took it and kissed it. My wife saw me do 
it, and she says to me, ' Manuel, you crazy ? ' " 
His blue eyes were full of tears. Winterbourne's, too, 
filled, and he was not ashamed. But he spoke into the 
trumpet. 
"Where did you get the thing? where did you get it?" 
Gregory was watching him now, as if to see how he would 
take it. 
" I suppose," he countered, " he's your son." 
"Who's my son?" 
" His name 's Winterbourne." 
" Whose name is Winterbourne ? " 
" But you needn't tell me he invented a thing like that. I 
thought at first he might, he 's such a fool. It takes a fool 
to invent a thing." 
" Oh, does it ? " Winterbourne returned. 
" When they don't know anything else, they'll up and in- 
vent something the sanest man wouldn't have dreamed of. 
 
Well, I thought, at first, he might have done it. I don't now. 
I think the thing was stolen." 
His excitement was so great, evidently over coils he had 
tried to loose before, that Winterbourne, with an instinct that 
it was the only way, began a species of wheedling. 
"Well, man, it's an interesting story. When did you see 
him first ? " 
" He came to my ofiSce. He made his way in over a good 
deal of opposition. Said he had a message. Couldn't see 
anybody but me. 1 was rather upset that day, for Ramsay, 
my confidential clerk, was out, — wife sick, — and the clerk 
that brought the message got an idea he was from Ramsay." 
" Ramsay! " 
"So I had him in. He came up to me, — I thought he 
was going to shoot me, but way he looked I knew it was 
no such game, — and stuck this up to my ear, and then he 
says, ' Good-morning, Mr. Gregory.' And I heard him, 
plain as you hear me now. I told you how I kissed the watch. 
Weil, I wonder I didn't kiss him. And I 've hardly had 
that trumpet away from my ears long enough to eat and 
sleep." 
Winterbourne, brows shaggily knit, was listening and 
thinking hard. There was still call for persuasiveness, but he 
wheedled absently, having too much to ponder. 
" It's a great story. He'd heard you needed a trumpet 
and he 'd brought you one ? " 
" He'd brought it to me to get his patent." 
" His patent ! The young whelp ! " 
Gregory had his turn at a question. 
" Mr. Winterbourne, is the young man your son ? " 
" I've no son. Did the misbegotten cub say he was my 
son?" 
" No. but his name is Winterbourne." 
 
" His name is Belial," Winterbourne supplied, fortissimo. 
" Where does he live, the viper ? " 
" Sutton. That 's his post-office address. And Sutton, I 
take it, is next town to this." 
They looked at each other. Then Gregory went on very 
firmly : — 
" Now, Mr. Winterbourne, I 'm all ready to own I'm in 
the wrong. A young man comes to me and puts an inven- 
tion into my hand. I 'm to patent it for him. I 'm to engi- 
neer the thing and see it through. I don't. I break my 
word. I sit down and use the thing, and I take no steps 
toward doing what I said I 'd do. And I see the thing's been 
worn, and I suspect it's stolen, and I take no steps about 
that. I only know I 've got something I wouldn't part with 
if there was a new commandment made to cover the case — 
not unless I could get another like it. That 's where we are." 
Winterbourne's eyes still had their far-away look, but he 
put out his hand, and Gregory gripped it with much satisfac- 
tion. 
"If I could tell you," said Winterbourne, "how the 
thing was made, if I could give you a diagram of the inside 
of it, so you could have it manufactured at the next shop, 
at a cost of a few dollars, would you believe I 'd seen the 
thing before ? " 
Gregory believed him perfectly, and was content to make 
a nod for answer. 
" And somebody else has seen it before," he commented. 
" It 's been used." 
Winterbourne was not ready yet to tell him who had used 
it. He was still pulling his brows together and thinking. 
Then the most obvious thought of all occurred to him. 
"How did he look?" 
"The boy?" 
 
"Was he a boy?" 
" Eighteen, I should say. Looked sixteen. Blue eyes, 
light hair, skin like a girl, all over pink." 
Now Winterbourne knew. He came to his feet abruptly 
and his hat felt the jar. He righted it with one hand and 
stretched the other, palm up, to Gregory. He had the effect, 
in his passion, of resisting a stiff breeze. 
" Gregory," said he, " that's my trumpet. Give it here." 
" Not on your life," said Gregory. " Don't you under- 
stand me? I can't be without it." 
" I'll give you another. You shall have the twin of it, or 
you shall have this back. But I know who stole it. I'll con- 
front the whelp." 
Gregory removed it from his ear and, with a motion of 
ultimate decision, consigned it to his pocket. From that 
point his part in the interview was a bold game of guessing; 
he could hear nothing. 
" No man shall patent an invention of mine," stormed 
Winterbourne. " I'll patent it myself, or it shall rot. Do you 
mark me, man ? Give me my trumpet." 
"You 've got all your senses, and I 'm one short," Greg- 
ory hurled back at him. " If you think I'll give up the one 
thing that makes life worth living, you 're mighty well mis- 
taken." 
"Take it out of your pocket, you fool," roared Winter- 
bourne. " Don't you know this is an epic moment? Don't 
you see it's going to be known through all time as the 
battle of the ear-trumpet? It's your weapon, man. Do you 
suppose Hector would have been slain if Achilles had kept 
his spear in his tail pocket? Out with your trumpet, Roland, 
for this is Roncesvalles." 
The splendor of the moment had overcome him, and he 
thought no more of Gregory save as the pasteboard protag- 
 
onist to give him something to tilt against while his own 
steed of fancy pranced and curvetted. But to Gregory, who 
had no background of historical tapestries, the moment was 
a painful one, full of the most prosaic verities. Full of cru- 
elty, even, for it appeared that some one was about to push 
him back again into his silent world. He began manfully, 
yet almost hysterically withal, to explain : — 
"See here, I'd rather die than give it up to you. It's 
death to be without it. Why, my life ain't worth a rotten 
apple to me, to lose it now I 've had it once." 
The market, if it could have seen its Gregory, would have 
been amazed. His clerks would have looked upon him as 
an alien thing. Here was a man who, from the very impos- 
sibility of doing his work against odds, had done it grimly 
and with a savage precision ; and he was almost weeping. 
" I don't want to take it away from you, you infernal 
idiot!" Winterbourne raged, hysterical in his turn and his 
own way that splintered masts and ripped the rigging into 
tatters. " Do you suppose I 'd let a thing lie for a hundred 
years rotting in a drawer and then steal it like a felon from 
the man that needs it ? I want to find the cub that stole it, 
that 's what I want. Take it out of your pocket and put it 
up to your ear so you can hear sense. Do you want to drive 
a man crazy?" 
But Gregory, immovable and grand as any other defender 
of a passionate interest, stood with his hands in his pockets, 
one of them clutching the trumpet, and faced him. No 
yielding was in those tear-wet eyes nor about the mouth shut 
into a moveless line. They watched and interrogated each 
other so, for a pregnant moment. Then Winterbourne saw 
his own defeat. Nothing was left but compromise. He put 
his hand on Gregory's shoulder, turned him about, and 
Gregory saw they were to go. He, too, compromised to that 
 
extent, and they got step together and went out of the grove, 
Winterbourne muttering. On their way up through the 
lane, undoubtedly the same thoughts travelled, pace for pace, 
through both their minds. Gregory was combating his im- 
pulse to run because Winterbourne, long of limb, could over- 
take him, and Winterbourne was reasoning that he might, 
if he chose, stop him on the spot and extract the trumpet. 
He was big enough. 
So they went on into the street and along its length, 
Gregory unknowing why he went, to the Ramsays', and there 
Tonty, watering an iris that didn't need it from a diminu- 
tive pot Winterbourne had given her, and in an ecstasy of 
housewifely content, met them joyously, and at sight of her 
Winterbourne's passion cooled. He had nourished the cer- 
tainty that Tim would have to be killed, that everlasting 
justice should be satisfied; but Tonty's serene little face 
reminded him he could not shed the blood of Tonty's Tim. 
So he asked for him gently, and Tonty answered out of her 
shyness because a stranger was with him, that Tim had gone 
to see mother. Winterbourne turned back down the path, 
his prisoner with him, and Tonty, rapt with delight because 
they had taken off their hats to her, grown gentlemen as 
they were, watched them away. And Winterbourne, going 
up his own path, where Gregory had hesitated for an instant 
because it seemed as if this might be a point for them to 
part company, met Tim coming sunnily out. Winterbourne 
forgot that this was Tonty's Tim, and saluted him fortissimo. 
"You misbegotten young cub, where is my ear-trumpet? 
You stole one ; now where 's the other ? " 
And Mrs. Ramsay, sitting above at the window in the 
first moment of her cure, when she had wanted a book in 
her hand, turned from the pages of the old fashion-magazine 
Bess had innocently given her, heard and listened. 
 
Tim turned a shade less pink. Winterbourne saw it, and 
so did Gregory, who had become, at sight of him, the type 
of man in an office alive with clerks. Tim was instantly un- 
comfortable in a way he was not used to. He lived his own 
capricious life untrammelled. If he did wrong in small ways, 
the heavens never fell. And now, challenged and unpre- 
pared, he spoke suddenly and unadvisedly. 
" I haven't got your trumpet. Your daughter 's got it." 
Winterbourne, taken aback, stared at him. 
"My daughter?" 
Tim was immediately sorry. He knew he had broken the 
code. He had told on his accomplice, but though that cer- 
tainty and regret were well alive in him he said without pre- 
meditation, — 
"Yes. Celia 's got it." 
Winterbourne opened the door. 
" Come in," said he. 
Gregory, full to the brim now with determination to see 
it through, preceded him, and so, constrained by a glance, 
did Tim, impudent, but uneasy. In the sitting-room Bess, 
who had heard them coming, gathered up her book — her 
Italian book, Winterbourne saw with a pang of love for her 
dutifulness — and was about to leave them. 
"Call your sister," Winterbourne bade her. 
She looked at him in a sudden apprehension, he thought, 
but she went, and he heard her on the stairs. Winterbourne 
drew forth a chair for Gregory, but Tim, left standing, put 
his hands in his pockets and whistled until Winterbourne's 
frown seemed to him too thunderous, and he stopped. It was 
a moment before Celia came, Bess following. Celia was pale, 
Winterbourne, in his stern-eyed questioning, saw, but she 
met his gaze candidly. Bess, behind her, leaned against the 
casing of the door, and Winterbourne saw she was shaking 
 
and that her hands, entwining upon each other, would not 
be still. That caused him to speak gently. 
" Celia, have you got my ear-trumpet ? " 
Celia looked at him in a sympathetic questioning. Had he 
lost something it seemed to say, something he cared very 
much about ? 
" No, papa,'' said she. 
Winterbourne, when the occasion was big enough, felt no 
rages. The present one was very big, he saw, judging from 
the look on the face of Bess; and his blood cooled. He 
seemed to see, too, with a great liking for Gregory, that this 
was why Gregory now stayed out of it. Though with the 
trumpet in his pocket, he was outside family affairs. 
"Think again, Celia," said Winterbourne. " I have found 
one of them. That 's the one that should have been in the 
desk. Where 's the other ? " 
Then the irony of the puissance of small things came over 
him, and but for Bess and the anguish of her face he could 
have laughed. The theft of an ear-trumpet ! and here they 
were standing about in search of the malefactor. Celia was 
looking straight at him. At least, he thought in admiration, 
she was game. Then she glanced at Tim, and her lip 
curled. 
" I know where it is, papa," she said. " It 's upstairs." 
"Get it," said Winterbourne, and Celia composedly turned 
about, passed her sister without a glance, and went up the 
stairs. 
" Bess," said Winterbourne kindly, " don't you think 
you'd better go to my wife? She might want something." 
She shook her head, and then, in a moment, Celia came, 
the trumpet in her hand. At sight of it, Gregory's eyes 
lighted with a passion of fervor. They seemed to say, " So 
there's another one." 
 
Celia gave the trampet to Winterbourne with a dutiful 
grace. 
" Did you want to see me ? " she hesitated. 
" No," said Winterbourne, " I didn't want to see you." 
And again she left the room and went up the stairs. Win- 
terbourne stood for a moment, thinking. Then he walked 
to the front door and opened the screen wide. 
Tim followed him, good-natured, acquiescent. Nothing 
was going to happen, he saw. His experience was that among 
civilized people things didn't happen. 
"That's all," said Winterbourne. "You can go." 
The screen closed behind him, but Mrs. Ramsay, clothed 
in her street dress and ready to come down, had heard, and 
slipped back to her own room. There was a stranger below, 
she knew. She would wait. Winterbourne turned. 
"Now! " said he, and Gregory, in an understanding of the 
crisis, drew out the trumpet in hiding. He took his chair 
again and Winterbourne pulled out another. The little table 
where Theocritus lay was between them, and on it Winter- 
bourne laid down his trumpet as if it were a game of cards 
and he was showing his hand. 
" That the boy ? " he asked. 
Gregory nodded. He had his question ready. 
" Relative of yours ? " 
" No." 
"Name Winterbourne?" 
" No." 
"What is his name?" 
" Ramsay." 
" Not Ramsay's boy ? Not our Mr. Ramsay ? " 
Winterbourne nodded. 
" Well, well," said Gregory. He sat in a muse, his eyes 
absently on the twin trumpet. " Well," said he, " 1 'm sorry. 
 
I'm most infernally sorry for Ramsay. He's an invaluable 
man." 
" Now," said Winterbourne, " how was it?" 
This was business, and Gregory at once became the busi- 
ness man. He told succinctly how Tim had come, acting like 
a fool so far as the practical aspect of the thing went, but 
clever, oh, yes ! bright in his talk as well as being a fool. And 
Gregory had not, he owned, gone into it really. For as soon 
as the thing met his ear, he had been bewitched, and he had 
no desire save to get it into his own private keeping for a day, 
an hour. Then, he had believed, he could look into it, or 
hand it over to a man who would understand it, from within. 
But he had known underneath that he couldn't hand it over 
to anybody. All he really wanted was to get rid of Tim, 
inventor or no, unplumbed, hug his treasure to his breast, 
and embark on the wave of glorious living. He was a crim- 
inal, Gregory owned, but he offered it with a smile because, 
pan-pipes at his ear, he knew he should hear what Winter- 
bourne had to say in turn. What it was made no difference 
in his sum of happiness. The human tongue now might ap- 
prove or revile him ; at least he should have the ecstasy of 
that communion. 
But Winterbourne was looking at him in almost a melt- 
ing interest. He had, the confession told him, made a man. 
He had topped a creature with a sense the law of life had 
taken away. 
" Don't worry yourself, my friend," said he. " I can make 
you a million just like this. You shall never be without it. 
I'll give you the drawing this day." 
"You invented it yourself?" Gregory said, looking at 
him in an adoring gratitude ludicrous from those eyes. 
"Yes, I invented it." 
" It's never been patented? " 
 
" No. I 've been too lazy, man. I 've been too lazy. I never 
thought — " He paused and ran back over his forgetfulness 
of it. 
"What?" 
Gregory so loved to hear the human voice that he could 
have begged it to go on indefinitely. Winterbourne answered 
slowly, — 
" I never thought what I was keeping them out of, the 
people that couldn't hear. God forgive me ! I 've let them 
perish in their silence." 
To do something for them had brought him nearer them. 
For an instant he thought with passion, not of his old with- 
drawals, but the approach to men if he could go, pan-pipes 
in hand, and open their ears for them. " I haven't remem- 
bered it for years," he said, " except when somebody 's ap- 
pealed to me. But God forgive me ! I thought of it this 
forenoon because I wanted to get some money out of it." 
" You can get some money out of it," Gregory assured 
him briefly. 
" Not too much," Winterbourne held him back. " Not 
too much. Let 'em pick it off every tree." Then he be- 
thought him that it would be dinner-time presently and Bess 
would have to feed them, if they sat there. " I'll tell you 
what we'll do," said he. "I can't ask you to my table be- 
cause we're short of help. But there's a little tavern a mile 
along the road, and there we'll eat. And I'll take a roll of 
paper and a pencil in my pocket and I'll put the inside of 
pan-pipes before you, and you'll see it's no such hard mat- 
ter to make a man hear." 
Bess saw them walking away together down the street. 
Gregory, the trumpet at his ear, was looking up and listen- 
ing with devoted interest, and Winterbourne, from the wag- 
ging of his head, was rolling out a monologue. 
 
XXX 
CELIA was locked in her room. Bess did not know 
whether she had eaten any dinner at all, but after she 
had knocked two or three times at intervals and been 
told to go away, she had to see that her patients were fed, 
and went about that in a preoccupied haste, her mind heavily 
upon Celia. Mrs. Ramsay she found in a state of majestic 
insubordination. She had her clothes on, and she stated that 
she must see Mr. Winterbourne at once. She had thought 
of the word she wanted to say to him all these weeks, and 
she could pronounce it perfectly. She wanted to see him and 
also she wished to see her son. 
"Tony?" Bess inquired, knowing how assuaging Tony 
had been in the maternal arms of late. 
But it was not Tony. It was Tim. Mrs. Ramsay said this 
with a compression of the lips befitting the Spartan mother. 
Tim, most evidently, was to be dealt with. Catherine 
also had been to Celia's door, and once, on a return from 
this fruitless pilgrimage with a face of woe, she met Bess. 
She whispered . portentously, in her way of regarding Celia 
as a creature pathologically undone, and Bess had a sudden 
sense of outrage that Catherine should know her darling had 
been so put to shame. 
" Bess," Catherine whispered, " you must deal with her. 
I haven't the strength." 
In the middle of the afternoon Celia set her door ajar, and 
Bess, watching for it, knocked timidly. Celia bade her come 
in, composedly enough, and Bess entered and locked the 
door behind her. Celia, dressed very carefully in an out-door 
 
gown, sat by the window, doing nothing. Her room had al- 
most an austere aspect of tidiness. She seemed to have been 
putting away the trifles that ordinarily had place on her bu- 
reau and her table. Bess dared not look her in the face. Celia 
had done even childishly wrong, and they both felt the shame 
of it. But she started at her sister's voice. It was hard in a 
way that indicated anticipation of a serious, not a trifling 
moment. 
" Why do you do that ? " Celia was asking her. 
"What?" 
" Lock the door." 
" I didn't want her to come in," Bess answered simply. 
Then she went forward and, without premeditation, sank 
on the floor, laid her arms upon her sister's knees, and put 
her head down on them. Expressed emotion was the rarest 
thing with her. She could look it in a still, warm way, but 
its outspoken language she seemed never to have learned. 
To Celia, gazing down at her, the brown head with its beauti- 
ful hair, the abandon of the strong shoulders, it seemed as 
if she had never loved her sister so terribly, with such an 
ache, such a sense of isolation with her, as if they two were 
clinging together in a world unfriendly to them. But she 
said, in the same hard voice, — 
" What are you doing that for ? Get up and sit in a 
chair." 
Bess did get up, her hands fruitlessly to her face, to cover 
it from tears. She was crying in a silent way, and Celia looked 
at her quietly and loved her and wanted to hurt her because 
she cried. 
" We must go away, dear," Bess said, as soon as she could 
speak. " I 've been thinking about it all the afternoon." 
" Where ? " Celia asked it coldly, without real interest. 
" I don't know yet. I 've been thinking. We could do 
 
one thing anyway." She looked at Celia now timidly, knoiwr- 
ing how she would take it. " We could go back to the 
tavern." 
" Where you worked? " 
" Yes." She took a little sip of courage at being even 
hearkened to. " I could do the cooking. They 'd take me on 
again. They'd be glad — and you could board." Celia was 
looking at her with an unmoved face, and Bess plucked up 
heart to continue. " Mrs. Ramsay won't stay long. She 's 
fretting about her children. I 've seen it. Maybe she 'd be 
better at home. She could do a little here and there and not 
think so much about herself." 
" You want to get back," said Celia bitterly. 
"I ?" 
" Yes. You 're homesick for the tavern, the boarders, your 
work." 
The last word was hard to utter. It projected an infini- 
tude of servile tasks, and Bess, even, was abhorrent to her 
for the moment because she could endure them. Bess sat 
now regardless of covering her tear-stained face, hands clasped 
about her knees, looking sadly past her sister. 
" No," she said, " no. I 'd done with the place pretty 
soon after you took me away from it. I don't want to go 
back to it. But it 's the only place there is." 
A momentary curiosity qualified Celia's look. 
" What do you like ? " she asked. " Where do you want 
to stay ? " 
A soft radiance beamed from Bess. It made her face into 
a glowing wonder. 
" Here," she said softly, as if to her inner mind. " Oh, 
there 's no place like here." 
"This house?" 
"This house, this town." 
 
