bright imaginings. It was like snow, she thought, like a pale lovely
princess, like the sweet-smelling field flower that twisted round a
stalk in a beautiful swirl. It seemed quite appropriate to her that
Jerry should cut the flowers and carry them to Ruth Bellair. He would
know, and the poetess also, what wonderful thing to say about anything
so lovely, all in measured lines rhyming to perfection. She sighed once
or twice when her head was on the pillow. It seemed amazing to her to be
gifted as Jerry and his poetess were, and very stupid to be as dull as
she.
Jerry, that night, hardly slept at all. He sat by his hearth, fiddle in
hand, sometimes caressingly under his chin, sometimes lying across his
knees; but he was not playing. He had opened both windows, so that,
although the spring air was cool, he could get the feeling of the night
and hurry the beating of his excited heart. Jerry was in no habit of
remembering how old he was, and to-night age seemed infinitely removed.
He was thinking of poetry and of Ruth Bellair. She had always been what
he called his guiding star. Once he wrote a set of verses by that title,
and put under it, with a hand trembling at its own audacity, "To R. B."
That had never been published, but he had read it to Marietta, and she
had said it was beautiful. Ruth Bellair had always seemed very far above
him, for although he wrote poetry the county paper accepted in
prodigious quantities, she did verse of a sort that appeared in loftier
journals. She had written "The Hole in the Baby's Shoe," which mothers
had cut out and pinned on the window curtain, and children had spoken on
Last Day, to the accompaniment of tears from assembled parents. Then
there was her sonnet, "Shall I Meet Thee There?" which Jerry had always
supposed to have been inspired by a departed lover, and many, many
others that touched the heart and were easy to remember, they ran so
steadily, with such a constant beat. Jerry knew exactly how she would
look. She would have golden hair and blue eyes, and what she had called
in one of her poems the "tender gift of tears." He had always, in fancy,
seen her dressed in blue, because that was his favorite color, though he
reflected that he might as easily find her clad in white.
It was only toward morning that he slept, his fiddle on the table now,
but very near, as if they had shared a solemn vigil and it still knew
how he might feel in dreams.
It was about ten o'clock when he stopped at Marietta's gate with the
light wagon and sober white horse he had borrowed from Lote Purington,
"down the road." Marietta was ready at the door, a long white box in her
hand.
"I been watching for you," she said. "I went up attic, where I could see
you turn the corner. Then I snipped 'em off, and here they are."
Jerry took the box with a grave decorum, as if it represented something
precious to him, and disposed it in the back of the wagon under the
light robe.
"I'm obliged to you, Marietta," he said. "This'll mean a good deal to
me." He stepped into the wagon again and took up the reins. Then the
calm and beneficence of the spring day struck him as it had not before,
in his hurried preparations, and he looked down at Marietta. They had
always had a good deal to say to each other about the weather, and he
knew she would understand. "It's spring, Marietta," he said, with a
simplicity he had never thought it desirable to put into his verse.
"Yes," she answered, as quietly, yet with a thrill in her voice. "I
don't hardly think I ever saw a prettier day."
There was such a mist of green that the earth seemed to be breathing it
out in swirls and billows. It was impossible to say whether there were
more riot and surge in the budding ground, or in the heavens, where
clouds flew swiftly. The birds were singing, all kinds together, in a
tumultuous harmony. Jerry felt light-headed with the wonder of it; but
Marietta had an ache at her heart, she did not know why, though she was
used to that kind of thing when the outside world struck her as being
full of tremulous appeals without any answers.
Though Jerry had the reins in his hands, he did not go. Instead, he
continued looking at her standing there in her freshness of good health
and the candor of her gaze that seemed to him, next to his mother's
face, the kindest thing he had ever known. The blue of her eyes and the
blue of her dress matched each other in a lovely way. He felt that he
had something to say to her, but he could not remember what it was.
Suddenly a robin on the fence burst into adjurations of a robust sort,
and Marietta, without meaning to, spoke. She had always said since her
childhood that a robin bewitched her--he was so happy and so pert.
"Jerry," said she, "what if I should get my hat and ride with you as far
as Ferny Woods?"
"So do," said Jerry, with a perfect cordiality. "So do."
"It's a pretty day," Marietta asserted again; but he cut her short,
advising her to get ready, and she ran in, a flush on her cheeks and
lightness in her step. When she came out she had made no conventional
preparations for a drive. She had only pinned on her broad black hat and
taken off her apron. She carried a little oblong basket with a cover,
and this she set carefully in the back of the wagon, with the lilies.
Jerry alighted gallantly to help her in, and when he had started up the
horse it was Marietta who began speaking. Usually she was rather silent,
following Jerry's lead, but to-day the warmth and beauty and song had
liberated something in her spirit, and she had to talk back to the
talking earth.
"You know Ferny Woods are much as a mile this side of the Moodys'," she
was saying. "You can just leave me there, and then you can go along and
make your call."
"It seems pretty mean not to take you with me," Jerry offered haltingly.
Yet he knew, as she did, that he had no desire to take her. This was his
own sacred pilgrimage.
"Oh, I wouldn't go for anything," she answered eagerly. "You've looked
forward to it so long--well, not exactly that, for you didn't know she
was coming. But it means a good deal to you. And I don't care a mite. I
truly don't, not a mite."
Jerry flicked at the horse's ears and spoke out of his maze of dreamy
anticipation.
"Seems if I should know her the minute I put eyes on her."
"Well, I guess you will," she encouraged him. "Maybe she's the only
boarder they've got, so far."
"No, no, I don't mean that. Seems if I knew exactly how she ought to
look."
"How d' you think, Jerry?" she inquired confidentially, as if his
fancies were valuable and delightful to her. That was the tone she
always had for him. Jerry would have said, if he had needed to think
anything about it, that Marietta was the easiest person to talk to in
the whole world. But he never did think about it. She was a part of his
interchange with life, as real and as inevitable as his own hungers and
satisfactions.
"Well," he said, while the horse slackened into a walk, with the grade
of Blossom Hill, "I guess she's light-complexioned. Don't you?"
"Maybe," nodded Marietta kindly. "You can't tell."
"I guess she don't weigh very heavy," said Jerry, in a shamefaced
bluntness, as if he wronged the absent goddess through such crudities.
"You can't seem to see anybody that's had the thoughts she has and the
way she's got of putting 'em--you can't see 'em very big-framed or
heavy, can you? I can't, anyways."
"No," said Marietta, looking down at her own plump hands folded on her
knee--"no, I don't know 's you can. Only see, Jerry! I always thought
this little rise was about the prettiest view there is betwixt us and
the Rocky Mountains."
They were on the top of Blossom Hill again, and Jerry drew the horse to
a halt before winding down. All the kingdoms of the earth seemed, in
Marietta's eyes, to be spread out before them. There was the rolling
land of farms and villages, and beyond it the line of haze that meant,
they knew, the sea. Tears filled her eyes. Then her gaze came home to an
apple-tree by the side of the road.
"You see that tree, Jerry?" she asked. "Well, I've always called that
Mother's Tree. Once, the last o' May, we borrowed Lote's team and
climbed up here, and here was that tree in full bloom. Mother had a kind
of a pretty way of putting things, and she said 'twas like a bride.
'Some trees are all over pink,' she says, 'but this is white as the
drifted snow.' And the winter mother died, I rode up over this hill
again, to get her some things to be buried in, and I stopped and looked
at that tree. It snowed the night before, and 'twas all over white, and
sparkling in the sun. I spoke right out loud. 'Mother's Tree,' I says."
"Sho!" said Jerry. "You never mentioned that before. Anybody could
almost write something out o' that."
"Could you?" asked Marietta, brightening. "I wish you would. I should
admire to have you."
Jerry's excitement of the night before had waned a little. Suddenly he
felt tired and chill, and, although the purpose of his journey had not
been accomplished, as if the zest of things had gone.
"Marietta," said he, starting on the horse, "do you think much about
growing old?"
"I guess I don't," said Marietta brightly, and at once. "That's a
terrible foolish thing to do. Least, so it seems to me."
"But you don't feel as you did fifteen years ago, do you, Marietta?" He
asked it wistfully.
She was ready with her prompt assurance.
"I don't know 's I do. Don't seem as if 'twould be natural if I did.
Take a tree, take that apple-tree back there--I don't know 's you could
say it had the same feelings it did when it sprouted up out o' the
seeds. We're in a kind of a procession, seems if, marching along
towards--well, I don't know what all. But wherever we're going, it's
all right, I say. It's all right."
They were silent then for a time, each scanning the roadsides and the
vista before them framed in drooping branches and enriched by springing
sward.
"You seem to have a good deal of faith, Marietta," said he suddenly.
"But you ain't much of a hand to talk about it."
"Course I got faith," she answered. "It ain't any use for anybody to
tell me there ain't a good time coming. I don't have to conjure up some
kind of a hope. I know."
"How do you know?" asked Jerry.
She gave a sudden irrepressible laugh.
"I guess it's because the sky is so pretty," she said. "Maybe the robins
have got something to do with it. Days like this I feel as if I was
right inside the pearly gates. I truly do."
They were entering the shade of evergreens that bordered the ravine
road, where there were striated cliffs, and little runnels came
trickling down to join the stream below.
"I guess there ain't a spot round here that means more to folks in our
neighborhood than this," said Marietta. "Remember the time somebody
wanted to name it 'Picnic Road'? There were seventeen picnics that
summer, if I recollect, all in our set."
"Yes," said Jerry. He remembered his poem about the "awesome
amphitheatre nature wrought," and wondered if Marietta also recalled it
and would quote some of it. But she only said:--
"That kind of a round where we used to eat our suppers is about the
prettiest spot I ever see. That's where I'm going to set up my tent
whilst you're making your call. When you come back you can poke right on
in there and 'coot,' and I'll answer."
Jerry's mercurial spirits were mounting now. The past few minutes had
given him two beautiful subjects for poetry. He could make some
four-lined verses, he thought, about the tree that was a bride in spring
and the next winter robed for burial. He could hear the cadence of them
now, beating through his head in premonitory measures. Then there was
the other fancy that life was a procession to an unknown goal. Jerry had
read very little, except in the works of Ruth Bellair and her compeers,
and the imaginings he wrought in had a way of seeming new and strange.
The talk went on, drifting back irresistibly by the familiar way they
were taking to the spring of their own lives, not, it seemed, in search
of a lost youth, but as if they had it with them, an invisible third, in
all their memories.
"Here we are," said Jerry. He drew up at the bars that led into old
Blaisdell's sugar-camp, and Marietta, not waiting for him, sprang out
over the wheel. "You're as light as a feather," said he admiringly, but
with no sense of wonder. They were still in that childhood land where
everybody is agile for one long, bright day.
"Light as a bun," returned Marietta flippantly. "Here, you wait a minute
till I get me out my basket. When you come back you be sure to coot."
Jerry drove on a step or two, and then drew in the horse. Just as she
had set her basket over the bars and was prepared to follow, he called
to her:--
"Marietta, I believe I'll leave the team."
Marietta understood. She came back readily.
"Well," she said, "I think 'twould look better, myself."
"I can hitch to the bars, same as we used to," Jerry continued.
"Remember how Underhill's old Buckskin used to crib the fence? Here's
the very piece of zinc Blaisdell nailed on that summer we were here so
much."
He had turned and driven back, and while he tied the horse, Marietta
took out the box of lilies.
"I guess you better hold these loose in your hand," she said
tentatively. "Seems to me 'twould look more appropriate."
Jerry nodded. They both had a vision of the poet going on foot to the
lady of his dreams, his lilies in his hand. Marietta lifted the cover of
the box and unrolled them deftly. She looked about her for an instant,
and then, finding feasible standing-ground, went to one of the runnels
dripping down the cliff and paused there, holding the lily stems in the
cool laving of the fall. Jerry, the horse tied, stood watching her and
waiting. The bright blue of her dress shone softly against the wet brown
and black of the cliff wall, and the pink of her cheeks glowed above it
like a rosy light. Marietta had thought her dress far too gay when she
bought it, but the dusk of the ravine road had toned it down to a tint
the picture needed for full harmony. Jerry, though the familiar spot and
her presence in it soothed and pleased him, was running ahead with his
eager mind to the farm where Ruth Bellair stood waiting at the gate. Of
course she was not really waiting for him, because she did not know he
was coming, nor even that he lived at all. When he had mailed her the
package of autumn leaves Marietta had pressed, he had not sent his name
with them. Yet it seemed to him appropriate that she should be standing,
a girlish figure, by the Moodys' gate, to let him in. After that they
would walk up the path together, she carrying the lilies; and perhaps in
the orchard, where the trees were in bloom, they would pace back and
forth together and talk and talk. Jerry knew it was too early for
apple-trees to be blossoming, even in this weather, but the orchard
where Ruth Bellair walked would be white and pink. So he took his lilies
in his hand and strode away, and Marietta watched him. At the turn of
the road he stopped and waved his hand to her.
"Good-by!" called Marietta. "Good luck! Good-by!" Then a little sob
choked her, and she stamped her foot. "What a fool!" said Marietta,
addressing herself, and she walked to the bars with great determination,
let down one, "scooched" to go through, and, picking up her basket, went
on to the amphitheatre. Jerry need not have wondered whether she
remembered his ornate poem. She did, every word of it, and as she walked
she said it to herself in a murmuring tone. When she was within the
beloved inclosure she paused a moment before setting down her basket,
and looked about her. The place was not so grand as her childish eyes
had found it, only a great semicircle of ground brown with pine needles
and surrounded by ancient trees; but it was beautiful enough. Strangely,
she had not visited it for years. Her own mates no longer came, because
they were doing quiet things at home, farming and household tasks, and
Marietta would have had no mind, if she had been invited, to make one of
a serious middle-aged rout taking its annual pleasure with a difference.
"I'd rather by half be alone," she said aloud, as she looked about her,
"or maybe with one other that feels as I do."
Then she put down her basket and went, by a path she knew, to the spring
cleaned of fallen leaves by the first picnickers of every season. There
it was, the little kind pool with its bottom of sand and its fringing
grasses, the cress she had planted once with her own hands and now
beginning to show brightly green. Marietta knelt and drank from her
hollowed palm. The cup was in the basket. When Jerry came back he should
have it to slake his thirst; and presently she returned to the
amphitheatre and lay down on the pine-needles, to look up through the
boughs at glints of sky, and think and think. Perhaps it was not
thought, after all. It followed no road, but stayed an instant on a pine
bough, as a bird alights and then flies out through the upper branches
to the sky itself.
Marietta could not help feeling happy, in a still, unreasoning way. She
had not had an easy youth. It had been full of poverty and fears, and
her later life had been lived on one monotonous level of satisfying her
own bare wants and finding nothing left for luxury. But something, some
singing inner voice, was always, in these later days, bidding her take
hope. She was not expectant of definite delights; she only cherished an
irresponsible certainty. When the door opened to let in spring, it
seemed to show her heaven also, and she gave herself up to the gladness
of it. If Marietta had been able to scrutinize her inner being, she
would probably have owned that she found Jerry Freelands' influence upon
her a great and guiding one. It was, she knew, a precious privilege to
know a poet, and to see the natural and spiritual worlds through his
discerning eyes. It would have seemed to her wonderful to be a poet
herself. Ruth Bellair, waiting in unconscious sovereignty for Jerry to
seek her out and lay lilies at her feet, was, she knew, the happiest
woman in the spring world. Yet the soft air moved the pines to wavelike
murmurings, and Marietta too was happy.
It was nearly three o'clock when Jerry came back, and before that
Marietta had roused herself to open her basket and spread a napkin on
the big flat stone that made the picnic-table. She had laid a pile of
fine white bread and butter on the cloth, a paper twist of pickles,
because picnickers, according to tradition, are the better for
consuming pickles, and some of her own superior sugar gingerbread. The
cup was there waiting for Jerry to take it to the spring. Then she
listened for him. He did not give the expected coot, but came through
the forest glade silently and with a halting step. When Marietta saw him
her heart ran forward, before her feet. Jerry looked an older man; his
years were so apparent to her that it seemed for a foolish instant as if
his father were advancing toward her out of the past where she and Jerry
had been young together. She hurried forward.
"What is it?" she besought. "What's happened?"
His dull eyes turned upon her absently. He took off his hat and dropped
it at his feet.
"Why," said he, "nothing's happened that I know of."
The part of prudence was to halt, but anxiety hurried her on as if it
might have been to the rescue of a child in pain.
"Didn't you see her?" she asked breathlessly.
"Yes, I saw her."
He passed a hand over his forehead and smoothed his hair in a way he
had, ending the gesture at the back of his neck.
"How'd she look, Jerry? What was she doing?"
"Why," said Jerry, narrowing his eyes, as if he recalled a picture he
had found incredible, "she was playing croquet out in the front yard."
"But how'd she look?"
"Why, she's a kind of a dark-complexioned woman. She wears spe'tacles.
She's"--he paused there an instant and caught his breath--"she's pretty
fleshy."
"Was she nice to you?"
"Yes, she was nice. She meant to be real nice and kind. She made me"--a
spasm twitched his face, and he concluded--"she made me play croquet."
They stood there in the wood loneliness, dapples of sunlight flickering
on them through the leaves. Marietta felt a strange wave of something
rushing over her. It might have been mirth, or indignation that somebody
had destroyed her old friend's paradise; but it threatened to sweep her
from her basis of control.
"You sit down, Jerry," she said soberly. "I'm going to the spring to get
you a cup of water, and then we'll have our luncheon."
When she returned, bearing the full cup delicately, he lay like a
disconsolate boy, face down upon the ground; so she touched him on the
shoulder and said, in a tone of the brisk housewife:--
"Luncheon's ready."
Then Jerry sat up, and ate when she put food into his hand and drank
from the cup she gave him. Marietta ate only a crumb here and there from
her one bit of bread, for, seeing how hungry he was, she suspected that,
in his poet's rapture, he had had no breakfast. She tried to rouse him
to the things he loved.
"Only look through there," she said, pointing to a vista where a group
of birches were shimmering in green. "I don't know 's I ever see a
fountain such as they tell about, but this time in the year, before the
leaves have fairly come, seems if the green was like a fountain
springing up and never falling back. Maybe, though, it's the word I
like, the sound of it. I don't know."
Jerry turned his eyes on her in a quick, keen glance.
"Marietta," he said, "you have real pretty thoughts."
"Do I?" asked Marietta, laughing, without consciousness. She was only
glad to have beguiled him from the trouble of his mind. "Well, if I do,
I guess you put 'em into my head in the first place." The feast was
over, and she folded the napkin and swept away the crumbs. "Want some
more water?" she asked, pausing as she repacked the basket.
Jerry shook his head.
"Marietta," said he, "seems if it wa'n't a day since you and I used to
be here picnicking."
She laughed again whimsically.
"Well," she said, "when I travel back over the seams I've sewed, looks
like a good long day. I guess there's miles enough of 'em to stretch
from here to State o' Maine."
Jerry seemed to be speaking from a dream.
"And the others have married and got children growing up," he mused.
"Seems if we'd missed the best of it."
They had risen and stood facing each other, Marietta with the basket in
her hand. Jerry took it gently from her and set it on the ground.
"Marietta," he said, "I guess I'm kind of waked up."
Her face quivered. He thought he had never seen her look exactly that
way before.
"I'd work terrible hard," said he. "I guess I could make you have an
easier time."
Then his appealing eyes met hers, and Marietta, because she had no wish
to deny him anything, gave him her hands, and they kissed soberly.
When they walked back to the road, Jerry drew her aside to the birches
on the sunny knoll.
"You mustn't lay it up against me," he said brokenly.
"Lay what up?"
Her lips were full and lovely, and her eyes shone with the one look of
happiness.
"It's spring with these." He pointed to the birches. "It ain't with us."
"I don't know." Marietta laughed willfully. "Ain't you ever seen an
apple-tree blooming in the fall? or a late rose? Well, I have. So,
there!"
To Jerry, looking at her, she seemed like a beautiful stranger, met in
the way, and he kissed her again.
When they were driving home in their sober intimacy that had yet an
undercurrent of that rushing river of life, Marietta turned suddenly to
him.
"Jerry," she said, "when you played croquet, who beat?"
His eyes, meeting hers, took the merry challenge of them and answered
it. They both began to laugh, ecstatically, like children.
"She did," said he.
THE MASTER MINDS OF HISTORY
"What's that dry-goods case in the front entry?" asked Elihu Meade.
He had sunk into his particular chair by the kitchen stove, and was
drawing off his boots with the luxurious slowness of one whose day's
work is done and who may sit by expectant while fragrant warm delights
are simmering for supper. His wife, Amarita by name, stood at the stove,
piloting apple turnovers in a pool of fat. At a first glance she and her
husband seemed an ill-matched pair, he with a thin face and precise
patch of whisker at the ear, a noticeable and general meagreness of
build, and she dark and small, with a face flashing vivid intelligence.
Elihu's mother--a large, loosely made, blond old lady--sat by the
window, out of range of the lamplight even, knitting by feeling, and
doubling her pleasures through keeping her glance out of the window,
where a new moon hung.
While she felt the warmth of indoor comfort wafting about her, Amarita
cast up a hesitating yet altogether happy look at her husband. She knew
from old habit that she must choose her time of approach, but the warmth
and the plenitude of supper and her own inner enchantment with what she
had to tell convinced her against reason that the time was now.
"Why," she began, "you see 'twas this way."
Mrs. Meade the elder, known as "old Mis' Meade," gave a majestic
clearing of her throat. She brought her gaze indoors and bent a frowning
glance on the two at the stove. A shade of vexation passed over her
face, grotesquely elongating the downward-dropping lines.
"Rita," she called, in what seemed warning, "you come here a minute.
Ain't I dropped a stitch?"
Rita responded at once, bending over the stocking ostentatiously
displayed.
"You let me take it to the light," she began; but old Mis' Meade laid
thumb and finger on her apron, and having caught her daughter-in-law's
eye, made mysterious grimaces at her. Amarita, the knitting in her hand,
stared frankly back, and the old lady, forced to be explicit, bade her
in a mumbling tone:--
"Wait till he's through his supper. It's no time now. There!" she
continued, with a calculated clearness, "you give it back. I guess I
didn't drop it, after all. Your fat's burnin'. Ketch it off, Elihu,
won't ye?"
The imperiled fat made a diversion, and then supper was on the table,
and old Mis' Meade moved away from the window and brought her great bulk
over to partake of turnovers. There was a long silence while tea was
passed and the turnovers were pronounced upon by the acquisition that is
more eloquent than words. But after Elihu had finished his fifth and
last, he pushed his cup away with solemn satisfaction and asked his wife
across the table:--
"What's that packin'-case out in the front entry?"
Old Mis' Meade gave a smothered ejaculation of discouragement, but
Amarita looked up with the brightest eyes.
She was having a moment of perfect domestic peace, when all she did
seemed to bear fruitage in the satisfaction of hunger and kindred needs,
and it innocently seemed to her as if her compensating pleasure was
about to come. She gazed straight at her husband, her eyes darkening
with the pleasure in them.
"Why," said she, "that's the 'Master Minds of History.'"
Elihu bent a frowning brow upon her.
"The 'Master Minds of History,'" she repeated. "The agent was here this
afternoon--"
"You don't think the mice'll git at them pies up in the blue chist, do
ye?" inquired old Mis' Meade, fatuous in a desperate seeking to direct
the talk.
Amarita gave her a passing glance of wonder.
"Why, no," she said. "They couldn't get in to save their little souls.
You see"--she turned again to Elihu--"the agent was here this
afternoon--"
Old Mis' Meade almost groaned, and went away to her bedroom, as if she
could not endure the hearing of the coming contest or to see the slain.
"What agent?" asked Elihu.
He had gone back to his seat by the fire, and Amarita, answering, stood
with her hand upon the devastated table.
"Why, the book agent. He come in a buggy, and he had this set with him."
"Set o' what?"
"Why, set o' books. He's takin' orders for 'em, and this was a set he
brought along under the seat, thinkin' somebody, the minister or
somebody that knew what's what, would buy it right out. There's twelve
volumes, and they're a dollar and eighty-seven a volume, and there's
illustrations, and it's all printed in the clearest type."
She paused, flushed and expectant, and Elihu stared at her.
"A dollar and eighty-seven cents!" he repeated. "You ain't gone and put
your name down for twelve books, a dollar and eighty-seven cents
apiece?"
"Why, no," said Amarita. "Course I ain't. I didn't have the money, and
so I told him. I would, in a minute, if I'd had it."
"Well, what's the packin'-case here for?" inquired Elihu slowly, while
his mind labored.
"Why, he was possessed to leave it. 'You look over the volumes,' he
says, 'and read 'em all you want to, and if you don't feel to subscribe
then, it sha'n't cost you a cent.' And he's comin' along here pretty
soon, and he's goin' to call, and if we don't conclude to keep 'em,
he'll take 'em right back."
"My king!" said Elihu. He looked at her in complete discouragement, and
Amarita returned his gaze with one bespeaking a conviction of her own
innocence. "Don't ye know no better'n that? Take 'em away! All the
takin' away he'll do'll be in a hog's eye. He'll say you bought 'em, and
ain't paid for 'em, and 'long about the first o' the month he'll send in
a bill for twelve books at a dollar and eighty-seven cents apiece."
Amarita made a picture of childlike misery. Her eyes had the piteous
look of coming tears, and she swallowed once or twice before speech was
possible.
"O Elihu," she breathed, "you don't really s'pose that, do you?"
"Course he will," said Elihu. "That's the way they do--come drivin'
along a time o' day when there's no menfolks to home, and take in the
womenfolks. They know women ain't got no business trainin'. How do they
know it? Because they've tried it over 'n' over, and every time they've
come out ahead."
The tears were dropping now, and Amarita walked hastily away to conceal
them, and got down her dish-pan, although the table was not yet cleared.
By the time she had turned from the sink again, a shadow of her
hopefulness came wanly back.
"I don't believe he's that kind of a fellow," she faltered. "He talked
real fair. I thought I should admire to look 'em over. I thought maybe
we could read some out loud in the evenin', while your mother knit."
"'Talk fair!' Course he talked fair," said Elihu. "That's a part on 't.
I'll bet a dollar if you's in a court o' law you couldn't remember what
he said."
"I could the sense of it."
"That's it! Why, don't ye know, when anything's business, it's got to be
jest so and no other way? 'Tain't surprisin' you shouldn't. Womenfolks
ain't called on to do brain work, any to speak of--well, keep school
they may, and a matter o' that--but when it comes to business--d'ye have
any witnesses?"
"No," said Amarita, in a small voice.
"Well, you've done about as bad for yourself as ye could, fur 's I can
see. Now, you hearken to me. You leave that packin'-case where he set
it, and don't you move it so much as a hair to the right or the left,
and don't you lift the cover. And if that feller ever darkens these
doors, you come and call me."
Then Elihu rose and took a candle and went off to his desk in the
sitting-room, and Amarita cleared the table with swift, sweeping
motions, as if she longed to hurl the dishes from her. Old Mis' Meade
came heavily back from her bedroom.
"Well," said she, in the scorn sprung from experience, "I never seen
sich actions. Terrible time, an' nobody to it! What made ye tell him?"
Amarita returned no answer. She was washing dishes now, with no noise,
setting down each article softly, yet with the same air of longing to
destroy.
"Witnesses!" old Mis' Meade grumbled, settling to her work by the
window. "If Elihu's the size he used to be, I'd show him how much
womenfolks knew about business. If you want one o' them books to read
to-night, you step into the front entry an' pick ye out one. I'll stand
by ye."
Still Amarita made no answer. She was not thinking of the books. Swift
as wood-creatures coursing on the track of prey, her mind was racing
over the field of her life with Elihu and pinning down the mistakes he
had made. She had never seemed to see them, but not one of them had
escaped her. There was the day when a traveling salesman had sold him
the onion seed that never came up, and the other one when he had bought
Old White of the peddler, and seen him go lame after a two-mile drive,
and when he dated a note on Sunday and the school-teacher had laughed.
At first Amarita had not merely ignored his errors. She had, indeed,
shut her eyes upon them and turned quickly away; but as it became
apparent that Elihu was keeping a record of her impulsive, random deeds
and drawing data from them, so she began to see the list of his, and
turned to it now and then, when he found her foolish, to read it over in
a passionate self-comparison.
When the dishes were done she sat down to her sewing, outwardly calm,
but conscious of that hot flush in her cheeks and of her quickly beating
heart. Old Mis' Meade muttered a little as she knit, and cast her son a
hostile glance from time to time. But Elihu was happily impervious to
criticism. He spread a sheet of paper on the table, and sat down to it
with the air of a schoolboy who is about to square his elbows and
perhaps put out a rhythmic tongue.
"Where's my two-foot rule?" he inquired of Amarita.
"In your t'other trousers," she answered, sewing swiftly, without
looking up.
Elihu glanced at her in a mild surprise, and his mother chuckled. She
was devoted to her son, and more or less overshadowed by his prerogative
as "menfolks" born to absorb the cream of things; but the elderly good
sense in her was alive to the certainty that if Amarita had not been so
yielding, Elihu would never have been so bumptious.
After he had risen and gone off rather helplessly to seek his t'other
trousers, Amarita did glance after him with a tentative movement from
her chair. It almost seemed as if she repented and meant to go on the
quest herself. Old Mis' Meade, translating this, held her breath and
waited; but Amarita only sighed and took a needleful of thread. Then
Elihu returned with the rule and a stubby pencil, and all the evening
long he drew lines and held the paper at arm's length and frowned at
what he saw. Old Mis' Meade was in the habit of going to bed before the
others, and to-night she paused, candle in hand, to interrogate him.
"Elihu!"
"What say?" her son returned. He was again regarding the rectangular
patterns on his page, in some dissatisfaction and yet with pleasure,
too. It was the look of one who makes.
"What under the sun you doin' of?" asked the old lady. "What you rulin'
off? Makes me as nervous as a witch."
Elihu laid down his paper from that removed survey and leaned back in
his chair. It seemed to add some richness to his task to have it
noticed.
"Well," said he, "there's goin' to be a town meetin' next Wednesday, to
take a vote on that money Judge Green left for the Old Folks' Home."
"Yes, yes," said his mother. "I know that. Come, hurry up. This candle's
in a draught."
"Well," said Elihu, "we've talked it over, more or less, most on us, and
we've come to the conclusion it's only a bill o' cost to go hirin' city
architects to plan out the job. All we want's a good square house, and I
thought I'd draw out a plan o' one and submit it to the meetin'."
"O Elihu!" said Amarita, in a tone of generous awe. "You think you
could?"
"Think?" said Elihu. "No, I don't think. I know it. Mebbe I couldn't
draw out a house with cubelows and piazzas and jogs and the like o'
that, but that ain't what we've got in mind. It's a good old-fashioned
house, and I s'pose any man of us could do it, only nobody's got the
nerve to try. So I took it into my head to be the one."
"Well," said his mother skeptically, "mebbe you can an' mebbe you can't.
Good-night, all."
But Amarita leaned forward across the table, her eager eyes upon the
paper. She had forgotten her resentment. It was happiness to her to see
Elihu doing what he liked and succeeding in it.
"O Elihu," said she, "show it to me, won't you? Tell me what the rooms
are."
But he was rolling up his work.
"No," he said; "wait till I get a little further along. Then I will. I'm
going to the street and buy me a sheet or two o' cardboard to-morrer."
But they talked cozily about it for a half-hour, and when Elihu rose to
wind the clock they were both convinced that he was a great man indeed.
All that week Elihu worked over his plan, and when he had at last set it
accurately down on the cover of a bandbox, as a preliminary to drafting
it out fair and large, he showed it to his wife. They had put their
heads together over it at the table, when Elihu caught sight of Simeon
Eldridge bringing him a cord of pine limbs.
"You wait a minute," he adjured Amarita. "I got to help him unload. I'll
show it to you when I come in."
But Amarita pored over it by herself, and old Mis' Meade, at the window,
knit and watched for the passing. It was a bright day, and it seemed
reasonable that at least two wagons might go by.
"Don't you want I should bring it over there," said Amarita, at length,
"and let you look at it?"
"Law, no!" old Mis' Meade responded, with the ruthlessness of one whose
mind is not on futures. "I guess I can wait till they've begun to hew
out their underpinnin'."
"Ain't it remarkable he can do a thing like that?"
"He ain't done it yet," said the old lady sagely. "I'll b'lieve it when
I'm called to the raisin'."
Amarita flushed.
"I don't see what does make you cry him down so," she declared, with a
rare resentment. "Seems if you didn't want to allow he can do the least
thing out o' the common."
"Well," said the old lady, "I dunno 's he can. There, Amarita!" She
threw caution from her as far as it would fly. "I guess I set by Elihu
enough, an' more too, but it does go ag'inst the grain to see you makin'
out he's the greatest man that ever stepped. 'Twon't be long before ye
can't live with him. Can't either of us!"
Amarita was silent, staring straight at the old lady, who glanced up
presently and blinked at her.
"You goin' to let them books set there in the front entry?" she
inquired, as if her point of attack had shifted.
"Why, yes, I s'pose so," faltered Amarita.
"Don't ye want to peek into 'em an' see what they be?"
"Why, yes; but I don't want to do anything to get Elihu into trouble
about 'em. I s'pose I was kinder foolish to believe what the man said."
"Foolish!" retorted the old lady, with vigor. "Course you was foolish.
Everybody's foolish one time out o' three. That's about the only thing
there's no patent on."
"Well, I s'pose folks do get into trouble doin' things wrong-end-to,"
said Amarita.
She felt as if she were defending Elihu in his censorship.
"Why, yes! Nobody says they don't. Let 'em git in an' let 'em git out
ag'in. It ain't doin' foolish things or not doin' 'em I complain of.
It's Elihu's settin' himself up to be the only human creatur' that
never stepped inside of a glass house. Law! if he did but know it, he's
got a ninety-nine-year lease o' one, an' if he could git it into his
head how plain I can glimpse him through the walls, a surpriseder man
you never'd see. Elihu's as good a boy as ever stepped; but if he could
be took down a peg--an' I shouldn't care if 'twas before the whole
township, too--he'd be worth more by half than he is to-day. Law! you'd
ought to seen him a hundred years ago or more, arter I gi'n him a good
spankin'. Butter wouldn't melt in his mouth."
"Oh, don't! He's comin'," Amarita begged her.
But he was not coming, and for an hour Amarita dwelt upon the plans. Her
eyes grew bright and her cheeks flushed. Once she pushed her pretty hair
back from her forehead and looked up at the old lady, as if she had
impulsive things to say. But she did not speak, and turning back to the
plans, she went absorbedly over them again. Old Mis' Meade watched her
scornfully, and yet tenderly, too. If ever a woman was a fool over a
man, she reasoned, Amarita was that fool; but in her heart she would not
have had it otherwise.
Now that the plans were virtually finished, Elihu sat over them at an
hour's stretch, testing and measuring in an extreme of accuracy.
Amarita watched him, with that bright anticipation in her face; and old
Mis' Meade, her eyes intermittently upon them, thought the long thoughts
of age, half scornful, half sympathizing, and wondered again how any
woman could be so lost in admiration over a man.
At last it was the day appointed for town meeting, and Elihu was at his
task for the last time, making a fair copy for his townsmen's eyes. It
was about four in the afternoon, and the smell of hot apple-sauce was in
the air. Amarita meant to have supper early, so that she could give her
mind untrammeled to getting her husband into his bosomed shirt and
starting him on his quest. But as she moved back and forth at her tasks
she watched him, and her eyes glittered. Old Mis' Meade noted the
excitement of her air and the double tinge of color in her cheeks.
"What's the matter, Rita?" she asked kindly, when Amarita stood for a
moment by the table between the front windows, frowning with the care
she was giving to sewing a button on a wristband. "Ain't you kinder
feverish?"
Amarita started--almost, it might have been, with some inner
consciousness not to be given away.
"Oh no," said she. "I ain't feverish, mother Meade. Maybe I'm kinder
flurried, Elihu's goin' out and all."
"Goin' to take the womenfolks along with ye, Elihu?" called the old
lady, a satirical note beating into her voice.
Elihu looked up absently from his paper.
"Why," said he, with a leniency slightly tinctured by the impatience
responsive to a foolish question, "it's jest a town meetin', same as any
other. We're goin' to take action on the Old Folks' Home."
"Take action?" repeated old Mis' Meade. "Oh, that's it, is it? Well,
Rita 'n' I'll stay to home an' take action on the 'Master Minds o'
History.' This is as good a night as any. Mebbe there's a few womenfolks
in there--enough for pepper 'n' salt--if they ain't bound for town
meetin'."
Elihu drew the long breath which is the due of happily completed toil.
He began to roll up his plans. Amarita ran to him and looked over his
shoulder.
"You got 'em done?" she asked.
The red in her cheeks had heightened. Her voice came huskily. Old Mis'
Meade glanced at her, a sharp and quick survey. Elihu indulgently
