Moretto?”
Mr. Bender, quietly confident, took his time to reply. “Well, if you had
seen me up on that chair you’d have thought I did.”
“Then you must have stepped down from the chair properly impressed.”
“I stepped down quite impressed with that young man.”
“Mr. Crimble?”--it came after an instant to Lord John. “With his
opinion, really? Then I hope he’s aware of the picture’s value.”
“You had better ask him,” Mr. Bender observed.
“Oh, we don’t depend here on the Mr. Crimbles!” Lord John returned.
Mr. Bender took a longer look at him. “Are you aware of the value
yourself?”
His friend resorted again, as for the amusement of the thing, to their
entertainer. “Am I aware of the value of the Moretto?”
Lord Theign, who had meanwhile lighted another cigarette, appeared,
a bit extravagantly smoking, to wish to put an end to his effect of
hovering aloof.
“That question needn’t trouble us--when I see how much Mr. Bender
himself knows about it.”
“Well, Lord Theign, I only know what that young man puts it at.” And
then as the others waited, “Ten thousand,” said Mr. Bender.
“Ten thousand?” The owner of the work showed no emotion.
“Well,” said Lord John again in Mr. Bender’s style, “what’s the matter
with ten thousand?”
The subject of his gay tribute considered. “There’s nothing the matter
with ten thousand.”
“Then,” Lord Theign asked, “is there anything the matter with the
picture?”
“Yes, sir--I guess there is.”
It gave an upward push to his lordship’s eyebrows. “But what in the
world----?”
“Well, that’s just the question!”
The eyebrows continued to rise. “Does he pretend there’s a question of
whether it is a Moretto?”
“That’s what he was up there trying to find out.”
“But if the value’s, according to himself, ten thousand----?”
“Why, of course,” said Mr. Bender, “it’s a fine work anyway.”
“Then,” Lord Theign brought good-naturedly out, “what’s the matter with
you, Mr. Bender?”
That gentleman was perfectly clear. “The matter with me, Lord Theign, is
that I’ve no use for a ten thousand picture.”
“‘No use?’”--the expression had an oddity. “But what’s it your idea to
do with such things?”
“I mean,” Mr. Bender explained, “that a picture of that rank is not what
I’m after.”
“The figure,” said his noble host--speaking thus, under pressure,
commercially--“is beyond what you see your way to?”
But Lord John had jumped at the truth. “The matter with Mr. Bender is
that he sees his way much further.”
“Further?” their companion echoed.
“The matter with Mr. Bender is that he wants to give millions.”
Lord Theign sounded this abyss with a smile. “Well, there would be no
difficulty about that, I think!”
“Ah,” said his guest, “you know the basis, sir, on which I’m ready to
pay.”
“On the basis then of the Sir Joshua,” Lord John inquired, “how far
would you go?”
Mr. Bender indicated by a gesture that on a question reduced to a moiety
by its conditional form he could give but semi-satisfaction. “Well, I’d
go all the way.”
“He wants, you see,” Lord John elucidated, “an ideally expensive
thing.”
Lord Theign appeared to decide after a moment to enter into the pleasant
spirit of this; which he did by addressing his younger friend. “Then why
shouldn’t I make even the Moretto as expensive as he desires?”
“Because you can’t do violence to that master’s natural modesty,” Mr.
Bender declared before Lord John had time to speak. And conscious at
this moment of the reappearance of his fellow-explorer, he at once
supplied a further light. “I guess this gentleman at any rate can tell
you.”
VIII
Hugh Crimble had come back from his voyage of discovery, and it was
visible as he stood there flushed and quite radiant that he had caught
in his approach Lord Theign’s last inquiry and Mr. Bender’s reply to it.
You would have imputed to him on the spot the lively possession of a new
idea, the sustaining sense of a message important enough to justify his
irruption. He looked from one to the other of the three men, scattered
a little by the sight of him, but attached eyes of recognition then
to Lord Theign’s, whom he remained an instant longer communicatively
smiling at. After which, as you might have gathered, he all confidently
plunged, taking up the talk where the others had left it. “I should say,
Lord Theign, if you’ll allow me, in regard to what you appear to have
been discussing, that it depends a good deal on just that question--of
what your Moretto, at any rate, may be presumed or proved to ‘be.’ Let
me thank you,” he cheerfully went on, “for your kind leave to go over
your treasures.”
The personage he so addressed was, as we know, nothing if not generally
affable; yet if that was just then apparent it was through a shade of
coolness for the slightly heated familiarity of so plain, or at least
so free, a young man in eye-glasses, now for the first time definitely
apprehended. “Oh, I’ve scarcely ‘treasures’--but I’ve some things of
interest.”
Hugh, however, entering the opulent circle, as it were, clearly took
account of no breath of a chill. “I think possible, my lord, that
you’ve a great treasure--if you’ve really so high a rarity as a splendid
Manto-vano.”
“A ‘Mantovano’?” You wouldn’t have been sure that his lordship didn’t
pronounce the word for the first time in his life.
“There have been supposed to be only seven real examples about the
world; so that if by an extraordinary chance you find yourself the
possessor of a magnificent eighth----”
But Lord John had already broken in. “Why, there you are, Mr. Bender!”
“Oh, Mr. Bender, with whom I’ve made acquaintance,” Hugh returned, “was
there as it began to work in me--”
“That your Moretto, Lord Theign”--Mr. Bender took their informant
up--“isn’t, after all, a Moretto at all.” And he continued amusedly to
Hugh: “It began to work in you, sir, like very strong drink!”
“Do I understand you to suggest,” Lord Theign asked of the startling
young man, “that my precious picture isn’t genuine?”
Well, Hugh knew exactly what he suggested. “As a picture, Lord Theign,
as a great portrait, one of the most genuine things in Europe. But it
strikes me as probable that from far back--for reasons!--there has
been a wrong attribution; that the work has been, in other words,
traditionally, obstinately miscalled. It has passed for a Moretto, and
at first I quite took it for one; but I suddenly, as I looked and looked
and saw and saw, began to doubt, and now I know why I doubted.”
Lord Theign had during this speech kept his eyes on the ground; but he
raised them to Mr. Crimble’s almost palpitating presence for the remark:
“I’m bound to say that I hope you’ve some very good grounds!”
“I’ve three or four, Lord Theign; they seem to me of the best--as yet.
They made me wonder and wonder--and then light splendidly broke.”
His lordship didn’t stint his attention. “Reflected, you mean, from
other Mantovanos--that I don’t know?”
“I mean from those I know myself,” said Hugh; “and I mean from fine
analogies with one in particular.”
“Analogies that in all these years, these centuries, have so remarkably
not been noticed?”
“Well,” Hugh competently explained, “they’re a sort of thing the very
sense of, the value and meaning of, are a highly modern--in fact a quite
recent growth.”
Lord John at this professed with cordiality that he at least quite
understood. “Oh, we know a lot more about our pictures and things than
ever our ancestors did!”
“Well, I guess it’s enough for me,” Mr. Bender contributed, “that your
ancestors knew enough to get ‘em!”
“Ah, that doesn’t go so far,” cried Hugh, “unless we ourselves know
enough to keep ‘em!”
The words appeared to quicken in a manner Lord Theign’s view of the
speaker. “Were your ancestors, Mr. Crimble, great collectors?”
Arrested, it might be, in his general assurance, Hugh wondered and
smiled. “Mine--collectors? Oh, I’m afraid I haven’t any--to speak of.
Only it has seemed to me for a long time,” he added, “that on that head
we should all feel together.”
Lord Theign looked for a moment as if these were rather large
presumptions; then he put them in their place a little curtly. “It’s one
thing to keep our possessions for ourselves--it’s another to keep them
for other people.”
“Well,” Hugh good-humouredly returned, “I’m perhaps not so absolutely
sure of myself, if you press me, as that I sha’n’t be glad of a higher
and wiser opinion--I mean than my own. It would be awfully interesting,
if you’ll allow me to say so, to have the judgment of one or two of the
great men.”
“You’re not yourself, Mr. Crimble, one of the great men?” his host asked
with tempered irony.
“Well, I guess he’s going to be, anyhow,” Mr. Bender cordially struck
in; “and this remarkable exhibition of intelligence may just let him
loose on the world, mayn’t it?”
“Thank you, Mr. Bender!”--and Hugh obviously tried to look neither
elated nor snubbed. “I’ve too much still to learn, but I’m learning
every day, and I shall have learnt immensely this afternoon.”
“Pretty well at my expense, however,” Lord Theign laughed, “if you
demolish a name we’ve held for generations so dear.”
“You may have held the name dear, my lord,” his young critic answered;
“but my whole point is that, if I’m right, you’ve held the picture
itself cheap.”
“Because a Mantovano,” said Lord John, “is so much greater a value?”
Hugh met his eyes a moment “Are you talking of values pecuniary?”
“What values are not pecuniary?”
Hugh might, during his hesitation, have been imagined to stand off a
little from the question. “Well, some things have in a higher degree
that one, and some have the associational or the factitious, and some
the clear artistic.”
“And some,” Mr. Bender opined, “have them all--in the highest degree.
But what you mean,” he went on, “is that a Mantovano would come higher
under the hammer than a Moretto?”
“Why, sir,” the young man returned, “there aren’t any, as I’ve just
stated, to ‘come.’ I account--or I easily can--for every one of the
very small number.”
“Then do you consider that you account for this one?”
“I believe I shall if you’ll give me time.”
“Oh, time!” Mr. Bender impatiently sighed. “But we’ll give you all we’ve
got--only I guess it isn’t much.” And he appeared freely to invite their
companions to join in this estimate. They listened to him, however, they
watched him, for the moment, but in silence, and with the next he had
gone on: “How much higher--if your idea is correct about it--would Lord
Theign’s picture come?”
Hugh turned to that nobleman. “Does Mr. Bender mean come to him, my
lord?”
Lord Theign looked again hard at Hugh, and then harder than he had done
yet at his other invader. “I don’t know what Mr. Bender means!” With
which he turned off.
“Well, I guess I mean that it would come higher to me than to any one!
But how much higher?” the American continued to Hugh.
“How much higher to you?”
“Oh, I can size that. How much higher as a Mantovano?”
Unmistakably--for us at least--our young man was gaining time; he had
the instinct of circumspection and delay. “To any one?”
“To any one.”
“Than as a Moretto?” Hugh continued.
It even acted on Lord John’s nerves. “That’s what we’re talking
about--really!”
But Hugh still took his ease; as if, with his eyes first on Bender
and then on Lord Theign, whose back was practically presented, he were
covertly studying signs. “Well,” he presently said, “in view of the very
great interest combined with the very great rarity, more than--ah more
than can be estimated off-hand.”
It made Lord Theign turn round. “But a fine Moretto has a very great
rarity and a very great interest.”
“Yes--but not on the whole the same amount of either.”
“No, not on the whole the same amount of either!”--Mr. Bender
judiciously echoed it. “But how,” he freely pursued, “are you going to
find out?”
“Have I your permission, Lord Theign,” Hugh brightly asked, “to attempt
to find out?”
The question produced on his lordship’s part a visible, a natural
anxiety. “What would it be your idea then to do with my property?”
“Nothing at all here--it could all be done, I think, at Verona. What
besets, what quite haunts me,” Hugh explained, “is the vivid image of a
Mantovano--one of the glories of the short list--in a private collection
in that place. The conviction grows in me that the two portraits must
be of the same original. In fact I’ll bet my head,” the young man quite
ardently wound up, “that the wonderful subject of the Verona picture, a
very great person clearly, is none other than the very great person of
yours.”
Lord Theign had listened with interest. “Mayn’t he be that and yet from
another hand?”
“It isn’t another hand”--oh Hugh was quite positive. “It’s the hand of
the very same painter.”
“How can you prove it’s the same?”
“Only by the most intimate internal evidence, I admit--and evidence that
of course has to be estimated.”
“Then who,” Lord Theign asked, “is to estimate it?”
“Well,”--Hugh was all ready--“will you let Pap-pendick, one of the first
authorities in Europe, a good friend of mine, in fact more or less my
master, and who is generally to be found at Brussels? I happen to know
he knows your picture--he once spoke to me of it; and he’ll go and look
again at the Verona one, he’ll go and judge our issue, if I apply to
him, in the light of certain new tips that I shall be able to give him.”
Lord Theign appeared to wonder. “If you ‘apply’ to him?”
“Like a shot, I believe, if I ask it of him--as a service.”
“A service to you? He’ll be very obliging,” his lordship smiled.
“Well, I’ve obliged him!” Hugh readily retorted.
“The obligation will be to we”--Lord Theign spoke more formally.
“Well, the satisfaction,” said Hugh, “will be to all of us. The things
Pappendick has seen he intensely, ineffaceably keeps in mind, to every
detail; so that he’ll tell me--as no one else really can--if the Verona
man is your man.”
“But then,” asked Mr. Bender, “we’ve got to believe anyway what he
says?”
“The market,” said Lord John with emphasis, “would have to believe
it--that’s the point.”
“Oh,” Hugh returned lightly, “the market will have nothing to do with
it, I hope; but I think you’ll feel when he has spoken that you really
know where you are.”
Mr. Bender couldn’t doubt of that. “Oh, if he gives us a bigger thing we
won’t complain. Only, how long will it take him to get there? I want him
to start right away.”
“Well, as I’m sure he’ll be deeply interested----”
“We may”--Mr. Bender took it straight up--“get news next week?”
Hugh addressed his reply to Lord Theign; it was already a little too
much as if he and the American between them were snatching the case from
that possessor’s hands. “The day I hear from Pappendick you shall have a
full report. And,” he conscientiously added, “if I’m proved to have been
unfortunately wrong----!”
His lordship easily pointed the moral. “You’ll have caused me some
inconvenience.”
“Of course I shall,” the young man unreservedly agreed--“like a wanton
meddling ass!” His candour, his freedom had decidedly a note of their
own. “But my conviction, after those moments with your picture, was too
strong for me not to speak--and, since you allow it, I face the danger
and risk the test.”
“I allow it of course in the form of business.” This produced in Hugh a
certain blankness. “‘Business’?” “If I consent to the inquiry I pay for
the inquiry.” Hugh demurred. “Even if I turn out mistaken?” “You make me
in any event your proper charge.” The young man thought again, and then
as for vague accommodation: “Oh, my charge won’t be high!”
“Ah,” Mr. Bender protested, “it ought to be handsome if the thing’s
marked up!” After which he looked at his watch. “But I guess I’ve got
to go, Lord Theign, though your lovely old Duchess--for it’s to her
I’ve lost my heart--does cry out for me again.”
“You’ll find her then still there,” Lord John observed with emphasis,
but with his eyes for the time on Lord Theign; “and if you want another
look at her I’ll presently come and take one too.”
“I’ll order your car to the garden-front,” Lord Theign added to this;
“you’ll reach it from the saloon, but I’ll see you again first.”
Mr. Bender glared as with the round full force of his pair of motor
lamps. “Well, if you’re ready to talk about anything, I am. Good-bye,
Mr. Crimble.”
“Good-bye, Mr. Bender.” But Hugh, addressing their host while his
fellow-guest returned to the saloon, broke into the familiarity of
confidence. “As if you could be ready to ‘talk’!”
This produced on the part of the others present a mute exchange that
could only have denoted surprise at all the irrepressible young outsider
thus projected upon them took for granted. “I’ve an idea,” said Lord
John to his friend, “that you’re quite ready to talk with me.”
Hugh then, with his appetite so richly quickened, could but rejoice.
“Lady Grace spoke to me of things in the library.”
“You’ll find it that way”--Lord Theign gave the indication.
“Thanks,” said Hugh elatedly, and hastened away.
Lord John, when he had gone, found relief in a quick comment. “Very
sharp, no doubt--but he wants taking down.”
The master of Dedborough wouldn’t have put it so crudely, but the young
expert did bring certain things home. “The people my daughters, in the
exercise of a wild freedom, do pick up----!”
“Well, don’t you see that all you’ve got to do--on the question we’re
dealing with--is to claim your very own wild freedom? Surely I’m right
in feeling you,” Lord John further remarked, “to have jumped at once
to my idea that Bender is heaven-sent--and at what they call the
psychologic moment, don’t they?--to point that moral. Why look anywhere
else for a sum of money that--smaller or greater--you can find with
perfect ease in that extraordinarily bulging pocket?”
Lord Theign, slowly pacing the hall again, threw up his hands. “Ah, with
‘perfect ease’ can scarcely be said!”
“Why not?--when he absolutely thrusts his dirty dollars down your
throat.”
“Oh, I’m not talking of ease to him,” Lord Theign returned--“I’m
talking of ease to myself. I shall have to make a sacrifice.”
“Why not then--for so great a convenience--gallantly make it?”
“Ah, my dear chap, if you want me to sell my Sir Joshua----!”
But the horror in the words said enough, and Lord John felt its chill.
“I don’t make a point of that--God forbid! But there are other things to
which the objection wouldn’t apply.”
“You see how it applies--in the case of the Moret-to--for him. A mere
Moretto,” said Lord Theign, “is too cheap--for a Yankee ‘on the spend.’”
“Then the Mantovano wouldn’t be.”
“It remains to be proved that it is a Mantovano.”
“Well,” said Lord John, “go into it.”
“Hanged if I won’t!” his friend broke out after a moment. “It would
suit me. I mean”--the explanation came after a brief intensity of
thought--“the possible size of his cheque would.”
“Oh,” said Lord John gaily, “I guess there’s no limit to the possible
size of his cheque!”
“Yes, it would suit me, it would suit me!” the elder man, standing
there, audibly mused. But his air changed and a lighter question came
up to him as he saw his daughter reappear at the door from the terrace.
“Well, the infant horde?” he immediately put to her.
Lady Grace came in, dutifully accounting for them. “They’ve marched
off--in a huge procession.”
“Thank goodness! And our friends?”
“All playing tennis,” she said--“save those who are sitting it out.” To
which she added, as to explain her return: “Mr. Crimble has gone?”
Lord John took upon him to say. “He’s in the library, to which you
addressed him--making discoveries.”
“Not then, I hope,” she smiled, “to our disadvantage!”
“To your very great honour and glory.” Lord John clearly valued the
effect he might produce.
“Your Moretto of Brescia--do you know what it really and spendidly
is?” And then as the girl, in her surprise, but wondered: “A Mantovano,
neither more nor less. Ever so much more swagger.”
“A Mantovano?” Lady Grace echoed. “Why, how tremendously jolly!”
Her father was struck. “Do you know the artist--of whom I had never
heard?”
“Yes, something of the little that is known.” And she rejoiced as her
knowledge came to her. “He’s a tremendous swell, because, great as he
was, there are but seven proved examples----”
“With this of yours,” Lord John broke in, “there are eight.”
“Then why haven’t I known about him?” Lord Theign put it as if so many
other people were guilty for this.
His daughter was the first to plead for the vague body. “Why, I suppose
in order that you should have exactly this pleasure, father.”
“Oh, pleasures not desired are like acquaintances not sought--they
rather bore one!” Lord Theign sighed. With which he moved away from her.
Her eyes followed him an instant--then she smiled at their guest. “Is he
bored at having the higher prize--if you’re sure it is the higher?”
“Mr. Crimble is sure--because if he isn’t,” Lord John added, “he’s a
wretch.”
“Well,” she returned, “as he’s certainly not a wretch it must be true.
And fancy,” she exclaimed further, though as more particularly for
herself, “our having suddenly incurred this immense debt to him!”
“Oh, I shall pay Mr. Crimble!” said her father, who had turned round.
The whole question appeared to have provoked in Lord John a rise of
spirits and a flush of humour. “Don’t you let him stick it on.”
His host, however, bethinking himself, checked him. “Go you to Mr.
Bender straight!”
Lord John saw the point. “Yes--till he leaves. But I shall find you
here, shan’t I?” he asked with all earnestness of Lady Grace.
She had an hesitation, but after a look at her father she assented.
“I’ll wait for you.”
“Then à tantôt!” It made him show for happy as, waving his hand at
her, he proceeded to seek Mr. Bender in presence of the object that most
excited that gentleman’s appetite--to say nothing of the effect involved
on Lord John’s own.
IX
Lord Theign, when he had gone, revolved--it might have been
nervously--about the place a little, but soon broke ground. “He’ll have
told you, I understand, that I’ve promised to speak to you for him. But
I understand also that he has found something to say for himself.”
“Yes, we talked--a while since,” the girl said. “At least he did.”
“Then if you listened I hope you listened with a good grace.”
“Oh, he speaks very well--and I’ve never disliked him.”
It pulled her father up. “Is that all--when I think so much of him?”
She seemed to say that she had, to her own mind, been liberal and gone
far; but she waited a little. “Do you think very, very much?”
“Surely I’ve made my good opinion clear to you!”
Again she had a pause. “Oh yes, I’ve seen you like him and believe in
him--and I’ve found him pleasant and clever.”
“He has never had,” Lord Theign more or less ingeniously explained,
“what I call a real show.” But the character under discussion could
after all be summed up without searching analysis. “I consider
nevertheless that there’s plenty in him.”
It was a moderate claim, to which Lady Grace might assent. “He strikes
me as naturally quick and--well, nice. But I agree with you than he
hasn’t had a chance.”
“Then if you can see your way by sympathy and confidence to help him to
one I dare say you’ll find your reward.”
For a third time she considered, as if a certain curtness in her
companion’s manner rather hindered, in such a question, than helped.
Didn’t he simplify too much, you would have felt her ask, and wasn’t
his visible wish for brevity of debate a sign of his uncomfortable and
indeed rather irritated sense of his not making a figure in it? “Do you
desire it very particularly?” was, however, all she at last brought out.
“I should like it exceedingly--if you act from conviction. Then of
course only; but of one thing I’m myself convinced--of what he thinks of
yourself and feels for you.”
“Then would you mind my waiting a little?” she asked. “I mean to be
absolutely sure of myself.” After which, on his delaying to agree, she
added frankly, as to help her case: “Upon my word, father, I should like
to do what would please you.”
But it determined in him a sharper impatience. “Ah, what would please
me! Don’t put it off on ‘me’! Judge absolutely for yourself”--he
slightly took himself up--“in the light of my having consented to do for
him what I always hate to do: deviate from my normal practice of never
intermeddling. If I’ve deviated now you can judge. But to do so all
round, of course, take--in reason!--your time.”
“May I ask then,” she said, “for still a little more?”
He looked for this, verily, as if it was not in reason. “You know,” he
then returned, “what he’ll feel that a sign of.”
“Well, I’ll tell him what I mean.”
“Then I’ll send him to you.”
He glanced at his watch and was going, but after a “Thanks, father,” she
had stopped him. “There’s one thing more.” An embarrassment showed in
her manner, but at the cost of some effect of earnest abruptness she
surmounted it. “What does your American--Mr. Bender--want?”
Lord Theign plainly felt the challenge. “‘My’ American? He’s none of
mine!”
“Well then Lord John’s.”
“He’s none of his either--more, I mean, than any one else’s. He’s every
one’s American, literally--to all appearance; and I’ve not to tell
you, surely, with the freedom of your own visitors, how people stalk
in and out here.”
“No, father--certainly,” she said. “You’re splendidly generous.”
His eyes seemed rather sharply to ask her then how he could improve on
that; but he added as if it were enough: “What the man must by this time
want more than anything else is his car.”
“Not then anything of ours?” she still insisted.
“Of ‘ours’?” he echoed with a frown. “Are you afraid he has an eye to
something of yours?”
“Why, if we’ve a new treasure--which we certainly have if we possess
a Mantovano--haven’t we all, even I, an immense interest in it?” And
before he could answer, “Is that exposed?” she asked.
Lord Theign, a little unready, cast about at his storied halls; any
illusion to the “exposure” of the objects they so solidly sheltered was
obviously unpleasant to him. But then it was as if he found at a
stroke both his own reassurance and his daughter’s. “How can there be a
question of it when he only wants Sir Joshuas?”
“He wants ours?” the girl gasped.
“At absolutely any price.”
“But you’re not,” she cried, “discussing it?”
He hesitated as between chiding and contenting her--then he handsomely
chose. “My dear child, for what do you take me?” With which he
impatiently started, through the long and stately perspective, for the
saloon.
She sank into a chair when he had gone; she sat there some moments in a
visible tension of thought, her hands clasped in her lap and her dropped
eyes fixed and unperceiving; but she sprang up as Hugh Crimble, in
search of her, again stood before her. He presented himself as with
winged sandals.
“What luck to find you! I must take my spin back.”
“You’ve seen everything as you wished?”
“Oh,” he smiled, “I’ve seen wonders.”
She showed her pleasure. “Yes, we’ve got some things.”
“So Mr. Bender says!” he laughed. “You’ve got five or six--”
“Only five or six?” she cried in bright alarm.
“‘Only’?” he continued to laugh. “Why, that’s enormous, five or six
things of the first importance! But I think I ought to mention to you,”
 he added, “a most barefaced ‘Rubens’ there in the library.”
“It isn’t a Rubens?”
“No more than I’m a Ruskin.”
“Then you’ll brand us--expose us for it?”
“No, I’ll let you off--I’ll be quiet if you’re good, if you go straight.
I’ll only hold it in terrorem. One can’t be sure in these dreadful
days--that’s always to remember; so that if you’re not good I’ll come
down on you with it. But to balance against that threat,” he went on,
“I’ve made the very grandest find. At least I believe I have!”
She was all there for this news. “Of the Manto-vano--hidden in the other
thing?”
Hugh wondered--almost as if she had been before him. “You don’t mean to
say you’ve had the idea of that?”
“No, but my father has told me.”
“And is your father,” he eagerly asked, “really gratified?”
With her conscious eyes on him--her eyes could clearly be very conscious
about her father--she considered a moment. “He always prefers old
associations and appearances to new; but I’m sure he’ll resign himself
if you see your way to a certainty.”
“Well, it will be a question of the weight of expert opinion that I
shall invoke. But I’m not afraid,” he resolutely said, “and I shall
make the thing, from its splendid rarity, the crown and flower of your
glory.”
Her serious face shone at him with a charmed gratitude. “It’s awfully
beautiful then your having come to us so. It’s awfully beautiful your
having brought us this way, in a flash--as dropping out of a chariot
of fire--more light and what you apparently feel with myself as more
honour.”
“Ah, the beauty’s in your having yourself done it!” he returned. He
gave way to the positive joy of it. “If I’ve brought the ‘light’ and the
rest--that’s to say the very useful information--who in the world was it
brought me?”
She had a gesture of protest “You’d have come in some other way.”
“I’m not so sure! I’m beastly shy--little as I may seem to show it: save
in great causes, when I’m horridly bold and hideously offensive. Now
at any rate I only know what has been.” She turned off for it, moving
away from him as with a sense of mingled things that made for unrest;
and he had the next moment grown graver under the impression. “But does
anything in it all,” he asked, “trouble you?”
She faced about across the wider space, and there was a different note
in what she brought out. “I don’t know what forces me so to tell you
things.”
“‘Tell’ me?” he stared. “Why, you’ve told me nothing more monstrous than
that I’ve been welcome!”
“Well, however that may be, what did you mean just now by the chance of
our not ‘going straight’? When you said you’d expose our bad--or is it
our false?--Rubens in the event of a certain danger.”
“Oh, in the event of your ever being bribed”--he laughed again as with
relief. And then as her face seemed to challenge the word: “Why, to let
anything--of your best!--ever leave Dedborough. By which I mean really
of course leave the country.” She turned again on this, and something
in her air made him wonder. “I hope you don’t feel there is such a
danger? I understood from you half an hour ago that it was unthinkable.”
“Well, it was, to me, half an hour ago,” she said as she came nearer.
“But if it has since come up?”
“‘If’ it has! But has it? In the form of that monster? What Mr. Bender
wants is the great Duchess,” he recalled.
“And my father won’t sell her? No, he won’t sell the great
Duchess--there I feel safe. But he greatly needs a certain sum of
money--or he thinks he does--and I’ve just had a talk with him.”
“In which he has told you that?”
“He has told me nothing,” Lady Grace said--“or else told me quite other
things. But the more I think of them the more it comes to me that he
feels urged or tempted--”
“To despoil and denude these walls?” Hugh broke in, looking about in his
sharper apprehension.
“Yes, to satisfy, to save my sister. Now do you think our state so
ideal?” she asked--but without elation for her hint of triumph.
He had no answer for this save “Ah, but you terribly interest me. May I
ask what’s the matter with your sister?”
Oh, she wanted to go on straight now! “The matter is--in the first
place--that she’s too dazzlingly, dreadfully beautiful.”
“More beautiful than you?” his sincerity easily risked.
“Millions of times.” Sad, almost sombre, she hadn’t a shade of coquetry.
“Kitty has debts--great heaped-up gaming debts.”
“But to such amounts?”
“Incredible amounts it appears. And mountains of others too. She throws
herself all on our father.”
“And he has to pay them? There’s no one else?” Hugh asked.
She waited as if he might answer himself, and then as he apparently
didn’t, “He’s only afraid there may be some else--that’s how she makes
him do it,” she said. And “Now do you think,” she pursued, “that I don’t
tell you things?”
He turned them over in his young perception and pity, the things she
told him. “Oh, oh, oh!” And then, in the great place, while as, just
spent by the effort of her disclosure, she moved from him again, he
took them all in. “That’s the situation that, as you say, may force his
hand.”
“It absolutely, I feel, does force it.” And the renewal of her appeal
brought her round. “Isn’t it too lovely?”
His frank disgust answered. “It’s too damnable!”
“And it’s you,” she quite terribly smiled, “who--by the ‘irony of
fate’!--have given him help.”
He smote his head in the light of it. “By the Mantovano?”
“By the possible Mantovano--as a substitute for the impossible Sir
Joshua. You’ve made him aware of a value.”
“Ah, but the value’s to be fixed!”
“Then Mr. Bender will fix it!”
“Oh, but--as he himself would say--I’ll fix Mr. Bender!” Hugh declared.
“And he won’t buy a pig in a poke.”
This cleared the air while they looked at each other; yet she had
already asked: “What in the world can you do, and how in the world can
you do it?”
Well, he was too excited for decision. “I don’t quite see now, but give
me time.” And he took out his watch as already to measure it. “Oughtn’t
I before I go to say a word to Lord Theign?”
“Is it your idea to become a lion in his path?”
“Well, say a cub--as that’s what I’m afraid he’ll call me! But I think I
should speak to him.”
She drew a conclusion momentarily dark. “He’ll have to learn in that
case that I’ve told you of my fear.”
“And is there any good reason why he shouldn’t?”
She kept her eyes on him and the darkness seemed to clear. “No!” she at
last replied, and, having gone to touch an electric bell, was with him
again. “But I think I’m rather sorry for you.”
“Does that represent a reason why I should be so for you?”
For a little she said nothing; but after that: “None whatever!”
“Then is the sister of whom you speak Lady Imber?”
Lady Grace, at this, raised her hand in caution: the butler had arrived,
with due gravity, in answer to her ring; to whom she made known her
desire. “Please say to his lordship--in the saloon or wherever--that
Mr. Crimble must go.” When Banks had departed, however, accepting the
responsibility of this mission, she answered her friend’s question. “The
sister of whom I speak is Lady Imber.”
“She loses then so heavily at bridge?”
“She loses more than she wins.”
Hugh gazed as with interest at these oddities of the great. “And yet she
still plays?”
“What else, in her set, should she do?”
This he was quite unable to say; but he could after a moment’s
exhibition of the extent to which he was out of it put a question
instead. “So you’re not in her set?”
“I’m not in her set.”
“Then decidedly,” he said, “I don’t want to save her. I only want--”
He was going on, but she broke in: “I know what you want!”
He kept his eyes on her till he had made sure--and this deep exchange
between them had a beauty. “So you’re now with me?”
“I’m now with you!”
“Then,” said Hugh, “shake hands on it”
He offered her his hand, she took it, and their grasp became, as you
would have seen in their fine young faces, a pledge in which they stood
a minute locked. Lord Theign came upon them from the saloon in the midst
of the process; on which they separated as with an air of its having
consisted but of Hugh’s leave-taking. With some such form of mere
civility, at any rate, he appeared, by the manner in which he addressed
himself to Hugh, to have supposed them occupied.
“I’m sorry my daughter can’t keep you; but I must at least thank you for
your interesting view of my picture.”
Hugh indulged in a brief and mute, though very grave, acknowledgment of
this expression; presently speaking, however, as on a resolve taken with
a sense of possibly awkward consequences: “May I--before you’re sure of
your indebtedness--put you rather a straight question, Lord Theign?” It
sounded doubtless, and of a sudden, a little portentous--as was in fact
testified to by his lordship’s quick stiff stare, full of wonder at
so free a note. But Hugh had the courage of his undertaking. “If I
contribute in ny modest degree to establishing the true authorship of
the work you speak of, may I have from you an assurance that my success
isn’t to serve as a basis for any peril--or possibility--of its leaving
the country?”
Lord Theign was visibly astonished, but had also, independently of this,
turned a shade pale. “You ask of me an ‘assurance’?”
Hugh had now, with his firmness and his strained smile, quite the look
of having counted the cost of his step. “I’m afraid I must, you see.”
It pressed at once in his host the spring of a very grand manner. “And
pray by what right here do you do anything of the sort?”
“By the right of a person from whom you, on your side, are accepting a
service.”
Hugh had clearly determined in his opponent a rise of what is called
spirit. “A service that you half an hour ago thrust on me, sir--and
with which you may take it from me that I’m already quite prepared to
dispense.”
“I’m sorry to appear indiscreet,” our young man returned; “I’m sorry to
have upset you in any way. But I can’t overcome my anxiety--”
Lord Theign took the words from his lips. “And you therefore invite
me--at the end of half an hour in this house!--to account to you for my
personal intentions and my private affairs and make over my freedom to
your hands?”
Hugh stood there with his eyes on the black and white pavement that
stretched about him--the great loz-enged marble floor that might have
figured that ground of his own vision which he had made up his mind to
“stand.” “I can only see the matter as I see it, and I should be ashamed
not to have seized any chance to appeal to you.” Whatever difficulty he
had had shyly to face didn’t exist for him now. “I entreat you to think
again, to think well, before you deprive us of such a source of just
envy.”
“And you regard your entreaty as helped,” Lord Theign asked, “by the
beautiful threat you are so good as to attach to it?” Then as his
monitor, arrested, exchanged a searching look with Lady Grace, who,
showing in her face all the pain of the business, stood off at the
distance to which a woman instinctively retreats when a scene turns to
violence as precipitately as this one appeared to strike her as having
turned: “I ask you that not less than I should like to know whom you
speak of as ‘deprived’ of property that happens--for reasons that I
don’t suppose you also quarrel with!--to be mine.”
“Well, I know nothing about threats, Lord Theign,” Hugh said, “but I
speak of all of us--of all the people of England; who would deeply
deplore such an act of alienation, and whom, for the interest they bear
you, I beseech you mercifully to consider.”
“The interest they bear me?”--the master of Dedborough fairly bristled
with wonder. “Pray how the devil do they show it?”
“I think they show it in all sorts of ways”--and Hugh’s critical smile,
at almost any moment hovering, played over the question in a manner
seeming to convey that he meant many things.
“Understand then, please,” said Lord Theign with every inch of his
authority, “that they’ll show it best by minding their own business
while I very particularly mind mine.”
“You simply do, in other words,” Hugh explicitly concluded, “what
happens to be convenient to you.”
“In very distinct preference to what happens to be convenient to you!
So that I need no longer detain you,” Lord Theign added with the last
dryness and as if to wind up their brief and thankless connection.
The young man took his dismissal, being able to do no less, while,
unsatisfied and unhappy, he looked about mechanically for the
cycling-cap he had laid down somewhere in the hall on his arrival.
“I apologise, my lord, if I seem to you to have ill repaid your
hospitality. But,” he went on with his uncommended cheer, “my interest
in your picture remains.”
Lady Grace, who had stopped and strayed and stopped again as a mere
watchful witness, drew nearer hereupon, breaking her silence for the
first time. “And please let me say, father, that mine also grows and
grows.”
It was obvious that this parent, surprised and disconcerted by her tone,
judged her contribution superfluous. “I’m happy to hear it, Grace--but
yours is another affair.”
“I think on the contrary that it’s quite the same one,” she
returned--“since it’s on my hint to him that Mr. Crimble has said to
