hitting one's sore thumb, and occasioning exclamations 
not at all suitable for the ears of a two-year-old in- 
telligence. 
7. WHEN the doors were fitted, and the windows 
set in, and the piazza laid, and the steps built, they 
got down to the furniture, which was also to be home- 
made. Thyrsis was gratified beyond telling by these 
tables and dressing-stands and shelves and book-cases, 
which he could build of hemlock boards in an hour or 
two, and which cost only thirty or forty cents apiece. 
He would labor with Corydon to induce her to share 
this joy; but alas, he would only succeed in losing his 
own joy, without increasing hers. On many occasions 
he attempted such things as this ; it was only after long 
years that he came to realize that Corydon's tempera- 
ment was the one fixed fact in the universe with which 
he had to deal. 
Two hundred and twenty-five dollars was the total 
cost of this establishment when completed. And while 
the carpenter was putting the finishing touches, Thyrsis 
was using up thirty dollars more of lumber in construct- 
ing himself a "study" in the woods near by. Eight by 
ten this cabin was to be ; it was to have a door and a 
window, and a little piazza in front, upon which the in- 
habitant might sit in fair weather. Also Thyrsis built 
for it a table and a bookcase ; and as he had now eighty 
square feet instead of forty-nine, there was room for 
a cot and a chair, and a coal-stove fourteen inches in 
diameter. As fate would have it, there was some black 
paint left over ; and to Corydon's horror it was an- 
nounced that this would be used on the study. How- 
ever, Thyrsis insisted that it was his study ; and be- 
 
sides, there was some red paint left, with which he 
might decorate the window and the door-frame, and 
stripe the edges of the roof and the corners. Surely 
that would be festivity enough for the most exacting 
of Greek temperaments ! 
Then came the rapturous experience of moving into 
these new mansions. The joy of having shelves to put 
things on, and hooks to hang things from. Of being able 
to take books and manuscripts out of their trunks, and 
not pile them under their beds. Of carrying over their 
belongings, and having everything fit into the place that 
had been made for it ! 
Thyrsis purchased an old stove, and also a kitchen- 
range from a neighbor ; he sank a barrel in the spring, 
and walled it round with cement ; he built a stand in the 
kitchen, and set up a sink and a little pump. 
This was the time of year when there were held at 
various places in the country what the neighbors called 
"vandews". He and Corydon found it diverting to get 
the scarecrow nag and the one-horse shay, and drive 
to some farm-house, where one might see the history of 
a family for the last fifty years spread out upon the 
lawn. They would stand round in the cold and snow 
while the auctioneer disposed of the horses and cows and 
hay and machinery, waiting until he came to the house- 
hold objects upon which they had set their eye. So 
they would invest in some stove-pipe, and a couple of 
ghastly chromos (for the sake of the frames), and 
some odds and ends of crockery, and a spade, and some 
old rope to make a swing for the baby. They would 
get these things for five or ten cents each, and get in 
addition all the excitements of the bargain-hunt. 
Once they had a real adventure they came upon a 
wonderful old "grandfather's clock", about six feet 
 
high ; and Corydon exclaimed in rapture, "OK Thyrsis, 
I'd be happy for the rest of my life if we could have that 
clock!" On such terms it appeared to Thyrsis that 
the clock might be worth making a sacrifice for, and he 
got up the courage to declare that he would offer as 
high as five dollars for it. And so they stood, trembling 
with excitement, and waiting. 
"Don't lose it, even if it's as high as six dollars !" 
whispered Corydon ; but alas, the first bid for the clock 
was twenty-five dollars. They stood staring with dis- 
may, until the treasure was sold to a dealer from the 
city for the incredible sum of eighty-seven dollars ; and 
then they drove home, quite awe-stricken by this sud- 
den intrusion from the world of luxury outside their 
ken. 
8. HOWEVER, this disappointment did not trouble 
them for long ; there were too many luxuries in their 
own home. Not very long after it was finished, there 
fell a deluge of rain ; and what a delight it was to listen 
to it, and know that they were safe from it! That 
not only did they have a dry roof over their head 
but they were able to move about, and to reach up 
their hands without peril, and to sit down and read 
without a lamp ! They would stand by the window 
with their arms about each other, watching the rain 
beating upon the fields, and dripping from the elm 
tree, and flowing in torrents past the house ; they would 
listen to it pounding overhead and streaming off the 
roof before their faces. They were dry, quite dry ! 
All their belongings were dry their shoes were not 
mildewing, their books were not getting soft and shape- 
less, their bed-clothing would be all right when night 
came! 
 
The down-pour lasted for three whole days, yet they 
enjoyed it all. It proved to be a memorable rain to 
Corydon, for it brought to her a great occasion the 
beginning of her poetical career. It happened late one 
night, when, as usual, the cry of "hoodaloo mungie" 
awakened her from a sound slumber. The day had been 
a particularly hard one, and the heaviness of exhaus- 
tion was upon her. For a moment she stared up into 
the darkness, listening to the rain close above her, and 
trying to nerve herself to put out her arm in the cold. 
She shuddered at the thought; there came to her a 
perfectly definite impulse of hatred hatred of the 
child, of its noise and its demands. She had felt it 
before sometimes as a dull, cold dislike, sometimes as 
something passionate. Why should she have to sacrifice 
herself to this insatiable creature, whom she did not 
love? What did it matter to her if other women loved 
their children ? She had wanted life and was this life? 
At that moment the cry of "hoodaloo-mungie" sym- 
bolized for her all the sordid cares and nervous agony 
of her existence. 
And suddenly, unexpectedly, a daring impulse seized 
her. "No!" she thought, and set her teeth "I'll let 
him cry ! I'll cure him of this and I'll do it to-night !" 
So she turned and told Cedric to go to sleep ; at which, 
of course, the child began to scream. 
Corydon lay very still in the dark, her eyes wide and 
every nerve tense. She could not feel, she could not 
think; it seemed as though she were deprived of every 
sense except that of hearing ; and in her, through her, 
and around her rang a senseless din, piercing, intense, 
increasing in volume every minute, and completely 
drowning out the beating of the rain. 
"Can I stand it?" she thought. "Or will his lungs 
 
burst? And yet, I must, I must this can't go on for- 
ever !" And so she clenched her hands and waited. But 
the sounds did not diminish in the slightest ; ten minutes, 
twenty minutes must have passed, and the baby only 
seemed to gain increased power with each crescendo. 
It seemed to Corydon at last asthough she had always 
lain like this, and as though she. must for endless time. 
She found herself getting used to it even ; her muscles 
relaxed. There came to her a sense of the ludicrous 
side of .it. "He means to conquer me !" she thought. 
"Can I hold out? If I only had something to think 
about, then I'd be a match for him." And suddenly the 
inspiration came to her. "!'!! write a poem!" 
What should it be about ? The rain had been increas- 
ing in violence, and she became conscious of the steady 
downpour; it fascinated her, and she concentrated her 
attention upon it, and began 
"I am the rain, that comes in spring!" 
% 
So, after a while, she found herself in the throes of 
composition ; she was eager, excited and marvel of 
marvels, utterly forgetful of the baby ! She had never 
tried to write verses before; but it did not seem at all 
difficult to her now. 
The poem was simple and optimistic it told of the 
beneficent qualities of rain, as it would appear to one 
whose roof did not leak. Somewhere in the course of 
it there was this stanza: 
"I am the rain that comes at night, 
When all in slumber is folded light 
Save one by weary vigils worn 
Who counteth the drops unto the morn." 
 
This seemed to her an impressive bit, and she wondered 
what Thyrsis would think of it. 
There were eight stanzas altogether, and when she 
finished the last of them the dawn was breaking, and it 
seemed hours since she had begun. As for the baby, he 
was still crying. She turned and peered at him; his 
eyelids drooped, and the crying came in spasms and 
gasps it sounded very feeble, and a trifle perfunctory. 
Obviously he could not hold out much longer ; Corydon 
would win, yes, she had won already. She lay still, andi 
thrills of happiness went through her. Was it the poem, 
or the thought of her release, and the nights of quiet 
sleep in the future? 
When Thyrsis came in, an hour or two later, he 
found her huddled up in blankets on the floor of the 
living-room, her cheeks bright, her hair dishevelled. 
How fascinating she looked in such a guise! She was 
eagerly pondering her poem ; and the baby was sleep- 
ing quietly, save for a few convulsive gasps, the last 
stragglers of his routed forces. 
"And oh, Thyrsis," she exclaimed, "to-morrow night 
he will only cry half as long, and still less the next night. 
And soon he will go to sleep quietly like any well 
brought-up, civilized baby. And, my dear, I believe I'm 
going to be a poetess I think that to-night I was really 
inspired !" 
So he made haste to build a fire, and then came and 
sat and listened to the poem. How eagerly she waited 
for his verdict ! How she hung upon his words ! And 
what should a man do in such a case should he be a 
husband or a critic? Should he be an amateur or a 
professional? 
But even as he hesitated, the damage was done. "Oh, 
 
you don't like it !" she cried. "You don't think it's good 
at all !" 
"My dear," he argued, "poetry is such a difficult 
thing to write. And there are so many standards 
a thing can be good, and yet not good! The heights 
are so far away " 
"But oh, how can I ever get there," wailed Corydon, 
"if nobody gives me any encouragement?" 
9. THE time had now come for Thyrsis to put his 
job through. There was no longer any excuse for hesi- 
tation or delay. The book had come to ripeness in him ; 
the birth-hour was at hand, and he must go and have it 
out with himself. He explained these things to Cory- 
don, sitting beside her and holding her hands ; they 
ascended once more to the heights of consecration ; they 
renewed their vows of fortitude and faith, and then 
he went away. 
For weeks thereafter he would be like the ghost of a 
man in the house, haggard and silent and preoccupied. 
All the work that he had ever done in his life seemed 
but child's play in comparison. Before this he had 
portrayed the struggles of men and women ; but now 
he was to portray the agony of a whole nation his 
heart must beat with the pulse of millions of suffering 
people. And the task was like a fiend that came upon 
him in the night-time and laid hold of him, dragging 
him away to sights of terror and madness. He was 
never safe from the thing for a moment he could 
never tell when it might assail him. He might be 
washing the dishes, or wrestling with the refractory 
pump ; but the vision would come to him, and he would 
wander off into the forest perhaps to sit, crouching 
 
in the snow, trembling, and staring at the pageant in 
his soul. 
He lived in the midst of battles ; the smoke of powder 
always in his nostrils, the crash of musketry and the 
thunder of cannon in his ears. He saw the cavalry 
sweeping over the plains, the infantry crouching behind 
intrenchments ; he heard the yells of the combatants, 
the shrieks of the wounded and dying; he saw the 
mangled bodies, and the ground slippery with blood. 
New aspects of the thing kept coming to him new 
glimpses into meanings yet untold. They would come 
to him in great bursts of emotion, like tempests that 
swept him away ; and these things he had to wrestle 
with and master. It meant toil, the like of which he 
had never faced before, a tension of all his faculties, 
that would last for hours and hours, and leave him 
bathed in perspiration, and utterly exhausted. 
A scene would come to him, in some moment of in- 
sight ; and he would drop everything else, and follow 
it. He would go over it, at the same time both creating 
and beholding it, at the same time both overwhelmed 
by it and controlling it but above all things else, re- 
membering it ! He would be like Aladdin in the palace, 
stuffing his pockets with priceless jewels; coming away 
so loaded down that he could hardly stagger, and spill- 
ing them on every side. Then, scarcely pausing to 
rest, he would go back after what he had lost ; he would 
grope about, gathering diamonds and rubies that he 
had all but forgotten or perhaps coming upon new 
vaults and new treasure-chests. 
So he would labor over a description, going over 
it and over it, not so much working it out, as letting it 
work itself out and stamp itself upon his memory. It 
made no difference how long the scene might be, he 
 
would not write a word of it ; it might be some battle- 
picture, that would fill thirty or forty pages he would 
know it all by heart, as Demosthenes or Webster might 
have known an oration. And only at the end would he 
write it down. 
Over some of the scenes in this new book he labored 
thus for two or three weeks at a stretch; there would 
be literally not a moment of the day, nor perhaps of 
the night, when the thing was not working in some part 
of his mind. He would think about it for hours before 
he fell asleep ; and when he opened his eyes it would be 
waiting at his bedside to pounce upon him. If he tried 
for even a few minutes to rest, or to divert his mind 
to some other work, he would find himself ill at ease 
and troubled, with a sense as of something pulling at 
him, calling to him. And if anything came to interrupt 
him, then he would be like a baker whose oven grows 
cold before the bread is half done it would be a sad 
labor making anything out of that batch of bread. 
10. AND this work he had to do as a married 
man, the father of a family and the head of a house- 
hold; living with a child who was one incessant and 
irrepressible demand for attention, and a wife who was 
wrestling with weakness and sickness eating out her 
heart in cruel loneliness, and cowering in the grip of 
fiends of melancholia and despair ! 
He had thought that when they moved into the new 
home, their domestic trials would be at an end. But 
now the cruel winter fell upon them. They had never 
known what a winter in the country was like ; they 
came to see why the farmer had protested against their 
building in such a remote place. There were many days 
when they could not get to town, and some when they 
 
could not even get to the farm-house. Also there was 
the pump, which was continually freezing, and necessi- 
tating long and troublesome operations before they 
could get any water. 
It was, as fate would have it, the worst winter in the 
oldest inhabitant's memory. The farmer's well froze 
over on three occasions, and it had never frozen before, 
so he declared. For such weather as this they were 
altogether unprepared ; they had only a wood-stove, and 
could not keep a fire all night; and the cheap blankets 
they had bought were made all of cotton, and gave them 
almost no protection. They would not sleep with the 
windows down ; and so, for weeks at a time, they would 
go to bed with their clothing, even their overcoats on ; 
and would pile curtains and rugs upon these and even 
so, they would waken at two or three o'clock in the 
morning, shivering and chilled to the bone. 
And in this icy room they would have to get up and 
build a fire ; and it might be half an hour before they 
could get the house warm. Also, they had no facilities 
for bathing; and so little by little they began to lose 
their habits of decency there were days when Corydon 
left her face unwashed, and forgot to brush her hair. 
Everyday, it seemed, they slipped yet further down the 
grade. Thyrsis would work until he was faint and 
exhausted, and then he would come over, and find there 
was nothing ready to eat. By the time that he and 
Corydon had cooked a meal, they would both of them 
be ravenous, and they would sit and devour their food 
like a couple of savages. Then, because they had over- 
eaten, they would have to rest before they cleared things 
away ; and like as not Thyrsis would get to thinking 
about his work, and go off and leave everything and 
the dishes and the food might stay up on the table until 
 
the next meal. There was nearly always a piled-up 
mass of dishes and skillets and sauce-pans in the house 
to Thyrsis these soiled dishes were the original source 
of the myth of Sisyphus and his labor. 
And then there was the garbage-pail that he had for- 
gotten to empty, and the lamps he had neglected to fill, 
and the slop-pails and the other utensils of domesticity. 
There were the diapers that somebody had to wash 
and outside was always the bitter, merciless cold, that 
drove them in and shut them up with all this horror. 
The time came, as the winter dragged on, when the 
house which they had built with so many sacrifices, and 
into which they had moved with such eager anticipations, 
came to seem to them like a cave in which a couple of 
wild beasts cowered for shelter. 
11. THERE was another great change which this 
cold weather effected in their lives ; it broke down the 
barriers they had been at such pains to build up between 
them. It was all very well for them to agree that they 
were "brother and sister," and that it was impossible 
for them ever to think of anything else. But now came 
a time when night after night the thermometer went to 
ten or fifteen degrees below zero ; and first Thyrsis 
gave more bedding to Corydon because she was able 
to suffer more than he; and he would go over to his 
cold hut alone, and crawl into a cold bed, and lie there 
the whole night through without a wink of sleep. But 
then, as the cold held on for a week or more, the re- 
sistance of both of them was broken down they were 
like two animals which crawl into the same hole to keep 
each other from freezing. They piled all their bedding 
upon one narrow cot ; and sleeping thus, they could be 
warm. Even then, they tried to keep to the resolution 
 
they had made; but this, it seemed, was not within the 
power of flesh and blood; and so, once more, the sex- 
factor was introduced into the complications of their 
lives. 
To Thyrsis this thing was like some bird of prey that 
circled in the sky just above him its shadow filling 
him with a continual fear, the swish of its wings making 
him cringe. He was never happy about it; there was 
no time in his life when he was not in a state of inward 
war. His intellect rebelled ; and on the other hand, there 
was a part of his nature that craved this sex-experience 
and welcomed it and this part, it seemed, was favored 
by all the circumstances of life. There was no chance 
to settle the matter in the light of reason, to test it by 
any moral or aesthetic law ; blind fate decreed that one 
part of him should have the shaping of his character, 
the determining of his needs. 
He tried to make clear to himself the basis of his 
distrust. Sexual intercourse as a habit this was the 
formula by which he summed it up to himself. To be 
right, to win the sanction of the intellect and the con- 
science, the sex-act must be the result of a supreme 
creative impulse. Its purpose was the making of a 
new soul and this could never be right until those who 
took that responsibility had used their reasons, and 
determined that circumstances were such that the new 
soul might be a sound and free and happy and beautiful 
soul. And how different was this from the customs 
which prevailed under the sanction of the "holy bonds 
of matrimony"! When sexual intercourse became a 
self-indulgence, like the eating of candy, or the drink- 
ing of liquor ; a thing of the body, and the body alone ; 
a thing determined by physical propinquity, by the 
 
eight and contact of the flesh, the dressing and undress- 
ing in the same room ! 
Then again, the means which they had to use to 
prevent conception which destroyed all spontaneity 
in their relationship, and dragged the thing out into 
the cold light of day ! And the continual fear that they 
might have made another blunder ! Something of this 
sort was always happening, or seeming to have hap- 
pened, or threatening to have happened, so that they 
waited each month in suspense and dread. It was this 
which made the terror of the whole matter to Thyrsis, 
and had so much to do with his repugnance. They were 
like people drawing lots for a death-sentence ; like 
people who ate from dishes, one of which they knew to 
contain poison. What was the tragic destiny that hung 
over them the Nemesis that gripped them, and forced 
them to take such a chance? 
But the barriers were down, and there was no build- 
ing them up again ; Thyrsis never even tried, because 
of the revelation which came to him from Corydon's 
side. Corydon was craving, reaching out hungrily for 
something which she had not in herself, and which life 
did not give her in sufficiency. She called this thing 
"love" ; and she had no hesitations and no limits to her 
demand for it. To Thyrsis this "love" was something 
quite else it was sustenance and support. To demand 
it was an act of weakness, and to yield it was a kind of 
spiritual blood-transfusion. It was the first law of 
his life-code that every soul must stand upon its own 
feet and walk its own way; and to surrender that 
spiritual autonomy was the one blunder for which there 
could be no pardon. 
But then he would argue with himself what folly 
it was to talk of such things in their position! They 
 
were not souls at all the life of the soul was not for 
them, the laws of the soul had nothing to do with 
them. They were two bodies two miserable and cold 
and sick and tormented bodies ; and with yet a third 
body, utterly helpless and dependent upon them in 
defiance of all the most high-sounding pronouncements 
about "the soul" ! 
So Thyrsis would mock himself into subjection once 
more, and go on to play his part as husband and father 
and head of a household of bodies. He would play the 
game of "love" as Corydon wanted it played; he would 
yield to her demands, he would gratify her cravings, 
he would force himself to take her point of view. But 
then the other mood would come upon him the mood 
that he knew to be the real expression of himself. He 
would begin the battle of his genius again ; he would 
"hear the echoes afar off, the thunder of the captains 
and the shouting". If one gave one's self up to the 
body, and accepted the regimen and the laws of the 
body, how should the soul ever come to be free? To 
make such a concession was to pass upon it a sentence 
of life-imprisonment! 
So would come to Thyrsis again that sense of the 
awful tragedy that was impending in their lives. Some 
day, he knew, he would break out of this prison. Some 
day, he knew, he would have to be himself, and live his 
own life ! 
And meanwhile, how pitiful were Corydon's attempts 
to shape him to her needs, and to persuade herself that 
she was succeeding in doing it ! She would set forth 
to him elaborately how much he had improved ; how much 
gentler and more human he was in contrast with that 
blind and stupid and egotistical and impossible person 
she had first known. And with what bitterness Thyrsis 
 
would hear this and how he had to struggle to sup- 
press his feeling! For he knew that those qualities 
which were so hateful to her, were but the foam cast 
up to the surface of his soul by the seething of his 
genius within. When it had ceased altogether, how 
placid and still would be tl?pool and what a beautiful 
mirror it would make for Corydon to behold her own 
features in! 
12. *!N later years they used to discuss this prob- 
lem, and they could never be sure what would have hap- 
pened in their lives what would have been the reaction 
of their different temperaments if they had been given 
any fair chance to live and grow as they wanted to. 
But here they were, mashed together in this stew-pot 
of domesticity, with all the most unlovely aspects of 
things forced continually upon their attention. Each 
was in some way a handicap and a torment to the other 
a means which fate used to limit and crush and 
destroy the other; and as ever, they had in their hours 
of anguish no recourse save to sit down and reason it 
out together, and absolve each other from blame. 
i Thyrsis invented a phrase whereby he might make this 
point clear to Corydon, and keep it in her thoughts. 
The phrase was "the economic screw" ; it pressed upon 
him, and through him it crushed her. All things that 
he sought to be and could not be, all things that he 
would not be and was ; all that was hard and unloving 
in him his irritability and impatience, his narrowness 
and bitterness in all this he showed her that cruel 
force that was destroying them both. 
It was a hard role for Thyrsis, to be the judge and 
the jury and the executioner of the stern will of this 
"economic screw". There was, for instance, the episode 
 
of the "turkey-rred table-cover", which became a classic 
in their later lives. Corydon was always chafing at the 
bareness of their little home; and going into the shops 
in the town, and discovering things which might have 
made it lovely. One evil day she went alone; and when 
she came back, Thyrsis, as usual, pounced upon his 
mail, and came upon a letter from a magazine-editor 
whom he had been trying to please with an article, and 
who now scolded him mercilessly for his obstinacy and 
his egotism and his didacticism, and all his other un- 
publishable qualities. Then came the unwrapping of 
the bundles, and Corydon's guileless and joyful an- 
nouncement that she had come upon a wonderful bar- 
gain in the dry-goods store, a beautiful piece of 
"turkey-red" cloth which would serve as the table-cover 
for which her soul had been pining and which she had 
obtained for the incredibly small sum of thirty cents ! 
Whereupon, of course, Thyrsis began to exclaim in 
dismay. Thirty cents was a third of all they had to 
live upon for a day ! And to pay it for a fool piece 
of rag for which they had no earthly need ! So Corydon 
sank down in the middle of the floor and dissolved in 
floods of tears; and at the next trip into town the 
"turkey-red table-cover" was returned, and over the 
bare board table there were new expositions of the 
theory of the "economic screw" ! 
To these arguments Corydon would listen and assent. 
With her intellect she was at one with him, and she 
strove to make this intellect supreme. But always, deep 
underneath, was the other side of her being, that had 
nothing to do with intellect, but was pure primitive im- 
pulse and that pushed and drove in her always, and 
carried her away the moment that intellect loosened 
its brake. Corydon was ashamed of this primitive self 
 
she was always repudiating it, always shutting her 
eyes to it. There was no way to wound her so deeply 
as to posit its reality and identify it with her. 
She was always fighting to make her temperament like 
Thyrsis' ; she despised her own temperament utterly, 
and set up his qualities as her ideal. He was self-con- 
tained and masterful ; he knew What he wanted and how 
to get it; he was not dependent upon anyone else, he 
needed no one's approval or admiration ; he could con- 
trol his emotions, and destroy those that inconvenienced 
him. So Corydon must be these things also ; she was 
these things, and no one must gainsay it! And if ever 
she had felt or wished or said or done anything else 
that was all misunderstanding or delusion or accident ; 
she would repudiate it with grief and indignation, and 
proclaim herself the creature of pure reason that every 
person ought to be! 
But then would come something that appealed t.o 
her emotions to her love of beauty, her craving for 
joy; and there in a flash was the primitive self again. 
The task of compelling Corydon to economy reminded 
her husband of a toy which had been popular in his 
childhood days. The name of it was "Pigs in Clover" ; 
there were five little balls which vou had to coax into 
> 
a narrow entrance, and while you were getting the last 
one in, the other four were almost certain to roll out. 
It was a labor of hours to get Corydon to recognize 
an unpleasant fact; and then the next day she had 
forgotten it. There were some things about himself and 
his life that he could never get her to understand ; for 
instance, his preoccupation with the newspaper that 
symbol of all that was hateful in life. Just then was 
the beginning of the Russian revolution ; and to Thyrsis 
the Russian revolution was like the coming of relief to 
 
a shipwrecked mariner. It was a personal thing to him 
the overthrow of a horror that pressed upon the fife 
of every human being upon earth. And so each day he 
hungered for the news, and when the paper came he 
would pounce upon it. 
"Now dearest," he would say, "please don't disturb 
me. I want to read." 
"All right," she would answer; and five minutes 
would pass. 
Then "Do you want potatoes for supper, Thyrsis?' 
"Yes, dear. But I'm reading now." 
"All right." And then another five minutes. 
"Thyrsis, who was Boadicea?" 
"I'm reading now, dearest." 
"Oh yes." And then another five minutes. 
"Thyrsis, do you spell choke with an a?" 
At which Thyrsis would put down the paper. 'Tell 
me, Corydon isn't there something I can do so that 
you won't interrupt me?" 
Instantly a look of pain would sweep across her 
face. "Do you have to speak to me like that, Thyrsis ? 
If you'd only just tell me, kindly and pleasantly " 
"But I've told you three or four times!' 
"Thyrsis! How can you say that?" 
"But didn't I?" 
"Why, of course not !" 
And then they would have an argument. He would 
bring up each case and confront her with it; and how 
very unloving a procedure was that and how exasper- 
ating was his manner as he did it ! 
13. THEN again, Corydon would be going into 
town to do some shopping; and he would ask her to 
bring out the afternoon paper. It would be the day 
 
of the October massacre, for instance; and he would 
be on fire for the next batch of news. He would explain 
this to her ; he would tell her again and again what- 
ever else she forgot, she must remember the afternoon 
paper. He would walk out to meet her, burning with 
impatience; and he would ask for the paper, and see 
a blank look come over her face. 
Then, of course, he would scold. He had certain 
phrases "How perfectly unspeakable! Perfectly par- 
alyzing !" How she hated these phrases ! 
"I had so many things to get!" she would exclaim. 
"But only one thing for me, Corydon !" 
"Everything is for you just as much as for my- 
self! AH these groceries look at the bundles! I 
haven't had a single moment " 
"But how many moments does it take to buy a news- 
paper?" 
"But Thyrsis " 
"And how many times would I have to tell you? 
Have I got to go into town myself, just for the sake 
of a newspaper?" 
"I tell you I tried my very best to remember it " 
"But what's the matter with you? Is your mind 
getting weak?" 
And then like as not Corydon would burst into tears. 
"Oh, I think you are a brute !" she would cry. "A per- 
fect brute!" 
Or else, perhaps, she would grow angry, and they 
would rail at each other, exchanging recriminations. 
"I think I have burdens enough in my life," he would 
exclaim. "I've a right to some help from you." 
'You have no sense of proportion!" she would an- 
swer. 'You are impossible ! You would drive any saint 
to distraction." 
 
"Perhaps so. But I can't drive you anywhere, and 
I'm sick of trying." 
"Oh, if you only weren't such a talker ! You talk 
talk talk !" 
And all the while they did this, what grief was in the 
depths of them ! And afterwards, what ghastly wounds 
in Corydon's soul, that had to be bound up and tended 
and healed ! The pity of it, the shame of it that they 
should be able to descend to such sordidness ! That 
their love, which they had planned as a noble temple, 
should turn out an ugly hovel ! 
"Oh Thyrsis !" the girl would cry. "The idea that 
you should think less of my soul than of an old news- 
paper !" 
"But that is not so, dearest," he would answer. He 
would try to explain to her how much the newspaper 
had meant to him, and just why his annoyance had got 
the better of him. So they would rehearse the scene 
over again ; and like as not their irritation would sweep 
over them, and before they realized it they would find 
themselves disputing once more. 
Thyrsis would be making a desperate attempt to 
bring her to a realization of his difficulties ; he would 
be in the midst of pouring out some eloquence, when she 
would interrupt him. 
"But Thyrsis, wait a moment you do not under- 
stand !" 
"I am speaking!" he would say. 
"But, Thyrsis " 
"I am speaking !" He would not be interrupted. 
But then would come a time when they sat down to- 
gether and talked all this out, perceiving it as one more 
aspect of the disharmony of their temperaments. It 
was no fault of either of them, they would agree; it 
 
was just that they were different. Thyrsis had a simile 
that he used "It's a marriage between a butterfly and 
a hippopotamus. You don't blame the butterfly because 
it can't get down into the water and snort; and on the 
other hand, when the hippopotamus tries to flap his 
wings and flit about among the flowers, he doesn't make 
a success of it." 
There would be times when he took Corydon's point 
of view entirely. She was beautiful and good ; her 
naivete and guilelessness were the essence of her charm ; 
and how preposterous it was to expect her to think 
about newspapers, or to be familiar with the price of 
