asked her to be my bridesmaid to-morrow."

He continued silent beside her so long that she said timidly:

"Do you mind, Jim?"

"I was only thinking--how it might look in the papers--and there are
other girls you already know whose names would mean a lot----"

"Yes, I know. But I don't want to pretend to be what I am not, even in
the papers. I suppose I do need all the social corroboration I can have.
I know what you mean, dear. But there were reasons. I thought it all
over. Cynthia is an old friend, not very happy, not the fortunate and
blessed girl that your love is making of me. But she is good and sweet
and loyal to me, and I can't abandon old friends, especially one who is
not very fortunate--and I--I thought perhaps it might help her a
little--in various ways--to be my bridesmaid."

"That is like you," he said, reddening. "You never say or do anything
but there lies in it some primary lesson in decency to me."

"You goose! Isn't it natural for a girl to wish for her oldest friend at
such a time? That's really all there is to the matter. And I do hope you
will like Cynthia."

He nodded, preoccupied. After a few moments he said:

"Did you know that Jack Cairns had met her?"

"Yes."

"Oh!" His troubled eyes sought hers, then shifted.

"That was another reason I wish to ask her," she said in a low voice.

"What reason?"

"Because Mr. Cairns knew her only as a very young, very lonely, very
unhappy girl, inexperienced, friendless, poor, almost shelterless; and
engaged in a profession upon which it is almost traditional for men to
prey. And I wish him to know her again as a girl who is slowly
advancing in an honest profession--as a modest, sweet, self-respecting
woman--and as my friend."

"And mine," he said.

"You--darling!" she whispered.




CHAPTER XIII


They were married in the morning at St. George's in Stuyvesant Square.

Gay little flurries of snow, like wind-blown petals from an apple bough,
were turning golden in the warm outbreak of brilliant sunshine; and
there was blue sky overhead and shining wet pavements under foot as
Jacqueline and Desboro came out of the shadows of the old-time church
into the fresh splendour of the early morning.

The solemn beauty of the service still possessed and enthralled them.
Except for a low word or two, they were inclined to silence.

But the mating sparrows were not; everywhere the little things, brown
wings a-quiver, chattered and chirped in the throes of courtship; now
and then, from some high façade rang out the clear, sweet whistle of a
starling; and along the warm, wet streets ragged children were selling
violets and narcissus, and yellow tulips tinted as delicately as the
pale spring sunshine.

A ragged little girl came to stare at Jacqueline, the last unsold bunch
of wilted violets lying on her tray; and Jacqueline laid the cluster
over the prayer-book which she was carrying, while Desboro slipped a
golden coin into the child's soiled hand.

Down the street his chauffeur was cranking the car; and while they
waited for it to draw up along the curb, Jacqueline separated a few
violets from the faintly fragrant cluster and placed them between the
leaves of her prayer-book.

After a few moments he said, under his breath:

"Do you realise that we are married, Jacqueline?"

"No. Do you?"

"I'm trying to comprehend it, but I can't seem to. How soft the breeze
blows! It is already spring in Stuyvesant Square."

"The Square is lovely! They will be setting out hyacinths soon, I
think." She shivered. "It's strange," she said, "but I feel rather cold.
Am I horridly pale, Jim?"

"You are a trifle colourless--but even prettier than I ever saw you," he
whispered, turning up the collar of her fur coat around her throat. "You
haven't taken cold, have you?"

"No; it is--natural--I suppose. Miracles frighten one at first."

Their eyes met; she tried to smile. After a moment he said nervously:

"I sent out the announcements. The evening papers will have them."

"I want to see them, Jim."

"You shall. I have ordered all this evening's and to-morrow morning's
papers. They will be sent to Silverwood."

The car rolled up along the curb and stopped.

"Can't I take you to your office?" he whispered.

"No, dear."

She laid one slim hand on his arm and stood for a moment looking at him.

"How pale you are!" he said again, under his breath.

"Brides are apt to be. It's only a swift and confused dream to me
yet--all that has happened to us to-day; and even this sunshine seems
unreal--like the first day of spring in paradise!"

She bent her proud little head and stood in silence as though unseen
hands still hovered above her, and unseen lips were still pronouncing
her his wife. Then, lifting her eyes, winningly and divinely beautiful,
she looked again on this man whom the world was to call her husband.

"Will you be ready at five?" he whispered.

"Yes."

They lingered a moment longer; he said:

"I don't know how I am going to endure life without you until five
o'clock."

She said seriously: "I can't bear to leave you, Jim. But you know you
have almost as many things to do as I have."

"As though a man could attend to things on his wedding day!"

"This girl has to. I don't know how I am ever going to go through the
last odds and ends of business--but it's got to be managed somehow. Do
you really think we had better go up to Silverwood in the car? Won't
this snow make the roads bad? It may not have melted in the country."

"Oh, it's all right! And I'll have you to myself in the car----"

"Suppose we are ditched?" She shivered again, then forced a little
laugh. "Do you know, it doesn't seem possible to me that I am going to
be your wife to-morrow, too, and the next day, and the next, and always,
year after year. Somehow, it seems as though our dream were already
ending--that I shall not see you at five o'clock--that it is all
unreal----"

The smile faded, and into her blue eyes came something resembling
fear--gone instantly--but the hint of it had been there, whatever it
was; and the ghost of it still lingered in her white, flower-like face.

She whispered, forcing the smile again: "Happiness sometimes frightens;
and it is making me a little afraid, I think. Come for me at five, Jim,
and try to make me comprehend that nothing in the world can ever harm
us. Tell your man where to take me--but only to the corner of my street,
please."

He opened the limousine door; she stepped in, and he wrapped the robe
around her. A cloud over the sun had turned the world grey for a moment.
Again she seemed to feel the sudden chill in the air, and tried to shake
it off.

"Look at Mr. Cairns and Cynthia," she whispered, leaning forward from
her seat and looking toward the church.

He turned. Cairns and Miss Lessler had emerged from the portico and were
lingering there in earnest consultation, quite oblivious of them.

"Do you like her, Jim?" she asked.

He smiled.

"I didn't notice her very much--or Jack either. A man isn't likely to
notice anybody at such a time--except the girl he is marrying----"

"Look at her now. Don't you think her expression is very sweet?"

"It's all right. Dear, do you suppose I can fix my attention on----"

"You absurd boy! Are you really as much in love with me as that? Please
be nice to her. Would you mind going back and speaking to her when I
drive away?"

"All right," he said.

Their glances lingered for a moment more; then he drew a quick, sharp
breath, closed the limousine door, and spoke briefly to the chauffeur.

As long as the car remained in sight across the square, he watched it;
then, when it had disappeared, he turned toward the church. But Cairns
and Cynthia were already far down the street, walking side by side, very
leisurely, apparently absorbed in conversation. They must have seen him.
Perhaps they had something more interesting to say to each other than to
him.

He followed them irresolutely for a few steps, then, as the idea
persisted that they might not desire his company, he turned and started
west across the sunny, wet pavement.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was quite true that Cairns and Cynthia had seen him; also it was a
fact that neither had particularly wanted him to join them at that exact
moment.

Meeting at St. George's for the first time in two years, and although
prepared for the encounter, these two, who had once known each other so
well, experienced a slight shock when they met. The momentary contact of
her outstretched hand and his hand left them both very silent; even the
formal commonplaces had failed them after the first swift, curious
glance had been exchanged.

Cairns noticed that she had grown taller and slenderer. And though there
seemed to be no more of maturity to her than to the young girl he had
once known, her poise and self-control were now in marked contrast to
the impulsive and slightly nervous Cynthia he had found so amusing in
callower days.

Once or twice during the ceremony he had ventured to glance sideways at
her. In the golden half-light of the altar there seemed to be an
unfamiliar dignity and sweetness about the girl that became her. And in
the delicate oval of her face he thought he discerned those finer,
nobler contours made by endurance, by self-denial, and by sorrow.

Later, when he saw her kiss Jacqueline, something in the sweet sincerity
of the salute suddenly set a hidden chord vibrating within him; and, to
his surprise, he found speech difficult for a moment, checked by
emotions for which there seemed no reason.

And at last Jacqueline and Desboro went away, and Cynthia slowly turned
to him, offering her hand in adieu.

"Mr. Cairns," she said quietly, "this is the last place on earth that
you and I ever thought to meet. Perhaps it is to be our last meeting
place. So--I will say good-bye----"

"May I not walk home with you? Or, if you prefer to drive, my car is
here----" he began.

"Thank you; it's only to the theatre--if you care to walk with me----"

"Are you rehearsing?"

"There is a rehearsal called for eleven."

"Shall we drive or walk, Cynthia?"

"I prefer to walk. Please don't feel that you ought to go back with me."

He said, reddening: "I do not remember that my sense of duty toward you
has ever been persistent enough to embarrass either of us."

"Of course not. Why should you ever have felt that you owed any duty to
me?"

"I did not say that I ever felt it."

"Of course not. You owed me none."

"That is a different matter. Obligations once sat very lightly on my
shoulders."

"You owe me none," she repeated smilingly, as they emerged from the
church into the warm March sunshine.

He was saying: "But isn't friendship an obligation, Cynthia?"

She laughed: "Friendship is merely an imaginary creation, and exists
only until the imagination wearies. That is not original," she added.
"It is in the new Barrie comedy we are rehearsing."

She turned her pretty head and glanced down the street where Jacqueline
and Desboro still stood beside the car. Cairn's car was also waiting,
and its owner made a signal to the chauffeur that he did not need him.

Looking at Jacqueline, Cynthia said:

"Long ago I knew that she was fitted for a marriage such as this--or a
better one," she added in a lower voice.

"A better one?" he repeated, surprised.

"Yes," she nodded calmly. "Can you not imagine a more desirable marriage
for a girl?"

"Don't you like Desboro?" he demanded.

"I like him--considering the fact that I scarcely know him. He has very
handsome and very reckless eyes, but a good mouth. To look at him for
the first time a woman would be inclined to like him--but he might
hesitate to trust him. I had hoped Jacqueline might marry a professional
man--considerably older than Mr. Desboro. That is all I meant."

He said, looking at her smilingly but curiously: "Have you any idea,
Cynthia, how entirely you have changed in two years?"

She shook her head: "I haven't changed."

"Indeed you have----"

"Only superficially. What I was born I shall always be. Years teach
endurance and self-control--if they teach anything. All one can learn is
how to control and direct what one already is."

"The years have taught you a lot," he murmured, astonished.

"I have been to school to many masters, Mr. Cairns; I have studied under
Sorrow; graduated under Poverty and Loneliness; and I am now taking a
finishing course with Experience. Truly enough, I should have learned
something, as you say, by this time. Besides, you, also, once were
kind enough to be interested in my education. Why should I not have
learned something?"

He winced and bit his lip, watching Desboro and Jacqueline below. And,
after a moment:

"Shall we walk?" she suggested, smilingly.

He fell into step beside her. Half way down the block she glanced back.
Desboro was already crossing the square; the limousine had disappeared.

"I wonder sometimes," she remarked, "what has become of all those
amusing people we once knew so well--Marianne Valdez, Jessie Dain,
Reggie Ledyard, Van Alstyne. Do you ever see them any more?"

"Yes."

"And are they quite as gay and crazy as ever?"

"They're a bit wild--sometimes."

"Do they ever speak of me? I--wonder," she mused, aloud.

"Yes. They know, of course, what a clever girl you have turned into. It
isn't usual, you know, to graduate from a girlie show into the legit.
And I was talking to Schindler the other evening; and he had to admit
that he had seen nothing extraordinary in you when you were with his
noisy shows. It's funny, isn't it?"

"Slightly."

"Besides, you were such a wild little thing--don't you remember what
crazy things we used to do, you and I----"

"Did I? Yes, I remember. In those days a good dinner acted on me like
champagne. You see I was very often hungry, and when I wasn't starved it
went to my head."

"You need not have wanted for anything!" he said sharply.

"Oh, no! But I preferred the pangs of hunger to the pangs of
conscience," she retorted gaily.

"I didn't mean that. There was no string to what I offered you, and you
know it! And you know it now!"

"Certainly I do," she said calmly. "You mean to be very kind, Jack."

"Then why the devil didn't----"

"Why didn't I accept food and warmth and raiment and lodging from a
generous and harebrained young man? I'll tell you now, if you wish. It
was because my conscience forbade me to accept all and offer nothing in
return."

"Nonsense! I didn't ask----"

"I know you didn't. But I couldn't give, so I wouldn't take. Besides, we
were together too much. I knew it. I think even you began to realise it,
too. The situation was impossible. So I went on the road."

"You never answered any of those letters of mine."

"Mentally I answered every one."

"A lot of good that did me!"

"It did us both a lot of good. I meant to write to you some day--when my
life had become busy enough to make it difficult for me to find time to
write."

He looked up at her sharply, and she laughed and swung her muff.

"I suppose," he said, "now that the town talks about you a little, you
will have no time to waste on mere Johnnies."

"Well, I don't know. When a mere Johnnie is also a Jack, it makes a
difference--doesn't it? Do you think that you would care to see me
again?"

"Of course I do."

"The tickets," she said demurely, "are three dollars--two weeks in
advance----"

"I know that by experience."

"Oh! Then you have seen 'The Better Way'?"

"Certainly."

"Do you like--the show?"

"You are the best of it. Yes, I like it."

"It's my first chance. Did you know that? If poor little Graham hadn't
been so ill, I'd never have had a look in. They wouldn't give me
anything--except in a way I couldn't accept it. I tell you, Jack, I was
desperate. There seemed to be absolutely no chance unless I--paid."

"Why didn't you write me and let me----"

"You know why."

"It would have been reward enough to see you make good--and put it all
over that bald-headed, dog-faced----"

"My employer, please remember," she said, pretending to reprove him.
"And, Jack, he's amusingly decent to me now. Men are really beginning to
be kind. Walbaum's people have written to me, and O'Rourke sent for me,
and I'm just beginning to make professional enemies, too, which is the
surest sign that I'm almost out of the ranks. If I could only study! Now
is the time! I know it; I feel it keenly--I realise how much I lack in
education! You see I only went to high-school. It's a mercy that my
English isn't hopeless----"

"It's good! It's better than I ever supposed it would be----"

"I know. I used to be careless. But what can you expect? After I left
home you know the sort of girls I was thrown among. Fortunately, father
was educated--if he was nothing else. My degeneracy wasn't permanent.
Also, I had been thrown with Jacqueline, and with you----"

"Fine educational model I am!"

"And," she continued, not heeding him, "when I met you, and men like
you, I was determined that whatever else happened to me my English
should not degenerate. Jacqueline helped me so much. I tried to study,
too, when I was not on the road with the show. But if only I could
study now--study seriously for a year or two!"

"What do you wish to study, Cynthia?" he asked carelessly.

"English! Also French and German and Italian. I would like to study what
girls in college study. Then I'd like to learn stage dancing thoroughly.
And, of course, I'm simply crazy to take a course in dramatic art----"

"But you already know a lot! Every paper spoke well of you----"

"Oh, Jack! Does that mean anything--when I know that I don't know
anything!"

"Rot! Can you beat professional experience as an educator?"

"I'm not quite ready for it----"

"Very well. If you feel that way, will you be a good sort, Cynthia, and
let me----"

"No!"

"I ask you merely to let me take a flyer!"

"No, Jack."

"Why can't I take a flyer? Why can't I have the pleasure of speculating
on a perfectly sure thing? It's a million to nothing that you'll make
good. For the love of Mike, Cynthia, borrow the needful and----"

"From you?"

"Naturally."

"No, Jack!"

"Why not? Why cut off your nose to spite your face? What difference does
it make where you get it as long as it's a decent deal? You can't afford
to take two or three years off to complete your education----"

"Begin it, you mean."

"I mean finish it! You can't afford to; but if you'll borrow the money
you'll make good in exactly one-tenth of the time you'd otherwise take
to arrive----"

"Jack, I won't discuss it with you. I know you are generous and
kind----"

"I'm not! I'm anything but! For heaven's sake let a man indulge his
vanity, Cynthia. Imagine my pride when you are famous! Picture my
bursting vanity as I sit in front and tell everybody near me that the
credit is all mine; that if it were not for me you would be nowhere!"

"It's so like you," she said sweetly. "You always were an inordinate
boaster, so I am not going to encourage you."

"Can't you let me make you a business loan at exorbitant interest
without expiring of mortification?"

They had reached the theatre; a few loafers sunning themselves by the
stage entrance leered at them.

"Hush, Jack! I can't discuss it with you. But you know how grateful I
am, don't you?"

"No, I don't----" he said sulkily.

"You are cross now, but you'll see it as I do half an hour hence."

"No, I won't!" he insisted.

She laughed: "You haven't changed, at all events, have you? It takes
me back years to see that rather becoming scowl gather over the bridge
of your ornamental nose. But it is very nice to know that you haven't
entirely forgotten me; that we are still friends."

"Where are you living, Cynthia?"

She told him, adding: "Do you really mean to come?"

"Watch me!" he said, almost savagely, took off his hat, shook her hand
until her fingers ached, and marched off still scowling.

The stage loafers shifted quids and looked after him with sneers.

"Trun out!" observed one.

"All off!" nodded another.

The third merely spat and slowly closed his disillusioned and
leisure-weary eyes.

       *       *       *       *       *

Cairns' energetic pace soon brought him to the Olympian Club, where he
was accustomed to lunch, it being convenient to his office, which was on
Forty-sixth Street.

Desboro, who, at Jacqueline's request, had gone back to business,
appeared presently and joined Cairns at a small table.

"Anything doing at the office?" inquired the latter. "I suppose you were
too nervous and upset to notice the market though."

"Well, ask yourself how much you'd feel like business after marrying
the most glorious and wonderful----"

"Ring off! I concede everything. It is going to make some splash in the
papers. Yes? Lord! I wish you could have had a ripping big wedding
though! Wouldn't she have looked the part? Oh, no!"

"It couldn't be helped," said Desboro in a low, chagrined voice. "I'd
have given the head off my shoulders to have had the sort of a wedding
to which she was entitled. But--I couldn't."

Cairns nodded, not, however, understanding; and as Desboro offered no
explanation, he remained unenlightened.

"Rather odd," he remarked, "that she didn't wish to have Aunt Hannah
with her at the fatal moment. They're such desperate chums these days."

"She did want her. I wouldn't have her."

"Is that so?"

"It is. I'll tell you why some day. In fact, I don't mind telling you
now. Aunt Hannah has it in for me. She's a devil sometimes. You know it
and I do. She has it in for me just now. She's wrong; she's made a
mistake; but I couldn't tell her anything. You can't tell that sort of a
woman anything, once she's made up her mind. And the fact is, Jack,
she's already made up her mind that I was not to marry Jacqueline. And I
was afraid of her. And that's why I married Jacqueline this way."

Cairns stared.

"So now," added Desboro, "you know how it happened."

"Quite so. Rotten of her, wasn't it?"

"She didn't mean it that way. She got a fool idea into her head, that's
all. Only I was afraid she'd tell it to Jacqueline."

"I see."

"That's what scared me. I didn't know what she might tell Jacqueline.
She threatened to tell her--things. And it would have involved a
perfectly innocent woman and myself--put me in a corner where I couldn't
decently explain the real facts to Jacqueline. Now, thank God, it's too
late for Aunt Hannah to make mischief."

Cairns nodded, thinking of Mrs. Clydesdale. And whatever he personally
was inclined to believe, he knew that gossip was not dealing very
leniently with that young wife and the man who sat on the other side of
the table, nervously pulling to pieces his unlighted cigarette.

       *       *       *       *       *

But it needed no rumour, no hearsay evidence, no lifted eyebrows, no
shrugs, no dubious smiles, no half-hearted defence of Elena Clydesdale,
to thoroughly convince Mrs. Hammerton of Desboro's utter unfitness as a
husband for the motherless girl she had begun to love with a devotion so
fierce that at present it could brook no rival at all of either sex.

For Mrs. Hammerton had never before loved. She had once supposed that
she loved her late husband, but soon came to regard him as a poor sort
of thing. She had been extremely fond of Desboro, too, in her own way,
but in the vivid fire of this new devotion to Jacqueline, any tenderness
she ever might have cherished for that young man was already consumed
and sacrificed to a cinder in the fiercer flame.

Into her loneliness, into her childless solitude, into the hardness,
cynicism, and barren emptiness of her latter years, a young girl had
stepped from nowhere, and she had suddenly filled her whole life with
the swift enchantment of love.

A word or two, a smile, the magic of two arms upon her bony shoulders,
the shy touch of youthful lips--these were the very simple ingredients
which apparently had transmuted the brass and tinsel and moral squalor
of Aunt Hannah's life into charming reality.

From sudden tenderness to grim love, to jealous, watchful, passionate
adoration--these were the steps Mrs. Hammerton had taken in the brief
interval of time that had elapsed since she had first seen Jacqueline.

Into the clear, truthful eyes she had looked, and had seen within only
an honest mind and a clean young soul. Wisdom, too, only lacking in
experience, she divined there; and less of wisdom than of intelligence;
and less of that than of courage. And it all was so clear, so perfectly
apparent to the cold and experienced scrutiny of the woman of the world,
that, for a while, she could not entirely believe what she understood at
the first glance.

When she was convinced, she surrendered. And never before in all her
unbelieving, ironical, and material career had she experienced such a
thrill of overwhelming delight as when, that evening at Silverwood,
Jacqueline had drawn her head down and had touched her dry forehead with
warm, young lips.

Everything about the girl fascinated her--her independence and courage;
her adorable bashfulness in matters where experience had made others
callous--in such little things, for example, as the response to an
invitation, the meeting with fashionable strangers--but it was only the
nice, friendly, and thoroughbred shyness of inexperience, not the
awkwardness of under-breeding or of that meaner vanity called
self-consciousness.

Poor herself, predatory, clever, hard as nails, her beady eyes ever
alert for the main chance, she felt for the first time in her life the
real bitterness of comparative poverty--which is the inability to give
where one loves.

She had no illusions; she knew that what she had to offer the girl would
soon pall; that Jacqueline would choose her own friends among the sane
and simple and sincere, irrespective of social and worldly
considerations; that no glitter, no sham, no tinsel could permanently
hold her attention; no lesser ambition seduce her; no folly ever awake
her laughter more than once. What the girl saw she would understand;
and, in future, she would choose for herself what she cared to see and
know of a new world now gradually opening before her.

But in the meantime Jacqueline must see before she could learn, and
before she could make up her mind what to discard and what to retain.

So Mrs. Hammerton had planned that Jacqueline should be very busy during
March and April; and her patience was sorely tried when she found that,
for a week or two, the girl could give her only a very few minutes every
other day.

At first it was a grim consolation to her that Jacqueline still remained
too busy to see anybody, because that meant that Desboro, too, would be
obliged to keep his distance.

For at first Mrs. Hammerton did not believe that the girl could be
seriously interested in Desboro; in fact, she had an idea that, so far,
all the sentiment was on Desboro's side. And both Jacqueline's reticence
and her calm cordiality in speaking of Desboro were at first mistaken by
Aunt Hannah for the symptoms of a friendship not sentimentally
significant.

But the old lady's doubts soon became aroused; she began to watch
Jacqueline askance--began to test her, using all her sly cleverness and
skill. Slowly her uncertainty, uneasiness, and suspicion changed to
anger and alarm.

If she had been more than angry and suspicious--if she had been
positive, she would not have hesitated an instant. For on one matter she
was coldly determined; the girl should not marry Desboro, or any such
man as Desboro. It made no difference to her whether Desboro might be
really in love with her. He was not fit for her; he was a man of weak
character, idle, useless, without purpose or ability, who would never
