"Mr. Quarren thinks it is."
"I daresay he's quite right, but there's nothing here to prove it"; and
he slapped the huge portfolio shut, laid his hands on the table, vaulted
to the top of it, and sat down. Miss Vining resumed her reading.
"Miss Vining?"
"Yes?" very leisurely.
"How old do you think I am?"
"I beg your pardon----"
"How old do you think I am?"
"Really I hadn't thought about it, Lord Dankmere."
"Oh."
Miss Vining resumed her reading.
When the Earl had sat on top of the table long enough he got down and
dropped into the depths of an armchair.
"Miss Vining," he said.
"Yes?" incuriously.
"Have you thought it out yet?"
"Thought out what, Lord Dankmere?"
"How old I am."
"Really," she retorted, half laughing, half vexed, "do you suppose that
my mind is occupied in wondering what your age might be?"
"Isn't it?"
"Of course not."
"Don't you want to know?"
She began to laugh again:
"Why, if you wish to tell me of course it will interest me most
profoundly." And she made him a graceful little bow.
"I'm thirty-three," he said.
"Thank you so much for telling me."
"You are welcome," he returned gravely. "Do you think I'm too old?"
"Too old for what?"
"Oh, for anything interesting."
"What do you mean by 'interesting'?"
But Lord Dankmere apparently did not know what he did mean for he made
no answer.
After a little while he said: "Wouldn't it be odd if I ever have income
enough to pay off my debts?"
"What?"
He repeated the observation.
"I don't know what you mean. You naturally expect to pay them, don't
you?"
"I saw no chance of doing so before Mr. Quarren took hold of these
pictures."
She was sorry for him:
"Are you very deeply in debt?"
He named the total of his liabilities and she straightened her young
shoulders, horrified.
"Oh, that's nothing," he said. "I know plenty of chaps in England who
are far worse off."
"But--that is terrible!" she faltered.
Dankmere waved his hand:
"It's not so bad. That show business let me in for a lot."
"Why did you ever do it?"
"I like it," he explained simply.
She flushed: "It seems strange for a--a man of your kind to sing comic
songs and dance before an audience."
"Not at all. I've a friend, Exford by name--who goes about grinding a
barrel-organ."
"Why?"
"He likes to do it.... I've another pal of sorts who chucked the Guards
to become a milliner. He always did like to crochet and trim hats. Why
not?--if he likes it!"
"It is not," said Jessie Vining, "my idea of a British peer."
"But for Heaven's sake, consider the peer! Now and then they have an
idea of what they'd like to do. Why not let them do it and be happy?"
"Then they ought not to have been born to the peerage," she said firmly.
"Many of them wouldn't have been had anybody consulted them."
"You?"
"It's brought me nothing but debt, ridicule, abuse, and summonses."
"You couldn't resign, could you?" she said, smiling.
"I am resigned. Oh, well, I'd rather be what I am than anything else,
I fancy.... If the Topeka Museum trustees purchase that Gainsborough
I'll be out of debt fast enough."
"And then?" she inquired, still smiling.
"I don't know. I'd like to start another show."
"And leave Mr. Quarren?"
"What use am I? We'd share alike; he'd manage the business and I'd
manage a musical comedy I'm writing after hours----"
He jumped up and went to the piano where for the next ten minutes he
rattled off some lively and very commonplace music which to Jessie
Vining sounded like everything she had ever before heard.
"Do you like it?" he asked hopefully, swinging around on his stool.
"It's--lively."
"You don't like it!"
"I--it seems--very entertaining," she said, reddening.
The Earl sat looking at her in silence for a moment; then he said:
"To care for anything and make a failure of it--can you beat it for
straight misery, Miss Vining?"
"Oh, please don't speak that way. I really am no judge of musical
composition."
He considered the key-board gloomily; and resting one well-shaped hand
on it addressed empty space:
"What's the use of liking to do a thing if you can't do it? Why the
deuce should a desire torment a man when there's no chance of
accomplishment?"
The girl looked at him out of her pretty, distressed eyes but found no
words suitable for the particular moment.
Dankmere dropped the other hand on the keys, touched a chord or two
softly, then drifted into the old-time melody, "Shannon Water."
His voice was a pleasantly modulated barytone when he chose; he sang the
quaint and lovely old song in perfect taste. Then, very lightly, he sang
"The Harp," and afterward an old Breton song made centuries ago.
When he turned Miss Vining was resting her head on both hands, eyes
lowered.
"Those were the real musicians and poets," he said--"not these Strausses
and 'Girls from the Golden West.'"
"Will you sing some more?"
"Do you like my singing?"
"Very much."
So he idled for another half hour at the piano, recalling half-forgotten
melodies of the Age of Faith, which, like all art of that immortal age,
can never again be revived. For art alone was not enough in those days,
the creator of the beautiful was also endowed with Faith; all the world
was so endowed; and it was such an audience as never again can gather to
inspire any maker of beautiful things.
Quarren came up to listen; Jessie prepared tea; and the last golden hour
of the afternoon drifted away to the untroubled harmonies of other days.
Later, Jessie, halting on the steps to draw on her gloves, heard
Dankmere open the door behind her and come out.
They descended the steps together, and she was already turning north
with a nod of good-night, when he said:
"Are you walking?"
She was, to save carfare.
"May I go a little way?"
"Yes--if----"
Lord Dankmere waited, but she did not complete whatever it was she had
meant to say. Then, very slowly she turned northward, and he went, too,
grasping his walking-stick with unnecessary firmness and carrying
himself with the determination and dignity of a man who is walking
beside a pretty girl slightly taller than himself.
CHAPTER XIII
Strelsa had gone to town with her maid, remained there the entire
afternoon, and returned to Witch-Hollow without seeing Quarren or even
letting him know she was there.
It was the beginning of the end for her and she knew it; and she had
already begun to move doggedly toward the end through the blind
confusion of things, no longer seeing, hearing, heeding; impelled
mechanically toward the goal which meant to her only the relief of
absolute rest.
For her troubles were accumulating and she found in herself no resisting
power--only the nervous strength left to get away from them. Troubles of
every description were impending; some had already come upon her, like
Quarren's last letter which she knew signified that the termination of
their friendship was already in sight.
But other things were in sight, too, so she spent the afternoon in town
with her lawyers; which lengthy séance resulted in the advertising for
immediate sale of her house in town and its contents, her town car,
brougham, victoria and three horses.
Through her lawyers, also, every jewel she possessed, all her wardrobe
except what she had with her at Witch-Hollow, and her very beautiful
collection of old lace, were placed in the hands of certain discreet
people to dispose of privately.
Every servant in her employment except her maid was paid and dismissed;
her resignation from the Province Club was forwarded, all social
engagements for the summer cancelled.
There remained only two other matters to settle; and one of them could
be put off--without hope of escape perhaps--but still it could be
avoided for a little while longer.
The other was to write to Quarren; and she wrote as follows:
     "I have been in town; necessity drove me, and I was too unhappy to
     see you. But this is the result: I can hold out a few months
     longer--to no purpose, I know--yet, you asked it of me, and I am
     trying to do it. Meanwhile the pressure never eases; I feel your
     unhappiness deeply--deeply, Rix!--and it is steadily wearing me
     out. And the pressure from Molly in your behalf, from Mrs. Sprowl
     by daily letter in behalf of Sir Charles, from Langly in his own
     interest never slackens for one moment.
     "And that is not all; my late husband left no will, and I have
     steadily refused to make any contest for more than my dower rights.
     "That has been swept away, now; urgent need has compelled me to
     offer for sale everything I possess except what wardrobe and
     unimportant trinkets I have with me.
     "So many suits have been threatened and even commenced against
     me--you don't know, Rix--but while there remains any chance of
     meeting my obligations dollar for dollar I have refused to go
     through bankruptcy.
     "I need not, now, I think. But the selling of everything will not
     leave me very much; and in the end my cowardice will do what you
     dread, and what I no longer fear, so utterly dead in me is every
     emotion, every nerve, every moral. Men bound to the wheel have
     slept; I want that sleep. I long for the insensibility, the endless
     lethargy that the mortally bruised crave; and that is all I hope or
     care for now.
     "Love, as man professes it, would only hurt me--even yours. There
     can be no response from a soul and body stunned. Nothing must
     disturb their bruised coma.
     "The man I intend to marry can evoke nothing in me, will demand
     nothing of me. That is already mutually understood. It's merely a
     bargain. He wants me as the ornament for the House of Sprowl. I can
     carry out the pact without effort, figure as the mistress of his
     domain, live life through unharassed as though I stood alone in a
     vague, warm dream, safe from anything real.
     "Meanwhile, without aim, without hope, without even desire to
     escape my destiny, I am holding out because you ask it. To what
     end, my friend? Can you tell me?"
One morning Molly came into her room greatly perturbed, and Strelsa,
still in bed, laid aside the New Testament which she had been reading,
and looked up questioningly at her agitated hostess.
"It's your fault," began Molly without preliminaries--"that old woman
certainly suspects what you're up to with her nephew or she wouldn't
bother to come up here----"
"Who?" said Strelsa, sitting up. "Mrs. Sprowl?"
"Certainly, horse, foot, and dragoons! She's coming, I tell you, and
there's only one motive for her advent!"
"But where will she stop?" asked Strelsa, flushing with dismay.
"Where do you suppose?"
"With Langly?"
"He wouldn't have her."
"She is not to be your guest, is she?"
"No. She wrote hinting that she'd come if asked. I pretended not to
understand. I don't want her here. Every servant I have would leave--as
a beginning. Besides I don't require the social prestige of such a
visitation; and she knows that, too. So what do you think she's done?"
"I can't imagine," said Strelsa wearily.
"Well, she's manœuvred, somehow; and this morning's paper announces that
she's to be entertained at South Linden by Mary Ledwith."
Strelsa reddened.
"Why should that concern me?" she asked calmly.
"Concern you, child! How can it help concerning you? Do you see what
she's done?--do you count all the birds she's knocked over with one
stone. Mary Ledwith returns from Reno and Mrs. Sprowl fixes and secures
her social status by visiting her at once. And it's a perfectly plain
notice to Langly, too, and--forgive me, dear!--to you!"
Strelsa scarlet and astonished, sat up rigid, her beautiful head thrown
back.
"If she means it that way, it is slanderous," she said. "The entire
story is a base slander! Did you believe it, Molly?"
"Believe it? Of course I believe it----"
"Why should you? Because a lot of vile newspapers have hinted at such a
thing? I tell you it is an infamous story without one atom of truth in
it----"
"How do you know?" asked Molly bluntly.
"Because Langly says so."
"Oh. Did you ask him?"
"No. He spoke of it himself."
"He denied it?"
"Absolutely on his word of honour."
"Then why didn't he sue a few newspapers?"
"He spoke of that, too. He said that his attorneys had advised him not
to bring any actions because the papers had been too clever to lay
themselves open to suits for libel."
"Oh," said Molly softly.
Strelsa, flushed, breathing rapidly and irregularly, sat there in bed
watching her; but Molly avoided her brilliant, level gaze.
"There's no use in talking to you," she said, "but why on earth you
don't marry Sir Charles----"
"Molly! Please don't----"
"--Or Rix----"
"Molly! Molly! Can't you let me alone! Can't we be together for ten
minutes unless you urge me to marry somebody? Why do you want me to
marry anybody!--Why----"
"But you're going to marry Langly, you say!"
"Yes, I am! I am! But can't you let me forget it for a moment or two?
I--I'm not very well----"
"I can't help it," said Molly, grimly. "I'm sorry, darling, but the
moment your engagement to Langly is announced there'll be a horrid
smash and some people are going to be spattered----"
"It isn't announced!" said the girl hotly. "Only you and Rix know
about it except Langly and myself!"
Molly Wycherly rose from her chair, went over and seated herself on the
foot of the bed:
"Tell me something, will you, Strelsa?"
"What?"
"Why does Langly desire to keep your engagement to him a secret?"
"He wishes it for the present."
"Why?"
"For that very reason!" said Strelsa, fiercely--"because of the
injustice the papers have done him in this miserable Ledwith matter. He
chooses to wait until it is forgotten--in order to shield me, I suppose,
from any libellous comment----"
"You talk like a little idiot!" said Molly between her teeth. "Strelsa,
I could shake you--if it would wake you up! Do you suppose for a moment
that this Ledwith matter will be forgotten? Do you suppose if there were
nothing in it but libel that he'd be afraid? You listen to me; that man
is not apt to be afraid of anything, but he evidently is afraid, now!
Of what, then?"
"Of my being annoyed by newspaper comment."
"And you think it's merely that?"
"Isn't it enough?"
Molly laughed:
"We're a hardened lot--some of us. But our most deadly fear is that the
papers may not notice us. No matter what they say if they'll only say
something!--that's our necessity and our unadmitted prayer. Because
we've neither brains nor culture nor any distinguishing virtue or
ability--and we're nothing--absolutely nothing unless the papers create
us! Don't tell me that any one among us is afraid of publicity!--not in
the particular circle where you and I and Langly and his aunt pursue our
eccentric orbits!
"Plenty of wealthy and fashionable people dread publicity and shrink
from it; plenty of them would gladly remain unchronicled and unsung. But
it is not so among the fixed stars and planets and meteors and
satellites of our particularly flamboyant constellation. I know. I
also know that you don't really belong in it. But you'll either become
accustomed to it or it will kill you if you don't drop--or soar, as you
please--into some other section of eternal space."
She sat swinging her foot, flushed, animated, her eyes and colour
brilliant--a slim, exquisitely groomed woman with all the superficial
smoothness of a girl save for the wisdom in her eyes and in her smile,
alas!
And the other's eyes reflected in their clear gray depths no such
wisdom, only the haunting knowledge of sorrow and, vaguely, the
inexplicable horror of man as he really is--or at least as she had only
known him.
Still swinging her pretty foot, a deliberate smile edging her lips,
Molly said:
"If you'll let me, I'll stand by you, darling."
Strelsa stared at her without comprehension, then dropped her head back
on the pillows.
"If you'll let me stay with you a little while longer--that is all I
ask," she said almost drowsily.
Molly sprang up, came around and kissed her, lightly: "Of course. That
was what I was going to ask of you."
Strelsa closed her eyes. "I'll stay," she murmured.
Molly laid her own cool face down beside Strelsa's hot cheek, kneeling
beside the bed.
"Dear," she whispered, "let us wait and see what happens. There's just
one thing that has distorted your view--a dreadful experience with one
man--two years of hell's own horror with one of its wretched
inhabitants. I don't believe the impression is going to last a lifetime.
I don't believe it is indelible. I believe somehow, some time you will
learn that a man's love does not mean horror and degradation; that it is
no abuse of friendship which offers love also, to return it with
friendship only.
"Sir Charles offers that; and you refuse because you do not love him and
will not use his friendship to aid yourself to material comfort.
"And I suspect you have said the same thing to Rix. Have you?"
The girl lay silent, eyes closed.
"Never mind; don't answer. I know you well enough to know that you said
some such thing to Rix.... And it's all right in its way. But the
alternative is not what you think it is--not this bargain with Langly
for a place to lay your tired head--not this deal to decorate his name
and estates in return for personal immunity. You are wrong--I'm not
immoral, only unmoral--as many of us are--but you've gone all to pieces,
dear--morally, mentally, nervously--and it's not from cowardice, not
from depravity. It is the direct result of the two years of terror and
desperate self-control--two years of courage--high moral courage,
determination, self-suppression--and of the startling and dreadful
climax.
"That is the blow you are now feeling--and the reaction even after two
years more of half-stunned solitude. You are waking, darling; that is
all. And it hurts."
Strelsa's bare arm moved a little, moved, groping, and tightened around
Molly's neck. And they remained that way for a long while, Molly
kneeling on the floor beside her.
"Don't you ever cry?" she whispered.
"Not--now."
"It would be better if you could."
"There are no tears--I--I am burnt out--all burnt out----"
"You need strength."
"I haven't the desire for it any longer."
"Not the desire to face things pluckily?"
"No--no longer. Everything's dead in me except the longing for--quiet.
I'll pay any price for it--except misuse of friends."
"How could you misuse Rix by marrying him?"
"By accepting what I could never return."
"Love?"
"Yes."
"Does he ask that?"
"N-no--not now. But--he wants it. And I haven't it to give. So I can't
take his--and let him work all his life for my comfort--I can't take it
from Sir Charles and accept the position and fortune he offered me
once----"
She lay silent a moment, then unclosed her eyes.
"Molly," she said, "I don't believe that Sir Charles is going to mind
very much."
Molly met her eyes for an instant, very near, and a pale flash of
telepathy passed between them. Then Strelsa smiled.
"You mean Chrysos," said Molly.
"Yes.... Don't you think so?"
"She's little more than a child.... I don't know. Men are that way--men
of Sir Charles's age and experience are likely to drift that way.... But
if you are done with Sir Charles, what he does no longer interests
me--except that the Lacys will become insufferable if----"
"Don't talk that way, dear."
"I don't like the family--except Chrysos."
"Then be glad for her--if it comes true.... Sir Charles is a
dear--almost too perfectly ideal to be a man.... I do wish it for his
sake.... He was a little unhappy over me I think."
"He adores you still, you little villain!" whispered Molly, fondling
her. "But--let poets sing and romancers rave--there's nothing that
starves as quickly as love. And Sir Charles has been long fasting--good
luck to him and more shame on you!"
Strelsa laughed, cleared her brow and eyes of the soft bright hair, and,
flinging out both arms, took Molly to her heart in a swift, hard
embrace.
"There!" she said, breathless, "I adore you anyhow, Molly.... I feel
better, too. I'm glad you talked to me.... Do you think I'll get
anything for my house?"
"Yes, when you sell it. That's the hopeless part of it just at this time
of year----"
"Perhaps my luck will turn," said Strelsa. "You know I've had an awful
lot of the other kind all my life."
They laughed.
Strelsa went on: "Perhaps when I sell everything I'll have enough left
over to buy a little house up here near you, Molly, and have pigs and
chickens and a cow!"
"How long could you stand that kind of existence, silly?"
Strelsa looked gravely back at her, then with a sigh: "It seems as
though I could stand it forever, now. You know I seem to be changing a
little all the while. First, when Mrs. Sprowl found me at Colorado
Springs and persuaded me to come to New York I was mad for
pleasure--crazy about anything that promised gaiety and
amusement--anything to make me forget.
"You know I never went anywhere in Colorado Springs; I was too ill--ill
most of the time.... And Mrs. Sprowl said she knew my mother--it's
curious, but mother never said anything about her--and she cared for
fashionable people.
"So I came to New York last winter--and you know the rest--I got tired
physically, first; then so many wanted to marry me--and so many women
urged me to do so many things--and I was unhappy about Rix--and then
came this awful financial crash----"
"Stop thinking of it!"
"Yes; I mean to. I only wanted you to understand how, one by one,
emotions and desires have been killed in me during the last four
years.... And even the desire for wealth and position--which I clung to
up to yesterday--somehow, now--this morning--has become little more than
a dreamy wish.... I'd rather have quiet if I could--if there's enough
money left to let me rest somewhere----"
"There will be," said Molly, watching her.
"Do you think so? And--then there would be no necessity for--for----"
"Langly!"
Strelsa flushed. "I wonder," she mused. "I wonder whether--but it seems
impossible that I should suddenly find I didn't care for everything I
cared for this winter. Perhaps I'm too tired to care just now."
"It might be," said Molly, "that something--for example your friendship
with Rix--had made other matters seem less important."
The girl looked up quickly, saw nothing in Molly's expression to disturb
her, then turned her eyes away, and lay silent, considering.
If her friendship for Quarren had imperceptibly filled her mind, even
crowding aside other and most important matters, she did not realise it.
She thought of it now, and of him--recalling the letter she had written.
Vaguely she was aware of the difference in her attitude toward life
since she wrote that letter only a few days before. To what was it due?
To his letter in reply now lying between the leaves of her New Testament
on the table beside her? This was his letter:
     "Hold out, Strelsa! Matters are going well with me. Your tide, too,
     will turn before you know it. But neither man nor woman is going to
     aid you, only time, Strelsa, and--something that neither you nor I
     have bothered about very much--something that has many names in
     many tongues--but they all mean the same. And the symbol of what
     they mean is Truth.
     "Why not study it? We never have. All sages of all times have
     studied it and found comfort; all saints in all ages have found in
     it strength.
     "I find its traces in every ancient picture that I touch. But there
     are books still older that have lived because of it. And one man
     died for it--man or God as you will--the former is more
     fashionable.
     "Lives that have been lived because of it, given for it, forgiven
     for its sake, are worth our casual study.
     "For they say there is no greater thing than Truth. I can imagine
     no greater. And the search for it is interesting--fascinating--I
     had no idea how absorbing until recently--until I first saw you,
     who sent me out into the world to work.
     "Hold out--and study this curious subject of Truth for a little
     while. Will you?
     "If you'll only study it a while I promise that it will interest
     you--not in its formalisms, not in its petty rituals and
     observances, nor in its endless nomenclature, nor its
     orthodoxy--but just as you discover it for yourself in the
     histories of men and women--of saint and sinner--and, above all, in
     the matchless life of Him who understood them all.
     "Non tu corpus eras sine pectore!"
Lying there, remembering his letter almost word for word, and where it
now lay among printed pages incomprehensible to her except by the
mechanical processes of formal faith and superficial observance, she
wondered how much that, and the scarcely scanned printed page, might
have altered her views of life.
Molly kissed her again and went away downstairs.
When she was dressed in her habit she went out to the lawn's edge where
Langly and the horses had already gathered: he put her up, and they
cantered away down the wooded road that led to South Linden.
After their first gallop they slowed to a walk on the farther hill
slope, chatting of inconsequential things; and it seemed to her that he
was in unusually good spirits--almost gay for him--and his short dry
laugh rang out once or twice, which was more than she had heard from him
in a week.
From moment to moment she glanced sideways at him, curiously inspecting
the sleek-headed symmetry of the man, noticing, as always, his perfectly
groomed figure, his narrow head and the well-cut lines of the face and
jaw. Once she had seen him--the very first time she had ever met him at
Miami--eating a broiled lobster. And somehow his healthy appetite, the
clean incision of his sun-bronzed jaw and the working muscles, chewing
and swallowing, fascinated her; and she never saw him but she thought of
him eating vigorously aboard the Yulan.
"Langly," she said, "is it going to be disagreeable for you when Mrs.
Ledwith returns to South Linden?"
He looked at her leisurely, eyes, as always, slightly protruding:
"Why?"
"The newspapers."
"Probably," he said.
"Then--what are you going to do about it?"
"About what?"
"The papers."
"Nothing."
"Or--about Mrs. Ledwith?"
"Be civil if I see her."
"Of course," she said, reddening. "I was wondering whether gossip might
be nipped in the bud if you left before she arrives and remained away
until she leaves."
His prominent eyes were searching her features all the while she was
speaking; now they wandered restlessly over the landscape.
"It's my fashion," he said, "to face things as they come."
"If you don't mind I'd rather have you go," she said.
"Where?"
"Anywhere you care to."
He said: "I have told you a thousand times that the thing to do is to
take Molly Wycherly 'board the Yulan, and----"
"I do not care to do it until our engagement is announced."
"Very well," he said, swinging around in his saddle, "I'll announce it
to-day and we'll go aboard this evening and clear out."
"Wh-what!" she faltered.
"There's no use waiting any longer," he said. "Mrs. Ledwith and my fool
of an aunt are coming to-morrow. Did you know that? Well, they are. And
every dirty newspaper in town will make the matter insidiously
significant! If my aunt hadn't taken it into her head to visit Mrs.
Ledwith at this particular moment, there would have been few comments.
As it is there'll be plenty--and I don't feel like putting up with
them--I don't propose to for my own sake. The time comes, sooner or
later, when a man has got to consider himself."
After a short silence Strelsa raised her gray eyes:
"Has it occurred to you to consider, me, Langly?"
"What? Certainly. Haven't I been doing that ever since we've been
engaged----"
"I--wonder," she mused.
"What else have I been doing?" he insisted--"denying myself the pleasure
of you when I'm half crazy about you----"
"What!"
A dull flush settled under his prominent cheek-bones: he looked straight
ahead of him between his horse's ears as he rode, sitting his saddle
like the perfect horseman he was, although his mount felt the savage
pain of a sudden and reasonless spurring and the wicked curb scarcely
controlled him.
Strelsa set her lips, not looking at either horse or man on her right,
nor even noticing her own mare who was cutting up in sympathy with the
outraged hunter at her withers.
"Langly?"
"Yes?"
"Has it ever occurred to you how painful such scandalous rumours must be
for Mrs. Ledwith?"
"Can I help them?"
Strelsa said, thoughtfully: "What a horrible thing for a woman! It was
generous of your aunt to show people what she thought of such cruel
stories."
"Do you think," he said sneeringly, "that my excellent aunt was inspired
by any such motive? You might as well know--if you don't know already--"
and his pale eyes rested a moment on the girl beside him--"that my aunt
is visiting Mrs. Ledwith solely to embarrass me!"
"How could it embarrass you?"
"By giving colour to the lies told about me and the Ledwiths," he said
in a hard voice--"by hinting that Mary Ledwith, free to marry, is
accepted by my aunt; and the rest is up to me! That's what that female
relative of mine has just done--" His big, white teeth closed with a
click and he spurred his horse cruelly again and checked him until the
slavering creature almost reared over backward.
"If you maltreat that horse again, Langly, I'll leave you. Do you
understand?" she said, exasperated.
"I beg your pardon--" Again his jaw fairly snapped, but the horse did
not suffer from his displeasure.
"What has enraged you so?" she demanded.
"This whole business. There isn't anything my aunt could have done more
vicious, more contemptible, than to visit Mrs. Ledwith at this moment.
I'll get it from every quarter, now."
"I suppose she will, too."
"My aunt? No such luck!"
"I mean Mrs. Ledwith."
"She? Oh, I suppose so."
Strelsa said between tightening lips:
"Is there nothing you can do, no kindness, no sacrifice you can make to
shield Mrs. Ledwith?"
He stared at her, then his eyes roamed restlessly:
"How?"
"I don't know, Langly.... But if there is anything you could do----"
"What? My aunt and the papers are determined that I shall marry her! I
take it that you are not suggesting that, are you?"
"I am suggesting nothing," she replied in a low voice.
"Well, I am. I'm suggesting that you and Molly and I go aboard the
Yulan and clear out to-night!"
"You mean--to announce our engagement first?"
"Just as you choose," he said without a shade of expression on his
features.
"You would scarcely propose that I sail with you under any other
circumstances," she said sharply.
"I leave it to you and Mrs. Wycherly. The main idea is to clear out and
let them howl and tear things up."
"Howl at Mrs. Ledwith and tear her to tatters while we start around the
world on the Yulan?" nodded Strelsa. She was rather white, but she
laughed; and he, hearing her, turned and laughed, too--a quick bark of a
laugh that startled both horses who were unaccustomed to it.
"Oh, I guess they won't put her out of business," he said. "She's young
and handsome and there are plenty of her sort to marry her--even
Dankmere would have a chance there or--" he hesitated, and decided to
refrain. But she understood perfectly, and lost the remainder of her
colour.
"You mean Mr. Quarren," she said coolly.
"I didn't," he replied, lying. And she was aware of his falsehood, too.
"What started those rumours about Mrs. Ledwith and you, Langly?" she
asked in the same pleasantly even tone, and turned her horse's head
toward home at the same time. He made his mount pivot showily on his
hocks and drew bridle beside her.
"Oh, they started at Newport."
"How?"
"How do I know? Ledwith and I were connected in business matters; I saw
more or less of them both--and he was too busy to be with his wife every
time I happened to be with her. So--you know what they said."
"Yes. When you and she were lunching at different tables at the Santa
Regina you used to write notes to her, and everybody saw you."
"What of it?"
"Nothing."
"That is just it; there was nothing in it."
"Except her reputation.... What a silly and careless girl! But a man
doesn't think--doesn't care very much I fancy. And then everybody was
offensively sorry for Chester Ledwith. But that was not your lookout,
was it, Langly?"
Sprowl turned his narrow face and looked at her in silence; and after a
moment misjudged her.
"It was not my fault," he said quietly. "I liked his wife and I was
friendly with him until his gutter habits annoyed me."
"He went to pieces, didn't he?"
Once more Sprowl inspected her features, warily. Once more he misjudged
her.
"He's gone to smash," he said--"but what's that to us?"
"I wonder," she smiled, but had to control the tremor of her lower lip
by catching it between her teeth and looking away from the man beside
her. Quickly the hint of tears dried out in her gray eyes--from whatever
cause they sprang glimmering there to dim her eyesight. She bent her
head, absently arranging, rearranging and shifting her bridle.
"The thing to do," he said, curling his long moustache with powerful
fingers--"is for the Wycherlys to stand by us now--and the others
there--that little Lacy girl--and Sir Charles if he chooses. We'll have
to take the whole lot of them aboard I suppose."
"Suppose I go with you alone," she said in a low voice.
He started in his saddle, turned on her a face that was reddening
heavily. For an instant she scarcely recognised him, so thick his lips
seemed, so congested the veins in forehead and neck. He seemed all mouth
and eyes and sanguine colour--and big, even teeth, now, as the lips drew
aside disclosing them.
"Would you do that, Strelsa?"
"Why not?"
"Would you do it--for me?"
Her rapid breathing impeded speech; she said something inarticulate; he
leaned from his saddle and caught her in his left arm.
"By God," he stammered, "I knew it! You can have what you like from
me--I don't care what it is!--take it--fill out your own checks--only
let's get out of here before those damned women ruin us both!"
She had strained back and aside from him, and was trying to guide her
mare away, but his powerful arm crushed her and his hot breath fell on
her face and neck.
"You can have it your own way I tell you--I swear to God I'll marry
you----"
"What!"
Almost strangled she wrenched herself free, panting, staring; and he
realised his mistake.
"We can't get a licence if we leave to-night," he said, breathing
heavily. "But we can touch at any port and manage that."
"You--you would take me--permit me to go--in such a manner?" she
breathed, still staring at him.
"It's necessity, isn't it? Didn't you propose it? It makes no difference
to me, Strelsa. I told you I'd do anything you wished."
"What did you mean--what did you mean by--by--" But she could go no
further in speech or thought.
"The thing to do," he said calmly, "is not to fly off our heads or
become panic-stricken. You're doing the latter; I lost control of
myself--after what you gave me to hope--after what you said--showing
your trust in me," he added, moistening his thick dry lips with his
tongue. "I lost my self-command--because I am crazy for you,
Strelsa--there's no sense in pretending otherwise--and you knew it all
the time, you little coquette!
"What do you think a man's made of? You wanted a business arrangement
and I humoured you; but you knew all the while, and I knew, that--that I
am infatuated, absolutely mad about you." He added, boldly: "And I have
reason to think it doesn't entirely displease you, haven't I?"
She did not seem to hear him. He laid his gloved hand over hers, and
recoiled before her eyes as from a blow.
"Are you angry?" he asked.
Her teeth were still working on her under lip. She made no answer.
"Strelsa--if you really feel nothing for me--if you mean what you have
said about a purely business agreement--I will hold to it. I thought for
a moment--when you said--something in your smile made me think----"
"You need not think any further," she said.
"What do you mean?"
"I mean that I came with you this morning to tell you that I will not
marry you."
"That's nonsense! I've hurt you--made you angry----"
"I came for that reason," she repeated. "I meant to do it as soon as I
had the courage. I meant to do it gently. Now I don't care how I do it.
It's enough for you to know that I will not marry you."
"Is that final?"
"Yes."
"I don't believe it. I know perfectly well I was--was too impulsive, too
ardent----"
She turned her face away with a faint, sick look at the summer fields
where scores of birds sang in the sunshine.
"See here," he said, his manner changing, "I tell you I'm sorry. I ask
your pardon. Whatever you wish shall be done. Tell me what to do."
After a few moments she turned toward him again.
"A few minutes ago I could have told you what to do. I would have told
you to marry Mary Ledwith. Also I would have been wrong. Now, as you ask
me, I tell you not to marry her."
His eyes were deadly dangerous, but she met them carelessly.
