I come home I’ll tell you all about him. He was 
to visit us next summer.” 

Nurse Jane was glad to see the little girls, and 


 


told them Chan was one of the best patients she 
ever had. 

They let Chan go clear down in the elevator 
and then he had the ride up again. Oh, in six 
days he could go home ! 

I wish you’d let me learn those songs you 
sing,” he said to Miss Ellen that evening; “ I like 
to sing.” 

“ Why, yes, I shall be glad to,” and then they 
all found that he had a lovely voice. 

The children wanted to talk about his sister the 
next day, and one little girl asked if she was truly 
a flower. 

Then there were five days, four days, three days. 
Chan could walk just as well as ever. 

“ I want you to be a little careful,” Dr. Rich- 
ards said. “ Don’t jump fences, nor climb trees, 
nor try to beat the boys at stunts until some time 
next year, and when you are sixteen or eighteen 
you come here and we will make a first-class doc- 
tor of you if the music fellow doesn’t come to 
light. They are not always to be depended upon.” 

They were sorry to have Chandler Firth go, but 
now he stood up so straight and strong and had 
a tint of pink in his cheeks that had filled out 
considerably. 

“ You do get so attached to some of them,” 


 


Miss Jessie said to Jane. ‘‘ I would really like to 
know about that Firth family and the eight chil- 
dren if these three are any sample. And that 
child has an exquisite voice. Some of the churches 
here would make a high bid for him.” 

So the last day came, and Chan tried very hard 
to be brave, but he was glad they had asked him 
to come again as a visitor. They went by trolley 
and train, and Dan was at the station with the 
wagon and the robes. Chan could hardly realize 
that cold weather had come. He \Yas not going 
to the little old house this night. They would 
not expect him until to-morrow. 

“ Why, you certainly have grown,” exclaimed 
Mrs. Alden, “ and you are looking so well,” pretty, 
too, she wanted to add, but she knew compliments 
were not good for children. 

“ Yes, he’s first-class now. And I hope you’ve 
brought a good appetite.” 

But there were so many things he wanted to 
tell Mrs. Alden about the wonderful Children’s 
Hospital that they sat a long while over the table. 
When they went through to the library there was 
a fascinating log-fire on some andirons and beau- 
tiful blue and red and yellow blazes chasing each 
other all around. 

Mr. Mann rolled the sofa up nearer. 


 

“ Come here, Chan,” he began. “ I want to talk 
to you.” 

He placed his arm about the boy and drew him 
up close, so his head just fitted in the place between 
breast and shoulder. He gave him two or three 
little squeezes that made the child laugh. 

Chan, I want you to be my boy.” 

'‘Yes, ril always be your boy. I love you 
dearly, better than Dr. Richards, better than any- 
body.” 

Yet there was one body he loved better, Mr. 
Mann knew. 

Yes, I want you for my boy. There are so 
many of you at home that your mother can spare 
one — or two, even. I want you to live here, I want 
to send you to a nice school and educate you, keep 
you well clothed, and have you taught music and 
you’ll learn to play on the piano. And you shall 
have a nice room and books and a pony and a little 
pony carriage that will just hold two, and — oh, 
I can’t think of all the things now. You’ll 
come ? ” 

Do you mean” — Chan drew a long breath that 
almost strangled him — “ do you mean that I 
should stay here always — not go home to live. 


“ Oh, you would go over there often — every day 




if you wanted to — and you could take the girls 
out — they could come over here. But I’d be your 
father. Chan, I love you dearly. I’ve always 
wanted a little boy of my own.” 

‘‘But — but — mother,” and the tremble of tears 
was in his voice. 

A pang went to the man’s heart. No, Chan 
wouldn’t be half the boy he was if he didn’t care 
for his mother — “ the beautifullest mother.” Oh, 
how could he get round that ! 

“ See here, Chan, I’d like to have a little girl, 
too. One alone is lonesome. We’ll have either 
Goldie or Prim, and I’ll do the same by her. 
You’ll have such nice times. And, Chan, six will 
be as much as your mother can take care of. Chil- 
dren cost more as they grow older. Oh, I know 
your mother will consent when we tell her all, and 
I know you are brave enough to help ease up her 
lot a little. It isn’t as if I were going to take you 
hundreds of miles away. You will be near them 
all the time.” 

Chan crept up and put his arms around the 
man’s neck. “ I love you very much,” he said, 
in a rather tremulous tone, “ and I know I might 
have been lame for life but for your goodness. 
But — mother ought to know ” 

“ Yes, laddie, I wouldn’t urge you without her 


 

consent. But often I'm lonesome in this big house 
and you will be so crowded in yours presently, and 
with my money I ought to be doing some good and 
making some one happy, helping some one along 
who is having a hard time. You are a brave little 
fellow, Chan, and I know you will want to help 
your mother. Now we will talk about other things. 
I shall always be your friend.” 

The other things were the happenings at the 
hospital and the episode of Arthur. And presently 
he thought the boy ought to go to bed. 

After that Mr. Mann took out his memorandum 
and selected a letter. Dr. Richards had spoken of 
the man, a musical director and composer, who 
had attained considerable reputation. In the letter 
he briefly explained his visit to the institution and 
what he considered the child’s wonderful im- 
provisation, as well as his voice. He had to leave 
for Chicago and then was summoned to San Fran- 
cisco, and it was quite possible he might go to 
London. Would Mr. Mann, who seemed to be the 
boy’s protector, keep oversight of him until his, 
Mr. Gwynne’s, return, when he thought he might 
be able to do a good deal for his advancement ? A 
voice like that ought not be allowed to sink into 
obscurity. 

So here was some one else who stood ready 


 


perhaps to take the boy he had come to love so 
well. He could feel the little arms about his neck. 
He must have something to fill the longing for 
the children he had hoped to have, and now he 
could indulge in it. These children were so bright, 
so upright and honest, their lives had been so 
simple. What a pleasure such a son would be, 
growing up to manhood! And a daughter! Oh, 
he must not let his opportunity slip into other 
hands. 

Chan was very afYectionate the next morning, 
but rather quiet. Mr. Mann sent him over with 
the factotum, Dan. He was not quite in the mood 
to see the mother’s joy. I’ll be over in the after- 
noon,” he said, with his cheerful smile that com- 
forted the boy’s heart. 

It’s wonderful to see you so well and spry,” 
said Dan. “ And they say there’s a lot of children 
sent there that they do wonders with.” 

Chan could be eloquent on that point. But how 
cold it seemed and how everything had changed. 
The fields were dry and brown, the trees bare, all 
except some oaks still flaunting their brown red 
leaves, and the red berries of the bittersweet show- 
ing yellow inside where they had burst open. They 
turned into the lane — oh, there was the little old 
house more faded and weather-beaten, the garden 


 

with its debris sheltering the turnip bed, the corn 
shocks where the hens were eagerly foraging. 

Prim ran out for something and gave a glad 
cry, and the next instant they were all there, Chan 
clasped to his mother’s heart. One would almost 
think he had been raised from the dead by the 
joy. 

Well — the house was poor and mean after the 
large tidy rooms. It struck a sort of chill to the 
boy’s heart. The smell of some ham boiling on 
the stove was in the air, the room had not been 
swept yet, Amaryllis was molding up the bread, 
Mrs. Firth had been finishing some trousers for 
Tip and the pieces were strewn around. 

“Which leg was it?” asked Tip, first hugging 
one, then the other. 

“ Oh, you’ll never be able to tell,” Chan laughed. 
“ Why, you all seem to be grown and changed, and 
the twins are no longer babies.” 

“ I tin talk twite plain,” announced Laurel, hold- 
ing her head very high. “ An’ dolly’s made over 
new, went to hospital.” 

“ Prim, find an empty chair. We’re all up in 
heaps and piles. We didn’t expect you until after- 
noon, then we’d ’a’ been in apple-pie order,” said 
his mother. 

“ I’m going to sit on this stool by you. Oh, 


 


mother, you can’t think how glad I am,” and he 
hugged her arm. 

“ And you can walk with the best of them,” 
Goldie said, her eyes glowing with pride. 

“ Oh, wasn’t it just too splendid! ” cried Prim. 
“ I’ve tried to tell mother everything, but I’m al- 
ways remembering something new. All those little 
children playing about. Miss Rush was reading 
a kindergarten story yesterday and it was like 
that, only no one was sick. How can they get 
them so well.' ” 

“ There was a room full of sick ones, and don’t 
you remember downstairs in my old ward they 
were in their cots ? And mother,” laughing, “ Dr. 
Richards said he was going to make a doctor out 
of me. Goldie, I think I’d rather have the flower- 
garden, wouldn’t you ? ” 

“ Well — that was beautiful. I didn’t suppose 
broken limbs and things could be so — well — so 

• yj 

nice. 

“ Marigold, do finish making the beds and tidy- 
ing up the chambers. I do want to get this work 
done.” 

“ And, Prim,” said Rilla, “ do peel some apples, 
and I’ll make a pie to celebrate Chan’s return.” 

“ A pie ! Oh goody I I haven’t had a mouthful 
since I went away.” 


 

But you had enough to eat?” inquired his 
mother anxiously. 

“Oh, lots of nice things! And such broths — 
you could drink them. They weren’t one kind 
of soup with everything in them. And when you 
were better such delicious little chops and ever 
so many little dainties and napkins and trays.” 

“ Did it hurt you very much? ” asked Tip. 

“ I suppose the trays and napkins did,” ap- 
pended Prim solemnly. 

“ I didn’t mean them things — his leg,” returned 
Tip, rather crossly. “ Granny Keen thought they 
cut it off.” 

“ She said maybe they might,” corrected Rilla. 

“ They had to cut off some little boys’ legs, 
though, that were all mashed up. No, they only 
pulled mine and pushed it and then put me in 
plaster, and I had to lie on my back and be fed 
like a baby.” 

“ What did the plaster do ? ” 

Tip looked up about the ceiling. 

“ Held me together tight so that I couldn’t get 
out of place. And now one hip is just like the 
other. Why, where’s Linn.?'” 

“ He’s gone down to the store to-day. Mr. Beers 
is going to give him a quarter. Sammy Lowndes 
has gone to the paper mill.” 


 

It was odd, but a quarter didn’t seem much to 
Chan. 

Marigold finished the bedrooms and opened the 
doors. It had been very hot and now it suddenly 
cooled. Chan rose up and looked. Yes, there 
was his little cot with its faded patchwork quilt, 
and the other bed. It didn’t look like the nice 
room over at Mr. Mann’s, nor the exquisite order 
at the hospital, and for an instant Chan seemed 
to shrink in every sensitive nerve. 

“ Mother, can’t you take your work into the bed- 
room and let me clear up? There’d be just time 
before dinner, and then we’ll look like white 
folks.” 

Can I do anything, Goldie ? ” the boy asked. 

“ Help me shake these breadths of carpet. You 
and Prim catch hold of one end. But my ! You’ve 

got those nice clothes on ” 

Never mind the clothes.” 

They took up the breadths of rag carpet and 
gave them a good shaking out of doors. Marigold 
swept that part of the room and they laid them 
down again. Then she and Prim dusted. The 
kitchen end would be scrubbed by and by. The 
place was freshened up, and Mrs. Firth announced 
that the trousers were done. Tip hopped around 
in delight. 


 

After all, the dinner tasted good. The ham was 
boiled tender, the potatoes and turnips were 
mashed together, there were some spiced pickles, 
and the apple pie, nice and thick and good big 
pieces. The dishes were a rather odd lot, and only 
cheap ones in the beginning. Over at Grafton they 
had beautiful china, of wild rose pattern, and silver 
knives and forks. But they were very merry and 
happy. Then Rilla and Prim did the dishes and 
Marigold scrubbed the floor. After that the chil- 
dren, Tip and the twins were given a nice bath 
and put in clean clothes. 

‘‘ Chan,” said his mother, I want to go over 
to Mrs. Burnham’s. I’d like you to go with me. 
They are counting on seeing you. They’ve been 
so interested all the time.” 

Yes, I’ll be glad to go. Oh, won’t they be 
surprised ! ” 

And surprised they were, sure enough. Mr. 
Burnham turned him about, looked him all over, 
and Chan couldn’t help being glad he had such a 
nice new suit for the inspection. Mrs. Burnham 
wanted to hear how they did it, if the nurses were 
nice to him, and if he had plenty to eat, and Chan 
described the wards and the delightful playroom, 
and said there was an operating room, and an- 
other for the very bad cases that suffered dread- 


 

fully and cried. The plaster cast pinched him a 
good deal and he couldn’t stir nor turn over, but 
Nurse Jane was like his mother. 

“ Well, you have a great deal to be thankful 
for, and those children’s hospitals are among the 
best of good works. There is so much done for 
sick and injured people, and a good deal of real 
missionary work. I sometimes feel as if I would 
like to have a hand in it,” said the minister. 

Katy edged up to him and made friends. She 
wasn’t nearly as rosy as Prim, though the house 
was ever so much nicer. What did the little girls 
play.' Had they dolls and dishes, and did they 
visit each other and have little teas? 

Chan was quite eloquent about them. But the 
dark came early now, and Mrs. Firth said they 
must go. 

Chan wondered now and then how he would 
get his mother told of Mr. Mann’s proffer. Some 
of the children were always around — it was too 
cold to be playing out-of-doors — and he was a little 
afraid of Mr. Mann’s earnestness if he should be 
first in the field. 

“ Mother dear ” there was a desperate sound 

in his voice. 

His arm was around her waist under the good 
warm shawl that had come in her fortune.” 


 

Well, Chan,” seeing that he stopped there. 

I have something that I want to tell you before 
— before ” 

‘‘ Oh, Chan, nothing bad, I hope,” for there was 
a touch of solemnity in the boy’s tone. 

I suppose we ought to think it good, but ” 

“ Well? ” in a tone of tender encouragement. 

“ It’s this.” His arm hugged her more closely, 
and his voice had a great tremble in it. “ Mr. 
Mann wants to take me for his little boy to live 
with him, to go to school, to have a pony and 
everything nice ” 

Oh, Chan, that is splendid and wonderful ! ” 
Her voice rose with joy in every word. “ After 
all that generous time at the hospital! He must 
care a great deal about you.” 

Oh, he wanted her to say offhand in the ear- 
nestness of a child’s heart : “ Oh, I couldn’t spare 
you, I couldn’t give you away.” 

“He loves me, yes, he does. Oh, mother, you 
couldn’t give me away ! ” 

“ Why, I can’t tell all in a minute. It seems so 
strange — so ” 

“ I’d have to live there. Of course I could come 
over and see you, but it couldn’t be the same. 
Some nights at the hospital I cried a teeny little 
bit to the pillow, I wanted my mother so.” 




She stooped and kissed the cold little face and 
gave him a hug, deeply touched. 

Dear, you’d have the love all the same. We 
shouldn’t forget. I know Mr. Mann wouldn’t want 
you to. There is a great deal to be said about it 
when you look at all the sides. The education! 
I couldn’t do anything like that. And the nice 
clothes, the nice friends you’d grow up with. Oh, 
Chan! It would be a beautiful life! And with 
me you would have to go to work presently. And 
you would all get too big for the little house. Oh, 
we’ll talk it over and over. It’s so surprising, so 
unexpected ! ” 

But, mother, just suppose by and by I should 
get to like the nice house and the pony and every- 
thing better than — like the boy in Linn’s Christ- 
mas book ” 

“ Oh, Chan, I don’t think you could. But you 
see, by and by you would all go away. Oh, we’ll 
save it to think over. But it’s splendid in Mr. 
Mann! It almost makes one cry for joy to find 
such generous people in the world.” 

They caught sight of the light in the window. 
Mrs. Firth kissed her little son again and found 
some tears on his cheek. Then they opened the 
door in the warmth and light, and Chan thought 
it looked beautiful, so different from the morning. 


 

for it was clean and tidy. The twins were playing 
“ going visiting ” in one corner. They had a-bench 
with a white cloth and some broken bits of china. 
They always had next week’s frock and white 
aprons put on Saturday afternoons. Marigold 
was darning the last of the stockings, her curly 
mop brushed until it fairly glistened. Prim, in 
a gay plaid frock and white apron also, her hair 
in two pigtails, was laying the table, while Rilla 
was attending to some hominy she was boiling. 
And there was a great plate of gingerbread that 
gave out a savory fragrance. Tip was bright and 
clean also, and sat on the floor building a great 
tower of corncobs. 

Chan thought he didn’t want anything better 
than the dear old house. 

“ What did the minister and Mrs. Burnham say, 
and oh, weren’t they surprised ” All the children 
seemed to talk at once. Tip jumped up and hugged 
Chan, and Prim said : 

“ Oh, Chan, you look awful pretty in those 
clothes, just like a little gentleman.” 

His mother couldn’t have bought anything like 
them. Linn’s and Tip’s suits were made of old 
Aunt Kitty’s cast-offs. 

“ Get a little warm and then let us have supper,” 
said Amaryllis. 


 

So they sat down a merry crew, for there always 
was something funny to talk over or some conun- 
drum to spring. How the bowls of hominy and 
milk and slices of bread disappeared! And such 
generous pieces of cake that many children would 
have disdained. 

The door burst open with a rush. 

Hurray I Hurray ! ” cried the merry new- 
comer, with cheeks of roses. He threw down his 
cap on a chair and hung up his coat on the floor, 
Prim used to say. “ And you can’t guess in a 
month of Sundays! ” 

Then Linn pirouetted round the sitting-room 
end of the place and rattled his fingers like 
castanets. 

‘‘Give it up,” exclaimed Marigold. 

“ Another fortune,” cried Prim. Perhaps a 
barrel of flour. Ours is ’most out.” 

And there’s a chunk of cheese Mr. Beers gave 
me. And it’s a straight up and down business 
offer, all on account of my superior abilities ! Oh, 
say, can’t I have that piece of gingerbread?” 

Linn, what is the matter ? ” asked his mother. 
‘‘ Or have you gone crazy.? ” 

“ That is the prismatic radiance of an illimitable 
series of myoplasms, and I’ve forgotten what they 
are.” He tumbled his cap on the floor, brought 


 

up a chair, pushed Tip a little aside, and sat down 
by his mother. 

No, you sha’n’t! ” protested Tip. 

“ But Fve done it and I am the biggest. Some 
day ril be the boss of the family, do you hear 
that, my illustrious compeer? Oh, have a piece 
of cheese all round, for it was a present. And 
that reminds me — no. I’ll tell my story first. Then 
I’ve one for Chan. I’ve had a business offer, as I 
said ” 

‘‘ You may get to it by Monday morning,” 
laughed Prim. 

‘‘It’s a situation in Mr. Beers’s store and real 
money wages.” 

“ Oh, Linn ! ” exclaimed his mother, bending 
over to kiss him. 

“ Yes. Mr. Beers likes me a good deal,” though 
Linn blushed in the confession. “ I can figure 
first-rate and Sammy did get things in a muddle. 
So he said if I’d come in the store and do my 
best he’d give me three dollars a week, though he 
thought it would be too far to walk night and 
morning and in stormy weather, so I could come 
down Monday morning and stay until Saturday 
night, and he’d give me a dollar seventy-five, then, 
and take the rest for board. And that would be 
seven fifty a month — well, a little over. Just as 


 

soon as it came pleasant — say April — Fd come 
home, and that would be twelve dollars a month. 
Just think of it ! ” 

“ Whatever will you do with so much money? 
asked Marigold. 

‘‘ Put it in the bank,” subjoined Prim. 

“ Get the new barrel of flour,” said Rilla. 

Oh, Linn, that’s wonderful ! ” said his mother. 
“ The Lord is sending us something all the time. 
You know I didn’t want to go to the funeral one 
bit, and my old bonnet was so out of date. And 
I didn’t think much of the old things, but see how 
useful they’ve been. And there was the five dol- 
lars, and Chan’s getting well, and my new coat 
and hat, and now this! Why, it is just like a 
fairy story I ” 

“ Well, mommy, don’t cry ! ” and Linn kissed 
her. “ We’ll just have a glorification. And if the 
fairies or the brownies want to do anything more 
for us just let them send it along. Oh, yes, it isn’t 
done coming. Chan, there is a beautiful clean box 
at the store for you, none of the old second-hand 
grocery boxes of starch or cereal or soap or X-ray 
stove polish. Came in the train this afternoon, but 
no one was coming up this way, and it was too big 
for me to shoulder. You’ll get it on Monday. It’s 
from some place in New York State.” 


 

“ A box for me ! ” ejaculated Chan, in surprise. 
''Not from the city, is it? For of course any- 
thing from Mr. Mann wouldn’t come that 
way.” 

" Took two expresses to bring it, at that. I’m 
’most sorry I spoke of it, for now we’ll be won- 
dering all the time.” 

" It’s very queer,” continued Chan reflectively. 
It was not from the hospital, and if Dr. Richards 
had remembered him out of all the little patients, 
many worse off than he, that would have gone 
to Mr. Mann. " Oh, to wait until Monday ! ” 

The table was cleared away and they all retired 
to the sitting-room part. Chan and Tip brought 
