leaving Martha there to await the arrival of the luggage, an imposing
collection of trunks and boxes and kit-bags), Elsa went down to the
American Consulate, which had its offices in the rear of the hotel.
She walked through the outer office and stood silently at the
consul-general's elbow, waiting for him to look up.  She was dressed in
white, and in the pugree of her helmet was the one touch of color,
Rajah's blue feather.  With a smile she watched the stubby pen crawl
over some papers, ending at length with a flourish, dignified and
characteristic.  The consul-general turned his head.  His kindly face
had the settled expression of indulgent inquiry.  The expression
changed swiftly into one of delight.
"Elsa Chetwood!" he cried, seizing her hands.  "Well, well!  I am glad
to see you.  Missed you when you passed through to Ceylon.  Good
gracious, what a beautiful woman you've turned out to be!  Sit down,
sit down!"  He pushed her into a chair.  "Well, well!  When I saw you
last you were nineteen."
"What a frightful memory you have!  And I was going to my first ball.
You used the same adjective."
"Is there a better one?  I'll use it if there is.  You've arrived just
in time.  I am giving a little dinner to the consuls and their wives
to-night, and you will add just the right touch; for we are all a
little gray at the temples and some of us are a trifle bald.  You see,
I've an old friend from India in town to-day, and I've asked him, too.
Your appearance evens up matters."
"Oh; then I'm just a filler-in!"
"Heavens, no!  You're the most important person of the lot, though
Colonel Knowlton . . ."
"Colonel Knowlton!" exclaimed Elsa.
"That's so, by George!  Stupid of me.  You came down on the same boat.
Fine!  You know each other."
Elsa straightened her lips with some difficulty.  She possessed the
enviable faculty of instantly forming in her mind pictures of coming
events.  The little swelling veins in the colonel's nose were as plain
to her mind's eye as if he really stood before her.  "Have him take me
in to dinner," she suggested.
"Just what I was thinking of," declared the unsuspecting man.  "If any
one can draw out the colonel, it will be you."
"I'll do my best." Elsa's mind was full of rollicking malice.
Contemplatively he said: "So you've been doing the Orient alone?  You
are like your father in that way.  He was never afraid of anything.
Your mental make-up, too, I'll wager is like his.  Finest man in the
world."
"Wasn't he?  How I wish he could have always been with me!  We were
such good comrades.  They do say I am like father.  But why is it,
every one seems appalled that I should travel over here without male
escort?"
"The answer lies in your mirror, Elsa.  Your old nurse Martha is no
real protection."
"Are men so bad, then?"
"They are less restrained.  The heat, the tremendous distances, the
lack of amusements, are perhaps responsible.  The most difficult thing
in the world to amuse is man.  By the way, here's a packet of letters
for you."
"Thanks."  Elsa played with the packet, somberly eying the
superscriptions.  The old disorder came back into her mind.  Three of
the letters were from Arthur.  She dreaded to open them.
"Now, I'll expect you to come to the apartments and have tea at five."
"Be glad to.  Only, don't have any one else.  I just want to visit and
talk as I used to."
"I promise not to invite anybody."
"I must be going, then.  I'm not sure of my tickets to Hongkong."
"Go straight to the German Lloyd office.  The next P. & O. boat is
booked full.  Don't bother to go to Cook's.  Everybody's on the way
home now.  Go right to the office.  I'll have my boy show you the way.
Chong!" he called.  A bright-eyed young Chinese came in quickly and
silently from the other room.  "Show lady German Lloyd office.  All
same quick."
"All light.  Lady come."
"Until tea."
In the outer office she paused for a moment or so to look at the
magazines and weeklies from home.  The Chinese boy, grinning
pleasantly, peered curiously at Elsa's beautiful hands.  She heard some
one enter, and quite naturally glanced up.  The newcomer was Mallow.
He stared at her, smiled familiarly and lifted his helmet.
Elsa, with cold unflickering eyes, offered his greeting no recognition
whatever.  The man felt that she was looking through him, inside of
him, searching out all the dark comers of his soul.  He dropped his
gaze, confused.  Then Elsa calmly turned to the boy.
"Come, Chong."
There was something in the manner of her exit that infinitely puzzled
him.  It was the insolence of the well-bred, but he did not know it.
To offset his chagrin and confusion, he put on his helmet and passed
into the private office.  She was out of his range of understanding.
Mallow was an American by birth but had grown up in the Orient,
hardily.  In his youth he had been beaten and trampled upon, and now
that he had become rich in copra (the dried kernels of cocoanuts from
which oil is made), he in his turn beat and trampled.  It was the only
law he knew.  He was without refinement, never having come into contact
with that state of being long enough to fall under its influence.  He
was a shrewd bargainer; and any who respected him did so for two
reasons, his strength and his wallet.  Such flattery sufficed his
needs.  He was unmarried; by inclination, perhaps, rather than by
failure to find an agreeable mate.  There were many women in Penang and
Singapore who would have snapped him up, had the opportunity offered,
despite the fact that they knew his history tolerably well.
Ordinarily, when in Penang and Singapore, he behaved himself, drank
circumspectly and shunned promiscuous companions.  But when he did
drink heartily, he was a man to beware of.
He hailed the consul-general cordially and offered him one of his
really choice cigars, which was accepted.
"I say, who was that young woman who just went out?"
The consul-general laid down the cigar.  The question itself was
harmless enough; it was Mallow's way of clothing it he resented.
"Why?" he asked.
"She's a stunner.  Just curious if you knew her, that's all.  We came
down on the same boat.  Hanged if I shouldn't like to meet her."
"You met her on board?"
"I can't say that.  Rather uppish on the steamer.  But, do you know
her?" eagerly.
"I do.  More than that, I have always known her.  She is the daughter
of the late General Chetwood, one of the greatest civil-engineers of
our time.  When he died he left her several millions.  She is a
remarkable young woman, a famous beauty, known favorably in European
courts, and I can't begin to tell you how many other accomplishments
she has."
"Well, stump me!" returned Mallow.  "Is that all straight?"
"Every word of it," with a chilliness that did not escape a man even so
impervious as Mallow.
"Is she a free-thinker?"
"What the devil is that?  What do you mean?"
"Only this, if she's all you say she is, why does she pick out an
absconder for a friend, a chap who dare not show his fiz in the States?
I heard the tale from a man once employed in his office back in New
York.  A beach-comber, a dock-walloper, if there ever was one."
"Mallow, you'll have to explain that instantly."
"Hold your horses, my friend.  What I'm telling you is on the level.
She's been hobnobbing with the fellow all the way down from the
Irrawaddy, so I'm told.  Never spoke to any one else.  Made him sit at
her side at table and jabbered Italian at him, as if she didn't want
others to know what she was talking about.  I know the man.  Fired him
from my plantation, when I found out what he was.  Can't recall his
name just now, but he is known out here as Warrington; Parrot & Co."
The consul-general was genuinely shocked.
"You can't blame me for thinking things," went on Mallow.  "What man
wouldn't?  Ask her about Warrington.  You'll find that I'm telling the
truth, all right."
"If you are, then she has made one of those mistakes women make when
they travel alone.  I shall see her at tea and talk to her.  But I do
not thank you, Mallow, for telling me this.  A finer, loyaler-hearted
girl doesn't live.  She might have been kind out of sympathy."
Mallow bit off the tip of his cigar.  "He's a handsome beggar, if you
want to know."
"I resent that tone.  Better drop the subject before I lose my temper.
I'll have your papers ready for you in the morning."  The
consul-general caught up his pen savagely to indicate that the
interview was at an end.
"All right," said Mallow good-naturedly.  "I meant no harm.  Just
naturally curious.  Can't blame me."
"I'm not blaming you.  But it has disturbed me, and I wish to be alone
to think it over."
Mallow lounged out, rather pleased with himself.  His greatest pleasure
in life was in making others uncomfortable.
The consul-general bit the wooden end of his pen and chewed the
splinters of cedar.  He couldn't deny that it was like Elsa to pick up
some derelict for her benefactions.  But to select a man who was
probably wanted by the American police was a frightful misfortune.
Women had no business to travel alone.  It was all very well when they
toured in parties of eight or ten; but for a charming young woman like
Elsa, attended by a spinster companion who doubtless dared not offer
advice, it was decidedly wrong.  And thereupon he determined that her
trip to Yokohama should find her well guarded.
"I beg your pardon," said a pleasant voice.
The consul-general had been so deeply occupied by his worry that he had
not noticed the entrance of the speaker.  He turned impatiently.  He
saw a tall blond man, bearded and tanned, with fine clear blue eyes
that met his with the equanimity of the fearless.
XIII
AFTER TEN YEARS
The consul-general had, figuratively, a complete assortment of masks,
such as any thorough play-actor might have, in more or less constant
demand, running the gamut from comedy to tragedy.  Some of these masks
grew dusty between ships, but could quickly be made presentable.
Sometimes, when large touring parties came into port, he confused his
masks, being by habit rather an absent-minded man.  But he possessed a
great fund of humor, and these mistakes gave him laughable
recollections for days.
He saw before him an exquisite, as the ancient phrase goes, backed by
no indifferent breed of manhood.  Thus, he believed that here was a
brief respite (as between acts) in which the little plastic hypocrisies
could be laid aside.  The pleasant smile on his high-bred face was all
his own.
"And what may I do for you, sir?"  He expected to be presented with
letters of introduction, and to while away a half-hour in the agreeable
discussion of mutual acquaintance.
"I should like a few minutes' private talk with you," began the
well-dressed stranger.  "May I close the door?"  The consul-general,
with a sense of disappointment, nodded.  The blond man returned and sat
down.  "I don't know how to begin, but I want you to copy this
cablegram and send it under your own name.  Here it is; read it."
So singular a request filled the consul-general with astonishment.
Rather mechanically he accepted the slip of paper, adjusted his
glasses, and read--
"The Andes Construction Company, New York: A former employee of yours
wishes to make a restitution of eight thousand dollars, with interest
to date.  He dares not give his name to me, but he wishes to learn if
this belated restitution will lift the ban against his returning to
America and resuming his citizenship.  Reply collect."
"This is an extraordinary request to make to me, sir."
"I know it."
"But why bring it to me?"
"Could I possibly offer that to the cable operator?  Without name or
address?  No; I could not do it without being subjected to a thousand
questions, none of which I should care to answer.  So I came to you.
Passing through your hands, no one will question it.  Will you do this
favor for a poor unfortunate devil?"
Oddly enough, the other could not get away from his original
impression.  The clothes, the way the man wore them, the clarity of his
eyes, the abundant health that was expressed by the tone of the skin,
derided such a possibility as the cablegram made manifest.
He forced the smile back to his lips.  "Are you sure you're not hoaxing
me?"
"No.  I am the victim of the hoax," enigmatically.  "If one may call
the quirks of fate by the name of hoax," the stranger added.  "Will you
send it?"
The years he had spent in the consular service had never brought before
him a situation of this order.  He did not know exactly what to do.  He
looked out of the window, into the hotel-court, at the sky which
presently would become overcast with the daily rain-clouds.  By and by
he remembered the man waiting patiently at his elbow.
"What is your name?"
"My real name, or the one by which I am known here?"
"Your real one."
"I'd rather not give that until I hear from New York."
"Well, that is reasonable."
"I am known out here by the name of Warrington."
Warrington.  The puzzlement vanished from the older man's face, and his
eyes became alert, renewing from another angle their investigation of
the stranger.  Warrington.  So this was the man?  He could understand
now.  Who could blame a girl for making a mistake when he, a seasoned
veteran, had been beguiled by the outward appearance of the man?
Mallow was right.  He was a handsome beggar.
"I promise to send this upon one condition."
"I accept without question," readily.
"It is that you must keep away from Elsa Chetwood, now and hereafter.
You made her acquaintance under false pretenses."
"I deny that.  Not under false pretenses."  How quickly things went
about!  "Let me tell you how I met her."
The consul-general listened; he listened with wonder and interest, and
more, with conviction that the young man had been perfectly honest.
But the knowledge only added to his growing alarm.  It would not be
difficult for such a man to win the regard of any young woman.
"And you told her what you had done?"
"Yes."
"Your first misstep?" touching the cablegram.
"My first and only misstep.  I was a careless, happy-go-lucky young
fool."  The sky outside also had attraction for Warrington.  A thousand
times a fool!
"How long ago did this happen?"
"Ten years this coming April."
"And now, after all this time, you wish to go back?"
"I have wished to go back many times, but never had money enough.  I
have plenty now.  Oh, I made it honestly," smiling.  "In oil, at Prome.
Here's a cutting from a Rangoon paper."
The other read it carefully.  It was romance, romance such as he liked
to read in his books, but which was mighty bewildering to have at his
elbow in actuality.  What a life the man must have led!  And here he
was, with no more evidence of the conflict than might be discerned in
the manliness of his face and the breadth and depth of his shoulders.
He dropped the cutting, impatiently.
"Don't you believe it?"
"Believe it?  Oh, this?  Yes," answered the consul-general.  "What I
can not believe is that I am awake.  I can not quite make two and two
equal four."
"Which infers?"
"That I can not . . .  Well, you do not look like a man who would rob
his employer of eight thousand dollars."
"Much obliged."
"Parrot & Co.  It's odd, but I recollect that title.  You were at
Udaipur during the plague."
Warrington brightened.  "So that's got about?  I happened to be there,
working on the prince's railway."
"I will send the cable at once.  You will doubtless hear from New York
in the morning.  But you must not see Miss Chetwood again."
"You will let me bid her good-by?  I admire and respect her more than
any other woman.  She does not know it, for as yet her soul is asleep;
but she is one of those few women God puts on earth for the courage and
comfort of man.  Only to say good-by to her.  Here in this office, if
you wish."
"I agree to that."
"Thank you again."  Warrington rose.
"I am genuinely sorry for you.  If they say no, what will you do?"
"Go back just the same.  I have another debt to cancel."
"Call in the morning.  I'll let you know what the charges are."
"I forgot.  Here are twenty pounds.  You can return the balance when I
call.  I am very grateful."
"By the way, there is a man here by the name of Mallow," began the
consul-general.
"Yes," interrupted Warrington, with a smile which was grim and cruel.
"I expect to call upon him.  He owes me something like fifty pounds,
and I am going to collect it."  Then he went out.
The consul-general dropped Mallow's perfecto into the waste-basket and
lighted his pipe.  Once more he read the cablegram.  The Andes
Construction Company.  What a twist, what an absurd kink in the skein!
Nearly all of Elsa's wealth lay bound up in this enormous business
which General Chetwood had founded thirty odd years before.  And
neither of them knew!
"I am not a bad man at heart," he mused, "but I liked the young man's
expression when I mentioned that bully Mallow."
He joined his family at five.  He waved aside tea, and called for a
lemon-squash.
"Elsa, I am going to give you a lecture."
"Didn't I tell you?" cried Elsa to the wife.  "I felt in my bones that
he was going to say this very thing."  She turned to her old-time
friend.  "Go on; lecture me."
"In the first place, you are too kind-hearted."
"That will be news to my friends.  They say I have a heart of ice."
"And what you think is independence of spirit is sometimes
indiscretion."
"Oh," said Elsa, becoming serious.
"A man came into my office to-day.  He is a rich copra-grower from
Penang.  He spoke of you.  You passed him on going out.  If I had been
twenty years younger I'd have punched his ugly head.  His name is
Mallow, and he's not a savory chap."
Elsa's cheeks burned.  She never would forget the look in that man's
eyes.  The look might have been in other men's eyes, but
conventionality had always veiled it; she had never seen it before.
"Go on;" but her voice was unsteady.
"Somewhere along the Irrawaddy you made the acquaintance of a young man
who calls himself Warrington, familiarly known as Parrot & Co.  I'll be
generous.  Not one woman in a thousand would have declined to accept
the attentions of such a man.  He is cultivated, undeniably
good-looking, a strong man, mentally and physically."
Elsa's expression was now enigmatical.
"There's not much veneer to him.  He fooled me unintentionally.  He was
quite evidently born a gentleman, of a race of gentlemen.  His is not
an isolated case.  One misstep, and the road to the devil."
The consul-general's wife sent a startled glance at Elsa, who spun her
sunshade to lighten the tension of her nerves.
"He confessed frankly to me this morning that he is a fugitive from
justice.  He wishes to return to America.  He recounted the
circumstances of your meeting.  To me the story appeared truthful
enough.  He said that you sought the introduction because of his
amazing likeness to the man you are going home to marry."
"That is true," replied Elsa.  "Uncle Jim, I have traveled pretty much
over this world, and I never met a gentleman if Warrington is not one."
There was unconscious belligerency in her tone.
"Ah, there's the difficulty which women will never be made to
understand.  Every man can, at one time or another, put himself upon
his good behavior.  Underneath he may be a fine rascal."
"Not this one," smiling.  "He warned me against himself a dozen times,
but that served to make me stubborn.  The fault of my conduct," acidly,
"was not in making this pariah's acquaintance.  It lies in the fact
that I had nothing to do with the other passengers, from choice.  That
is where I was indiscreet.  But why should I put myself out to gain the
good wishes of people for whom I have no liking; people I shall
probably never see again when I leave this port?"
"You forget that some of them will be your fellow passengers all the
way to San Francisco.  My child, you know as well as I do that there
are some laws which the Archangel Michael would have to obey, did he
wish to inhabit this earth for a while."
"Poor Michael!  And if you do not obey these laws, people talk."
"Exactly.  There are two sets of man-made laws.  One governs the
conduct of men and the other the conduct of women."
"And a man may break any one of these laws, twist it, rearrange it to
suit his immediate needs.  On the other hand, the woman is always
manacled."
"Precisely."
"I consider it horribly unfair."
"So it is.  But if you wish to live in peace, you must submit."
"Peace at that price I have no wish for.  This man Mallow lives within
the pale of law; the other man is outside of it.  Yet, of the two,
which would you be quickest to trust?"
The consul-general laughed.  "Now you are appealing not to my knowledge
of the world but to my instinct."
"Thanks."
"Is there any reason why you should defend Mr. Warrington, as he calls
himself?"
The consul-general's wife desperately tried to catch her husband's eye.
But either he did not see the glance or he purposely ignored it.
"In defending Mr. Warrington I am defending myself."
"A good point."
"My dear friend," Elsa went on, letting warmth come into her voice once
more, "my sympathy went out to that man.  He looked so lonely.  Did you
notice his eyes?  Can a man look at you the way he does and be bad?"
"I have seen Mallow dozens of times.  I know him to be a scoundrel of
sorts; but I doubt if bald sunlight could make him blink.  Liars have
first to overcome the flickering and wavering of the eyes."
"He said that."
"Who, Warrington?" puzzled.
"He said almost the same thing.  Would he say that if he were a liar?"
"I haven't accused him of being that.  Indeed, he struck me as a
truthful young man.  But he confessed to me that ten years ago he
robbed his employer of eight thousand dollars.  By the way, what is the
name of the firm your father founded?"
"The Andes Construction Company.  Do you think we could find him
something to do there?" eagerly.  "He builds bridges."
"I shouldn't advise that.  But we have gone astray.  You ought not to
see him again."
"I have made up my mind not to."
"Then pardon me for all this pother.  I know what is in your heart,
Elsa.  You want to help the poor devil back to what he was; but he'll
have to do that by himself."
"It is a hateful world!"  Elsa appealed to the wife.
"It is, Elsa, dear.  But James is right."
"You'll get your balance," said the guardian, "when you reach home.
When's the wedding?"
"I'm not sure that I'm going to be married."  Elsa twirled the sunshade
again.  "I really wish I had stayed at home.  I seem all topsy-turvy.
I could have screamed when I saw the man standing on the ledge above
the boat that night.  No; I do not believe I shall marry.  Fancy
marrying a man and knowing that his ghost was at the same time
wandering about the earth!"  She rose and the sunshade described a
half-circle as she spoke.  "Oh, bother with it all!  Dinner at eight,
in the big dining-room."
"Yes.  But the introductions will be made on the cafe-veranda.  These
people out here have gone mad over cock-tails.  And look your best,
Elsa.  I want them to see a real American girl to-night.  I'll have
some roses sent up to you."
Elsa had not the heart to tell him that all interest in his dinner had
suddenly gone from her mind; that even the confusion of the colonel no
longer appealed to her bitter malice.  She knew that she was going to
be bored and miserable.  Well, she had promised.  She would put on her
best gown; she would talk and laugh and jest because she had done these
things many times when her heart was not in the play of it.
When she was gone, the consul-general's wife said: "Poor girl!"
Her husband looked across the room interestedly.  "Why do you say that?"
"I am a woman."
"That phrase is the City of Refuge.  All women fly to it when
confronted by something they do not understand."
"Oh, but I do understand.  And that's the pity of it."
XIV
ACCORDING TO THE RULES
Elsa sought the hotel rickshaw-stand, selected a sturdy coolie, and
asked to be run to the botanical gardens and back.  She wanted to be
alone, wanted breathing-space, wanted the breeze to cool her hot
cheeks.  For she was angry at the world, angry at the gentle
consul-general, above all, angry at herself.  To have laid herself open
to the charge of indiscretion!  To have received a lecture, however
kindly intended, from the man she loved and respected next to her
father!  To know that persons were exchanging nods and whispers behind
her back!
It was a detestable world.  It was folly to be honest, to be kind, to
be individual, to have likes and dislikes, unless these might be
regulated by outsiders.  Why should she care what people said?  She did
not care.  What made her furious was the absolute stupidity of their
deductions.  She had not been indiscreet; she had been merely kindly
and human; and if they wanted to twist and misconstrue her actions, let
them do so.
She hated the word "people."  It seemed to signify all the useless
inefficient persons in the world, massed together after the manner of
sheep and cattle, stupidest of beasts, always wanting something and
never knowing what; not an individual among them.  And they expected
her to conform with their ways!  Was it necessary for her to tell these
meddlers why she had sought the companionship of a self-admitted
malefactor? . . .  Oh, that could not be!  If evil were to be found in
such a man, then there was no good anywhere.  What was one misstep?
Was it not written that all of us should make one or more?  And surely
this man had expiated his.  Ten years in this wilderness, ten long
lonely years.  How many men would have stood up against the temptations
of this exile?  Few, if any, among the men she knew.  And they
criticized her because she was sorry for the man.  Must she say to
them: "Dear people, I spoke to this man and engaged his companionship
because I was sorry for him; because he looked exactly like the man I
have promised to marry!"  It was ridiculous.  She laughed.  The dear
people!
Once or twice she saw inwardly the will-o'-the-wisp lights of her soul.
But resolutely she smothered the sparks and bolstered up the pitiful
lie.
The coolie stopped suddenly.
"Go on," she said.
But the coolie smiled and wiped his shaven poll.  Elsa gazed at the
hotel-veranda in bewilderment.  Slowly she got out of the rickshaw and
paid the fare.  She had not the slightest recollection of having seen
the gardens.  More than this, it was a quarter to seven.  She had been
gone exactly an hour.
"Perhaps, after all," she thought, "I am hopeless.  They may be right;
I ought to have a guardian.  I am not always accountable for what I do."
She dressed leisurely and with calculation.  She was determined to
convince every one that she was a beautiful woman, above suspicion,
above reproach.  The spirit within her was not, however, in direct
accord with this determination.  Malice stirred into life again; and
she wanted to hurt some one, hurt deeply.  It was only the tame in
spirit who, when injured, submitted without murmur or protest.  And
Elsa, only dimly aware of it, was mortally hurt.
"Elsa," said Martha, "that frown will stay there some day, and never go
away."
Elsa rubbed it out with her finger.  "Martha, do you recall that tiger
in the cage at Jaipur?  How they teased him until he lost his temper
and came smashing against the bars?  Well, I sympathize with that
brute.  He would have been peaceful enough had they let him be.  Has
Mr. Warrington called to-day?"
"No."
"Well, if he calls to-morrow, say that I am indisposed."
Martha evinced her satisfaction visibly.  The frown returned between
Elsa's eyes and remained there until she went down-stairs to join the
consul-general and his wife.  She found some very agreeable men and
women, and some of her natural gaiety returned.  At a far table on the
veranda she saw Craig and Mallow in earnest conversation.
She nodded pleasantly to the colonel as the head boy came to announce
that dinner was served.  Anglo-Indian society had so many twists and
ramifications that the situation was not exactly new to the old
soldier.  True, none had confronted him identical to this.  But he had
not disciplined men all these years without acquiring abundant
self-control.  The little veins in his nose turned purple, as Elsa
prophesied they would, but there was no other indication of how
distasteful the moment was to him.  He would surely warn the
consul-general, who doubtless was innocent enough.
They sat down.  The colonel blinked.  "Fine passage we had coming down."
"Was it?" returned Elsa innocently.
The colonel reached for an olive and bit into it savagely.  He was no
fool.  She had him at the end of a blind-alley, and there he must wait
until she was ready to let him go.  She could harry him or pretend to
ignore him, as suited her fancy.  He was caught.  Women, all women,
possessed at least one attribute of the cat.  It was digging in the
claw, hanging by it, and boredly looking about the world to see what
was going on.  At that moment the colonel recognized the sting of the
claw.
Elsa turned to her right and engaged the French consul discursively:
the vandalism in the gardens at Versailles, the glut of vehicles in the
Bois at Paris, the disappearing of the old landmarks, the old Hotel de
Sevigne, now the most interesting musée in France.  Indeed, Elsa
gradually became the center of interest; she drew them intentionally.
She brought a touch of home to the Frenchman, to the German, to the
Italian, to the Spaniard; and the British official, in whose hands the
civil business of the Straits Settlements rested, was charmed to learn
that Elsa had spent various week-ends at the home of his sister in
Surrey.
And when she admitted that she was the daughter of General Chetwood,
the man to whom the Indian government had cause to be grateful, upon
more than one occasion, for the solidity of his structures, the colonel
realized definitely the seriousness of his crucifixion.  He sat stiffer
and stiffer in his chair, and the veins in his nose grew deeper and
deeper in hue.  He saw clearly that he would never understand American
women.  He had committed an outrageous blunder.  He, instead of
dominating, had been dominated by three faultfinding old women; and,
without being aware of the fact, had looked at things from their point
of view.  A most inconceivable blunder.  He would not allow that he was
being swayed less by the admission of his unpardonable rudeness on
board than by the immediate knowledge that Elsa was known to the
British official's sister, a titled lady who stood exceedingly high at
court.
"Miss Chetwood," he said, lowering his voice for her ears only.
Elsa turned, but with the expression that signified that her attention
was engaged elsewhere.
"Yes?"
"I am an old man.  I am sixty-two; and most of these sixty-two I have
lived roughly; but I am not too old to realize that I have made a fool
of myself."
Interest began to fill Elsa's eyes.
"It has been said," he went on, keeping the key, "that I am a man of
courage, but I find that I need a good deal of that just now.  I have
been rude to you, and without warrant, and I offer you my humble
apologies."  He fumbled with his cravat as if it had suddenly
tightened.  "Will you accept?"
"Instantly."  Elsa understood the quality of courage that had stirred
the colonel.
"Thanks."
But ruthlessly: "I should, however, like your point of view in regard
to what you consider my conduct."
"Is it necessary?"
"I believe it would be better for my understanding if you made a full
confession."  She did not mean to be relentless, but her curiosity was
too strong not to press her advantage.
"Well, then, over here as elsewhere in the world there are standards by
which we judge persons who come under our notice."
"Agreed.  Individuality is not generally understandable."
"By the mediocre, you might have added.  That's the difficulty with
individuality; it refuses to be harnessed by mediocrity, and mediocrity
holds the whip-hand, always.  I represent the mediocre."
"Oh, never!" said Elsa animatedly.  "Mediocrity is always without
courage."
"You are wrong.  It has the courage of its convictions."
"Rather is it not stubbornness, wilful refusal to recognize things as
they are?"
He countered the question with another.  "Supposing we were all
individuals, in the sense you mean?  Supposing each of us did exactly
as he pleased?  Can you honestly imagine a more confusing place than
this world would be?  The Manchurian pony is a wild little beast, an
individual if ever there was one; but man tames him and puts to use his
energies.  And so it is with human individuality.  We of the mediocre
tame it and harness and make it useful to the general welfare of
humanity.  And when we encounter the untamable, in order to safeguard
ourselves, we must turn it back into the wilderness, an outlaw.
Indeed, I might call individuality an element, like fire and water and
air."
"But who conquer fire and water and air?" Elsa demanded, believing she
had him pocketed.
"Mediocrity, through the individual of this or that being.  Humanity in
the bulk is mediocre.  And odd as it seems, individuality (which is
another word for genius) believes it leads mediocrity.  But it can not
be made to understand that mediocrity ordains the leadership."
"Then you contend that in the hands of the stupid lies the balance of
power?"
"Let us not say stupid, rather the unimaginative, the practical and the
plodding.  The stubbornest person in the world is one with an idea."
"Do you honestly insist that you are mediocre?"
"No," thoughtfully.  "I am one of those stubborn men with ideas.  I
merely insist that I prefer to accept the tenets of mediocrity for my
own peace and the peace of others."
Elsa forgot those about her, forgot her intended humiliation of the man
at her side.  He denied that he was an individual, but he was one, as
interesting a one as she had met in a very long time.  She, too, had
made a blunder.  Quick to form opinions, swift to judge, she stood
guilty with the common lot, who permit impressions instead of evidence
to sway them.  Here was a man.
"We have gone far afield," she said, a tacit admission that she could
not refute his dissertations.  This knowledge, however, was not irksome.
"Rather have we not come to the bars?  Shall we let them down?"
"Proceed."
"In the civil and military life on this side of the world there are
many situations which we perforce must tolerate.  But these, mind you,
are settled conditions.  It is upon new ones which arise that we pass
judgment.  I knew nothing about you, nothing whatever.  So I judged you
according to the rules."
Elsa leaned upon her elbows, and she smiled a little as she noted that
the purple had gone from his nose and that it had resumed its
accustomed rubicundity.
"I go on.  A woman who travels alone, who does not present letters of
introduction, who . . ."
"Who attends strictly to her own affairs.  Go on."
"Who is young and beautiful."
"A sop!  Thanks!"
Imperturbably he continued: "Who seeks the acquaintance of men who do
not belong, as you Americans say."
"Not men; one man," she corrected.
"A trifling difference.  Well, it arouses a disagreeable word,
suspicion.  For look, there have been examples.  It isn't as if yours
were an isolated case.  There have been examples, and these we apply to
such affairs as come under our notice."
"And it doesn't matter that you may be totally wrong?"
His prompt answer astonished her.  "No, it does not matter in the
least.  Simmered down, it may be explained in a word, appearances.  And
I must say, to the normal mind . . ."
"The mediocre mind."
"To the normal and mediocre mind, appearances were against you.
Observe, please, that I did not know I was wrong, that you were a
remarkable young woman.  My deductions were made from what I saw as an
outsider.  On the Irrawaddy you made the acquaintance of a man who came
out here a fugitive from justice.  After you made his acquaintance, you
sought none other, in fact, repelled any advances.  This alone decided
me."
"Then you were decided?"  To say that this blunt exposition was not
bitter to her taste, that it did not act like acid upon her pride,
would not be true.  She was hurt, but she did not let the hurt befog
her sense of justice.  From his point of view the colonel was in no
fault.  "Let me tell you how very wrong you were indeed."
"Doubtless," he hastily interposed, "you enveloped the man in a cloud
of romance."
"On the contrary, I spoke to him and sought his companionship because
he was nothing more nor less than a ghost."
"Ah!  Is it possible that you knew him in former times?"
"No.  But he was so like the man at home; so identical in features and
build to the man I expected to go home to marry. . . ."
"My dear young lady, you are right.  Mediocrity is without imagination,
stupid, and makes the world a dull place indeed.  Like the man you
expect to marry!  What woman in your place would have acted otherwise?
And I have made my statements as bald and brutal as an examining
magistrate!  Instead of one apology I offer a thousand."
"I accept each and all of them.  More, I believe that you and I could
get on capitally.  I can very well imagine the soldier you used to be.
I am going to ask you what you know about Mr. Warrington."
"This, that he is not a fit companion for a young woman like yourself;
that a detractable rumor follows hard upon his heels wherever he goes.
I learned something about him in Rangoon.  He is known to the riff-raff
as Parrot & Co., and I don't know what else.  All of us on shipboard
learned his previous history."
"Ah!"  She was quite certain of the historian.  "And not from
respectable quarters, either."
"If I had been elderly and without physical attractions?" Elsa inquired
sarcastically.
"We are dealing with human nature, mediocrity, and not with
speculation.  It is in the very nature of things to distrust that which
we do not understand.  You say, old and without physical attractions.
Beauty is of all things most drawing.  We crowd about it, we crown it,
we flatter it.  The old and unattractive we pass by.  If I had not seen
you here to-night, heard you talk, saw in a kind of rebellious
enchantment over your knowledge of the world and your distinguished
acquaintance, I should have gone to my grave believing that my
suspicions were correct.  I dare say that I shall make the same mistake
again."
"But do not judge so hastily."
"That I promise."
"Did you learn among other things what Mr. Warrington had done?"
"Yes.  A sordid affair.  Ordinary peculations that were wasted over
gaming-tables."
Warrington had told her the truth.  At least, the story told by others
coincided with his own.  But what was it that kept doubt in her mind?
Why should she not be ready to believe what others believed, what the
man himself had confessed?  What was it to her that he looked like
Arthur, that he was guilty or innocent?
"And his name?"  She wondered if the colonel knew that also.
"Warrington is assumed.  His real name is Paul Ellison."
"Paul Ellison."  She repeated it slowly.  Her voice did not seem her
own.  The table, the lights, the faces, all receded and became a blur.
XV
A BIT OF A LARK
Mallow gave Craig one of his favorite cigars.  The gambler turned it
over and inspected the carnelian label, realizing that this was
expected of him.  Mallow smiled complacently.  They might smoke as good
as that at the government-house, but he rather doubted it.  Trust a
Britisher to know a good pipe-charge; but his selection of cigars was
seldom to be depended upon.
"Don't see many of these out here," was Craig's comment, and he tucked
away the cigar in a vest pocket.
"They cost me forty-three cents apiece, without duty."  The vulgarian's
pleasure lies not in the article itself so much as in the price paid
for it.  On the plantation Mallow smoked Burma cheroots because he
really preferred them.  There, he drank rye whisky, consorted with his
employees, gambled with them and was not above cheating when he had
them drunk enough.  Away from home, however, he was the man of money;
