us, a national amusement. Everybody takes a hand in it.”
“The right or the left?”
“Both I fancy. Though in the case of Madame B. I have an idea that the
right turned out to be wrong.”
Tempest flicked the ashes from his cigar. “I may compliment you,
Silverstairs. You have a manner of expressing yourself which is highly
cryptic. But now, to an every day sort of chap like myself, would you
mind being less abstruse?”
“I should feel sordid if I refused. Verplank is a very good sort,
whereas this Barouffski is a rotter.”
Tempest bowed. “Thank you for descending to my level. The long and
short of it is that she has made a mess of it. Well, most people do. I
don’t wonder now that over the soup she talked about fate.”
“Oh, as for that, after certain experiences of my own, with which, pray
do not be alarmed, I have no intention of boring you, I have stopped
wondering at anything at all.”
“Silverstairs, in ceasing to be cryptic, do not become Spartan. My
cousin told me that Joyeuse hunted with this, with What’s-his-name,
with--er----”
“With Verplank?”
“Yes, that he had hunted with him in the States. And that reminds me.
What have you decided about that horse?”
Silverstairs pulled at his straw-coloured moustache. “I’ll let you know
to-morrow. When are you to be at home?”
“Any time after two.”
Silverstairs nodded. “Very good, I will drop in on you.”
From beyond, blue and vibrant, came the upper notes of a violin. In the
now crowded salons a Roumanian, the rage of the season, a youth, very
pale, with melancholy eyes, flowing hair and the waist of a girl, was
executing a fantasy of his own.
De Joyeuse flicked a speck from his sleeve, threw back his noble and
empty head, gave a circular look of inquiry, a little gesture of
invitation, and accompanied by his friends, sauntered to the rooms
without.
There, Barouffski after saluting Mme. de Joyeuse had engaged her
briefly in talk. But her attention had been attracted rather than
claimed by the Montebiancan prince, a young man extremely gentlemanly
and equally modest who, with that diffidence which royals and poets
share, stood bashfully at her side.
Barouffski, bowing again, passed on. During his short and entirely
fragmentary conversation with Mme. de Joyeuse, his eyes had rummaged
the room.
Leilah, meanwhile, rising from the sofa where she had been seated,
moved with the inflammatory d’Arcy into the salon beyond.
Barouffski would have followed. But the young Baronne de Fresnoy
addressed him. Perversely, with sudden glimpses of little teeth and an
expression of glee in her piquant face, she asked:
“Was it you who performed that high act of gallantry at Longchamps
to-day?”
“Was it I who did what?” Barouffski surprisedly exclaimed.
“What was it?” asked Aurelia, who with Buttercups in tow, had
approached.
But Mme. de Fresnoy waved at her. “Go away my dear, it is not for an
ingénue.”
“Ah then, but you see,” Aurelia indolently interjected, “I am tired of
being an ingénue. An ingénue is supposed to be in a state of constant
surprise and that is so exhausting.”
None the less, with Buttercups still in tow she betook herself to a
corner where she was promptly joined by Farnese.
Then at once to Barouffski, to Mustim Pasha, to the Helley-Quetgens,
to others that stood about, the young baroness related a morsel of
gossip, the report of which had been brought her but a moment before,
a story that had one of the reigning demireps for heroine and for hero
a man unidentified by the baronne’s informant, the tale of an assault
committed before all Paris, before all Paris that is, that happened
to be at the races that day; an extravaganza in which the heroine,
erupting suddenly on the pelouse before the Grand Stand, had, with her
parasol, struck the hero over the head and had been about to strike him
again, when he, pinioning her arms with his own, had to the applause
of everybody, prevented the second assault by kissing her through
her veil; after which releasing the lady, he had raised his hat and
strolled away.
“Was it you, Barouffski?” Mme. de Fresnoy, the narrative at an end,
inquired. “Was it?”
“I? Nonsense! Why should you ask?”
“It would be just like you, you know. Besides, I hear that the man was
tall and good-looking.”
“You are exceedingly complimentary. But the world is peopled with tall,
good-looking men.”
“Pas tant que ça,” laughed the baroness. “Well, if it was not you,
perhaps it was that man who is just coming in.”
Involuntarily Barouffski turned, while a footman bawled:
“Monsieur Verplank!”
III
It was in circumstances which, if not dramatic, were, at least,
uncommon, that Leilah Verplank met Barouffski.
At Los Angeles, after her flight from Coronado, she caught an express
that would have taken her East. Even so, it could not take her from
herself, it could not distance memory, it could not annihilate the
past. The consciousness of that obsessed her. Each of her thoughts
became a separate throb. About her head formed an iron band. Her body
ached. She felt hot and ill. She had a sense of thirst, a sense, too,
of fear.
In the compartment where she sat, a stranger came. She hid her face,
covering it with her hands. The stranger sidled in between them, looked
her in the eyes, penetrated them, permeated her, shook long shudders
through her, shrieked at her: “I am Fright!”
She cried aloud. No one heard. She got to the door.
In the section immediately adjoining were her women. Perplexed at the
start by her unaccountable flight and, since then, alarmed by the
abnormal excitability which she had displayed, both, at the sight of
her then, rushed to her.
Salt Lake was the first possible asylum. There, weeks later, Leilah
arose from one of those attacks, which, for lack of a better term, has
been called brain fever.
Like fire, fever may consume, it does not necessarily obliterate. The
past remained. But in that lassitude which fever leaves, Leilah was
able to consider it with a wearied certainty that no immediate effort
could be required of her then.
“Forget,” some considerate and subliminal self admonished. “Forget.”
Even in sleep she could not always do that. But though she could not
forget the past, she could, she believed, barricade herself against it.
The idea was suggested by the local sheet in which she found an item
about neighbourly Nevada. The item hung a hammock for her thoughts,
rested her mentally, unrolled a carpet for the returning steps of
health.
Verplank, meanwhile, misdirected at Los Angeles, reached San Francisco.
Learning there that a party of three women had, that morning, at the
last moment, embarked on the Samoa packet; learning also that of these
women the central figure projected, or seemed to project, Leilah’s
silhouette, he wired for his yacht and sailed away in pursuit. But
an accident supervening, the packet reached Samoa before him. When
Verplank got there the boat was gone. Still in pursuit he started for
the austral seas. There, the mistake discovered, hope for the time
abandoned him and he landed in Melbourne, ignorant that the supremely
surgical court of Nevada was amputating him from his wife.
In matters of this solemnity, the Nevada statutes require that one of
the parties to the operation shall have resided for six months within
the state. But at Carson, the capital, a town that has contrived to
superpose the Puritan aspect of a New England village on the vices of
a Malay port, in this city Leilah learned that statutes so severe were
not enacted for such as she.
The information, tolerably consoling, was placed before her by a young
Jew who, as she alighted from the train, divined her errand, addressed
her with easy Western informality, put a card in her hand, offered his
services, telling her as he did so that if she retained him he would
have her free in no time, in three months, in less. It was a mere
matter of money, he explained, and, what he did not explain, a mere
matter of perjury as well, the perjury of local oafs ready to swear
to whatever they were paid for, ready to testify for instance that
they had known anybody for any required length of time. But the Jew in
divining Leilah’s errand divined too her loyalty. In speaking of fees,
he kept manœuvres and methods to himself.
Leilah, repelled yet beguiled, succumbed. The Jew was retained and in
a wretched inn her things were unpacked. At once a rain of days began,
long, loveless days in which she tried to starve her thoughts into
submission and bear the cross that had been brought.
The effort was not very satisfactory. The reason why she should have a
cross and why it should be borne had never even to her devout mind been
adequately explained. Hitherto she had not required any explanation and
not unnaturally perhaps since she had had no cross to bear. The dogma
that she in common with the rest of humanity must suffer because of the
natural propensities of beings that never were, she had accepted as
only such dogmas can be accepted, on faith. But in the dismal solitudes
of Carson, faith faded, the dogma seemed absurd.
Then suddenly that which in her ignorance she took to be chance,
supplied a superior view. While waiting in a shop for a slovenly
clerk to do up a package, she looked at a shelf on which were some
books--frayed, bedrabbled, second hand. Among them was a treatise on
metallurgy, another on horse-breeding, a string of paper covered novels
and the Vidyâ.
The title, which conveyed nothing, for that reason attracted. At random
she opened the book. A paragraph sprang at her:
    “From debility to strength, from strength to power, from power
    to glory, from glory to perfection, from plane to plane, in an
    evolution proceeding from the outward to the inward, from the
    material to the spiritual, from the spiritual to the divine,
    such is the destiny of the soul.”
Leilah turned a page. Another paragraph leaped out.
    “There is not an accident in our lives, not a sorrow, a
    misfortune, a catastrophe, a happiness that is not due to
    our own conduct in this existence or in a previous one. In
    accordance with the nature of our deeds there are thrown about
    us the tentacles of pain or the arms of joy.”
But the slovenly clerk was approaching. Leilah closed the book, asked
the price, paid for it, paid for the other purchase and went back to
the inn where during the rest of the day she read the drama of the
soul, the story of its emanation from the ineffable, of its surrender
to desire, of its fall into matter, of its birth and rebirth in the
mansions of life which are death, of the persistence there of its
illusory joys, of the recurrences of its unenlightening trials, until,
at last, some memory returning of what it had been when it was other
than what it had become, it learns at last to conquer desire and
accomplish its own release.
The drama, however old, was new to Leilah, and at first not very clear.
But beneath it was a chain of causality, the demonstration that this
life is the sum of many others, the harvest after the sowing, and,
joined to the demonstration were corollaries and deductions which
showed that sorrow, when rightly viewed, is not a cross but a gift, a
boon granted to the privileged.
It was a little before she mastered the idea. When she had, the novelty
of it impressed. At the back of the Vidyâ was a list of cognate
works. She wired to San Francisco for them. Shortly they came, and in
their companionship the rain of long, loveless days fell by.
Ultimately she sat on a high chair. An oaf asked her questions. Others
testified. On the morrow a paper was brought her. It had on it a large
seal, the picture of a big building, words that were engrossed, others
in script.
She was free.
The knowledge brought no exultation. It was a hostage to joy, one of
the many that she was to give.
Meanwhile she had written to Violet Silverstairs telling her that she
had separated from Verplank, and asking might she join her. The answer,
which was cabled, told her to come. That day she started.
The town house of the Earls of Silverstairs is in Belgrave Square.
There are worse places. But to the American countess the discomforts
of the residence were not to be endured. After one season she declined
to put up with them. Pending an entire modernisation of the house, she
and Silverstairs migrated to Paris, where they took an apartment, and a
very charming one, in the rue François Premier.
In this apartment Leilah was made to feel that she was with friends,
one of whom, however, could not get over the fact that she could not
get at the facts in the matter.
“See here, Leilah,” Violet Silverstairs said aggrievedly, not once, but
fifty times, “it is downright mean of you to keep me in the dark. What
was it that he did? Tell me.”
The lady had known Verplank, as she had known Leilah, ever since she
had known anybody. They had grown up together. Though not related
by blood, they were by choice, which is sometimes thicker. In the
circumstances it was perhaps but natural that she should call it mean,
perhaps but human that she should be aggrieved.
The puzzle of the situation she put before her husband.
“What do you suppose it can be?” she asked.
But Silverstairs had no surmises to hazard.
“It must be something quite too dreadful,” Violet continued. “One of
those things, don’t you know, that are said to change your whole life.
She just sits about and reads queer books.”
“Queer books!” Silverstairs surprisedly repeated.
“Yes, books that tell of planes and rounds and cycles and chains of
lives and rebirths and redeaths. She believes in them, too. She told me
so.”
Silverstairs tugged at his moustache. “She might as well believe in the
music of the spheres.”
Violet looked at her lord. She loved him as certain delicately
organized women do love men who are merely robust. But her affection
did not warp her judgment. She knew that within his splendid physique
was a spirit, valiant perhaps, but obtuse.
“Well, why not?” she retorted. “Let a microphone receive from a steel
plate the reflection of a star, and sounds are emitted, tones peculiar
to the star itself. Those of the sun are blatant. Those of Arcturus are
like little bells. Those of Sirius are as sobs from a zither. Everybody
knows that. Why shouldn’t she believe in the music of the spheres?”
“Gammon!” cried this man who at Eton and Christ Church had abundantly
acquired everything which is most useless. “I never heard such rot.”
“I daresay, but that is not the point. The point is that it is no joke
to her.”
Nor was it. Leilah at first refused to go anywhere, to see any one, to
be present when there were guests. But Violet, declaring that she would
have no moping in her diggings, forced her. It was very reluctantly
that Leilah acceded. After a while she did so as a matter of course.
Finally, as was inevitable, she accepted invitations elsewhere.
It was what Violet had aimed at, though not at all at the result. Yet
that, Leilah, who had come to believe in karma, afterward regarded as
fate.
Presently, it so fell about that at one dinner she had at her left a
man whom she did not know, whose name she had not caught and with whom,
during the preliminary courses, she had not exchanged a word. As the
dinner progressed, cigarettes were served. Twice she refused them. The
second time, as she turned again to the man at her right, she heard a
cry, across the table she saw a face, the eyes staring, the features
elongated. At once there was an uproar, behind her there was a crash,
she was torn bodily from her chair, a piece of tapestry had been thrown
about her and in it she was rolled on the floor by the man whom she did
not know.
Probably, at no dinner, anywhere, had a woman suffered such indignities.
She was so telling herself when she realised, as she immediately did
realise, that the man and others who had joined him, were but occupied
in saving her life. Her dress had caught fire and it was in this flaming
fashion, hurled on the floor by a stranger and there brutalised by him,
that she made the acquaintance of Count Kasimiérz Barouffski.
The sack of her costume forced her to return to the rue François
Premier, where at five o’clock the next day, Barouffski appeared. He
appeared the day following, the day after, the day after that.
These attentions Violet Silverstairs viewed with suspicion.
“I verily believe,” she said to Leilah, “that it was that polecat who
set you on fire, and if he did no one can convince me that he did not
do it on purpose.”
“Violet!”
“That’s right, fly at me. I thought you would. Are you going to take
him?”
In an elaborate drawing room in the rue François Premier the two women
were having tea. Leilah, without replying, raised her cup.
Violet cocked an eye at her. “One would have thought that you had had
enough of matrimony. But perhaps your intentions are not honourable.”
Leilah reddened. “Violet!” she again exclaimed.
“My dear,” Lady Silverstairs resumed, “remember that you are no longer
in the States. England is the most hypocritical country in Europe.
America is the most hypocritical country in the world. That is what
we call progress. But France being old-fashioned and behind the times
is not censorious. I admit, I used to be. But I am not censorious any
longer. I am not because any such état d’âme while advanced is not
becoming.
“I am an old married woman,” added the lady who was not twenty-two.
“But if I were not, if for instance I were like you, free, independent
and not a fright, and I had to choose between love and matrimony, it
would not take me a moment to decide. Not one.”
Leilah put down her cup. “Of course it would not. If you had it to do
again you would marry Silverstairs and you would marry for love. That
is over for me, over forever.”
Narrowly, out of a corner of an eye, Violet considered her. “He was
such a brute, was he?”
“Who? Gulian, do you mean?”
“I suppose so. There has been no other, has there?”
“Violet!”
It was at this juncture, for the fiftieth time, that Lady Silverstairs
exclaimed:
“It is downright mean of you to keep me in the dark. What was it that
happened? Make a soiled breast of it. Do!”
For the fiftieth time Leilah protested:
“Don’t ask me. Don’t. He knows and that is enough. As for me I am
trying to forget.”
“And you think Barouffski will help you. But has it ever occurred to
you that if you were not very rich he might lack the incentive?”
To this Leilah assented. “He said he is poor.”
“At least he does not exaggerate. I told Silverstairs that he was after
you for your money and he said that was what he married me for. So he
did and I married him for his title. It was a fair bargain. Now if we
had it to do over I would say--I would say--well, I would say that it
is better to have loved your husband than never to have loved at all.
But six months hence, if you had it to do over, do you think you could
say as much--or as little?”
“At least I could say that I did not marry for a title.”
“Well, hardly, particularly a Polish one, though I daresay even that
might be useful in the servants’ hall. But what could you say you
married for? It isn’t love?”
“No.”
“Nor position?”
“No.”
“Then what on earth----”
“Violet, how hard you make it for me. Can’t you see that if I do, it
will be for protection?”
“For protection! Merciful fathers! You talk like a chorus girl!
Protection against what? Against whom? Verplank?”
“No.” Leilah choking down something in her throat, replied: “Against
myself.”
“I don’t understand you,” said Violet slowly. But she did or thought
she did, and that night told Silverstairs that Leilah was still in love
with her ex.
It was in these circumstances that Leilah listened to the Count
Kasimiérz Barouffski, who, in telling her that he was poor, omitted
to add that he had resources. These were women and cards. It is a
business like another. But even to his nearest friends, to Tyszkiewicz,
a compatriot, and Palencia, a Corsican, he did not boast of it. He had
therefore some sense of shame, but not of honour, though with humour he
was supplied. A man with some sense of humour and no sense of honour
may go far. Barouffski intended to. After his volcanic introduction to
Leilah, he beheld in her not the woman but the opportunity which chance
had sent his way. To grasp that he displayed every art of which the
Slav is capable. He did more. He impressed her not with the nobility
of his name but of his nature. He was a good actor and though at first
unsuccessful he was not discouraged. It was an axiom of his that among
the dice of destiny there is always a golden six. It was axiomatic with
him also that it is not tossed at once. To deserve it, one must wait.
Barouffski waited. Presently fate shook the box before him. The golden
six was his.
But not the box.
To Leilah the mere idea of matrimony was abhorrent. Yet she could
not stop indefinitely with the Silverstairs. She had no relatives
with whom she could reside. She felt that it would be awkward and
perhaps equivocal for her to have an establishment of her own. But
these considerations were minor beside another--a sense, haunting and
constant, that the excursion to Nevada had been inadequate, that the
past needed a surer barricade.
It was not a husband that she wanted. Peace and security were the
flesh-pots that she craved. These Barouffski offered or seemed to--and
it was these finally and these only that she agreed to accept.
To the implied stipulation Barouffski consented with an air of high
chivalry but also with an ambiguous smile. Given the golden six of her
income, the box was a detail to him, and it was in these circumstances
that over the perhaps insecurely locked door of her past, this mask
mounted guard.
The news of the engagement, filtering through the press, was cabled to
the States, together with the fact that Leilah was then stopping in
the rue François Premier with Lady Silverstairs, whose portrait, in
addition to bogus presentments of the engaged couple, were printed in
the minor sheets that circulate from New York to San Francisco.
On arriving from Australia at the latter city, Verplank happened on a
belated copy. Since he had gone from Coronado, this, the first news of
his wife, was her engagement to another man.
In his amazement his thoughts stuttered. Into his mind entered
stretches of night. He looked at the sheet without seeing it. But the
paragraph and the purport of it, already photographed on the films of
the brain, were prompting him unconsciously, and it was without really
knowing what he was saying that he exclaimed:
“Leilah! My wife! In Paris! Engaged to another man!”
The names, the words, the meaning of them all, beat on his brain like
blows of a hammer.
“Leilah! My wife! In Paris! Engaged!”
Again he looked at the sheet. “What a damned lie!” he ragingly cried,
and, rumpling the paper, threw it from him.
But now, the names, the words, the meaning of them all, well beaten
into him, readjusted themselves, presenting a picture perfectly defined
and possibly real.
He stooped, gathered the paper, smoothed it, read the account again.
After all, he reflected, it might be that she was in Paris and, if
there, it was natural that she would be with Violet Silverstairs. These
two items were, therefore, not improbably correct. That view reached,
the deduction followed: If they are correct, the other may be. Yet, in
that case, he argued, obviously she must think me dead. On the heels of
this second deduction an impression trod--the ease and dispatch with
which she had become consoled.
Enraged at once, angered already by what he had taken for a lie and
then infuriated by what he took for truth, the anterior incidents that
had this supreme outrage for climax, leaped at him. At the onslaught
the primitive passions flared, and it was with the impulse of the
homicide that he determined to seek and overwhelm this woman who
accepted men and matters with such entire sans-gêne.
On the morrow he left for New York. Before going he sent a cablegram to
the address which the paper had supplied:
    Am just apprised of the studied insult of your engagement to
    some foreign cad. Leaving for Paris at once.
As he signed it, deeply, beneath the breath, he swore. “That will show
her,” he added.
It so happened that it showed her nothing. Leilah was not then in the
rue François Premier, but in the rue de la Pompe, where the message
followed, but only to be received by Barouffski, who read it with a
curious smile.
Already he hated Verplank, who had not yet acquired a hatred for him.
But though that hatred had not been acquired, it developed tumultuously
when, on arriving in New York, he learned that not merely the report of
the engagement was true, but that the engagement had since resulted in
a marriage, which itself had been preceded by a Nevada divorce.
In comparison to all that had occurred, the divorce seemed at the time
almost negligible. It was the crowning infamy of this marriage which,
in renewing the primitive passions, aroused in Verplank a determination
not merely to seek and overwhelm the woman, but to seek and destroy the
man. The marriage, he decided could be but the result of an anterior
affair, there was no other explanation of it. The idea that had come to
him at Coronado, the possibility that she might have left him because
informed of some affair of his own and which since then he had examined
again and again, fell utterly away. It was not because of errors of his
that she had gone, but for turpitudes of her own. Then to his anger at
her was added a hatred of Barouffski, whom he had never seen, and who,
without having seen Verplank, hated him also, hated him retrospectively
and prospectively, hated him because clearly Leilah had been his
and--where women are concerned, all things being possible--might be
again.
But though Barouffski hated Verplank actively, he hated him vaguely,
as one must when one hates the unknown. It was the cablegram which, in
supplying the personal element, made the hate concrete.
“Foreign cad, eh?” he repeated, with a curious smile. “Eh bien, nous
verrons, we shall see.”
Presently the opportunity occurred. For it was in these circumstances,
a fortnight after the receipt of the cablegram, that, directed by the
young Baronne de Fresnoy, he turned and saw Verplank entering the room
where he stood.
IV
With the unerring instinct of the man of the world, Verplank, on
entering the crowded salon, divined immediately, among all the women
present, the hostess whom he had never seen.
As he bent over her hand, the duchess, who had not an idea how he came
there, said in her fluted voice:
“This is really so nice of you. I did not know you were in Paris.”
“Nor did I--until this moment,” answered Verplank, looking as he spoke
into the eyes of his hostess who, after the one imperceptible glance
with which the mondaine judges and classifies, was wondering in what
manner, this man, with his virile face and impeccable presence, had
forced Leilah Barouffska to leave him.
“But,” he added, “Monsieur de Joyeuse whom I saw this afternoon told
me that you would be at home, and assured me that I might venture to
present my homages.”
The duchess displayed her tireless smile. “I am only sorry not to have
had them sooner.” She paused. Between her smile, the edges of her
teeth showed, false but beautiful. “There is Lady Silverstairs trying
to get you to look at her, and very well worth looking at she is.”
Camille de Joyeuse turned for a moment to the reticent young prince who
in his diffident way still lingered at her side.
Beyond, at the farther end of the room, notes rippled. Standing near
a grand piano, the Roumanian with the flowing hair was preluding a
fantasy of his own.
In the hush that succeeded, Verplank moved to where Violet sat.
Smilingly, without speaking, she gave him her hand and indicated a seat
beside her. Then, raising a fan, she whispered:
“Demon! What have you done? Where do you spring from? How long have you
been in Paris?”
Verplank, seating himself, answered:
“I got here this morning. Why am I a demon?”
From behind the fan, Violet asked:
“What did you do to Leilah? Why did she leave you?”
Verplank folded his gloved hands. “That is what I am here to find out.”
“Do you mean to tell me that you don’t know!”
“I have not an idea--unless it was because of this Count Thingumagig.”
Violet Silverstairs furled her fan, looked at him, looked away, looked
about the room. At one end her husband, accompanied by de Joyeuse,
Tempest, de Fresnoy, and the others, had entered. At the further end
the Roumanian dominated. Supported en sourdine by an accompanist, he
massed sounds and dispersed them, concentrating fulgurations of notes
from which echoing showers fell. Presently, resuming an abandoned
measure, he caressed a largo, infinitely sweet, that swooned in the
languors of the finale. At once to a murmur of bravos, the applause of
gloved hands and a cry of “Bis!” raising violin and bow above his head,
he bent double to the duchess, his flowing hair falling like a veil
before him.
“He may play again,” said Violet. “I want to talk to you. Let us go
into the next room.”
As Verplank rose at her bidding, others who had been seated, rose also.
Interrupted conversations were more animatedly resumed. A servant
announced additional names. The first salon now was thronged. The
second was filled. Verplank and Violet passed on.
Beyond was a gallery. At the entrance stood a woman, her face averted,
talking to a man. As the others approached, she turned.
At sight of her and of the man, Violet would have turned also. It was
too late.
“Leilah!” Verplank exclaimed.
For a second, in tragic silence, two beings whom love had joined and
fate had separated, stood, staring into each other’s eyes.
For a second only. At once the man interposed himself between them.
“Monsieur!” he insolently threw out. “My name is Barouffski.”
With superior tact Lady Silverstairs intervened. “Good evening, Count.
It never occurred to us that we were interrupting a tête-à-tête.”
She paused. Hostilely the two men were measuring each other. In
Verplank’s face there was a threat, in Barouffski’s there was a jeer,
in Leilah’s there was an expression of absolute terror. Of the little
group Violet alone appeared at ease.
“Leilah,” she added, “don’t forget that you are to have luncheon with
me to-morrow. Good night, my dear. Silverstairs and I will be going
soon. Good night, Barouffski.”
She smiled, nodded, took Verplank’s arm, took him away. But the arm
beneath her hand was shaking and she realised that it shook with rage.
Sympathetically she looked up at him. “I thought they were in the other
room and it was just to avoid a thing of this sort that I got you out
of it. You won’t do anything, will you?”
Verplank now had got control of himself, his arm no longer shook,
and it was the smile of a man of the world, the smile of one to whom
nothing is important and much absurd, that he answered:
“Why, yes; it was very civil of this chap to introduce himself. I shall
leave a card on him. Hello! Here’s Silverstairs! I wonder if he will
introduce himself, too.”
The young earl was advancing, his hand outstretched. “I say! I saw a
man marching off with the missis, but I had no idea it was you. Where
are you stopping? Will you dine with us Tuesday?”
“Yes, do.” Violet threw in. “Rue François Premier at eight.”
“I shall be very glad to,” Verplank answered. He turned to Silverstairs.
“I am at the Ritz. Stop by there to-morrow noon, won’t you, and let me
take you somewhere for luncheon?”
Lady Silverstairs laughed and employing a darkyism, said: “You don’t
say turkey to me. There!” she exclaimed as Verplank was about to
protest. “I could not anyway.”
From the salon beyond came a woman’s voice, clear and rich, rendering,
in a lascive contralto, a song of love and passion.
The Silverstairs and Verplank approached. Meanwhile, from the diva’s
mouth, notes darted like serpents on fire. In mounting fervour the aria
developed, trailing, as it climbed, words such as amore, speranza,
morir. A breath of brutality passed. The atmosphere became charged
with emanations in which the perfume of women mingled with the desires
of men. Still the aria mounted, it coloured the air, projecting, like a
magic lantern, visions of delight, imperial and archaic, that ascended
in glittering scales.
Verplank, detaching himself from the Silverstairs, felt his dumb rage
renewed. At the moment he conceived an insane idea of going below,
waiting without until Barouffski and Leilah appeared and he saw
himself, confronting the man, tearing the woman from him, carrying her
off and making her his own.
The impulse fell from him. The rage that he felt at the man deflected
into rage at this woman who had made his life a vacant house and for
what, good God! And why?
In a cascade of flowers and flames the song was ending. There was new
applause, the discreet approbation of worldly people, easily pleased,
as easily bored and with but one sure creed: Not too much of anything.
Verplank must also have had enough. When presently the Silverstairs
looked about for him he had gone.
Already Violet had summarised the situation to her lord. Now, perplexed
at Verplank’s abrupt disappearance, she said:
“You don’t suppose that anything will happen, do you?”
Silverstairs, bored by the entertainment, anxious only to get away
where he could have a quiet drink, tugged at his moustache and with
unconscious reminiscence answered:
“I don’t know and I don’t care. I don’t care what happens as long as it
doesn’t happen to me.”
V
“There are too many of us,” Verplank, the day following, found himself
saying to Silverstairs.
The two men were lunching at Voisin’s.
The charming resort which, since the passing of Véry, of Véfour and the
Maison Dorée, has become the ultimate refuge of the high gastronomic
muse of Savarin and of Brisse was, on this forenoon, filled with its
usual clientèle:--old men with pink cheeks, young women with ravishing
hats, cosmopolitan sportsmen, ladies of both worlds, assortments of
what Paris calls High Life and pronounces Hig Leaf.
Without, a fog draped the windows, blurred the movement of the street,
transforming it into a cinematograph of misty silhouettes. But within,
the brilliant damask, the glittering service, the studied excellence of
everything, produced an atmosphere of wealth and ease.
Silverstairs, after swallowing a glass of Chablis, meditatively lit a
cigar. But meditation was not his forte. The twentieth of his name, he
was tall and robust. He had straw-coloured hair, blue eyes, a skin
of brick, and an appearance of simple placidity. At the moment he was
mentally fondling certain reminiscences of the Isis and certain bouts
with bargees there.
“You know,” he said at last, “if I were you I would just march up to
him and knock him down.”
Verplank nodded. “I dare say. But not if he had taken your wife.”
The suggestion, penetrating the earl’s placidity, punctured it. He
threw back his head. “By George! If he had, I’d kill him.”
“There, you see!”
Silverstairs puffed at his cigar. His placidity now was reforming
itself.
“Yes,” he answered. “But then in taking yours, he did it after she was
divorced. You can’t have him out for that.”
“All the same there are one too many of us.”
Silverstairs filled his mouth with smoke. Longly, with an air of
considering the situation he expelled it. Then he said:
“It is what I call damned awkward. But what the deuce can you do?”
“What can I do?” Verplank with an uplift of the chin repeated. “Why, if
only for the manner in which he acted last night--”
“I know,” Silverstairs interrupted. “The missis told me. He behaved
like a fidgety Frenchman. I grant you that. But there were no words,
nothing that you could put a finger on.”
Through an adjacent door a man strolled in. He had his hat on and in
one gloved hand he held a thin umbrella of which the handle was studded
with gold nails. With the other hand he smoothed a black moustache.
Through a monocle he was surveying the room. He looked careless and
cynical.
Deferentially a maître d’hôtel addressed him. Ignoring the man he waved
his umbrella at Silverstairs.
Silverstairs waved his hand. He turned to Verplank. “Here’s de Fresnoy.
He can put us straight. Let’s ask him to join us.”
Rising, he greeted the Parisian, invited him to the table, introduced
Verplank, speaking as he did so in French, with an accent frankly
barbarous which de Fresnoy seemed to enjoy.
The latter raised his hat to Verplank, confided it to the maître
d’hôtel, gave him the umbrella also, while another waiter drew up for
him a chair.
“Thanks,” he said in an interval of these operations. “I see you have
breakfasted. If you don’t mind my eating while you smoke--”
Seating himself he turned to the waiter, a man short and stout,
completely bald, with large dyed whiskers and an air of repressed
satisfaction.
“Listen, Léopold, and note well what I say. To begin with do not
attempt to tell me what you wish me to eat. You have heard? Good!
Listen again. A dozen Ostendes, an omelette, a pear. Nothing else. Not
a crumb. Yes, some Eau de Vals. Allez!”
Léopold bowed. “Perfectly, monsieur le baron. I shall have the honour
of serving monsieur le baron with what he has been good enough to be
willing to desire.”
Again the waiter bowed. But behind the oleaginousness of his speech
a severity had entered, one which intimated that in this preserve of
gastronomics such an order was unworthy.
“These gentlemen?” he added, his eyes moving from Verplank to
Silverstairs. “Some coffee? A liqueur?”
But now, in fluent French, Verplank was addressing de Fresnoy.
“Silverstairs and I have been having an argument. In your quality of
Parisian, will you tell us whether a man can have another out for
looking impertinently at him?”
De Fresnoy adjusted his collar, patted his neck-cloth. “But certainly,
most assuredly. To look impertinently at a man constitutes an attack
on his self esteem, which in itself is an integral part of his moral
wealth. To omit to return a man’s bow, to neglect to take his proffered
hand, to regard him in an offensive manner, are one and all so many
assaults on his dignity.”
Verplank, pleased with this view of things, smiled. “Thanks. Mine has
been assailed and I was in doubt how to rebuke the aggressor.”
“It is simple as Good day. You have only to select two representatives
and get them to put themselves in communication with him. If then he
refuses to have friends of his meet yours, or if, afterward, he will
neither apologise or fight, he is outlawed.”
De Fresnoy, as he spoke, made a gesture, a wide movement of the arm
which indicated, or was intended to indicate, the uttermost limits of
the world.
“It is Barouffski,” Silverstairs, with some idea that de Fresnoy might
be aware of the anterior complication, threw out.
“Barouffski!” de Fresnoy repeated, his head held appreciatively a
little to one side. “In a bout he is very clever. Barring d’Arcy,
Helley-Quetgen”--and myself he was about to add, but throwing the
veil he desisted--“I don’t know his equal. How he is on the field,
personally I cannot say. But there, the absence of buttons, the
absence of masks, the inevitable emotion, the sight of the other
man, the consciousness of an injury to be maintained or avenged, the
consciousness too of the definite character of any thrust you may give
and particularly of any thrust you may receive, these things have such
an effect that often the cleverest acts like a fool. On the boards,
fencing is an exercise, it is an amusement. On the field, it is another
man’s blood--or yours. Though, after all, one is rarely killed except
by one’s seconds.”
He turned to Verplank. “You fence? Or is it that you shoot?”
Verplank leaned back in his chair. “Oh, I suppose I can fire a gun.”
Silverstairs laughed. “I say now! You are too modest by half.” He
looked at de Fresnoy. “Verplank is one of the crack shots of America.”
De Fresnoy turned again to Verplank. “You should demand pistols then.
Barouffski draws well, but at twenty paces he is less sure of himself.
Have you selected your seconds?”
“I suppose I may count on Silverstairs for one----”
The young earl nodded. “That’s of course, and perhaps you, de Fresnoy,
will act with me.”
The Parisian smoothed his moustache. “I shall be much honoured. In that
case, however, as necessary preliminary, I shall have to ask to be made
acquainted with all the circumstances.”
But now Léopold, bearing a dish on which were oysters green as stagnant
scum, approached and with an air of infinite tenderness, much as though
it were a baby, placed it before de Fresnoy.
Leisurely he began to eat.
Verplank, who had been looking out of the window, leaned forward. “The
circumstances are evangelical in their simplicity. Last evening I was
about to speak to Madame Barouffska when he put himself between us and
eyed me in the manner which I have described.”
De Fresnoy, considering him over an oyster, said:
“You were at the Joyeuses then?”
Verplank nodded.
“And there Barouffski objected to your speaking to his wife?”
“Yes.”
