"Oh, Jack! You didn't go to school yester- 
day afternoon! What were you doing?" 

Jack hung his head, took a little walk, 
and then — and then — I was afraid it was late, 
and some children were playing — 

"Oh, you naughty boy! That is playing 
truant. I don't know what your father 
will say!’’ 

don’t want to any more. I’d rather go to 
school. It wasn’t funny a bit. And I don’t 
want to ride in any old wagon that jounces 
and jounces, and I did get so tired. What 
did the teacher say?” 

'They have to put the true reason down in 
the record book. And there it will stay always. 
My nice little boy was a truant-player. And 
we shall all be so ashamed. What will your 
father say? And he was so afraid last night 
that you were killed!” 

''Oh, mama, I never will do it again, never!” 
Jack hung round his mother’s neck and cried 
and she cried with him, thinking of her tumult 




of agony last night. And she had him safe — 
her little boy! 

"Jack,’ she began presently, '‘can't you 
be brave enough to tell papa how it began. 
Climb up in his lap and tell him how sorry 
and ashamed you are.'’ 

'Will he strap me?" 

"You deserve it I think. But he surely would 
if I told him. And when people do wrong they 
must bear the punishment. 

"But I never will do it again.’’ 

"Tell him that, too.” 

Of course they talked it over at dinner time. 
Jack was not at all vainglorious. Afterward, 
he hung around and presently climbed up in 
his father’s lap. . 

"My dear little son,” and his father kissed 
him. 

“But papa, I was badder than all that.” 
Badder seemed to admit more enormity 
than simply bad, “I — I went in the park to 
walk and I staid so long that — that ” 

“That you were ashamed to go back?” 

“Well” — Jack had spasms of direct truth 
tellings now and then, like most children. 

“I didn’t feel so ’shamed then as when 



teacher spoke of it this afternoon. It looked 
so pleasant I thought I'd go on. Some of the 
boys said it was funny to play hookey, but I 
don't want to do it ever again. And if I had 
been killed somewhere!" Jack began to cry. 

The father held him close for some minutes. 

"Jack," he said at length, "you have been 
a very bad boy, and I am glad it wasn't a 
happy afternoon. I hope you never will 
play truant again. Think how mama and I 
suffered not knowing what had happened 
to you and afraid our little boy might be 
brought home dead. You ought to be pun- 
ished but you seem to have suffered somewhat, 
and I am going to trust you, only, you can't 
go walking with me on Sunday, and maybe 
there are some other pleasures you will 
be deprived of. I'm awfully sorry and mor- 
tified that your name must go on record 
down at City Hall as a truant from school. 
Some of my friends may see it. These things 
are sure to get to daylight and make your 
family ashamed of them, and your teachers; 
just try to think of that when you do the things 
you know are wrong, for even a little boy will 




know that. Didn’t something tell you 
staying from school was wrong?” 

Jack crept closer in his father’s arms. He 
was too young for much reasoning, and the 
man wondered if he would have been so peni- 
tent if he had had what boys call a real good 
time. 

They let the matter go at that. Jack looked 
very wistful when his father took the babies 
out Sunday morning and said no word to him. 
He followed Marilla round as she dusted up 
the rooms and wanted to know about Bethany 
Home. 

"Were the children always good?” 

'Oh, no. There were a good many bad ones 
among them.” 

"Did they have a strap?” 

"Yes, a bigger one than your father’s.” 

' Will papa get a bigger one when I’m big?” 

'Oh, Jack, I hope you won’t need any strap. 
Why can’t you be a good boy?” 

Jack gave a long sigh. "Sometimes badness 
comes into your mind just sudden like.” 

After a pause — "Did you like Bethany 
Home?” 

"Not as well as being here. I’ve told you 

 

that forty times. , And there were no little 
babies. And no dessert, only a teeny little bit 
on Sunday. And just a sweet cracker for tea." 
''What makes you like the babies? They 
can't talk nor do anything. And they are not 
as pretty as I am. Folks used to say when I 
was real little, 'Oh, what a lovely child.  ” 
Marilla laughed. Jack did know that he 
was very good looking. 

"They'll be pretty by and by. And they are 
real sweet. I like babies. I like kittens and 
little chickens.’

"I like a dog. Cats scratch. 

"Not unless you torment them. Now I 
am going down stairs to put the dishes on the 
table. Then I must go and help Bridget.’’ 

"Bridget won’t let me come down in the 
kitchen. She chases me out with a stick.” 

"Children are a bother in the kitchen. They 
ask so many questions.” 

Then his mother and Aunt Florence came 
home from church, and his father with both 
babies asleep. He carried them upstairs. 

Marilla was getting to be quite a handy 
table maid for all but the heavy dishes. She 
placed them on the dumb waiter and started 



them down stairs. Mrs. Borden took off the 
others. When the babies were awake Marilla 
had to stay up with them. 

Mrs. Borden dished the cream. "Jack will 
not have any today,' his mother said. 

Jack sat still with his eyes full of tears but 
said not a word. 

But he went to Sunday school with Ma- 
rilla and behaved beautifully. 

"If he was always as good as this,' the 
child thought, ‘'how I should love him." He 
did not even tease for a walk, a thing she was 
quite afraid he would do. 


CHAPTER IV 


POOR CINDERELLA 

Oh, how busy they were and the babies took 
this opportunity to begin the cutting of teeth. 
The auto came for Aunt Hetty. Some of the 
parlor furnishings were packed away, every- 
thing swathed in linen. The closing exercises 
of the kindergarten took place and Jack dis- 
tinguished himself by repeating a pretty little 
poem. In September he would be six. 

Then came the last week. They would go 
on Saturday. Sunday was Fourth of July but 
it would be held on Monday. Trunks were 
packed, the last bit of shopping done. The 
babies fretted and Marilla took them out 
morning and afternoon with strict injunctions 
to keep on the shady side of the street. It 
seemed to grow hotter and hotter. The child 
lost her appetite and could not eat Bridgets 
choice tid-bits. Oh, how her little legs ached, 
and her back felt sometimes as if it would 
fall apart. 

'It's good you are going,’’ declared Bridget. 





"You’re almost a skeleton. Goodness knows 
I shall miss you enough, and just be thinking 
of your coming back.'' 

Jack had gone down town with his mother 
to get some sandals and slippers. She was 
very glad, for sometimes his talking almost 
set her crazy, and she really was afraid to be 
impatient with him. 

She had found a beautiful quiet street 
with great trees that fairly met in the middle 
of it. Many of the families were away. She 
sat on one special stoop where the house 
was all shut up tight. There were no children 
in the street. 

It seemed this day, Thursday, as if she would 
never get there. The babies were so heavy. She 
sat down on the second step, leaning against 
the stone column and pushed the carriage 
to and fro. Curious shadows went dancing 
before her eyes, sometimes whe could not 
see at all. And she was so sleepy! 

Pansy threw her rattle out and cried for 
it. Marilla stepped down to pick it up and 
fell on the sidewalk. What was the matter 
with her legs? they seemed to have lost their 
strength. She crawled up again. All the world, 


the trees and houses went flying round and 
all was dark. She was falling down — down — 
Poor little Cinderella! 

The babies missed the soft soothing voice. 
They cried louded and louder, then howled. 
Some children came to see what was the matter 
two quite big boys among them. The police- 
man looked down from the comer and paced 
with his slow tread. 

"What’s the row here?'’ he asked. 

A lady came down one of the stoops on the 
opposite side of the street; a rather tall, slim 
woman in a soft gray dress and hat with 
violets around the crown. She crossed over. 
The policeman had taken the girl by the 
shoulder and given her a rough shake. 

"Those children howl enough to wake the 
dead, and she's asleep here.’ 

But as he partly raised her Miss Armitage 
saw that her face was deadly white. 

"Oh, poor child she cried. 'What can be 
the matter? And whose babies are these? 

'They're Jack Borders little sisters — twins. 
And thats the nuss gal,’' said one of the big 
boys. 

you know where they live?” 



"Round in Arch street/’ 

"Could you take them there?” 

'Well — yes’m.” 

"Then take them,” rejoined the lady. 

The carriage being moved she sat down on 
the step and took the girl in her arms. 

“She isn’t dead — I see the flutter in the 
temple.” 

“Better go to the hospital,” proposed the 
policeman. 

Marilla opened her eyes and glanced up 
but did not seem to notice anything; then the 
lids fell and the beautiful long lashes shadowed 
her cheeks. 

“Carry her to my house across the street,” 
and she led the way. 

He picked up the light burden as if it had 
been a feather. She opened the door and asked 
him to take the child upstairs and lay heron 
the couch. 

“I am obliged to you,” she said. “In a 
way I am in Settlement work. We’ll have a 
doctor and see what is the matter. Then I’ll 
decide about the hospital. And I will find out 
about those people.” 


"You’re a good sort, ma'am,' and he 
touched his hat brim to her. 

"Jane,’ she called. "This poor child isn’t 
exactly in a faint, but something is the matter. 
Get a warm bath ready and we’ll put her in. 
I’ll telephone to Dr. Richards.” 

"Yes — he was just going out. Would be up 
for a first call.” 

Miss Armitage undressed her. She was 
clean and neat, but the poor little body was 
painfully thin. Then they carried her to the 
bath. Jane rubbed her softly and she gave 

some responsive sighs. 

"What a pretty lot of little curls and fine 
as silk. I do wonder who she can be?” 

"She’s the little nurse girl who brings those 
babies, twins I suppose they are, and sits on 
the stoop over opposite.” 

"What happened?” 

"Well it’s some sort of a collapse. Now I’ll 
find a nice nightgown, and we’ll see what the 
doctor says.” 

Marilla opened her eyes. They were a 
sort of blueish gray, but now very heavy and 
dull. Her lips moved, but the tone was very 




low. It sounded as if she said "fairy god- 
mother” and Miss Armitage smiled. 

"Oh, poor little thing!” 

Dr. Richards flew around in his auto. 

‘Ohj I thought something had happened 
to you,” he began. 

'It has,” and she detailed the simple story. 

He followed her up to the room. It was 
such a lovely, restful room. A white bed in 
the alcove, white window drapery, a carpet 
with considerable light blue in it, a dressing 
case, a writing desk, some books and pictures, 
mostly Madonnas. 

'Poor child,” he said. "She’s been worked 
too hard. All her strength seems gone. And 
a case of heat prostration. It's been an awful 
day. Who is she?” 

Miss Armitage told over the incident. 
"I have seen her sitting there several times. 
It is shady in the afternoon.” 

"Two fat babies,” and he laughed. "I 
should think one would be enough for such 
a child to manage. Overwork and underfeeding 
I think, and the heat. Ifll see if I can rouse 
her.” 

Marilla opened her eyes and the lids 



seemed to fall from absolute weariness. The 
lips moved but made no sound. 

'It is a kind of comatose state. Not know- 
ing all that is back of it I can't quite make 
up my mind. If this awful heat would let 
up! I'll leave some drops to be given to her 
and will come in one my first round in the 
morning. I haven't been to the Settlement 
House yet.'' 

"Oh, you must go. That little Mary Burns 
died at noon, and her mother is half crazy 
over it. Poor little thing, deformed and all 
that. This child has a nice straight body and 
a fine smooth skin. Ill go round in Arch 
street and see what I can learn about her.’’ 

"She looks worth saving if life really holds 
anything for her. Poor things! Why are so 
many sent into the world 'just to toil.’ ” 
was going over ” 

"Never mind now. I’ll attend to it all, and 
see the Burns’ priest. Don’t be worried. 
These drops will keep up her strength,'' 
nodding to Manila. ''And I will report in 
the morning.” 

Dr. Richards went his way. Miss Armitage 
sat and considered. Perhaps it would be as 





well to go to Mrs. Borden's. They would be 
feeling much alarmed, no doubt. She explained 
to Jane and put on her hat again and picked 
up her sun umbrella, for some streets were 
still in a glow. This was the best part of the 
city however, and there were some fine trees. 

She stopped and looked in a directory. 
There was only one Borden living on Arch 
street, a Mr. John Borden, lawyer. She made 
a note of the number. Arch street was some 
distance farther west, and then only a block 
or so. A very nice looking three-story brick 
with a stone stoop. She mounted and rang 
the bell. There certainly was a child or 
children crying. 

A young woman much distraught answered 
the door. And now positive howls greeted 
her ears. 

are in such trouble,’’ apologized the 

woman. 

am Miss Armitage and live in Loraine 
place, nearly opposite where the little girl 
fainted. Did the babies get home safely?” 

‘Dh, we are so glad! Won’t you please 
come up-stairs for my sister can’t leave the 
children. We have been almost crazy! One 



boy said she fell off the steps. Is she much 
hurt?’ 

"She had a bad fainting spell. The doctor 
came and he hardly knows what to think 
until tomorrow. The policeman proposed 
sending her to the Hospital, but I am one 
of the managers of the Settlement House 
in Beacon street, so I had her brought over 
to my house. A fall, you said?’’ 

"That was what a boy said — that she 
tumbled off the step. Oh, Pansy dear, do 
hush! You miss Marilla, don’t you? The best 
little nurse in all the world. Oh, what can we 
do without her!” 

Mrs. Borden was pacing the floor with the 
baby’s head against her shoulder and gently 
patting her. She did not scream now, but 
sobbed in a very sleepy fashion. 

"You see, we are to start on Saturday noon, 
and we shall not come back until the middle 
of September. We thought it would be so 
nice for Marilla, too, she’d kind of run down 
though she wasn’t at all ill. Bridget worried 
that she ate so little and she was growing 
thin.” 

“How long has she been with you?” 





took her from an institution — the Beth- 
any Home — about the middle of October. She 
was just twelve, the Matron said. I think she 
was very glad to come. She’s had a good home 
and plenty to eat. And one funny thing is 
that Bridget took such a fancy to her, and 
though Bridget’s good as gold, she has some 
queer streaks.” 

Mrs. Borden sat down and drew a long 
breath. Pansy had fallen asleep at last. 

'And we never let her lift the children or 
carry them up and down. I think babies are 
sometimes injured for life that way in falling 
They used to sit on the rug and she’d tell them 
stories. I think she must have made them out 
of her head — funny things and she’d act them 
off and the babies would laugh and laugh — 
it was as good as a play. They seemed to 
understand every word. Marilla was a born 
nurse girl. But what can we do? We must 
have someone, and there’s only such a little 
time.” 

Miss Armitage was thinking. 

'Perhaps I might help you out,” she said 
kindly. "There is a young girl with us who 
worked in a factory until she gave out. We 



sent her to the Rest House in the country and 
she did improve, but they wouldn't take her 
back in the factory. She's a nice pleasant 
girl about seventeen.” 

"Oh, how good of you to think of it! But 
I can't pay high wages, for there'll be her board 
and it won't be hard. When the babies are 
well they are as good as kittens though they 
can't scamper around so much. And they're 
so fat they won't walk very soon. It'll just 
be sitting round and amusing them and looking 
after their food. I couldn't give more than 
three dollars a week — we are not at all rich,” 
with a short laugh of apology. 

think Ellen would come for awhile,” 

‘And I should want Marilla as soon as she 
was well enough. You see she's bound-out to 
me, and we all like her so much. I don't see 
what could have happened to her. She has 
been out in the fresh air most of the time and 
we always tell her to go slow with the babies, 
not rush along in the heat. What did she say?” 

‘'Oh, she hasn't spoken at all. She lies just 
unconscious.” 

"Good gracious! Oh, you don't think she 




will die?''and Mrs. Borden really turned pale 
with fright. 

person sometimes lies that way for 
days when overcome with the heat. The 
doctor can tell better tomorrow.’ 

"Oh, poor little Marilla! She is so sweet- 
tempered. And you were so good not to send 
her off to a hospital. How ever should we 
have found her! There is so little time. When 
shall we hear about this other girl?'' 

will telephone as soon as I go home and 
tell them to send her in the morning,' and 
Miss Armitage rose. 

'‘We are so much obliged.'' She followed 
her visitor out in the hall. 

"Do not come down,’ said Miss Annitage. 
"And I hope the babies will improve.” 

"Thank you — for everything.” 

The sun was going down and some stray 
wafts of wind wandered along, which made 
the heat rather more endurable. 

"Jane,” she said as she walked into the room, 
"did you notice any bruise on the child’s 
head while you were bathing her. She fell off 
of the steps it seemed.” 

'There was none on her forehead. Her hair 



is very thick and I really did not look only to 
see that it was in a nice, clean condition. She 
hasn't suffered for want of cleanliness.'' 

Then she told Jane all she had learned, 
adding: 

'They seem very nice kind of people. But 
oh! those babies!” 

Miss Armitage telephoned to the settle- 
ment House, stating the case. 

"Yes, Ellen Day was still there and would be 
very glad of the position. She would go the 
first thing in the morning.” 

Jane insisted on bringing in a cot and sleep- 
ing beside the little girl who lay quite as still 
as if she were dead. Now and then she gave 
her the drops and fanned the air about her. 
The morning came and the city was astir 
again. But it was quiet in Loraine place. So 
many had gone away and there were no 
trolleys nearby. 

They looked over Manila’s head and found 
one spot above the ear that had a small bit 
of discoloration, but it was not in a dangerous 
place. The doctor came in. 




did not think there would be much 
change,’ he said. Then he tried to rouse her. 
Jane held her up while they gave her a little 
milk which she swallowed without difficulty. 
She opened her eyes and closed them again, 
then lay quiet. 

He listened to Miss Armitage’s interview 
and nodded as she went along. 

"The child is terribly run down. I think 
she has worked harder than any one imagined. 
But they seem to have appreciated her.” 

No one could guess the strain of talking so 
incessantly to amuse the babies, of reading to 
Jack, of having eyes all over to see that he 
did not torment the little ones, push their 
playthings out of the way, give them sly 
pinches or tweak their hair. She did hate to 
tell tales on him. And when he coaxed to 
go out with her he was a constant care. 
School had been closed for a fortnight. Oh, 
how tired she was every night! 

“You don’t eat more than a bird,” Bridget 
would complain. 

“But I’m never hungry now, I shall be so 
glad when we get to the real country, and 
grass, and everything. I’m so tired of the 



rows and rows of red brick houses, and they 
all seem so hot.' 

And now Bridget was almost heart broken. 

Ellen Day came in to tell Miss Armitage 
how glad she was that a good word had been 
spoken for her. "And she was sure she should 
