stepped into it, but it was strange to a little girl 
who had never been in a steam-car to go flying 
along, halting at some stations, and passing others. 
Then a long tunnel that made her shiver and cling 
to the back of the seat in front of her. And then 
the great station with its hurrying throngs of peo- 
ple, the beautiful ferryboat, and there they were 
in the great city. 

For Denby was a very common little farming 
town, with the kind of self-satisfied people who 
considered themselves quite as good as the rest of 
the world, and here were beautifully attired women 
and such lovely children, that she had to give them 
a surprised stare unconsciously. 

Oh, what a day it was ! They went to the fac- 
tory. Mr. Ross had just come in and greeted them 
warmly, and two of the workmen brought the re- 
port of the Newsboys’ Dinner, and the messages 
they had sent. 

There was a queer journey in an elevator up to 
the seventh story, where Mr. Mann had some busi- 




ness, and the ladies sat in what seemed a dainty 
little parlor. Then a ride in the elevated train, 
and how queer it was to go over people’s heads 
and fairly sail through the air ! 

And the splendid stores, and the shopping ! She 
couldn’t recall all of it, but she knew there was a 
pretty new suit in a soft deep red, with a hat to 
match, and a gray fur tippet that seemed to have 
frosted edges. There were so many lovely things 
that were quite beyond her comprehension. 

The luncheon was another surprise. Little 
tables with people eating and chatting, and servants 
flying to and fro. She could hardly eat for the ex- 
citement. 

They had time for a matinee. A glowing, 
dazzling theater that suggested scenes from the 
“ Arabian Nights,” the old tattered book that had 
been such a delight to them. The music was en- 
chanting, the play pretty, though she didn’t half 
understand it. Mr. Mann kept watching the sur- 
prise and delight in her face. Was this the little 
frank, chatty girl he had driven up from Mr. 
Beers’s store that hot summer day? 

When they came out it was snowing, and would 
have been dark but for the countless lamps. Mr. 
Mann kept tight hold of her hand, but oh, how the 
crowd jostled her about! She was tired enough 





when she dropped into her cushioned seat in the 
train. 

At Grafton it had begun to snow at noon. The 
boys went to Dan’s room in the carriage-house, 
while Prim built houses for the twins and told them 
stories. Chan and Marigold were deep in books. 

Tip begged to go down to the station, but they 
were not on that train, and he had half a mind to 
cry. 

“ There are two more trains,” comforted Dan. 

But supposin’ they get snowed up ? ” moaned 
the boy. 

“ Good deal more supposin’ they won’t in a little 
flurry like this,” laughed Dan. “ Why, we haven’t 
had a good downright snowstorm yet. Last win- 
ter it snowed two days.” 

Oh, that was a peeler ! ” cried Linn. I had 
to dig out the hen-house, and our cistern froze up. 
We couldn’t go to school for days.” 

No one begged to go down the second time. The 
twins fell asleep on the soft rug. Marigold was 
haunted by a fear that something had happened. 
But there was the sleigh stopping at the door, and 
five of them rushed out, nearly upsetting their 
mother in the hall. 

‘‘ It’s very sad that no one welcomes me,” de- 
clared Mr. Mann in a melancholy tone. 




Then they swarmed over him, hanging on his 
arms, while Tip hugged one leg with such force 
that it nearly tilted him over. Prim pulled him 
down and kissed his cold face. 

'' Oh, children ! children ! entreated their 
mother. 

We’re so glad to see you! ” cried Prim. I 
was trying to think up another monody on ' Lost in 
the snow.’ ” 

“ Well, let us go and get off our outside shells,” 
begged their mother. 

“ And I inhale a savory fragrance that betokens 
a feast. Pm hungry as a bear.” 

Didn’t you have anything at all to eat? ” in- 
quired Tip. 

“ Yes, but you see it didn’t last. Won’t you be 
ready for supper? Did you ever have to go with- 
out ? ” 

Tip laughed. ‘‘ Well, I could have just 
bread.” 

They were going upstairs, but some of the chil- 
dren followed. Their mother laid down some 
packages. Mr. Mann took others out of his 
pockets. 

Oh, Rilla, did you have a grand time? ” 

“ It was splendid I And we went to a play.” 

That was splendoriforous and magnifolious,” 





said Prim. Rilla, you must study the dictionary 
and learn the rules of addition.” 

The bell was ringing. The twins had roused. 
Laurel was rubbing her eyes and repeating, I 
want my muver, I want my muver.” 

Mother had to kiss them all round again. You 
would have thought she had been gone a month. 

Then they ranged themselves around the table, 
and they all wanted to know what Amaryllis had 
seen and done. 

You must let her eat her dinner,” interposed 
the mother. “ And she is very tired.” 

Chan asked his father if they had gone to the 
hospital. 

“ Oh, no. There wasn’t time to do so much. 
We have come to the shortest days, you know.” 

Chan smiled. Goldie besieged her mother. She 
wondered if they had bought anything, or were 
the Christmas goods all sold ? 

Oh, no. You could hardly miss them, the 
windows were still so gay and full. And in one 
was a Holland scene, with canals full of skating 
figures, and it was snowing.” 

“ Real snow? ” asked Tip. “ How did they get 
it in?” 

Well, I don’t quite know, but the skaters were 
moving about as if they were real.” 




“ There was some machinery underneath,” said 
Mr. Mann. 

“ Could you buy the thing? ” 

I don’t believe we have room for it. And I 
think it would be more fun to do the skating your- 
self.” 

“ But I haven’t any skates.” 

“ You must save up wishes for next year.” 

They adjourned to the library presently. Oh, 
how nice it was with the glowing fire ! The wind 
drove the snow against the windows in great gusts 
that howled and snarled like wild creatures. Ama- 
ryllis thought of the little old house, and was glad 
of the new home. 

‘‘ I san’t let you go ’way any more,” said Laurel, 
climbing into her mother’s lap. It was so sol- 
emn athout you.” 

Why, we have had days without mother be- 
fore,” subjoined Marigold. 

Well, then it was summer. And — it wasn’t 
cold nor snowing, and she didn’t go in cars.” 

Her mother kissed her. Rhoda looked rather 
disconsolate. 

“ Come over here to me,” said Mr. Mann in a 
coaxing tone. And when he took her up on his 
knee, she smiled triumphantly. 

“ Now, Rilla, tell us about the play.” 




They were in a little huddle on the soft rug. 
They were used to sitting on the floor in the old 
house. There was one cozy nook by the stove 
in cool weather, and the great doorstone in 
the summer time. What a pretty group they 
were ! 

“ Is the theater wrong, I wonder ? Amaryllis 
began tentatively, glancing up at her stepfather 
questioningly. It was so very nice.’' 

It depends on the place and the play, and the 
influence it has over one. It is too big a question 
for you little folks, but I think you can trust me to 
choose for you. Our play of this afternoon was 
clean and wholesome, and adapted largely to a 
child’s understanding. Now see how much you 
can recall.” 

,The little girl began rather hesitatingly at first, 
and was interrupted by questions. She exhumed 
her program and refreshed her memory as she went 
along. But she warmed with her subject, and 
grew quite dramatic, a new phase that interested 
Mr. Mann extremely. 

Laurel fell asleep, and Rhoda leaned her head 
down on the broad breast. She was a little cross 
when roused from her nap, so the mother stood 
Laurel down and said : Come, Rhoda, it is time 
you two were in bed.” 




“ I don’t want to. I’m not a bit sleepy,” and 
she opened her eyes to their very widest. 

Want to go and fin’ bad man,” murmured 
Laurel. Bad man took Chan away ’n’ then 
took muver.” 

Amusement quivered about the new father’s 
face. Linn and Chandler laughed. Mr. Mann 
put down Rhoda. But she drew her hand away 
from her mother and walked out of the room in a 
very dignified manner, not daring to object. When 
the mother returned. Tip climbed up into her lap. 
He was small of his age, and claimed large rights 
in his mother. 

“ Oh ! oh ! ” sighed the children, at the conclu- 
sion. “ It must have been splendid ! ” 

“ I mean to write a play some day,” announced 
Marigold. “ And we will all play it as we did 
‘ Little Red Riding Hood.’ ” 

Meanwhile, you must all run off to bed. Ama- 
ryllis is tired out. The play should have been 
saved for to-morrow. Oh, Tip, you are asleep 
already ! ” 

Tip whined a little. I’ll take him upstairs,” 
said Marigold, and she kissed her mother good- 
night. 

It was snowing furiously. Mr. Mann was glad 
he had them all housed and warm and happy. He 




had never dreamed of such content. Why, it was 
as if he had just begun to live. 

The next morning the gray and the blue were 
struggling in the sky, and then rose up yellow lev- 
els in the east, where the sun was slowly climbing. 
Prim and Goldie came into their mother’s room, 
leaving Amaryllis asleep, and Linn crept out softly 
so he would not awaken Tip. Oh, how beautiful 
it was! Instead of the long stretches of snow, 
here were roofs and- fences and gateposts headed 
in peerless whiteness. There had been a little 
sleet at the last, and the trees sparkled with 
jewels. 

It’s just lovely to live near folks and houses,” 
declared Prim. “ And see how the smoke curls up 
in the air! The sun is really coming out in a 
glorious fashion. Oh, what can we do ? ” though 
her eyes said she wanted to be out in the snow. 

“ You and Marigold must help with the dishes. 
And there is Tip’s wail.” The mother smiled at 
the well-known sound. 

“ I think I’ll go out and help Dan,” said Mr. 
Mann. 

‘‘ Can’t I, too ? ” begged Linn. ‘‘ I’m used to 
shoveling snow.” 

“ Why, yes, if you like.” 

Dan had attended to the horse, and brought in 




a pail of milk. They would not have much to sell 
now. 

Mrs. Mann went upstairs to comfort her little 
boy. “ Oh, Tip,” she said, “ why do you cry over 
everything ? ” 

Well, you can hear me when I cry, and there 
are so many to talk.” 

His mother laughed. Children outgrew bad 
habits, she knew. 

She gave him his breakfast. The girls had been 
very helpful, and the kitchen was in nice order. 

‘‘ And now. Mother, can’t we go out ? ” cried 
Marigold. I’m just wild to shovel snow. Linn 
is having such a good time. And I want to see 
how many hens have laid.” 

Oh, yes,” went on Primrose. “ We always 
have, you know. I don’t care if the folks around 
do look at us. We can’t stay in the house all the 
time ; at least, we don’t want to.” 

Well — yes,” replied their mother rather re- 
luctantly. She wanted a little talk with Mrs. 
Alden. 

“ I suppose we shall not see Tide to-day,” she 
ventured. 

“ She was not sure she could come, and the snow 
would prevent.” 

Mr. Mann spoke of having some one for the 


N. 


( 




real kitchen-work. It is such a large family, and 
I believe healthy children are always hungry. My 
housekeeping has been on such a different scale. 
And you must show me the best way of man- 
aging. I suppose Mr. Mann has preferences,” and 
she colored a little with her smile. 

“ He is very easy to suit, and never finds fault.” 
“ But with all these children ? I want to make 
it pleasant for him, and not break up his home 
more than we can help. He is a most generous 
man. And we must ease you up as well. I wish 
we could have Lide ; she seems to turn off work so 
easily.” 

No, she will not take a regular situation, and 
feels that she must have some time at home. She 
will come and do the laundry-work next week. 
And now — what will be the dessert for to-morrow, 
pies or pudding? There is a jar of mince-meat.” 

“ Oh, let us have mince pies,” began Rilla. 
“ And can’t I see just how you make them? ” 

“ If Mrs. Alden will make them,” said her 
mother. I’m not so sure of my crust. You see, 
we have lived quite frugally. I baked apples a 
great deal, we had plenty of them. There are still 
some nice winter pears ripening in our attic. Mr. 
Firth was a great hand to raise fine fruit. Now — 
let me mold up the bread.” 




The two women grew quite intimate over house- 
keeping experiences. Mrs. Alden had known the 
need of economy in the earlier years. Amaryllis 
came and watched the deft manner in which she 
made pie-crust, and enjoyed the few comments as 
it progressed. 

The twins and Tip had their playthings strewn 
around. Chan was at the piano picking out tunes, 
making them up as he went along. Marigold ran 
in with seven eggs and the announcement that they 
might have seven more. 

“ It’s just magnificent out, and scarcely cold at 
all. We’re having such fun,” and she was oii 
again. 

They were having old-fashioned fun, regulai 
country fun. Prim and Linn had a snowballing 
match, and, as Mr. Mann came up the path, Linn 
dodged, but the ball was aimed too high, and hit 
the senior square in the face. She was startled 
at first, but he took it as an invitation to join the 
fray. It was not like the street gamins with 
their dirty snow and ice. The balls exploded in a 
white shower, like a Roman candle. Gallantry 
would have relegated him to the girls’ side, but 
they were three against one, and he began to look 
like a veritable snow man. Then he started after 
Marigold and slipped, and, before he could recover. 




Prim’s arms were around him and down they went 
in the snow. Marigold joined. They washed his 
face amid shouts of laughter. Linn stood off a 
little, but Mr. Mann soon righted himself, and then 
it was the girls’ turn. Prim was almost buried 
in the snow. Marigold started to run, but the 
snow had been cleared from the path and formed 
a sort of barricade, and down she went in that. 
Mr. Mann caught her by one arm, and with the 
other hand washed the laughing rosy face. Then 
he assisted her up. They all looked like polar 
bears, and the air echoed with merriment. They 
really had to pause from exhaustion. 

The little girl next door had been watching them. 
She sat by the window reading a Christmas book 
much too old for her. The guests had gone away ; 
she and her mother were alone. 

Then she laughed aloud. 

‘‘ What is the matter, Gladys ? Is your book so 
amusing?” Her mother was sewing yards and 
yards of lace on some ruffling for a skirt. 

“ They are having such fun next door snow- 
balling,’' and the child’s eyes were alight with a 
sense of enjoyment, if she was not in it. Mrs. 
Chedister came and looked out. 

That is shameful for girls, rough, underbred, 
hoydenish goings-on ! I don’t see how the mother 




can allow it, and it is a thousand pities they should 
plant themselves in this nice, select street. We 
didn’t consider Mr. Mann an acquisition, but this 
raft of children is terrible! Gladys, I don’t want 
you to accept any advances from them. They’ll 
try to crowd in; such people always do. Come 
away from the window, over here.” 

Gladys obeyed with inward reluctance. But the 
fun was pretty much over. 

Which side beat ? ” asked Dan as he came 
along. 

I guess there wasn’t any sides,” answered 
Linn. “ It seemed each body for himself.” 

It looked like quite furious skirmishing all 
along the line.” 

Mr. Mann shook off the snow. “ Hadn’t you 
girls better go in and get warm ? ” he suggested. 

Oh, I’m hot through and through,” said Prim, 
with a very red face. We’re used to it.” 

“We might build a snow house,” began Goldie. 

“ ’Tisn’t quite the right snow for that,” returned 
Linn. “ But we might have a snow man.” 

“ So we might.” 

They went to work with a will and soon had a 
body rolled. But then the girls said they were 
tired and hungry, and their mother summoned 




them in to lunch, but sent them to change their 
wet garments. Primrose ran out to the hen- 
house and was rewarded by three more eggs. 

“What do you give them? We have twenty 
hens, and get three or four eggs a day,” said Dan. 

“ Why, we keep them up to the mark with good 
advice, and red pepper thrown in. You see, they 
know their business,” the girl answered laugh- 
ingly. 

Mr. Mann declared that he had gone back to 
boyhood, and had the time of his life. 

“ It’s been splendid,” declared Primrose. “ As 
good as in the little old house ! I was ’most afraid 
we’d have to be fine and primped up. Isn’t the 
new father splendid ! Why do they call them step- 
fathers? That sounds as if they meant to step on 
you.” 

“ They do sometimes. I wonder if we were 
awful rough? I was kind of frightened at first.” 

They were hungry, too. Their mother thought 
they must have had enough of the cold, but they 
declared it was almost like springtime. Chan and 
Amaryllis thought they would have a hand in the 
snow man, so they all went out again. 

“ We must make his legs first,” said Linn, 
“ and have good stout ones. Dan will set him up, 
I guess.” 




So they rolled the legs and patted them good 
and solid. Dan was delighted to help. They 
chose a sightly spot, and with the aid of the two 
boys they set up that much of him. 

“ I'd make him taller,” said Dan. So they 
rolled another story. Then there were the head 
and the arms. Linn was quite an expert at the 
first. They begged some prunes for eyes, and 
Dan found an old cap, and a walking-stick for one 
hand. Why, he’s quite a giant,” said Chan. 

Then Dan brought some water and doused him 
up and down. Where he shrunk a little they filled 
the places with snow. 

Now, when he freezes to-night he’ll be a fine 
fellow,” said Dan. 

The sun was losing his heat and the children 
were really tired, so they were glad to go in. 
Their mother gave them a drink of hot milk 
and sent them to their rooms to make themselves 
presentable for dinner. 

She had been rather appalled when she entered 
the library. 

I don’t know what we will do with all this 
litter,” she said half despairingly. ‘‘ They never 
had so many playthings before.” 

And when they come to have twice as many ? ” 
laughed her husband. 





“ They must not have another thing until next 
Christmas.” 

We must find a place for them, or we will be 
crowded out. See here. This big porch could 
be inclosed. We couldn't send them upstairs, 
they’d cry for their mother.” 

Then he rose and went to the French window. 
The main house ended with this big porch, while 
the other side went on to kitchen and wash- 
room. 

“ You see, we could have this inclosed, roofed 
over, glassed in with sashes, and there would be 
the southern exposure. We might have it shelved 
and make a sort of winter garden, and on this 
side a row of closets, where each child should put 
his playthings. And some shelves for books. 
Isn’t it a good idea? ” 

The house is too small already,” she returned 
mirthfully. ‘‘ You should have considered.” 

I am considering now, and shall set about it 
at once. You see, this makes such a nice evening- 
room for ourselves, and you will want to keep 
an eye on them lest Rhoda reduces her twin to ab- 
ject thraldom.” 

“ It’s odd that Laurel should be smaller and 
seem younger. But Rhoda does know a great deal 
more, and she has taken charge of Laurel.” 




She is a baby, a darling. I am glad wisdom 
has not sought her out. But won’t that be fine? 
You see how wife and children expand one’s ideas, 
enlarge one’s vision.” 

“ You do too much.” She crossed over and laid 
her head on his shoulder. 

I am just learning the boundlessness of true 
happiness — the more one gives, the more one gets. 
Men are selfish creatures, my dear, wanting all 
they can get.” 

You are not.” He felt the protest in her beat- 
ing heart. 

You are all making me very happy. I thought 
awhile ago if I could have had such a boyhood, and 
some sisters! You may find me doing some silly 
things — it will be second childhood.” 

He talked the plan over again in the evening, 
and the older children were delighted. There 
could be one large window beside the door at the 
end, where they could run in and out without dis- 
turbing any one. The closets Chan thought a 
grand scheme. A bookcase with an open front 
could stand by the library partition, and each child 
have a shelf for the ordinary books. 

“ We must bring a lot over from the old house,” 
declared Marigold, '' though some of them are 




pretty well worn out. Oh, Chan, aren’t you glad 
to have such a splendid ‘ 'sop’s Fables ’ ? ” 

“ You just believe I am.” But he never could 
bring that downstairs for the others to handle. 

Somehow they were all tired and sleepy, and 
no one demurred about going to bed. But Ama- 
ryllis lay awake a long time thinking how things 
had changed with them, and wondering if she 
could ever get into the nice, pretty ways Mrs. Al- 
den had, and use such refined words, and pro- 
nounce them clear to the end. Already she was 
ambitious to be a little lady. She had never dared 
to copy Mrs. Burnham; it didn’t seem quite right. 
The school-children thought one stuck up,” and 
full of airs,” when she was well-mannered. 
Oh, she was glad not to live at Denby ! 
