were all a-quiver with the strain she had 
been under. A servant came in and spoke 
to her, and she said to George, "It is the 
doctor. If you need me, I shall be in the 
next room.'' 
Her son stood trembling, as if he were 
waiting the approach of an executioner. 
The other came into the room without 
seeing him and he stood for a minute, 
clasping and unclasping his hands, almost 
overcome with emotion. Then he said, 
"Good-day, Doctor." As the man stared 
at him, surprised and puzzled, he added, 
"You don't recognize me?" 
The doctor looked again, more closely. 
George was expecting him to break out in 
rage; but instead his voice fell low. "You!" 
he exclaimed. "It is you!" 
 
At last, in a voice rather of discourage- 
ment than of anger, he went on, ''You got 
married, and you have a child! After all 
that I told you! You are a wretch !'' 
''Sir,'' cried George, 'Let me explain to 
you!'' 
"Not a word!" exclaimed the other. 
"There can be no explanation for what you 
have done.'' 
A silence followed. The young man did 
not know what to say. Finally, stretching 
out his arms, he pleaded, "You will take 
care of my httle daughter all the same, will 
you not?" 
The other turned away with a look of 
disgust. "Imbecile!" he said. 
George did not hear the word. "I was 
able to wait only six months," he murmured. 
The doctor answered in a voice of cold 
seK-repression, "That is enough, sir! All 
that does not concern me. I have done 
wrong even to let you see my indignation. 
I should have left you to judge yourself. 
I have nothing to do here but with the 
present and with the future — 'with the 
infant and with the nurse." 
 
"She isn't in danger?" cried George. 
"The nurse is in danger of being con- 
taminated." 
But George had not been thinking about 
the nurse. "I mean my child," he said. 
"Just at present the symptoms are not 
disturbing." 
George waited; after a while he began, 
"You were saying about the nurse. Will 
you consent that I call my mother? She 
knows better than I." 
"As you wish," was the reply. 
The young man started to the door, but 
came back, in terrible distress. "I have 
one prayer to offer you, sir; arrange it 
so that my wife — so that no one will know. 
If my wife learned that it is I who am the 
cause — ! It is for her that I implore you! 
she — she isn't to blame." 
Said the doctor: "I will do everything 
in my power that she may be kept ignorant 
of the true nature of the disease." 
"Oh, how I thank you!" murmured 
George. "How I thank you!" 
"Do not thank me; it is for her, and not 
for you, that I will consent to he." 
 
''And my mother?'' 
''Your mother knows the truth.'' 
"But—" 
"I pray you, sir — 'we have enough to 
talk about, and very serious matters." 
So George went to the door and called 
his mother. She entered and greeted the 
doctor, holding herself erect, and striving 
to keep the signs of grief and terror from 
her face. She signed to the doctor to take 
a seat, and then seated herself by a little 
table near him. 
"Madame Dupont," he began, "I have 
prescribed a course of treatment for the 
child. I hope to be able to improve its 
condition, and to prevent any new develop- 
ments. But my duty and yours does not 
stop there; if there is still time, it is neces- 
sary to protect the health of the nurse." 
"Tell us what it is necessary to do. 
Doctor?" said she. 
"The woman must stop nursing the 
child." 
"You mean we have to change the nurse?" 
"Madame, the child can no longer be 
brought up at the breast, either by that 
nurse or by another nurse." 
 
"But why, sir?" 
"Because the child would give her disease 
to the woman who gave her milk.' 
"But, Doctor, if we put her on the bottle 
— our little one — she will die!'' 
And suddenly George burst into sobs. 
"Oh, my poor little daughter! My God, 
my God!" 
Said the doctor, "If the feeding is well 
attended to, with sterilized milk — " 
"That can do very well for healthy 
infants," broke in Madame Dupont. "But 
at the age of three months one cannot take 
from the breast a baby like ours, frail and 
ill. More than any other such an infant 
has need of a nurse — is not that true?" 
"Yes," the doctor admitted, "that is 
true. But—" 
"In that case, between the hfe of the 
child, and the health of the nurse, you 
understand perfectly well that my choice 
is made." 
Between her words the doctor heard the 
sobbing of George, whose head was buried 
in his arms. "Madame," he said, "your 
love for that baby has just caused you to 
 
utter something ferocious! It is not for 
you to choose. I forbid the nursing. The 
health of that woman does not belong to 
you." 
"No.' cried the grandmother, wildly, 
"nor does the health of our child belong 
to you! If there is a hope of saving it, 
that hope is in giving it more care than any 
other child; and you would wish that 
I put it upon a mode of nourishment which 
the doctors condenm, even for vigorous 
infants! You expect that I will let myseK 
be taken in like that? I answer you: she 
shall have the milk which she needs, my 
poor little one! If there was a single thing 
that one could do to save her — 'I should 
be a criminal to neglect it!" And Madame 
Dupont broke out, with furious scorn, 
"The nurse! the nurse! We shall know 
how to do our duty — we shall take care of 
her, repay her. But our child before all! 
No sir, no! Everything that can be done 
to save our baby I shall do, let it cost what 
it will. To do what you say — you don't 
realize it — 'it would be as if I should kill 
the child!" In the end the agonized woman 
 
burst into tears. "Oh, my poor little 
angel ! My little Savior !' ' 
George had never ceased sobbing while 
his mother spoke; at these last words his 
sobs became loud cries. He struck the 
floor with his foot, he tore his hair, as if he 
were suffering from violent physical pain. 
''Oh, oh, oh!'' he cried. "My little child! 
My Httle child!" And then, in a horrified 
whisper to himself, "I am a wretch! A 
criminal!" 
"Madame," said the doctor, "you must 
calm yourself; you must both calm your- 
selves. You will not help out the situation 
by lamentations. You must learn to take 
it with calnmess." 
Madame Dupont set her lips together, 
and with a painful effort recovered her self- 
control. "You are right, sir," she said, 
in a low voice. "I ask your pardon; but 
if you only knew what that child means to 
me! I lost one at that age. I am an old 
woman, I am a widow — 'I had hardly hoped 
to five long enough to be a grandmother. 
But, as you say — we must be calm." She 
turned to the young man, "Calm yourself, 
 
my son. It is a poor way to show our love 
for the child, to abandon ourselves to tears. 
Let us talk, Doctor, and seriously — coldly. 
But I declare to you that nothing will ever 
induce me to put the child on the bottle, 
when I know that it might kill her. That 
is all I can say." 
The doctor repHed: ''This isn't the first 
time that I find myself in the present 
situation. Madame, I declare to you that 
always — always, you understand — 'persons 
who have rejected my advice have had 
reason to repent it cruelly.'' 
''The only thing of which I should 
repent—" began the other. 
''You simply do not know," interrupted 
the doctor, ''what such a nurse is capable 
of. You cannot imagine what bitterness — 
legitimate bitterness, you understand — 
joined to the rapacity, the cupidity, the 
mischief-making impulse — 'might inspire 
these people to do. For them the bourgeois 
is always somewhat of an enemy; and 
when they find themselves in position to 
avenge their inferiority, they are ferocious." 
''But what could the woman do?" 
no DAMAGED GOODS 
''What could she do? She could bring 
legal proceedings against you." 
''But she is much too stupid to have that 
idea." 
"Others will put it into her mind." 
"She is too poor to pay the preliminary 
expenses." 
"And do you propose then to profit by 
her ignorance and stupidity? Besides, she 
could obtain judicial assistance." 
"Why surely," exclaimed Madame 
Dupont, "such a thing was never heard 
of! Do you mean that?" 
"I know a dozen prosecutions of that 
sort; and always when there has been 
certainty, the parents have lost their case." 
"But surely. Doctor, you must be mis- 
taken! Not in a case like ours — not when 
it is a question of saving the life of a poor 
little innocent!" 
"Oftentimes exactly such facts have 
been presented." 
Here George broke in. "I can give you 
the dates of the decisions." He rose from 
his chair, glad of an opportunity to be 
useful. "I have the books," he said, and 
 
took one from the case and brought it to 
the doctor. 
''All that is of no use — " interposed the 
mother. 
But the doctor said to George, ''You 
will be able to convince yourself. The 
parents have been forced once or twice 
to pay the nurse a regular income, and at 
other times they have had to pay her an 
indemnity, of which the figure has varied 
between three and eight thousand francs. '' 
Madame Dupont was ready with a reply 
to this. "Never fear, sir! If there should 
be a suit, we should have a good layer. 
We shall be able to pay and choose the 
best — and he would demand, without doubt, 
which of the two, the nurse or the child, 
has given the disease to the other." 
The doctor was staring at her in horror. 
"Do you not perceive that that would be a 
monstrous thing to do?" 
"Oh, I would not have to say it," was 
the reply. "The lawyer would see to it — 
is not that his profession? My point is 
this: by one means or another he would 
make us win our case." 
 
''And the scandal that would result.' 
repHed the other. ''Have you thought 
of that?'' 
Here George, who had been looking over 
his law-books, broke in. ''Doctor, permit 
tne to give you a little information. In 
cases of this sort, the names are never 
printed.'' 
''Yes," said the other, ''but they are 
spoken at the hearings.'' 
''That's true." 
"And are you certain that there will not 
be any newspaper to print the judg- 
ment?" 
"What won't they stoop to," exclaimed 
Madame Dupont — "those filthy journals!" 
"Ah," said the other, "and see what a 
scandal? What a shame it would be to 
you!" 
"The doctor is right, mother," exclaimed 
the young man. 
But Madame Dupont was not yet con- 
vinced. "We will prevent the woman from 
taking any steps; we will give her what she 
demands from us." 
"But then," said the other, "you will 
 
give yourselves up to the risk of blackmail. 
I know a family which has been thus held 
up for over twelve years.'' 
''If you will permit me, Doctor," said 
George, timidly, ''she could be made to 
sign a receipt.'' 
"YoT payment in full?" asked the doctor, 
scornfully. 
''Even so." 
''And then," added his mother, "she 
would be more than delighted to go back 
to her coimtry with a full purse. She would 
be able to buy a httle house and a bit of 
ground — 'in that country one doesn't need 
so much in order to Hve." 
At this moment there was a tap upon 
the door, and the nurse entered. She was 
a country woman, robust, rosy-cheeked, 
fairly bursting with health. When she 
spoke one got the impression that her voice 
was more than she could contain. It did 
not belong in a drawing-room, but under 
the open sky of her country home. "Sir," 
she said, addressing the doctor, "the baby 
is awake." 
"I will go and see her," was the reply; 
 
and then to Madame Dupont, ''We will 
take up this conversation later on.' 
' ' Certainly, ' ' said the mother. ' ' Will you 
have need of the nurse?" 
''No, madame," the doctor answered. 
"Nurse," said the mother, "sit down and 
rest. Wait a minute, I wish to speak to 
you." As the doctor went out, she took 
her son to one side and whispered to him, 
"I know the way to arrange everything. 
If we let her know what is the matter, and 
if she accepts, the doctor will have nothing 
more to say. Isn't that so?" 
"Obviously," repHed the son. 
"I am going to promise that we will 
give her two thousand francs when she 
goes away, if she will consent to continue 
nursing the child." 
"Two thousand francs?" said the other. 
"Is that enough?" 
"I will see," was the reply. "If she 
hesitates, I will go further. Let me attend 
to it." 
George nodded his assent, and Madame 
Dupont returned to the nurse. "You 
know," she said, "that our child is a little 
sick?" 
 
The other looked at her in surprise. 
''Whyno, ma'am!'' 
''Yes.' said the grandmother. 
''But, ma'am, I have taken the best of 
care of her; I have always kept her proper." 
"I am not saying anything to the 
contrary," said Madame Dupont, ''but the 
child is sick, the doctors have said it." 
The nurse was not to be persuaded; she 
thought they were getting ready to scold 
her. "Humph," she said, "that's a fine 
thing — 'the doctors! If they couldn't 
always find something wrong you'd say 
they didn't know their business." 
"But our doctor is a great doctor; and 
you have seen yourseK that our child has 
some little pimples." 
"Ah, ma'am," said the nurse, "that's 
the heat — it's nothing but the heat of the 
blood breaking out. You don't need to 
bother yourself; I tell you it's only the 
child's blood. It's not my fault; I swear 
to you that she has not lacked anything, 
and that I have always kept her proper." 
"I am not reproaching you — " 
"What is there to reproach me for? Oh, 
 
what bad luck! She's tiny — the little 
one — she's a bit feeble; but Lord save us, 
she's a city child! And she's getting along 
all right, I tell you." 
''No.' persisted Madame Dupont, ''I tell 
you — she has got a cold in her head, and 
she has an eruption at the back of the 
throat." 
''Well," cried the nurse, angrily, "if 
she has, it's because the doctor scratched 
her with that spoon he put into her mouth 
wrong end first ! A cold in the head? Yes, 
that's true; but if she has caught cold, I 
can't say when, I don't know anything 
about it — 'nothing, nothing at all. I have 
always kept her well covered; she's always 
had as much as three covers on her. The 
truth is, it was when you came, the time 
before last; you were all the time insisting 
upon opening the windows in the house!" 
"But once more I tell you," cried Madame 
Dupont, "we are not putting any blame 
on you." 
"Yes," cried the woman, more vehe- 
mently. "I know what that kind of talk 
means. It's no use — ''vhen you're a poor 
country woman." 
 
''What are you imagining now?" de- 
manded the other. 
''Oh, that's all right. It's no use when 
you're a poor country woman." 
"I repeat to you once more," cried 
Madame Dupont, with difficulty controlling 
her impatience, "we have nothing whatever 
to blame you for." 
But the nurse began to weep. "If I 
had kno'n that anything like this was 
coming to me — " 
"We have nothing to blame you for," 
declared the other. We only wish to warn 
you that you might possibly catch the 
disease of the child." 
The woman pouted. "A cold in the 
head!" she exclaimed. "Well, if I catch 
it, it won't be the first time. I know how 
to blow my nose." 
"But you might also get the pimples." 
At this the nurse burst into laughter so 
loud that the bric-a-brac rattled. "Oh, 
oh, oh! Dear lady, let me tell you, we 
ain't city folks, we ain't; we don't have such 
soft skins. What sort of talk is that? 
Pimples — 'what difference would that make 
 
to poor folks like us? We don't have a 
white complexion like the ladies of Paris. 
We are out all day in the fields, in the sun 
and the rain, instead of rubbing cold cream 
on our muzzles! No offense, ma'am — 'but 
I say if you're looking for an excuse to get 
rid of me, you must get a better one than 
that.'' 
''Excuse!'' exclaimed the other. ''What 
in the world do you mean?" 
''Oh, I know!" said the nurse, nodding 
her head. 
"But speak!" 
"It's no use, when you're only a poor 
country woman." 
"I don't understand you! I swear to 
you that I don't understand you!" 
"Well," sneered the other, " I under- 
stand." 
"But then — explain yourself." 
"No, I don't want to say it." 
"But you must; I wish it." 
"Well—" 
"Go ahead." 
"I'm only a poor country woman, but 
I am no more stupid than the others, for 
 
all that. I know perfectly well what your 
tricks mean. Mr. George here has been 
grumbhng because you promised me thirty 
francs more a month, if I came to Paris.'' 
And then, turning upon the other, she went 
on — ''But, sir, isn't it only natural? Don't 
I have to put my own child away some- 
wheres else? And then, can my husband 
live on his appetite? We're nothing but 
poor country people, we are." 
''You are making a mistake, nurse," 
broke in George. ''It is nothing at all 
of that sort; mother is quite right. I am 
so far from wanting to reproach you, that, 
on the contrary, I think she has not prom- 
ised enough, and I want to make you, for 
my part, another promise. When you go 
away, when baby is old enough to be 
weaned, by way of thanking you, we wish 
to give you — " 
Madame Dupont broke in, hurriedly, 
"We wish to give you, — over and above 
your wages, you understand — we wish to 
give you five hundred francs, and perhaps 
a thousand, if the little one is altogether in 
good health. You understand?" 
 
The nurse stared at her, stupefied. 
''You will give me five hundred francs — 
for myself? For myself." She sought to 
comprehend the words. ''But that was 
not agreed, you don't have to do that at 
all." 
"No," admitted Madame Dupont. 
"But then," whispered the nurse, haK 
to herself, "that's not natural." 
"Yes," the other hurried on, "it is be- 
cause the baby will have need of extra 
care. You will have to take more trouble; 
you will have to give it medicines; your 
task will be a little more delicate, a Httle 
more difficult." 
"Oh, yes; then it's so that I will be sure 
to take good care of her? I understand." 
"Then it's agreed?" exclaimed Madame 
Dupont, wdth rehef. 
"Yes, ma'am," said the nurse. 
"And you won't come later on to make 
reproaches to us? We understand one 
another clearly? We have warned you 
that the child is sick, and that you could 
catch the disease. Because of that, because 
of the special need of care which she has. 
 
we promise you five hundred francs at the 
end of the nursing. That's all right, is it?'' 
''But; my lady," cried the nurse, all her 
cupidity awakened, ''you spoke just now 
of a thousand francs." 
"Very well, then, a thousand francs." 
George passed behind the nurse and got 
his mother by the arm, drawing her to 
one side. "It would be a mistake," he 
whispered, "if we did not make her sign 
an agreement to all that." 
His mother turned to the nurse. "In 
order that there may be no misunder- 
standing about the sum — you see how it is, 
I had forgotten already that I had spoken 
of a thousand francs — 'we will draw up a 
Httle paper, and you, on your part, will 
write one for us." 
"Very good, ma'am," said the nurse, 
delighted with the idea of so important a 
transaction. "Why, it's just as you do 
when you rent a house!" 
"Here comes the doctor," said the other. 
"Come, nurse, it is agreed?" 
"Yes, ma'am," was the answer. But 
all the same, as she went out she hesitated 
 
and looked sharply first at the doctor, and 
then at George and his mother. She 
suspected that something was wrong, and 
she meant to find out if she could. 
The doctor seated himself in George's 
office chair, as if to write a prescription. 
''The child's condition remains the same," 
he said; ''nothing disturbing." 
''Doctor," said Madame Dupont, gravely, 
''from now on, you will be able to devote 
your attention to the baby and the nurse 
without any scruple. During your absence 
we have arranged matters nicely. The 
nurse has been informed about the situation, 
and she does not mind. She has agreed 
to accept an indemnity, and the amount 
has been stated." 
But the doctor did not take these tidings 
as the other had hoped he might. He 
replied: ''The malady which the nurse 
will almost inevitably contract in feeding 
the child is too grave in its consequences. 
Such consequences might go as far as 
complete helplessness, even as far as death. 
So I say that the indemnity, whatever it 
might be, would not pay the damage." 
 
''But.' exclaimed the other, ''she accepts 
it! She is mistress of herseK, and she has 
the right—" 
''I am not at all certain that she has the 
right to sell her own health. And I am 
certain that she has not the right to sell 
the health of her husband and her children. 
If she becomes infected, it is nearly certain 
that she will communicate the disease to 
them; the health and the life of the children 
she might have later on would be greatly 
compromised. Such things she cannot 
possibly sell. Come, madame, you must 
see that a bargain of this sort isn't possible. 
If the evil has not been done, you must 
do everything to avoid it.' 
''Sir,'' protested the mother, wildly, ''you 
do not defend our interests!" 
'' Madame," was the reply, ''I defend 
those who are weakest." 
''If we had called in our own physician, 
who knows us," she protested, ''he would 
have taken sides with us." 
The doctor rose, with a severe look on 
his face. "I doubt it," he said, ''but there 
is still time to call him." 
 
George broke in with a crj' of distress. 
''Sir, I implore you!" 
And the mother in turn cried. ''Don't 
abandon us, sir! You ought to make 
allowances! If you knew what that child 
is to me! I tell you it seems to me as if I 
had waited for her coming in order to die. 
Have pity upon us! Have pity upon her! 
You speak of the weakest — it is not she 
who is the weakest? You have seen her, 
you have seen that poor little baby, so 
emaciated! You have seen what a heap 
of suffering she is abeady; and cannot that 
inspire in you any sympathy? I pray you, 
sir — 'I pray you!'' 
"I pity her," said the doctor, "I would 
like to save her — and I will do everything 
for her. But do not ask me to sacrifice 
to a feeble infant, with an uncertain and 
probably unhappy life, the health of a 
sound and robust woman. It is useless 
for us to continue such a discussion as 
that." 
Whereupon Madame Dupont leaped up 
in sudden frenzy. "Very well!" she ex- 
claimed. "I will not follow your counsels, 
I will not listen to you!" 
 
Said the doctor, in a solemn voice: 
'' There is akeady some one here who 
regrets that he did not listen to me.' 
''Yes.' moaned George, "to my mis- 
fortune, to the misfortune of all of us.'' 
But Madame Dupont was quite beside 
herself. "Very well!" she cried. "If 
it is a fault, if it is a crime, if I shall have 
to suffer remorse for it in this life, and all 
the punishments in the life to come — I 
accept it all for myseK alone! Myself 
alone, I take that responsibility! It is 
frightfully heavy, but I accept it. I am 
profoundly a Christian, sir; I believe in 
eternal damnation; but to save my little 
child I consent to lose my soul forever. 
Yes, my mind is made up — 'I will do every- 
thing to save that life! Let God judge me; 
and if he condemns me, so much the worse 
for me!" 
The doctor answered: "That responsi- 
bility is one which I cannot let you take, 
for it will be necessary that I should accept 
my part, and I refuse it." 
"What will you do?" 
"I shall warn the nurse. I shall inform 
 
her exactly, completely — something which 
you have not done, I feel sure.' 
"What?'' cried Madame Dupont, wildly. 
"You, a doctor, called into a family which 
gives you its entire confidence, which hands 
over to you its most terrible secrets, its 
most horrible miseries — 'you would betray 
them?" 
"It is not a betrayal," replied the man, 
sternly. "It is something which the law 
commands; and even if the law were 
silent, I would not permit a family of worthy 
people to go astray so far as to commit a 
crime. Either I give up the case, or you 
have the nursing of the child stopped." 
"You threaten! You threaten!" cried 
the woman, almost frantic. "You abuse 
the power which your knowledge gives 
you! You know that it is you whose 
attention we need by that little cradle; 
you know that we believe in you, and you 
threaten to abandon us! Your abandon- 
ment means the death of the child, perhaps ! 
And if I listen to you, if we stop the nursing 
of the child — that also means her death!" 
She flung up her hands like a mad 
 
creature. ''And yet there is no other 
means! Ah, my God! why do you not let 
it be possible for me to sacrifice myself? 
I would wish nothing more than to be able 
to do it — if only you might take my old 
body, my old flesh, my old bones — if only 
I might serve for something! How quickly 
would I consent that it should infect me — 
this atrocious malady! How I would offer 
myself to it — 'wdth what joys, with vrhat 
delights — 'however disgusting, however 
frightful it might be, however much to be 
dreaded! Yes, I would take it without 
fear, without regret, if my poor old empty 
breasts might still give to the child the 
milk which would preserve its life!'' 
She stopped; and George sprang suddenly 
from his seat, and fled to her and flung 
himself down upon his knees before her, 
mingling his sobs and tears wath hers. 
The doctor rose and moved about the 
room, unable any longer to control his 
distress. ''Oh, the poor people!" he mur- 
mured to himself. ''The poor, poor 
people!" 
The storm passed, and Madame Dupont, 
 
who was a woman of strong character, got 
herself together. Facing the doctor again, 
