and my hands are big — I've lived on a farm all 
my life, and done my own work, and even plowed 
sometimes. I have no idea of the charms and 
graces of life that are everything to you. What is 
more than that, I am forward, and thrust my 
opinions upon other people " 
She simply could not hear me. She was 
a-tremble with a new excitement. Worse even 
than ophthalmia neonatorum was plain speaking 
to a guest! "Mrs. Abbott, you humiliate me!" 
Then I spoke harshly, seeing that I would 
actually have to shock her. "I assure you, Mrs. 
Tuis, that if you don't feel that way about me, 
it's simply because you don't know the truth. 
It is not possible that you would consider me a 
proper person to visit Sylvia. I don't believe 
 
in your religion; I don't believe in anything that 
you woiild call religion, and I argue about it at 
the least provocation. I deliver violent harangues 
on street corners, and have been arrested during a 
strike. I believe in woman's suffrage, I even 
argue in approval of window-smashing. I believe 
that women ought to earn their own livings, and 
be independent and free from any man's control. 
I am a divorced woman — I left my husband 
because I wasn't happy with him; what's more, 
I believe that any woman has a right to do the 
same — I'm hable to teach such ideas to Sylvia, 
and to urge her to follow them." 
The poor lady's eyes were wide and large. "So 
you see," I went on, "you really couldn't 
approve of me. Tell her all this; she knows it 
already, but she will be horrified because I have 
let you and the doctor find it out!" 
Whereupon Mrs. Tuis started to ascend the 
pedestal of her dignity. "Mrs. Abbott, this may 
be your idea of a jest " 
"Now come," I cried, "let me help you fix your 
hair, and put on just a wee bit of powder — not 
enough to be noticed, you understand " 
I took her to the wash-stand, and poured out 
some cold water for her, and saw her bathe her 
eyes and face, and dry them, and braid her thin 
grey hair. While with a powder puff I was trying 
deftly to conceal the ravages of the night's crying, 
the dear lady turned to me, and whispered in a 
trembling voice, "Mrs. Abbott, you really don't 
mean that dreadful thing you said just now?" 
 
"Which dreadful thing, Mrs. Tuis?" 
"That you would tell Sylvia it could possibly 
be right for her to leave her husband?" 
 
 
In the course of the day we received word that 
Dr. Gibson, the specialist for whom we had tele- 
graphed, was on his way. The boat which brought 
his message took back a letter from Dr. Perrin 
to Douglas van Tuiver, acquainting him with 
the calamity which had befallen. We had talked 
it over and agreed that there was nothing to be 
gained by telegraphing the information. We did 
not wish any hint of the child's illness to leak into 
the newspapers. 
I did not envy the great man the hour when he 
read that letter; although I knew that the doctor 
had not falled to assiu"e him that the victim of his 
misdeeds should be kept in ignorance. Already 
the little man had begun to drop hints to me on 
this subject. Unfortunate accidents happened, 
which were not always to be blamed upon the 
husband; nor was it a thing to contemplate 
lightly, the breaking up of a family. I gave a 
non-committal answer, and changed the subject 
by asking the doctor not to mention my presence 
in the household. If by any chance van Tuiver 
were to carry his sorrows to Claire, I did not want 
my name brought up. 
We managed to prevent Sylvia's seeing the child 
that day and night; and the next morning came 
the specialist. He held out no hope of saving 
any remnant of the sight; but the child might be 
 
so fortunate as to escape disfigurement — it did 
not appear that the eyeballs were destroyed, as 
happens generally in these cases. This bit of 
consolation I still have; that little Elaine, who 
sits by me as I write, has left in her pupils a faint 
trace of the soft red-brown — just enough to remind 
us of what we have lost, and keep fresh in our minds 
the memory of these sorrows. If I wish to see 
what her eyes might have been, I look above my 
head to the portrait of Sylvia's noble ancestress, 
a copy made by a "tramp-artist" in Castleman 
County, and left with me by Sylvia. 
There was the question of the care of the 
mother — the efforts to stay the ravages of the 
germ in the tissues broken and weakened by the 
strain of child-birth. We had to invent excuses 
for the presence of the new doctor — and yet others 
for the presence of Dr. Overton, who came a 
day later. And then the problem of the nourishing 
of the child. It would be a calamity to have to 
put it upon the bottle; but on the other hand, 
there were many precautions necessary to keep 
the infection from spreading. 
I remember vividly the first time that the 
infant was fed: all of us gathered roimd, with 
matter-of-course professional air, as if these 
elaborate hygienic ceremonies were the universal 
custom when newly-born infants first taste their 
mothers' milk. Standing in the background, 
I saw Sylvia start with dismay as she noted how 
pale and thin the poor little one had become. 
It was hunger that caused the whimpering, so 
 
the nurse declared, busying herself in the mean- 
time to keep the tiny hands from the mother's 
face. The latter sank back and closed her eyes — 
nothing, it seemed, could prevail over the ecstasy 
of that first marvelous sensation; but afterwards 
she asked that I might stay with her — and as 
soon as the others were gone, she unmasked the 
batteries of her suspicion upon me. "Mary — 
what in the world has happened to my baby?" 
So began a new stage in the campaign of lying. 
"It's nothing, nothing. Just some infection. It 
happens frequently." 
"But what is the cause of it?" 
"We can't tell. It may be a dozen things. 
There are so many possible sources of infection 
about a birth. It's not a very sanitary thing, you 
know." 
"Mary! Look me in the face!" 
"Yes, dear?" 
"You're not deceiving me?" 
"How do you mean?" 
"I mean — it's not really something serious? 
AH these doctors — this mystery — this vagueness !" 
"It was your husband, my dear Sylvia, who sent 
the doctors — it was his stupid man's way of being 
attentive." (This at Axmt Varina's suggestion — 
the very subtle lady!) 
"Mary, I'm worried. My baby looks so badly. 
And I feel something is wrong." 
"My dear Sylvia," I chided, "if you worry 
about it, you will simply be harming the child. 
Your milk may go wrong." 
 
"Oh, that's just it! That's why you would not 
tell me the truth!" 
We persuade ourselves that there are certain 
circumstances under which lying is necessary; 
but always when we come to the hes, we find them 
an insult to the soul. Each day I perceived that 
I was getting in deeper — and each day I watched 
Aunt Varina and the doctor busied to push me 
deeper yet. 
There had come a telegram from Douglas van 
Tuiver to Dr. Perrin, revealing the matter which 
stood first in that gentleman's mind. "I expect 
no failure in yoiu" supply of the necessary tact." 
By this vagueness we perceived that he too was 
trusting no secrets to telegraph-operators. Yet 
for us it was explicit and illuminative. It recalled 
the tone of quiet authority I had noted in his 
dealings with his chauffeur; and it sent me off 
by myself for a while, to shake my fist at all 
husbands. 
 
 
Mrs. Ttjis, of course, had no need of any warn- 
ing from the head of the house. The voice of her 
ancestors guided her in all such emergencies. The 
dear lady had got to know me quite well, at the 
more or less continuous dramatic rehearsals we 
conducted; and now and then her trembling 
hands would seek to fasten me in the chains of 
decency. "Mrs. Abbott, think what a scandal 
there would be if Mrs. Douglas van Tuiver were 
to break with her husband!" 
"Yes, my dear Mrs. Tuis — but on the other 
hand, think what might happen if she were kept 
in ignorance in this matter. She might bear 
another child." 
I got a new realization of the chasms that lay 
between us. "Who are we," she whispered, "to 
interfere in these sacred matters? It is of souls, 
Mrs. Abbott, and not bodies, that the Kingdom 
of Heaven is made." 
I took a minute or so to get my breath, and 
then I said, "What generally happens in these 
cases is that God afflicts the woman with perma- 
nent barrenness." 
The old lady bowed her head, and I saw the 
tears falling into her lap. "My poor Sylvia!" 
she moaied, only half aloud. 
There was a silence; I too almost wept. And 
finally. Aunt Varina looked up at me, her faded 
 
eyes full of pleading. "It is hard for me to 
understand such ideas as yours. You must tell 
me — can you really believe that it would help 
Sylvia to know this — this dreadful secret?" 
"It would help her in many ways," I said. 
"She will be more careful of her health — she will 
follow the doctor's orders " 
How quickly came the reply! "I will stay 
with her, and see that she does that! I will be 
with her day and night." 
"But are you going to keep the secret from 
those who attend her? Her maid — the child's 
nurses — everyone who might by any chance use 
the same towel, or a wash-basin, or a drinking- 
glass?" 
"Surely you exaggerate the danger! If that 
were true, more people would meet with these 
accidents !" 
"The doctors," I said, "estimate that about 
ten per cent of cases of this disease are innocently 
acquired." 
"Oh, these modem doctors!" she cried. "I 
never heard of such ideas!" 
I could not help smiling. "My dear Mrs. 
Tuis, what do you imagine you know about the 
prevalence of gonorrhea? Consider just one fact 
— that I heard a college professor state pubhcly 
that in his opinion eighty-five per cent of the men 
students at his university were infected with 
some venereal disease. And that is the pick of 
our young manhood — the sons of our aristocracy." 
"Oh, that can't be!" she exclaimed. "People 
would know of it!" 
 
"Who are 'people'? The boys in your family 
know of it — if you could get them to tell you. My 
two sons studied at a State university, and they 
would bring me home what they heard — the 
gossip, the slang, the horrible obscenity. Four- 
teen fellows in one dormitory using the same 
bath-room — and on the wall you saw a row of 
fourteen syringes! And they told that on them- 
selves. It was the joke of the campus. They 
call the disease a ' dose' ; and a man's not supposed 
to be worthy the respect of his fellows imtil he's 
had his 'dose' — the sensible thing is to get several, 
till he can't get any more. They think it's 'no 
worse than a bad cold ; that's the idea they get 
from the 'clap-doctors', and the women of the 
street who educate our sons in sex-matters." 
"Oh, spare me, spare me!" cried Mrs. Tuis. 
"I beg you not to force these horrible details 
upon me!" 
"That is what is going on among our boys," 
I said. "The Castleman boys, the Chilton boys! 
It's going on in every fraternity-house, every 
'prep school' dormitory in America. And the 
parents refuse to know, just as you do!" 
"But what could I possibly do, Mrs. Abbott?" 
"I don't know, Mrs. Tuis. What I am going 
to do is to teach the yoimg girls." 
She whispered, aghast, "You would rob the 
young girls of their innocence? Why, with their 
souls full of these ideas their faces would soon be 
as hard — oh, you horrify me!" 
"My daughter's face is not hard," I said. 
 
 
"And I taught her. Stop and think, Mrs. Tuis 
— ten thousand blind children every year! A 
hundred thousand women under the surgeon's 
knife! Millions of women goiag to pieces with 
slowly creeping diseases of which they never hear 
the names ! I say, let us cry this from the house- 
tops, imtil every woman knows — and until every 
man knows that she knows, and that unless he 
can prove that he is clean he will lose her! That 
is the remedy, Mrs. Tuis!" 
Poor dear lady! I got up and went away, 
leaving her there, with clenched hands and 
trembling hps. I suppose I seemed to her like 
the mad women who were just then rising up to 
horrify the respectability of England — a, phenom- 
enon of Nature too portentous to be compre- 
hended, or even to be contemplated, by a gentle- 
woman of the South! 
 
 
Theee came in due course a couple of letters 
from Douglas van Tuiver. The one to Aunt 
Varina, which was shown to me, was vague and 
cautious — as if the writer were uncertain how 
much this worthy lady knew. He merely men- 
tioned that Sylvia was to be spared every particle 
of "painful knowledge". He would wait in great 
anxiety, but he would not come, because any 
change in his plans might set her to questioning. 
The letter to Dr. Perrin was not shown to me; 
but I judged that it must have contained more 
strenuous injunctions. Or had Aunt Varina by 
any chance got up the courage to warn the young 
doctor against me? His hints, at any rate, 
became more pointed. He desired me to realize 
how awkard it would be for him if Sylvia were to 
learn the truth; it would be impossible to con- 
vince Mr. van Tuiver that this knowledge had 
not come from the physician in charge. 
"But, Dr. Perrin," I objected, "it was I who 
brought the information to you! And Mr. van 
Tuiver knows that I am a radical woman; he 
woidd not expect me to be ignorant of such 
matters." 
"Mrs. Abbott," was the response, "it is a 
grave matter to destroy the possibility of hap- 
piness of a young married couple." 
However I might dispute his theories, in prac- 
 
tice I was doing what he asked. But each day I 
was finding the task more difi&cult; each day it 
became more apparent that Sylvia was ceasing 
to believe me. I realized at last, with a sicken- 
ing kind of fright, that she knew I was hiding 
something from her. Because she knew me, and 
knew that I would not do such a thing lightly, 
she was terrified. She would he there, gazing at 
me with a dumb fear in her eyes — and I would 
go on asseverating blindly, like an unsucessful 
actor before a jeering audience. 
A dozen times she made an effort to break 
through the barricade of falsehood; and a dozen 
times I drove her back, all but crying to her, 
"No, no! Don't ask me!" Until at last, late 
one night, she caught my hand and clung to it 
in a grip I could not break. "Mary! Mary! 
You must tell me the truth!" 
"Dear girl " I began. 
"Listen!" she cried. "I know you are deceiv- 
ing me! I know why — because I'll make myself 
ill. But it won't do any longer; it's prejdng on 
me, Mary — I've taken to imagining things. So 
you must tell me the truth!" 
I sat, avoiding her eyes, beaten; and in the 
pause I could feel her hands shaking. "Mary, 
what is it? Is my baby going to die?" 
"No, dear, indeed no!" I cried. 
"Then what?" 
"Sylvia," I began, as quietly as I could, "the 
truth is not as bad as you imagine " 
"Tell me what it is!" 
 
"But it is bad, Sylvia. And you must be 
brave. You must be, for your baby's sake." 
"Make haste!" she cried. 
"The baby," I said, "may be blind." 
"Blind!" There we sat, gazing into each 
other's eyes, like two statues of women. But the 
grasp of her hand tightened, until even my big 
fist was hurt. "Blind!" she whispered again. 
"Sylvia," I rushed on, "it isn't so bad as it 
might be! Think — if you had lost her al- 
together!" 
"Blind!" 
"You will have her always; and you can do 
things for her — take care of her. They do 
wonders for the blind nowadays — and you have 
the means to do everything. Really, you know, 
blind children are not unhappy — some of them 
are happier than other children, I think. They 
haven't so much to miss. Think " 
"Wait, wait," she whispered; and again there 
was silence, and I clung to her cold hands. 
"Sylvia," I said, at last, "you have a newly- 
born infant to nurse, and its very hfe depends 
upon your health now. You cannot let yourself 
grieve." 
"No," she responded, "No. But, Mary, 
what caused this?" 
So there was the end of my spell of truth- 
telling. "I don't know, dear. Nobody knows. 
There might be a thousand things " 
"Was it bom blind?" 
"No." 
 
"Then was it the doctor's fault?" 
"No, it was nobody's fault. Think of the 
thousands and tens of thousands of babies that 
become blind! It's a dreadful accident that 
happens." So I went on — possessed with a dread 
that had been with me for days, that had kept 
me awake for hours in the night. Had I, in any 
of my talks with Sylvia about venereal disease, 
mentioned blindness in infants as one of the 
consequences? I could not remember; but now 
was the time I would find out! 
She lay there, immovable, like a woman who 
had died in grief; imtil at last I flung my arms 
about her and whispered, ' ' Sylvia ! Sylvia ! Please 
cry!" 
"I can't cry!" she whispered, and her voice 
sounded hard. 
So, after a space, I said, "Then, dear, I think 
I will have to make you laugh." 
"Laugh, Mary?" 
"Yes — I will tell you about the quarrel between 
Aunt Varina and myself. You know what times 
we've been having — how I shocked the poor 
lady?" 
She was looking at me, but her eyes were not 
seeing me. "Yes, Mary," she said, in the same 
dead tone. 
"Well, that was a game we made up for you. 
It was very funny!" 
"Funny?" 
"Yes! Because I really did shock her — though 
we started out just to give you something else 
to think about!" 
 
And then suddenly I saw the healing tears 
begin to come. She could not weep for her own 
grief — but she could weep because of what she 
knew we two had had to suffer for her! 
 
 
I WENT out and told the others what I had 
done; and Mrs. Tuis rushed in to her niece, and 
they wept in each other's arms, and Mrs. Tuis 
explained all the mysteries of life by her formula, 
"the will of the Lord." 
Later on came Dr. Perrin. And it was touch- 
ing to see how Sylvia treated him. She had, it 
appeared, conceived the idea that the calamity 
must be due to some blunder on his part; and 
then she had reflected that he was young, and 
that chance had thrown upon him a responsibihty 
for which he had not bargained. He must be 
reproaching himself bitterly; so she had to 
persuade him that it was really not so bad as we 
were making it — that a blind child was a great 
joy to a mother's soul — in some ways even a 
greater joy than a perfectly sound child, because 
it appealed so to her protective instinct! I had 
called Sylvia a shameless payer of compliments; 
and now I went away by myself and wept. 
Yet it was true, in a way. When the infant 
was brought in to be nursed again — how she 
clung to it, a very pictiu-e of the sheltering and 
protecting instinct of motherhood! She knew 
the worst now — her mind was free, and she could 
partake of what happiness was allowed her. The 
child was hers, to love and care for; and she 
would find ways to atone to it for the harshness 
of fate. 
 
So little by little we got our existence upon a 
working-basis. We lived a peaceful, routine life, 
to the music of cocoanut-palms rustling in the 
warm breezes which blew incessantly off the Mexi- 
can Gulf. Aimt Varina had for the time her un- 
disputed way with the family; her niece reclined 
upon the veranda, ia true Southern-lady fashion, 
and was read aloud to from books of indisputable 
respectability. I remember Aimt Varina selected 
the "Idyls of the King", and they two were in a 
mood to shed tears over these solemn-sorrowful 
tales. So it came that the little one got her 
name, after a pale and unhappy heroine. 
I remember the long discussions of this point, 
the family-lore which Aunt Varina brought forth. 
It did not seem to her quite the thing to call a 
blind child after a member of one's family. 
Something strange, romantic, wistful — yes, Elaine 
was the name! Mrs. Tuis, it transpired, had 
already baptized the infant, in the midst of the 
agonies and alarms of its illness. She had called 
it "Sylvia"; and now she was tremulously uncer- 
tain whether this coimted — whether perhaps the 
higher powers might object to having to alter 
their records. But in the end a clergyman came 
out from Key West and heard Aunt Varina's 
confession, and gravely concluded that the error 
might be corrected by a formal ceremony. How 
strange it all seemed to me — being carried back 
two or three hundred years in the world's history! 
But I gave no sign of what was going on in my 
rebellious mind. 
 
 
Dr. Overton on his return to New York sent 
a special nurse to take charge of Sylvia's case. 
There was also an infant's nurse, and both had 
been taken into the doctors' confidence. So now 
there was an elaborate conspiracy — no less than 
five women and two men, all occupied in keeping 
a secret from Sylvia. It was a thing so contrary 
to my convictions that I was never free from the 
burden of it for a moment. Was it my duty to 
tell her? 
Dr. Perrin no longer referred to the subject. I 
realized that both he and Dr. Gibson considered 
the matter settled. Was it conceivable that any 
one of soimd miad could set out, dehberately and 
in cold blood, to betray such a secret? But I 
had maintained all my life the right of women to 
know the truth; and was I to back down now, at 
the first test of my convictions? 
When the news reached Douglas van Tuiver 
that his wife had been informed of the infant's 
blindness, there came a telegram saying that he 
was coming. There was much excitement, of 
com"se; and Aunt Varina came to me, in an 
attempt to secure a definite pledge of silence. 
When I refused it. Dr. Perrin came agaia, and we 
fought the matter over for the better part of a 
day and night. 
He was a polite little gentleman, and he did not 
 
tell me that my views were those of a fanatic; 
but he said that no woman could see these things 
in their true proportion, because of her necessary 
ignorance concerning the nature of men, and the 
temptations to which they were exposed. I 
replied that I believed I imderstood these matters 
thoroughly; and I went on, quite simply and 
honestly, to make clear to him that it was so. 
In the end my pathetically chivalrous little South- 
em gentleman admitted everything I asked. 
Yes, it was true that these evils were ghastly, and 
that they were increasing, and that women were 
the worst sufferers from them. There might even 
be something in my idea that the older women of 
the community should devote themselves to this 
service, making themselves race-mothers, and 
helping, not merely in their homes, but in the 
schools and churches, to protect and save the 
future generations. But all that was in the 
future, he argued; while here was a case which 
had gone so far that "letting in the Hght" could 
only blast the life of two people, making it impos- 
sible for a young mother ever again to tolerate 
the father of her child. I argued that Sylvia was 
not of the hysterical type; but I could not make 
him agree that it was possible to predict what the 
attitude of any woman would be. His ideas were 
based on one pecuhar experience he had had — a 
woman patient who had said to him, "Doctor, 
I know what is the matter with me, but for God's 
sake don't let my husband find out that I know, 
because then I should feel that my self-respect 
required me to leave him!" 
 
 
The Master-of-the-House was coming! You 
could feel the quiver of excitement in the air of 
the place. The boatmen were polishing the 
brasses of the laimch; the yard-man was raking 
up the dead strips of palm from beneath the 
cocoanut trees; Aunt Varina was ordering new 
supphes, and entering into conspiracies with the 
cook. The nurses asked me timidly, what was 
He like; and even Dr. Gibson, a testy old gentle- 
man who had clashed violently with me on the 
subject of woman's suffrage, and had avoided me 
ever since as a suspicious character, now came 
and confided his troubles. He had sent home 
for a trunk, and the graceless express companies 
had sent it astray. Now he was wondering if it 
was necessary for him to journey to Key West 
and have a suit of dinner-clothes made over night. 
I told him that I had not sent for any party- 
dresses, and that I expected to meet Mr. Douglas 
van Tuiver at his dimier-table in plain white 
linen. His surprise was so great that I suspected 
the old gentleman of having wondered whether 
I meant to retire to a "second-table" when the 
Master-of-the-House arrived. 
I went away by myself, seething with wrath. 
Who was this great one, whom we honored? 
Was he an inspired poet, a maker of laws, a dis- 
coverer of truth? He was the owner of an inde- 
 
finite number of millions of dollars — that was all; 
and yet I was expected, because of my awe of 
him, to abandon the cherished convictions of my 
life-time. The situation was one that challenged 
my fighting-blood. This was the hour to prove 
whether I really meant the things I talked. 
On the morning of the day that van Tuiver 
was expected, I went early to Aimt Varina's 
room. She was going in the latmch, and was in 
a state of flustration, occupied in putting on her 
best false-hair, "Mrs. Tuis," I said, "I want 
you to let me go to meet Mr. van Tuiver instead 
of you." 
I will not stop to report the good lady's out- 
cries. I did not care, I said, whether it was 
proper; nor did I care whether, as she finally 
hinted, it might not be agreeable to Mr. van 
Tuiver. I was sorry to have to thrust myself 
upon him, but I was determined to go, and would 
let nothing prevent me. And all at once she 
yielded, rather surprising me by the suddenness 
of it; I suppose she concluded that van Tuiver 
was the man to handle me, and the quicker he 
got at it the better. 
It is a trying thing to deal with the rich and 
great. If you treat them as the rest of the world 
does, you are a tuft-hunter; if you treat them as 
the rest of the world pretends to, you are a 
hypocrite; whereas, if you deal with them truly, 
it is hard not to seem, even to yourself, a biunp- 
tious person. I remember trying to tell myself 
on the launch-trip that I was not in the least 
 
excited; and then, standing on the platfonn of 
the raiboad station, saying, "How can you ex- 
pect not to be excited, when even the railroad is 
excited?" 
"Will Mr. van Tuiver's train be on time?" 
I asked of the agent. 
" 'Specials' are not often delayed," he repHed; 
"at least not Mr, van Tuiver's." 
The engine and its two cars drew up, and the 
traveler stepped out upon the platform, followed 
by his secretary and his valet. I went forward 
to meet him. "Good morning, Mr. van Tuiver." 
I saw at once that he did not remember me. 
"Mrs. Abbott," I prompted. "I came to meet 
you." 
"Ah," he said. He had never got clear whether 
I was a sewing-woman, or a tutor, or what; and 
whenever he erred in such matters, it was on the 
side of caution. 
"Your wife is doing well," I said; "and the 
child as  well as could be expected." 
"Thank you," he replied. "Did no one else 
come?" 
"Mrs. Tuis was not able," I said, diplomatically, 
and we moved- toward the launch. 
 
 
He did not offer to help me into the vessel, 
but I, crude Western woman, did not miss the 
attention. We seated ourselves in the upholstered 
leather seats in the stem, and when the "luggage" 
had been stowed aboard, the little vessel swimg 
away from the pier. Then I said, "If you will 
pardon me, 'Mi. van Tuiver, I should like to talk 
with you privately." 
He looked at me for a moment, and then 
answered, abruptly: "Yes, madam." The secre- 
tary rose and went forward. 
The whir of the machinery and the strong 
breeze made by the boat's motion made it certain 
that no one could hear us; and so I began my 
attack. "!Mr. van Tuiver, I am a friend of yom* 
wife's. I came here to help her in this crisis; 
and I came today to meet you, because it was 
necessary for some one to talk to you frankly 
about the situation. You will understand, I 
presume, that ]Mrs. Tuis is not — not very well 
informed about the matters in question." 
His gaze was fixed intently upon me; but he 
said not a word. After waiting, I continued: 
"Perhaps you will wonder why your wife's 
physicians could not have handled the matter. 
The reason is, there is a woman's side to such 
questions, and often it is difficult for men to 
understand it. If Syh-ia knew the truth, she 
 
could speak for herself; so long as she does not 
know it, I shall have to take the liberty of speaking 
for her." 
Again there was a pause. He did nothing more 
than watch me, yet I could feel his affronted 
maleness rising up for battle. I waited, on pur- 
pose to compel him to speak. 
"May I ask," he inquired, at last, "what you 
mean by the 'truth' that you refer to?" 
"I mean," I said, "the cause of the infant's 
aflEliction." 
His composure was a thing to wonder at. He 
did not show by the flicker of an eye-lash any 
sign of uneasiness. 
"Let me explain one thing," I continued. 
"I owe it to Dr. Perrin to make clear that he had 
nothing whatever to do with my coming into 
possession of the secret. In fact, as he will no 
doubt tell you, I knew it before he did; it is 
possible that you owe it to me that the infant is 
not disfigured, as well as blind." 
I paused again. "If that be true," he said, 
with vmshaken formallty, "I am obliged to you." 
What a man! 
I continued: "My one desire and purpose is 
to protect my friend. So far, the secret has 
been kept from her. I consented to this, because 
her very life was at stake, it seemed to us all. 
But now she is well enough to know; and the 
question is, shall she know. I need hardly tell 
