




children's stories that sort of thing. . . . 
It goes well enough. I sell a few to American publishers. Otherwise I shoot and fish 
and read . . . when war does not preoccupy 
me. . . ." 

He smiled, experiencing the vague relief of 
talking to somebody in his native tongue. 
Quesnel Moors were sometimes very lonely. 

"It's been a long convalescence," he continued, smilingly. "One of their coal-boxes 
did this" touching his leg. "When I was 
able to move I went to America. But the sea 
off the Eryx called me back; and the authorities permitted me to come down here. I'm 
getting well very fast now." 

He had stripped every chassis of its can 
vas, and had made a roll of the material. 

"I'm very glad to be of any use to you," 
he said pleasantly, laying the roll on the 
table. 

Marie-Josephine, on her low chair by the 
hearth, sat listening to every word as though 
she had understood. The expression in her 
faded eyes varied constantly; solicitude, perplexity, vague uneasiness, a recurrent glimmer of suspicion were succeeded always by 
wistful tenderness when her gaze returned to 
Wayland and rested on his youthful face and 
figure with a pride forever new. 

Once she spoke in mixed French and 
Breton : 

"Is the stranger English, Monsieur Jacques, 
mon cheri?" 

"I do not doubt it, Marie- Josephine. Do 
you?" 

"Why dost thou believe him to be Eng 
lish?" 

"He has the tricks of speech. Also his 
accent is of an English university. There 
is no mistaking it." 

"Are not young Huns sometimes instructed 
in the universities of England?" 

"Yes. . . . But " 

"Gar a nous, mon p tit, Jacques. In Finis- 
tere a stranger is a suspect. Since earliest 
times they have done us harm in Finistere. 
The strangers God knows what centuries of 
evil they have wrought." 

"No fear," he said, reassuringly, and turned 
again to the airman, who had now satisfied 









his hunger and had already risen to gather 
up the roll of canvas, the hammer, nails, and 
shellac. 

"Thanks awfully, old chap!" he said cordially. "I'll take these articles, if I may. 
It's very good of you. . . . I'm in a tearing 
hurry " 

"Won't your pilot come over and eat a 
bit?" 

"I'll take him this bread and meat, if I 
may. Many thanks." He held out his heav 
ily gloved hand with a friendly smile, nodded 
to Marie-Josephine. And as he hurriedly 
turned to go, the ancient carving on the high- 
backed chair caught him between the buttons 
of his leather coat, tearing it wide open over 
the breast. And Wayland saw the ribbon 
of the Iron Cross there fastened to a sea- 
grey tunic. 

There was a second's frightful silence. 

"What's that you wear?" said Wayland 
hoarsely. "Stop! Stand where you 

"Halt! Don't touch that shotgun!" cried 
the airman sharply. But Wayland already 
had it in his hands, and the airman fired twice 






lie airman fired twice 
again, 



. . steadied the automatic to shoot 
but held his fire. 







at him where he stood steadied the auto 
matic to shoot again, but held his fire, seeing 
it would not be necessary. Besides, he did 
not care to shoot the old woman unless military precaution made it advisable; and she 
was on her knees, her withered arms upflung, 
shielding the prostrate body with her own. 

"You Yankee fool," he snapped out 
harshly "it is your own fault, not mine! 
. . . Like the rest of your imbecile nation 
you poke your nose where it has no business ! 
And I " He ceased speaking, realizing that 
his words remained unheard. 

After a moment he backed toward the 
door, carrying the canvas roll under his left 
arm and keeping his eye carefully on the 
prostrate man. Also, one can never trust 
the French! he was quite ready for that 
old woman there on the floor who was hold 
ing the dead boy's head to her breast, muttering: "My darling! My child! Oh, little 
son of Marie- Josephine ! I told thee I 
warned thee of the stranger in Finistere! . . . 
Marie holy intercede! . . . All all are 
born to grief in Finistere! . . ." 





CHAPTER VHI 



The incredible rumour that German air 
men were in Brittany first came from Plou- 
harnel in Morbihan; then from Bannalec, 
where an old Icelander had notified the 
Brigadier of the local Gendarmerie. But the 
Icelander was very drunk. A thimble of 
cognac did it. 

Again came an unconfirmed report that a 
shepherd lad while alternately playing on his 
Biniou and fishing for eels at the confluence 
of the Elle and Isole, had seen a werewolf 
in Lai's Woods. The Loup Garou walked on 
two legs and had assumed the shape of a 
man with no features except two enormous 
eyes. 

The following week a coast guard near 
Flouranges telephoned to the Aulnes Light- 









house; the keeper of the light telephoned to 
Lorient the story of Wayland, and was in 
structed to extinguish the great flash again 
and to keep watch from the lantern until an 
investigation could be made. 

That an enemy airman had done murder 
in Finistere was now certain; but that a 
Boche submarine had come into the Bay of 
Biscay seemed very improbable, considering 
the measures which had been taken in the 
Channel, at Trieste, and at Gibraltar. 

That a fleet of many sea-planes was soaring somewhere between the Isle des Chou- 
ettes and Finistere, and landing men, seemed 
to be practically an impossibility. Yet, there 
were the rumours. And murder had been 
done. 

But an enemy undersea boat required a 
base. Had such a base been established 
somewhere along those lonely and desolate 
wastes of bog and rock and moor and gorse- 
set cliff haunted only by curlew and wild 
duck, and bounded inland by a silent barrier 
of forest through which the wild boar roamed 
and rooted unmolested? 









And where in Finistere was an enemy sea 
plane to come from, when, save for the few 
remaining submarines still skulking near 
British waters, the enemy's flag had vanished 
from the seas? 

Nevertheless the coast lights at Aulnes and 
on the Isle des Chouettes went out; the Commandant at Lorient and the General in command of the British expeditionary troops in 
the harbour consulted; and the fleet of troop- 
laden transports did not sail as scheduled, 
but a swarm of French and British cruisers, 
trawlers, mine-sweepers, destroyers, and sub 
marines put out from the great warport to 
comb the boisterous seas of Biscay for any 
possible aerial or amphibious Hun who might 
venture to haunt the coasts. 

Inland, too, officers were sent hither and 
thither to investigate various rumours and 
doubtful reports at their several sources. 

And it happened in that way that Captain 
Neeland of the 6th Battalion, Athabasca 
Regiment, Canadian Overseas Contingent, 
found himself in the Forest of Aulnes, with 
instructions to stay there long enough to 







verify or discredit a disturbing report which, 
had just arrived by mail. 

The report was so strange and the investigation required so much secrecy and caution 
that Captain Neeland changed his uniform 
for knickerbockers and shooting coat, borrowed a fowling piece and a sack of cart 
ridges loaded with No. 4 shot, tucked his gun 
under his arm, and sauntered out of Lorient 
town before dawn, like any other duck-hunting enthusiast. 

Several reasons influenced his superiors in 
sending Neeland to investigate this latest and 
oddest report: for one thing, although he had 
become temporarily a Canadian for military 
purposes only, in reality he was an American 
artist who, like scores and scores of his 
artistic fellow Yankees, had spent many 
years industriously painting those sentimental 
Breton scenes which obsess our painters, if 
not their critics. He was a very bad painter, 
but he did not know it; he had already be 
come a promising soldier, but he did not 
realize that either. As a sportsman, however, 
Neeland was rather pleased with himself. 









He was sent because he knew the sombre 
and lovely land of Finistere pretty well, be 
cause he was more or less of a naturalist and 
a sportsman, and because the plan which he 
had immediately proposed appeared to be 
reasonable as well as original. 

It had been a stiff walk across country 
fifteen miles, as against thirty odd around 
by road but neither cart nor motor was to 
enter into the affair. If anybody should 
watch him, he was only a duckhunter afield, 
crossing the marshes, skirting etangs, a solitary figure in the waste, easily reconcilable 
with his wide and melancholy surroundings. 






Anlnes Woods were brown and still under 
their unshed canopy of October leaves. 
Against a grey, transparent sky the oaks 
and beeches towered, unstirred by any wind; 
in the subdued light among the trees, ferns, 
startlingly green, spread delicate plumed 
fronds; there was no sound except the soft 
crash of his own footsteps through shrivel 
ing patches of brake; no movement save 
when a yellow leaf fluttered down from above 
or one of those little silvery grey moths took 
wing and fluttered aimlessly along the forest 
aisle, only to alight upon some lichen-spotted 
tree and cling there, slowly waving its delicate, translucent wings. 

It was a very ancient wood, the Forest of 
Aulnes, and the old trees were long past 









timber value. Even those gleaners of dead 
wood and fallen branches seemed to have 
passed a different way, for the forest floor 
was littered with material that seldom goes 
to waste in Europe, and which broke under 
foot with a dull, thick sound, filling the nostrils with the acrid odour of decay. 

Narrow paths full of dead leaves ran here 
and there through the woods, but he took 
none of these, keeping straight on toward the 
northwest until a high, moss-grown wall 
checked his progress. 

It ran west through the silent forest; damp 
green mould and lichens stained it; patches 
of grey stucco had peeled from it, revealing 
underneath the roughly dressed stones. He 
followed the wall. 

Now and then, far in the forest, and indis 
tinctly, he heard faint sounds perhaps the 
cautious tread of roebuck, or rabbits in the 
bracken, or the patter of a stoat over dry 
leaves; perhaps the sullen retirement of some 
wild boar, winding man in the depths of his 
own domain, and sulkily conceding him right 
of way. 






After a while there came a break in the 
wall where four great posts of stone stood, 
and where there should have been gates. 

But only the ancient and rusting hinges 
remained of either gate or wicket. 

He looked up at the carved escutcheons; 
the moss of many centuries had softened and 
smothered the sculptured device, so that its 
form had become indistinguishable. 

Inside stood a stone lodge. Tiles had 
fallen from the ancient roof; leaded panes 
were broken; nobody came to the closed and 
discoloured door of massive oak. 

The avenue, which was merely an unkempt, 
overgrown ride, curved away between the 
great gateposts into the woods; and, as he 
entered it, three deer left stealthily, making 
no sound in the forest. 

Nobody was to be seen, neither gatekeeper 
nor woodchopper nor charcoal burner. Nothing moved amid the trees except a tiny, silent 
bird belated in his autumn migration. 

The ride curved to the east; and abruptly 
he came into view of the house a low, 









weather-ravaged structure in the grassy 
glade, ringed by a square, wet moat. 

There was no terrace; the ride crossed a 
permanent bridge of stone, passed the carved 
and massive entrance, crossed a second 
crumbling causeway, and continued on into 
the forest. 

An old Breton woman, who was drawing 
a jug of water from the moat, turned and 
looked at Neeland, and then went silently 
into the house. 

A moment later a younger woman appeared 
on the doorstep and stood watching his approach. 

As he crossed the bridge he took off his 
cap. 

"Madame, the Countess of Aulnes?" he in 
quired. "Would you be kind enough to say 
to her that I arrive from Lorient at her 
request?" 

"I am the Countess of Aulnes," she said 
in flawless English. 

He bowed again. "I am Captain Neeland 
of the British Expeditionary force." 

"May I see your credentials, Captain Nee- 








land?" She had descended the single step of 
crumbling stone. 

"Pardon, Countess; may I first be certain 
concerning your identity!" 

There was a silence. To Neeland she 
seemed very young in her black gown. Perhaps it was that sombre setting and her dark 
eyes and hair which made her skin seem so 
white. 

"What proof of my identity do you expect ?" she asked in a low voice. 

"Only one word, Madame." 

She moved a step nearer, bent a trifle 
toward him. "L Ombre," she whispered. 

From his pocket he drew his credentials 
and offered them. Among them was her own 
letter to the authorities at Lorient. 

After she had examined them she handed 
them back to him. 

"Will you come in, Captain Neeland or, 
perhaps we had better seat ourselves on the 
bridge in order to lose no time because I 
wish you to see for yourself " 

She lifted her dark eyes; a tint of embarrassment came into her cheeks: "It may seem 




absurd to you; it seems so to me, at times 
what I am going to say to you concerning 
L Ombre " 

She had turned; he followed; and at her 
grave gesture of invitation, he seated him 
self beside her on the coping of mossy stone 
which ran like a bench under the parapet of 
the little bridge. 

"Captain Neeland," she said, "I am a Bre- 
tonne, but, until recently, I did not suppose 
myself to be superstitious. ... I really am 
not unless except for this one matter of 
L Ombre. . . . My English governess drove 
superstition out of my head. . . . Still, living 
in Finistere here in this house" she flushed 
again "I shall have to leave it to you. . . . 
I dread ridicule; but I am sure you are too 
courteous ... It required some courage 
for me to write to Lorient. But, if it might 
possibly help my country to risk ridicule 
of course I do not hesitate." 

She looked uncertainly at the young man's 
pleasant, serious face, and, as though reassured : 

"I shall have to tell you a little about 




myself first so that you may understand 
better." 

"Please," he said gravely. 

"Then my father and my only brother 
died a year ago, in battle. ... It happened 
in the Argonne. ... I am alone. "We had 
maintained only two men servants here. 
They went with their classes. One old 
woman remains." She looked up with a 
forced smile. "I need not explain to you 
that our circumstances are much straitened. 
You have only to look about you to see that 
. . . our poverty is not recent; it always has 
been so within my memory only growing a 
little worse every year. I believe our misfortunes began during the Vendee. . . . But 
that is of no interest . . . except that 
through coincidence, of course every time a 
new misfortune comes upon our family, misfortune also falls on France." He nodded, 
still mystified, but interested. 

"Did you happen to notice the device 
carved on the gatepost?" she asked. 

"I thought it resembled a fish " 









"Do you understand French, Captain Nee- 
land?" 

"Yes." 

"Then you know that L Ombre means the 
shadow ." 

"Yes." 

"Did you know, also, that there is a fish 
called L Ombre ?" 

"No; I did not know that." 

"There is. It looks like a shadow in the 
water. L Ombre does not belong here in Brit 
tany. It is a northern fish of high altitudes 
where waters are icy and rapid and always 
tinctured with melted snow . . . would you accord me a little more patience, Monsieur, if 
I seem to be garrulous concerning my own 
family? It is merely because I want you to 
understand everything . . . everything. . . ." 

"I am interested," lie assured her pleasantly. 

"Then it is a legend perhaps a superstition in our family that any misfortune to 
us and to France is always preceded by two 
invariable omens. One of these dreaded signs 
is the abrupt appearance of L Ombre in the 









waters of our moat " She turned her head 
slowly and looked down over the parapet of 
the bridge. "The other omen," she continued quietly, "is that the clocks in our house 
suddenly go wrong all striking the same 
hour, no matter where the hands point, no 
matter what time it really is. ... These 
things have always happened in our family, 
they say. I, myself, have never before witnessed them. But during the Vendee the 
clocks persisted in striking four times every 
hour. The Comte'd Aulnes mounted the scaffold at that hour; the Vicomte died under 
Charette at Fontenay at that hour. . . . L Om- 
bre appeared in the waters of the moat at 
four o clock one afternoon. And then the 
clocks went wrong. 

"And all this happened again, they say, in 
1870. L Ombre appeared in the moat. Every 
clock continued to strike six, day after day 
for a whole week, until the battle of Sedan 
ended. . . . My grandfather died there with 
the light cavalry. ... I am so afraid I am 
taxing your courtesy, Captain Neeland 

"I am intensely interested," he repeated, 









watching the lovely, sensitive face which pride 
and dread of misinterpretation had slightly 
flushed again. 

"It is only to explain perhaps to justify 
myself for writing for asking that an officer 
be sent here from Lorient for a few days 

"I understand, Countess." 

"Thank you. . . . Had it been merely for 
myself for my own fears my personal safety, 
I should not have written. But our misfortunes seem to be coincident with my country's mishaps. ... So I thought if they 
sent an officer who would be kind enough to 
understand " 

"I understand . . . L Ombre has appeared in 
the moat again, has it not?" 

"Yes, it came a week ago, suddenly, at 
five o clock in the afternoon." 

"And the clocks?" 

"For a week they have been all wrong." 

"What hour do they strike?" he asked curiously. 

"Five." 

"No matter where the hands point?" 

"No matter. I have tried to regulate them. 








I have done everything I could do. But they 
continue to strike five every hour of the day 
and night. ... I have" a pale smile touched 
her lips "I have been a little wakeful perhaps a trifle uneasy on my country's account. 
You understand. . . ." Pride and courage had 
permitted her no more than uneasiness, it 
seemed. Or if fear had threatened her there 
in her lonely bedroom through the still watches 
of the night, she desired him to understand 
that her solicitude was for France, not for 
any daughter of the race whose name she 
bore. 

The simplicity and directness of her amazing narrative had held his respect and attention; there could be no doubt that she implicitly believed what she told him. 

But that was one thing; and the wild extravagance of the story was another. There 
must be, of course, an explanation for these 
phenomena other than a supernatural one. 
Such things do not happen except in medieval 
romance and tales of sorcery and doom. And 
of all regions on earth Brittany swarms with 
such tales and superstitions. He knew it. 









And this young girl was Bretonne after all, 
however educated, however accomplished, how 
ever honest and modern and sincere. And 
he began to comprehend that the germs of 
superstition and credulity were in the blood 
of every Breton ever born. 

But he merely said with pleasant deference : 
"I can very easily understand your uneasiness and perplexity, Madame. It is a time 
of mental stress, of great nervous tension in 
