"You funny, absurd, sweet little thing!" he said, still laughing.  "Do
you expect to spend the remainder of your life in seeing that I don’t
get into mischief?"
"If you’ll let me," she said with a faint smile.
"Very well, Philippa; come along!"  He held out his hand, laughing; the
girl clasped it, a half humorous, half reproachful expression in her
grey eyes.
"I don’t mind your laughing, as long as you let me be with you," she
said.
"Why, Philippa!" he said gayly.  "What possesses you to be afraid that
anything is likely to happen to me?"
"I don’t know what it is," she replied seriously.  "I seem to be afraid
of losing you.  Let me be with you—if it does not annoy you."
"You dear child, of course it doesn’t annoy me. Only I don’t want you to
become morbid over the very nicest and frankest of friendships."
They were passing the garage now; he dropped her hand, asked her to wait
for him a moment, turned into the service drive, went toward the stable.
A sleepy groom responded to the bell, unlocked the doors, and fetched
the key to the harness room.
Warner said to the groom:
"Give that fellow in there his breakfast and turn him loose.  Tell him
I’ll kill him if I ever again catch him hanging around here."
The groom grinned and touched his cap, and Warner turned on his heel and
rejoined Philippa.
They had to awaken the old lodge keeper, who pulled the chain from where
he lay in bed.
Through the wicket and across the road they went, over a stile, and out
across country where the fields flashed with dew and the last shreds of
mist drifted high among the trees of the woods which they skirted.
Philippa wore her peasant dress—scarlet waist and skirt with the full,
fine chemisette; and on her chestnut hair the close little bonnet of
black velvet—called bonnet à quartiers or bonnet de béguin—an
enchanting little headdress which became her so wonderfully that Warner
found himself glancing at her again and again, wondering whether the
girl’s beauty was growing day by day, or whether he had never been
properly awake to it.
Her own unconsciousness of herself was the bewitching part of
her—nothing of that sort spoiled the free carriage of her slender,
flexible body, of the lovely head carried daintily, of the grey eyes so
clear, so intelligent, so candid, so sweet under the black lashes that
fringed them.
"Very wonderful," he said aloud, unthinking.
"What?" asked Philippa.
He reddened and laughed:
"You—for purposes of a painter," he said.  "I think, if you don’t mind,
I shall start a portrait of you when we return.  I promised Madame de
Moidrey, you know."
Philippa smiled:
"Do you really suppose she will hang it in that beautiful house of
hers—there among all those wonderful and stately portraits?  Wouldn’t
that be too much honor—to be placed with such great ladies——"
"The dead De Moidreys in their frames need not worry, Philippa.  If I
paint you as you are, the honor of your presence will be entirely
theirs."
"Are you laughing at me?"
He looked up sharply; the girl’s face was serious and rather pale.
They were traversing a corner of a woodland where young birches
clustered, slim and silvery under their canopy of green which as yet had
not changed to royal gold.
He picked up her hand as they emerged into the sunlight of a field,
raised it, and touched his lips to the delicate fingers.
It was his answer; and the girl realized instantly what the
old-fashioned salute of respect conveyed; and her fingers clung to his
hand.
"Jim," she said unsteadily, "if you knew—if you only could realize what
you have done for me—what you are doing for me every moment I am with
you—by your kindness, your gentleness, your generous belief in me—what
miracles you accomplish by the very tones of your voice when you speak
to me—by your good, kind smile of encouragement—by your quiet patience
with me——"
Her voice broke childishly, and she bent her head and took possession of
his arm, holding to it tightly and in silence.
Surprised and moved by her emotion, he found nothing to say for a
moment—did not seem to know quite how to respond to the impulsive
gratitude so sincerely exaggerated, so prettily expressed.
Finally he said:
"Philippa, I have nothing to teach you—much to learn from you.  Whoever
you are, you need no patronage from anybody, no allowances, no
concessions, no excuses.  For I never knew a cleaner, braver, sweeter
character than is yours, Philippa—nor a soul more modest, more simple
and sincere.  What does it matter how you come by it—whether God gave
it, or whether what you are has been evolved by race—by generations of
gentle breeding?
"We don’t know; and I, for one, don’t care—except for any satisfaction
or consolation it might afford you to know who you really are.
"But, for me, I have learned enough to satisfy myself. And I have never
known a lovelier character than is yours, Philippa; nor a nobler one."
She continued walking beside him, clinging very tightly to one of his
arms, her head lowered under its velvet bonnet.
When she looked up at last, her eyes were wet with tears; she smiled
and, loosening her clasp, stretched out her hand for his handkerchief.
"The second time I have borrowed from you," she managed to say.  "Do you
remember—in the boat?"
He laughed, greatly relieved that the tense constraint was broken—that
the tension of his own emotion was relaxed.  For he had become intensely
serious with the girl—how serious and how deeply in earnest he now began
to realize.  And whether his own ardent tribute to her had awakened him,
while offering it, to all that he was praising, or whether he had
already discovered by cooler research all that he now found admirable in
her, he did not know.
They came to a hedge; she returned his handkerchief, placed her hand in
his, mounted the stile with lithe grace, and he climbed up beside her.
Below them ran the Ausone road, grey with hanging dust; and through the
floating cloud tramped the fugitives from the north—old men, old women,
girls, little children, struggling onward under their burdens, trudging
doggedly, silently southward.
Philippa uttered an exclamation of pity as a man passed wheeling a
crippled child in a wheelbarrow, guiding it carefully along beside a
herd of cattle which seemed very difficult to manage.
For a few minutes they stood there, watching the sad procession defiling
at their feet, then Warner jumped down to the high, grassy bank, lifted
Philippa to the ground—which was not necessary, although he seemed to
think so, and the girl thanked him very sweetly—and then they went
forward along the hedge of aubépine until, around the curve of the
road just ahead, he caught sight of the school.
"We can enter by the rear and keep out of that crowd," he said to
Philippa.  "You don’t know Sister Eila, do you?"
"No."
"Nor Sister Félicité?"
"No, Jim.  Are they nuns?"
"Sisters of Saint Vincent de Paul.  Here is the garden gate.  We can go
through the kitchen."
But before they had traversed the little vegetable garden, Sister Eila
came to the kitchen door.
Warner said:
"Sister Eila, I am so glad that you are to know my friend, Mademoiselle
Philippa Wildresse, who, as I am, is a guest of Madame de Moidrey at the
Château."
Sister Eila came forward, her clear eyes on Philippa, took the girl’s
offered hand in both of hers, stood silent for a moment, then turned to
Warner.
"It was most kind of you to bring her, Mr. Warner. I hope that we shall
become friends—" turning to Philippa—"if you also wish it."
Philippa’s grey eyes looked steadily at Sister Eila.
"Yes, I do," she said in a low voice.
Sister Félicité appeared from the schoolroom, greeting and presentation
were made, and then the elder Sister took Philippa away to the
schoolroom where recitations were in progress; and Sister Eila led
Warner through the kitchen, up the uncarpeted stairs, and into a room
where, on an iron bed, a man lay.
He was young, fair-haired, and very pallid under his bandage, and the
eyes he turned on Warner as he entered were the eyes of a sick man.
Sister Eila seated herself on a stool which stood beside the bed; Warner
drew up the only other chair and sat down.
The young man turned his hollow eyes from Warner and looked
questioningly at Sister Eila.
"Yes," she said, "this is Mr. Warner, an American, who is Mr. Halkett’s
friend.  You may trust him; Mr. Halkett trusted him."
Warner said with a smile, and leaning toward the sick man:
"Is there anything I can do for you?  Halkett and I became the very best
of friends.  I should be very glad of the opportunity to do anything for
his friends—" he hesitated, smiled again—"or for any British officer."
"I’m Gray," said the man on the bed, in a weak voice.
"I think Halkett was expecting somebody named Gray the first night he
spent at the Saïs inn.  Was it you?"
"Yes."
"I think he telephoned you."
"Yes.  You are Mr. Warner?"
"I am."
"Halkett spoke of you—your kindness."
"Oh, it was nothing——"
"I know what it was," said Gray quietly.  "How much did Halkett tell
you?"
"About what?"
"About me."
"Very little, Mr. Gray.  I understood that you were to come to Saïs on a
motor cycle, carrying with you a very important paper.  Halkett waited
day after day.  He seemed to be under a very great strain.  All he said
to me was that something serious must have happened to you, because the
paper you carried was necessary to supplement the one he carried."
"And Halkett has gone!"
"Yes.  But somehow or other he got possession of the paper you had in
your charge—or a copy of it."
Gray’s youthful face quivered with excitement.
"How did he get it?" he asked.
"A messenger came.  Halkett was alone.  The messenger pretended to come
from you, and he gained Halkett’s confidence by giving him the paper you
carried, or a copy of it.
"The moment Halkett was off his guard, the fellow knocked him
insensible, and would have robbed him of both papers if a young girl—a
Miss Wildresse—had not tackled the fellow, and held him off with
magnificent pluck until I came in and found what was going on.  Then the
fellow cleared out—got clean away, I regret to say.  That is how the
thing happened.  I’m very glad to be able to reassure you, Mr. Gray."
"Thanks, awfully.  It’s been hell not to know.  You see, I was hurt; the
beggars got me.  I’ve been lying in a cottage down the road a bit—I
don’t know where. I was badly knocked out—knocked silly, you know—fever
and all that....  I woke up the other day. Couldn’t get the people to
stir—tried to make ’em hunt up Halkett.  They were just stupid—kind, but
stupid.  Finally one of their kiddies, who comes to school here, told
Sister Eila that there was a sick Anglais in his daddy’s cottage—"  He
looked up at her as he spoke and she smiled.  "—And Sister Eila, being
all kinds of an angel of mercy, came all the way there to
investigate....  And she wheeled me back here in a charette!  What do
you think of that, Mr. Warner?"
"He was in such a state, poor boy!" said Sister Eila. "Just think, Mr.
Warner!  They had not even washed him when they put on their dreadful
poultices—good, kind, ignorant folk that they are!  So of course I
insisted on bringing him here where Sister Félicité and I could give him
proper attention."
Gray smiled tremulously:
"I’ve been bathed, cleansed, patched, mended, beautifully bandaged, fed,
and spoiled!  I don’t know what you think of the Grey Sisters, but I
know what I think."
"There’s no difference of opinion in the world concerning them," said
Warner, and Sister Eila smiled and blushed and held up an admonitory
finger:
"It is I who am being spoiled, gentlemen."  Then, very seriously to
Warner: "Have you seen the pitiable procession which has been passing
along the Ausone road since before dawn?  Is it not heartbreaking, Mr.
Warner?  What is happening in the north, that all these poor people come
hurrying southward? I thought the cannonade was from our own forts."
Gray looked up at him curiously.
"I don’t yet know what is happening north of Ausone," said Warner
quietly.  "There were three fires burning last night.  I think they were
villages in flames. But it was far to the north.  The Ausone Fort was
not engaged—except when an aëroplane came within range.  Then they used
their high-angle guns."
There was a silence.  Listening, Warner could hear the cannonade
distinctly above the shuffle of feet and the childish singsong of
recitation in the schoolroom underneath.
Presently, glancing up, he caught Sister Eila’s eye, rose, and followed
her to the window.
"I don’t know what to do," she said.  "Sister Félicité is going to try
to keep the children here, but a gendarme came day before yesterday,
saying that the school might be required for a military hospital, and
that the children were to remain at home.  I have telephoned to Ausone;
I have telegraphed to the rue de Bac; I have done all I could do.  But I
am directed, from the rue de Bac, to prepare for field service, at the
front.  And from Ausone they telephone Sister Félicité that she may keep
the children until the last moment, but that, when needed, she must turn
over our school to the military authorities.  And so, Mr. Warner, what
am I to do with that poor boy over there?  Because, if I go away, Sister
Félicité cannot properly attend to him and care for the children, too."
Warner stood thinking for a moment.  Then:
"Could you get me permission to use your telephone?" he asked.
"Only for military purposes.  It is the rule now."
Warner walked over to Gray:
"You are a British officer, I take it."
"Yes."
"Captain?"
"Yes."
Sister Eila, listening, understood and took Warner to the telephone.
For a few moments he heard her soft voice in conversation with the
military operator, then she beckoned him and he gave the number he
desired and waited.
Presently he got the Château des Oiseaux, and after a few moments Madame
de Moidrey came to the telephone.
"Ethra," he said, "would you care to be hospitable to a British officer
who has been injured?"
"Certainly!  Where is he?"
"At Sister Eila’s school.  Is there anything left to harness up and send
for him?"
"Yes; there is a donkey and a basket wagon.  I’ll have a groom take it
over at once.  Is the officer badly hurt?"
"I don’t know.  I think he merely needs bandaging and feeding.  He’s the
comrade of my friend, Captain Halkett.  Gray is his name, and he’s a
captain or something or other.  May I tell him that you will receive
him?"
"Of course, Jim.  You need not have asked; you could have brought him
here immediately."
The military operator cut in:
"A thousand thanks to Madame la Comtesse for her kindness to our allies,
the English!  Madame, I regret, very much that I must switch off——"
click!
Warner smiled and turned to Sister Eila:
"Madame de Moidrey takes him!"
"I am so thankful!  I will go up and make him ready."
"What is the matter with him?"
"Think of it!  He was coming on his motor cycle full speed toward Saïs
through the night, when right ahead he saw a car drawn up beside the
road, and four men standing in it with pistols aimed at him.  Only one
bullet hit him, making a deep furrow over his temple.  He remembers
losing control of the motor cycle, of being hurled through the air.
Then, evidently some time afterward, he found himself struggling under a
thin covering of dirt and sticks and lumps of sod—fighting for air,
pushing, creeping, crawling out of the hasty and shallow grave where
they had flung him beside his ruined motor cycle.  He thinks that the
frame of the motor cycle kept him from being suffocated by the sod and
earth piled over him.
"It was early morning; a peasant was breaking ground in another field
not far away, and Mr. Gray managed to crawl near enough to make the man
hear. That is all he remembers until he regained consciousness once more
in the man’s cottage."
"Good heavens, what a ghastly experience!" muttered Warner.
"It is dreadful.  If they knew that his heart still beat, it was inhuman
of them to do such a thing as that.  But perhaps they considered him
dead.  He may have appeared so.  I have had to bandage both arms and
both knees where he was hurled over the ground when he fell.  He has a
fracture of the left wrist which is doing nicely, and two broken ribs
are mending without trouble.  As for the scar on his temple, it is
nearly closed now.  I think all will be well with him.  Now, I shall go
and prepare him for his little journey."
At the foot of the stairs she paused, turned slowly to Warner, and he
thought her lovely face had become somewhat pale.
"I think you said over the telephone that you have had no word from Mr.
Halkett?"
"Not a word, Sister Eila."
"Thank you."
                            *CHAPTER XXVII*
The journey back along the Ausone road was a slow and stifling one.
Warner, walking on the left, led the donkey by the head; Philippa moved
beside the basket cart on the right.  In the cart sat the wounded
Englishman, his bandaged head lying on Sister Eila’s shoulder.
Through the heavy, suffocating cloud of dust, group after group of
fugitives loomed up ahead, coming toward them, parting right and left to
let the basket cart and the little, plodding donkey pass through. Sheep
were driven aside for them; cattle swung out into the roadside ditches
on either hand, halting there with stupid heads turned toward them while
the basket cart took right of way.
Once, from the toiling procession behind them, distant shouts arose, and
the ground began to quiver and shake; and Warner called out a sharp
warning to Philippa and drew the donkey cart out among the dusty weeds
of the ditch, while everywhere ahead of them people, cattle, vehicles,
were being hurriedly turned out and crowded aside along the grassy
roadside gullies.
Louder grew the clamour behind; heavier the jarring of the ground; a
mounted gendarme—a maréchal de logis—appeared, alternately cantering
and galloping his superb horse, and sweeping the crowds aside with
vigorous gestures of his white-gloved hand.
Behind him trotted six more gendarmes, sabers sheathed, their single
rank stretching the entire width of the road from ditch to ditch.  And
behind these, in a writhing storm of dust and flying gravel, came the
field artillery on a swift, swinging trot, drivers erect in their
saddles, képis strapped tight, sun-scorched faces sweating under masks
of dust.
Tan-colored limbers, guns, caissons drawn by powerful, dust-whitened
teams, rushed past thudding and clanking, escorted by galloping pelotons
of artillerymen armed with saber and carbine, flanked by smart officers
flashing all over cherry red and gold.
Battery after battery, with forges and wagons, passed; a fanion with
trumpeters sped by; a squadron of remount cavalry in clearer blue
jackets followed, then came two squadrons of galloping dragoon lancers,
their steel helmets covered with brown holland slips, and the pennons
streaming wildly from their lance heads.  A gendarme or two galloped in
the rear, mere ghosts in the driving dust.  And the flying column had
passed.
Sister Eila, covering Gray’s mouth and nose with her grey-blue sleeve,
bowed her head and closed her eyes while the storm of dust and pebbles
lasted; then Warner nodded to Philippa, and between them they led out
the donkey cart once more and pushed slowly ahead into the oncoming
torrent of vehicles—cattle, men, women, and children.
It was nearly noon when they arrived at the Château des Oiseaux.  A
footman aided him to carry Gray upstairs to the room prepared for him.
"Are you all right?" asked Warner doubtfully.
Gray opened his haggard eyes.
"All right, thanks....  May I have a little water, if it’s not too much
trouble——"
Sister Eila entered the room with a carafe and some lemons; and Warner
withdrew.
In the hallway below he encountered Madame de Moidrey and Peggy Brooks
in earnest consultation with the village physician—an old man crippled
from 1870, and wearing the Legion and an empty sleeve.
Warner shook hands with Dr. Senlis and told him what he knew of Gray’s
condition.  Sister Eila came down presently and everybody greeted her
with a warmth which unmistakably revealed her status in Saïs.
Presently she went upstairs again with Dr. Senlis. Later the Countess
went up.  Peggy and Philippa had gone out to the south terrace where the
reverberation of the cannonade was now continually shaking the windows,
and where, beyond, Ausone, a dark band of smoke stretched like a rampart
across the northern sky.
As Warner stood thinking, listening to the dull shock of the concussions
rolling in toward them on the wind from the north, the footman, Vilmar,
approached him.
"Pardon, Monsieur Warner, but there is a frightful type hanging about
whom it seems impossible to drive away——"
"What!" said Warner angrily.
"Monsieur, I have hustled him from the terrace several times; I have
summoned aid from my fellow domestics; the chauffeur, Vignier, chases
him with frequency into the shrubbery; Maurice and the lad, Henri,
pursue him with horsewhips——"
"Is it that voyou who is all over bandages?" demanded Warner
incredulously.
"It is, Monsieur——"
Out of sheer contempt for the creature and for all his species, Warner
had ordered him to be fed and turned loose.  And here he was, back
again, hanging around!
"Where is he?"
"He dodged into the shrubbery across the lawn."
The effontery of Asticot amazed Warner.  With an impatient gesture he
turned on his heel to traverse the lawn.  And at the same moment Asticot
emerged from the bushes bordering it.
His bruised and ratty eyes blinked nervously; his battered casquette de
marlou was in his hand; his knees, and his teeth also, seemed inclined
to smite together. Plainly, he was terrified; and when Warner walked
swiftly toward him across the lawn, the creature uttered a sort of
stifled squeak.
"Asticot," said Warner, in pleasant, even tones, "I told the servants to
feed you and turn you loose.  Also, I left word that I’d kill you the
next time I caught you hanging around here.  Did they give you that
message?"
"M-m’sieu’——"
"Did they?"
"Alas!"
"Then why are you still prowling in this vicinity? Do you want to be
killed?"
A suppressed howl escaped the bandaged ruffian.
"I do not desire to go away from M’sieu’!  No!  I desire to remain under
his powerful protection——"
"What!"
"I desire to serve M’sieu’—to dedicate my life to the service of
M’sieu’, my patron, powerful and terrible.  I have need to render him
homage—I, Asticot, grateful and affectionate——"  He blubbered
sentimentally, squirming like a kicked and abject dog.
Warner, astonished, stared at the writhing ruffian for a few moments,
then he burst into a laugh.
"Why, you Parisian sewer rat," he said, "do you imagine that I could
have any use for you?"
"M’sieu’!  I ask as wages only a crust, a pallet of straw in some
corner, and a few pennies which will enable me to ’fry a cigarette’ when
I am lonely——"
"I don’t want you!" repeated Warner, disgusted, but much amused.  "Why
do you imagine that I have any employment to offer a cutthroat?"
"There is le Père Wildresse," replied Asticot, naïvely.
"Do you imagine I expect to hire somebody to murder him?"
"M’sieu’—it is but natural."
Warner’s laughter died out and his expression altered.
"Come, Asticot, cut away," he said quietly, "or I shall become angry!"
"M’sieu’!  Don’t drive me away!" he whined.  "I know how to wash brushes
in black soap——"
"What!"
"Also, I have learned how to stretch toiles and make chassis.  I
have served in Biribi.  My lieutenant amused himself by painting
pictures of camels and palms and the setting sun, very red and as full
of rays as a porcupine——"
"I don’t want you, Asticot!  It is noon, now.  I shall tell them at
the stables to give you a crust and a bowl of soup.  After you have
sufficiently stuffed yourself, go quietly away wherever you belong, and
don’t come back——"
"M’sieu’!  I entertain a deep affection for M’sieu’——"
"Go to the devil!" said Warner wearily, and walked back to the house.
Here he gave the footman culinary instructions to transmit to the
kitchen-maid, who, in turn, should see that something to eat was sent to
the stables for Asticot.
Then he walked through the house to the northern terrace, where Philippa
and Peggy sat sewing and looking out across the valley toward the smoky
panorama in the north.  His field glasses lay on the parapet, and he
picked them up and adjusted them to his vision.
"Isly is burning, and Rosales, and the great farm of Le Pigeonnier,"
remarked Peggy.
"Who says so?"
"Mathilde.  The postman told her.  He heard it in Ausone from the
soldiers.  That is where the fighting is, at Isly.  The trains leaving
Ausone are loaded with soldiers going north.  It appears that matters
are progressing very well for us."
Warner said nothing.  With two French towns burning on the horizon, the
great farm of Le Pigeonnier on fire, and the cannonade steadily becoming
more distinct, he was not at all certain that everything promised well
for Ausone and Saïs and the valley of the Récollette.
Through his glasses he could see the beautiful spire of Sainte Cassilda
in Ausone.  Beyond, where the wooded, conical hill rose from the rolling
plain as though it were an enormous artificial mound, nothing of the
fort was visible.
But farther away, beyond the river, he could see trains crawling across
the landscape—see smoke trailing from locomotives; farther still only
the green and gold of woods and grain fields stretched away, growing
vaguer and dimmer until the wall of smoke obscured them and blotted the
earth from view.
Madame de Moidrey appeared at the doorway behind them.
"They have just telephoned from Ausone to ask whether we can take in
wounded, if necessary," she said calmly.  "They are to send material for
fifty beds this evening.  Sister Eila and Dr. Senlis have offered to
remain for the present.  I think everybody will have to help."
Philippa, who had risen, came toward her.
"I don’t mind where I sleep," she said, "if I can only be of any use——"
"You are not going to be disturbed, dear—not at present, anyway."  And
to Peggy: "I have told them to open the east wing and air the gallery
and the rooms on both the upper floors.  There is room for two hundred
beds in the east wing.  Vignier has gone to turn on the water, and I
shall have the parquet and windows thoroughly cleaned and the stair
carpets taken out of storage and laid down."
"Is there anything I can do?" asked Warner.
"Nothing for any of us to do so far.  When the beds arrive, I shall have
them set up and ready, that’s all.  Peggy, if the servants require any
further instructions, tell them what to do.  Sister Eila is inspecting
the east wing and I must return to Mr. Gray."
"How is Gray?" asked Warner.
"Very much afraid that he is making us extra trouble.  He is so patient,
so considerate—really a most charming man.
"I have an idea that the cannonade is making him very restless.  He
tries not to show it.  He lies there very quietly, asking for nothing,
most grateful for the slightest attention.  I have been giving him the
medicine Dr. Senlis prescribed and reading the paper to him between
doses."
"Couldn’t I do that?" began Peggy, but Madame de Moidrey shook her
pretty head hastily and went away to inspect her Englishman, for whom
luncheon was being prepared on a tray.
Luncheon was served on the terrace for the others. It was a rather
silent affair: they ate with the distant rumble of cannon in their ears
and their eyes turning ever toward the north where that impenetrable
wall of smoke masked the horizon from east to west.
"I think I shall go over to Ausone," remarked Warner.
Philippa looked up in silence.
"Why?" inquired Peggy.
"Because," he replied, "I have a couple of dozen pictures and sketches
in storage at the Boule d’Argent, and I think I might as well get them
and ship them to my Paris studio."
"Do you really suppose there is any danger that——"
"No," he interrupted, smilingly, "but you know how finicky and panicky a
painter is.  I think I’ll take a stroll after luncheon and bring back my
canvases—" he turned to Philippa—"if I may take your punt for the
purpose?"
"Certainly.  I’ll pole you up to Ausone——"
"You will do nothing of the sort, thank you!" he retorted, laughing.
"Is there any danger?" asked Peggy.
"Not the slightest.  But I had rather that Philippa remained here."
Peggy passed her arm around Philippa’s shoulders.
"He doesn’t want you, darling, but I do!  Remain where you’re
appreciated and I’ll take you up presently to see that exceedingly
nice-looking Englishman."
Philippa’s smile was a little forced; she looked up at Warner every now
and then, curiously, questioningly, even reproachfully.
When he had pretended long enough not to be aware of it, he turned and
looked at her and laughed.  And after Peggy had risen and entered the
house, he said:
"Philippa, I don’t care to have you any nearer that wall of smoke out
yonder than you are at present. That’s the only reason I don’t want you
to go to Ausone in the punt with me."
"You know," she said, "that I might just as well be where you are all
the time."
"Why?"
"Is it necessary for me to tell you that if anything happens to you it
might as well happen to me at the same time?"
"Nonsense, Philippa——"
"You know it is so," she said quietly.
He looked at the smoke, glanced at her, rose and walked to the door,
and, turning abruptly, came back to where she was seated.
"That won’t do," he said bluntly.  "Nobody should be as vital to you as
that.  Life and happiness are beginning for you.  Both must be
independent of circumstances and individuals.  Everything already lies
before you, Philippa—youth, attainment, the serenity and the happiness
of opportunity heretofore denied you.  Fulfillment does not depend on
others; the interest in living and the reason for living depends on
personal faith, resolution, and endeavor, not on what accidents affect
other lives around you.  Life should be lived thoroughly and completely
to the end, industriously, vigorously, and with a courage for enjoyment
never faltering.  Your life is yours.  Live it!  Find in it the sheer
happiness of living.  No matter what befalls others, no matter who these
others may be, it is your business in life to go on living, to go on
discovering reasons for living, to go on desiring to live, and to find
in living the highest happiness in the world—the satisfaction of a duty
thoroughly accomplished!"
He was smiling and rather flushed when he ended his emphatic sermon.
The girl beside him had listened with drooping head, but her grey eyes
were raised to his from time to time.
And now that he had finished expounding his strenuous and masculine
logic, she turned away and leaned on the parapet looking down at the
tops of the forest trees below.
He came over and rested on the stone balustrade beside her.
"Am I not right?" he asked.
"Yes."
"Then you understand that, whatever may happen to anybody else, life
always presents the same noble challenge to you?"
"Yes....  A bird, shot through the breast, must go on fighting for
breath as long as its heart beats.... I should do the same—if anything
happened to you."
The hot color suddenly burnt his face.  He made no comment—found none to
make.  Her transparent candor had silenced him utterly; and he found
himself troubled, mute, and profoundly moved by her innocent avowal of
devotion.
She looked around at him after a while.
"That is what you meant, isn’t it?"
He shook his head slightly.  He could scarcely presume to criticize her
or instruct her concerning the mysteries of her own heart.  Those
intimate, shadowy, and virginal depths were exempt from the rule of
reason.  Neither logic nor motive was in control there; instinct alone
reigned.
No, he had nothing more to say to her; nothing definite to say to
himself.  A haunting and troubled perplexity possessed his mind; and a
deeper, duller, and obscure wonder that the young heart in her, and the
youthful faith that filled it, had been so quietly, so fearlessly
surrendered to his keeping.
He had always supposed that his experience, his years, his clear
thinking and humorously incredulous mind rendered him safe from any
emotional sentiment not directly connected with his profession.
The fact that women were inclined to like him had made him unconsciously
wary, even amiably skeptical. Outside of a few friendships he had never
known more than a passing fancy for any woman—a sentiment always partly
humorous, an emotion always more or less amused.  His preferences were
as light as the jests he made of them, his interest as ephemeral as it
was superficial—aside from his several friendships with women, or where
women were intimately concerned with his work.
The swiftness with which acquaintance had become friendship between
Philippa and himself had disturbed and puzzled him.  That, like a
witch-flower, it had opened over night into full blossom, he seemed to
realize, even admitted to himself.  But already it seemed to have become
as important, as established, as older friendships.  And more than that,
day by day its responsibilities seemed to multiply and grow heavier and
more serious.
He thought of these things as he leaned on the stone balustrade there
beside Philippa.  What she might be thinking of remained to him a
mystery impenetrable, for she had passed one arm through his and her
cheek rested lightly against his shoulder, and her grey eyes, brooding,
seemed lost in the depths of the distant smoke.
And all the while she was saying in her sweet, serene way:
"You will let me go with you, won’t you?  It would be very agreeable on
the river this afternoon.  Such a pleasure you could not sensibly deny
me.  Besides, the punt is mine, Jim.  I don’t let anybody charter it
unless captain and crew are included.  I am, naturally, the captain.
Ariadne is the crew.  If you desire to engage a passage to Ausone——"
"Philippa, you little tyrant, do you mean to refuse me the Lys?"
"Come down to the river and look her over," she said, drawing him away
from the balustrade.  "And on the way you may get the pole from the
garage."
He was inclined to demur, but she had her way; and ten minutes later
they were walking across the fields, he with the pole across his
shoulder, she moving lightly and happily beside him, her hair in two
braids and the velvet strings of the bonnet fluttering under her rounded
chin.
The Ausone road lay white and deserted; the last fugitive from the north
had passed.  Nor were there any more skiffs or laden boats on the river,
nor any signs of life on the quarry road.  All was still and sunny and
silent; the Récollette slipped along, clear and silvery, between green
banks; to the east the calm blue hills stretched away vague with haze;
swallows soared and dipped, starring the glass of the stream as though
rising fish were breaking its serene surface.  But the still air and
cobalt sky were heavy with the cannonade, making the stillness of the
sun-drenched world almost uncanny.
                            *CHAPTER XXVIII*
Philippa, curled up in the punt, had fashioned for herself a chaplet of
river lilies.  The white blossoms wreathing the black velvet bonnet à
quartiers, and a huge bouquet of the lovely flowers which she carried
in her hand gave a bridal aspect to the affair, heightened presently
when she began to festoon the gunwales with lilies and scented rushes
from the sedge, as they slipped along inshore to avoid the stronger
current of midstream.
The air vibrated and hummed with the unbroken rolling of the
bombardment; there was not a cloud in the calm sky; no birds sang and
few, except the darting swallows of the Récollette, were on the wing at
all; but everywhere dragon flies glittered, level-winged, poised in
mid-air, or darted and hovered among the reeds with a faint, fairy-like
clash of gauzy wings.
The sound of the cannonade grew so much more distinct as they drew near
the environs of Ausone that, to Warner, the increase in volume and the
jar of concussion seemed scarcely due alone to their approach. Rather it
appeared as though the distant reverberations were very gradually
rolling toward them; and before they had poled within sight of the
outskirts of the town Warner said to Philippa:
"It sounds to me as though the whole business were miles nearer than the
mere distance we have come. And that is not an encouraging suggestion,
either."
"Could it be the wind which is carrying it toward us?"
"There is very little wind in those tree tops up there."  He shrugged,
poled ahead, not apprehensive, yet conscious that Philippa had no
business in a town from the vicinity of which such ominous sounds could
be heard so distinctly.
Few people were moving on the Ausone road, merely a belated group or two
trudging southward.  Except for a distant cavalry patrol riding slowly
along the quarry road across the river, the country appeared to be empty
of military movement.  As they advanced upstream, one fact became
apparent; the fugitives who had passed through Saïs that morning had not
come from the scattered hamlets and cottages along the Récollette.  They
could see women washing linen along the river banks and hanging out the
wash on clotheslines.  Old men and children fished tranquilly from the
sterns of skiffs pulled up among the rushes; cattle stood knee-deep in
the limpid stream under the fringe of trees; a farmer who had cut his
wheat and barley had already begun threshing.  It was evident that the
exodus from the north was not, so far, affecting Ausone.
When their punt glided past the great willow tree where the Impasse
d’Alcyon terminated at the river bank, Warner, swinging his pole level,
pointed in silence and looked at Philippa.  She smiled interrogatively
in response.
"That’s where Halkett and I landed when we came to find you," he said.
Then she comprehended and the smile faded from her lips.
Around the bend lay the tree-shaded lawn of the Café Biribi.  They gazed
at it fixedly and in silence, as they shot swiftly past.  There was no
sign of life there; the beds of cannas and geraniums lay all ablaze in
the sun; the windows of the building were closed, the blinds lowered;
every gayly-painted rowboat had been pulled up on the landing and turned
keel upward. A solitary swan sailed along close inshore, probing the
shallows with his brilliant scarlet beak.
Then, as they left the deserted scene of their first meeting, and as the
pretty stone bridge of the Place d’Ausone came into sight beyond,
spanning the river in a single, silver-grey arch, Warner looked up along
the steep and mossy quay wall, and saw, above him, a line sentinel,
fully equipped, lounging on the parapet, watching them.  Two others
paced the bridge.
"Halte là!  Au large!" called out the sentinel.  "The Pont d’Ausone is
mined."
Leaning on his pole and holding the punt against the current, Warner
called out:
"Is it permitted to land, soldier?"
"It is not forbidden," replied the soldier.  "But you must not approach
the bridge any nearer.  There are wires under water."
"I have business in Ausone at the Boule d’Argent!" explained Warner.
"Is it all right for us to go there?"
"If you remain there with Madame over night you must inscribe yourself
with the police and stay indoors after nine without lights," replied the
sentinel.  It was evident that he took the chaplet of river lilies for a
bridal wreath, and that the young bride’s beauty dazzled him.  He was
very young, and he blushed when Philippa looked up laughingly and
thanked him as she put off her white chaplet.
Warner tied the skiff to a rusty ring; Philippa sprang ashore; and they
mounted the stone steps, arm in arm together.  As they passed the
sentinel she drew a lily from her bouquet.
"Bonne chance, soldier of France!" she murmured, dropping the white
blossom into his sunburnt hand; and clasping Warner’s arm she passed
lightly on into the square, hugging her bouquet to her breast.
The aspect of the town, from the quay wall above, seemed to have changed
very little.  Except on fête days the Place d’Ausone, or market square,
