"Something more than ornaments," suggested Kitty dryly.
"Yes, indeed," replied her father amiably.
And when he returned to the boat-deck that afternoon for tea (which, by
the way, he never drank, being a thorough-going coffee merchant), he
said to Kitty: "You win on points.  If Webb doesn't pan out, why, we
can discharge him.  I'll take a chance at a man who isn't afraid to
look you squarely in the eyes."
At the precise time when Kitty retired and Thomas went aft for his good
night pipe--eleven o'clock at sea and nine in New York--Haggerty found
himself staring across the street at an old-fashioned house.  Like the
fisherman who always returns to the spot where he lost the big one, the
detective felt himself drawn toward this particular dwelling.  Crawford
did not live there any more; since his marriage he had converted it
into a private museum.  It was filled with mummies and cartonnages,
ancient pottery and trinkets.
What a game it had been!  A hundred thousand in precious gems, all
neatly packed away in the heels of Crawford's old shoes!  And where was
that man Mason?  Would he ever return?  Oh, well; he, Haggerty, had got
his seven thousand in rewards; he was living now like a nabob up in the
Bronx.  He had no real cause to regret Mason's advent or his escape.
Yet, deep in his heart burned the chagrin of defeat: his man had got
away, and half the game (if you're a true hunter) was in putting your
hand on a man's shoulder and telling him to "Come along."
He crossed the street and entered the, alley and gazed up at the
fire-escape down which Mason had made his escape.  What impelled the
detective to leap up and catch the lower bars of the ground-ladder he
could not have told you.  He pulled himself up and climbed to the
window.
Open!
Haggerty had nerves like steel wires, but a slight shiver ran down his
spine.  Open, and Crawford yet on the high seas.  He waited, listening
intently.  Not a sound of any sort came to his ears.  He stepped inside
courageously and slipped with his back to the wall, where he waited,
holding his breath.
Click!  It seemed to come from his right.
"Come out o' that!" he snarled.  "No monkey-business, or I'll shoot."
He flashed his pocket-lamp toward the sound, and aimed.
A blow on the side of the head sent the detective crashing against a
cartonnage, and together the quick and the dead rolled to the floor.
Instinctively Haggerty turned on his back, aimed at the window and
fired.
Too late!
CHAPTER IX
When the constellation, which was not included among the accepted
theories of Copernicus, passed away, Haggerty sat up and rubbed the
swelling over his ear, tenderly yet grimly.  Next, he felt about the
floor for his pocket-lamp.  A strange spicy dust drifted into his nose
and throat, making him sneeze and cough.  A mummy had reposed in the
overturned cartonnage and the brittle bindings had crumbled into
powder.  He soon found the lamp, and sent its point of vivid white
light here and there about the large room.
Pursuit of his assailant was out of the question.  Haggerty was not
only hard of head but shrewd.  So he set about the accomplishment of
the second best course, that of minute and particular investigation.
Some one had entered this deserted house: for what?  This, Haggerty
must find out.  He was fairly confident that the intruder did not know
who had challenged him; on the other hand, there might be lying around
some clue to the stranger's identity.
Was there light in the house, fluid in the wires?  If so he would be
saved the annoyance of exploring the house by the rather futile aid of
the pocket-lamp, which stood in need of a fresh battery.  He searched
for the light-button and pressed it, hopefully.  The room, with all its
brilliantly decorated antiquities, older than Rome, older than Greece,
blinded Haggerty for a space.
"Ain't that like these book chaps?" Haggerty murmured.  "T' go away
without turning off th' meter!"
The first thing Haggerty did was to scrutinize the desk which stood
near the center of the room.  A film of dust lay upon it.  Not a mark
anywhere.  In fact, a quarter of an hour's examination proved to
Haggerty's mind that nothing in this room had been disturbed except the
poor old mummy.  He concluded to leave that gruesome object where it
lay.  Nobody but Crawford would know how to put him back in his box,
poor devil.  Haggerty wondered if, after a thousand years, some one
would dig him up!
Through all the rooms on this floor he prowled, but found nothing.  He
then turned his attention to the flight of stairs which led to the
servants' quarters.  Upon the newel-post lay the fresh imprint of a
hand.  Haggerty went up the stairs in bounds.  There were nine rooms on
this floor, two connecting with baths.  In one of these latter rooms he
saw a trunk, opened, its contents carelessly scattered about the floor.
One by one he examined the garments, his heart beating quickly.  Not a
particle of dust on them; plenty of finger-prints on the trunk.  It had
been opened this very night--by one familiar, either at first-hand or
by instruction.  He had come for something in that trunk.  What?
From garret to cellar, thirty rooms in all; nothing but the hand-print
on the newel-post and the opened trunk.  Haggerty returned to the
museum, turned out all the lights except that on the desk, and sat down
on a rug so as not to disturb the dust on the chairs.  The man might
return.  It was certain that he, Haggerty, would come back on the
morrow.  He was anxious to compare the thumb-print with the one he had
in his collection.
For what had the man come?  Keep-sakes?  Haggerty dearly wanted to
believe that the intruder was the one man he desired in his net; but he
refused to listen to the insidious whisperings; he must have proof,
positive, absolute, incontestable.  If it was Crawford's man Mason, it
was almost too good to be true; and he did not care to court ultimate
disappointment.
Proof, proof; but where?  Why had the man not returned the clothes to
the trunk and shut it?  What had alarmed him?  Everything else
indicated the utmost caution. . . .  A glint of light flashing and
winking from steel.  Haggerty rose and went over to the window.  He
picked up a bunch of keys, thirty or forty in all, on a ring, weighing
a good pound.  The detective touched the throbbing bump and sensed a
moisture; blood.  So this was the weapon?  He weighed the keys on his
palm.  A long time since he had seen a finer collection of skeleton
keys, thin and flat and thick and short, smooth and notched, each a gem
of its kind.  Three or four ordinary keys were sandwiched in between,
and Haggerty inspected these curiously.
"H'm.  Mebbe it's a hunch.  Anyhow, I'll try it.  Can't lose anything
trying."
He turned out the desk light and went down to the lower hall, his
pocket-lamp serving as guide.  He unlatched the heavy door-chains,
opened the doors and closed them behind him.  He inserted one of the
ordinary keys.  It refused to work.  He tried another.  The door swung
open, easily.
"Now, then, come down out o' that!" growled a voice at the foot of the
steps.  "Thought y'd be comin' out by-'n-by.  No foolin' now, 'r I blow
a hole through ye!"
Haggerty wheeled quickly.  "'S that you, Dorgan?  Come up."
"Haggerty?" said the astonished patrolman.  "An' Mitchell an' I've been
watchin' these lights fer an hour!"
"Some one's been here, though; so y' weren't wasting your time.  I
climbed up th' fire-escape in th' alley an' got a nice biff on th' coco
for me pains.  See any one running before y' saw th' lights?"
"Why, yes!"
"Ha!  It's hard work t' get it int' your heads that when y' see a man
running at this time o' night, in a quiet side-street it's up t' you t'
ask him questions."
"Thought he was chasin' a cab."
"Well, listen here.  Till th' owner comes back, keep your eyes peeled
on this place.  An' any one y' see prowling around, nab him an' send
for me.  On your way!"
Haggerty departed in a hurry.  He had already made up his mind as to
what he was going to do.  He hunted up a taxicab and told the chauffeur
where to go, advising him to "hit it up."  His destination was the
studio-apartment of J. Mortimer Forbes, the artist.  It was late, but
this fact did not trouble Haggerty.  Forbes never went to bed until
there was positively nothing else to do.
The elevator-boy informed Haggerty that Mr. Forbes had just returned
from the theater.  Alone?  Yes.  Haggerty pushed the bell-button.  A
dog bayed.
"Why, Haggerty, what's up?  Come on in.  Be still, Fritz!"
The dachel's growl ended in a friendly snuffle, and he began to dance
upon Haggerty's broad-toed shoes.
"Bottle of beer?  Cigar?  Take that easy chair.  What's on your mind
tonight?"  Forbes rattled away.  "Why, man, there's a cut on the side
of your head!"
"Uhuh.  Got any witch-hazel?"  The detective sat down, stretched out
his legs, and pulled the dachel's ears.
Forbes ran into the bathroom to fetch the witch-hazel.  Haggerty poured
a little into his palm and dabbled the wound with it.
"Now, spin it out; tell me what's happened," said Forbes, filling his
calabash and pushing the cigars across the table.
For a year and a half these two men, the antitheses of each other, had
been intimate friends.  This liking was genuine, based on secret
admiration, as yet to be confessed openly.  Forbes had always been
drawn toward this man-hunting business; he yearned to rescue the
innocent and punish the guilty.  Whenever a great crime was committed
he instantly overflowed with theories as to what the criminal was
likely to do afterward.  Haggerty enjoyed listening to his patter; and
often there were illuminating flashes which obtained results for the
detective, who never applied his energies in the direction of logical
deduction.  Besides, the chairs in the studio were comfortable, the
imported beer not too cold, and the cigars beyond criticism.
Haggerty accepted a cigar, lighted it, and amusedly watched the eager
handsome face of the artist.
"Any poker lately?"
"No; cut it out for six months.  Come on, now; don't keep me waiting
any longer."
"Mum's th' word?"--tantalizingly.
"You ought to know that by this time"--aggrieved.
Haggerty tossed the bunch of keys on the table.
"Ha!  Good specimens, these," Forbes declared, handling them.  "Here's
a window-opener."
"Good boy!" said Haggerty, as a teacher would have commended a bright
pupil.
"And a door-chain lifter.  Nothing lacking.  Did he hit you with these?"
"Ye-up."
"What are these regular keys for?"
"One o' them unlocks a door."  Haggerty smoked luxuriously.
Forbes eyed the ordinary keys with more interest than the burglarious
ones.  Haggerty was presently astonished to see the artist produce his
own key-ring.
"What now?"
"When Crawford went abroad he left a key with me.  I am making some
drawings for an Egyptian romance and wanted to get some atmosphere."
"Uhuh."
"Which key is it that unlocks a door?" asked Forbes, his eyes sparkling.
"Never'll get that out o' your head, will you?"
"Which key?"
"Th' round-headed one."
Forbes drew the key aside and laid it evenly against the one Crawford
had left in his keeping.
"By George!"
"What's th' matter?"
"He's come back!"--in a whisper.
"You're a keen one!  Ye-up; Crawford's valet Mason is visiting in town."
CHAPTER X
There are many threads and many knots in a net; these can not be thrown
together haphazard, lest the big fish slip through.  At the bottom of
the net is a small steel ring, and here the many threads and the many
knots finally meet.  Forbes and Haggerty (who, by the way, thinks I'm a
huge joke as a novelist) and the young man named Webb recounted this
tale to me by threads and knots.  The ring was of Kitty Killigrew, for
Kitty Killigrew, by Kitty Killigrew, to paraphrase a famous line.
At one of the quieter hotels--much patronized by touring
Englishmen--there was registered James Thornden and man.  Every
afternoon Mr. Thornden and his man rode about town in a rented touring
car.  The man would bundle his master's knees in a rug and take the
seat at the chauffeur's side, and from there direct the journey.
Generally they drove through the park, up and down Riverside, and back
to the hotel in time for tea.  Mr. Thornden drank tea for breakfast
along with his bacon and eggs, and at luncheon with his lamb or mutton
chops, and at five o'clock with especially baked muffins and
apple-tarts.
Mr. Thornden never gave orders personally; his man always attended to
that.  The master would, early each morning, outline the day's work,
and the man would see to it that these instructions were fulfilled to
the letter.  He was an excellent servant, by the way, light of foot,
low of voice, serious of face, with a pair of eyes which I may liken to
nothing so well as to a set of acetylene blow-pipes--bored right
through you.
The master was middle-aged, about the same height and weight as his
valet.  He wore a full dark beard, something after the style of the
early eighties of last century.  His was also a serious countenance,
tanned, dignified too; but his eyes were no match for his valet's; too
dreamy, introspective.  Screwed in his left eye was a monocle down from
which flowed a broad ribbon.  In public he always wore it; no one about
the hotel had as yet seen him without it, and he had been a guest there
for more than a fortnight.
He drank nothing in the way of liquor, though his man occasionally
wandered into the bar and ordered a stout or an ale.  After dinner the
valet's time appeared to be his own; for he went out nearly every
night.  He seemed very much interested in shop-windows, especially
those which were filled with curios.  Mr. Thornden frequently went to
the theater, but invariably alone.
Thus, they attracted little or no attention among the clerks and bell
boys and waiters who had, in the course of the year, waited upon the
wants of a royal duke and a grand duke, to say nothing of a maharajah,
who was still at the hotel.  An ordinary touring Englishman was, then,
nothing more than that.
Until one day a newspaper reporter glanced carelessly through the hotel
register.  The only thing which escapes the newspaper man is the art of
saving; otherwise he is omnipotent.  He sees things, anticipates
events, and often prearranges them; smells war if the secretary of the
navy is seen to run for a street-car, is intimately acquainted with
"the official in the position to know" and "the man higher up," "the
gentleman on the inside," and other anonymous but famous individuals.
He is tireless, impervious to rebuff, also relentless; as an
investigator of crime he is the keenest hound of them all; often he
does more than expose, he prevents.  He is the Warwick of modern times;
he makes and unmakes kings, sceptral and financial.
This particular reporter sent his card up to Mr. Thornden and was,
after half an hour's delay, admitted to the suite.  Mr. Thornden laid
aside his tea-cup.
"I am a newspaper man, Mr. Thornden," said the young man, his eye
roving about the room, visualizing everything, from the slices of lemon
to the brilliant eyes of the valet.
"Ah! a pressman.  What will you be wanting to see me about,
sir?"--neither hostile nor friendly.
"Do you intend to remain long in America--incog?"
"Incog!"  Mr. Thorndon leaned forward in his chair and drew down his
eyebrow tightly against the rim of his monocle.
"Yes, sir.  I take it that you are Lord Henry Monckton, ninth Baron of
Dimbledon."
Master and man exchanged a rapid glance.
"Tibbets," said the master coldly, "you registered."
"Yes, sir."
"What did you register?"
"Oh," interposed the reporter, "it was the name Dimbledon caught my
eye, sir.  You see, there was a paragraph in one of our London
exchanges that you had sailed for America.  I'm what we call a hotel
reporter; hunt up prominent and interesting people for interviews.  I'm
sure yours is a very interesting story, sir."  The reporter was a
pleasant, affable young man, and that was why he was so particularly
efficient in his chosen line of work.
"I was not prepared to disclose my identity so soon," said Lord
Monckton ruefully.  "But since you have stumbled upon the truth, it is
far better that I give you the facts as they are.  Interviewing is a
novel experience.  What do you wish to know, sir?"
And thus it was that, next morning, New York--and the continent as
well--learned that Lord Henry Monckton, ninth Baron of Dimbledon, had
arrived in America on a pleasure trip.  The story read more like the
scenario of a romantic novel than a page from life.  For years the
eighth Baron of Dimbledon had lived in seclusion, practically
forgotten.  In India he had a bachelor brother, a son and a grandson.
One day he was notified of the death (by bubonic plague) of these three
male members of his family, the baron himself collapsed and died
shortly after.  The title and estate went to another branch of the
family.  A hundred years before, a daughter of the house had run away
with the head-gardener and been disowned.  The great-great-grand-son of
this woman became the ninth baron.  The present baron's life was
recounted in full; and an adventurous life it had been, if the reporter
was to be relied upon.  The interview appeared in a London journal,
with the single comment--"How those American reporters misrepresent
things!"
It made capital reading, however; and in servants' halls the newspaper
became very popular.  It gave rise to a satirical leader on the
editorial page: "What's the matter with us republicans?  Liberty,
fraternity and equality; we flaunt that flag as much as we ever did.
Yet, what a howdy-do when a title comes along!  What a craning of
necks, what a kotowing!  How many earldoms and dukedoms are not based
upon some detestable action, some despicable service rendered some
orgiastic sovereign!  The most honorable thing about the so-called
nobility is generally the box-hedge which surrounds the manse.  Kotow;
pour our millions into the bottomless purses of spendthrifts; give them
our most beautiful women.  There is no remedy for human nature."
It was this editorial which interested Killigrew far more than the
story which had given birth to it.
"That's the way to shout."
"Does it do any good?" asked Kitty.  "If we had a lord for breakfast--I
mean, at breakfast--would you feel at ease?  Wouldn't you be watching
and wondering what it was that made him your social superior?"
"Social superior?  Bah!"
"That's no argument.  As this editor wisely says, there's no remedy for
human nature.  When I was a silly schoolgirl I often wondered if there
wasn't a duke in the family, or even a knight.  How do you account for
that feeling?"
"You were probably reading Bertha M. Clay," retorted her father, only
too glad of such an opening.
"What is your opinion of titles, Mr. Webb?" she asked calmly.
"Mr. Webb is an Englishman, Kitty," reminded her mother.
"All the more reason for wishing his point of view," was the reply.
"A title, if managed well, is a fine business asset."  Thomas stared
gravely at his egg-cup.
"A humorist!" cried Killigrew, as if he had discovered a dodo.
"Really, no.  I am typically English, sir."  But Thomas was smiling
this time; and when he smiled Kitty found him very attractive.  She was
leaning on her elbows, her folded hands propping her chin; and in his
soul Thomas knew that she was looking at him with those boring critical
blue eyes of hers.  Why was she always looking at him like that?  "It
is notorious that we English are dull and stupid," he said.
"Now you are making fun of us," said Kitty seriously.
"I beg your pardon!"
She dropped her hands from under her chin and laughed.  "Do you really
wish to know the real secret of our antagonism, Mr. Webb?"
"I should be very glad."
"Well, then, we each of us wear a chip on our shoulder, simply because
we've never taken the trouble to know each other well.  Most English we
Americans meet are stupid and caddish and uninteresting; and most of
the Americans you see are boastful, loud-talking and money-mad.  Our
mutual impressions are wholly wrong to begin with."
"I have no chip on my shoulder," Thomas refuted eagerly.
"Neither have I."
"But I have," laughed her father.  "I eat Englishmen for breakfast;
fe-fo-fum style."
How democratic indeed these kindly, unpretentious people were! thought
Thomas.  A multimillionaire as amiable as a clerk; a daughter who would
have graced any court in Europe with her charm and elfin beauty.  Up to
a month ago he had held all Americans in tolerant contempt.
It was as Kitty said: the real Englishman and the real American seldom
met.
He did not realize as yet that his position in this house was unique.
In England all great merchants and statesmen and nobles had one or more
private secretaries about.  He believed it to be a matter of course
that Americans followed the same custom.  He would have been
wonderfully astonished to learn that in all this mighty throbbing city
of millions--people and money--there might be less than a baker's dozen
who occupied simultaneously the positions of private secretary and
friend of the family.  Mr. Killigrew had his private secretary, but
this gentleman rarely saw the inside of the Killigrew home; it wasn't
at all necessary that he should.  Killigrew was a sensible man; his
business hours began when he left home and ended when he entered it.
"Do you know any earls or dukes?" asked Killigrew, folding his napkin.
"Really, no.  I have moved in a very different orbit.  I know many of
them by sight, however."  He did not think it vital to add that he had
often sold them collars and suspenders.
The butler and the second man pulled back the ladies' chairs.
Killigrew hurried away to his offices; Kitty and her mother went
up-stairs; and Thomas returned to his desk in the library.  He was
being watched by Kitty; nothing overt, nothing tangible, yet he sensed
it: from the first day he had entered this house.  It oppressed him,
like a presage of disaster.  Back of his chair was a fireplace, above
this, a mirror.  Once--it was but yesterday--while with his back to his
desk, day-dreaming, he had seen her in the mirror.  She stood in the
doorway, a hand resting lightly against the portiere.  There was no
smile on her face.  The moment he stirred, she vanished.
Watched.  Why?
CHAPTER XI
The home-bureau of charities was a success from the start; but beyond
the fact that it served to establish Thomas Webb as private secretary
in the Killigrew family, I was not deeply interested.  I know that
Thomas ran about a good deal, delving into tenements and pedigrees,
judging candidates, passing or condemning, and that he earned his
salary, munificent as it appeared to him.  Forbes told me that he
wouldn't have done the work for a thousand a week; and Forbes, like
Panurge, had ten ways of making money and twelve ways of spending it.
The amazing characteristic about Thomas was his unaffected modesty, his
naturalness, his eagerness to learn, his willingness to accept
suggestions, no matter from what source.  Haberdashers' clerks--at
least, those I have known--are superior persons; they know it all, you
can not tell them a single thing.  I can call to witness dozens of
neckties and shirts I shall never dare wear in public.  But perhaps
seven years among a clientele of earls and dukes, who were set in their
ideas, had something to do with Thomas' attitude.
Killigrew was very well satisfied with the venture.  He had had some
doubts at the beginning: a man whose past ended at Pier 60 did not look
like a wise speculation, especially in a household.  But quite
unconsciously Thomas himself had taken these doubts out of Killigrew's
mind and--mislaid them.  The subscriptions to all the suffragette
weeklies and monthlies were dropped; and there were no more banners
reading "Votes for Women" tacked over the doorways.  Besides this, the
merchant had a man to talk to, after dinner, he with his cigar and
Thomas with his pipe, this privilege being insisted upon by the women
folk, who had tact to leave the two men to themselves.
Thomas amused the millionaire.  Here was a young man of a species with
whom he had not come into contact in many years: a boy who did not know
the first thing about poker, or bridge, or pinochle, who played
outrageous billiards and who did not know who the latest reigning
theatrical beauty was, and moreover, did not care a rap; who could
understand a joke within reasonable time if he couldn't tell one; who
was neither a nincompoop nor a mollycoddle.  Thomas interested
Killigrew more and more as the days went past.
Happily, the voice of conscience is heard by no ears but one's own.
After luncheons Thomas had a good deal of time on his hands; and, to
occupy this time he returned to his old love, composition.  He began to
rewrite his romance; and one day Kitty discovered him pegging away at
it.  He rose from his chair instantly.
"Will you be wanting me, Miss Killigrew?"
"Only to say that father will be detained down-town to-night and that
you will be expected to take mother and me to the theater.  It is one
of your English musical comedies; and very good, they say."
Thomas had been dreading such a situation.  As yet there had been no
entertaining at the Killigrew home; nearly all their friends were out
of town for the summer; thus far he had escaped.
"I am sorry, Miss Killigrew, but I have no suitable clothes."  Which
was plain unvarnished truth.  "And I do not possess an opera-hat."  And
never did.
Kitty laughed pleasantly.  "We are very democratic in this house, as by
this time you will have observed.  In the summer we do not dress; we
take our amusements comfortably.  Ordinarily we would be at our summer
home on Long Island; but delayed repairs will not let us into it till
August.  Then we shall all take a vacation.  You will join us as you
are; that is, of course, if you are not too busy with your own affairs."
"Never too busy to be of service to you, Miss Killigrew.  I'm only
scribbling."
"A book?"--interestedly.
"Bally rot, possibly.  Would you like to read it?"--one of the best
inspirations he had ever had.  He was not one of those silly
individuals who hem and haw when some one discovers they have the itch
for writing, whose sole aim is to have the secret dragged out of them,
with hypocritical reluctance.
"May I?"  Her friendly aloofness fell away from her as if touched by
magic.  "I am an inveterate reader.  Besides, I know several famous
editors, and perhaps I could help you."
"That would be jolly."
"And you are writing a story, and never told us about it!"
"It never occurred to me to tell you.  I shall be very glad to go to
the theater with you and Mrs. Killigrew."
Kitty tucked the romance under her arm and flew to her room with it.
This Thomas was as full of surprises as a Christmas-box.
He eyed the empty doorway speculatively.  He rather preferred the
friendly aloofness; otherwise some fatal nonsense might enter his head.
He resumed his chair and transferred his gaze to the blotter.  He added
a few pothooks by the way: numerals in addition and subtraction (for he
was of Scotch descent), a name which he scratched out and scrawled
again and again scratched out.  He examined the contents of his wallet.
How many pounds did a dress-suit cost in this hurly-burly country?
This question could be answered only in one way.  He hastened out into
the hall, put on his hat, made for the subway, and got out directly
opposite the offices of Killigrew and Company, sugar, coffee and
spices.  London-bred, it did not take him long to find his way about.
The racket disturbed him; that was all.
The building in which Killigrew and Company had its offices belonged to
Killigrew personally.  It had cost him a round million to build, but
the office-rentals were making it a fine investment.  These ornate
office-buildings caused Thomas to marvel unceasingly.  In London
cubby-holes were sufficient.  If merchants like Killigrew, generally
these were along the water-front; creaky, old, dim-windowed.  In this
bewildering country a man conducted his business as from a palace.  The
warehouses were distinct establishments.
Thomas entered the portals, stepped cautiously into one of the
express-elevators (so they insisted upon calling them here), and was
shot up to the fourteenth floor, all of which was occupied by Killigrew
and Company.  It was Thomas' first venture in this district.  And he
learned the amazing fact that it was ordinarily as easy to see Mr.
Killigrew as it was to see King George.  Office-boys, minor clerks,
head clerks, managers; they quizzed and buffeted him hither and
thither.  He never thought to state at the outset that he was Mrs.
Killigrew's private secretary; he merely said that it was very
important that he should see Mr. Killigrew at once.
"Mr. Killigrew is busy," he was informed by the assistant manager, at
whose desk Thomas finally arrived.  "If you will give me your card I'll
have it sent in to him."
Thomas confessed that he had no card.  The assistant manager grew
distinctly chilling.
"If you will be so kind as to inform Mr. Killigrew that Mr. Webb, Mrs.
Killigrew's private secretary . . ."
"Why didn't you say that at once, Mr. Webb?  Here, boy; tell Mr.
Killigrew that Mr. Webb wishes to see him.  You might just as well
follow the boy."
Killigrew was smoking, and perusing the baseball edition of his
favorite evening paper.  All this red-tape to approach a man who wasn't
doing anything more vital than that!  Thomas smiled.  It was a
wonderful people.
"Why, hello, Webb!  What's the matter?  Anything wrong at the
house?"--anxiously.
"No, Mr. Killigrew.  I came to see you on a personal matter."
Killigrew dropped the newspaper on his desk, a little frown between his
eyes.  He made no inquiry.
"Miss Killigrew tells me that you will not be home this evening, and
that I am to take her and Mrs. Killigrew to the theater."
"Anything in the way to prevent you?"  Killigrew appeared vastly
relieved for some reason.
"As a matter of fact, sir, I haven't the proper clothes; and I thought
you might advise me where to go to obtain them."
Killigrew laughed until the tears started.  The very heartiness of it
robbed it of all rudeness.  "Good lord! and I was worrying my head off.
Webb, you're all right.  Do you need any funds?"
"I believe I have enough."  Thomas appeared to be disturbed not in the
least by the older man's hilarity.  It was not infectious, because he
did not understand it.
"Glad you came to me.  Always come to me when you're in doubt about
anything.  I'm no authority on clothes, but my secretary is.  I'll have
him take you to a tailor where you can rent a suit for to-night.  He'll
take your measure, and by the end of the week . . ."  He did not finish
the sentence, but pressed one of the many buttons on his desk.  "Clark,
this is Mr. Webb, Mrs. Killigrew's secretary.  He wants some clothes.
Take him along with you."
Alone again, Killigrew smiled broadly.  The humor of the situation did
not blind him to the salient fact that this Webb was a man of no small
courage.  He recognized in this courage a commendable shrewdness also:
Webb wanted the right thing, honest clothes for honest dollars.  A man
like that would be well worth watching.  And for a moment he had
thought that Webb had fallen in love with Kitty and wanted to marry
her!  He chuckled.  Clothes!
What a boy Kitty would have made!  What an infallible eye she had for
measuring a person!  No servant-question ever dangled its hot
interrogation point before his eyes.  Kitty saw to that.  She was the
real manager of the household affairs, for all that he paid the bills.
Some day she would marry a proper man; but heaven keep that day as far
off as possible.  What would he do without Kitty?  Always ready to
perch on his knee, to smooth the day-cares from his forehead, to fend
off trouble, to make laughter in the house.  He was not going to love
the man who eventually carried her off.  He was always dreading that
day; young men about the house, the yacht and the summer home worried
him.  The whole lot of them were not worthy to tie the laces of her
shoes, much as they might yearn to do so.
And all Webb wanted was a tailor!  He would give a hundred for the
right to tell this scare to the boys at the club, but Webb's ingenuous
confidence did not merit betrayal.  Still, nothing should prevent him
from telling Kitty, who knew how to keep a secret.  He picked up the
newspaper and resumed his computation of averages (batting), chuckling
audibly from time to time.  Clothes!
At quarter to six Thomas returned to the house, laden with fat bundles
which he hurried secretly to his room.  He had never worn a dress-suit.
He had often guilelessly dreamed of possessing one: between paragraphs,
as another young man might have dreamed of vanquishing a rival.  It was
inborn that we should wish to appear well in public; to better one's
condition, or, next best, to make the public believe one has.  Thomas
was deeply observant and quickly adaptive.  Between the man who goes to
school with books and the man who goes to school in books there is
wide difference.  What we are forced to learn seldom lifts us above the
ordinary; what we learn by inclination plows our fields and reaps our
harvests.  It is as natural as breathing that we should like our
tonics, mental as well as physical, sugar-coated.
Thomas had never worn a dress-suit; but in the matter of collars and
cravats and shirts he knew the last word.  But why should he wish to
wear that mournfully conventional suit in which we are supposed to
enjoy ourselves?  She had told him not to bother about dress.  Was it
that very nonsense he dreaded, insidiously attacking the redoubts of
his common sense?
That evening at dinner Kitty nor her mother appeared to notice the
change.  This gratified him; he knew that outwardly there was nothing
left to desire or attain.
Kitty began to talk about the romance immediately.  She had found the
beginning very exciting; it was out of the usual run of stories; and if
it was all as good as the first part, there would be some editors glad
to get hold of it.  So much for the confidence of youth.  The Black
Veil, as I have reason to know, lies at the bottom of Thomas' ancient
trunk.
Long as he lived he would never forget the enjoyment of that night.
The electric signs along Broadway interested him intensely; he babbled
about them boyishly.  Theater outside and theater within; a great drama
of light and shadow, of comedy and tragedy; for he gazed upon the scene
with all his poet's eyes.  He enjoyed the opera, the color and music,
the propinquity of Kitty.  Sometimes their shoulders touched; the
indefinable perfume of her hair thrilled him.
Kitty had seen all these things so many times that she no longer
experienced enthusiasm; but his was so genuine, so un-English, that she
found it impossible to escape the contagion.  She did not bubble over,
however; on the contrary, she sat through the performance strangely
subdued, dimly alarmed over what she had done.
As they were leaving the lobby of the theater, a man bumped against
Thomas, quite accidentally.
"I beg your pardon!" said the stranger, politely raising his hat and
passing on.
Thomas' hand went clumsily to his own hat, which he fumbled and dropped
and ran after frantically across the mosaic flooring.
A ghost; yes, sir, Thomas had seen a ghost.
CHAPTER XII
I left Thomas scrambling about the mosaic lobby of the theater for his
opera-hat.  When he recovered it, it resembled one of those accordions
upon which vaudeville artists play Mendelssohn's Wedding March and the
latest ragtime (by request).  Some one had stepped on it.  Among the
unanswerable questions stands prominently: Why do we laugh when a man
loses his hat?  Thomas burned with a mixture of rage and shame; shame
that Kitty should witness his discomfiture and rage that, by the time
he had retrieved the hat, the ghost had disappeared.
However, Thomas acted as a polished man of the world, as if
eight-dollar opera-hats were mere nothings.  He held it out for Kitty
to inspect, smiling.  Then he crushed it under his arm (where the
broken spring behaved like an unlatched jack-in-the-box) and led the
way to the Killigrew limousine.
"I am sorry, Mr. Webb," said Kitty, biting her lips.
"Now, now!  Honestly, don't you know, I hated the thing.  I knew
something would happen.  I never realized till this moment that it is
an art all by itself to wear a high hat without feeling and looking
like a silly ass."
He laughed, honestly and heartily; and Kitty laughed, and so did her
mother.  Subtle barriers were swept away, and all three of them became
what they had not yet been, friends.  It was worth many opera-hats.
"Kitty, I'm beginning to like Thomas," said her mother, later.  "He was
very nice about the hat.  Most men would have been in a frightful
temper over it."
"I'm beginning to like him, too, mother.  It was cruel, but I wanted to
shout with laughter as he dodged in and out of the throng.  Did you
notice how he smiled when he showed it to me?  A woman stepped on it.
When she screamed I thought there was going to be a riot."
"He's the most guileless young man I ever saw."
"He really and truly is," assented Kitty.
"I like him because he isn't afraid to climb up five flights of
tenement stairs, or to shake hands with the tenants themselves.  I was
afraid at first."
"Afraid of what?"
"That you might have made a mistake in selecting him so casually for
our secretary."
"Perhaps I have," murmured Kitty, under her breath.
Alone in her bedroom the smile left Kitty's face.  A brooding frown
wrinkled the smooth forehead.  It was there when Celeste came in; it
remained there after Celeste departed; and it vanished only under the
soft, dispelling fingers of sleep.
There was a frown on Thomas' forehead, too; bitten deep.  He tried to
read, he tried to smoke, he tried to sleep; futilely.  In the middle of
the banquet, as it were, like a certain Assyrian king in Babylon,
Thomas saw the Chaldaic characters on the wall: wherever he looked,
written in fire--Thou fool!
CHAPTER XIII
Two mornings later the newspapers announced the important facts that
Miss Kitty Killigrew had gone to Bar Harbor for the week, and that the
famous uncut emeralds of the Maharajah of Something-or-other-apur had
been stolen; nothing co-relative in the departure of Kitty and the
green stones, coincidence only.
The Indian prince was known the world over as gem-mad.  He had
thousands in unset gems which he neither sold, wore, nor gave away.
His various hosts and hostesses lived in mortal terror during a sojourn
of his; for he carried his jewels with him always; and often, whenever
the fancy seized him, he would go abruptly to his room, spread a square
of cobalt-blue velvet on the floor, squat in his native fashion beside
it, and empty his bags of diamonds and rubies and pearls and sapphires
and emeralds and turquoises.  To him they were beautiful toys.
Whenever he was angry, they soothed him; whenever he was happy, they
rounded out this happiness; they were his variant moods.
He played a magnificent game.  Round the diamonds he would make a
circle of the palest turquoises.  Upon this pyramid of brilliants he
would place some great ruby, sapphire, or emerald.  Then his servants
were commanded to raise and lower the window-curtains alternately.
These shifting contra-lights put a strange life into the gems; they not
only scintillated, they breathed.  Or, perhaps the pyramid would be of
emeralds; and he would peer into their cool green depths as he might
have peered into the sea.
He kept these treasures in an ornamented iron-chest, old, battered, of
simple mechanism.  It had been his father's and his father's father's;
it had been in the family since the days of the Peacock Throne, and
most of the jewels besides.  Night and day the chest was guarded.  It
lay upon an ancient Ispahan rug, in the center of the bedroom, which no
hotel servant was permitted to enter.  His five servants saw to it that
all his wants were properly attended to, that no indignity to his high
caste might be offered: as having his food prepared by pariah hands in
the hotel kitchens, foul hands to make his bed.  He was thoroughly
religious; the gods of his fathers were his in all their ramifications;
he wore the Brahmin thread about his neck.
He was unique among Indian princes.  An Oxford graduate, he
persistently and consistently clung to the elaborate costumes of his
native state.  And when he condescended to visit any one, it was
invariably stipulated that he should be permitted to bring along his
habits, his costumes and his retinue.  In his suite or apartments he
was the barbarian; in the drawing-room, in the ballroom, in the
dining-room (where he ate nothing), he was the suave, the courteous,
the educated Oriental.  He drank no wines, made his own cigarettes, and
never offered his hand to any one, not even to the handsome women who
admired his beautiful skin and his magnificent ropes of pearls.
Some one had entered the bedroom, overpowered the guard, and looted the
bag containing the emeralds.  The prince, the lightest of sleepers, had
slept through it all.  He had awakened with a violent headache, as had
four of his servants.  The big Rajput who had stood watch was in the
hospital, still unconscious.
All the way from San Francisco the police had been waiting for such a
catastrophe.  The newspapers had taken up and published broadcast the
story of the prince's pastime.  Naturally enough, there was not a crook
in all America who was not waiting for a possible chance.  Ten
emeralds, weighing from six to ten carats each; a fortune, even if
broken up.
Haggerty laid aside the newspaper and gravely finished his ham and eggs.
"I'll take a peek int' this, Milly," he said to his wife.  "We've been
waiting for this t' happen.  A million dollars in jools in a chest y'
could open with a can-opener.  Queer ginks, these Hindus.  We see lots
o' fakers, but this one is the real article.  Mebbe a reward.  All
right; little ol' Haggerty can use th' money.  I may not be home t'
supper."
