when he came to look at again, he found really not so bad. The rest,
literally, was nothing but trunks; there were, of course, two or three
boxes of books. When they had been packed closely into the five-dollar
room, with the tables and bureaus and mirrors and canvases and
decorative odds and ends put carefully on top, the Forsyths thought
the effect very neat, and laughed at themselves for being proud of it.

They spent the winter in Paris planning for the summer in America, and
now it had come May, a month which in New York is at its best, and in
the Constitutional Storage Safe-Deposit Warehouse is by no means at
its worst. The Constitutional Storage is no longer new, but when the
Forsyths were among the first to store there it was up to the latest
moment in the modern perfections of a safe-deposit warehouse. It was
strictly fire-proof; and its long, white, brick-walled, iron-doored
corridors, with their clean concrete floors, branching from a central
avenue to the tall windows north and south, offered perspectives
sculpturesquely bare, or picturesquely heaped with arriving or
departing household stuff.

When the Forsyths went to look at it a nice young fellow from the
office had gone with them; running ahead and switching on rows of
electrics down the corridors, and then, with a wire-basketed electric
lamp, which he twirled about and held aloft and alow, showing the
dustless, sweet-smelling spaciousness of a perfect five-dollar room.
He said it would more than hold their things; and it really held them.

Now, when the same young fellow unlocked the iron door and set it
wide, he said he would get them a man, and he got Mrs. Forsyth a gilt
armchair from some furniture going into an adjoining twenty-dollar
room. She sat down in it, and "Of course," she said, "the pieces I
want will be at the very back and the very bottom. Why don't you get
yourself a chair, too, Ambrose? What are you looking at?"

With his eyes on the neighboring furniture he answered, "Seems to be
the wreck of a millionaire's happy home; parlor and kitchen utensils
and office furniture all in white and gold."

"Horrors, yes!" Mrs. Forsyth said, without turning her head from
studying her trunks, as if she might divine their contents from their
outside.

"Tata and I," her husband said, "are more interested in the
millionaire's things." Tata, it appeared, was not a dog, but a child;
the name was not the diminutive of her own name, which was Charlotte,
but a generic name for a doll, which Tata had learned from her Italian
nurse to apply to all little girls and had got applied to herself by
her father. She was now at a distance down the corridor, playing a
drama with the pieces of millionaire furniture; as they stretched away
in variety and splendor they naturally suggested personages of
princely quality, and being touched with her little forefinger tip
were capable of entering warmly into Tata's plans for them.

Her mother looked over her shoulder toward the child. "Come here,
Tata," she called, and when Tata, having enjoined some tall mirrors to
secrecy with a frown and a shake of the head, ran to her, Mrs. Forsyth
had forgotten why she had called her. "Oh!" she said, recollecting,
"do you know which your trunk is, Tata? Can you show mamma? Can you
put your hand on it?"

The child promptly put her hand on the end of a small box just within
her tiptoe reach, and her mother said, "I do believe she knows
everything that's in it, Ambrose! That trunk has got to be opened the
very first one!"

The man that the young fellow said he would send showed at the far end
of the corridor, smaller than human, but enlarging himself to the
average Irish bulk as he drew near. He was given instructions and
obeyed with caressing irony Mrs. Forsyth's order to pull out Tata's
trunk first, and she found the key in a large tangle of keys, and
opened it, and had the joy of seeing everything recognized by the
owner: doll by doll, cook-stove, tin dishes, small brooms, wooden
animals on feet and wheels, birds of various plumage, a toy piano, a
dust-pan, alphabet blocks, dog's-eared linen Mother Goose books, and
the rest. Tata had been allowed to put the things away herself, and
she took them out with no apparent sense of the time passed since she
saw them last. In the changing life of her parents all times and
places were alike to her. She began to play with the things in the
storage corridor as if it were yesterday when she saw them last in the
flat. Her mother and father left her to them in the distraction of
their own trunks. Mrs. Forsyth had these spread over the space toward
the window and their lids lifted and tried to decide about them. In
the end she had changed the things in them back and forth till she
candidly owned that she no longer knew where anything at all was.

As she raised herself for a moment's respite from the problem she saw
at the far end of the corridor a lady with two men, who increased in
size like her own man as they approached. The lady herself seemed to
decrease, though she remained of a magnificence to match the
furniture, and looked like it as to her dress of white picked out in
gold when she arrived at the twenty-dollar room next the Forsyths'. In
her advance she had been vividly played round by a little boy, who ran
forward and back and easily doubled the length of the corridor before
he came to a stand and remained with his brown eyes fixed on Tata.
Tata herself had blue eyes, which now hovered dreamily above the
things in her trunk.

The two mothers began politely to ignore each other. She of the
twenty-dollar room directed the men who had come with her, and in a
voice of authority and appeal at once commanded and consulted them in
the disposition of her belongings. At the sound of the mixed tones
Mrs. Forsyth signaled to her husband, and, when he came within
whispering, murmured: "Pittsburg, or Chicago. Did you ever hear
such a Mid-Western accent!" She pretended to be asking him about
repacking the trunk before her, but the other woman was not deceived.
She was at least aware of criticism in the air of her neighbors, and
she put on greater severity with the workmen. The boy came up and
caught her skirt. "What?" she said, bending over. "No, certainly not.
I haven't time to attend to you. Go off and play. Don't I tell you no?
Well, there, then! Will you get that trunk out where I can open it?
That small one there," she said to one of the men, while the other
rested for both. She stooped to unlock the trunk and flung up the lid.
"Now if you bother me any more I will surely--" But she lost herself
short of the threat and began again to seek counsel and issue orders.

The boy fell upon the things in the trunk, which were the things of a
boy, as those in Tata's trunk were the things of a girl, and to run
with them, one after another, to Tata and to pile them in gift on the
floor beside her trunk. He did not stop running back and forth as fast
as his short, fat legs could carry him till he had reached the bottom
of his box, chattering constantly and taking no note of the effect
with Tata. Then, as she made no response whatever to his munificence,
he began to be abashed and to look pathetically from her to her
father.

"Oh, really, young man," Forsyth said, "we can't let you impoverish
yourself at this rate. What have you said to your benefactor, Tata?
What are you going to give him?"

The children did not understand his large words, but they knew he was
affectionately mocking them.

"Ambrose," Mrs. Forsyth said, "you mustn't let him."

"I'm trying to think how to hinder him, but it's rather late," Forsyth
answered, and then the boy's mother joined in.

"Indeed, indeed, if you can, it's more than I can. You're just
worrying the little girl," she said to the boy.

"Oh no, he isn't, dear little soul," Mrs. Forsyth said, leaving her
chair and going up to the two children. She took the boy's hand in
hers. "What a kind boy! But you know my little girl mustn't take all
your playthings. If you'll give her one she'll give you one, and
that will be enough. You can both play with them all for the present."
She referred her suggestion to the boy's mother, and the two ladies
met at the invisible line dividing the five-dollar room from the
twenty-dollar room.

"Oh yes, indeed," the Mid-Westerner said, willing to meet the
New-Yorker half-way. "You're taking things out, I see. I hardly know
which is the worst: taking out or putting in."

"Well, we are just completing the experience," Mrs. Forsyth said. "I
shall be able to say better how I feel in half an hour."

"You don't mean this is the first time you've stored? I suppose
we've been in and out of storage twenty times. Not in this warehouse
exactly; we've never been here before."

"It seems very nice," Mrs. Forsyth suggested.

"They all do at the beginning. I suppose if we ever came to the end
they would seem nicer still. Mr. Bream's business is always taking him
away" (it appeared almost instantly that he was the international
inspector of a great insurance company's agencies in Europe and South
America), "and when I don't go with him it seems easier to break up
and go into a hotel than to go on housekeeping. I don't know that it
is, though," she questioned. "It's so hard to know what to do with the
child in a hotel."

"Yes, but he seems the sort that you could manage with anywhere," Mrs.
Forsyth agreed and disagreed.

His mother looked at him where he stood beaming upon Tata and again
joyfully awaiting some effect with her. But the child sat back upon
her small heels with her eyes fixed on the things in her trunk and
made no sign of having seen the heaps of his gifts.

The Forsyths had said to each other before this that their little girl
was a queer child, and now they were not so much ashamed of her
apparent selfishness or rude indifference as they thought they were.
They made a joke of it with the boy's mother, who said she did not
believe Tata was anything but shy. She said she often told Mr. Bream
that she did wish Peter--yes, that was his name; she didn't like it
much, but it was his grandfather's; was Tata a Christian name? Oh,
just a pet name! Well, it was pretty--could be broken of his
ridiculous habit; most children--little boys, that was--held onto
their things so.

Forsyth would have taken something from Tata and given it to Peter;
but his wife would not let him; and he had to content himself with
giving Peter a pencil of his own that drew red at one end and blue at
the other, and that at once drew a blue boy, that looked like Peter,
on the pavement. He told Peter not to draw a boy now, but wait till he
got home, and then be careful not to draw a blue boy with the red end.
He helped him put his things back into his trunk, and Peter seemed to
enjoy that, too.

Tata, without rising from her seat on her heels, watched the
restitution with her dreamy eyes; she paid no attention to the blue
boy on the pavement; pictures from her father were nothing new to her.
The mothers parted with expressions of mutual esteem in spite of their
difference of accent and fortune. Mrs. Forsyth asked if she might not
kiss Peter, and did so; he ran to his mother and whispered to her;
then he ran back and gave Tata so great a hug that she fell over from
it.

Tata did not cry, but continued as if lost in thought which she could
not break from, and that night, after she had said her prayers with
her mother, her mother thought it was time to ask her: "Tata, dear,
why did you act so to that boy to-day? Why didn't you give him
something of yours when he brought you all his things? Why did you act
so oddly?"

Tata said something in a voice so low that her mother could not make
it out.

"What did you say?"

"I couldn't tell which," the child still whispered; but now her
mother's ear was at her lips.

"How, which?"

"To give him. The more I looked," and the whisper became a quivering
breath, "the more I couldn't tell which. And I wanted to give them
all to him, but I couldn't tell whether it would be right, because
you and papa gave them to me for birthday and Christmas," and the
quivering breath broke into a sobbing grief, so that the mother had to
catch the child up to her heart.

"Dear little tender conscience!" she said, still wiping her eyes when
she told the child's father, and they fell into a sweet, serious talk
about her before they slept. "And I was ashamed of her before that
woman! I know she misjudged her; but we ought to have remembered how
fine and precious she is, and known how she must have suffered,
trying to decide."

"Yes, conscience," the father said. "And temperament, the temperament
to which decision is martyrdom."

"And she will always have to be deciding! She'll have to decide for
you, some day, as I do now; you are very undecided, Ambrose--she gets
it from you."


                                  II

The Forsyths were afraid that Tata might want to offer Peter some gift
in reparation the next morning, and her father was quite ready, if she
said so, to put off their leaving town, and go with her to the
Constitutional Storage, which was the only address of Mrs. Bream that
he knew. But the child had either forgotten or she was contented with
her mother's comforting, and no longer felt remorse.

One does not store the least of one's personal or household gear
without giving a hostage to storage, a pledge of allegiance impossible
to break. No matter how few things one puts in, one never takes
everything out; one puts more things in. Mrs. Forsyth went to the
warehouse with Tata in the fall before they sailed for another winter
in Paris, and added some old bits she had picked up at farm-houses in
their country drives, and they filled the room quite to the top. She
told her husband how Tata had entered into the spirit of putting back
her trunk of playthings with the hope of seeing it again in the
spring; and she added that she had now had to take a seven-fifty room
without consulting him, or else throw away the things they had brought
home.

During the ten or twelve years that followed, the Forsyths sometimes
spent a whole winter in a hotel; sometimes they had a flat; sometimes
they had a separate dwelling. If their housing was ample, they took
almost everything out of storage; once they got down to a two-dollar
bin, and it seemed as if they really were leaving the storage
altogether. Then, if they went into a flat that was nearly all studio,
their furniture went back in a cataclysmal wave to the warehouse,
where a ten-dollar room, a twelve-dollar room, would not dam the
overflow.

Tata, who had now outgrown her pet name, and was called Charlotte
because her mother felt she ought to be, always went with her to the
storage to help look the things over, to see the rooms emptied down to
a few boxes, or replenished to bursting. In the first years she played
about, close to her mother; as she grew older she ventured further,
and began to make friends with other little girls who had come with
their mothers. It was quite safe socially to be in the Constitutional
Storage; it gave standing; and Mrs. Forsyth fearlessly chanced
acquaintance with these mothers, who would sometimes be there whole
long mornings or afternoons, taking trunks out or putting them in.
With the trunks set into the corridors and opened for them, they would
spend the hours looking the contents over, talking to their neighbors,
or rapt in long silences when they hesitated with things held off or
up, and, after gazing absently at them, putting them back again.
Sometimes they varied the process by laying things aside for sending
home, and receipting for them at the office as "goods selected."

They were mostly hotel people or apartment people, as Mrs. Forsyth
oftenest was herself, but sometimes they were separate-house people.
Among these there was one family, not of great rank or wealth, but
distinguished, as lifelong New-Yorkers, in a world of comers and goers
of every origin. Mrs. Forsyth especially liked them for a certain
quality, but what this quality was she could not very well say. They
were a mother with two daughters, not quite old maids, but on the way
to it, and there was very intermittently the apparently bachelor
brother of the girls; at the office Mrs. Forsyth verified her
conjecture that he was some sort of minister. One could see they were
all gentlefolks, though the girls were not of the last cry of fashion.
They were very nice to their mother, and you could tell that they must
have been coming with her for years.

At this point in her study of them for her husband's amusement she
realized that Charlotte had been coming to the storage with her nearly
all her life, and that more and more the child had taken charge of the
uneventual inspection of the things. She was shocked to think that she
had let this happen, and now she commanded her husband to say whether
Charlotte would grow into a storage old maid like those good girls.

Forsyth said, Probably not before her time; but he allowed it was a
point to be considered.

Very well, then, Mrs. Forsyth said, the child should never go again;
that was all. She had strongly confirmed herself in this resolution
when one day she not only let the child go again, but she let her go
alone. The child was now between seventeen and eighteen, rather tall,
grave, pretty, with the dull brown hair that goes so well with
dreaming blue eyes, and of a stiff grace. She had not come out yet,
because she had always been out, handing cakes at her father's studio
teas long before she could remember not doing it, and later pouring
for her mother with rather a quelling air as she got toward fifteen.
During these years the family had been going and coming between Europe
and America; they did not know perfectly why, except that it was
easier than not.

More and more there was a peculiarity in the goods selected by
Charlotte for sending home, which her mother one day noted. "How is
it, Charlotte, that you always send exactly the things I want, and
when you get your own things here you don't know whether they are what
you wanted or not?"

"Because I don't know when I send them. I don't choose them; I can't."

"But you choose the right things for me?"

"No, I don't, mother. I just take what comes first, and you always
like it."

"Now, that is nonsense, Charlotte. I can't have you telling me such a
thing as that. It's an insult to my intelligence. Do you think I don't
know my own mind?"

"I don't know my mind," the girl said, so persistently, obstinately,
stubbornly, that her mother did not pursue the subject for fear of
worse.

She referred it to her husband, who said: "Perhaps it's like poets
never being able to remember their own poetry. I've heard it's because
they have several versions in their minds when they write and can't
remember which they've written. Charlotte has several choices in her
mind, and can't choose between her choices."

"Well, we ought to have broken her of her indecision. Some day it will
make her very unhappy."

"Pretty hard to break a person of her temperament," Forsyth suggested.

"I know it!" his wife admitted, with a certain pleasure in realizing
the fact. "I don't know what we shall do."


                                 III

Storage society was almost wholly feminine; in rare instances there
was a man who must have been sent in dearth of women or in an hour of
their disability. Then the man came hastily, with a porter, and either
pulled all the things out of the rooms so that he could honestly say
he had seen them, and that the thing wanted was not there; or else
merely had the doors opened, and after a glance inside resolved to
wait till his wife, or mother, or daughter could come. He agreed in
guilty eagerness with the workmen that this was the only way.

The exception to the general rule was a young man who came one bright
spring morning when all nature suggested getting one's stuff out and
going into the country, and had the room next the Forsyths' original
five-dollar room opened. As it happened, Charlotte was at the moment
visiting this room upon her mother's charge to see whether certain old
scrim sash-curtains, which they had not needed for ages but at last
simply must have, were not lurking there in a chest of general
curtainings. The Forsyths now had rooms on other floors, but their
main room was at the end of the corridor branching northward from that
where the five-dollar room was. Near this main room that nice New York
family had their rooms, and Charlotte had begun the morning in their
friendly neighborhood, going through some chests that might perhaps
have the general curtainings in them and the scrim curtains among the
rest. It had not, and she had gone to what the Forsyths called their
old ancestral five-dollar room, where that New York family continued
to project a sort of wireless chaperonage over her. But the young man
had come with a porter, and, with her own porter, Charlotte could not
feel that even a wireless chaperonage was needed, though the young man
approached with the most beaming face she thought she had ever seen,
and said he hoped he should not be in her way. She answered with a
sort of helpless reverberation of his glow, Not at all; she should
only be a moment. She wanted to say she hoped she would not be in
his way, but she saved herself in time, while, with her own eyes
intent upon the façade of her room and her mind trying to lose itself
in the question which curtain-trunk the scrims might be in, she kept
the sense of his sweet eyes, the merriest eyes she had ever seen,
effulgent with good-will and apology and reverent admiration. She
blushed to think it admiration, though she liked to think it so, and
she did not snub him when the young man jumped about, neglecting his
own storage, and divining the right moments for his offers of help.
She saw that he was a little shorter than herself, that he was very
light and quick on his feet, and had a round, brown face,
clean-shaven, and a round, brown head, close shorn, from which in the
zeal of his attentions to her he had shed his straw hat onto the
window-sill. He formed a strong contrast to the contents of his
store-room, which was full, mainly, of massive white furniture picked
out in gold, and very blond. He said casually that it had been there,
off and on, since long before he could remember, and at these words an
impression, vague, inexplicable, deepened in Charlotte's mind.

"Mother," she said, for she had now disused the earlier "mamma" in
deference to modern usage, "how old was I when we first took that
five-dollar room?"

She asked this question after she had shown the scrim curtains she had
found and brought home with her.

"Why? I don't know. Two or three; three or four. I should have to
count up. What makes you ask?"

"Can a person recollect what happened when they were three or four?"

"I should say not, decidedly."

"Or recollect a face?"

"Certainly not."

"Then of course it wasn't. Mother, do you remember ever telling me
what the little boy was like who gave me all his playthings and I
couldn't decide what to give him back?"

"What a question! Of course not! He was very brown and funny, with the
beamingest little face in the world. Rather short for his age, I
should say, though I haven't the least idea what his age was."

"Then it was the very same little boy!" Charlotte said.

"Who was the very same little boy?" her mother demanded.

"The one that was there to-day; the young man, I mean," Charlotte
explained, and then she told what had happened with a want of fullness
which her mother's imagination supplied.

"Did he say who he was? Is he coming back to-morrow or this afternoon?
Did you inquire who he was or where?"

"What an idea, mother!" Charlotte said, grouping the several
impossibilities under one head in her answer.

"You had a perfect right to know, if you thought he was the one."

"But I didn't think he was the one, and I don't know that he is
now; and if he was, what could I do about it?"

"That is true," Mrs. Forsyth owned. "But it's very disappointing. I've
always felt as if they ought to know it was your undecidedness and not
ungenerousness."

Charlotte laughed a little forlornly, but she only said, "Really,
mother!"

Mrs. Forsyth was still looking at the curtains. "Well, these are not
the scrims I wanted. You must go back. I believe I will go with you.
The sooner we have it over the better," she added, and she left the
undecided Charlotte to decide whether she meant the scrim curtains or
the young man's identity.

It was very well, for one reason, that she decided to go with
Charlotte that afternoon. The New-Yorkers must have completed the
inspection of their trunks, for they had not come back. Their failure
to do so was the more important because the young man had come back
and was actively superintending the unpacking of his room. The
palatial furniture had all been ranged up and down the corridor, and
as fast as a trunk was got out and unlocked he went through it with
the help of the storage-men, listed its contents in a note-book with a
number, and then transferred the number and a synopsis of the record
to a tag and fastened it to the trunk, which he had put back into the
room.

When the Forsyths arrived with the mistaken scrim curtains, he
interrupted himself with apologies for possibly being in their way;
and when Mrs. Forsyth said he was not at all in their way, he got
white-and-gold arm-chairs for her and Charlotte and put them so
conveniently near the old ancestral room that Mrs. Forsyth scarcely
needed to move hand or foot in letting Charlotte restore the wrong
curtains and search the chests for the right ones. His politeness made
way for conversation and for the almost instant exchange of
confidences between himself and Mrs. Forsyth, so that Charlotte was
free to enjoy the silence to which they left her in her labors.

"Before I say a word," Mrs. Forsyth said, after saying some hundreds
in their mutual inculpation and exculpation, "I want to ask something,
and I hope you will excuse it to an old woman's curiosity and not
think it rude."

At the words "old woman's" the young man gave a protesting "Oh!" and
at the word "rude" he said, "Not at all."

"It is simply this: how long have your things been here? I ask because
we've had this room thirteen or fourteen years, and I've never seen
your room opened in that whole time."

The young man laughed joyously. "Because it hasn't been opened in that
whole time. I was a little chap of three or four bothering round here
when my mother put the things in; I believe it was a great frolic for
me, but I'm afraid it wasn't for her. I've been told that my
activities contributed to the confusion of the things and the things
in them that she's been in ever since, and I'm here now to make what
reparation I can by listing them."

"She'll find it a great blessing," Mrs. Forsyth said. "I wish we had
ours listed. I suppose you remember it all very vividly. It must have
been a great occasion for you seeing the things stored at that age."

The young man beamed upon her. "Not so great as now, I'm afraid. The
fact is, I don't remember anything about it. But I've been told that I
embarrassed with my personal riches a little girl who was looking over
her doll's things."

"Oh, indeed!" Mrs. Forsyth said, stiffly, and she turned rather
snubbingly from him and said, coldly, to Charlotte: "I think they are
in that green trunk. Have you the key?" and, stooping as her daughter
stooped, she whispered, "Really!" in condemnation and contempt.

Charlotte showed no signs of sharing either, and Mrs. Forsyth could
not very well manage them alone. So when Charlotte said, "No, I
haven't the key, mother," and the young man burst in with, "Oh, do let
me try my master-key; it will unlock anything that isn't a Yale," Mrs.
Forsyth sank back enthroned and the trunk was thrown open.

She then forgot what she had wanted it opened for. Charlotte said,
"They're not here, mother," and her mother said, "No, I didn't suppose
they were," and began to ask the young man about his mother. It
appeared that his father had died twelve years before, and since then
his mother and he had been nearly everywhere except at home, though
mostly in England; now they had come home to see where they should go
next or whether they should stay.

"That would never suit my daughter," Mrs. Forsyth lugged in, partly
because the talk had gone on away from her family as long as she could
endure, and partly because Charlotte's indecision always amused her.
"She can't bear to choose."

"Really?" the young man said. "I don't know whether I like it or not,
but I have had to do a lot of it. You mustn't think, though, that I
chose this magnificent furniture. My father bought an Italian palace
once, and as we couldn't live in it or move it we brought the
furniture here."

"It is magnificent," Mrs. Forsyth said, looking down the long
stretches of it and eying and fingering her specific throne. "I wish
my husband could see it--I don't believe he remembers it from fourteen
years ago. It looks--excuse me!--very studio."

"Is he a painter? Not Mr. Forsyth the painter?"

"Yes," Mrs. Forsyth eagerly admitted, but wondering how he should know
her name, without reflecting that a score of trunk-tags proclaimed it
and that she had acquired his by like means.

"I like his things so much," he said. "I thought his three portraits
were the best things in the Salon last year."

"Oh, you saw them?" Mrs. Forsyth laughed with pleasure and pride.
"Then," as if it necessarily followed, "you must come to us some
Sunday afternoon. You'll find a number of his new portraits and some
of the subjects; they like to see themselves framed." She tried for a
card in her hand-bag, but she had none, and she said, "Have you one
of my cards, my dear?" Charlotte had, and rendered it up with a
severity lost upon her for the moment. She held it toward him. "It's
Mr. Peter Bream?" she smiled upon him, and he beamed back.

"Did you remember it from our first meeting?"

In their cab Mrs. Forsyth said, "I don't know whether he's what you
call rather fresh or not, Charlotte, and I'm not sure that I've been
very wise. But he is so nice, and he looked so glad to be asked."

Charlotte did not reply at once, and her silent severity came to the
surface of her mother's consciousness so painfully that it was rather
a relief to have her explode, "Mother, I will thank you not to discuss
my temperament with people."

She gave Mrs. Forsyth her chance, and her mother was so happy in being
able to say, "I won't--your temper, my dear," that she could add
with sincere apology: "I'm sorry I vexed you, and I won't do it
again."


                                  IV

The next day was Sunday; Peter Bream took it for some Sunday, and came
to the tea on Mrs. Forsyth's generalized invitation. She pulled her
mouth down and her eyebrows up when his card was brought in, but as
he followed hard she made a lightning change to a smile and gave him a
hand of cordial welcome. Charlotte had no choice but to welcome him,
too, and so the matter was simple for her. She was pouring, as usual,
for her mother, who liked to eliminate herself from set duties and
walk round among the actual portraits in fact and in frame and talk
about them to the potential portraits. Peter, qualified by long
sojourn in England, at once pressed himself into the service of
handing about the curate's assistant; Mrs. Forsyth electrically
explained that it was one of the first brought to New York, and that
she had got it at the Stores in London fifteen years before, and it
had often been in the old ancestral room, and was there on top of the
trunks that first day. She did not recur to the famous instance of
Charlotte's infant indecision, and Peter was safe from a snub when he
sat down by the girl's side and began to make her laugh. At the end,
when her mother asked Charlotte what they had been laughing about, she
could not tell; she said she did not know they were laughing.

The next morning Mrs. Forsyth was paying for her Sunday tea with a
Monday headache, and more things must be got out for the country.
Charlotte had again no choice but to go alone to the storage, and yet
again no choice but to be pleasant to Peter when she found him next
door listing the contents of his mother's trunks and tagging them as
before. He dropped his work and wanted to help her. Suddenly they
seemed strangely well acquainted, and he pretended to be asked which
pieces she should put aside as goods selected, and chose them for her.
She hinted that he was shirking his own work; he said it was an
all-summer's job, but he knew her mother was in a hurry. He found the
little old trunk of her playthings, and got it down and opened it and
took out some toys as goods selected. She made him put them back, but
first he catalogued everything in it and synopsized the list on a tag
and tagged the trunk. He begged for a broken doll which he had not
listed, and Charlotte had so much of her original childish difficulty
in parting with that instead of something else that she refused it.

It came lunch-time, and he invited her to go out to lunch with him;
and when she declined with dignity he argued that if they went to the
Woman's Exchange she would be properly chaperoned by the genius of the
place; besides, it was the only place in town where you got real
strawberry shortcake. She was ashamed of liking it all; he besought
her to let him carry her hand-bag for her, and, as he already had it,
she could not prevent him; she did not know, really, how far she
might successfully forbid him in anything. At the street door of the
apartment-house they found her mother getting out of a cab, and she
asked Peter in to lunch; so that Charlotte might as well have lunched
with him at the Woman's Exchange.

At all storage warehouses there is a season in autumn when the
corridors are heaped with the incoming furniture of people who have
decided that they cannot pass another winter in New York and are
breaking up housekeeping to go abroad indefinitely. But in the spring,
when the Constitutional Safe-Deposit offered ample space for
thoughtful research, the meetings of Charlotte and Peter could recur
without more consciousness of the advance they were making toward the
fated issue than in so many encounters at tea or luncheon or dinner.
Mrs. Forsyth was insisting on rather a drastic overhauling of her
storage that year. Some of the things, by her command, were shifted to
and fro between the more modern rooms and the old ancestral room, and
Charlotte had to verify the removals. In deciding upon goods selected
for the country she had the help of Peter, and she helped him by
interposing some useful hesitations in the case of things he had put
aside from his mother's possessions to be sold for her by the
warehouse people.

One day he came late and told Charlotte that his mother had suddenly
taken her passage for England, and they were sailing the next morning.
He said, as if it logically followed, that he had been in love with
her from that earliest time when she would not give him the least of
her possessions, and now he asked her if she would not promise him the
greatest. She did not like what she felt "rehearsed" in his proposal;
it was not her idea of a proposal, which ought to be spontaneous and
unpremeditated in terms; at the same time, she resented his
precipitation, which she could not deny was inevitable.

She perceived that they were sitting side by side on two of those
white-and-gold thrones, and she summoned an indignation with the
absurdity in refusing him. She rose and said that she must go; that
she must be going; that it was quite time for her to go; and she would
not let him follow her to the elevator, as he made some offer of
doing, but left him standing among his palatial furniture like a
prince in exile.

By the time she reached home she had been able to decide that she must
tell her mother at once. Her mother received the fact of Peter's
proposal with such transport that she did not realize the fact of
Charlotte's refusal. When this was connoted to her she could scarcely
keep her temper within the bounds of maternal tenderness. She said
she would have nothing more to do with such a girl; that there was but
one such pearl as Peter in the universe, and for Charlotte to throw
him away like that! Was it because she could not decide? Well, it
appeared that she could decide wrong quickly enough when it came to
the point. Would she leave it now to her mother?

That Charlotte would not do, but what she did do was to write a letter
to Peter taking him back as much as rested with her; but delaying so
long in posting it, when it was written, that it reached him among the
letters sent on board and supplementarily delivered by his room
