"Yes," he nodded, indifferently, "there are creatures which live
somewhere in the fires of that crater."
"Do you realize what an astounding statement you are making?" I asked.
"It doesn't astound me. What do I care whether it astounds you or
anybody else? Nothing interests me except Art."
"But--"
"I tell you nothing interests me except Art!" he yelled. "Don't dispute
it! Don't answer me! Don't irritate me! I don't care whether anything
lives in the fire or not! Let it live there!"
"But have you actually seen live creatures in the flames?"
"Plenty! Plenty! What of it? What about it? Let 'em live there, for all
I care. I've painted pictures of 'em, too. That's all that interests me."
"What do they look like, Mr. Blythe?"
"Look like? I don't know! They look like weasels or rats or bats or
cats or--stop asking me questions! It irritates me! It depresses me!
Don't ask any more! Why don't you go in to lunch? And--tell my daughter
to bring me a bowl of salad out here. I've no time to stuff myself.
Some people have. I haven't. You'd better go in to lunch.... And tell
my daughter to bring me seven tubes of Chinese vermilion with my salad!"
"You don't mean to mix--" I began, then checked myself before his fury.
"I'd rather eat vermilion paint on my salad than sit here talking to
you!" he shouted.
I cast a pitying glance at this impossible man, and went into the house.
After all, he was her father. I had to endure him.
       
After Miss Blythe had carried to her father a large bucket of lettuce
leaves, she returned to the veranda of the bungalow.
[Illustration: "Miss Blythe had carried to her father a large bucket of
lettuce leaves."]
A delightful luncheon awaited us; I seated her, then took the chair
opposite.
A delicious omelette, fresh biscuit, salad, and strawberry preserves, and
a tall tumbler of iced tea imbued me with a sort of mild exhilaration.
Out of the corner of my eye I could see Blythe down in the garden,
munching his lettuce leaves like an ill-tempered rabbit, and daubing away
at his picture while he munched.
"Your father," said I politely, "is something of a genius."
"I am so glad you think so," she said gratefully. "But don't tell him so.
He has been surfeited with praise in Boston. That is why we came out
here."
"Art," said I, "is like science, or tobacco, or tooth-wash. Every man
to his own brand. Personally, I don't care for his kind. But who can say
which is the best kind of anything? Only the consumer. Your father is his
own consumer. He is the best judge of what he likes. And that is the only
true test of art, or anything else."
"How delightfully you reason!" she said. "How logically, how generously!"
"Reason is the handmaid of Science, Miss Blythe."
She seemed to understand me. Her quick intelligence surprised me, because
I myself was not perfectly sure whether I had emitted piffle or an
epigram.
As we ate our strawberry preserves we discussed ways and means of
capturing a specimen of the little fire creatures which, as she
explained, so frequently peeped out at her from the crater fires, and,
at her slightest movement, scurried back again into the flames. Of course
I believed that this was only her imagination. Yet, for years I had
entertained a theory that fire supported certain unknown forms of life.
"I have long believed," said I, "that fire is inhabited by living
organisms which require the elements and temperature of active combustion
for their existence--microörganisms, but not," I added smilingly, "any
higher type of life."
"In the fireplace," she ventured diffidently, "I sometimes see curious
things--dragons and snakes and creatures of grotesque and peculiar
shapes."
I smiled indulgently, charmed by this innocently offered contribution
to science. Then she rose, and I rose and took her hand in mine, and we
wandered over the grass toward the crater, while I explained to her the
difference between what we imagine we see in the glowing coals of a grate
fire and my own theory that fire is the abode of living animalculae.
On the grassy edge of the crater we paused and looked down the slope,
where the circle of steam rose, partly veiling the pale flash of fire
underneath.
"How near can we go?" I inquired.
"Quite near. Come; I'll guide you."
Leading me by the hand, she stepped over the brink and we began to
descend the easy grass slope together.
There was no difficulty about it at all. Down we went, nearer and nearer
to the wall of steam, until at last, when but fifteen feet away from it,
I felt the heat from the flames which sparkled below the wall of vapour.
Here we seated ourselves upon the grass, and I knitted my brows and fixed
my eyes upon this curious phenomenon, striving to discover some reason
for it.
Except for the vapour and the fires, there was nothing whatever volcanic
about this spectacle, or in the surroundings.
From where I sat I could see that the bed of fire which encircled the
crater; and the wall of vapour which crowned the flames, were about three
hundred feet wide. Of course this barrier was absolutely impassable.
There was no way of getting through it into the bottom of the crater.
A slight pressure from Miss Blythe's fingers engaged my attention; I
turned toward her, and she said:
"There is one more thing about which I have not told you. I feel a little
guilty, because that is the real reason I asked you to come here."
"What is it?"
"I think there are emeralds on the floor of that crater."
"Emeralds!"
"I think so." She felt in the ruffled pocket of her apron, drew out a
fragment of mineral, and passed it to me.
I screwed a jeweler's glass into my eye and examined it in astonished
silence. It was an emerald; a fine, large, immensely valuable stone, if
my experience counted for anything. One side of it was thickly coated
with vermilion paint.
"Where did this come from?" I asked in an agitated voice.
"From the floor of the crater. Is it really an emerald?"
I lifted my head and stared at the girl incredulously.
"It happened this way," she said excitedly. "Father was painting a
picture up there by the edge of the crater. He left his palette on the
grass to go to the bungalow for some more tubes of colour. While he was
in the house, hunting for the colours which he wanted, I stepped out on
the veranda, and I saw some crows alight near the palette and begin
to stalk about in the grass. One bird walked right over his wet palette;
I stepped out and waved my sun-bonnet to frighten him off, but he had
both feet in a sticky mass of Chinese vermilion, and for a moment was
unable to free himself.
"I almost caught him, but he flapped away over the edge of the crater,
high above the wall of vapour, sailed down onto the crater floor, and
alighted.
"But his feet bothered him; he kept hopping about on the bottom of the
crater, half running, half flying; and finally he took wing and rose up
over the hill.
"As he flew above me, and while I was looking up at his vermilion feet,
something dropped from his claws and nearly struck me. It was that
emerald."
When I had recovered sufficient composure to speak steadily, I took her
beautiful little hand in mine.
"This," said I, "is the most exciting locality I have ever visited for
purposes of scientific research. Within this crater may lie millions of
value in emeralds. You are probably, today, the wealthiest heiress upon
the face of the globe!"
I gave her a winning glance. She smiled, shyly, and blushingly withdrew
her hand.
For several exquisite minutes I sat there beside her in a sort of
heavenly trance. How beautiful she was! How engaging--how sweet--how
modestly appreciative of the man beside her, who had little beside his
scientific learning, his fame, and a kind heart to appeal to such youth
and loveliness as hers!
There was something about her that delicately appealed to me. Sometimes
I pondered what this might be; sometimes I wondered how many emeralds lay
on that floor of sandy gravel below us.
Yes, I loved her. I realised it now. I could even endure her father for
her sake. I should make a good husband. I was quite certain of that.
I turned and gazed upon her, meltingly. But I did not wish to startle
her, so I remained silent, permitting the chaste language of my eyes to
interpret for her what my lips had not yet murmured. It was a brief but
beautiful moment in my life.
"The way to do," said I, "is to trap several dozen crows, smear their
feet with glue, tie a ball of Indian twine to the ankle of every bird,
then liberate them. Some are certain to fly into the crater and try to
scrape the glue off in the sand. Then," I added, triumphantly, "all we
have to do is to haul in our birds and detach the wealth of Midas from
their sticky claws!"
"That is an excellent suggestion," she said gratefully, "but I can do
that after you have gone. All I wanted you to tell me was whether the
stone is a genuine emerald."
I gazed at her blankly.
"You are here for purposes of scientific investigation," she added,
sweetly. "I should not think of taking your time for the mere sake of
accumulating wealth for my father and me."
There didn't seem to be anything for me to say at that moment. Chilled,
I gazed at the flashing ring of fire.
And, as I gazed, suddenly I became aware of a little, pointed muzzle, two
pricked-up ears, and two ruby-red eyes gazing intently out at me from the
mass of flames.
The girl beside me saw it, too.
"Don't move!" she whispered. "That is one of the flame creatures. It may
venture out if you keep perfectly still."
Rigid with amazement, I sat like a stone image, staring at the most
astonishing sight I had ever beheld.
For several minutes the ferret-like creature never stirred from where it
crouched in the crater fire; the alert head remained pointed toward us; I
could even see that its thick fur must have possessed the qualities of
asbestos, because here and there a hair or two glimmered incandescent;
and its eyes, nose, and whiskers glowed and glowed as the flames pulsated
around it.
After a long while it began to move out of the fire, slowly, cautiously,
cunning eyes fixed on us--a small, slim, wiry, weasel-like creature on
which the sunlight fell with a vitreous glitter as it crept forward into
the grass.
Then, from the fire behind, another creature of the same sort appeared,
another, others, then dozens of eager, lithe, little animals appeared
everywhere from the flames and began to frisk and play and run about in
the grass and nibble the fresh, green, succulent herbage with a snipping
sound quite audible to us.
One came so near my feet that I could examine it minutely.
Its fur and whiskers seemed heavy and dense and like asbestos fibre, yet
so fine as to appear silky. Its eyes, nose, and claws were scarlet, and
seemed to possess a glassy surface.
I waited my opportunity, and when the little thing came nosing along
within reach, I seized it.
Instantly it emitted a bewildering series of whistling shrieks, and
twisted around to bite me. Its body was icy.
"Don't let it bite!" cried the girl. "Be careful, Mr. Smith!"
[Illustration: "'Don't let it bite!' cried the girl. 'Be careful, Mr.
Smith!'"]
But its jaws were toothless; only soft, cold gums pinched me, and I held
it twisting and writhing, while the icy temperature of its body began to
benumb my fingers and creep up my wrist, paralyzing my arm; and its
incessant and piercing shrieks deafened me.
In vain I transferred it to the other hand, and then passed it from one
hand to the other, as one shifts a lump of ice or a hot potato, in an
attempt to endure the temperature: it shrieked and squirmed and doubled,
and finally wriggled out of my stiffened and useless hands, and scuttled
away into the fire.
It was an overwhelming disappointment. For a moment it seemed
unendurable.
"Never mind," I said, huskily, "if I caught one in my hands, I can surely
catch another in a trap."
"I am so sorry for your disappointment," she said, pitifully.
"Do you care, Miss Blythe?" I asked.
She blushed.
"Of course I care," she murmured.
My hands were too badly frost-nipped to become eloquent. I merely sighed
and thrust them into my pockets. Even my arm was too stiff to encircle
her shapeful waist. Devotion to Science had temporarily crippled me. Love
must wait. But, as we ascended the grassy slope together, I promised
myself that I would make her a good husband, and that I should spend at
least part of every day of my life in trapping crows and smearing their
claws with glue.
That evening I was seated on the veranda beside Wilna--Miss Blythe's name
was Wilna--and what with gazing at her and fitting together some of the
folding box-traps which I always carried with me--and what with trying to
realise the pecuniary magnificence of our future existence together, I
was exceedingly busy when Blythe came in to display, as I supposed, his
most recent daub to me.
The canvas he carried presented a series of crimson speckles, out of
which burst an eruption of green streaks--and it made me think of
stepping on a caterpillar.
My instinct was to placate this impossible man. He was her father. I
meant to honour him if I had to assault him to do it.
"Supremely satisfying!" I nodded, chary of naming the subject. "It is a
stride beyond the art of the future: it is a flying leap out of the Not
Yet into the Possibly Perhaps! I thank you for enlightening me, Mr.
Blythe. I am your debtor."
He fairly snarled at me:
"What are you talking about!" he demanded.
I remained modestly mute.
To Wilna he said, pointing passionately at his canvas:
"The crows have been walking all over it again! I'm going to paint in the
woods after this, earthquakes or no earthquakes. Have the trees been
heaved up anywhere recently?"
"Not since last week," she said, soothingly. "It usually happens after a
rain."
"I think I'll risk it then--although it did rain early this morning. I'll
do a moonlight down there this evening." And, turning to me: "If you know
as much about science as you do about art you won't have to remain here
long--I trust."
"What?" said I, very red.
He laughed a highly disagreeable laugh, and marched into the house.
Presently he bawled for dinner, and Wilna went away. For her sake I had
remained calm and dignified, but presently I went out and kicked up the
turf two or three times; and, having foozled my wrath, I went back to
dinner, realising that I might as well begin to accustom myself to my
future father-in-law.
It seemed that he had a mania for prunes, and that's all he permitted
anybody to have for dinner.
Disgusted, I attempted to swallow the loathly stewed fruit, watching
Blythe askance as he hurriedly stuffed himself, using a tablespoon, with
every symptom of relish.
"Now," he cried, shoving back his chair, "I'm going to paint a moonlight
by moonlight. Wilna, if Billy arrives, make him comfortable, and tell him
I'll return by midnight." And without taking the trouble to notice me at
all, he strode away toward the veranda, chewing vigorously upon his last
prune.
"Your father," said I, "is eccentric. Genius usually is. But he is a most
interesting and estimable man. I revere him."
"It is kind of you to say so," said the girl, in a low voice.
I thought deeply for a few moments, then:
"Who is 'Billy?'" I inquired, casually.
I couldn't tell whether it was a sudden gleam of sunset light on her
face, or whether she blushed.
"Billy," she said softly, "is a friend of father's. His name is William
Green."
"Oh."
"He is coming out here to visit--father--I believe."
"Oh. An artist; and doubtless of mature years."
"He is a mineralogist by profession," she said, "--and somewhat young."
"Oh."
"Twenty-four years old," she added. Upon her pretty face was an absent
expression, vaguely pleasant. Her blue eyes became dreamy and exquisitely
remote.
I pondered deeply for a while:
"Wilna?" I said.
"Yes, Mr. Smith?" as though aroused from agreeable meditation.
But I didn't know exactly what to say, and I remained uneasily silent,
thinking about that man Green and his twenty-four years, and his
profession, and the bottom of the crater, and Wilna--and striving to
satisfy myself that there was no logical connection between any of these.
"I think," said I, "that I'll take a bucket of salad to your father."
Why I should have so suddenly determined to ingratiate myself with the
old grouch I scarcely understood: for the construction of a salad was my
very best accomplishment.
Wilna looked at me in a peculiar manner, almost as though she were
controlling a sudden and not unpleasant inward desire to laugh.
Evidently the finer and more delicate instincts of a woman were divining
my motive and sympathizing with my mental and sentimental perplexity.
So when she said: "I don't think you had better go near my father," I was
convinced of her gentle solicitude in my behalf.
"With a bucket of salad," I whispered softly, "much may be accomplished,
Wilna." And I took her little hand and pressed it gently and
respectfully. "Trust all to me," I murmured.
She stood with her head turned away from me, her slim hand resting limply
in mine. From the slight tremor of her shoulders I became aware how
deeply her emotion was now swaying her. Evidently she was nearly ready to
become mine.
But I remained calm and alert. The time was not yet. Her father had had
his prunes, in which he delighted. And when pleasantly approached with a
bucket of salad he could not listen otherwise than politely to what I
had to say to him. Quick action was necessary--quick but diplomatic
action--in view of the imminence of this young man Green, who evidently
was persona grata at the bungalow of this irritable old dodo.
Tenderly pressing the pretty hand which I held, and saluting the
finger-tips with a gesture which was, perhaps, not wholly ungraceful,
I stepped into the kitchen, washed out several heads of lettuce, deftly
chopped up some youthful onions, constructed a seductive French dressing,
and, stirring together the crisp ingredients, set the savoury masterpiece
away in the ice-box, after tasting it. It was delicious enough to draw
sobs from any pig.
When I went out to the veranda, Wilna had disappeared. So I unfolded and
set up some more box-traps, determined to lose no time.
Sunset still lingered beyond the chain of western mountains as I went out
across the grassy plateau to the cornfield.
Here I set and baited several dozen aluminium crow-traps, padding the
jaws so that no injury could be done to the birds when the springs
snapped on their legs.
Then I went over to the crater and descended its gentle, grassy slope.
And there, all along the borders of the vapoury wall, I set box-traps for
the lithe little denizens of the fire, baiting every trap with a handful
of fresh, sweet clover which I had pulled up from the pasture beyond the
cornfield.
My task ended, I ascended the slope again, and for a while stood there
immersed in pleasurable premonitions.
Everything had been accomplished swiftly and methodically within
the few hours in which I had first set eyes upon this extraordinary
place--everything!--love at first sight, the delightfully lightning-like
wooing and winning of an incomparable maiden and heiress; the discovery
of the fire creatures; the solving of the emerald problem.
And now everything was ready, crow-traps, fire-traps, a bucket of
irresistible salad for Blythe, a modest and tremulous avowal for Wilna as
soon as her father tasted the salad and I had pleasantly notified him of
my intentions concerning his lovely offspring.
Daylight faded from rose to lilac; already the mountains were growing
fairy-like under that vague, diffuse lustre which heralds the rise of the
full moon. It rose, enormous, yellow, unreal, becoming imperceptibly
silvery as it climbed the sky and hung aloft like a stupendous arc-light
flooding the world with a radiance so white and clear that I could very
easily have written verses by it, if I wrote verses.
Down on the edge of the forest I could see Blythe on his camp-stool,
madly besmearing his moonlit canvas, but I could not see Wilna anywhere.
Maybe she had shyly retired somewhere by herself to think of me.
So I went back to the house, filled a bucket with my salad, and started
toward the edge of the woods, singing happily as I sped on feet so light
and frolicsome that they seemed to skim the ground. How wonderful is the
power of love!
When I approached Blythe he heard me coming and turned around.
"What the devil do you want?" he asked with characteristic civility.
"I have brought you," said I gaily, "a bucket of salad."
"I don't want any salad!"
"W-what?"
"I never eat it at night."
I said confidently:
"Mr. Blythe, if you will taste this salad I am sure you will not regret
it." And with hideous cunning I set the bucket beside him on the grass
and seated myself near it. The old dodo grunted and continued to daub the
canvas; but presently, as though forgetfully, and from sheer instinct, he
reached down into the bucket, pulled out a leaf of lettuce, and shoved it
into his mouth.
My heart leaped exultantly. I had him!
"Mr. Blythe," I began in a winningly modulated voice, and, at the same
instant, he sprang from his camp-chair, his face distorted.
"There are onions in this salad!" he yelled. "What the devil do you mean!
Are you trying to poison me! What are you following me about for, anyway?
Why are you running about under foot every minute!"
"My dear Mr. Blythe," I protested--but he barked at me, kicked over the
bucket of salad, and began to dance with rage.
[Illustration: "Kicked over the bucket of salad, and began to dance
with rage."]
"What's the matter with you, anyway!" he bawled. "Why are you trying to
feed me? What do you mean by trying to be attentive to me!"
"I--I admire and revere you--"
"No you don't!" he shouted. "I don't want you to admire me! I don't
desire to be revered! I don't like attention and politeness! Do you hear!
It's artificial--out of date--ridiculous! The only thing that recommends
a man to me is his bad manners, bad temper, and violent habits. There's
some meaning to such a man, none at all to men like you!"
He ran at the salad bucket and kicked it again.
"They all fawned on me in Boston!" he panted. "They ran about under foot!
They bought my pictures! And they made me sick! I came out here to be rid
of 'em!"
I rose from the grass, pale and determined.
"You listen to me, you old grouch!" I hissed. "I'll go. But before I go
I'll tell you why I've been civil to you. There's only one reason in the
world: I want to marry your daughter! And I'm going to do it!"
I stepped nearer him, menacing him with outstretched hand:
"As for you, you pitiable old dodo, with your bad manners and your worse
pictures, and your degraded mania for prunes, you are a necessary evil
that's all, and I haven't the slightest respect for either you or your
art!"
"Is that true?" he said in an altered voice.
"True?" I laughed bitterly. "Of course it's true, you miserable dauber!"
"D-dauber!" he stammered.
"Certainly! I said 'dauber,' and I mean it. Why, your work would shame
the pictures on a child's slate!"
"Smith," he said unsteadily, "I believe I have utterly misjudged you.
I believe you are a good deal of a man, after all--"
"I'm man enough," said I, fiercely, "to go back, saddle my mule, kidnap
your daughter, and start for home. And I'm going to do it!"
"Wait!" he cried. "I don't want you to go. If you'll remain I'll be very
glad. I'll do anything you like. I'll quarrel with you, and you can
insult my pictures. It will agreeably stimulate us both. Don't go,
Smith--"
"If I stay, may I marry Wilna?"
"If you ask me I won't let you!"
"Very well!" I retorted, angrily. "Then I'll marry her anyway!"
"That's the way to talk! Don't go, Smith. I'm really beginning to like
you. And when Billy Green arrives you and he will have a delightfully
violent scene--"
"What!"
He rubbed his hands gleefully.
"He's in love with Wilna. You and he won't get on. It is going to be very
stimulating for me--I can see that! You and he are going to behave most
disagreeably to each other. And I shall be exceedingly unpleasant to you
both! Come, Smith, promise me that you'll stay!"
Profoundly worried, I stood staring at him in the moonlight, gnawing my
mustache.
"Very well," I said, "I'll remain if--"
Something checked me, I did not quite know what for a moment. Blythe,
too, was staring at me in an odd, apprehensive way. Suddenly I realised
that under my feet the ground was stirring.
"Look out!" I cried; but speech froze on my lips as beneath me the solid
earth began to rock and crack and billow up into a high, crumbling ridge,
moving continually, as the sod cracks, heaves up, and crumbles above the
subterranean progress of a mole.
Up into the air we were slowly pushed on the ever-growing ridge; and with
us were carried rocks and bushes and sod, and even forest trees.
I could hear their tap-roots part with pistol-like reports; see great
pines and hemlocks and oaks moving, slanting, settling, tilting crazily
in every direction as they were heaved upward in this gigantic
disturbance.
Blythe caught me by the arm; we clutched each other, balancing on the
crest of the steadily rising mound.
"W-what is it?" he stammered. "Look! It's circular. The woods are rising
in a huge circle. What's happening? Do you know?"
Over me crept a horrible certainty that something living was moving
under us through the depths of the earth--something that, as it
progressed, was heaping up the surface of the world above its unseen
and burrowing course--something dreadful, enormous, sinister, and
alive!
"Look out!" screamed Blythe; and at the same instant the crumbling summit
of the ridge opened under our feet and a fissure hundreds of yards long
yawned ahead of us.
And along it, shining slimily in the moonlight, a vast, viscous, ringed
surface was moving, retracting, undulating, elongating, writhing,
squirming, shuddering.
"It's a worm!" shrieked Blythe. "Oh, God! It's a mile long!"
As in a nightmare we clutched each other, struggling frantically to avoid
the fissure; but the soft earth slid and gave way under us, and we fell
heavily upon that ghastly, living surface.
Instantly a violent convulsion hurled us upward; we fell on it again,
rebounding from the rubbery thing, strove to regain our feet and scramble
up the edges of the fissure, strove madly while the mammoth worm slid
more rapidly through the rocking forests, carrying us forward with a
speed increasing.
Through the forest we tore, reeling about on the slippery back of the
thing, as though riding on a plowshare, while trees clashed and tilted
and fell from the enormous furrow on every side; then, suddenly out of
the woods into the moonlight, far ahead of us we could see the grassy
upland heave up, cake, break, and crumble above the burrowing course of
the monster.
"It's making for the crater!" gasped Blythe; and horror spurred us on,
and we scrambled and slipped and clawed the billowing sides of the furrow
until we gained the heaving top of it.
As one runs in a bad dream, heavily, half-paralyzed, so ran Blythe and I,
toiling over the undulating, tumbling upheaval until, half-fainting, we
fell and rolled down the shifting slope onto solid and unvexed sod on the
very edges of the crater.
Below us we saw, with sickened eyes, the entire circumference of the
crater agitated, saw it rise and fall as avalanches of rock and earth
slid into it, tons and thousands of tons rushing down the slope, blotting
from our sight the flickering ring of flame, and extinguishing the last
filmy jet of vapour.
Suddenly the entire crater caved in and filled up under my anguished
eyes, quenching for all eternity the vapour wall, the fire, and burying
the little denizens of the flames, and perhaps a billion dollars' worth
of emeralds under as many billion tons of earth.
Quieter and quieter grew the earth as the gigantic worm bored straight
down into depths immeasurable. And at last the moon shone upon a world
that lay without a tremor in its milky lustre.
"I shall name it Verma gigantica," said I, with a hysterical sob; "but
nobody will ever believe me when I tell this story!"
Still terribly shaken, we turned toward the house. And, as we approached
the lamplit veranda, I saw a horse standing there and a young man hastily
dismounting.
And then a terrible thing occurred; for, before I could even shriek,
Wilna had put both arms around that young man's neck, and both of his
arms were clasping her waist.
Blythe was kind to me. He took me around the back way and put me to bed.
And there I lay through the most awful night I ever experienced,
listening to the piano below, where Wilna and William Green were singing,
"Un Peu d'Amour."
THE EGGS OF THE SILVER MOON
In the new white marble Administration Building at Bronx Park, my private
office separated the offices of Dr. Silas Quint and Professor Boomly; and
it had been arranged so on purpose, because of the increasingly frequent
personal misunderstanding between these two celebrated entomologists.
It was very plain to me that a crisis in this quarrel was rapidly
approaching.
A bitter animosity had for some months existed on both sides, born of the
most intense professional jealousy. They had been friends for years. No
unseemly rivalry disturbed this friendship as long as it was merely a
question of collecting, preparing, and mounting for exhibition the vast
numbers of butterflies and moths which haunt this insectivorous earth.
Even their zeal in the eternal hunt for new and undescribed species had
not made them enemies.
I am afraid that my suggestion for the construction of a great glass
flying-cage for living specimens of moths and butterflies started the
trouble between these hitherto godly and middle-aged men. That, and the
Carnegie Educational Medal were the causes which began this deplorable
affair.
Various field collectors, employed by both Quint and Boomly, were always
out all over the world foraging for specimens; also, they were constantly
returning with spoils from every quarter of the globe.
Now, to secure rare and beautiful living specimens of butterflies and
moths for the crystal flying-cage was a serious and delicate job. Such
tropical insects could not survive the journey of several months from
the wilds of Australia, India, Asia, Africa, or the jungles of South
America--nor could semi-tropical species endure the captivity of a few
weeks or even days, when captured in the West Indies, Mexico, or Florida.
Only our duller-coloured, smaller, and hardier native species tolerated
capture and exhibition.
Therefore, the mode of procedure which I suggested was for our field
expeditions to obtain males and females of the same species of butterfly
or moth, mate them, and, as soon as any female deposited her eggs, place
the tiny pearl-like eggs in cold storage to retard their hatching, which
normally occurs, in the majority of species, within ten days or two
weeks.
This now was the usual mode of procedure followed by the field collectors
employed by Dr. Quint and Professor Boomly. And not only were the eggs
of various butterflies and moths so packed for transportation, but a
sufficient store of their various native food-plants was also preserved,
where such food-plants could not be procured in the United States. So
when the eggs arrived at Bronx Park, and were hatched there in due time,
the young caterpillars had plenty of nourishment ready for them in cold
storage.
Might I not, legitimately, have expected the Carnegie Educational
Medal for all this? I have never received it. I say this without
indignation--even without sorrow. I merely make the statement.
Yet, my system was really a very beautiful system; a tiny batch of eggs
would arrive from Ceylon, or Sumatra, or Africa; when taken from cold
storage and placed in the herbarium they would presently hatch; the
caterpillars were fed with their accustomed food-plant--a few leaves
being taken from cold storage every day for them--they would pass through
their three or four moulting periods, cease feeding in due time,
transform into the chrysalis stage, and finally appear in all the
splendour and magnificence of butterfly or moth.
The great glass flying-cage was now alive with superb moths and
butterflies, flitting, darting, fluttering among the flowering bushes
or feeding along the sandy banks of the brook which flowed through
the flying-cage, bordered by thickets of scented flowers. And it was
like looking at a meteoric shower of winged jewels, where the huge
metallic-blue Morphos from South America flapped and sailed, and the
orange and gold and green Ornithoptera from Borneo pursued their
majestic, bird-like flight--where big, glittering Papilios flashed
through the bushes or alighted nervously to feed for a few moments
on jasmine and phlox, and where the slowly flopping Heliconians winged
their way amid the denser tangles of tropical vegetation.
Nothing like this flying-cage had ever before been seen in New York;
thousands and thousands of men, women, and children thronged the lawn
about the flying-cage all day long.
By night, also, the effect was wonderful; the electric lights among the
foliage broke out; the great downy-winged moths, which had been asleep
all day while the butterflies flitted through the sunshine, now came out
to display their crimson or peacock-spotted wings, and the butterflies
folded their wings and went to bed for the night.
The public was enchanted, the authorities of the Bronx proud and
delighted; all apparently was happiness and harmony. Except that nobody
offered me the Carnegie medal.
I was sitting one morning in my office, which, as I have said, separated
the offices of Dr. Quint and Professor Boomly, when there came a loud
rapping on my door, and, at my invitation, Dr. Quint bustled in--a
little, meagre, excitable, near-sighted man with pointed mustaches and
a fleck of an imperial smudging his lower lip.
"Last week," he began angrily, "young Jones arrived from Singapore
bringing me the eggs of Erebia astarte, the great Silver Moon
butterfly. Attempts to destroy them have been made. Last night I left
them in a breeding-cage on my desk. Has anybody been in there?"
"I don't know," I said. "What has happened?"
"I found an ichneumon fly in the cage yesterday!" he shouted; "and this
morning the eggs have either shrunk to half their size or else the eggs
of another species have been secretly substituted for them and the Silver
Moon eggs stolen! Has he been in there?"
"Who?" I asked, pretending to misunderstand.
"He!" demanded Quint fiercely. "If he has I'll kill him some day."
He meant his one-time friend, Dr. Boomly. Alas!
"For heaven's sake, why are you two perpetually squabbling?" I asked
wearily. "You used to be inseparable friends. Why can't you make up?"
"Because I've come to know him. That's why! I have unmasked this--this
Borgia--this Machiavelli--this monster of duplicity! Matters are
approaching a point where something has got to be done short of murder.
I've stood all his envy and jealousy and cheap imputations and hints and
contemptible innuendoes that I'm going to--"
He stopped short, glaring at the doorway, which had suddenly been
darkened by the vast bulk of Professor Boomly--a figure largely abdominal
but majestic--like the massive butt end of an elephant. For the rest, he
had a rather insignificant and peevish face and a melancholy mustache
that usually looked damp.
"Mr. Smith," he said to me, in his thin, high, sarcastic voice--a voice
incongruously at variance with his bulk--"has anybody had the infernal
impudence to enter my room and nose about my desk?"
"Yes, I have!" replied Quint excitedly. "I've been in your room. What
of it? What about it?"
Boomly permitted his heavy-lidded eyes to rest on Quint for a moment,
then, turning to me:
"I want a patent lock put on my door. Will you speak to Professor
Farrago?"
"I want one put on mine, too!" cried Quint. "I want a lock put on my door
which will keep envious, dull-minded, mentally broken-down, impertinent,
and fat people out of my office!"
Boomly flushed heavily:
"Fat?" he repeated, glaring at Quint. "Did you say 'fat?'"
"Yes, fat--intellectually and corporeally fat! I want that kind of
individual kept out. I don't trust them. I'm afraid of them. Their minds
are atrophied. They are unmoral, possibly even criminal! I don't want
them in my room snooping about to see what I have and what I'm doing. I
don't want them to sneak in, eaten up with jealousy and envy, and try to
damage the eggs of the Silver Moon butterfly because the honour and glory
of hatching them would probably procure for me the Carnegie Educational
Medal--"
"Why, you little, dried-up, protoplasmic atom!" burst out Boomly, his
face suffused with passion, "Are you insinuating that I have any designs
on your batch of eggs?"
"It's my belief," shouted Quint, "that you want that medal yourself, and
that you put an ichneumon fly in my breeding-cage in hopes it would sting
the eggs of the Silver Moon."
"If you found an ichneumon fly there," retorted Boomly, "you probably
hatched it in mistake for a butterfly!" And he burst into a peal of
contemptuous laughter, but his little, pig-like eyes under the heavy lids
were furious.
"I now believe," said Quint, trembling with rage, "that you have
criminally substituted a batch of common Plexippus eggs for the Silver
Moon eggs I had in my breeding-cage! I believe you are sufficiently
abandoned to do it!"
"Ha! Ha!" retorted Boomly scornfully. "I don't believe you ever
had anything in your breeding-cage except a few clothes moths and
cockroaches!"
Quint began to dance:
"You did take them!" he yelled; "and you left me a bunch of milkweed
butterflies' eggs! Give me my eggs or I shall violently assault you!"
"Assault your grandmother!" remarked Boomly, with unscientific brevity.
"What do you suppose I want of your ridiculous eggs? Haven't I enough
eggs of Heliconius salome hatching to give me the Carnegie medal if
I want it?"
"The Silver Moon eggs are unique!" cried Quint. "You know it! You know
that if they hatch, pupate, and become perfect insects that I shall
certainly be awarded--"
"You'll be awarded the Matteawan medal," remarked Boomly with venom.
Quint ran at him with a half-suppressed howl, his momentum carrying him
halfway up Professor Boomly's person. Then, losing foothold, he fell to
the floor and began to kick in the general direction of Professor Boomly.
It was a sorrowful sight to see these two celebrated scientists panting,
mauling, scuffling and punching each other around the room, tables and
chairs and scrapbaskets flying in every direction, and I mounted on the
window-sill horrified, speechless, trying to keep clear of the revolving
storm centre.
"Where are my Silver Moon eggs!" screamed Dr. Quint. "Where are my eggs
that Jones brought me from Singapore--you entomological robber! You've
got 'em somewhere! If you don't give 'em up I'll find means to destroy
you!"
"You insignificant pair of maxillary palpi!" bellowed Professor Boomly,
galloping after Dr. Quint as he dodged around my desk. "I'll pull off
those antennæ you call whiskers if I can get hold of em--"
Dr. Quint's threatened mustaches bristled as he fled before the
elephantine charge of Professor Boomly--once again around my desk, then
out into the hall, where I heard the door of his office slam, and Boomly,
gasping, panting, breathing vengeance outside, and vowing to leave Quint
quite whiskerless when he caught him.
It was a painful scene for scientists to figure in or to gaze upon.
Profoundly shocked and upset, I locked up the anthropological department
offices and went out into the Park, where the sun was shining and a
gentle June wind stirred the trees.
Too completely upset to do any more work that day, I wandered about amid
the gaily dressed crowds at hazard; sometimes I contemplated the monkeys;
sometimes gazed sadly upon the seals. They dashed and splashed and raced
round and round their tank, or crawled up on the rocks, craned their wet,
sleek necks, and barked--houp! houp! houp!
For luncheon I went over to the Rolling Stone Restaurant. There was a
very pretty girl there--an unusually pretty girl--or perhaps it was one
of those days on which every girl looked unusually pretty to me. There
are such days.
Her voice was exquisite when she spoke. She said:
"We have, today, corned beef hash, fried ham and eggs, liver and
bacon--" but let that pass, too.
I took my tea very weak; by that time I learned that her name was Mildred
Case; that she had been a private detective employed in a department
store, and that her duties had been to nab wealthy ladies who forgot to
pay for objects usually discovered in their reticules, bosoms, and
sometimes in their stockings.
But the confinement of indoor work had been too much for Mildred Case,
and the only outdoor job she could find was the position of lady
waitress in the rustic Rolling Stone Inn.
She was very, very beautiful, or perhaps it was one of those days--but
let that pass, too.
"You are the great Mr. Percy Smith, Curator of the Anthropological
