"Just so," said Miss Austin encouragingly. "Do let us have your version.
The public simply longs for it."

"Well--I should tell you first that, although my husband was sometimes
irritable, he really was a good husband and we never had any vulgar
quarrels. It was only when he was not quite himself that he sometimes
said more than he meant, and he never quite forgot himself as he did
that day out at the Country Club.

"I was playing bridge in one of the smaller rooms when I heard his voice
pitched in a very excited key. I knew that something unusual had
occurred, and went out into the large central room at once. There I saw
him at the upper end of the room surrounded by several of the men, who
were apparently trying to induce him to leave. He was shouting and
saying such extraordinary things that my first impression was that he
was ill or had lost his mind.

"I reasoned with him, and as it did no good and as I was deeply hurt
and mortified, I left him to the men and returned to the bridge-room.
There, in spite of the kindness of my friends, I found I was too
overcome to play, and Dr. Anna Steuer offered to drive me home. That is
all, as far as the scene at the clubhouse is concerned, except that I
cannot sufficiently emphasise that he never had acted in a similar
manner before. If he had, I should not have continued to live with
him--not that I should have obtained a divorce, for I do not approve of
the institution; but I should have moved out. I have a little money of
my own, left me by my father."

"Ah--yes. Thanks. And after you were in your own house? Do you mind? Of
course, we have read the story you told the men, but we should like our
own story. Perhaps you may have thought of some other points since."

"Yes, there are one or two. I had entirely forgotten in the agitation of
that time that I went below, after packing my husband's suitcase, to get
a drink of filtered water and thought I heard some one try the kitchen
door. I also thought I heard some one upstairs, and called the name of
my maid. Of course, a good deal will be made of this omission, but
considering the terrible circumstances and the fact that I never had
been interviewed before, I do not find it in the least remarkable.

"But, of course, you want me to begin at the beginning." And in her
pleasant shallow voice, she told the story she had immediately concocted
for her friends.

As Miss Austin asked a few questions in the endeavour to inject some
essence of personality into the bald story, Rush permitted the
sensation of dismay with which he had listened to take implacable form.
He never had heard a less convincing story on the witness stand. Mrs.
Balfame had talked glibly, far too glibly. It was evident to the least
initiated that she had been rehearsed. Was her mind really as colourless
as her voice? Had she no sense of drama? He had hoped that the
excitement of this interview, coming after weeks of supreme monotony,
would kindle her to animation and a natural enrichment of vocabulary;
and, witnessing its effect upon these friendly women, she would be
encouraged to simulate both on the witness-stand. It was a pity, he
reflected bitterly, that a woman who could lie to her counsel with such
a fine front of innocence could not "put over" the large dramatic lie
that would help him so materially in his difficult task.

Miss Austin, despairing of colour, made a shift with psychology. "Would
you mind telling us, Mrs. Balfame, if you feel a very great dread of the
trial? We realise that it must loom a terrible ordeal."

"Oh, of course, the mere thought of all that publicity horrifies me
whenever I permit myself to think of it, but it has to be, and that is
the end of it, since the real culprit will not come forward. But I feel
confident I shall not break down under the strain. I might have done so
if the trial had followed immediately upon my arrest, but all these
weeks in jail have prepared me for anything."

"But you are not terrified--of--of the outcome? We know and rejoice that
the chances are all in your favour, but men are so queer."

"I am not in the least terrified. It is impossible to convict an
innocent woman in this country; and then"--inclining her head graciously
to the watchful Rush,--"I have the first criminal lawyer in Brabant
County to defend me. It is a detestable thought,--to be stared at in the
courtroom as if I were an object in a museum,--but I shall keep thinking
that in a few days at most it will be over and that I shall then return
to the private life I love."

"Yes. And would you mind telling us something of your plans? Shall you
continue to live in Elsinore?"

"I shall go far away, to Europe, if possible. I suppose I shall return
in time. Of course" (in hasty afterthought) "I should not be contented
for very long without my friends; they have grown to be doubly
valuable--and valued--during this long term of incarceration. But I must
travel for a while."

"That is quite natural. How normal you are, dear Mrs. Balfame!" It was
Miss Lauretta Lea who spoke up with enthusiasm. "You are just a sweet,
serene, normal woman who couldn't commit a violent act if you tried. Be
sure the public shall see you as you are. I don't wonder your friends
adore you. Don't mind being stared at. The more people that see you, the
more friends you will have."

Her eyes moved to Rush, and she was rewarded by a smile that expressed
relief. She was a very experienced reporter and knew exactly how he
felt.

"And believe me," she said as they trooped down the stairs, having
passed before the Balfame throne and received a limp handshake of
dismissal, "that poor man's worried half to death. He'll get about as
much help from her on the stand as he would from a tired codfish. But
she really is a divinely sweet woman and lovely to look at, and so I'll
sob over her for all I'm worth and seclude from the cynical and the
sentimental that she has distilled crystal in her veins."

"Did you ever know such a perfectly rotten interview!" Miss Austin was
scowling fiercely. "The men did a thousand times better because they
took her by surprise, but even they cursed her. I figure out she has
made up her Friday Club mind to look the marble goddess minus every
female instinct, including a natural desire to shoot a brute of a
husband. But I wish she had brain enough to put it over with some pep.
She was afraid to be dramatic,--or couldn't be,--and so she was trying
to be literary--"

"I don't agree with you!" And arguing and scolding, they wended their
disapproving way over to the Dobton Inn and sat them down at tables to
make the most of their bare material.

"No censorship needed here," growled Miss Austin. "She froze my very
imagination."




CHAPTER XXVIII


Rush walked up and down the room for a few moments in silence. Mrs.
Balfame sat back and folded her hands. She was haunted by a vague sense
of inefficiency, of having not quite risen to the occasion, but she felt
there could be no doubt that she not only had impressed the reporters as
an innocent woman but as a perfect lady. The rest didn't matter.

"Are you really not a bit nervous?" demanded Rush, swinging on his heel
and confronting her.

"I will not permit myself to be. And except that I hate publicity, I
really do not dread the trial. It means the beginning of the end of this
detestable prison life. I want to be out and free. A week in a courtroom
is not too heavy a price to pay."

"Have you ever been to a murder trial?"

"Of course not. Such a thing would never have occurred to me."

Rush sighed. She had no imagination. But as her counsel he reminded
himself that he should be grateful for the lack; he wanted no scenes,
either in the courtroom or here in the imminent hours. But he would have
welcomed a little more feminine shrinking, appeal to his superior
strength. Even when he had worshipped her from afar, she had never moved
him so powerfully as on the day of her arrest when she had flung herself
over the table in an abandonment to despair as complete as the most
exacting male could wish. That incident had long since taken on the
shifting outlines of a dream. If she had felt any tremors since then
she had concealed them from him.

"Tell me," he asked almost wistfully, "are you not terribly frightened
at times? You are alone here so much. And it has been an experience to
try even a strong man's nerves."

"Women nowadays really have better nerves than men. We not only lead a
far fuller and more varied life than our predecessors, but you men work
at such a terrific strain that it is a wonder you retain any control of
your nerves at all. I will admit that I did have attacks of fear at
first. It was all so strange and odd. But I got over them. You can get
used to anything, I guess. And I have a strong will. I just made myself
think about something else. This war has been a godsend. Have you
noticed my new maps? I've really read about twenty war books, besides
all the editorials, and they have given me a distaste for lighter
reading, and really developed my--my--intellect. That seems such a big
word. And then I've knitted dozens of things for the children and
soldiers, and felt as if I were of some use for the first time in my
life."

She glanced at him shyly, as he stared through the bars of one of the
windows. The suppressions of a lifetime made it impossible to betray any
depth of feeling save under terrible stress. She was ashamed of her
breakdown before him on the day of her arrest, but she was conscious of
the wish that she were able to infuse her cool even tones with warmth,
to make them tremulous at the right moment; but if she attempted to
betray something of her newer self even in her eyes, self-consciousness
overcame her and she dropped the lids almost in a panic.

She wondered if love broke down those cliffs of ice that seemed to
encompass a new-born soul. Or was it merely that the other members of
her personal company, mature, jealous, self-sufficient, resented the
intrusion of this shrinking alien? They had got on quite well without
it; they felt no yearning for possible complications, readjustments.
With all their quiet force they discouraged the stranger. Before any of
the supreme experiences, including love, they might be routed, the new
force might spring up in an instant like a flower from the magic soils
of India--but not while the conventions bulwarked them. Their sum was
Mrs. Balfame of Elsinore, and not for a moment did they permit
themselves to forget it.

Moreover, it was quite true that she had conquered her first
apprehensions and welcomed the trial as the initial step toward freedom.
Her poise had always been remarkable, the result in part of a
self-centred life and a will driven relentlessly in a narrow groove.
More than ever was she determined to sit through those long days in the
courtroom with the cold aloofness of the unfortunate women of history.
The very ascents she had made of secret and solitary heights alone would
have restored her poise, for she felt on far more friendly terms with
herself than when living with a wretch she loathed, and dreaming of no
higher altitudes then complete success in Elsinore. But she wished for
the first time that she were a younger woman, or had made those ascents
many years ago; she would have liked to reveal herself spontaneously to
this interesting young man who was so deeply in love with her.

Suddenly she wondered if he were as ardently in love with her as in
that brief period when they had talked of themselves. Not loving him in
return, she had been content with lip-service, the sure knowledge that
all his fine abilities were at work upon the obstacles to her freedom;
and she would have been deeply annoyed if he had broken the pact made on
the day of her arrest and reiterated his devotion and his hopes.

But significant happenings--omissions--a certain flatness.... She turned
her head sharply and looked at him. He was still staring moodily through
the bars.

If far too diffident to show the best that was in her, she found it
comparatively simple to practice the feminine art of angling, albeit
with a somewhat heavy hand.

She asked softly: "Don't you think I did the wise thing to tell them I
intended to travel as soon as I was acquitted? It surely would be in
better taste than to settle down here--in that house!"

"Did you mean it? The intention would make a good impression on the
public, certainly."

"Why, of course I meant it. I am not a good hand at saying things merely
for effect."

"Where shall you go? Europe is rather impossible."

"Oh, not altogether. There is always Italy. And there is no danger from
Zeppelins in the interior of Great Britain. And there is Spain--"

"I think Europe a very good place for women to keep away from until the
war is over. Any of the nations may become involved at any
minute--ourselves, for that matter. Better follow the advice of
advertisers and see America first."

"Yes, I could visit the Expositions in California, and camp for a while
in Glacier Park, and there are the Yellowstone and Grand Cañon--but all
that would only consume a few months--and then there is this winter to
think of. What I feel I should do is to stay away for a year, at
least--"

"You could live very pleasantly in Southern California."

"I should be very conspicuous in those small fashionable settlements.
The case has been telegraphed all over the country, and I have seen
dreadful pictures of myself in several Western papers."

"Well, you might live quietly in New York until the war is over. There
is no better place to hide--if you avoid the restaurants and theatres.
And after all, even a cause célèbre is quickly forgotten if there is
no aftermath. But I certainly advise against even sailing for Europe
until peace is declared. There is always the danger of mines and too
enthusiastic submarines."

She turned quite cold and stared at her hands. They were well-shaped but
large, and they looked like blocks of white marble on her black gown. He
was still at the window, and his tone was listless. She had a curious
sense of panic in the region of her heart. But instantly she curled her
lip with defiant scorn. Was she the woman to fancy herself in love with
a man the moment she seemed to be in danger of losing him? Besides, no
doubt, the poor man was tired, and too absorbed in the case to have any
room in him for the moods of the lover. Only a foolish impulsive woman
would in conditions like the present try to rouse a dormant passion.
When she was free, and he as well, his heart would automatically take
precedence once more and he would plead ardently for the privilege of
marrying her. That was quite in order.

She rose briskly. "Let me show you this map," she said. "It is the very
latest--Letitia Battle brought it to me two days ago. And do smoke."

"Thanks, but I must go over and watch those girls. Yes, it is a fine
map. This war certainly is a godsend! Good luck. Keep up those splendid
spirits. You're all right."




CHAPTER XXIX


"Oyez, oyez, oyez! The Supreme Court of the State of New York County of
Brabant trial term is now in session all people having business with
this court may draw near and give their attention and they shall be
heard."

The court crier delivered his morning oration in one breathless
sentence, the last five words of which only have ever been captured by
mortal ears. The roll of the jury was called. The first witness stood on
the step of the witness-stand and swore by the everlasting God that the
testimony he would give in the trial of the People of the State of New
York against the defendant would be the truth, the whole truth and
nothing but the truth, and then he seated himself in the chair. The
trial of Mrs. Balfame began.

It had taken three days to select a jury. If Rush was determined to keep
out Germans, Mr. Gore, the district attorney, was equally reluctant to
admit to the box any man whom he suspected of being under commands from
his wife to get on that jury and acquit Mrs. Balfame, if he had to
imperil his immortal soul. He also harboured suspicions of felonious
activities on the part of Mr. Sam Cummack and certain other patriotic
citizens less devoted to the cause of justice than to Elsinore. In
consequence the questions were not only uncommonly searching, but both
the district attorney and the defendant's counsel exhausted their
peremptory challenges.

The talesmen that had crowded the courtroom beyond the railing were for
the most part farmers and tradesmen, but there were not a few "prominent
residents," including rooted Brabantites and busy commuters. The last
answered without hesitation that they had followed the case closely from
the first and formed an unalterable opinion; then, dismissed, rushed off
and caught a late train for New York. Those of Mrs. Balfame's own class
would have been passed cheerfully by Mr. Rush, but in spite of their
careless avowals that they had been too busy to follow the case, or had
found it impossible to reach any conclusion, they were peremptorily
challenged by the district attorney. They, too, went to New York, not on
business, and returned to their hearthstones as late as possible.

Finally a jury of almost excessively "plain men" were chosen after long
and weary hours of wrangling. They were all married; their ages ranged
from forty-five to fifty; not one looked as if he had an illusion left
in regard to the sex that had shared his burdens for a quarter of a
century, or, German or no German, he had any leniency in him for a woman
who had presumed to abbreviate the career of a man. But at least they
were real Americans, with reputations for straight dealing, and good
old-fashioned ideals of justice, irrespective of sex. Rush doubted if
any of them could be "fixed" by Mr. Cummack or the able politicians
whose services he had bespoken, although the sternest visages often hid
unsuspected weak spots; but after all his best chance was with honest
men whose soft spots were of another sort.

So naïve had been the eagerness of the German-American talesmen to get
on the jury that Rush had had little difficulty in demonstrating their
unfitness for duty. These were too thrifty to go to New York and stood
in no fear of their wives, but they avoided the gemütlich resort of
Old Dutch until the trial was over.

Throughout this ordeal Mrs. Balfame sat immovable, impassive, her face a
white bas-relief against the heavy black crêpe of her veil, which hung
like a black panel between her profile and the western light. Her chair
was at the foot of the long table which stood beneath the two tiers of
the jury-box and was reserved for counsel, the district attorney, the
assistants and clerks. Her calm grey eyes looked straight ahead,
interested apparently in nothing but the empty witness-stand, on the
right of the jury and the left of the judge. She knew that the
reporters, and the few outsiders that had managed to crowd in with the
talesmen, scarcely took their eyes from her face, and that the staff
artists were sketching her. All her complacency had fled before certain
phases of this preliminary ordeal for which no one had thought to
prepare her. The constant reiteration of that question of horrid
significance: "Have you any objection to capital punishment as practised
in this State?" struck at the roots of her courage, enhanced her prison
pallor; and that immovable battery of eyes, hostile, or coldly
observant, critical, appraising, made her long to grind her teeth, to
rise in her chair and tell those men and women, insolent in their
freedom, what she thought of their vulgar insensibility. But not for
nothing had she schooled herself, and not for a moment did her nerves
really threaten revolt. She had taken her second sleeping powder on the
night preceding the opening of the trial, but on the third morning she
awakened with the momentary wish that she had preserved Dr. Anna's
poison, or could summon death in any form rather than go over to that
courthouse and be tried for her life. For the first time she understood
the full significance of her condition.

But Mrs. Battle, Mrs. Cummack and Mrs. Gifning, when they bustled in to
"buck her up," congratulated her upon "not having a nerve in her body";
and although she had felt she must surely faint at the end of the
underground tunnel between the jail and the rear of the courthouse, she
had walked into that room of dread import upstairs with her head erect,
her eyes level, and her hands steady. She may have built a fool's
paradise for herself, assisted by her well-meaning friends, during the
past ten weeks, and dwelt in it smugly; but as it fell about her ears
she stood erect with a real courage that strengthened her soul for any
further shocks and surprises this terrible immediate future of hers
might hold.

On the first day, although she never glanced at a talesman, she had
listened eagerly to every question, every answer, every challenge. As
the third day wore on, she felt only weariness of mind, and gratitude
that she had a strong back. She was determined to sit erect and immobile
if the trial lasted a month. And not only was her personal pride
involved. Circumstances had delivered her to the public eye, therefore
should it receive an indelible impression of a worthy representative of
the middle-class American of the smaller town, so little unlike the
women of the wealthier class, and capable of gracing any position to
which fate might call her--a type the United States of America alone has
bred; also of a woman whose courage and dignity had never been surpassed
by any man brought to the bar of justice on the awful charge of murder.

She knew that this attitude, as well as her statuesque appearance, would
antagonise the men reporters but enchant her loyal friends, the women.
Her estimate was very shrewd. The poor sob sisters, squeezed in wherever
they could find a vacant chair, or even a half of one (all the tables
being reserved for the men), surrendered in a body to her cold beauty,
her superb indifference, soul and pen. A unanimous verdict of guilty
brought in by that gum-chewing small-headed jury merely would petrify
these women's belief in her innocence. She was vicarious romance; for
women that write too much have little time to live and no impulse to
murder any one in the world but the city editor.

On the morning of the fourth day, the space between the enclosure and
the walls of the courtroom was filled with spectators from all over the
county, many of them personal friends of Mrs. Balfame; but New York City
would not become vitally interested until the business of examining the
minor witnesses was concluded. Behind and at the left of Mrs. Balfame
were the members of her intimate circle. Occasionally they whispered to
her, and she smiled so sweetly and with such serene composure that even
the men reporters admitted she looked younger and more feminine--and
more handsome--than on that day of the interview which had proved her
undoing.

"But she did it all right," they assured one another. They must believe
in her guilt or suffer twinges in that highly civilised and possibly
artificial section of the brain tabulated as conscience. Their fixed
theory was that she had mixed the poison for Balfame and then, being in
a highly nervous state, and apprehensive that he would capriciously
refuse to drink it, had snatched her pistol as she heard his voice in
the distance, dashed downstairs and out into the grove, and fired with
her established accuracy.

She had had plenty of time between the crime and her arrest to pass the
pistol to one of her friends, or even to slip out at night and drop it
in the marsh.

As to the shot that had missed Balfame and entered the tree: it was
either by one of those coincidences more frequent in fact than in
fiction that another enemy of Balfame's had been lurking in the grove,
intent upon murder; or the bullet hole was older than they had inferred.
The idea of a lover they scoffed at openly. And it was one of the
established facts, as they reminded their sisters of the press, that the
worst women in history had looked like angels, statues or babies; they
had also possessed powerful sex magnetism, and this the handsome
defendant wholly lacked.

The theory of the women reporters was far simpler. She hadn't done it
and that was the end of it.

The judge, a tall imposing man with inherited features and accumulated
flesh, very stately and remote in his flowing silk gown, looked
unspeakably bored for three days, but was visibly hopeful as he swept up
to his seat on the rostrum on Thursday morning. As the justice for
Brabant, Mr. Bascom, had not been on speaking terms with the deceased,
and as his wife was one of the defendant's closest friends, an eminent
Supreme Court justice from one of the large neighbouring cities had been
assigned to the case.

The reporters of the evening newspapers, were packed closely about a
long table parallel with the one just below the jury-box, and behind
were four or five smaller tables dedicated to the morning stars. A large
number of favoured spectators had found seats within the railings, but a
passage was kept open for the boys who came up at regular intervals to
get copy from the "evening table" for the telegraph operator below
stairs.

Broderick's seat beneath the rostrum commanded both the witness-box and
Mrs. Balfame. He had used his influence to have Alys Crumley assigned to
the position of artist for the Woman's Page of the News, and she and
Sarah Austin shared a chair.

The trial began. Dr. Lequer established the fact of the death, described
the course of the bullet, demonstrating that it had been fired by some
one concealed in the grove. A surveyor followed and exhibited to the
jury a map of the house and grounds. Three of the younger members of the
Country Club, Mr. John Bradshaw Battle, cashier of the Elsinore Bank;
Mr. Lemuel Cummack, son of Elsinore's esteemed citizen, Mr. Sam Cummack;
and Mr. Leonard Corfine, a commuter, had been subpoenaed after a
matching of wits. Overawed by the solemnity of the oath, they gave a
circumstantial account of the quarrel which had preceded the murder but
a few hours--all, in spite of constant interruptions from the
defendant's counsel, conveying the impression, however unwillingly, that
Mrs. Balfame had been livid with wrath and the man who had been her
husband insufferable. It was a master-stroke of the district attorney
to open his case with the damaging testimony of two members of the loyal
Elsinore families. As for Mr. Corfine, although born and brought up
without the pale, he had been graciously received upon electing to build
his nest in Elsinore and his young wife was one of Mrs. Balfame's
meekest admirers.

Mr. Broderick muttered, "H'm! H'm!" and Mr. Bruce squirmed round from
the "evening table" and jerked his eyebrows at his senior. "Bad! Bad!"
muttered Mr. Broderick's neighbour. "But watch her nerve. Can you beat
it? She hasn't batted an eyelash."

Two former servants that had preceded Frieda in the Balfame menage
testified that the household consisted of three people only, the master
and mistress and the one in help. A gardener came three times a week in
the morning. No, none of the old spare rooms was now furnished, and the
Balfames never had had visitors overnight.

The prosecution rested, and Mr. Rush approached the bar according to
usage and asked that the case be dismissed. The judge ruled that it
should proceed; and immediately after the noon recess the first witness
for the defence was called. This was Mr. Cummack, and he testified
vigorously to the harmonious relations of the deceased and his amiable
wife; that Mrs. Balfame--who was always pale--had treated the episode
out at the Club in the casual manner observed by all seasoned and
intelligent wives, the conversation over the telephone in his house
proving that the domestic heavens were swept clean of storm-clouds; and
that the deceased had departed for his home quite happy and singing at
the top of his lungs. He had often remarked jocularly (his was a cheery
and jocular temperament) that he expected to die with his boots on,
especially since he had taken to bawling Tipperary in the face of
American Germany.

It is not to be imagined that Mr. Cummack was able to deliver himself of
this valuable testimony without frequent and indignant interruptions
from the district attorney, whose "irrelevant, incompetent and
immaterial" rang through the courtroom like the chorus of a Gilbert and
Sullivan opera. Mr. Gore, a wasp of a man with snapping black eyes and a
rasping voice emitted through his higher nasal passages, succeeded in
having much of this testimony stricken out, but not before the wily Mr.
Rush, who stood on tiptoe, as alert and nervous as a race horse at the
grandstand, had by his adroit swift questions fairly flung it into the
jury-box. It was of the utmost importance with an obstinate provincial
jury to establish at once a favourable general impression of the
prisoner.

When, in the theatre, a trial scene is depicted, it is necessary to
interpose dramatic episodes, but no one misses these adventitious
incidents in a real trial for murder, so dramatic is the bare fact that
a human being is battling for his life. When the prisoner at the bar is
a woman reasonably young and good looking, the interest is so intense
and complete that the sudden intrusion of one of the incidents which
have become the staples of the theatre, such as the real culprit rushing
into the courtroom and confessing himself, a suicide in the witness-box,
or dramatic conduct on the part of the defendant, would be resented by
the spectators, as an anti-climax. Real drama is too logical and grimly
progressive to tolerate the extrinsic.

The three other men who had been at Mr. Cummack's house that night were
called, and corroborated his story. They all wore an expression of
gentle amusement as if the bare idea of the stately and elegant Mrs.
Balfame descending to play even a passive rôle in a domestic row was as
unthinkable as that any woman could find aught in David Balfame to rouse
her to ire.

"By Jove!" whispered Mr. Broderick to Mr. Wagstaff of the Morning
Flag, "just figure to yourself what the line would be if she had been
caught red-handed and was putting up a defence of temporary insanity
caused by the well-known proclivities of that beast. A good subject for
a cartoon would be Dave Balfame in heaven with a tin halo on,
whitewashing Mrs. B., weeds and all. The human mind is nothing but a
sewer."

The afternoon session was also enlivened by the testimony of several of
the ladies who had been members of the bridge party on the day of Mr.
Balfame's unseemly conduct at the Club. They testified that although
Mrs. Balfame naturally dissolved upon her return to the card-room, there
had been nothing whatever in her demeanour to suggest seething passion.
Mrs. Battle, who was an imposing figure in the witness chair, her
greater bulk being above the waist, tossed her head and asseverated with
refined emphasis that Mrs. Balfame was one of those rare and exquisite
beings that are temperamentally incapable of passion of any sort. Her
immediate return to her home was prompted more by delicacy than even by
pain. Miss Crumley's pencil faltered as she listened. She could not
give a jeering public even a faithful outline of a woman as devoted to
the sacred cause of friendship and Elsinore as Mrs. Battle.

The testimony of none of these ladies was more emphatic than that of
Mrs. Bascom, wife of the supplanted justice, and she added unexpectedly
that she had been so upset herself that she too had left the clubhouse
immediately, and, her swift car passing Dr. Anna Steuer's little
runabout, she had seen Mrs. Balfame chatting pleasantly and without a
trace of recent emotion.

Mrs. Balfame almost relaxed the set curves of her mouth at this
surprising statement. She recalled that a car had passed and that she
had wondered at the time if any one had noticed her extreme agitation.
She kept her muscles in order, but unconsciously her eyes followed Mrs.
Bascom, as she left the witness-chair, with an expression of puzzled
gratitude.

The District Attorney turned to the reporters with a short sardonic
laugh, and Mr. Broderick shook his head as he murmured to Mr. Wagstaff:

"Can you beat that? And yet they say women don't stand by one another."

"Good for the whole game, I guess," replied the young Flag star, who
was enamoured of a very pretty suffragette.

The Judge rose, and the afternoon session was over. The great case of
The People vs. Mrs. Balfame rested until the following morning.




CHAPTER XXX


Mrs. Balfame walked back through the now familiar tunnel more hopeful
and elated than any one in the courtroom would have inferred from her
chiselled manner.

"I almost feel that I have the courage to look at the sketches of myself
in the papers," she said lightly to Rush, who escorted her. "I haven't
dared open a paper since Monday morning."

"Better not." Rush also was in high spirits. "Keep your mental mercury
as high as possible. It doesn't matter, anyhow. You'll be clear in less
than a week. The impression all those splendid friends of yours created
knocked the prosecution silly."

"I have not once glanced at the jury," said Mrs. Balfame proudly, "and I
never shall. All I was conscious of was that they were chewing gum, and
that the man above me snorts constantly."

"That's Houston. He's likely to be predisposed in your favour on account
of your intimacy with Dr. Anna. And he's a just man, of some
intelligence. I fancy none of them is in the mood to be too hard on any
one, for they are having a fine vacation in the Paradise City Hotel.
Each has a big room with a soft bed and rich and delicate food three
times a day. If they don't get indigestion they will be inclined to
mercy on general principles. I engineered the housing of them. Gore was
all for putting them up at the Dobton Inn, where they would have grown
as vicious as starved dogs. I won my point by reminding him that certain
men of that sort try to get on a jury for the sake of having a rest and
a soft time, and if they aren't coddled, they are equal to falling ill
and forcing the court to begin the trial over again. You're all right."

They were in the jail sitting-room, and she stood with her head thrown
back and her eyes shining. The moment they had entered she had removed
her heavy hat and veil and run her hands through her crushed hair. Rush,
who was very nervous and excited, made a swift motion forward as if to
seize her hands. But it was only later, when alone, that she realised
that possibly she had brushed aside an opportunity to rekindle a flame
which she alternately feared and doubted was burning low; she was not
thinking of him and exclaimed happily:

"It is quite a wonderful sensation to feel that you have made friends
like that. My! how they did lie! And so convincingly! For a moment I was
quite the outsider and deeply impressed with the weakness of the case
against the accused. Here they come. I feel as if I never really loved
them before." And she ran to the door to admit the elated trio who that
day had made their noblest sacrifice to the cause of friendship. Mrs.
Balfame kissed them and embraced them, and dried their excited tears,
while Rush, his contemptible part in the day's drama forgotten, slunk
down the stairs and out of the jail.

He met Alys Crumley as she was about to board the trolley for Elsinore,
and she stepped back and congratulated him warmly.

"Your brain worked like blades of chain lightning," she said with real
enthusiasm. "I know you have only begun, but I can well imagine--wasn't
Mrs. Balfame delighted?"

"With her friends' testimony," he replied gloomily. "I don't seem to
come in."

There are some impulses, born of sudden opportunity, too strong for
mortal powers of resistance. "Come home to supper," said Miss Crumley,
with the same spontaneous warmth. "You look so tired, and Mother
promised me Maryland chicken and waffles. Besides, I want to show you my
drawings. I am so proud of being a staff artist."

"I'll come," said Rush promptly.




CHAPTER XXXI


The following day was also taken by the examination of witnesses for the
defence. Dr. Lequer, who had been called in occasionally by the Balfames
when Dr. Anna was unavailable, and who was also an old friend of the
family, asserted that so far as he knew there never had been a quarrel
between husband and wife. Mrs. Balfame, in fact, was unique in his
experience, inasmuch as she never looked depressed nor shed tears.

He was followed by a woman who had been general housemaid in the Balfame
home for three years. She had left it to reward the devotion of a
plumber, and between her and Frieda there had been a long line of the
usual incompetents. Mrs. Figg testified with an enthusiasm which
triumphed over nerves and grammar that although she guessed Mr. Balfame
was about like other husbands, especially at breakfast, Mrs. Balfame was
too easy-going to mind. She'd never seen her mad. Yes, she was an
exacting mistress, all right, terrible particular, and she never sat
with the hired girl in the kitchen and gossiped, and you couldn't take a
liberty with her like you could with some; but that was just her way,
naturally proud and silent-like. She was terrible economical but a kind
mistress, as she didn't scold and follow up, once she was sure the girl
would suit, and not a bit mean about evenings and afternoons off. She
did up her own room and dusted the downstairs rooms, except for the
weekly cleaning. No, she never'd seen no pistol. It wasn't her way to
look in bureau drawers. No, she'd never seen or heard any jealousy,
tempers, and so forth, and had always taken it for granted that Mrs.
Balfame wasn't on to Mr. Balfame's doings--or if she was, she didn't
care. There was lots like that.
