confronted in that inexorable labyrinth, neither side quite meaning it
or realizing it.
That was a very crucial moment indeed, but the crisis had come for us
five or six years before when the case of some conscientious citizens,
arrested in the Western Reserve for violation of that abominable law,
came before Chief-Justice Swann of the Ohio Supreme Court. It was hoped
by the great majority of the Republican party and largely expected that
Justice Swann's opinion would in whatever sort justify the offenders,
and it was known that the Governor would support the decision with an
armed force against the United States, which must logically attempt the
execution of the law with their troops. Very probably the state of Ohio
would have been beaten in such an event, but Justice Swann defeated the
popular hope and expectation before-hand by confirming the judgment
against those right-minded but wrong-headed friends of humanity. Ohio
was
[Illustration: Old-time dwellings on one of the Columbus streets that
Mr. Howells used to frequent]
spared the disaster which befell South Carolina five or six years later,
and Justice Swann suffered the penalty of men whose judgment is
different from the convictions of their contemporaries. From being one
of the most honored leaders of his party, with the prospect of any
highest place in its gift, he remained one of the most distinguished
jurists of his time whose best reward came coldly from those who would
not blame where they could not praise. In Ohio the judiciary is
elective, and Judge Swann hastened the decision of the court before the
meeting of the Republican State Convention in order that his party might
not unwittingly renominate him in the expectation of an opinion from him
favorable to the good men of Ohio who had broken the bad law of the
United States.
There is a legend, cherished more for its dramatic possibility than for
any intrinsic probability, that when Lincoln appointed Noah L. Swayne
justice of the Supreme Court of the United States he supposed that he
was appointing Joseph Swann, and that he was misled by the similarity of
the names, not very great either to ear or eye. Swayne was then one of
the most eminent members of the Columbus bar, and, though he lacked the
judicial experience of Swann, was entirely fit for the place he was
called to fill. If such a mistake was made it was one which could well
retrieve itself, but it seems a very idle fancy which has toyed with its
occurrence. It would be altogether too nice in the face of its
unlikelihood to inquire whether Lincoln might have wished to express a
certain sympathy for the eminent jurist in the arrest of his public
career which followed his decision. One would first have to establish
the fact of such a feeling in him and prove that if he had it he would
have been so careless of the jurist's name as to mistake another name
for it. These are the things that happen in fiction when the novelist
is hard driven by the exigencies of his plot, but cannot easily occur in
sober history.
I met both of these prominent men during my Columbus years, as an
improminent young fellow-citizen might, Justice Swayne rather often, and
Justice Swann once at least, in their own houses. On this sole occasion,
which dimly remains with me, I was paying one of those evening calls
which we youth were diligent in making at houses where there were young
ladies; and after due introduction to the great jurist, I was aware of
him, withdrawn and darkling in the next room, not unkindly, but not
sensibly contributing to the gaiety of the time in me. That might have
been after I was asked to a party at his house, which I was told, by a
lady versed in such mysteries, was the greatest distinction which
society had to offer in our city, and I suppose from this fact that the
popular blame for his momentous decision, even if it was of much force,
did not follow him into more rarefied air.
XI
We young men of that time were mostly Republicans, but some of us were
Democrats and some of us were Southerners, or derivatively Southern. I
have said how little society with us was affected by New England, even
in such a custom as Thanksgiving, and I may go a little farther and say
how it was characterized for good as well as for evil by the nearer
South rather than the farther East, but more for good than for evil.
Many people of Southern origin among us had chosen a Northern home
because they would rather live in a Free State than a Slave State; they
had not cast their sectional patriotism, but when it came to a question
of which ideal should prevail, they preferred the Northern ideal. They
derived from that South which antedated the invention of the
cotton-gin, and which could take a leading part in keeping the
Northwestern Territory free, with Ohio the first Free State born of that
great mother of Free States. The younger generation of their blood were
native Ohioans, and these were not distinguishable from the children of
the New-Englanders and the Scotch-Irish Pennsylvanians by anything that
I can remember. We had already begun to be Ohioans, with an accent of
our own, and I suppose our manners were simpler and freer than those of
the East, but the American manners were then everywhere simple and free,
and are so yet, I believe, among ninety-nine hundred-thousandths of our
ninety-nine millions. It seems to me now that the manners in Columbus
were very good then among the young people. No one can say what change
the over-muchness of subsequent money may have made in them, but one
likes to think the change, if any, is not for the better. There seems to
have been greater pecuniary equality then than there is now; there was
an evener sky-line, with scarcely a sky-scraping millionaire breaking it
anywhere. Within what was recognized as society there was as much social
as pecuniary equality; apparently one met the same people everywhere on
that easily ascertained level above the people who worked for their
living with their hands. These were excluded, as they always have been
excluded from society in all times and places; so that if I had still
been a compositor at the printer's case I could not have been received
at any of the houses that welcomed me as a journalist, though that did
not occur to me then, and only just now occurs to me, as something
strange and sad; something that forever belies our democracy, but is so
fast and deep-rooted in the conditions which our plutocracy has kept
from our ancestral monarchies and oligarchies and must keep as long as
men live upon one another in the law of competition.
In one house there was more singing and playing and in another more
reading and talking. All the young ladies were beautiful, with the
supremacy of that young lady whom it was our poetry to hold so beautiful
that no other might contest it. As I believe the use still is in the
South, we called them Miss Lilly, Miss Julia, Miss Sally, Miss Fanny,
Miss Maggie, whether they were the older or the younger daughters of the
family. We were always meeting them at parties or, failing that or
including that, we went to call upon them at their houses. We called in
the evening and it was no strange thing for a young man to call every
evening of the week, not at one house, but at three or four. How, in the
swift sequence of the parties, we managed so often to find the young
ladies at home remains one of the mysteries which age must leave youth
to solve. Possibly in that sharply foreshortened perspective of the past
the parties show of closer succession than they really were.
At most of the houses we saw only the young ladies; it was they whom we
asked for; but there were other houses where the mothers of the family
received with the daughters, and at one of these my welcome was
immediately of a kindness and always of a conscience which it touches me
to realize. I was taken at the best I meant as well as the best I was by
the friend who was the exquisite spirit of the house, and made me at
home in it. My world had been very small, and it has never since been
the greatest, but I think yet, as I divined then, that she was of a
social genius which would have made her in any great-worldlier capital
the leader she was in ours, where her supremacy in that sort was no more
questioned than the incomparable loveliness of that most beautiful girl
whom every one worshiped. Her house expressed her, so that when her home
finally changed to another the new house obeyed the magic of her taste
and put on the semblance of the first, with a conservatory breathing
through it the odor of her flowers and the murmur of the dove that lived
among them: herself a flower-like and birdlike presence, delicate,
elegant, such as might have been fancied of some fine, old-world
condition in a new-world reading of it. She lived to rule socially in a
community which attested its gentleness by its allegiance to her until
she was past eighty, but when I knew her first she was too young to be
titularly accepted as their mother by her stepdaughters and was known to
them as their cousin in what must have been her own convention; but I
suppose she liked to be not less than sovereign among her equals. With
me she was not only the kindest, but the most candid of my friends; my
literary journalism and later my literature may have been to her liking,
but she never flattered me for them when, as I now know, too much praise
had made me hungry for flattery. No young man such as I was then could
have had a wiser and faithfuler friend, and I render her memory my
tribute after so many years from a gratitude which cannot be spoken.
After so many years I cannot make out whether she accepted or merely
suffered my extreme opinions in politics; though she was wholly Ohioan,
her husband's family had close affiliations with the South; but hers was
certainly a Republican house, as nearly all the houses I frequented
were. What may have made her even anticipatively my friend was our
common acceptance of the Swedenborgian philosophy, which long, long
afterward, the last time I saw her, I spoke of as a philosophy. But then
she rejected the notion with scorn; it might be a pleasant fancy, she
said, but a philosophy, no; and I perceived that she had come the way of
that agnosticism which the whole cultivated world had taken. Now I have
heard that in her last years she went back to the faith which was
perhaps more inherited than reasoned in both of us. But I am sure that
it was at first a bond and that she was conscientiously true to this
bond of a common spiritual tradition, when upon some public recognition
of my work she reminded me how according to Swedenborg every beautiful
thing we said or did was by an influx from the divine. I submitted
outwardly, but inwardly I rebelled: not that my conceit of the things I
did was so very great; I believe I thought rather modestly of myself for
doing them, and I always meant to do much better things; in fact I still
have my masterpiece before me; but, poor things as they were, I wished
to feel them wholly mine.
For a kindred reason I quite as altogether refused, and more explicitly,
the theory of my old friend, Moncure D. Conway, as to the true function
of the West in literature. He was then a young Unitarian minister,
preaching at Cincinnati an ever-widening liberalism in religion, and
publishing a slight monthly magazine named after The Dial of Emerson
at Concord, and too carefully studied from it. For this paler avatar of
that transcendental messenger he had asked me for contributions, and so
a friendship, which lasted throughout our lives, sprang up between us.
When he once came to Columbus he came to lunch with me, and quite took
my appetite away by propounding his theory that the West was to live its
literature, especially its poetry, rather than write it, the East being
still in that darkling period when it could not live its literature. I
do not remember the arguments by which he supported his thesis; but
proofs as of holy writ could not have persuaded me of it as far as I
myself was concerned. My affair was to make poetry, let who would live
it, and to make myself known by both the quality and quantity of my
poetry. It is not clear to me now how I declared my position without
immodesty, but somehow I declared it, and so finally that Conway was
very willing to carry away with him for his magazine a piece of rhyme
which I had last made. He could the more willingly do this because The
Dial was one of those periodicals, commoner then than now, that paid
rather in glory than in money; in fact it was not expected to pay
anything in money, so that I doubly defeated him: I was not only not
living my poetry, I was not even living by it.
IV
The days of the years when youth is finding its way into manhood are not
those which have the most flattering memories. It is better with the
autobiographer both before and after that time, though both the earlier
and later times have much to offer that should keep him modest. But that
interval is a space of blind struggle, relieved by moments of rest and
shot with gleams of light, when the youth, if he is fortunate, gathers
some inspiration for a worthier future. His experiences are vivid and so
burnt into him that if he comes to speak of them it will require all his
art to hide from himself that he has little to remember which he would
not much rather forget. In his own behalf, or to his honor and glory, he
cannot recall the whole of his past, but if he is honest enough to
intimate some of its facts he may be able to serve a later generation.
His reminiscences even in that case must be a tissue of egotism, and he
will merit nothing from their altruistic effect.
I
Journalism was not my ideal, but it was my passion, and I was
passionately a journalist well after I began author. I tried to make my
newspaper work literary, to give it form and distinction, and it seems
to me that I did not always try in vain, but I had also the instinct of
actuality, of trying to make my poetry speak for its time and place. For
the most part, I really made it speak for the times and places I had
read of; but while Lowell was keeping my Heinesque verses among the
Atlantic MSS. until he could make sure that they were not translations
from Heine I was working at a piece of realism which when he printed it
in the magazine our exchange newspapers lavishly reprinted. In that
ingenuous time the copyright law hung loosely upon the journalistic
consciousness and it was thought a friendly thing to reproduce whatever
pleased the editorial fancy in the periodicals which would now
frowningly forbid it, but with less wisdom than they then allowed it, as
I think. I know that as its author the currency of The Pilot's Story
in our exchanges gave me a joy which I tried to hide from my senior in
the next room; and I bore heroically the hurt I felt when some of the
country papers printed my long, overrunning hexameters as prose. I had
studied the verse not alone in Longfellow's "Evangeline," but in
Kingsley's "Andromeda," and Goethe's "Hermann and Dorothea," while my
story I had taken from a potentiality of our own life, and in the
tragedy of the slave girl whose master gambles her away at monte on a
Mississippi steamboat, and who flings herself into the river, I was at
home with circumstance and scenery. I still do not think the thing was
ill done, though now when I read it (I do not read it often) I long to
bring it closer to the gait and speech of life. The popularity of the
piece had its pains as well as pleasures, but the sharpest anguish I
suffered was from an elocutionist who was proposing to recite it on the
platform, and who came to me with it to have me hear him read it. He did
not give it with the music of my inner sense, but I praised him as well
as I could till he came to the point where the slave girl accuses her
master with the cry of--
    "Sold me! Sold me! Sold! And you promised to give me my freedom!"
when he said, "And here I think I will introduce a shriek." "A shriek?"
I faltered. "Yes, don't you think it would fill the suspense that comes
at the last word 'Sold!'? Something like this," and he gave a screech
that made my blood run cold, not from the sensibility of the auditor,
but the agony of the author. "Oh no!" I implored him, and he really
seemed to imagine my suffering. He promised to spare me, but whether he
had the self-denial to do so I never had the courage to inquire.
In the letters to my sister which I was so often writing in those
Columbus years I find record of the constant literary strivings which
the reader shall find moving or amusing as he will. "I have sold to
Smith of the Odd Fellow's Monthly at Cincinnati that little story I read
to you early last summer. I called it 'Not a Love Story.' He gave me six
dollars for it; and he says that as soon as I have time to dress up that
translation which B. rejected he will buy that. At the rate of two
dollars a page it will bring me sixteen or eighteen dollars. 'Bobby'"--I
suppose some sketch--"is going the rounds of the country papers. The
bookseller here told our local editor that it was enough to make
anybody's reputation--that he and his family laughed prodigiously over
it.... I have the assurance that I shall succeed, but at times I tremble
lest something should happen to destroy my hopes. I think, though, that
my adversity came first, and now it is prosperity lies before me. I am
going to try a poem fit to be printed in the Atlantic. They pay
Fullerton twenty-five dollars a page. I can sell, now, just as much as I
will write."
It was two years yet before that poem I was trying for the Atlantic
was fit, and sold to the magazine for twenty-five dollars, though it was
three pages long. I was glad of the pay, but the gain was nothing to the
glory; and with the letter which Lowell wrote me about it in the pocket
next my heart, and felt for to make sure of its presence every night and
morning and throughout the day, I was of the potentiality of
immeasurable success. I should have been glad of earning more money, for
there were certain things I wished to do for those at home which I could
not do on my salary of ten dollars a week, already beginning to be
fitfully paid. Once, I find that I had not the money for the white
gloves which it seems I expected myself to wear in compliance with usage
at a certain party; and there were always questions of clothes.
Dress-coats were not requisite then and there; the young men wore
frock-coats for the evening, but I had ambitiously provided myself with
the other sort upon the example of a friend who wore his all day; I wore
mine outdoors once by day, and then presciently dedicated it to evening
calls. The women dressed beautifully, to my fond young taste; they
floated in airy hoops; they wore Spanish hats with drooping feathers in
them, and were as silken balloons walking in the streets where men were
apt to go in unblacked boots and sloven coats and trousers. The West
has, of course, brushed up since, but in that easy-going day the Western
man did not much trouble himself with new fashions or new clothes.
II
Whether the currency of The Pilot's Story and the Atlantic
publication of my Heinesque poems added to my reputation in our city I
could not say. It was the belief of my senior on the newspaper that our
local recognition was enervating and that it had better go no farther,
but naturally I could not agree with a man of his greater age and
observation, and it is still a question with me whether recognition
hurts when one has done one's best. I cannot recall that I ever tried to
invite it; I hope not; but certainly I worked for it and hoped for it,
and I doubt if any like experiment was ever received with more generous
favor than ours by a community which I had reasons for knowing was
intelligent if not critical. Our paper, if I may say it, was always good
society, but after a while and inevitably it became an old story, or at
least an older story than at first, though it never quite ceased to be
good society. There remained the literary interest, the æsthetic
interest for me, after the journalistic interest had waned; there was
always the occasion, or the occasion could always be made. Passages in
those old letters home remind me that we talked long and late about The
Marble Faun one night at a certain house; at another we talked about
other books from nine o'clock on, I imagine till midnight. At another
the young lady of the house "sang about a hundred songs." At still
another the girl hostess said, "You haven't asked me to sing to-night,
but I will sing," and then sang divinely half the night away, for all I
know. There was a young lady who liked German poetry, and could talk
about Goethe's lyrics; and apparently everywhere there were the talking
and the laughing and the singing which fill the world with bliss for
youth.
Perhaps I sacrifice myself in vain by my effort to impart the sense of
that past which faded so long ago; perhaps some readers will hold me
cheap for the fondness which recurs to it and lingers in it. But I
believe that I prize its memories because they seem so full of honor and
worship for the girlhood and womanhood which consecrate it in my
remembrance. Within this gross world of ours as it now is, women are
still so conditioned that they can lead the life of another and a better
world, and if they shall ever come to take their rightful share of the
government of the world as men have made it I believe they will bring
that other and better world of theirs with them and indefinitely
advance the millennium. I have the feeling of something like treason to
the men I knew in that time, when I own that I preferred the society of
women to theirs, but I console myself with the reflection that they
would probably have said the same as to mine. Our companionship could
hardly have chosen itself more to my liking. It was mainly of law
students, but there was here and there one engaged in business, who was
of a like joking and laughing with the rest. We lived together in a
picturesque edifice, Gothic and Tudor, which had been meant for a
medical college, and had begun so, and then from some financial
infirmity lapsed to a boarding-house for such young men as I knew,
though we were not without the presence of a young married pair, now and
then, and even a young lady, a teacher or the like, who made us welcome
when we ended a round of evening calls outside by calling on them from
room to room. In my boyhood days at Columbus I was sometimes hustled off
the sidewalk by the medical students coming from the College, then in
its first prosperity, and taking up the whole pavement as they swept
forward with interlinked arms. This was at noontime, when they were
scarcely less formidable than the specters which after dark swarmed from
the dissecting-room, and challenged the boy to a trial of speed in
escaping them. Now the students had long been gone from the College and
I dwelt in its precincts with such other favorites of fortune as could
afford to pay three dollars and a half a week for their board. The table
was even super-abundant, and the lodging was almost flatteringly
comfortable after experience of other places. I can only conjecture that
the rooms we inhabited had been meant for the students or professors
when the College was still a medical college. They were large, and to my
untutored eye, at least, were handsome, and romantically lighted by
windows of that blend of Tudor and Gothic which I have mentioned, but
their architecture showed more on the outside than on the inside, and of
course the pinnacles and towers of the edifice were more accessible to
the eye without. It was the distinction of people who wished to be known
for a correct taste to laugh at the architecture of the College, and
perhaps they do so still, but I was never of these. For me it had, and
it has, a charm which I think must have come from something like genius,
if not quite genius, in the architect, to whose daring I would like to
offer this belated praise. At any rate it was the abode of entire
satisfaction to me in those happy years between 1857 and 1860 when I
could not have wished other companionship than I had there.
There could have been no gayer table than we kept, where we made the
most of one another's jokes, and were richly personal in them, as youth
always is. The management was of the simplest, but not incompatible with
dignity, for the landlord waited upon the table himself, and whoever the
cook might be, the place was otherwise in the sole charge of an elderly
maid, with a curious defect of speech, which kept her from answering,
immediately or ultimately, any question or remark addressed to her. We
valued her for this impediment because of the pathetic legend attaching
to it, and we did not value her the less, but the more, because she was
tall and lank and uncouth of face and figure, though of a beauty in her
absolute faithfulness to her duties and the kindness beyond them which
she always showed. The legend was that in her younger if not fairer time
she had been married, and when one day her husband, suddenly killed in
an accident, was brought home to her, she tried to speak, but could not
speak, and then ever afterward could only speak after great stress, and
must often fall dumb, and go away without speaking.
[Illustration: The Medical College at Columbus. Mr. Howells had a room
in the third story above the main entrance]
I do not know whether we really believed in this or not, but we behaved
as if we did, and revered the silent heroine of the tragedy as if it
were unquestionably true. What kept me from trying to make it into a
poem I cannot say, but I would like to think it was that I felt it above
rather than below the verse of even the poet I meant to be. How many
rooms she had charge of I could as little say, but I am certain that
there were two of us young men in each of them. My own room-mate was a
poet, even more actual than myself, though not meaning so much as I to
be always a poet; he was reading law, and he meant to practise it, but
he had contributed two poems to the Atlantic Monthly before any of
mine had been printed there. This might have been a cause of bitterness
with me; his work was certainly good enough to be a cause of bitterness,
and perhaps I was not jealous because I felt that it would be useless; I
should like to believe I was not even jealous of him for being so
largely in society before I was. Later, when we came in from our evening
calls, we sometimes read to each other, out of what books I could not
say now, but probably some poet's; certainly not our own verse: he was
too wise for that and I too shy.
He was then reading law, and sometime in my middle years at Columbus he
left us to begin his law practice farther West. In noticing his
departure as a friendly journalist should I obeyed his wish not to speak
of him as a poet; that, he said, would injure him with his new public;
but whether it would or not I am not sure; the Western community is
sometimes curiously romantic, and does not undervalue a man for being
out of the common in that way. What really happened with him was that,
being of a missionary family and of a clerical tradition, he left the
law in no great time and studied divinity. It was a whole generation
afterward before I saw him again; and now his yellow hair and auburn
beard of the early days were all one white, but his gentle eyes were of
the old hazel, undimmed by the age that was creeping upon us both. He
had followed me with generous remembrance and just criticism in my
fiction; and again he made me a sort of professional reproach for
dealing in my novels (notably in A Modern Instance) with ethical
questions best left to the church, he thought. I thought he was wrong,
but I am not sure that I so strenuously think so now; fiction has to
tell a tale as well as evolve a moral, and either the character or the
principle must suffer in that adjustment which life alone can
effectively manage. I do not say ideally manage, for many of the
adjustments of life seem to me cruel and mistaken. If it is in these
cases that religion can best intervene, I suppose my old friend was
right; at any rate, he knows now better than I, for he is where there is
no manner of doubt, and I am still where there is every manner of doubt.
I believe, in the clerical foreshadowing of his future, perhaps, he was
never of those wilder moments of our young companionship when we roamed
the night under the summer moon, or when we forgathered around the table
in a booth at the chief restaurant, and over a spirit-lamp stewed the
oysters larger and more delicious than any to be found now in the sea;
or when, in the quarter-hours of digestion which we allowed ourselves
after our one-o'clock dinner we stretched ourselves on the grass, often
sunburnt brown, before the College and laughed the time away at anything
which pretended itself a joke.
We collegians were mostly Republicans as most of the people we knew
were. A few young men in society were not, but they were not of our
companionship, though we met them at the houses we frequented, and did
not think the worse of them for being Democrats. In fact, there was no
political rancor outside of the newspapers, and that was tempered with
jocosity. Slavery had been since the beginning of the nation, the
heritage of the states from the colonies, and it had been accepted as
part of the order of things. We supposed that sometime, somehow, we
should be rid of it, but we were not sanguine that it would be soon; and
with so many things of pressing interest, the daily cares, the daily
pleasures, the new books, the singing and laughing and talking in the
pleasant houses, I could leave the question of slavery in abeyance,
except as a matter of paragraphing. There had been as many warnings of
calamity to come as ever a people had. There had been the breaking of
solemn promises from the South to the North; there had been the bloody
fights between the sections in Kansas and the treacheries of the
national government; there had been the quarrels and insults and
violences in Congress; there had been the arrests and rescues of
fugitive slaves; there had been the growth of hostile opinion, on one
side fierce and on the other hard, maturing on both sides in open hate.
There had been all these portents, and yet when the bolt burst from the
stormy sky and fell at Harper's Ferry we were as utterly amazed as if it
had fallen from a heaven all blue.
III
Only those who lived in that time can know the feeling which filled the
hearts of those who beheld in John Brown the agent of the divine purpose
of destroying slavery. Men are no longer so sure of God's hand in their
affairs as they once were, but I think we are surer that He does not
authorize evil that good may come, and that we can well believe the
murders which Brown did as an act of war in Kansas had not His
sanction. In the mad skurry which followed the incident of Harper's
Ferry in 1859 some things were easily shuffled out of sight. Probably
very few of those who applauded or palliated Brown's attempt knew that
he had taken men from their wives and children and made his partisans
chop them down that their death might strike terror into the pro-slavery
invaders, while he forbore from some strange policy to slaughter them
with his own hand. His record was not searched to this dreadful fact in
my knowledge, either by the Democrats who tried to inculpate the
Republicans for his invasion of Virginia or by the Republicans who more
or less disowned him. What his best friends could say and what most of
them believed, was that he had been maddened by the murder of his sons
in Kansas, and that his wild attempt was traceable to the wrongs he had
suffered. His own dignity as he lay wounded and captive in the
engine-house at Harper's Ferry, where the volunteer counsel for the
prosecution flocked upon him from every quarter, and questioned him and
cross-questioned him, did the rest, and a sort of cult grew up which
venerated him before his death. I myself was of that cult, as certain
fervent verses would testify if I here refused to do so. They were not
such very bad verses, as verses, though they were technically faulty in
places, but in the light which Mr. Oswald Villard's history of John
Brown has finally cast upon that lurid passage of his life I perceive
that they were mistaken. He was not bloodier than most heroes, but he
was not a martyr, except as he was willing to sacrifice himself along
with others for a holy cause, and he was a saint only of the Old
Testament sort of Samuel who hewed Agag in pieces before the Lord. But
from first to last he was of the inevitable, and the Virginians could no
more have saved themselves from putting him to death than he could have
saved himself from venturing his life to free their slaves. Out of that
business it seems to me now that they came with greater honor than their
Northern friends and allies. The South has enough wrongs against the
negroes to answer for in the past and in the present, but we cannot lay
wholly to its charge the fate of the slave's champion; he was of the
make of its own sons in his appeal to violence, and apparently the South
understood him better than the North. There was then no evil too great
for us to think or say of the Virginians, and yet after they could free
him from the politicians, mainly Northern, who infested him in the first
days of his captivity, to make political capital or newspaper copy out
of him, the Virginians tried him fairly, as those unfair things called
trials go, and they remained with a sort of respect for him which
probably puzzled them. Long after, twenty-five years after, when I was
in an ancient Virginia capital it was my privilege to meet some of
Governor Wise's family; and I noted in them this sort of retrospective
respect for Brown; they were now of Republican politics, and I found
that I was not nearly Black Republican enough for them. But in the
closing months of the year 1859 there was no man so abhorred and
execrated by the so-called Black Republicans as Governor Wise.
Without going to the files of our own newspaper I cannot now say just
how we treated the Harper's Ferry incident from first to last, but I am
safe in saying that it was according to the temperament of each writer.
Our chief, who wrote very well when he could detach his interest from
the practical politics so absorbing in the capital of a state like Ohio,
may have struck the key-note of our opinion in an able leader, and then
left each of us to follow with such music as responded in us. My vague
remembrance of the result is the daily succession of most penetrating,
most amusing comments from my senior. The event offered him the
opportunity of his life for that cold irony he excelled in and which he
knew how to use so effectively in behalf of a good cause; I do not
believe it was ever employed in a bad one. The main contribution to the
literature of the event from his junior that I can distinctly recall was
that ode or that hymn to John Brown, for which I cannot yet be ashamed
or sorry, however I must rue the facts that have forever spoilt my
rapture in it. I have the sense of a pretty constant passing from the
room where I was studying the exchanges for material, and trying to get
my senior's laugh for something I had written, or staying for him to
read me the article he had just begun or finished. It was a great time,
though it was a dreadful time, so thick with forecast, if we had only
known it, of the dreadfuler time to follow.
While I have been saying this I have been trying to think how much or
little our community was shaken by an event that shows so tremendous in
the retrospect, and it seems to me little rather than much. People knew
the event was tremendous, but so had the battles in Kansas been, and so
had the attack on Sumner in the Senate Chamber, and so had the arrests
and rescues of the fugitive slaves. They were of the same texture, the
same web which fate was weaving about us and holding us faster, hour by
hour and day by day while we felt ourselves as free as ever. There must
have been talk pretty constant at first, but dying away without having
really been violent talk, among people who differed most about it. What
I think is that most people were perhaps bewildered, and that waiting in
their daze they did not say so much as people would now imagine their
saying. Or it may be that my memory of the effect is a blur of so many
impressions that it is impossible to detach any from the mass; but I do
not think this probable. The fact probably is that people did not
realize what had happened because they could not, because their long
experience of enmity between the South and North had dulled them too
much for a true sense of what had happened.
But I wrote home to my father my disappointment that his paper had not
had something "violent" about the John Brown raid. My head, which
abstractly passionate and concretely descriptive rhymes had once had
wholly to themselves, was now filled with John Brown when it could be
relieved of a news-editor's duty; I thought of him and him only, except
when I was making those perpetual calls at those pleasant houses where
the young ladies were singing or talking every night. I got some
consolation from one of the delightful German editors whom I seemed to
know in those days. He was a '48 man, and he carried in his leg a ball
which some soldier of the king had planted there one day when my friend
stood behind a barricade in Berlin. He told me, as I read in one of my
old letters home, that he had been teaching his children the stories of
Schiller, the good poet of freedom, of Robert Blum, the martyr of
liberty, and of our John Brown. He says, "My liddle girl, ven I deached
dem to her, she veeped."
But I cannot recall having spoken of Brown with my friend Dr. S., whom I
was so apt to speak with of the changing aspects of the slavery
question, though I remember very well his coldness to my enthusiasm for
the young English poet, Richard Realf, who was so grotesquely Secretary
of State in the Republic Brown had dreamed out, but who had passed from
Canada with his department before the incident at Harper's Ferry, and
was in Texas at the time of it and of the immediately ensuing events.
What affair of state brought him to Columbus after the death of his
leader and comrades I did not understand, and I cannot understand yet
how he could safely be there within easy reach of any United States
marshal, but he was, no doubt, much safer there than in Texas, and he
stayed some days, mainly talking with me about himself as a poet rather
than as a Secretary of State. He interested me, indeed, much more as a
poet, for I already knew him as the author of some Kansas war lyrics,
which I am not sure I should admire so much now as I did then. He was a
charming youth, perhaps my senior by two years, and so about
twenty-four, gentle mannered, sweet voiced, well dressed, and girlishly
beautiful. I knew, as he was prompt and willing to tell me again, that
he had been a protégé of Lady Byron's, and that while in her house he
had fallen in love with a young kinswoman of hers, and was forced to
leave it, for with all his gifts he was the son of an agricultural
laborer, and for that reason no desirable match. Yet Lady Byron seemed
to have remained fond of him; she had helped him to publish a volume of
verse which he had called Guesses at the Beautiful (I envied him the
title), and at parting she had given him a watch for a keepsake and
money to bring him to America. He showed me the watch, and I dare say
the volume of poems, but I am not sure as to this, and I vouch for no
particular of his story, which may very well have been wholly true. In
the long walks and long talks we had together, when he cared more to
speak of his literary than his military life, I cannot make out that he
expected to help further in any attack upon the South. Apparently he
shared the bewilderment which every one was in, but he did not seem to
be afraid or anxious for himself as part of the scheme that had so
bloodily failed. He was not keeping himself secret, and he went on to
Canada as safely as he had come from Texas, if indeed he went to
Canada. While he was briefly with us a hapless girl, of those whom
there is no hope for in this life, killed herself, and Realf went to the
wicked house where she lay dead, out of some useless pathos, since she
was dead. I reported the fact to my friend Dr. S. with a faltering
tendency, I am afraid, to admire Realf for it, and the doctor said,
coldly, Yes, he had better kept away; his motive had already been
scandalously construed. It was this world speaking at its best and
wisest, but I am not sure that it altogether persuaded me.
IV
Realf's stay in Columbus must have been in that time of abeyance between
Brown's capture and his death; but it must have been after the hanging
at Charlestown that one night I was a particle of the crowd which seemed
to fill the State House yard on its western front, dimly listening to
the man whose figure was a blur against the pale stone. I knew that this
man was that Abraham Lincoln who had met Stephen A. Douglas in the
famous Illinois debates, and who was now on his way home to Illinois
from his recognition in the East as a man of national importance. I
could not well hear what he said, and I did not stay long; if I had
heard perfectly, I might not, with my small pleasure in public speaking,
have stayed long; and of that incident, and of the man whom history had
already taken into her keeping, and tragedy was waiting to devote to
eternal remembrance, I have only the vision of his figure against the
pale stone, and the black crowd spread vaguely before him. Later I had a
fuller sense of his historic quality, but still so slight, when he stood
on the great stairway within the State House and received the
never-ending crowd which pushed upward, man and woman after man and
woman, and took his hand, and tried to say something as fit as it was
fond. That would have been when he was on the journey, which became a
flight, to his inauguration as President at Washington. He had been
elected President, and the North felt safe in his keeping, though the
dangers that threatened the nation had only gathered denser upon it, and
the strange anomaly which called itself the government had been
constantly betraying itself to the hostility within it and without.
The people who pushed upward to seize the great hand held out to every
one looked mostly like the country folk such as he had been of, and the
best of him always was, and I could hear their hoarse or cracked voices
as they hailed him, oftenest in affectionate joking, sometimes in
fervent blessing; but for anything I could make out he answered nothing.
He stood passive, submissive, with the harsh lines of his lower face set
immovably, and his thick-lashed eyes sad above them, while he took the
hands held up to him one after another, and shook them wearily, wearily.
It was a warm day such as in late February, or earliest March, brings
the summer up to southern Ohio before its time, and brings the birds
with it for the delusion of a week or a fortnight; and as we walked out,
my companion and I, we left a sweltering crowd within the State House,
and, straying slowly homeward, suffered under a sun as hot as June's.
V
I do not say July's sun or August's, because I wish my reader to believe
me, and any one who has known the July or August, or the September even,
of southern Ohio has known something worse than tropical heat, if
travelers tell the truth of the tropics; and no one could believe me if
I said such heat ever came in February or March. There were whole
fortnights of unbroken summer heat in Columbus, when the night scarcely
brought relief from the day, and the swarming fly ceded, as Dante says,
only to the swarming mosquito. Few people, even of those who might have
gone, went away; none went away for the season, as the use is now,
though it is still much more the use in the East than in the West. There
were excursions to the northern lakes or to Niagara and down the St.
Lawrence; there were even brief intervals of resort to Cape May; but the
custom was for people to stay at home, to wear the thinnest clothes, and
drink cooling drinks, and use fans, and try to sleep under
mosquito-bars, after sitting out on the front steps. That was where
calls were oftenest paid and received, and as long as one was young the
talk did not languish, though how one did when one was old, that is,
thirty or forty, or along there, we who were young could not have
imagined. There was no sea or any great water to send its cooling breath
over the land which stretched from the Ohio River to Lake Erie with
scarcely a heave of its vast level. We had not even the satisfaction of
knowing that we were suffering from a heat-wave; the notion had not been
invented by quarter of a century yet; we suffered ignorantly on and on,
and did not intermit our occupations or our pleasures; some of us did
not even carry umbrellas against the sun; these we reserved for the rain
which could alone save us, for a few hours in a sudden dash, or for a
day in the storm that washed the air clean of its heat.
The deluging which our streets got from these tempests was the only
cleaning which I can recollect seeing them given. There was indeed a
chain-gang which intermittently hoed about in the gutters, but could not
be said to clean them, while it remained the opprobrium of our
civilization. It was made up mostly of negroes, but there were some
drink-sodden whites who dragged a lengthening chain over the dust or
hung the heavy ball which each wore over the hollows of their arms when
urged to more rapid movement. Once I saw, with a peculiar sense of our
common infamy in the sight, a quite well-dressed young man, shackled
with the rest and hiding his face as best he could with eyes fastened on
the ground as he scraped it. Somehow it was told me that he had been
unjustly sentenced to this penalty, and the vision of his tragedy
remains with me yet, as if I had acted his part in it. I dare say it was
not an uncommon experience by which when I used to see some dreadful
thing, or something disgracefully foolish, I became the chief actor in
the spectacle; at least I am certain that I suffered with that hapless
wretch as cruelly as if I had been in his place. Perhaps we are always
meant to put ourselves in the place of those who are put, or who put
themselves, to shame.
Municipal hygiene was then in its infantile, if not in its embryonic
stage, and if there was any system of drainage in Columbus it must have
been surface drainage, such as I saw in Baltimore twenty-five years
later. After the rain the sun would begin again its daily round from
east to west in a cloudless sky where by night the moon seemed to
reflect its heat as well as its light. They must still have such summers
in Columbus, and no doubt the greatest part of the people fight or faint
through them as they do in our cities everywhere, but in those summers
even the good people, people good in the social sense, remained, and not
merely the bad people who justly endured hardship because of their
poverty. I had become accustomed to the more temperate climate of the
Lake Shore, and I felt the heat as something like a personal grievance,
but not the less I kept at work and kept at play like the rest. Once
only I was offered the chance of escape for a few days (it was in the
John Brown year of 1859) when I was commissioned to celebrate the
attractions of a summer resort which had been opened a few hours away
