blighter, or I'll bash your beak in!"
The door trembled under a sudden and terrific kick; the wordy quarrel
ceased; hurried steps retreated along the corridor; a pass key rattled
in the lock, and the door was flung wide open:
"Mr. Neeland, sir--oh, my Gawd, wot ever 'ave they gone and done, sir,
to find you 'ere in such a 'orrid state!"
But the little cockney lost no time; fingers and pen-knife flew;
Neeland, his arms free, tore the bandage from his mouth and spat out
the wad of cloth.
"I'll do the rest," he gasped, forcing the words from his bruised and
distorted lips; "follow that man who was outside talking to you! Find
him if you can. He had been planning to blow up this ship!"
"That man, sir!"
"Yes! Did you know him?"
"Yes, sir; but I darsn't let on to him I knew him--what with 'earing
that you was in here----"
"You did know him?"
"Yes, sir."
"Who is he?"
"Mr. Neeland, sir, that there cove is wot he says he is, a member of
Parliament, and his name is Wilson----"
"You're mad! He's an Eurasian, a spy; his name is Karl Breslau--I
heard it from the others--and he tried to blow up the captain's cabin
and the bridge with those three bombs lying there on the bed!"
"My God, sir--what you tell me may be so, but what I say is true, sir;
that gentleman you heard talking outside the door to me is Charles
Wilson, member of Parliament, representing Glebe and Wotherness; and I
knew it w'en I 'anded 'im the 'ot stuff!--'strewth I did, sir--and
took my chance you'd 'elp me out if I got in too rotten with the
company!"
Neeland said:
"Certainly you may count on me. You're a brick!" He continued to rub
and slap and pinch his arms and legs to restore the circulation, and
finally ventured to rise to his shaky feet. The steward offered an
arm; together they hobbled to the door, summoned another steward,
placed him in charge of the room, and went on in quest of Captain
West, to whom an immediate report was now imperative.
CHAPTER XXIII
ON HIS WAY
The sun hung well above the river mists and threw long, cherry-red
beams across the choppy channel where clotted jets of steam and smoke
from tug and steamer drifted with the fog; and still the captain of
the Volhynia and young Neeland sat together in low-voiced conference
in the captain's cabin; and a sailor, armed with cutlass and pistol,
stood outside the locked and bolted door.
Off the port bow, Liverpool spread as far as the eye could see through
the shredded fog; to starboard, off Birkenhead, through a haze of
pearl and lavender, the tall phantom of an old-time battleship loomed.
She was probably one of Nelson's ships, now only an apparition; but to
Neeland, as he caught sight of her dimly revealed, still dominating
the water, the old ship seemed like a menacing ghost, never to be laid
until the sceptre of sea power fell from an enervated empire and the
glory of Great Britain departed for all time. And in his Yankee heart
he hoped devoutly that such disaster to the world might never come
upon it.
Few passengers were yet astir; the tender had not yet come alongside;
the monstrous city beyond had not awakened.
But a boat manned by Liverpool police lay off the Volhynia's port;
Neeland's steamer trunk was already in it; and now the captain
accompanied him to the ladder, where a sailor took his suitcase and
the olive-wood box and ran down the landing stairs like a monkey.
"Good luck," said the captain of the Volhynia. "And keep it in your
mind every minute that those two men and that woman probably are at
this moment aboard some German fishing craft, and headed for France.
"Remember, too, that they are merely units in a vast system; that they
are certain to communicate with other units; that between you and
Paris are people who will be notified to watch for you, follow you,
rob you."
Neeland nodded thoughtfully.
The captain said again:
"Good luck! I wish you were free to turn over that box to us. But if
you've given your word to deliver it in person, the whole matter
involves, naturally, a point of honour."
"Yes. I have no discretion in the matter, you see." He laughed.
"You're thinking, Captain West, that I haven't much discretion
anyway."
"I don't think you have very much," admitted the captain, smiling and
shaking the hand which Neeland offered. "Well, this is merely one
symptom of a very serious business, Mr. Neeland. That an attempt
should actually have been made to murder you and to blow me to pieces
in my cabin is a slight indication of what a cataclysmic explosion may
shatter the peace of the entire world at any moment now.... Good-bye.
And I warn you very solemnly to take this affair as a deadly serious
one and not as a lark."
They exchanged a firm clasp; then Neeland descended and entered the
boat; the Inspector of Police took the tiller; the policemen bent to
the oars, and the boat shot away through a mist which was turning to a
golden vapour.
It was within a few boat-lengths of the landing stairs that Neeland,
turning for a last look into the steaming golden glory behind him, saw
the most splendid sight of his life. And that sight was the British
Empire assuming sovereignty.
For there, before his eyes, militant, magnificent, the British fleet
was taking the sea, gliding out to accept its fealty, moving
majestically in mass after mass of steel under flowing torrents of
smoke, with the phantom battle flags whipping aloft in the blinding
smother of mist and sun and the fawning cut-water hurrying too, as
though even every littlest wave were mobilised and hastening seaward
in the service of its mistress, Ruler of all Waters, untroubled by a
man-made Kiel.
And now there was no more time to be lost; no more stops until he
arrived in Paris. A taxicab rushed him and his luggage across the
almost empty city; a train, hours earlier than the regular steamer
train, carried him to London where, as he drove through the crowded,
sunlit streets, in a hansom cab, he could see news-venders holding up
strips of paper on which was printed in great, black letters:
                       THE BRITISH FLEET SAILS
                     SPY IN THE HOUSE OF COMMONS
                    CHARLES WILSON, M. P., ACCUSED
             MISSING MEMBER SUPPOSED TO BE KARL BRESLAU,
                          INTERNATIONAL SPY
And he noticed knots of people pausing to buy the latest editions of
the papers offered.
But Neeland had no time to see much more of London than that--glimpses
of stately grey buildings and green trees; of monuments and palaces
where soldiers in red tunics stood guard; the crush of traffic in the
city; trim, efficient police, their helmets strapped to their heads,
disentangling the streams of vehicles, halting, directing everything
with calm and undisturbed precision; a squadron of cavalry in
brilliant uniforms leisurely emerging from some park between iron
railings under stately trees; then the crowded confusion of a railroad
station, but not the usual incidents of booking and departure, because
he was to travel by a fast goods train under telegraphed authority of
the British Government.
And that is about all that Neeland saw of the mightiest city in the
world on the eve of the greatest conflict among the human races that
the earth has ever witnessed, or ever shall, D. V.
The flying goods train that took him to the Channel port whence a
freight packet was departing, offered him the luxury of a leather
padded armchair in a sealed and grated mail van.
Nobody disturbed him; nobody questioned him; the train officials were
civil and incurious, and went calmly about their business with all the
traditional stolidity of official John Bull.
Neeland had plenty of leisure to think as he sat there in his heavy
chair which vibrated but did not sway very much; and his mind was
fully occupied with his reflections, for, so far, he had not had time
to catalogue, index, and arrange them in proper order, so rapid and so
startling had been the sequence of events since he had left his studio
in New York for Paris, via Brookhollow, London, and other points
east.
One thing in particular continued to perplex and astonish him: the
identity of a member of Parliament, known as Charles Wilson, suddenly
revealed as Karl Breslau, an international spy.
The wildest flight of fancy of an irresponsible novelist had never
created such a character in penny-dreadful fiction. It remained
incomprehensible, almost incredible to Neeland that such a thing could
be true.
Also, the young man had plenty of food for reflection, if not for
luncheon, in trying to imagine exactly how Golden Beard and Ali Baba,
and that strange, illogical young girl, Ilse Dumont, had escaped from
the Volhynia.
Probably, in the darkness, the fishing boat which they expected had
signalled in some way or other. No doubt the precious trio had taken
to the water in their life-jackets and had been picked up even before
armed sailors on the Volhynia descended to their empty state-rooms
and took possession of what luggage could be discovered, and of the
three bombs with their charred wicks still soaking on the sopping
bed.
And now the affair had finally ended, Neeland believed, in spite of
Captain West's warnings. For how could three industrious conspirators
in a fishing smack off the Lizard do him any further damage?
If they had managed to relay information concerning him to their
friends ashore by some set of preconcerted signals, possibly the
regular steamer train to and out of London might be watched.
Thinking of this, it presently occurred to Neeland that friends in
France, also, might be stirred up in time to offer him their marked
attentions. This, no doubt, was what Captain West meant; and Neeland
considered the possibility as the flying train whirled him toward the
Channel.
He asked if he might smoke, and was informed that he might; and he
lighted a cigarette and stretched out on his chair, a little hungry
from lack of luncheon, a trifle tired from lack of sleep, but, in
virtue of his vigorous and youthful years, comfortable, contented, and
happy.
Never, he admitted, had he had such a good time in all his life,
despite the fact that chance alone, and not his own skill and
alertness and perspicacity, had saved his neck.
No, he could not congratulate himself on his cleverness and wisdom;
sheer accident had saved his skin--and once the complex and
unaccountable vagary of a feminine mind had saved him from
annihilation so utter that it slightly sickened him to remember his
position in Ilse Dumont's stateroom as she lifted her pistol and
coolly made good her boast as a dead-shot. But he forced himself to
take it lightly.
"Good Lord!" he thought to himself. "Was ever a man in such a hellish
position, except in melodrama? And what a movie that would have
made! And what a shot that girl proved herself to be! Certainly she
could have killed me there at Brookhollow! She could have riddled me
before I ducked, even with that nickel-plated affair about which I was
ass enough to taunt her!"
Lying in his chair, cheek on arm, he continued to ponder on what had
happened, until the monotonous vibration no longer interfered with his
inclination for a nap. On the contrary, the slight, rhythmic jolting
soothed him and gradually induced slumber; and he slept there on the
rushing train, his feet crossed and resting on the olive-wood box.
                 
A hand on his arm aroused him; the sea wind blowing through the open
doors of the mail-van dashed in his face like a splash of cool water
as he sat up and looked around him.
As he descended from the van an officer of the freight packet greeted
him by name; a sailor piled his luggage on a barrow; and Neeland
walked through the vista of covered docks to the pier.
There was a lively wind whipping that notoriously bad-mannered streak
of water known as the English Channel. Possibly, had it been
christened the French Channel its manners might have been more polite.
But there was now nothing visible about it to justify its sentimental
pseudonym of Silver Streak.
It was a dirty colour, ominous of ill-temper beyond the great
breakwater to the northward; and it fretted and fumed inshore and made
white and ghastly faces from the open sea.
But Neeland, dining from a tray in a portholed pit consecrated to the
use of a casual supercargo, rejoiced because he adored the sea, inland
lubber that he had been born and where the tides of fate had stranded
him. For, to a New Yorker, the sea seems far away--as far as it seems
to the Parisian. And only when chance business takes him to the
Battery does a New Yorker realise the nearness of the ocean to that
vast volume of ceaseless dissonance called New York.
                 
Neeland ate cold meat and bread and cheese, and washed it down with
bitters.
He was nearly asleep on his sofa when the packet cast off.
He was sound asleep when, somewhere in the raging darkness of the
Channel, he was hurled from the sofa against the bunk opposite--into
which he presently crawled and lay, still half asleep, mechanically
rubbing a maltreated shin.
Twice more the bad-mannered British Channel was violently rude to him;
each time he crawled back to stick like a limpet in the depths of his
bunk.
Except when the Channel was too discourteous, he slept as a sea bird
sleeps afloat, tossing outside thundering combers which batter basalt
rocks.
Even in his deep, refreshing sea sleep, the subtle sense of
exhilaration--of well-being--which contact with the sea always brought
to him, possessed him. And, deep within him, the drop of Irish seethed
and purred as a kettle purrs through the watches of the night over a
banked but steady fire.
CHAPTER XXIV
THE ROAD TO PARIS
Over the drenched sea wall gulls whirled and eddied above the spouting
spray; the grey breakwater was smothered under exploding combers;
quai, docks, white-washed lighthouse, swept with spindrift, appeared
and disappeared through the stormy obscurity as the tender from the
Channel packet fought its way shoreward with Neeland's luggage lashed
in the cabin, and Neeland himself sticking to the deck like a fly to a
frantic mustang, enchanted with the whole business.
For the sea, at last, was satisfying this young man; he savoured now
what he had longed for as a little boy, guiding a home-made raft on
the waters of Neeland's mill pond in the teeth of a summer breeze.
Before he had ever seen the ocean he wanted all it had to give short
of shipwreck and early decease. He had experienced it on the Channel
during the night.
There was only one other passenger aboard--a tall, lean, immaculately
dressed man with a ghastly pallor, a fox face, and ratty eyes, who
looked like an American and who had been dreadfully sick. Not caring
for his appearance, Neeland did not speak to him. Besides, he was
having too good a time to pay attention to anybody or anything except
the sea.
A sailor had lent Neeland some oilskins and a sou'-wester; and he
hated to put them off--hated the calmer waters inside the basin where
the tender now lay rocking; longed for the gale and the heavy seas
again, sorry the crossing was ended.
He cast a last glance of regret at the white fury raging beyond the
breakwater as he disembarked among a crowd of porters, gendarmes,
soldiers, and assorted officials; then, following his porter to the
customs, he prepared to submit to the unvarying indignities incident
to luggage examination in France.
He had leisure, while awaiting his turn, to buy a novel, "Les
Bizarettes," of Maurice Bertrand; time, also, to telegraph to the
Princess Mistchenka. The fox-faced man, who looked like an American,
was now speaking French like one to a perplexed official, inquiring
where the Paris train was to be found. Neeland listened to the fluent
information on his own account, then returned to the customs bench.
But the unusually minute search among his effects did not trouble him;
the papers from the olive-wood box were buttoned in his breast pocket;
and after a while the customs officials let him go to the train which
stood beside an uncovered concrete platform beyond the quai, and
toward which the fox-faced American had preceded him on legs that
still wobbled with seasickness.
There were no Pullmans attached to the train, only the usual first,
second, and third class carriages with compartments; and a new style
corridor car with central aisle and lettered doors to compartments
holding four.
Into one of these compartments Neeland stepped, hoping for seclusion,
but backed out again, the place being full of artillery officers
playing cards.
In vain he bribed the guard, who offered to do his best; but the human
contents of a Channel passenger steamer had unwillingly spent the
night in the quaint French port, and the Paris-bound train was already
full.
The best Neeland could do was to find a seat in a compartment where he
interrupted conversation between three men who turned sullen heads to
look at him, resenting in silence the intrusion. One of them was the
fox-faced man he had already noticed on the packet, tender, and
customs dock.
But Neeland, whose sojourn in a raw and mannerless metropolis had not
blotted out all memory of gentler cosmopolitan conventions, lifted his
hat and smilingly excused his intrusion in the fluent and agreeable
French of student days, before he noticed that he had to do with men
of his own race.
None of the men returned his salute; one of them merely emitted an
irritated grunt; and Neeland recognised that they all must be his own
delightful country-men--for even the British are more dignified in
their stolidity.
A second glance satisfied him that all three were undoubtedly
Americans; the cut of their straw hats and apparel distinguished them
as such; the nameless grace of Mart, Haffner and Sharx marked the
tailoring of the three; only Honest Werner could have manufactured
such headgear; only New York such footwear.
And Neeland looked at them once more and understood that Broadway
itself sat there in front of him, pasty, close-shaven, furtive,
sullen-eyed, the New York Paris Herald in its seal-ringed fingers;
its fancy waistcoat pockets bulging with cigars.
"Sports," he thought to himself; and decided to maintain incognito and
pass as a Frenchman, if necessary, to escape conversation with the
three tired-eyed ones.
So he hung up his hat, opened his novel, and settled back to endure
the trip through the rain, now beginning to fall from a low-sagging
cloud of watery grey.
After a few minutes the train moved. Later the guard passed and
accomplished his duties. Neeland inquired politely of him in French
whether there was any political news, and the guard replied politely
that he knew of none. But he looked very serious when he said it.
Half an hour from the coast the rain dwindled to a rainbow and ceased;
and presently a hot sun was gilding wet green fields and hedges and
glistening roofs which steamed vapour from every wet tile.
Without asking anybody's opinion, one of the men opposite raised the
window. But Neeland did not object; the rain-washed air was
deliciously fragrant; and he leaned his elbow on his chair arm and
looked out across the loveliest land in Europe.
"Say, friend," said an East Side voice at his elbow, "does smoking
go?"
He glanced back over his shoulder at the speaker--a little, pallid,
sour-faced man with the features of a sick circus clown and eyes like
two holes burnt in a lump of dough.
"Pardon, monsieur?" he said politely.
"Can't you even pick a Frenchman, Ben?" sneered one of the men
opposite--a square, smoothly shaven man with slow, heavy-lidded eyes
of a greenish tinge.
The fox-faced man said:
"He had me fooled, too, Eddie. If Ben Stull didn't get his number it
don't surprise me none, becuz he was on the damn boat I crossed in,
and I certainly picked him for New York."
"Aw," said the pasty-faced little man referred to as Ben Stull, "Eddie
knows it all. He never makes no breaks, of course. You make 'em, Doc,
but he doesn't. That's why me and him and you is travelling here--this
minute--because the great Eddie Brandes never makes no breaks----"
"Go on and smoke and shut up," said Brandes, with a slow, sidewise
glance at Neeland, whose eyes remained fastened on the pages of "Les
Bizarettes," but whose ears were now very wide open.
"Smoke," repeated Stull, "when this here Frenchman may make a
holler?"
"Wait till I ask him," said the man addressed as Doc, with dignity.
And to Neeland:
"Pardong, musseer, permitty vous moi de fumy ung cigar?"
"Mais comment, donc, monsieur! Je vous en prie----"
"He says politely," translated Doc, "that we can smoke and be damned
to us."
They lighted three obese cigars; Neeland, his eyes on his page,
listened attentively and stole a glance at the man they called
Brandes.
So this was the scoundrel who had attempted to deceive the young girl
who had come to him that night in his studio, bewildered with what she
believed to be her hopeless disgrace!
This was the man--this short, square, round-faced individual with his
minutely shaven face and slow greenish eyes, and his hair combed back
and still reeking with perfumed tonic--this shiny, scented, and
overgroomed sport with rings on his fat, blunt fingers and the silk
laces on his tan oxfords as fastidiously tied as though a valet had
done it!
Ben Stull began to speak; and presently Neeland discovered that the
fox-faced man's name was Doc Curfoot; that he had just arrived from
London on receipt of a telegram from them; and that they themselves
had landed the night before from a transatlantic liner to await him
here.
Doc Curfoot checked the conversation, which was becoming general now,
saying that they'd better be very sure that the man opposite
understood no English before they became careless.
"Musseer," he added suavely to Neeland, who looked up with a polite
smile, "parly voo Anglay?"
"Je parle Français, monsieur."
"I get him," said Stull, sourly. "I knew it anyway. He's got the sissy
manners of a Frenchy, even if he don't look the part. No white man
tips his lid to nobody except a swell skirt."
"I seen two dudes do it to each other on Fifth Avenue," remarked
Curfoot, and spat from the window.
Brandes, imperturbable, rolled his cigar into the corner of his mouth
and screwed his greenish eyes to narrow slits.
"You got our wire, Doc?"
"Why am I here if I didn't!"
"Sure. Have an easy passage?"
Doc Curfoot's foxy visage still wore traces of the greenish pallor; he
looked pityingly at Brandes--self-pityingly:
"Say, Eddie, that was the worst I ever seen. A freight boat, too. God!
I was that sick I hoped she'd turn turtle! And nab it from me; if you
hadn't wired me S O S, I'd have waited over for the steamer train and
the regular boat!"
"Well, it's S O S all right, Doc. I got a cable from Quint this
morning saying our place in Paris is ready, and we're to be there and
open up tonight----"
"What place?" demanded Curfoot.
"Sure, I forgot. You don't know anything yet, do you?"
"Eddie," interrupted Stull, "let me do the talking this time, if
you please."
And, to Curfoot:
"Listen, Doc. We was up against it. You heard. Every little thing has
went wrong since Eddie done what he done--every damn thing! Look
what's happened since Maxy Venem got sore and he and Minna started out
to get him! Morris Stein takes away the Silhouette Theatre from us and
we can't get no time for 'Lilith' on Broadway. We go on the road and
bust. All our Saratoga winnings goes, also what we got invested with
Parson Smawley when the bulls pulled Quint's----!"
"Ah, f'r the lov' o' Mike!" began Brandes. "Can that stuff!"
"All right, Eddie. I'm tellin' Doc, that's all. I ain't aiming to be
no crape-hanger; I only want you both to listen to me this time. If
you'd listened to me before, we'd have been in Saratoga today in our
own machines. But no; you done what you done--God! Did anyone ever
hear of such a thing!--taking chances with that little rube from
Brookhollow--that freckled-faced mill-hand--that yap-skirt! And Minna
and Max having you watched all the time! You big boob! No--don't
interrupt! Listen to me! Where are you now? You had good money; you
had a theaytre, you had backing! Quint was doing elegant; Doc and
Parson and you and me had it all our way and comin' faster every day.
Wait, I tell you! This ain't a autopsy. This is business. I'm tellin'
you two guys all this becuz I want you to realise that what Eddie done
was against my advice. Come on, now; wasn't it?"
"It sure was," admitted Curfoot, removing his cigar from his lean,
pointed visage of a greyhound, and squinting thoughtfully at the smoke
eddying in the draught from the open window.
"Am I right, Eddie?" demanded Stull, fixing his black, smeary eyes on
Brandes.
"Well, go on," returned the latter between thin lips that scarcely
moved.
"All right, then. Here's the situation, Doc. We're broke. If Quint
hadn't staked us to this here new game we're playin', where'd we be, I
ask you?
"We got no income now. Quint's is shut up; Maxy Venem and Minna Minti
fixed us at Saratoga so we can't go back there for a while. They won't
let us touch a card on the liners. Every pug is leery of us since
Eddie flimflammed that Battling Smoke; and I told you he'd holler,
too! Didn't I?" turning on Brandes, who merely let his slow eyes rest
on him without replying.
"Go on, Ben," said Curfoot.
"I'm going on. We guys gotta do something----"
"We ought to have fixed Max Venem," said Curfoot coolly.
There was a silence; all three men glanced stealthily at Neeland, who
quietly turned the page of his book as though absorbed in his story.
"That squealer, Max," continued Curfoot with placid ferocity blazing
in his eyes, "ought to have been put away. Quint and Parson wanted us
to have it done. Was it any stunt to get that dirty little shyster in
some roadhouse last May?"
Brandes said:
"I'm not mixing with any gunmen after the Rosenthal business."
"Becuz a lot of squealers done a amateur job like that, does it say
that a honest job can't be pulled?" demanded Curfoot. "Did Quint and
me ask you to go to Dopey or Clabber or Pete the Wop, or any of them
cheap gangsters?"
"Ah, can the gun-stuff," said Brandes. "I'm not for it. It's punk."
"What's punk?"
"Gun-play."
"Didn't you pull a pop on Maxy Venem the night him and Hyman Adams and
Minna beat you up in front of the Knickerbocker?"
"Eddie was stalling," interrupted Stull, as Brandes' face turned a
dull beef-red. "You talk like a bad actor, Doc. There's other ways of
getting Max in wrong. Guns ain't what they was once. Gun-play is old
stuff. But listen, now. Quint has staked us and we gotta make good.
And this is a big thing, though it looks like it was out of our
line."
"Go on; what's the idea?" inquired Curfoot, interested.
Brandes, the dull red still staining his heavy face, watched the
flying landscape from the open window.
Stull leaned forward; Curfoot bent his lean, narrow head nearer;
Neeland, staring fixedly at his open book, pricked up his ears.
"Now," said Stull in a low voice, "I'll tell you guys all Eddie and I
know about this here business of Captain Quint's. It's like this,
Doc: Some big feller comes to Quint after they close him up--he won't
tell who--and puts up this here proposition: Quint is to open a
elegant place in Paris on the Q. T. In fact, it's ready now. There'll
be all the backing Quint needs. He's to send over three men he can
trust--three men who can shoot at a pinch! He picks us three and
stakes us. Get me?"
Doc nodded.
Brandes said in his narrow-eyed, sleepy way:
"There was a time when they called us gunmen--Ben and me. But, so help
me God, Doc, we never did any work like that ourselves. We never fired
a shot to croak any living guy. Did we, Ben?"
"All right," said Stull impatiently. And, to Curfoot: "Eddie and I
know what we're to do. If it's on the cards that we shoot--well, then,
we'll shoot. The place is to be small, select, private, and first
class. Doc, you act as capper. You deal, too. Eddie sets 'em up. I
deal or spin. All right. We three guys attend to anything American
that blows our way. Get that?"
Curfoot nodded.
"Then for the foreigners, there's to be a guy called Karl Breslau."
Neeland managed to repress a start, but the blood tingled in his
cheeks, and he turned his head a trifle as though seeking better light
on the open pages in his hands.
"This here man Breslau," continued Stull, "speaks all kinds of
languages. He is to have two friends with him, a fellow named Kestner
and one called Weishelm. They trim the foreigners, they do; and----"
"Well, I don't see nothing new about this----" began Curfoot; but
Stull interrupted:
"Wait, can't you! This ain't the usual. We run a place for Quint. The
place is like Quint's. We trim guys same as he does--or did. But
there's more to it."
He let his eyes rest on Neeland, obliquely, for a full minute. The
others watched him, too. Presently the young man cut another page of
his book with his pen-knife and turned it with eager impatience, as
though the story absorbed him.
"Don't worry about Frenchy," murmured Brandes with a shrug. "Go ahead,
Ben."
Stull laid one hand on Curfoot's shoulder, drawing that gentleman a
trifle nearer and sinking his voice:
"Here's the new stuff, Doc," he said. "And it's brand new to us, too.
There's big money into it. Quint swore we'd get ours. And as we was on
our uppers we went in. It's like this: We lay for Americans from the
Embassy or from any of the Consulates. They are our special game. It
ain't so much that we trim them; we also get next to them; we make 'em
talk right out in church. Any political dope they have we try to get.
We get it any way we can. If they'll accelerate we accelerate 'em; if
not, we dope 'em and take their papers. The main idee is to get a holt
on 'em!
"That's what Quint wants; that's what he's payin' for and gettin' paid
for--inside information from the Embassy and Consulates----"
"What does Quint want of that?" demanded Curfoot, astonished.
"How do I know? Blackmail? Graft? I can't call the dope. But listen
here! Don't forget that it ain't Quint who wants it. It's the big
feller behind him who's backin' him. It's some swell guy higher up
who's payin' Quint. And Quint, he pays us. So where's the squeal
coming?"
"Yes, but----"
"Where's the holler?" insisted Stull.
"I ain't hollerin', am I? Only this here is new stuff to me----"
"Listen, Doc. I don't know what it is, but all these here European
kings is settin' watchin' one another like toms in a back alley. I
think that some foreign political high-upper wants dope on what our
people are finding out over here. Like this, he says to himself: 'I
hear this Kink is building ten sooper ferry boats. If that's right, I
oughta know. And I hear that the Queen of Marmora has ordered a
million new nifty fifty-shot bean-shooters for the boy scouts! That is
indeed serious news!' So he goes to his broker, who goes to a big
feller, who goes to Quint, who goes to us. Flag me?"
"Sure."
"That's all. There's nothing to it, Doc. Says Quint to us: 'Trim a few
guys for me and get their letters,' says Quint; 'and there's somethin'
in it for me and you!' And that's the new stuff, Doc."
"You mean we're spies?"
"Spies? I don't know. We're on a salary. We get a big bonus for every
letter we find on the carpet----" He winked at Curfoot and relighted
his cigar.
"Say," said the latter, "it's like a creeping joint. It's a panel
game, Ben----"
"It's politics like they play 'em in Albany, only it's ambassadors and
kinks we trim, not corporations."
"We can't do it! What the hell do we know about kinks and
attachés?"
"No; Weishelm, Breslau and Kestner do that. We lay for the attachés or
spin or deal or act handy at the bar and buffet with homesick
Americans. No; the fine work--the high-up stuff, is done by Breslau
and Weishelm. And I guess there's some fancy skirts somewhere in the
game. But they're silent partners; and anyway Weishelm manages that
part."
Curfoot, one lank knee over the other, swung his foot thoughtfully to
and fro, his ratty eyes lost in dreamy revery. Brandes tossed his
half-consumed cigar out of the open window and set fire to another.
Stull waited for Curfoot to make up his mind. After several minutes
the latter looked up from his cunning abstraction:
"Well, Ben, put it any way you like, but we're just plain political
spies. And what the hell do they hand us over here if we're pinched?"
"I don't know. What of it?"
"Nothing. If there's good money in it, I'll take a chance."
"There is. Quint backs us. When we get 'em coming----"
"Ah," said Doc with a wry face, "that's all right for the cards or the
wheel. But this pocket picking----"
"Say; that ain't what I mean. It's like this: Young Fitznoodle of the
Embassy staff gets soused and starts out lookin' for a quiet game. We
furnish the game. We don't go through his pockets; we just pick up
whatever falls out and take shorthand copies. Then back go the letters
into Fitznoodle's pocket----"
"Yes. Who reads 'em first?"
"Breslau. Or some skirt, maybe."
"What's Breslau?"
"Search me. He's a Dutchman or a Rooshian or some sort of Dodo. What
do you care?"
"I don't. All right, Ben. You've got to show me; that's all."
"Show you what?"
"Spot cash!"
"You're in when you handle it?"
"If you show me real money--yes."
"You're on. I'll cash a cheque of Quint's for you at Monroe's soon as
we hit the asphalt! And when you finish counting out your gold nickels
put 'em in your pants and play the game! Is that right?"
"Yes."
They exchanged a wary handshake; then, one after another, they leaned
back in their seats with the air of honest men who had done their
day's work.
Curfoot blinked at Brandes, at his excessively groomed person, at his
rings.
"You look prosperous, Eddie."
"It's his business to," remarked Stull.
Brandes yawned:
"It would be a raw deal if there's a war over here," he said
listlessly.
"Ah," said Curfoot, "there won't be none."
"Why?"
"The Jews and bankers won't let these kinks mix it."
"That's right, too," nodded Brandes.
But Stull said nothing and his sour, pasty visage turned sourer. It
was the one possibility that disturbed him--the only fly in the
amber--the only mote that troubled his clairvoyance. Also, he was the
only man among the three who didn't think a thing was certain to
happen merely because he wanted it to happen.
There was another matter, too, which troubled him. Brandes was
unreliable. And who but little Stull should know how unreliable?
For Brandes had always been that. And now Stull knew him to be more
than that--knew him to be treacherous.
Whatever in Brandes had been decent, or had, blindly perhaps, aspired
toward decency, was now in abeyance. Something within him had gone to
smash since Minna Minti had struck him that night in the frightened
presence of Rue Carew.
And from that night, when he had lost the only woman who had ever
stirred in him the faintest aspiration to better things, the man had
gradually changed. Whatever in his nature had been unreliable became
treacherous; his stolidity became sullenness. A slow ferocity burned
within him; embers of a rage which no brooding ever quenched slumbered
red in his brain until his endless meditation became a monomania. And
his monomania was the ruin of this woman who had taken from him in the
very moment of consummation all that he had ever really loved in the
world--a thin, awkward, freckled, red-haired country girl, in whom,
for the first and only time in all his life, he saw the vague and
phantom promise of that trinity which he had never known--a wife, a
child, and a home.
He sat there by the car window glaring out of his dull green eyes at
the pleasant countryside, his thin lips tightening and relaxing on his
cigar.
Curfoot, still pondering over the "new stuff" offered him, brooded
silently in his corner, watching the others out of his tiny, bright
eyes.
"Do anything in London?" inquired Stull.
"No."
"Who was you working for?"
"A jock and a swell skirt. But Scotland Yard got next and chased the
main guy over the water."
"What was your lay?"
"Same thing. I dealt for the jock and the skirt trimmed the squabs."
"Anybody holler?"
"Aw--the kind we squeezed was too high up to holler. Them young lords
take their medicine like they wanted it. They ain't like the home
bunch that is named after swell hotels."
After a silence he looked up at Brandes:
"What ever become of Minna Minti?" he asked.
Brandes' heavy features remained stolid.
"She got her divorce, didn't she?" insisted Curfoot.
"Yes."
"Alimony?"
"No. She didn't ask any."
"How about Venem?"
Brandes remained silent, but Stull said:
"I guess she chucked him. She wouldn't stand for that snake. I got to
hand it to her; she ain't that kind."
"What kind is she?"
"I tell you I got to hand it to her. I can't complain of her. She
acted white all right until Venem stirred her up. Eddie's got himself
to blame; he got in wrong and Venem had him followed and showed him up
to Minna."
"You got tired of her, didn't you?" said Curfoot to Brandes. But Stull
answered for him again:
"Like any man, Eddie needed a vacation now and then. But no skirt
understands."
Brandes said slowly:
"I'll live to fix Minna yet."
"What fixed you," snapped Stull, "was that there Brookhollow
stuff----"
"Can it!" retorted Brandes, turning a deep red.
"Aw--don't hand me the true-love stuff, Eddie! If you'd meant it with
that little haymaker you'd have respected her----"
Brandes' large face became crimson with rage:
"You say another word about her and I'll push your block off--you
little dough-faced kike!"
Stull shrugged and presently whispered to Curfoot:
"That's the play he always makes. I've waited two years, but he won't
ring down on the love stuff. I guess he was hit hard that trip. It
took a little red-headed, freckled country girl to stop him. But it
was comin' to Eddie Brandes, and it certainly looks like it was there
to stay a while."
"He's still stuck on her?"
"I guess she's still the fly paper," nodded Stull.
Suddenly Brandes turned on Stull such a look of concentrated hatred
that the little gambler's pallid features stiffened with surprise:
"Ben," said Brandes in a low voice, which was too indistinct for
Neeland to catch, "I'll tell you something now that you don't know. I
saw Quint alone; I talked with him. Do you know who is handling the
big stuff in this deal?"
"Who?" asked Stull, amazed.
"The Turkish Embassy in Paris. And do you know who plays the fine
Italian hand for that bunch of Turks?"
"No."
"Minna!"
"You're crazy!"
Brandes took no notice, but went on with a sort of hushed ferocity
that silenced both Stull and Curfoot:
