cool hostility. So she tapped at the kitchen door and a large cook of
sound principles who loved neither Esther nor Sophy, let her in and
passed her up the back stairs. Esther had strangely never noted this
adventurous way of entering. She was rather unobservant about some
things, and she would never have suspected a lady born of coming in by
the kitchen for any reason whatever. Esther, too, had some of the
Addington traditions ingrain.
Madame Beattie was in bed, where she usually was when not in mischief,
the summer breeze touching her toupée as tenderly as it might a young
girl's flossy crown. She always had a cool drink by her, and she was
always reading. Sometimes she put out her little ringed hand and moved
the glass to hear the clink of ice, and she did it now as Lydia came in.
Lydia liked the clink. It sounded festive to her. That was the word she
had for all the irresponsible exuberance Madame Beattie presented her
with, of boundless areas where you could be gay. Madame Beattie shut her
book and motioned to the door. But Lydia was already closing it. That
was the first thing when they had their gossips. Lydia came then and
perched on the foot of the bed. Her promotion from chair to bed marked
the progress of their intimacy.
"Madame Beattie," said she, "I wish you and I could go abroad together."
Madame Beattie grinned at her, with a perfect appreciation.
"You wouldn't like it," said she.
"I should like it," said Lydia. Yet she knew she did not want to go
abroad. This was only an expression of her pleasure in sitting on a bed
and chatting with a game old lady. What she wanted was to mull along
here in Addington with occasional side dashes into the realms of
discontent, and plan for Jeff's well-being. "He wants to give lectures,"
said she. "To them."
The foreign contingent was always known to her and Madame Beattie as
They.
"The fool!" said Madame Beattie cheerfully. "What for?"
"To teach them to be good."
"What does he want to muddle with that for?"
"Why, Madame Beattie, you know yourself you're talking to them and
telling them things."
"But that isn't dressing 'em in Governor Winthrop's knee breeches," said
Madame Beattie, "and making Puritans of 'em. I'm just filling 'em up
with Jeff Blake, so they'll follow him and make a ringleader of him
whether he wants it or not. They'll push and push and not see they're
pushing, and before he knows it he'll be down stage, with all his
war-paint on. You never saw Jeff catch fire."
"No," said Lydia, lying. The day he took her hands and told her what she
still believed at moments--he had caught fire then.
"When he catches fire, he'll burn up whatever's at hand," said the old
lady, with relish. "Get his blood started, throw him into politics, and
in a minute we shall have him in business, and playing the old game."
"Do you want him to play the old game?" asked Lydia.
"I want him to make some money."
"To pay his creditors."
"Pay your grandmother! pay for my necklace. Lydia, I've scared her out
of her boots."
"Esther?" Lydia whispered.
Madame Beattie whispered, too, now, and a cross-light played over her
eyes.
"Yes. I've searched her room. And she knows it. She thinks I'm searching
for the necklace."
"And aren't you?"
"Bless you, no. I shouldn't find it. She's got it safely hid. But when
she finds her upper bureau drawer gone over--Esther's very
methodical--and the next day her second drawer and the next day the
shelves in her closet, why, then--"
"What then?" asked Lydia, breathless.
"Then, my dear, she'll get so nervous she'll put the necklace into a
little bag and tell me she is called to New York. And she'll take the
bag with her, if she's not prevented."
"What should prevent her? the police?"
"No, my dear, for after all I don't want the necklace so much as I want
somebody to pay me solid money for it. But when the little bag appears,
this is what I shall say to Esther, perhaps while she's on her way
downstairs to the carriage. 'Esther,' I shall say, 'get back to your
room and take that little bag with you. And make up to handsome Jeff and
tell him he's got to stir himself and pay me something on account. And
you can keep the diamonds, my dear, if you see Jeff pays me something.'"
"She'd rather give you the diamonds," said Lydia.
"My dear, she sets her life by them. Do you know what she's doing when
she goes to her room early and locks the door? She's sitting before the
glass with that necklace on, cursing God because there's no man to see
her."
"You can't know that," said Lydia.
She was trembling all over.
"My dear, I know women. When you're as old as I am, you will, too: even
the kind of woman Esther is. That type hasn't changed since the
creation, as they call it."
"But I don't like it," said Lydia. "I don't think it's fair. She hates
Jeff--"
"Nonsense. She doesn't hate any man. Jeff's poor, that's all."
"She does hate him, and yet you're going to make him pay money so she
can keep diamond necklaces she never ought to have had."
"Make him pay money for anything," said the old witch astutely, "money
he's got or money he hasn't got. Set his blood to moving, I tell you,
and before he knows it he'll be tussling for dear life and stamping on
the next man and getting to the top."
Lydia didn't want him to tussle, but she did want him at the top. She
had not told Madame Beattie about the manuscript growing and growing on
Jeff's table every night. It was his secret, his and hers, she reasoned;
she hugged the knowledge to her heart.
"That's all," said Madame Beattie, in that royal way of terminating
interviews when she wanted to get back to literature. "Only when he
begins to address his workingmen you tell me."
Lydia, on her way downstairs, passed Esther's room and even stood a
second breathlessly taking in its exquisite order. Here was the bower
where the enchantress slept, and where she touched up her beauty by the
secret processes Lydia, being very young and of a pollen-like freshness,
despised. This was not just of Lydia. Esther took no more than a normal
care of her complexion, and her personal habits were beyond praise.
Lydia stood there staring, her breath coming quick. Was the necklace
really there? If she saw it what could she do? If the little bag with
the necklace inside it sat there waiting to be taken to New York, what
could she do then? She fled softly down the stairs.
Addington was a good deal touched when Jeffrey Blake took the old town
hall and put a notice in the paper saying he would give a talk there on
American History in the administration of George Washington. He would
speak in English and parts of the lecture would be translated, if
necessary, by an able interpreter. Ladies considered seriously whether
they ought not to go, to encourage him, and his father was sure it was
his own right and privilege. But Jeff choked that off. He settled the
matter at the supper table.
"Look here," said he, "I'm going down there to make an ass of myself.
Don't you come. I won't have it."
So the three stayed at home, and sat up for him and he told them, when
he came in, at a little after ten, that there had been five Italians
present and one of them had slept. Two ladies, deputed by the Woman's
Club, had also come, and he wished to thunder women would mind their
business and stay at home. But there was the fighting glint in his eye.
His father remembered it, and Lydia was learning to know it now. He
would give his next lecture, he said, unless nobody was there but the
Woman's Club. He drew the line. And next day Lydia slipped away to
Madame Beattie and told her the second lecture would be on the following
Wednesday night.
That night Jeff stood up before his audience of three, no ladies this
time. But Andrea was not there. Jeff thought a minute and decided there
was no need of him.
"Will you tell me," said he, looking down from the shallow platform at
his three men, "why I'm not talking in English anyway? You vote, don't
you? You read English. Well, then, listen to it."
But he was not permitted to begin at once. There was a stir without and
the sound of feet. The door opened and men tramped in, men and men,
more than the little hall would hold, and packed themselves in the
aisles and at the back. And with the foremost, one who carried himself
proudly as if he were extremely honored, came Madame Beattie in a
long-tailed velvet gown with a shining gold circlet across her forehead,
and a plethora of jewels on her ungloved hands. She kept straight on,
and mounted the platform beside Jeff, and there she bowed to her
audience and was cheered. When she spoke to Jeff, it was with a perfect
self-possession, an implied mastery of him and the event.
"I'll interpret."
After all, why not fall in with her, old mistress of guile? He began
quite robustly and thought he was doing very well. In twenty minutes he
was, he thought, speaking excellently. The men were warmly pleased. They
sat up and smiled and glistened at him. Once he stopped short and threw
Madame Beattie a quick aside.
"What are they laughing at?"
"I have to put it picturesquely," said Madame Beattie, in a stately
calm. "That's the only way they'll understand. Go on."
It is said in Addington that those lectures lasted even until eleven
o'clock at night, and there were petitions that The Prisoner should go
to the old hall and talk every evening, instead of twice a week. The
Woman's Club said Madame Beattie was a dear to interpret for him, and
some of the members who had not studied any language since the
seventies, when they learned the rudiments of German, to read Faust,
judged it would be a good idea to hear her for practice. But somebody
told her that, and she discouraged it. She was obliged, she said, to
skip hastily from one dialect to another and they would only be
confused; therefore they thought it better, after all, to remain
undisturbed in their respective calm. Jeff sailed securely on through
Lincoln's administration to the present day, and took up the tariff
even, in an elementary fashion. There he was obliged to be drily
technical at points, and he wondered how Madame Beattie could accurately
reproduce him, much less to a response of eager faces. But then Jeff
knew she was an old witch. He knew she had hypnotised wives that hated
her and husbands sworn to cast her off. He knew she had sung after she
had no voice, and bamboozled even the critics, all but one who wrote for
an evening paper and so didn't do his notice until next day. And he saw
no reason why she should not make even the tariff a primrose path.
Madame Beattie loved it all. Also, there was the exquisite pleasure,
when she got home late, of making Sophy let her in and mix her a
refreshing drink, and of meeting Esther the next day at dinner and
telling her what a good house they had. Business, Madame Beattie called
it, splendid business, and Esther hated her for that, too. It sounded
like shoes or hosiery. But Ether didn't dare gainsay her, for fear she
would put out a palmist's sign, or a notice of séances at twenty-five
cents a head. Esther knew she could get no help from grandmother. When
she sought it, with tears in her eyes, begging grandmother to turn the
unprincipled old witch out for good, grandmother only pulled the sheet
up to her ears and breathed stertorously.
But Madame Beattie was tired, though this was the flowering of her later
life.
"My God!" she said to Lydia one night, before getting up to dress for a
lecture, "I'm pretty nearly--what is it they call it--all in? I may drop
dead. I shouldn't wonder if I did. If I do, you take Jeff into the joke.
Nobody'd appreciate it more than Jeff."
"You don't think the men like him the less for it?" said Lydia.
"Oh, God bless me, no. They adore him. They think he's a god because he
tells their folk tales and their stories. I give you my word, Lydia, I'd
no idea I knew so many things."
"What did you tell last night?" said Lydia.
"Oh, stories, stories, stories. To-night I may spice it up a little with
modern middle-Europe scandal. Dear souls! they love it."
"What does Jeff think they're listening to?" asked Lydia.
"The trusts, last time," said Madame Beattie. "My Holy Father! that's
what he thinks. The trusts!"
XXV
The colonel thrived, about this time, on that fallacious feeling, born
of hope eternal, that he was growing young. It is one of the
precautionary lies of nature, to keep us going, that, the instant we are
tinkered in any part, we ignore its merely being fitted up for shortened
use. Hope eternal tells us how much stronger it is than it was before.
If you rub unguent into your scanty hair you can feel it grow, as a poet
hears the grass. A nostrum on your toil-hardened hands brings back, to
keen anticipation, the skin of youth. All mankind is prepared to a
perfect degree of sensitiveness for response to the quack doctor's art.
We believe so fast that he need hardly do more than open his mouth to
cry his wares. The colonel, doing a good day's work and getting tired
enough to sleep at night, felt, on waking, as if life were to last the
measure of his extremest appetite. The household went on wings, so
clever and silent was Anne in administration and so efficient Mary
Nellen. Only Anne was troubled in her soul because Lydia would go
slipping away for these secret sessions with Madame Beattie. She even
proposed going with her once or twice, but Lydia said she had put it off
for that night; and next time she slipped away more cleverly. Once in
these calls Lydia met Esther at the head of the stairs, and they said
"How do you do?" in an uncomfortable way, Esther with reproving dignity
and Lydia in a bravado that looked like insolence. And then Esther sent
for Alston Choate, and in the evening he came.
Esther was a pathetic pale creature, as she met him in the dusk of the
candle-lighted room, little more than a child, he thought, as he noted
her round arms and neck within the film of her white dress. Esther did
not need to assume a pathos for the moment's needs. She was very sorry
for herself. They sat there by the windows, looking out under the shade
of the elms, and for a little neither spoke. Esther had some primitive
feminine impulses to put down. Alston had an extreme of pity that gave
him fervencies of his own. To Esther it was as natural as breathing to
ask a man to fight her battles for her, and to cling to him while she
told him what battles were to be fought. Alston had the chafed feeling
of one who cannot follow with an unmixed ardency the lines his heart
would lead him. He was always angry, chiefly because she had to suffer
so, after the hideousness of her undeserved destiny, and yet he saw no
way to help that might not make a greater hardship for her. At last she
spoke, using his name, and his heart leaped to it.
"Alston, what am I going to do?"
"Things going badly?" he asked her, in a voice moved enough to hearten
her. "What is it that's different?"
"Everything. Aunt Patricia has those horrible men come here and talk
with her--"
"It's ridiculous of her," said Alston, "but there's no harm in it.
They're not a bad lot, and she's an old lady, and she won't stay here
forever."
"Oh, yes, she will. She gets her food, at least, and I don't believe she
could pay for even that abroad. And this sort of thing amuses her. It's
like gipsies or circus people or something. It's horrible."
"What does your grandmother say?"
"Nothing."
"She must stand for it, in a way, or Madame Beattie couldn't do it."
"I don't believe grandmother understands fully. She's so old."
"She isn't tremendously old."
"Oh, but she looks so. When you see her in her nightcap--it's horrible,
the whole thing, grandmother and all, and here I am shut up with it."
"I'm sorry," said Alston, in a low tone. "I'm devilish sorry."
"And I want to go away," said Esther, her voice rising hysterically, so
that Alston nervously hoped she wouldn't cry. "But I can't do that. I
haven't enough to live on, away from here, and I'm afraid."
"Esther," said he, daring at last to bring out the doubt that assailed
him when he mused over her by himself, "just what do you mean by saying
you are afraid?"
"You know," said Esther, almost in a whisper. She had herself in hand
now.
"Yes. But tell me again. Tell me explicitly."
"I'm afraid," said Esther, "of him."
"Of your husband? If that's it, say it."
"I'm afraid of Jeff. He's been in here. I told you so. He took hold of
me. He dragged me by my wrists. Alston, how can you make me tell you!"
The appeal sickened him. He got up and walked away to the mantel where
the candles were, and stood there leaning against the shelf. He heard
her catch her breath, and knew she was near sobs. He came back to his
chair, and his voice had resumed so much of its judicial tone that her
breath grew stiller in accord.
"Esther," said he, "you'd better tell me everything."
"I can't," said she, "everything. You are--" the rest came in a
startling gush of words--"you are the last man I could tell."
It was a confession, a surrender, and he felt the tremendous weight of
it. Was he the last man she could tell? Was she then, poor child,
withholding herself from him as he, in decency, was aloof from her? He
pulled himself together.
"Perhaps I can't do anything for you," he said, "in my own person. But I
can see that other people do. I can see that you have counsel."
"Alston," said she, in what seemed to him a beautiful simplicity, "why
can't you do anything for me?"
This was so divinely childlike and direct that he had to tell her.
"Esther, don't you see? If you have grounds for action against your
husband, could I be the man to try your case? Could I? When you have
just said I am the last man you could tell? I can't get you a
divorce----" he stopped there. He couldn't possibly add, "and then marry
you afterward."
"I see," said Esther, yet raging against him inwardly. "You can't help
me."
"I can help you," said Alston. "But you must be frank with me. I must
know whether you have any case at all. Now answer me quite simply and
plainly. Does Jeff support you?"
"Oh, no," said Esther.
"He gives you no money whatever?"
"None."
"Then he's a bigger rascal than I've been able to think him."
"I believe----" said Esther, and stopped.
"What do you believe?"
"I think the money must come from his father. He sends it to me."
"Then there is money?"
"Why, yes," said Esther irritably, "there's some money, or how could I
live?"
"But you told me there was none."
"How do you think I could live here with grandmother and expect her to
dress me? Grandmother's very old. She doesn't see the need of things."
"It isn't a question of what you can live on," said Alston. "It's a
question of Jeff's allowing you money, or not allowing you money. Does
he, or does he not?"
"His father sends me some," said Esther, in a voice almost inaudible. It
sounded sulky.
"Regularly?"
"Yes, I suppose so."
"Don't you know?"
"Yes. He sends it regularly."
"How often?"
"Four times a year."
"Haven't you every reason to believe that money is from Jeff?"
"No," said Esther. "I haven't any reason to think so at all. His father
signs the cheques."
"Isn't it probable that his father would do that when Jeff was in
prison, and that he should continue doing it now?"
Esther did not answer. There was something in the silence of the room,
something in the peculiar feel of the atmosphere that made Alston
certain she had balked. He recognised that pause in the human animal
under inquisition, and for a wonder, since he had never been wound up to
breaking point himself, knew how it felt. The machinery in the brain had
suddenly stopped. He was not surprised that Esther could not go on. It
was not obstinacy that deterred her. It was panic. He had put her, he
knew, to too harsh a test. Now he had to soothe her affrighted mind and
bring it back to its clear uses; and since he could honestly do it, as
the lawyer exercising professional medicine, he gave himself gladly to
the task.
"Esther," he said, "it is infernal to ask you these personal questions.
But you will have to bring yourself to answer them if we are to decide
whether you have any case and whether I can send you to another man. But
if you do engage counsel, you'll have to talk to him freely. You'll have
to answer all sorts of questions. It's a pretty comprehensive thing to
admit the law into your private life, because you've got to give it
every right there. You'll be questioned. And you'll have to answer."
Esther sat looking at him steadily. As she looked, her pale cheek seemed
to fill and flush and a light ran into her eyes, until the glow spilled
over and dazzled him, like something wavering between him and her. He
had never seen that light in her eyes, nor indeed the eyes of any woman,
nor would he have said that he could bear to see it there unsummoned.
Yet had he not summoned it unconsciously, hard as he was trying to play
the honest game between an unattached woman and a man who sees her
fetters where she has ceased to see them, but can only feel them gall
her? Had not the inner spirit of him been speaking through all this
interview to the inner spirit of her, and was she not willing now to let
it cry out and say to him, "I am here "? Esther was willing to cry out.
In the bewilderment of it, he did not know whether it was superb of her,
though he would have felt it in another woman to be shameless. The
lustrous lights of her eyes dwelt upon him, unwavering. Then her lips
confirmed them.
"Well," said Esther, "isn't it worth it?"
Alston got up and rather blindly went out of the room. In the street,
after the summer breeze had been touching his forehead and yet not
cooling it, he realised he was carrying his hat in his hand, and put it
on hastily. He was Addington to the backbone, when he was not roaming
the fields of fiction, and one of the rules of Addington was against
looking queer. He walked to his office and let himself in. The windows
were closed and the room had the crude odour of public life: dust, stale
tobacco and books. He threw up the windows and hesitated an instant by
the gas jet. It was his habit, when the outer world pressed him too
heavily, to plunge instantly into a book. But books were no anodyne for
the turmoil of this night. Nor was the light upon these familiar
furnishings. He sat down by the window, laid his arms on the sill and
looked out over the meadows, unseen now but throwing their damp
exhalations up to him through the dark. His heart beat hard, and in the
physical vigour of its revolt he felt a fierce pleasure; but he was
shamed all through in some way he felt he could not meet. Had he seen a
new Esther to-night, an Esther that had not seemed to exist under the
soft lashes of the woman he thought he knew so well? He had a stiffly
drawn picture of what a woman ought to be. She really conformed to
Addington ideals. He believed firmly that the austere and noble dwelt
within woman as Addington had framed her. It would have given him no
pleasure to find a savage hidden under pretty wiles. But Alston believed
so sincerely in the control of man over the forces of life, of which
woman was one, that, if Esther had stepped backward from her bright
estate into a barbarous challenge, it was his fault, he owned, not hers.
He should have guided her so that she stayed within hallowed precincts.
He should have upheld her so that she did not stumble over these
pitfalls of the earth. It is a pity those ideals of old Addington that
made Alston Choate believe in women as little lower than the angels
and, if they proved themselves lower, not really culpable because they
are children and not rightly guided--it is a pity that garden cannot
keep on blooming even out of the midden of the earth. But he had kept
the garden blooming. Addington had a tremendous grip on him. It was not
that he had never seen other customs, other manners. He had travelled a
reasonable amount for an Addington man, but always he had been able to
believe that Eden is what it was when there was but one man in it and
one woman. There was, of course, too, the serpent. But Alston was
fastidious, and he kept his mind as far away from the serpent as
possible. He thought of his mother and sister, and instantly ceased
thinking of them, because to them Esther was probably a sweet person,
and he knew they would not have recognised the Esther he saw to-night.
Perhaps, though he did not know this, his mother might.
Mrs. Choate was a large, almost masculine looking woman, very plain
indeed, Addington owned, but with beautiful manners. She was not like
Alston, not like his sister, who had a highbred charm, something in the
way of Alston's own. Mother was different. She was of the Griswolds who
had land in Cuba and other islands, and were said to have kept slaves
there while the Choates were pouring blood into the abolitionist cause.
There was a something about mother quite different from anybody in
Addington. She conformed beautifully, but you would have felt she
understood your not conforming. She never came to grief over the
neutralities of the place, and you realised it was because she expressed
so few opinions. You might have said she had taken Addington for what it
was and exhausted it long ago. Her gaze was an absent, yet, of late
years, a placid one. She might have been dwelling upon far-off islands
which excited in her no desire to be there. She was too cognisant of
the infinite riches of time that may be supposed to make up eternity. If
she was becalmed here in Addington, some far-off day a wind would fill
her sails and she might seek the farther seas. And, like her son, she
read novels.
Alston, going home at midnight, saw the pale glimmer in her room and
knew she was at it there. He went directly upstairs and stopped at her
door, open into the hall. He was not conscious of having anything to
say. Only he did feel a curious hesitation for the moment. Here in
Addington was an Esther whom he had just met for the first time. Here
was another woman who had not one of Esther's graces, but whom he adored
because she was the most beautiful of mothers. Would she be horrified at
the little strange animal that had looked at him out of Esther's eyes?
He had never seen his mother shocked at anything. But that, he told
himself, was because she was so calm. The Woman's Club of Addington
could have told him it was because she had poise. She looked up, as he
stood in the doorway, and laid her book face downward on the bed.
Usually when he came in like this she moved the reading candle round, so
that the hood should shield his eyes. But to-night she gently turned it
toward him, and Alston did not realise that was because his fagged face
and disordered hair had made her anxious to understand the quicker what
had happened to him.
I "Sit down," she said.
And then, having fairly seen him, she did turn the hood. Alston dropped
into the chair by the bedside and looked at her. She was a plain woman,
it is true, but of heroic lines. Her iron-grey hair was brushed smoothly
back into its two braids, and her nightgown, with its tiny edge, was of
the most pronouncedly sensible cut, of high neck and long sleeves. Yet
there was nothing uncouth about her in her elderly ease of dress and
manner. She was a wholesome woman, and the heart of her son turned
pathetically to her.
"Mary gone to bed?" he asked.
"Yes," said Mrs. Choate. "She was tired. She's been rehearsing a dance
with those French girls and their class."
Alston lay back in his chair, regarding her with hot, tired eyes. He
wanted to know what she thought of a great many things: chiefly whether
a woman who had married Jeff Blake need be afraid of him. But there was
a well-defined code between his mother and himself. He was not willing
to trap her into honest answers where he couldn't put honest questions.
"Mother," said he, and didn't know why he began or indeed that he was
going to say just that at all, "do you ever wish you could run away?"
She gave the corner of the book a pat with one beautiful hand.
"I do run away," she said. "I was a good many miles from here when you
came in. And I shall be again when you are gone. Among the rogues, such
as we don't see."
"What is it?"
"Mysteries of Paris."
"That's our vice, isn't it," said Alston, "yours and mine, novel
reading?"
"You're marked with it," said she.
There was something in the quiet tone that arrested him and made him
look at her more sharply. The tone seemed to say she had not only read
novels for a long time, but she had had to read them from a grave
design. "It does very well for me," she said, "but it easily mightn't
for you. Alston, why don't you run away?"
Alston stared at her.
"Would you like to go abroad?" he asked her then, "with Mary? Would you
like me to take you?"
"Oh, no," said Mrs. Choate. "Mary wouldn't want to. She's bewitched with
those French girls. And I don't want to. I couldn't go the only way I'd
like."
"You could go any way you chose," said Alston, touched. He knew there
was a war chest, and it irked him to think his mother wouldn't have it
tapped for her.
"Oh, no," said she. "I should need to be slim and light, and put on
short petticoats and ride horses and get away from tigers. I don't want
to shoot them, but I'd rather like to get away from them."
"Mother," said Alston, "what's come over you? Is it this book?"
She laughed, in an easy good-humour.
"Books don't come over me," said she. "I believe it's that old Madame
Beattie."
"What's Madame Beattie done that any--" he paused; Esther's wrongs at
Madame Beattie's hands were too red before him--"that any lady would be
willing to do?"
"I really don't know, Alston," said his mother frankly. "It's only that
when I think of that old party going out every night--"
"Not every night."
"Well, when she likes, and getting up on a platform and telling goodness
knows what to the descendants of the oldest civilisations, and their
bringing her home on their shoulders--"
"No, no, mother, they don't do that."
"I tell you what it makes me feel, Alston: it makes me feel fat."
"Madame Beattie weighs twenty pounds more than you do, and she's not so
tall by three inches."
"And then I realise that when women say they want to vote, it isn't
because they're all piously set on saving the country. It's because
they've peeped over the fence and got an idea of the game, and they're
crazy to be in it."
"But, mother, there's no game, except a dirty one of graft and politics.
There's nothing in it."
"No," said Mrs. Choate. "There isn't in most games. But people play
them."
"You don't think Amabel is in it for the game?"
"Oh, no! Amabel's a saint. It wouldn't take more than a basket of wood
and a bunch of matches to make her a martyr."
"But, mother," said Alston, "you belong to the antis."
"Do I?" asked his mother. "Yes, I believe I do."
"Do you mean to say you're not sincere?"
"Why, yes, of course I'm sincere. So are they. Only, doesn't it occur to
you they're having just as much fun organising and stirring the pot as
if it was the other pot they were stirring? Besides they attitudinise
while they stir, and say they're womanly. And they like that, too."
"Do you think they're in it for the game?"
"No, no, Alston, not consciously. Nobody's in it for the game except
your Weedon Moores. Any more than a nice girl puts on a ribbon to trap
her lover. Only nature's behind the girl, and nature's behind the game.
She's behind all games. But as to the antis--" said Mrs. Choate
impatiently, "they've gone on putting down cards since the rules were
changed."
Alston rose and stood looking down at her. She glanced up brightly, met
his eyes and laughed.
"All is," said she, in a current phrase even cultured Addington had
caught from its "help" from the rural radius outside, "I just happened
to feel like telling you if you want to run away, you go. And if I
weighed a hundred and ten and were forty-five, I'd go with you.
Actually, I should advise you, if you're going to stay here, to stir
the pot a little now it's begun to boil so hard."
"Get into politics?" he asked, remembering Jeff.
"Maybe."
She smiled at him, pleasantly, not as a mother smiles, but an implacable
mistress of destiny. In spite of her large tolerance, there were moments
when she did speak. So she had looked when he said, as a boy, that he
shouldn't go to gymnasium, and she had told him he would. And he went.
Again, when he was in college and had fallen in with a set of
ultra-moderns and swamped himself in decoration and the beguilements of
a spurious art, he had seen that look; then she had told him the
classics were not to be neglected. Now here was the look again. Alston
began to have an uncomfortable sense that he might have to run for
office in spite of every predilection he ventured to cherish. He could
have thrown himself on the floor and bellowed to be let alone.
"But keep your head, dear," she was saying. "Keep your head. Don't let
any man--or woman either--lose it for you. That's the game, Alston,
really."
It was such a warm impetuous tone it brought them almost too suddenly
and too close together. Alston meant to kiss her, as he did almost every
night, but he awkwardly could not. He went out of the room in a shy
haste, and when he dropped off to sleep he was thinking, not of Esther,
but of his mother. Even so he did not suspect that his mother knew he
had come from Esther and how fast his blood was running.
XXVI
Jeff, writing hard on his book to tell men they were prisoners and had
to get free, was tremendously happy. He thought he saw the whole game
now, the big game these tiny issues reflected in a million mirrors. You
were given life and incalculable opportunity. But you were allowed to go
it blind. They never really interfered with you, the terrible They up
there: for he could not help believing there was an Umpire of the game,
though nobody, it seemed, was permitted to see the score until long
afterward, when the trumpery rewards had been distributed. (Some of them
were not trumpery; they were as big as the heavens and the sea.) He
found a great many things to laugh over, sane, kind laughter, in the way
the game was played there in Addington. Religion especially seemed to
him the big absurd paradox. Here were ingenuous worshippers preserving a
form of observance as primitive as the burnt-offerings before a god of
bronze or wood. They went to church and placated their god, and swore
they believed certain things the acts of their lives repudiated. They
made a festival at Christmas time and worshipped at the manger and
declared God had come to dwell among men. They honored Joseph who was
the spouse of Mary, and who was a carpenter, and on the twenty-sixth of
December they nodded with condescension to their own carpenter, if they
met him in the street, or they failed to see him at all. And their
carpenter, who was doing his level best to prevent them from grinding
the face of labour, himself ground the face of his brother carpenter if
his brother did not heartily co-operate in keeping hours down and
prices up. And everybody was behaving from the prettiest of motives;
that was the joke of it. They not only said their prayers before going
out to trip up the competitor who was lying in wait to trip up them;
they actually believed in the efficacy of the prayer. They glorified an
arch apostle of impudence who pricked bubbles for them--a modern
literary light--but they went on blowing their bubbles just the same,
and when the apostle of impudence pricked them again they only said:
"Oh, it's so amusing!" and blew more. And even the apostle of impudence
wasn't so busy pricking bubbles that he didn't have time to blow bubbles
of his own, and even he didn't know how thin and hollow his own bubbles
were, which was the reason they could float so high. He saw the sun on
them and thought they were the lanterns that lighted up the show. Jeff
believed he had discovered the clever little trick at the bottom of the
game, the trick that should give over to your grasp the right handle at
last. This was that every man, once knowing he was a prisoner, should
laugh at his fetters and break them by his own muscle.
"The trouble is," he said, at breakfast, when Mary Nellen was bringing
in the waffles, "we're all such liars."
The colonel sat there in a mild peaceableness, quite another man under
the tan of his honest intimacy with the sun. He had been up hoeing an
hour before breakfast, and helped himself to waffles liberally, while
Mary Nellen looked, with all her intellectual aspirations in her eyes,
at Jeff.
"No, no," said the colonel. He was conscious of very kindly feelings
within himself, and believed in nearly everybody but Esther. She, he
thought, might have a chance of salvation if she could be reborn,
physically hideous, into a world obtuse to her.
"Liars!" said Jeff mildly. "We're doing the things we're expected to do,
righteous or not. And we're saying the things we don't believe."
"That's nothing but kindness," said the colonel. Mary Nellen made a
pretence of business at the side table, and listened greedily. She would
take what she had gathered to the kitchen and discuss it to rags. She
found the atmosphere very stimulating. "If I asked Lydia here whether
she found my hair thin, Lydia would say she thought it beautiful hair,
wouldn't you, Lyddy? She couldn't in decency tell me I'm as bald as a
rat."
"It is beautiful," said Lydia. "It doesn't need to be thick."
Jeff had refused waffles. He thrust his hands in his pockets and leaned
back, regarding his father with a smile. The lines in his face, Lydia
thought, fascinated, were smoothed out, all but the channels in the
forehead and the cleft between his brows. That last would never go.
"I am simply," said Jeff, "so tickled I can hardly contain myself. I
have discovered something."
"What?" said Lydia.
"The world," said Jeff. "Here it is. It's mine. I can have it to play
with. It's yours. You can play, too. So can that black-eyed army Madame
Beattie has mobilised. So can she."
Anne was looking at him in a serious anxiety.
"With conditions as they are--" said she, and Jeff interrupted her
without scruple.
"That's the point. With conditions as they are, we've got to dig into
things and mine out pleasures, and shake them in the faces of the mob
and the mob will follow us."
The colonel had ceased eating waffles. His thin hand, not so delicate
now that it had learned the touch of toil, trembled a little as it held
his fork.
"Jeff," said he, "what do you want to do?"
"I want," said Jeff, "to keep this town out of the clutch of Weedie
Moore."
"You can't do it. Not so long as Amabel is backing him. She's got
unlimited cash, and she thinks he's God Almighty and she wants him to be
mayor."
"It's a far cry," said Jeff, "from God Almighty to mayor. But Alston
Choate is going to be nominated for mayor, and he's going to get it."
"He won't take it," said Anne impulsively, and bit her lip.
"How do you know?" asked Jeff.
"He hates politics."
"He hates Addington more as it is."
They got up and moved to the library, standing about for a moment, while
Farvie held the morning paper for a cursory glance, before separating
for their different deeds. When Farvie and Anne had gone Jeff took up
the paper and Lydia lingered. Jeff felt the force of her silent waiting.
It seemed to bore a hole through the paper itself and knock at his brain
to be let in. He threw the paper down.
"Well?" said he.
Lydia was all alive. Her small face seemed drawn to a point of
eagerness. She spoke.
"Alston Choate isn't the man for mayor."
"Who is?"
"You."
Jeff slowly smiled at her.
"I?" he said. "How many votes do you think I'd get?"
"All the foreign vote. And the best streets wouldn't vote at all."
"Why?"
She bit her lip. She had not meant to say it.
"No," said Jeff, interpreting for her, "maybe they wouldn't. That's like
Addington. It wouldn't stand for me, but it would be too well-bred to
stand against me. No, Lyddy, I shouldn't get a show. And I don't want a
show. All I want is to bust Weedon Moore."
Lydia looked the unmovable obstinacy she felt stiffening every fibre of
her.
"You're all wrong," she said. "You could have anything you wanted."
"Who says so?"
"Madame Beattie."
"I wish," said Jeff, "that old harpy would go to Elba or Siberia or the
devil. I'm not going to run for office."
"What are you going to do?" asked Lydia, in a small voice. She was
resting a hand on the table, and the hand trembled.
"It's a question of what I won't do, at present. I won't go down there
to the hall and make an ass of myself talking history and be dished by
that old marplot. But if I can get hold of the same men--having
previously gagged Madame Beattie or deported her--I'll make them act
some plays."
"What kind of plays?"
"Shakespeare, maybe."
"They can't do that. They don't know enough."
"They know enough to understand that old rascal's game, whatever it is,
and hoot with her when she's done me. And she's given me the tip, with
her dramatics up there on the platform, and the way they answered.
They're children, and they want to play. She had the cleverness to see
it. And they shall play with me."
"But they won't act Shakespeare," said Lydia. "They only care about
their own countries. That's why they love Madame Beattie."
"What are their countries, Lydia?"
"Greece, Italy, Poland, Russia--oh, a lot more."
"Aren't they voting here in this country?"
"Why, yes, ever so many of them."
"Then," said Jeff, "this is their country, and this is their language,
and they've got to learn some English plays and act them as God pleases.
But act them they shall. Or their children shall. And you may give my
compliments to Madame Beattie and tell her if she blocks my game I'll
