make them into something which Nature had obviously not 
intended them to be ! She decided to make that point to 
Hal on their way back to the train. She realised that he 
had brought her here to educate her ; like all the rest of 
the world, she resented forcible education, and she was not 
without hope that she might turn the tables and educate 
Hal. 
Pretty soon Rosa finished nursing the baby, and Jessie 
remarked the little one's black eyes. This topic broke 
down the mother's shyness, and they were chatting pleas- 
antly, when suddenly they heard sounds outside which 
 
caused them to start up. It was a clamour of women's 
voices ; and Hal and Rosa sprang to the door. Just now 
was a critical time, when every one was on edge for news. 
Hal threw open the door and called to those outside, 
" What is it ? " There came a response, in a woman's 
voice, " They've found Rafferty ! " 
" Alive ? " 
" Nobody knows yet." 
" Where ? " 
" In Room Seventeen. Eleven of them — Rafferty, 
and young Flanagan, and Johannson, the Swede. 
They're near dead — can't speak, they say. They won't 
let anybody near them." 
Other voices broke in ; but the one which answered Hal 
had a different quality; it was a warm, rich voice, un- 
mistakably Irish, and it held Jessie's attention. " They've 
got them in the tipple-room, and the women want to know 
about their men, and they won't tell them. They're 
beatin' them back like dogs ! " 
There was a tumult of weeping, and Hal stepped out 
of the cabin, and in a minute or so he entered again, sup- 
porting on his arm a girl, clad in a faded blue calico dress, 
and having a head of very conspicuous red hair. She 
seemed half fainting, and kept moaning that it was hor- 
rible, horrible. Hal led her to a chair, and she sank into 
it and hid her face in her hands, sobbing, talking inco- 
herently between her sobs. 
Jessie stood looking at this girl. She felt the in- 
tensity of her excitement, and shared it ; yet at the same 
time there was something in Jessie that resented it. She 
did not wish to be upset about things like this, which she 
could not help. Of course these unfortunate people were 
suffering; but — what a shocking lot of noise the poor 
thing was making ! A part of the poor thing's excitement 
was rage, and Jessie realised that, and resented it still 
more. It was as if it were a personal challenge to her ; the 
 
same as Hal's fierce social passions, which so bewildered 
and shocked her. 
" They're beatin' the women back like dogs ! " the girl 
repeated. 
" Mary," said Hal, trying to soothe her, " the doctors 
will be doing their best. The women couldn't expect to 
crowd about them ! " 
" Maybe they couldn't ; but that's not it, Joe, and ye 
know it! They been bringin' up dead bodies, some they 
found where the explosion was — blown all to pieces. 
And they won't let anybody see them. Is that because of 
the doctors ? No, it ain't ! It's because they want to tell 
lies about the number killed ! They want to count four or 
five legs to a man ! And that's what's drivin' the women 
crazy! I saw Mrs. Zamboni, tryin' to get into the shed, 
and Pete Hanun caught her by the breasts and shoved her 
back. ' I want my man ! ' she screamed. i Well, what do 
you want him for ? He's all in pieces ! ' 'I want the 
pieces ! ' ' What good'll they do you ? Are you goin' to 
eat him?"' 
There were cries of horror now, even from Jessie ; and 
the strange girl hid her face in her hands and began to 
sob again. Hal put his hand gently on her arm. 
" Mary," he pleaded,^ " it's not so bad — at least they're 
getting the people out." 
" How do ye know what they're doin' ? They might be 
sealin' up parts of the mine down below! That's what 
makes it so horrible — nobody knows what's happenin'! 
Ye should have heard poor Mrs. Kafferty screamin'. Joe, 
it went through me like a knife. Just think, it's been half 
an hour since they brought him up, and the poor lady can't 
be told if her man is alive." 
 Hal stood for a few moments in thought. He 
was surprised that such things should be happening while 
 
Percy Harrigan's train was in the village. He was con- 
sidering whether he should go to Percy, or whether a hint 
to Cotton or Cartwright would not be sufficient. 
" Mary," he said, in a quiet voice, " you needn't distress 
yourself so. We can get better treatment for the women, 
I'm sure." 
But her sobbing went on. " What can ye do ? They're 
bound to have their way ! " 
" No," said Hal. " There's a difference now. Be- 
lieve me — something can be done. I'll step over and 
have a word with Jeff Cotton." 
He started towards the door; but there came a cry: 
" Hal ! " It was Jessie, whom he had almost forgotten in 
his sudden anger at the bosses. 
At her protest he turned and looked at her; then he 
looked at Mary. He saw the latter's hands fall from her 
tear-stained face, and her expression of grief give way to 
one of wonder. " Hal ! " 
" Excuse me," he said, quickly. " Miss Burke, this is 
my friend, Miss Arthur." Then, not quite sure if this 
was a satisfactory introduction, he added, " Jessie, this is 
my friend, Mary." 
Jessie's training could not fail in any emergency. 
"Miss Burke," she said, and smiled with perfect 
politeness. But Mary said nothing, and the strained look 
did not leave her face. 
In the first excitement she had almost failed to notice 
this stranger; but now she stared, and realisation grew 
upon her. Here was a girl, beautiful with a kind of 
beauty hardly to be conceived of in a mining-camp; re- 
served, yet obviously expensive — even in a mackintosh 
and rubber-shoes. Mary was used to the expensiveness of 
Mrs. O'Callahan, but here was a new kind of expensive- 
ness, subtle and compelling, strangely unconscious. And 
she laid claim to Joe Smith, the miner's buddy! She 
called him by a name hitherto unknown to his North 
 
Valley associates! It needed no word from Little Jerry 
to guide Mary's instinct ; she knew in a flash that here was 
the " other girl." 
Mary was seized with sudden acute consciousness of the 
blue calico dress, patched at the shoulder and stained with 
grease-spots ; of her hands, big and rough with hard labour ; 
of her feet, clad in shoes worn sideways at the heel, and 
threatening to break out at the toes. And as for Jessie, 
she too had the woman's instinct ; she too saw a girl who 
was beautiful, with a kind of beauty of which which she 
did not approve, but which she could not deny — the 
beauty of robust health, of abounding animal energy. 
Jessie was not unaware of the nature of her own charms, 
having been carefully educated to conserve them ; nor did 
she fail to make note of the other girl's handicaps — the 
patched and greasy dress, the big rough hands, the shoes 
worn sideways. But even so, she realised that "Red 
Mary " had a quality which she lacked — that beside this 
wild rose of a mining-camp, she, Jessie Arthur, might pos- 
sibly seem a garden flower, fragile and insipid. 
She had seen Hal lay his hand upon Mary's arm, and 
heard her speak to him. She called him Joe! Ajid a 
sudden fear had leaped into Jessie's heart. 
Like many girls who have been delicately reared, Jessie 
Arthur knew more than she admitted, even to herself. 
She knew enough to realise that young men with ample 
means and leisure are not always saints and ascetics. 
Also, she had heard the remark many times made that 
these women of the lower orders had " no morals." Just 
what did such a remark mean ? What would be the atti- 
tude of such a girl as Mary Burke — full-blooded and in- 
tense, dissatisfied with her lot in life — to a man of culture 
and charm like Hal ? She would covet him, of course ; no 
woman who knew him could fail to covet him. And she 
would try to steal him away from his friends, from the 
world to which he belonged, the future of happiness and 
ease to which he was entitled. She would have powers — 
dark and terrible powers, all the more appalling to Jessie 
because they were mysterious. Might they possibly be 
able to overcome even the handicap of a dirty calico dress, 
of big rough hands and shoes worn sideways ? 
These reflections, which have taken many words to ex- 
plain, came to Jessie in one flash of intuition. She under- 
stood now, all at once, the incomprehensible phenomenon 
— that Hal should leave friends and home and career, to 
come and live amid this squalor and suffering! She saw 
the old drama of the soul of man, heaven and hell con- 
tending for mastery of it; and she knew that she was 
heaven, and that this " Red Mary " was hell. 
She looked at Hal. He seemed to her so fine and true ; 
his face was frank, he was the soul of honourableness. 
No, it was impossible to believe that he had yielded to 
such a lure ! If that had been the case, he would never 
have brought her to this cabin, he would never have 
taken a chance of her meeting the girl. No; but he 
might be struggling against temptation, he might be in the 
toils of it, and only half aware of it. He was a man, and 
therefore blind ; he was a dreamer, and it would be like 
him to idealise this girl, calling her naive and primitive^ 
thinking that she had no wiles ! Jessie had come just in 
time to save him! And she would fight to save him — 
using wiles more subtle than those at the command of 
any mining-camp hussy ! 
 It was the surging up in Jessie Arthur of that 
instinctive self, the creature of hereditary cruelty, of the 
existence of which Hal had no idea. She drew back, and 
there was a quiet hauteur in her tone as she spoke. " Hal, 
come here, please." 
He came ; and she waited until he was close enough for 
intimacy, and then said, " Have you forgotten you have to 
take me back to the train ? " 
" Can't you come with me for a few minutes i " he 
pleaded, " It would have such a good effect if you did." 
" I can't go into that crowd.' she answered ; and sud- 
denly her voice trembled, and the tears came into her 
sweet brown eyes. " Don't you know, Hal, that I couldn't 
stand such terrible sights ? This poor girl — she is used 
to them — she is hardened! But I — I — oh, take me 
away, take me away, dear Hal ! " This cry of a woman 
for protection came with a familiar echo to Hal's mind. 
He did not stop to think — he was moved by it instinct- 
ivelv. Yes, he had exposed the girl he loved to suffering! 
He had meant it for her own good, but even so, it was 
cruel! 
He stood close to her, and saw the love-light in her eyes ; 
he saw the tears, the trembling of her sensitive chin. She 
swayed to him, and he caught her in his arms — and there, 
before these witnesses, she let him press her to him, while 
she sobbed and whispered her distress. She had been shy 
of caresses hitherto, watched and admonished by an expe- 
rienced mother ; certainly she had never before made what 
could by the remotest stretch of the imagination be con- 
sidered an advance towards him. But now she made it, 
and there was a cry of triumph in her soul as she saw that 
he responded to it. He was still hers — and these low 
people should know it, this " other girl " should know it ! 
Yet, in the midst of this very exultation, Jessie Arthur 
really felt the grief she expressed for the women of North 
Valley; she really felt horror at the story of Mrs. Zam- 
boni's "man": so intricate is the soul of woman, so 
puzzling that faculty, older than the ages, which enables 
her to be hysterical, and at the same time to be guided in 
the use of that hysteria by deep and infallible calcula- 
tion. 
But she made Hal realise that it was necessary for him 
KING COAL 
to take her away. He turned to Mary Burke and said, 
" Miss Arthur's train is leaving in a short time. I'll have 
to take her back, and then I'll go to the pit-mouth with you 
and see what I can do." 
" Very well," Mary answered ; and her voice was hard 
and cold. But Hal did not notice this. He was a man, 
and not able to keep up with the emotions of one woman — 
to say nothing of two women at the same time. 
He took Jessie out, and all the way back to the train 
she fought a desperate fight to get him away from here. 
She no longer even suggested that he get decent clothing; 
she was willing for him to come as he was, in his coal- 
stained mining-jumpers, in the private train of the Coal 
King's son. She besought him in the name of their af- 
fection. She threatened him that if he did not come, this 
might be the last time they would meet. She even broke 
down in the middle of the street, and let him stand there 
in plain sight of miners' wives and children, and of pos- 
sible newspaper reporters, holding her in his arms and 
comforting her. 
Hal was much puzzled ; but he would not give way. The 
idea of going off in Percy Harrigan's train had come to 
seem morally repulsive to him ; he hated Percy Harrigan's 
train, and Percy Harrigan also, he declared. And Jessie 
saw that she was only making him unreasonable — that 
before long he might be hating her. With her instinctive 
savoir faire, she brought up his suggestion that she might 
find some one to chaperon her, and stay with him at North 
Valley until he was ready to come away. 
Hal's heart leaped at that ; he had no idea what was in 
her mind — the certainty that no one of the ladies of the 
Harrigan party would run the risk of offending her host 
by staying under such circumstances. 
" You mean it, sweetheart ? " he cried, happily. 
She answered, " I mean that I love you, Hal." 
 
" All right, dear ! " he said. " We'll see if we can 
arrange it." 
But as they walked on, she managed, without his realis- 
ing it, to cause him to reflect upon the effect of her staying. 
She was willing to do it, if it was what he wanted ; but it 
would injure, perhaps irrevocably, his standing with her 
parents. They would telegraph her to come at once ; and 
if she did not obey, they would come by the next train. 
So on, until at last Hal was moved to withdraw his own 
suggestion. After all, what was the use of her staying, if 
her mind was on the people at home, if she would simply 
keep him in hot water ? Before the conversation was over 
Hal had become clear in his mind that North Valley was 
no place for Jessie Arthur, and that he had been a fool to 
think he could bring the two together. 
She tried to get him to promise to leave as soon as the 
last man had been brought out of the mine. He answered 
that he intended to leave then, unless some new emer- 
gency should arise. She tried to get an unqualified 
promise; and failing in that, when they had nearly got to 
the train she suddenly made a complete surrender. Let 
him do what he pleased — but let him remember that she 
loved him, that she needed him, that she could not do 
without him. No matter what he might do, no matter 
what people might say about him, she believed in him, she 
would stand by him. Hal was deeply touched, and took 
her in his arms again and kissed her tenderly under the 
umbrella, in the presence of the wondering stares of sev- 
eral urchins with coal-smutted faces. He pledged anew 
his love for her, assuring her that no amount of interest in 
mining-camps, should ever steal him from her. 
Then he put her on the train, and shook hands with the 
departing guests. He was so very sombre and harassed- 
looking that the young men forbore to " kid " him as they 
would otherwise have done. He stood on the station-plat- 
 
form and saw the train roll away — and felt, to his own 
desperate bewilderment, that he hated these friends of his 
boyhood and youth. His reason protested against it; he 
told himself there was nothing they could do, no reason on 
earth for them to stay — and yet he hated them. They 
were hurrying off to dance and flirt at the country club — 
while he was going back to the pit-mouth, to try to get Mrs. 
Zamboni the right to inspect the pieces of her " man " ! 
 The pit of death was giving up its secrets. The 
hoist was busy, and cage-load after cage-load came up, with 
bodies dead and bodies living and bodies only to be classi- 
fied after machines had pumped air into them for a while. 
Hal stood in the rain and watched the crowd and thought 
that he had never witnessed a scene so compelling to pity 
and terror^ The silence that would fall when any one 
appeared who might have news to tell! The sudden 
shriek of anguish from some woman whose hopes were 
struck dead! The moans of sympathy that ran through 
the crowd, alternating with cheers at some good tidings, 
shaking the souls of the multitude as a storm of wind 
shakes a reed-field ! 
And the stories that ran through the camp — brought 
up from the underground world — stories of incredible 
sufferings, and of still more incredible heroisms! Men 
who had been four days without food or water, yet had re- 
sisted being carried out of the mine, proposing to stay and 
help rescue others! Men who had lain together in the 
darkness and silence, keeping themselves alive by the water 
which seeped from the rocks overhead, taking turns lying 
face upwards where the drops fell, or wetting pieces of 
their clothing and sucking out the moisture ! Members of 
the rescue parties would tell how they knocked upon the 
barriers, and heard the faint answering signals of the im- 
prisoned men ; how madly they toiled to cut through, and 
how, when at last a little hole appeared, they heard the 
cries of joy, and saw the eyes of men shining from the 
darkness, while they waited, gasping, for the hole to grow 
bigger, so that water and food might be passed in ! 
In some places they were fighting the fire. Long lines 
of hose had been sent down, and men were moving forward 
foot by foot, as the smoke and steam were sucked out ahead 
 
 
of them by the fan. Those who did this work were taking 
their lives in their hands, yet they went without hesita- 
tion. There was always hope of finding men in barri- 
caded rooms beyond. 
Hal sought out Jeff Cotton at the entrance to the tipple- 
room, which had been turned into a temporary hospital 
It was the first time the two had met since the revelation in 
Percy's car, and the camp-marshal's face took on a rather 
sheepish grin. "Well, Mr. Warner, you win," he re- 
marked ; and after a little arguing he agreed to permit a 
couple of women to go into the tipple-room and make a list 
of the injured, and go out and give the news to the crowd. 
Hal went to the Minettis to ask Mary Burke to attend to 
this ; but Rosa said that Mary had gone out after he and 
Miss Arthur had left, and no one knew where she was. 
So Hal went to Mrs. David, who consented to get a couple 
of friends, and do the work without being called a " com- 
mittee." " I won't have any damned committees ! " the 
camp-marshal had declared. 
So the night passed, and part of another day. A clerk 
from the office came to Hal with a sealed envelope, con- 
taining a telegram, addressed in care of Cartwright. " I 
most urgently beg of you to come home at once. It will 
be distressing to Dad if he hears what has happened, and it 
will not be possible to keep the matter from him for 
long." 
As Hal read, he frowned ; evidently the Harrigans had 
got busy without delay! He went to the office and tele- 
phoned his answer. " Am planning to leave in a day or 
two. Trust you will make an effort to spare Dad until you 
have heard my story." 
This message troubled Hal. It started in his mind long 
arguments with his brother, and explanations and apolo- 
gies to his father. He loved the old man tenderly. What 
a shame if some emissary of the Harrigans were to get to 
him to upset him with misrepresentations ! 
 
Also these ideas had a tendency to make Hal homesick; 
they brought more vividly to his thoughts the outside 
world, with its physical allurements — there being a limit 
to the amount of unwholesome meals and dirty beds and 
repulsive sights a man of refinement can force himself to 
endure. Hal found himself obsessed by a vision of a club 
dining-room, with odours of grilled steaks and hot rolls, 
and the colours of salads and fresh fruits and cream. The 
conviction grew suddenly strong in him that his work in 
North Valley was nearly done ! 
Another night passed, and another day. The last of 
the bodies had been brought out, and the corpses shipped 
down to Pedro for one of those big wholesale funerals 
which are a feature of mine-life. The fire was out, and 
the rescue-crews had given place to a swarm of carpenters 
and timbermen, repairing the damage and making the 
mine safe. The reporters had gone; Billy Keating hav- 
ing clasped Hal's hand, and promised to meet him for 
luncheon at the club. An agent of the " Red Cross " was 
on hand, and was feeding the hungry out of Mrs. Curtis's 
subscription-list. WJiat more was there for Hal to do — 
except to bid good-bye to his friends, and assure them of 
his help in the future ? 
First among these friends was Mary Burke, whom he 
had had no chance to talk to since the meeting with Jessie. 
He realised that Mary had been deliberately avoiding him. 
She was not in her home, and he went to inquire at the 
Rafferties', and stopped for a good-bye chat with the old 
woman whose husband he had saved. 
Rafferty was going to pull through. His wife had been 
allowed in to see him, and tears rolled down her shrunken 
cheeks as she told about it. He had been four days and 
nights blocked up in a little tunnel, with no food or water, 
save for a few drops of coffee which he had shared with 
other men. He could still not speak, he could hardly 
move a hand ; but there was life in his eyes, and his look 
 
had been a greeting from the soul she had loved and served 
these thirty years and more. Mrs. Rafferty sang praises 
to the Kafferty God, who had brought him safely through 
these perils ; it seemed obvious that He must be more effi- 
cient than the Protestant God of Johannson, the giant 
Swede, who had lain by Rafferty's side and given up the 
ghost. 
But the doctor had stated that the old Irishman would 
never be good to work again; and Hal saw a shadow of 
terror cross the sunshine of Mrs. Rafferty's rejoicing. 
How could a doctor say a thing like that ? Rafferty was 
old, to be sure ; but he was tough — and could any doctor 
imagine how hard a man would try who had a family look- 
ing to him ? Sure, he was not the one to give up for a bit 
of pain now and then ! Besides him, there was only Tim 
who was earning; and though Tim was a good lad, and 
worked steady, any doctor ought to know that a big family 
could not be kept going on the wages of one eighteen-year- 
old pit-boy. As for the other lads, there was a law that said 
they were too young to work. Mrs. Rafferty thought there 
should be some one to put a little sense into the heads of 
them that made the laws — for if they wanted to forbid 
children to work in coal-mines, they should surely provide 
some other way to feed the children. 
Hal listened, agreeing sympathetically, and meantime 
watching her, and learning more from her actions than 
from her words. She had been obedient to the teachings 
of her religion, to be fruitful and multiply; she had fed 
three grown sons into the maw of industry, and had still 
eight children and a man to care for. Hal wondered if 
she had ever rested a single minute of daylight in all her 
fifty-four years. Certainly not while he had been in her 
house! Even now, while praising the Rafferty God and 
blaming the capitalist law-makers, she was getting a sup- 
per, moving swiftly, silently, like a machine. She was 
lean as an old horse that has toiled across a desert ; the skin 
 
over her cheek-bones was tight as stretched rubber, and 
cords stood out in her wrists like piano-wires. 
And now she was cringing before the spectre of destitu- 
tion. He asked what she would do about it, and saw the 
shadow of terror cross her face again. There was one re- 
course from starvation, it seemed — to have her children 
taken from her, and put in some institution ! At the men- 
tion of this, one of the special nightmares of the poor, the 
old woman began to sob and cry again that the doctor was 
wrong; he would see, and Hal would see — Old Kafferty 
would be back at his job in a week or two! 
 Hal went- out on the street again. It was the 
hour which would have been sunset in a level region ; the 
tops of the mountains were touched with a purple light, 
and the air was fresh and chill with early fall. Down the 
darkening streets he saw a gathering of men; there was 
shouting, and people running towards the place, so he hur- 
ried up, with the thought in his mind, " What's the matter 
now ? " There were perhaps a hundred men crying out, 
their voices mingling like the sound of waves on the sea. 
He could make out words: "Go on! Go on! We've 
had enough of it ! Hurrah ! " 
" What's happened ? " he asked, of some one on the out- 
skirts; and the man, recognising him, raised a cry which 
ran through the throng : " Joe Smith ! He's the boy for 
us ! Come in here, Joe ! Give us a speech ! " 
But even while Hal was asking questions, trying to get 
the situation clear, other shouts had drowned out his name. 
" We've had enough of them walking over us ! " And 
somebody cried, more loudly, " Tell us about it ! Tell it 
again ! Go on ! " 
A man was standing upon the steps of a building at one 
side. Hal stared in amazement; it was Tim Kafferty. 
Of all people in the world — Tim, the light-hearted and 
 
simple, Tim of the laughing face and the merry Irish blue 
eyes! Now his sandy hair was tousled and his features 
distorted with rage* " Him near dead ! " he yelled. 
"Him with his voice gone, and couldn't move his hand! 
Eleven years he's slaved for them, and near killed in an 
accident that's their own fault — every man in this crowd 
knows it's their own fault, by God ! " 
" Sure thing ! You're right ! " cried a chorus of voices. 
"Tell it all!" 
" They give him twenty-five dollars and his hospital 
expenses — and what'll his hospital expenses be ? They'll 
have him out on the street again before he's able to stand. 
You know that — they done it to Pete Cullen ! " 
"You bet they did!" 
" Them damned lawyers in there — gettin' 'em to sign 
papers when they don't know what they're doing An' me 
that might help him can't get near ! By Christ, I say it's 
too much ! Are we slaves, or are we dogs, that we have to 
stand such things ? " 
" We'll stand no more of it ! " shouted one. " We'll go 
in there and see to it ourselves ! " 
" Come on ! " shouted another. " To hell with their 
gunmen ! " 
Hal pushed his way into the crowd. " Tim ! " he cried. 
" How do you know this ? " 
" There's a fellow in there seen it." 
" Who ? " 
" I can't tell you — they'd fire him ; but it's somebody 
you know as well as me. He come and told me. They're 
beatin' me old father out of damages ! " 
" They do it all the time ! " shouted Wauchope, an Eng- 
lish miner at Hal's side. " That's why they won't let us 
in there." 
" They done the same thing to my father ! " put in an- 
other voice. Hal recognised Andy, the Greek boy. 
" And they want to start Number Two in the mornin' ! w 
 
yelled Tim. "Who'll go down there again? And with 
Alec Stone, him that damns the men and saves the mules ! " 
" We'll not go back in them mines till they're safe ! " 
shouted Wauchope. " Let them sprinkle them — or I'm 
done with the whole business." 
" And let 'em give us our weights ! " cried another. 
" We'll have a check-weighman, and we'll get what we 
earn ! " 
So again came the cry, " Joe Smith ! Give us a speech, 
Joe ! Soak it to 'em ! You're the boy ! " 
Hal stood helpless, dismayed. He had counted his fight 
won — and here was another beginning ! The men were 
looking to him, calling upon him as the boldest of the 
rebels. Only a few of them knew about the sudden change 
in his fortunes. 
Even while he hesitated, the line of battle had swept past 
him; the Englishman, Wauchope, sprang upon the steps 
and began to address the throng. He was one of the 
bowed and stunted men, but in this emergency he de- 
veloped sudden lung-power. Hal listened in astonish- 
ment; this silent and dull-looking fellow was the last he 
would have picked for a fighter. Tom Olson had sounded 
him out, and reported that he would hear nothing, so they 
had dismissed him from mind. And here he was, shout- 
ing terrible defiance ! 
" They're a set of robbers and murderers ! They rob 
us everywhere we turn I For my part, I've had enough of 
it ! Have you ? " 
There was a roar from every one within reach of his 
voice. They had all had enough. 
" All right, then — we'll fight them ! " 
" Hurrah ! Hurrah ! We'll have our rights ! " 
Jeff Cotton came up on the run, with " Bud " Adams 
and two or three of the gunmen at his heels. The crowd 
turned upon them, the men on the outskirts clenching their 
fists, showing their teeth like angry dogs. Cotton's face 
 
was red with rage, but he saw that he had a serious matter 
in hand ; he turned and went for more help — and the mob 
roared with delight. Already they had begun their fight ! 
Already they had won their first victory ! 
 The crowd moved down the street, shouting and 
cursing as it went. Some one started to sing the Mar- 
seillaise, and others took it up, and the words mounted to 
a frenzy: 
" To arms ! To arms, ye brave ! 
March on, march on, all hearts resolved 
On victory or death! 
» 
There were the oppressed of many nations in this crowd ; 
they sang in a score of languages, but it was the same 
song. They would sing a few bars, and the yells of others 
would drown them out. " March on ! March on ! All 
hearts resolved ! " Some rushed away in different direc- 
tions to spread the news, and very soon the whole popula- 
tion of the village was on the spot ; the men waving their 
caps, the women lifting up their hands and shrieking — 
or standing terrified, realising that babies could not be fed 
upon revolutionary singing. 
Tim Rafferty was raised up on the shoulders of the 
crowd and made to tell his story once more. While he was 
telling it, his old mother came running, and her shrieks 
rang above the clamour : " Tim ! Tim ! Come down 
from there ! What's the matter wid ye ? " She was twist- 
ing her hands together in an agony of fright ; seeing Hal, 
she rushed up to him. "Get him out of there, Joe! 
Sure, the lad's gone crazy! They'll turn us out of the 
camp, they'll give us nothin' at all — and what'll become 
of us ? Mother of God, what's the matter with the b'y ? n 
She called to Tim again ; but Tim paid no attention, if he 
heard her. Tim was on the march to Versailles ! 
 
Some one shouted that they would go to the hospital to 
protect the injured men from the " damned lawyers." 
Here was something definite, and the crowd moved in that 
direction, Hal following with the stragglers, the women 
and children, and the less bold among the men. He no- 
ticed some of the clerks and salaried employes of the com- 
pany ; presently he saw Jeff Cotton again, and heard him 
ordering these men to the office to get revolvers. 
" Big Jack " David came along with Jerry Minetti, and 
Hal drew back to consult with them. Jerry was on fire. 
It had come — the revolt he had been looking forward to 
for years ! Why were they not making speeches, getting 
control of the men and organising them ? 
Jack David voiced uncertainty. They had to consider 
if this outburst could mean anything permanent. 
Jerry answered that it would mean what they chose to 
make it mean. If they took charge, they could guide the 
men and hold them together. Wasn't that what Tom 
Olson had wanted ? 
No, said the big Welshman, Olson had been trying 
to organise the men secretly, as preliminary to a revolt in 
all the camps. That was quite another thing from an open 
movement, limited to one camp. Was there any hope of 
success for such a movement ? If not, they would be fool- 
ish to start, they would only be making sure of their own 
expulsion. 
Jerry turned to Hal. What did he think ? 
And so at last Hal had to speak. It was hard for him 
to judge, he said. He knew so little about labour matters. 
It was to learn about them that he had come to North 
Valley. It was a hard thing to advise men to submit to 
such treatment as they had been getting; but on the other 
hand, any one could see that a futile outbreak would dis- 
courage everybody, and make it harder than ever to organ- 
ise them. 
So much Hal spoke; but there was more in his mind, 
 
which he could not speak. He could not say to these 
men, "lama friend of yours, but I am also a friend of 
your enemy, and in this crisis I cannot make up my mind 
to which side I owe allegiance. I'm bound by a duty of 
politeness to the masters of your lives; also, Fm 
anxious not to distress the girl I am to marry ! " No, he 
could not say such things. He felt himself a traitor for 
having them in his mind, and he could hardly bring him- 
self to look these men in the eye. Jerry knew that he was 
in some way connected with the Harrigans; probably he 
had told the rest of Hal's friends, and they had been dis- 
cussing it and speculating about the meaning of it. Sup- 
pose they should think he was a spy ? 
So Hal was relieved when Jack David spoke firmly. 
They would only be playing the game of the enemy if they 
let themselves be drawn in prematurely. They ought to 
have the advice of Tom Olson. 
Where was Olson? Hal asked; and David explained 
that on the day when Hal had been thrown out of camp, 
Olson had got his " time " and set out for Sheridan, the 
local headquarters of the union, to report the situation. 
He would probably not come back; he had got his little 
group together, he had planted the seed of revolt in North 
Valley. 
They discussed back and forth the problem of getting 
advice. It was impossible to telephone from North Valley 
without everything they said being listened to; but the 
evening train for Pedro left in a few minutes, and " Big 
Jack " declared that some one ought to take it. The town 
of Sheridan was only fifteen or twenty miles from Pedro, 
and there would be a union official there to advise them; 
or they might use the long distance telephone, and per- 
suade one of the union leaders in Western City to take the 
midnight train, and be in Pedro next morning. 
Hal, still hoping to withdraw himself, put this task off 
on Jack David. They emptied out the contents of their 
 
pockets, so that he might have funds enough, and the big 
Welshman darted off to catch the train. In the meantime 
Jerry and Hal agreed to keep in the background, and to 
seek out the other members of their group and warn them 
to do the same. 
 This programme was a convenient one for Hal ; 
but as he was to find almost at once, it had been adopted 
too late. He and Jerry started after the crowd, which had 
stopped in front of one of the company buildings ; and as 
they came nearer they heard some one making a speech. 
It was the voice of a woman, the tones rising clear and 
compelling. They could not see the speaker, because of 
the throng, but Hal recognised her voice, and caught his 
companion by the arm. " It's Mary Burke ! " 
Mary Burke it was, for a fact ; and she seemed to have 
the crowd in a kind of frenzy. She would speak one sen- 
tence, and there would come a roar from the throng; she 
would speak another sentence, and there would come an- 
other roar. Hal and Jerry pushed their way in, to where 
they could make out the words of this litany of rage. 
" Would they go down into the pit themselves, do ye 
think ? " 
" They would not ! " 
"Would they be dressed in silks and laces, do ye 
think?" 
" They would not ! " 
" Would they have such fine soft hands, do ye think ? " 
" They would not ! " 
" Would they hold themselves too good to look at ye ? " 
