want, the tight packing and the beautifully audi- 
ble cracking; the most magnificent masterly little 
vivid economy, with a beauty of its own equal 
to the beauty of the donnee itself, that ever was. 
However, what the devil are, exactly, the little 
fundamentals in the past ? Fix them, focus them 
hard; they need only be perfectly conceivable, 
 
but they must be of the most lucid sharpness. I 
want to have it that for Gray, and essentially for 
Rosanna, it's a renewal of an early, almost, or 
even quite positively, childish beginning; and for 
Gray it's the same with Horton Vint — the im- 
pression of Horton already existing in him, a 
very strong and "dazzled" one, made in the 
quite young time, though in a short compass of 
days, weeks, possibly months, or whatever, and 
having lasted on (always for Gray) after a fashion 
that makes virtually a sort of relation already 
established, small as it ostensibly is. Such his 
relation with Rosanna, such his relation with 
Horton — but for his relation with Cissy ? 
Do I want that to be also a renewal, the residuum 
of an old impression, or a fresh thing altogether ? 
What strikes me prima facie is that it's better to 
have two such pre-established origins for the 
affair than three; the only question is does that 
sort of connection more complicate or more simr 
plify for that with Cissy? It more simplifies if 
I see myself wanting to give, by my plan, the full 
effect of a revolution in her, a revolution marked 
the more by the germ of the relation being thrown 
back, marked the more, that is, in the sense of; 
the shade of perfidy, treachery, the shade of the 
particular element and image that is of the es- 
sence, so far as she is concerned, of my action., 
How this exactly works I must in a moment go 
into — hammer it out clear; but meanwhile there 
 
are these other fundamentals. Gray then is the 
son of his uncle's half-sister, not sister (on the 
whole, I think); whose dissociation from her rich 
brother, before he was anything like so rich, must 
have followed upon her marrying a man with 
whom he, Mr. Betterman, was on some peculiarly 
bad terms resulting from a business difference or 
quarrel of one of those rancorous kinds that such 
lives (as Mr. Betterman's) are plentifully be- 
strewn with. The husband has been his victim, 
and he hasn't hated him, or objected to him for 
a brother-in-law, any the less for that. The 
objected-to brother-in-law has at all events died 
early, and the young wife, with her boy, her scant 
means, her disconnection from any advantage 
to her represented by her half-brother, has be- 
taken herself to Europe; where the rest of that 
history has been enacted. I see the young hus- 
band, Gray's father, himself Graham Fielder the 
elder or whatever, as dying early, but probably 
dying in Europe, through some catastrophe to be 
determined, two or three years after their going 
there. This is better than his dying at home, 
for removal of everything from nearness to Mr. 
Betterman. Betterman has been married and has 
had children, a son and a daughter, this is indis- 
pensable, for diminution of the fact of paucity of 
children; but he has lost successively these be- 
longings — there is nothing over strange in it; the 
death of his son, at 1 6 or 1 8 or thereabouts, hav- 
 
ing occurred a few years, neither too few nor too 
many, before my beginning, and having been the 
sorest fact of his life. Well then, young Mrs. 
Fielder or whoever, becomes thus in Europe an 
early widow, with her little boy, and there, after 
no long time, marries again, marries an alien, a 
European of some nationality to be determined, 
but probably an Englishman; which completes 
the effect of alienation from her brother — easily 
conceivable and representable as "in his way," 
disliking this union; and indeed as having made 
known to her, across the sea, that if she will for- 
bear from it (this when he first hears of it and 
before it has taken place) and will come back to 
America with her boy, he will "forgive" her and 
do for her over there what he can. The great fact 
is that she declines this condition, the giving up 
of her new fiance, and thereby declines an advan- 
tage that may, or might have, become great for 
her boy. Not so great then — Betterman not then 
so rich. But in fine — With which I cry Eureka, 
eureka; I have found what I want for Rosanna's 
connection, though it will have to make Rosanna 
a little older than Gray, 2 or 3 or 3 or 4 years, 
instead of same age. I see Gray's mother at any 
rate, with her small means, in one of the smaller 
foreign cities, Florence or Dresden, probably the 
latter, and also see there Rosanna and her mother, 
this preceding by no long time the latter's death. 
Mrs. Gaw has come abroad with her daughter, 
 
for advantages, in the American way, while the 
husband and father is immersed in business cares 
at home; and when the two couples, mother and 
son, and mother and daughter, meet in a natural 
way, a connection is more or less prepared by the 
fact of Mr. Gaw having had the business associa- 
tion with Mrs. Fielder's half-brother, Mr. Better- 
man, at home, even though the considerably vio- 
lent rupture or split between the two men will 
have already taken place. Mrs. Gaw is a very 
good simple, a bewildered and pathetic rich 
woman, in delicate health, and is sympathetic to 
Gray's mother, on whom she more or less throws 
herself for comfort and support, and Gray and 
Rosanna, Rosanna with a governess and all the 
facilities and accessories natural to wealth, while 
the boy's conditions are much leaner and plainer 
— the two, I say, fraternise and are good friends; 
he figuring to Rosanna (say he is about 13, while 
she is 16) as a tremendously initiated and in- 
formed little polyglot European, knowing France, 
Germany, Italy etc. from the first. It is at this 
juncture that Mrs. Fielder's second marriage has 
come into view, or the question and the appear- 
ance of it; and that, very simultaneously, the 
proposal has come over from her half-brother on 
some rumour of it reaching him. As already 
mentioned, Betterman proposes to her that if she 
will come back to America with her boy, and not 
enter upon the union that threatens, and which 
 
must have particular elements in it of a nature 
to displease and irritate him, he will look after 
them both, educate the boy at home, do some- 
thing substantial for them. Mrs. Fielder takes 
her American friend into her confidence in every 
way, introduces to her the man who desires to 
marry her, whom Rosanna sees and with whom 
the boy himself has made great friends, so that 
the dilemma of the poor lady becomes a great and 
lively interest to them all; the pretendant himself 
forming also a very good relation with the Ameri- 
can mother and daughter, the friends of his friend, 
and putting to Mrs. Gaw very eagerly the possi- 
bility of her throwing her weight into the scale in 
his favour. Her meeting, that is Mrs. Fielder's 
meeting, the proposition from New York involves 
absolutely her breaking off with him; and he is 
very much in love with her, likes the boy, and, 
though he doesn't want to stand in the latter's 
light, has hopes that he won't be quite thrown 
over. The engagement in fact, with the marriage 
near at hand, must be an existing reality. It is 
for Mrs. Fielder something of a dilemma; but she 
is very fond of her honourable suitor, and her in- 
clinations go strongly to sticking to him. She 
takes the boy himself into her confidence, young 
as he is, — perhaps I can afford him a year or two 
more — make him 15, say; in which case Rosanna 
becomes 18, and the subsequent chronology is 
thereby affected. It isn't, I must remember, as 
 
a young man in his very first youth, at all, that I 
want Gray, or see him, with the opening of the 
story at Newport. On the contrary all the pro- 
prieties, elements of interest, convenience etc., 
are promoted by his being not less than 30. I 
don't see why I shouldn't make him 33, with 
Rosanna thus two years older, not three. If he 
is17, it will be old enough 
for each, without being too old, I think, for Gray. 
18 years will thus have elapsed from the crisis at 
Florence or wherever to the arrival at Newport. 
I want that time, I think, I can do with it very 
well for what I see of elements operative for him; 
and a period of some length moreover is required 
for bringing the two old men at Newport to a 
proper pitch of antiquity. Mr. Betterman dies 
very much in the fulness of years, and as Rosan- 
na's parent is to pass away soon after Iwant him 
to have come to the end. If Gray is 15, however, 
I mustn't make his mother too mature to inspire 
the devotion of her friend; at the same time that 
there must have been years enough for her to 
have lived awhile with her first husband and lost 
him. Of course this first episode may have been 
very brief — there is nothing to prevent that. If 
she had married at 20 she will then be, say, about 
36 or so at the time of the crisis, and this will be 
quite all right for the question of her second mar- 
riage. Say she lives a considerable number of 
years after this, in great happiness, her marriage 
 
having taken place; I in fact require her to do so, 
for I want Gray to have had reasons fairly strong 
for his not having been back to America in the 
interval. I may put it that he has, even, been 
back for a very short time, on some matter con- 
nected with his mother's interests, or his own, or 
whatever; but I complicate the case thereby and 
have to deal somehow with the question of whether 
or no he has then seen Mr. Betterman. No, I 
don't want him to have been back, and can't do 
with it; keep this simple and workable. All I am 
doing here is just to fix a little his chronology. 
Say he has been intending to go over at about 
25, when his mother's death takes place, about 10 
years after her second marriage. Say then, as is 
very conceivable, that his- stepfather, with whom 
he , has become great friends, then requires and 
appeals to his care and interest in a way that 
keeps him on arid on till the latter's death takes 
place just previous to Mr. Betterman's sending 
for him. This gives me quite sufficiently what I 
want of the previous order of things; but doesn't 
give me yet the fact about Rosanna's connec- 
tion in her young history which I require. I see 
accordingly what has happened in Florence or 
Dresden as something of this kind: that Mrs. 
Fielder, having put it to her boy that he shall 
decide, if he can, about what they shall do, she 
lets Mrs. Gaw, who was at this juncture in con- 
stant intercourse with her, know that she has 
 
done so — Mrs. Gaw and Rosanna being, together, 
exceedingly interested about her, and Rosanna 
extremely interested, in a young dim friendly 
way, about Gray; very much as if he were the 
younger brother she hasn't got, and whom, or 
an older, she would have given anything to have. 
Rosanna hates Mr. Betterman, who has, as she 
understands and believes, in some iniquitous 
business way, wronged or swindled her father; 
and isn't at all for what he has proposed to the 
Fielders. In addition she is infatuated with 
Europe, makes everything of being there, dreams, 
or would dream, of staying on if she could, and 
has already in germ, in her mind, those feelings 
about the dreadful American money-world of 
which she figures as the embodiment or expres- 
sion in the eventual situation. She knows thus 
that 'the boy has had, practically, the decision 
laid upon him, and with the whole case with all 
its elements and possibilities before her she takes 
upon herself to act upon him, influence and de- 
termine him. She wouldn't have him accept 
Mr. Betterman's cruel proposition, as she de- 
clares she sees it, for the world. She proceeds 
with him as she would in fact with a younger 
brother: there is a passage to be alluded to with 
a later actuality, which figures for her in memory 
as her creation of a responsibility; her very con- 
siderably passionate, and thereby meddlesome, in- 
tervention. I see some long beautiful walk or 
 
stroll, some visit to some charming old place or 
things — and Florence is here indicated — during 
which she puts it all to him, and from which he, 
much inspired and affected by her, comes back 
to say to his mother that he doesn't want what is 
offered — at any such price as she will have to 
pay. I see this occasion as really having settled 
it — and Rosanna's having always felt and known 
that it did. She and her mother separate then 
from the others; Mrs. Fielder communicates her 
refusal, sticks to her friend, marries him shortly 
afterwards, and her subsequent years take the 
form I have noted. The American mother and 
daughter go back across the sea; the mother in 
time dies etc. I see also how much better it is 
to have sufficient time for these various deaths 
to happen. But the point is that the sense of 
responsibility, begetting gradually a considerable, 
a deepening force of reflection, and even somewhat 
of remorse, as to all that it has meant, is what 
has taken place for Rosanna in proportion as, 
by the sequence of events and the happening of 
many things, Mr. Betterman has grown into an 
apparently very rich old man with no natural 
heir. His losses, his bereavements, I have al- 
ready alluded to, and a considerable relaxation 
of her original feeling about him in the light of 
more knowledge and of other things that have 
happened. In the light, for instance, of her now 
mature sense of what her father's career has been 
 
and of all that his great ferocious fortune, as she 
believes it to be, represents of rapacity, of finan- 
cial cruelty, of consummate special ability etc. 
She has kept to some extent in touch with Gray, 
so far that is as knowing about his life and gen- 
eral situation are concerned; but the element of 
compunction in her itself, and the sense of what 
she may perhaps have deprived him of in the 
way of a great material advantage, may be very 
well seen, I think, as keeping her shy and back- 
ward in respect to following him up or remaining 
in intercourse. It isn't likely, for the American 
truth of things, that she hasn't been back to Eu- 
rope again, more than once, whether before or 
after her mother's death; but what I can easily 
and even interestingly see is that on whatever 
occasion of being there she has yet not tried to 
meet him again. She knows that neither he nor 
his stepfather are at all well off, she has a good 
many general impressions and has tried to get 
knowledge of them, without directly appealing 
for it to themselves, whenever she can. Thus it 
is, to state things very simply, that, on hearing 
of the stepfather's death, during the Newport 
summer, she has got at Mr. Betterman and spoken 
to him about Gray; she has found him accessible 
to what she wants to say, and has perceived 
above all what a pull it gives her to be able to 
work, in her appeal, the fact, quite vivid in the 
fulness of time to the old man himself indeed, 
 
that the young man, so nearly, after all, related 
to him, and over there in Europe all these years, 
is about the only person, who could get at him 
in any way, who hasn't ever asked anything of 
him or tried to get something out of him. Not 
only this, but he and his mother, in the time, 
are the only ones who ever refused a proffered 
advantage. I think I must make it that Ro- 
sanna finds that she can really tell her story to 
Mr. Betterman, can make a confidant of him 
and so interest him only the more. She feels 
that he likes her, and this a good deal on account 
of her enormous difference from her father. But 
I need only put it here quite simply: she does 
interest him, she does move him, and it is as a 
consequence of her appeal that he sends for Gray 
and that Gray comes. What I must above all 
take care of is the fact that she has represented 
him to the old man as probably knowing less 
about money, having had less to do with it, having 
moved in a world entirely outside of it, in a de- 
gree utterly unlike anyone and everyone whom 
Mr. Betterman has ever seen. 
But I have got it all, I needn't develop; what 
I want now independently is the beginning, quite 
back in the early years, of some relation on Gray's 
part with Horton Vint, and some effect, which I 
think I really must find right, of Horton's having 
done something for him, in their boyish time, 
something important and gallant, rather showy, 
 
but at all events really of moment, N which has 
always been present to Gray. This I must find 
— it need present no difficulty; with something 
in the general way of their having been at school 
together — in Switzerland, with the service ren- 
dered in Switzerland, say on a holiday cours 
among the mountains, when Horty has fished 
Gray out of a hole, I don't mean quite a crevasse, 
but something like, or come to his aid in a tight 
place of some sort, and at his own no small risk, 
to bring him to safety. In fine it's something 
like having saved his life, though that has a tire- 
some little old romantic and conventional note. 
However I will make the thing right and give it 
the right nuance; remember that it is all al- 
lusional only now and a matter of reference on 
Gray's part. What must have further happened, 
I think, is that Horty has been in Europe again, 
in much later years, after College, indeed only 
a very few years previous, and has met Gray 
again and they have renewed together; to the 
effect of his apprehension of Gray's (to him) 
utterly queer and helpless and unbusinesslike, 
unfinancial, type; and of Gray's great admiration 
of everything of the opposite sort in him — com- 
bined, that is, with other very attractive (as 
they appear) qualities. He has made Gray think 
a lot about the wonderful American world that 
he himself long ago cut so loose from, and of 
which Horty is all redolent and reverberant; 
 
and I think must have told him, most naturally 
told him, of what happened in the far off time 
in Florence. Only when, then, was the passage 
of their being at school, or, better still, with the 
Swiss pasteur, or private tutor, together? If 
it was before the episode in Florence they were 
rather younger than I seem to see them; if it 
was after they were rather older. Yet I don't 
at all see why it should not have been just after 
— this perfectly natural at 16 for Gray, at 17 for 
Horty; both thoroughly natural ages for being 
with the pasteur, and for the incident afterwards; 
Gray going very naturally to the pasteur, whom 
in fact he may have been with already before, 
during the first year of his mother's new mar- 
riage. That provides for the matter well enough, 
and I've only to see it to possess it; and gives 
a basis for their taking up together somehow 
when they meet, wherever I may put it, in the 
aftertime. There are forms of life for Gray and 
his stepfather to be focussed as the right ones — 
•Horty sees this pair together somewhere; and 
nothing is more arrangeable, though I don't 
think I want to show the latter as having dangled 
and dawdled about Italy only; and on the other 
hand do see that Gray's occupation, and main 
interest, other than that of looking after his elder 
companions, must be conceived and presented 
for him. Again no difficulty, however, with the 
right imagination of it. Horty goes back to 
 
America; the, 3 or 4, or at the most 4 or 5, years 
elapse, so that it is with that comparative fresh- 
ness of mutual remembrance that the two men 
meet again. What I do see as definite is that 
Horty has had up to the time of Gray's return 
no sort of relation whatever with Mr. Better- 
man or his affairs, or any point of the question 
with which the action begins at Newport. He 
is on the other hand in relation with Cissy; and 
there are things I have got to account for in his 
actual situation. Why is he without money, 
with his interest in the getting of it etc. ? But 
that is a question exactly of interest — I mean 
to which the answer may afford the greatest. 
And settle about the degree of his apprehension 
of, relation to, designs on, or general lively con- 
sciousness of Rosanna. Important the fact that 
the enormous extent of her father's fortune is 
known only after his death, and is larger even 
than was supposed; though it is to be remem- 
bered that in American financial conditions, with 
the immense public activity of money there taking 
place, these things are gauged in advance and by 
the general knowledge, or speculative measure, as 
the oldfashioned private fortune couldn't be. 
But I am here up against the very nodus of my 
history, the facts of Horty's connection with the 
affairs that come into being for Gray under his 
uncle's Will; the whole mechanism, in fine, of 
this part of the action, the situation so created 
 
and its consequences. Enormous difficulty of 
pretending to show various things here as with 
a business vision, in my total absence of business 
initiation; so that of course my idea has been 
from the first not to show them with a business 
vision, but in some other way altogether; this 
will take much threshing out, but it is the very 
basis of the matter, the core of the subject, and 
I shall worry it through with patience. But I 
must get it, plan it, utterly right in advance, and 
this is what takes the doing. The other doing, 
the use of it when schemed, is comparatively 
easy. What strikes me first of all is that the 
amount of money that Gray comes in for must, 
for reasons I needn't waste time in stating, so 
obvious are they, be no such huge one, by the 
New York measure, as in many another case: 
it's a tremendous lot of money for Gray, from 
his point of view and in relation to his needs or 
experience. Thus the case is that if Mr. Gaw's 
accumulations or whatever have distinctly sur- 
passed expectation, the other old man's have 
fallen much below it — or at least have been known 
to be no such great affair anyhow. Various ques- 
tions come up for me here, though there is no 
impossibility of settling them if taken one by 
one. The whole point is of course that Mr. Bet- 
terman has been a ruthless operator or whatever, 
and with doings Davey Bradham is able to give 
Gray so dark an account of; therefore if the 
 
mass of money of the acquisition of which such 
a picture can be made is not pretty big, the force 
of the picture falls a good deal to the ground. 
The difficulty in that event, in view of the big- 
ness, is that the conception of any act on Hor- 
ton's part that amounts to a swindle practised 
on Gray to such a tremendous tune is neither a 
desirable nor a possible one. As one presses and 
presses light breaks — there are so many ways in 
which one begins little by little to wonder if one 
may not turn it about. There is the way in the 
first place of lowering the pitch altogether of 
the quantities concerned for either men. I see 
that from the moment ill-gotten money is con- 
cerned the essence of my subject stands firm 
whatever the amount of the same — whatever the 
amounts in either case. I haven't proposed from 
the first at all to be definite, in the least, about 
financial details or mysteries — I need hardly say; 
and have even seen myself absolutely not stating 
or formulating at all the figure of the property 
accruing to Gray. I haven't the least need of 
that, and can make the absence of it in fact a 
positively good and happy effect. That is an 
immense gain for my freedom of conduct; and 
in fine there glimmers upon me, there glimmers 
upon me ! The idea, which was vaguely my 
first, of the absolute theft practised upon Gray 
by Horty, and which Gray's large appeal to his 
cleverness and knowledge, and large trust in his 
 
competence, his own being nil-— this theft ac- 
cepted and condoned by Gray as a manner of 
washing his own hands of the use of the damnosa 
hereditas — this thinkable enough in respect to 
some limited, even if considerable, amount etc.', 
but losing its virtue of conceivability if applied 
to larger and more complicated things. Vulgar 
theft I don't want, but I want something to which 
Horty is led on and encouraged by Gray's whole 
attitude and state of mind face to face with the 
impression which he gets over there of so many 
of the black and merciless things that are behind 
the great possessions. I want Gray absolutely 
to inherit the money, to have it, to have had it, 
and to let it go; and it seems to me that a whole 
element of awkwardness will be greatly minimised 
for me if I never exactly express, or anything like 
it, what the money is. The difficulty is in seeing 
any one particular stroke by which Horty can 
do what he wants; it will have to be much rather 
a whole train of behaviour, a whole process of 
depredation and misrepresentation, which con- 
stitutes his delinquency. This, however, would 
be and could be only an affair of time; and my 
whole intention, a straight and compact action, 
would suffer from this. What I originally saw 
was the fact of Gray's detection of Horty in a 
piece of extremely ingenious and able malversa- 
tion of his funds, the care of which he has made 
over to him, and the then determination on his 
 
part simply to show the other in silence that he 
understands, and on consideration will do nothing; 
this being, he feels in his wrought-up condition 
after what he has learnt about the history of the 
money, the most congruous way of his ceasing 
himself to be concerned with it and of resigning 
it to its natural associations. That was the es- 
sence of my subject, and I see as much in it as 
ever; only I see too that it is imaginable about 
a comparatively small pecuniary interest much 
more than about a great. It has to depend upon 
the kind of malpractice involved; and I am partly 
tempted to ask myself whether Horty's con- 
nection with the situation may not be thinkable 
as having begun somewhat further back. One 
thing is certain, however; I don't want any 
hocus-pocus about the Will itself — which an an- 
terior connection for H. would more or less amount 
to: I want it just as I have planned it up to the 
edge of the circle in which his misdeed is per- 
petrated. What glimmers upon me, as I said just 
now, is the conception of an extreme frankness 
of understanding between the two young men 
on the question of Gray's inaptitudes, which at 
first are not at all disgusts — because he doesn't 
know; but which makes them, the two, have it 
/out together at an early stage. Yes, there 
glimmers, there glimmers; something really more 
interesting, I think, than the mere nefarious act; 
something like a profoundly nefarious attitude, 
 
or even genius: I see, I really think I see, the 
real fine truth of the matter in that. With which 
I keep present to me the whole significance and 
high dramatic value of the part played in the 
action by Cissy Foy; have distinct to me her 
active function as a wheel in the machine. How 
it isn't simply Gray and Horty at all, but Gray 
and Horty and her; how it isn't She and Gray, 
any more than it's She and Horty, simply, but 
is for her too herself and the two men: in which 
I see possibilities of the most interesting. But 
I must put her on her feet perfectly in order to 
see as I should. Without at all overstraining the 
point of previous contacts for Gray with these 
three or four others — than which even at the 
worst there is nothing in the world more veri- 
similitudinous — I want some sort of relation for 
him with her started; this being a distinct 
economy, purchased by no extravagance, and 
seeing me, to begin with, so much further on 
my Way. And who, when I bethink myself, 
have his contacts been with, after all, over there, 
but Horty and Rosanna — the relation to Mr. 
Betterman being but of the mere essence. Of 
the people who matter the Bradhams are new 
to him, and that is all right; Cissy may have 
been seen of him on some occasion over there 
that is quite recent, as recent as I like; all the 
more that I must remember how if I want her 
truly a Girl I must mind what I'm about with 
 
the age I'm attributing to Gray. I want a dis- 
parity, but not too great, at the same time that 
though I want her a Girl, I want her not too 
young a one either. Everything about her, her 
intelligence, character,' sense of life and knowl- 
edge of it, imply a certain experience and a cer- 
tain time for that. The great fact is that she is 
the poor Girl, and the "exceptionally clever," in 
a society of the rich, living her life with them, 
and more or less by their bounty; being, I seem 
to see, already a friend and protegee of Rosanna's, 
though it isn't Rosanna but the Bradhams who 
put her in relation with Gray, whether designedly 
or not. I seem to run here the risk a bit of ex- 
posure to the charge of more or less repeating 
the figure of Charlotte in The Golden Bowl, with 
the Bradhams repeating even a little the Asr 
singhams in that fiction; but I shake this re- 
flection off, as having no weight beyond duly 
warning; the situation being such another affair 
and the real characteristics and exhibited pro- 
ceedings of these three persons being likewise so 
other. Say something shall have passed between 
Cissy at a then 25, ormost, and Gray "on 
the other side"; this a matter of but two or three 
occasions, interesting to him, shortly before his 
stepfather's death — a person with whom she has 
then professed herself greatly struck, to whom 
she has been somehow very "nice": a circum- 
stance pleasing and touching at the time to Gray, 
 
given his great attachment to that charming, or 
at any rate to Gray very attaching, though for 
us slightly mysterious, character. Say even if 
it doesn't take, or didn't, too much exhibition or 
insistence, that the meeting has been with the 
stepfather only, who has talked with her about 
Gray, made a point of Gray, wished she could 
know Gray, excited her interest and prepared 
her encounter for Gray, in some conditions in 
which Gray has been temporarily absent from 
him. Say this little intercourse has taken place 
at some "health resort", some sanatorium or 
other like scene of possibilities, where the step- 
father, for whom I haven't even yet a name, is 
established, making his cure, staving off the 
affection of which he dies, while this interesting 
young American creature is also there in at- 
tendance on some relative whom she also has 
since lost. I multiply my orphans rather, Char- 
lotte too having been an orphan; but I can keep 
this girl only a half-orphan perhaps if I like. I 
kind of wartt her, for the sake of the character- 
istic, to have a mother, without a father; in 
which case her mother, who hasn't died, but got 
better, will have been her companion at the 
health resort; though it breaks a little into my 
view of the girl's dependence, her isolation etc., 
her living so much with these other people, if 
her mother is about. On the other hand the 
mother may be as gently but a charge the more 
 
for her, and so in a manner conducive; though 
it's a detail, at any rate, settling itself as I get 
in close — and she would be at the worst the only 
mother in the business. What I seem to like to 
have at all events is that Gray and Cissy, have 
not met, yet have been in this indirect relation 
— complicated further by the fact of her existing 
"friendship", say, as a temporary name for it, 
with Horton Vint. She arrives thus with her 
curiosity, her recollections, her intelligence — for, 
there's no doubt about it, I am, rather as usual, 
offering a group of the personally remarkable, 
in a high degree, all round. Augusta Bradham, 
really, is about the only stupid one, the only ap- 
proach to a fool, though she too in her way is 
a force, a driving one — that is the whole point; 
which happens to mark a difference also, so far 
good, from the Assinghams, where it was the 
wife who had the intelligence and the husband 
who was in a manner the fool. The fact of the 
personal values, so to call them, thus clustered, 
I of course not only accept, but cherish; that 
they are each the particular individual of the 
particular weight being of course of the essence 
of my donnee. They are interesting that way 
— I have no use for them here in any other. 
Horton has meanwhile become in a sort tied 
up with Cissy, as she has with him; through the 
particular conditions of their sentiment for each 
other — she in love with him, so far as she, by her 
 
conviction and theory, has allowed herself to go 
in that direction for a man without money, though 
destined somehow to have it, as she feels; and he 
in love with her under the interdict of a parity 
of attitude on the whole "interested" question. 
The woman whom he would give truly one of his 
limbs to commend himself to is Rosanna, who 
perfectly knows it and for whom he serves as 
the very compendium and symbol of that danger 
of her being approached only on that ground, the 
