in her heart toward Ellen, too, who must, she felt, be 
mysteriously feeling ill or she couldn't have been so 
headstrong, and she made soda biscuits for tea and got 
out the honey. 
" Supper's ready," she called up the stairs. 
She had heard Ellen's lagging steps moving about up 
there, and wondered what she could be doing. It sounded 
as if she were making the bed. The slow steps came down 
the stairs and Ellen appeared, her eyes mournful, her 
face flushed and a heavy indifference upon her. 
"You been asleep?" asked Ardelia. 
" No," said Ellen, " I've been making the bed." 
" For the land's sake ! " began Ardelia. 
But she stopped. Something laid a hand on her and 
told her if they entered into talk they could not eat the 
biscuits with a quiet mind. Later they did talk a little, 
Ardelia questioning and Ellen answering, but always on 
the most obvious topics ; and when the dishes were washed 
Ellen told her : 
" I guess I'll go up to bed." 
She lighted a candle and turned toward the stairs. 
" You want somethin' up there?" asked Ardelia. 
"No," said Ellen. "I'm going to sleep upstairs. 
Good-night." 
Ardelia stood stricken by something which was not 
 
remorse, because she did not feel it. But she had an. 
ache keener than anj she had felt since her first grief when 
her husband died, hearing the light steps go unfalteringly 
away from her. She had an idea Ellen might come down 
again, and sat up past her usual time to hear a sound. 
Indeed it seemed to her she could not go to bed without 
knowing how the child was ; and at ten she crept up with 
a candle and stood by the bedside, shading the light from 
Ellen's face. Ellen lay there in a tight ball, hugging 
something to her. At first Ardelia did not know what 
it was ; but in perfect uncomprehending surprise she saw 
it was her own old blue apron she had carried part way 
up the stairs to put in the rags. Ellen must have 
brought it up, Ardelia concluded, and forgotten to dis- 
pose of it. So she stole away again to her own bed, 
and went to sleep thinking of Ellen and Peleg in a con- 
fusion of drowsiness, and dreamed that her husband had 
come back and asked harshly where her aprons were. 
Once in bed, Ardelia was not troubled about the outcome 
of the afternoon. She thought Ellen had been a little 
naughty and would come down the next night and sleep 
with her again. Ellen did not come. She was will- 
ing to, but she hardly saw how it could ever be done 
again. Her mother seemed different to her. But her 
naughtiness had an effect: for after this Peleg stayed 
away. He did not even come round on his cart ; and when 
several weeks had gone by, Ardelia grew a little irritable. 
She thought Ellen had been a very naughty girl indeed, 
and that it would have been better if she really had re- 
proved her. And it seemed a pity to have hurt the feel- 
ings of one so kind as Peleg. So she wrote him a note be- 
ginning: "Dear Friend.'' She was well, she told him, 
and hoped he was the same. She hoped there were no 
hard feelings from anything that had occurred. She 
 
signed herself "Ardelia." Since Ellen's dreadful resur- 
rection of David she could not, somehow, add his name. 
A tear fell on the letter and Ardelia, in a small gust of 
passion, wished it had made a blot. 
 
did. Remember that time you told him you'd asked Ar- 
delia to sell the house? Well, you were in a corner then. 
You werenH to blame. Don't you remember? It was 
great." 
Did she remember it? If he had known she remem- 
bered it with such regret that there was not a day when 
she did not drag it out, like a scourge, to beat herself with 
it and adjure herself never to fall so far again, he would, 
she thought, have been too merciful to remind her. She 
forced herself to face it. 
" Ben," said she, " that was a sin." 
"0h, come," said Ben, " what's the use of calling 
things such big names? You've got to lie to him. He 
bids for it. You couldn't live with him if you didn't." 
Mary stood still in the middle of the room, her eyes bent 
upon the floor, thinking. 
"I've seen a good deal," she said, "when I haven't 
spoken. I've noticed you haven't always been straight 
with your father, particularly the last year. I've won- 
dered whether what I did then made it any easier for 
you to do it. I guess it did. I'm pretty sure it did." 
Ben gave the shade a fin€d fling to its topmost notch 
and came over to her. 
" 'Course it didn't," he said. " Only I like to jolly you 
about it. You're too good, mum. That's the matter 
with you. O Lord! what's that? " 
His father was calling: 
" Ben, you come out here an' help Trueman harness up. 
He's goin' down to the lower lot to open the hay. You 
go with him." 
"See?" said Ben. "He's harnessed into the buggy. 
He's going off after Hugh. All right," he called. " I'm 
coming." 
Neale drew up, midway from the bam to the road. 
 
" You can come now," he said grimly. " I'll wait till 
I see you start." 
So Ben, with a wry face at his mother, got his hat and 
went, with a dramatic cheerfulness, to his work. And 
it was then that Aunt Tab appeared from upstairs and 
made rapturous report to Mary about her adventures at 
Larry Greene's. Neale was away all day. He drove to 
the Junction and there he did ask a question. Had Ben 
or Hugh got there yet? He judged it a misleading 
cleverness to use Ben's name also. No, they had not 
been there. Then he drove at random. And when 
he came back, in the late afternoon, haggard but 
still silent, he did not speak, and again Mary dared 
not force the issue and challenge him. At the early sup- 
per she caught the quick glance he cast at Hugh's place 
where no plate was set, and knew he guessed out her 
knowledge and yet would not ask her. That night was 
full of soft southerly gusts. The rain was coming. Yet 
it would be hours on the way, and there was a certain 
sweet expectancy, a star here and there, as soft clouds ran 
over, and a fitful light. In the shadow of the old elm, 
Mary Neale met Hugh, and, the dimness giving her cour- 
age, for she was a shy woman who did not easily show 
her love, she took him to her heart. Hugh was again 
amazed at the love she had for him; the straining em- 
brace, the touch of her wet cheek on his were revelations 
of a divine passion he was learning. He had seen mothers 
kiss their babies' feet and hands in an adoring ecstasy, and 
this seemed to him as warm and wonderful. In that in- 
stant he learned that for her he had never grown up and 
he, also with the courage of the night upon him, held her 
close and put his moved heart into a broken murmuring 
of her name. But her possession of him was as short as 
wonderful. 
You must go, dear," she said. " He didn't start out 
to-night as I thought he would. Hell miss me* But you 
write to me. You remember — " and then the secret of 
her life came out in her desire to give him all she had, 
to carry away with him — " remember you're more to 
mother than anybody or anything on earth." And 
she called him '' darling " — a word that had never passed 
her lips in their sedate intercourse — and kissed him again 
with the passionate baby kisses and was gone. Hugh 
made a step after her, and called her once; but she an- 
swered : " No ! no ! " in a hushed voice, and her soft dark- 
ness had joined the obscurity of the night. He stood 
there trembling with the misery of it, the splendor, too, 
and held his hands clenched and winked away the tears. 
And then he turned, as resolute as she, and went along 
the road to the little house: for he had to see Ellen or 
he could not go. There was no light in the front of the 
house ; only in the kitchen a faint glimmer. He halted in 
the road, debating his chances, and then stepped into the 
yard and closed the gate. He stole by the little path 
along the side of the house, wondering if perhaps Ellen 
might be in the kitchen alone and he could call her through 
the window. But miraculously Ellen was there before 
him, sitting on the steps, and she was crying with a per- 
fect abandon to her grief. Hugh forgot his caution and 
hurried to her, calling her name. She rose instantly and 
turned a repelling shoulder to him while she choked her 
sobs. But he went on and stood beside her. 
"What is it, Ellen?" he kept saying. "What is 
it?" 
Now she turned to him, sufficiently outside her ordinary 
frame of mind to welcome, not his sympathy perhaps but 
the sound of a kindly voice. He remembered he was in 
hiding and spoke more cautiously : 
 
"Couldn't we walk down the road a piece? I don't 
want your mother to see me." 
" You needn't worry," said Ellen bitterly. " Mother's 
gone to ride." 
"You alone?" 
" Mother's gone to ride," she repeated, with a mounting 
passion. " She and Peleg Simpson." 
Hugh had heard the neighborhood talk. Peleg Simp- 
son, they said, was going with Ardelia Brock. He had 
been glad because, if Ellen were alone, she might the 
sooner turn to him. 
« Don't you like it, Ellie? " he asked her. 
She laughed. 
"How should you like it," she inquired, "if your 
mother was riding out with Peleg Simpson? " 
•* That's different," said Hugh, and then caught him- 
self up. His mother was another type of womankind from 
Ardelia Brock. 
But Ellen understood him, and went on flamingly : 
" You think it doesn't matter if my mother's silly — 
you think she looks silly anyway — you think she might 
as well be riding out with Peleg Simpson as not. But 
she's my mother, I tell you. She's my mother." The 
calm Ellen, who had read her graduation essay with such 
composure, was gone; this was the child Ellen who had 
unreasoning tempers and sudden remorseful sweetnesses. 
He loved her, at that moment, with a tenderness that rec- 
ognized itself as something overwhelmingly big, and strong 
enough to last forever. 
" Sit down a minute, Ellie," he said, "just where you 
were, and I'll sit on this step, and you tell me about it." 
"You might as well go along," she said forlornly. 
" I'm going to bed. They won't be back till ten or eleven. 
They've gone to the beach. I heard him say so." 
 
Her grief broke forth again, and he put out his arms to 
her. She turned upon him. 
" Don't you touch me," she cried. " I don't want any- 
body to touch me but my father and my mother. No, I 
don't either. I don't want my mother. Long's I live I 
don't want her." 
Hugh's arms fell. His chance of persuading her to 
him had quite gone. That he knew. Peleg Simpson had 
taken it away. At the moment he hated Peleg ahnost as 
rancorously as she did. Yet he had somehow to goTem 
the event. He must make her feel how dear she was to 
him. 
" EDen," said he, " you sit down there." 
And she obeyed him. But she had been crying a long 
time and she was tired. Hugh dropped down a step, and 
looked up at her. 
'<You told me I was always talking about running 
away," he said. " But now I'm going. I'm going off to 
Europe. Father's turned me out." 
There was a satisfaction in saying it, a little swagger 
in telling a girl who had thought small things of him he 
could flaunt an adventure bigger than she had ever 
dreamed. It did startle her out of her tears. 
"Why, Hugh Neale," said she, "you can't go to 
Europe. Where'd you get the money? " 
" I can't tell you," he said, " because I promised. But 
I've got it. I'm going to-night, and you mustn't tell any- 
body you've seen me. Except Larry. He knows. And 
I shall write to you — through him, same's I write to 
mother." 
" But people don't go off to Europe this way," said 
Ellen, " without telling everybody and saying good-by." 
" They do if they're running away," said Hugh, still 
with that new sense of manliness she could not match by 
 
any bravado of her own. " I shall be gone a long time 
maybe. But when I come back — " After all, he dared 
not say it. He could not let her hate him at the last. 
'' Ellen," said he miserably, " when I come back I shall be 
just as I am now. I shaVt be married — nor engaged — 
nor anything that will come between you and me. You 
promise me you'll be the same, just as I promise you." 
" If you mean you want me to promise I won't get en- 
gaged," said Ellen, the old passion coming back into her 
voice and seeming, Hugh thought, almost to play about 
her like lightnings over a somber sky, "I can promise 
that safe enough. I sha'n't ever be engaged. I hate it. 
People get silly and put their heads on one side and tell 
foolish stories and expect you to laugh. I hate men, I 
tell you, I hate, hate 'em." 
The words were like an acid eating into his mind. 
Never, he thought, could he forget them. 
" O Ellen," he said helplessly, " you don't hate me." 
"You're nothing but a boy," said Ellen. "If you 
grew up and talked about such things, I should hate you, 
same as I do the rest." 
Hugh sat a minute in silence. Then he did laugh. 
His coming adventure, the solacing farewells he had hoped 
to wring from her on the sudden tragedy of parting, be- 
gan to seem funny, in the main. 
" Well, Ellen," he said, " I'm a boy then. I shall grow 
up though, you better believe, but I sha'n't be any diflFer- 
ent from what I am to-night. And you say to your- 
self, ' He's coming back.' " That was all he could man- 
age, small seed of a tumultuous desire: not quite love- 
making but its faintest aura. 
And it moved her, In a way ; she was remorseful. 
" O Hugh," she said, " I didn't mean to be aggravating. 
Only I hate such things so." He knew : laughing, and put- 
 
ting your head one side. " But they don't have anything 
to do with you and me. And I'll write to you. Truly 
I will. Larry'll tell me where to send." 
Her kindness was an exquisite balm, and achingly he 
determined to ask no more of her. Had he the restraint, 
he wondered, to keep this last dear moment clear of pain? 
" Ellen," said he, " what you going to do? '' 
She knew what he meant. What was she going to do 
when her mother married Peleg Simpson? For the first 
time, she had no pridfe about it. Perhaps it was the easier 
to talk to him in the dark and parting near. It was an- 
other Hugh, snatching himself away, not remembering, in 
new scenes, her homely miseries. 
" I guess I could get into an office," she said indiffer- 
ently. " Anyway I could do housework." 
This did not affront him as it might have done in an- 
other community ; here housewives did their own work and 
were willing to " help." But his glorious idea came to 
him. 
" Now," he said, " what should you do if you had a lot 
of money, — six hundred dollars maybe? " 
This was the division he proposed between them. Five 
hundred would take him on his quest. 
" Pd buy this house away from mother," said she, back 
again in her passion of revolt. " And she could run off 
and live in houses with latticed pillars and a tower, and 
I'd live here alone and do Larry Greene's work and read 
books. I guess I could do something to keep me here in 
this house." 
"Would you take the money from me if I had it?" 
asked Hugh. His heart was beating terribly. " If I had 
enough for you and me, too ? " 
" 'Course I wouldn't," said Ellen. At once she was 
removed from him in her fierce aloofness. " You needn't 
 
talk about money. What's the use? O Hugh!" She 
had melted again, but it was over her own miseries, not 
his love. " I wish I hadn't said anything to you about 
mother and houses with towers. I never've told anybody. 
I shouldn't have thought I could." 
" It's no matter," said Hugh, getting up and seeing his 
moment pass. He had not drunk the pleasure of it, and 
now the draught was gone. "Well, Ellie, it's good-by, 
I guess." 
" Good-by," said she, readily enough. She, too, rose 
and came down the steps with him. They walked along 
the path, he in the grass beside her. At the gate his shy 
passion suddenly grew bold and reason failed him. 
"O Ellie," said he, "couldn't you kiss me good-by?" 
He waited humbly, expecting a renewed hurt. But she 
was kind now. She knew he was going and she meant to 
be gentle and good. 
" Hugh," said she, " don't you laugh, if I tell you some- 
thing. 'Most anybody would laugh. Ben would. So 
would Grissie. I never kissed any — boy. That's why 
I never would go where they played games — that kind. 
I thought if ever — I don't mean to, but if ever — I did 
like anybody — 'somebody I never'd seen you know — 
somebody I dream about — and he liked me, I should want 
him to be the first." 
So she, too, had her tender, shy dreams. And he was 
as far from them as farthest thought, farther than 
the unknown lover who was coming to claim her kiss. 
Nothing that had befallen him — not the weeks of her 
silence — had seemed to him so bitter. 
" Yes, Ellie," said he, at last. " You're a good girl. 
Good-by." 
" Good-by," said Ellen softly. And then, so strange 
is the heart of woman and so quickly may the mother come 
 
to life in it, that she understood, not his love for her but 
the f orlornness of his going. 
" Hugh," she said, " what makes me hateful to you? " 
And she leaned across the gate and kissed his cheek, with 
a quick shy fervor, and was gone. 
In an instant he was happy and tempted to fol- 
low and tell her, among other timiultuous things, 
how she was to wait for him. But he knew what he should 
find: the savage little animal already repenting her soft- 
ness and taking her revenge, not on him alone but on her- 
self. He waited a minute and listened for her, but the 
place was still with the profundity of a house asleep. 
Then he turned about and walked half way along the or- 
chard wall toward his own home, and paused there and 
sent into the night the soft hooting of an owl. Three 
times he did it, at long intervals, and a moment after the 
third time light steps came on the grassy roadside and 
Ben, finishing his dressing as he ran, came up to him. 
" Hold on while I tie my shoe," said he, kneeling on the 
grass. " I was a-bed. I got downstairs in my stocking 
feet. I don't believe I could have fetched it then, but 
Aunt Tab begun a fit of coughing that raised the roof." 
" I didn't think 'twas bedtime," said Hugh. 
" He sent me. It's going to be a hard day to-morrow. 
Most likely he didn't want me on the loose for fear I'd 
see you. Come on in. He won't turn you out again. 
Mum looks like death. Come on." 
" Ben," said Hugh, " I'm off. Yes, I am. In about 
a minute from now. And there's something you've got 
to do for me. Remember that six dollars you carried 
over to Ardelia's and made her take? " 
" She took it all right," said Ben, rising from his shoe- 
lacing. " But Ellie paid it back and mother had to pocket 
it. Say, Ardelia's gone to ride with Peleg. Ain't that 
 
the limit? I wouldn't be in his shoes when he teaches 
Ellen to say papa." 
" I've got some money here," said Hugh, " and I'm go- 
ing to give it to you, and you give it to Ellen and tell her 
she's to use it in the way she said. See? " 
He was taking the roll from his inner pocket and di- 
viding it by the feel of the bills. 
" Where'd you get it ? " said Ben. 
" Never you mind. You do what I say, and don't you 
tell a soul but Ellen you've ever touched it, or you'll get 
into trouble. And so'll she." 
" Oh, what the blazes do you want to give Ellen Brock 
your money for? " said Ben. They were walking on, the 
way Hugh had to go, and the money was in Ben's hand 
now. "Gorry, Hugh, you don't me%n that?" He, was 
enlightened. "You're in love with Ellen. You're en- 
gaged. Oh, call it off. What's the use? Keep your 
money. Give it to me and take me along with you. Don't 
be a fool." 
Hugh whirled round upon him. 
" Will you do it? " he demanded. " Will you give me 
your word youTl do it, and do it within a week? " 
" Why, yes, 'course I will, if you say so," said Ben dis- 
gustedly. " But you're an awful fool." 
" Shake hands on it," said Hugh. 
They had never clasped hands in their lives, except in 
play. Their intercourse had been the nonchalant rough 
and tumble of boyhood. But Ben gave his hand, and 
Hugh grasped it. 
" If he asks you where I've gone," he said, " you don't 
know." 
He walked away decisively now, and Ben stood unde- 
termined for a moment, frowning and tucking the money 
into his pocket. He did not think Hugh would be going 
 
far, and he thought him a fool for going at all. So he 
turned back and went stealthily homeward, and Aunt Tab, 
hearing him on the stairs, had another fit of coughing. 
But Hugh, feeling that he had settled his affairs with a 
decision becoming a man, walked on furiously and gave 
himself the luxury of picturing Ellen's buying the little 
house. 
XV 
When Ben had got safely up the stairs, he threw the 
roll of money on his bureau and went to bed. His 
day in the hayfield, leisurely as he had taken it, pulled on 
unaccustomed muscles. All the spring the boys had had 
more freedom from the farm because they had their school 
work, -and in that Neale was determined they should excel. 
Ben had flaunted an overwhelming amount of home study 
to do, even when he sat down at the table and, after his 
father had gone ofF with Trueman for the chores, took 
out his paper-covered novel and yawned over it. He was 
not absorbedly fond of reading; but it was a mild occu- 
pation, at least, when he must either sit with his books or 
be given a task* The boys had differing ways of escape. 
Hugh would run away to Larry Greene or into the deep 
woods with his fiddle and take his punishment when he 
must; but Ben could elude his father under his father's 
eyes. 
Next morning while he was dressing he took up the 
money and unrolled it, and sat down, aghast. He had 
thought it some such sum as was commensurate with their 
modest uses, perhaps double the six dollars he had given 
Ardelia, in her trouble. But now he sat there slipping the 
bills and counting in a perfect daze. He swore a little
too, picturesquely. His habit of eccentric swearing al- 
ways amused the boys and made him the more indubitably 
a leader. For he was a leader. His audacity of speech 
and act, his idleness they dared not emulate, his success in 
 
escaping logical penalties, carried him far. Now, when 
he had convinced himself that he had made no mistake, 
he rolled up the bills again and slipped a band about them. 
Where could he put them? Mother had a way of going 
over the room, straightening clothes and corralling un- 
tidy treasures. She was seized with a madness for clean- 
ing closets and setting Hannah to wash the floor. There 
was an old husk bed under his mattress, and he tucked the 
roll into one comer of it. But in another minute, when 
he heard his father calling, he answered hastily, and then 
hurried to the bed and pulled the money out. This 
would be the day, by some malicious fate, when mother 
would be moved by a desire to sun and air the husks. 
Now he put his booty into an old shoe in the closet, and 
snatched it out again because mother would take the shoe 
away to be mended. At last he tied the roll in a handker- 
chief and thrust it deep into his pocket, grinning as he 
did it: for he remembered a day when one of the little 
Gleasons had been playing about the house while the 
mother was helping Hannah wash blankets and Ben had, 
in sportiveness, stood him on his head. The Gleason boy 
had begged piteously not to be reversed, and rightly, for 
out of his pocket fell the solder he had just stolen from 
the barn. Ben was glad he was of suflBcient height to es- 
cape betraying indignities. 
When he went down to breakfast, his father and mother 
were both at the table and in silence. Mary looked like 
a beautiful pale image of some sad but exalted emotion, 
and Thomas bent over his plate and ate fast, regardless 
of her. He looked up, frowningly. 
" You'll have to get up with the sun after this," he said. 
" Trueman an' I've done a day's work a'ready." 
"I overslept," said Ben. "I don't know how it is," 
he added> with the smooth frankness that always made some 
 
headway with his father, "but I'm sort of tired, now 
school's over. I guess studying does tire you out. You 
know the minister broke down." 
" You go into the hayfield," said Neale. " You've had 
books enough for one spell." 
When the meal was over, he pushed his chair back and 
looked at his wife. It was the first direct glance he had 
given her since the night of her revolt. Her heart gave 
a responsive throb of sick foreboding; but on the whole 
she was glad. Any reproach, any penalty even, would 
be better than his silence. The depleting effect of that 
was more than she felt within herself the strength to bear. 
" Well," said he, as if he grudged the words, " where's 
he gone to? " 
Mary looked at him in a pallid courage. This was, she 
believed, the supreme trial of her life, and she was in haste 
to meet it. She felt the warmth of Hugh's arms about 
her ; but most she felt the softer touch of his baby fingers. 
He was something she had to be loyal to, at every ex- 
pense of her own blood and sorrow, and to defend. So 
she said nothing. But in an instant she recalled herself. 
" Ben, you run out doors," she said, as if she were send- 
ing him from his elders' troublesome controversies, to play. 
Neale struck the table with the side of his hand : not an 
alarming blow, — only a masterful tap to bid the two re- 
member he was governing the scene. 
"You stay here. I'll ask you first. Do you know 
where he is? " 
" No," said Ben, open-eyed in innocence. " I don't. 
Honest, I don't." 
" You seen him since the dance at the 'Cademy ? " 
"No," said Ben guilelessly. "I guess he rvm away 
right after the dance, didn't he? We came home alone, 
you know." 
 
Thomas believed him. He was likely to believe Ben. 
Indeed he was always inclined to believe everybody in di- 
rect address, because he lacked imagination to picture an 
actual defiance of his authority. 
" Now," said he, turning his eyes upon Mary, " what 
you got to say? " 
Mary's gaze upon him was of a liquid beauty he could 
not read. The past had blurred his power to scan such 
a page. There was warning in her look, not reproach but 
warning to him not to disturb the fair certainties of life 
too rudely. And there was love, too, perhaps not for him, 
since he was showing himself her adversary, but for her son. 
" Thomas,'' said she, " I haven't a word to say." 
His questions came short and gruff. 
" Do you know where he's gone? " 
"Yes," said Mary. The answer was beautiful in its 
beseeching intonation. " No farther," she seemed to be 
bidding him, " no farther, or you will step on sacred 
things." 
" You seen him since he went? " 
"Yes." 
"When?" 
" I saw him after you forbid him the house." Wounded 
pride was in that. She did resent Hugh's banishment 
from the place where she worked for her sons and their 
father. " I called him to come in. I told you I was 
going to. He was out there in the dark, and I did call 
him." 
"D'he come in?" 
" No," said Mary, rather haughtily. " He wouldn't. 
You'd forbid him your house and he took you at your 
word." 
" You seen him since? " 
" Yes." 
 
" How many times? " 
" Once." 
"When?" 
"Now, Thomas," said Mary quietly, "I've answered 
all the questions I'm going to. If I told you anything 
else, you'd put two and two together and find out more'n 
it's well for you to know. When I have news of him, 
I'll tell you. But now you leave things where they are. 
It's best all round." 
He sat silent for a moment, but the blood came into his 
face and purpled it, and she saw him tremble. She made 
a little sign of the head to Ben, to leave them ; but he sat 
still. Ben was no coward. Something, he felt, was about 
to happen, and he wanted to be by mother when it came. 
He was excited and a little sick at the thought of it — 
tingling, too, with admiration for his mother. She was 
a great sport, he thought. Neale opened and clenched 
his fist that lay on the table, and once he seized the 
handle of a knife. But he tossed it away again. He was 
ungovernably angry, and the sickness of his rage appalled 
him. The revulsion in his nerves warned him against 
letting himself go. Anger had hold of him, and now pru- 
dence tapped him on the shoulder. But he had to get 
the mastery of his own household, and he looked up at his 
wife who sat there, pale, but inmiovably still. 
" I guess," said he thickly, " if he's had enough o' this 
house, you've had enough of it, too." 
Mary bent herself to meet his eyes. They were blood- 
shot, and she was unspeakably sorry for him. 
" No, Thomas," said she, " I ain't tired of my home. 
'Course I ain't tired of my own home. Nor my husband 
and children neither." 
He lowered his eyes, and again he sat brooding. Ben, 
his hand in his pocket touching the mysterious roll, felt a 
 
gayety of exultation. If " he " turned mother out, they 
would go away together and live on the roll, and Hugh 
couldn't blame them. They could live on it for years and 
have a high old time, and when it was gone, Ben would have 
found something brilliant and easy to do, to support them 
both — as easy as it had been to learn lessons with once 
reading them over. 
Neale got up from his chair, and Mary, too, rose and 
stood waiting, in her calm dignity, yet with a certain 
deference, while he spoke. 
" I forbid you to send him money." 
She did not answer. 
"An' I don't consider you fit to have the spendin' o' 
money," said Neale savagely — it was all he could think 
of to stab that exquisite smooth surface of hers — " for 
if you'll stand up ag'inst me one way, you will another. 
You needn't take the butter money, after this." 
A little quiver ran over her face. It was an indignity 
to give up the income every woman of the neighborhood 
could claim. "When you want anything," said Neale, 
" you can have it charged an' bring the bill to me. An' 
if you beat me there, by God, I'll publish you." 
He went out of the room and through the kitchen like 
a whirlwind, and they heard him summoning Trueman on 
the way to the barn. 
" Come ! come ! " he was calling. " Hurry up. Don't 
be lazin' round there." And again they knew how rash he 
was in his anger: for no hired man of Bromley will take 
such words. 
Mary, with her old air of dignity, was moving about 
the table, gathering up the plates ; but though her hand 
did not falter, Ben knew she was all a quivering misery. 
He got up and put his arm about her, not awkwardly as 
 
Hugh would have done it, but with a coaxing nicety, and 
pulled her to a seat. 
" Trueman'll give up his job, if he goes at him like that," 
he said wisely. " Say, mum, where is Hugh, and how'd 
he get the money to go with? " 
Mary Neale sat for a moment and leaned her head 
against her tall son. But she got up and went about her 
work again. 
" You mustn't ask me, Ben," she said, with the dignity 
he knew to be a conclusive sign. " Whatever I know, I 
can't tell." 
Ben's hand was on the roll in his pocket. " Anyway," 
he reflected, with his amused importance in owning an 
advantage he didn't need to press, " there's one thing you 
don't know and I do. You don't know what's in my 
pocket this minute." 
" He's calling you," said Mary. " You better go. 
And do a good forenoon's work, Ben. That'll please him, 
if anything will." 
Ben went out whistling, his hand on the roll. It gave 
him a high sense of elation to know he was possessed of 
meanff for untold and glorious larks. He had not been 
allowed to handle money, and this seemed to him inex- 
haustible. But he made up his mind to see Ellen and 
find out whether she had wind of it ; then he could deter- 
mine whether to give it all to her or dole it out in discreet 
fractions. It seemed to him a ridiculous piece of busi- 
ness to be wasting what must be the family money on 
Ellen Brock. Besides, as things were turning out, his 
mother might be the one to need it. Hugh would see that 
surely. 
XVI 
When Ariielia came home from her drive, she found the 
door unlocked and a silent house. Ellen had stayed until 
she heard Feleg's horse stopping at the gate, and then 
she unfastened the door and sped upstairs in the dark. 
She was in a tumult of self-pity and anger against her 
mother. She had not been afraid of staying alone in 
the house, but her hurt spirit avowed mother should not 
have expected it. And indeed Ardelia, coming into the 
darkness of the kitchen, felt an instant compunction. 
She had been carried away, she owned to herself, by the 
pleasure of seeing Feleg, and she had not guessed the 
drive would keep them out so late. They had lingered 
along the beach at low tide, and he had insisted jovially 
on her getting out and having ice cream at a pavilion 
where a rattling phonograph was playing. And Ardelia 
had wished, as she ate her ice cream and listened to the 
dance music against the murmur of waves, that Ellen had 
come, too, as she might have if she were not so contrary. 
Now she listened at the stairs. But Ellen had undressed 
in a determined haste, and when Ardelia went up, with her 
shaded candle, she was still as a little image, her eyes 
closed and her breathing calm and slow. Ardelia stole 
down-stairs sighing briefly. She had her own grievance, 
too. Ellen might, she thought, have been awake to hear 
about her good time. But in the morning nothing seemed 
changed between them except that the child was a shade 
more quiet and her sad little face drooped into more wist- 
ful lines. She hadn't much to say and Ardelia, still 
 
 
hoping to make the matter of the drive a commonplace, 
couldn't venture it. After breakfast Ellen said she would 
like to go over and do up Larry's work, and her mother 
agreed. It was, after all, a relief to have her gone. 
Ardelia felt transparent to her jealous insight, and she 
could hardly, in the same room with her, dream about 
Peleg at alL Even the thought of him was like sitting 
beside him with Ellen shut out and perpetually fancying 
them in a criminal holding of hands. And after all, 
Ardelia did not feel criminal. She was only nervous with 
the discomfort of changed events. 
Ellen went wearily through the woods, and she did not 
turn aside as Hugh had done to the violet bank where he 
