make as long or as short, for intensity, as I like, 
what in the name of unanswerable wonder had 
become of him. He is there before her again, 
but before her with what has happened to him 
overwhelmingly marked upon him. 
I see what then takes place between them as a 
virtual counterpart, in the way of his telling his 
story, to his scene with the Ambassador, the 
whole contents of Book III; only all in the note 
of his depression, his unspeakable homesickness 
for his own time and place whereas the other 
whole passage had been in the note of his elation, 
eagerness and confidence. He makes, as I say, 
a clean breast to her as he had made it under 
the then essential restriction to the Ambassador; 
with the immense difference, however, that 
whereas the effect in the latter case was to im- 
  
press his then confidant with his being out of 
his mind, the present effect is, marvellously, 
prodigiously, to make our heroine believe in the 
truth of his extraordinary case, recognise how he 
puts it to her so because he is, because he has 
remained, exactly so sane, and that it is (pro 
digiously, marvellously as the force in her to do 
so may be on her part) to his sanity, exactly, to 
his convincing consistency, that she rallies. This 
rallying of hers is of course the very point, for 
interest and beauty, for the climax of the romantic 
hocuspocus, of my sought total effect; the very 
flower, so to speak, of what I noted a little back 
as my scene a faire. As I have already said re 
peatedly enough, he tells her all, tells her all, 
all, all; which involves of course his telling her 
what he feels, has come to feel, in his being so 
"cut off," so now conclusively and hopelessly 
cut off, from the life, from the whole magnificent 
world from which he is truant, unless something, 
something she perhaps can think of, may yet 
save him. His whole position becomes thus the 
plea to be saved, to be liberated with his wait 
ing on her devotion, her affection, her ingenuity, 
in a word her inspiration, somehow to let him 
off. All sorts of things to be done with this, in 
the beautiful and curious and interesting way, 
especially with the idea that she is sole among 
those of his actual life whom contact with him, 
the relation with him, doesn't now make "afraid." 
  
Of course this absence of fear on her part has to 
be based, has to have its own logic in order to 
have all its beauty; and when one asks oneself 
why she, why she only, thus extraordinarily, one 
seems both at once to be reduced for support, 
for illumination of it to the fact that she loves 
him, and that her affection can do it, and to the 
concomitant recognition that it will, that it must, 
serve. For it is what exactly and immediately 
supplies to the situation between them the idea 
of her being able to operate somehow or other 
by sacrifice, her sacrifice, and of herself and her 
affection and her interest, somehow or other; 
so far as one doesn't make her interest, her in 
terest in how to do it, by its very intensity and, 
so to speak, curiosity, an inspiring motive. I 
must have had him put it to her straight, How, 
how, how can you get me off, can you release me 
from this apprehension of having really lost all 
I feel and fear I've lost ? so that thus she has 
to throw herself back upon herself under pressure 
of this dire appeal which involves, obviously, her 
using everything. For it would seem to me kind 
of sublime that he now, at last now, opening up, 
opening out, everything that he has had before 
to keep back, tells her such things about those 
fruitions of the Future which have constituted 
his state, tells her of how poor a world she is 
stuck fast in compared with all the wonders and 
splendours that he is straining back to, and of 
  
which he now sees only the ripeness, richness, 
attraction and civilisation, the virtual perfection 
without a flaw, that she stands dazzled before it 
and can only be shut up in the heartbreak of re 
maining so far back behind it, so dismally and 
excludedly out of it, while he, with her assistance, 
shaking her off after he has, as it were, used her, 
wins his way back to it and out of her sight and 
sense for ever. Immense and interesting to show 
him as profiting by her assistance without his 
being thereby mean or abject or heartless; in 
which light my affair can't afford, given the 
whole romantic note of it, to place him. Be 
sides the "psychological" truth and consistency 
here may back me to any extent. The great 
question is then of her "assistance," how it's 
rendered, what it consists of, how he can take it 
from her and how she can give it. I feel that 
my subject contains the exact, the exquisite 
Tightness for this deep in its breast, if only I 
watch hard enough to see said Tightness emerge 
emerge as it were of itself and as from the opera 
tion of what surrounds it. It dwells somehow 
deep in the fact, the great dramatic fact of the 
whole business, that she alone hasn't had the 
mistrust, the malaise and the fear; in connec 
tion with which I seem to see something of no 
small, in fact of the greatest, pop out at me. If 
he has made her his full "confession" don't I 
make out that, to balance this, she also tells 
  
him about herself something of the last intimacy 
not merely how she loves him, but something 
better still than that ? don't I in fact find my 
self just leaping and snatching at the idea which 
answers all my questions of procedure and has 
my perfect solution just locked up and waiting 
within it ? What is more than her confessing to 
him that she loves him, what gives the exhibi- 
tional further twist I was groping for, is that 
she tells him she has loved the man he is a sub 
stitute for, the man of 1820, the real one of that 
actual year, and that in loving himself she has 
but obeyed the irresistible continuity and con 
sistency involved in his force of representation. 
I seem to see really my ideal Tightness in this 
but must keep my head to state here what I see, 
for my perfect use, roundabout it. I have already 
spoken, far above, of her having loved the other 
man, the "real" one, and done so as by the im 
plication that Ralph knows it, is in possession 
of it, and has seen for himself what an identity 
and what a connection reside in it. By what 
means, however, has he originally known it, 
learnt it, got into possession of it ? unless by 
one of the others' having stated it to him. I 
ask myself which then of the others but only 
at once to recognise the matter as already deter 
mined for me by what I have threshed out. He 
gets the knowledge effectively and, as I call it, 
dramatically, to all intents and purposes scenically, 
  
by the fact that the little H.W. man, as I call 
him, betrays the wanted jealousy of him from 
the moment the elder girl breaks off from him. 
Up to that moment not, but after it, and on his 
turning to the younger, with whom the little 
H.W. man is, as I have shown, himself in love, 
then entirely. This jealousy is practically what 
leads to his profession of the truth; so that there 
can be no question of his needing it from her 
he so reads it in her maniere d'etre up to the 
time of, and the great revolution constituted by, 
the scene a faire. What we get thus is her maniere 
d'etre for him, all sufficient, all infinitely touch 
ing, before that scene, and her condition and 
her action after the same; which are two quite 
different things. Then, I mean in this latter 
case, her avowal, the only entire and direct one, 
is quite a different thing; out of which I have to 
pull, as I say, quite what I want. She has loved 
the man of 1820 all in himself keep every shade 
of discrimination here flawlessly clear. She has 
loved him wholly without reward of course, and 
even under his more than indifference, his degree 
of contempt; entirely addressed as he was, and 
has been, to her elder sister. Yet I pull up too 
here, in the midst of my elation though after 
a little I shall straighten everything out to see 
that I introduce an element of confusion in try 
ing to work the matter out as if anything can 
have preceded Ralph's own, Ralph's "conscious" 
  
arrival. Awfully important, and not a little 
difficult, here, not to let any tangle or any em 
broilment lay its insidious trap. Doesn't Ralph 
know by his own experience, if he takes up the 
action from the moment, and the moment only, 
of "arriving," arriving for the first time, all that 
has happened for his predecessor and exactly 
what hasn't ? There, however, I gasp with relief, 
is a question that would be embarrassing to me 
only if, on intenser reflection, I didn't see that I 
exactly haven't pretended that he doesn't repeat, 
repeat up to a certain point, the experience of 
the young man of the portrait ? Just now, a 
page or two back, I lost my presence of mind, I 
let myself be scared, by a momentarily-confused 
appearance or assumption that he doesn't repeat 
it. I see, on recovery of my wits, not to say of 
my wit, that he very exactly does; without which 
where is definitely that Past, that made and 
achieved, that once living and enacted Past which 
is the field of his business ? He deflects in the 
midst of it, yes, by the uncontrollability of his 
modernism that is, at least, by what was in 
calculable beforehand, the exhibition of the way 
in which "they" were going to take it. The 
whole effect of my story is exactly his discon 
certed and practically defeated face-to-faceness 
with the way in which they do take it a matter, 
a fact, an appearance, that gives me all I want 
for accounting for his deflection. Thus is our 
  
having, his having, everything en double regulated 
and exhibited: he is doing over what the other 
fellow has done (though it acts for the other 
persons in it as if it were the first time this quite 
all right, though not looking so at first) and 
that accordingly hangs together and stands firm. 
Therefore accordingly my start, a little above, 
at being what I there for a moment called dis 
concerted and defeated was groundless: I was 
going on perfectly straight and right and am 
now doing so again. To repeat, accordingly, I 
get my full right to deal as by a free hand with 
that little historic truth of the girl's concealed 
sentiment for the other fellow, accompanied with 
her equal consciousness that he doesn't and 
can't and won't care for her a bit: at least in 
the same way. This revolution that has taken 
place for her and well before the scene of 
Ralph's differing so from the 1820 man in short, 
in short. Note what occurs to me as to the ques 
tion or no of whether the portrait, the portrait 
in the house in 1910, is done from Ralph in 1820 
or not, done from Ralph himself, or accounted for, 
as coming into existence afterwards. The thing, 
at this ragged edge, is to keep hold of the clue, 
as tight as possible, that I have grabbed for my 
solution in the line of her making the sacrifice; 
making it all with a sublime intelligence for him, 
on account of what he has told her of his own 
epoch which she stares at in her deprivation. 
  
To clear up a little the page preceding this, 
instead of doing it over, I was making a state 
ment, a bit arrested, as to the revolution that 
has taken place in the girl, previous, well previous, 
to the scene of the great crisis, as to the attitude 
toward her of her sister's fiance, from the mo 
ment she feels, exquisitely and almost incred 
ulously feels, that difference in him (toward her) 
which has been more completely defined since 
her sister's dismissal of him, and which gives 
her, as well as it gives him, a liberty never yet 
enjoyed by her. I shall presently come back 
to the rest of this, the enormous value to be got 
out of it; but I want not simply to brush by the 
small hare started yesterday by that sudden re 
membrance of the question of the portrait, the 
portrait figuring, or having figured, so extraor 
dinarily to Ralph upwards of a century after its 
being painted; and which it would seem I must 
do something about. I see a chance to play with 
it, with the 1820 production of it, for illustration 
and intensification of my most-sought effect. 
It's an excrescence perhaps upon the surface I 
have already in this rough fashion plotted out; 
which remark, however, is nonsense, as nothing 
is an excrescence that I may interestingly, that 
I may contributively, work in. It gives me more 
over, the idea I begin to clutch the tip of the tail 
of, it gives me another person whom I suddenly 
see as a great enhancement for my action; the 
  
painter-man who gets, doesn't one fancy ? into 
a much straighter and closer "psychologic" and 
perceptive and mystified and mixed relation with 
his remarkable subject than any of the others 
in their way do. I get the painter-man as affected 
in his way too with the famous malaise, and the 
more affected with his proportionately greater 
opportunities, as it were, if not of observation 
at least of a kind of wondering and penetrating 
consideration. It "kind of" glimmers upon me 
that there would be something good, something 
much to the purpose, in having the painter-man 
begin to prepare the turn the situation takes, 
having him start the question of what the matter 
is (crudely speaking) with the genial young man, 
after all, and below and outside of his geniality; 
so that his wonderment, his felt queerness and 
queernesses, are inevitably communicated by him 
and sow the seed of the rest of what I want. They 
sow above all, don't they, or mayn't they be 
made to ? the seed of Ralph's suspicion of his being 
suspected, putting him on his guard against this 
latter, rendering him uneasy, and whatever else, 
under the painter's study of him. Wouldn't it 
be then to the little H.W. man that the artist 
speaks of his strange impression, in complete 
confidence and secrecy at first, but sowing what 
I have called the seed so in the most favourable 
ground ? I recognise that one doesn't quite see 
how we know he does this, as we don't of course 
  
see or hear him do it; yet that needn't find itself 
so ill provided for by Ralph's himself making it 
out and concluding upon it which is after all 
the only way we really know anything. I don't 
want to repeat what I have done at least a couple 
of times, I seem to remember, and notably in 
The Liar the "discovery," or the tell-tale rep 
resentation of an element in the sitter written 
clear by the artist's projection of it on canvas. 
At the same time I am not afraid; I see its office 
well enough and needn't trouble if once the idea 
appeals, as I think it really does. In this case 
it's worked in early; the notion of my young 
man having his portrait as a matter of course 
done in London coming in with perfect natural 
ness. He has it done for his prospective bride; 
she takes an interest in it of the very greatest 
at first; and it is the little H.W. man who recom 
mends, who selects, the artist. I see all sorts of 
curious things in this it perfectly bristles with 
them, and with one's chance, above all, of making 
the personage in question (and I do want another 
figure, to people the canvas a little more) a real 
vision to Ralph, a character of the time, intensely 
typical for Ralph; through whose sense of all 
which, however, I tread the delicate ground of 
imputations to him, of perceptions, discrimina 
tions, estimates more or less at variance with his 
1820 identity. That delicate ground, I have 
only to remind myself, is absolutely the very 
  
most attaching ground of my process; solvitur 
ambulando I have only to find myself in close 
quarters with it to get from it force and felicity. 
I present then the painter-man, I make him, do 
him, see him and use him; use him to very good 
purpose. Don't I kind of see Ralph's suspicion 
of being suspected come to a head in the sight 
of something produced on the little H.W. man's 
part, on his nerves and in his fancy, in fine, through 
an active correspondence with the malaise the 
artist has caused in him through divinably feel 
ing it himself? The foregoing difficult to state, 
but one is quite possessed of it; there's a great 
lot in it only too much, alas, given my faculty 
for amplifying and going far. However, a rigorous 
tight hand on the excess of that is my very law 
of life here. I do feel how an effective further 
twist or two hangs about the question of the 
portrait. We get it surely as painted full face 
on with the rendered face, in other words, that 
is turned away from Ralph's 1910 vision of him 
on that night in the house. Yes, he sits for it in 
1820; he sees it grow, he sees and feels what 
grows out of it I really don't see why the fact 
of it, the high conceit of it, mayn't do for me a 
good deal of my work. It plays a part in the 
situation though I must square the difficulty 
of the artist "feeling about his sitter" as he more 
and more does and yet being able to keep his 
method and process, his application of his ability, 
  
well in hand, in order to put the thing through. 
It's a fine thing, a very fine one I need it as 
that; for the finer it is the more it plays its part 
in the state of sensibility, all round, at which 
we increasingly assist. The thing is done for 
the prospective bride though she would have 
been much more likely to have been treated to 
a fine miniature (alas, but no matter!) And 
don't I see that the first stroke in the reaction, 
on her part, as I may conveniently call it, is her 
abrupt, her sudden inconsequent refusal of the 
gift ? in which she is backed by her mother. Per 
haps she refuses it even before it is quite finished 
for I want the artist to have spoken about it 
to the little H.W. man, so to put it, while the 
work is still in progress; which is also the time 
of the latter's opening himself about it (as Ralph 
"makes out") to the two women. Here I have 
something the picture's having been destined 
for the big panel over the principal drawing- 
room whereas the place in which my hero finds 
it in 1910 is the small inner retreat which I have 
handled in Book II. The mother and daughter 
startle Ralph, in 1820, by their expression of un 
willingness to its hanging where it was intended; 
but as I want it still on the premises, want some 
compromise or right thing done about it, so that 
it shall be there for 1910, I see as arrangeable 
the business, the tension, the whole significant 
passage, of its being relegated to the place where 
  
everyone concerned will least see it short of its 
being turned out of the house; a circumstance I 
dont invoke. I have it there for the other man, 
as his own portrait, when he is restored to his time 
by Ralph's liberation from it; I have it there 
because I want him in it, don't you see ? for that 
wonder over it in which Ralph is held during his 
night of 1910. The other man comes back, the 
other man is in it, in order to carry out his part 
well, of what I have recorded. 
The "sacrifice," the indispensable, unspeak 
able sacrifice, on the girl's part, is involved in 
her relation to Ralph as she now knows him, and 
the quintessential "drama" of it, so to speak, is 
by the same token involved in his knowing her 
as she knows him, and as, above all, she is known 
by him. There hovers before me a something- 
or-other in this, a finer twist still, a deeper depth 
or higher flight of the situation, which seems 
worth looking into, and which in fact already 
appears to open out a good bit before me as I 
consider it. Isn't there something, isn't there 
even much, in the idea that when once these 
two have arrived, so to speak, at their under 
standing, at their mutual disclosures, or at least, 
that is, at his disclosure and her avowal, he be 
comes capable of a sort of sublimity in presence, 
as who should say, of her own ? so that there is 
a kind of struggle between them as to who shall 
give up most if I may put it in such a way with- 
  
out excess of the kind of romanticism that I 
don't want; wanting as I do above all, constantly 
kept hold of and economised, never let go of nor 
perverted in the least, the unfailing presence, 
drawing in everything to itself, of that force of 
"tone" which makes the thing of the parente of 
the "Screw." So much is true and absolute; 
but doesn't prevent that I am wanting to put 
my finger on the very centre of the point from 
which my young man's "liberation" is worked. 
What hovers before me at this pitch, as I just 
said, is the concetto that, sincerely affected by her 
sublimity, he is moved to match it and in all 
sincerity as I say by offering to remain with 
her, as who should say, give up everything for 
her from the moment he thus takes in that 
she gives him up for what is to herself utterly 
nothing, nothing but the exaltation of sacrifice 
in short what I see ! I have it all, I possess it 
here, and now must give pause to this long out- 
ciphering. It seems to give me after all a fourth 
recurrence of the man of 1820, called back, as 
it were, by what takes place. I possess it, I hold 
it fast; simply noting the prime point in regard 
to my last Book. Rather good and fine, I think, 
to make it that as the man of 1820 is "called" 
(since I think I do definitely give him his re- 
intervention here, though probably at the cost 
of still keeping these down to three in number, 
and so running two of the others, as who should 
  
say, into one,) so the woman of 1910 is likewise 
called; so my fundamental idea that the solu 
tion of the solution comes about through Aurora's 
"coming out, coming over," takes effect as I 
had planned it. The penultimate book ends on 
the climax I have in mind, as the "Ambassador" 
Book ended and broke off with the two at the 
door of the House; and so the ultimate one puts 
Ralph, always in London, and after the lapse of 
the real six months or whatever, face to face 
with his friend of Book I, to whom exactly what 
was foreshadowed in that Book for my denoument 
had happened. Things, things for her conscious 
ness, her imagination, her growing unrest, her 
own New York malaise, have happened to her 
too; just how we are to know about them giving 
me, however, a little knot rightly to untie. I 
hate its being a "little" knot, savouring so of 
the perfunctory and the abbreviated; yet how 
can I want it in the nature of things to do more 
than adequately balance with the dimensions, or 
whatever, of Book First ? The question is how, 
with the right sort of beauty of effect, to work 
in together the Ambassador's re-participation 
and her own, or rather, better put, hers and the 
Ambassador's own; since I of course, under 
penalty of the last infamy, stick here still, as 
everywhere, to our knowing these things but 
through Ralph's knowing them. It's a bit awk 
ward that I seem to want Aurora's arrival in 
  
London and her appeal to the Ambassador for 
assuagement of her literal climax of trouble, I 
seem to want that passage to precede my young 
man's reappearance, re-emergence, so to speak 
and yet can't possibly have anything so artistic 
ally base. I want the "rescue," on this side of 
time, by Aurora, as the liberation, for rescue on the 
other side of time, has been by the girl of 1820; 
I want it to be, on our actual ground, by some 
thing that Aurora does; I want his restoration 
and recovery to take place actually and literally 
through her having got into such a "psychic" 
state, passed through such a psychic evolution, 
over there, that she takes action at last, takes 
the very action that she sort of defied Ralph to 
make her take in that full, and would-be at least 
so rich, "scene" of the most preliminary order. 
What there took place essentially was, as he for 
mulated it, that she would look at none but a 
man of, as it were, tremendous action and ad 
venture, not being appealed to (however she 
might attenuate or sophisticate her arrangement 
of her case) by the "mere" person, the mere 
leader, of the intellectual life, the mere liver in 
a cultivated corner, that Ralph has admitted 
himself to be to her with a frankness, an ab 
jection, say, that his whole subsequent adven 
ture represents his reaction against. The im 
mense scope his reaction has found then, once 
he has got over into the "old world," this has 
  
developed to the point that no prodigious ad 
venture of any such figure as she may have had 
in mind comes within millions of miles of the 
prodigy of his adventure; whereby my conceit 
is that all the while he is "having" this, all the 
while she, left to the aftersense of what has passed 
between them, gradually feels her "state of mind,'   
state of feeling, state of fancy, say, state of nerves 
in fine, grow and grow (in a sort of way that is 
corresponding all the while to the stages of his 
experience) till the pitch of unsupportable anxiety 
and wonder is reached for her, and being able no 
longer to stand it, she comes out to London. I 
make her come to London through considera 
tions, references or whatever, plausible enough; 
and I make her by the same token want to see 
the Ambassador whom she approaches, after the 
very fashion of Ralph's approach six months 
or whenever, before, and as if he were almost, 
so to say, a father-confessor. All this is feasible 
and "amusing," rather beautiful to do being 
what I mean; only it must come after and by 
reference backward, so to call it as I can only 
make the Ambassador precede her in these re 
newals, for Ralph, of contact and apprehension. 
It isn't so much making him aware of the Am 
bassador first, so to speak, that is the trouble, 
and making him then aware of Aurora by that 
personage and what comes of reference on his 
part to the beautiful uneasy and inquiring crea- 
  
ture of New York; it isn't so much the scene 
with that young woman herself then taking place: 
it isn't these that put their question to me, but 
the terms and conditions on and in which I have 
his Excellency and his young friend of the previous 
season confronted. What a blessing thus to find, 
accordingly, how the old gentle firmness of pres 
sure, piously applied, doesn't fail to supply me. 
Our young friend is in the house again as he was 
in it in Book II the only little hitch being that 
I didn't show him as living there, for the Am 
bassador, in Book III. He goes to live there, 
goes with that escort to do so on the last page of 
the Book, but by that very fact to pass into 
well everything that we have seen him in and 
which represents the rupture of continuity with 
the Ambassador's period. So in short, perfectly, 
I see that, for consummate reasons, he can't re 
ceive this visitor on that exhausted scene at all, 
but must have the case otherwise have it in 
fact just as it comes to me now. The Ambassador, 
after his visit from Aurora (which we don't know 
about yet, don't know about till Ralph has his 
knowledge of it from him,) goes then, walks then, 
the day and the season being fine and he walking 
with the largeness with which dear J. R. L. used 
to walk he goes then, I say, to the place where 
he has last had sight of his so interestingly de 
mented young man of said previous season: he 
goes there but to have the sensation, by which I 
  
mean of course the actual experience, of seeing 
the very conditions in which he then parted with 
him practically renewed. The last thing he had 
stood there on the pavement before the house 
to see was Ralph's going in with that last look 
at him and with the open door duly again closing 
on him. So accordingly the first thing he now 
sees is Ralph's coming out again with the door 
closing on him from behind and the first look the 
young man addresses to the world of 1910 rest 
ing exactly upon the confidant of his former em 
broilment. I like that like Ralph's coming 
straight out of everything we have been having, 
everything up to the very last sharp edge of it, 
straight back into this friend's hands. Well, 
how do I take up, that is how does Ralph take 
up, and how does the Ambassador, this fresh 
situation and relation ? The Ambassador, after 
his passage with the so handsome and so dis 
tracted young woman from New York, may well 
have some doubt and some question as to how, 
and be in some predicament about it; but I grant 
at once that Ralph has emerged from all trouble 
and now is, for the whole situation, supreme 
master and controller. He is "all right" at 
least, and he re-connects, on the spot, with all 
the lucidity and authority we can desire of him. 
His distinguished friend has come, clearly, on a 
visit to him and he embraces that as well as 
he embraces their not going back into the house. 
  
At the previous season, as I have called it, 
he wasn't yet living in the house, he was only 
visiting it from his hotel or his lodgings; yet it 
isn't to these, none the less, that I see him invite 
his caller to adjourn with him, but, under the 
happiest inspiration, straight into the Square it 
self, very pleasant now to sit in (I must rightly 
and neatly adjust together the times of the year) 
and in which, under its ancient form, by which 
I mean of course its earlier, he has been through 
the scene a faire of 1820. It strikes me as posi 
tively "pretty" that they go into the Square 
together on the leafy June afternoon and that 
there it is, while they sit down, that the Ambas 
sador reports to him of the visit received at the 
Embassy from Aurora. He has those things to 
tell to tell to the young man who had those 
others to do the like with as presented in Book 
III; whereby it is very much he, or entirely he, 
who is the relator, reporter, exhibitor, with Ralph 
also for cross-questioner, as the Ambassador him 
self was on the other occasion I myself having 
of course too my free hand for showing the elder 
man as really confessing to his genial bewilder 
ment of interest. However, the extent to which I 
am possessed of this requires no dotting of "i's"; 
and the great point simply is that thus we get 
all we require, as a preliminary to the last pages 
of all of what has happened to or in, what has 
happened for and by, Aurora. I scarcely need 
  
state that the upshot or conclusion of the two 
men's talk is that Ralph must of course at once 
see that young woman; which is the understand 
ing on which the Ambassador leaves him. But 
I am almost capable of wondering whether I had 
best give this meeting, this reunion of theirs, in 
the facts and in the flesh, as it were so aloof 
do I feel from the possibility of a kind of grace 
less literality. I shall see, I shall make up my 
mind: it will come, in true Tightness, it can come 
but so, when I get in close nearness to it. I do 
seem to conceive that I can beautifully get all 
my needed value for final climax from taking it 
all out, or putting it all in, between the two men 
especially after they have come out of the 
Square together for the Ambassador to go, and 
they stand on the opposite pavement, the bit 
round the Square, with the house over there in 
view. Ralph of course has told his Excellency 
nothing; not a syllable of repetition of all that 
we've been having, of course, issues from him 
for his friend's illumination. He has only cross- 
questioned, only extracted everything about Au 
rora; only taken in how his triumph is complete 
and how that young woman has come down and 
round. It is thus a question then of his sending 
her a message, and of his sending it by the Am 
bassador for whom he sees her (justified thereto 
very vividly by the latter) simply and all so won- 
deringly wait. Yes, the message he sends is that 
  
he shall be glad to see her. He summons her to 
him doesn't offer to go to her. He has said to 
his companion at first and for their going into 
the Square that he is not staying at the House, 
and that his lodgings are elsewhere. The Am 
bassador, taking the message, has the question, 
virtually: "She's to come then to you at your 
hotel?" On which, after an hesitation and rest 
ing his eyes a moment over on the house, Ralph 
says: "No, no. Over there." But I should say 
I needn't here and now draw this out, and that 
I have it all and more than all, were it not that 
I just want to note more emphatically that I 
provide for everything, provide against the need 
of any "small" scene with the young woman 
from New York as a sequence to this full passage 
with the Ambassador, and as a wind up to the 
whole thing, together with the balance of such 
a chapter against the preliminary Book First 
I provide for everything, I say, by putting into 
this finale between the two men in the Square, 
by making Ralph acquaint his visitor with, so 
to speak, all the requisite meaning resident in 
the appeal, from their young woman, that his 
Excellency has called to report on. I said above 
that Ralph "tells" the Ambassador nothing 
but only receives his own statement and cross- 
questions him on it; but that qualification refers 
only to what has been happening to R., in his 
prodigious alternate character, during the previous 
  
