wanted to believe ! War was a return to savagery, and the worse 
it became, the better Jimmie's argument went. He was not 
interested in men's efforts to improve war, by agreeing that they 
would kill in this way but not in that way, they would kill this 
kind of people but not that kind. 
These ideas Jimmie got from his fellow members in the local, 
and from the Socialist papers which came each week, and from 
the many speakers he heard. These speakers were men and 
women of burning sincerity, and with a definite and entirely 
logical point of view. Whether they talked about war, crime, 
prostitution, political corruption, or any other social evil, what 
they wanted was to tear down the old ramshackle structure, and 
to put in its place something new and intelligent. You might 
possibly bring them to admit slight differences between capitalist 
governments ; but when it came to a practical issue, to an action, 
you found that to these people all governments were alike and 
never so much alike as in war-time ! 
Nor was there ever such need for Socialist protest! Very 
quickly it became apparent that it was not going to be an easy 
matter for America to keep out of this world-vortex. Because 
American workingmen did not get a living wage, and could not 
buy what they produced, there was a surplus product which had 
to be sold abroad; so the business of American manufacturers 
depended upon foreign markets and here suddenly were all 
the principal trading nations of the world plunging in to buy 
all the American products they could, and to keep their enemies 
from buying any at all ! 
A woman speaker came to Leesville, a shrewd little body with 
a sharp tongue, who had these disputes figured out, and gave 
them in a dialogue, as in a play. Kaiser Bill says, "I want cot- 
ton' John Bull says, "You shan't have it" Uncle Sam says, 
"But he has a right to have it. Get out of the way, John Bull." 
But John Bull says, "I will hold up your ships and take them 
into my ports." Uncle Sam says, "No, no! Don't do that!" 
But John Bull does it. And then the Kaiser says, "What sort 
of a fellow are you, to let John Bull steal your ships ? Are you 
a coward, or are you secretly a friend of this old villain ?" And 
Uncle Sam says, "John Bull, give me my German mail, and my 
German newspapers, at least' But John Bull answers, "You've 
got a lot of German spies in your country that's why I can't 
let you have your mail. You can't have German papers because 
the Kaiser fills them full of lies about me." And the Kaiser 
says, "If John Bull won't let me have my cotton and my meat 
and all the rest of it, why don't you stop sending anything to, 
him ?" He waits a while, and then he says : "If you won't stop 
sending things to that old villain, I'll sink the ships, that's all." 
And Uncle Sam cries, "But that's against the law !" "Whose 
law ?" says the Kaiser. "What sort of a law is it that works only 
one way?" "But there are Americans on those ships!" cries 
Uncle Sam. "Well, keep them off the ships!" answers the 
Kaiser. "Keep them off till John Bull obeys the law." 
Put in this way, the situation was easy for any Jimmie Hig- 
gins to understand; and month by month, as the debate con- 
tinued, Jimmie's own point of view became clearer. He was not 
interested in sending cotton to England, and still less in send- 
ing meat. He thought he was lucky if he had a bit of meat 
twice a week himself, and it was plain enough to him that if the 
fellows who owned the meat were not allowed to ship it abroad, 
they might sell it in America at a price that a workingman could 
pay. Nor was that just greediness on Jimmie's part; he was 
perfectly willing to go without meat where an ideal was involved 
look at the time and money and energy he gave to Socialism ! 
The point was that by sending goods to Europe, you helped to 
keep up the fighting; whereas, if you quit, the fools must come 
to their senses. So the Jimmie Higginses worked out their cam- 
paign-slogan : "Starve the War and Feed America!" 
In the third month of the war, disturbing rumours began to 
run about Leesville. Old Abel Granitch had taken on a contract 
with the Belgian government, and the Empire Machine Shops 
 
were going to make shells. Nothing appeared about this in the 
local papers, but everybody claimed to have first-hand knowledge, 
and although no two people told the same story, there must be 
some basis of truth in them all. And then one day, to Jimmie's 
consternation, he heard from Lizzie that the agent of the land- 
lord had called and served notice that they had three days to 
vacate the premises. Old man Granitch had bought the land, 
and the Shops were to build out that way. Jimmie could hardly 
credit his ears, for he was six city blocks from the nearest part 
of the Shops; but it was true, so every one declared; all that 
land had been bought up, and half a thousand families, children 
and old people and sick people, men on their death-beds and 
women in child-birth all had three days in which to move them- 
selves to new quarters. 
Let any one imagine the confusion, the babel of tongues, the 
women on their porches calling to one another, asking and giving 
advice! The denunciations and the scoldings and the threats 
to resort to law ! The raids upon landlords, and how the prices 
went up ! Jimmie hurried off to Comrade Meissner, who had 
bought a home and was paying instalments on it; Meissner, 
being a Socialist, did not try to gouge him, but was glad to have 
help in making his payments. There were no partitions in the 
garret which Jimmie rented, but they would hang curtains and 
make out somehow, and Lizzie would use Mrs. Meissner's stove 
until they could get something fixed upstairs. And then to the 
corner grocery, to borrow a hand-cart and get started at moving 
the furniture; for to-morrow everybody would be moving, and 
you. would not be able to get anything on wheels for love or 
money. Until after midnight Jimmie and Meissner worked at 
transporting babies and bedding and sauce-pans and chairs and 
chicken-coops piled on the hand-cart. 
And next morning at the shop, more excitement! It was 
four years now that Jimmie had been in the employ of old man 
Granitch, and in all that time he had done but one thing ; stand- 
ing in a vast room amid a confusion of whirling belts and wheels, 
a roar and screech and grumble and whir that completely an- 
nulled one of the five senses. There came in front of him, 
mechanically propelled, a tray full of small oblong blocks of 
steel, which he fed, one with each hand, into two places in a 
machine; the machine took these blocks, and rounded off one 
end, and ground the rest a little smaller, and put a thread on it, 
and it dropped into a tray on the other side, a bolt. Because 
Jimmie had to watch the machine, and keep the oil-cups full, 
his was classed as semi-skilled labour, and was paid nineteen and 
a half cents an hour. Some time ago an expert had studied the 
process, and figured that with labour at that price it was one- 
eighth of a cent per hour cheaper to have the work done by 
hand than to install a machine to do it; and so for four years 
Jimmie had his job, standing on one spot from seven to twelve, 
and again from twelve-thirty to six, and carrying home every 
Saturday night the sum of twelve dollars and twenty-nine cents. 
You might have thought that the huge machine-works would 
have made it twelve-thirty for good measure; but if so, you do 
not understand large scale production. 
And now, all of an instant and without warning, Jimmie's 
precisely ordered and habitual world came to an end. He was 
at his post when the whistle blew, but the machinery did not 
move. And presently came the Irish foreman with the curt 
announcement that the machinery would never move again, at 
least not on that spot; it was to be cleared out of the way, and 
new machinery set up, and they were to fall to forthwith with 
wrenches and hammers and crow-bars to make a new world ! 
So for a week they did; and meantime, every night as he 
went home, Jimmie saw people's homes being wrecked roofs 
falling in clouds of dust, and gangs of men loading the debris 
into huge motor-trucks. Before long they had got acetylene 
torches, and were working all night gangs of labourers who 
lived in tents on vacant lots outside the city and kept their 
canvas cots warm with double shifts of sleepers. Jimmie Hig- 
gins realised the dreadful truth, that in spite of all the agitation 
of Socialists, the war had actually come to Leesville ! 
TT was some time before Jimmie understood the nature of the 
 new machinery he was helping to set up. It was nobody's 
business to explain, for he was only a pair of hands and a strong 
back ; he was not supposed to be a brain while as for a soul or ; 
a conscience, nobody was supposed to be that. Russian agents 
had come to Leesville with seventeen millions of the money 
which the Paris bankers had put up; and so over-night whole 
blocks of homes were swept out of existence, and a huge new 
steel structure was rising, and on the spot where for four years 
Jimmie had made certain motions of the hands, they were pre- 
paring to manufacture new machinery for the quantity produc- 
tion of shell-casings. I 
When Jimmie had definitely learned what was in process, he 
was brought face to face with a grave moral problem. Could he, 
as an international Socialist, spend his time making shells to kill 
his German comrades? Could he spend his time making the 
machinery to make the shells? Would he take the bribe of old 
man Granitch, a workingman's share of the hideous loot an 
increase of four cents an hour, with the prospect of another four 
when the works got started? Jimmie had to meet this issue, 
just when it happened that one of his babies was sick, and he 
was cudgelling his head to think how he could ever squeeze out 
of his scanty wage the money to pay the doctor ! 
The answer was easy to Comrade Schneider, the stout and 
sturdy brewer, who stood up in the local and spoke with bitter 
scorn of those Socialists who stayed on in the pay of that old 
hell-devil Granitch. Schneider wanted a strike in the Empire 
Machine Shops, and he wanted it that very night! But then 
rose Comrade Mabel Smith, whose brother was a bookkeeper for 
the concern. It was all very well for Schneider to talk, but sup- 
pose some one were to demand that the brewery-workers should 
strike and refuse to make beer for munition-workers ? That was 
a mere quibble, argued Schneider; but the other denied this, 
declaring that it was an illustration of what the worker was up 
against, with no control of his own destiny, no voice as to what 
use should be made of his product. A man might say that he 
would have nothing to do with munition-work, and go out into 
the fields as a farmer to raise grain to be shipped to the 
armies ! The solidarity of capitalist society was such that no- 
where could a man find work that would not in some way be 
helping to kill his fellow-workers in other lands. 
Jimmie Higgins talked solemnly to Lizzie of moving to Hub- 
bardtown tempted thereto by the signs he saw in an agency 
which had been set up in a vacant store on Main Street. The 
Hubbard Engine Company was trying to steal old man Gran- 
itch's workers, and was offering thirty-two cents an hour for 
semi-skilled labour ! Jimmie made inquiry and learned that the 
company was extending its plant for gas-engines; for what pur- 
pose was not told, but men suspected that the engines were to go 
into motor-boats and be used for the sinking of submarines. So 
Jimmie decided that Comrade Mabel Smith was right ; he might 
as well stay where he was. He would take as much money as he 
could get and use his new-found prosperity to make trouble for 
the war-profiteers. It was the first time in his life that Jimmie 
had ever been free from money-fear. He could now get a job 
anywhere at good wages, and so he did not care a hang what 
the boss might say. He would talk to his fellow-workers, and 
explain the war to them : a war of the capitalists at present, but 
destined perhaps to turn into another land of war, which the 
capitalists would not find to their taste ! 
II 
It was wonderful, incredible, the thing which had befallen 
iteesville. Full of hatred for the system as Jimmie Higgins 
was, he could not but be thrilled by what he saw. Thousands of 
men pouring into the once commonplace little city men of a 
score of races and creeds, men old and young, white and black 
even a few yellow ones ! It was a boom like San Francisco in 
'49 ; the money which the Paris bankers had paid to the Eussian 
 
government, and which the Russian government had paid to old 
man Granitch, spread out in a golden flood over the city. The 
speculators raised the price of land, the house-owners raised 
rents, the hotels doubled their prices, and even so, had to put 
people to bed on pool tables ! Even Tom Callahan of the "Buf- 
feteria" had to hire two assistants, and build an extension, and 
move his kitchen into the back yard. 
At night the hordes of strangers roamed the streets, and 
Lipsky's "Picture Palace" was packed to the doors, and the "Bon 
Marche Shoe Store" had a new bankruptcy sale every week, and 
the swinging doors of the saloons were never still for hours on 
end. Of course, where so many men were gathered, there came 
women swarms of women of as many races as the men. Lees- 
ville had some two score churches, and had kept hitherto a care- 
ful pretence of decency; but now all barriers went doVn, the 
police-force of the city was overwhelmed by the new population 
or was it by the golden flood from Paris by way of Russia ? Any- 
way yu saw sights on Main Street which confirmed your dis- 
trust of war. 
Never had there been such an opportunity for Socialist prop- 
aganda! All these hordes of men, collected from the ends of 
the earth, torn loose from home ties, from religion, from old 
habits of every sort, thrown together promiscuously, living in 
any old way, ready for any old thing that might come along ! In 
former days these men had taken what was handed out to them 
by their newspaper editors and preachers and politicians; they 
had engaged in commonplace and respectable activities, had 
lived tame and unadventurous lives. But now they were making 
munitions; and you might say what you pleased, but there was 
a certain psychological condition incidental to the making of 
munitions. An employer could look pious and talk about law 
and order, so long as he was setting his men to hoeing weeds or 
shingling roofs or grading track; but what could he say to his 
men when he was making shells to be used in blowing men to 
pieces ? 
So came the Socialist and the Anarchist and the Syndicalist 
and the Industrial Unionist. Look at these masters, look at this 
civilisation they have produced ! In the world's oldest centres 
of culture ten or twenty millions of wage-slaves have been hurled 
together and then the Socialist or Anarchist or Syndicalist or 
Industrial Unionist would describe in detail the bloody and 
bestial operations which these ten or twenty millions of men were 
performing. And each day's papers would bring fresh details 
for them to cite famine and pestilence, fire and slaughter, 
poison gas, incendiary bombs, torpedoed passenger-ships. Look 
at these pious hypocrites, the masters, with their refinement, 
their culture, their religion ! These are the people you are asked 
to follow, it is for such as these that you have been chained to 
the machines all these weary, toil-crowded years ! 
On every street corner, in every meeting-room, in every spot 
where the workers gathered at the noon hour, you would hear 
such arguments; and you would find men listening to them 
men who perhaps had never listened to such arguments before. 
They would nod, and their faces would become grim yes, the 
people up on top must be a rotten lot ! Here in America, sup- 
posed to be a land of liberty and all that here they were just 
the same, they were crowding to the trough to drink the blood 
that was poured out in Europe. Of course, they covered their 
greed with a camouflage of sympathy for the Allies; but did 
anybody believe that old man Granitch loved the Russian gov- 
ernment? Certainly nobody in Leesville did; they knew that 
he was "getting his' and their hearts hardened with a grim 
resolve to "get theirs".
At first they thought they were succeeding. Wages went up, 
almost for the asking ; never did the unskilled man have so much 
money in his pocket, while the man who could pretend to any 
skill at all found himself in the plutocratic class. But quickly 
men discovered the worm in this luscious war-fruit ; prices were 
going up almost as fast as wages in some places even faster. 
The sums you had to pay to the landlord surpassed belief; a 
single workingman would be asked two or three dollars a week 
for twelve hours' use of a mattress and blanket, which in the 
old days he might have got for fifty cents. Food was scarce and 
of poor quality; before long you found yourself being asked to 
pay six cents for a hunk of pie or a cup of coffee and then seven 
cents, and then ten. If you kicked, the proprietor would tell 
you a long tale about what he had to pay for rent and labour 
and supplies ; and you could not deny that he was probably right. 
About the only thing that did not go up was a postage-stamp; 
 
and the Socialist would point to this and explain that the Post 
Office was run by Uncle Sam, instead of by Abel Granitch ! 
Every rise in price was a fresh stick of fuel for the Socialist 
machine, and gave new power to their propaganda of "Starve 
the War and Feed America!" The Socialist saw millions of 
tons of goods being loaded onto steamships and sent to Europe 
to be destroyed in war; he saw the workers of Europe becoming 
enslaved by a bonded debt to a class of parasites in America, he 
saw America being drawn closer and closer to the abyss of the 
strife. The Socialist loved no part of this process. He clamoured 
for an embargo not merely on munitions, but on food and 
everything, until the war-lords of Europe came to their senses. 
He urged the workers to strike, and thus force the politicians to 
declare the embargo. 
Especially, of course, he urged this if he were a German or 
an Austrian, a Hungarian or a Bohemian. The latter were sub- 
ject races, but they could not in these early days see beyond the 
fact that their fathers and brothers and cousins were being 
killed by the shells that were made in the Empire Machine 
Shops. With them stood also the Jews, who hated the Russian 
government so bitterly that nothing else mattered; also the 
Irish, whose first idea in life was to pay back John Bull for his 
sins of several centuries, and whose second idea was to take part 
in any sort of shivaree that was going. It was quite bewilder- 
ing to Jimmie Higgins; he had wrestled with Catholics of sev- 
eral nations and got nothing but hard words for his pains, but 
now all of a sudden Tom Callahan of the "Buffeteria" and Pat 
Grogan of the grocery on the corner made the discovery that 
maybe he was not such a fool after all! 
IV 
As a result of this ferment among the workers, the local had 
doubled its membership, and was holding soap-box meetings on 
a corner off Main Street on two evenings every week. The plans 
for the weekly paper, however, still hung fire. Comrade Dr. 
Service had lost his two brothers-in-law one in the battle of 
Mons, and the other in the first frightful gas-attack at Ypres, 
where whole regiments of men were caught unprepared, and died 
in awful torments. Also two of his wife's cousins had paid the 
price one was blind, and the other a prisoner at Ruhleben, the 
worst fate of all. So Dr. Service made one last indignant speech 
in the local, and took his five hundred dollars to start a chapter 
of the Red Cross ! 
But now the Germans and the war-haters in the local were 
asking themselves, was Socialism to languish in the city of the 
Empire Machine Shops, just because one rich man with an Eng- 
lish wife had proved a renegade? Such a question answered 
itself! The work of collecting subscription lists was taken up 
more vigorously than ever; and already more than half the lost 
five hundred had been made up, when one evening John Meissner 
came home with a most amazing story. 
It was his custom to stop at SandkuhPs for one glass of beer 
on his way home in the evening ; and when anybody in the saloon 
got to arguing about the war, he would take his chance to put in 
a little propaganda. This time he had made a regular speech, 
declaring that the workers would soon put an end to the muni- 
tion-business ; and a fellow had got to talking with him, asking 
him all sorts of questions about himself, and about the local. 
How many members did it have? How many of them felt as 
Meissner did? What were they doing about it? Pretty soon 
the man had drawn Meissner to a table in the back part of the 
place, asking about the proposed paper, and what its policy was 
to be ; also about the unions in the city, and their policy, and the 
personalities of the leaders. 
The man had said he was a Socialist, but Meissner did not 
believe him. Meissner thought he must be some kind of union 
organiser. There had been talk of various unions making an 
effort to break into the domain of old man Granitch; and, of 
course, there was always the I. W. W. trying to break in every- 
where with its programme of the "one big union." 
Meissner went on to tell how this mysterious stranger had 
stated to him that it would be possible to get plenty of money to 
back the proposition of a strike in the Empire Shops. The new 
plant was just ready to start up, and fresh swarms of men were 
coming in ; what was wanted was some live fellows to get in with 
them and root for an eight hour day and a minimum wage scale 
of sixty cents an hour. Men who were willing to do that could 
get good money, and plenty of it; if the Leesville "Worker" 
would advocate such a policy, there was no reason why it should 
not start up the very next week, and publish a big edition and 
flood the town. The one essential was that arrangements should 
 
be made secretly. Meissner must trust no one save dyed-in-the- 
wool "reds' who would be willing to hustle, and not say where 
the pay came from. As earnest of his intentions, the stranger 
pulled out a roll of bills, and casually drew off half a dozen and 
slipped them into Meissner's hands. They were for ten dollars 
each more money than a petty boss at the glass-works had ever 
got into his hands at one time in all his life ! 
Meissner exhibited the roll, and Jimmie stared with wide- 
open eyes. Here indeed was a new development of the war 
ten dollar bills for Socialist propaganda to be picked up in the 
back rooms of saloons ! What was this fellow's name ? And 
where did he hang out? Meissner offered to take Jimmie to 
meet him, and so the two bolted their suppers and set out at 
top speed. 
Jerry Coleman had mentioned several saloons where he 
was known, and in one of these they found him, a smooth- 
faced, smooth-spoken young fellow whom Jimmie would have 
taken for a detective or "spotter" having had dealings with 
such in his days "on the road." The man wore good clothes, 
and his finger-nails were cared for, something which, as we 
know, is seldom permitted to workingmen. But he did not put 
on airs, and he bade them call him by his first name. He talked 
to Jimmie a while, enough to make sure of his man, and then 
he peeled off some more bills, and told Jimmie to find more 
fellows who could be trusted. It wouldn't do for any one person 
to have too much money, for that would excite suspicion; but 
if they would go to work and spend that much for dodgers to 
be distributed among the munition-workers, and for street- 
meetings, and for the proposed radical paper well, there was 
plenty more money in the place where this had come from. 
Where was that place? Jimmie asked; and Jerry Coleman 
looked wise and winked. Then, after further consideration, he 
decided it might be well to tell them, provided they would pledge 
themselves not to mention it to others without his permission. 
This pledge they gave, and Jerry stated that he was a national 
organiser for the American Federation of Labour, which had 
resolved to unionise these munition-plants, and to establish the 
eight hour day. But it was of the utmost importance that 
the bosses should not get wind of the matter; it must not be 
revealed to any one save those whom Coleman saw fit to trust. 
He was trusting Jimmie and Meissner, and they might know 
that the great labour organisation was behind them, and would 
see them through, regardless of expense. Of course, it would 
be expected that they would use the money honestly. 
"Gee!" exclaimed Jimmie. "What do you take us for? A 
bunch of crooks?" 
No, said the other, he was not such a poor judge of character. 
And Jimmie remarked grimly that anybody who was looking 
for easy money did not go into the business of Socialist agita- 
tion. If there was anything a Socialist could boast of, it was 
that their workers and elected officials never touched any graft. 
Mr. Coleman that is, Jerry would be handed a receipt for 
every dollar they spent. 
It chanced that that same night there was a meeting of the 
Propaganda Committee of the local, which consisted of half 
a dozen of the most active members. Jimmie and Meissner 
hurried to this place, with their new-found wealth burning a 
hole in their pockets. They informed the committee that they 
had been collecting money for the propaganda fund, and pro- 
duced before the eyes of the astounded comrades the sum of one 
hundred dollars. 
It happened that the chairman of the committee had just 
received from the National Office of the party in Chicago a 
sample of a new leaflet entitled "Feed America First"; this 
leaflet could be had in quantities for a very low price, a dol- 
lar or two per thousand; as a result of Jimmie' s contribution, 
a telegram was sent for ten thousand of the leaflets to be shipped 
by express. And then there was a proposition from the state 
office, for Comrade Seaman, author of a book against war, to 
speak every night for two weeks in Leesville. The local had 
voted to turn down this proposition for lack of funds ; but now, 
with the new contributions, the propaganda committee felt equal 
to the fifty dollars involved. And then there was the idea of 
Comrade Gerrity, the organiser, who was conducting street 
meetings every Wednesday and Saturday nights; if he could 
have an assistant, at fifteen a week, the soap-boxing could go 
on every night. John Meissner here put in he was sure that 
contributions could be got for that purpose, provided the decision 
was made without delay. So the decision was made. 
 
VI 
The meeting was adjourned, and then Meissner and Jimmie 
went into conference with Gerrity, the organiser, and Schneider, 
the brewer, and Comrade Mary Allen, all three of whom hap- 
pened to be on the committee entrusted with the affairs of the 
"Worker." Jimmie explained that they had met a union or- 
ganiser they could not tell about him, but the committee would 
have a chance to meet him who would put up the balance of 
the money needed, provided that the paper would be willing to 
call at once for a strike of the Empire employes. Could that 
promise be made ? And Comrade Mary Allen laughed, indicat- 
ing her scorn for anybody who could cherish a doubt on that 
question ! Comrade Mary was a Quaker ; she loved all mankind 
with religious fervour and it is astonishing how bitter people 
can become in the cause of universal love. Her sharp, pale face 
flushed, and her thin lips set, as she answered that the "Worker" 
would most surely fight the war-profiteers, so long as she was 
on the managing committee! 
It was finally decided that Comrade Mary should call on 
Jerry Coleman in the morning, and satisfy herself that he really 
meant business; if so, she would get the full committee to- 
gether on the following evening. The committee had authority 
to go ahead, as soon as the necessary fund was made up, so if 
Coleman was all right, there was no reason why the first issue 
of the paper should not appear next week. Comrade Jack 
Smith, a reporter on the "Herald," the capitalist paper of Lees- 
ville, was to resign and become editor of the "Worker," and he 
already had his editorials written had been showing them about 
in the local for the past month ! 
Jimmie and Meissner set out for home, happy in the feeling 
that they had accomplished more for Socialism on that one night 
than in all the rest of their lives. But then, as they walked, 
there came suddenly a clamour of bells on the night air ; a fire ! 
They knew the signals, and counted the strokes, and made the 
discovery that it was in the neighbourhood of their own home ! 
An engine went by on the gallop, with sparks streaming out 
behind, and they broke into a run. Before they had gone a 
couple of blocks, they saw a glare in the sky, and their hearts 
were in their throats ; poor Meissner panted that he had neglected 
to pay his last month's insurance ! 
But as they ran, in the ever-growing throng of people, they 
realised that the fire was too near for their own home; also, 
it was a bigger blaze than could have been made by any number 
of shacks. And presently there were shouts in the crowd, "It's 
the Empire ! The Old Shops I" There came a hook and ladder 
truck, rushing by with shrieking siren, and then the fire-chief 
in his automobile with a fiercely clanging bell ; they turned the 
corner, and far down the street before them was the building 
in which for four years Jimmie had tended the bolt-making 
machine. They saw that one whole end of it was a towering, 
leaping, sweeping pillar of flames ! 
TIMMIE HIGGINS regarded with the utmost resentment the 
 determination of the war to come to Leesville, in spite of 
all his labours to keep it out. Take the most preposterous thing 
you could imagine the most idiotic thing on the face of the 
earth take German spies ! When Jimmie heard people talking 
about German spies, he laughed in their faces, he told them 
they were a bunch of boobs, they belonged in the nursery; for 
Jimmie classed German spies with goblins, witches and sea- 
serpents. And here suddenly the bewildered little man found 
himself in the midst of a German spy mania, the like of which 
he could never have dreamed ! 
Everybody seemed to take it for granted that the Empire 
Machine Shops had been burned by German agents; they just 
knew it, and by the time the fire was out they had a hundred 
various stories to support their conviction. The fire had leaped 
from place to place in a series of explosions ; the watchman, who 
had passed through the building only two minutes before, had 
rushed back and seen blazing gasoline, and had almost lost his 
life in the sweep of the flames. And next morning the Lees- 
ville "Herald" was out with letters half a foot high, telling these 
tales and insisting that the plant had been full of German agents, 
disguised as workingmen. 
Before the day was by the police had arrested a dozen per- 
fectly harmless German and Austrian labourers; at least that 
was the way it seemed to Jimmie, because of the fact that two 
of the men were members of the Socialist local. Somebody told 
Mrs. Meissner that all the Germans in Leesville were to be 
arrested, and the poor woman was trembling with terror. She 
wanted her husband to run away, but Jimmie persuaded them 
that this would be the worst possible course; so Meissner stayed 
in the house, and Jimmie kept his mouth shut for three whole 
days an extraordinary feat for him, and a trial more severe 
than being in jail. 
He had lost his job forever, he thought. But in this again 
he misjudged the forces which had taken his life in their grip 
the power of the gold which had come to Leesville by way of 
Eussia. The day after the fire he received word to report for 
work again ; old man Granitch was so anxious to keep his work- 
ers out of the clutches of the Hubbard Engine Company that 
he put them all, skilled and unskilled, at the job of clearing 
away the debris of the fire ! And five days later came the first 
carloads of new material, brought on motor-trucks, and the 
rebuilding of the Empire Shops began. Would you believe it 
some of the machinery which had not been damaged too much 
in the fire was fixed up, and at the end of a couple of weeks 
was starting up again, covered by a temporary canvas shelter, 
and with the walls of the new building rising round it. 
That was the kind of thing which made America the marvel 
of the world. It had made old man Granitch young again, peo- 
ple said ; he worked twenty hours a day in his shirt-sleeves, and 
the increase in his profanity was appalling. Even Lacey 
Granitch, his dashing son, quitted the bright lights of Broad- 
way and came home to help the old man keep his contracts. 
The enthusiasm for these contracts became as it were the re- 
ligion of Leesville ; it spread even to the ranks of labour, so that 
Jimmie found himself like a man in a surf, struggling to keep 
his feet against an undertow. 
II 
The plans for the "Worker" were delayed, for the reason 
that when Comrade Mary Allen, the Quaker, went to look for 
Jerry Coleman the day after the fire, that dispenser of ten dollar 
bills had mysteriously disappeared. It was a week before he 
showed up again; and meantime fresh events had taken place, 
both in the local and outside. To begin with the latter, as 
presumably the more important : an English passenger liner, the 
pride of the Atlantic fleet, loaded to the last cabin with Ameri- 
can millionaires, was torpedoed without warning by a German 
submarine. More than a thousand men, women and children 
went down, and the deed sent a shudder of horror through the 
 
civilised world. At the meeting of Local Leesville, which hap- 
pened to take place the evening afterward, it proved a difficult 
matter to get business started. 
The members stood about and argued. What could you say 
about a government that ordered a crime like that ? What could 
you say about a naval officer who would carry out such an order ? 
Thus Comrade Norwood, the young lawyer; and Schneider, the 
brewer, answered that the German government had done every- 
thing that any reasonable man could ask. It had published a 
notice in the New York papers, to the effect that the vessel was 
subject to attack, and that any one who travelled on her would 
do so at his peril. If women and children would ride on muni- 
tion-ships 
"Munition-ships?" cried Norwood; and then Schneider 
pointed to a news-despatch, to the effect that the Lwitania had 
had on board a shipment of cartridge-cases. 
"A fine lot of munitions I" jeered the lawyer. 
Well, was the reply, what were cartridge-cases for, if not to 
kill Germans? The Germans had been attacked by the whole 
world, and they had to defend themselves. When you looked 
at Comrade Schneider, you saw a man who felt himself attacked 
by the whole world ; his face was red up to the roots of his hair, 
and he was ready to defend himself with any weapon he could 
get hold of. 
Comrade Koeln, a big glass-blower, broke into the discus- 
sion. The German government was authority for the statement 
that the Lusitania had been armed with guns. And when 
Norwood hooted at this, every German in the room was up 
in arms. What did he have to disprove it? The word of the 
British government ! Was not "perfidious Albion" a bye-word I 
"The thing that beats me," declared the young lawyer, "is 
the way you Germans stand up for the Kaiser now, when before 
the war you couldn't find enough bad things to say about him." 
"What beats me," countered Schneider, "is how you Ameri- 
cans stand up for King George. Every newspaper in Wall 
Street howling for America to go into the war yust because 
some millionaires got killed !" 
"You don't seem to realise that the greater number of the 
men who lost their lives on that ship were workingmen !" 
"Ho! Ho!" hooted Comrade Stankewitz. "Vail Street 
loves so the vorkingmen !" 
Comrade Mary Allen, who loved all men, took up the argu- 
ment. If those workingmen had been killed in a mine disaster, 
caused by criminal carelessness and greed for profits; if they 
had died of some industrial disease which might easily have been 
prevented; if they had been burned in a factory without fire- 
escapes nobody in Wall Street would have wanted to go to war. 
And, of course, every Socialist considered this was true; every 
Socialist saw quite clearly that the enormity of the Lusitania 
sinking lay in the fact that it had reached and injured the privi- 
leged people, the people who counted, who got their names in 
the papers and were not supposed to be inconvenienced, even by 
war. So it was possible for Jimmie Higgins, even though 
shocked by what the Germans had done, to be irritated by the 
fuss which the Wall Street newspapers made. 
Young Emil Forster spoke, and they listened to him, as they 
always did. It was a quarrel, he said and as usual in quarrels, 
both sides had their rights and wrongs. You had to balance a 
few English and American babies against the millions of Ger- 
man babies which the British government intended to starve. 
It was British sea-power maintaining itself and of course con- 
trolling most of the channels of publicity. It appealed to what 
it called "law" that is to say, the customs it had found con- 
venient in the past. British cruisers were able to visit and search 
vessels, and to take off their crews; but submarines could not 
do that, so what the British clamour about "law" amounted to 
was an attempt to keep Germany from using her only weapon. 
After all, ask yourself honestly if it was any worse to drown peo- 
ple quickly than to starve them slowly. 
And then came "Wild Bill." This wrangling over German 
and British gave him a pain in the guts. Couldn't they see, 
the big stiffs, that they were playing the masters' game ? Quar- 
relling among themselves, when they ought to be waking up 
the workers, getting ready for the real fight. And wizened-up 
little Stankewitz broke in again that vas vy he hated var, it 
divided the vorkers. There vas nothing you could say for 
var. But "Wild Bill" smiled his crooked smile. There were 
several things you could say. War gave the workers guns, and 
taught them to use them; how would it be if some day they 
turned these guns about and fought their own battles? 
 
Comrade Gerrity now took the chair and made an effort to 
get things started. The minutes of the last meeting were read-, 
new members were voted on, and then Comrade Mary Allen rose 
to report for the "Worker" committee. The fund had been com- 
pleted, the first number of the paper was to appear next week, 
and it was now up to every member of the local to get up on 
his toes and hustle as never in his life before. Comrade Mary, 
with her thin, eager face of a religious zealot, made every one 
share her fervour. 
All save Lawyer Norwood. Since the retirement of Dr. 
Service he was the chief pro-ally trouble-maker, and he now 
made a little speech. He had been agreeably surprised to learn 
that the money had been raised so quickly ; but then certain un- 
comfortable doubts having occurred to him, he had made in- 
quiries and found there was some mystery about the matter. It 
was stated that the new paper was to demand a general strike 
in the Empire ; and of course everybody knew there were power- 
ful and sinister forces now interested in promoting strikes in 
munition-factories. 
"Wild Bill" was on his feet in an instant. Had the com- 
rade any objection to munition-workers demanding the eight 
hour day? 
"No," said Norward, "of course not ; but if we are going into 
a fight with other people, we surely ought to know who they 
are and what their purpose is. I have been informed there 
seems to be a little hesitation in talking about it that a lot of 
money has been put up by one man, and nobody knows who 
that man is." 
"He's an organiser for the A. F. of L. !" The voice was 
Jimmie's. In his excitement the solemn pledge of secrecy was 
entirely forgotten ! 
"Indeed!" said Norward. "What is his name?" 
Nobody answered. 
"Has he shown his credentials ?" Again silence. 
"Of course I don't need to tell men as familiar with union 
affairs as the comrades here that every bona-fide organiser for 
a union carries credentials. If he does not produce them, it is 
at least occasion for writing to the organisation and finding out 
about him. Has anybody done that?" 
Again there was silence. 
"I don't want to make charges," said Norwood 
"Oh, no !" put in "Wild Bill." "You only want to make 
insinuations I" 
"What I want to do is merely to make sure that the local 
knows what it is doing. It is no secret anywhere in Leesville 
that money is being spent to cause trouble in the Empire. No 
doubt this money has passed through a great many hands since 
