He went down to the river, where the gaily painted row-boats and punts
lay, and scanned the silvered flood, tortured by indefinite
apprehensions. About dawn he started toward the weed-grown, slippery
river-stairs for the last time, still crowned with his tinsel cap; and
there in the darkness he found his aged boat-man, fishing for gudgeon
with a four-cornered net suspended to the end of a bamboo pole.
"Have you see anything of Mademoiselle Nihla?" he demanded, in a
heavy, unsteady voice, tremulous with indefinable fears.
"Monsieur le Comte, Mademoiselle Quellen went out in a canoe with a
young gentleman."
"W-what is that you tell me!" faltered the Comte d'Eblis, turning grey
in the face.
"Last night, about ten o'clock, M'sieu le Comte. I was out in the
moonlight fishing for eels. She came down to the shore--took a canoe
yonder by the willows. The young man had a double-bladed paddle. They
were singing."
"They--they have not returned?"
"No, M'sieu le Comte----"
"Who was the--man?"
"I could not see----"
"Very well." He turned and looked down the dusky river out of
light-coloured, murderous eyes. Then, always awkward in his gait, he
retraced his steps to the house. There a servant accosted him on the
terrace:
"The telephone, if Monsieur le Comte pleases----"
"Who is calling?" he demanded with a flare of fury.
"Paris, if it pleases Monsieur le Comte."
The Count d'Eblis went to his own quarters, seated himself, and picked
up the receiver:
"Who is it?" he asked thickly.
"Max Freund."
"What has h-happened?" he stammered in sudden terror.
Over the wire came the distant reply, perfectly clear and distinct:
"Ferez Bey was arrested in his own house at dinner last evening, and
was immediately conducted to the frontier, escorted by Government
detectives.... Is Nihla with you?"
The Count's teeth were chattering now. He managed to say:
"No, I don't know where she is. She was dancing. Then, all at once,
she was gone. Of what was Colonel Ferez suspected?"
"I don't know. But perhaps we might guess."
"Are you followed?"
"Yes."
"By--by whom?"
"By Souchez.... Good-bye, if I don't see you. I join Ferez. And look
out for Nihla. She'll trick you yet!"
The Count d'Eblis called:
"Wait, for God's sake, Max!"--listened; called again in vain. "The
one-eyed rabbit!" he panted, breathing hard and irregularly. His large
hand shook as he replaced the instrument. He sat there as though
paralysed, for a moment or two. Mechanically he removed his tinsel cap
and thrust it into the pocket of his evening coat. Suddenly the dull
hue of anger dyed neck, ears and temple:
"By God!" he gasped. "What is that she-devil trying to do to me? What
has she done!"
After another moment of staring fixedly at nothing, he opened the
table drawer, picked up a pistol and poked it into his breast pocket.
Then he rose, heavily, and stood looking out of the window at the
paling east, his pendulous under lip aquiver.
II
SUNRISE
The first sunbeams had already gilded her bedroom windows, barring the
drawn curtains with light, when the man arrived. He was still wearing
his disordered evening dress under a light overcoat; his soiled shirt
front was still crossed by the red ribbon of watered silk; third class
orders striped his breast, where also the brand new Turkish sunburst
glimmered.
A sleepy maid in night attire answered his furious ringing; the man
pushed her aside with an oath and strode into the semi-darkness of the
corridor. He was nearly six feet tall, bulky; but his legs were either
too short or something else was the matter with them, for when he
walked he waddled, breathing noisily from the ascent of the stairs.
"Is your mistress here?" he demanded, hoarse with his effort.
"Y--yes, monsieur----"
"When did she come in?" And, as the scared and bewildered maid
hesitated: "Damn you, answer me! When did Mademoiselle Quellen come
in? I'll wring your neck if you lie to me!"
The maid began to whimper:
"Monsieur le Comte--I do not wish to lie to you.... Mademoiselle Nihla
came back with the dawn----"
"Alone?"
The maid wrung her hands:
"Does Monsieur le Comte m-mean to harm her?"
"Will you answer me, you snivelling cat!" he panted between his big,
discoloured teeth. He had fished out a pistol from his breast pocket,
dragging with it a silk handkerchief, a fancy cap of tissue and gilt,
and some streamers of confetti which fell to the carpet around his
feet.
"Now," he breathed in a half-strangled voice, "answer my questions.
Was she alone when she came in?"
"N-no."
"Who was with her?"
"A--a----"
"A man?"
The maid trembled violently and nodded.
"What man?"
"M-Monsieur le Comte, I have never before beheld him----"
"You lie!"
"I do not lie! I have never before seen him, Monsieur le----"
"Did you learn his name?"
"No----"
"Did you hear what they said?"
"They spoke in English----"
"What!" The man's puffy face went flabby white, and his big, badly
made frame seemed to sag for a moment. He laid a large fat hand flat
against the wall, as though to support and steady himself, and gazed
dully at the terrified maid.
And she, shivering in her night-robe and naked feet, stared back into
the pallid face, with its coarse, greyish moustache and little short
side-whiskers which vulgarized it completely--gazed in unfeigned
terror at the sagging, deadly, lead-coloured eyes.
"Is the man there--in there now--with her?" demanded the Comte d'Eblis
heavily.
"No, monsieur."
"Gone?"
"Oh, Monsieur le Comte, the young man stayed but a moment----"
"Where were they? In her bedroom?"
"In the salon. I--I served a pâté--a glass of wine--and the young
gentleman was gone the next minute----"
A dull red discoloured the neck and features of the Count.
"That's enough," he said; and waddled past her along the corridor to
the furthest door; and wrenched it open with one powerful jerk.
In the still, golden gloom of the drawn curtains, now striped with
sunlight, a young girl suddenly sat up in bed.
"Alexandre!" she exclaimed in angry astonishment.
"You slut!" he said, already enraged again at the mere sight of her.
"Where did you go last night!"
"What are you doing in my bedroom?" she demanded, confused but flushed
with anger. "Leave it! Do you hear!--" She caught sight of the pistol
in his hand and stiffened.
He stepped nearer; her dark, dilated gaze remained fixed on the
pistol.
"Answer me," he said, the menacing roar rising in his voice. "Where
did you go last night when you left the house?"
"I--I went out--on the lawn."
"And then?"
"I had had enough of your party: I came back to Paris."
"And then?"
"I came here, of course."
"Who was with you?"
Then, for the first time, she began to comprehend. She swallowed
desperately.
"Who was your companion?" he repeated.
"A--man."
"You brought him here?"
"He--came in--for a moment."
"Who was he?"
"I--never before saw him."
"You picked up a man in the street and brought him here with you?"
"N-not on the street----"
"Where?"
"On the lawn--while your guests were dancing----"
"And you came to Paris with him?"
"Y-yes."
"Who was he?"
"I don't know----"
"If you don't name him, I'll kill you!" he yelled, losing the last
vestige of self-control. "What kind of story are you trying to tell
me, you lying drab! You've got a lover! Confess it!"
"I have not!"
"Liar! So this is how you've laughed at me, mocked me, betrayed me,
made a fool of me! You!--with your fierce little snappish ways of a
virgin! You with your dangerous airs of a tiger-cat if a man so much
as laid a finger on your vicious body! So Mademoiselle-Don't-touch-me
had a lover all the while. Max Freund warned me to keep an eye on
you!" He lost control of himself again; his voice became a hoarse
shout: "Max Freund begged me not to trust you! You filthy little
beast! Good God! Was I crazy to believe in you--to talk without
reserve in your presence! What kind of imbecile was I to offer you
marriage because I was crazy enough to believe that there was no other
way to possess you! You--a Levantine dancing girl--a common painted
thing of the public footlights--a creature of brasserie and cabaret!
And you posed as Mademoiselle Nitouche! A novice! A devotee of
chastity! And, by God, your devilish ingenuity at last persuaded me
that you actually were what you said you were. And all Paris knew you
were fooling me--all Paris was laughing in its dirty sleeve--mocking
me--spitting on me----"
"All Paris," she said, in an unsteady voice, "gave you credit for
being my lover. And I endured it. And you knew it was not true. Yet
you never denied it.... But as for me, I never had a lover. When I
told you that I told you the truth. And it is true to-day as it was
yesterday. Nobody believes it of a dancing girl. Now, you no longer
believe it. Very well, there is no occasion for melodrama. I tried to
fall in love with you: I couldn't. I did not desire to marry you. You
insisted. Very well; you can go."
"Not before I learn the name of your lover of last night!" he
retorted, now almost beside himself with fury, and once more menacing
her with his pistol. "I'll get that much change out of all the money
I've lavished on you!" he yelled. "Tell me his name or I'll kill
you!"
She reached under her pillow, clutched a jewelled watch and purse, and
hurled them at him. She twisted from her arm a gemmed bracelet, tore
every flashing ring from her fingers, and flung them in a handful
straight at his head.
"There's some more change for you!" she panted. "Now, leave my
bedroom!"
"I'll have that man's name first!"
The girl laughed in his distorted face. He was within an ace of
shooting her--of firing point-blank into the lovely, flushed features,
merely to shatter them, destroy, annihilate. He had the desire to do
it. But her breathless, contemptuous laugh broke that impulse--relaxed
it, leaving it flaccid. And after an interval something else
intervened to stay his hand at the trigger--something that crept into
his mind; something he had begun to suspect that she knew. Suddenly he
became convinced that she did know it--that she believed that he
dared not kill her and stand the investigation of a public trial
before a juge d'instruction--that he could not afford to have his
own personal affairs scrutinised too closely.
He still wanted to kill her--shoot her there where she sat in bed,
watching him out of scornful young eyes. So intense was his need to
slay--to disfigure, brutalise this girl who had mocked him, that the
raging desire hurt him physically. He leaned back, resting against the
silken wall, momentarily weakened by the violence of passion. But his
pistol still threatened her.
No; he dared not. There was a better, surer way to utterly destroy
her,--a way he had long ago prepared,--not expecting any such
contingency as this, but merely as a matter of self-insurance.
His levelled weapon wavered, dropped, held loosely now. He still
glared at her out of pallid and blood-shot eyes in silence. After a
while:
"You hell-cat," he said slowly and distinctly. "Who is your English
lover? Tell me his name or I'll beat your face to a pulp!"
"I have no English lover."
"Do you think," he went on heavily, disregarding her reply, "that I
don't know why you chose an Englishman? You thought you could
blackmail me, didn't you?"
"How?" she demanded wearily.
Again he ignored her reply:
"Is he one of the Embassy?" he demanded. "Is he some emissary of
Grey's? Does he come from their intelligence department? Or is he only
a police jackal? Or some lesser rat?"
She shrugged; her night-robe slipped and she drew it over her shoulder
with a quick movement. And the man saw the deep blush spreading over
face and throat.
"By God!" he said, "you are an actress! I admit it. But now you are
going to learn something about real life. You think you've got me,
don't you?--you and your Englishman? Because I have been fool enough
to trust you--hide nothing from you--act frankly and openly in your
presence. You thought you'd get a hold on me, so that if I ever caught
you at your treacherous game you could defy me and extort from me the
last penny! You thought all that out--very thriftily and cleverly--you
and your Englishman between you--didn't you?"
"I don't know what you mean."
"Don't you? Then why did you ask me the other day whether it was not
German money which was paying for the newspaper which I bought?"
"The Mot d'Ordre?"
"Certainly."
"I asked you that because Ferez Bey is notoriously in Germany's pay.
And Ferez Bey financed the affair. You said so. Besides, you and he
discussed it before me in my own salon."
"And you suspected that I bought the Mot d'Ordre with German money
for the purpose of carrying out German propaganda in a Paris daily
paper?"
"I don't know why Ferez Bey gave you the money to buy it."
"He did not give me the money."
"You said so. Who did?"
"You!" he fairly yelled.
"W-what!" stammered the girl, confounded.
"Listen to me, you rat!" he said fiercely. "I was not such a fool as
you believed me to be. I lavished money on you; you made a fortune for
yourself out of your popularity, too. Do you remember endorsing a
cheque drawn to your order by Ferez Bey?"
"Yes. You had borrowed every penny I possessed. You said that Ferez
Bey owed you as much. So I accepted his cheque----"
"That cheque paid for the Mot d'Ordre. It is drawn to your order;
it bears your endorsement; the Mot d'Ordre was purchased in your
name. And it was Max Freund who insisted that I take that precaution.
Now, try to blackmail me!--you and your English spy!" he cried
triumphantly, his voice breaking into a squeak.
Not yet understanding, merely conscious of some vague and monstrous
danger, the girl sat motionless, regarding him intently out of
beautiful, intelligent eyes.
He burst into laughter, made falsetto by the hysteria of sheer
hatred:
"That's where you are now!" he said, leering down at her. "Every paper
I ever made you sign incriminates you; your cancelled cheque is in the
same packet; your dossier is damning and complete. You didn't know
that Ferez Bey was sent across the frontier yesterday, did you? Your
English spy didn't inform you last night, did he?"
"N-no."
"You lie! You did know it! That was why you stole away last night
and met your jackal--to sell him something besides yourself, this
time! You knew they had arrested Ferez! I don't know how you knew it,
but you did. And you told your lover. And both of you thought you had
me at last, didn't you?"
"I--what are you trying to say to me--do to me?" she stammered, losing
colour for the first time.
"Put you where you belong--you dirty spy!" he said with grinning
ferocity. "If there is to be trouble, I've prepared for it. When they
try you for espionage, they'll try you as a foreigner--a dancing girl
in the pay of Germany--as my mistress whom Max Freund and I discover
in treachery to France, and whom I instantly denounce to the proper
authorities!"
He shoved his pistol into his breast pocket and put on his marred silk
hat.
"Which do you think they will believe--you or the Count d'Eblis?" he
demanded, the nervous leer twitching at his heavy lips. "Which do you
think they will believe--your denials and counter-accusations against
me, or Max Freund's corroboration, and the evidence of the packet I
shall now deliver to the authorities--the packet containing every
cursed document necessary to convict you!--you filthy little----"
The girl bounded from her bed to the floor, her dark eyes blazing:
"Damn you!" she said. "Get out of my bedroom!"
Taken aback, he retreated a pace or two, and, at the furious menace of
the little clenched fist, stepped another pace out into the corridor.
The door crashed in his face; the bolt shot home.
       
In twenty minutes Nihla Quellen, the celebrated and adored of European
capitals, crept out of the street door. She wore the dress of a
Finistère peasant; her hair was grey, her step infirm.
The commissaire, two agents de police, and a Government detective,
one Souchez, already on their way to identify and arrest her, never
even glanced at the shabby, infirm figure which hobbled past them on
the sidewalk and feebly mounted an omnibus marked Gare du Nord.
       
For a long time Paris was carefully combed for the dancer, Nihla
Quellen, until more serious affairs occupied the authorities, and
presently the world at large. For, in a few weeks, war burst like a
clap of thunder over Europe, leaving the whole world stunned and
reeling. The dossier of Nihla Quellen, the dancing girl, was tossed
into secret archives, together with the dossier of one Ferez Bey, an
Eurasian, now far beyond French jurisdiction, and already very
industrious in the United States about God knows what, in company with
one Max Freund.
As for Monsieur the Count d'Eblis, he remained a senator, an owner of
many third-rate decorations, and of the Mot d'Ordre.
And he remained on excellent terms with everybody at the Swedish,
Greek, and Bulgarian legations, and the Turkish Embassy, too. And
continued in cipher communication with Max Freund and Ferez Bey in
America.
Otherwise, he was still president of the Numismatic Society of Spain,
and he continued to add to his wonderful collection of coins, and to
keep up his voluminous numismatic correspondence.
He was growing stouter, too, which increased his spinal waddle when he
walked; and he became very prosperous financially, through fortunate
"operations," as he explained, with one Bolo Pasha.
He had only one regret to interfere with his sleep and his digestion;
he was sorry he had not fired his pistol into the youthful face of
Nihla Quellen. He should have avenged himself, taken his chances, and
above everything else he should have destroyed her beauty. His
timidity and caution still caused him deep and bitter chagrin.
For nearly a year he heard absolutely nothing concerning her. Then one
day a letter arrived from Ferez Bey through Max Freund, both being in
New York. And when, using his key to the cipher, he extracted the
message it contained, he had learned, among other things, that Nihla
Quellen was in New York, employed as a teacher in a school for
dancing.
The gist of his reply to Ferez Bey was that Nihla Quellen had already
outlived her usefulness on earth, and that Max Freund should attend to
the matter at the first favourable opportunity.
III
SUNSET
On the edge of evening she came out of the Palace of Mirrors and
crossed the wet asphalt, which already reflected primrose lights from
a clearing western sky.
A few moments before, he had been thinking of her, never dreaming that
she was in America. But he knew her instantly, there amid the rush and
clatter of the street, recognised her even in the twilight of the
passing storm--perhaps not alone from the half-caught glimpse of her
shadowy, averted face, nor even from that young, lissome figure so
celebrated in Europe. There is a sixth sense--the sense of nearness to
what is familiar. When it awakes we call it premonition.
The shock of seeing her, the moment's exciting incredulity, passed
before he became aware that he was already following her through
swarming metropolitan throngs released from the toil of a long, wet
day in early spring.
Through every twilit avenue poured the crowds; through every
cross-street a rosy glory from the west was streaming; and in its
magic he saw her immortally transfigured, where the pink light
suffused the crossings, only to put on again her lovely mortality in
the shadowy avenue.
At Times Square she turned west, straight into the dazzling fire of
sunset, and he at her slender heels, not knowing why, not even asking
it of himself, not thinking, not caring.
A third figure followed them both.
The bronze giants south of them stirred, swung their great hammers
against the iron bell; strokes of the hour rang out above the din of
Herald Square, inaudible in the traffic roar another square away,
lost, drowned out long before the pleasant bell-notes penetrated to
Forty-second Street, into which they both had turned.
Yet, as though occultly conscious that some hour had struck on earth,
significant to her, she stopped, turned, and looked back--looked quite
through him, seeing neither him nor the one-eyed man who followed them
both--as though her line of vision were the East itself, where, across
the grey sea's peril, a thousand miles of cannon were sounding the
hour from the North Sea to the Alps.
He passed her at her very elbow--aware of her nearness, as though
suddenly close to a young orchard in April. The girl, too, resumed her
way, unconscious of him, of his youthful face set hard with controlled
emotion.
The one-eyed man followed them both.
A few steps further and she turned into the entrance to one of those
sprawling, pretentious restaurants, the sham magnificence of which
becomes grimy overnight. He halted, swung around, retraced his steps
and followed her. And at his heels two shapes followed them very
silently--her shadow and his own--so close together now, against the
stucco wall that they seemed like Destiny and Fate linked arm in arm.
The one-eyed man halted at the door for a few moments. Then he, too,
went in, dogged by his sinister shadow.
The red sunset's rays penetrated to the rotunda and were quenched
there in a flood of artificial light; and there their sun-born
shadows vanished, and three strange new shadows, twisted and
grotesque, took their places.
She continued on into the almost empty restaurant, looming dimly
beyond. He followed; the one-eyed man followed both.
The place into which they stepped was circular, centred by a waterfall
splashing over concrete rocks. In the ruffled pool goldfish glimmered,
nearly motionless, and mandarin ducks floated, preening exotic
plumage.
A wilderness of tables surrounded the pool, set for the expected
patronage of the coming evening. The girl seated herself at one of
these.
At the next table he found a place for himself, entirely unnoticed by
her. The one-eyed man took the table behind them. A waiter presented
himself to take her order; another waiter came up leisurely to attend
to him. A third served the one-eyed man. There were only a few inches
between the three tables. Yet the girl, deeply preoccupied, paid no
attention to either man, although both kept their eyes on her.
But already, under the younger man's spellbound eyes, an odd and
unforeseen thing was occurring: he gradually became aware that, almost
imperceptibly, the girl and the table where she sat, and the sleepy
waiter who was taking her orders, were slowly moving nearer to him on
a floor which was moving, too.
He had never before been in that particular restaurant, and it took
him a moment or two to realise that the floor was one of those trick
floors, the central part of which slowly revolves.
Her table stood on the revolving part of the floor, his upon fixed
terrain; and he now beheld her moving toward him, as the circle of
tables rotated on its axis, which was the waterfall and pool in the
middle of the restaurant.
A few people began to arrive--theatrical people, who are obliged to
dine early. Some took seats at tables placed upon the revolving
section of the floor, others preferred the outer circles, where he sat
in a fixed position.
Her table was already abreast of his, with only the circular crack in
the floor between them; he could easily have touched her.
As the distance began to widen between them, the girl, her gloved
hands clasped in her lap, and studying the table-cloth with unseeing
gaze, lifted her dark eyes--looked at him without seeing, and once
more gazed through him at something invisible upon which her thoughts
remained fixed--something absorbing, vital, perhaps tragic--for her
face had become as colourless, now, as one of those translucent
marbles, vaguely warmed by some buried vein of rose beneath the snowy
surface.
Slowly she was being swept away from him--his gaze following--hers
lost in concentrated abstraction.
He saw her slipping away, disappearing behind the noisy waterfall.
Around him the restaurant continued to fill, slowly at first, then
more rapidly after the orchestra had entered its marble gallery.
The music began with something Russian, plaintive at first, then
beguiling, then noisy, savage in its brutal precision--something
sinister--a trampling melody that was turning into thunder with the
throb of doom all through it. And out of the vicious, Asiatic
clangour, from behind the dash of too obvious waterfalls, glided the
girl he had followed, now on her way toward him again, still seated at
her table, still gazing at nothing out of dark, unseeing eyes.
It seemed to him an hour before her table approached his own again.
Already she had been served by a waiter--was eating.
He became aware, then, that somebody had also served him. But he could
not even pretend to eat, so preoccupied was he by her approach.
Scarcely seeming to move at all, the revolving floor was steadily
drawing her table closer and closer to his. She was not looking at the
strawberries which she was leisurely eating--did not lift her eyes as
her table swept smoothly abreast of his.
Scarcely aware that he spoke aloud, he said:
"Nihla--Nihla Quellen!..."
Like a flash the girl wheeled in her chair to face him. She had lost
all her colour. Her fork had dropped and a blood-red berry rolled over
the table-cloth toward him.
"I'm sorry," he said, flushing. "I did not mean to startle you----"
The girl did not utter a word, nor did she move; but in her dark eyes
he seemed to see her every sense concentrated upon him to identify his
features, made shadowy by the lighted candles behind his head.
By degrees, smoothly, silently, her table swept nearer, nearer,
bringing with it her chair, her slender person, her dark, intelligent
eyes, so unsmilingly and steadily intent on him.
He began to stammer:
"--Two years ago--at--the Villa Tresse d'Or--on the Seine.... And we
promised to see each other--in the morning----"
She said coolly:
"My name is Thessalie Dunois. You mistake me for another."
"No," he said, in a low voice, "I am not mistaken."
Her brown eyes seemed to plunge their clear regard into the depths of
his very soul--not in recognition, but in watchful, dangerous
defiance.
He began again, still stammering a trifle:
"--In the morning, we were to--to meet--at eleven--near the fountain
of Marie de Médicis--unless you do not care to remember----"
At that her gaze altered swiftly, melted into the exquisite relief of
recognition. Suspended breath, released, parted her blanched lips; her
little guardian heart, relieved of fear, beat more freely.
"Are you Garry?"
"Yes."
"I know you now," she murmured. "You are Garret Barres, of the rue
d'Eryx.... You are Garry!" A smile already haunted her dark young
eyes; colour was returning to lip and cheek. She drew a deep,
noiseless breath.
The table where she sat continued to slip past him; the distance
between them was widening. She had to turn her head a little to face
him.
"You do remember me then, Nihla?"
The girl inclined her head a trifle. A smile curved her lips--lips now
vivid but still a little tremulous from the shock of the encounter.
"May I join you at your table?"
She smiled, drew a deeper breath, looked down at the strawberry on the
cloth, looked over her shoulder at him.
"You owe me an explanation," he insisted, leaning forward to span the
increasing distance between them.
"Do I?"
"Ask yourself."
After a moment, still studying him, she nodded as though the nod
answered some silent question of her own:
"Yes, I owe you one."
"Then may I join you?"
"My table is more prudent than I. It is running away from an
explanation." She fixed her eyes on her tightly clasped hands, as
though to concentrate thought. He could see only the back of her head,
white neck and lovely dark hair.
Her table was quite a distance away when she turned, leisurely, and
looked back at him.
"May I come?" he asked.
She lifted her delicate brows in demure surprise.
"I've been waiting for you," she said, amiably.
The one-eyed man had never taken his eyes off them.
IV
DUSK
She had offered him her hand; he had bent over it, seated himself, and
they smilingly exchanged the formal banalities of a pleasantly renewed
acquaintance.
A waiter laid a cover for him. She continued to concern herself,
leisurely, with her strawberries.
"When did you leave Paris?" she enquired.
"Nearly two years ago."
"Before war was declared?"
"Yes, in June of that year."
She looked up at him very seriously; but they both smiled as she
said:
"It was a momentous month for you then--the month of June, 1914?"
"Very. A charming young girl broke my heart in 1914; and so I came
home, a wreck--to recuperate."
At that she laughed outright, glancing at his youthful, sunburnt face
and lean, vigorous figure.
"When did you come over?" he asked curiously.
"I have been here longer than you have. In fact, I left France the day
I last saw you."
"The same day?"
"I started that very same day--shortly after sunrise. I crossed the
Belgian frontier that night, and I sailed for New York the morning
after. I landed here a week later, and I've been here ever since.
That, monsieur, is my history."
"You've been here in New York for two years!" he repeated in
astonishment. "Have you really left the stage then? I supposed you had
just arrived to fill an engagement here."
"They gave me a try-out this afternoon."
"You? A try-out!" he exclaimed, amazed.
She carelessly transfixed a berry with her fork:
"If I secure an engagement I shall be very glad to fill it ... and my
stomach, also. If I don't secure one--well--charity or starvation
confronts me."
He smiled at her with easy incredulity.
"I had not heard that you were here!" he repeated. "I've read nothing
at all about you in the papers----"
"No ... I am here incognito.... I have taken my sister's name. After
all, your American public does not know me."
"But----"
"Wait! I don't wish it to know me!"
"But if you----"
The girl's slight gesture checked him, although her smile became
humorous and friendly:
"Please! We need not discuss my future. Only the past!" She laughed:
"How it all comes back to me now, as you speak--that crazy evening of
ours together! What children we were--two years ago!"
Smilingly she clasped her hands together on the table's edge,
regarding him with that winning directness which was a celebrated part
of her celebrated personality; and happened to be natural to her.
"Why did I not recognise you immediately?" she demanded of herself,
frowning in self-reproof. "I am stupid! Also I have, now and then,
thought about you----" She shrugged her shoulders, and again her face
faltered subtly:
"Much has happened to distract my memories," she added carelessly,
impaling a strawberry, "--since you and I took the key to the fields
and the road to the moon--like the pair of irresponsibles we were that
night in June."
"Have you really had trouble?"
Her slim figure straightened as at a challenge, then became adorably
supple again; and she rested her elbows on the table's edge and took
her cheeks between her hands.
"Trouble?" she repeated, studying his face. "I don't know that word,
trouble. I don't admit such a word to the honour of my happy
vocabulary."
They both laughed a little.
She said, still looking at him, and at first speaking as though to
herself:
"Of course, you are that same, delightful Garry! My youthful American
accomplice!... Quite unspoiled, still, but very, very irresponsible
... like all painters--like all students. And the mischief which is in
me recognised the mischief in you, I suppose.... I did surprise you
that night, didn't I?... And what a night! What a moon! And how we
danced there on the wet lawn until my skirts and slippers and
stockings were drenched with dew!... And how we laughed! Oh, that
full-hearted, full-throated laughter of ours! How wonderful that we
have lived to laugh like that! It is something to remember after
death. Just think of it!--you and I, absolute strangers, dancing every
dance there in the drenched grass to the music that came through the
open windows.... And do you remember how we hid in the flowering
bushes when my sister and the others came out to look for me? How they
called, 'Nihla! Nihla! Little devil, where are you?' Oh, it was
funny--funny! And to see him come out on the lawn--do you remember?
He looked so fat and stupid and anxious and bad-tempered! And you and
I expiring with stifled laughter! And he, with his sash, his
decorations and his academic palms! He'd have shot us both, you
know...."
They were laughing unrestrainedly now at the memory of that impossible
night a year ago; and the girl seemed suddenly transformed into an
irresponsible gamine of eighteen. Her eyes grew brighter with mischief
and laughter--laughter, the greatest magician and doctor emeritus of
them all! The immortal restorer of youth and beauty.
Bluish shadows had gone from under her lower lashes; her eyes were
starry as a child's.
"Oh, Garry," she gasped, laying one slim hand across his on the
table-cloth, "it was one of those encounters--one of those heavenly
accidents that reconcile one to living.... I think the moon had made
me a perfect lunatic.... Because you don't yet know what I risked....
Garry!... It ruined me--ruined me utterly--our night together under
the June moon!"
"What!" he exclaimed, incredulously.
But she only laughed her gay, undaunted little laugh:
"It was worth it! Such moments are worth anything we pay for them! I
laughed; I pay. What of it?"
"But if I am partly responsible I wish to know----"
"You shall know nothing about it! As for me, I care nothing about it.
I'd do it again to-night! That is living--to go forward, laugh, and
accept what comes--to have heart enough, gaiety enough, brains enough
to seize the few rare dispensations that the niggardly gods fling
across this calvary which we call life! Tenez, that alone is living;
the rest is making the endless stations on bleeding knees."
"Yet, if I thought--" he began, perplexed and troubled, "--if I
thought that through my folly----"
"Folly! Non pas! Wisdom! Oh, my blessed accomplice! And do you
remember the canoe? Were we indeed quite mad to embark for Paris on
the moonlit Seine, you and I?--I in evening gown, soaked with dew to
the knees!--you with your sketching block and easel! Quelle
déménagement en famille! Oh, Garry, my friend of gayer days, was that
really folly! No, no, no, it was infinite wisdom; and its memory is
helping me to live through this very moment!"
She leaned there on her elbows and laughed across the cloth at him.
The mockery began to dance again and glimmer in her eyes:
"After all I've told you," she added, "you are no wiser, are you?
You don't know why I never went to the Fountain of Marie de
Médicis--whether I forgot to go--whether I remembered but decided that
I had had quite enough of you. You don't know, do you?"
He shook his head, smiling. The girl's face grew gradually serious:
"And you never heard anything more about me?" she demanded.
"No. Your name simply disappeared from the billboards, kiosques, and
newspapers."
"And you heard no malicious gossip? None about my sister, either?"
"None."
She nodded:
"Europe is a senile creature which forgets overnight. Tant mieux....
You know, I shall sing and dance under my sister's name here. I told
you that, didn't I?"
"Oh! That would be a great mistake----"
"Listen! Nihla Quellen disappeared--married some fat bourgeois, died,
perhaps,"--she shrugged,--"anything you wish, my friend. Who cares to
listen to what is said about a dancing girl in all this din of war?
Who is interested?"
It was scarcely a question, yet her eyes seemed to make it so.
"Who cares?" she repeated impatiently. "Who remembers?"
"I have remembered you," he said, meeting her intently questioning
gaze.
"You? Oh, you are not like those others over there. Your country is
not at war. You still have leisure to remember. But they forget. They
haven't time to remember anything--anybody--over there. Don't you
think so?" She turned in her chair unconsciously, and gazed eastward.
"--They have forgotten me over there--" And her lips tightened,
contracted, bitten into silence.
The strange beauty of the girl left him dumb. He was recalling, now,
all that he had ever heard concerning her. The gossip of Europe had
informed him that, though Nihla Quellen was passionately and devotedly
French in soul and heart, her mother had been one of those unmoral and
lovely Georgians, and her father an Alsatian, named Dunois--a French
officer who entered the Russian service ultimately, and became a
hunting cheetah for the Grand Duke Cyril, until himself hunted into
another world by that old bag of bones on the pale and shaky nag. His
daughter took the name of Nihla Quellen and what money was left, and
made her début in Constantinople.
As the young fellow sat there watching her, all the petty gossip of
Europe came back to him--anecdotes, panegyrics, eulogies, scandals,
stage chatter, Quarter "divers," paid réclames--all that he had ever
read and heard about this notorious young girl, now seated there
across the table, with her pretty head framed by slender, unjewelled
fingers. He remembered the gems she had worn that June night, a year
ago, and their magnificence.
"Well," she said, "life is a pleasantry, a jest, a bon-mot flung over
his shoulder by some god too drunk with nectar to invent a better
joke. Life is an Olympian epigram made between immortal yawns. What do
you think of my epigram, Garry?"
"I think you are just as clever and amusing as I remember you,
Nihla."
"Amusing to you, perhaps. But I don't entertain myself very
successfully. I don't think poverty is a very funny joke. Do you?"
