"Timber nothing.  Much less a Viking.  I’m on to you, Smith."
"Do you think you are?"
"Well, do you wish to know what I believe you to be?"
"You probably have guessed.  So don’t say it too loud, Michael.
Besides, I have taken no pains to conceal my business from you."
"I think you are an agent of the United States Secret Service," said I.
"And I think you learned, somehow or other, that this bunch of Kings was
coming here to conspire.  And I think you very cleverly picked me up in
Berne with a view to being invited here so that you could watch their
activities and keep your government informed.  How near right am I?"
"You ought to know," he retorted, laughing.
"Well then—if I do know—what are you going to do about this enterprise
of Clelia and Thusis? Help them collar this royal gang and smuggle them
across the frontier into France?"
He shook his head: "No, I can’t do that."
"Your duties do not permit such amusements?"
"No.  I am engaged to fulfill a definite duty.  In fact I’m pledged to
carry out a certain mission. It’s a matter of honor.  I’m sorry."
"It limits you?"
"It does."
"Checks any adventurous or romantic inclination toward aiding Thusis and
Clelia to nab Tino & Co.?"
"I’m afraid it does."
"So you can’t do any kidnaping, Smith?"
He laughed.  "Oh, as far as that goes, I may have to do some."
"Kidnaping?"
"Possibly."
"You’re a strange creature, Smith.  And, speaking of strange creatures,
who the devil is that Princess Pudelstoff?  She talks English like an
east-side Jewess."
"She is."
"W-what!!!"
"Certainly."
"The Princess Pudelstoff!"
"Her name was Leah Puppsky.  She’s the sister of Leo Puppsky, the
Bolshevik envoy sent here with his confrere Isidore Wildkatz by Trotzky
and Lenine to confer with Tino and Ferdie.  She was once pretty—and she
acted in an east-side theatre with Nazimova.  Prince Pudelstoff was an
attaché of the Russian Embassy at the time.  He saw her act, fell in
love, and married her,—of course with the Czar’s knowledge and consent.
But why the Czar let him do it is one of those diplomatic mysteries
which remain unfathomed.  Some believe that Rasputin had a reason for
approving such an alliance."  He shrugged.
"What a strange, fat, vulgar, good-natured woman," said I.  "And what a
grotesque company! Can you beat it?—Bulgar and Bolsheviki, King, Queen,
Countess, Baron, Admiral, all jumbled up in this little rest-house where
I am trying to live in peace and privacy.  And now comes an act of God
called an avalanche!—and we’re all trapped together—you and I, Thusis
and Clelia, and this beastly Bulgarian with his beak of a bird of prey;
and that vulgar Greek King and his vixen of a wife,—Oh, Lord!"
"I’m glad God acted," he said cheerfully.
"You’re glad that avalanche fell?"
"Yes; I’m very much relieved."
"Why, in the name of Heaven?"
"It simplifies my duties," he said, smiling.  And that’s all I got out
of him except that he advised me to have nothing to do with this
enterprise of Thusis and her sister.
"They’ll only get you into mischief," he said. "It’s a perfectly crazy
scheme.  Anyway I think it’s nipped in the bud, now."
"If the avalanche hadn’t fallen——"
"That makes a difference.  But it couldn’t have been done anyway.  So
you’d better not encourage Thusis by enlisting with her as a recruit,
Michael. Avalanche or no avalanche it can’t be done."
"Smith," said I, "if Thusis needs me I am going to help her bag this
brace of kings."
"You are?"
"I am."
"You’ll lose your property."
"I can’t help that."
Smith glanced up at me curiously: "You are in love, Michael.
"I think I am."
"Don’t be."
"What!"
"Don’t be in love," he repeated gently.  "It isn’t any use.  It’s no
good, Michael."
What he said annoyed me and he perceived it.
"Oh Lord," he said wearily, "this is a mess all around.  You don’t know
what a mess it is, Michael. But all I can tell you is, don’t fall in
love with Thusis!  Because it won’t do you any good."
"What do you mean?  Do you know who Thusis really is?"
"No, I don’t.  But I do know that it will do you no good to fall in love
with her."
"Has it done you any good to fall in love with her sister Clelia?" I
retorted sharply.
"Not a particle."
"Then why have you done it?"
He winced but said pleasantly: "I fell in love with her before I
realized it.  Now I’m falling out of love with her.  I’m curing
myself....  Besides, she cares nothing about me....  It will be easier
for me to cure myself than for you to recover if you fall in love."
"Thusis will not listen to a serious word from me," said I with sudden
bitterness.  "I ought to try to cure myself now! ... But I don’t want
to."
"Michael," he said, "the pretty Thusis, also, had better be very
careful, because she already is as close to caring for you seriously as
it is safe for any young girl to care for a man whom she knows she never
is going to marry."
"Why do you say that?"
"Because, although I do not know who Thusis really is, I do know that
she is not going to marry you.  And I do not believe you will ever see
Thusis again after this herd of conspirators leaves Swiss soil."
I thought very hard for a while.  Then: "Smith, I have become firmly
convinced that Thusis is the original of The Laughing Girl!  Find out
who she was and you will learn who Thusis is.  I’m certain of this.  Now
who was this Laughing Girl?"
"Nobody knows."
"Have you tried to find out?"
"Yes."
"Did you learn anything at all?"
"Not much."
"What did you learn?"
"That the photographs of The Laughing Girl are not permitted to be sold
in Italy."
I looked at him, perplexed.  He shrugged his shoulders: "Photographs for
sale in European cities," he said, "are usually portraits of
celebrities—actresses, demi-mondaines, royalties.  Do you suppose Thusis
to be one of these?"
"Good heavens!"
"One of the three alternatives is, of course, unthinkable.  Your choice
would seem to lie, then, between royalty and the drama.  But—the
photographs of the Italian Royal family are sold everywhere in Italy.
So are photographs of pretty actresses.  Why is the sale of The Laughing
Girl forbidden in Italy?"
"Forbidden?  You didn’t say that."
"Forbidden," he repeated calmly.
"That’s very strange," said I.  "What does it signify, Smith?"
"Well, of course, I have my own theory as to that."
"You don’t care to discuss it?"
He shook his head.
"No, Michael.  But it seems to fit in with my general idea concerning
the identity of Thusis."
"And do you, too, believe that Thusis is the original of The Laughing
Girl?" I asked.
"I have come to believe so."
"Then," said I, "I shall marry her!  I’ve been in love with that
photograph ever since I laid eyes on it, and now, when I’ve found the
original, do you suppose I shall let it go at that?  You don’t know the
O’Ryans!"
He began to laugh, but my excitement was rising.
"I’m going to make love to her," said I.  "I’m going to help her bag
these kings if she wants them. And when we tie them neck and heels and
smuggle them into France and turn them over to a pair of strapping
gendarmes I shall enlist with the American forces in France, whether
Thusis accepts me for her husband or not.  That, Smith, is my
unalterable decision and my inflexible programme!  And my property in
Switzerland can go to the devil!"
"There are," said Smith with a peculiar smile, "two reasons why you
should not remain in love with Thusis.  One is that she won’t marry
you."
"What’s the other?"
"The other is that she couldn’t marry you if she wished to."
There was a short silence, then he went on: "Also there are two reasons
why you should not help Thusis to kidnap Tino and Ferdie.  One is that
she isn’t able to."
"What’s the other?"
"The other is that—I won’t let her."
I felt myself growing red and angry.
"That sounds almost pro-hun," said I.
"It does sound so," he admitted.
"Of course you’re not pro-German," I added incredulously.
"Of course not," he rejoined calmly.
"Then——"
"I can’t explain.  I’m merely warning you not to aid her in this
affair."
"Does Thusis know your attitude?"
"No, but she will."
"You are going to tell her?"
"No; but you are."
"I certainly shall," said I, warmly.  "And I’d like to know why you are
interfering with what she desires to do."
"I can’t tell you why, Michael; but I’ll tell her why—if she asks me."
"You may be very sure that Thusis will ask you, Smith," said I,
perplexed to the verge of exasperation by his amazing attitude.
"Suppose you tell her," he said, amused.  "All you need do is to
repeat this couplet to her:
    "Grecian gift and Spanish fig
    Help the fool his grave to dig!"
"What idiot’s jargon is that!" I demanded.
"A jargon that is likely to hold our pretty Thusis for a while.  It is a
word of warning—a signal of danger used by members of a secret society
known as the Ægean League.  Also it is likely to start her looking for
me.  And when she finds me I think she’ll listen to reason and renounce
this silly and useless attempt to trap royalty wholesale for export
purposes.  Not," he added gaily, "that I shouldn’t expire with laughter
to see Raoul and you, for example, take that pair of kings by the slack
of the pants and run them Spanish into France.  I’d applaud it, old top.
I’d give frequent cheers during the process.  But Thusis and Clelia
mustn’t start any such shindy.  No!  And if they inquire why, just
repeat that verse to them and refer them to me."
"Then you are not here to watch these hun conspirators?" I asked in
astonishment.
"Only incidentally."
"Do you mean to say that you are here, primarily, to watch Thusis and
Clelia?"
"That is exactly why I am here, Michael.  And I don’t mind your telling
them so.  I myself was going to tell them.  I had intended to break the
news to them to-night.  But the avalanche makes it unnecessary; they
can’t get out of this valley with their cartload of kings, now.
However, let me suggest that you repeat that couplet to Thusis."
"This," said I, "is a most astounding and disagreeable series of
complications.  I don’t understand them.  I don’t understand Thusis or
you or that bagful of boches downstairs."
"Don’t try to, old chap," he said in his friendly way.  "And above all,
don’t break your heart over Thusis.  For when the snow that blocks the
pass melts, or when somebody digs through, I don’t believe you are ever
likely to see Thusis again."
His kindly sincerity scared and angered me.
"Watch me!" said I.  "An O’Ryan never loves but once.  But when he does
love——"
"All right, old fellow.  Go to it and God help you. They say He has a
warm spot in His heart for the Irish."
I nodded, looking at him very seriously: "It’s quite impossible," said
I, "that she’s royal.  And if she’s an actress I don’t care, because I’m
so deeply in love with her that I don’t know whether I’m afoot or on
horseback.  And when an O’Ryan feels that way the world is his or he
continues on to Heaven."
"Does it really mean Life or Death to you already, Michael?" he asked
gravely.
"Life or death, sink or swim, survive or perish,—as some Yankee orator
said once.  Nothing matters now except Thusis.  That’s my only reason
for living.  Yesterday I wanted wealth, to-day my estate can go to the
deuce.  Yesterday I was a rather sober, decent citizen, perpetrating
interior decoration in New York, to-day I figuratively kick the varnish
off period furniture, tear down tapestries, smash Chinese pottery, and
wipe my feet on the rags of Renaissance!  Art is nothing!  Thusis is
everything.  If she wants a few kings to play with, she shall have them.
I’ll bag them for her.  I’ll do anything in the world for her.  And if
that’s not enough I’ll step off this damned old planet and pull wires
aloft for the honor and glory and happiness of the noblest, sweetest,
loveliest, most beauti——"
A slight exclamation behind me checked my excited confession.
Slowly turning in my tracks I beheld Thusis at the door in cap and
apron.
There was a terrific silence.
Then Thusis, her fair face deeply flushed, dropped us a curtsey.
"Dinner is served, sir," she said faintly.  And was gone like a shadow.
                                  *XV*
                          *A TRAVELING CIRCUS*
The royal traveling circus was already seated and whetting its appetite
with hors d’oeuvres, when I arrived in the dining-room and, saluting my
guests, took my place as host at the head of the long table.
Heaven!  What a collection!  Being incognito, I was not supposed to be
aware of the identity of royalty; but Thusis had seated the ex-queen of
Greece on my right and Tino on my left, and, beyond Queen Sophia, she
had put the Tsar of all the Bulgars,—with a clean napkin where he had
soiled the cover.
The new accessions to this traveling show had, very evidently, decided
among themselves the places at table to which they were entitled by
precedence of rank.  And these they now occupied.
The two Bolsheviki, Leo Puppsky and Isidore Wildkatz, had been relegated
to the foot of the table where they sat hunched up and scowling about
them until noodle soup presently preoccupied them.
I do not know which one of my guests was the noisiest: the Tsar of all
the Bulgars sucked up his soup with the distressingly acute sound of a
sick horse drinking; the Princess Pudelstoff lapped and slobbered and
wheezed in her slopping plate; but the technique of the Bolsheviki was
simple and more effective, being reduced to a primitive, incessant
gobbling noise, followed by patient and persistent scraping.
Behind my chair stood Raoul as extemporary butler; Thusis and Clelia in
spotless caps and aprons sped lightly hither and thither; while from the
depths of the kitchen, Josephine Vannis fed us all with the most
delectable dinner which I think I ever tasted.
Ordinary wine being included on my bill of fare, the Tsar guzzled it
while his sly eye of a wild pig roved about reading labels on the
various bottles of more expensive wine ordered by the others.
The Bolsheviki, having plenty of the Russian people’s money, demanded
"bowcoo tchimpagne"; King Tino drank goblets of a rather heavy claret;
his wife sipped only bottled water, while her cold, steely eyes
glittered from guest to guest.
I conversed politely when spoken to; otherwise I made no effort.  The
Prussian admiral worked his bushy eyebrows and his coarse, fan-shaped
beard while munching, but whether in hostility to me or because he was
built that way, I did not know, and did not care.
He and Baron von Bummelzug sat all hunched up side by side, gobbling in
their whiskers and exchanging Teutonic grunts which seemed to be their
substitute for human conversation.  Herr Secretary Gizzler, factotum to
the Baron, and seated with the Bolsheviki, devastated his plate and
seized ravenously upon anything eatable in his vicinity, which presently
elicited a chattering protest from Puppsky; and a quarrel rapidly
developed until squelched by General Count von Dungheim.
"Silence!" he said angrily: "you make so much noise that it is
impossible to hear oneself eat!"
The Princess Pudelstoff nodded violently, balancing a knifeful of mashed
potato before committing it to its dreadful destiny:
"They act," she said in English, "like they was never to a high-toned
dinner.  It’s them two Bolsheviks that ain’t had a square meal since
Hindy licked the Rooshians at the Missouri Lakes."
Leo Puppsky made a violent gesture at her with the leg of a chicken:
"Is that the way to speak of us?" he said to his sister.  "And you a
Russian and my own sister!"
"Ain’t it true?" she asked with a loud laugh. "Get sense, Leo.  There
won’t be nothing to eat in Rooshia so long as you act ugly to Germany——"
"Princess!" interrupted the queen of Greece, sharply.
"That’s right," said Tino in a loud, good humored voice; "one doesn’t
discuss politics while dining.  No!  One pays strict attention to what
one eats and drinks; eh, Sophy?"
The queen ignored him, and he slyly batted one eye at the pretty
Countess Manntrapp, his neighbor, and tossed off a brimming goblet of
deep red claret.
"Aha!" he said, smacking his lips, "that beats even the wine of Naxos.
Did you ever drink Naxos wine, Countess?"
"No," said she; "is it very excellent?"
"Heady, Countess, heady!  After you crack one bottle you begin to see
the old gods of Greece sitting beside you on pink clouds in their
underclothes——"
"Tino!" snapped the Queen.
The Countess laughed.  "I’d like to see them."  She looked across at me
with her fascinating, audacious smile: "Wouldn’t you like to drink Naxos
wine with me, Mr. O’Ryan, and see the old time gods come down out of the
blue sky and sit at table all about you?"
"It seems to me," said I, bowing, "that Aphrodite has already arrived
among us mortals."
She laughed, acknowledging the raw compliment, then pursing up her red
mouth but uttering no sound she nevertheless formed her question so that
I read every word on her mobile lips:
"Do—you—know—anybody—who—would—play—Adonis—to—my—Venus?"
And she laughed her daring little laugh and made me a pretty gesture,
intercepted by Ferdinand of Bulgaria who took it for himself and
continued to ogle her out of passionate, pig-like eyes until further
engrossed in a new relay of food.
It was a dreadful dinner party.  Both the kings made life wretched for
Clelia and Thusis as they waited on table, slyly pinching them when
unobserved until, from Thusis’ burning cheeks and trembling hands as she
served me, I almost feared she would launch a plate at the royal
libertines.
It was a weird company.  The Bolsheviki chattered and grabbed at food;
all the Germans ate noisily—excepting only the pretty Countess
Manntrapp, who had been Lila Shezawitch, and not a Teuton by birth.
Constantine had had more claret than was good for him and now he was
pouring into himself countless little glasses of brandy, and was
becoming loudly and somewhat coarsely talkative, retailing bits of
barrack-room gossip to General Count von Dungheim and cracking dubious
jokes with Baron von Bummelzug until his wife spoke to him with such
cutting contempt that he winced and relapsed into a half hazy and
giggling exchange of whispers with the Countess Manntrapp.  As for the
Princess Pudelstoff, she had never for one moment ceased stuffing
herself.  Sweat stood in oily beads on her forehead and cheeks; her fat
hands plied knife and fork and spoon without interruption save when she
grasped her beer mug in both jeweled hands and drew mighty and noisy
draughts from the heavy quart receptacle.
The whole performance at my table was becoming a horrid nightmare to me;
I could not see any signs of satiation among these dreadful people—any
desire to call it off and quit and retire to their respective sties.
Smith caught my eye and I saw him suppress the smile that twitched his
features.
Then it suddenly occurred to me that I had news for the traveling circus
that might modify their appetites; and I said, distinctly, and raising
my voice sufficiently to command attention from everybody:
"There is some very serious information which I regret that it is
necessary to share with everybody here.  I did not wish to spoil your
appetites.  But dinner is over, and I had better speak."
All feeding ceased; everybody stared at me.
"I regret that I am obliged to inform you," I continued, "that the snow
field on the south flank of the Bec de l’Empereur, loosened by the warm
deluge of rain, has fallen, completely choking the pass which is our
only entrance to and exit from this valley."
"An avalanche!" exclaimed the Queen of Greece sharply.
"Yes, madame, a very bad one."
"We are blocked in," she gasped.
"Absolutely."
At that the Princess Pudelstoff uttered a squeak of fright: "We’re all
going to starve!" she squealed in alarm; "that’s what he means!  There
isn’t enough food for us and we’ll all die the way they are dying in
Rooshia——"
"There’s plenty of food," I interrupted.
"Ach, Gott sei dank!  Gott sei dank!" she shouted, clapping her pudgy
hands and seizing knife and fork again.
But the others were now rising from their seats, exchanging glances full
of anxiety and perplexity; and, as I left the room with Smith, I saw
them all gathering around the Ex-Queen of Greece as though general
consternation had seized them.  Only the Princess Pudelstoff remained in
her chair, devouring tartlets, her triple chin agitated by a series of
convulsive shudders as she bolted sections of pastry too large for her.
Coffee was to be served al fresco; Raoul had set a number of green
iron tables and chairs out by the fountain.
"My heavens, Smith," said I, "we should serve them coffee in a common
trough.  Did you ever before endure such misery at any table?"
"Oh, yes," he said, "I’ve lived in Germany."
"Well I haven’t, and I’m going to skip the demitasse," I rejoined.  And
I walked around the house and entered the back door where two latticed
arbors flanked the stone walk.
Here I seated myself and lighted a cigarette, still unnerved by the
martyrdom of that dinner table.
It was quiet and peaceful in the sunset light under my roof of curly
grape leaves where sun spots glowed amid the tender green and two little
active birds climbed busily and silently about the foliage in search of
aphids.
I had been sitting there for ten minutes, perhaps, when the door opened
behind me and Thusis appeared with coffee.  Her lovely features still
were tinged with the rosy glow of recent wrath; her gray eyes were still
brilliant with the same emotion.
"Coffee, if you please, sir?" she said crisply.
I had risen, smiling.
"You need not have taken so much trouble, Thusis——"
"Pardon.  It is what servants are hired for."
"Why do you keep up this masquerade with me?" I asked, laughingly,
taking the cup from the tray.
But Thusis seemed to be in no pleasant humor, and she turned to go
without answering.
"Thusis!"
She halted.
"I’m sorry those beastly kings annoyed you at table——"
"They’re men," she retorted angrily.  "What can a woman expect?"
"Do you think that is fair to me, Thusis, to lump me with men in
general?"
"I don’t know what’s fair to you.  And I’m really not very particular
about it.  Little chance that men ever suffer too much from being
misunderstood in this world."
"You are amazingly unjust, do you realize it?"
"I’m not sure that I am," she said sullenly.  "You made your début by
trying to kiss your own cook. Tino is coarser, he pinches; Ferdie the
furtive, pushes one with his knees and rolls wild eyes at one.  There
are three masculine examples.  Take your choice, Monsieur," she added,
going.
"Wait!"
She turned haughtily, her gray eyes suddenly insolent.
"Because you are hurt and offended and humiliated by a pair of
scoundrels," said I, "is no reason why you should visit your displeasure
on me."
"I make no difference in men."
"Not even in the man who is in love with you?"
"Love?  Love!"  She laughed, not agreeably.  "I am not flattered,
Monsieur, to have offered to me the same adoration which you were quite
willing to bestow upon your cook.  I tell you all men are
alike!—including the Pharisee."
"Do you mean me?"
"Haven’t you practically just thanked God you are not like other men?"
"What have I done to deserve this, Thusis?  I’m trying to be patient——"
"You don’t need to be.  Heaven deliver me from a patient man!"
Then I blew up: "You listen to me, you little idiot," I said in a low,
enraged tone; "I’m in love with you and you can’t help it whatever you
choose to do about it.  You came here as a servant and I fell in love
with you as a servant.  You are probably something else—God knows
what—and I’m more in love than ever with God-knows-what!  I don’t care
what you are, servant, bourgeoise, actress, princess, or
demi-mondaine——"
"What!"
"I tell you I wouldn’t care.  I love you.  I want to marry you——"
"Marry me if I were—a demi——"
"Yes!" I said violently; "yes! yes! yes!  It’s too late to have whatever
you are make any difference to me.  I’m an O’Ryan and I love only once."
"Do you suppose I’m flattered by what you’ve just shouted at me?  You’d
marry me—or you’d do the same for a demi——"
"Confound it!" I exclaimed, "it’s you, whatever you are!  Can’t you
understand——"
"Certainly I can.  All men are men first, last, all the time.  That
Serbian married Draga; any man will do as much for any drab if he can’t
have her otherwise.  I’ve seen enough of men, I tell you. Royal, noble,
landed gentry, bourgeoisie, peasantry—all are men first, last, all the
time; and all are exactly alike!"
She clenched her hand and confronted me with scornful eyes:
"And why any honest woman should ever fall in love with one of them is
one of those ignoble mysteries which I have never cared to fathom!"
Her contempt and my own fury almost paralyzed me.
I said, finally, in a very quiet voice, not my own:
"Very well, Thusis, expect nothing more of me than you expect of any
man—including those royal gentlemen out yonder.  And I’ll not disappoint
you."
I stepped nearer, forcing a smile:
"You’ve succeeded in slaying any consideration I entertained for your
sex.  You’ve enlightened me. In future I’ll take them as I find them,
easily, lightly, good-humoredly, with gaiety, with gratitude to the old
time gods when they send a pretty one my way."
And I smiled at Thusis who looked darkly back at me with the faintest
hint of uncertainty in her eyes.
"It is wonderful," said I, "how a word or two from a woman sometimes
clears up the most serious situations.  Your revelations concerning my
sex in general have opened my eyes.  I take your word for it that man is
always man, as you explain so convincingly, and that he is, first, last,
and all the time, merely a jackass endowed with speech."
I emptied my coffee cup and set it upon the tray which she held in her
left hand.
"I had," said I, "something else to tell you—and which had nothing
whatever to do with love.  But, on second thoughts, I am so certain that
a self-sufficient girl like yourself is amply able to look out for
herself, that I shall not bother to say what I had intended saying."
Her gray eyes became intently fixed on mine while her color came and
went under the sting of irony.
But I made up my mind to let matters take their course.  If she tried to
body-snatch this Greek and Bulgarian carrion, let her!  If Smith
interfered, let him!  What was it to me after all?  I was becoming fed
up on love and feminine caprice—on kings and queens and shocking
manners,—on intrigue and treachery and counter plot.
Suddenly, as I stood there, a wave of disgust swept over me.  I was sick
of Switzerland; sick of the ridiculous property which was causing me all
this trouble and discomfort; sick of the grotesque whim of Fate which
had yanked me out of an orderly, unaccented life and a peaceful
profession in Manhattan and had slammed me down here in the midst of
love and Alps and kings!
"I’ll chuck the estate and go home!" I exclaimed. "I’ll go now,
to-night!"  And then I remembered the accursed avalanche.
She was watching me intently, curiously, and I noticed she had lost some
of her colour.
"Do you suppose," said I, "that there is any way of climbing over that
mass of snow?—any way of my getting out of this valley to-night?"
"Would you go if you could?" she asked in a rather colorless voice.
"Yes, I would," said I savagely.  "I’ve had enough."
"I’m sorry."
"Sorry that I’ve had enough?" I sneered.
"Sorry you cannot leave the valley to-night," she said quietly.
"Then it is not possible?"
"I’m afraid not....  If it were, I also would leave this valley
to-night."
"With a bagful of kings," I added.
"Yes," she said simply.
"Oh, no, you wouldn’t," said I with unworthy satisfaction in my
knowledge of Smith’s mission. "And let me tell you a thing or two,
Thusis.  You seem to resemble, more or less, a very naughty little girl,
spoiled but precocious, who has run away from school and is raising the
devil out of bounds, throwing stones and ringing door-bells and defying
policemen with derisive tongue.  Pretty soon you’ll be caught and led
home and soundly spanked.  And," I added fervently, "I’d like to be in
the vicinity of that wood-shed when discipline begins."
My laughter was fairly genuine.  I lighted a cigarette and, gazing at
this girl who had so outrageously maligned me, felt so much better that
a macabre sort of gaiety verging upon frivolity invaded me.
"All women," said I, "are women, first, last, and all the time."
Thusis flushed.
"I am wondering," said I airily, "whether the rôle of Adonis might suit
me."
"What!" she exclaimed.
"Adonis," I repeated.  "He was that poor fish of an amateur who played
opposite Aphrodite.  And got the hook.  But the rôle is all right and
it’s a no-character part if you play it straight....  I’m wondering—"
And I smiled at my own thoughts and blew three rings of smoke up at the
sun-lit grape leaves overhead.
Suddenly Thusis unclosed her soft, fresh lips, which seemed a trifle
tremulous:
"That woman," she said breathlessly, "is notorious in Vienna!  And if
you are—sufficiently abandoned—to d-degrade yourself by—an affair—with
her——"
"But what do you care, Thusis?"
Her face flamed.  "I care—that!" she said, snapping her white fingers.
And turned swiftly on her heel.
                                 *XVI*
                             *THE COUNTESS*
I was very unhappy.  I was not only madly in love with Thusis but also
mad enough to spank her.  And I sat down in the arbor once more a prey
to mixed emotions.
The two silent little birds had gone to bed.  Soft mauve shadows lay
across the scrubby foreland; snow peaks assumed the hue of pink pearls;
a wavering light played through the valley so that the world seemed to
quiver in primrose tints.
Then, through the pale yellow glory, a girl came drifting as though part
of the delicate beauty of it all,—her frail, primrose evening gown and
scarf scarcely outlined—scarcely detached from the golden clarity about
her.  It was as though she were lost in the monotone of living light the
only accent the dusky symmetry of her head.
I had not realized that the Countess Manntrapp was so pretty.
I was not sure that she had discovered me at all until she turned her
head en passant and sent me one of those vague smiles calculated to stir
the dead bones of saints.
"I suppose," she said, "you only look lonely, but really you are not."
I was lonely and sore at heart.  Possibly she read in my forced smile
something of my state of mind, for she paused leisurely by the arbor and
glanced about her at the grape leaves.
"Evidently," she said, "this spot is sacred to Bacchus.  But I was not
looking for gods or half-gods....  Do you prefer your own company, Mr.
O’Ryan?"
"No, I don’t," said I.  So she entered the arbor and seated herself.
There was only that one seat. With strictest economy it could
accommodate two; but I had not thought of attempting it until she
carelessly suggested it.
"How heavenly still it is," she murmured, an absent expression in her
dark eyes.  "Are you fond of stillness and solitude?"
"Not very," said I.  "Are you, Countess?"
She said, dreamily, that she was, but her side glance belied her.  Never
did the goddess of mischief look at me out of two human eyes as
audaciously as she was doing now.  And it was so transparent a
challenge, so utterly without disguise, that we both laughed.
I don’t know why I laughed unless the soreness in mind and heart had
provoked their natural reaction. A listless endurance of suffering is
the first symptom of indifference—that blessed anodyne with which
instinct inoculates unhappy hearts when the bitterness which was sorrow
wears away and leaves only dull resignation.
"At dinner," she said, "I made up my mind that you are an interesting
man.  I am wondering."
"I came to a similar conclusion concerning you," said I.  "But I’m no
longer wondering how near right I am."
"Such a pretty compliment!  Also it dissipates any doubts regarding
you."
"Did you have any, Countess?"
"Well, you know what I asked you at dinner. You understood?  You read
lips, don’t you?"
"I read yours."
"I wasn’t sure.  You gave me no answer."
We laughed lightly.  "What answer can a mortal make when Aphrodite
commands?" said I.
"Then you are willing to play Adonis?"
"Quite as willing—as was that young gentleman."
"That isn’t kind of you, Mr. O’Ryan.  He wasn’t very willing, was he?"
"Not very.  But possibly he had a premonition of the tragic
consequences," said I, laughing.  "One doesn’t frivol with a goddess
with impunity."
"Are you afraid?"
She turned in the narrow seat.  She was altogether too near, but I
couldn’t help it.  And I was much disturbed to find our fingers had
become very lightly intertwined.
She was smiling when I kissed her.  But after I had done it her smile
faded, and the gay confidence in her expression altered.
I had never expected to see in her eyes any hint of confusion, but it
was there, and a sort of shamed surprise, too—odd emotions for a
hardened coquette with the reputation she enjoyed.
"You proceed too rapidly," she said, the bright but subtly changed smile
still stamped on her lips. "There seems to be no finesse about
Americans—no leisurely technique that masters the intricacies of the
ante-climax.  Did you not know that hesitation is an art; that the only
perfect happiness is in suspense?"
"Didn’t you want to be kissed?" I asked bluntly. "I had perhaps surmised
that it might not be a disagreeable sensation.  Was it?"
She seemed to have recovered her careless audacity, and now she laughed.
"At all events," she said, "I shall not repeat the experiment ... this
evening."  She laid one soft hand in mine with a gay little smile: "Let
us enjoy our new friendship serenely and without undue emotion," she
said.  "And let me tell you how you have made me laugh at what you said
to those absurd Prussians!"
We both laughed, but I was now on my guard with this girl who had come
here in such company.
"No Prussian ever born ever knew how to make a friend," she said.
"To-day they have the whole world against them—even your country——"
"I am Chilean," said I pleasantly.
"Are you really?"
"I think you and your friends are quite sure of that," said I drily.
"Suppose," she said in a lower voice, "I tell you that they are not my
friends?"
I smiled.
"You wouldn’t believe me?" she asked.
"What I believe and do not believe, dear Countess, should not disturb
you in the slightest."
"I thought we were friends."
"Do you really think so?"
"I hope so.  I wish it—if you do.  And friendship does not fear
confidences."
"Neutrals have no confidences to make.  My country is not at war."
"Is not your heart enlisted?" she asked, smilingly.
"Is yours?"
"Yes, it is!  See how my friendship refuses no confidence when you ask?
I do not hesitate."
"On which side," said I, warily, "is your heart enlisted?"
"Shall I tell you?"
"If you care to."
She sat looking at me intently, her soft hand in mine.  Then, with a
pretty gesture, she placed the other hand over it, and her shoulder came
into contact with mine.
"I am Russian," she said.  "Is that not an answer?"
"So is Puppsky," I remarked.
For a second an odd expression came over her face and it turned quite
white.  Then she laughed.
"I’ll tell you something," she said.  "I have a girl friend.  I love her
dearly.  I have a country.  I love it still more dearly.  The girl I
love is Adelaide, Grand Duchess of Luxemburg.  Prussia has practically
annexed it.  The country I love is Russia.  Prussia holds it....  Do you
still doubt me?"
"Good Lord," thought I, "how this girl can lie!"  But I said: "Tell me
about Luxemburg, Countess. Is it true that Prince Ruprecht of Bavaria
means to marry the seventeen-year-old sister of the Grand Duchess
Adelaide?"
"Yes," she said.  And I distinctly heard her teeth snap.
"What sort of man is Ruprecht?" I inquired, to steer the conversation
toward easier ground.
"Ruprecht!  Did you ever see him?"
"No."
"Well, he has the manners of the barn-yard and the distinction of a
scullion!  Picture to yourself a man of fifty-seven with a head as
square as a battered bullet and the bodily grace of a new-born camel.
He is the stupidest, coarsest, commonest vulgarian in Europe.
"Why, the man is ridiculous!  He once set all Munich laughing by
appearing in the English Garden on skates wearing his spurs and saber.
And all his military suite had to do likewise.  Picture the result—and
Ruprecht scarcely knew how to stand on the ice!  Why their swords got
between their legs and their spurs did the rest, and the entire lake
resounded with the incessant crash of falling warriors."
She threw back her head and laughed; and I laughed too.
"Such a brute," she said.  "His first wife, daughter of that kindly and
philanthropic oculist, Karl Theodore of Tegernsee, died of his neglect
and ill treatment.  And now, at fifty-seven, he rolls his hog’s eyes in
his freckled face and smirks at a seventeen-year-old child—God help
her!"
I gazed in amazement at the Countess Manntrapp. This was acting with a
vengeance.  Such perfection, such flawless interpretation of the rôle
she was playing for my benefit, I had never dreamed possible. No emotion
could appear more genuine, no sincerity more perfectly mimicked.  Here
was an actress without equal in my entire experience.
Suddenly I caught her eye, and turned very red.
"You don’t believe me," she said calmly, and dropped her head.
There was a painful silence between us.  Presently she looked up at me,
flushed, curious, amused:
"You take me for a Hun, don’t you?"
"If you are not pro-German," said I, much embarrassed, "what are you
doing with those people?"
"Watching them.  And you don’t believe that, either?"
"I’m sorry, Countess."
"Why do you doubt me?"
"Because only a pro-German would confide to a stranger that she is not
one.  Were you really in the Allied service you’d keep your own council.
Secret agents don’t betray themselves to strangers. You have no means of
knowing where my sympathies lie.  How do you know I am not pro-German?"
"By your letters."
"My letters?"
"I opened several," she said naïvely.
