young men lounging at the blacksmith's, blue-sleeved carters sitting in
the wine-shops while their horses shook off the flies in the hot
sunshine of the village square, black-pinafored children coming home
from school, the fat curé stopping to talk to little old ladies under
the church porch, girls with sleek hair calling to each other from the
doorways of the shops, and women in sunburnt gingham bending over the
village wash-trough or leaning on their rakes among the hayricks--where
all this had been, now only a few incalculably old people sat in the
doorways and looked with bewildered eyes at strange soldiers fulfilling
the familiar tasks.
This was what war did! It emptied towns of their inhabitants as it
emptied veins of their blood; it killed houses and lands as well as men.
Out there, a few miles beyond the sunny vineyards and the low hills, men
were dying at that very moment by hundreds, by thousands--and their
motionless young bodies must have the same unnatural look as these wan
ruins, these gutted houses and sterile fields.... War meant Death,
Death, Death--Death everywhere and to everything.
By a special favour, the staff-officer who accompanied them managed to
extend their trip to the ruined château of Mondement, the pivot on which
the battle had turned. He had himself been in the thick of the fight,
and standing before the shattered walls of the old house he explained
the struggle for the spur of Mondement: the advance of the grey masses
across the plain, their capture of the ridge that barred the road to
Paris; then the impetuous rush of General Humbert's infantry, repulsed,
returning, repulsed again, and again attacking; the hand-to-hand
fighting in court and gardens; the French infantry's last irresistible
dash, the batteries rattling up, getting into place on the ridge, and
flinging back the grey battalions from the hillside into the marshes.
Mrs. Belknap smiled and exclaimed, with vague comments and a wandering
glance (for the officer, carried away by his subject, had forgotten her
and become technical); while Troy, his map spread on the top of a
shot-riddled wall, followed every word and gesture with eyes that
absorbed at the same time all the details of the immortal landscape.
The Marne--this was the actual setting of the battle of the Marne! This
happy temperate landscape, with its sheltering woods, its friendly
fields and downs flowing away to a mild sky, had looked on at the most
awful conflict in history. Scenes of anguish and heroism that ought to
have had some Titanic background of cliff and chasm had unrolled
themselves among harmless fields, and along wood-roads where wild
strawberries grew and children cut hazel-switches to drive home their
geese. A name of glory and woe was attached to every copse and hollow,
and to each grey steeple above the village roofs....
Troy listened, his heart beating higher at each exploit, till he forgot
the horror of war, and thought only of its splendours. Oh, to have been
there too! To have had even the smallest share in those great hours! To
be able to say, as this young man could say: "Yes, I was in the battle
of the Marne"; to be able to break off, and step back a yard or two,
correcting one's self critically: "No ... it was here the General
stood when I told him our batteries had got through ..." or: "This is
the very spot where the first seventy-five was trained on the valley. I
can see the swathes it cut in the Bavarians as they swarmed up at us a
third and fourth time...."
Troy suddenly remembered a bit of Henry V. that M. Gantier had been
fond of quoting:
    And gentlemen in England now abed
    Shall think themselves accurst they were not here,
    And hold their manhood cheap, when any speaks
    That fought with us....
Ah, yes--ah, yes--to have been in the battle of the Marne!
       
On the way back, below the crest of the hill, the motor stopped at the
village church and the officer jumped down. "Some of our men are buried
here," he said.
Mrs. Belknap, with a murmur of sympathy, caught up the bunch of roses
she had gathered in the ravaged garden of the château, and they picked
their way among the smashed and slanting stones of the cemetery to a
corner behind the church where wooden crosses marked a row of fresh
graves. Half-faded flowers in bottles were thrust into the loose earth,
and a few tin wreaths hung on the arms of the crosses.
Some of the graves bore only the date of the battle, with "Pour la
France," or "Priez pour lui"; but on others names and numbers had been
roughly burnt into the crosses.
Suddenly Troy stopped short with a cry.
"What is it?" his mother asked. She had walked ahead of him to the
parapet overhanging the valley, and forgetting her roses she leaned
against the low cemetery wall while the officer took up his story.
Troy made no answer. Mrs. Belknap stood with her back to him, and he did
not ask her to turn. He did not want her, or any one else, to read the
name he had just read; of a sudden there had been revealed to him the
deep secretiveness of sorrow. But he stole up to her and drew the
flowers from her hand, while she continued, with vague inattentive
murmurs, to follow the officer's explanations. She took no notice of
Troy, and he went back to the grave and laid the roses on it.
On the cross he had read: "September 12, 1914. Paul Gantier, --th
Chasseurs à pied."
"Oh, poor fellows ... poor fellows. Yes, that's right, Troy; put the
roses on their graves," Mrs. Belknap assented approvingly, as she picked
her way back to the motor.
IV
The 10th of November came, and they sailed.
The week in the steamer was intolerable, not only because they were
packed like herrings, and Troy (who had never known discomfort before)
had to share his narrow cabin with two young German-Americans full of
open brag about the Fatherland; but also because of the same eternally
renewed anecdotes among the genuine Americans about the perils and
discomforts they had undergone, and the general disturbance of their
plans.
Most of the passengers were in ardent sympathy with the Allies, and hung
anxiously on the meagre wirelesses; but a flat-faced professor with
lank hair, having announced that "there were two sides to every case,"
immediately raised up a following of unnoticed ladies, who "couldn't
believe all that was said of the Germans" and hoped that America would
never be "drawn in"; while, even among the right-minded, there subsisted
a vague feeling that war was an avoidable thing, which one had only to
reprobate enough to prevent its recurrence.
They found New York--Mrs. Belknap's New York--buzzing with
war-charities, yet apparently unaware of the war. That at least was
Troy's impression during the twenty-four hours before he was packed off
to school to catch up with his interrupted studies.
At school he heard the same incessant war-talk, and found the same
fundamental unawareness of the meaning of the war. At first the boys
were very keen to hear his story, but he described what he had seen so
often--and especially his haunting impressions of the Marne--that they
named him "Marny Belknap," and finally asked him to cut it out.
The masters were mostly frankly for the Allies, but the Rector had given
out that neutrality was the attitude approved by the Government, and
therefore a patriotic duty; and one Sunday after chapel he gave a little
talk to explain why the President thought it right to try to keep his
people out of the dreadful struggle. The words duty and responsibility
and fortunate privilege recurred often in this address, and it struck
Troy as odd that the lesson of the day happened to be the story of the
Good Samaritan.
When he went home for the Christmas holidays everybody was sending toys
and sugar-plums to the Belgian war-orphans, with little notes from
"Happy American children" requesting to have their gifts acknowledged.
"It makes us so happy to help," beaming young women declared with a
kind of ghoulish glee, doing up parcels, planning war-tableaux and
charity dances, rushing to "propaganda" lectures given by handsome
French officers, and keeping up a kind of continuous picnic on the ruins
of civilization.
Mr. and Mrs. Belknap had inevitably been affected by the surrounding
atmosphere.
"The tragedy of it--the tragedy--no one can tell who hasn't seen it
and been through it," Mrs. Belknap would begin, looking down her long
dinner-table between the orchids and the candelabra; and the pretty
women and prosperous men would interrupt their talk, and listen for a
moment, half absently, with spurts of easy indignation that faded out
again as they heard the story oftener.
After all, Mrs. Belknap wasn't the only person who had seen a
battlefield! Lots and lots more were pouring home all the time with
fresh tales of tragedy: the Marne had become--in a way--an old story.
People wanted something newer ... different....
And then, why hadn't Joffre followed up the offensive? The Germans were
wonderful soldiers after all.... Yes, but such beasts ... sheer
devils.... Here was Mr. So-and-so, just back from Belgium--such horrible
stories--really unrepeatable! "Don't you want to come and hear them, my
dear? Dine with us to-morrow; he's promised to come unless he's summoned
to Washington. But do come anyhow; the Jim Cottages are going to dance
after dinner...."
In time Mrs. Belknap, finding herself hopelessly out-storied,
out-charitied, out-adventured, began insensibly to take a calmer and
more distant view of the war. What was the use of trying to keep up her
own enthusiasm when that of her audience had flagged? Wherever she went
she was sure to meet other ladies who had arrived from France much more
recently, and had done and seen much more than she had. One after
another she saw them received with the same eagerness--"Of course we all
know about the marvellous things you've been doing in France--your
wonderful war-work"--then, like herself, they were superseded by some
later arrival, who had been nearer the front, or had raised more money,
or had had an audience of the Queen of the Belgians, or an autograph
letter from Lord Kitchener. No one was listened to for long, and the
most eagerly-sought-for were like the figures in a movy-show, forever
breathlessly whisking past to make way for others.
Mr. Belknap had always been less eloquent about the war than his wife;
but somehow Troy had fancied he felt it more deeply. Gradually, however,
he too seemed to accept the situation as a matter of course, and Troy,
coming home for the Easter holidays, found at the family table a large
sonorous personage--a Senator, just back from Europe--who, after rolling
out vague praises of France and England, began insidiously to hint that
it was a pity to see such wasted heroism, such suicidal determination on
the part of the Allies to resist all offers of peace from an enemy so
obviously their superior.
"She wouldn't be if America came in!" Troy blurted out, reddening at the
sound of his voice.
"America?" some one playfully interjected; and the Senator laughed, and
said something about geographical immunity. "They can't touch us. This
isn't our war, young man."
"It may be by the time I'm grown up," Troy persisted, burning redder.
"Well," returned the Senator good-humouredly, "you'll have to hurry, for
the economists all say it can't last more than a year longer. Lord
Reading told me----"
"There's been misery enough, in all conscience," sighed a lady, playing
with her pearls; and Mr. Belknap added gravely: "By the time Troy grows
up I hope wars and war-talk will be over for good and all."
"Oh, well--at his age every fellow wants to go out and kill something,"
remarked one of his uncles sympathetically.
Troy shuddered at the well-meant words. To go out and kill something!
They thought he regarded the war as a sport, just as they regarded it
as a moving-picture show! As if any one who had had even a glimpse of it
could ever again think with joy of killing! His boy's mind was sorely
exercised to define the urgent emotions with which it laboured. To save
France--that was the clear duty of the world, as he saw it. But none of
these kindly careless people about him knew what he meant when he said
"France." Bits of M. Gantier's talk came back to him, embodying that
meaning.
"Whatever happens, keep your mind keen and clear: open as many windows
on the universe as you can...." To Troy, France had been the biggest of
those windows.
The young tutor had never declaimed about his country; he had simply
told her story and embodied her ideals in his own impatient, questioning
and yet ardent spirit. "Le monde est aux enthousiastes," he had once
quoted; and he had shown Troy how France had always been alive in every
fibre, and how her inexhaustible vitality had been perpetually nourished
on criticism, analysis and dissatisfaction. "Self-satisfaction is
death," he had said; "France is the phoenix-country always rising from
the ashes of her recognized mistakes."
Troy felt what a wonderful help it must be to have that long rich past
in one's blood. Every stone that France had carved, every song she had
sung, every new idea she had struck out, every beauty she had created in
her thousand fruitful years, was a tie between her and her children.
These things were more glorious than her battles, for it was because of
them that all civilization was bound up in her, and that nothing that
concerned her could concern her only.
V
"It seems too absurd," said Mrs. Belknap; "but Troy will be eighteen
to-morrow. And that means," she added with a sigh, "that this horrible
war has been going on for three whole years. Do you remember, dearest,
your fifteenth birthday was on the very day that odious Archduke was
assassinated? We had a picnic on the Morterasch."
"Oh, dear," cried Sophy Wicks, flinging her tennis-racket into the air
with a swing that landed it in the middle of the empty court--"perhaps
that's the reason he's never stopped talking about the war for a single
minute since!"
Around the big tea-table under the trees there was a faint hush of
disapproval. A year before, Sophy Wicks's airy indifference to the
events that were agitating the world had amused some people and won the
frank approval of others. She did not exasperate her friends by
professions of pacifism, she simply declared that the war bored her; and
after three years of vain tension, of effort in the void, something in
the baffled American heart whispered that, things being as they were,
she was perhaps right.
But now things were no longer as they had been. Looking back, Troy
surveyed the gradual development of the war-feeling as it entered into a
schoolboy's range of vision. He had begun to notice the change before
the sinking of the Lusitania. Even in the early days, when his
school-fellows had laughed at him and called him "Marny," some of them
had listened to him and imitated him. It had become the fashion to have
a collection of war-trophies from the battlefields. The boys' sisters
were "adopting war-orphans" at long distance, and when Troy went home
for the holidays he heard more and more talk of war-charities, and
noticed that the funds collected were no longer raised by dancing and
fancy-balls. People who used the war as an opportunity to have fun were
beginning to be treated almost as coldly as the pacifists.
But the two great factors in the national change of feeling were the
Lusitania and the training-camps.
The Lusitania showed America what the Germans were, Plattsburg tried
to show her the only way of dealing with them.
Both events called forth a great deal of agitated discussion, for if
they focussed the popular feeling for war, they also gave the opponents
of war in general a point of departure for their arguments. For a while
feeling ran high, and Troy, listening to the heated talk at his parents'
table, perceived with disgust and wonder that at the bottom of the
anti-war sentiment, whatever specious impartiality it put on, there was
always the odd belief that life-in-itself--just the mere raw fact of
being alive--was the one thing that mattered, and getting killed the one
thing to be avoided.
This new standard of human dignity plunged Troy into the lowest depths
of pessimism. And it bewildered him as much as it disgusted him, since
it did away at a stroke with all that gave any interest to the fact of
living. It killed romance, it killed poetry and adventure, it took all
the meaning out of history and conduct and civilization. There had never
been anything worth while in the world that had not had to be died for,
and it was as clear as day that a world which no one would die for could
never be a world worth being alive in.
Luckily most people did not require to reason the matter out in order to
feel as Troy did, and in the long run the Lusitania and Plattsburg won
the day. America tore the gag of neutrality from her lips, and with all
the strength of her liberated lungs claimed her right to a place in the
struggle. The pacifists crept into their holes, and only Sophy Wicks
remained unconverted.
Troy Belknap, tall and shy and awkward, lay at her feet and blushed and
groaned inwardly at her wrong-headedness. All the other girls were
war-mad; with the rupture of diplomatic relations the country had burst
into flame, and with the declaration of war the flame had become a
conflagration. And now, having at last a definite and personal concern
in the affair, every one was not only happier but more sensible than
when a perpetually thwarted indignation had had to expend itself in
vague philanthropy.
It was a peculiar cruelty of fate that made Troy feel Miss Wicks's
indifference more than the zeal of all the other young women gathered
about the Belknap tennis-court. In spite of everything, he found her
more interesting, more inexhaustible, more "his size" (as they said at
school), than any of the gay young war-goddesses who sped their
tennis-balls across the Belknap court.
It was a Long Island Sunday in June. A caressing warmth was in the air,
and a sea-breeze stirred the tops of the lime branches. The smell of
fresh hay-cocks blew across the lawn, and a sparkle of blue water and a
dipping of white sails showed through the trees beyond the hay-fields.
Mrs. Belknap smiled indulgently on the pleasant scene: her judgement of
Sophy Wicks was less severe than that of the young lady's
contemporaries. What did it matter if a chit of eighteen, having taken
up a foolish attitude, was too self-conscious to renounce it?
"Sophy will feel differently when she has nursed some of our own
soldiers in a French base hospital," she said, addressing herself to the
disapproving group.
The young girl raised her merry eyebrows. "Who'll stay and nurse Granny
if I go to a French base hospital? Troy, will you?" she suggested.
The other girls about the tea-table laughed. Though they were only
Troy's age, or younger, they did not mind his being teased, for he
seemed only a little boy to them, now that they all had friends or
brothers in the training-camps or on the way to France. Besides, though
they disapproved of Sophy's tone, her argument was unanswerable. They
knew her precocious wisdom and self-confidence had been acquired at the
head of her grandmother's household, and that there was no one else to
look after poor old paralytic Mrs. Wicks and the orphan brothers and
sisters to whom Sophy was mother and guardian.
Two or three of the young men present were in uniform, and one of them,
Mrs. Belknap's nephew, had a captain's double bar on his shoulder. What
did Troy Belknap and Sophy Wicks matter to young women playing a last
tennis-match with heroes on their way to France?
The game began again, with much noise and cheerful wrangling. Mrs.
Belknap walked toward the house to welcome a group of visitors, and Miss
Wicks remained beside the tea-table, alone with Troy. She was leaning
back in a wide basket-chair, her thin ankles in white open-work
stockings thrust out under her short skirt, her arms locked behind her
thrown-back head. Troy lay on the ground and plucked at the tufts of
grass at his elbow. Why was it that, with all the currents of vitality
flowing between this group of animated girls and youths, he could feel
no nearness but hers? The feeling was not particularly agreeable, but
there was no shaking it off: it was like a scent that has got into one's
clothes. He was not sure that he liked her, but he wanted to watch her,
to listen to her, to defend her against the mockery and criticism in the
eyes of the others. At this point his powers of analysis gave out, and
his somewhat extensive vocabulary failed him. After all, he had to fall
back on the stupid old school phrase: she was "his size"--that was all.
"Why do you always say the war bores you?" he asked abruptly, without
looking up.
"Because it does, my boy; and so do you, when you hold forth about it."
He was silent, and she touched his arm with the tip of her swinging
tennis-shoe. "Don't you see, Troy, it's not our job--not just now,
anyhow. So what's the use of always jawing about it?"
She jumped up, recovered her racket, and ran to take her place in a new
set beside Troy's cousin, the captain.
VI
It was not "his job"--that was the bitter drop in all the gladness.
At last what Troy longed for had come: his country was playing her part.
And he, who had so watched and hoped and longed for the divine far-off
event, had talked of it early and late to old and young, had got himself
laughed at, scolded, snubbed, ridiculed, nicknamed, commemorated in a
school-magazine skit in which "Marne" and "yarn" and "oh, darn," formed
the refrain of a lyric beginning "Oh say, have you heard Belknap
flap in the breeze?"--he, who had borne all the scoldings and all the
ridicule, sustained by a mysterious secret faith in the strength of his
cause, now saw that cause triumph, and all his country waving with flags
and swarming with khaki, while he had to stand aside and look on,
because his coming birthday was only his nineteenth.... He remembered
the anguish of regret with which he had seen M. Gantier leave St. Moritz
to join his regiment, and thought now with passionate envy of his
tutor's fate. "Dulce et decorum est ..." the old hackneyed phrase had
taken on a beauty that filled his eyes with tears.
Eighteen--and "nothing doing" till he was twenty-one! He could have
killed the cousins and uncles strutting about in uniform and saying:
"Don't fret, old man--there's lots of time. The war is sure to last
another four years." To say that, and laugh, how little they must know
of what war meant!
It was an old custom in the Belknap family to ask Troy what he wanted
for his birthday. The custom (according to tradition) had originated on
his sixth anniversary, when, being given a rabbit with ears that
wiggled, he had grown very red and stammered out: "I did so want a
'cyclopedia...."
Since then he had always been consulted on the subject with a good deal
of ceremony, and had spent no little time and thought in making a
judicious choice in advance. But this year his choice took no thinking
over.
"I want to go to France," he said immediately.
"To France----?" It struck his keen ears that there was less surprise
than he had feared in Mr. Belknap's voice.
"To France, my boy? The Government doesn't encourage foreign travel just
now."
"I want to volunteer in the Foreign Legion," said Troy, feeling as if
the veins of his forehead would burst.
Mrs. Belknap groaned, but Mr. Belknap retained his composure.
"My dear chap, I don't think you know much about the Foreign Legion.
It's a pretty rough berth for a fellow like you. And they're as likely
as not," he added carelessly, "to send you to Morocco or the Cameroon."
Troy, knowing this to be true, hung his head.
"Now," Mr. Belknap continued, taking advantage of his silence, "my
counter-proposition is that you should go to Brazil for three months
with your Uncle Tom Jarvice, who is being sent down there on a big
engineering job. It's a wonderful opportunity to see the country--see it
like a prince too, for he'll have a special train at his disposal. Then,
when you come back," he continued, his voice weakening a little under
the strain of Troy's visible inattention, "we'll see...."
"See what?"
"Well--I don't know ... a camp ... till it's time for Harvard...."
"I want to go to France at once, father," said Troy, with the voice of a
man.
"To do what?" wailed his mother.
"Oh, any old thing--drive an ambulance," Troy struck out at random.
"But, dearest," she protested, "you could never even learn to drive a
Ford runabout!"
"That's only because it never interested me."
"But one of those huge ambulances--you'll be killed!"
"Father!" exclaimed Troy, in a tone that seemed to say: "Aren't we out
of the nursery, at least?"
"Don't talk to him like that, Josephine," said Mr. Belknap, visibly
wishing that he knew how to talk to his son himself, but perceiving that
his wife was on the wrong tack.
"Don't you see, father, that there's no use talking at all? I'm going to
get to France anyhow."
"In defiance of our wishes?"
"Oh, you'll forget all that later," said Troy.
Mrs. Belknap began to cry, and her husband turned on her.
"My dear, you're really--really--I understand Troy!" he blurted out,
his veins swelling too.
"But if the Red Cross is to send you on that mission to Italy, why
shouldn't Troy wait and go as your secretary?" Mrs. Belknap said,
tacking skilfully.
Mr. Belknap, who had not yet made up his mind to accept the mission,
made it up on the instant. "Yes, Troy--why not? I shall be going
myself--in a month or so."
"I want to go to France," said his son. And he added, laughing with
sudden courage: "You see, you've never refused me a birthday present
yet."
VII
France again--France at last! As the cliffs grew green across the bay he
could have knelt to greet them--as he hurried down the gang-plank with
the eager jostling crowd he could have kissed the sacred soil they were
treading.
The very difficulties and delays of the arrival thrilled and
stimulated him, gave him a keener sense of his being already a humble
participant in the conflict. Passports, identification papers, sharp
interrogatories, examinations, the enforced surrendering of keys and
papers: how different it all was from the old tame easy landings, with
the noiseless motor waiting at the dock, and France lying safe and open
before them whichever way they chose to turn!
On the way over many things had surprised and irritated him--not least
the attitude of some of his fellow-passengers. The boat swarmed with
young civilians, too young for military service, or having, for some
more or less valid reason, been exempted from it. They were all pledged
to some form of relief work, and all overflowing with zeal: "France" was
as often on their lips as on Troy's. But some of them seemed to be
mainly concerned with questions of uniform and rank. The steamer seethed
with wrangles and rivalries between their various organisations, and now
and then the young crusaders seemed to lose sight of the object of their
crusade--as had too frequently been the case with their predecessors.
Very few of the number knew France or could speak French, and most of
them were full of the importance of America's mission. This was
Liberty's chance to Enlighten the World; and all these earnest youths
apparently regarded themselves as her chosen torch-bearers.
"We must teach France efficiency," they all said with a glowing
condescension.
The women were even more sure of their mission; and there were plenty of
them, middle-aged as well as young, in uniform too, cocked-hatted,
badged and gaitered--though most of them, apparently, were going to sit
in the offices of Paris war-charities, and Troy had never noticed that
Frenchwomen had donned khaki for that purpose.
"France must be purified," these young Columbias proclaimed. "Frenchmen
must be taught to respect Women. We must protect our boys from
contamination ... the dreadful theatres ... and the novels ... and the
Boulevards.... Of course we mustn't be hard on the French, for they've
never known Home Life, or the Family ... but we must show them ... we
must set the example...."
Troy, sickened by their blatancy, had kept to himself for the greater
part of the trip; but during the last days he had been drawn into talk
by a girl who reminded him of Miss Wicks, though she was in truth
infinitely prettier. The evenings below decks were long, and he sat at
her side in the saloon and listened to her.
Her name was Hinda Warlick, and she came from the Middle West. He
gathered from her easy confidences that she was singing in a suburban
church choir while waiting for a vaudeville engagement. Her studies had
probably been curtailed by the task of preparing a repertory, for she
appeared to think that Joan of Arc was a Revolutionary hero, who had
been guillotined with Marie Antoinette for blowing up the Bastille; and
her notions of French history did not extend beyond this striking
episode. But she was ready and eager to explain France to Troy, and to
the group of young men who gathered about her, listening to her piercing
accents and gazing into her deep blue eyes.
"We must carry America right into the heart of France--for she has got a
great big heart, in spite of everything," Miss Warlick declared. "We
must teach her to love children and home and the outdoor life, and you
American boys must teach the young Frenchmen to love their mothers. You
must set the example.... Oh, boys, do you know what my ambition is? It's
to organize an Old Home Week just like ours, all over France from
Harver right down to Marseilles--and all through the devastated regions
too. Wouldn't it be lovely if we could get General Pershing to let us
keep Home Week right up at the front, at 'Eep and Leal and Rams, and all
those martyr cities--right close up in the trenches? So that even the
Germans would see us and hear us, and perhaps learn from us too?--for
you know we mustn't despair even of teaching the Germans!"
Troy, as he crept away, heard one young man, pink and shock-headed,
murmur shyly to the Prophetess: "Hearing you say this has made it all so
clear to me----" and an elderly Y.M.C.A. leader, adjusting his
eye-glasses, added with nasal emphasis: "Yes, Miss Warlick has expressed
in a very lovely way what we all feel: that America's mission is to
contribute the human element to this war."
"Oh, good God!" Troy groaned, crawling to his darkened cabin. He
remembered M. Gantier's phrase, "Self-satisfaction is death," and felt a
sudden yearning for Sophy Wicks's ironic eyes and her curt "What's the
use of jawing?"
       
He had been for six months on his job, and was beginning to know
something about it: to know, for instance, that nature had never meant
him for an ambulance-driver.
Nevertheless he had stuck to his task with such a dogged determination
to succeed that after several months about the Paris hospitals he was
beginning to be sent to exposed sectors.
His first sight of the desolated country he had traversed three years
earlier roused old memories of the Gantier family, and he wrote once
more to their little town, but again without result. Then one day he
was sent to a sector in the Vosges which was held by American troops.
His heart was beating hard as the motor rattled over the hills, through
villages empty of their inhabitants, like those of the Marne, but
swarming with big fair-haired soldiers. The land lifted and dipped
again, and he saw ahead of him the ridge once crowned by M. Gantier's
village, and the wall of the terraced garden, with the horn-beam arbour
putting forth its early green. Everything else was in ruins: pale
weather-bleached ruins over which the rains and suns of three years had
passed effacingly. The church, once so firm and four-square on the hill,
was now a mere tracery against the clouds; the hospice roofless, the
houses all gutted and bulging, with black smears of smoke on their inner
walls. At the head of the street a few old women and children were
hoeing vegetables before a row of tin-roofed shanties, and a Y.M.C.A.
hut flew the stars-and-stripes across the way.
Troy jumped down and began to ask questions. At first the only person
who recognized the name of Gantier was an old woman too frightened and
feeble-minded to answer intelligibly. Then a French territorial who was
hoeing with the women came forward. He belonged to the place and knew
the story.
"M. Gantier--the old gentleman? He was mayor, and the Germans took him.
He died in Germany. The young girl--Mlle. Gantier--was taken with him.
No, she's not dead.... I don't know.... She's shut up somewhere in
Germany ... queer in the head, they say.... The sons--ah, you knew
Monsieur Paul? He went first.... What, the others?... Yes: the three
others--Louis at Notre Dame de Lorette; Jean on a submarine: poor
little Félix, the youngest, of the fever at Salonika. Voilà.... The
old lady? Ah, she and her sister went away ... some charitable people
took them, I don't know where.... I've got the address somewhere...." He
fumbled, and brought out a strip of paper on which was written the name
of a town in the centre of France.
"There's where they were a year ago.... Yes, you may say: there's a
family gone--wiped out. How often I've seen them all sitting there,
laughing and drinking coffee under the arbour! They were not rich, but
they were happy and proud of each other. That's over."
He went back to his hoeing.
       
After that, whenever Troy Belknap got back to Paris he hunted for the
surviving Gantiers. For a long time he could get no trace of them; then
he remembered his old governess, Mme. Lebuc, for whom Mrs. Belknap had
found employment in a refugee bureau.
He ran down Mme. Lebuc, who was still at her desk in the same big room,
facing a row of horse-hair benches packed with tired people waiting
their turn for a clothing-ticket or a restaurant card.
Mme. Lebuc had grown much older, and her filmy eyes peered anxiously
through large spectacles before she recognized Troy. Then, after tears
and raptures, he set forth his errand, and she began to peer again
anxiously, shuffling about the bits of paper on the desk, and confusing
her records hopelessly.
"Why, is that you?" cried a gay young voice; and there, on the other
side of the room, sat one of the young war-goddesses of the Belknap
tennis-court, trim, uniformed, important, with a row of bent backs in
shabby black before her desk.
"Ah, Miss Batchford will tell you--she's so quick and clever," Mme.
Lebuc sighed, resigning herself to chronic bewilderment.
Troy crossed to the other desk. An old woman sat before it in threadbare
mourning, a crape veil on her twitching head. She spoke in a low voice,
slowly, taking a long time to explain; each one of Miss Batchford's
quick questions put her back, and she had to begin all over again.
"Oh, these refugees!" cried Miss Batchford, stretching a bangled arm
above the crape veil to clasp Troy's hand. "Do sit down, Mr.
Belknap.--Dépêchez-vous, s'il vous plaît," she said, not too unkindly,
to the old woman; and added, to Troy: "There's no satisfying them."
At the sound of Troy's name the old woman had turned her twitching
head, putting back her veil. Her eyes met Troy's, and they looked at
each other doubtfully. Then--"Madame Gantier!" he exclaimed.
"Yes, yes," she said, the tears running down her face.
Troy was not sure if she recognized him, though his name had evidently
called up some vague association. He saw that most things had grown far
off to her, and that for the moment her whole mind was centred on the
painful and humiliating effort of putting her case to this strange young
woman who snapped out questions like a machine.
"Do you know her?" asked Miss Batchford, surprised.
"I used to, I believe," Troy answered.
"You can't think what she wants--just everything! They're all alike. She
wants to borrow five hundred francs to furnish a flat for herself and
her sister."
"Well, why not?"
"Why, we don't lend money, of course. It's against all our principles.
We give work, or relief in kind--that's what I'm telling her."
"I see. Could I give it to her?"
"What--all that money? Certainly not. You don't know them!"
Troy shook hands and went out into the street to wait for Mme. Gantier;
and when she came he told her who he was. She cried and shook a great
deal, and he called a cab and drove her home to the poor lodging where
she and her sister lived. The sister had become weak-minded, and the
room was dirty and untidy, because, as Mme. Gantier explained, her
lameness prevented her from keeping it clean, and they could not afford
a charwoman. The pictures of the four dead sons hung on the wall, a
wisp of crape above each, with all their ribbons and citations. But when
Troy spoke of old M. Gantier and the daughter Mme. Gantier's face grew
like a stone, and her sister began to whimper like an animal.
Troy remembered the territorial's phrase: "You may say: there's a
family wiped out." He went away, too shy to give the five hundred
francs in his pocket.
One of his first cares on getting back to France had been to order a
head-stone for Paul Gantier's grave at Mondement. A week or two after
his meeting with Mme. Gantier, his ambulance was ordered to Epernay, and
he managed to get out to Mondement and have the stone set up and the
grave photographed. He had brought some flowers to lay on it, and he
borrowed two tin wreaths from the neighbouring crosses, so that Paul
Gantier's mound should seem the most fondly tended of all. He sent the
photograph to Mme. Gantier, with a five hundred franc bill; but after a
long time his letter came back from the post-office. The two old women
had gone....
VIII
In February Mr. Belknap arrived in Paris on a mission. Tightly buttoned
into his Red Cross uniform, he looked to his son older and fatter, but
more important and impressive, than usual.
He was on his way to Italy, where he was to remain for three months, and
Troy learned with dismay that he needed a secretary, and had brought
none with him because he counted on his son to fill the post.
"You've had nearly a year of this, old man, and the front's as quiet as
a church. As for Paris, isn't it too frivolous for you? It's much
farther from the war nowadays than New York. I haven't had a dinner like
this since your mother joined the Voluntary Rationing League," Mr.
Belknap smiled at him across their little table at the Nouveau Luxe.
"I'm glad to hear it--about New York, I mean," Troy answered composedly.
"It's our turn now. But Paris isn't a bit too frivolous for me. Which
shall it be, father--the Palais Royal--or the Capucines? They say the
new revue there is great fun."
Mr. Belknap was genuinely shocked. He had caught the war fever late in
life, and late in the war, and his son's flippancy surprised and pained
him.
"The theatre? We don't go to the theatre...." He paused to light his
cigar, and added, embarrassed: "Really, Troy, now there's so little
doing here, don't you think you might be more useful in Italy?"
Troy was anxious, for he was not sure that Mr. Belknap's influence
might not be sufficient to detach him from his job on a temporary
mission; but long experience in dealing with parents made him assume a
greater air of coolness as his fears increased.
"Well, you see, father, so many other chaps have taken advantage of the
lull to go off on leave that if I asked to be detached now--well, it
wouldn't do me much good with my chief," he said cunningly, guessing
that if he appeared to yield his father might postpone action.
"Yes, I see," Mr. Belknap rejoined, impressed by the military character
of the argument. He was still trying to get used to the fact that he was
himself under orders, and nervous visions of a sort of mitigated
court-martial came to him in the middle of pleasant dinners, or jumped
him out of his morning sleep like an alarm-clock.
Troy saw that his point was gained; but he regretted having proposed
the Capucines to his father. He himself was not shocked by the seeming
indifference of Paris: he thought the gay theatres, the crowded shops,
the restaurants groaning with abundance, were all healthy signs of the
nation's irrepressible vitality. But he understood that America's young
zeal might well be chilled by the first contact with this careless
exuberance, so close to the lines where young men like himself were
dying day by day in order that the curtain might ring up punctually on
low-necked revues, and fat neutrals feast undisturbed on lobster and
champagne. Only now and then he asked himself what had become of the
Paris of the Marne, and what would happen if ever again----But that of
course was nonsense....
       
Mr. Belknap left for Italy--and two days afterward Troy's ambulance was
roused from semi-inaction and hurried to Beauvais. The retreat from St.
Quentin had begun, and Paris was once again the Paris of the Marne.
The same--but how different!--were the tense days that followed. Troy
Belknap, instead of hanging miserably about marble hotels and waiting
with restless crowds for the communiqués to appear in the windows of the
newspaper offices, was in the thick of the retreat, swept back on its
tragic tide, his heart wrung, but his imagination hushed by the fact of
participating in the struggle, playing a small dumb indefatigable part,
relieving a little fraction of the immense anguish and the dreadful
disarray.
The mere fact of lifting a wounded man "so that it wouldn't hurt"; of
stiffening one's lips to a smile as the ambulance pulled up in the
market-place of a terror-stricken village; of calling out "Nous les
tenons!" to whimpering women and bewildered old people; of giving a lift
to a family of foot-sore refugees; of prying open a tin of condensed
milk for the baby, or taking down the address of a sister in Paris, with
the promise to bring her news of the fugitives; the heat and the burden
and the individual effort of each minute carried one along through the
endless and yet breathless hours--backward and forward, backward and
forward, between Paris and the fluctuating front, till in Troy's weary
brain the ambulance took on the semblance of a tireless grey shuttle
humming in the hand of Fate....
It was on one of these trips that, for the first time, he saw a
train-load of American soldiers on the way to the battle front. He had,
of course, seen plenty of them in Paris during the months since his
arrival; seen them vaguely roaming the streets, or sitting in front of
cafés, or wooed by polyglot sirens in the obscure promiscuity of
cinema-palaces.
At first he had seized every chance of talking to them; but either his
own shyness or theirs seemed to paralyze him. He found them, as a rule,
bewildered, depressed and unresponsive. They wanted to kill Germans all
right, they said; but this hanging around Paris wasn't what they'd
bargained for, and there was a good deal more doing back home at Podunk
or Tombstone or Skohegan.
It was not only the soldiers who took this depreciatory view of France.
Some of the officers whom Troy met at his friends' houses discouraged
him more than the enlisted men with whom he tried to make friends in the
cafés. They had more definite and more unfavourable opinions as to the
country they had come to defend. They wanted to know, in God's name,
where in the blasted place you could get fried hominy and a real
porter-house steak for breakfast, and when the ball-game season began,
and whether it rained every day all the year round; and Troy's timid
efforts to point out some of the compensating advantages of Paris failed
to excite any lasting interest.
But now he seemed to see a different race of men. The faces leaning from
the windows of the train glowed with youthful resolution. The soldiers
were out on their real business at last, and as Troy looked at them, so
