"She must be there, sir. I saw her go in a few seconds before you came
up."
At that moment the other matron arrived. There was no use arguing. He
left the explanation of the situation to the woman who was going off
duty, and, hastening his steps, he returned to apartment 408.
The door, which he had left open, had swung shut. Again he fitted the
master-key, entered, paused on the threshold, looked around nervously,
his nostrils suddenly filled with a puff of perfume.
And there on the table by the bed he saw a glass bowl filled with a mass
of Chinese orchids--great odorous clusters of orange and snow-white
bloom that saturated all the room with their freshening scent.
So astounded was he that he stood stock still, one hand still on the
door-knob; then in a trice he had closed and locked the door from
inside.
Somebody was in that apartment. There could be no doubt about it. He
dropped his right hand into his overcoat pocket and took hold of his
automatic pistol.
For ten minutes he stood so, listening, peering about the room from bed
to curtains, and out into the parlour. There was not a sound in the
place. Nothing stirred.
Now, grasping his pistol but not drawing it, he began another stealthy
tour of the apartment, exploring every nook and cranny. And, at the end,
had discovered nothing new.
When at length he realised that, as far as he could discover, there was
not a living thing in the place excepting himself, a very faint chill
grew along his neck and shoulders, and he caught his breath suddenly,
deeply.
He had come back to the bedroom, now. The perfume of the orchids
saturated the still air.
And, as he stood staring at them, all of a sudden he saw, where their
twisted stalks rested in the transparent bowl of water, something
moving--something brilliant as a live ember gliding out from among the
mass of submerged stems--a living fish glowing in scarlet hues and
winnowing the water with grotesquely trailing fins as delicate as
filaments of scarlet lace.
To and fro swam the fish among the maze of orchid stalks. Even its eyes
were hot and red as molten rubies; and as its crimson gills swelled and
relaxed and swelled, tints of cherry-fire waxed and waned over its fat
and glowing body.
And vaguely, now, in the perfume saturated air, Cleves seemed to sense a
subtle taint of evil,--something sinister in the intense stillness of
the place--in the jewelled fish gliding so silently in and out among the
pallid convolutions of the drowned stems.
As he stood staring at the fish, the drugged odour of the orchids heavy
in his throat and lungs, something stirred very lightly in the room.
Chills crawling over every limb, he looked around across his shoulder.
There was a figure seated cross-legged in the middle of the bed!
Then, in the perfumed silence, the girl laughed.
For a full minute neither of them moved. No sound had echoed her low
laughter save the deadened pulsations of his own heart. But now there
grew a faint ripple of water in the bowl where the scarlet fish,
suddenly restless, was swimming hither and thither as though pursued by
an invisible hand.
With the slight noise of splashing water in his ears, Cleves stood
staring at the figure on the bed. Under her chinchilla the girl seemed
to be all a pale golden tint--hair, skin, eyes. The scant shred of an
evening gown she wore, the jewels at her throat and breast, all were
yellow and amber and saffron-gold.
And now, looking him in the eyes, she leisurely disengaged the robe of
silver fur from her naked shoulders and let it fall around her on the
bed. For a second the lithe, willowy golden thing gathered there as
gracefully as a coiled snake filled him with swift loathing. Then,
almost instantly, the beauty of the lissome creature fascinated him.
She leaned forward and set her elbows on her two knees, and rested her
face between her hands--like a gold rose-bud between two ivory petals,
he thought, dismayed by this young thing's beauty, shaken by the dull
confusion of his own heart battering his breast like the blows of a
rising tide.
"What do you wish?" she inquired in her soft young voice. "Why have you
come secretly into my rooms to search--and clasping in your hand a
loaded pistol deep within your pocket?"
"Why have you hidden yourself until now?" he retorted in a dull and
laboured voice.
"I have been here."
"Where?"
"Here!... Looking at you.... And watching my scarlet fish. His name is
Dzelim. He is nearly a thousand years old and as wise as a magician.
Look upon him, my lord! See how rapidly he darts around his tiny crystal
world!--like a comet through outer star-dust, running the eternal race
with Time.... And--yonder is a chair. Will my lord be seated--at his new
servant's feet?"
A strange, physical weariness seemed to weight his limbs and shoulders.
He seated himself near the bed, never taking his heavy gaze from the
smiling, golden thing which squatted there watching him so intently.
"Whose limousine was that which you entered and then left so abruptly?"
he asked.
"My own."
"What was the Yezidee Togrul Kahn doing in it?"
"Did you see anybody in my car?" she asked, veiling her eyes a little
with their tawny lashes.
"I saw a man with a thick beard dyed red with henna, and the bony face
and slant eyes of Togrul the Yezidee."
"May my soul be ransom for yours, my lord, but you lie!" she said
softly. Her lips parted in a smile; but her half-veiled eyes were
brilliant as two topazes.
"Is that your answer?"
She lifted one hand and with her forefinger made signs from right to
left and then downward as though writing in Turkish and in Chinese
characters.
"It is written," she said in a low voice, "that we belong to God and we
return to him. Look out what you are about, my lord!"
He drew his pistol from his overcoat and, holding it, rested his hand on
his knee.
"Now," he said hoarsely, "while we await the coming of Togrul Kahn, you
shall remain exactly where you are, and you shall tell me exactly who
you are in order that I may decide whether to arrest you as an alien
enemy inciting my countrymen to murder, or to let you go as a foreigner
who is able to prove her honesty and innocence."
The girl laughed:
"Be careful," she said. "My danger lies in your youth and
mine--somewhere between your lips and mine lies my only danger from you,
my lord."
A dull flush mounted to his temples and burned there.
"I am the golden comrade to Heavenly-Azure," she said, still smiling. "I
am the Third Immaum in the necklace Keuke wears where Yulun hangs as a
rose-pearl, and Sansa as a pearl on fire.
"Look upon me, my lord!"
There was a golden light in his eyes which seemed to stiffen the muscles
and confuse his vision. He heard her voice again as though very far
away:
"It is written that we shall love, my lord--thou and I--this night--this
night. Listen attentively. I am thy slave. My lips shall touch thy feet.
Look upon me, my lord!"
There was a dazzling blindness in his eyes and in his brain. He swayed a
little still striving to fix her with his failing gaze. His pistol hand
slipped sideways from his knee, fell limply, and the weapon dropped to
the thick carpet. He could still see the glimmering golden shape of her,
still hear her distant voice:
"It is written that we belong to God.... Tokhta!..."
Over his knees was settling a snow-white sheet; on it, in his lap, lay a
naked knife. There was not a sound in the room save the rushing and
splashing of the scarlet fish in its crystal bowl.
Bending nearer, the girl fixed her yellow eyes on the man who looked
back at her with dying gaze, sitting upright and knee deep in his
shroud.
Then, noiselessly she uncoiled her supple golden body, extending her
right arm toward the knife.
"Throw back thy head, my lord, and stretch thy throat to the knife's
sweet edge," she whispered caressingly. "No!--do not close your eyes.
Look upon me. Look into my eyes. I am Aoula, temple girl of the
Baroulass! I am mistress to the Slayer of Souls! I am a golden plaything
to Sanang Noïane, Prince of the Yezidees. Look upon me attentively, my
lord!"
Her smooth little hand closed on the hilt; the scarlet fish splashed
furiously in the bowl, dislodging a blossom or two which fell to the
carpet and slowly faded into mist.
Now she grasped the knife, and she slipped from the bed to the floor and
stood before the dazed man.
"This is the Namaz-Ga," she said in her silky voice. "Behold, this is
the appointed Place of Prayer. Gaze around you, my lord. These are the
shadows of mighty men who come here to see you die in the Place of
Prayer."
Cleves's head had fallen back, but his eyes were open. The Baroulass
girl took his head in both hands and turned it hither and thither. And
his glazing eyes seemed to sweep a throng of shadowy white-robed men
crowding the room. And he saw the bloodless, symmetrical visage of
Sanang among them, and the great red beard of Togrul; and his stiffening
lips parted in an uttered cry, and sagged open, flaccid and soundless.
The Baroulass sorceress lifted the shroud from his knees and spread it
on the carpet, moving with leisurely grace about her business and softly
intoning the Prayers for the Dead.
Then, having made her arrangements, she took her knife into her right
hand again and came back to the half-conscious man, and stood close in
front of him, bending near and looking curiously into his dimmed eyes.
"Ayah!" she said smilingly. "This is the Place of Prayer. And you shall
add your prayer to ours before I use my knife. So! I give you back your
power of speech. Pronounce the name of Erlik!"
Very slowly his dry lips moved and his dry tongue trembled. The word
they formed was,
"Tressa!"
Instantly the girl's yellow eyes grew incandescent and her lovely mouth
became distorted. With her left hand she caught his chin, forced his
head back, exposing his throat, and using all her strength drew the
knife's edge across it.
But it was only her clenched fingers that swept the taut
throat--clenched and empty fingers in which the knife had vanished.
And when the Baroulass girl saw that her clenched hand was empty, felt
her own pointed nails cutting into the tender flesh of her own palm, she
stared at her blood-stained fingers in sudden terror--stared, spread
them, shrieked where she stood, and writhed there trembling and
screaming as though gripped in an invisible trap.
But she fell silent when the door of the room opened noiselessly behind
her;--and it was as though she dared not turn her head to face the end
of all things which had entered the room and was drawing nearer in utter
silence.
Suddenly she saw its shadow on the wall; and her voice burst from her
lips in a last shuddering scream.
Then the end came slowly, without a sound, and she sank at the knees,
gently, to a kneeling posture, then backward, extending her supple
golden shape across the shroud; and lay there limp as a dead snake.
Tressa went to the bowl of water and drew from it every blossom. The
scarlet fish was now thrashing the water to an iridescent spume; and
Tressa plunged in her hands and seized it and flung it out--squirming
and wheezing crimson foam--on the shroud beside the golden girl of the
Baroulass. Then, very slowly, she drew the shroud over the dying things;
stepped back to the chair where her husband lay unconscious; knelt down
beside him and took his head on her shoulder, gazing, all the while, at
the outline of the dead girl under the snowy shroud.
After a long while Cleves stirred and opened his eyes. Presently he
turned his head sideways on her shoulder.
"Tressa," he whispered.
"Hush," she whispered, "all is well now." But she did not move her eyes
from the shroud, which now outlined the still shapes of two human
figures.
"John Recklow!" she called in a low voice.
Recklow entered noiselessly with drawn pistol. She motioned to him; he
bent and lifted the edge of the shroud, cautiously. A bushy red beard
protruded.
"Togrul!" he exclaimed.... "But who is this young creature lying dead
beside him?"
Then Tressa caught the collar of her tunic in her left hand and flung
back her lovely face looking upward out of eyes like sapphires wet with
rain:
"In the name of the one and only God," she sobbed--"if there be no
resurrection for dead souls, then I have slain this night in vain!
"For what does it profit a girl if her soul be lost to a lover and her
body be saved for her husband?"
She rose from her knees, the tears still falling, and went and looked
down at the outlined shapes beneath the shroud.
Recklow had gone to the telephone to summon his own men and an
ambulance. Now, turning toward Tressa from his chair:
"God knows what we'd do without you, Mrs. Cleves. I believe this
accounts for all the Yezidees except Sanang."
"Excepting Prince Sanang," she said drearily. Then she went slowly to
where her husband lay in his armchair, and sank down on the floor, and
laid her cheek across his feet.
CHAPTER XVII
THE SLAYER OF SOULS
In that great blizzard which, on the 4th of February, struck the eastern
coast of the United States from Georgia to Maine, John Recklow and his
men hunted Sanang, the last of the Yezidees.
And Sanang clung like a demon to the country which he had doomed to
destruction, imbedding each claw again as it was torn loose, battling
for the supremacy of evil with all his dreadful psychic power, striving
still to seize, cripple, and slay the bodies and souls of a hundred
million Americans.
Again he scattered the uncounted myriads of germs of the Black Plague
which he and his Yezidees had brought out of Mongolia a year before; and
once more the plague swept over the country, and thousands on thousands
died.
But now the National, State and City governments were fighting, with
physicians, nurses, and police, this gruesome epidemic which had come
into the world from they knew not where. And National, State and City
governments, aroused at last, were fighting the more terrible plague of
anarchy.
Nation-wide raids were made from the Atlantic to the Pacific, and from
the Gulf to the Lakes. Thousands of terrorists of all shades and stripes
whose minds had been seized and poisoned by the Yezidees were being
arrested. Deportations had begun; government agents were everywhere
swarming to clean out the foulness that had struck deeper into the body
of the Republic than any one had supposed.
And it seemed, at last, as though the Red Plague, too, was about to be
stamped out along with the Black Death called Influenza.
But only a small group of Secret Service men knew that a resurgence of
these horrors was inevitable unless Sanang, the Slayer of Souls, was
destroyed. And they knew, too, that only one person in America could
hope to destroy Sanang, the last of the Yezidees, and that was Tressa
Cleves.
Only by the sudden onset of the plague in various cities of the land had
Recklow any clew concerning the whereabouts of Sanang.
In Boston, then Washington, then Kansas City, and then New York the
epidemic suddenly blazed up. And in these places of death the Secret
Service men always found a clew, and there they hunted Sanang, the
Yezidee, to kill him without mercy where they might find him.
But they never found Sanang Noïane; only the ghastly marks of his
poisoned claws on the body of the sickened nation--only minds diseased
by the Red Plague and bodies dying of the Black Death--civil and social
centres disorganized, disrupted, depraved, dying.
When the blizzard burst upon New York, struggling in the throes of the
plague, and paralysed the metropolis for a week, John Recklow sent out a
special alarm, and New York swarmed with Secret Service men searching
the snow-buried city for a graceful, slender, dark young man whose eyes
slanted a trifle in his amber-tinted face; who dressed fashionably,
lived fastidiously, and spoke English perfectly in a delightfully
modulated voice.
And to New York, thrice stricken by anarchy, by plague, and now by God,
hurried, from all parts of the nation, thousands of secret agents who
had been hunting Sanang in distant cities or who had been raiding the
traitorous and secret gatherings of his mental dupes.
Agent ZB-303, who was volunteer agent James Benton, came from Boston
with his new bride who had just arrived by way of England--a young girl
named Yulun who landed swathed in sables, and stretched out both lovely
little hands to Benton the instant she caught sight of him on the pier.
Whereupon he took the slim figure in furs into his arms, which was
interesting because they had never before met in the flesh.
So,--their honeymoon scarce begun, Benton and Yulun came from Boston in
answer to Recklow's emergency call.
And all the way across from San Francisco came volunteer agent XLY-371,
otherwise Alek Selden, bringing with him a girl named Sansa whom he had
gone to the coast to meet, and whom he had immediately married after she
had landed from the Japanese steamer Nan-yang Maru. Which, also, was
remarkable, because, although they recognised each other instantly, and
their hands and lips clung as they met, neither had ever before beheld
the living body of the other.
The third man who came to New York at Recklow's summons was volunteer
agent 53-6-26, otherwise Victor Cleves.
His young wife, suffering from nervous shock after the deaths of Togrul
Khan and of the Baroulass girl, Aoula, had been convalescing in a
private sanitarium in Westchester.
Until the summons came to her husband from Recklow, she had seen him
only for a few moments every day. But the call to duty seemed to have
effected a miraculous cure in the slender, blue-eyed girl who had lain
all day long, day after day, in her still, sunny room scarcely unclosing
her eyes at all save only when her husband was permitted to enter for
the few minutes allowed them every day.
The physician had just left, after admitting that Mrs. Cleves seemed to
be well enough to travel if she insisted; and she and her maid had
already begun to pack when her husband came into her room.
She looked around over her shoulder, then rose from her knees, flung an
armful of clothing into the trunk before which she had been kneeling,
and came across the room to him. Then she dismissed her maid from the
room. And when the girl had gone:
"I am well, Victor," she said in a low voice. "Why are you troubled?"
"I can't bear to have you drawn into this horrible affair once more."
"Who else is there to discover and overcome Sanang?" she asked calmly.
He remained silent.
So, for a few moments they stood confronting each other there in the
still, sunny chamber--husband and wife who had never even exchanged the
first kiss--two young creatures more vitally and intimately bound
together than any two on earth--yet utterly separated body and soul from
each other--two solitary spirits which had never merged; two bodies
virginal and inviolate.
Tressa spoke first: "I must go. That was our bargain."
The word made him wince as though it had been a sudden blow. Then his
face flushed red.
"Bargain or no bargain," he said, "I don't want you to go because I'm
afraid you can not endure another shock like the last one.... And every
time you have thrown your own mind and body between this Nation and
destruction you have nearly died of it."
"And if I die?" she said in a low voice.
What answer she awaited--perhaps hoped for--was not the one he made. He
said: "If you die in what you believe to be your line of duty, then it
will be I who have killed you."
"That would not be true. It is you who have saved me."
"I have not. I have done nothing except to lead you into danger of death
since I first met you. If you mean spiritually, that also is untrue. You
have saved yourself--if that indeed were necessary. You have redeemed
yourself--if it is true you needed redemption--which I never
believed----"
"Oh," she sighed swiftly, "Sanang surprised my soul when it was free of
my body--followed my soul into the Wood of the White Moth--caught it
there all alone--and--slew it!"
His lips and throat had gone dry as he watched the pallid terror grow in
her face.
Presently he recovered his voice: "You call that Yezidee the Slayer of
Souls," he said, "but I tell you there is no such creature, no such
power!
"I suppose I--I know what you mean--having seen what we call souls
dissociated from their physical bodies--but that this Yezidee could do
you any spiritual damage I do not for one instant believe. The idea is
monstrous, I tell you----"
"I--I fought him--soul battling against soul----" she stammered,
breathing faster and irregularly. "I struggled with Sanang there in the
Wood of the White Moth. I called on God! I called on my two great dogs,
Bars and Alaga! I recited the Fatha with all my strength--fighting
convulsively whenever his soul seized mine; I cried out the name of
Khidr, begging for wisdom! I called on the Ten Imaums, on Ali the Lion,
on the Blessed Companions. Then I tore my spirit out of the grasp of his
soul--but there was no escape!--no escape," she wailed. "For on every
side I saw the cloud-topped rampart of Gog and Magog, and the woods rang
with Erlik's laughter--the dissonant mirth of hell----"
She began to shudder and sway a little, then with an effort she
controlled herself in a measure.
"There never has been," she began again with lips that quivered in spite
of her--"there never has been one moment in our married lives when my
soul dared forget the Wood of the White Moth--dared seek yours.... God
lives. But so does Erlik. There are angels; but there are as many
demons.... My soul is ashamed.... And very lonely ... very lonely ...
but no fit companion--for yours----"
Her hands dropped listlessly beside her and her chin sank.
"So you believe that Yezidee devil caught your soul when it was
wandering somewhere out of your body, and destroyed it," he said.
She did not answer, did not even lift her eyes until he had stepped
close to her--closer than he had ever come. Then she looked up at him,
but closed her eyes as he swept her into his arms and crushed her face
and body against his own.
Now her red lips were on his; now her face and heart and limbs and
breast melted into his--her breath, her pulse, her strength flowed into
his and became part of their single being and single pulse and breath.
And she felt their two souls flame and fuse together, and burn together
in one heavenly blaze--felt the swift conflagration mount, overwhelm,
and sweep her clean of the last lingering taint; felt her soul,
unafraid, clasp her husband's spirit in its white embrace--clung to him,
uplifted out of hell, rising into the blinding light of Paradise.
Far--far away she heard her own voice in singing whispers--heard her
lips pronounce The Name--"Ata--Ata! Allahou----"
Her blue eyes unclosed; through a mist, in which she saw her husband's
face, grew a vast metallic clamour in her ears.
Her husband kissed her, long, silently; then, retaining her hand, he
turned and lifted the receiver from the clamouring telephone.
"Yes! Yes, this is 53-6-26. Yes, V-69 is with me.... When?... To-day?...
Very well.... Yes, we'll come at once.... Yes, we can get a train in a
few minutes.... All right. Good-bye."
He took his wife into his arms again.
"Dearest of all in the world," he said, "Sanang is cornered in a row of
houses near the East River, and Recklow has flung a cordon around the
entire block. Good God! I can't take you there!"
Then Tressa smiled, drew his head down, looked into his face till the
clear blue splendour of her gaze stilled the tumult in his brain.
"I alone know how to deal with Prince Sanang," she said quietly. "And if
John Recklow, or you, or Mr. Benton or Mr. Selden should kill him with
your pistols, it would be only his body you slay, not the evil thing
that would escape you and return to Erlik."
"Must you do this thing, Tressa?"
"Yes, I must do it."
"But--if our pistols cannot kill this sorcerer, how are you going to
deal with him?"
"I know how."
"Have you the strength?"
"Yes--the bodily and the spiritual. Don't you know that I am already
part of you?"
"We shall be nearer still," he murmured.
She flushed but met his gaze.
"Yes.... We shall be but one being.... Utterly.... For already our
hearts and souls are one. And we shall become of one mind and one body.
"I am no longer afraid of Sanang Noïane!"
"No longer afraid to slay him?" he asked quietly.
A blue light flashed in her eyes and her face grew still and white and
terrible.
"Death to the body? That is nothing, my lord!" she said, in a hard,
sweet voice. "It is written that we belong to God and that we return to
Him. All living things must die, Heart of the World! It is only the
death of souls that matters. And it has arrived at a time in the history
of mankind, I think, when the Slayer of Souls shall slay no more."
She looked at him, flushed, withdrew her hand and went slowly across the
room to the big bay window where potted flowers were in bloom.
From a window-box she took a pinch of dry soil and dropped it into the
bosom of her gown.
Then, facing the East, with lowered arms and palms turned outward:
"There is no god but God," she whispered--"the merciful, the
long-suffering, the compassionate, the just.
"For it is written that when the heavens are rolled together like a
scroll, every soul shall know what it hath wrought.
"And those souls that are dead in Jehannum shall arise from the dead,
and shall have their day in court. Nor shall Erlik stay them till all
has been said.
"And on that day the soul of a girl that hath been put to death shall
ask for what reason it was slain.
"Thus it has been written."
Then Tressa dropped to her knees, touched the carpet with her forehead,
straightened her lithe body and, looking over her shoulder, clapped her
hands together sharply.
Her maid opened the door. "Hasten with my lord's luggage!" she cried
happily; and, still kneeling, lifted her head to her husband and laughed
up into his eyes.
"You should call the porter for we are nearly ready. Shall we go to the
station in a sleigh? Oh, wonderful!"
She leaped to her feet, extended her hand and caught his.
"Horses for the lord of the Yiort!" she cried, laughingly. "Kosh! Take
me out into this new white world that has been born to-day of the ten
purities and the ten thousand felicities! It has been made anew for you
and me who also have been born this day!"
He scarcely knew this sparkling, laughing girl with her quick grace and
her thousand swift little moods and gaieties.
Porters came to take his luggage from his own room; and then her trunk
and bags were ready, and were taken away.
The baggage sleigh drove off. Their own jingling sleigh followed; and
Tressa, buried in furs, looked out upon a dazzling, unblemished world,
lying silvery white under a sky as azure as her eyes.
"Keuke Mongol--Heavenly Azure," he whispered close to her crimsoned
cheek, "do you know how I have loved you--always--always?"
"No, I did not know that," she said.
"Nor I, in the beginning. Yet it happened, also, from the beginning when
I first saw you."
"That is a delicious thing to be told. Within me a most heavenly glow is
spreading.... Unglove your hand."
She slipped the glove from her own white fingers and felt for his under
the furs.
"Aie," she sighed, "you are more beautiful than Ali; more wonderful than
the Flaming Pearl. Out of ice and fire a new world has been made for
us."
"Heavenly Azure--my darling!"
"Oh-h," she sighed, "your words are sweeter than the breeze in Yian! I
shall be a bride to you such as there never has been since the days of
the Blessed Companions--may their names be perfumed and
sweet-scented!... Shall I truly be one with you, my lord?"
"Mind, soul, and body, one being, you and I, little Heavenly Azure."
"Between your two hands you hold me like a burning rose, my lord."
"Your sweetness and fire penetrate my soul."
"We shall burn together then till the sky-carpet be rolled up. Kosh! We
shall be one, and on that day I shall not be afraid."
The sleigh came to a clashing, jingling halt; the train plowed into the
depot buried in vast clouds of snowy steam.
But when they had taken the places reserved for them, and the train was
moving swifter and more swiftly toward New York, fear suddenly
overwhelmed Victor Cleves, and his face grew grey with the menacing
tumult of his thoughts.
The girl seemed to comprehend him, too, and her own features became
still and serious as she leaned forward in her chair.
"It is in God's hands, Heart of the World," she said in a low voice. "We
are one, thou and I,--or nearly so. Nothing can harm my soul."
"No.... But the danger--to your life----"
"I fear no Yezidee."
"The beast will surely try to kill you. And what can I do? You say my
pistol is useless."
"Yes.... But I want you near me."
"Do you imagine I'd leave you for a second? Good God," he added in a
strangled voice, "isn't there any way I can kill this wild beast? With
my naked hands----?"
"You must leave him to me, Victor."
"And you believe you can slay him? Do you?"
She remained silent for a long while, bent forward in her armchair, and
her hands clasped tightly on her knees.
"My husband," she said at last, "what your astronomers have but just
begun to suspect is true, and has long, long been known to the
Sheiks-el-Djebel.
"For, near to this world we live in, are other worlds--planets that do
not reflect light. And there is a dark world called Yrimid, close to the
earth--a planet wrapped in darkness--a black star.... And upon it Erlik
dwells.... And it is peopled by demons.... And from it comes sickness
and evil----"
She moistened her lips; sat for a while gazing vaguely straight before
her.
"From this black planet comes all evil upon earth," she resumed in a
hushed voice. "For it is very near to the earth. It is not a hundred
miles away. All strange phenomena for which our scientists can not
account are due to this invisible planet,--all new and sudden
pestilences; all convulsions of nature; the newly noticed radio
disturbances; the new, so-called inter-planetary signals--all--all have
their hidden causes within that black and demon-haunted planet long
known to the Yezidees, and by them called Yrimid, or Erlik's World.
And--it is to this black planet that I shall send Sanang, Slayer of
Souls. I shall tear him from this earth, though he cling to it with
every claw; and I shall fling his soul into darkness--out across the
gulf--drive his soul forth--hurl it toward Erlik like a swift rocket
charred and falling from the sky into endless night.
"So shall I strive to deal with Prince Sanang, Sorcerer of Mount
Alamout, the last of the Assassins, Sheik-el-Djebel, and Slayer of
Souls.... May God remember him in hell."
       *       *       *       *       *
Already their train was rolling into the great terminal.
Recklow was awaiting them. He took Tressa's hands in his and gazed
earnestly into her face.
"Have you come to show us how to conclude this murderous business?" he
asked grimly.
"I shall try," she said calmly. "Where have you cornered Sanang?"
"Could you and Victor come at once?"
"Yes." She turned and looked at her husband, who had become quite pale.
Recklow saw the look they exchanged. There could be no misunderstanding
what had happened to these two. Their tragedy had ended. They were
united at last. He understood it instantly,--realised how terrible was
this new and tragic situation for them both.
Yet, he knew also that the salvation of civilisation itself now depended
upon this girl. She must face Sanang. There was nothing else possible.
"The streets are choked with snow," he said, "but I have a coupé and two
strong horses waiting."
He nodded to one of his men standing near. Cleves gave him the hand
luggage and checks.
"All right," he said in a low voice to Recklow; and passed one arm
through Tressa's.
       *       *       *       *       *
The coupé was waiting on Forty-second Street, guarded by a policeman.
When they had entered and were seated, two mounted policemen rode ahead
of the lurching vehicle, picking a way amid the monstrous snow-drifts,
and headed for the East River.
"We've got him somewhere in a wretched row of empty houses not far from
East River Park. I'm taking you there. I've drawn a cordon of my men
around the entire block. He can't get away. But I dared take no chances
with this Yezidee sorcerer--dared not let one of my men go in to look
for him--go anywhere near him,--until I could lay the situation before
you, Mrs. Cleves."
"Yes," she said calmly, "it was the only way, Mr. Recklow. There would
have been no use shooting him--no use taking him prisoner. A prisoner,
he remains as deadly as ever; dead, his mind still lives and breeds
evil. You are quite right; it is for me to deal with Sanang."
Recklow shuddered in spite of himself. "Can you tear his claws from the
vitals of the world, and free the sick brains of a million people from
the slavery of this monster's mind?"
The girl said seriously:
"Even Satan was stoned. It is so written. And was cast out. And dwells
forever and ever in Abaddon. No star lights that Pit. None lights the
Black Planet, Yrimid. It is where evil dwells. And there Sanang Noïane
belongs."
And now, beyond the dirty edges of the snow-smothered city, under an icy
mist they caught sight of the river where ships lay blockaded by frozen
floes.
Gulls circled over it; ghostly factory chimneys on the further shore
loomed up gigantic, ranged like minarettes.
The coupé, jolting along behind the mounted policemen, struggled up
toward the sidewalk and stopped. The two horses stood steaming, knee
deep in snow. Recklow sprang out; Tressa gave him one hand and stepped
lithely to the sidewalk. Then Cleves got out and came and took hold of
his wife's arm again.
"Well," he said harshly to Recklow, "where is this damned Yezidee
hidden?"
Recklow pointed in silence, but he and Tressa had already lifted their
gaze to the stark, shabby row of abandoned three-story houses where
every dirty blind was closed.
"They're to be demolished and model tenements built," he said briefly.
A man muffled in a fur overcoat came up and took Tressa's hand and
kissed it.
She smiled palely at Benton, spoke of Yulun, wished him happiness. While
she was yet speaking Selden approached and bent over her gloved hand.
She spoke to him very sweetly of Sansa, expressing pleasure at the
prospect of seeing her again in the body.
"The Seldens and ourselves have adjoining apartments at the Ritz," said
Benton. "We have reserved a third suite for you and Victor."
She inclined her lovely head, gravely, then turned to Recklow, saying
that she was ready.
"It makes no difference which front door I unlock," he said. "All these
tenements are connected by human rat-holes and hidden runways leading
from one house to another.... How many men do you want?"
"I want you four men,--nobody else."
Recklow led the way up a snow-covered stoop, drew a key from his pocket,
fitted it, and pulled open the door.
A musty chill struck their faces as they entered the darkened and empty
hallway. Involuntarily every man drew his pistol.
"I must ask you to do exactly what I tell you to do," she said calmly.
"Certainly," said Recklow, caressing his white moustache and striving to
pierce the gloom with his keen eyes.
Then Tressa took her husband's hand. "Come," she said. They mounted the
stairway together; and the three others followed with pistols lifted.
There was a vague grey light on the second floor; the broken rear
shutters let it in.
As though she seemed to know her way, the girl led them forward, opened
a door in the wall, and disclosed a bare, dusty room in the next house.
Through this she stepped; the others crept after her with weapons ready.
She opened a second door, turned to the four men.
"Wait here for me. Come only when I call," she whispered.
"For God's sake take me with you," burst out Cleves.
"In God's name stay where you are till you hear me call your name!" she
said almost breathlessly.
Then, suddenly she turned, swiftly retracing her steps; and they saw her
pass through the first door and disappear into the first house they had
entered.
A terrible silence fell among them. The sound of her steps on the bare
boards had died away. There was not a sound in the chilly dusk.
Minute after minute dragged by. One by one the men peered fearfully at
Cleves. His visage was ghastly and they could see his pistol-hand
trembling.
Twice Recklow looked at his wrist watch. The third time he said,
unsteadily: "She has been gone three-quarters of an hour."
Then, far away, they heard a heavy tread on the stairs. Nearer and
nearer came the footsteps. Every pistol was levelled at the first door
as a man's bulky form darkened it.
"It's one of my men," said Recklow in a voice like a low groan. "Where
on earth is Mrs. Cleves?"
"I came to tell you," said the agent, "Mrs. Cleves came out of the first
house nearly an hour ago. She got into the coupé and told the driver to
go to the Ritz."
"What!" gasped Recklow.
"She's gone to the Ritz," repeated the agent. "No one else has come out.
And I began to worry--hearing nothing of you, Mr. Recklow. So I stepped
in to see----"
"You say that Mrs. Cleves went out of the house we entered, got into the
coupé, and told the driver to go to the Ritz?" demanded Cleves,
astounded.
"Yes, sir."
"Where is that coupé? Did it return?"
"It had not returned when I came in here."
"Go back and look for it. Look in the other street," said Recklow
sharply.
The agent hurried away over the creaking boards. The four men gazed at
one another.
"The thing to do is to obey her and stay where we are," said Recklow
grimly. "Who knows what peril we may cause her if we move from----"
His words froze on his lips as Tressa's voice rang out from the darkness
beyond the door they were guarding:
"Victor I I--I need you! Come to me, my husband!"
As Cleves sprang through the door into the darkness beyond, Benton
smashed a window sash with all the force of his shoulder, and, reaching
out through the shattered glass, tore the rotting blinds from their
hinges, letting in a flood of sickly light.
Against the bare wall stood Tressa, both arms extended, her hands flat
against the plaster, and each hand transfixed and pinned to the wall by
a knife.
A white sheet lay at her feet. On it rested a third knife. And, bending
on one knee to pick it up, they caught a glimpse of a slender young man
in fashionable afternoon attire, who, as they entered with the crash of
the shattered window in their ears, sprang to his nimble feet and stood
confronting them, knife in hand.
Instantly every man fired at him and the bullets whipped the plaster to
a smoke behind him, but the slender, dark skinned young man stood
motionless, looking at them out of brilliant eyes that slanted a trifle.
Again the racket of the fusillade swept him and filled the room with
plaster dust.
Cleves, frantic with horror, laid hold of the knives that pinned his
wife's hands to the wall, and dragged them out.
But there was no blood, no wound to be seen on her soft palms. She took
the murderous looking blades from him, threw one terrible look at
Sanang, kicked the shroud across the floor toward him, and flung both
knives upon it.
The place was still dim with plaster dust and pistol fumes as she
stepped forward through the acrid mist, motioning the four men aside.
"Sanang!" she cried in a clear voice, "may God remember you in hell, for
my feet have spurned your shroud, and your knives, which could not scar
my palms, shall never pierce my heart! Look out for yourself, Prince
Sanang!"
"Tokhta!" he said, calmly. "My soul be ransom for yours!"
"That is a lie! My soul is already ransomed! My mind is the more
powerful. It has already halted yours. It is conquering yours. It is
seizing your mind and enslaving it. It is mastering your will, Sanang!
Your mind bends before mine. You know it! You know it is bending. You
feel it is breaking down!"
Sanang's eyes began to glitter but his pale brown face had grown almost
white.
"I slew you once--in the Wood of the White Moth," he said huskily.
"There is no resurrection from such a death, little Heavenly Azure. Look
upon me! My soul and yours are one!"
"You are looking upon my soul," she said.
