safe for democracy, and here, they said, it had been made safe for
the profiteers. This was plain Bolshevism, and in its most dangerous
form, because these fellows had learned to use guns, and couldn’t
very well be expected to become pacifists right off the bat.

There had been a great labor shortage during the war, and some of
the more powerful unions had taken the general rise in prices as an
excuse for demanding higher wages. This naturally had made the
members of the Chamber of Commerce and the Merchants’ and
Manufacturers’ Association indignant, and now they saw their chance
to use these returned soldiers to smash strikes and to break the
organizations of the labor men. They proceeded to organize the
soldiers for this purpose; in American City the Chamber of Commerce
contributed twenty-five thousand dollars to furnish the club-rooms
for them, and when the trolley men went on strike the cars were run
by returned soldiers in uniform.

There was one veteran, a fellow by the name of Sydney, who objected
to this program. He was publishing a paper, the “Veteran’s Friend,”
 and began to use the paper to protest against his comrades acting as
what he called “scabs.” The secretary of the Merchants’ and
Manufacturers’ Association sent for him and gave him a straight
talking to, but he went right ahead with his campaign, and so
Guffey’s office was assigned the task of shutting him up. Peter,
while he could not take an active part in the job, was the one who
guided it behind the scenes. They proceeded to plant spies in
Sydney’s office, and they had so many that it was really a joke;
they used to laugh and say that they trod on one another’s toes.
Sydney was poor, and had not enough money to run his paper, so he
accepted any volunteer labor that came along. And Guffey sent him
plenty of volunteers--no less than seven operatives--one keeping
Sydney’s books, another helping with his mailing, two more helping
to raise funds among the labor unions, others dropping in every day
or two to advise him. Nevertheless Sydney went right ahead with his
program of denouncing the Merchants’ and Manufacturers’ Association,
and denouncing the government for its failure to provide farms and
jobs for the veterans.

One of Guffey’s “under cover operatives”--that was the technical
term for the Peter Gudges and Joe Angells--was a man by the name of
Jonas. This Jonas called himself a “philosophic anarchist,” and
posed as the reddest Red in American City; it was his habit to rise
up in radical meetings and question the speaker, and try to tempt
him to justify violence and insurrection and “mass-action.” If he
repudiated these ideas, then Jonas would denounce him as a
“mollycoddle,” a “pink tea Socialist,” a “labor faker.” Other people
in the audience would applaud, and so Guffey’s men would find out
who were the real Red sympathizers.

Peter had long suspected Jonas, and now he was sent to meet him in
Room 427 of the American House, and together they framed up a job on
Sydney. Jonas wrote a letter, supposed to come from a German
“comrade,” giving the names of some papers in Europe to which the
editor should send sample copies of his magazine. This letter was
mailed to Sydney, and next morning Jonas wandered into the office,
and Sydney showed him the letter, and Jonas told him that these were
labor papers, and the editors would no doubt be interested to know
of the feelings of American soldiers since the war. Sydney sat down
to write a letter, and Jonas stood by his side and told him what to
write: “To my erstwhile enemies in arms I send fraternal greetings,
and welcome you as brothers in the new co-operative commonwealth
which is to be”--and so on, the usual Internationalist patter, which
all these agitators were spouting day and night, and which ran off
the ends of their pens automatically. Sydney mailed these letters,
and the sample copies of the magazine, and Guffey’s office tipped
off the postoffice authorities, who held up the letters. The
book-keeper, one of Guffey’s operatives, went to the Federal
attorney and made affidavit that Sydney had been carrying on a
conspiracy with the enemy in war-time, and a warrant was issued, and
the offices of the magazine were raided, the subscription-lists
confiscated, and everything in the rooms dumped out into the middle
of the floor.

So there was a little job all Peter’s own; except that Jonas, the
scoundrel, claimed it for his, and tried to deprive Peter of the
credit! So Peter was glad when the Federal authorities looked the
case over and said it was a bum job, and they wouldn’t monkey with
it. However, the evidence was turned over to District-attorney
Burchard, who wasn’t quite so fastidious, and his agents made
another raid, and smashed up the office again, and threw the
returned soldier into jail. The judge fixed the bail at fifteen
thousand dollars, and the American City “Times” published the story
with scare-headlines all the way across the front page--how the
editor of the “Veteran’s Friend” had been caught conspiring with the
enemy, and here was a photographic copy of his treasonable letter,
and a copy of the letter of the mysterious German conspirator with
whom he had been in relations! They spent more than a year trying
that editor, and although he was out on bail, Guffey saw to it that
he could not get a job anywhere in American City; his paper was
smashed and his family near to starvation.




Section 78


Peter had now been working faithfully for six or eight months, and
all that time he religiously carried out his promise to Guffey and
did not wink at a woman. But that is an unnatural life for a man,
and Peter was lonely, his dreams were haunted by the faces of Nell
Doolin and Rosie Stern, and even of little Jennie Todd. One day
another face came back to him, the face of Miss Frisbie, the little
manicurist who had spurned him because he was a Red. Now suddenly
Peter realized that he was no longer a Red! On the contrary, he was
a hero, his picture had been published in the American City “Times,”
 and no doubt Miss Frisbie had seen it. Miss Frisbie was a good girl,
a straight girl, and surely all right for him to know!

So Peter went to the manicure parlor, and sure enough, there was the
little golden-haired lady; and sure enough, she had read all about
him, she had been dreaming that some day she might meet him
again--and so Peter invited her to go to a picture show. On the way
home they became very chummy, and before a week went by it was as if
they had been friends for life. When Peter asked Miss Frisbie if he
might kiss her, she answered coyly that he might, but after he had
kissed her a few times she explained to him that she was a
self-supporting woman, alone and defenseless in the world, and she
had nobody to speak for her but herself; she must tell him that she
had always been a respectable woman, and that she wanted him to know
that before he kissed her any more. And Peter thought it over and
decided that he had sowed his full share of wild oats in this life;
he was ready to settle down, and the next time he saw Miss Frisbie
he told her so, and before the evening was by they were engaged.

Then Peter went to see Guffey, and seated himself on the edge of the
chair alongside Guffey’s desk, and twisted his hat in his hands, and
flushed very red, and began to stammer out his confession. He
expected to be received with a gale of ridicule; he was immensely
relieved when Guffey said that if Peter had really found a good girl
and wanted to marry her, he, Guffey, was for it. There was nothing
like the influence of a good woman, and Guffey much preferred his
operatives should be married men, living a settled and respectable
life. They could be trusted then, and sometimes when a woman
operative was needed, they had a partner ready to hand. If Peter had
got married long ago, he might have had a good sum of money in the
bank by now.

Peter ventured to point out that twenty dollars a week was not
exactly a marrying salary, in the face of the present high cost of
living. Guffey answered that that was true, and he would raise Peter
to thirty dollars right away--only first he demanded the right to
talk to Peter’s fiancee, and judge for himself whether she
was worthy. Peter was delighted, and Miss Frisbie had a private and
confidential interview with Peter’s boss. But afterwards Peter
wasn’t quite so delighted, for he realized what Guffey had done.
Peter’s future wife had been told all about Peter’s weakness, and
how Peter’s boss looked to her to take care of her husband and make
him walk the chalkline. So a week after Peter had entered the holy
bonds of matrimony, when he and Mrs. Gudge had their first little
family tiff, Peter suddenly discovered who was going to be top dog
in that family. He was shown his place once for all, and he took
it,--alongside that husband who described his domestic arrangements
by saying that he and his wife got along beautifully together, they
had come to an arrangement by which he was to have his way on all
major issues, and she was to have her way on all minor issues, and
so far no major issues had arisen.

But really it was a very good thing; for Gladys Frisbie Gudge was an
excellent manager, and set to work making herself a nest as busily
as any female beaver. She still hung on to her manicurist job, for
she had figured it out that the Red movement must be just about
destroyed by now, and pretty soon Peter might find himself without
work. In the evenings she took to house-hunting, and during her noon
hour, without consulting Peter she selected the furniture and the
wall-paper, and pretty nearly bought out the stock of a
five-and-ten-cent store to equip the beaver’s nest.

Gladys Frisbie Gudge was a diligent reader of the fashion magazines,
and kept herself right up to the minute with the styles; also she
had got herself a book on etiquette, and learned it by heart from
cover to cover, and now she took Peter in hand and taught it to him.
Why must he always be a “Jimmie Higgins” of the “Whites?” Why
should he not acquire the vocabulary of an educated man, the arts
and graces of the well-to-do? Gladys knew that it is these
subtleties which determine your salary in the long run; so every
Sunday morning she would dress him up with a new brown derby and a
new pair of brown kid gloves, and take him to the Church of the
Divine Compassion, and they would listen to the patriotic sermon of
the Rev. de Willoughby Stotterbridge, and Gladys would bow her head
in prayer, and out of the corner of her eye would get points on
costumes from the lady in the next pew. And afterwards they would
join the Sunday parade, and Gladys would point out to Peter the
marks of what she called “gentility.” In the evenings they would go
walking, and she would stop in front of the big shop-windows, or
take him into the hotel lobbies where the rich could be seen free of
charge. Peter would be hungry, and would want to go to a cheap
restaurant and fill himself up with honest grub; but Gladys, who had
the appetite of a bird, would insist on marching him into the
dining-room of the Hotel de Soto and making a meal upon a cup of
broth and some bread and butter--just in order that they might gaze
upon a scene of elegance and see bow “genteel” people ate their
food.




Section 79


And just as ardently as Gladys Frisbie Gudge adored the rich, so
ardently did she object to the poor. If you pinned her down to it,
she would admit that there had to be poor; there could not be
gentility, except on the basis of a large class of ungentility. The
poor were all right in their place; what Gladys objected to was
their presuming to try to get out of their place, or to criticise
their betters. She had a word by which she summed up everything that
she despised in the world, and that word was “common;” she used it
to describe the sort of people she declined to meet, and she used it
in correcting Peter’s manners and his taste in hats. To be “common”
 was to be damned; and when Gladys saw people who were indubitably
and inescapably “common,” presuming to set themselves up and form
standards of their own, she took it as a personal affront, she
became vindictive and implacable towards them. Each and every one of
them became to her a personal enemy, an enemy to something far more
precious than her person, an enemy to the thing she aspired to
become, to her ideal.

Peter had once been like that himself, but now he was so
comfortable, he had a tendency to become lazy and easy-going. It was
well, therefore, that he had Gladys to jack him up, and keep him on
his job. Gladys at first did not meet any Reds face to face, she
knew them only by the stories that Peter brought home to her when
his day’s work was done. But each new group that he was hounding
became to Gladys an assemblage of incarnate fiends, and while she
sat polishing the finger-nails of stout society ladies who were too
sleepy to talk, Gladys’ busy mind would be working over schemes to
foil these fiends.

Sometimes her ideas were quite wonderful. She had a woman’s
intuition, the knowledge of human foibles, all the intricate
subtleties of the emotional life; she would bring to Peter a program
for the undoing of some young radical, as complete as if she had
known the man or woman all her life. Peter took her ideas to
McGivney, and then to Guffey, and the result was that her talents
were recognized, and by the lever of a generous salary she was pried
loose from the manicure parlor. Guffey sent her to make the
acquaintance of the servants in the household of a certain rich man
who was continually making contributions to the Direct Primary
Association and other semi-Red organizations, and who was believed
to have a scandal in his private life. So successful was Gladys at
this job that presently Guffey set her at the still more delicate
task of visiting rich ladies, and impressing upon them the
seriousness of the Red peril, and persuading them to meet the
continually increasing expenses of Guffey’s office.

Just now was a busy time in the anti-Red campaign. For nearly two
years, ever since the Bolshevik revolution in Russia, there had been
gradually developing a split in the Socialist movement, and the
“under-cover” operatives of the Traction Trust, as well as those of
the district attorney’s office and of the Federal government, had
been working diligently to widen this split and develop dissensions
in the organization. There were some Socialists who believed in
politics, and were prepared to devote their lives to the slow and
tedious job of building up a party. There were others who were
impatient, looking for a short cut, a general strike or a mass
insurrection of the workers which would put an end to the slavery of
capitalism. The whole game of politics was rotten, these would
argue; a politician could find more ways to fool the workers in a
minute than the workers could thwart in a year. They pointed to the
German Socialists, those betrayers of internationalism. There were
people who called themselves Socialists right here in American City
who wanted to draw the movement into the same kind of trap!

This debate was not conducted in the realm of abstractions; the two
wings of the movement would attack one another with bitterness. The
“politicians” would denounce the “impossibilists,” calling them
“anarchists;” and the other side, thus goaded, would accuse their
enemies of being in the hire of the government. Peter would supply
McGivney with bits of scandal which the “under cover” men would
start going among the “left-wingers;” and in the course of the long
wrangles in the local these accusations would come out. Herbert
Ashton would mention them with his biting sarcasm, or “Shorty”
 Gunton would shout them in one of his tirades--“hurling them into
his opponents teeth,” as he phrased it.

“Shorty” Gunton was a tramp printer, a wandering agitator who was
all for direct action, and didn’t care a hang who knew it.
“Violence?” he would say. “How many thousand years shall we submit
to the violence of capitalist governments, and never have the right
to reply?” And then again he would say, “Violence? Yes, of course
we must repudiate violence--until we get enough of it!” Peter had
listened to “Shorty’s” railings at the “compromisers” and the
“political traders,” and had thought him one of the most dangerous
men in American City. But later on, after the episode of Joe Angell
had opened Peter’s eyes, he decided that “Shorty” must also be a
secret agent like himself.

Peter was never told definitely, but he picked up a fact here and
there, and fitted them together, and before long his suspicion had
become certainty. The “left wing” Socialists split off from the
party, and called a convention of their own, and this convention in
turn split up, one part forming the Communist Party, and another
part forming the Communist Labor Party. While these two conventions
were in session, McGivney came to Peter, and said that the Federal
government had a man on the platform committee of the Communist
Party, and they wanted to write in some phrases that would make
membership in that party in itself a crime, so that everybody who
held a membership card could be sent to prison without further
evidence. These phrases must be in the orthodox Communist lingo, and
this was where Peter’s specialized knowledge was needed.

So Peter wrote the phrases, and a couple of days later he read in
the newspapers an account of the convention proceedings. The
platform committee had reported, and “Shorty” Gunton had submitted a
minority report, and had made a fiery speech in the convention, with
the result that his minority report was carried by a narrow margin.
This minority report contained all the phrases that Peter had
written. A couple of months later, when the government had its case
ready, and the wholesale raids upon the Communists took place,
“Shorty” Gunton was arrested, but a few days later he made a
dramatic escape by sawing his way thru the roof of the jail!




Section 80


The I. W. W. had bobbed up again in American City, and had ventured
to open another headquarters. Peter did not dare go to the place
himself, but he coached a couple of young fellows whom McGivney
brought to him, teaching them the Red lingo, and how to worm their
way into the movement. Before long one of them was secretary of the
local; and Peter, directing their activities, received reports twice
a week of everything the “wobblies” were planning and doing. Peter
and Gladys were figuring out another bomb conspiracy to direct
attention to these dangerous men, when one day Peter picked up the
morning paper and discovered that a kind Providence had delivered
the enemy into his hands.

Up in the lumber country of the far Northwest, in a little town
called Centralia, the “wobblies” had had their headquarters raided
and smashed, just as in American City. They had got themselves
another meeting-place, and again the members of the Chamber of
Commerce and the Merchants’ and Manufacturers’ Association had held
a secret meeting and resolved to wipe them out. The “wobblies” had
appealed to the authorities for protection, and when protection was
refused, they had printed a leaflet appealing to the public. But the
business men went ahead with their plans. They arranged for a parade
of returned soldiers on the anniversary of Armistice Day, and they
diverted this parade out of its path so that it would pass in front
of the I. W. W. headquarters. Some of the more ardent members
carried ropes, symbolic of what they meant to do; and they brought
the parade to a halt in front of the headquarters, and set up a yell
and started to rush the hall. They battered in the door, and had
pushed their way half thru it when the “wobblies” opened fire from
inside, killing several of the paraders.

Then, of course, the mob flew into a frenzy of fury. They beat the
men in the hall, some of them into insensibility; they flung them
into jail, and battered and tortured them, and took one of them out
of jail and carried him away in an automobile, and after they had
mutilated him as Shawn Grady had been mutilated, they hanged him
from a bridge. Of course they saw to it that the newspaper stories
which went out from Centralia that night were the right kind of
stories; and next morning all America read how a group of “wobblies”
 had armed themselves with rifles, and concealed themselves on the
roof of the I. W. W. headquarters, and deliberately and in cold
blood had opened fire upon a peaceful parade of unarmed war
veterans.

Of course the country went wild, and the Guffeys and McGivneys and
Gudges all over the United States realized that their chance had
come. Peter instructed the secretary of the I. W. W. local of
American City to call a meeting for that evening, to adopt a
resolution declaring the press stories from Centralia to be lies. At
the same time another of Guffey’s men, an ex-army officer still
wearing his, uniform, caused a meeting of the American Legion to be
summoned; he made a furious address to the boys, and at nine o’clock
that night some two-score of them set out, armed with big
monkey-wrenches from their automobiles, and raided the I. W. W.
headquarters, and battered the members over the head with the
monkey-wrenches, causing several to leap from the window and break
their legs. Next morning the incident was reported in the American
City “Times” with shouts of glee, and District-attorney Burchard
issued a public statement to the effect that no effort would be made
to punish the soldier boys; the “wobblies” had wanted “direct
action,” and they had got it, and it would be assumed that they were
satisfied.

Then the members of the American Legion, encouraged by this
applause, and instigated by Guffey’s ex-army officer, proceeded to
invade and wreck every radical meeting-place in the city. They
smashed the “Clarion” office and the Socialist Party headquarters
again, and confiscated more tons of literature. They wrecked a
couple of book-stores, and then, breaking up into small groups, they
inspected all the news-stands in the city, and wherever they found
Red magazines like the Nation or the New Republic, they tore up the
copies and threatened the agents with arrest. They invaded the rooms
of a literary society called the Ruskin Club, frequented mostly by
amiable old ladies, and sent some of these elderly dames into
hysterics. They discovered the “Russian Peoples’ Club,” which had
hitherto been overlooked because it was an educational organization.
But of course no Russian could be trusted these days--all of them
were Bolsheviks, or on the way to becoming Bolsheviks, which was the
same thing; so Guffey organized a raid on this building, and some
two hundred Russians were clubbed and thrown downstairs or out of
windows, and an elderly teacher of mathematics had his skull
cracked, and a teacher of music had some teeth knocked out.

There were several million young Americans who had been put into
military uniform, and had guns put into their hands, and been put
thru target practice and bayonet drill, and then had not seen any
fighting. These fellows were, as the phrase has it, “spoiling for a
fight;” and here was their chance. It was just as much fun as trench
warfare, and had the advantage of not being dangerous. When the
raiding parties came back, there were no missing members, and no
casualties to be telegraphed to heartbroken parents. Some fool women
got together and tried to organize a procession to protest against
the blockade of Russia; the raiders fell upon these women, and
wrecked their banners, and tore their clothing to bits, and the
police hustled what was left of them off to jail. It happened that a
well-known “sporting man,” that is to say a race-track frequenter,
came along wearing a red necktie, and the raiders, taking him for a
Bolshevik, fell upon him and pretty nearly mauled the life out of
him. After that there was protest from people who thought it unwise
to break too many laws while defending law and order, so the
district attorney’s office arranged to take on the young soldier
boys as deputy sheriffs, and give them all badges, legal and proper.




Section 81


Peter Gudge often went along on these hunting parties. Peter,
curiously enough, discovered in himself the same “complex” as the
balked soldier boys. Peter had been reading war news for five years,
but had missed the fighting; and now he discovered that he liked to
fight. What had kept him from liking to fight in the past was the
danger of getting hurt; but now that there was no such danger, he
could enjoy it. In past times people had called him a coward, and he
had heard it so often that he had come to believe it; but now he
realized that it was not true, he was just as brave as anybody else
in the crowd.

The truth was that Peter had not had a happy time in his youth, he
had never learned, like the younger members of the Chamber of
Commerce and the Merchants’ and Manufacturers’ Association, to knock
a little white ball about a field with various shapes and sizes of
clubs. Peter was like a business man who has missed his boyhood, and
then in later years finds the need of recreation, and takes up some
form of sport by the orders of his physician. It became Peter’s,
form of sport to stick an automatic revolver in his hip-pocket, and
take a blackjack in his hand, and rush into a room where thirty or
forty Russians or “Sheenies” of all ages and lengths of beard were
struggling to learn the intricacies of English spelling. Peter would
give a yell, and see this crowd leap and scurry hither and thither,
and chase them about and take a whack at a head wherever he saw one,
and jump into a crowd who were bunched together like sheep, trying
to hide their heads, and pound them over the exposed parts of their
anatomy until they scattered into the open again. He liked to get a
lot of them started downstairs and send them tumbling heels over
head; or if he could get them going out a window, that was more
exhilarating yet, and he would yell and whoop at them. He learned
some of their cries--outlandish gibberish it was--and he would curse
them in their own language. He had a streak of the monkey in him,
and as he got to know these people better he would imitate their
antics and their gestures of horror, and set a whole room full of
the “bulls” laughing to split their sides. There was a famous
“movie” comedian with big feet, and Peter would imitate this man,
and waddle up to some wretched sweat-shop worker and boot him in the
trousers’ seat, or step on his toes, or maybe spit in his eye. So he
became extremely popular among the “bulls,” and they would insist on
his going everywhere with them.

Later on, when the government set to work to break up the Communist
Party and the Communist Labor Party, Peter’s popularity and prestige
increased still more. For now, instead of just raiding and smashing,
the police and detectives would round up the prisoners and
arrest them by hundreds, and carry them off and put them thru
“examinations.” And Peter was always needed for this; his special
knowledge made him indispensable, and he became practically the boss
of the proceedings. It had been arranged thru “Shorty” Gunton and
the other “under cover” men that the meetings of the Communist and
Communist Labor parties should be held on the same night; and all
over the country this same thing was done, and next morning the
world was electrified by the news that all these meetings had been
raided at the same hour, and thousands of Reds placed under arrest.
In American City the Federal government had hired a suite of about a
dozen rooms adjoining the offices of Guffey, and all night and next
morning batches of prisoners were brought in, until there were about
four hundred in all. They were crowded into these rooms with barely
space to sit down; of course there was an awful uproar, moaning and
screaming of people who had been battered, and a smell that beat the
monkey cage at the zoological gardens.

The prisoners were kept penned up in this place for several weeks,
and all the time more were being brought in; there were so many that
the women had to be stored in the toilets. Many of the prisoners
fell ill, or pretended to fall ill, and several of them went insane,
or pretended to go insane, and several of them died, or pretended to
die. And of course the parlor Reds and sympathizers were busy
outside making a terrible fuss about it. They had no more papers,
and could not hold any more meetings, and when they tried to
circulate literature the post-office authorities tied them up; but
still somehow they managed to get publicity, and Peter’s “under
cover” men would report to him who was doing this work, and Peter
would arrange to have more raids and more batches of prisoners
brought in. In one of the “bomb-plots” which had been unveiled in
the East they had discovered some pink paper, used either for
printing leaflets, or for wrapping explosives, one could not be
sure. Anyhow, the secret agencies with which Guffey was connected
had distributed samples of this paper over the country, and any time
the police wanted to finish some poor devil, they would find this
deadly “pink paper” in his possession, and the newspapers would
brand him as one of the group of conspirators who were sending
infernal machines thru the mails.




Section 82


Peter was so busy these days that he missed several nights’ sleep,
and hardly even stopped to eat. He had his own private room, where
the prisoners were brought for examination, and he had half a dozen
men under his orders to do the “strong arm” work. It was his task to
extract from these prisoners admissions which would justify their
being sent to prison if they were citizens, or being deported if
they were aliens. There was of course seldom any way to distinguish
between citizens and aliens; you just had to take a chance on it,
proceeding on the certainty that all were dangerous. Many years ago,
when Peter had been working for Pericles Priam, they had spent
several months in a boarding house, and you could tell when there
was going to be beef-steak for dinner, because you heard the cook
pounding it with the potato-masher to “tender it up;” and Peter
learned this phrase, and now used the process upon his alien Reds.
When they came into the room, Peter’s men would fall upon them and
beat them and cuff them, knocking them about from one fist to
another. If they were stubborn and would not “come across,” Peter
would take them in hand himself, remembering how successful Guffey
had been in getting things out of him by the twisting of wrists and
the bending back of fingers.

It was amazing how clever and subtle some of these fellows were.
They were just lousy foreign laborers, but they spent all their
spare time reading; you would find large collections of books in
their rooms when you made your raids, and they knew exactly what you
wanted, and would parry your questions. Peter would say: “You’re an
Anarchist, aren’t you?” And the answer would be: “I’m not an
Anarchist in the sense of the word you mean”--as if there could be
two meanings of the word “Anarchist!” Peter would say, “You believe
in violence, do you not?” And then the fellow would become
impertinent: “It is you who believe in violence, look at my face
that you have smashed.” Or Peter would say, “You don’t like this
government, do you?” And the answer would be, “I always liked it
until it treated me so badly”--all kinds of evasions like that, and
there would be a stenographer taking it down, and unless Peter could
get something into the record that was a confession, it would not be
possible to deport that Red. So Peter would fall upon him and
“tender him up” until he would answer what he was told to answer; or
maybe Peter would prepare an interview as he wanted it to be, and
the detectives would grab the man’s hand and make him sign it; or
maybe Peter would just sign it himself.

These were harsh methods, but there was no way to help it, the Reds
were so cunning. They were secretly undermining the government, and
was the government to lie down and admit its helplessness? The
answer of 100% Americanism was thundered from every wood and templed
hill in the country; also from every newspaper office. The answer
was “No!” 100% Americanism would find a way to preserve itself from
the sophistries of European Bolshevism; 100% Americanism had worked
out its formula: “If they don’t like this country, let them go back
where they come from.” But of course, knowing in their hearts that
America was the best country in the world, they didn’t want to go
back, and it was necessary to make them go.

Peter was there for that purpose, and his devoted wife was by his
side, egging him on with her feminine implacability. Gladys had
always been accustomed to refer to these people as “cattle,” and
now, when she smelled them herded together in these office rooms for
several weeks, she knew that she was right, and that no fate could
be too stern for them. Presently with Peter’s help she discovered
another bomb-plot, this time against the Attorney-General of the
country, who was directing these wholesale raids. They grabbed four
Italian Anarchists in American City, and kept them apart in special
rooms, and for a couple of months Peter labored with them to get
what he wanted out of them. Just as Peter thought he had succeeded,
his efforts were balked by one of them jumping out of the window.
The room being on the fourteenth story, this Italian Anarchist was
no longer available as a witness against himself. The incident set
the parlor Bolsheviks all over the country to raging, and caused
David Andrews to get some kind of court injunction, and make a lot
of inconvenience to Guffey’s office.

However, the work went on; the Reds were gradually sorted out, and
some who proved not to be Reds were let go again, and others were
loaded onto special Red trains and taken to the nearest ports. Some
of them went in grim silence, others went with furious cursings, and
yet others with wailings and shriekings; for many of them had
families, and they had the nerve to demand that the government
should undertake to ship their families also, or else to take care
of their families for them! The government, naturally, admitted no
such responsibility. The Reds had no end of money for printing
seditious literature, so let them use it to take care of their own!

In these various raids and examinations Peter of course met a great
many of the Reds whom he had once known as friends and intimates.
Peter had been wont to imagine himself meeting them, and to tremble
at the bare idea; but now he found that he rather enjoyed it. He was
entirely delivered from that fear of them, which had formerly
spoiled his appetite and disturbed his sleep. He had learned that
the Reds were poor creatures who did not fight back; they had no
weapons, and many of them did not even have muscles; there was
really nothing to them but talk. And Peter knew that he had the
power of organized society behind him, the police and the courts and
the jails, if necessary the army with its machine guns and airplanes
and poison gas. Not merely was it safe to pound these people, to
tread on their toes and spit in their eyes; it was safe also to
frame up anything on them, because the newspapers would always back
you up, and the public would of course believe whatever it read in
its newspapers.

No, Peter was no longer afraid of the Reds! He made up his mind that
he was not even afraid of Mac, the most dangerous Red of them all.
Mac was safely put away in jail for twenty years, and although his
case had been appealed, the court had refused to grant a stay of
sentence or to let him out on bail. As it happened, Peter got a
glimpse into Mac’s soul in jail, and knew that even that proud, grim
spirit was breaking. Mac in jail had written a letter to one of his
fellow-Reds in American City, and the post-office authorities had
intercepted the letter, and Guffey had shown it to Peter. “Write to
us!” Mac had pleaded. “For God’s sake, write to us! The worst horror
of being in jail is that you are forgotten. Do at least let us know
that somebody is thinking about us!”

So Peter knew that he was the victor, he was “top dog.” And when he
met these Reds whom he had been so afraid of, he took pleasure in
letting them feel the weight of his authority, and sometimes of his
fist. It was amusing to see the various ways in which they behaved
toward him. Some would try to plead with him, for the sake of old
times; some would cringe and whine to him; some would try to reason
with him, to touch his conscience. But mostly they would be haughty,
they would glare at him with hate, or put a sneer of contempt on
their faces. So Peter would set his “bulls” to work to improve their
manners, and a little thumb-bending and wrist-twisting would soon do
the work.




Section 83


Among the first load to be brought in was Miriam Yankovich. Miriam
had joined the Communist Party, and she had been born in Russia, so
that was all there was to her case. Peter, knew, of course that it
was Miriam who had set Rosie Stern after him and brought about his
downfall. Still, he could not help but be moved by her appearance.
She looked haggard and old, and she had a cough, and her eyes were
wild and crazy. Peter remembered her as proud and hot-tempered, but
now her pride was all gone--she flung herself on her knees before
him, and caught hold of his coat, sobbing hysterically. It appeared
that she had a mother and five young brothers and sisters who were
dependent upon her earnings; all her money had been consumed by
hospital expenses, and now she was to be deported to Russia, and
what would become of her loved ones?

Peter answered, what could he do? She had violated the law, they had
her membership card in the Communist Party, and she had admitted
that she was alien born. He tried to draw away, but she clung to
him, and went on sobbing and pleading. At least she ought to have a
chance to talk with her old mother, to tell her what to do, where to
go for help, how to communicate with Miriam in future. They were
sending her away without allowing her to have a word with her loved
ones, without even a chance to get her clothing!

Peter, as we know, had always been soft-hearted towards women, so
now he was embarrassed. In the handling of these cattle he was
carrying out the orders of his superiors; he had no power to grant
favors to any one, and he told Miriam this again and again. But she
would not listen to him. “Please, Peter, please! For God’s sake,
Peter! You know you were once a little in love with me, Peter--you
told me so--”

Yes, that was true, but it hadn’t done Peter much good. Miriam had
been interested in Mac--in Mac, that most dangerous devil, who had
given Peter so many anxious hours! She had brushed Peter to one
side, she had hardly been willing to listen to what he said; and now
she was trying to use that love she had spurned!

She had got hold of his hand, and he could not get it away from her
without violence. “If you ever felt a spark of love for a woman,”
 she cried, “surely you cannot deny such a favor--such a little
favor! Please, Peter, for the sake of old times!”

Suddenly Peter started, and Miriam too. There came a voice from the
doorway. “So this is one of your lady friends, is it?” And there
stood Gladys, staring, rigid with anger, her little hands clenched.
“So this is one of your Red sweethearts, one of your nationalized
women?” And she stamped her foot. “Get up, you hussy! Get up, you
slut!” And as Miriam continued to kneel, motionless with surprise,
Gladys rushed at her, and clutched two handfuls of her heavy black
hair, and pulled so that Miriam fell prone on the floor. “I’ll teach
you, you free lover!” she screamed. “I’ll teach you to make love to
my husband!” And she dragged Miriam about by that mop of black hair,
