country, a complex set of economic factors. The industrial life of
England depends primarily on shipping and coal. In the United States
shipping is of less importance, and railroads take the place. In the
United States the eastern portion lives mainly by manufacture, the
western by agriculture, while the south is held a generation behind by a
race problem. In France the great estates were broken up, and
agriculture fell into the hands of peasant proprietors, who are the main
support of French capitalism. In Prussia the great estates were held
intact, and remained the basis of a feudal aristocracy. In America land
changes hands freely, and therefore one-third of our farms are
mortgaged, and another third are worked by tenants. In Russia there was
practically no middle class, while in the United States there is
practically nothing but middle class; the rich have been rich for such a
short while that they still look middle class and act middle class, in
spite of all their efforts, while the working class hopes to be middle
class and is persuaded that it can become middle class. Such varying
factors produce in each country a different problem, and make inevitable
a different process of change.
The second factor is the condition of organization and education of the
workers. This likewise varies in every country, and in every part of
every country. There is a continual struggle on the part of the workers
to organize and educate themselves, and a continual effort on the part
of the ruling class to prevent this. In some industries in America you
find the workers one hundred per cent organized, and in other industries
you find them not organized at all. It is obvious that in the former
case the social change, when it comes, will be comparatively simple,
involving little bloodshed and waste; in the latter case there will be
social convulsions, rioting and destruction of property, disorganization
of industry and widespread distress.
The third factor is the state of mind of the propertied classes, the
amount of resistance they are willing to make to social change. I have
done a great deal of pleading with the masters of industry in my
country; I have written appeals to Vincent Astor and John D.
Rockefeller, to capitalist newspapers and judges and congressmen and
presidents. I have been told that this is a waste of my time; that these
people cannot learn and will not learn, and that it is foolish to appeal
either to their hearts or their understanding. But I perceive that the
class struggle is like a fraction; it has a numerator and a denominator,
and you can increase the fraction just as well by decreasing the
denominator as by increasing the numerator. To vary the simile, here are
two groups of men engaged in a tug of war, and you can affect the result
just as decisively by persuading one group to pull less hard, as by
persuading the other group to pull harder.
Picture to yourself two factories. In factory number one the owner is a
hard-driving business man, an active spirit in the so-called "open-shop"
campaign. He believes in his divine right to manage industry, and he
believes also in the gospel of "all that the traffic will bear." He
prevents his men from organizing, and employs spies to weed out the
radicals and to sow dissensions. When a strike comes, he calls in the
police and the strike-breaking agencies, and in every possible way he
makes himself hated and feared by his workers. Then some day comes the
unemployment crisis, and a wave of revolt sweeping over the country. The
workers seize that factory and set up a dictatorship of the proletariat
and a "red terror." If the owner resists, they kill him; in any case,
they wipe out his interest in the business, and do everything possible
to destroy his power over it, even to his very name. They run the
business by a shop committee, and you have for that particular factory a
Syndicalist, or even Anarchist form of social reconstruction.
Now for factory number two, whose owner is a humane and enlightened man,
studying social questions and realizing his responsibility, and the
temporary nature of his stewardship. He gives his people the best
possible working conditions, he keeps open books and discusses wages and
profits with them, he educates the young workers, he meets with their
union committees on a basis of free discussion. When the unemployment
crisis comes and the wave of revolt sweeps the country, this man and his
workers understand one another. He says: "I can no longer pay profits,
and so I can no longer keep going under the profit system; but if you
are ready to run the plant, I am ready to help you the best I can."
Manifestly, this man will continue the president of the corporation, and
if he trains his sons wisely, they will keep his place; so, instead of
having in that factory a dictatorship and a terror, you will have a
constitutional monarchy, gradually evolving into a democratic republic.
CHAPTER LXVI
CONFISCATION OR COMPENSATION
     (Shall the workers buy out the capitalists? Can they afford to do
     it, and what will be the price?)
The problem of whether the social revolution shall be violent or
peaceable depends in great part upon our answer to the question of
confiscation versus compensation. We are now going to consider, first,
the abstract rights and wrongs of the question, and, second, the
practical aspects of it.
There is a story very popular among single taxers and other advocates of
freedom of the land. An English land-owner met a stranger walking on his
estate, and rebuked him for trespassing. Said the stranger, "You own
this land?" Said the other, "I do." "And how did you get it?" "I
inherited it from my father." "And how did your father get it?" "He
inherited it from his father." So on for half a dozen more ancestors,
until at last the Englishman answered, "He fought for it." Whereupon the
stranger took off his coat and rolled up his sleeves and said, "I'll
fight you for it."
This is all there is to say on the subject of the abstract rights of
land titles. There is no title to land which is valid on a historical
basis. Everything rests upon fraud and force, continued through endless
ages of human history. We in the United States took most of our land
from the Indians, and in the process our guiding rule was that the only
good Injun was a dead Injun. We first helped the English kings to take
large sections of our country from the French and Spanish, and then we
took them from the English king by a violent revolution. We purchased
our Southwestern states from Mexico, but not until we had taken the
precaution of killing some thousands of Mexicans in war, which had the
effect of keeping down the purchase price. It would be a simple matter
to show that all public franchises are similarly tainted with fraud.
Proudhon laid down the principle that "property is theft," and from this
principle it is an obvious conclusion that society has the right to
scrap all paper titles to wealth, and to start the world's industries
over again on the basis of share and share alike.
But stop and consider for a moment. "Property is theft," you say. But go
to your corner grocery, and tell the grocer that you deny his title to
the sack of prunes which he exhibits in front of his counter. He will
tell you that he has paid for them; but you answer that the prunes were
raised on stolen land, and shipped to him over a railroad whose
franchise was obtained by bribery. Will that convince the grocer? It
will not. Neither will it convince the policeman or the judge, nor will
it convince the voters of the country. Most people have a deeply rooted
conviction that there are rights to property now definitely established
and made valid by law. If you have paid taxes on land for a certain
period, the land "belongs" to you; and I am sure you might agitate from
now to kingdom come without persuading the American people that New
Mexico ought to be returned to Mexico, or the western prairies to the
Indian tribes.
Such are the facts; now let us apply them to the right of exploitation,
embodied in the ownership of a certain number of bonds or shares of
stock in the United States Steel Corporation. "Pass a law," says the
Socialist, "providing for the taking over of United States Steel by the
government." At once to every owner comes one single thought--are you
going to buy this stock, or are you going to confiscate it? If you
attempt confiscation, the courts will declare the law unconstitutional;
and you either have to defy the courts, which is revolutionary action,
or to amend the constitution. If you adopt the latter course, you have
before you a long period of agitation; you have to carry both houses of
Congress by a two-thirds majority, and the legislatures of three-fourths
of the States. You have to do this in the face of the most bitter and
infuriated opposition of those who are defending what they regard as
their rights. You have to meet the arguments of the entire capitalist
press of the country, and you have the certainty of widespread bribery
of your elected officials.
The prospect of doing all this under the forms of law seems extremely
discouraging; so come the Syndicalists, saying, "Let us seize the
factories, and stop the exploitation at the point of production." So
come the Communists, saying, "Let us overthrow capitalist government,
and break the net of bourgeois legality, and establish a dictatorship of
the proletariat, which will put an end to privilege and class domination
all at once." What are we to say to these different programs?
Suppose we buy out the stockholders of United States Steel, and issue
to them government bonds, what have we accomplished? Nothing, say the
advocates of confiscation; we have changed the form of exploitation, but
the substance of it remains the same. The stockholders get their money
from the United States government, instead of from the United States
Steel Corporation; but they get their money just the same--the product,
not of their labor, but of the labor of the steel workers. Suppose we
carried out the same procedure all along the line; suppose the
government took over all industries, and paid for their securities with
government bonds. Then we should have capitalism administered by a
capitalist government, instead of by our present masters of industry; we
should have a state capitalism, instead of a private capitalism; we
should have the government buying and selling products, and exploiting
labor, and paying over the profits to an hereditary privileged class.
The capitalist system would go on just the same, except that labor would
have one all-powerful tyrant, instead of many lesser tyrants, as at
present.
So argue the advocates of confiscation. And the advocates of purchase
reply that in buying the securities of United States Steel, we should
fix the purchase price at the present market value of the property, and
that price, once fixed, would be permanent; all future unearned
increment of the steel industry would belong to the government instead
of to private owners. Consider, for example, what happened during the
world war. When I was a boy, soon after the Steel Trust was launched,
its stock was down to something like six dollars, and I knew small
investors who lost every dollar they had put in. But during the war,
steel stock soared to a hundred and thirty-six dollars per share; it
paid dividends of some thirty per cent per year, and accumulated
enormous surpluses besides.
The same thing was true of practically all the big corporations.
According to Secretary of the Treasury McAdoo, there were coal companies
which paid as high as eight hundred per cent per year; that is to say,
the profits in one year were eight times the total investment. Assuming
that our government bonds paid five per cent, it appears that the owners
of these coal companies got one hundred and sixty times as much under
our present private property system as they would have got under a
system of state purchase. Even completely dominated by capitalism as our
courts are today, they would not dare require us to pay for industries
more than six per cent on the market value of the investment; and from
what I know of the inside graft of American big business that would be
restricting the private owners to less than one-fourth of what they are
getting at present.
We have already pointed out the economies that can be made by putting
industry under a uniform system. But all these, important as they are,
amount to little in comparison with the one great consideration, which
is that by purchasing large scale industry, we should break the "iron
ring"; we should thenceforth be able to do our manufacturing for use
instead of for profit, and so we should put an end to unemployment. Our
cheerful workers would throng into the factories, to produce for
themselves instead of for masters; and in one year of that we should so
change the face of our country that a return to the system of private
ownership would be unthinkable. In one year we could raise production to
such a point that the interest on the bonds we had issued would be like
the crumbs left over from a feast.
CHAPTER LXVII
EXPROPRIATING THE EXPROPRIATORS
     (Discusses the dictatorship of the proletariat, and its chances for
     success in the United States.)
I am aware that the suggestion of paying for the industries we socialize
will sound tame and uninspiring to a lot of ardent young radicals of my
acquaintance. They will shake their heads sadly and say that I am
getting middle-aged and tired. We have seen in Russia and Hungary and
other places, so many illustrations of the quick and easy way to
expropriate the expropriators that now there is in every country a
considerable group of radicals who will hear to no program less
picturesque than barricades and councils of action.
In considering this question, I set aside all considerations of abstract
right or wrong, the justification for violence in the overthrow of
capitalist society. I put the question on the basis of cash, pure and
simple. It will cost a certain amount of money to buy out the owners,
and that money will have to be paid, as it is paid at present, out of
the labor of the useful workers. The workers don't want to pay any more
than they have to; the question they must consider is, which way will
they have to pay most. The advocates of the dictatorship of the
proletariat are lured by the delightful prospect of not having to pay
anything; and if that were really possible it would undoubtedly be the
better way. But we have to consider this question: Is the program of not
having to pay anything a reality, or is it only a dream? Suppose it
should turn out that we have to pay anyhow, and that in the case of
violent revolution we pay much more, and in addition run serious risk of
not getting what we pay for?
Here are enormous industries, running at full blast, and it is proposed
that some morning the workers shall rise up and seize them, and turn out
the owners and managers, and run the industries themselves. Will anybody
maintain that this can be done without stopping production in those
factories for a single day? Certainly production must stop during the
time you are fighting for possession; and the cruel experience of
Russia proves that it will stop during the further time you are fighting
to keep possession, and to put down counter-revolutionary conspiracies.
Also, alas, it will stop during the time you are looking for somebody
who knows how to run that industry; it will stop during the time you are
organizing your new administrative staff. You may discover to your
consternation that it stops during the time you are arranging to get
other industries to give you credit, and to ship you raw materials; also
during the time you are finding the workers in other industries who want
your product, and are able to pay for it with something that you can
use, or that you can sell in a badly disorganized market.
And all the time that you are arranging these things, you are going to
have the workers at your back, not getting any pay, or being paid with
your paper money which they distrust, and growling and grumbling at you
because you are not running things as you promised. You see, the mass of
the workers are not going to understand, because you haven't made them
understand; you have brought about the great change by your program of a
dictatorship, of action by an "enlightened minority"; and now you have
the terror that the unenlightened majority may be won back by their
capitalist masters, and may kick you out of control, or even stand you
up against a wall and shoot you by a firing squad. And all the time you
are worrying over these problems, who can estimate the total amount the
factory might have been producing if it had been running at full blast?
Whatever that difference is, remember, it is paid by the workers; and
might that sum not just as well have been used to buy out the owners?
If we were back in the old days of hand labor and crude, unorganized
production, I admit that the only way to benefit the slaves might be to
turn out the masters by force. But here we have a social system of
infinite complexity, a delicate and sensitive machine, which no one
person in the world, and no group of persons understands thoroughly. In
the running of such a machine a slight blunder may cost a fortune; and
certainly all the skill, all the training, all the loyal services of our
expert engineers and managers is needed if we are to remodel that
machine while keeping it running. The amount of wealth which we could
save by the achieving of that feat would be sufficient to maintain a
class of owners in idleness and luxury for a generation; and so I say,
with all the energy and conviction I possess, pay them! Pay them
anything that is necessary, in order to avoid civil war and social
disorganization! Pay them so much that they can have no possible cause
of complaint, that the most hide-bound capitalistic-minded judge in the
country cannot find a legal flaw in the bargain! Pay them so that every
engineer and efficiency expert and manager and foreman and stenographer
and office-boy will stay on the job and work double time to put the
enterprise through! Pay them such a price that even Judge Gary and John
D. Rockefeller will be willing to help us do the job of social
readjustment!
"Ah, yes," my young radical friends will say, "that sounds all very
beautiful, but it's the old Utopian dream of brotherhood and class
co-operation. That will never happen on this earth, until you have first
abolished capitalism." My answer is, it could happen tomorrow if we had
sufficient intelligence to make it happen. That it does not happen is
simply absence of intelligence. And will anyone maintain that it is the
part of an intelligent man to advocate a less intelligent course than he
knows? What is the use of our intelligence, if we abdicate its
authority, and give ourselves up to programs of action which we know are
blind and destructive and wasteful? We may see a great vessel going on
the rocks; we may feel certain that it is going, in spite of everything
we can do; but shall we fail to do what we can to make those in the
vessel realize how they might get safely into the harbor?
We have had the Russian revolution before us for four years. Mankind
will spend the next hundred years in studying it, and still have much to
learn, but the broad outlines of the great experiment are now plain
before our eyes. Russia was a backward country, and she tried to fight a
modern war, and it broke her down. She had practically no middle class,
and her ruling class was rotten, and so the revolutionists had their
chance, and they seized it. Perhaps it would be more correct to say that
they came to the rescue of Russia, saving her from the hands of those
who were trying to force her to fight, when she was utterly exhausted
and incapable of fighting.
Anyhow, here was your dictatorship of the proletariat. It turned out all
the executive experts, or nearly all of them, because they were tainted
with the capitalist psychology; and then straightway it had to call them
back and make terms with them, because industry could not be run without
them. And of course these engineers and managers sabotaged the
revolution--every non-proletarian sabotaged it, both inside Russia and
outside. You denounced this, and protested against this, but all the
same it happened; it was human nature that it should happen, and it is
one of the things you have to count on, in any and every country where
you attempt the social revolution by minority action.
They have got power in Russia, and they dream of getting power in
America in the same way. But there is no such disorganization in our
country as there was in Russia, and it would take a generation of civil
strife to bring us to such a condition. We have a middle class,
powerful, thoroughly organized, and thoroughly conscious. Moreover, this
class has ideals of majority rule, which are bred in its very bones; and
while they have never realized these ideals, they think they have, and
they are prepared to fight to the last gasp in that belief. All that the
leaders of Moscow have to do is to bring about an attempt at forcible
revolution, and they will discover in American society sufficient power
of organization and of brutal action to put their movement out of
business for a generation.
A hundred years ago we had chattel slavery firmly fixed as the
industrial system of one-half of these United States. To far-seeing
statesmen it was manifest that chattel slavery was a wasteful system,
and that it could not exist in competition with free labor. There was a
great American, Henry Clay, who came forward with a proposition that the
people of the United States, through their government, should raise the
money, about a billion dollars, and compensate the owners of all the
slaves and set them free. For most of his lifetime Henry Clay pleaded
for that plan. But the masters of the South were making money fast; they
knew how to handle the negro as a slave, they could not imagine handling
him as a free laborer, and they would not hear to the plan. On the other
side of Mason and Dixon's line were fanatical men of "principle," who
said that slavery was wrong, and that was the end of it. There is a
stanza by Emerson discussing this question of confiscation versus
compensation:
    Pay ransom to the owner
      And fill the bag to the brim.
    Who is the owner? The slave is owner,
      And ever was. Pay him.
This, you see, is magnificent utterance, but as economic philosophy it
is reckless and unsound. The abolitionists of the North took up this
poem, and the slave power of the South answered with a battle-song:
    War to the hilt,
    Theirs be the guilt,
    Who fetter the freeman to ransom the slave!
And so the issue had to be fought out. It cost a million human lives and
five billions of treasure, and it set American civilization back a
generation. And now we confront exactly the same kind of emergency, and
are coming to exactly the same method of solution. We have white
wage-slaves clamoring for their freedom, and we have business men making
money out of them, and exercising power over them, and finding it
convenient and pleasant. They are going to fight it out in a civil war,
and which side is going to win I am not sure. But when the historians
come to write about it a couple of generations from now, let them be
able to record that there were a few men in the country who pleaded for
a sane and orderly and human solution of the problem, and who continued
to voice their convictions even in the midst of the cruel and wasteful
strife!
CHAPTER LXVIII
THE PROBLEM OF THE LAND
     (Discusses the land values tax as a means of social readjustment,
     and compares it with other programs.)
The writer of this book has been watching the social process for twenty
years, trying to figure out one thing--how the change from competition
to co-operation can be brought about with the minimum of human waste. He
has come to realize that the first step is a mental one; to get the
people to want the change. That means that the program must be simple,
so that the masses can understand it. As a social engineer you might
work out a perfect plan, but find yourself helpless, because it was hard
to explain. As illustration of what I mean, I cite the single tax, a
theory which has a considerable hold in America, but which politically
has been utterly ineffective.
A few years ago a devoted enthusiast in Southern California, Luke North,
started what he called the "Great Adventure" to set free the idle land.
In the campaign of 1918 I gave my help to this movement, and when it
failed I went back and took stock, and revised my conclusions concerning
the single tax. Theoretically the movement has a considerable percentage
of right on its side. Land, in the sense that single taxers use it,
meaning all the natural sources of wealth, is certainly an important
basis of exploitation, and if you were to tax land values to the full
extent, you would abolish a large portion of privilege--just how large
would be hard to figure. I was perfectly willing to begin with that
portion, so I helped with the "Great Adventure." But a practical test
convinced me that it could never persuade a majority of the people.
The single tax proposal is to abolish all taxes except the tax on land
values. Then come the associations of the bankers and merchants and real
estate speculators, crying in outraged horror, "What? You propose to let
the rich man's stocks and bonds go free? You propose to put no tax on
his cash in the vaults and on his wife's jewels? You propose to abolish
the income tax and the inheritance tax, and put all the costs of
government on the poor man's lot?"
Now, of course, I know perfectly well that the rich man dodges most of
his income tax and most of his inheritance tax. I know that he pays a
nominal pittance on his cash in the bank and on his wife's jewels, and
likewise on his stocks and bonds. I know that the corporations issuing
these stocks and bonds would be far more heavily hit by a tax on the
natural resources they own; they could not evade this tax, and they know
it, and that is why they are moved to such deep concern for the fate of
the poor man and his lot. I know that the tax on the poor man's lot
would be infinitesimal in comparison with the tax on the great
corporation. But how can I explain all this to the poor man? To
understand it requires a knowledge of the complexities of our economic
system which the voters simply have not got.
How much easier to take the bankers and speculators at their word! To
answer, "All right, gentlemen, since you like the income and inheritance
taxes, the taxes on stocks and bonds and money and jewels, we will leave
these taxes standing. Likewise, we assent to your proposition that the
poor man should not pay taxes on his lot, while there are rich men and
corporations in our state holding twenty million acres of land out of
use for purposes of speculation. We will therefore arrange a land values
tax on a graduated basis, after the plan of the income tax; we will
allow one or two thousand dollars' worth of land exempt from all
taxation, provided it is used by the owner; and we will put a graduated
tax on all individuals and corporations owning a greater quantity of
land, so that in the case of individuals and corporations owning more
than ten thousand dollars' worth of land, we will take the full rental
value, and thus force all idle land into the market."
Now, the provision above outlined would have spiked every single
argument used by the opposition to the "Great Adventure" in California
in 1918; it would have made the real intent of the measure so plain as
to win automatically the additional votes needed to carry the election.
But I tried for three years, without being able to persuade a single one
of the "Great Adventure" leaders to recognize this plain fact. The
single taxer has his formula, the land values tax and no other tax, and
all else is heresy. Actually, the president of a big single tax
organization in the East declared that by the advocacy of my idea I had
"betrayed the single tax!" We may take this as an illustration of the
difference between dogmatism and science in the strategy of the class
struggle.
I first suggested my program immediately after the war, with the
provision that the land thrown on the market should be purchased by the
state, and used to establish co-operative agricultural colonies for the
benefit of returned soldiers. But we have preferred to have our returned
soldiers stay without work, or to displace the men and women who had
been gallantly "doing their bit." By this means we soon had five million
men out of work, and many other millions bitterly discontented with
their wages. Again I took up the proposition for a graduated land tax,
with the suggestion that the money should be used to provide a pension,
first for every dependent man or woman over sixty years of age in the
country, and second for every child in the country whose parents were
unable properly to support it, whether because they were dead or sick or
unemployed.
You may note that in advocating this program, you would not have to
convert anybody to any foreign theories, nor would you have to use any
long words; you would not have to say anything against the constitution,
nor to break any law, nor to give occasion for patriotic mobs to tar and
feather you. To every poor man in your state you could say, "If you own
your own house and lot, this bill will lift the taxes from both, and
therefore it will mean fifty or a hundred dollars a year in your pocket.
If you do not own a home, it will take millions of idle acres out of the
hands of the speculators, and break the price of real estate, so that
you can have either a lot in the city or a farm in the country with
ease."
Furthermore, you could say, "This measure will have the effect of
drawing the unemployed from the cities at once, and so stopping the
downward course of wages. At the same time that wages hold firm, the
cost of food will go down, because there will be millions more men
working on the land. In addition to that, the state will have an
enormous income, many millions of dollars a year, taken exclusively from
those who are owning and not producing. This money will be expended in
saving from suffering and humiliation the old people of the country, who
have worked hard all their lives and have been thrown on the scrap-heap;
also in making certain that every child in the country has food enough
and care enough to make him into a normal and healthy human being, so
that he can do his share of work in the world and pay his own way
through life."
I submit the above measure to those who believe that the road to social
freedom lies by some sort of land tax. But before you take it up I
invite you to consider whether there may not be some other way, even
easier. There is a homely old saying to the effect that "molasses
catches more flies than vinegar"; and I am always looking for some way
that will get the poor what they want, without frightening the rich any
more than necessary.
I know a certain type of radical whom this question always exasperates.
He answers that the opposition will be equally strong to any plan; the
rich will do anything for the poor except get off their backs--and so
on. In reply I mention that among the most ardent radicals I know are
half a dozen millionaires; I know one woman who is worth a million, who
pleads day and night for social revolution, while the people who work
for her are devoted and respectful wage slaves. Herbert Spencer said
that his idea of a tragedy was a generalization killed by a fact. I
shall not say that the existence of millionaire Socialists and parlor
Bolsheviks kills the theory of the class struggle, but I certainly say
it compels us to take thought of the rich as well as of the poor in
planning the strategy of our campaign.
And manifestly, if we want to consider the rich, the very last device we
shall use is that of a tax. Nobody likes to pay taxes; everybody agrees
in classifying taxes with death. Each feels that he is paying more than
his share already; each knows that the government which collects the tax
is incompetent or worse. Stop and recall what we have proven about the
"iron ring"; the possibilities of production latent in our society.
Realize the bearings of this all-important fact, that we can offer to
mankind a social revolution which will make everybody richer, instead of
making some people poorer! Exactly how to do this is the next thing we
have to inquire.
CHAPTER LXIX
THE CONTROL OF CREDIT
     (Deals with money, the part it plays in the restriction of
     industry, and may play in the freeing of industry.)
How is it that the rich are becoming richer? The single taxer answers
that it is by monopoly of the land, the natural sources of wealth; the
Socialist answers that it is by the control of the machinery of
production. But if you go among the rich and make inquiry, you speedily
learn that these factors, large as they are, amount to little in
comparison with another factor, the control of credit. There are hosts
of little capitalists and business men who deal in land and produce
goods with machinery, but the men who make the real fortunes and
dominate the modern world are those who control credit, and whose
business is, not the production of anything, but speculation and the
manipulation of markets.
"Money makes the mare go," our ancestors used to say; and money today
determines the destiny of empires. What is money? We think of it as gold
and silver coins, and pieces of engraved paper promising to pay gold and
silver coins. But the report of the U. S. Comptroller of the Currency
for 1919 shows that the business of the country was done, 5% by such
means and 95 % by checks; so, for practical purposes, we may say that
money consists of men's willingness to trust other men, or groups or
organizations of men, when they make written promise to pay. In other
words, money is credit; and the control of credit means the control of
industry. The problem of social readjustment is mainly but the problem
of taking the control of credit out of the hands of private individuals,
and making it a public or social function.
Who controls credit today? The bankers. And how do they control it? We
give it to them; we, the masses of the people, who take them our money
and leave it with them. A very little real money in hand becomes, under
our banking system, the basis of a great amount of imaginary money. The
Federal Reserve law requires that banks shall hold in reserve from
seven to thirteen per cent of demand deposits; which means, in
substance, that when you leave a dollar with a banker, the banker is
allowed, under the law, to turn that dollar into anywhere from seven to
thirteen dollars, and lend those dollars out. In addition, he deposits
his reserves with the Federal Reserve bank, and that bank keeps only
thirty-five per cent in reserve--in other words, the seven to thirteen
imaginary dollars are multiplied again by three.
Under the stress of war, this process of credit inflation has been
growing like the genii let out of the bottle. Under the law, the Federal
Reserve banks are supposed to hold a gold reserve of 40% to secure our
currency. But in December, 1919, these banks held a trifle over a
billion dollars' worth of gold, while our paper money was over four
billion. In addition, our banks have over thirty-three billions of
deposits, and all these are supposed to be secured by gold; in addition,
there are twenty-five billions of government bonds, and uncounted
billions of private notes, bonds and accounts, all supposed to be
payable in gold. So it appears that about one per cent of our
outstanding money is real, and the rest is imaginary--that is, it is
credit.
The point for you to get clear is this: The great mass of this imaginary
money is created by law, and we have the power to abolish it or to
change the ownership of it at any time we develop the necessary
intelligence. Let us consider the ordinary paper money, the one and two
and five and ten dollar "bills," with which we plain people do most of
our business. These are Federal Reserve notes, and there are about three
billions of them; how do they come to be? Why, we grant to the national
banks by law the right to make this money; the government prints it for
them, and they put it into circulation. And what does it cost them? They
pay one per cent for the use of the money; in some cases they pay only
one-half of one per cent; and then they lend it to us, the people--and
what do they charge us? The answer is available in a recent report of
the U. S. Comptroller of the Currency, as follows:
"I have the record of the loans made by one Texas national bank to a
hard-working woman who owned a little farm a few miles from town. She
borrowed, in the aggregate, $2,375, making about thirty loans during the
year. Listen to the details of the robbery: $162.50 for 30 days at 36
per cent; $377. for 34 days at 44 per cent; $620.25 for 23 days at 77
per cent; $11. for 30 days at 120 per cent; $21.50 for 30 days at 90
per cent; $33. for 2 days at 93 per cent; $27. for 15 days at 195 per
cent; $110. for 30 days at 120 per cent--that was to buy a horse for her
plowing; $20 for 48 days at 187 per cent; $6 for 10 days at 720 per
cent; $7 for 3 days at 2,000 per cent, and so on; every cent paid off by
what sweat and struggle only God knows."
In Oklahoma, where the legal rate of interest is six per cent, with ten
per cent as the maximum under special contract, harassed farmers paid
all the way from 12 to 2400 per cent, with 40 per cent as the average.
In the case of one bank, the Comptroller proved that not a single
solitary loan had been made under fifteen per cent. He cited one
particular case that he asked to be regarded as typical. In the spring
the farmer went to the bank and arranged for a loan of $200. Out of his
necessity he was compelled to pay 55 per cent interest charge. Unable to
meet the note at maturity, he had to agree to 100 per cent interest in
order to get the renewal. The next renewal forced him up to 125 per
cent. For four years the thing went on, and all the drudgery of the
father and the mother and the six children could never keep down the
terrible interest or wipe out the principal. As a finish the bank
swooped down and sold him out; the wretched man, barefoot and hungry,
went to work clearing a swamp, caught pneumonia and died; the county
buried him, and neighbors raised a purse to send the widow and children
back to friends in Arkansas.
This is the thing called the Money Trust in action, and this is the
power we have to take out of private control. It is our first job, and
all other jobs are in comparison hardly worth mentioning. How are we
going to do it?
The farmers of North Dakota have shown one way. They took the control of
their state government into their own hands, and the most important and
significant thing they did was to start a public bank. The interests
fought them tooth and nail; not merely the interests of North Dakota,
not merely of the Northwest, but of the entire United States. They
fought them in the law courts, up to the United States Supreme Court,
which decided in favor of the people of North Dakota. Therefore, make
note of this vital fact--the most important single fact in the strategy
of the class struggle--every state can, under the constitution, have a
public bank; every city and town can have one, and no court can ever
forbid it!
Therefore, I say to all Socialists, labor men and social reformers of
every shade and variety, nail at the top of your program of action the
demand for a public bank in your community, to take the control of
credit out of the hands of speculators and use it for the welfare of the
people. Make it your first provision that every dollar of public money
shall be deposited in this bank and every detail of public financing
handled by this bank; make it your second provision that the purpose of
this bank shall be to put all private banks out of business, and take
over their power for the people.
At present, you understand, it is taken for granted that the first
purpose of the government is to foster the private credit system. Take,
for example, the postal savings bank. The private banks fought this for
a generation, and finally they allowed us to have it, on condition that
it should be turned into a device for collecting money for them. Our
postal bank turns over all its money to the private banks, at the
grotesque rate of two per cent interest; and recently I read of the
director of the postal bank appearing before a convention of bankers,
asking for some small favor, and humbly explaining that it was not his
idea to make the postal bank a rival of the private savings banks. Why
should he not do so? Let us nail it to our radical program that the
postal savings bank is to fight for business, just as do the private
banks, and lend its funds direct to the people on good security.
Let our Federal banking system also become the servant of the public
welfare, and let its energy be devoted to breaking the strangle-hold of
predatory finance on our industry. Let the government issue all money,
and use it for the transfer of industry from private into public hands.
Do we want to socialize our railroads, our coal mines, our telegraphs
and telephones? Do we want to buy them, in order to avoid the wastes of
civil war and insurrection? We have agreed that we do; and here we have
the way of doing it. If the bankers can create, out of our willingness
to trust them, billions upon billions of imaginary money, then so can
we, the people of the United States, create money out of our willingness
to trust ourselves. And do not let anybody fool you for a single second
by talking about "fiat money" and "inflation of the currency." If you
are paying twice as much for everything as you did before the war, you
are paying it because the bankers have doubled the amount of money in
circulation--for that reason and that alone. That double money the
bankers own; the only question now to be decided is, who is to own the
double money that will be created tomorrow?
Make note of the fact that it costs nothing to start a public bank. If
you want to put the steel trust out of business by competition, you have
several hundred thousand dollars worth of rolling mills and ore land to
buy; but the banks can be put out of business by nothing but a law. The
material parts of a bank, the white marble columns and bronze railings
and mahogany trimmings, are as nothing compared with the inner soul of a
bank, its control of the life-blood of your business and mine; and this
we can have for the taking. We can keep our own "credit"; instead of
sending it to Wall Street, where speculators use it to bleed us white,
we can set it to building up our own community, under the direction of
officials whom we select. Also, we can have our gigantic national bank,
controlling all our thirty-three billions of dollars of deposits, and
likewise the hundreds of billions of credit built upon them.
The first time you suggest this plan to a banker or business man, you
will be told that increase of money by the government does not benefit
labor or the general consumer; "inflation of the currency" causes prices
to go up correspondingly. To this I will furnish an effective reply:
that at the same time the government issues new money, the government
will also fix prices; and then watch the face of your banker or business
man! If he is a man who can really think, and is not just repeating like
a parrot the formulas he has learned from others, he will perceive that
the combination of currency inflation and price-fixing would catch him
as the two parts of a nut-cracker catch a nut; and he will know that you
can take the meat out of him any time you please. He may argue that it
is not fair; but point out to him that it is exactly what the big banks
and the trusts have been doing to us right along--increasing the amount
of money in circulation, and at the same time raising the prices we pay
for goods, and so taking out the meat from us nuts!
We have agreed that we do not mean to be unfair either to the banker or
the manufacturer; we are simply going to stop their being unfair to us.
We are going to convince them that their power to catch us in a
nut-cracker is forever at an end. We allow them six per cent on their
investments, and guarantee them this by turning over to them some of our
new money--that is, government bonds. When we have thoroughly convinced
them that they can't get any more, they will take these bonds and quit;
and thus simply, without violence or destruction of property, we shall
slide from our present system of commercial cannibalism into the new
co-operative commonwealth.
We have had "cheap money" campaigns in the United States many times, and
as this book is written, it becomes evident that we are to have another.
Henry Ford is advocating the idea, and so is Thomas A. Edison. The
present writer would like to make plain that in supporting such a
program, he does it for one purpose, and one only--the taking over of
the industries by the community. The creation of state credit for that
purpose is the next step in the progress of human society; whereas the
creation of state credit for the continuance of the profit system is a
piece of futility amounting to imbecility. This distinction is
fundamental, and is the test by which to judge the usefulness of any new
program, and the intelligence of those who advocate it.
CHAPTER LXX
THE CONTROL OF INDUSTRY
     (Discusses various programs for the change from industrial
     autocracy to industrial democracy.)
The program of the railway workers for the democratic management of
their industry is embodied in the Plumb plan. You may learn about it by
addressing the weekly paper of the railway brotherhoods, which is called
"Labor," and is published in Washington, D. C. It appears that our
transportation industry can be at once socialized, because of a clause
in the constitution which gives the national government power over
