"Allons, bon!" exclaimed Smith, rising. "It's the unusual that happens
in life, my dear Quintana. And now we'll take a little inventory of
these marvellous gems before we part.... Sit very, very still,
Quintana,--unless you want to lie stiller still.... I'll let you take a
modest peep at the Flaming Jewel----" busily unwrapping the
packet--"just one little peep, Quintana----"
He unwrapped the paper. Two cakes of sugar-milk chocolate lay within.
Quintana turned white, then deeply, heavily red. Then he smiled in
ghastly fashion:
"Yes," he said hoarsely, "as you have just said, sir, it is usually the
unusual which happens in the world."
EPISODE SIX
THE JEWEL AFLAME
I
Mike Clinch and his men "drove" Star Peak, and drew a blanket covert.
There was a new shanty atop, camp débris, plenty of signs of recent
occupation everywhere,--hot embers in which offal still smouldered,
bottles odorous of claret dregs, and an aluminum culinary outfit,
unwashed, as though Quintana and his men had departed in haste.
Far in the still valley below, Mike Clinch squatted beside the runway he
had chosen, a cocked rifle across his knees.
The glare in his small, pale eyes waned and flared as distant sounds
broke the forest silence, grew vague, died out,--the fairy clatter of a
falling leaf, the sudden scurry of a squirrel, a feathery rustle of
swift wings in play or combat, the soft crash of a rotten bough sagging
earthward to enrich the soil that grew it.
And, as Clinch squatted there, murderously intent, ever the fixed
obsession burned in his fever brain, stirring his thin lips to incessant
muttering,--a sort of soundless invocation, part chronicle, part prayer:
"O God A'mighty, in your big, swell mansion up there, all has went
contrary with me sence you let that there damn millionaire, Harrod, come
into this here forest.... He went and built unto hisself an
habitation, and he put up a wall of law all around me where I was
earnin' a lawful livin' in Thy nice, clean wilderness.... And now comes
this here Quintana and robs my girlie.... I promised her mother I'd
make a lady of her little Eve.... I loved my wife, O Lord.... Once she
showed me a piece in the Bible,--I ain't never found it sence,--but it
said: 'And the woman she fled into the wilderness where there was a
place prepared for her of God.' ... That's what you wrote into your
own Bible, O God! You can't go back on it. I seen it.
"And now I wanta to ask, What place did you prepare for my Eve? What
spot have you reference to? You didn't mean my 'Dump,' did you? Why,
Lord, that ain't no place for no lady.... And now Quintana has went and
robbed me of what I'd saved up for Eve.... Does that go with Thee, O
Lord? No, it don't. And it don't go with me, neither. I'm a-goin' to git
Quintana. Then I'm a-goin' to git them two minks that robbed my
girlie,--I am!... Jake Kloon, he done it in cahoots with Earl Leverett;
and Quintana set 'em on. And they gotta die, O Lord of Israel, them
there Egyptians is about to hop the twig.... I ain't aimin' to be mean
to nobody. I buy hootch of them that runs it. I eat mountain mutton in
season and out. I trade with law-breakers, I do. But, Lord, I gotta get
my girlie outa here; and Harrod he walled me in with the chariots and
spears of Egypt, till I nigh went wild.... And now comes Quintana, and
here I be a-lyin' out to get him so's my girlie can become a lady,
same's them fine folks with all their butlers and automobiles and
what-not----"
A far crash in the forest stilled his twitching lips and stiffened every
iron muscle.
As he lifted his rifle, Sid Hone came into the glade.
"Yahoo! Yahoo!" he called. "Where be you, Mike?"
Clinch slowly rose, grasping his rifle, his small, grey eyes ablaze.
"Where's Quintana?" he demanded.
"H'ain't you seen nobody?"
"No."
In the intense silence other sounds broke sharply in the sunset forest;
Harvey Chase's halloo rang out from the rocks above; Blommers and the
Hastings boys came slouching through the ferns.
Byron Hastings greeted Clinch with upflung gun: "Me and Jim heard a shot
away out on Drowned Valley," he announced. "Was you out that way,
Mike?"
"No."
One by one the men who had driven Star Peak lounged up in the red sunset
light, gathering around Clinch and wiping the sweat from sun-reddened
faces.
"Someone's in Drowned Valley," repeated Byron. "Them minks slid off'n
Star in a hurry, I reckon, judgin' how they left their shanty. Phew! It
stunk! They had French hootch, too."
"Mebby Leverett and Kloon told 'em we was fixin' to visit them,"
suggested Blommers.
"They didn't know," said Clinch.
"Where's Hal Smith?" inquired Hone.
Clinch made no reply. Blommers silently gnawed a new quid from the
remains of a sticky plug.
"Well," inquired Jim Hastings finally, "do we quit, Mike, or do we
still-hunt in Drowned Valley?"
"Not me, at night," remarked Blommers drily.
"Not amongst them sink-holes," added Hone.
Suddenly Clinch turned and stared at him. Then the deadly light from his
little eyes shone on the others one by one.
"Boys," he said, "I gotta get Quintana. I can't never sleep another wink
till I get that man. Come on. Act up like gents all. Let's go."
Nobody stirred.
"Come on," repeated Clinch softly. But his lips shrank back, twitching.
As they looked at him they saw his teeth.
"All right, all right," growled Hone, shouldering his rifle with a jerk.
The Hastings boys, young and rash, shuffled into the trail. Blommers
hesitated, glanced askance at Clinch, and instantly made up his mind to
take a chance with the sink-holes rather than with Clinch.
"God A'mighty, Mike, what be you aimin' to do?" faltered Harvey.
"I'm aimin' to stop the inlet and outlet to Drowned Valley, Harve,"
replied Clinch in his pleasant voice. "God is a-goin' to deliver
Quintana into my hands."
"All right. What next?"
"Then," continued Clinch, "I cal'late to set down and wait."
"How long?"
"Ask God, boys. I don't know. All I know is that whatever is livin' in
Drowned Valley at this hour has gotta live and die there. For it can't
never live to come outen that there morass walkin' onto two legs like a
real man."
He moved slowly along the file of sullen men, his rifle a-trail in one
huge fist.
"Boys," he said, "I got first. There ain't no sink-hole deep enough to
drowned me while Eve needs me.... And my little girlie needs me bad....
After she gits what's her'n, then I don't care no more...." He looked up
into the sky, where the last ashes of sunset faded from the zenith....
"Then I don't care," he murmured. "Like's not I'll creep away like some
shot-up critter, n'kinda find some lone, safe spot, n'kinda fix me f'r
a long nap.... I guess that'll be the way ... when Eve's a lady down to
Noo York 'r'som'ers----" he added vaguely.
Then, still looking up at the fading heavens, he moved forward, head
lifted, silent, unhurried, with the soundless, stealthy, and certain
tread of those who walk unseeing and asleep.
II
Clinch had not taken a dozen strides before Hal Smith loomed up ahead in
the rosy dusk, driving in Leverett before him.
An exclamation of fierce exultation burst from Clinch's thin lips as he
flung out one arm, indicating Smith and his clinking prisoner:
"Who was that gol-dinged catamount that suspicioned Hal? I wa'nt worried
none, neither. Hal's a gent. Mebbe he sticks up folks, too, but he's a
gent. And gents is honest or they ain't gents."
Smith came up at his easy, tireless gait, hustling Leverett along with
prods from gun-butt or muzzle, as came handiest.
The prisoner turned a ghastly visage on Clinch, who ignored him.
"Got my packet, Hal?" he demanded.
Smith poked Leverett with his rifle: "Tune up," he said; "tell Clinch
your story."
As a caged rat looks death in the face, his ratty wits working like
lightning and every atom of cunning and ferocity alert for attack or
escape, so the little, mean eyes of Earl Leverett became fixed on Clinch
like two immobile and glassy beads of jet.
"G'wan," said Clinch softly, "spit it out."
"Jake done it," muttered Leverett, thickly.
"Done what?"
"Stole that there packet o' yourn--whatever there was into it."
"Who put him up to it?"
"A fella called Quintana."
"What was there in it for Jake?" inquired Clinch pleasantly.
"Ten thousand."
"How about you?"
"I told 'em I wouldn't touch it. Then they pulled their guns on me, and
I was scared to squeal."
"So that was the way?" asked Clinch in his even, reassuring voice.
Leverett's eyes travelled stealthily around the circle of men, then
reverted to Clinch.
"I dassn't touch it," he said, "but I dassn't squeal.... I was huntin'
onto Drowned Valley when Jake meets up with me."
"'I got the packet,' he sez, 'and I'm a-going to double criss-cross
Quintana, I am, and beat it. Don't you wish you was whacks with me?'
"'No,' sez I, 'honesty is my policy, no matter what they tell about me.
S'help me God, I ain't never robbed no trap and I ain't no skin thief,
whatever lies folks tell. All I ever done was run a little hootch,
same's everybody.'"
He licked his lips furtively, his cold, bright eyes fastened on Clinch.
"G'wan, Earl," nodded the latter, "heave her up."
"That's all. I sez, 'Good-bye, Jake. An' if you heed my warnin',
ill-gotten gains ain't a-going to prosper nobody.' That's what I said to
Jake Kloon, the last solemn words I spoke to that there man now in his
bloody grave----"
"Hey?" demanded Clinch.
"That's where Jake is," repeated Leverett. "Why, so help me, I wa'nt
gone ten yards when, bang! goes a gun, and I see this here Quintana come
outen the bush, I do, and walk up to Jake and frisk him, and Jake still
a-kickin' the moss to slivers. Yessir, that's what I seen."
"G'wan."
"Yessir.... 'N'then Quintana he shoved Jake into a sink-hole. Thaswot I
seen with my two eyes. Yessir. 'N'then Quintana he run off, 'n'I jest
set down in the trail, I did; 'n'then Hal come up and acted like I had
stole your packet, he did; 'n'then I told him what Quintana done.
'N'Hal, he takes after Quintana, but I don't guess he meets up with him,
for he come back and ketched holt o' me, 'n'he druv me in like I was a
caaf, he did. 'N'here I be."
The dusk in the forest had deepened so that the men's faces had become
mere blotches of grey.
Smith said to Clinch: "That's his story, Mike. But I preferred he should
tell it to you himself, so I brought him along.... Did you drive Star
Peak?"
"There wa'nt nothin' onto it," said Clinch very softly. Then, of a
sudden, his shadowy visage became contorted and he jerked up his rifle
and threw a cartridge into the magazine.
"You dirty louse!" he roared at Leverett, "you was into this, too,
a-robbin' my little Eve----"
"Run!" yelled somebody, giving Leverett a violent shove into the woods.
In the darkness and confusion, Clinch shouldered his way out of the
circle and fired at the crackling noise that marked Leverett's
course,--fired again, lower, and again as a distant crash revealed the
frenzied flight of the trap-robber. After he had fired a fourth shot,
somebody struck up his rifle.
"Aw," said Jim Hastings, "that ain't no good. You act up like a kid,
Mike. 'Tain't so far to Ghost Lake, n'them Troopers might hear you."
After a silence, Clinch spoke, his voice heavy with reaction:
"Into that there packet is my little girl's dower. It's all I got to
give her. It's all she's got to make her a lady. I'll kill any man that
robs her or that helps rob her. 'N'that's that."
"Are you going on after Quintana?" asked Smith.
"I am. 'N'these fellas are a-going with me. N' I want you should go back
to my Dump and look after my girlie while I'm gone."
"How long are you going to be away?"
"I dunno."
There was a silence. Then,
"All right," said Smith, briefly. He added: "Look out for sink-holes,
Mike."
Clinch tossed his heavy rifle to his shoulder: "Let's go," he said in
his pleasant, misleading way, "--and I'll shoot the guts outa any fella
that don't show up at roll call."
III
For its size there is no fiercer animal than a rat.
Rat-like rage possessed Leverett. In his headlong flight through the
dusk, fear, instead of quenching, added to his rage; and he ran on and
on, crashing through the undergrowth, made wilder by the pain of vicious
blows from branches which flew back and struck him in the dark.
Thorns bled him; unseen logs tripped him; he heard Clinch's bullets
whining around him; and he ran on, beginning to sob and curse in a
frenzy of fury, fear, and shame.
Shots from Clinch's rifle ceased; the fugitive dropped into a heavy,
shuffling walk, slavering, gasping, gesticulating with his weaponless
fists in the darkness.
"Gol ram ye, I'll fix ye!" he kept stammering in his snarling, jangling
voice, broken by sobs. "I'll learn ye, yeh poor danged thing, gol ram
ye----"
An unseen limb struck him cruelly across the face, and a moose-bush
tripped him flat. Almost crazed, he got up, yelling in his pain, one
hand wet and sticky from blood welling up from his cheek-bone.
He stood listening, infuriated, vindictive, but heard nothing save the
panting, animal sounds in his own throat.
He strove to see in the ghostly obscurity around him, but could make out
little except the trees close by.
But wood-rats are never completely lost in their native darkness; and
Leverett presently discovered the far stars shining faintly through
rifts in the phantom foliage above.
These heavenly signals were sufficient to give him his directions. Then
the question suddenly came, which direction?
To his own shack on Stinking Lake he dared not go. He tried to believe
that it was fear of Clinch that made him shy of the home shanty; but, in
his cowering soul, he knew it was fear of another kind--the deep,
superstitious horror of Jake Kloon's empty bunk--the repugnant sight of
Kloon's spare clothing hanging from its peg--the dead man's shoes----
No, he could not go to Stinking Lake and sleep.... And wake with the
faint stench of sulphur in his throat.... And see the worm-like leeches
unfolding in the shallows, and the big, reddish water-lizards, livid as
skinned eels, wriggling convulsively toward their sunless lairs....
At the mere thought of his dead bunk-mate he sought relief in vindictive
rage--stirred up the smouldering embers again, cursed Clinch and Hal
Smith, violently searching in his inflamed brain some instant vengeance
upon these men who had driven him out from the only place on earth where
he knew how to exist--the wilderness.
All at once he thought of Clinch's step-daughter. The thought instantly
scared him. Yet--what a revenge!--to strike Clinch through the only
creature he cared for in all the world!... What a revenge!... Clinch
was headed for Drowned Valley. Eve Strayer was alone at the Dump....
Another thought flashed like lightning across his turbid mind;--the
packet!
Bribed by Quintana, Jake Kloon, lurking at Clinch's door, had heard him
direct Eve to take a packet to Owl Marsh, and had notified Quintana.
Wittingly or unwittingly, the girl had taken a packet of sugar-milk
chocolate instead of the priceless parcel expected.
Again, carried in, exhausted, by a State Trooper, Jake Kloon had been
fooled; and it was the packet of sugar-milk chocolate that Jake had
purloined from the veranda where Clinch kicked it. For two cakes of
chocolate Kloon had died. For two cakes of chocolate he, Earl Leverett,
had become a man-slayer, a homeless fugitive in peril of his life.
He stood licking his blood-dried lips there in the darkness, striving to
hatch courage out of the dull fury eating at a coward's heart.
Somewhere in Clinch's Dump was the packet that would make him rich....
Here was his opportunity. He had only to dare; and pain and poverty and
fear--above all else fear--would end forever!...
       
When, at last, he came out to the edge of Clinch's clearing, the dark
October heavens were but a vast wilderness of stars.
Star Pond, set to its limpid depths with the heavenly gems, glittered
and darkled with its million diamond incrustations. The humped-up lump
of Clinch's Dump crouched like some huge and feeding night-beast on the
bank, ringed by the solemn forest.
There was a kerosene lamp burning in Eve Strayer's rooms. Another
light--a candle--flickered in the kitchen.
Leverett, crouching, ran rat-like down to the barn, slid in between the
ice house and corn-crib, crawled out among the wilderness of weeds and
lay flat.
The light burned steadily from Eve's window.
IV
From his form among frost-blackened rag-weeds, the trap-robber could see
only the plastered ceiling of the bed chamber.
But the kerosene lamp cast two shadows on that--tall shadows of human
shapes that stirred at times.
The trap-robber, scared, stiffened to immobility, but his little eyes
remained fastened on the camera obscura above. All the cunning,
patience, and murderous immobility of the rat were his.
Not a weed stirred under the stars where he lay with tiny, unwinking
eyes intent upon the shadows on the ceiling.
       
The shadows on the ceiling were cast by Eve Strayer and her State
Trooper.
Eve sat on her bed's edge, swathed in a lilac silk kimona--delicate
relic of school days. Her bandaged feet, crossed, dangled above the
rag-rug on the floor; her slim, tanned fingers were interlaced over the
book on her lap.
Near the door stood State Trooper Stormont, spurred, booted, trig and
trim, an undecided and flushed young man, fumbling irresolutely with the
purple cord on his campaign-hat.
The book on Eve's knees--another relic of the past--was Sigurd the
Volsung. Stormont had been reading to her--they having found, after the
half shy tentatives of new friends, a point d'appui in literature. And
the girl, admitting a passion for the poets, invited him to inspect the
bookcase of unpainted pine which Clinch had built into her bedroom wall.
Here it was he discovered mutual friends among the nobler
Victorians--surprised to discover Sigurd there--and, carrying it to
her bedside, looked leisurely through the half forgotten pages.
"Would you read a little?" she ventured.
He blushed but did his best. His was an agreeable, boyish voice,
betraying taste and understanding. Time passed quickly--not so much in
the reading but in the conversations intervening.
And now, made uneasy by chance consultation with his wrist-watch, and
being rather a conscientious young man, he had risen and had informed
Eve that she ought to go to sleep.
And she had denounced the idea, almost fretfully.
"Even if you go I shan't sleep till daddy comes," she said. "Of course,"
she added, smiling at him out of gentian-blue eyes, "if you are sleepy
I shouldn't dream of asking you to stay."
"I'm not intending to sleep."
"What are you going to do?"
"Take a chair on the landing outside your door."
"What!"
"Certainly. What did you expect me to do, Eve?"
"Go to bed, of course. The beds in the guest rooms are all made up."
"Your father didn't expect me to do that," he said, smiling.
"I'm not afraid, as long as you're in the house," she said.
She looked up at him again, wistfully. Perhaps he was restless, bored,
sitting there beside her half the day, and, already, half the night. Men
of that kind--active, nervous young men accustomed to the open, can't
stand caging.
"I want you to go out and get some fresh air," she said. "It's a
wonderful night. Go and walk a while. And--if you feel like--coming back
to me----"
"Will you sleep?"
"No, I'll wait for you."
Her words were natural and direct, but in their simplicity there seemed
a delicate sweetness that stirred him.
"I'll come back to you," he said.
Then, in his response, the girl in her turn became aware of something
beside the simple words--a vague charm about them that faintly haunted
her after he had gone away down the stairs.
That was the man she had once tried to kill! At the sudden and
terrible recollection she shivered from curly head to bandaged feet.
Then she trembled a little with the memory of his lips against her
bruised hands--bruised by handcuffs which he had fastened upon her.
She sat very, very still now, huddled on the bed's edge, scarcely
breathing.
For the girl was beginning to dare formulate the deepest of any thoughts
that ever had stirred her virgin mind and body.
If it was love, then it had come suddenly, and strangely. It had come on
that day--at the very moment when he flung her against the tree and
handcuffed her--that terrible instant--if it were love.
Or--what was it that so delicately overwhelmed her with pleasure in his
presence, in his voice, in the light, firm sound of his spurred tread on
the veranda below?
Friendship? A lonely passion for young and decent companionship? The
clean youth of him in contrast to the mangy, surly louts who haunted
Clinch's Dump,--was that the appeal?
Listening there where she sat clasping the book, she heard his steady
tread patrolling the veranda; caught the faint fragrance of his brier
pipe in the still night air.
"I think--I think it's--love," she said under her breath.... "But he
couldn't ever think of me----" always listening to his spurred tread
below.
After a while she placed both bandaged feet on the rug. It hurt her, but
she stood up, walked to the open window. She wanted to look at him--just
a moment----
By chance he looked up at that instant, and saw her pale face, like a
flower in the starlight.
"Why, Eve," he said, "you ought not to be on your feet."
"Once," she said, "you weren't so particular about my bruises."
Her breathless little voice coming down through the starlight thrilled
him.
"Do you remember what I did?" he asked.
"Yes. You bruised my hands and made my mouth bleed."
"I did penance--for your hands."
"Yes, you kissed them!"
What possessed her--what irresponsible exhilaration was inciting her to
a daring utterly foreign to her nature? She heard herself laugh, knew
that she was young, pretty, capable of provocation. And in a sudden,
breathless sort of way an overwhelming desire seized her to please, to
charm, to be noticed by such a man--whatever, on afterthought, he might
think of the step-child of Mike Clinch.
Stormont had come directly under her window and stood looking up.
"I dared not offer further penance," he said.
The emotion in his voice stirred her--but she was still laughing down at
him.
She said: "You did offer further penance--you offered your
handkerchief. So--as that was all you offered as reparation for--my
lips----"
"Eve! I could have taken you into my arms----"
"You did! And threw me down among the spruces. You really did
everything that a contrite heart could suggest----"
"Good heavens!" said that rather matter-of-fact young man, "I don't
believe you have forgiven me after all."
"I have--everything except the handkerchief----"
"Then I'm coming up to complete my penance----"
"I'll lock my door!"
"Would you?"
"I ought to.... But if you are in great spiritual distress, and if you
really and truly repent, and if you humbly desire to expiate your sin by
doing--penance----" And hesitated: "Do you so desire?"
"Yes, I do."
"Humbly? Contritely?"
"Yes."
"Very well. Say 'Mea culpa, mea maxima culpa.'"
"Mea maxima culpa," he said so earnestly, looking up into her face that
she bent lower over the sill to see him.
"Let me come up, Eve," he said.
She strove to laugh, gazing down into his shadowy face--but suddenly the
desire had left her,--and all her gaiety left her, too, suddenly,
leaving only a still excitement in her breast.
"You--you knew I was just laughing," she said unsteadily. "You
understood, didn't you?"
"I don't know."
After a silence: "I didn't mean you to take me seriously," she said. She
tried to laugh. It was no use. And, as she leaned there on the sill, her
heart frightened her with its loud beating.
"Will you let me come up, Eve?"
No answer.
"Would you lock your door?"
"What do you think I'd do?" she asked tremulously.
"You know; I don't."
"Are you so sure I know what I'd do? I don't think either of us know our
own minds.... I seem to have lost some of my wits.... Somehow...."
"If you are not going to sleep, let me come up."
"I want you to take a walk down by the pond. And while you're walking
there all by yourself, I want you to think very clearly, very calmly,
and make up your mind whether I should remain awake to-night, or
whether, when you return, I ought to be asleep and--and my door bolted."
After a long pause: "All right," he said in a low voice.
V
She saw him walk away--saw his shadowy, well-built form fade into the
starlit mist.
An almost uncontrollable impulse set her throat and lips quivering with
desire to call to him through the night, "I do love you! I do love you!
Come back quickly, quickly!----"
Fog hung over Star Pond, edging the veranda, rising in frail shreds to
her window. The lapping of the water sounded very near. An owl was very
mournful in the hemlocks.
The girl turned from the window, looked at the door for a moment, then
her face flushed and she walked toward a chair and seated herself,
leaving the door unbolted.
For a little while she sat upright, alert, as though a little
frightened. After a few moments she folded her hands and sat unstirring,
with lowered head, awaiting Destiny.
       
It came, noiselessly. And so swiftly that the rush of air from her
violently opened door was what first startled her.
For in the same second Earl Leverett was upon her in his stockinged
feet, one bony hand gripping her mouth, the other flung around her,
pinning both arms to her sides.
"The packet!" he panted, "--quick, yeh dirty little cat, 'r'I'll break
yeh head off'n yeh damn neck!"
She bit at the hand that he held crushed against her mouth. He lifted
her bodily, flung her onto the bed, and, twisting sheet and quilt around
her, swathed her to the throat.
Still controlling her violently distorted lips with his left hand and
holding her so, one knee upon her, he reached back, unsheathed his
hunting knife, and pricked her throat till the blood spurted.
"Now, gol ram yeh!" he whispered fiercely, "where's Mike's packet?
Yell, and I'll hog-stick yeh fur fair! Where is it, you dum thing!"
He took his left hand from her mouth. The distorted, scarlet lips
writhed back, displaying her white teeth clenched.
"Where's Mike's bundle!" he repeated, hoarse with rage and fear.
"You rat!" she gasped.
At that he closed her mouth again, and again he pricked her with his
knife, cruelly. The blood welled up onto the sheets.
"Now, by God!" he said in a ghastly voice, "answer or I'll hog-stick yeh
next time! Where is it? Where! where!"
She only showed her teeth in answer. Her eyes flamed.
"Where! Quick! Gol ding yeh, I'll shove this knife in behind your ear if
you don't tell! Go on. Where is it? It's in this Dump som'ers. I know it
is--don't lie! You want that I should stick you good? That what you
want--you dirty little dump-slut? Well, then, gol ram yeh--I'll fix yeh
like Quintana was aimin' at----"
He slit the sheet downward from her imprisoned knees, seized one wounded
foot and tried to slash the bandages.
"I'll cut a coupla toes off'n yeh," he snarled, "--I'll hamstring yeh
fur keeps!"--struggling to mutilate her while she flung her helpless and
entangled body from side to side and bit at the hand that was almost
suffocating her.
Unable to hold her any longer, he seized a pillow, to bury the venomous
little head that writhed, biting, under his clutch.
As he lifted it he saw a packet lying under it.
"By God!" he panted.
As he seized it she screamed for the first time: "Jack! Jack
Stormont!"--and fairly hurled her helpless little body at Leverett,
striking him full in the face with her head.
Half stunned, still clutching the packet, he tried to stab her in the
stomach; but the armour of bed-clothes turned the knife, although his
violence dashed all breath out of her.
Sick with the agony of it, speechless, she still made the effort; and,
as he stumbled to his feet and turned to escape, she struggled upright,
choking, blood running from the knife pricks in her neck.
With the remnant of her strength, and still writhing and gasping for
breath, she tore herself from the sheets and blankets, reeled across the
room to where Stormont's rifle stood, threw in a cartridge, dragged
herself to the window.
Dimly she saw a running figure in the night mist, flung the rifle across
the window sill and fired. Then she fired again--or thought she did.
There were two shots.
"Eve!" came Stormont's sharp cry, "what the devil are you trying to do
to me?"
His cry terrified her; the rifle clattered to the floor.
The next instant he came running up the stairs, bare headed, heavy
pistol swinging, and halted, horrified at sight of her.
"Eve! My God!" he whispered, taking her blood-wet body into his arms.
"Go after Leverett," she gasped. "He's robbed daddy. He's running
away--out there--somewhere----"
"Where did he hurt you, Eve--my little Eve----"
"Oh, go! go!" she wailed,--"I'm not hurt. He only pricked me with his
knife. I'm not hurt, I tell you. Go after him! Take your pistol and
follow him and kill him!"
"Oh," she cried hysterically, twisting and sobbing in his arms, "don't
lose time here with me! Don't stand here while he's running away with
dad's money!" And, "Oh--oh--oh!!" she sobbed, collapsing in his arms
and clinging to him convulsively as he carried her to her tumbled bed
and laid her there.
He said: "I couldn't risk following anybody now, after what has happened
to you. I can't leave you alone here! Don't cry, Eve. I'll get your man
for you, I promise! Don't cry, dear. It was all my fault for leaving
this room even for a minute----"
"No, no, no! It's my fault. I sent you away. Oh, I wish I hadn't. I wish
I had let you come back when you wanted to.... I was waiting for you....
I left the door unbolted for you. When it opened I thought it was you.
And it was Leverett!--it was Leverett!----"
Stormont's face grew very white: "What did he do to you, Eve? Tell me,
darling. What did he do to you?"
"Dad's money was under my pillow," she wailed. "Leverett tried to make
me tell where it was. I wouldn't, and he hurt me----"
"How?"
"He pricked me with his knife. When I screamed for you he tried to choke
me with the pillow. Didn't you hear me scream?"
"Yes. I came on the jump."
"It was too late," she sobbed; "--too late! He saw the money packet
under my pillow and he snatched it and ran. Somehow I found your rifle
and fired. I fired twice."
Her only bullet had torn his campaign hat from his head. But he did not
tell her.
"Let me see your neck," he said, bending closer.
She bared her throat, making a soft, vague complaint like a hurt
bird,--lay there whimpering under her breath while he bathed the blood
away with lint, sterilised the two cuts from his emergency packet, and
bound them.
He was still bending low over her when her blue eyes unclosed on his.
"That is the second time I've tried to kill you," she whispered. "I
thought it was Leverett.... I'd have died if I had killed you."
There was a silence.
"Lie very still," he said huskily. "I'll be back in a moment to
rebandage your feet and make you comfortable for the night."
"I can't sleep," she repeated desolately. "Dad trusted his money to me
and I've let Leverett rob me. How can I sleep?"
"I'll bring you something to make you sleep."
"I can't!"
"I promise you you will sleep. Lie still."
He rose, went away downstairs and out to the barn, where his campaign
hat lay in the weed, drilled through by a bullet.
There was something else lying there in the weeds,--a flat, muddy,
shoeless shape sprawling grotesquely in the foggy starlight.
One hand clutched a hunting knife; the other a packet.
Stormont drew the packet from the stiff fingers, then turned the body
over, and, flashing his electric torch, examined the ratty visage--what
remained of it--for his pistol bullet had crashed through from ear to
cheek-bone, almost obliterating the trap-robber's features.
       
Stormont came slowly into Eve's room and laid the packet on the sheet
beside her.
"Now," he said, "there is no reason for you to lie awake any longer.
I'll fix you up for the night."
Deftly he unbandaged, bathed, dressed, and rebandaged her slim white
feet--little wounded feet so lovely, so exquisite that his hand trembled
as he touched them.
"They're doing fine," he said cheerily. "You've half a degree of fever
and I'm going to give you something to drink before you go to sleep----"
He poured out a glass of water, dissolved two tablets, supported her
shoulders while she drank in a dazed way, looking always at him over the
glass.
"Now," he said, "go to sleep. I'll be on the job outside your door until
your daddy arrives."
"How did you get back dad's money?" she asked in an odd, emotionless way
as though too weary for further surprises.
"I'll tell you in the morning."
"Did you kill him? I didn't hear your pistol."
"I'll tell you all about it in the morning. Good night, Eve."
As he bent over her, she looked up into his eyes and put both arms
around his neck.
It was her first kiss given to any man, except Mike Clinch.
After Stormont had gone out and closed the door, she lay very still for
a long while.
Then, instinctively, she touched her lips with her fingers; and, at the
contact, a blush clothed her from brow to ankle.
The Flaming Jewel in its morocco casket under her pillow burned with no
purer fire than the enchanted flame glowing in the virgin heart of Eve
Strayer of Clinch's Dump.
Thus they lay together, two lovely flaming jewels burning softly,
steadily through the misty splendour of the night.
Under a million stars, Death sprawled in squalor among the trampled
weeds. Under the same high stars dark mountains waited; and there was a
silvery sound of waters stirring somewhere in the mist.
EPISODE SEVEN
CLINCH'S DUMP
I
When Mike Clinch bade Hal Smith return to the Dump and take care of Eve,
Smith already had decided to go there.
Somewhere in Clinch's Dump was hidden the Flaming Jewel. Now was his
time to search for it.
There were two other reasons why he should go back. One of them was that
Leverett was loose. If anything had called Trooper Stormont away, Eve
would be alone in the house. And nobody on earth could forecast what a
coward like Leverett might attempt.
But there was another and more serious reason for returning to Clinch's.
Clinch, blood-mad, was headed for Drowned Valley with his men, to stop
both ends of that vast morass before Quintana and his gang could get
out.
It was evident that neither Clinch nor any of his men--although their
very lives depended upon familiarity with the wilderness--knew that a
third exit from Drowned Valley existed.
But the nephew of the late Henry Harrod knew.
When Jake Kloon was a young man and Darragh was a boy, Kloon had shown
him the rocky, submerged game trail into Drowned Valley. Doubtless Kloon
had used it in hootch running since. If ever he had told anybody else
about it, probably he had revealed the trail to Quintana.
And that was why Darragh, or Hal Smith, finally decided to return to
Star Pond;--because if Quintana had been told or had discovered that
circuitous way out of Drowned Valley, he might go straight to Clinch's
Dump.... And, supposing Stormont was still there, how long could one
State Trooper stand off Quintana's gang?
       
No sooner had Clinch and his motley followers disappeared in the dusk
than Smith unslung his basket-pack, fished out a big electric torch,
flashed it tentatively, and then, reslinging the pack and taking his
rifle in his left hand, he set off at an easy swinging stride.
His course was not toward Star Pond; it was at right angles with that
trail. For he was taking no chances. Quintana might already have left
Drowned Valley by that third exit unknown to Clinch.
Smith's course would now cut this unmarked trail, trodden only by game
that left no sign in the shallow mountain rivulet which was the path.
The trail lay a long way off through the night. But if Quintana had
discovered and taken that trail, it would be longer still for him--twice
as long as the regular trail out.
For a mile or two the forest was first growth pine, and sufficiently
open so that Smith might economise on his torch.
He knew every foot of it. As a boy he had carried a jacob-staff in the
Geological Survey. Who better than the forest-roaming nephew of Henry
Harrod should know this blind wilderness?
The great pines towered on every side, lofty and smooth to the feathery
canopy that crowned them under the high stars.
There was no game here, no water, nothing to attract anybody except the
devastating lumberman. But this was a five thousand acre patch of State
land. The ugly whine of the steam-saw would never be heard here.
On he walked at an easy, swinging stride, flashing his torch rarely,
feeling no concern about discovery by Quintana's people.
It was only when he came into the hardwoods that the combined necessity
for caution and torch perplexed and worried him.
Somewhere in here began an outcrop of rock running east for miles. Only
stunted cedar and berry bushes found shallow nourishment on this ridge.
When at last he found it he travelled upon it, more slowly, constantly
obliged to employ the torch.
After an hour, perhaps, his feet splashed in shallow water. That was
what he was expecting. The water was only an inch or two deep; it was
ice cold and running north.
Now, he must advance with every caution. For here trickled the thin flow
of that rocky rivulet which was the other entrance and exit penetrating
that immense horror of marsh and bog and depthless sink-hole known as
Drowned Valley.
       
For a long while he did not dare to use his torch; but now he was
obliged to.
He shined the ground at his feet, elevated the torch with infinite
precaution, throwing a fan-shaped light over the stretch of sink he had
suspected and feared. It flanked the flat, wet path of rock on either
side. Here Death spread its slimy trap at his very feet.
Then, as he stood taking his bearings with burning torch, far ahead in
the darkness a light flashed, went out, flashed twice more, and was
extinguished.
Quintana!
Smith's wits were working like lightning, but instinct guided him before
his brain took command. He levelled his torch and repeated the three
signal flashes. Then, in darkness, he came to swift conclusion.
There were no other signals from the unknown. The stony bottom of the
rivulet was his only aid.
In his right hand the torch hung almost touching the water. At times he
ventured sufficient pressure for a feeble glimmer, then again trusted to
his sense of contact.
For three hundred yards, counting his strides, he continued on. Then, in
total darkness, he pocketed the torch, slid a cartridge into the breech
of his rifle, slung the weapon, pulled out a handkerchief, and tied it
across his face under the eyes.
Now, he drew the torch from his pocket, levelled it, sent three quick
flashes out into darkness.
