ing pipe. 
And yet he knew that his skill was equal to that of 
any fashionable practitioner in Hong-Kong. He 
wasn't quite hard enough to win worldly success; 
that was his fault. Anybody in pain had only to 
call to him. So, here he was, on the last lap of 
middle age, in China, having missed all the thrills 
in' life except one — the war against Death. It 
rather astonished him. He hadn't followed this 
angle of thought in ten years: what he might have 
been, with a little shrewd selfishness. This ex- 
traordinary child had opened up an old channel 
through which it was no longer safe to cruise. She 
was like an angel with one wing. The sinule started 
a laugh in his throat. 
"Why do you laugh?" she asked gravely. 
"At a thought. Of you — an angel with one wing." 
"Meaning that I don't belong anywhere, in 
heaven or on earth?" 
" Meaning that you must cut off the wing or grow 
another to mate it. Let's go up and see how the 
patient is doing. Wu may have news for us. We'll 
get those books into your room first. And I'll have 
supper with you." 
"If only . . . . " But she did not cx)mplete 
the thought aloud. If only this man had been her 
father! The world would have meant nothing; the 
island would have been wide enough. 
"You were saying ?" 
"I started to say something; that is all." 
"By the way, did you read those stories?" 
"Yes." 
"Worth anything?" 
"I don't know." 
"Silly love stories?" 
"No; love wasn't the theme. Supposing you 
take them and read them? You might be able to 
tell me why I felt disappointed." 
"All right. I'll take them back with me. Prob- 
ably he has something to say and can't say it, or he 
writes well about nothing." 
"Do you believe his failure caused . . . . " 
"What?" he barked. But he did not follow on 
with the thought. There was no need of sowing 
 
suspicion when he wasn't really certain there were 
grounds for it. "Well, you never can tell," he con- 
tinued, lamely. "These writer chaps are queer 
birds." 
  Queer birds." 
He laughed and followed her into the hotel. 
''More slang," he said. "I'll have to set you right 
on that, too." 
"I have heard sailors use words like that, but I 
never knew what they meant." 
Sailors, he thought; and most of them the dregs of 
the South Seas, casting their evil glances at this ex- 
quisite creature and trying to smirch with innuendo 
the crystal clearness of her mind. Perhaps there 
were experiences she would never confide to any 
man. Sudden indignation boiled up in him. The 
father was a madman. It did not matter that he 
wore the cloth; somethmg was wrong with him. He 
hadn't played fair. 
"Remember; we must keep the young fellow's 
thoughts away from himself. Tell him about the 
island, the coconut dance, the wooden tom-toms; 
read to him." 
"What made him buy that sing-song girl?" Re- 
garding this, Ruth had ideas of her own, but she 
wanted the doctor's point of view. 
"Maybe he realized that he was slipping fast and 
thought a fine action might give him a hand-hold on 
life again. You tell me he didn't like the stuff." 
''He shuddered when he drank." 
  Well, that's a hopeful sign. I'll test him out 
later; see if there is any craving. Give me the 
books. I'll put them in your room; then we'll have 
a look-see." 
The patient was asleep. According to Wu, the 
young man had not opened his eyes once during the 
afternoon. 
So Ruth returned to her room and sorted the 
books and magazines the doctor had loaned her, in- 
spected the titles and searched for pictures. And 
thus it was that she came upon a book of Stevenson's 
verse —  her first adventure into poetry. The hym- 
nal lyrics had never stirred her; she had memorized 
and sung them parrot-wise. But here was new 
music, tender and kindly and whimsical, that first 
roved to and fro in the mind and then cuddled up in 
the heart. Anything that had love in it! 
The doctor comprehended that he also had his 
work cut out. While the girl kept the patient from 
dwelling upon his misfortunes, whatever these were, 
he himself would have to keep the girl from brooding 
over hers. So he made merry at the dinner table, 
told comic stories, and was astonished at the readi- 
ness with which she grasped the comic side of life. 
His curiosity put itself into a question. 
"Old Morgan the trader," she explained, "used 
to save me Tii-Bills. He would read the jokes and 
illustrate them; and after a time I could see the 
 
I>o]nt of a joke without having it explained to me. 
I believe it amused him. I was a novelty. He was 
always in a state of semi-intoxication» but he was al- 
ways gentle with me. Probably he taught me 
what a joke was merely to irritate my father; for 
suddenly Father stopped my going to the store for 
things and sent our old Kanaka cook instead. She 
had been to San Francisco, and what I learned 
about the world was from her. Thank you for the 
books." 
"You were bom on the island?" 
"I beheve so." 
''You don't remember your mother?" 
''0h, no; she died when I was very little." 
She showed him the locket; and he studied the 
face. It was equally as beautiful but not quite so 
fine as the daughter's. He returned the locket with- 
out conmient. 
"Perhaps things would have been diflFerent if she 
had lived." 
"No doubt," he replied. "Mine died while I 
was over here. Perhaps that is why I lost my am- 
bition." 
"I am sorry." 
"It is life." 
There was a pause. "He never let me keep a dog 
or a cat about the house. But after a time I learned 
the ways of the parrakeets, and they would come 
down to me like doves in the stories. I never made 
any eflFort to touch them; so by and by they learned 
to light fearlessly on my arms and shoulders. And 
what a noise they made ! This is how I used to call 
them." 
She pursed her lips and uttered a whistle, pierc- 
ingly shrill and high; and instantly she became the 
object of intense astonishment on the part of the 
other diners. She was quite oblivious to the sen- 
sation she had created. 
The picture of her flashed across the doctor's 
vision magically. The emerald wings, slashed with 
scarlet and yellow, wheeling and swooping about 
her head, there among the wild plantain. 
"I never told anybody," she went on. "An audi- 
ence might have frightened the birds. Only in the 
sunshine; they would not answer my whistle on 
cloudy days." 
"Didn't the natives have a name for you?" 
She blushed. "It was silly." 
" Go on, tell me," he urged, enchanted. Never 
was there another girl like this one. He blushed, too, 
spiritually, as it were. He had invited himself to 
dine with her merely to watch her table manners. 
They were exquisite. Knowing the South Seas 
from hearsay and by travel, he knew something of 
that inertia which blunted the fineness, innate and 
acquired, of white men and women, the eternal war- 
fare against indifference and slovenliness. Only the 
strong survived. This queer father of hers had 
 
given her everything but his arms. "Tell me, what 
did they call you?" 
" Well, the old Kanaka cook used to call me the 
Golden One, but the natives called me the Dawn 
Pearl." 
"The Dawn Pearl! Odd, but we white folks 
aren't half so poetical as the yellow or the black. 
What did you do when your father went on trips 
to other islands?" 
"Took off my shoes and stockings and played in 
the lagoon." 
"He made you wear shoes and stockings?" 
"Always." 
"What else did you do when alone?" 
"I read the encyclopaedia. That is how I learned 
that there were such things as novels. Books! 
Aren't they wonderful?" 
The blind alley of life stretching out before her, 
with its secret doorways and hidden menaces; and 
she was unconcerned. Books; an inexplicable hun' 
ger to be satisfied. Somewhere in the world there 
was a book clerk with a discerning mind; for he had 
given her the best he had. He envied her a little. 
To fall upon those tales for the first time, when the 
mind was fresh and the heart was young! 
He became aware of an odd phase to this conver- 
sation. The continuity was frequently broken in 
upon by diversory suppositions. Take the one that 
struck him at this moment. Supposing that was 
it; at least, a solution to part of this amazing riddle? 
Supposing her father had made her assist him in 
the care of the derelicts solely to fill her with loath- 
iag and abhorrence for mankind? 
'' Didn't you despise the men your father brought 
home — the beachcombers?'' 
' No. In the beginning I was afraid; but after 
the first several cases, I had only pity. I somehow 
understood ' 
"Didn't some of them .... try to touch you?'  
"Not the true unfortunates.. How men suffer 
for the foolish things they do!'' 
"Ay to that. There's our young friend upstairs.'' 
''There's a funny idea in my head. I've been 
thinking about it ever since morning. There was 
a loose button on that coat, and I want to sew it on. 
It keeps dangling in front of my eyes." 
"Ah, yes; that coat. Probably a sick man's whim. 
Certainly, there wasn't a thing in the pockets. But 
be very careful not to let him know. If he awoke 
and caught you at it, there might be a set-back. By 
the way, what did he say when he was out of his 
head?'' 
"The word Tool.' He muttered it continually. 
There was another phrase which sounded something 
like 'Gin in a blue-serge coat'. I wonder what he 
meant by that?'' 
"The Lord knows!" 
The patient was restless during the first watch of 
d 
 
the night. He stirred continually, thrusting his legs 
about and flinging his arms above his head. Gently 
each time Ruth drew down the arms. There was a 
recurrence of fever, but nothing alarming. Once 
she heard him mutter, and she leaned down. 
"Ali Baba, in a blue-serge coat! .... God-for- 
saken fool!" 
CHAPTER Xm 
ONE day Ruth caught the patient's eyes fol- 
lowing her about; but there was no question 
in the gaze, no interest; so she pretended not 
to notice. 
'' Where am I?'' asked Spurlock. 
''In Canton." 
"How long have I been in bed?'' 
 'A week." 
"My coat, please." 
"It is folded under your pillow." 
"Did I ask for it?" 
"Yes. But perhaps you don't know; there was 
nothing in the pockets. You were probably robbed 
in Hong-Kong." 
"Nothing in the pockets." 
 'You see, we didn't know but you might die; and 
so we had to search your belongings for the address 
of your people." 
"I have no people — anybody who would care." 
She kindled with sympathy. He was all alone, 
too. Nobody who cared. 
Ruth was inflanmiable; she would always be 
flaring up swiftly, in pity, in tenderness, in anger; 
she would always be answering impulses, without 
 
 
seeking to weigh or to analyse them. She was emerg- 
ing from the primordial as Spurlock was declining 
toward it. She was on the rim of civilization, en- 
tering, as Spurlock was on the rim, preparing to 
make his exit. Two souls in travail; one inspired 
by fresh hopes, the other, by fresh despairs. Both 
of them would be committing novel and unforget- 
table acts. 
"How long shall I be here?'' he asked. 
"That depends upon you. Not very long, if you 
want to get well." 
"Are you a nurse?" 
"Yes. Don't ask any more questions. Wait a 
little; rest." 
There was a pause. Ruth flashed in and out of 
the sunshine; and he took note of the radiant nimbus 
above her head each time the sunshine touched her 
hair. 
"Haven't I seen you somewhere before?" 
"The first day you came. Don't you remember? 
There were four of us, and we went touring in the 
city." 
"As in a dream." There was another pause. 
"Was I out of my head?" 
"Yes." 
"What did I say?" 
"Only one word," she said, offering her first white 
lie. 
"What was it?" He was insistent. 
"You repeated the word  FooV over and over." 
"Nothing else?" 
"No. Now, no more questions, or I shall be 
forced to leave the room." 
"I promise to ask no more ' 
"Would you like to have me read to you?'' 
He did not answer. So she took up Stevenson 
and began to read aloud. She read beautifully 
because the fixed form of the poem signified noth- 
ing. She went from period to period exactly as she 
would have read prose; so that sense and music were 
equally balanced. She read for half an hour, then 
closed the book because Spurlock appeared to have 
fallen asleep. But he was wide awake. 
"What poet was that?" 
" Stevenson." Ruth had read from page to page in 
"The Child's Garden of Verse," generally unfamiliar 
to the admirers of Stevenson. Of course Ruth was 
not aware that in this same volume there were lyrics 
known the world over. 
Inunediately Spurlock began to chant one of these. 
" TJnder the wide and starry sky. 
Dig the grave and let me lie. 
Glad did I live and gladly die> 
And I laid me down with a will." ' 
u 
'This be the verse you grave for me: 
Here he lies where he longed to be; 
Home is the sailor, home from the sea. 
And the hunter home from the hill.' " 
 
''What is that?'' she asked. Something in his 
tone pinched her heart. "Did you write it?" 
"No. You will find it somewhere in that book. 
Ah, if I had written that! 
Don't you want to live? 
I don't know; I really don't know. 
''But you are young!" It was a protest, almost 
vehement. She remembered the doctor's warning 
that the real battle would begin when the patient 
recovered consciousness. "You have all the world 
before you." 
"Rather behind me;" and he spoke no more that 
morning. 
Throughout the afternoon, while the doctor was 
giving her the first lesson out of his profound know- 
edge of life, her interest would break away con- 
tinually, despite her honest efforts to pin it down to 
the facts so patiently elucidated for her. Recurrently 
she heard: "I don't know; I really don't know." 
It was curiously like the intermittent murmur of 
the surf, those weird Sundays, when her father paused 
for breath to launch additional damnation for those 
who disobeyed the Word. "I don't know; I really 
don't know." 
Her ear caught much of the lesson, and many 
things she stored away; but often what she heard 
was sound without sense. Still, her face never be- 
trayed this distraction. And what was singular 
she did not recount to the doctor that morning's ad- 
venture. Why? If she had put the query to her- 
self, she could not have answered it. It was in no 
sense confessional; it was a state of mind in the 
patient the doctor had already anticipated. Yet 
she held her tongue. 
As for the doctor, he found a pleasure in this ser- 
vice that would have puzzled him had he paused to 
analyse it. There was scant social life on the Sha- 
mien aside from masculine foregatherings, little that 
interested him. He took his social pleasures once 
a year in Hong-Kong, after Easter. He saw, with- 
out any particular regret, that this year he would 
have to forego the junket; but there would be ample 
compensation in the study of these queer youngsters. 
Besides, by the time they were off his hands, old 
McClintock would be dropping in to have his liver 
renovated. 
All at once he recollected the fact that McClin- 
tock's copra plantation was down that way, some- 
where in the South Seas; had an island of his own. 
Perhaps he had heard of this Enschede. Mac —  the 
old gossip —  knew about everything going on in that 
part of the world; and if Enschede was anything up 
to the picture the girl had drawn, McClintock 
would have heard of him, naturally. He might 
solve the riddle. All of which proves that the doc- 
tor also had his moments of distraction, with this 
difference: he was not distracted from his subject 
matter. 
«l 
 
So endeth the first lesson," he said.    Suppose 
 we go and have tea? I'd like to take you to a tea- 
house I know, but we'll go to the Victoria instead. I 
must practise what I preach." 
''I should be unafraid to go anywhere with you." 
''Lord, that's just the lesson I've been expound- 
ing ! It isn't a question of fear ; it's one of propriety.'' 
"I'll never understand." 
"You don't have to. I'll tell you what. I'll 
write out certain rules of conduct, and then you'll 
never be in doubt." 
She laughed; and it was pleasant laughter in his 
ears. If only this child were his: what good times 
they would have together! The thought passed on, 
but it left a little ache in his heart. 
"Why do you laugh?" he asked. 
"All that you have been telling me, our old Kanaka 
cook summed up in a phrase." 
"What was it?" 
"Never glance sideways at a man." 
"The whole thing in a nutshell!" 
"Are there no men a woman may trust absolu- 
tely?" 
"Hang it, that isn't it. Of course there are, 
millions of them. It's pubhc opinion. We all have 
to kow-tow to that." 
"Who made such a law?" 
"This world is governed by minorities— in poK- 
tics, in religion, in society. Majorities, right ox 
wrong, dare not revolt. Footprints, and we have to 
toddle along in them, willy-nilly; and those who 
have the courage to step outside the appointed path 
are called pariahs!" 
' I'm afraid I shall not like this world very much. 
It is putting all my dreams out of joint." 
'' Never let the unknown edge in upon your 
courage. The world is like a peppery horse. If he 
senses fear in the touch of your hand, he'll give you 
trouble." 
 'It's all so big and aloof. It isn't friendly as I 
thought it would be. I don't know; I really don't 
know," she found herself repeating. 
He drew her away from this thought. "I read 
those stories." 
Are they good?" 
He can write; but he hasn't found anything real 
to write about. He hasn't foimd himself, as they 
say. He's rewriting Foe and De Maupassant; and 
that stuff was good only when Foe and De Maupas- 
sant wrote it." 
"How do you spell the last name?" 
He spelt it. He wasn't sure, but he thought he 
saw a faint shudder stir her shoulders. "Not the 
sort of stories yoimg ladies should read. Foe is all 
right, if you don't mind nightmares. But De Mau- 
passant —  sheer off ! Stick to Dickens and Thackeray 
and Hugo. Before you go I'll give you a list of books 
to read." 
 
There are bad stories, then, just as there are bad 
people? 
Yes. Sewn on that button yet? 
J. lit 
"Yes. Sewn on that button yet?" 
" I've been afraid to take the coat from under the 
pfflow." 
"Funny, about that coat. You told him there 
wasn't anything in the pockets?'' 
' Yes." 
"How did he take it?" 
"He did not seem to care." 
"There you are, just as I said. We've got to get 
him to care. We've got to make him take up the 
harp of life and go twanging it again. That's the 
job. He's young and soimd. Of course, there'll be 
a few kinks to straighten out. He's passed through 
some rough mental torture. But one of these days 
everything will click back into place. Great sport, 
eh? To haul them back from the ragged edge. 
Woiddn't it be fim to see his name on a book-cover 
some day? He'll go strutting up and down without 
ever dreaming he owed the whole shot to us. That 
would be fun, eh?" 
"I wonder if you know how kind you are? You 
are like somebody out of a book." 
"There, now! You mustn't get mixed. You 
mustn't go by what you read so much as by what 
you see and hear. You must remember, you've 
just begun to read; you haven't any comparisons. 
You mustn't go dressing up Tom, Dick, and Hany 
in Henry Esmond's ruffles. "What you want to do 
is to imagine every woman a Becky Sharp and every 
man a Rawdon Crawley ' 
''I know what is good," she replied. 
"Yes; but what is good isn't always proper. And 
so, here we are, right back from where we started. 
But no more of that. Let's talk of this chap. 
There's good stuff in him, if one could find the way 
to dig it out. But pathologically, he is still on the 
edge. Unless we can get some optimism into him, 
he'll probably start this all over again when he gets 
on his feet. That's the way it goes. But between 
us, we'll have him writing books some day. That's 
one of the troubles with young folks: they take 
themselves so seriously. He probably imagines 
himself to be a thousand times worse off than he 
actually is. Youth finds it pleasant sometimes to 
be melancholy. Disappointed puppy-love, and all 
that." 
'' Puppy-love." 
"A young fellow who thinks he's in love, when he 
"has only been reading too much." 
Do girls have puppy-love?" 
Land sakes, yes! On the average they are worse 
than the boys. A boy can forget his amatory 
troubles playing baseball; but a girl can't find any 
particular distraction in doing fancy work. Do you 
know, I envy you. All the world before you, all the 
ologies. What an adventure! Of course, you'll 
 
bark your shins here and there and hit your 
funny bone; but the newness of everything will be 
something of a compensation. All right. Let's 
get one idea into oiu' heads. We are going to have 
this chap writing books one of these days." 
Ideas are never bom; they are suggested; they 
are planted seeds. Ruth did not reply, but stared 
past the doctor, her eyes misty. The doctor had 
sown a seed, carelessly. All that he had sown that 
afternoon with such infinite care was as nothing 
compared to this seed, cast without forethought. 
Ruth's mind was fertile soil; for a long time to come 
it would be something of a hothouse: green things 
would spring up and blossom overnight. Already 
the seed of a tender dream was stirring. The hour 
for which, presumably, she had been created was 
drawing nigh. For in life there is but one hour: 
an epic or an idyll: all other hours lead up to and 
down from it. 
"By the way," said the dcictor, as he sat down in 
the dining room of the Victoria and ordered tea, 
"I've been thinking it over." 
"What?" 
'' We'll put those stories back into the trunk and 
never speak of them to him." 
"But why not?" 
The doctor dallied with his teaspoon. Some- 
thing about the girl had suggested an idea. It 
would have been the right idea, had Ruth been other 
than what she was. First-off, he had decided not to 
tell her what he had found at the bottom of that 
manila envelope. Now it occurred to him that to 
show her the sealed letter would be a better way. 
Impressionable, lonely, a deal beyond his analytical 
reach, the girl might let her sympathies go beyond 
those of the nurse. She would be enduing this 
chap with attributes he did not possess, clothing 
him in fictional ruffles. To disillusion her, forth- 
with. 
"I'll tell you why," he said. "At the bottom of 
that big envelope I found this one." 
He passed it over; and Ruth read: 
To be opened in case of my death and the letter inside forwarded 
to the address thereon. All my personal effects to be left in chai  
of the nearest Ammcan Consulate. 
CHAPTER XIV 
RUTH lost the point entirely. The doctor 
expected her to seize upon the subtle inf er- 
  ence that there was something furtive, even 
criminal, in the manner the patient set this obliga- 
tion upon humanity at large, to look after him in the 
event of his death. The idea of anything criminal 
never entered her thoughts. Any man might have 
endeavoured to protect hiniself in this fashion, a man 
with no one to care, with an unnameable terror at 
the thought (as if it mattered!) of being buried in 
alien earth, far from the familiar places he loved. 
Close upon this came another thought. She had 
no place she loved. In all this world there was no 
sacred ground that said to her: Return! She was of 
all human beings the most lonely. Even now, dur-. 
ing the reciuring doubts of the future, the thought of 
the island was repellent. She hated it, she hated 
the mission-house; she hated the sleek lagoon, the 
palms, the binning sky. But some day she would 
find a place to love: there would be rosy apples 
on the boughs, and there would be flurries of snow 
blowing into her face. It was astonishing how often 
this picture returned: cold rosy apples and flurries 
of snow. 
 
 'The poor young man!" she said . 
The doctor sensed that his bolt had gone wrong, 
"but he could not tell how or why. He dared not 
go on. He was not sure that the boy had put himself 
beyond the pale; merely » the boy's actions pointed 
that way. If he laid his own suspicions boldly be- 
fore the girl, and in the end the boy came dean, he 
would always be haunted by the witless cruelty of 
the act. 
That night in his den he smoked many pipes. 
Twice he cleaned the old briar; still there was no 
improvement. He poured a pinch of tobacco into 
his palm and sniffed. The weed was all right. 
Probably something he had eaten. He was always 
forgetting that his tiunmy was fifty-four years old. 
He would certainly welcome McClintock's ad- 
vent. Mac would have some new yams to spin 
and a fresh turn-over to his celebrated liver. He 
was a comforting, humorous old ruffian; but there 
were few men in the Orient more deeply read in 
psychology and physiognomy. It was, in a way, 
something of a joke to the doctor: psychology and 
physiognomy on an island which white folks did 
not visit more than three or four times a year, only 
then when they had to. Why did the beggar hang 
on down there, when he could have enjoyed all 
that civilization had to offer? Yes, he would be 
mighty glad to see McClintock; and the sooner he 
came the better. 
 
Sometimes at sea a skipper will order his men to 
 trim, batten down the hatches, and clear the deck of 
all litter. The barometer says nothing, neither the 
sky nor the water; the skipper has the "feel' that 
out yonder there s a big blow moving. Now the 
doctor had the "feel'' that somewhere ahead lay 
danger. It was below consciousness, elusive; so he 
sent out a call to his friend, defensively. 
At the end of each day Ah Cum would inquire as 
to the progress of the patient, and invariably the 
answer was: "About the same." This went on for 
ten days. Then Ah Cum was notified that the 
patient had sat up in bed for quarter of an hour. 
Promptly Ah Cum wired the information to 0'Hig- 
gins in Hong-Kong. The detective reckoned that 
his quarry would be up in ten days more. 
To Ruth the thought of Hartford no longer pro- 
jected upon her vision a city of spires and houses 
and tree-lined streets. Her fanciful imagination no 
longer drew pictures of the aimt in the doorway of a 
wooden house, her arms extended in welcome. The 
doctor's lessons, perhaps delivered with too much 
serious emphasis, had destroyed that buoyant con- 
fidence in her ability to take care of herself. 
Between Canton and Hartford two giants had 
risen, invisible but menacing —  Fear and Doubt. 
The imknown, previously so attractive, now pre- 
sented another face —  blank. The doctor had not 
heard from his people. She was reasonably certain 
why. They did not want her. 
Thus, all her interest in lif  began to centre upon 
the patient, who was apparently quite as anchor- 
less as she was. Sometimes a whole morning would 
pass without Spurlock uttering a word beyond the 
request for a drink of water. Again, he would ask 
a few questions, and Ruth would answer them. He 
would repeat them innumerable times, and patiently 
Ruth would repeat her answers. 
"What is your name?'' 
"Ruth." 
"Ruth what?" 
"Enschede; Ruth Enschede." 
"En-shad-ay. You are French?" 
"No. Dutch; Pennsylvania Dutch." 
And then his interest would cease. Perhaps an 
hour later he would begin again. 
At. other times he seemed to have regained the 
normal completely. He would discuss something 
she had been reading, and he would give her some 
unexpected angle, setting a fictional character be- 
fore her with astonishing clearness. Then suddenly 
the curtain would fall. 
"What is your name?" To-day, however, he 
broke the monotony. "An American. Enschede 
— that's a queer name." 
"I'm a queer girl," she replied with a smile. 
Perhaps this was the real turning point: the hour 
 
which the disordered mind began permanently 
readjust itself. 
''IVe been wondering, until this morning, if you 
real." 
"IVe been wondering, too." 
"Are you a real nurse?" 
"Yes." 
"Professional?" 
'' Why do you wish to know?" 
'' Professional nurses wear a sort of uniform." 
'' While I look as if I had stepped out of the family 
album?" 
He frowned perplexedly. "Where did I hear 
that before?" 
"Perhaps that first day, in the water-clock 
tower." 
"I imagine IVe been in a kind of trance." 
"And now you are back in the world again, with 
things to do and places to go. There is a button 
loose on that coat under your pillow. Shall I sew it 
on for you? " 
"H you wish." 
This readiness to surrender the coat to her sur- 
prised Ruth. She had prepared herself to meet vio- 
lent protest, a recurrence of that burning glance. 
But in a moment she beheved she understood. He 
was normal now, and the coat was only a coat. It had 
been his fevered imagination that had endued the 
garment with some extraordinary value. Gently she 
raised his head and withdrew the coat from under the 
pillow. 
"Why did I want it under my pillow? " he asked. 
"You were a httle out of your head." 
Gravely he watched the needle flash to and fio. 
He noted the strong white teeth as they snipped the 
thread. At length the task was done, and she 
jabbed the needle into a cushion, folded the coat, 
and rose. 
"Do you want it back under the pillow?" 
"Hang it over a chair. Or, better still, put all 
my clothes in the trunk. They litter up the room. 
The key is in my trousers." 
This business over, she returned to the bedside 
with the key. She felt a little ashamed of herself, 
