and lace, she looked like a moonbeam, and as if no mortal indisposition
had ever brushed her in passing.  Instead of her pearls she wore a long
thin necklace of diamonds that seemed to frost her gown.  She was smiling
and gracious and infinitely remote.  The effect was as cold and steadying
as his morning's icy shower.

He shook her hand firmly.  "Sorry you've been seedy.  Hope it didn't lay
you up."

"Oh, no.  I fancy I merely wanted an excuse to see Atlantic City.  It was
just a touch of bronchitis and fled at once."

"Like Atlantic City?"

"No.  It is merely an interminable line of ostentatiously rich hotels on
a board walk!  None of the grace and dignity of Ostend--poor Ostend as
it used to be.  The digue was one of the most brilliant sights in
Europe--but no doubt you have seen it," she added politely.

"Yes, I spent a week there once, but Bruges interested me more.  I was
very young at the time."

"You must have been!  Don't you like to gamble?  The Kursaal could be
very exciting."

"Oh, yes, I like to gamble occasionally."  (God!  What banal talk!)
"Gambling with life, however, is a long sight more exciting."

"Yes, is it not?  Atlantic City might do you good.  You do not look at
all well."

"Never felt better in my life.  A bit tired.  Generally am at this time
of the year.  May take a run down to Florida."

"I should," she said politely.  "Shall you stay long?"

"That depends."  (Presence of servants superfluous!)  "Are you fond of
the sea?"

"I detest it--that boundless flat gray waste.  A wild and rocky coast in
a terrific storm, yes--but not that moving gray plain that comes in and
falls down, comes in and falls down.  It is the mountains I turn to when
I can.  I often long for the Austrian Alps.  The Dolomites!  The
translucent green lakes like enormous emeralds, sparkling in the sun and
set in straight white walls.  A glimpse of pine forest beyond.  The roar
of an avalanche in the night."

"New York and Atlantic City must seem prosaic."  He had never felt so
polite.  "I suppose you are eager to return?"  (Why in hell don't those
servants bring the dinner!)

"I have not seen the Alps since two years before the war.  Some day--yes!
Oh, yes!  Shall we sit down?"

The two men entered with enormous dignity bearing plates of oysters as if
offering the Holy Grail and the head of Saint John the Baptist on a
charger.  Impossible to associate class-consciousness with beings who
looked as impersonal as fate, and would have regarded a fork out of
alignment as a stain on their private 'scutcheon.  They performed the
rite of placing the oysters on the table and retired.

Madame Zattiany and Clavering adjusted themselves to the Gothic period.
The oysters were succulent.  They discussed the weather.

"This was a happy thought," he said.  "It feels like a blizzard outside."

"The radiator in the dining-room is out of order."

"Oh!"

She was a woman of the world.  Why in thunder didn't she make things
easier?  Had she asked him here merely because she was too bored to eat
alone?  He hated small talk.  There was nothing he wanted less than the
personalities of their previous conversations, but she might have
entertained him.  She was eating her oysters daintily and giving him the
benefit of her dark brown eyelashes.  Possibly she was merely in the mood
for comfortable silences with an established friend.  Well, he was not.
Passion had subsided but his nerves jangled.

And inspiration came with the soup and some excellent sherry.

"By the way!  Do you remember I asked you--at that last first-night--if
you wouldn't like to see something of the Sophisticates?"

"The what?"

"Some of them still like to call themselves Intellectuals, but that
title--Intelligentsia--is now claimed by every white collar in Europe who
has turned Socialist or Revolutionist.  He may have the intellect of a
cabbage, but he wants a 'new order.'  We still have a few
pseudo-socialists among our busy young brains, but youth must have its
ideals and they can originate nothing better.  I thought I'd coin a new
head-line that would embrace all of us."

"It is comprehensive!  Well?"

"A friend of mine, Gora Dwight--at present 'foremost woman author of
America'--is giving a party next Saturday night.  I'd like enormously to
take you."

"But I do not know Miss Dwight."

"She will call in due form.  I assure you she understands the
conventions.  Of course, you need not see her, but she will leave a card.
Not that it wouldn't be quite proper for me merely to take you."

"I should prefer that she called.  Then--yes, I should like to go.  Thank
you."

The men arrived with the entrée and departed with the soup plates.

Once more he had an inspiration.

"Poor old Dinwiddie's laid up with the gout."

"Really?  He called a day or two after the dinner, and I enjoyed hearing
him talk about the New York of his youth--and of Mary's.  Unfortunately,
I was out when he called again.  But I have seen Mr. Osborne twice.
These are his flowers.  He also sent me several books."

"What were they?" growled Clavering.  He remembered with dismay that he
hadn't even sent her the usual tribute of flowers.  There had been no
place in his mind for the small amenities.

"A verboten romance called 'Jurgen.'  Why verboten?  Because it is too
good for the American public?  'Main Street.'  For me, it might as well
have been written in Greek.  'The Domesday Book.'  A great story.  'Seed
of the Sun.'  To enlighten me on the 'Japanese Question.'  'Cytherea.'
Wonderful English.  Why is it not also verboten?"

"Even censors must sleep.  Is that all he sent you?"

"I am waiting for the chocolates--but possibly those are sent only by the
very young men to the very young girls."

He glowered at his plate.  "Do you like chocolates?  I'll send some
tomorrow.  I've been very remiss, I'm afraid, but I've lost the habit."

"I detest chocolates."

Squabs and green peas displaced the entree.  The burgundy was admirable.

Once more he was permitted to gaze at her eyelashes.  He plunged
desperately.  "The name Marie doesn't suit you.  If ever I know you well
enough I shall call you Mary.  It suits your vast repose.  That is why
ordinary Marys are nicknamed 'Mamie' or 'Mame.'"

"I was christened Mary."  She raised her eyes.  They were no longer wise
and unfathomable.  They looked as young as his own.  Probably younger, he
reflected.  She looked appealing and girlish.  Once more he longed to
protect her.

"Do you want to call me Mary?" she asked, smiling.

"I hardly know whether I do or not. . . .  There's something else I
should tell you.  I swore I'd never ask you any more questions--but
I--well, Dinwiddie kept on the scent until he was laid up.  One of the
Thornhills verified your story in so far as he remembered that a cousin
had settled in Virginia and then moved on to Paris.  There his
information stopped. . . .  But . . .  Dinwiddie met a Countess Loyos at
dinner."

"Countess Loyos?"

"Yes--know her?"

"Mathilde Loyos?  She is one of my oldest friends."

"No doubt you'd like to see her.  I can get her address for you."

"There is nothing I want less than to see her.  Nor any one else from
Austria--at present."

"I think this could not have been your friend.  She emphatically said--I
am afraid of being horribly rude----"

"Ah!"  For the first time since he had known her the color flooded her
face; then it receded, leaving her more pale than white.  "I understand."

"Of course, it may be another Countess Loyos.  Like the Zattianys, it may
be a large family."

"As it happens there is no other."

Silence.  He swore to himself.  He had no desire to skate within a mile
of her confounded mysteries and now like a fool he had precipitated
himself into their midst again.  But if she wouldn't talk. . . .

"Suppose we talk of something else," he said hurriedly.  "I assure you
that I have deliberately suppressed all curiosity.  I am only too
thankful to know you on any terms."

"But you think I am in danger again?"

"Yes, I do.  That is, if you wish to keep your identity a secret--for
your own good reasons.  Of course, no harm can come to you.  I assume
that you are not a political refugee--in danger of assassination!"

"I am not.  What is Mr. Dinwiddie's inference?"  She was looking at him
eagerly.

"That you really are a friend of Countess Zattiany, but for some motive
or other you are using her name instead of your own.  That--that--you had
your own reasons for escaping from Austria----"

"Escaping?"

"One was that you might have got into some political mess--restoration of
Charles, or something----"

She laughed outright.

"The other was--well--that you are hiding from your husband."

"My husband is dead," she said emphatically.

He had never known that clouds, unless charged with thunder, were noisy.
But he heard a black and ominous cloud gather itself and roll off his
brain.  Had that, after all, been . . .  Nevertheless, he was annoyed to
feel that he was smiling boyishly and that he probably looked as
saturnine as he felt.

"Whatever your little comedy, it is quite within your rights to play it
in your own way."

"It is not a comedy," she said grimly.

"Oh!  Not tragedy?" he cried in alarm.

"No--not yet.  Not yet! . . .  I am beginning to wish that I had never
come to America."

"Now I shall ask you why."

"And I shall not tell you.  I have read your Miss Dwight's novel, by the
way, and think it quite hideous."

"So do I.  But that is the reason of its success."  And the conversation
meandered along the safe bypaths of American fiction through the ices and
coffee.




XIX

They sat beside the fire in chairs that had never felt softer.  He
smoked a cigar, she cigarettes in a long topaz holder ornamented with a
tiny crown in diamonds and the letter Z.  She had given it to him to
examine when he exclaimed at its beauty.

Z!

But he banished both curiosity and possible confirmation.  He was
replete and comfortable, and almost happy.  The occasional silences
were now merely agreeable.  She lay back in her deep chair as relaxed
as himself, but although she said little her aloofness had mysteriously
departed.  She looked companionable and serene.  Only one narrow foot
in its silvery slipper moved occasionally, and her white and beautiful
hands, whose suggestion of ruthless power Clavering had appreciated
apprehensively from the first, seemed, although they were quiet, subtly
to lack the repose of her body.

Once while he was gazing into the fire he felt sure that she was
examining his profile.  He made no pretensions to handsomeness, but he
rather prided himself on his nose, the long fine straight nose of the
Claverings.  His brow was also good, but although his hair was black,
his eyes were blue, and he would have preferred to have black eyes, as
he liked consistent types.  Otherwise he was one of the "black
Claverings."  Northumbrian in origin and claiming descent from the
Bretwaldes, overlords of Britain, the Claverings were almost as fair as
their Anglian ancestors, but once in every two or three generations a
completely dark member appeared, resurgence of the ancient Briton;
sometimes associated with the high stature of the stronger Nordic race,
occasionally--particularly among the women--almost squat.  Clavering
had been spared the small stature and the small too narrow head, but
saving his steel blue eyes--trained to look keen and hard--he was as
dark as any Mediterranean.  His mouth was well-shaped and closely set,
but capable of relaxation and looked as if it might once have been full
and sensitive.  It too had been severely trained.  The long face was
narrower than the long admirably proportioned head.  It was by no means
as disharmonic a type as Gora Dwight's; the blending of the races was
far more subtle, and when making one of his brief visits to Europe he
was generally taken for an Englishman, never for a member of the Latin
peoples; except possibly in the north of France, where his type, among
those Norman descendants of Norse and Danes, was not uncommon.
Nevertheless, although his northern inheritance predominated, he was
conscious at times of a certain affinity with the race that two
thousand years ago had met and mingled with his own.

He turned his eyes swiftly and met hers.  She colored faintly and
dropped her lids.  Had she lowered those broad lids over a warm glow?

"Now I know what you look like!" he exclaimed, and was surprised to
find that his voice was not quite steady.  "A Nordic princess."

"Oh!  That is the very most charming compliment ever paid me."

"You look a pretty unadulterated type for this late date.  I don't mean
in color only, of course; there are millions of blondes."

"My mother was a brunette."

"Oh, yes, you are a case of atavism, no doubt.  If I were as good a
poet as one of my brother columnists I should have written a poem to
you long since.  I can see you sweeping northward over the steppes of
Russia as the ice-caps retreated . . . reëmbodied on the Baltic coast
or the shores of the North Sea . . . sleeping for ages in one of the
Megaliths, to rise again a daughter of the Brythons, or of a Norse
Viking . . . west into Anglia to appear once more as a Priestess of
the Druids chaunting in a sacred grove . . . or as Boadicea--who
knows!  But no prose can regenerate that shadowy time.  I see
it--prehistory--as a swaying mass of ghostly multitudes, but always
pressing on--on . . . as we shall appear, no doubt, ten thousand years
hence if all histories are destroyed--as no doubt they will be.  If I
were an epic poet I might possibly find words and rhythm to fit that
white vision, but it is wholly beyond the practical vocabulary and
mental make-up of a newspaper man of the twentieth century.  Some of us
write very good poetry indeed, but it is not precisely inspired, and it
certainly is not epic.  One would have to retire to a cave like Buddha
and fast."

"You write singularly pure English, in spite of what seems to me a
marked individuality of style, and--ah--your apparent delight in
slang!"  Her voice was quite even, although her eyes had glowed and
sparkled and melted at his poetic phantasma of her past (as what
woman's would not?).  "I find a rather painful effort to be--what do
you call it? highbrow?--in some of your writers."

"The youngsters.  I went through that phase.  We all do.  But we
emerge.  I mean, of course, when we have anything to express.
Metaphysical verbosity is a friendly refuge.  But as a rule years and
hard knocks drive us to directness of expression. . . .  But poets must
begin young.  And New York is not exactly a hot-bed of romance."

"Do you think that romance is impossible in New York?" she asked
irresistibly.

"I--oh--well, what is romance?  Of course, it is quite possible to fall
in love in New York--although anything but the ideal setting.  But
romance!"

"Surely the sense of mystery between a man and woman irresistibly
attracted may be as provocative in a great city as in a feudal castle
surrounded by an ancient forest--or on one of my Dolomite lakes.  Is it
not that which constitutes romance--the breathless trembling on the
verge of the unexplored--that isolates two human beings as
authentically--I am picking up your vocabulary--as if they were alone
on a star in space?  Is it not possible to dream here in New York?--and
surely dreams play their part in romance."  Her fingertips, moving
delicately on the surface of her lap, had a curious suggestion of
playing with fire.

"One needs leisure for dreams."  He stood up suddenly and leaned
against the mantelpiece.  The atmosphere had become electric.  "A good
thing, too, as far as some of us are concerned.  The last thing for a
columnist to indulge in is dreams.  Fine hash he'd have for his readers
next morning!"

"Do you mean to say that none of you clever young men fall in love?"

"Every day in the week, some of them.  They even marry--and tell
fatuous yarns about their babies.  No doubt some of them have even
gloomed through brief periods of unreciprocated passion.  But they
don't look very romantic to me."

"Romance is impossible without imagination, I should think.  Aching for
what you cannot have or falling in love reciprocally with a charming
girl is hardly romance.  That is a gift--like the spark that goes to
the making of Art."

"Are you romantic?" he asked harshly.  "You look as if born to inspire
romance--dreams--like a beautiful statue or painting--but mysterious as
you make yourself--and, I believe, are in essence--I should never have
associated you with the romantic temperament.  Your eyes--as they too
often are----  Oh, no!"

"It is true that I have never had a romance."

"You married--and very young."

"Oh, what is young love!  The urge of the race.  A blaze that ends in
babies or ashes.  Romance!"

"You have--other men have loved you."

"European men--the type my lot was cast with--may be romantic in their
extreme youth--I have never been attracted by men in that stage of
development, so I may only suppose--but when a man has learned to
adjust passion to technique there is not much romance left in him."

"Are you waiting for your romance, then?  Have you come to this more
primitive civilization to find it?"

She raised her head and looked him full in the eyes.  "No, I did not
believe in the possibility then."

"May I have a high-ball?"

"Certainly."

He took his drink on the other side of the room.  It was several
minutes before he returned to the hearth.  Then he asked without
looking at her: "How do you expect to find romance if you shut yourself
up?"

"I wanted nothing less.  As little as I wanted it to be known that I
was here at all."

"That damnable mystery!  Who are you?"

"Nothing that you have imagined.  It is far stranger--I fancy it would
cure you."

"Cure me?"

"Yes.  Do you deny that you love me?"

"No, by God!  I don't!  But you take a devilish advantage.  You must
know that I had meant to keep my head.  Of course, you are playing with
me--with your cursed technique! . . .  Unless . . ."  He reached her in
a stride and stood over her.  "Is it possible--do you--you----"

She pushed back her chair, and stood behind it.  Her cheeks were very
pink, her eyes startled, but very soft.  "I do not admit that yet--I
have been too astounded--I went away to think by myself--where I was
sure not to see you--but--my mind seemed to revolve in circles.  I
don't know!  I don't know!"

"You do know!  You are not the woman to mistake a passing interest for
the real thing."

"Oh, does a woman ever--I never wanted to be as young as that again!
I should have believed it impossible if I had given the matter a
thought--It is so long!  I had forgotten what love was like.  There was
nothing I had buried as deep.  And there are reasons--reasons!"

"I only follow you vaguely.  But I think I understand--worse luck!
I've hated you more than once.  You must have known that.  I believe
you are deliberately leading me on to make a fool of myself."

"I am not!  Oh, I am not!"

"Do you love me?"

"I--I want to be sure.  I have dreamed . . .  I--I have leisure, you
see.  This old house shuts out the world--Europe--the past.  The war
might have cut my life in two.  If it had not been for that--that long
selfless interval . . .  I'd like you to go now."

"Will you marry me?"

"It may be.  I can't tell.  Not yet.  Are you content to wait?"

"I am not!  But I've no intention of taking you by force, although I
don't feel particularly civilized at the present moment.  But I'll win
you and have you if you love me.  Make no doubt of that.  You may have
ten thousand strange reasons--they count for nothing with me.  And I
intend to see you every day.  I'll call you up in the morning.  Now I
go, and as quickly as I can get out."




XX

He plunged down the steps into a snowstorm.  Even during his
precipitate retreat he had realized the advisability of telephoning for
a taxi, but had been incapable of the anti-climax.  He pulled his hat
over his eyes, turned up the collar of his coat, and made his way
hastily toward Park Avenue.  There was not a cab in sight.  Nor was
there a rumble in the tunnel; no doubt the cars were snow-bound.  He
hesitated only a moment: it would hardly take him longer to walk to his
hotel than to the Grand Central Station, but he crossed over to Madison
Avenue at once, for it was bitter walking and there was a bare chance
of picking up a cab returning from one of the hotels.

But the narrow street between its high dark walls looked like a
deserted mountain pass rapidly filling with snow.  The tall
street-lamps shed a sad and ghostly beam.  They might have been the
hooded torches of cave dwellers sheltering from enemies and the storm
in those perpendicular fastnesses.  Far down, a red sphere glowed
dimly, exalting the illusion.  He almost fancied he could see the
out-posts of primeval forests bending over the cañon and wondered why
the "Poet of Manhattan" had never immortalized a scene at once so
sinister and so lovely.

And no stillness of a high mountain solitude had ever been more
intense.  Not even a muffled roar from trains on the distant "L's."
Clavering wondered if he really were in New York.  The whole evening
had been unreal enough.  Certainly all that was prosaic and ugly and
feverish had been obliterated by what it was no flight of fancy to call
white magic.  That seething mass of humanity, that so often looked as
if rushing hither and thither with no definite purpose, driven merely
by the obsession of speed, was as supine in its brief privacy as its
dead.  In spite of the fever in him he felt curiously uplifted--and
glad to be alone.  There are moods and solitudes when a man wants no
woman, however much he may be wanting one particular woman. . . .  But
the mood was ephemeral; he had been too close to her a moment before.
Moreover, she was still unpossessed. . . .  She seemed to take shape
slowly in the white whirling snow, as white and imponderable. . . .  A
Nordic princess drifting northward over her steppes. . . .  God!  Would
he ever get her? . . .  If he did not it would be because one of them
was qualifying for another incarnation.

He walked down the avenue as rapidly as possible, his hands in his
pockets, his head bent to the wind, no longer transported; forcing his
mind to dwell on the warmth of his rooms and his bed. . . .  His head
ached.  He'd go to the office tomorrow and write his column there.
Then think things out.  How was he to win such a woman?  Make her sure
of herself?  Convert her doubts into a passionate certainty?  She, with
her highly technical past!  Make no mistakes?  If he made a precipitate
ass of himself--what comparisons! . . .  His warm bed . . . the
complete and personal isolation of his rooms . . . he had never given
even a tea to women . . . he gave his dinners in restaurants. . . .
How many more blocks?  The snow was thicker.  He couldn't even see the
arcade of Madison Square Garden, although a faint diffused radiance
high in air was no doubt the crown of lights on the Metropolitan
Tower. . . .  Had he made a wrong move in bolting----?

His thoughts and counter-thoughts came to an abrupt end.  At the corner
of Thirtieth Street he collided with a small figure in a fur coat and
nearly knocked it over.  He was for striding on with a muttered
apology, when the girl caught him by the arm with a light laugh.

"Lee Clavering!  What luck!  Take me home."

He was looking down into the dark naughty little face of Janet
Oglethorpe, granddaughter of the redoubtable Jane.

"What on earth are you doing here?" he asked stupidly.

"Perhaps I'll tell you and perhaps I won't.  On second thoughts don't
take me home.  Take me to one of those all-night restaurants.  That's
just the one thing I haven't seen, and I'm hungry."

He subtly became an uncle.  "I'll do nothing of the sort.  You ought to
be ashamed of yourself--alone in the streets at this hour of the night.
It must be one o'clock.  I shall take you home.  I suppose you have a
latch-key, but for two cents I'd ring the bell and hand you over to
your mother."

"Mother went to Florida today and dad's duck-hunting in South Carolina.
Aunt Mollie's too deaf to hear doorbells and believes anything I tell
her."

"I am astonished that your mother left you behind to your own devices."

"I wouldn't go.  She's given me up--used to my devices.  Besides, I've
one or two on her and she doesn't dare give me away to dad.  He thinks
I'm a darling spoilt child.  Not that I'd mind much if he didn't, but
it's more convenient."

"You little wretch!  I believe you've been drinking."

"So I have!  So I have!  But I've got an asbestos lining and could
stand another tall one.  Ah!"  Her eyes sparkled.  "Suppose you take me
to your rooms----"

"I'll take you home----"

"You'll take me to one of those all-nighters----"

"I shall not."

"Then ta! ta!  I'll go home by myself.  I've had too good a time
tonight to bother with old fogies."

She started up the street and Clavering hesitated but a moment.  Her
home was on East Sixty-fifth Street.  Heaven only knew what might
happen to her.  Moreover, although her mother was one of those women
whose insatiable demand for admiration bored him, he had no more
devoted friends than her father and her grandmother.  Furthermore, his
curiosity was roused.  What had the little devil been up to?

He overtook the Oglethorpe flapper and seizing her hand drew it through
his arm.

"I'll take you where you can get a sandwich," he said.  "But I'll not
take you to a restaurant.  Too likely to meet newspaper men."

"Anything to drink?"

"Ice cream soda."

"Good Lord!"

"You needn't drink it.  But you'll get nothing else.  Come along or
I'll pick you up and carry you to the nearest garage."

She trotted obediently beside him, a fragile dainty figure; carried
limply, however, and little more distinguished than flappers of
inferior origin.  He led her to a rather luxurious delicatessen not far
from his hotel, kept by enterprising Italians who never closed their
doors.  They seated themselves uncomfortably at the high counter, and
the sleepy attendant served them with sandwiches, then retired to the
back of the shop.  He was settling himself to alert repose when Miss
Oglethorpe suddenly changed her mind and ordered a chocolate ice cream
soda.  Then she ordered another, and she ate six sandwiches, a slice of
cake and two bananas.

"Great heaven!" exclaimed Clavering.  "You must have the stomach of an
ostrich."

"Can eat nails and drink fire water."

"Well, you won't two years hence, and you'll look it, too."

"Oh, no I won't.  I'll marry when I'm nineteen and a half and settle
down."

"I should say you were heading the other way.  Where have you been
tonight?"

"Donny Farren gave a party in his rooms and passed out just as he was
about to take me home.  I loosened his collar and put a pillow under
his head, but I couldn't lift him, even to the sofa.  Too fat."

[Illustration: Returning home one night Clavering (Conway Tearle) found
Janet Oglethorpe (Clara Bow), daughter of his old friend, in a
semi-intoxicated condition.  (Screen version of "The Black Oxen.")]

"I suppose you pride yourself on being a good sport."

"Rather.  If Donny'd been ill I'd have stayed with him all night, but
he was dead to the world."

"You say he had a party.  Why didn't some of the others take you home?"

"Ever hear about three being a crowd?  Donny, naturally, was all for
taking me home, and didn't show any signs of collapse till the last
minute."

"But I should think that for decency's sake you'd all have gone down
together."

"Lord!  How old-fashioned you are.  I was finishing a cigarette and
never thought of it."  She opened a little gold mesh bag, took out a
cigarette and lit it.  Her cheeks were flushed under the rouge and her
large black eyes glittered in her fluid little face.  She was one of
the beauties of the season's débutantes, but scornful of nature.  Her
olive complexion was thickly powdered and there was a delicate smudge
of black under her lower lashes and even on her eyelids.  He had never
seen her quite so blatantly made up before, but then he had seen little
of her since the beginning of her first season.  He rarely went to
parties, and she was almost as rarely in her own home or her
grandmother's.  Her short hair curled about her face.  In spite of her
paint she looked like a child--a greedy child playing with life.

"Look here!" he said.  "How far do you go?"

"Wouldn't you like to know?"

"I should.  Not for personal reasons, for girls of your age bore me to
extinction, but you've a certain sociological interest.  I wonder if
you are really any worse than your predecessors?"

"I guess girls have always been human enough, but we have more
opportunities.  We've made 'em.  This is our age and we're enjoying it
to the limit.  God! what stupid times girls must have had--some of them
do yet.  They're naturally goody-goody, or their parents are too much
for them.  Not many, though.  Parents have taken a back seat."

"I don't quite see what you get out of it--guzzling, and smoking your
nerves out by the roots, and making yourselves cheap with men little
older than yourselves."

"You don't see, I suppose, why girls should have their fling, or"--her
voice wavered curiously--"why youth takes naturally to youth.  I
suppose you think that is a cruel thing for a girl to say."

"Not in the least," he answered cheerfully.  "Don't mind a bit.  But
what do you get out of it--that's what I'm curious to know."

She tossed her head and blew a perfect ring.  "Don't you know that
girls never really enjoyed life before?"

"It depends upon the point of view, I should think."

"No, there's a lot more in it than you guess.  The girls used to sit
round waiting for men to call and wondering if they'd condescend to
show up at the next dance; while the men fairly raced after the girls
with whom they could have a free and easy time--no company manners, no
chaperons, no prudish affectations about kisses and things.  No fear of
shocking if they wanted to let go--the strain must have been awful.
You know what men are.  They like to call a spade a spade and be damned
to it.  Our sort didn't have a chance.  They couldn't compete.  So, we
made up our minds to compete in the only way possible.  We leave off
our corsets at dances so they can get a new thrill out of us, then sit
out in an automobile and drink and have little petting parties of two.
And we slip out and have an occasional lark like tonight.  We're not to
be worried about, either."

"Why cryptic after your really admirable frankness?  But there's always
a point beyond which women never will go when confessing their
souls. . . .  I suppose you think you're as hard as nails.  Do you
really imagine that you will ever be able to fall in love and marry and
want children?"

"Don't men?"
