done, and wanted to be good." 
"Aunt Mary didn't know that you were sorry, 
I am sure. When she called you Miaughty boy,' 
what did you say ." 
''I was going to say, 'you're a fool!' but .I 
didn't. I tried hard not to let my tongue say the 
bad words, though it wanted to." 
" Why did you try not to say them ?" 
'' Because it would have been wrong, and would 
have made you feel sorry. And I love you.' 
Again the repentant boy kissed her. Plis eyes 
mother. 
While talking over this incideht with her hus- 
band, Mrs. Hartley said, — 
" Were not all these impressions so light, I 
would feel encouraged. The boy has warm and 
tender feelings, but I fear that his passionate tem- 
per and selfishness will, like evil weeds, complete- 
ly check their growth." 
''' The case is bad enough, Anna, but not so bad, 
I hope, as you fear. These good affections are 
never active in vain. They impress the mind with 
an indellihle impression. In after years the re- 
membrance of them will revive the states they 
produced, and give strength to good desires and 
intentions. Amid all his irregularities, and wan- 
derings from good, in after life, the thoughts of his 
mother will restore the feelings he had to-day, and 
draw him back from evil with chords of love that 
cannot be broken. The good now implanted will 
remain, and, like ten just men, save the city. In 
most instances where men abandon themselves 
finally to evil courses, it will be found that the  
impressions made in childhood were not of the  
right kind. That the mother's influence was not)' 
what it should have been. For myself, I am sure 
that a different mother would have made me a different man 
When a boy, I was too much like 
Clarence ; but the tenderness with which my mo- 
ther always treated me, and the unimpassioned but 
earnest manner in which she reproved and cor- 
rected my faults, subdued my unruly temper. — 
When I became restless or impatient, she always 
had a book to read to me, or a story to tell, or had 
some device to save me from myself. My father 
was neither harsh nor indulgent towards me; I 
cherish his memory with respect and love. But I 
have different feelings when I think of my mother. 
I often feel, even now, as if she were near me — as 
if her cheek were laid to mine. My father would 
place his hand vpon my heacL caressingly, but my 
mother would lay her cheek against mine. I did 
not expect my father to do more — I do not know 
that I would have loved him had he done more; 
for him it was a natural expression of affection. 
But no act is too tender for a mother. Her kiss 
upon my cheek, her warm embrace, are all felt 
now, and the older I grow the more holy seem the 
influences that surrounded me in childhood. To- 
day I cut from a newspaper some verses that 
pleased and affected me. I have brought them 
home. Let me read them to you. 
' I dreamed of my mother, and sweet to my soul 
Was the brief-given spell of that vision's control; 
I thought she stood by me, all cheerful and mild, 
As when to her bosom I clung as a child, 
' Her features were bright with the smiles that she wore, 
"When heeding my idle-tongued prattle of yore ; 
And her voice had that kindly and silvery strain 
That from childhood had dwelt in the depths of my brain. 
'She spoke of the days of her girlhood and youth — 
Of life and its cares, and of hope and its truth; 
And she seemed as an angel just winged from above, 
To bring me a message of duty and love. 
  She told of her thoughts at the old village school — 
Of her walks with her playmates, when loos'd from its 
rule, 
Of her rambles for berries, and when they were o'er, 
  .She painted the garden, so sweet to the view, 
Where the wren made its nest, and the pet flowers grew— 
Of the trees that she loved for their scent and their shade, 
Where the robin, and wild-bee, and humming-bird play'd. 
  And she spoke of the greenwood which bordered the 
farm. 
Where her glad moments glided unmix'd with alarm; 
  By Thomas G. Spear. 
 
Of tlie well by the wicket whose waters were free, 
And the lake with its white margin travers'd in glee. 
'And she pondered, delighted, the joys to retrace 
Of the family scenes of that ruralized place, — 
Of its parties and bridals, its loves and its spells — 
Its heart-clinging ties and its sadden'd farewells. 
  She pictured the meeting-house, where, with the throng 
She heard the good pastor and sang the sweet song — 
Of the call from the pulpit — the feast at the shrine. 
And the haliow'd communings with feelings divine. 
'"And listen, my son," she did smilingly say, 
"If 'tis pleasant to sing, it is sweeter to pray — 
If the future is bright in the day of thy prime, 
That britjhtness mav grow with the fading of time. 
' "Look up to thy laker, my son. and rejoice !" 
Was the last gentle whisper that came from her voice, 
While its soft soothing tones on my dreaming ear fell, 
As she glided away with a smiling farewell. 
' There are dreams of the heavens, and dreams of the 
earth. 
And dreams of disease that to phantoms give birth, 
But the hearer of angels, awake or asleep. 
Has a vision of love to remember and keep. 
'I awoke from the spell of that vision of night, 
And inly communed with a quiet delight, 
And the past, and the present, and future survey'd, 
In the darkness presented by fancy, array'd. 
 I thought of the scenes when that mother was nigh, 
In a soft sunny land, and beneath a mild sky. 
When at matins we walked to the heahli-giving spring, 
With the dew on the grass, and the birds on the wing. 
« Of the draughts at the fount as the white sun arose, 
And the views from the bluifs where the broad river 
flows — 
Of the sound from the shore of the fisherman's train, 
And the sight of the ship as it sailed to the main. 
  Of the wild-flowers pluck'd from the glen and the field, 
And the beauties the meadows and gardens revealed — 
Of all that she paused to explain or explore, 
'Till I learned, in my wonder, to think and adore. 
'And of joys that attended the fireside scene, 
When woodlands and meadows no longer were green— 
Of the sports, and the tales, and the holiday glee. 
That ever were rife at the fond mother's knee. 
' Of the duties of home, and the studies of school, 
With the many delights that divided their rule, 
'Till the sunshine of boyhood had ended, and brought 
The cares and the shadows of manhood and thought. 
  And I sighed for the scenes that had faded away, 
For the forms that had fallen from age to decay — 
For the friends who had vanished, while looking before, 
To paths that their feet were forbid to explore. 
  And glancing beyond, through the vista of time, 
With a soul full of hope, and with life in its prime, 
Though flowers by memory cherished had died 
Life's garden was still with some blossoms supplied. 
'And oft as that dream to my spirit comes back, 
A newness of thought re-illumines my track, — ' " 
" Pure and tender. The mother who called 
forth that heart-warm tribute was, doubtless, a good 
motlier," said Anna. 
" You remember Cowper's lines, written on re- 
ceiving his mother's picture ." remarked her hus- 
band, after musing for a short time. 
" O, yes. Very well. They have often affected 
me to tears. 
' O that those lips had language ! Life has passed 
But roughly with me since I heard thee last. 
Those lips are thine — thy own sweet smile I see, 
The same that oft in childhood solaced me ; 
Voice only fails, else how distinct they say 
  Grieve not. my child, chase all thy fears away.' ' 
"To him, how great was the loss he sustained 
in the death of his mother. Had she lived, the 
deep melancholy that seized him in after life might 
never have occurred. With what simple eloquence 
he describes his loss." And Mr. Hartley repeated 
a passage of the poem. 
"' My mother ! when I learned that thou wast dead, 
Say, wast thou conscious of the tears I shed? 
Hovered thy spirit o'er thy sorrowing son, 
Wretched, een then, life's journey just begun? 
Perhaps thou gavest me, though unfelt, a kiss : 
Perhaps a tear, if souls can weep in bliss 
Ah, that maternal smile ! it answers — Yes. 
I heard the bell toll on thy burial day, 
I saw the hearse that bore thee slow away, 
And turning from my nursery window, drew 
A long, long sigh, and wept a last adieu ! 
But was it such ? — It was. — Where thou art gone 
Adieus and farewells are a sound unknown. 
May I but meet thee on that peaceful shore. 
Thy parting word shall pass my lips no more ! 
Thy maidens grieved themselves at my concern, 
Oft gave me promise of thy quick return. 
What ardently I wished, I long believed, 
And disappointed still, was still deceived. 
By expectation every day beguiled. 
Dupe of to-morrow even from a child. 
Thus many a sad to-morrow came and went, 
'Till all my stock of infant sorrow spent, 
I learned at last submission to my lot. 
But, though I less deplored thee, ne'er forgot.' " 
Mrs. Hartley leaned her head upon her hus- 
band's shoulder, unable to restrain the tears that 
were springing to her eye. 
"If Heaven only spares me to my children, it is 
all J ask," she murmured. " I will be patient with 
 
[and forbearing towards them. I will discharge my 
'duties with unwearied diligence. Who can fill a 
mother's place ? Alas ! no one. If any voice had 
been as full of love for him when a child, if any 
hand had ministered to him as tenderly, this touch- 
ing remembrance of his mother would never have 
been recorded by Cowper. 
" ' Thy nightly visits to my chamber made, 
That thou might'st find me safe and warmly laid; 
Thy morning bounties ere I left my home, 
The biscuit or confectionary plum ; 
The fragrant waters on my cheek bestow'd 
By thy own hand, 'till fiesh they shone and glowed: 
All this, and more endearing still than all. 
Thy constant flow of love, that knew no fall, 
Ne'er roughened by those cataracts and breaks 
That humor interposed too often makes. 
Could Time, his flight reversed, restore the hours 
When, playing with thy vesture's tissued flowers, 
The violet, the pink, and jessamine, 
I prick'd them into paper with a pin, 
(And thou wast happier than myself the while, 
Would'st softly speak, and stroke my head and smile) 
Could those few pleasant days again appear, 
Might one wish bring them, would T wish them here? 
I would not trust my heart — the dear delight 
Seems so to be desired, perhaps I might — 
But no — what here we call our life is such, 
So little to be loved, and thou so muchj 
That I should ill requite thee to constrain 
Thy unbound spirit into bonds again.' 
" Ah, who could be unkind to a motherless one .'"' 
" The lot of an orphan child is not always as 
sad a one as must have been that of young Cow- 
per," said Mr. Hartley, " for it is but rarely that a 
child possesses the delicate or rather morbid sensi- 
bility that characterized him." 
" I could not bear to think that any child of 
mine would remember me with less tenderness," 
replied Mrs. Hartley. 
" Even though it embitter his whole life." 
"No — no. It was the mother's selfishness, not 
the mother's love that spoke," she instantly re- 
turned. 
" To recur to what we were first talking about," 
said Mr. Hartley, after a pause. " There cannot 
be a doubt, that the whole life of the child is 
affected by the mother's character, and the influ- 
ences she has brought to bear upon him. I could 
point to many instances that have come under my 
own observation that illustrate this. The father of 
one of my schoolmates was a man of a highly cul- 
tivated mind, and polished manners; his mother 
was the reverse. The son is like the mother. As 
a man, he did not rise in society at all, and is now 
  
 
the keeper of a billiard saloon. In another in- 
stance, the father was a low minded man, and in- 
clined to dissipation. Nearly the whole burden 
of the support of the family fell upon the mother; 
but her children always came to school neat and 
clean. Their behavior was good, and they studied 
Mith diligence. Only one of four sons turned out 
badly. Three of them are now merchants in good 
business, and the mother's declining years are 
blessed by their kindest attentions. You see, then, 
Anna, how much you have to encourage you." 
" If there was nothing to encourage me, love 
and duty would make me persevere." 
"But there is much. Cast thy bread upon the 
waters, and it shall be found after many days." 
CHAPTER VI. 
THE BIRTH-DAY PARTY. 
"Next Saturday is Marien's birth-day, Aunt 
Mary," said Mrs. Hardey. " She will be just 
eleven years old, and she must have a party." 
"She mustn't have any such thing, Anna.— 
What nonsense I" 
" Why do you call it nonsense ?" 
" It will only be putting silly notions into her head. 
You had a great deal better take the money it would 
cost and give it for some charitable purpose." 
" Take care, Aunt Mary, or I shall retort upon 
you," said Mrs. Hartley, smiling. 
"You can retort as much as you please. I'll 
warrant you can find no fooleries like giving par- 
ties to little misses, when they had better be in their 
beds, to charge upon me." 
" Perhaps not. But that giving of the money 
for charitable purposes, is what I should like to say 
a word about. Last week you bought a new satin 
coat, and gave three dollars a yard for the satin. 
Why didn't you buy one of good warm merino, 
or even silk, and give the balance to some charity } 
Answer me that. Aunt Mary !" 
" I am not going to be catechised by you. Miss 
Pert — so just hold your tongue," was Aunt Mary's 
reply, made half in anger and half in playfulness. 
" Very well. ?: the matter of the charity is all 
settled — and now what have you to say against 
the party to Marien, considered upon its abstract 
merits ?" 
"A great deal. It will be filling the child's 
head with vain and wicked tiioughts — thoughts of 
mere worldly show and pleasure. No doubt you 
 
will dress her and the rest of them up like puppets, 
to make them as proud and vain as Lucifer himself. 
Other people will send their children here tricked 
out and furbelowed just like them. And then, 
what a nice little Vanity Fair you will have. It is 
a downright sin and shame, Anna, for you to think 
of such a thing. It isn't only your children that 
are injured, but you tempt other people to injure 
theirs." 
"Heaven grant that neither my children nor the 
children of my friends may ever be subjected to 
worse influences than they \vill be under at Ma- 
rien's party," said Mrs. Hartley, with some warmth. 
Just then Clarence came bounding into the room, 
singing so loud as to drown the voice of Aunt 
Mary, who had commenced a reply. 
'' Do hush, you noisy fellow !" she said, fret- 
fully — ""You are enough to set any one crazy!" 
The boy did not seem to regard the words of 
his aunt any more than he would the passing 
wind. But when his mother said, softly, " Cla- 
rence !" and looking him in the face, he was in- 
stantly quiet. 
Aunt Mary noticed the effect of the mother's low- 
voiced word in contrast with her own peevish com- 
plaint, and it annoyed her so much that she would 
not trust herself to utter what she was about sayingf. 
" Next Saturday is Marien's birth-day," said the 
mother, as Clarence came up to her side and leaned 
against her. 
" Is it ?" and the boy looked intently in his mo- 
ther's face. 
"Yes. She will be just eleven years old. And 
she must have a party." 
" O, yes '" said Clarence in a quick, animated 
voice, clapping- his hands together. Marien is a 
good girl, and she shall have a party." 
" You love Marien, don't you, Clarence ." 
" Yes, mother." 
" Why do you love her ." 
" Because she is so good. Every body loves 
her" 
" Because she is good ?'' 
" Yes." 
" Wouldn't you like every body to love you ?" 
" Yes, mother. But I can't be good like Marien." 
« Why ?" 
" I don't know ; but I can't." 
" What will you do at Marien's party ?" 
" I will dance with all the little girls, and be as 
kind and good to them as I can." 
" Who shall be invited ?" 
" All the children we know, except Tom Peters 
and Sarah Jones." 
 
A frown gathered upon tlie boy's face as lie ut- 
tered these names. 
" Why not invite them, Clarence ?" 
"Because I don't like them." 
" Why don't you like them ?" 
"Tom threw stones at me the other day, and 
Sarah called me a rude ugly boy." 
" Why did Tom throw stones at you ?" 
Clarence was silent. 
" Perhaps you did something to him." 
" I only laughed at him because he fell down." 
" Did he ever throw stones at you before :" 
"No." 
" You were always good friends." 
"Yes, ma'am." 
"Then you were first in the wrong. You pro- 
voked him to throw stones at you." 
"I only laughed at him, and I couldn't help it. 
He fell in the mud, and soiled his clothes all 
over." 
" I don't think that was any thing to laugh at. 
Suppose Marien had been in your place ? What 
do you think she would have done t Would she 
have laughed at him .?" 
"No; I am sure she wouldn"'t." 
" What would she have done ?" 
"I suppose she would have gone to him, and 
brushed all the dirt from his clothes, and told him 
that she was very sorry he had fallen down." 
"You said just now that Marien was a good 
girl." 
" And so she is." 
" And that you loved her because she was good." 
"So I do." 
" Was you good when you laughed at Thomas 
Peters ?" 
" I don't think I was." 
" Would he throw stones at Marien .'" 
" No, indeed. Nobody would throw stones at 
her. Everybody loves her." 
"It is plain then, that it was because you were 
not good that Thomas Peters threw stones at you. 
He did not throw stones at good Clarence, but 
at bad Clarence. Is it not so ? Now don't you 
think you can forgive him, when you remember 
how you provoked him. Suppose you had fallen 
in the mud, and he had laughed at you, would not 
you have been just as likely to have thrown stones 
at him ?" 
" Maybe I would." 
" Suppose the good Lord would not forgive us 
for all the evil we do, what do you think would 
become of us } And he will not forgive us, unless 
we forgive others their trespasses against us. — 
 
Remember that, my dear boy. You will have 
Thomas invited, I am sure." 
"Yes, mother; for I believe I was wrong," the 
boy replied in a softened tone. " And we will in- 
vite Sarah Jones too. I don't believe she would 
have called me what she did, if I had not run 
against her little brother and pushed him down. 
She loves Marien, and I know would be very sorry 
if she couldn't come to her party." 
"That is right, my boy. To forgive is sweet. 
You feel happier now." 
" I don't hate Tom Peters like I did." 
"You didn't hate him of yourself, my son. But 
you allowed wicked spirits to come into your 
heart, and you felt the hatred they bear towards 
every one. I am glad that they are cast out. 
Whenever we permit them to come into our hearts, 
they make us very unhappy. If we suffer not the 
evil spirits to come into us, angels will be our 
companions, and they will make us love every 
one." 
"They must always be with sister Marien then ; 
for she loves every body.'"" 
"They will always be with you, if you will let 
them, my son. Will you not try ." 
" I do try, mother. But I am so bad that the 
angels won't stay with me." 
"What nonsense to talk in that way to chil- 
dren," said Aunt Mary, as Clarence, hearing the 
voice of his sister, glided away to talk to. her about 
her party. 
" I believe all I have said to be true," Mrs. Hart- 
ley returned. 
" True ! How can you talk so ? Wicked spirits 
and angels in them ! A mere fiction !" 
"Not quite so much of a fiction as you may 
think. But we will not hold an argument on that 
subject, for it would be of no use. I think, how- 
ever, that you will admit that, if Marien's party 
effect no more good than you have just seen done, 
it will be well worth giving." 
"We are not to do evil that good may come." 
And Aunt Mary pursed up her lips, and looked as 
grave as a deacon. 
Mrs. Hartley smiled, but made no further ob- 
servation. 
All was merriment and glad anticipation, when 
it became known among the children that Marien 
was to have a birth-day party. Preparations for it 
were set on foot immediately, and invitations in 
due form made out, and sent around to all of her 
little friends. When the evening came, some 
twenty or thirty bright young faces were seen in 
the parlors of Mr. and Mrs. Hartley. Among the 
 
number were Thomas Peters and Sarah Jones, and 
it was a pure gratification to Mrs. Hartley to see 
Clarence take the former by the hand with manly 
frankness, and speak kindly to the latter, when thev 
came in. His eye caught the expression of her face 
at the time. It warmed his heart, — nay, impressed it 
ineffaceably. He remembered it even in manhood, 
with pleasure. 
The evening was a merry one for all. Even 
Aunt Mary forgot, more than half of her time, the 
little objection she had to '' profane music," and 
dancing. Such romping and wild, happy merri- 
ment as was there, is not often seen. Mrs. Hartley 
was among them as if but a child herself, and 
seemed to enjoy it as much as the gayest little 
urchin of the whole company. But, while she ap- 
peared to enter into the sports of the children as 
if one of them, she guided all their movements, and 
maintained a beautiful order throughout all. The 
ardent temperaments of the older children were 
restrained by modes not seen nor felt by them, 
while the younger ones she interested in various 
ways, that kept them together, and protected from 
the thoughtless rudeness of their elders. Not a 
string jarred in harsh discord during the whole 
evening. When the hour came for separation, a 
hundred kind wishes were uttered for Marien, and 
they all parted happier and better than when they 
came. 
' I don't know how they can be better," said 
Aunt Mary, to whom Mrs. Hartley made a remark 
on the next day, simikr to what we have just 
littered. 
"It is because they love one another more," 
Mrs. Hartley replied, in her usual quiet way. 
It is good thus to bring children together often. \ 
It creates and cherishes social feelings, and causes 
them to regard one another less selfishly than all 
are inclined to do. The spirits of children are 
active, and will flow out in spite of all that may 
unwisely be done to restrain them. It is the duty 
of parents to provide good forms into which these 
can flow, and find their delight. Can any thing be 
more suitable than social recreations, in which 
many can join together in innocent mirth } We 
think not. And so thought Mr. and Mrs. Hartley. 
It was for this reason that the birth-day of every 
child was celebrated by some kind of festivities, r 
CHAPTER VII. 
CORRECTING A FAULT. 
Mrs. Hartley noticed with pleasure, that for 
days after the party, the children were happier, 
and more easily interested than before. This she 
had always observed on similar occasions. In a 
little while, however, things were going on pretty 
much ill their usual course, and she was called 
upon to exercise all her tact and judgment in draw- 
ing the lines between them, so as to protect each 
one in his or her rights and privileges. All diffi- 
culties were submitted to her husband, and the 
best means to overcome them discussed between 
them. 
" There are two faults in Clarence and Henry," 
she said to Mr. Hartley about this period, " that I 
am at a loss how to correct. They are bad faults, 
and will affect their characters through life, if not 
judiciously corrected now. Clarence looks with 
an envious eye upon every thing that Henry has, 
and manages, sooner or later, to get possession of 
it by his brother's consent. Henry soon tires of 
vhat he has, and is easily induced to part with it 
to Clarence for some trifling consideration. It is 
not long, however, before he wants it back again, 
and then trouble ensues. Sometimes I think I will 
make a law that neither Clarence nor his brother 
shall part with any thing that has been given to 
him. But I am afraid of the effect of this. It will 
foster a selfish spirit. It will allow of no generous 
self-sacrifice for the good of others." 
" I think with you, that the effect would not be 
good. Still, it is very important that a certain 
feeling of property in what each one has should 
be preserved. As far as this can be accomplished, 
without strengthening the selfish tendency of our 
nature, it should be done. It causes each one not 
only to protect his own rights, but to regard the 
rights of his neighbors.'" 
" I see all that very clearly. The happy me- 
dium is what I desire to attain. As things are 
now, the disposition which Clarence has to appro- 
priate every thing to himself is fostered, and Henry 
is losing that just regard to his own rights that he 
ought to have. Now, what ought I to do ? Can 
you devise a plan ?" 
' ' Not so well as you can. But let me see. 
Suppose you try this mode for a while. Make a 
law, that if Henry give Clarence any of his play- 
 
things, the right to possess them shall be as per- 
fect as if you or I had presented them to Clarence 
as his own. The practical working of this will, 
in a short time, make Henry reflect a little before 
he relinquishes his property to his brother." 
"That will do, I think," said Mrs. Hartley. 
"There will be no harm in trying it, at any 
rate." 
On the next day she gave Clarence a new book, 
and Henry a humming-top. 
"Now let me tell you something," she said. 
"This book belongs to you, Clarence, and this top 
to you, Henry. I hope they will please you very 
much, and that you will take good care of them. 
You can lend them to each other, if you choose ; 
but I would rather you would not give them to 
each other. Should either of you do so, the one 
who gives his book or his top away, cannot re- 
claim it again. Do you understand, Henry .'" 
" O yes, ma'am, I understand. I'm not going to 
give any body my top, I know." 
"Very well, my son. You can do so if you 
wish. But remember, after you have once given 
it away, you cannot get it back again." 
"Why can't I, mother ?" asked the little boy. 
" Because, after you have given any thing away, 
it is no lonoer vours." 
 
" I'm not going to give it away," he said, in a 
positive voice, as he ran off to spin his top in the 
play room. 
For about an hour Clarence was very much inte- 
rested in his book, while Henry continued to spin 
his top with undiminished pleasure. After this 
time the interest of Clarence began to flag, and the 
sound of Henry's humming top came more and 
more distinctly to his ears from the adjoining room. 
At last he closed the book and sought his brother. 
'' Let me spin it once, won't you, Henry ?" he 
said. 
" Yes, I will," returned the generous-minded 
boy, and instantly handed the top and cord to 
Clarence, who wound it up, and sent it humming 
and skipping about the floor at a grand rate. 
Henry reached out iiis hand for the cord, but his 
brother held it back, saying, 
"Just let me spin it once more." 
" Well, you may once more," was replied. 
But it was " once more," and " once more," 
until Henry's tears restored to him his toy. 
"You are a selfish fellow," said Clarence, as he 
flung the top and cord at his brother's feet. 
Clarence did not resume his book, but stood 
looking at Henry's top, as he spun it, with a covet- 
ous expression on his face. 
 
"If you'll let me spin your top, you may read 
my book," he at length said. 
" I will," quickly returned Henry. 
The top and book were exchanged, and, for a 
time, both were well pleased. But the book was 
rather beyond the grasp of Henry's mind. He 
tired of it soon. 
"You may have your book now, Clarence. — 
I'm done reading it. Give me my top, won't you .'" 
" I'm not done with it yet. I let you read my 
book until you were tired, and now you must let 
me spin your top until I am tired." 
Henry rarely contended with his brother. He 
did not like contention. Knowing how resolute 
Clarence was in doing any thing that suited his 
humor, he said no more, but went and sat down 
quietly upon a litde chair, and looked on wishfully 
while Clarence spun his top. 
It was half an hour before Henry again got pos- 
session of his top; but the zest with which he had 
at first played with it was gone. Afier throwing it 
for a few times he said — 
" Here, Clarence, you may have it. I don't 
-want it." 
" May I have it for good .'" eagerly asked Cla- 
rence. 
'' Yes, for good." 
 
"You'll want it back." 
" No, I won't. You may keep it for ever." 
Clarence took possession of the top with right 
good will, and went on spinning it to his heart's 
content. After dinner Henry wanted it back again, 
and when his brother refused to give it up, went 
crying to his mother. Mrs. Hartley called up 
Clarence, and asked him why he did not give 
Henry his top. 
" It isn't his top, mother ; it is mine," said 
Clarence. 
" Yours ! How came it yours ." 
" Henry gave it to me." 
" Did you give it to him, Henry ?" 
"Yes, ma'am, this morning.: But it's my top, 
and I want it." 
"No, it is not your top any longer if you have 
given it to Clarence. It is his, and he must keep 
it. Have you forgotten what I told you when [ 
gave it to you. If you give away your things, 
they are no longer yours, and you cannot expect 
to get them back again. I hope, my son, that, 
hereafter, you will be more careful what you 
do." 
Henry cried bitterly, but his mother would not 
compel Clarence, upon whom Henry's tears had 
no effect, to restore the toy. The poor litde fel- 
 
low's lieart was almost broken at this hard lesson 
in the school of human life. 
In about a week, Mrs. Hartley tried it over again. 
Gifts were made to the children, and soon Clarence 
\vent to work to get possession of what his brother 
had. But Henry had not forgotten the top, and 
vas, therefore, not quite so generous as before. 
He withstood every effort for the first day. On 
the second, however, he yielded. On the follow- 
ing day he reclaimed his toys ; but his mother in- 
terposed again, and maintained Clarence's right to 
what Henry had given him. 
The poor child seemed unable to comprehend 
the justice of this decision, and grieved so much 
about it, that Mrs. Hartley felt unhappy. But ulti- 
mate good, she was sure, would be the result, 
painful as it might be to correct her child's fault. 
On the next occasion, Clarence found it much 
harder to prevail upon Henry to give him his play- 
things than before. The same result following, 
the little fellow's eyes began to be opened. He 
would look ahead and think when Clarence want- 
ed him to give him any thing, and the recollection 
of the permanent losses he had already sustained, 
at length gave him the resolution to persevere in 
refusing to yield up his right to any thing that had 
been given to him. He would lend whatever he 
 
had, cheerfully. But when asked to give, he gene- 
rally said — 
"No. — If I give it to you, I can't get it back 
again." 
The parents did not like to check the generous 
spirit of their child, but they felt that it was neces- 
sary both for his good and the good of his brother, 
that he should be taught to set a higher value upon 
what was his own. If he were not led to do this 
while young, it might prevent his usefulness when 
a man, by leaving him the prey of every one. — 
Besides, the want of a due regard to his own 
property in any thing was not right. 
Another fault in Henry they felt bound to visit 
with a rigid system of correction. He was natu- 
rally an obedient child, while his brother was the 
reverse. He was also very yielding, and could 
easily be persuaded by Clarence to join in acts 
which were forbidden by their parents. When 
called to account, his usual excuse was, that he 
had been asked by Clarence, or had gone with 
him. He did not appear to think that he was to 
blame for any thing, if he acted upon his older 
brother's suggestions. The only way to correct 
this, was to let each be punished for offences mu- 
tually committed, even tiiough Henry was far less 
to blame than Clarence. It was only by doing so, 
 
the parents felt, that Henry could be made to see 
that he must be held responsible for his own acts. 
This course soon effected all they desired. Cla- 
rence was usually alone in all flagrant violations 
of parental authority. 
CHAPTER Vni. 
A STRONG CONTRAST. 
Nearer than Mrs. Hartley had supposed, lived 
for many years an old but now almost forgotten 
friend — Florence Armitage ', or rather, Mrs. Archer. 
We will introduce her on the very night that 
Marien's birth-day party took place, by way of 
contrast. The house in which she lives is a small, 
comfortless one, in an obscure street not far from 
the residence of Mr. and Mrs. Hartley. Her father 
has become poor, and her husband, whose habits 
are more irregular than when a single man, receives 
a small salary as clerk, more than half of which he 
spends in self-indulgence ; the other half is eked 
out to his wife, who, on this pittance, is compelled 
to provide for five children. She has had six, but 
one is dead. 
 
It was a clear bright evening without, but there 
"was nothing cheerful in the dwelling of William 
Archer. The supper table was in the floor, and 
on it burned a poor light. The mother sal near 
the table, with an infant on her lap, mending a pair 
of dark stockings with coarse yarn of a lighter 
color. A little girl, three years of age, was swing- 
ing on her chair, and a boy two years older was 
drumming on the floor with two large sticks, ma- 
king a deafening noise. This noise Mrs. Archer 
bore as long as she could, when her patience be- 
coming exhausted, she cried out in a loud, fretful 
voice — 
" You Bill ! Stop that noise !" 
The boy paused for a single moment, and then 
resumed his amusement. 
" Did you hear me, Bill ? you heedless wretch !'' 
exclaimed the mother, after she had borne the 
sound for some time longer. 
There was silence for about a minute — and the 
noise began again. 
" If you don't stop that, Bill, FlI box your ears 
soundly," screamed the impatient mother. 
The boy stopped for the space of nearly two 
minutes this time ; then he went on again with his 
drumming. 
" Do yon want me to send you to bed without 
your supper ?" 
"No, I don't," replied the child. 
"Then hush that noise, or I shall certainly send 
you to bed. You set me almost crazy." 
Bill, as his motlier called him, laid himself back 
upon the floor, and commenced kicking up his heels. 
After having amused himself in this way for some 
time, his drum-sticks were again resorted to, and 
the room was once more filled with the distracting 
din he made. Mrs. Archer bore it as long as she 
could, and then she boxed the child's ears soundly. 
After the cries this operation extorted had died 
away, all was quiet enough for a quarter of an 
hour, when Mr. Archer came in to tea. 
Twelve years had changed him sadly. His 
brow was gloomy, his eyes sunken, and his lips 
