the fire all the time lest the pot should boil over while she 
was not looking. At last the chocolate began to gather a 
rich froth, and Ellen called out, 

" Oh Alice ! look here quick ! here's the shape of the spoon 
on the top of the chocolate ! do look at it." 

An iron spoon was in the pot, and its shape was distinctly 
raised on the smooth frothy surface. As they were both 
bending forward to watch it, Alice waiting to take the pot off 
the moment it began to boil, Ellen heard a slight click of the 
lock of the door, and turning her head was a little startled to 
see a stranger there, standing still at the far end of the room. 







She touched Alice's arm without looking round. But Alice 
started to her feet with a slight scream, and in another 
minute had thrown her arms round the stranger and was 
locked in his. Ellen knew what it meant now very well. 
She turned away as if she had nothing to do with what was 
going on there, and lifted the pot of chocolate off the fire 
with infinite difficulty ; but it was going to boil over, and she 
would have broken her back rather than not do it. And 
then she stood with her back to the brother and sister, looking into the fire, as if she was determined not to see them till 
she couldn't help it. But what she was thinking of, Ellen 
could not have told, then or afterward. It was but a few 
minutes, though it seemed to her a great many, before they 
drew near the fire. Curiosity began to be strong, and she 
looked round to see if the new comer was like Alice. No, 
not a bit, — how different ! — darker hair and eyes — not a bit 
like her ; handsome enough, too, to be her brother. And 
Alice did not look like herself ; her usually calm sweet face 
was quivering and sparkling now, — lit up as Ellen had never 
seen it, — oh how bright ! Poor Ellen herself had never 
looked duller in her life ; and when Alice said gayly, " This 
is my brother, Ellen," — her confusion of thoughts and feelings resolved themselves into a flood of tears ; she sprang and 
hid her face in Alice r's arms. 

Ellen's were not the only eyes that were full just then, 
but of course she didn't know that. 

" Come Ellen," whispered Alice presently, " look up ! — 
what kind of a welcome is this ? come ! — we have no business 
with tears just now, — won't you run into the kitchen for me, 
love," she added more low, "and ask Margery to bring some 
bread and butter, and anything else she has that is fit for a 
traveler ?" 

Glad of an escape, Ellen darted away that her wet face 
might not be seen. The brother and sister were busily talk- 
ing when she returned. 

"John," said Alice, " this is my little sister that I wrote 
you about — Ellen Montgomery. Ellen, this is your brother 
as well as mine, you know." 

" Stop ! stop !" said her brother. " Miss Ellen, this sister 
of mine is giving us away to each other at a great rate, — I 







should like to know first what you say to it. Are you willing 
to take a strange brother upon her recommendation ?" 

Half inclined to laugh, Ellen glanced at the speaker's face, 
but meeting the grave though somewhat comical look of two 
very keen eyes, she looked down again, and merely answered 
" yes." 

" Then if I am to be your brother you must give me a 
brother's right, you know," said he, drawing her gently to 
him, and kissing her gravely on the lips. 

Probably Ellen thought there was a difference between 
John Humphreys and Air. Van Brunt, or the young gentlemen of the apple-paring ; for though she colored a good deal, 
she made no objection and showed no displeasure. Alice 
and she now busied themselves with getting the cups and 
saucers out of the cupboard, and setting the table ; but all 
that evening, through whatever was doing, Ellen's eyes 
sought the stranger as if by fascination. She watched 
him whenever she could without being noticed. At first she 
was in doubt what to think of him ; she was quite sure from 
that one look into his eyes that he was a person to be feared ; 
— there was no doubt of that; as to the rest she didn't know. 

" And what have my two sisters been doing to spend the 
evening ?" said John Humphreys, one time that Alice was 
gone into the kitchen on some kind errand for him. 

" Talking, sir," — said Ellen doubtfully. 

" Talking ! this whole evening ? Alice must have improved. 
What have you been talking about?" 

" Hares — and dogs — and about Mr. Cowper — and some 
other things, " 

" Private affairs, eh ?" said he, with again the look Ellen 
had seen before. 

" Yes sir," said Ellen, nodding and laughing. 

" And how came you upon Mr. Cowper ?" 

"Sir?" 

" How came you to be talking about Mr. Cowper ?" 

" I was reading about his hares, and about John Gilpin ; 
and then Alice told me about Mr. Cowper and his friends." 

" Well I don't know after all that you have had a plea- 
Banter evening than I have had," said her questioner, 
" though I have been riding hard, with the cold wind in 







my face, and the driving snow doing all it could to discomfit 
me. I have had this very bright fireside before me all the 
way." 

He fell into a fit of grave musing which lasted till Alice 
came in. Then suddenly fell a fumbling in his pocket. 

" Here's a note for you," said he, throwing it into her lap. 

" A note ! — Sophia Marshman ! — where did you get it V 

" From her own hand. Passing there to-day I thought I 
must stop a moment to speak to them, and had no notion of 
doing more ; but Mrs. Marshman was very kind, and Miss 
Sophia in despair, so the end of it was I dismounted and went 
in to await the preparing of that billet, while my poor nag 
was led off to the stables and a fresh horse supplied me, — I 
fancy that tells you on what conditions. 

" Charming !" said Alice, " to spend Christmas, — I am 
very glad ; I should like to very much — with you dear. If 
I can only get papa — but I think he will ; it will do him a 
great deal of good. To-morrow, she says, we must come ; 
but I doubt the weather will not let us ; we shall see." 

" I rode Prince Charlie down. He is a good traveler, and 
the sleighing will be fine if the snow be not too deep. The 
old sleigh is in being yet, I suppose ?" 

" yes ! in good order. Ellen what are you looking so 
grave about ? you are going too." 

" I !" said Ellen, a great spot of crimson coming in each 
cheek. 

" To be sure ; do you think I am going to leave you 
behind ?" 
" But — " 
" But what ?" 
" There won't be room." 

" Room in the sleigh? Then we'll put John on Prince 
Charlie, and let him ride there, postilion-fashion." 
" But— Mr. Humphreys?" 

" He always goes on horseback ; he will ride Sharp or old 
John." 

In great delight Ellen gave Alice an earnest kiss ; and then 
they all gathered round the table to take their chocolate, or rather to see John take his, which his sister would not let him wait 
for any longer. The storm had ceased, and through the broken clouds the moon and stars were looking out, so they were 







no more uneasy for Mr. Humphreys and expected him every 
moment. Still the supper was begun and ended without him, 
and they had drawn round the fire again before his welcome 
step was at last heard. 

There was new joy then ; new embracing, and questioning 
and answering; the little circle opened to let him in ; and 
Alice brought the corner of the table to his side, and poured 
him out a cup of hot chocolate. But after drinking half of 
it, and neglecting the eatables beside him, he sat with one 
hand in the other, his arm leaning on his knee, with a kind of 
softened gravity upon his countenance. 

" Is your chocolate right papa ?" said Alice at length. 

" Very good, my daughter!" — 

He finished the cup, but then went back to his old attitude 
and look. Gradually they ceased their conversation, and 
waited with respectful affection and some curiosity for him to 
speak ; something of more than common interest seemed to be 
in his thoughts. He sat looking earnestly in the fire, sometimes with almost a smile on his face, and gently striking one 
hand in the palm of the other. And sitting so, without moving or stirring his eyes, he said at last, as though the words 
had been forced from him, " Thanks be unto God for his 
unspeakable gift !" 

As he added no more, Alice said gently, " What have 
you seen to-night papa ?" 

He roused himself and pushed the empty cup towards her. 

" A little more, my daughter ; — I have seen the fairest 
sight, almost, a man can see in this world. I have seen a 
little ransomed spirit go home to its rest. Oh, that ' unspeakable gift !' "— 

He pressed his lips thoughtfully together while he stirred 
his chocolate ; but having drunk it he pushed the table from 
him and drew up his chair. 

" You had a long way to go, papa," observed Alice again. 

" Yes — a long way there — I don't know what it was 
coming home ; I never thought of it. How independent the 
spirit can be of externals ! I scarcely felt the storm to-night." 

" Nor I," said his son. 

" I had a long way to go," said Mr. Humphreys ; " that 
poor woman — that Mrs. Dolan — she lives in the woods behind 
the Cat's Back, a mile beyond Carra-carra, or more — it 







seemed a long mile to-night ; and a more miserable place I 
never saw yet. A little ricketty shanty, the storm was hardly 
kept out of it, and no appearance of comfort or nicety anywhere or in anything. There were several men gathered 
round the fire, and in a corner, on a miserable kind of bed, I 
saw the sick child. His eye met mine the moment I went in, 
and I thought I had seen him before, but couldn't at first 
make out where. Do you remember, Alice, a little ragged 
boy, with a remarkably bright pleasant face, who has planted 
himself regularly every Sunday morning for some time past 
in the south aisle of the church, and stood there all service 
time ?" 

Alice said no. 

" I have noticed him often, and noticed him as paying a most 
fixed and steady attention. I have repeatedly tried to catch 
him on his way out of church, to speak to him, but always 
failed. I asked him to-night, when I first went in, if he knew 
me. ' I do, sir,' he said. I asked him where he had seen me. 
He said, 'In the church beyant.' 'So,' said I, 'you are the 
little boy I have seen there so regularly ; what did you come 
there for ?' 

" ' To hear yer honor spake the good words.' 

" * What good words ?' said I ; ' about what ?' 

" He said, ' About Him that was slain and washed us from 
our sins in his own blood.' 

" ' And do you think he has washed away yours ?' I said. 

" He smiled at me very expressively. I suppose it was 
somewhat difficult for him to speak ; and to tell the truth so 
it was for me, for I was taken by surprise ; but the people in 
the hut had gathered round, and I wished to hear him say 
more, for their sake as well as my own. I asked him why 
he thought his sins were washed away. He gave me for 
answer part of the verse, * Suffer little children to come unto 
me,' but did not finish it. 'Do you think you are very sick 
John ?' I asked. 

" ' I am sir,' he said, — ' I'll not be long here.' 

"  And where do you think you are going then ? ' said I. 

" He lifted one little thin bony arm from under his cover- 
lid, and through all the dirt and pallor of his face the smile 
of heaven I am sure was on it, as he looked and pointed 
upward and answered, 'Jesus!' 







" I asked him presently, as soon as I could, what he had 
wished to see me for. I don't know whether he heard me or 
not ; he lay with his eyes half closed, breathing with difficulty. I doubted whether he would speak again ; and indeed, 
for myself, I had heard and seen enough to satisfy me entirely ; — for the sake of the group around the bed I could 
have desired something further. They kept perfect stillness ; 
awed, I think, by a profession of faith such as they had 
never heard before. They and I stood watching him, and at 
the end of a few minutes, not more than ten or fifteen, he 
opened his eyes and with sudden life and strength rose up 
half way in bed, exclaiming, * Thanks be to God for his unspeakable gift !' — and then tell back — just dead." 

The old gentleman's voice was husky as he finished, for 
Alice and Ellen were both weeping, and John Humphreys 
had covered his face with his hands. 

" I have felt," said the old gentleman presently, — " as if I 
could have shouted out his words — his dying words — all the 
way as I came home. My little girl," said he, drawing Ellen 
to him, " do you know the meaning of those sweet things of 
which little John Dolan's mind was so full ?'' 

Ellen did not speak. 

" Do you know what it is to be a sinner ? — and what it is 
to be a forgiven child of God ?" 
" I believe I do, sir," Ellen said. 

He kissed her forehead and blessed her ; and then said, 
" Let us pray." 

It was late ; the servants had gone to bed, and they were 
alone. Oh what a thanksgiving Mr. Humphreys poured forth 
for that " unspeakable gift ;" — that they, every one there, 
had been made to know and rejoice in it ; for the poor little 
boy, rich in faith, who had just gone home in the same 
rejoicing ; for their own loved ones who were there already ; 
and for the hope of joining them soon in safety and joy, to 
sing with them the " new song " for ever and ever. 

There were no dry eyes in the room. And when they 
arose, Mr. Humphreys, after giving his daughter the usual 
kiss for good night, gave one to Ellen too, which he had 
never done before, and then going to his son and laying both 
hands on his shoulders, kissed his cheek also ; then silently 
took his candle and went. 







They lingered a little while after he was gone, standing 
round the fire as if loth to part, but in grave silence, each 
busy with his own thoughts. Alice's ended by fixing on her 
brother, for laying her hand and her head caressingly on his 
shoulder she said, " And so you have been well all this time, 
John ?" 

He turned his face towards her without speaking, but 
Ellen as well as his sister saw the look of love with which he 
answered her question, rather of endearment than inquiry ; 
and from that minute Ellen's mind was made up as to the 
doubt which had troubled her. She went to bed quite sat- 
isfied that her new brother was a decided acquisition 



CHAPTER XXVII. 




Before Ellen's eyes were open the next morning — almost 
before she awoke — the thought of the Christmas visit, the 
sleigh-ride, John Humphreys, and the weather, all rushed 
into her mind at once ; and started her half up in the bed to 
look out of the window. Well frosted the panes of glass were, 
but at the corners and edges unmistakeable bright gleams of 
light came in. 

" Alice, it's beautiful !" exclaimed Ellen ; " look how 
the sun is shining ! and 'tisn't very cold. Are we going to- 
day?" 

" I don't know yet Ellie, but we shall know very soon. 
We'll settle that at breakfast." 

At breakfast it was settled. They were to go, and set off 
directly. Mr. Humphreys could not go with them, because 
he had promised to bury little John Dolan ; the priest had declared he would have nothing to do with it ; and the poor 
mother had applied to Mr. Humphreys, as being the clergyman 
her child had most trusted and loved to hear. It seemed 
that little John had persuaded her out of half her prejudices 
by his affectionate talk and blameless behavior during some 
time past. Mr. Humphreys therefore must stay at home that 
day. He promised however to follow them the next, and 
would by no means permit them to wait for him. He said 
the day was fine and they must improve it ; and he should 
be pleased to have them with their friends as long as possible. 







So the little travelling bag was stuffed, with more things 
than it seemed possible to get into it. Among the rest Ellen 
brought her little red Bible, which Alice decided should go in 
John's pocket ; — the little carpet-bag could not take it. 
Ellen was afraid it never would be locked. By dint of much 
pushing and crowding however, locked it was ; and they 
made themselves ready. Over Ellen's merino dress and 
coat went an old fur tippet ; a little shawl was tied round her 
neck ; her feet were cased in a pair of warm moccasins, which 
belonging to Margery were of course a world too big for her, 
but " anything but cold," as their owner said. Her nice blue 
hood w r ould protect her head well, and Alice gave her a green 
veil to save her eyes from the glare of the snow. When 
Ellen shuffled out of Alice's room in this trim, John gave her 
one of his grave looks, and saying she looked like Mother 
Bunch, begged to know how she expected to get to the sleigh ; 
he said she w r ould want a footman indeed to wait upon her, 
to pick up her slippers, if she went in that fashion. However 
he ended by picking her up, carried her and set her down 
safely in the sleigh. Alice followed, and in another minute 
they were off. 

Ellen's delight was unbounded. Presently they turned 
round a corner and left the house behind out of sight ; and 
they were speeding away along a road that was quite new to 
her. Ellen's heart felt like dancing for joy. Nobody would 
have thought it, she sat so still and quiet between Alice and 
her brother ; but her eyes were very bright as they looked 
joyously about her, and every now and then she could not 
help smiling to herself. Nothing was wanting to the pleasure 
of that ride. The day was of winter's fairest ; the blue sky 
as clear as if clouds had never dimmed or crossed it. None 
crossed it now. It was cold, but not bitterly cold, nor 
windy ; the sleigh skimmed along over the smooth frozen surface of the snow as if it was no trouble at all to Prince 
Charlie to draw it ; and the sleigh-bells jingled and rang, the 
very music for Ellen's thoughts to dance to. And then with 
somebody she liked very much on each side of her, and pleasures untold in the prospect, no wonder she felt as if her 
heart could not hold any more. The green veil could not be 
kept on, everything looked so beautiful in that morning's sun. 
The long wide slopes of untrodden and unspotted snow, too 







bright sometimes for the eye to look at ; the shadows that 
here and there lay upon it, of woodland and scattered trees ; 
the very brown fences, and the bare arms and branches of 
the leafless trees showing sharp against the white ground and 
clear bright heaven ; — all seemed lovely in her eyes. For 

M It is content of heart 
Gives nature power to please." 

She could see nothing that was not pleasant. And besides 
they were in a nice little red sleigh, with a warm buffalo 
robe, and Prince Charlie was a fine spirited grey that scarcely 
ever needed to be touched with the whip ; at a word of encouragement from his driver he would toss his head and set 
forward with new life, making all the bells jingle again. To 
be sure she would have been just as happy if they had had 
the poorest of vehicles on runners, with old John instead ; but 
still it was pleasanter so. 

Their road at first was through a fine undulating country 
like that between the Nose and Thirlwall ; farmhouses and 
patches of woodland scattered here and there. It would seem 
that the minds of all the party were full of the same thoughts, 
for after a very long silence Alice's first word, almost sigh, was, 

" This is a beautiful world, John !" 

" Beautiful ! — wherever you can escape from the signs of 
man's presence and influence." 

" Isn't that almost too strong ?" said Alice. 

He shook his head, smiling somewhat sadly, and touched 
Prince Charlie, who was indulging himself in a walk. 

" But there are bright exceptions," said Alice. 

" I believe it ; — never so much as when I come home." 

" Are there none around you then in whom you can have 
confidence and sympathy ?" 

He shook his head again. " Not enough, Alice. I long  
for you every day of my life." 

Alice turned her head quick away. 

" It must be so, my dear sister," he said presently ; " we 
can never expect to find it otherwise. There are, as you say, 
bright exceptions, — many of them ; but in almost all I find 
some sad want. We must wait till we join the spirits of the 
just made perfect, before we see society that will be all we 
wish for." 







" What is Ellen thinking of all this while ?" said Alice 
presently, bending down to see her face. " As grave as a 
judge ! — what are you musing about V* 

" I was thinking," said Ellen, " how men could help the 
world's being beautiful." 

" Don't trouble your little head with that question," said 
John smiling ; — " long may it be before you are able to answer 
it. Look at those snow-birds !" 

By degrees the day wore on. About one o'clock they 
stopped at a farm-house to let the horse rest, and to stretch 
their own limbs, which Ellen for her part was very glad to 
do. The people of the house received them with great hospitality and offered them pumpkin pies and sweet cider. 
Alice had brought a basket of sandwiches, and Prince Charlie 
was furnished with a bag of corn Thomas had stowed away 
in the sleigh for him ; so they were all well refreshed and 
rested and warmed before they set off again. 

From home to Ventnor, Mr. Marshman's place, was more 
than thirty miles, and the longest, because the most difficult, 
P'-irt of the way was still before them. Ellen, however, soon 
became sleepy, from riding in the keen air ; she was content 
now to have the green veil over her face, and sitting down in 
the bottom of the sleigh, her head leaning against Alice, and 
covered well with the buffalo robe, she slept in happy unconsciousness of hill and dale, wind and sun, and all the remaining hours of the way. 

It was drawing towards four o'clock when Alice with some 
difficulty roused her to see the approach to the house and 
get wide awake before they should reach it. They turned 
from the road and entered by a gateway into some pleasure- 
grounds, through which a short drive brought them to the 
house. These grounds were fine, but the wide lawns were a 
smooth spread of snow now ; the great skeletons of oaks and 
elms were bare and wintry ; and patches of shrubbery offered 
little but tufts and bunches of brown twigs and stems. It 
might have looked dreary, but that some well-grown ever- 
greens were clustered round the house, and others scattered 
here and there relieved the eye ; — a few holly bushes, singly 
and in groups, proudly displayed their bright dark leaves 
and red berries ; — and one unrivalled hemlock on the west 
threw its graceful shadow quite across the lawn, on which, 







as on itself, the white chimney tops, and the naked branches 
of oaks and elms, was the faint smile of the afternoon sun. 

A servant came to take the horse, and Ellen, being first 
rid of her moccasins, went with J ohn and Alice up the broad 
flight of steps and into the house. They entered a large 
handsome square hall with a blue and white stone floor, at 
one side of which the staircase went winding up. Here they 
were met by a young lady, very lively and pleasant-faced, 
who threw her arms round Alice and kissed her a great many 
times, seeming very glad indeed to see her. She welcomed 
Ellen too with such warmth that she began to feel almost as 
if she had been sent for and expected ; told Mr. John he had 
behaved admirably ; and then led them into a large room 
where was a group of ladies and gentlemen. 

The welcome they got here was less lively but quite as kind. 
Mr. and Mrs. Marshman were fine handsome old people, of 
stately presence, and most dignified as well as kind in their 
deportment. Ellen saw that Alice was at home here, as if 
she had been a daughter of the family. Mrs. Marshman also 
stooped down and kissed herself, telling her she w r as very 
glad she had come, and that there were a number of young 
people there who would be much pleased to have her help 
them keep Christmas. Ellen could not make out yet who 
any of the rest of the company were. John and Alice seemed 
to know them all, and there was a buzz of pleasant voices 
and a great bustle of shaking hands. 

The children had all gone out to walk, and as they had 
had their dinner a great while ago it was decided that Ellen 
should take hers that day with the elder part of the family. 
While they were waiting to be called to dinner, and everybody else was talking and laughing, old Mr. Marshman took 
notice of little Ellen, and drawing her from Alice's side to 
his own, began a long conversation. He asked her a great 
many questions, some of them such funny ones that she could 
not help laughing, but she answered them all, and now and 
then so that she made him laugh too. By the time the 
butler came to say dinner was ready she had almost forgotten 
she was a stranger. Mr. Marshman himself led her to the 
dining-room, begging the elder ladies would excuse him, but 
he felt bound to give his attention to the greatest stranger in 
the company. He placed her on his right hand and took the 







greatest care of her all dinner-time ; once sending her plate 
the whole length of the table for some particular little thing 
he thought she would like. On the other side of Ellen sat 
Mrs. Chauncey, one of Mr. Marshman's daughters ; a lady 
with a sweet, gentle, quiet, face and manner that made Ellen 
like to sit by her. Another daughter, Mrs. Gillespie, had 
more of her mother's stately bearing ; the third, Miss Sophia, 
who met them first in the hall, was very unlike both the 
others, but lively and agreeable and good-humored. 

Dinner gave place to the dessert, and that in its turn was 
removed with the cloth. Ellen was engaged in munching 
almonds and raisins, admiring the brightness of the ma- 
hogany, and the richly cut and colored glass, and silver 
decanter stands, which were reflected in it ; when a door 
at the further end of the room half opened, a little figure 
came partly in, and holding the door in her hand stood 
looking doubtfully along the table, as if seeking for some 
one. 

" What is the matter, Ellen ?" said Mrs. Chauncey. 

" Mrs. Bland told me, — mamma, — " she began, her eyo 
not ceasing its uneasy quest, but then breaking off and springing to Alice's side she threw her arms around her neck, and 
gave her certainly the warmest of all the warm welcomes she 
had had that day. 

" Hallo !" cried Mr. Marshman rapping on the table ; 
" that's too much for any one's share. Come here, you baggage, and give me just such another." 

The little girl came near accordingly and hugged and kissed 
him with a very good will, remarking however, "Ah but 
I've seen you before to-day, grandpapa !" 

" Well here's somebody you've not seen before," said he 
good-humoredly, pulling her round to Ellen, — " here's a new 
friend for you, — a young lady from the great city, so you 
must brush up your country manners — Miss Ellen Montgomery, come from — pshaw ! what is it ? — come from — " 

"London, grandpapa?" said the little girl, as with a mixture of simplicity and kindness she took Ellen's hand and 
kissed her on the cheek. 

" From Carra-carra, sir ?" said Ellen smiling. 

" Go along with you," said he, laughing and pinching her 
cheek. " Take her away, Ellen, take her away, and mind you 







take good care of her. Tell Mrs. Bland she is one of grand- 
papa's guests." 

The two children had not however reached the door when 
Ellen Chauncey exclaimed, " Wait, oh ! wait a minute ! I 
must speak to aunt Sophia about the bag." And flying tf 
her side there followed an earnest whispering, and then a nod 
and smile from aunt Sophia ; and satisfied, Ellen returned to 
her companion and led her out of the dining-room. 

" We have both got the same name," said she as they 
went along a wide corridor ; " how shall we know which is 
which ?" 

" Why," said Ellen laughing, " when you say Ellen I shall 
know you mean me, and when I say it you will know I mean 
you. I shouldn't be calling myself, you know." 

" Yes, but when somebody else calls Ellen, we shall both 
have to run. Do you run when you are called ?" 

" Sometimes," said Ellen laughing. 

" Ah, but I do always ; mamma always makes me. I 
thought perhaps you were like Marianne Gillespie — she waits 
often as much as half a minute before she stirs when anybody 
calls her. Did you come with Miss Alice ?" 

"Yes." 

"Do you love her ?" 

" Very much ! — oh very much !" 

Little Ellen looked at her companion's rising color with a 
glance of mixed curiosity and pleasure in which lay a strong 
promise of growing love. 

"So do I," she answered gayly ; "I am very glad she is 
come, and I am very glad you are come, too." 

The little speaker pushed open a door and led Ellen into 
the presence of a group of young people rather older than 
themselves. 

" Marianne," said she to one of them, a handsome girl of 
fourteen, "this is Miss Ellen Montgomery — she came with 
Alice, and she is come to keep Christmas with us — aren't you 
glad ? There'll be quite a parcel of us when what's-her- 
name comes — won't there ?" 

Marianne shook hands with Ellen, 

" She is one of grandpapa's guests, I can tell you," said 
little Ellen Chauncey ; " and he says we must brush up our 
country manners — she's come from the great city." 






" Do you think we are a set of ignoramuses, Miss Ellen ?" 
inquired a well-grown boy of fifteen, wtto looked enough like 
Marianne Gillespie to prove him her brother. 

" I don't know what that is," said Ellen. 

" Well, do they do things better in the great city than we 
do here ?" 

" I don't know how you do them here," said Ellen. 

" Don't you ? — Come ! Stand out of my way, right and 
left, all of you, will you ? and give me a chance. Now then !" 

Conscious that he was amusing most of the party, he placed 
himself gravely at a little distance from Ellen, and marching 
solemnly up to her bowed down to her knees — then slowly 
raising his head stepped back. 

" Miss Ellen Montgomery, I am rejoiced to have the pleasure of seeing you at Ventnor. — Isn't that polite now ? Is 
that like what you have been accustomed to, Miss Montgomery ?" 

" No sir — thank you," said Ellen, who laughed in spite of 
herself. The mirth of the others redoubled. 

" May I request to be informed then," continued Gilles- 
pie, " what is the fashion of making bows in the great city ?" 

" I don't know," said Ellen ; " I never saw a boy make a 
bow before." 

" Humph ! — I guess country manners will do for you," said 
William, turning on his heel. 

" You're giving her a pretty specimen of 'em Bill," said 
another boy. 

" For shame, William !" cried little Ellen Chauncey ; — 
didn't I tell you she was one of grandpapa's guests ? Come 
here Ellen, I'll take you somewhere else." 

She seized Ellen's hand and pulled her towards the door, 
but suddenly stopped again. 

"I forgot to tell you !" she said, — " I asked aunt Sophia 
about the bag of moroccos, and she said we should have 'em 
early to-morrow-morning, and then we can divide 'em right 
away." 

" We mustn't divide 'em till Maggie comes," said Marianne. 

" no — not till Maggie comes," said little Ellen ; and 
then ran off again. 

" I am so glad you are come," said she ; — " the others are 
all so much older, and they have all so much to do together 





— and now you can help me think what I will make for mam- 
ma. Hush ! don't say a word about it !" 

They entered the large drawing-room where old and young 
were gathered for tea. The children who had dined early 
sat down to a well spread table at which Miss Sophia presided ; the elder persons were standing or sitting in different 
parts of the room. Ellen not being hungry had leisure to 
look about her, and her eye soon wandered from the tea-table 
in search of her old friends. Alice was sitting by Mrs. 
