of a jeweller upon whom he could depend. The ring, he said, must be
solid, for a particular reason; and, as he was a stranger, he did not
know who was to be trusted. I told him I would guaranty you for an
honest man. That if you undertook to manufacture any article for him,
he might rely upon its being done according to agreement."
While Harrison was uttering this undeserved compliment, it was with the
utmost difficulty that Mr. Grant could keep the tell-tale blood from
rushing to his face.
"He showed me the ring," continued Mr. Harrison. "It is a very handsome
one."
"Was he satisfied with it?" asked Mr. Grant.
"Not fully."
"Why so?"
"He was afraid it might not be solid. In fact, so anxious was he on
this point, that he took the ring to your neighbour, over the way, to
get his opinion about it."
As Mr. Harrison said this, Grant was conscious that a betrayal of the
truth was on his countenance.
"And, of course, Martin said the ring was not solid."
"No, he did not exactly say that. I went with the gentleman, at his
request. Martin weighed the ring, and, after doing so, simply stated
that gold of the quality of which the ring was made was worth a certain
price per pennyweight. By multiplying the number of pennyweights
contained in the ring with the price mentioned, he showed that you
either lost one dollar on the ring, or filled the centre with some
baser metal."
"Well?" The blood had, by this time, risen to the very brow of the
jeweller.
"'Cut the ring,' said my friend. It was done, and, to my mortification
and astonishment, it proved to be even as he had said. The ring was not
solid!"
For some moments, Mr. Grant hung his head in painful confusion. Then,
looking up, he said--
"It was his own fault."
"How so?" was inquired.
"He would not pay the price for a solid ring, and I could not give him
my work for nothing."
"Did you ask him a fair price?"
"Yes; and he answered, that my neighbour over the way had offered to
make him a solid ring, for just one dollar less. I knew exactly what
kind of a ring Martin could and would furnish for that money, and made
him one just like it. I gave him his money's worth, and a little over.
He was not cheated."
"But he was deceived. How you could have done such a thing, brother
Grant, is more than I can understand."
"I had to do it in self-defence; and this very Martin, who has been so
ready to expose the little deception, made the act necessary."
"I'm sorry you should have done so. It was wrong," said Mr. Harrison.
"I'm ready to acknowledge that. But it's too late, now, to repair the
error. I wish I'd had nothing to do with the matter."
"So do I," remarked Harrison.
This fretted the mind of Grant, and he replied, rather impatiently--
"Hereafter, I hope you'll send all customers of this kind to Martin.
Dear knows, I don't want them!"
"I shall certainly be careful in this matter," coldly replied Harrison,
and bowing formally, as he spoke, turned away, and left Grant in no
very pleasant frame of mind. From that time there was a coldness
between the two church members.
When Grant went to church on the next Sabbath, he noticed, as he
approached the meeting-house door, Harrison standing in close
conversation with one or two prominent members. As he approached, they
looked toward him in a certain way that he did not like, and then,
separating, entered the house before he came up. It was too evident
that Harrison had been communicating the incident of the ring. But
Grant was not surprised; he had expected nothing less. Still, he felt
that his brother member had not done towards him in the matter as he
would have liked himself done by. On entering the church, half a dozen
persons turned and looked at him earnestly; while two or three
whispered together, glancing towards him every now and then, and thus
showing that he was the subject of conversation. As to the theme of
discourse between them, his mind was in no doubt. The gold ring! Yes,
that was it.
But little edified by the sermon was Mr. Grant on that morning; and,
when the services were ended, he went quickly from the church, and took
his way homeward without stopping, as on former occasions, to shake
hands and pass a few words with friends and brethren.
It had been the custom of several leading members of the church to drop
in occasionally, during the week, and chat with Grant for ten minutes
or half an hour. But the time from Sunday to Sunday was passed without
a single call from any one of them. The reason for this was no mystery
to the jeweller's mind.
"I don't see that I've been guilty of such a terrible crime," said he
to himself, feeling a little indignant on the subject. "The man got his
money's worth; and, moreover, was served perfectly right. Did he
suppose that he was going to get fine gold for the price of solder? If
so, he found himself mistaken. As for Harrison, he's made himself
remarkably busy about the matter. I would not trust him in a similar
case. But it is so pleasant to discourse on evil in our neighbour. So
very pleasant! The good he does is left to find its own way to the
light as best it can; but let him commit a mistake or make a single
false step, and it is preached from house-top."
When Grant and Harrison met, there was a mutual reserve and coldness.
"He is conscious, I am aware, of his wrong dealing," said the latter to
himself, "and therefore shuns me."
"He is aware that he has tried to injure me," said the former, "and
cannot, therefore, meet me as of old."
Two or three weeks passed before the friends who used to drop in to see
him almost every day showed themselves in his shop, and then there was
a too evident change of manner. They appeared distant and reserved, and
he met them with a like exterior. His pride was touched.
"Just as they like," he said to himself. "I can get on without them. I
presume, if all our hearts were laid open, mine would be found quite as
good as theirs. As for Perkins and Marvel, they needn't set themselves
up over me. I think I know them. Men who cut as close as they do in
dealing, generally cut a little from the side that doesn't belong to
them."
Perkins and Marvel, here alluded to, had long been on friendly terms
with Mr. Grant--visiting at his shop--for the purpose of a little
friendly chit-chat--every few days. But a coldness now took place, and,
in a few weeks, they ceased their friendly calls.
In various other ways was Mr. Grant conscious of a reaction upon
himself of his improper conduct. Hundreds of times did he mentally
regret the weakness and love of gain which had prompted him to so far
lose sight of what was just and honourable as to deceive a customer. So
painful was his sense of mortification, that, for a time, he omitted to
attend church on Sunday. Not only was he satisfied that every one in
the congregation knew about the ring, but he could clearly perceive a
change in the manner of his most intimate acquaintances who were
members of the church.
Grant was not a man entirely sold to selfishness. He was not a
deliberate wrong-doer, hiding his evil purposes and acts under a
hypocritical exterior. He had conscience, and, at times, its voice was
loud and distinct. He was, therefore, troubled about the ring as a fact
indicating the state of his affections; as well as troubled about the
condemnatory judgment of his brethren. There were fluctuations of
state, of course, as there are with all of us. Sometimes he was in a
state of humiliation on account of the evil he had done, and sometimes
in a state of indignation at Harrison for having, been so eager to
publish his fault from the house-top.
Gradually, however, the ever-recurring new purposes and interests which
come to all in passing through life, threw the past with its influences
into the shade, and the returns of states of mortification on account
of the ring were less and less frequent. Mr. Grant resumed his
attendance at church, and mingled, as of old, with his brethren; though
in a rather more subdued and less confident spirit. That affair of the
ring could not be entirely forgotten.
In due course of time, the minister on the station had to leave, and a
new one was appointed by the conference to take his place. The Rev. Mr.
C-- arrived early in the week, and during the period that elapsed
between that and the Sabbath, visited a good deal among the brethren.
During that time, an evening was spent at Mr. Harrison's, but no one
brought him around to introduce him to Mr. Grant. The jeweller felt
this, and in his mind, in searching about for reasons, rested, very
naturally, upon the affair of the gold ring, and he did not doubt but
the occurrence had been fully related to Mr. C--.
Under this feeling, Mr. Grant went to church. His first sight of the
new preacher was when he arose in the pulpit to give out the hymn. His
countenance did not make a very favourable impression, but his voice,
when he commenced reading the hymn, had a tone and a modulation that
were pleasing. The subject of the discourse which followed was
practical, and had reference to a man's conduct towards his fellow-man
in the common affairs of life. From general propositions, the minister,
after entering upon his sermon, came down to things particular. He
dwelt upon the love of dominion so deeply rooted in the human heart,
and showed, in various ways, how it was exercised by individuals in all
the grades of common society.
"A more deeply-rooted evil than this," he went on to say, "is theft. We
all inherit, in a greater or less degree, the desire to possess our
neighbour's goods; and, with the earliest development of the mind,
comes the activity of that desire. It is seen in the child when he
appropriates the plaything of another child, and in the so-called good
and honest citizen when, in bargaining, he secures an advantage at the
expense of his brother."
Descending, gradually, to the introduction of particular forms of
overreaching as practised in trade, all of which Mr. C-- designated as
instances of theft, he finally brought forward an instance so nearly
resembling the one in which Mr. Grant had been engaged, that the latter
felt himself, as has been seen, particularly pointed out, and left the
church at the close of the service in a state of excitement and
indignation. To have that old matter, about which he had already
suffered enough, "raked over," as he said, "and exposed to light
again," was a little more than he was disposed to submit to with
patience. As has been seen, he did not conceal what was in his mind.
On Monday, a brother-member of the church dropped in to see the
jeweller.
"How did you like Mr. C--?" was the natural inquiry.
"Not at all," replied Mr. Grant, in a positive tone.
"You didn't? Why, I was delighted with him! What is your objection?"
"He was personal in his discourse."
"I perceived nothing personal."
"Though I did, and of the grossest kind."
"How was it possible for a stranger like Mr. C-- to be personal? He
knows nothing of the characters or conduct of individuals here."
"Strangers generally have quick ears, and there are always plenty of
news-venders to fill them. He's been with the Harrisons, and we all
know what they are."
"To whom did he refer?" was asked.
"He referred to me."
"To you?"
"Certainly he did. And I don't like it at all. That's not the way to
preach the gospel. This running off with one side of a story, and,
taking all for granted, holding a man up to public odium, is not, as I
conceive, following in the footsteps of our Great Master."
"I'm sorry you should have taken up such an impression," was replied to
this. "I cannot believe that Mr. C-- really intended to hold you up to
public odium. He couldn't have meant to designate you."
"He must have meant me. Don't I know?"
So another and another objection was made to Mr. C-- on the same
ground; and before the week was out, it was pretty widely known that
the new preacher had indulged in reprehensible personalities. Some said
this was an error in the preacher; others, that he was highly blamable;
while others affirmed that there must be some mistake about the matter.
On the following Sunday, Mr. Grant was absent from his usual place in
the church. It would do him no good to sit under the ministry of Mr.
C--.
During the week that followed, two of the official members called upon
the jeweller to make inquiries about the alleged personalities. Grant
was, by this time, pretty sore on the subject, and when allusion was
made to it, he gave his opinion of the preacher in no very choice
language.
"In what did this personality consist?" asked one of the visitors.
"It's hardly necessary to ask that question," replied Grant.
"It is for me. No one, whom I have yet seen, has been able to give me
any information on the subject."
"If you ask Mr. C--, he will enlighten you."
"I have already done so."
"You have?"
"Yes."
"What was his reply?"
"That he is innocent of the personality laid to his charge."
"Did you mention my name?"
"I did."
"Well?"
"He had not even heard of you as a member of the church here."
"I can hardly credit that, after what he said."
"You will, at least, give him the chance of vindication. He is now at
my house, and has expressed a wish to see you."
"I don't know that any good will grow out of seeing him," said Mr.
Grant, who felt but little inclined to meet the preacher.
"I'm sorry to hear you say that, Mr. Grant. You have made a complaint
against Mr. C--, and when he wishes to confer with you on the subject,
you decline, under the assumption that no good can arise from it. This
is not right; and I hope you will think better of it."
"Perhaps it isn't right; but so it is. At present, I do not wish to see
him. I may feel differently to-morrow."
"Shall we call upon-you in the morning?"
"If you please to do so."
"Very well."
And the two official members departed.
No sooner were they gone, than Mr. Grant put or his hat and left his
shop. He went direct to the store of Mr. Harrison.
"You are just the man I was thinking about," said the latter, as the
jeweller entered. "What is all this trouble about you and Mr. C--? I
hear some rumour of it at every turn."
"That is just what I have come to see you about."
"Very well; what can I do in the matter? Mr. C--, you allege, has held
you up in the congregation to public odium?"
"I do."
"In what way?"
"Strange that you should ask the question."
"Why so? What have I to do with it?"
"A great deal," said Grant, his brows falling as he spoke.
"I must plead innocence until shown my guilt. So far, I have not even
been able to learn in what the allusion to yourself consisted."
"You have not?"
"No."
Grant stood, tightly compressing his lips, for some moments. He then
said:
"You remember that affair of the gold ring?"
"Very well."
"You mentioned this to C--."
"No. Nor to a living soul since the occurrence of the fact."
"What?"
"Nothing on that subject has ever passed my lips. I believed that you
saw and repented of your error, and in honour and in conscience
refrained from even the remotest allusion to the subject."
"How, then, did Mr. C-- become cognisant of the fact?"
"If cognisant all, it was from another source than the one you
supposed."
"I never mentioned it. You were the only one to whom the circumstance
was communicated. How, then, could the matter have gotten abroad?"
"I don't believe a single member of the congregation ever heard of it."
"Oh, yes, they have. These has been a marked change in the manner of
very many towards me. So apparent was this at one time, that I absented
myself from church, rather than encounter it."
"All your imagination, brother Grant, and nothing else. I believe that
I mingle as freely with the congregation as any one, and I know that I
never heard a breath against you. At present, every one is at a loss to
know in what way Mr. C-- pointed you out; he is equally in the dark."
"I was sure he meant me. It was so plain," said Mr. Grant, his
countenance falling, and his manner becoming subdued.
"There was nothing of the kind, you may depend upon it," replied Mr.
Harrison.
"And you never spoke of it?"
"Never!"
"A guilty conscience, it is said, needs no accuser. The likeness to me
was so strong, that I really thought the picture was sketched from
myself as the original. Ah, me!"
"Had you not better call on Mr. C--?" asked Harrison.
"No, no. See him for me, if you please, and tell him that I am
convinced of my error in supposing he pointed me out in the
congregation. As to the particular allusion that I felt to be
offensive, I hope you will still keep your own counsel. I did wrong,
under temptation, and have suffered and repented in consequence. It can
do no good to bring the matter to light now."
"None at all. I will not speak of it."
Nor did he. Many and various were the suggestions and suppositions of
the congregation touching the nature of the preacher's personal
allusion to the jeweller, and some dozen of little gossiping stories
got into circulation; but the truth did not find its way to the light.
And not until the day on which he was leaving the station for a new
field of labour, did the preacher himself understand the matter; and
then he had it from Mr. Grant's own lips.
FOR THE FUN OF IT.
"JUST look at them young lovers," said Harry Mears, glancing from his
companion to a young man and maiden, who, for the moment unconscious
that they were in the midst of a large company, were leaning towards
each other, and looking into each other's faces in rather a remarkable
manner. "Isn't it ridiculous? I thought Fisher had more sense than to
do so. As to Clara Grant, she always was a little weak."
The friend looked at the couple an smiled. "It is ridiculous,
certainly," he remarked. "Why havn't they sense enough to keep these
little love-passages for private occasions?"
"Clara, with all her silliness used to be a right pleasant companion,"
said Mears. "But since this love affair between her and Fisher, she has
become intolerably dull and uninteresting. She doesn't care a fig for
anybody but him, and really appears to think it a task to be even
polite to an old acquaintance. I don't think she has cause to be quite
so elated with her conquest as this comes to; nor to feel that, in
possessing the love of a man like Fisher, she is independent of the
world, and may show off the indifference she feels to every one. Fisher
is clever enough, but he is neither a Socrates nor a saint."
"He will suit her very well, I imagine."
"Yes; they will make a passable Darby and Joan, no doubt. Still, it
always vexes me to see people, who pretend to any sense, acting in this
way."
"I think it is more her fault than his."
"So do I. She has shown a disposition to bill and coo from the first.
At Mangum's party, last week, she made me sick. I tried to get her hand
for a dance, but no. Close to the side of Fisher she adhered, like a
fixture, and could hardly force her lips into a smile for any one else.
The gipsy! I'd punish her for all this, if I could just hit upon a good
plan for doing it."
"Let me see," remarked the friend, dropping his head into a thoughtful
position, "can't we devise a scheme for worrying her a little? She is
certainly a fair subject. It would be fine sport."
"Yes, it would."
"She evidently thinks Fisher perfection."
"Oh, yes! There never was such a man before! She actually said to
Caroline Lee, who was trying to jest with her a little, that Fisher was
one of the most pure-minded, honourable young men living."
"Oh, dear."
"It is a fact."
"Was she serious?"
"Yes, indeed! Serious as the grave. Caroline was laughing to me about
it. Nearly every one notices the silliness of her conduct, and the
weakness she displays in forever talking about and praising him."
"I would like to run him down a little when she could overhear me, just
for the fun of the thing."
"So would I. Capital! That will do, exactly. We must watch an
opportunity, and if we can get within earshot of her, any time that she
is by herself, we must abuse Fisher right and left, without appearing
to notice that she is listening to what we say, or, indeed, anywhere
near us."
"Right! That's the very thing. It will be capital fun."
Thus, the thoughtless young men, meddling themselves in a matter that
did not concern them, determined upon a very questionable piece of
folly. All that they said of the lovers was exaggeration. It was true
that they did show rather more preference for each other in company
than just accorded with good taste; but this, while it provoked a smile
from the many, irritated only the few.
Clara Grant, notwithstanding the light manner in which the two young
men had spoken of her, was a girl of good sense, good principles, and
deep feeling, She had been several times addressed by young men before
Fisher offered his hand; but, with all their attractions, there were
defects about them, which her habits of close observation enabled her
to see, that caused her to repel their advances, and in two instances
to decline apparently very advantageous offers of marriage. In the
integrity of Fisher's character, she had the most unbounded confidence;
and she really believed, as she had said to Caroline Lee and others,
that he was one of the purest-minded, most honourable young men living.
Judge, then, with what feelings she overheard, about half an hour after
the plan to disturb her peace had been formed, the following
conversation between Mears and his companion, carried on in low tones
and in a confidential manner. She was sitting close to one side of the
folding-doors that communicated between the parlours, and they were in
the adjoining room, concealed from her by the half-partition, yet so
close that every word they uttered was distinctly heard. Her attention
was first arrested by hearing one of them say--
"If she knew Fisher as well as I do."
To which the other responded--
"Yes; or as well as I do. But, poor girl! it isn't expected that she is
to know every thing about young men who visit her. It is better that
she should not."
"Still, I am rather surprised that common report should not have given
her more information about Fisher than she seems to possess."
"So am I. But she'll know him better one of these days."
"I'll warrant you that! Perhaps to her sorrow; though I hope things
will turn out differently from what they now promise. Don't you think
he is pretty well done with his wild oats?"
"Possibly. But time will tell."
"Yes, time proves all things."
Some one joining the young men at this point of their conversation, the
subject was changed. Greatly amused at what they had done, they little
thought how sad the effects of their unguarded words would be.
Five minutes afterwards, the young man named Mears, curious to see how
Clara had been affected by what he knew she must have heard, moved to
another part of the room, in order to observe her without attracting
her attention. But she had left the place where she was sitting. His
eye ranged around the room, but she was nowhere to be seen.
"I'm afraid we've hurt Clara more than we intended," he said, rejoining
his friend. "She has vanished."
"Ah! Where's Fisher?"
"He's at the other end of the room."
"We didn't say any thing against the young man."
"Not in particular. We made no specifications. There was nothing that
she could take hold of."
"No, of course not. But I wonder what is going to be the upshot of the
matter?"
"Nothing very serious, I apprehend."
"No. I suppose she will go home and cry her eyes half out, and then
conclude that, whatever Fisher may have been, he's perfection now. It's
a first-rate joke, isn't it?"
Clara Grant had not only left the parlours, but soon after quietly left
the house, and alone returned to her home. When her lover, shortly
afterwards, searched through the rooms for her, she was nowhere to be
seen.
"Where is Clara?" he asked of one and another. The answer was--
"I saw her here a moment since."
But it was soon very apparent that she was nowhere in the rooms now.
Fisher moved about uneasy for half an hour. Still, not seeing her, he
became anxious lest a sudden illness had caused her to retire from the
company. More particular inquiries were made of the lady who had given
the entertainment. She immediately ascertained for him that Clara was
not in the house. One of the servants reported that a lady had gone
away alone half an hour before. Fisher did not remain a single moment
after receiving this intelligence, but went direct to the house of
Clara's aunt, with whom she lived, and there ascertained that she had
come home and retired to her room without seeing any of the family.
His inquiry whether she were ill, the servant could not answer.
"Have you seen anything of Clara yet?" asked the friend of Mears, with
a smile, as they met about an hour after they had disturbed the peace
of a trusting, innocent-minded girl, "just for the fun of it."
"I have not," replied Mears.
"Where's Fisher?"
"He is gone also."
"Ah, indeed! I'm sorry the matter was taken so seriously by the young
lady. It was only a joke."
"Yes. That was all; and she ought to have known it."
On the next day, Fisher, who had spent a restless night, called to ask
for Clara as early as he could do so with propriety.
"She wishes you to excuse her," said the servant, who had taken up his
name to the young lady.
"Is she not well?" asked Fisher.
"She has not been out of her room this morning. I don't think she is
very well."
The young man retired with a troubled feeling at his heart. In the
evening he called again; but Clara sent him word, as she had done in
the morning, that she wished to be excused.
In the mean time, the young lady was a prey to the most distressing
doubts. What she had heard, vague as it was, fell like ice upon her
heart. She had no reason to question what had been said, for it was, as
far as appeared to her, the mere expression of a fact made in
confidence by friend to friend without there being an object in view.
If any one had come to her and talked to her after that manner, she
would have rejected the allegations indignantly, and confidently
pronounced them false. But they had met her in a shape so unexpected,
and with so much seeming truth, that she was left no alternative but to
believe.
Fisher called a third time; but still Clara declined seeing him. On the
day after this last attempt, he received a note from her in these, to
him, strange words:--
"DEAR SIR:--Since I last met you, I have become satisfied that a
marriage between us cannot prove a happy one. This conclusion is far
more painful to me than it can possibly be to you. You, I trust, will
soon be able to feel coldly towards her whose fickleness, as you will
call it, so soon led her to change her mind; but a life-shadow is upon
my heart. If you can forget me, do so, in justice to yourself. As for
me, I feel that--but why should say this? Charles, do not seek to
change the resolution I have taken, for you cannot; do not ask for
explanations, for I can give none. May you be happier than I can ever
be! Farewell.
"CLARA."
"Madness!" exclaimed Charles Fisher, as he crumpled this letter in his
hand. "Is there no faith in woman?"
He sought no explanation; he made no effort to change her resolution;
he merely returned this brief answer--
"Clara, you are free."
It was quickly known among the circle of their friends that the
engagement between Fisher and Clara had been broken off. Mears and his
friend, it may be supposed, did not feel very comfortable when they
heard this.
"I didn't think the silly girl would take it so seriously," remarked
one to the other.
"No; it was a mere joke."
"But has turned out a very serious one."
"I guess they'll make it up again before long."
"I hope so. Who would have believed it was in her to take the matter so
much at heart, or to act with so much decision and firmness? I really
think better of the girl than I did before, although I pity her from my
heart."
"Hadn't we better make an effort to undo the wrong we have done?"
"And expose ourselves? Oh, no! We must be as still as death on the
subject. It is too serious an affair. We might get ourselves into
trouble."
"True. But I cannot bear to think that others are suffering from an act
of mine."
"It is not a pleasant consciousness, certainly. But still, to confess
what we have done would place us in a very awkward position. In fact,
not for the world would I have an exposure of this little act of folly
take place. It would affect me in a certain quarter--where, I need not
mention to you--in a way that might be exceedingly disagreeable."
"I didn't think of that. Yes, I agree with you that we had best keep
quiet about it. I'm sorry; but it can't be helped now."
And so the matter was dismissed.
No one saw Clara Grant in company for the space of twelve months. When
she did appear, all her old friends were struck with the great change
in her appearance. As for Fisher, he had left the city some months
before, and gone off to a Southern town, where, it was said, he was in
good business.
The cause of estrangement between the lovers remained a mystery to
every one. To all questions on the subject, Clara was silent. But that
she was a sufferer every one could see.
"I wish that girl would fall in love with somebody and get married,"
Mears remarked to his friend, about two years after they had passed off
upon Clara their good joke. "Her pale, quiet, suffering face haunts me
wherever I go."
"So do I. Who could have believed that a mere joke would turn out so
seriously?"
"I wonder if he is married yet?"
"It's doubtful. He appeared to take the matter quite as hard as she
does."
"Well, it's a lesson to me."
"And to me, also."
And, with this not very satisfactory conclusion, the two friends
dropped the subject. Both, since destroying, by a few words spoken in
jest, the happiness of a loving couple, had wooed and won the maidens
of their choice, and were now married. Both, up to this time, had
carefully concealed from their wives the act of which they had been
guilty.
After returning home from a pleasant company, one evening, at which
Clara was present, the wife of Mears said to him--
"You did not seem to enjoy yourself to-night. Are you not well?"
"Oh, yes; I feel quite well," returned Mears.
"Why, then, did you look so sober?"
"I was not aware that I looked more so than usual."
"You did, then. And you look sober now. There must be some cause for
this. What is it, dear?"
Mears was by no means ignorant of the fact that he felt sober. The
presence of Clara distressed him more, instead of less, the oftener he
met her. The question of his wife made him feel half inclined to tell
her the truth. After thinking for a moment, he said--
"I have felt rather graver than usual to-night. Something brought to my
recollection, too vividly, a little act of folly that has been attended
with serious consequences."
His wife looked slightly alarmed.
"It was only a joke--just done for the fun of the thing; but it was
taken, much to my surprise, seriously. I was innocent of any desire to
wound; but a few light words have made two hearts wretched."
Mrs. Mears looked at her husband with surprise. He continued--
"You remember the strange misunderstanding that took place between
Clara Grant and young Fisher, about two years ago?"
"Very well. Poor Clara has never been like herself since that time."
"I was the cause of it."
"You!" said the wife, in astonishment.
"Yes. Clara used to make herself quite conspicuous by the way she acted
towards Fisher, with whom she was under an engagement of marriage. She
hardly saw anybody in company but him. And, besides, she made bold to
declare that he was about as near to perfection as it was possible for
a young man to come. She was always talking about him to her young
female friends, and praising him to the skies. Her silly speeches were
every now and then reported, much to the amusement of young men to
whose ears they happened to find their way. One evening, at a large
party, she was, as usual, anchored by the side of her lover, and
showing off her fondness for him in rather a ridiculous manner. A young
friend and myself, who were rather amused at this, determined, in a
thoughtless moment, that we would, just for the fun of the thing, run
Fisher down in a confidential undertone to each other, yet loud enough
for her to hear us, if a good opportunity for doing so offered. Before
long, we noticed her sitting alone in a corner near one of the
folding-doors. We managed to get near, yet so as not to appear to
notice her, and then indulged in some light remarks about her lover,
mainly to the effect that if his sweetheart knew him as well as we did,
she might not think him quite so near perfection as she appeared to do.
Shortly afterwards, I searched through the rooms for her in vain. From
that night, the lovers never again met. Clara refused to see Fisher
when he called on her the next day, and shortly afterwards requested
him, in writing, to release her from her marriage-contract, without
giving any reason for her change of mind."
"Henry," exclaimed Mrs. Mears, her voice and countenance expressing the
painful surprise she felt, "why did you not immediately repair the
wrong you had done?"
"How could I, without exposing myself, and causing perhaps a serious
collision between me and Fisher?"
"You should have braved every consequence," replied Mrs. Mears, firmly,
"rather than permitted two loving hearts to remain severed, when a word
from you would have reunited them. How could you have hesitated a
moment as to what was right to do? But it may not be too late yet.
Clara must know the truth."
"Think what may be the consequence," said Nears.
"Think, rather, what have been the consequences," was the wife's
reply.
It was in vain that Mears argued with his wife about the policy of
letting the matter rest where it was. She was a woman, and could only
feel how deeply Clara had been wronged, as well as the necessity for an
immediate reparation of that wrong. For more than an hour, she argued
the matter with her husband who finally consented that she should see
Clara, and correct the serious error under which she had been
labouring. Early on the next day, Mrs. Mears called upon the unhappy
girl. A closer observation of her face than she had before made
revealed deep marks of suffering.
"And all this 'for the fun of it!'" she could not help saying to
herself with a feeling of sorrow. After conversing a short time with
Clara, Mrs. Mears said--
"I heard something, last night, so nearly affecting your peace, that I
have lost no time in seeing you."
"What is that?" asked Clara, a flush passing over her face.
"Two years ago, you were engaged in marriage to Mr. Fisher?"
Clara made no reply, but the flush faded from her face and her lips
quivered slightly for a moment.
"From hearing two persons who were conversing about him make
disparaging remarks, you were led to break off that engagement."
The face of Clara grew still paler, but she continued silent.
"By one of them, I am authorized to tell you that all they said was in
mere jest. They knew you could hear what they said, and made the
remarks purposely for your ear, in order to have a little sport. They
never dreamed of your taking it so seriously."
A deep groan heaved the bosom of Clara; her head fell back, and her
body drooped nervelessly. Mrs. Mears extended her hands quickly and
saved her from falling to the floor.
"This, too, 'for the fun of it!'" she said to herself, bitterly, as she
lifted the inanimate body of the poor girl in her arms, and laid it
upon the sofa.
Without summoning any of the family, Mrs. Mears made use of every
effort in her power to restore the circle of life. In this she was at
last successful. When the mind of Clara had become again active, and
measurably calm, she said to her--
"It was a cruel jest, and the consequences have been most painful. But
I trust it is not yet too late to repair the wrong thus done, although
no compensation can be made for the suffering to which you have been
subjected."
"It is too late, Mrs. Mears--too late!" replied Clara, in a mournful
voice.
"Say not so, my dear young friend."
But Clara shook her head.
It was in vain that Mrs. Mears strove earnestly to lift up her drooping
heart. The calmness with which she had been able to bear the
destruction of all her hopes, because there had seemed an adequate
cause for the sacrifice she had made, was all gone now. There had been
no adequate cause for the sacrifice. Her lover was as excellent and
honourable as she at first believed him to be, and she had cast him off
on the authority of a heartless jest. To all that her friend could say,
she had but one reply to make--
"It is too late now!"
"Not too late, I trust," said Mr. Mears, a good deal disturbed by his
wife's relation of her interview with Clara. "I must ascertain where
Fisher is, and write to him on the subject. Did she say any thing that
led you to believe that she recognised the voices of the persons whom
she heard conversing? Do you think she suspects me in the matter?"
"I do not think she does."
"So much the better."
The effect upon Clara of the information she had received was very
serious. Deeply as she had been afflicted, the consciousness of having
done right in refusing to marry a man who was destitute, as she had
accidentally discovered, of virtuous principles, sustained her. But now
it was revealed to her that he was as excellent as she had at first
believed him, and that she had been made the victim of a pleasant joke!
There was no longer any thing to hold her up, and accordingly her
spirits completely forsook her, and in less than two weeks she was
seriously ill.
The news of this deeply disturbed Mr. Mears, who had written to Fisher,
and was waiting impatiently for an answer.
"I am afraid we have made the matter worse," he said to his wife, who,
on returning from a visit to Clara, reported that, so far from
improving, she was too evidently sinking, daily. "If Fisher should have
entered into another engagement, or, if his pride has taken fire at
being thrown off on what may appear to him such slight grounds, I
really tremble for the consequences."
"Let us hope for the best," returned Mrs. Mears, "as we have acted for
the best. It was plainly our duty to do as we have done. On that
subject I have no doubt."
Two more weeks of painful suspense and anxiety passed. Clara did not
improve in the least. Mrs. Mears called to see her every few days, but
dared not venture to tell her that her husband had written to Fisher.
She was afraid to fill her mind with this hope, lest it should fail,
and the shock prove too severe. But, even as it was, life seemed to be
rapidly ebbing away.
At length there came a change. Nature rallied, and life, flowed, though
feebly still, in healthier currents through the veins of Clara Grant.
In a week from the time this change took place, she was able to leave
her bed and set up for a few hours each day. But all who looked into
her young face were grieved at the sight. There were no deep lines of
distress there, but the marks of patient, yet hopeless suffering.
One day, she sat alone, in a dreamy, musing state, with a book lying
upon her lap. She had been trying to read, but found it impossible to
take any interest in the pages over which her eyes passed, while her
mind scarcely apprehended the sense. Some one opened the door; but she
did not look around. The person, whoever it was, remained only for a
moment or two, and then withdrew. In a little while the door opened
again, and some one entered and came towards her with the tread of a
man. She started to her feet, while her heart gave a sudden bound. As
she turned, her eyes fell upon the form of her long absent lover. For
an instant, perhaps longer, she looked into his face to read it as the
index of his heart, and then she lay quivering on his bosom.
A few weeks later, Clara became the bride of Charles Fisher, and left
with him for the South. Neither of them ever knew the authors of the
wrong they had suffered. It was better, perhaps, that in this they
should remain ignorant.
So much "for the fun of it."
FORGIVE AND FORGET.
  Forgive and forget! Why the world would be lonely,
  The garden a wilderness left to deform,
  If the flowers but remembered the chilling winds only,
  And the fields gave no verdure for fear of the storm! C. SWAIN.
"FORGIVE and forget, Herbert."
"No, I will neither forgive nor forget. The thing was done wantonly. I
never pass by a direct insult."
"Admit that it was done wantonly; but this I doubt. He is an old
friend, long tried and long esteemed. He could not have been himself;
he must have been carried away by some wrong impulse, when he offended
you."
"He acted from something in him, of course."
"We all do so. Nothing external can touch our volition, unless there be
that within which corresponds to the impelling agent."
"Very well. This conduct of Marston shows him to be internally unworthy
of my regard; shows him to possess a trait of character that unfits him
to be my friend. I have been mistaken in him. He now stands revealed in
his true light, a mean-spirited fellow."
"Don't use such language towards Marston, my young friend."
"He has no principle. He wished to render me ridiculous and do me harm.
A man who could act as he did, cannot possess a spark of honourable
feeling. Does a good fountain send forth bitter waters? Is not a tree
known by its fruit? When a man seeks wantonly to insult and injure me,
I discover that he wants principle, and wish to have no more to do with
him."
"Perhaps," said the individual with whom Herbert Arnest was conversing,
"it is your wounded self-love, more than your high regard for
principle, that speaks so eloquently against Marston."
"Mr. Welford!"
"Nay, my young friend, do not be offended with me. Your years, twice
told, would not make mine. I have lived long enough to get a cool head
and understand something of the springs of action that lie in the human
heart. The best, at best, have little to be proud of, and much to
lament over, in the matter of high and honourable impulses. It is a far
easier thing to do wrong than right; far easier to be led away by our
evil passions than to compel ourselves always to regard justice and
judgment in our dealings with others. Test yourself by this rule. Would
your feelings for Marston be the same if he had only acted toward
another as he has acted toward you? Do not say 'yes' from a hasty
impulse. Reflect coolly about it. If not, then it is not so much a
regard to principle, as your regard to yourself, that causes you to be
so bitterly offended."
This plain language was not relished by the young man. It was touching
the very thing in him that Marston had offended--his self-love. He
replied, coldly--
"As for that, I am very well satisfied with my own reasons for being
displeased with Marston; and am perfectly willing to be responsible for
my own action in this case. I will change very much from my present
feelings, if I ever have any thing more to do with him."
"God give you a better mind then," replied Mr. Welford. "It is the best
wish I can express for you."
The two young men who were now at variance with each other had been
friends for many years. As they entered the world, the hereditary
character of each came more fully into external manifestation, and
revealed traits not before seen, and not always the most agreeable to
others. Edward Marston had his faults, and so had Herbert Arnest: the
latter quite as many as the former. There was a mutual observation of
these, and a mutual forbearance towards each other for a considerable
time, although each thought more than was necessary about things in the
other that ought to be corrected. A fault with Marston was quickness of
temper and a disposition to say unpleasant, cutting things, without due
reflection. But he had a forgiving disposition, and very many amiable
and excellent qualities. Arnest was also quick-tempered. His leading
defect of character was self-esteem, which made him exceedingly
sensitive in regard to the conduct of others as affecting the general
estimation of himself. He could not bear to have any freedom taken with
him, in company, even by his best friend. He felt it to be humiliating,
if not degrading. He, therefore, was a man of many dislikes, for one
and another were every now and then doing or saying something that hurt
more or less severely his self-esteem.
Marston had none of this peculiar weakness of his friend. He rarely
thought about the estimation in which he was held, and never let the
mere opinions of others influence him. But he was careful not to do any
thing that violated his own self-respect.
The breach between the young men occurred thus. The two friends were in
company with several others, and there was present a young lady in
whose eyes Arnest wished to appear in as favourable a light as
possible. He was relating an adventure in which he was the principal
hero, and, in doing so, exaggerated his own action so far as to amuse
Marston, who happened to know all about the circumstances, and provoke
from him some remarks that placed the whole affair in rather a
ridiculous light, and caused a laugh at Arnest's expense.
The young man's self-esteem was deeply wounded. Even the lady, for
whose ears the narrative had been more especially given, laughed
heartily, and made one or two light remarks; or, rather, heavy ones for
the ears of Arnest. He was deeply disturbed though at the time he
managed to conceal almost entirely what he felt.
Marston, however, saw that his thoughtless words had done more (sic)
than he had intended them to do, both upon the company and upon the
sensitive mind of his friend. He regretted having uttered them and
waited only until he should leave the company with Arnest, to express
his sorrow for what he had done. But his friend did not give him this
opportunity, for he managed to retire alone, thus expressing to Marston
the fact that he was seriously offended.
Early the next morning, Marston called at the residence of his friend,
in order to make an apology for having offended him; but he happened
not to be at home. On arriving at his office, he found a note from
Arnest, couched in the most offensive terms. The language was such as
to extinguish all desire or intention to apologize.
"Henceforth we are strangers," he said, as he thrust the note aside.
