neighbours, you must do as they do. If I go in for a lamb, I might as
well take a sheep: the morality of the thing is the same. If I take a
large slice off of a customer, why shall not a portion of that slice
be mine; ay, the whole of it, if I choose to make the appropriation?
All Jasper can fairly ask, is a reasonable profit: if I, by my
address, get more than this, surely I may keep a part thereof. Who
shall say nay?"
Justifying himself by these and similar false reasonings, the young
man thrust aside the better suggestions, from which he was at first
inclined to retrace the false step he had taken; and wilfully shutting
his eyes, resolved to go forward in his evil and dangerous course.
During the afternoon of that day a larger number of customers than
usual were in, and Claire was very busily occupied. He made three or
four large sales, and was successful in getting several dollars in
excess of fair profit from one not very well skilled in prices. In
making an entry of this particular transaction in the memorandum
sales-book, the figures recorded were three dollars less than the
actual amount received. So, on this, the first day of the young
man's lapse from honesty, he had appropriated the sum of eight
dollars--nearly equal to his entire week's salary! For such a recent
traveller in this downward road, how rapid had already become his
steps!
Evening found him again alone, musing and debating with himself, ere
locking up the store and returning home. The excitement of business
being over, his thoughts flowed in a calmer current; and the stillness
of the deserted room gave to his feelings a hue of sobriety. He was
not altogether satisfied with himself. How could he be? No man ever
was satisfied with himself, when seclusion and silence found him after
his first departure from the right way. Ah, how little is there
in worldly possessions, be it large or small, to compensate for a
troubled, self-accusing spirit! how little to throw in the balance
against the heavy weight of conscious villany!
How tenderly, how truly, how devotedly had Edward Claire loved the
young wife of his bosom, since the hour the pulses of their spirits
first beat in joyful unity! How eager had he ever been to turn his
face homeward when the shadows of evening began to fall! But now he
lingered--lingered, though all the business of the day was over. The
thought of his wife created no quick impulse to be away. He felt more
like shunning her presence. He even for a time indulged a motion of
anger toward her for what he mentally termed her morbid sensitiveness
in regard to others' right--her dreamy ideal of human perfection.
"We are in the world, and we must do as it does. We must take it as it
is, not as it should be."
So he mused with himself, in a self-approving argument. Yet he could
not banish the accusing spirit; he could not silence the inward voice
of warning.
Once there came a strong revulsion. Good impulses seemed about to
gain the mastery. In this state of mind, he took from his pocket his
ill-gotten gains, and threw them into the money-box, which had already
been placed in the fire-closet.
"What good will that do?" said he to himself, as the wave of better
feelings began to subside. "All the sales-entries have been made, and
the cash balanced; Jasper made the balance himself. So the cash
will only show an excess to be accounted for; and from this may
come suspicion. It is always more hazardous to go backward than
forward--(false reasoner!)--to retrace our steps than to press boldly
onward. No, no. This will not mend the matter."
And Claire replaced the money in his pocket. In a little while
afterward, he left the store, and took his way homeward.
CHAPTER IV.
As on the previous evening, Mrs. Claire was alone for some time later
than usual, but now with an anxious, almost fearful looking for her
husband's return. Suddenly she had taken the alarm. A deep, brooding
shadow was on her heart, though she could not see the bird of night
from whose wings it had fallen. Frequently, during the afternoon,
tears had wet her cheek; and when an old friend of her mother's, who
lived in the country, and who had come to the city in order to make
a few purchases, called to see her, it was with difficulty she could
hide her disturbed feelings from observation.
The absent one came in at last, and with so much of the old, frank,
loving spirit in his voice and manner, that the troubled heart of Mrs.
Claire beat with freer pulsations. And yet something about her husband
appeared strange. There was a marked difference between his state of
mind now, and on the evening before. Even at dinner-time he was silent
and abstracted.
In fact, Edward Claire was, for the first time, acting a part toward
his wife; and, as in all such cases, there was sufficient over-action
to betray the artifice, or, at least, to awaken a doubt. Still, Edith
was greatly relieved by the change, and she chided herself for having
permitted doubt and vague questionings to find a harbour in her
thoughts.
During tea-time, Claire chatted freely, as was his custom; but he grew
serious as they sat together, after the table was cleared away, and
Edith had taken her sewing. Then, for the first time, he thought out
of himself sufficiently to remember his visit to the house of death in
the morning, and he said--
"I witnessed something this morning, dear, that has made me feel sad
ever since."
"What was that, Edward?" inquired the wife, looking instantly into his
face, with a strongly manifested interest.
"I don't think you knew Mr. Elder or his family--Ruben Elder?"
"I have heard the name, nothing more."
"Mr. Elder died last week."
"Ah! What family did he leave?"
"A wife and one child."
Mrs. Claire sighed.
"Did he leave them comfortably off in the world?" she asked, after a
brief silence.
"I don't know; but I'm afraid, he's not left much, if any thing. Mr.
Jasper has been appointed the executor."
"Mr. Jasper!"
"Yes. This morning he called to see Mrs. Elder, and found her in a
very low state. In fact, she died while he was there."
"Edward! Died?"
"Yes, died; and her only child, a sweet little girl, not five years
old, is now a friendless orphan."
"How very sad!"
"Sad enough, Edith, sad enough. Mr. Jasper, who has no taste for
scenes of distress, wished me to look after the funeral arrangements;
so I went to the house, and attended to matters as well as I could. Ah
me! It has cast a gloom over my feelings that I find it hard to cast
off."
"Did you see the child?" inquired Mrs. Claire, the mother's impulse
giving direction to her thoughts.
"Yes; and a lovely child it is. Poor thing!"
"There are near relatives, I presume?"
"None; at least, so Jasper says."
"What is to become of the child?"
"Dear above knows! As for her legal guardian, she has nothing to hope
from his humanity. She will naturally find a home somewhere--a home
procured for money. But her future comfort and well-being will depend
more on a series of happy accidents than on the good-will of the
hard-hearted man to whose tender mercies the dying parents have
committed her."
"Not happy accidents, Edward," said Mrs. Claire, with a tender smile;
"say, wise providences. There is no such thing as chance."
"As you will, dear," returned the husband, with a slight change in his
tone. "I would not call that providence wise by which Leonard Jasper
became the guardian of a friendless child."
"This is because you cannot see the end from the beginning, Edward.
The Lord's providence does not regard merely the external comfort and
well-being of his creatures; it looks far beyond this, and regards
their internal interests. It permits evil and suffering to-day, but
only that good, a higher than earthly good, may come on the morrow.
It was no blind chance, believe me, my husband, that led to the
appointment of Mr. Jasper as the guardian of this poor child. Eternal
purposes are involved therein, as surely as God is infinitely wise and
good. Good to one, perhaps to many, will grow out of what now seems a
deeply to be regretted circumstance."
"You're a happy reasoner, Edith. I wish I could believe in so
consoling a philosophy."
"Edward!" There was a change in Mrs. Claire's voice, and a look
blending surprise with a gentle rebuke in her countenance. "Edward,
how can you speak so? Is not mine the plain Christian doctrine? Is it
not to be found everywhere in the Bible?"
"Doubtless, Edith; but I'm not one of the pious kind, you know."
Claire forced a smile to his face, but his wife looked serious, and
remarked--
"I don't like to hear you talk so, Edward. There is in it, to
me, something profane. Ah, my dear husband, in this simple yet
all-embracing doctrine of providence lies the whole secret of human
happiness. If our Creator be infinite, wise, and good, he will seek
the well-being of his creatures, even though they turn from him to do
violence to his laws; and, in his infinite love and wisdom, will so
order and arrange events as to make every thing conspire to the end
in view. Both bodily and mental suffering are often permitted to take
place, as the only agencies by which to counteract hereditary evils
that would otherwise destroy the soul."
"Ah, Edie! Edie!" said Claire, interrupting his wife, in a fond,
playful tone, "you are a wise preacher, and as good as you are wise.
I only wish that I could see and feel as you do; no doubt it would be
better for me in the end. But such a wish is vain."
"Oh, say not so, dear husband!" exclaimed Edith, with unexpected
earnestness; "say not so! It hurts me almost like words of personal
unkindness."
"But how can I be as good as you are? It isn't in me."
"I am not good, Edward. There is none good but God," answered the wife
solemnly.
"Oh yes, yes! You are an angel!" returned Claire, with a sudden
emotion that he could not control. "And I--and I--"
He checked himself, turned his face partly away to conceal its
expression, sat motionless for a moment, and then burying his face
on the bosom of his wife, sobbed for the space of nearly a minute,
overcome by a passion that he in vain struggled to master.
Never had Edith seen her husband so moved. No wonder that she was
startled, even frightened.
"Oh, Edward, dear Edward! what ails you?" were her eager, agitated
words, so soon as she could speak. "What has happened? Oh, tell me, my
husband, my dear husband!"
But Claire answered not, though he was gaining some control over his
feelings.
"Oh, Edward! won't you speak to me? Won't you tell me all your
troubles, all your heart? Am I not your wife, and do I not love you
with a love no words can express? Am I not your best and closest
friend? Would I not even lay down my life for your good? Dear Edward,
what has caused this great emotion?"
Thus urged, thus pleaded the tearful Edith. But there was no reply,
though the strong tremor which had thrilled through the frame of
Claire had subsided. He was still bowed forward, with his face hid
on her bosom, while her arm was drawn lovingly around him. So they
remained for a time longer. At length, the young man lifted himself
up, and fixed his eyes upon her. His countenance was pale and sad, and
bore traces of intense suffering.
"My husband! my dear husband!" murmured Edith.
"My wife! my good angel!" was the low, thrilling response; and Claire
pressed his lips almost reverently upon the brow of his wife.
"I have had a fearful dream, Edith!" said he; "a very fearful dream.
Thank God, I am awake now."
"A dream, Edward?" returned his wife, not fully comprehending him.
"Yes, love, a dream; yet far too real. Surely, I dreamed, or was
under some dire enchantment. But the spell is gone--gone, I trust, for
ever."
"What spell, love? Oh, speak to me a plainer language!"
"I think, Edith," said the young man, after remaining thoughtfully
silent for some time, "that I will try and get another place. I don't
believe it is good for me to live with Leonard Jasper. Gold is the god
he worships; and I find myself daily tempted to bend my knee in the
same idolatry."
"Edward!" A shadow had fallen on the face of Edith.
"You look troubled at my words, Edith," resumed the young man; "yet
what I say is true, too true. I wish it were not so. Ah! this
passage through the world, hard and toilsome as it is, has many, many
dangers."
"If we put our trust in God, we need have no fear," said Edith, in a
gentle yet earnest and penetrating voice, laying her hand lovingly on
the hot forehead of her husband, and gazing into his eyes.
"Nothing without can harm us. Our worst enemies are within."
"Within?"
"Yes, love; within our bosoms. Into our distrusts and unsatisfied
desires they enter, and tempt us to evil."
"True, true," said Claire, in an abstracted manner, and as if speaking
to himself.
"What more do we want to make us happy?" asked Edith, comprehending
still more clearly her husband's state of mind.
Claire sighed deeply, but made no answer.
"More money could not do it," she added.
"Money would procure us many comforts that we do not now possess,"
said the young man.
"I doubt this, Edward. It might give more of the elegancies of life;
but, as I have often said, these do not always produce corresponding
pleasure. If they come, without too ardent seeking, in the good
pleasure of Providence, as the reward of useful and honest labour,
then they may increase the delights of life; but never otherwise.
If the heart is set on them, their acquirement will surely end in
disappointment. Possession will create satiety; and the mind too
quickly turns from the good it has toiled for in hope so long, to fret
itself because there is an imagined higher good beyond. Believe me,
Edward, if we are not satisfied with what God gives us as the reward
of useful toil to-day, we will not be satisfied with what he gives
to-morrow."
"Perhaps you are right, Edith; I believe you are. My mind has a
glimpse of the truth, but to fully realize it is hard. Ah, I wish that
I possessed more of your trusting spirit!"
"We are both cared for, Edward, by the same infinite love--cared for,
whether we doubt and fear, or trust confidingly."
"It must be so. I see it now, I feel it now--see it and feel it in
the light of your clearer intuitions. Ah, how different from this pure
faith is the faith of the world! Men worship gold as their god; they
trust only in riches."
"And their god is ever mocking them. To-day he smiles upon his
votary, and to-morrow hides his face in darkness. To-day he gives
full coffers, that are empty to-morrow. But the true riches offered so
freely to all by the living God are blessed both in the getting and
in the keeping. These never produce satiety, never take to themselves
wings. Good affections and true thoughts continually nourish and
re-create the mind. They are the soul's wealth, the perennial
fountains of all true enjoyment. With these, and sufficient for the
body's health and comfort, all may be happy: without them, the riches
of the world have no power to satisfy."
A pause ensued, during which the minds of both wandered back a little.
"If you feel," said Edith, recalling the words of her husband, "that
there is danger in remaining where you are"--
"That was hastily spoken," Edward Claire interrupted his wife, "and in
a moment of weakness. I must resist the evil that assaults me. I must
strive with and overcome the tempter. I must think less of this world
and its riches; and in my thoughts place a higher value upon the
riches without wings of which you have spoken to me so often."
"Can you remain where you are, and be out of danger?" asked Edith.
"There is danger everywhere."
"Ay; but in some positions more imminent danger. Is it well to court
temptation?"
"Perhaps not. But I cannot afford to give up my place with Jasper."
"Yet, while remaining, you will be strongly tempted."
"Jasper is dishonest at heart. He is ever trying to overreach in
dealing, and expects every one in his employment to be as keen as
himself."
"Oh, Edward, do not remain with him a day longer! There is death to
the spirit in the very atmosphere around such a man. You cannot serve
such a master, and be true to yourself and to God. It is impossible."
"I believe you are right in that, Edith; I know you are right," said
the young man, with a strong emphasis on the last sentence. "But
what am I to do? Five hundred dollars a year is little enough for our
wants; I have, as you know, been dissatisfied with that. I can hardly
get as much in another situation. I know of but one opening, and that
is with Melleville."
"Go back to him, Edward," said his wife.
"And get but four hundred a year? It is all he can pay."
"If but three hundred, it were a situation far to be preferred to the
one you now hold."
"A hundred dollars a year, Edith, taken from our present income, would
deprive us of many comforts."
"Think of how much we would gain in true inward enjoyment, Edward, by
such a change. Have you grown happier since you entered the store of
Mr. Jasper?"
The young man shook his head sadly, and murmured, "Alas! no."
"Can anything compensate for the anguish of mind we have both suffered
in the last few hours, Edward?"
There was a quick flushing of the face, as Edith said this.
"Both suffered!" exclaimed Edward, with a look of surprise.
"Ay, both, love. Can the heart of my husband feel a jar of discord,
and mine not thrill painfully? Can he be in temptation, without an
overshadowing of my spirit? Can he be in darkness, and I at the same
time in light? No, no; that were impossible. You have been in great
peril; I knew that some evil threatened you, even before you confessed
it with your lips. Oh, Edward, we have both tasted, in the last few
hours, a bitterer cup than has yet been placed to our lips. May we not
be called upon to drink it to the very dregs!"
"Amen!" fell solemnly from the lips of Edward Claire, as a cold
shudder crept along his nerves. If there had been any wavering in his
mind before, there was none now. He resolved to make restitution in
the morning, and, as soon as opportunity offered, to leave a place
where he was so strongly tempted to step aside from the path of
integrity. The virtue of his wife had saved him.
CHAPTER V.
"Edward," said Mr. Jasper, on the next morning, soon after he came to
the store, "Was any time fixed for the funeral yesterday?"
"I believe not."
"That was an oversight. It might as well take place to-day as
to-morrow, or a week hence, if there are no intimate friends or
relatives to be thought of or consulted. I wish you would take the
forenoon to see about this troublesome matter. The undertaker will, of
course, do every thing according to your directions. Let there be as
little expense as possible."
While they were yet speaking, the undertaker came in to make inquiry
as to the funeral arrangements to be observed.
"Is the coffin ready?" asked Jasper, in a cold, business manner.
"It is," was the reply.
"What of the ground? Did you see to her husband's funeral?"
"Yes. I have attended to all these matters. Nothing remains but to fix
the time, and notify the clergyman."
"Were you at the house this morning?" asked Jasper.
"I was."
"Who did you find there?"
"One or two of the neighbours were in."
"No near relatives of the deceased?"
"Not to my knowledge."
"Was any thing said about the time for burying Mrs. Elder?"
"No. That matter, I suppose, will rest with you."
"In that case, I see no reason for delay," said Jasper. "What end is
served?"
"The sooner it is over the better."
"So I think. Suppose we say this afternoon?"
"Very well. The time might be fixed at five. The graveyard is not very
distant. How many carriages shall I order?"
"Not many. Two, I should think, would be enough," replied Jasper.
"There will not be much left, I presume; therefore, the lighter the
funeral expenses the better. By the way, did you see the child, when
you were there this morning?"
"No, sir."
"Some neighbour has, in all probability, taken it."
"Very likely. It is a beautiful child."
"Yes--rather pretty," was Jasper's cold response.
"So young to be left alone in the world. Ah, me! But these things will
happen. So, you decide to have the funeral at five this afternoon?"
"Yes; unless something that we do not now know of, interferes to
prevent. The quicker a matter like this is over the better."
"True. Very well."
"You will see to every thing?"
"Certainly; that is my business. Will you be at the house this
afternoon?"
"At the time of the funeral?"
"Yes."
"I think not. I can't do any good."
"No,--only for the looks of the thing."
The undertaker was already beginning to feel the heartless
indifference of Jasper, and his last remark was half in irony, half in
smothered contempt.
"Looks! Oh! I never do any thing for looks. If I can be of any
service, I will be there--but, if not, not. I'm a right up-and-down,
straight-forward man of the world, you see."
The undertaker bowed, saying that all should be as he wished.
"You can step around there, after a while, Edward," said Jasper, as
soon as the undertaker had retired. "When you go, I wish you would
ascertain, particularly, what has been done with the child. If a
neighbour has taken her home, make inquiry as to whether she will be
retained in the family; or, better still, adopted. You can hint, in a
casual way, you know, that her parents have left property, which may,
some time or other, be valuable. This may be a temptation, and turn
the scale in favour of adoption; which may save me a world of trouble
and responsibility."
"There is some property left?" remarked Claire.
"A small house or two, and a bit of worthless land in the mountains.
All, no doubt, mortgaged within a trifle of their value. Still, it's
property you know; and the word 'property' has a very attractive sound
in some people's ears."
A strong feeling of disgust toward Jasper swelled in the young man's
heart, but he guarded against its expression in look or words.
A customer entering at the moment, Claire left his principal and moved
down behind the counter. He was not very agreeably affected, as the
lady approached him, to see in her the person from whom he had taken
ten dollars on the previous day, in excess of a reasonable profit. Her
serious face warned him that she had discovered the cheat.
"Are you the owner of this store?" she asked, as she leaned upon the
counter, and fixed her mild, yet steady eyes, upon the young man's
face.
"I am not, ma'am," replied Claire, forcing a smile as he spoke.
"Didn't I sell you a lot of goods yesterday?"
"You did, sir."
"I thought I recognised you. Well, ma'am, there was an error in your
bill--an overcharge."
"So I should think."
"A overcharge of five dollars."
Claire, while he affected an indifferent manner, leaned over toward
the woman and spoke in a low tone of voice. Inwardly, he was trembling
lest Jasper should became cognizant of what was passing.
"Will you take goods for what is due you; or shall I hand you back the
money?" said he.
"As I have a few more purchases to make, I may as well take goods,"
was replied, greatly to the young man's relief.
"What shall I show you, ma'am?" he asked, in a voice that now reached
the attentive ears of Jasper, who had been wondering to himself as to
what was passing between the clerk and customer.
A few articles were mentioned, and, in a little while, another bill of
seven dollars was made.
"I am to pay you two dollars, I believe?" said the lady, after Claire
had told her how much the articles came to. As she said this, Jasper
was close by and heard the remark.
"Right, ma'am," answered the clerk.
The customer laid a ten-dollar bill on the counter. Claire saw that
the eyes of Jasper were on him. He took it up, placed it in the
money-drawer, and stood some time fingering over the change and small
bills. Then, with his back turned toward Jasper, he slipped a five
dollar gold piece from his pocket. This, with a three dollar bill from
the drawer, he gave to the lady, who received her change and departed.
Other customers coming in at the moment, both Jasper and his clerk
were kept busy for the next hour. When they were alone again, the
former said--
"How large a bill did you sell the old lady from the country, who was
in this morning?"
"The amount was seven dollars, I believe."
"I thought she said two dollars?"
"She gave me a ten-dollar bill, and I only took three from the
drawer," said the young man.
"I thought you gave her a piece of gold?"
"There was no gold in the drawer," was replied, evasively.
Much to the relief of Claire, another customer entered, thus putting
an end to the conference between him and Jasper.
The mind of the latter, ever suspicious, was not altogether satisfied.
He was almost sure that two dollars was the price named for the
goods, and that he had seen a gold coin offered in change. And he
took occasion to refer to it at the next opportunity, when his clerk's
positive manner, backed by the entry of seven dollars on the sales'
book, silenced him.
As for Claire, this act of restitution, so far as it was in his power
to make it, took from his mind a heavy burden. He had, still, three
dollars in his possession that were not rightfully his own. It was by
no means probable that a similar opportunity to the one just embraced
would occur. What then was it best for him to do? This question was
soon after decided, by his throwing the money into the cash-drawer of
Jasper.
On his way home to dinner that day, Claire called into the store of a
Mr. Melleville, referred to in the conversation with his wife on the
previous evening. This gentleman, who was somewhat advanced in years,
was in the same business with Jasper. He was known as a strictly
upright dealer--"Too honest to get along in this world," as some said.
"Old Stick-in-the-mud," others called him. "A man behind the times,"
as the new-comers in the trade were pleased to say. Claire had lived
with him for some years, and left him on the offer of Jasper to give
him a hundred dollars more per annum than he was getting.
"Ah, Edward! How do you do to-day?" said Mr. Melleville, kindly, as
the young man came in.
"Very well in body, but not so well in mind," was the frank reply, as
he took the proffered hand of his old employer.
"Not well in mind, ah! That's about the worst kind of sickness I know
of, Edward. What's the matter?"
"As I have dropped in to talk with you a little about my own affairs,
I will come at once to the point."
"That is right. Speak out plainly, Edward, and you will find in me,
at least, a sincere friend, and an honest adviser. What is the matter
now?"
"I don't like my present situation, Mr. Melleville!"
"Ah! Well? What's the trouble? Have you and Jasper had a
misunderstanding?"
"Oh no! Nothing of that. We get on well enough together. But I don't
think its a good place for a young man to be in, sir!"
"Why not?"
"I can be plain with you. In a word, Mr. Jasper is not an honest
dealer; and he expects his clerks to do pretty much as he does."
Mr. Melleville shook his head and looked grave.
"To tell the truth," continued Edward, "I have suffered myself to
fall, almost insensibly, into his way of doing business, until I have
become an absolute cheat--taking, sometimes, double and treble profit
from a customer who happened to be ignorant about prices."
"Edward!" exclaimed the old man, an expression of painful surprise
settling on his countenance.
"It is all too true, Mr. Melleville--all too true. And I don't think
it good for me to remain with Mr. Jasper."
"What does he give you now?"
"The same as at first. Five hundred dollars."
The old man bent his head and thought for a few moments.
"His system of unfair dealing toward his customers is your principal
objection to Mr. Jasper?"
"That is one objection, and a very serious one, too: particularly as
I am required to be as unjust to customers as himself. But there is
still another reason why I wish to get away from this situation. Mr.
Jasper seems to think and care for nothing but money-getting. In his
mind, gold is the highest good. To a far greater extent than I was,
until very recently, aware, have I fallen, by slow degrees, into his
way of thinking and feeling; until I have grown dissatisfied with
my position. Temptation has come, as a natural result; and, before I
dreamed that my feet were wandering from the path of safety, I have
found myself on the brink of a fearful precipice."
"My dear young friend!" said Mr. Melleville, visibly moved, "this is
dreadful!"
"It is dreadful. I can scarcely realize that it is so," replied
Claire, also exhibiting emotion.
"You ought not to remain in the employment of Leonard Jasper. That,
at least, is plain. Better, far better, to subsist on bread and water,
than to live sumptuously on the ill-gotten gold of such a man."
"Yes, yes, Mr. Melleville, I feel all the truth of what you affirm,
and am resolved to seek for another place. Did you not say, when
we parted two years ago, that if ever I wished to return, you would
endeavour to make an opening for me?"
"I did, Edward; and can readily bring you in now, as one of my young
men is going to leave me for a higher salary than I can afford to pay.
There is one drawback, however."
"What is that, Mr. Melleville?"
"The salary will be only four hundred dollars a year."
"I shall expect no more from you."
"But can you live on that sum now? Remember, that you have been
receiving five hundred dollars, and that your wants have been
graduated by your rate of income. Let me ask--have you saved any thing
since you were married?"
"Nothing."
"So much the worse. You will find it difficult to fall back upon a
reduced salary. How far can you rely on your wife's co-operation?"
"To the fullest extent. I have already suggested to her the change,
and she desires, above all things, that I make it."
"Does she understand the ground of this proposed change?" asked Mr.
Melleville.
"Clearly."
"And is willing to meet privation--to step down into even a humbler
sphere, so that her husband be removed from the tempting influence of
the god of this world?"
"She is, Mr. Melleville. Ah! I only wish that I could look upon life
as she does. That I could see as clearly--that I could gather, as she
is gathering them in her daily walk, the riches that have no wings."
"Thank God for such a treasure, Edward! She is worth more than the
wealth of the Indies. With such an angel to walk by your side, you
need feel no evil."
"You will give me a situation, then, Mr. Melleville?"
"Yes, Edward," replied the old man.
"Then I will notify Mr. Jasper this afternoon, and enter your service
on the first of the coming month. My heart is lighter already. Good
day."
And Edward hurried off home.
During the afternoon he found no opportunity to speak to Mr. Jasper
on the subject first in his thoughts, as that individual wished him
to attend Mrs. Elder's funeral, and gather for him all possible
information about the child. It was late when he came back from
the burial-ground--so late that he concluded not to return, on that
evening, to the store. In the carriage in which he rode, was the
clergyman who officiated, and the orphan child who, though but half
comprehending her loss, was yet overwhelmed with sorrow. On their way
back, the clergyman asked to be left at his own dwelling; and this was
done. Claire was then alone with the child, who shrank close to him in
the carriage. He did not speak to her; nor did she do more than lift,
now and then, her large, soft, tear-suffused eyes to his face.
Arrived, at length, at the dwelling from which they had just borne
forth the dead, Claire gently lifted out the child, and entered the
house with her. Two persons only were within, the domestic and the
woman who, on the day previous, had spoken of taking to her own home
the little orphaned one. The former had on her shawl and bonnet, and
said that she was about going away.
"You will not leave this child here alone," said Edward.
"I will take her for the present," spoke up the other. "Would you like
to go home with me, Fanny?" addressing the child. "Come,"--and she
held out her hands.
But the child shrank closer to the side of Edward, and looked up into
his face with a silent appeal that his heart could not resist.
"Thank you, ma'am," he returned politely. "But we won't trouble you
to do that. I will take her to my own home for the present. Would you
like to go with me, dear?"
Fanny answered with a grateful look, as she lifted her beautiful eyes
again to his face.
And so, after the woman and the domestic had departed, Edward Claire
locked up the house, and taking the willing child by the hand, led her
away to his own humble dwelling.
Having turned himself resolutely away from evil, already were the
better impulses of his nature quickened into active life. A beautiful
humanity was rising up to fill the place so recently about to be
consecrated to the worship of a hideous selfishness.
CHAPTER VI.
Edward Claire was in no doubt as to the reception the motherless child
would receive from his kind-hearted wife. A word or two of explanation
enabled her to comprehend the feeling from which he had acted.
"You were right, Edward," said she in hearty approval. "I am glad
you brought her home. Come, dear," speaking to the wondering, partly
shrinking orphan, "let me take off your bonnet."
She kissed the child's sweet lips and then gazed for some moments into
her face, pleased, yet half surprised, at her remarkable beauty.
Little Fanny felt that she was among friends. The sad expression of
her face soon wore off, light came back to her eyes, and her prattling
tongue released itself from a long silence. An hour afterward, when
she was laid to sleep in a temporary bed, made for her on the floor,
her heavy eyelids fell quickly, with their long lashes upon her
cheeks, and she was soon in the world of dreams.
Then followed a long and serious conference between Edward and his
wife.
"I saw Mr. Melleville to-day," said the former.
"Did you? I am glad of that," was answered.
"He will give me a place."
"Glad again."
"But, Edith, as I supposed, he can only pay me a salary of four
hundred dollars."
"No matter," was the prompt reply; "it is better than five hundred
where you are."
"Can we live on it, Edith?" Edward spoke in a troubled voice.
"Why not? It is but to use a little more economy in our expenses--to
live on two dollars a week less than we now spend; and that will not
be very hard to do. Trust it to me, dear. I will bring the account
out even. And we will be just as happy. As happy? Oh, a thousand times
happier! A hundred dollars! How poorly will that compensate for broken
peace and a disquieted conscience. Edward, is it possible for you to
remain where you are, and be innocent?"
"I fear not, Edith," was the unhesitating reply. "And yet, dear, I
should be man enough, should have integrity enough, to resist the
temptations that might come in my way."
"Do not think of remaining where you are," said the young wife
earnestly. "If Mr. Melleville will pay you four hundred dollars a
year, take his offer and leave Mr. Jasper. It will be a gain rather
than a loss to us."
"A gain, Edith?"
"Yes, a gain in all that is worth having in life--peace of mind
flowing from a consciousness of right action. Will money buy this? No,
Edward. Highly as riches are esteemed--the one great good in life as
they are regarded--they never have given and never will give this
best of all blessings. How little, how very little of the world's
happiness, after all, flows from the possession of money. Did you ever
think of that, Edward?"
"Perhaps not."
"And yet, is it not worth a passing thought? Mr. and Mrs. Casswell are
rich--we are poor. Which do you think the happiest?"
"Oh, we are happiest, a thousand times," said Edward warmly. "I
would not exchange places with him, were he worth a million for every
thousand."
"Nor I with his wife," returned Edith. "So money, in their case, does
not give happiness. Now look at William Everhart and his wife. When
we were married they occupied two rooms, at a low rent, as we now do.
Their income was just what ours has been. Well, they enjoyed life. We
visited them frequently, and they often called to see us. But for a
little ambition on the part of both to make some show, they would have
possessed a large share of that inestimable blessing, contentment.
After a while, William's salary was raised to one thousand dollars.
Then they must have a whole house to themselves, as if their two nice
rooms were not as large and comfortable, and as well suited to their
real wants as before. They must, also, have showy furniture for their
friends to look at. Were they any happier for this change?--for this
marked improvement in their external condition? We have talked this
over before, Edward. No, they were not. In fact, they were not so
comfortable. With added means had come a whole train of clamorous
wants, that even the doubled salary could not supply."
"Everhart gets fifteen hundred a year, now," remarked Claire.
"That will account, then," said Edith, smiling, "for Emma's unsettled
state of mind when I last saw her. New wants have been created; and
they have disturbed the former tranquillity."
"All are not so foolish as they have been. I think we might bear an
increased income without the drawbacks that have attended theirs."
"If it had been best for us, my husband, God would have provided it.
It is in his loving-kindness that he has opened the way so opportunely
for you to leave the path of doubt and danger for one of confidence
and safety; and, in doing it, he has really increased your salary."
"Increased it, Edith! Why do you say that?"
"Will we not be happier for the change?" asked Edith, smiling.
"I believe so."
"Then, surely, the salary is increased by so much of heartfelt
pleasure. Why do you desire an increase rather than a diminution of
income?"
"In order to procure more of the comforts of life," was answered.
"Comfort for the body, and satisfaction for the mind?"
"Yes."
"Could our bodies really enjoy more than they now enjoy? They are
warmly clothed, fully fed, and are in good health. Is it not so?"
"It is."
"Then, if by taking Mr. Melleville's offer, you lose nothing for the
body, and gain largely for the mind, is not your income increased?"
"Ah, Edith!" said Claire, fondly, "you are a wonderful reasoner. Who
will gainsay such arguments?"
"Do I not argue fairly? Are not my positions sound, and my deductions
clearly brought forth?"
"If I could always see and feel as I do now," said Claire, in a low,
pleased tone of voice, "how smoothly would life glide onward. Money is
not every thing. Ah! how fully that is seen. There are possessions not
to be bought with gold."
"And they are mental possessions--states of the mind, Edward," spoke
up Edith quickly. "Riches that never fade, nor fail; that take to
themselves no wings. Oh, let us gather of these abundantly, as we walk
on our way through life."
"Heaven has indeed blessed me." Such was the heartfelt admission
of Edward Claire, made in the silence of his own thoughts. "With
a different wife--a lover of the world and its poor vanities--how
imminent would have been my danger! Alas! scarcely any thing less
than a miracle would have saved me. I shudder as I realize the fearful
danger through which I have just passed. I thank God for so good a
wife."
The first inquiry made by Jasper, when he met Edward on the next
morning, was in relation to what he had seen at the funeral, and,
particularly, as to the disposition that had been made of the child.
"I took her home with me," was replied, in answer to a direct
question.
"You did!" Jasper seemed taken by surprise. "How came that, Edward?"
"When I returned from the cemetery, I found the domestic ready to
leave the house. Of course the poor child could not remain there
alone; so I took her home with me for the night."
"How did your wife like that?" asked Jasper, with something in his
tone that showed a personal interest in the reply.
"Very well. I did just what she would have done under the
circumstances."
"You have only one child, I believe?" said Jasper, after a pause of
some moments.
"That is all."
"Only three in family?"
"Only three."
"How would you like to increase it? Suppose you keep this child of
Elder's, now she is with you. I have been looking a little into
the affairs of the estate, and find that there are two houses,
unincumbered, that are rented each for two hundred and fifty dollars a
year. Of course, you will receive a reasonable sum for taking care
of the child. What do you say to it? As executor, I will pay you five
dollars a week for boarding and clothing her until she is twelve years
of age. After that, a new arrangement can be made."
"I can't give an answer until I consult my wife," said Claire, in
reply to so unexpected a proposition.
"Urge her to accept the offer, Edward. Just think what it will add to
your income. I'm sure it won't cost you one-half the sum, weekly, that
I have specified, to find the child in every thing."
"Perhaps not. But all will depend on my wife. We are living, now,
in two rooms, and keep no domestic. An addition of one to our family
might so increase her care and labour as to make a servant necessary.
Then we should have to have an additional room; the rent of which and
the wages and board of the servant would amount to nearly as much as
we would receive from you on account of the child."
"Yes, I see that," returned Jasper. And he mused for some moments. He
was particularly anxious that Claire should take the orphan, for then
all the trouble of looking after and caring for her would be taken
from him, and that would be a good deal gained.
"I'll tell you what, Edward," he added. "If you will take her, I will
call the sum six dollars a week--or three hundred a year. That will
make the matter perfectly easy. If your wife does not seem at first
inclined, talk to her seriously. This addition to your income will be
a great help. To show her that I am perfectly in earnest, and that
you can depend on receiving the sum specified, I will draw up a little
agreement, which, if all parties are satisfied, can be signed at
once."
Claire promised to talk the matter over with his wife at dinner-time.
The morning did not pass without varied assaults upon the young man's
recent good resolutions. Several times he had customers in from
whom it would have been easy to get more than a fair profit, but he
steadily adhered to what he believed to be right, notwithstanding
Jasper once or twice expressed dissatisfaction at his not having
made better sales, and particularly at his failing to sell a piece
of cloth, because he would not pledge his word as to its colour and
quality--neither of which were good.
The proposition of Jasper for him to make, in his family, a place
for the orphan, caused Claire to postpone the announcement of his
intention to leave his service, until after he had seen and conferred
with his wife.
At the usual dinner-hour, Claire returned home. His mind had become
by this time somewhat disturbed. The long-cherished love of money,
subdued for a brief season, was becoming active again. Here were six
dollars to be added, weekly, to his income, provided his wife approved
the arrangement,--and it was to come through Jasper. The more he
thought of this increase, the more his natural cupidity was stirred,
and the less willing he felt to give up the proposed one hundred
dollars in his salary. If he persisted in leaving Jasper, there would,
in all probability, be a breach between them, and this would, he felt
certain, prevent an arrangement that he liked better and better the
more he thought about it. He was in this state of mind when he arrived
at home.
On pushing open the door of their sitting-room, the attention of
Claire was arrested by the animated expression of his wife's face. She
raised her finger to enjoin silence. Tripping lightly to his side, she
drew her arm within his, and whispered--
"Come into the chamber, dear--tread softly--there, isn't that
sweet?--isn't it lovely?"
The sight was lovely indeed. A pillow had been thrown on the floor,
and upon this lay sleeping, arm in arm, the two children. Pressed
close together were their rosy checks; and the sunny curls of Fanny
Elder were mixed, like gleams of sunshine, amid the darker ringlets
that covered profusely the head of little Edith.
"Did you ever see any thing so beautiful?" said the delighted mother.
"What a picture it would make!" remarked Edward, who was charmed with
the sight.
"Oh, lovely! How I would like just such a picture!
"She is a beautiful child," said Edward.
"Very," was the hearty response. "Very--and so sweet-tempered and
winning in her ways. Do you know, I am already attached to her. And
little Edie is so delighted. They have played all the morning like
kittens; and a little while ago lay down, just as you see them--tired
out, I suppose--and fell off to sleep. It must have been hard for the
mother to part with that child--hard, very hard."
And Mrs. Claire sighed.
"You will scarcely be willing to give her up, if she remains here
long," said Edward.
"I don't know how I should feel to part from her, even now. Oh, isn't
it sad to think that she has no living soul to love or care for her in
the world."
"Mr. Jasper is her guardian, you know."
"Yes; and such a guardian!"
"I should not like to have my child dependent on his tender mercies,
